2
THEY SEE YOUR CAP FIRST!
It’s New! It’s Revolutionary!
It’s The Dobbs!

NAVAL OFFICER’S CAP
PRACTICALLY every Naval Officer will want this cap. It’s exclusive features are: . . . Removable Grommet for quick changing of covers . . . Guide Hook for easy insertion of grommet . . . “Self-Starter” centering pin to determine exact point for placing cover . . . Flexible Band construction and Lighter Weight for solid comfort. This is why the Dobbs Sea-Master is the world’s smartest Naval Cap.	.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street	-
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
^he fKotre Gbame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL
How About It?
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney..___________________________Editor-in-chief
Ralph Abell.........................    .Associate	Editor
Thomas SeedorfF.___________•______________Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole___________________________Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon____Asst. Managing Editors Harry LeBien and Tom Gaines_____________...—..."The Week"
Bill Waddington..............................  Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty_________________________Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett....______The Green Banner The Snooper.____________________.........The Snooper
Al Lesmez.............................Man About Campus
News Staff
Frank Keenan______________________________________..Editor
Al Lesmez	Vernon Mikkelson Joe Plante
John Keleher	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
J. D. Usina , H. G. Gilligan Bill Thompson Jim Regan	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Paul Wood	John Locke	Mike Canair
Steve Loyacano
Features
Al Broton_________________________—________________Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen	H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner	Ed Madden	Harry Tanner
Charles Veenstra
Sports Staff
Bill Carey.----------------------------------------Editor
James H. Howard	Jim Fennelly,	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan.	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey
Staff Photographers
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller Frank Cacciapaglia
Circulation
John Matmiller__________________________________Manager
Don Cole---------~__________________.....__Asst. Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C__________Faculty Advisor
By Herb Ziegler
This University maintains a large group of men who devote their time and effort to keeping these grounds beautiful. Their work has met with splendid. results — that is obvious — but there is one angle to this job that may have been overlooked. That angle is the disposal of refuse.
Students returning from the dining-hall, their pockets loaded with cigarettes, candy bars, gum, or whatever fruit currently featured by Mr. Connolly, have no recourse but to slyly drop an orange peel or a gum wrapper behind this or that bush while keeping one eye open for officials.
Students do not like to do this. Their home training cringes at it, their respect for the University and its beautiful campus resents it, but they do it, and they shall continue, and this University shall continue to spend hundreds of needless dollars in policing these grounds — unless convenient refuse containers are provided. How about it?
What is the best defense
FIGHTING men say that attack is the best defense And this holds true in the battle against our greatest unseen enemy — the dread tuberculosis that still kills more people between the ages of 15 and 45 than any other disease
TB is no respecter of persons or homes—over night it may strike you, your family. One strong safeguard is your an-
nual purchase of Christmas Seals, which has helped a gallant army of volunteer laymen and doctors cut the TB death rate by seventy-five -per cent since 1904.
Your help is needed now to prevent a wartime rise in tuberculosis. To protect your home . . and every home in America ... send in your contribution, today, ■please!
J
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest.. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at' the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
The National. State and Local -Tubereuloiis Ascoeiatlonc In the United States.
BUY
CHRISTMAS
SEALS
J
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80	DECEMBER 3, 1943	NO. 3
’ 'Scholastic,' Homeless, Continues to Publish;
Plans Huge Football Number Next Week
BY AL LESMEZ
Carrying on the great traditions of the press, undaunted by fire in its office, the Scholastic did not allow itself to be quieted by the fire last week. After its office, desks, typewriters, and supplies went up in smoke or off to the repair shop, the staff moved from its roofless charcoal-room to new quarters.
Carrying the brunt of the added work and inconvenience, the staff managed to locate themselves momentarily in the B-X room of the Main Building. All assignments are being given from that room by the respective editors. The corridors of the Main Building already evidence the new presence of the journalists as patches of waste paper somehow filter through the doorway of the office and float around.
Not only did the Scholastic manage to come out this week, but it ambitiously plans to come out in the form of a Football Issue next week.
In admiration of “the fighting Irish,” and in acknowledgement to the individual players—each a star in his respective position—the Scholastic is proud to appear with this documentary issue testifying to the high calibre of this powerhouse which amazed all opposition, and drew praise from the pens of sportswriters throughout the nation.
Since the Scholastic feels that the team is something to be especially proud of this season, the football issue will be printed in sufficient number to allow extra copies to be available at the Cafeteria for those wishing to mail them to friends and relatives.
- Speaking of mailing the Scholastic reminds one of the announcement made at the Iowa Pre-Flight game urging spectators to mail their program to the boys in service. The Scholastic is eager to impress the importance of this state-^ment, urging the student body to remember their friends, and take the time out
to mail them the latest issue of the campus news. Through C. A. S. cooperation, the publication manages to mail issues to most IT. S. 0. centers, Catholic clubs, schools, and social centers. The student body is asked to share this spirit of friendliness and helpfulness in carrying out the good work by remembering to mail their copies to friends in service.
Bond Queens Crowned in Legion Program
Colorful ceremonies in the Navy Drill Hall Sunday afternoon closed the South Bend War Bond Queen Contest. The program, sponsored by the County War Finance Committee and the local American Legion Posts, featured talks by Mr. Warren H. Atherton, Lieut. Commdr. Milton D. Fairchild and Rev. Father Trahey, C.S.C. Entertainment was provided by a number of military bands.
Before the ceremonies at the drill hall, Warren H. Atherton, national commander of the American Legion, placed a wreath at the Memorial door of Sacred Heart Church. Accompanying him were units of the Indiana State Guard and American Legion Post No. 284 and Legion officials. The wreath decorated with a ribbon inscribed “At Rest” was in honor of the men who gave their lives.in World War I and the 69 men who have died thus far in this war.
Mr. Atherton afterwards addressed a capacity crowd in the huge Navy Drill Hall on campus. He spoke of the “duty
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
❖ ❖
Extra copies of the “Football Num- ❖ ❖ her" will be on sale at the Cafeteria, ❖
Huddle and at South Bend News ♦♦♦ stands.	❖
❖	❖
•*«•*•♦*•♦*♦♦*•♦**«*•♦**♦*♦♦*♦»*♦ •£»
to those who come back.” He said, “We can't shed responsibility by giving them a small amount of money and letting the veterans subsist on charity.” Later, bringing out the necessity of continuing the armed forces after the war, he said, “With a strong American army and navy, and strong reserve, the. world can look forward to an era of peace and friendship.”
Entertainment at the closing of the bond ceremonies was provided by Chief Specialist Billy Scott and his dance band from the Naval Training center on the Chicago South Side. Featured also was an instrumental quartet from Glenview Naval Air Station and a WAVE accordionist and vocalist.
The martial ceremonies at the drill hall were the closing of the South Bend bond drive which netted §850,000. Miss Betty Jean Berry was Queen of Industry and Miss Pat Meyer was Queen of the High School Division. On the platform in the huge drill hall, lined along the walls with various types of antiaircraft guns and other naval guns, were the two queens and their attendants. After the ceremonies there was a dance, at the Service Men’s Center in South Bend.
Dec. 25 Holiday; Classes on Dec. 27 and Jan. I
After a semi-official meeting consisting of the faculty and some members of the service groups on campus, it has been decided definitely that the Christmas “Vacation” will consist of the weekend of Dec. 24. That is, there will be no classes Saturday morning! And then Sunday off! Classes begin Monday, Dec. 27.
If there will be enough students on campus, the C.A.S. is planning a program for that week-end. Plans are in their embryo stage, but as soon as things become definite, a complete detail of it will appear in the Scholastic.
Plans for the New Year’s week-end include classes on New Year’s day, and perhaps an extra bottle of milk, if you are fast enough.—Al Lesmez
5
V-12 Unit Boasts Fleet Men from All Theatres of War; Action is Their Dish
BY EDWARD MADDEN	‘	'
Marine Murmurs
By Private Knoc-E Toff
Not all of the new V-12 seaman contingent at Notre Dame are simon-pure amateurs. Heavily represented are men fresh from the fleet who have seen action in areas from the New Hebrides to Alaska.
Take Robert Cutter, for example. Bob was attached to the Seabee unit that built and maintained Henderson airport on Guadalcanal, hot spot of the Solomons.
The Seabee unit cleared away the cocoanut trees, made fills, graded the earth, and laid the steel matting. Bomb craters had to be filled continually, because Jap high altitude bombers, in V formations of nine planes each, bombed the airfield with monotonous regularity every noon.
Collectively, Bob’s overseas duty lasted fourteen months. He shoved off from Guadalcanal on January 5. Submitting his application, he took a general classification test, passed, and was placed in V-12 service.
Arriving at Notre Dame on November 1, he became acquainted with Manual Gan, a seaman who had served aboard destroyers in waters adjacent to Guadalcanal. The two have been comparing notes since that time.
Now let’s look at Pete Lafata. Pete, prior to arriving for navy college training, witnessed the stunning and unexpected Pearl Harbor attack. It was early morning on December 7 and Pete was rolled out of his bunk by thundering explosions instead of the relatively minor blasts of the bugle.
Half dressed and more than half scared, he took his place in the impro
vised defense. “This defense,” says Pete, “hampered as it was by lost initiative, still managed to toss back some potent regards to the Emperor’s boys.”
Next comes Eugene Hardy, rivaling the mighty Bogart in “Action On The Atlantic.” Gene’s destroyer was active in combat transport corps and, as such, saw several of Uncle Sam’s own ships collect around and participate in sinking enemy subs.
According to Gene, one of the most awe-inspiring sights he saw at sea was in the parts of a destroyed sub, shattered by a depth bomb, rise to the surface and bob as flotsam on its self created oil slick.
Robert Burton, when questioned about his previous work, contended that his greatest sense of accomplishment is bed-rocked on the noble survival of the “Battle of Great Lakes.” Completing his boot training there, he entered hospital on the station.
Bob worked in the mental ward, a shorthanded department, and consequently one that required effort “beyond the line of duty.”
Then there is the inimitable twosome, James Knight and Stanley Bienkowski, whose task it was to help scorn the South Pacific in a cruiser. The duet maintains that this duty developed into pursuing Jap gunboats in and out and up and around until it resembled a game of hide and seek. '
It leads, they continue, either to stoicism or high blood pressure. This fact, however, has not been verified and must be regarded as scuttlebutt.
These men are representative of the
It appears that in the past week the animal of discussion at the bull sessions has changed from the old familiar standby, muskrat, to pig in all its forms and aspects — especially ham. A secret society has been organized to poison every poor pig that may be an edible dish at the “caf.” One marine went so far as to say that the arch criminal of all time was the Chinaman who first discovered that the animal was eatable.
One Marine, despondent because of the fact that many people may have felt that the Marines were not close to Notre Dame, since they came from so many different colleges, wrote these words to the tune of the Marine Hymn to show our sincere good feelings towards our present abode:
From the halls of Zahm and Cavanaugh To the shores of Lake Saint Joe We will fight for dear old Notre Dame Wherever we may go.
First to fight for more and better chow And to keep our bulkheads clean, We are proud to bear the title of The Notre Dame Marines.
t
Our day begins at early dawn
And ends at taps at ten.
They feed us what? and call it food
And expect us to be men.
From the engineering building To the dear old science hall, You can hear us cuss as we slip and slide Or see our comrades fall.
When the Fathers and the Brothers First do look on heaven’s scenes, They will find to their amazement The Notre Dame Marines.
Wondering what to get the fickle thing for Christmas? Take a gander at the latest Eskie. It has loads of pictures and suggestions.
Abbreviations—
A.W.O.L.—After women or liquor.
S.M.C. — Sweethearts of the Marine Corps.
Stock Report—
Business went down 18% % last weekend at the Shamrock. Could it be due to the absence of “jack,” being it’s next to the last week in this month, or due to the fact that Sgt. McMannis was on S.P. last weekend?
Scuttlebutt of the week — Gear inspection (gear laid neatly out on the bunk) every day in the near future.
large group of fleet men now on the Notre Dame campus who have had equally interesting careers in the navy. They, in turn, shall Be featured in future editions of the Scholastic.
6
Naval "Small Stores” Located in Walsh Hall;
Directed by Veteran Storekeeper Junius
BY SEAMAN JAMES PARIS
“The Finest Clothing At Prices You Can Afford To Pay.”
Although such an advertisement is not used, it very aptly describes what goes on in Walsh Hall, on the zero deck, where “Small Stores,” the wearing aparel and general equipment disbursing center for all Naval personnel on the campus, is located.
Merrill's Company Wins NROTC Color Competition
Color competition in the form of infantry drill and manual of arms took place on Thursday afternoon, Nov. 25, for the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps of the University of Notre Dame. The First Company, commanded by Charles E. Merrill, won first place, and was awarded the colors in the Navy Drill Hall after the battalion had completed their performance on Cartier Field.
Captain J. M. Finney, USMCR, in charge of the Marine Detachment on the -station; Lt. (jg) A. C. Calabro, USNR, and Ensign J. D. Wells, USNR, both of the Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s
Its operation is directed by Chief Storekeeper Junius, a veteran of 36 years service in the Navy, dating back to November, 1907. He has charge of all disbursing of clothing, both in Small Stores and in the Issue Storeroom in the ' Stadium.
Directly in charge of Small Stores is Storekeeper Second Class, Middaugh. He
School, were judges for the event.
Commander H. B. Butcher, USNR, executive officer of the Naval ROTC, witnessed the affair which is conducted each semester, as did the officer-instructor staff of the unit. The Second Company, under Frank P. Crowley, placed second in the competition which was decided solely upon the showing made by the units in executing drill formations and in dexterity in manual of arms.
A program which will be under way throughout the winter will decide the assignment of the color next semester. Intramural athletic events make up the major portion of this setup.
is assisted there by Storekeepers, Third Class, Paolo and Pickering and Seaman, Second Class, Repair. Their job is to outfit men in the V-12 program with their gratuitous and custody clothing, and to sell items desired but issued gratis, to all Naval personnel.
Small Stores is comparatively new in its present location in Walsh Hall, in what was formerly the Knights of Columbus recreation room, having been moved there last July. Prior to that time, and since the Navy came to Notre Dame in April, 1942, it carried on a limited operation in the Stadium, where the Bulk and Issue storeroom for the V-7 (Midshipman) is still located.
In Small Stores the Navy man, whether he is an officer stationed here, a Midshipman, a member of the NROTC, or a seaman in the V-12 program, can purchase articles running the gamut from shoes to hats, and including socks, underclothing, shirts, jumpers, leggings, trousers, blankets, caps, gloves, handkerchiefs, whisk brooms, neckerchiefs, neckties, coats, towels, belts and, in fact, anything in the line of apparel he may need or desire. Here, also, the original issue of these items to incoming new men is made.
Due to the fact that they are of a confidential nature, no figures can be quoted as to the actual amount of business transacted monthly, but it can be said that it is truly a big business and a big job under its unassuming title of “Small” Stores.
Final Tryouts For Operetta to be Held Next Tuesday
Final tryouts for the cast of the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta to be presented in Washington Hall within the next two months will be held next Tuesday, Dec. 7, in room 2 of the Music Building between the hours of 1:15 and 4:15.
This was announced early this week by Prof. Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech and member of the music faculty who will direct the coming production as he has so successfully directed several ether Gilbert and Sullivan works on the campus in the past several years.	•
The specific operetta to be presented will be chosen after the talents of the prospective cast have been explored, Professor Birder said.
❖ The eighth in. the series of Co-Hop ❖ dances will be held Saturday night, $ Dec. 4, between 8:Q0 and 11:00 at the ❖ Progress Club. There will be entertainment and refreshments. Tickets ❖ can be bought at the door, 35c per •S’ person. See you there!
7
TOP OF THE WEEK
We repeat: The Fighting Irish. . . -
... UNQUOTE!
This extremely interesting statement • from the latest V-12 Bulletin, page 5 deserves reprinting: “Vacations may be arranged by college authorities, in consultation with Navy commanding officers, at appropriate times, provided that no vacation is disproportionately long and that, the schedule of vacations and holidays permits sixteen 'full weeks of instruction in each term.”
We can dream, can’t we?
SMOKE GETS IN YOUR EYES
Amidst the roar of the crowd and the turmoil of the participants, the excitement reached a pinnacle, as the fans went wild. No it isn’t a football game, but a fire on campus. The Notre Dame fire department finally got a chance to demonstrate its glamorous equipment. It was a fight to the finish.- We’re not sure who won yet; but we are still ■ looking for the building—and a few firemen, by the way.
One fireman who was blandly squirting at his colleague, excitedly yelled to us, “Hey you, look out.”
“Look out for what?” we asked.
“Don’t confuse me. I’m a new man.” ' Some of the firemen’s tactics seemed a little rough to us. One ambitious fellow was in a hurry to enter the burning building, and was using his axe vehemently on the front door. After a minute or two of vain chopping he became disgusted and turned the knob and walked in. And what about breaking those windows? Didn’t the firemen realize that by using the hoses they broke them on both sides?
❖
BIG MAN
Johnny Lu jack has followed in the steps of Angelo Bertelli to become one of the top football heroes of the country. He receives letters galore from football admirers everywhere. The other day there were over twenty letters waiting when he opened his mail box. Johnny enjoys it though and tries to answer
8
them all, even if its only a post card. He says: “When I was a youngster, I wrote to star football players and when they didn’t answer, I was plenty mad.”
PIN-POINT POISINALITIES
Mr. Herbie Bott: “I wouldn’t kid you boys, so help me.”
Lieutenant Blansett: “No” (small letters)
Leo Kunkle: “Not only that, I hear he likes it.”
Chief Hutnick: “Take that man’s de-a matter of fact!”
Company B: “Hitler’s Children.” Lieutenant Blansett: “No” (ital.) Mr. Bender: “Redundance.”
R. W. Hall (C. 0. * Company B): “. . . . fifteen cents for overtime.”
Chief..Broderick: “Say, did you ever hear the'one about. . . .”
Rollo Hogue: “By the right flank—no, the left—no, forward—no.,. . . oh nuts, I don’t know!”
Lieutenant Blansett: “No” (large caps).
OH DEAH!
Society Flash: Having met the high requirements, and due to outstanding achievement, 15 young representatives of the Notre Dame V-12 unit were treated to a party by Chiefs Broderick and Marks at the Navy Drill Hall last Saturday. Egg foo young was served, along with rifles and an hour of marching. Many favorable comments were overheard, including: “(Censored)”; “Nuts!” “(Censored)”; “(Censored)” “This is definitely an abominable deterioration upon our vain-glorious invectives!”
One interesting sidelight was the situation of a certain John Witt. Mr. Witt occupied the unique position of having to march, not one two or three hours, but indefinitely. Nope, we’re not kidding; look at the list for yourself. It seems Seaman Witt met with some extremely bad luck concerning “ID” cards, and therefore rests in a status the like of which we have never seen before.
Indefinitely. . . . Holy Smokes!
POME
The young V-12, he ate a lot
Thanksgiving dinner, he thought was hot!
But later he found t’was just a plot;
And now he’s got—the turkey trot.
NOO MOO JOO
The Admiral was in the rural areas picking some wild pumpkins last week and collected some puissant facts concerning the local bovine situation here in South Bend. A lot of milk has squirted into the bucket since those happy “. . . gimme two bottles, ya lug.” of double milk portion, and the long groans of supposed calcium shortage have yet to cease. The fact is, there is a shortage! However this deficiency will be relieved toward the end of December, and a short time following, milk will be in quantities enough to satisfy all. These are facts obtained from the same Dairy that supplies the Cafeteria with our own slightly skimmed moo juice. We look forward to the time when Bob Lee can again brighten up our mornings.
GOBSERVATIONS
Did you ever notice that about seventenths of the company falls out when the call comes for phy-ed men to fall out for chow?
Its wonderful that so many fellows joined the V-12 program because that relieves many valuable WAVE’S for active duty.
The man who thinks he’s a big shot is usually the first to be fired.
He joined the Navy to see a blood vessel.
Jim Gallagher and his company commander had words, but Jim didn’t get a chance to use his.
POSTSCRIPT
The Great Lakes game has been amply covered elsewhere so we won’t say much concerning it. However it illustrates one point so well, we want to mention it. That one game shows perfectly why football, as a game, has been, and will continue to be, one of the greatest competitive sports known. America loves a sport in which an underdog can come from behind to win. Football has this quality, plus many more. We still know Notre Dame has the better team. However we can’t help admiring the dogged pluck of the winning Bluejackets. It’s been a great year for Notre Dame, but a greater one for football.
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
One minute to go!


College Parade
BY RICHARD MURPHY
WILL ST. MARY'S ■ RECIPROCATE?
The co-eds of the University of Michigan have really gone all out to improve the laundry situation on their campus. The gals have banded together and formed a unique laundry service which takes care of the laundry needs of the navy men stationed there. This seems . to be the modem and practical way to i a man’s heart—just offer him a clean shirt, and you’re in.
OH, WELL—
Then there’s the story of the football team that was subjected to a terrific beating by their opponents in the first half. As the boys filed into their dressing room at half time their coach looked them over with great concern and said;
“Well, boys, after what has happened to you in the first half, I see there is only one thing left for me to do, and that’s to try and teach you the very rudiments of football.”
He then bent down and picked up a football and held it in full view of the players, saying:
“Now, gentlemen, this is a football.”
To which a mental giant replied: “Not , so FAST, coach.”
TAKE YOUR PICK
Once a girl is born a lemon
She can never be a peach
For her to change her disposition,
Is something quite beyond her reach.
But the law of compensation
Is the one I always preach
You can always squeeze a lemon
But you can never squeeze a peach.
.	—Kentucky Kernel
SWINDLE!
According to the Indiana Daily, publication of the University of Indiana, the upperclassmen have been lining their pockets with silver at the expense of the ’umble frosh. It seems that some of the more vivacious minds among the upper-classmen conceived the idea of going about the campus and selling subscriptions for reserved seats in the library to the ever-accommodating freshman.
Everything was going well and the upperclassmen were prospering eminently in their business until one freshman
became a little worried and decided to call the library and make sure that he wasn’t being “swindled.”
A GOOD IDEA—
The Minnesota Daily tells us of the drive that is being sponsored by the paper to collect all old razor blades on the campus. The blades will be sent to the Marines in the Solomons who use them to decorate the palm trees on captured islands in the Pacific so that Jap snipers ■with climbing inclinations will find their hands instead of their heads shaved. V-12 and NROTC students on the campus have provided boxes for the collection in various halls throughout the campus.
QUIP OF THE WEEK
A patient coming out of ether in the ward after an .operation exclaimed;
“Thank goodness, that’s over.”
“Don’t be too sure,” said the man in the next bed. “They left a sponge in me and had to cut me open again.”
A patient on the other side said, “Why, they had to open me too, to find one of their instruments.”
Just then the surgeon who had operated stuck his head in the door and yelled: “Has anybody seen my hat?”
—Queen’s U. Journal
IN GENERAL
The college papers received in our offices from all over the country seem to be carrying many feature stories of the civilian dances which are being held or planned for the holiday season.
In our first issue this year it was suggested that some person or organization get the ball rolling here at Notre Dame. We now understand that the Commerce Forum is contemplating giving a dance. How about it civies, will you give them your support?
OUIJA PSYCHOLOGY
Dr. J. B. Morgan’s general psychology class proved that the “spirits” were definitely with the Northwestern team when they played Illinois on Nov. 20, so the Northwestern Daily informs us. Dr. Morgan and his students had the Ouija board predict a 44-7 victory over the Fighting Illini. Now I was just wondering what that Ouija board predicted when
the Wildcats were tamed on Nov. 13 by the Fighting Irish.
❖
RAT MEAT DELUXE
After the attempted bombing of Hitler in the Munich Brahaus became known, the following notices appeared in the windows of several butcher shops in Prague the next morning:
“There will unfortunately be no lard or pork today, as the swine wasn’t killed yesterday.”—Student Life
SPECIAL DELIVERY
The Indiana Boys’ School Herald printed this one:
A couple’ of doughboys were crouched in a shellhole while a barrage whanged away over their heads.
“Look here Rastus,” said one, “ain’t you skeered.”
“Not me,” boasted the other, “ain’t no shell gonna come along with my name on it.”
“Me neither,” said the first fellow, “I is worried about one may come along marked ‘To whom it may concern’.”
CHEATED ALL THE WAY
When the Lord gave out noses,
I thought He said roses— So I took a big red one.
When the Lord gave out brains, I thought He said pains— So I didn’t take any.
When the Lord gave out heads, I thought He said beds— So I took a nice soft one.
When the Lord gave out looks,
I thought He said books—
I ain’t got any.
—The Curved Horn
TALK OF TOUGH TIMES
The Loyola Maroon, published weekly by the students of Loyola University in New Orleans, tells us that we have nothing to kick about in this country when speaking of rationing. It seems that the boys attending Eton College in England are wearing second-hand boots, secondhand top hats, and making their own white ties out of paper. Sort of makes you think, doesn’t it?
❖
ME TOO
A kind-hearted gentleman saw a little boy trying to reach a doorbell. He rang the bell for him, then said, “What now, little man?”
“Run,” said the little boy, “That’s what ’Im going to do.”
—The Herald,
9
La Raza Club Panel to Improve Latin-American Relations; Repilado Chairman
BY BILL THOMPSON
Perhaps the most unique organization here at Notre Dame is the La Raza club Panel. The Panel consists of a group of students who are interested in the improvement of Latin-American relations. These men under the direction of Father W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., seek to improve international relations by the instruction method, that is, by speaking to various groups who are interested in the work.	.
Father Cunningham first conceived the idea of the organization early in 1942 when his niece was attending St. Francis college in Joliet, Ill. Miss Cunningham happened to be a member of a group at St. Francis, who were interested in Latin-American relations. Father Cunningham suggested that a group of South American students who were in attendance at Notre Dame visit the Joliet college and explain to the group some of the problems which face our neighbors to the south. The suggestion was acted upon when a group of N. D. students visited the Illinois school—:and so the Panel came into being.
Following their successful debut at St. Francis, the panel’s fame spread. There followed appearances at Siena Heights in Michigan, then Mundelein,
La Baza Panel Members—South American Boosters
then across the lake for an appearance at St. Mary’s. The greatest triumph of the fast growing group came when they were invited to attend and lecture at the Peace Meeting of the Carnegie Foundation at Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind.
The purpose of the Panel is not only to improve relations with our southern friends but also to give the students who display talent for Public Speaking and understanding of international relations ample opportunity to use and develop their gifts to the fullest extent.
Chairman of the Panel is none other than Francis “Bitsy” Repilado. Possessor of a fine personality, suave manner and friendly smile, “Bitsy” has long been a student of Latin-American relation and is something of a real authority on the subject. “Bitsy” has made several radio appearances and twice broadcast over a coast-to-coast hookup.
It is not necessary that one be a native of a Latin-American country to become a member of the Panel. The only requirements are that a student show a real interest in the work and the ability to speak in public.
At each appearance the group is tendered a dinner and entertainment of
some sort. At these functions the boys meet the group to whom they are to speak and, enjoy informal conversation with them. Each occasion has always proved to be a success from the point of view of both club interests and personal enjoyment.
This year the club has made repeat appearances at St. Mary’s, Mundelein, and Siena Heights. First appearances were made at Rosary, Muncie High School, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, and St. Joseph’s College of Rensellaer, Ind. One of the outstanding dates thus far this year was the appearance of the Panel at a conference sponsored by the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and held at Ball State Teachers College.
Plans have been completed for future appearances at Culver Military Academy, and another appearance at Siena Heights.
Up to this time the Panel has met with great success as the only college group of its kind in the nation, and it is hoped that it will be the nucleus around which other colleges will build similar groups. Perhaps soon there will be a system of Panels throughout the nation which will instruct the rising generations in this matter of such vital importance—Latin-American relations.
Red Cross Sponsors Sewing Unit at Service Center
By Seaman Hugh Tanner
A missing button or one which is dangling with uncertainty and shows signs of dropping from its designated position has caused many a sailor embarrassment and remorse at inspection time.
One of the many aids offered to the men of the navy at Notre Dame and one which is aimed at preventing loose buttons is the sewing unit sponsored by the Red Cross, and stationed in the Service Men’s Center in South Bend.
The unit boasts of volunteer workers who donate as much as five to six hours a day to sew on buttons and to do simple mending. All that they expect in return is a little consideration and a “thank you.”
A plan is now being devised to make it possible for service men, who have clothing which is in need of mending, to send these garments to the Red Cross Sewing Room. However, complete arrangements are still lacking.
The hint to service men at Notre Dame is, “If you can’t sew, try out the Red Cross service, and don’t show up for inspection with any buttons missing.”
1
4
■10
17 Coast Guardsmen Enrolled in V-12 Program
By Seaman Art Wagner
Seventeen new Coast Guardsmen from almost as many scattered localities are now enrolled in the V-12 program here at the University of Notre Dame.
“Semper.Paratus” (always ready) is the motto of this most versatile branch of the nation’s services. Most versatile because the Coast Guard is on the job 24 hours each day and every day—during peace or war—doing tasks which cover a wide variety of activities.
Coast Guardsmen, in a sense, are the “policemen of the sea.” Their duties involve water, land, and air units, utilized in coordination; to exercise a careful patrol of our coastline to apprehend smugglers; to protect life and property at sea, and on inland waters; and to enforce the maritime, customs, and navigation regulations, and the laws of lakes, rivers, and harbors of the United States and its possessions. The Coast Guard as our invasion spearhead in the present conflict, is conducting its most important activity today. Rear Admiral John Downes, U. S. Navy,-says, “I doubt if there exists a greater group of unsung , heroes than the men of our Coast Guard.”	.	.
In peace time the Coast Guard is under the jurisdiction of the Treasury Department, but becomes part of the Navy, by a proclamation of the President of the United States, in the event of a war.
Harry W. Abbott’s home is located at Riverdale, Md. Before being transferred to the V-12 program, he served as cook at the Coast Guard barracks of Captain-of-the-Port detail at Philadelphia.
Paul E. Brennan hails from Sioux City, la. Seaman Brennan served aboard a Coast Guard Cutter prior to his present duty.
Thomas F. Fabry, from Pekin, Ill., was Ph.M. 1/c at the Coast Guard Infirmary at Brant Beach, N. J. He attended Service School at Columbia University where he was enrolled in the College of Pharmacy.
Frederick J. Heimlich served as personnel yeoman at the Coast Guard base at Alameda, Calif, and was also stationed, for seven months, in Hawaii. Lafayette, Ind., is his home town.
Charles Engle, from Indianapolis, Ind., formerly was stationed under the Cap-tain-of-the-Port detail at Nantucket Island, Mass.
Richard E. Dorsey, formerly a SK 2/c in the Captain-of-the-Port pay office at Norfolk, Va., comes from Findlay, Ohio.
Norris D. Holthus of Smithfield, Neb., was stationed as a personnel yeoman at a Coast Guard supply depot on Governor’s Island, Alameda, Calif., before being transferred.
Frederick H. Link came to Notre Dame from a Coast Guard station in New London, Conn. Laporte, Ind., is his home town.
John C. Majors, formerly Y 1/c, from Decatur, Ill., spent his previous duty in the Coast Guard personnel office in New York, N. Y.
William L. Martin, was at the Manhattan Beach Signal School in Brooklyn, N. Y., before being transferred to this unit. His home is in Edwardsville, Ill.
William H. McDermott, a native of Toledo, Ohio, was a SK 3/c in the Radio Engineers office in New York, N. Y.
Joseph J. O’Brien came from an Anti Sub Patrol Base at Georgetown, S. C. His home is at Buffalo, N. Y.
Edwin M. Solon, of Chicago, Ill., was a seaman, first class, stationed at Honolulu, T. H.
Casey “Bloodless” Snyder, also of Chicago, was formerly a signalman of the Captain-of-the-Port detail, Chicago. He also attended the Manhattan Beach Signal School for .four^months.
Joe Strykul, a South Bend, Ind., man, was on- duty at a sub patrol base at Georgetown, S. C.
David E. Van Harlingen, was coxswain in the Mounted Coast Guard Beach Patrol at Virginia Beach, Va. His abode is at Dayton, Ohio.
John A. Warner, of Fort Wayne, Ind., was on Matagorda Island on Beach Patrol as seaman, first class, before he was transferred to the V-12 program at Notre Dame.
Grad Bags First Zero
From New Navy Hellcat
Lieut, (jg) Francis A. Santos, ’41, was one of the first pilots to down a Japanese Zero from a Hellcat, according to an Associated Press dispatch from Washington. The dispatch contained the first combat reports on the new plane which is the successor to the Grumman Wildcat.
The new Hellcat is designed specifically to meet the speed and maneuverability of the Zero. The Navy, in their report, said the Hellcat, “is bigger, faster, more maneuverable, and a better climber than its predecessor,” the “Grumman Wildcat.”
Lieutenant (jg) Santos who is from Charleston, S. C. has three brothers who are also in the armed forces.
—By Paul Wood
By Palmer E. Amundsen
Hi, Chief!
This week it is a great pleasure to introduce to you one of our V-12 Chiefs. Chief Specialist Harry Cyril Glover is the quiet-spoken fellow with the pleasing southern accent. Glover is a very modest man, for when your reporter interviewed him, said reporter learned more about the men that Glover played with and the coaches he played under, than about Glover himself. It was possible, however, to squeeze some information from him, and it is here presented to you.
The Chief was bom in Bay St. Louis, Miss. He attended his favorite high school there, St. Stanislaus High School, where he won his. letters in football, basketball, baseball, and track. After his graduation from St. Stanislaus, he became a “high and mighty” freshman at Tulane University in New Orleans, La.
Little did Tulane suspect when they entered that name, Harry C. Glover, on their records, that they were a few years hence, to point with great pride to the name. Glover, as the All-Southern halfback — from Tulane University! This was in 1932. That same year Tulane played. in the Rose Bowl against Southern California, and was defeated by a 21-12 score. That Southern California was the same team that had defeated Notre Dame the year before. During the Rose Bowl game, Glover made two spectacular runs; one for a score, the other- to a scoring position. The touchdown play started as a line buck, but as “Red” Donovan, who was carrying the ball, reached the line of scrimmage, he threw a lateral to Glover who then broke away for a 40-yard, touchdown sprint! Glover’s other long run was good for sixty-seven yards, and would have been good for another score had it not been for Ernie. Pinkert, who insisted on catching Glover on the 15-yard line.
The year Glover went to the Pasadena Rose Bowl was the last year that he played under Coach Bernie Bierman. Lt. Col. Bierman, U.S.M.CJR., as you know, was Minnesota’s pride and joy for ten years thereafter.
Glover spent the years after his graduation from Tulane until he joined the (Continued- on page 22)
"Cheering Thousands" All for Great Lakes;
Fewest Irish Rooters in N. D. History
The Green Banner
BY TOM SEEDORF
By Jim Casey & "Buzz” Hassett
For what was, probably, the first time in Irish grid history, a Notre Dame team came on an alien field, last week, without support of her “cheering thousands.” Despite the fact that statistics showed them to be on the losing end of a 19-14 score, the Irish came out on top in the recention accorded them individually by the student body because of their spirit, fight, and good sportsmanship.
No deafening cheers, intermingled with the strains of the “Hike Song” or the “Victory March,” gave vent to the emotions of a Notre Dame cheering section, for there was no such section. On a field surrounded by 22,000 shouting, belligerent Bluejackets, the Irish hadn’t many more than their own teammates to cheer them on in their toughest battle of the season.
A slip here, a bad break there, and a head linesman everywhere but where he should have been were not enough to dampen the ardor of the Irish. They were down more than once, but they were never out. When the final gun sounded it was an officer from Great Lakes who remarked, “Defeat is something those boys from Notre Dame don’t know about. They may have lost the game, but they were not defeated. They couldn’t have been with the spirit they showed.”
The laugh of the day came for the boys from Great Lakes when two sailors from Notre Dame attempted to take advantage of the privilege supposedly afforded them by the sideline passes, in their possession. A certain lieutenantcommander seemed disposed to. dispute their rights with these fellows, and finally won out, reducing the Notre Danie cheering section by two more men when he forced them to seats at the rear of a section of some thousand or so hostile sailors of his own.
Thrill of the day came for the few Notre Dame fans present as our own Jake Kline prepared to even up the score by disposing of an official or two. Not content to see a gain or greatly needed yardage slip through his fingers, “Sunshine” felt that personal revenge was called for in the case of one Michigan man, whose record now contains quite a. “Blott.” Orchids to Mr. Kline for standing up for his boys all the way.
Notre Dame was not unrepresented on the winning team, ^however, having several former Irish players right im the . front ranks-of the .Great-Lakes squad. Among these ..were Steve Juzwik, Emil 12	- ’ ■ -5'
Sitko, Mike Ronano, and Pete Kelly. They put up a great fight and true to their training showed a spirit which was a credit to those whose tutelage they had enjoyed at Notre Dame.
NROTC Basketball League Gets Games Under Way
By Jack Houghteling
The 1943-44 NROTC Deck Basketball league swings into action on Tuesday, Nov. 30 with Deck 3 meeting Deck 4. Deck 3 is captained by Gene Moore while Deck 4 is led by Bud Gotta. On Thursday, the First Deck clashes with the Second Deck with Paul Heimann and Don Hummer as the two leaders.
All teams have had a practice game
with Deck 1 and Deck 4 coming out victorious. Deck 1 outlasted Deck 3 to take . a close 27-25 decision and the Fourth Deck over-ran the Second Deck, 23-16.
The First Deck won their two point contest when Hank Frailey dropped in a bucket with one minute left to play. The field goal came , after John Knorr had scored on a fast break to pull the First Deck up to a 25-25 tie. Deck 3 had rallied in the final period to overcome a 23-18 disavantage and take a short-lived 25-23 lead. However, they weakened in the last moments of play and ended up on the short end of the score. Hank , Frailey paced the First Deck squad with . nine points while Vince Laurita was top " man for the 16-man team from Deck 3 with six points.	:
Playing with only five men, the Fourth Deck started slowly but finally overcame the 12-man squad of the Second-Deck, 23-16. Bud Gotta’s mentrailed4-2at;’ the: end of the first quarter butmoved ...to .a two point lead by the end. of. the half, 10-8. After the intermission,: Deck 4 rolled up an 18-14 count .at the .third : . stanza and continued the pace to end up' with a 23-16 verdict. Don Reid, Deck 2, < was high point man with four baskets, and a free throw, but was followed close-ly by Dan O’Connell of the winners xvith eight points.	.... l
Editor’s Note: Certain by-paths about the campus, hitherto have escaped the attention of SCHOLASTIC readers. Jim Casey, veteran campus figure, has been corailed to record what happens off the beaten arteries. By the same stroke of fortune, "Buzz” Hassett, the "man about town” comes up with equally startling .revelations concerning those whose misfortune it is not to be numbered among campus residents.
ON AND OFF
We’re new at this writing game, but we might occasionally present an interesting tidbit (Dirt to the ordinary layman), and a rare laugh for your enjoyment. If you find our humor novel, let us know. But give our column a fair trial. If you don’t find us funny, remember that times are tough all over. The fact is all the more emphasized when you realize that a magazine of the Scholastic’s high standards has received our offerings with an open mind.... And starting things off with a trot, it was unfortunate that the Dining Hall had to substitute ham. for turkey for some individuals on Thanksgiving; it seems like a foul trick. Or should we drop the matter as being a boar (ing) subject. Before we move on, however, ’tis said that in keeping with tradition, the Irish dining halls insist on serving food with a green flavor to it. And not a banana in sight?
RUMOR HAS IT
That the .girls across the Dixie were responsible for the fire in the Scholastic offices, this past week. I don’t see how they could — they’re, not such. a. hot bunch!! . . . .Creighton Miller may be quite a. speaker but he still couldn’t talk himself out of a two weeks’ campus imposed by the Disciplinary Department... Bud Turner walked into Larry Carden’s room, the other day) and after gazing for a long time at a/picture atop Larry’s desk said: “Larry, you sure have got a . honey of a girl friend. Too bad her taste . isn’t on a par with yours!!” If anyone’s hands are grimy after fingering this page, it’s not from the remarks, but only the salty atmosphere about this place... Frank Kent says : “It’s a new semester with the same old subjects.’’ Hmmmmm, sounds like the Five Year Plan.... For your information, we, should like to pub-lish one fact—the library is still in the same location. Information as to how to arrive there; safely and in the shortest . ? ; - ■(Continued on'page 22) . (
Notre Dame Sports
Bertelli Runs Away With Heisman Trophy;
Takes Place Beside Recent Grid Greats
Marine Angelo Bortolo Bertelli ran away with the Heisman Trophy awarded annually to the outstanding college football player of the year. Notre Dame’s All-American quarterback, who played but six games this campaign, polled 648 (two digits of which were his jersey number) points to walk away from his nearest competitors, Bob Odell from Pennsylvania with 177; Northwestern’s Otto Graham, with 140, and
Angelo Bertelli
teammate Creighton Miller, with 134.
The Springfield Rifle, as the nationwide sports writers demonstrated by their vote, was in a class by himself in the national, gridiron spotlight of 1943. One of the greatest passers in football history, Bert hit the target on over 75 percent of his. pass attempts and was the lifestream of N.D.’s electric “T" formation. Eleven of his tosses were for scores and he tallied three TD’s himself. The finest ball handler working out of a collegiate “T” formation, he led the Irish, to six straight run-away . triumphs. Calling plays with deftness and . subtlety seldom found in amateur ball, he was a coach on the field.
- Summoned to Marine Officer’s Candidate School at Parris Island-after the Navy game,. Bertelli laid aside a pigskin for. a rifle. He will receive the trophy at .the annual dinner of the Down-town Athletic Club, New York, City, on 7 Dec. 8.	-	=	.	.	'
. "Ange” was. top man in every section : of the nation^ a singular honor in itself.
He duplicated the award-winning vote piled up by Frankie Sinkwich of Georgia in 1942. The selection terminated what is probably the outstanding three-year performance in the history of the award. Bertelli was runner up to Tom Harmon as a sophomore in 1941, and finished fourth in 1942.
Notre Dame’s great halfback, Creighton Miller, was a strong fourth. Son of a Notre Dame immortal, Creightie was the talk of the midwest with his payoff gallops that broke close contests wide open. The most dangerous runner on the squad his seasonal play won him well deserved All-American award.
The third Fighting Irishman to make the list of leaders was tackle Jim White, who finished ninth. Jim had the distinction of being the only lineman to receive mention. His spirited play won plaudits from all, coaches and reporters alike.
Tufts Wins Firing Match;
Breaks NROTC Victory Streak
After seven straight victories, the rifle team of the Naval ROTC lost their eighth postal gallery meet to the. Tufts College Naval ROTC by a score of 937 to 920.
Firing matches with other Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps teams throughout the nation the Notre Dame squad has toppled Tulane, North Carolina, Holy Cross, Virginia, Colorado University, Texas University, and South. Carolina. The team has amassed a grand • total of 6,555 points to their foes’ 6,145 in their first seven games and averaged 934.4 in their first eight matches. ■
Lt. (jg) Coryn, USNR, is the officer-in-charge.
Al Guard is captain of the team and other members are Jim Lamb, Charles . Seghers, John Zwicker, Bill Wrape,; Bill Moore, Pete Belmont, Al Wrape and G? J. O’Brien.	.
Jim Lamb with a 191.6 average leads the NROTC riflemen. A number of-matches remain on the schedule and at the end of the current season the Navy sharpshooters will vie in national competition with all Naval ROTC units in the nation, and also for a William Randolph Hearst trophy.
Fighting Irish Acclaimed as National Champions
The greatest Notre Dame team in more than a decade has been voted the 1943 National Gridiron Champion by the Football writers of America. The record of the Irish—nine wins against but one defeat in the stiffest competition in. the land—kept them in the driving seat for the ninth straight week the pool:has been conducted.
Frank Leahy’s lads have held the number one spot on the country wide horizon since their 55-13 trouncing of . the Rambling Wreck from Georgia Tech-Game by game, as they trounced Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Navy, Army, Northwestern and Iowa Pre-Flight on consecutive Saturdays, they increased in popularity, until finally they were the top selection of every single writer pounding a typewriter from Yankee Stadium to the Los Angeles Coliseum.
The final 25 seconds of the Great Lakes upset of upsets, left the picture blurred. This 1943 Notre Dame team was great enough, however, to weather the storm, and even with the memory of the 19-14 defeat still wet on the Sunday headlines, copped the first place vote of . 84 of the 131 sports writers who comprised the voting Committee.
Of the nine teams that followed in the wake of the Irish it might be noted that five bf these were met on the actual field of combat. Iowa Pre-Flight bowed in a thriller and copped the runner-up position. Third place winner Michigan collapsed .35-12 before the mighty onrush of the “T” boys, while Navy in fourth spot bit: the dust to the score board total of 33-6. In the lucky seven slot reposed the only squad to boast a triumph over Notre Dame, the courageous Great Lakes Bluejackets. Northwestern in ninth spot fell 25-6 to the second half rush of the Green and Gold.
Students Cheer Team
An enthusiastic crowd of students met the football team last Monday night as they filed from the dining hall after the annual football banquet. The impromptu ; rally budded in front of Sorin and spread over to ‘ St. Edward’s and the Main Building. The body of about 400 enthusiasts filed across the Quadrangle over to the steps of the dining hall where , they circled many of the players. Several of the team spoke, but Frank Leahy, who had left just before -the crowd assembled could not be found. After marching over by the Midshipmen dormitories the group dispersed.
- • ■
Irish Will Attempt to Saddle Broncos in the Fieldhouse Tomorrow Night
BY JIM FENNELLY
Ed “Moose” Krause made his debut as Notre Dame’s new head basketball coach Wednesday night, when the Irish opened their season at home, playing Alma College of Michigan. Alma was a newcomer to the Blue and Gold schedule, replacing Ball State as the opening tester. As the first game for both teams, it served as an indication of things to come.
Tomorrow night the Broncos of Michigan State will invade the fieldhouse, seeking to avenge last year’s 5335 defeat suffered at the hands of one of the greatest teams in Notre Dame basketball history. Coached by Buck
Two More for Notre Dame
Read, the Broncos, though an unknown factor, have always fielded a team that could hit the hoop, and should give the Krausemen a stiff battle. Last season the Broncos, led by. high scoring Harold Gensichen, played Notre Dame on even terms throughput the first half, but - tossed in the- towel when the Keegan?
coached point-a-minute club turned on the pressure. Though the Rensbergers,
. Currans . and'. Butlers- have departed : from these green pastures, Notre
. Dame’s young club will be out to du-
14'- -	’	’■	.	:	-
plicate last season’s victory and some mighty fine basketball should be seen, come tomorrow night.
Coach Krause has finally hit on a starting five and the following will be entrusted with the Irish cause at tap-off time. At the forward posts, Ted Furman last year’s freshman sharpshooter, and Leo Klier, reserve on the Wonder Five of last season, Bernie Rutledge, another player who saw action last season, and John Kelly with a season of freshman ball behind him, ■null hold down the guard positions. At center, Mike Todorovich, who did his playing for Washington U. of St. Louis last season, will split the assignment with Mike Smith, the stratospheric resident of St. Ed’s hall, who played on last season’s freshman aggregation.
Frank W. Leahy, director of athletics at the University, has released the official schedule for the season. The Irish will play nine games at home, and 11 on the road, including five contests in Chicago at the stadium. An open date on Jan. 15 may be filled by Ohio State University. The schedule is one of the toughest ever faced by a Notre Dame team and would be a stiff test even for a team more experienced than the Notre Dame Five. Great Lakes and Kentucky, two of the teams that took Notre Dame into camp last season, again appear on the list of Irish opponents, and on paper look as good, if not better, than . a season back. Two other- service teams, DePauw Pre-Fliglit School and Camp Grant, should be loaded ■with former college stars and hoopsters from the cash circuit. As usual the tilt against New York University at Madison Square Garden will be the seasonal highlight.
The schedule follows:	. '
Dec. 1—Alma College at Notre Dame -Dec. 4—Western Michigan at Notre Dame Dec. 11—Wisconsin at Notre Dame ■.	-
, Dec. 18—Northwestern - at Chicago Stadium -	' Dec. 23—Purdue University at Notre Dame '.
Dec. 31—Wisconsin at Milwaukee .
Jan. 3—Purdue University at Purdue .
Jan. ' 8—Kentucky at Louisville . Jan. 11—Marquette at Notre Dame
Jan. 15—Open	'’
' Jan. 21—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium ' .
. Jan. 26—Valparaiso at Notre Dame ' - Jan. 29—Marquette at Milwaukee , ■	-
- Feb. • 2—DePauw Pre-Flight at Notre' Dame ' ' -Feb.- 5—DePaul at Chicago Stadium . - '	:
Feb. 9—Great Lakes at Great Lakes -.	- .Feb. 14—New.-York U. at New .York ' - . - -
■	Feb.19—Great Lakes at Chicago Stadium '
.. • : .Feb. 26—Iowa at-Notre Dame - -	' •
- 'Mar.; 1—Detroit at-Notre Dame .."J
Mar. 3—-Camp Grant at .Chicago' Stadium ..
Sports Writers Tell of Season's Final Minute
By Jim Howard
The emphasis was all on the 60 careless seconds as the nation’s sports writers summarized the surprise defeat of the potential National Champions, Notre Dame, by a fighting Great Lakes squad last Saturday.
Herbert Simmons—Chicago Times
“Climaxing a fury filled finale that saw the lead change twice in the last 65 seconds, Steve Lach, Duke’s great football alunmus, yesterday fired two torpedo passes that sank Notre Dame’s gridiron ship 19-14, just a clock’s tick away from the National championship shores it had been steaming toward since last September.”
Wayne K. Otto—Herald-American
“Within 32 seconds of an unbeaten and untied season, and national championship, Notre Danie saw its dreams go tumbling yesterday as a final desperate pass by Steve Lach of Great Lakes scored the touchdowns that whipped the Irish, 19-14.”
Wilfrid Smith—Chicago Tribune
‘ “The University of Notre Dame was less than a minute away from an undisputed national football championship, when the sailors of Great Lakes Naval Training Station struck suddenly and brilliantly through the air yesterday afternoon to hand the Irish their first defeat.”
James S. Kearns—Chicago Sun
. “The sweetest taste that victory could bring in this long and tumultuous football season turned to ashes in the mouths of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish yesterday.
“The Green-shirted boys from South Bend were within 40 seconds of the national championship. Within 40 seconds - of beating Great Lakes -14-12 for their 10th consecutive victory this fall. They were within 40 seconds of all the glory that could come from a tremendous rally, called up from the depths of physical reserve that were so deep as to be almost . unbelievable. .	'
“But in those 40 seconds Great Lakes won.	.
“The sailors had reserves that went even deeper.”	.
. Jim Costin—South Bend Tribune .. \ - “With the first national football title within its grasp here this afternoon, the Fighting Irish, of Notre Dame, were outfought as a keyed-up Great Lakes team spoiled a perfect season for Frank Leahy’s charges in handing them a 19 to 14 defeat.” .	<
Great Lakes Rob Irish of Perfect Slate in Last 40 Seconds of Great Season
' BY JOHN POWER
Pandemonium reigned during four quarters last Saturday as 22,000 Sailors saw a persistent Great Lakes eleven defeat a never-say-die Notre Dame team 19-14 on Ross Field. The Fighting Irish, a great comeback team, marched 80 yards for their final score, only to have victory snatched from them on a touchdown pass from Steve Lach to Paul Anderson with but 25 seconds to play. Emil Sitko, a former Notre Dame boy, and Dewey Proctor spearheaded the Great Lakes attack.
Notre Dame received the kickoff on the 33 and garnered their first touchdown in 17 plays on thrusts by Creighton Miller, Jim Mello, and a plunge by John Lu jack. Fred Earley converted and it was 7-0, Notre Dame. Rykovich kicked out of bounds on the 35, Jones picked up 18, Proctor fumbled, and Miller recovered for the Irish on the 38. Notre Dame failed to gain and Lujack kicked to Jones, who returned to the 23. The Bluejackets moved to the 41 as the quarter ended.
Resuming play the Sailors picked up 26 yards, fumbled and Notre Dame recovered. The game then became a stalemate as each team was forced to punt. As the half ended Great Lakes had possession of the ball on its own 33.
Great Lakes received on the 26 and Sitko and Proctor proceeded to tote the pigskin to midfield. Proctor plowed to the 36, and Anderson picked up ten more. Sitko darted around left end for 26 yards and a touchdown, but Juzwik’s placement was blocked—Notre Dame 7; Great Lakes 6. The Irish received, picked up 16 yards on a dash by Miller, but were finally forced to kick to the “Lakes” on the eleven. An exchange of punts took place and Great Lakes then went into action on the 20. Proctor rammed his way to the 43, and Sitko made it midfield. The Bluejackets then took the lead as Proctor .went over the left side, shook himself loose" from would-be tacklers, and. scored standing up. Juzwik’s conversion was wide and Great Lakes led 12-7.	.
.With but eight minutes remaining in the. final period Notre Dame tramped 80 yards for a touchdown, without once re. linquishing possession of the ball. Mello, Miller ,and Kelly collaborated, in toting . the ball to the one, where Miller plunged, for the score. Earley’s placement was i perfect and the Irish were out in front
14 to 12. A minute and six seconds remained to play as’ Great Lakes received on the 38.’ A pass by Lach was completed to Pirkey on the 46. Lach faded back to pass, the Irish line charged, but he ducked away from them, ran to the left, and tossed a long pass to Anderson who scored with 25 seconds remaining in the ball game. Juzwik converted as Great Lakes handed Notre Dame its first and only defeat 19-14.
La Raza Club Beats Culver
Soccer Team in Opener
By Bill Thompson and Luis Flores
Early last week the newly formed soccer team of the La Raza Club opened its season with the booters from Culver Military Academy. It proved to be an auspicious start for the team from Notre Dame as it annexed a 4 to 1 decision over the Cadets.
The diligent practice of the La Raza Club bore fruit in the contest. The men from N. D. had perfected themselves inoffensive play since the Culver eleven is well known for its strong , defensive game.
Early in the game Hector Farup, who proved to be an offensive powerhouse, carried the ball over for the initial counter. Farup also accounted for two of La Raza’s remaining three goals, with Mario Aquilar notching the remaining counter. Aquilar played well throughout the tilt, and gives every indication of becoming a real threat to future La Raza opponents.	.
Besides Farup and Aquilar, Romagosa,. Vila and Minecos were stellar, offensive performers for Notre Dame, while on . defense Romana, and Ochoa were standouts. A six-minute player, goalie John O’Rourke proved the solidarity-.of the two continents as he helped La Raza boys hold down the men from Culver. O’Rourke traveled with the team as a spectator, but was called upon to assist as. goalie in the finishing part of the game, and did an excellent job of it. .
Following the match, the Culver coach congratulated Captain Romagosa on the sportsmanship and spirit of the La Razas, and spoke of the match as ’’One of the finest games of soccer I have ever seen.”
Preceding the game, the Notre Dame
boys were tendered a lunch. The La Raza club was deeply impressed and gratified at the fine show of hospitality on the part of the Culver team’ and authorities.
The club is planning future games, and perhaps will play a return match with Culver here at Notre Dame.
Overflow League Hours to be Revised for Servicemen
By Jim Regan
So great is the interest in the “Overflow” Basketball League that unlimited entries may be accepted because it has become evident that the study hour restrictions for service students will prevent their participation in evening activ- . ities.	. -	. ..
Because of the fact that the athletic facilities are entirely devoted to the midshipmen in the afternoons between 4 and 6, it may be impossible to have an interhall service league, but the physical education department is striving to find a means, by which the service men may have their league in the afternoons.
Twelve civilian teams have already entered the Overflow League, and before the final organization is completed at the end of this week other entries are expected^ The league games are now expected to be played in Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse evenings at 7 o’clock.
Several practice games have already been played and from the ability displayed in these tilts, a high standard of play seems assured. Heated rivalry has already developed among the teams and interest is at a fever-pitch for the start of the league.
Interhall basketball has for many years been one of the high-oints of the athletic curriculum at Notre Dame and this year should prove no exception even if many of the students are unable to participate. Regular interhall medals will be awarded the winners as in past years.
If the service league is able to be held in the afternoon the games will probably start at 4:15 with both the basketball court in the old gymnasium and the court in Rockne Memorial being utilized.
Correction -
The Editors regret the erroneous inclusion of the name of Seaman John Toole in last week’s issue of the Scholastic, as chairman of the newly formed . V-12 ‘ Executive Committee. As yet no chairman has been named for this group. Our apologies to John and the committee for any embarrassment this error has caused.
15
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Frank Leahy says that the attendance
at the Gt. Lakes-N.D. game was made
up solely of men who are about to be
shipped out. . . . Must have been some going - away present for those fellows. . . . Lieut, (jg) Luke Walton, sports publicity director at Great Lakes, has registered an oral claim
Bill Waddington for the service championship. . . . He arrives at his conclusion by comparing the scores made against the Irish by the Sailors and the Seahawks........ Besides, the Lakes were hampered by officials all season, so I’m told. . . . Dewey Proctor, bouldering tar fullback, came to the attention of the sports writers via his block-busting type of play last week. . . . However, the scribes made many an inquiry about his preservice obscurity, which revealed that he came from a small southern institution, Furman University. . . .
Out of 70 predicted contests this season, this corner called 66 favorably for a .943 percentage. . . . Patrons at the Hlini - Northwestern game kept their eyes on the scoreboard rather than on the field of play, for they knew that there would be an Illinois disaster on the immediate scene. . . . They were more concerned about the Seahawk-N.D. encounter. . . . The Purple fans wanted to see a “Fighting Irish” reversal in light of the thumping they received the previous week. . . . Stan Kozlowski, Holy Cross backfield ace who led the east in scoring this season with 75 counters, attended Notre Dame in his freshman year. . . . Notre Dame was undefeated National Champion for 599 minutes and 32 seconds out of 600 minutes of play. . . . They’re now defeated, but still National Champs.
Unknown to many local rooters, Frank Leahy got his first coaching assignment at Georgetown in 1931 under Tommy Mills, the latter now being director of the Rockne Memorial. . . . John Lujack received an appointment to the Military Academy upon graduation from high school but turned it down to fill a boyhood dream of coming to Notre Dame. . . . The much-used title of
“Springfield Rifle” that was applied to Bertelli belongs solely to the inspirational genius of Jim Costin. ... A bit of attention to the injury list shows that N.D. was able to survive their first seven contests until Joe Signaigo broke his nose at Northwestern. . . . Ever since Lujack took over Bertelli’s spot, his mail has soared from 25 to 55 letters daily. . . . Herb Coleman owns an up-to-date album of modern and classical phonograph records and is hep to any and all questions pertinent to music. . . .
Minnesota will probably have the post-war gridiron and court services of Frank Olivieri, presently a Navy V-12 trainee at Illinois Normal who is making the headlines with a .833 completed pass total. . . . Northwestern’s V-12 Navy unit whipped the Marine outfit on campus for the intra-mural football crown. . . . (Ad-Lib from Northwestern Daily on the Cat-N.D. clash) . . . Pappy Waldorf: “I flung a star at the flaming moon, but it fell through the burning blue; and its crystal fire was lost too soon in a broth of Irish stew.” . . . Twenty V-12 men constituted the Gopher football squad this fall, foremost being Bill Garnaas, a Minnesota original. . . . Ned Irish may still be publicity director for Madison Square Garden but he’s receiving a lot of female assistance in putting out his notices. ... At Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn., a C.P.O. was taking muster for a Phy Ed class when a morbid stench came into prominence... It was a contented skunk just taking in the fundamentals of muscle control . . . No class, that day!
In order to time ourselves in accordance with the American press services and newspapers, the following is a compilation of the first two choices of AllAmerican intercollegiate grid teams:
FIRST TEAM E—Pihos (Indiana) T—White (Notre Dame) G—Filley . (Notre Dame) C—Myszlinski (Army)	.
G—Agase (Purdue) T—Mictch'ell (Minnesota) E—Channel (Navy)
-	QB—Bertelli (Notre Dame) .
LH—Miller (Notre Dame) RH—O’Dell (Pennsylvania) FB—Daley (Michigan) SECOND TEAM E—Hein (Northwestern) . T—Pregulman (Michigan) G—Kapter (Northwestern)
C—Coleman (Notre Dame) G—Steber (Georgia Tech) T—Merritt (Army) E—Hennessey (Army) QB—Prokop (Georgia Tech) LH—Hamberg (Navy) RH—Butkovich (Purdue) FB—Mello (Notre Dame)
In closing, we sincerely nominate Jim White as lineman of the year, Angelo Bertelli as back of the year, Frank Leahy as coach of the year, and Notre Dame as team of the year . . . without prejudice either. . . .
Few Veterans Answer Indoor
Track Call; Gridders Report
By Joe Fahey
After completing a highly successful cross - country campaign, Doc Handy has what promises to be a well-balanced indoor track team. He has more veterans back than he expected. Though he admits there’s quite a shortage in hurdlers and high jumpers, he has a flock of distance runners from last season. This category was further strengthened by the report of many from the champion cross-country team. These are headed by Martin, Kiley, Kunzler, De Wolfe, Forster, Woods, Schwinn and Lyons.
Two excellent shot-put men, John Yonakor and Jim White, are back to toss the weight again for the Irish. . Zilly and Miller, two other football stars, will be out for laurels in the pole vault and broad jump. Purcell, a monogram winner last season, leads the return of middle-distance men.
A large number answered the call that went out for material last week. The next few days will be spent weeding out varsity material. A schedule will be drawn up in the neai- future and will be published in the Scholastic.
American Ballad Singers
to Appear Here Dec. 18
On Dec. 18, the renowned American Ballad Singers will present a concert of Native American music at Washington Hall. The American Ballad Singers are a group of three men and three women directed by Mr. Elie Seigmeister.
The program offered will include a historical review of American music ■written between 1778 and 1943. On the program are early American songs, songs of America at work, of the American “melting pot,” and popular American legends and folk songs. The singers have appeared before many appreciative audiences at numerous midwestern universities. Recently they appeared at Iowa State University.
)■
A.

16
/U Maa. AMeJt Ca.----------------------——
U * S * NAVY OVERCOATS
FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
This beaver-finish cloth is a pliant and durable wool fleece. 30-ounce, 2-ply Kersey. It meets all government specifications as to wool stock, yam, weight, dye, shrinkage, finish, and tensile strength. And in fashion, fit. and general appearance, there is not an officer in the Navy who would not be proud to wear it. At $50, it is a tribute to the Navy's efforts to make available the finest for its officers at the lowest possible price!
4E7ye* want £/
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend's most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
17
Marine Pilot Demands
University Admit Co-eds
Notre Dame must become co-education-al, and' a Marine Corps pilot has given himself the job of making the school co-ed, according to a recent Associated Press story coming out of the South Pacific.
Nine days before Major Louis L. Frank, a former U. of New Hampshire football player, left for overseas duty last January, a baby was born to the proud Major and Mrs. Frank. Immediately Frank decided that Notre Dame, the school to which he has always wished he had gone, would have to be converted to co-ed ranks. And in a V-mail letter received recently from his wife, Mrs. Frank commemorates the event by putting these words into her baby’s mouth:
“Before I came into this world
My problems all to vex,
There was a great commotion
Concerning my intended sex.
My mommy called me Lynda,
My daddy called, me Butch;
He said Fd be a football star,
Play baseball, ski and such.
I ivas to be a leatherneck
And of Four Horseman fame,
And carry on and block that kick
For dear old Notre Dame.
He’d buy cigars for all the boys
If a male I’d be;
But it would be a cigarette
If I should be a she.
So when I finally did appear
And was still wet and red,
The nurse called anxious daddy in, “A nine-pound girl,” she said.
His chest expanded one whole foot,
His eyes lit up like stars;
He tore down to the drugstore And bought fifty-cent cigars. He ran down to the squadron Got the boys around and said: "As of ten a.m. this morning, gang, Notre Dame has gone co-ed.”
Major Louis L. Frank is a pre-Pearl Harbor veteran of the U. S. Marine Corps. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1939; became a first lieutenant in January, 1942; a captain in May of that year; and a major last April. On duty with a photographic reconnaissance squadron, Maj. Frank is the holder of an air medal and a presidential citation.
Student Opinion Expects War's End Between '43 & '46
During the football season the Scholastic conducted a weekly poll of students on the outcome of each game. Now that the season is ended, the paper turns its attention to a poll of a serious nature. This week the question is: “When do you think the war will end? Listed below are the opinions of six students on the campus:
Charles J. Deyman, freshman, of Muskegon, Michigan: “In my opinion we have at least three years of hard fighting ahead. It’s going to be tough going all the way through Italy to Germany. The Germans are a determined people. It’s going to be even worse going from island to island in the Pacific. There will be a lot of blood shed and many hearts broken. Let us pray that my prediction may be proven too pessimistic.”
F. H. Link, U.S.C.G.R., Navy V-12, of La Porte, Ind.: “It would seem fairly obvious that the war will be over as soon as the world in general gets the idea to settle down to something constructive again. When that will be, I don’t know— why not write Dr. Anthony?”
Edward F. Aylward, freshman, of Kansas City, Mo.: “I believe the war will end about Christmas, 1944. Germany is succumbing more and more every day to the surge of the Allies and should collapse at least by February. Japan will be our hardest enemy to conquer, but I think that if there is better co-operation in the South Pacific between the air
PARKER-WINTERROWD - 115% North Main Street
w
V V E wish to extend our sincere thanks to the Midshipmen who have favored us with their uniform orders and assure them of our every consideration and attention.
- John Parker - Earl Winterrowd
force, ground force, and sea force, the war will come to an end by the last part of 1944.”
Pvt. Wes Deist, Marine V-12, of Bonners Ferry, Idaho: “End of war—Fall of 1944. I don’t believe the countries that we are fighting can keep up their production of war materials to satisfy their needs, and of course we always have the Marines!”
James T. Clauss, NROTC, of Buffalo, N. Y.: “The war will end by June, 1945. Germany may be licked, but then we will just begin the fight in the Pacific.”
G. W. Patrick, midshipman of Springfield, HL: “Being confined to the rigors of a midshipman’s school, there isn’t time to worry about specific details concerning the war, but I have my application in for another year of schooling in 1945. I am not worried over personal plans before that date.”
N.R.O.T.C. Installs New
Watch System in Walsh
A new student watch system has been installed in Walsh Hall since Nov. 27 for the cadets of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps. A student officer of the day will stand watch from 0800 to 0800 the following day. The position of Junior Officer will be held by a First Classman who is to be assisted by eight' mates of the watch, Third Classmen, assigned to stand watch in each wing on each deck of Walsh Hall.
The Battalion Office will be manned by the J.O.O.D. with the aid of one of the mates of the watch. All cadet activities will be handled through the Office

18
located on the first deck. Men on leave and liberty and log out with the Junior Officer, and will hand in leave papers to him. Mail will be distributed by the mates from the Battalion Office.
The First Classman, who is J.O.O.D., will be responsible for the unit on that day. All daily reports will be turned in and recorded in the Official Log, which in turn will be submitted to the Executive Officer. Additional duties of the Junior Officer will be bell and light duty, and the attending of all visitors in the-hall.	’
The mates of the watch, will be responsible to the Junior Officer for the conduct of their respective wings. It shall be their duty to maintain silence during study period; check rooms at taps; inspect rooms between 0800 and 1200; and to check rooms at reveille for calisthenics.
This new watch system is similar to those employed in various other Naval ROTC Units in the country. It is the purpose of this system to familiarize the men to watches which they will have to stand aboard ships of the fleet as commissioned officers in the United States Navy.'
"Scholastic" Circulation Staff
Combs Halls for Readers
John Matmiller and his cohorts of circulation men swept down on the campus last week in search of Scholastic subscribers. It may have been his Marine uniform; or it may have been his persuasive speech. At any rate, the response was little short of amazing. And Matmiller’s contagious optimism so spirited his helpers, that their results were equally gratifying.
Because of the splendid work of this department, the Scholastic will receive a much wider reading on campus than heretofore.
Circulation among the student body was, up to the present time, an unknown experience. Everyone enrolled received a copy by the very fact that he was a student. Now, however, the magazine is distributed only to subscribers. It was under the direction of Matmiller that this new work was undertaken and brought to a successful fruition. Over 800 subscribers have been obtained to date. And it is the same group each week that delivers the magazine to the various rooms of these subscribers.
Assisting Matmiller in the circulation department are: Ray Oliphant, Don Colgrove, Dave Symond, William Ward, Jim Paris, Tom Hynes, Norman Kivitz, A. W. Crevier, Irving Carr, John Frampton, Jerry Greenberg, Bill Nel-iigan, Chuck Vennstra, and Warren Weinreich.
BEFORE the war Bell Laboratories’ scientists put quartz crystals to work in such a way that twelve conversations are carried on two pairs of Long Distance wires at one time.
Now with strategic metals so scarce, the Bell System is using only 6,000 tons of new copper a year instead of 90,000. And these tiny crystals are helping to provide more communication for each pound used.
They serve on the battle fronts, too. Western Electric has manufactured some eight million quartz crystals for use in the dependable communications equipment Bell System research is giving the armed forces.
In the better days ahead this experience will again be directed toward keeping this country’s telephone service the best in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance Unes busy ... That’s why your call may be delayed.
19
THE SNOOPER
Snooped, Edited and Written by: THE SNOOPER
The “Problem” of the week: Has Ray “Duffy” Murray (Co. K) thrown in the towel—with “Cissy?” Cissy is—or was— his “Heart-throb”—at least for the past four years! What do you say, “Duffy?”
The “Barking Dog” or “Barking Seal” —you tell me which! Has H. J. Bartley (Co. C’s company commander) been to the Aleutians and taken up “Seal Barking” as a hobby; or is it that he has been in the country too much and taken up "Dog Barking??” It has been the cause of a great deal of debate. Bartley and his prodigies (Co. G cadence callers) ! Rumor has it that there is only one V-12 lad who can run the “Great” (?) Bartley any competition—Amundsen (Co. B cadence caller)! It is rumored that Amundsen was once a “hawg-call-er” (he makes enough noise.) You tell me, who makes more noise, Amundsen or Bartley??
And so.... R. Seifken comes strolling
back from the “fire” with an ice-cream cone in hand! What was wrong Mr. Seifken; did the fire get too hot for you?? Can’t you take it?
Well.______Sergeant King (Marine), the man who drills the-WAVES, has gone effeminate of late. It seems that since he has been “teaching”(?) the WAVES how to march, he has been affected by the feminine influence. He was seen sitting in the Caf the other day knitting— no less!! A big he-man (?) “marine”.... knitting—well, well, well.
This “Midnight Handicap” we V-12 lads run is apt to develop into a dangerous venture. It has been stated, by reliable sources, that last Friday morning a fellow stumbled and fell to the ground —half his company ran over him before he could gather all his faculties together enough to get up!! Just imagine what would have happened to a slower-witted fellow than this first “victim” of the “Midnight Handicap! ”
Oh for the life of a “double-life” man! Our double-life man is none other than Ed Eimers (Co. K). If one of you should happen to ask him about his double-life, and he denies it, fire this question at him—but fast: Why does one Ed Eimers
commute to Milwaukee one week, and to Chicago the next?
A certain Mr. Vick (Head linesman from Michigan) is to be commended for the pair of eyes in the rear extremities of his head. Even the commentator who was broadcasting the game said that Yonakor (in the fourth quarter) caught the pass inside the playing field. Mr. Vick, who was standing with his back to the play, was convinced the pass was “incomplete.” This may sound like “sour-grapes,” or poor sportsmanship to you, but as surely as I am hitting the keys of this typewriter, those are the facts! To substantiate that statement: you know, as well as I, that Jake Kline does not very often get “mad,” but when that ruling (incomplete pass—due to catching outside the playing field) was made, he threw down his program and his hat, tore off his coat and started down the field with “blood in his eye” after a certain “ref” — when Frank Leahy and an assistant stopped Kline. “The Fighting Irish” can take defeat as well as victory; but we also like to be given fair treatment from the officials. I think Great Lakes played a “bang-up” game of football last Saturday. Congratulations to Great Lakes! Fooey to Vick.
Have a Coca-Cola = iQue Tai?
(WHAT’S UP?)
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called ‘Coke”.
... in Panama as in Pittsburgh
iQue tali is the friendly What's up? of the citizen of Panama. Equally cordial is the Have a 11 Coke" of the American soldier. Around the world Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become the high-sign of friendly-minded folks.
i
t
A
20
OBSERVATIONS
k	By Lieut. S. L. Beatty. U.S.N.R.
:	Course Officer of V-12 Unit
V-12 students on active duty, who meet the prescribed standards outlined below and who will not complete their V-12 training prior to 1 March 1944, are eligible to take part in the annual competitive examination to be held 10 May 1944 for appointment to cadetship
Lieut S. L. Beatty. U.S.N.R.
in the U. S. Coast Guard Academy. Appointments to cadetships are offered to young men standing highest in the na- ' tion-wide competitive examination. The standing of a candidate is determined by averaging his grades in the Mathematics and English examinations with his adaptability grade which is assigned to him by the Selection Board on the basis of a personal interview and the records submitted with his application. Each V-12 student desiring to compete must submit a letter of application via offi-
cial channels to the Commandant, U. S. Coast Guard, containing data which the candidate may procure by talking with the course officer in the Rockne Office of V-12. Final papers must be postmarked not later than 12 April 1944, and the preliminary application should be received at Coast Guard Headquarters not later than 15 March 1944.
The Coast Guard Academy, at New London, Conn., is a fully accredited educational institution operating under the same high scholastic and military standards as the U. S. Naval and U. S. Military Academies, and is intended for the professional training of young men who are candidates for commissions and careers in Coast Guard service. Successful completion of the three-year course, which is basically scientific in character, leads to a Bachelor of Science degree in

Selection of Writing Paper, Religious Articles, Pillows and Pennants
Ladies’ Miniature . NOTRE DAME RINGS — the Ideal Gift!
South Wing Badin Hall
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years_____$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. • O’Donnell___$2.50
... at the Bookstore
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE, LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS SI.OO.
Phone 4-1481
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOREA SO. BEND R. R.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
SO%sehorE
21

^cJze, a ^In,
puam the. Old JWae&buL
TRY THE NAVY CANTEEN FIRST!
deted, udiat kau&:
CANDY CIGARETTES COCA-COLA CIGARS GUM
ZERO DECK DINING HALL
1
Engineering and a commission in the Regular Coast Guard.
The basic requirements for nomination are these: (a) Be not less than 17 years of age nor more than 22 years of age on 1 May 1944. (b) Be at least a high school graduate. (c) Be unmarried. (d) Have the following credits, either in high school or college:
Algebra, 2 units; plane geometry, 1; trigonometry, %; English, 3 units; physics, 1; and chemistry, 1.
(e.) Be over 5'6" in height, with vision of 20/20 uncorrected in each eye and otherwise in good physical condition.
For further information there are these pamphlets available at the V-12 Office: “Regulations Governing Appointments to Cadetship in the U. S. Coast Guard”; “The U. S. Coast Guard Academy.” There has been ordered for the office the book by Kensil Bell, ALWAYS READY, newly published by Dodd, Mead, and Company, which surveys in detail the service of the U. S. Coast Guard. Any interested V-12 man should see the course officer.
State Fire Marshall to
Investigate Campus Fires
After a series of fires on campus within the last two weeks, University officials requested an investigation by the state fire marshall.
The latest fire was discovered in the University carpenter repair shop at about 7:15 Sunday evening. Damage was estimated at $11,000 to the building adjoining the old Ave Maria press building, where last week a fire caused about $15,000 damage.
Two other fires of smaller proportions, not requiring the assistance of the local fire departments, broke out in the past two weeks.
As an added precaution, there have been organized fire watches for Marine, and Navy V-12 trainees, according to information received this week.
Magnella Elected Grand Knight in K. C. Election
Francis J. Magnella was elected Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus during theii- first meeting of the winter semester. Richard M. Sadowski was elected warden; Michael Kiely, inside guard; Jack Freeman, outside guard; and Louis Lauth, recorder.
During the meeting on Tuesday, the organization held a party celebrating the election of the new officers. Football pictures of Notre Dame’s 1943 football season were shown.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS (Continued from page 11) navy as a coach. He was the builder of teams for John Carroll University of Cleveland, Ohio, for two years — 1932 and 1933. From Cleveland he returned to his town to coach at the high school where he got his start: St. Stanislaus of Bay St. Louis, Miss., from 1933 to 1937. In 1937 he moved to New Orleans to coach at St. Aloysius College. Here he stayed for five years. In June of 1942, Glover took unto himself a wife — a New Orleans girl.
• Later in the same year he joined the navy as a chief specialist. Since his entrance into the navy, he has been stationed at Norfolk, Va.; Bainbridge, Md.; and the University of Notre Dame, in that order.
To you, Chief Glover — all-around athlete and four-letter man — we take off our hats!
THE GREEN BANNER
(Continued from page 12) possible time can be procured from any one of your numerous profs. Or hasn’t anyone informed them as to its location yet? And while we are speaking of our profs, we had better harden ourselves to the fact that they will throw an occasional quiz,' kids! At Notre Dame during examinations, the Honor System still prevails—only now it is required that a vacant seat guard you from error on each side. The vacant seats, plus the empty look on the faces of the candidates give the teacher the impression that he is alone in the room. So, after handing in your paper (blank or otherwise) check to see that your instructor, has not given you a cut.... Contrary to what you have heard, the gentleman on the rostrum has got eyes in the back of his head.... Odd looking, isn’t he? If he requests that you
Buy WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-25674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bld., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
roll your sleeves, don’t suspect him of suspecting you of hiding crib notes. He merely wants to compare his biceps with yours—in the event of a disputable answer arising out of the quiz. Haw...
THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK:
Does it happen every Thanksgiving?
Welcome- Back to Jack Hughes, who has been recently released from the army and has returned to N. D. to join the 1C-A.C. We understand that he has been keeping the special delivery man busy since he has been back. She wants to see you bad, Jackson.
POEM (?)
Went to a Saturday dance, Danced with a girl five foot, four— Her boy friend, had no sense of humor, Dorit get around much any more.
Well, it must have been a Marine!
Now it can be told. The V-12 have formed a Student Executive Committee, to represent the servicemen on the campus. The question naturally is how about the civilians?
Why don’t we organize a student council of our own to work in conjunction with the navy and the marines? What do you say lads, shall we set the ball rolling?
With the opening of the varsity basketball season on campus, we find that intermural teams are being organized. How about it you off-campus fellows, shall we enter a team? All the fellows that are interested can leave their names with Ben “Red” Mammina, any noon in the Cafe.
Tom Halligan claims that he is the off-campus champ when it comes to playing handball, and he is willing to take on all comers. Should we challenge him, or should we let him be disillusioned for a while yet?
Jim Kane is glad that he had the measles in his younger days, because one of the children in the home where Jim stays had them, and Jim sure would have hated to miss a week or so of classes. Tough luck, old man.
TO THE MARINES
We, the civilian students, take our hats off to you for those displays of snappy marching and drilling.
A great problem for us these days is where all our money is going to come from. Things are really tough when Larry Reynolds and Frank Kent have to go out and start looking for jobs. Good luck, boys. (Seven come Eleven)
Well, that’s all for this week, so I’ll see you in Georges.
IT IS NOT TOO LATE—MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
/or
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under Management of
- Josie and Jim
Sunny Italy Cafe 601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
CloilutUf
PANTS SHIRTS N. D. BLANKETS
Sonneborn's Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue South Bend, Ind.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
23
Copyright 1$M3, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.-