LEARN THE LATEST
DANCE STEPS AND VARIATIONS
4?
If you can do this Magic Step, you can quickly learn any modern dance
DON'T BE SATISFIED WITH OUT-DATED STEPS and DANCES
Don't Be Satisfied with Anything But the Best Instruction.
It Costs No More at Arthur Murray's.
Arthur Murray experts are continuously being trained in all modem dances and variations. They in turn can teach them to you in no time at all because of Arthur Murray’s extremely easy to understand method of teaching. Put yourself in the hands of his capable teachers
now . . .
BECOME THE GOOD DANCER YOU HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO BE. PHONE 2-3339 FOR INFORMATION.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St.	Above Copp Music Shop
2
The Scholastic
Sport Coats
"Hoot Mon!"
It’s
GILBERT’S
for
Tartan Plaids
(All the Authentic Clans)
Sport Shirts
Jackets
Robes
Pajamas
Ties
Socks
Belts
Jewelry
Suspenders
Stadium Blankets
tig
III
3






GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
Open every evening 'till 9 P. M.
Sept. 29, 1950
—
Ticket Troubles
. . . Just why do all the other schools that I am familiar with allow their student body to sit in the mid-field sections of the stadium while the students of Notre Dame push the end zones? ... A student body should be in back of the team but I for one would rather be beside it. . . . Perhaps I’m old fashioned in believing that the students should merit mid-field seats, or perhaps we don’t pay enough for them, or maybe I come from the wrong section of the country, who knows? . . .
My first year at Notre Dame I sat on the five, but then maybe a Freshman deserves as much. The next year I made it to the ten. This season I lead a happier life, being married, but now I am residing in the near end zone. You might say “that’s life,” but I wonder how many share what constitutes my luck in getting a decent seat. . . .
Norman McNeil
44 E. Elder,
South Bend	.
This letter was shown to Mr. Herbert E. Jones, Business Manager of Athletics, and Mr. M. Robert Cahill, Ticket Manager. They knew of fete student football sections in the country as good as the •one provided for Notre Dame students. They said further, they kneiv of none that was better, but many that were in a poorer location.
In regard to married students sitting in the end zone, the Messrs. Jones and Cahill said that University tradition regulates the alloting of tickets to students and that women have never been assigned tickets in the student section. Married students are permitted to purchase reduced price tickets for their wives because of a concession granted by the University administration.
As for our own feelings on the subject—it seems that everyone would like to sit on the 50. But since it is impossible most students are sensible and accept the fact reasonably. Editor
Beauty Suggestion .
Editor:
Notre Dame spends large sums of money to maintain and beautify this campus. Yet it persists in retaining those ugly costly and dangerous fences of wire strung between metal pipes bordering the campus lawns.
As a safety feature, maintenance cost saver, and a measure to enhance the beauty of our campus in keeping with the building architecture I suggest the use of stones of about 18 inches in di
ameter in place of the metal posts. A lightweight chain between the stones will give the grounds a well knit, permanent appearance, reflecting the characteristics of Notre Dame.
E. J. Malo
Box 408
Audio-Visual Center Offers Non-Credit Photog Course
To present the fundamentals of good photography the Audio-Visual Center is offering a non-credit semester course in “The Little School of Photography” every Tuesday at 4 p. m.
Two sections, a beginners and an advanced, will receive instructions in composition, lighting, color, and flash work. They will have access to the Center’s photographic equipment and library.
“The theme of the course will be ' pointed with light,” commented Mr. Orville Foster, of the Audio-Visual Department, “for good photography depends upon one thing primarily, good lights. To gain the necessary practical experience the students will concentrate upon portrait and still-life work,” he added.
Throughout the year guest speakers from Eastman and Ansco will discuss various problems and techniques. The Center also plans to display the color work done and to present some one-man exhibits at the close of the course.
N. D. Monogrammed Blankets
$5.95 and $8.95
N. D. JACKETS $1 L95 and $12.95
N. D. TEE SHIRTS
N. D. SWEAT SHIRTS N.D. PENNANTS N. D. SHAMROCKS N. D. CREW HATS
Take home one of the above items as a souvenir.
SONNEBORN'S Sport Shop
121 W. Colfax Ave.
Phone 3-3702 South Bend, Ind.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
See us for all your PHOTOGRAPHIC
NEEDS
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes lug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.05
Ault Camera Shop
(Inc.)
112 N. Main	Phone 3-5041
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT “Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main	Open Sunday
4
The Scholastic
J
Top of the Week
Tomorrow’s season opener against North Carolina’s Tar Heels. . . .
Weekend: Vintage “Pigskin”
Already thousands- of visitors have converged on the Northern Indiana area with the hope of seeing ND’s four year undefeated mark fall by the boards after tomorrow’s game. Tar Heel backers this year are expected to exhibit the same kind of enthusiasm as did last season’s Tulane supporters, with probably the same futility.
You’ve got to hand it to those rabid Southern fans, but we’re not sure where. If the Notre Dame backers don’t come through with a lot of .cheers, the rebels are liable to inspire their team to a victory. If you see the “Stars and Bars” being hoisted up the flag-pole, don’t get excited. We have to let our guests do something on the football field.
But there’s more to a football weekend than the gridiron tussle. Wherever you turn you’ll see visitors. They generally stroll leisurely around the campus in search of something to eat or someplace to sit down.
Taking a shower on a Saturday after
classes until the snow on the ground is deep enough to hide the subterfuge.
Hint Three: The wearing of dungarees and field jackets to class will -nark you as “casual.” You may even be mistaken for Marlon Brando.
Hint Four: White shirts, -with or without button-down collars ai’e appropriate anytime, except when you’re wearing a white suit. White ties, bow or straight, also don’t do anything for you in a white suit. In fact, a white suit is hideous, and we suggest you burn it immediately.
Hint Five: Argyle socks are a “must” with almost any sports attire. Knitting needles and yam can be purchased at the Bookstore. Free instructions are available any afternoon between 4:30 and 5:45 p. m. in the Department of Home Economics, 6th floor, Main Building.
Back to Nature
Either ND men have become outdoor lovers or the chairs in the reading room of the Library are getting harder, we don’t know. The fact is the current rash of picnics defies explanation.
Last Saturday the .Frosh were at Pot-
awatomie with St. Mary’s Freshmen, Academy girls, a zoo full of animals, and a volleyball net. This Sunday the Glee Clubbers will invade the estate of their director, Daniel H. Pedtke, to return with hoarse voices and aching limbs. On Oct. 8 the Senior Class will hold their picnic-type outing with plenty of strenuous exercise and carefree fun abounding.
This situation is, in two words, not normal. Normally, a student would be glad to spend a free afternoon in the sack, or maybe in an easy chair.
We can’t ignore these picnics so let’s go out and get plenty of fresh air and sunshine and join in the rustic revelry. You only live once. Ugh!
Bottom of the Week
. . . Another football season of confused listening with Bill (If you hear a tremendous roar) Stern and Harry (High above the Stadium) Wismer on the networks.	.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
noon on the first floor of any residence hall requires phenomenal skill and agility. Getting to class on time on football Saturdays is another problem, but the proposed one-way traffic ’ system should take care of that.
Fashions for Fall
Uppermost in any college student’s mind is the subject of what to wear and where to wear it. Practically all the popular magazines have been handing out clothes tips like politicians passing cigars at election time.
Not to be outdone, or outcried, “The Week Fashion Forum” hops into this sea of tartans and tweeds with a few helpful hints to style-wise ND men. Our apologies extend to Gilberts, Max Adler’s, Rasmussens, and anybody else who would like an apology.
Hint One: Never attend an 8 o’clock class wearing a “personal plaid” sport coat or shirt. If you do you’ll wake up everybody, including the prof.
Hint Two: “White bucks” cannot be substituted for “sneakers” in Phy Ed
STOP PASSING UP GOOD
TIMES! learn to dance the GEORGE DAVIS way
Are you missing out on being a popular dancing partner? Don't put off dancing any longer. You'll be amazed at how quickly you "catch on," gain confidence, new friends and popularity! Call 3-8229 for free introductory lesson.
DANCE FIESTA
Every Thursday, 9 p. m.
All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
“Northern Indiana’s Largest Dance Studio”
Sept. 29, 1950
Vol. 92 September 29. 1950
No. 3
SEPTEMBER 29
|	FIELDHOUSE—The year’s first pep rally gets rolling tonight at
I 7:15 with the traditional march around the campus. The band will lead
| the parade starting from between Farley and Breen-Phillips Halls and then weaving west as far as Howard and then past the Dining Hall and back to the Fieldhouse. Captain Jerry Groom and his teammates, who will be introduced, want to know if the student body is behind them for the season’s opener against the Tar Heels. How about packing Lhe Fieldhouse to show them we are?
I COLFAX (through Oct. 4)—Our Very Ozun (Legion of Decency '	Fating A-2) is soap-opera stuff on a bigger scale, but at least it has
!	a plot which is more than can be said for most of the movies issued
I recently from Hollywood. Ann Blyth and Joan Evans play sisters—one adopted, the other not—and Farley Granger plays Annie’s b.f. The cast is a good one right down to Ann Dvorak’s contribution as Ann’s real mother.
I AVON (indefinite run)—Szimmer Stock (A-l) isn’t the greatest mu-। sical ever made but it will more than suffice until a better one comes along. The film has a certain youthful zest to it not found often these days. The movie moguls ran wild however, on the finale. They pour on a j production number that is supposed to fit into a barn where in reality there aren’t too many farms that could handle it. Judy Garland and ' Gene Kelly help make this one entertainment with a capital E.
SEPTEMBER 30
STADIUM—Our rebel friends from down Chapel Hill way are the first of the year’s opponents to try to break the Irish 38 game string of victories. If this season’s Tar Heels show half as much grit as did last season’s then we’ll be sure to have a fight on our hands. Kick-off time is set for 2 p.m.
WASHINGTON HALL—Bouncy, blonde Doris Day is the star of It’s a Great Feeling (A-2), a mediocre musical story of Hollywood. Dennis Morgan and Jack Carson stumble through the film, but it is the vivacious Miss Day’s pic all the way.
PALAIS ROYALE—The Student Council tosses the Fall’s first Victory Dance. It will go from 8 until 11:30 with Gene Hull and his men on the band stand.
OCTOBER 3
LAW AUDITORIUM—Professor Boleslaw Szczesniak is to give a talk on the Korean situation at 8 p.m. All students are invited to attend.
OCTOBER 5
COLFAX (through Oct. 11)—Walt Disney puts aside his cartoons completely for a picturization of Robert Louis Stevenson’s classic, Treasure Island (A-l). The movie is a technicolor dilly and proverbial age bracket from six to sixty will enjoy it. Bobby Driscoll plays Jim Hawkins and Robert Newton makes a wonderfully menacing character out of Long John Silver.
n —	—----- ...	 ------------ . 	..----	---
6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
5
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51	;
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52_____________ News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52 .Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51........Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52___________ Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52_____Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51....Photography LEON GARDNER. '52______ Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER............Advertising WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51...Advertising J ROBERT WILDEMAN '52.....Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
=__====_=^=
COVER: Cheerleaders Dick Herrle (captain), Jack McGlinn and Jack Wenning let themselves go in preparation for tonight’s pep rally and tomorrow’s game with North Carolina. If these three cheer-getters and the other foui- members of the squad go at their work as shown on this week’s cover they will either end up the season under Hughie Burns’ care or else without a voice to whisper on.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
The Scholastic
The Big Order
At Fatima Our Lady asked us to say the rosary for the conversion of Russia. Everyone knows that, but too few are complying with her request. The ones that are not, often think the order is too bi? to handle.
Just imagine—here I am, one minute, insignificant per-1 son, trying to convert singlehanded that huge country with its staggering population. People are overwhelmed by the statistics. But Our Lady wouldn’t have given us the message unless she knew the conversion was possible.
And now more than ever we should be petitioning her with our prayers. Never before has the Church been embroiled in a crisis such as it is weathering today. The antiChrist dogma of communism is diseasing every part of our life and world.
i This Sunday Our Blessed Mother’s month of October begins. Therefore, we should all make an extra effort to comply with her wishes during the thirty-one days ahead. Many added campus facilities are being offered us to help strengthen our spiritual attack against communism. And we shouldn’t let the order frighten us.
Perhaps the fight is too big for us to face alone. But if we all pray together our strength will grow. It is not inconceivable that even in our lifetime we shall see Our Lady’s request fulfilled. It’s a request that must be fulfilled.
Aid, Instead of Derision
After several years of confusion, buck-passing and general inertia, the Student Council came out of the woods last year to present its constituents with an activity-laden program. Although it might be a bit early to judge, it nonetheless looks as if the present Council will take up where its predecessor left off and really give the student body a ride for its money.
Members and officers of the governing group have already shown their mettle in regard to their eagerness to get the ball rolling. It can’t be denied that the members are hard workers. They’ll make mistakes during the coming year — after all, they are human.
But let them falter just once and then watch the vultures descend. The Student Council is one of the most bitterly maligned groups on campus. Sometimes the criticism is just—other times it is not. Our contention is that the
Sept. 29, 1950
students would have a better Council if they learned how to work it.
Instead of straining to rip it apart, everyone should be more than ready to offer his assistance. The Council will become useless unless the student body works with it. Its members need your help. They represent you but they can’t voice your opinion if they don’t know what it is. Give the Council a break. Tell them what you think is wrong, give them suggestions, talk things over with them . .. they’re only students and will understand your problems because the problems are theirs also.
On pages 21 and 22 in this issue there is a feature article on the Student Council. It’s an article that should be read by anyone at all interested in student life. Pictures of Council members are also printed there. Find out what these men look like and then get to know them. They need your help.	•
The Road Ahead
Much publicized Texas isn’t the only place in the country that has eyes glued upon it. Notre Dame is claimant of a large number of orbs, too. Especially the Irish football team.
Tomorrow afternoon the stadium will fill, the band will strut out, the coin will be tossed, the whistle will blow and Notre Dame’s 62nd season of football will be imder way. The nation’s football fans are split into two camps this year. One segment is pulling with the team all the way— that 38 game winning streak can’t be broken. The other segment is agin’ us—that 38 game winning streak will be broken.
The student body will be out there rooting for the team ... no one around here wants to see the team lose. But supposing we should lose this year? Then what?
Will the student support collapse? Will interest in the team wane? We think not, for win, lose or tie—and let our detractors go hang—we know we have the best team in the country.
One thing we need never worry about is the team getting cocky. They might have self-confidence, but never over-confidence. The only ones guilty of the latter defect might be the student body. We’re the ones who have to worry about being overly-sure of victory.
The squad faces a tough year. If we don’t let them down, they won’t let us down.
7
From the world’s foremost pen maker-]
4 new
Parker Pens
FOR THE FIRST TIME YOU CAN BUY A MODERN, PRECISION-MADE PARKER PEN AT JUST ABOUT ANY PRICE YOU WANT TO PAY. CHOOSE NOW—START SCHOOL WITH A BRAND NEW PARKER!
new Parker “51” Special
Typical “51" precision features. Fastest-action filler. Visible ink supply. Pli-glass reservoir. (No rubber parts) Super-smooth Octanium point. Exclusive metered ink flow. 4 colors. Lustraloy cap.
$]Q00^
Pen and pencil set, $15.00
k (No F.E. Tax} ,
Unsurpassed for style and precision at any price under $10.00. Octanium point. See-through ink chamber of Pli-glass. (No rubber parts) Simplified filling. Choice of colors: blue, green, red, black.
new Parker “21
[ Pen and pencil set, L $8.75
(No F. E. tax}
new Parkette
The outstanding economy-priced pen of the year. A real Parker Pen... style plus genuine value. Safin-smooth, interchangeable point. Stainless, slip-on cap. Colors: black, blue, gray, red.
Pen and pencil set, $5.00 k (No F. E. tax} J
Copr. 1950 by The l’arker Pen Company
WINNER 1950
SK YOUR PARKER DEALER TODAY!
fashion academy He offers a full selection of colors, models, and
AWARD
points. Parker ‘‘51” and “21” Pens, and only these
pens, are designed to use dry-writing Superchrome Ink. YOU NEVER NEED A BLOTTER 1 (They will also use ordinary ink.) Ask for Parker Superchrome.
8
The Scholastic
Tulane-Bound Contingent Set for Dixie
OF THE many sights student trippers
ONE New
to the Tulane game will want to see in Orleans is the famous Cathedral of Saint Louis, here framed in intricate iron lace.
Initial Pep Rally Starts Ball Rolling Tonight; Visitors Flock to Campus on Eve of Opener

Football arrives in earnest today, as pre-game visitors begin swarming onto the campus and the season’s first pep rally takes place tonight at 7:30 p. m.
Students, guests, and visitors will file into the Fieldhouse this evening to hear Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Coach Frank Leahy, who will introduce several of his assistant coaches. Captain Jerry Groom will introduce members of the 1950 squad. Prior to this, the Freshman Band will tour the campus starting at 7:15 p. m. and then make its way to the rally.
A special effort is being made by the Blue Circle to make the Tar Heel rooters and players feel at home at Notre Dame. Plans have been laid to meet the incoming squad at St. Joseph’s County Airport this afternoon. Ans information booth for the southern visitors has been
set up at the circle, while brochures are being distributed and campus tours conducted.
Chairman Tom Carroll of the Blue Circle has requested the student body to “duplicate that fine southern hospitality and show that Notre Dame is no cold, northern school.” Such action, it is felt, will induce visitors to spend a greater part of their stay on the campus rather than downtown.
JOBS AVAILABLE
Students majoring in accounting, art and journalism are asked to contact Mr. Janies Armstrong in the Alumni Office if they are interested in part-time work. The Notre Dame Foundation is in need of some workers.
Special Train Leaves South Bend on Oct. 12
“D” (for Dixie) Day will be Oct. 12 for New Orleans-bound ..student trippers. Tickets went on sale this week and final arrangements have been completed for the annual football outing.
A special train will leave South Bend at 6 p. m. that Thursday evening and will arrive in New Orleans at approximately 5 o’clock Friday morning. The trip will be routed through Chicago and then south on the Illinois Central.
The homeward trek begins after early Mass on Sunday. The return trip will be made ovex* the same route and is scheduled to arrive back in South Bend al? 6 a. m. on Monday. Both trains will be equipped with dining and lunch cars.
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c.,- vice-president in charge of student affairs, has announced that the Naval Reserve building in New Orleans has been secured to accommodate the Notre Dame visitors for Friday and Saturday nights. The Notre Dame-Tulane football game will be played, on Saturday afternoon. Aside from this, students are on their own.
New Orleans ranks high as a visiting spot, however, and fatigue will be more of a problem than will boredom. October 13 will be celebrated as “Founder’s Day” at Notre Dame and there will be no scheduled classes that Friday or Saturday. All students are obliged to attend regular classes on Monday.
The same Student Council meeting which saw completion of the trip plans also saw the election of a Council vice-president. Dan Brennan was named to fill the post left vacant by the resignation of Ray Yanics last week. The executive council was assigned the duty of deciding how a new member will be chosen to fill the vacant Council seat.
The social committee approved plans for a gymnastics team exhibition at the Victory Dance tomorrow night. The proposed date for home-coming hall decorations is still under discussion.
Sept. 29, 1950
9
Professor Will Speak On Korean Situation
In a lecture sponsored by the Department of History, Dr. Boleslaw Szczes-niak will discuss “The Background of the Korean Situation” Tuesday evening, Oct. 3, at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. Dr. Szczesniak, now assistant professor of history, has traveled and studied extensively in the Orient and is a specialist in Far Eastern and Russian history.
From 1935, when he received a diploma from the Warsaw Oriental Institute, until his evacuation from Japan to London in 1942, Dr. Szczesniak has observed closely factors behind the present situation in the Far East. Leaving Warsaw, he assumed the post of cultural attache in charge of Oriental affairs at the Polish embassy in Tokyo.
During this period, Dr. Szszesniak earned a doctorate in literature and Japanese history at Tokyo’s Waseda University. The degree, however, was withheld from him because at that time Japan was technically at war with Poland.
Dr. Szczesniak lectured at the Rikkyo University of Japan from 1937 to 1942, while also .traveling extensively in China, Japan, Manchuria, and Korea. In the autumn of 1942 he was evacuated to London where he acted as Far Eastern expert with the Polish government in exile.
This summer Dr. Szczesniak received a doctorate in Slavonic literature from the University of Ottawa. At Notre Dame since Feb. 22, he has been offering classes in Chinese, Japanese, and Russian history. Among those scientific periodicals to which Dr. Szczesniak has contributed articles are The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society and the American Oriental Journal.
South Bend Stations to Air ND-SMC Workshop Shows
Opening its second annual program, the Radio Workshop again offers a format aimed at all those interested in this medium. As a new feature, St. Mary’s Radio Workshop will join with Notre Dame’s group in shows tentatively set for stations WHOT and WSBT.
The program offers opportunities such as announcing, acting, and writing while helping build and develop shows for South Bend stations. Copy writers learn how to write continuity, commercials, and other features.	•
The Radio Workshop meets every Tuesday and Thursday under the direction of Mr. J. A. Fallon of the Department of Speech.
10
Father Norton Announces Final Changes In Notre Dame Faculty for School Year
Announcement of final changes on the Notre Dame faculty has been made by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., acting vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs.
Many of the new faculty members are assuming positions in the College of Arts and Letters. Some of these are Richard J. Browne, formerly of Harvard University, who joins the staff as an Instructor in German; the Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., who has just returned from a study of Gothic art in France to become an Instructor in Art; Dr. Louis L. Bernard, of St. John’s College, assistant professor of History.
Thomas N. Brown, who received his Master’s degree from Harvard University in 1949, is an instructor in History; Dr. John A. Cassidy, of Western Reserve College, assistant professor of English; and Mortimer J. Donovan, who was awarded his Master’s degree this year from Harvard University, is an instructor in English.
New Priests Join Staff
Six new priests have been made instructors in the Department of Religion. They are the Rev. Philip T. Weller, of the University of Montana; the Rev. Daniel F. Curtin, c.s.c., who has just received his degree as Master of Arts from Catholic University; the Rev. Gregory Lombardo, C.S.C., of Holy Cross College; the Rev. William T. O’Shaughnessy, O.P., of the Dominican House of Studies, Washington, D. C.; the Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., newly-ordained member of the Congregation of Holy Cross; and the Rev. Paul D. Scanlan, O.P., of the Dominican House of Studies.
Joseph W. Evans, Alvin C. Marrero, Jr., Edward D. Simmons, and the Rev. Casimir T. Golebiewski, all of Notre Dame, have been named instructors in Philosophy for the current semester.
Also added to the Arts and Letters faculty are John J. Lennon, a graduate of Maryknoll College, instructor’ in Modern Languages; Edward A. Malcak, who received his M.A. degree this year from Northeastern University, instructor in Speech; Bernard J. Bedard, who has just completed graduate studies at the University of Michigan, instructor in English; and Lawrence B. Metcalf, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1949, parttime instructor in Music.
The other five additions in the College of Arts and Letters are the Rev. Thomas F. Cady, C.S.C., of Johns Hopkins University, instructor in Classics; the Rev.
James Moran, c.s.c., of Stonehill College, associate professor of Latin; the Rev. Stanley J. Parry, C.S.C., who has attended Yale University since 1947, instructor in Political Science; Charles F. Roedig, a graduate of Yale University, instructor in Modem Languages; and Thomas G. Wack, who received his Master’s degree from the University of Notre Dame this year, instructor in English.
In the College of Commerce, there are < four faculty additions. They are J. B. Searles, Jr., of the University of Wisconsin, instructor in Marketing; George W. Viger, an alumnus and former faculty member of Louisiana State University, instructor in Accounting; Festus J. Viser, formerly a special assistant to the Dean at the New York University School of Retailing, associate professor of Marketing; and Henry Wrape, previously an instructor at Harvard Business School, assistant professor of Business Administration.	4
Others who join the Notre Dame teaching staff this Fall include Thomas Broden, an employee of the Appellate Court of Illinois since his graduation from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1949, instructor of Law; Robert J. Schultz, an independent registered architect, assistant professor of Architecture; Paul J. Grogan, of the University of Wisconsin, assistant professor of Mechanical Engineering; and Norman Haaser, who received his doctorate this year from Brown University, instructor J. in Mathematics.
Madden Part-time Instructor
James H. Madden, of Notre Dame, has assumed the post of part-time instructor in Engineering Mechanics; the Rev. Charles W. Harris, C.S.C., who has attended classes at Yale University for the past two years, has been made an instructor in Physics; Dr. Milton 0. Peach, of Carnegie Tech, an associate professor of Engineering Mechanics.
Lawrence Hwa-Ni Lee, an engineer and construction superintendent for several building projects in post-war China, has been made an assistant professor’ of Engineering Mechanics. Dr. Donald T. Chaikey, of Princeton University, and Dr. Clarence F. Dineen, of the University of Minnesota, have been added to the staff of the Department of Biology as assistant professors. Joseph A. Sullivan, a member of the American Mathematical Society from Indiana University, has been named an instructor in Mathematics.
The Scholastic
Mike Sets Married; Yell Leaders Get Hep
Rooters at the. football games this fall will be treated to something new in Notre. Dame cheering, according to Dick Herrle, captain of the cheerleaders.
The cheerleaders will introduce acrobatics into all the cheers, in addition to the arm motions of previous years. Another new addition to the scene (see page 28) will be Mrs. Shannon View Mike, also known as Patsy, the newly acquired mate for the famous mascot.
Herrle and the other cheerleaders, Jack’ Wenning, Jack McGlinn, Mike Perino, Mike Dolan. Neil Vasconcellos, and Dan Marsalek, have added new cheers to their repertoire and have developed new techniques for the old ones. One man will do the old motions, and the other six will do acrobatic stunts in pairs.
The stunts will include two-man towers, the top man diving forward and the bottom man doing a backward roll with kick-up; pitches, one man taking the other’s foot, pushing him into a backward flip; and other similar gymnastics.
Herrle said, “Acting on the comments and constructive criticism of the students and the 'Scholastic last year, we have attempted for the first time in four or five years to put something new in the cheers.
“The cheerleaders have worked hard and we ask the student body to cooperate till the bad spots are ironed out. If anybody has any suggestions or criticism, I hope he will come to see me or drop me a line at 225 Sorin.”
JUGGLER MATERIAL
Notre Dame’s literary magazine, “The Juggler,” is seeking student contributions for its November issue. Poems, short stories, essays, satires, parodies, or timely book reviews may be submitted to Room 5, Sorin Hall.
Missa Cantata on Saturdays Arranged by Liturgical Life
A Missa Cantata will be sung on Saturday mornings at 6:40 in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church, according to Don Krebs, president of Liturgical Life.
He also pointed out that all students are welcomed to participate in the group’s activities. The Liturgy club is a campus organization intended to help students appreciate, understand and take part in the Sacred Liturgy. Future meetings will be held at 10 o’clock on Sunday mornings in the Cavanaugh Hall reading room.
AROTC Juniors Get Blues; Other Men Settle for Green
Third-year men of the Notre Dame Air ROTC unit will wear the Air Force blue-grey uniforms this year, said Capt. Thomas J. Hardy, adjutant, last week.
The second-year Advanced Course men, or seniors, will wear the “Blues,” but the Forest Green blouse and pink trousers! while the entire Basic Coursemen (freshmen and sophomores) will don the complete Forest Green outfits, as last year.
Since the supply department could
not furnish immediately all the first-year Basics—241 freshmen, which is approximately six times the size of last year’s frosh Basics — many Forest Green uniforms had to be ordered with the new “Blues,” the entire order to arrive in about six weeks.
“Effort will be made to secure the Blues next year for both the freshmen and sophomores, as well as the juniors,” added C.aptain Hardy. “That is, if they have enough to go around.”
Adoration Periods Set For Month of October
Beginning next Monday and continuing throughout the month of October, the Blessed Sacrament will be exposed in the Adoration Chapel of Sacred Heart church from 8 a.m. to -5 pjn. daily. Every Catholic student is asked to spend one-half hour in adoration sometime during the month.
Since October is the month of the Holy Rosary, adoration will be closed every day at 5 o’clock by benediction and recitation of the rosary..
Devotions are open to all at any time. However, lest the Blessed Sacrament be unattended for any period, the Liturgy Club is canvassing the residence halls and assigning 30-minute periods to those who volunteer. At the same time, the Liturgy men are selling daily missals.
Adoration next week is assigned to the four Freshman halls. On the three following weeks, Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors will serve as adorers.
A holy hour for vocations is held every Thursday afternoon at 4:30 and is open to all.	-
Season's Social Swirl Starts
—Munger
PRE-SEASON DANCE draws capacity crowd, as Saturday-nighters jam South Bend’s Palais Royale floor for year’s first affair at ballroom.
—Munger
SEVERAL SMILING couples, take a breather, sit one out while listening to Gene Hull and his Lettermen hold sway on bandstand.
Sept. 29, 1950
11
Foreign Film Series Begins October 4
Professor Walter M. Langford announces that the Department of Modern Languages will again offer during the current semester a series of eight foreign-made films.
The primary purpose of this series is to provide the students of modern languages with opportunities to receive additional aural training in the tongue they are studying as well as a valuable insight into the life and customs of the peoples in certain lands.
All films will have the sound track in a foreign language, with subtitles in English. All showings will be in the Engineering Auditorium, starting at 7:30 p.m.
Tickets for the entire series are $1.00 or admission at the door will be 25 cents per person. Tickets may be obtained at the Modern Language office (231 Main Bldg.) or at the Engineering Auditorium on nights the films are shown.
Tickets are not to be restricted to modern language students as much as they have been in the past. The general student body and others connected with the University will be able to purchase tickets as long as they last. The program of films is as follows:
Oct. 4—MURDERERS AMONG US (German) A film on life in post-war Germany at the end of World War II. This is a penetrating analysis of the conflicts in the minds of the German people as they merge from the recent disastrous war.
Oct. 11—THE MAGIC HORSE (Russian) This is an animated cartoon in color along the line of Disney productions, based on Russian folk tales.
Oct. 25—(Spanish film to be announced later)
Nov. 7—THE QUEEN’S LOVER (RUY BLAS) (French) Adapted by Jean Cocteau from Victor Hugo’s play, this film is a recreation of the intrigue and corruption of 17th century court life in Spain. It is somewhat reminis' cent of the films of Douglas Fairbanks and Errol Flynn.
Nov. 22—THE AFFAIR BLUM (German) Produced last year in Germany, this is the story of a famous murder with an anti-discrimination, theme.
Dec. 6—(Spanish film to be announced later)
Jan. 3 — FARREBEQUE (French) This film portrays the life of a typical French Provencal family through the course of a full year.
Jan. 16—(Italian film to be announced later).
12
'No Khaki for Collegians,' Students Assert; Majority Queried Favor Draft Exemptions
With General Hershey on the prowl once again able-bodied young citizens are beginning to breathe a little harder. Scholastic decided to find out what Notre Dame men thought about the whole thing.
Posing the question: “Do you think college men should be exempt from the draft?”, inquiring reporters came up with a variety of answers. Twenty-seven students voiced an unqualified “yes,” and 12 more said “no.” One gentleman still hasn’t made up his mind and 15 of those polled replied in the affirmative— with reservations.
Should Finish Year
Most of these felt that college men should finish the semester or year, or should be exempted on the basis of grades. Others said that students ought to be exempted only if the international situation gets no worse.
Here are some of the representative replies:
Roger Fitzsimmons, 314 Walsh Hall, of East Orange, N. J.—“I definitely do believe that they should be exempt from the draft as long as the present situation doesn’t develop into another World War.”
George Brown, 236 Walsh and Williamson, W. Va.—“No I don’t. He should serve his country just as well as anybody else. A lot of fellows would like to be in college but they don’t have the necessary financial backing. Just because a guy has the money to go to college, he shouldn’t be exempt from the draft.”
Kenneth Will (seminarian)—“It depends upon the case of the individual— his major, his ability, his grades. A man who is taking a “fresh air course” should be drafted; a competent man in an essential course should not be.”
Bob Moran, 129 Dillon—“Heck, no! Why should they be excused just because they can afford college?”
Seniors First Exempted	-
Jack Murray, 248 Dillon and Staten Island, N. Y.—“Yes, college men should be drafted but qualified Seniors ought to be permitted to finish.”
Bud Powers, 156 Dillon—“I think they should finish the semester, but that’s all. I was taken myself and it did me a lot of good.”
Joe Bellon, 211 Walsh and New York,
N. Y.—“Unless the emergency becomes imperative I don’t think they should be drafted. A well-educated citizenry is just as essential to the preservation of our democracy as strong armed forces.”
Sitting Around
Terry Logan, 243 Badin and Fort Wayne, Ind.—“Yes, students and parents would lose a lot of money. There are plenty of guys sitting around doing nothing that they could take first.”
Bob McKenna, 233 Lyons and Chicago —“The educational standards of the U. S. are low enough without lowering them further by taking college men.”
John Reynolds, 203 Badin and Indianapolis, Ind.—“No, because this thing isn’t going to be over when we’re finished in Korea. Just let them finish the term they are in.”
Bill Lokken, 141 Cavanaugh and Jamestown, N. D.—“No, because college men on the average have a higher mentality than any other class of men, and the military needs brainpower as well as manpower.”
Harry Haggerty, 416 Lyons and New York, N. Y.—“Yes, but I don’t know why. Just prejudiced, I guess.”
Joe Davis, 214 Howard and Bloomington, Ill.—“Upperclassmen should be allowed to graduate; underclassmen, to finish their present year.”
Tom Cribbs, 116 Morrissey and Poyn-telle, Pa.—“No comment. I haven’t been classified yet.”	•
Anyone Else
Gus Schultheis, 208 St. Ed’s and Vincennes, Ind.—“I think they have no more to give up than anyone else, and they should be just as subject to call.”
Don Krebs, Bemidji, Minn., 354 Sorin —“I believe that college students should be allowed to finish this year. If by that time the war situation is worse they should be eligible for the draft.”
Roger Fitzsimmons, 314 Walsh and East Orange, N. J.—“I definitely do believe thatth ey should be exempt from the draft as long as the present situation doesn’t develop into another World War.”
Tony Mandolini, Off-Campus and Chicago—“I don’t think they should be drafted now. The government should try to utilize all men not in college and let college men finish their education.”
The Scholastic
Fitzsimons Analyses Munich Appeasement
Great Britain’s policy of uncertainty was the chief cause for the appeasement of Hitler at Munich according to Professor M. A. Fitzsimons writing in the October Revietv of Politics, published at Notre Dame this week. In his article, “The Masque of Uncertainty: Britain and Munich,” he adds to that uncertainty Neville Chamberlain’s lack of a sense of the European community and his faith in the sincerity of Hitler as causes of appeasement.
“This colossal misreading of contemporary politics,” says Dr. Fitzsimons, “was not the product of the few years before Munich. It goes back at least to the liberal hopes of the war aims of the first World War and the League of Nations.” The “lofty expectations” after World War I were disturbed only by the “French anxiety about security, by the claims of the revisionist states, and by numerous critics of the Paris settlement.” “The poignant talk about normalcy and business as usual reveals the blind optimism of the Western world and its unwillingness to face its own particular historical moment.” The Locarno agreements were merely readjustments with that emotional background.
In England the Labour government had agreed to convince France to disarm in the interests of security by promising strong guarantees to her against aggression. The Conservatives continued in the same trend but avoided commitments to France.
Dr. Fitzsimons points out that although Neville Chamberlain had no illusions about the League of Nations and realized that collective security did not exist, he did believe that by appeasement all would be made well again. “Chamberlain was prepared to recognize the ‘legitimate interests’ of Germany. The only condition he made was that the necessary changes take place peacefully.”
Dr. Fitzsimons mentions the part played by the visit of Viscount Halifax in November, 1937, and the arguments used by Hitler on Neville Henderson. The seizure of Austria caused angry dismay to Prime Minister Chamberlain and caused him to express lively interest in the welfare of Central Europe. However, fearful of the effects of this expression of interest in Central Europe Chamberlain let the French know that England and France were unprepared to go to war in defense of Central Europe.
“The uncertainty of British policy masked a contradiction. The Czechs
were ‘a far. away people of whom we know nothing,’ but if they resisted, they might provoke a war.” Chamberlain did not want war and believed the promises of Hitler. “But the policy of uncertainty had revealed itself for what it was, an unwillingness, partly based on inability to do anything against Hitler except to arrange for the peaceful fulfillment of his program.”
Glee Club Packs Baskets For Annual Autumn Picnic
After two weeks of larynx rejuvenating and tone polishing, the Notre Dame Glee Club will relax Sunday afternoon on their annual Fall picnic at the rural estate of the club’s director, Daniel H. Pedtke.
This year’s Glee Club, bolstered by more than 30 new members, has arranged
Are you SURE I didn’t get anything?
this outing as a “get-together” session, particularly for the neophyte songsters.
The picnic co-chairmen, Frank Myers and Dick Giltenan, expect a better than average crowd to participate in informal songfests, inter-section touchball games, and all-around laughter and gaiety around the outdoor fireplace where the “Singing Irish” will barbecue their picnic supper.
The first real activity for the Glee Club will come tonight when a 40-man group will sing at the pep rally in the Fieldhouse.
Between the talks from guests, players, and coaches the songsters will present their own inimitable renditions of Notre Dame songs, currently available in a record album released by RCA Victor.
New C.O.'s Take Over Navy, Air Trainees
A former submarine commander and an Air Force materiel administrator have assumed executive positions in the ROTC programs at the University of Notre Dame. Commander Sigmund A. Bobczynski, USN, has assumed the post of Executive Officer of the NROTC unit. Colonel Melie J. Coutlee, USAF, has been named Commandant of the Notre Dame Air ROTC group. -
A graduate of the U. S. Naval Academy in 1939, Commander Bobczynski saw duty on a cruiser and a mine layer before being transferred to the Navy’s Submarine School at New London, Conn., two years later. Throughout World War II, he served aboard various submarines, earning ’ the Silver Star Medal and three Bronze stars for his performance in action. •- In 1944 he took his first command, the USS Barracuda. Just before coming to Notre- Dame he was in charge of another submarine, the USS Diablo.
After receiving his commission from West Point in 1929, Colonel Coutlee entered the Army Air Corps as a fighter pilot. From 1938 to 1941, he was Commandant of Cadets at the Primary Flying School at Kelly Field, Texas, and at Stockton, Calif. During the last war Colonel Coutlee was a member of the General Staff in the planning section of G-4 (Supply and Procurement). His last post before joining the Notre Dame faculty was as Director of Materiel at Fourth Air Force Headquarters in California.
Commander Bobczynski replaces Commander Bernard F. McMahon,- USN, who has been appointed to the Staff of the Commander of the Submarine Force, at New London, Conn. Colonel Coutlee succeeds Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer, USAF, as commandant of the Air ROTC unit. Lt. Col. Palmer has been transferred to O’Hara International Airport, in Chicago.
According to this year’s president of the songsters, Jerry Boyle, the group should break all existing records for concert appearances and club activities.
Assisting the president for Hie year are Bill Sahm, vice-president; Jack • Laboe, secretary; Ted Twardzik, secretary; Jerry Laboe, business manager; and Jack Janowski, publicity manager.
Other Glee Club officers for 1950-51 are Gene Fanning, librarian; Mike Kelly, assistant business manager; and Joe Harrison, assistant publicity manager.
Sept. 29, 1950
13
Peter Kim, Korean, Cut Off From Relatives; No Word From Seoul to Student Since June
One Notre Dame student has a very personal reason for hoping that the communists will soon be driven out of South Korea. He is Peter Kim of Seoul, now enrolled in the College of Engineering. It has been three months since he has had any word from his parents or friends in Seoul.
Pete was working at the Benedictine Mission hospital in Norfolk, Neb., when he heard the news of the attack on his country. He wanted to return home immediately and tried to contact His Excellency Paul M. Ro, Bishop of Seoul, to whom Pete is responsible. But Bishop Ro was en route from Rome to Tokyo and Pete couldn’t reach him.
So instead he asked Dr. John M. Chang, the Korean ambassador to Washington, what he should do. Dr. Chang, who had been the principal of Pete’s grade school in Korea, told him he thought Pete should stay in school at least until he was notified otherwise by Bishop Ro. It is hard to be almost ten thousand miles away when your country is being overrun and your countrymen killed and you able to do nothing. But actually Pete is doing something.
For when the communists are driven out Korea is going to need leaders and builders. And that is the reason Pete’s studying in this country.
Both Korea and the Church need leaders in that country. And to train Catholic leaders it is necessary to send men out of the country since there is not one Catholic University or college in all of Korea. That is the reason Bishop Ro and His Excellency Patrick J. Byrne, Apostolic Delegate to Korea, selected five young South Koreans to be sent to this country to be trained as lay leaders.
These men will be expected to help Korea help itself and to provide the educated, trained leadership that the Church needs among its laymen. Pete expects to help in the formation of a Catholic University when he returns to Korea. It will be one of the major tasks of his life.
And. so in October of 1948 Pete came to this country. Although he had studied English in high school and at the College of Engineering of Seoul National University where he went for two years, Pete had never studied conversational English.. For that reason he decided to attend a smaller school before coming to Notre Dame in order to make the adjustment more gradual. He attended St. Benedict’s at Atchison, Kansas, for
two years where he was majoring in Mathematics.
Starting his first semester here, Pete intends to work for his Doctorate in Civil Engineering. That means at least
Peter Kim
five more years of hard work. But he knows that that is what Korea will need. He intends to specialize in city planning because Korea is going to need builders to raise its standard of living. And because engineering is a field which will enable him to make money, which he intends to pour back into the work of the Church.
Although he is living off-campus now, Pete wants to get on-campus as soon as possible. He likes America and Notre Dame and wants to learn as much as possible about both of them. His speech is fluent and filled with colloquialisms and slang. Although he doesn’t want to become a “politician” Pete realizes that he will have to be a leader. The deeper the understanding he achieves of democracy in America, the better he will be able to help Koreans attain their own.
Pete’s family is sixth-generation Catholic. The Church in Korea is two centuries old. Blessed Father Andrew Kim, first Korean priest and martyr, killed in 1846 and beatified in 1925, was a member of Pete’s family.
In Seoul, Pete was extremely active in Catholic Action work, serving as Secretary-Treasurer of the Catholic Students Association and Newman Club. He belonged to several other groups and sang in the Cathedral choir. He and nine other young men lived and worked to
gether, working sometimes all night. As Pete puts it, they were “Bishop Ro’s arms and legs.” Sunday was usually spent running from meeting to meeting.
Pete is going to be a pretty important man when he gets back to Korea. Aside from M.D.’s there are only two or three Korean Catholics who have doctorates. The Korean Catholic press carried a great deal of news about him when he left for this country. His countrymen will be expecting a lot from him.
Talking with him, his ambition and earnestness are impressive. He is extremely conscious of the heavy burden of duty and responsibility that rests on him. He knows that he will have to work carefully and intelligently and hard for the rest of his life. But Peter Kim isn’t afraid of hard’ work.
—Larry McDermott, ’51
ND Architect Designs Revolutionary Chapel
To solve the need of a Nashville, Tenn., Catholic boys’ camp, with only small funds available, Bob Lynch, Notre Dame architecture student, has designed X a revolutionary triangular chapel, which can be built for less than a thousand dollars.
A model of this unique structure has been on display in the Notre Dame library during the past week.
The keynote of the building is simplicity of construction, enabling the counselors and boys to build it themselves. The walls will be made of rammed earth, similar to adobe.
The floor will be soil cement—cement mixed into the earth, wetted, and rolled. A door at each vertex does away with the need for turns in the walls, since each wall is independent of the others.
The altar will be in the center of the chapel with benches extending on two sides, which gives a seating arrangement for two hundred with no seat farther back than thirty feet from the altar. This enables the campers to learn and appreciate their Mass.
The roof, which will be the main expense, will be made of wood, and slopes _ upward from ten feet at each entrance to eighteen feet over the altar, enhancing the spiritual effect.	'
The walls and floor, as previously explained, will be made from materials at hand, and the altar, holy water fonts, stations, and cross will all be made in the camp’s craft shop.
This chapel was designed for Bob Hof- 1 stetter, ’50, head counselor of Mary- i mount camp under Bishop Adrian of Nashville. Construction will begin next spring.
The Scholastic ;
14
Band's Signals Ready For Rugged Season
Notre Dame followers should be “up” for the North Carolina game if H. Lee Hope and his band men have anything to say about it. The thirty-five piece freshman band will open tonight’s Pep Eally with a parade about the east side of the campus. Originating from band headquarters in Washington Hall, the first year music men will march to the Old Gym for the rally proper.
On Saturday the curtain will ring up on the 1950 marching band. One hundred and five men will march onto the
—Schilling
EAST CAMPUS citizens are well aware how the tubas blast late afternoon siestas
gridiron for their usual musical greetings to both sides and then return to the center of the field for the National Anthem before filing up into the stands.
Although the customary half-time production number has been omitted from this year’s schedule, new precision drills will entertain the crowd. 'Since neither hand signals nor drum cadence will be employed in these numbers, perfect timing and footwork is required of each band member.
The popular shuffle kick of last year’s entrance will be only one of the drilltype routines. Eight and left flanks and rear marches are two more of the difficultly executed formations to be witnessed between halves. A waltz and a swing step are also in the band’s repertoire. The Carolina contingent should echo a particular portion of praise when the tunes Carolina Moon and Carolina in the Morning are played. Some Southern students will likely join in the praise, also.
Garvin Wins NFCCS Regional Council Post
Led by Senior and Junior Delegates Jim Garvin and John O’Connell, the Notre Dame council of the National Federation of Catholic College Students played a prominent part in the Fort Wayne regional meeting at Nazareth College in Kalamazoo Sunday.
Garvin, president of the local NFCCS organization, was elected parliamentarian of the regional council. The campus council’s secretary-treasurer, Don Carbone, was unsuccessfully nominated for the post of regional recording secretary.
Also representing Notre Dame were Student Council president Bill Anhut, Mike Diehl of the Liturgy Club, and Hugh Brown of the YCS. Eev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs at Notre Dame, also attended the meeting.
Prime concern of the Notre Dame delegation was to study the organization of the Fort Wayne region in order to coordinate the plans of the campus council with those of the region.
One of the chief decisions made at the meeting was the unanimous vote of the delegates to do all in their power- to have the 1951 national congress held in the spring. Previously, the national NFCCS council had scheduled a summer convention. The region also voted to accept Notre Dame’s invitation to hold the regional congress here April 7-8.
The regional council read an encouraging report regarding the- Overseas Service Program, to which Notre Dame’s NFCCS Mardi Gras carnival contributed $10,000 last year. A student delegate at the Pax Eomana conference this summer at The Hague, Holland, was overwhelmed by the gratitude of the European students for the aid furnished them by OSP.
As soon as the various campus organizations return to operation this Fall, they will be informed of their position with the regional commissions of the NFCCS.
Seniors' Theme for Oct. 8: "Did You Bring the Pickles?"
Ants and ancients will trade blows a week from this Sunday afternoon at Potawotomie Park from 2 to 6 p.m. as Notre Dame’s Seniors and their dates set up shop for the class picnic. Buses x\nll leave the circle at 1 p.m. and stop at 'St. Mary’s en route to the fiesta.
Co-chairmen Bud Herr and Walt Clements have mapped out a vigorous
afternoon, with football, softball, and volleyball on tap. Post positions have been assigned for the sack and threelegged races. Succulent victuals will be offered, although some participants in the above-mentioned contests may be in greater- need of a pulmotor.
The purpose of the affair, says class prexy Jim Hennessey, is to foster class unity, show spirit and to “hash over the summer.” As Bud Herr explains it, the class of ’51 began in September 1947 with a Freshman count of 580 and that year’s picnic helped consolidate the class. This year’s outing is designed for a last get-together like the one that started the class’s activities and unity.
Steve Martin is chair-man of the ticket committee, while Dick MacDonald heads the publicity service. Other chairmen are to be announced later.
Vetville, Off-Campus Folks Plan Joint Social Activities
Unification among Vetville and off-Campus Notre Dame families is the aim of Vetville this year. “The gap between Vetville and off-campus couples has been too wide,” said Mayor Charles Perrin, chief executive of the married students’ community. “This year,” he continued, “we hope it will be different.”
First step in this plan is to promote greater familiarity between the two groups. Victory dances, aimed at accomplishing this, are being arranged to follow each home game. Open to all Notre Dame married couples, graduates. included, the dances will be-held in the veterans’ recreation hall.
Other activities on the social calendar include informal gatherings and children’s parties.
—Brickson
Vetville Mayor Charles Perrin
Sept. 29, 1950
15
Freshmen Complete Orientation
—Sheehan
THE BLUE CIRCLE'S Freshmen orientation program nears its end at the get-together which included speeches, music and food.
—Sheehan
TWO LOVELY St. Mary’s misses atract the shuffling attention of some ND admirers at Saturday’s joint Potawatomie Picnic.
Faculty Members, Wives Discuss Sacred Theology
Under the auspices of the Department of Religion, 40 faculty members and faculty members’ wives are participating in weekly group discussions on . the subject of sacred theology.
These gatherings, held each Sunday at 7:30 p.m., are conducted by Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public relations, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, c.s.c., of the Department of Philosophy, and Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Religion.
The series of six assemblies will continue until Oct. 29, the feast of Christ the King. Sessions are held in, the Director of Studies’ Conference Room, the Public Relations Conference Room, and Room 120, all in the Administration Building.
Purpose of this program, says Father Sheedy, is to “enable faculty members to deepen their understanding and appreciation of the faith.” It should also
SCHOLASTIC STAFF
Because the SCHOLASTIC will come out on Oct. 12 instead of Oct. 13, to help those going on the Student Trip, the News and Sports staff meeting will be held next Tuesday, Oct. 3, at 6:30 p.m. in the newsmagazine’s offices, instead of the regular time on Wednesday evening. Both meetings will start promptly.
enable them “to look at their own specialties from the viewpoint of the highest Christian wisdom with relation to man’s ultimate end.”
The faculty members and wives are separated into two groups, one discussing Frank Sheed’s Theology and Sanity, and the other* investigating some of the source material of theology.
Fathers Murphy and Miltner direct the group examining Mr. Sheed’s work, used extensively in undergraduate dogma courses. The investigation into theology’s source materials is conducted by Father Sheedy.
All faculty members and their wives are still invited to join the program, Father Sheedy states.
Prof. Francis of Sociology Attends Societies' Meeting
At the recent meetings of the Rural Sociological Society and the American Sociological Society associate professor E. K. Francis represented Notre Dame’s Department of Sociology.
The former body convened at the Estes Park conference association camp of the Y.M.C.A. in Colorado from Sept. 3 to 6. Both societies met in common session from Sept. 7 to 9 in Denver.
Erie Club Plans Year
Plans for the Fall social year were the main topics of discussion at the first meeting of the Erie Club on Tuesday night. Jack Young, president, also presented the other officers elected last
Spring. Bob Winschell is vice-president with Jim Runser, treasurer, and Jim Flynn, secretary.
The club is making arrangements for a Christmas dance in Erie on Dec. 29, in conjunction with the Erie Club of Georgetown University.
Tentative plans also include a Communion breakfast sometime in the near future, held in conjunction with the Canton Club.
1
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, Sept 30—white—St. Jerome, priest and teacher: Mass of feast. Gloria, Creed.
Sunday, Oct. 1—green—18th Sunday after Pentecost. Special Mass. Gloria, 2nd Collect St. Remigius, 3rd “Defend us,” Creed, Trinity Preface or Mass of the Holy Rosary.
Monday, Oct. 2 — white — Holy Guardian Angels. Special Mass. Gloria, Creed.
Tuesday, Oct. 3—white—St. Theresa of the Infant Jesus (Little Flower). Virgin. Mass of feast. Gloria.
Wednesday, Oct. 4 — white — St. Francis of Assisi. Mass of feast. Gloria.
Thursday, Oct. 5—red—Sts. Placid and Companions. Mass of feast. Gloria, 2nd Collect “Defend us,” 3rd any Collect or Mass of Christ the Eternal High Priest may be said.
Friday, Oct. 6—white—St. Bruno. Mass of feast. Gloria,* or a Votive Mass of the Sacred Heart (First Friday) may be said.
16
The Scholastic

* STEVE ORACKO, famed extra point specialist on the last two championship Notre Dame teams, broke into high school coaching ranks with a win. His St. Bede (of Peru, Ill.) eleven squeezed by Bloom Township High (of Chicago Heights, Ill.) by a score of 19-13 on Friday, September 15. Bloom, South Suburban area conference champions for six consecutive years, suffered their second defeat in a span of 20 years.
A Notre Dame graduate student, S. C. PARAPELLA, Jr., and an associate professor of Metallurgy, E. A. PERETTI, will present papers at the 32nd national metal congress show in. Chicago. During the October 26 session of the American Society for Metals technical program, they will discuss constitution of alloys.
EDWARD G. KRAUSE, athletic director at Notre Dame, was guest speaker at last Wednesday’s luncheon of the South Bend Rotary club. Krause talked on the subject “College Athletics.”
'Where I Found Christ' Title Of Book by Father O'Brien
Where I Found Christ is the title of a new book compiled and edited by Rev. John A. O’Brien, University lecturer. It contains accounts by 14 noted authors and scholars and how they found religious certainty and peace of mind.
Father O’Brien has written an introduction and summary together with a brief biographical sketch of each contributor. They include Thomas Merton, Jacques Maritain and Dorothy Day.
According to Father O’Brien, the purpose of the new work is to present the full details of each of these widely-known person’s “pilgrimage from doubt, agnosticism and uncertainty to the finding of Christ.” In this manner, he hopes it will assist “other groping souls in finding the interior serenity which comes from a living faith.”
Council Office Open Again For New Year’s Business
As it did last year, the Student Council will maintain an office in which to conduct its business, according to Tom Reedy, who has been appointed office manager for the year.
The office opened Tuesday, Sept. 26, in Room 131 of the Main Building.
JOHN F. BODLE, a member of the class of 1950, was awarded a year’s subscription to the United States Law Week. Bodie’s record of having attained the most satisfactory progress in the final school yeai- earned him the recognition.
During the summer Rev. ASTRIK L. GABRIEL, O.Praem., a professor in the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, began training at the Princeton University Institute for Advanced Study. Father Gabriel’s field of study for the year is “Student Life at the University of Paris.”
Former Notre Dame football coach and member of the famed “Four Horsemen,” ELMER LAYDEN, is president of the new organization, Americans Will Vote, Inc.
Organized to stir Americans into exercising their rights and responsibility to cast ballots, the corporation will conduct an advertising campaign in newspapers and radio in their campaign to get people to vote on November 7.
Hereafter it will be open from 2:15 to 4:15 every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoon of the school year.
Club presidents are urged to come to the office as soon as possible to register their clubs, make requests for rooms and obtain a copy of instructions for communion breakfasts and dances. Those clubs which do not as yet have a constitution are requested to see the Council at the first opportunity.
New Jersey Club Meets
Students hailing from New Jersey will hold their first meeting Monday night in the Law Building. Plans for the Fall dinner and the annual Christmas dance will be discussed.
The New Jersey club, which held its election at the end of last semester, has Richard J. Byrne serving as president this year. Ernie Masini is vice-president, John Long is secretary, and Dan Holleran is treasurer.
Before the Jerseyites returned to school this year they were guests at the Alumni club’s annual Freshman get-together, which was held at the Newark Athletic Club on Sept. 7, under the chairmanship of Al Zmijewski. Dean McCarthy gave a welcoming address to the incoming Freshmen and their‘fathers. Angelo Bertelli also gave a short talk..
Knights Awarded Trophy For Membership Drive
Notre Dame Council 1477 of the Knights of Columbus has received a trophy in token of the first place honors won in the divisional 1949-50 membership drive.
On Wednesday evening, the Knights held their first formal meeting of the year. Elmer Danch, district deputy, installed the incoming officers and plans were approved for redecoration of the council chambers in Walsh Hall.
Jerry Hagman was named Lecturer and the following committee heads were appointed: Jim Ghiglieri, House Committee; Jack Carey, Council Activities; Arnie Lane, Catholic Activities; and Tom Can-oil, Publicity.
Tryouts and Practice Begin For Air Cadet Rifle Teams
Organization and practice for the Air RO.TC small-bore rifle teams for this year will begin next week, announced Capt. Thomas J. Hardy, adjutant.
There will be opportunity for all Air ROTC students, even those without previous marksmanship experience, to try for the teams. A maximum of 15 men per team is required, but the ND unit may possibly have as many as five teams this year for competition.
The riflers will fire in two principal marksmanship competitions, the William Randolph Hearst National Rifle Matches and the Tenth Air Force Intercollegiate Match, as well aS five or more postal (dual) matches with other schools.
The Hearst matches, in which the NROTC, Air ROTC, and regular ROTC units compete on a nation-wide basis, is held annually during the fall and winter seasons. Captain Hardy hopes that the Air ROTC marksmen will he able to send in their target results before Christmas vacation. Last year the ND airmen placed second in the Intercollegiate Matches.
Eight experienced riflers from last year’s squad are returning, to be captained by Don Reilly, who was also captain last year.
The others are Sommers Brown, Charles Crowley, Joseph Cusack, Bill Donelan, Bill Hogan, Don Mahrt, and Lou Meese.
CAMPUS CLUBS
Campus dubs wishing more extensive coverage of their activities may procure same by leaving their notices and announcements in the SCHOLASTIC offices in the northeast wing of Farley Hall basement.
Sept. 29, 1950
Campus in Focus
Dumont Laboratories Sponsor TV Film Series Depicting University Life on Nationwide Hookup
Tomorrow afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium the Irish open their bid for a fifth straight unbeaten season against North Carolina. But whether the football team manages to keep the unblemished skein intact or falls before the visiting Tar Heels, the University itself cannot lose. Heretical as this seems, it’s true. Tomorrow is that kind of a day.
Saturday’s paradox settles about the game broadcast. In addition to the annual radio presentations of Notre Dame’s gridiron battles, all five of Notre Dame’s home contests—the Navy at Baltimore is scheduled as “home” for the Irish—will be televised over- the Dumont chain. This benefits the Subway Alumni, to be sure, for it enables the millions of Blue and Gold fans the country over to see their adopted alma mater without trekking out to the Indiana plains.
But the TV broadcast this year will do far more than benefit the stay-at-home fans. The University will receive one of the biggest public relations and publicity plums it could ask for, and all abso-
By AL LAPORTE, ’51
lutely free. For the first time in college football telecasting history the school itself will go “on the air.”
Dumont Laboratories, one of the television industry’s leading manufacturers, inaugurates a series of five tele-movies before kick-oif at 2 p. m. tomorrow. This series, to be broadcast before each of the five home games, is entitled “Under the Golden Dome” and will show life at the University, its history, its progress and its students.
The scheme sets up this way: half an hour before game time Dumont begins its broadcast, presenting on black and white film a chapter of the “Golden Dome.” Ten minutes of this movie, beamed out of Chicago, treats of Notre Dame; four minutes deals with the campus of the visiting college; and six minutes will be “live” action, a short discus
AERIAL VIEW of Notre Dame campus, filmed from a helicopter, centers around Golden Dome. Movies of the University will be shown on TV before all home games this year.
sion between Father Cavanaugh and a representative of the visitors. After this 20-minute pre-game show, Dumont shifts out to South Bend and the game broadcast.
“Under the Golden Dome” is the brainchild of Les Arries, Dumont’s Director of Sports. It is, quite frankly, a public service to the University, but a public service whose value cannot be estimated. At the same time this “moviecasting” is an experiment, for it is the characteristic lot of football fans to turn on their sets at one minute to two, just in time for the game. How great an audience the “Golden Dome” will play to is, consequently, unknown—at least i. until its publicity spreads before it.
Each film in this series is, as it were, a complete chapter in the description of Notre Dame. For the North Carolina game the presentation will be of the history of the University—a general introduction. Opening the show the camera intrudes on Father Hesburgh and Bill Carey in the office of the Executive Vice-President where the two are talking of the early Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh becomes the narrator for the rest of the film as he describes the Uni- i versity’s founding, the burning and the rebuilding of the Main Building and the rest of her history.
Reel two, slated for Purdue on Oct. 7, treats of the science side of Notre Dame—LOBUND, and the physics and chemistry departments. In this film inside shots of the germ-free labs have been taken and the narration here will try to explain in the limits of time the meaning of “germ-free.”
Dr. Price of the Chemistry Depart- >r ment narrates radiation chemistry; Dr. Burton, atomic physics and Father Bolger, the overall picture in the Physics Department. For LOBUND, the highly publicized project on this campus, Dr. Reynier will narrate.
Student Life Filmed
The Michigan State pre-game broadcast, not yet completed, is the most difficult, because it deals with student life at the University. For continuity, three “typical” students are depicted going T
18
The Scholastic
through their day’s routines as they touch the various activities going on at the University. The three—Bill Kirchner, enrolled in the College of Law; Joe Dukert, College of Arts and Letters; and Ed Goerner, also College of Arts and Letters—carry the audience through the Student Council, the Scholastic, and WND, respectively, in an attempt to give some idea of all campus activities.
For example: Dukert, a publications’ reporter, covers a Student Council meeting, writes his story and turns it in. The story is edited, then sent down to Ave Maria Press where the camera again picks it up as the presses roll. The little sequence ends with Joe reading his story in print.
In addition to these activities, the TV camera takes the viewer into the students’ room — a triple, naturally — the Alumni Hall chapel, onto the intramural athletic field, and the Dining Hall for Friday noon chow.
November 4—Navy—shows the other colleges in the University as Reel two depicted Science. Shooting has just be-• gun on this film, so its program is not set. The last reel—Pittsburgh, Nov. 11— j has not been written yet, but it is under' stood the subject will be the University’s contributions to the world: Father Zahm’s discoveries, Father Nieuwland and synthetic rubber, the immortal Rockne.	,
The direction of this novel project fell to Mark Sandrich, Jr., of Hollywood. In Mark himself there is quite a story for the director is only 22 years old and working on borrowed time. Young Mark is the son of a famed movie director, the man who produced and directed all the great Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals of the ’30’s and who later directed “Holiday Inn” and “So Proudly We Hail.”
Mark, Jr., graduated from UCLA’s movie course last year, but had already received some experience in the movie field as an assistant director on I Remember Mama at the young—even for Hollywood—age of 19. After graduation from the UCLA movie course, he headed East to get training in outside work before returning to Hollywood and big-j ger jobs.
Uncle Sam Calls Director
Intending to stay in New York only a short time, young Mark landed a job as an assistant to the producer of a forthcoming comedy, St. Benny the Dip, starring Dick Haymes and Roland Young, to be released late this Fall. After this job, Mark was signed to go abroad with a company from 20th Century-Fox, but Uncle Sam had different plans for the draft age director.
f~ Three days before sailing he was no-
MARK SANDRICH, JR., director (pointing), sets scene for film at Ave Maria Press.
tified to report for examination. He passed the physical and received the inevitable 21 days notice. In this business, losing a job can prove near fatal to a free lancer, so Mark felt a double blow by the coming induction. But here a major break came his way. The director scheduled to handle Dumont’s work for the films couldn’t take the job. Mark was called in, flown to South Bend, and began to shoot.
HIGH FLYING cameraman, Mitch Petreyko, prepares to shoot campus from helicopter.
The specter of induction moved closer as the days went by. Three weeks ago the 21 day period was up. No word. He kept shooting, searching his mail box every morning for the orders to report. By the time this story went to press Mark estimated the outfit needed only two more weeks to finish up the “Golden Dome,” but, by this time, Uncle Sam may have added a director to his enlisted ranks. (Continued on Page 31)
Sept. 29, 1950
19
IT’S EASY TO REGISTER
IF YOU ARE NOT REGISTERED.
YOU CAN NOT VOTE ON NOVEMBER 7. 1950
val —	:	—	1	'■ — —:	1	T 1 r T ■ T — .	- -	—
The Board of Registration of St. Joseph County announced today that sub-stations will be established on Sunday, October 1st; Monday, October 2nd; Tuesday, October 3rd and Wednesday, October 4th, 1950. These sub-stations will be in addition to the main office in the basement of the Courthouse and the branch office on the second floor of the City Hall, Mishawaka, Indiana. A sub-station is also located at the University of Notre Dame. The hours for these sub-stations will be:
Sunday.	October
Monday. October Tuesday. October Wednesday, October
1st. 1950— 12:00
2nd. 1950— 2:00
3rd. 1950— 2:00
4th. 1950— 2:00
Noon to 6:00 P. M
P. M. to 9:00 P. M
P. M. to 9:00 P. M
P. M. to 9:00 P. M.
Any person, a citizen of the United States, who will have reached the age of 21 by November 7, 1950 may vote providing they are duly registered, have resided in their Township 60 days and the precinct 30 days prior to November 7, 1950. If a voter has moved since the last election and has not transferred to his present address, it will be necessary to transfer his registration in order to be qualified to vote.
Anyone wishing to register or transfer may do so at any of the sub-stations designated above regardless of where they may reside in the County.
Any person in doubt as to whether or not they are registered may call the Board of Registration in the Courthouse, phones 3-3824 or 3-7758.
Dated this 21st day of September, 1950.
BERT CICHOWICZ, Member	BERNARD C. O’NEILL, Member
Board of Registration	Board of Registration
St. Joseph County	St. Joseph County
20
The Scholastic
YOU CAN LEARN TO MORE THAN DOUBLE
This instrument makes a record on movie film of your eye movements as you read.
YOUR READING CAPACITY
No matter how fast you are reading now, you can double your rate and improve your powers of comprehension.
Would a reading rate of 650 to 1,000 words a minute (2 to 4 average book pages) help you in your studies? Hundreds of students have been helped to better grades with this new skill.
Learn how you, too, can acquire this valuable new skill in a short period of time!
Stop in for a free copy of the booklet “YOU CAN READ BETTER,” and receive a demonstration of instruments and methods used in this unusual training.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle Avenue Phone 3-0077
Sept. 29, 1950
21
President William Anhut
The
STUDENT COUNCIL
Secretary Janies Garvin
Treasurer William Carey
“For the furtherance of cooperation between students and administrative officers to the end that the interests of the University and the student body may be advanced, it is essential that there be a • Student Council.” So reads the first paragraph of the preamble to the Student Council constitution.
The aim and purpose of the Student Council, therefore, is to bring the students and the administration closer together; to acquaint each with the other’s problems and policy; and to provide rational student government for Notre Dame. The means by which the Student Council attempts this job is by acting as an intermediary between the student body and the University officials.
Council’s Structure
Seventeen members comprise the actual working organ of the student body. These members are the president and vice-president of the Senior, Junior Sophomore and Freshman classes; four-representatives-at-large, including one representative of the Law School and one representative of off-campus students; a stay council of four members chosen from last year’s Student Council; and the chairman of the Blue Circle, who acts as an ex-officio member of the Council.
The Council has four officers—a president, a vice-president, a secretary and a treasurer. These comprise the Executive Council, which is an internal organ of the larger Council.
A number of Committees are organized within the Student Council.
The Social Committee is formed for the purpose of integrating student social activity. Last year, for example, this committee sponsored and controlled the Student Council dances, the various class dances, the Mardi Gras dance, the Austrian Student’s Show, and other similar affairs.
The Service Committee, which is the Blue Circle for all practical purposes, provides the student body with such services as the operation of the traffic light on the Dixie highway at the St. Mary’s crossing, and the administration of class elections.
The NFCCS Committee cooperates with the NFCCS council on campus and
reports to the Student Council the findings and activities of the NFCCS council.
The final committee, that on Religion, Athletics and Education, is a “catch all” committee, designed to perform those functions which do not fall directly under any of the other committees.
More Students to Help
The chairmen, or co-chairmen of these various committees, as the case may be, are members of the Student Councils. In the past, the committeemen have also been members of the Council. Because
NEW OFFICER
Dan Brennan, a Senior majoring :n Geology, was elected vice-president of the Student Council at last Monday night’s meeting. Brennan, a native of South Bend, assumes the post left vacant by the resignation of Ray Yanics.
such a set-up overworked the councilmen, and in accordance with the Council constitution, the committeemen this year will be selected by the chairmen from the student body. An additional factor in this decision is the desire to bring as many students as possible into more direct contact with the Council, thus to provide a wider percentage of the students with some contact with student government and with a more intimate knowledge of the workings of the Student Council.	-
The president of this year’s Council is William'Anhut, a Senior in the College of Commerce. According to Anhut, this year’s Council has a number of specific objectives and programs.
The major Council activity during the coming school years will be an investigation of the possibility of inaugurating the honor system at Notre Dame. A special committee has been inaugurated for the purposes of this investigation and some practical proposals are expected to be forthcoming.
Another objective for this year is better administration of the Council office
22
The Scholastic
Janies Manion
Daniel Brennan
John Hines
John O’Connell Thomas Reedy George Murphy
in the Main Building. It is hoped by '.-he Council that its services will become more easily accessible to the students and the campus clubs by this move.
A third general aim is closer cooperation between the Council and the geographic clubs, including both the on-campus and home activities of the clubs.
A final ideal conceived by the Council is to use the hall councils, which are a subsidiary of the Council itself, as practical instruments in the interest of insuring that the students within the halls conduct themselves along Catholic lines of action.
The Student Council’s powers are threefold, following the traditional lines of legislative, executive and judicial.
Included in the legislative powers are the regulation and ordering, in cooperation with the vice-president in charge of Student Affairs, of all student organizations, ceremonies, entertainments, general elections, and, in short, all matters pertaining to the student body. According to the constitution, “such legislation, when approved by the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, shall be regarded as official.” (Art. Ill, Sec. II, a.)
The Council has executive powers of. regulation and enforcement in regard to all legislation enacted by the body.
Along judicial lines, the Council must consider any complaint brought before it by any student or hall board. If, after due consideration and consultation upon
Zo the Student
It is at this time, the beginning of another school year, that I wish to stress to you the fact that the Notre Dame Student Council exists for your benefit and your benefit alone. Its purpose is not to fight the Administration in its dealing with the students, but to provide an effective channel of communication between the student body and the University authorities, to administer student activities, and to crystalize and make effective the opinion of the student body.
There is no way we have of knowing what is going on all over the campus unless it is brought to our attention by you, the student body. If you feel that you, as an individual or as a group, are not being treated fairly, please come to us.
It is obvious that no student council can perform well if it does not enjoy the confidence of the students. To this end I urge you to have patience with our shortcomings, appreciation for our efforts, and, if you think it warrants it, applause for our successes.
Very sincerely, Bill Anhut, President.
the problem, the Council decides that the complaint merits action, it appoints a committee to present the problem and its own recommendation to the Administrative officials of the University.
The Council meets once a week, on Monday evenings, to discuss the pertinent questions of the week and to hear committee reports and suggestions. Special meetings of the organ may be called at the discretion of the president, Bill Anhut. Two-thirds of the body’s member’s constitute a quorum to carry out any business.
It is well to end by quoting the last two paragraphs of the preamble of the Council constitution:
“It is obvious that no Student Council can properly perform its work unless it enjoys the confidence of the University and students alike. In order that there may be proper blending of authority between Student Council and the administration, two things are essential; first, a realization on the part of the student body that it must cooperate with the Council, and in so doing, also cooperate with the University heads; and secondly, a pledge on the part of the administration to grant as much freedom of action to the Student Council as is consistent with justice and order.
“If it be recognized that the planning of broad policies and legislation on student conduct in general rests with the University officials, and that cooperation on the part of the Student Council is (Continued on Page 30)
James Hennessy
Henry Madden
Thomas Wolff
Thomas Carroll
Richard Clancy
Sept. 29, 1950
23
r
wemre them AU!
Philip aaorris l n
brood ,o
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?

2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip MORRIS is America’s FINEST Cigarette!


/ z *C.'
"sstsf^
hangover
MOW 5MOK.NO „eA:*E!
s-ishcq.. ■ - ov«» ' *


»IW MORRIS
The Scholastic
Tar Heels Out to Snap Irish String at 38
Dick Bunting
Veech Wins Campus Open Second Time in Two Years
The twentieth annual University Open Golf Tournament was won for the second year in a row by Tom Veech, Irish links captain. This tournament annually closes out the golfing season here at Notre Dame.
Tom led all the way and won easily with 286 for 72 holes, five strokes better than his nearest rival, Sophomore Tom Matey.
Freshman Bill Casper showed signs of becoming one of Notre Dame’s fine golfers in the next few years. Bill finished only nine strokes off the pace set by Veech, and took third honors.
Names and scores of all those who finished seventy-two holes is as follows: Tom Veech 71 70 72 73—286 Tom Matey 73 72 76 70—291 Bill Casper ..............  73	74 75 73—295
Tom Klett 76 72 75 77—300 Joe Lynch 72 75 79 75—301 Mike Doyle _________________76	78 78 74—306
Preston Murphy _____________76	72 81 78—307
Paul Hudak _________________74	77 77 79—308
Frank Marzolf 78 75 82 75—310 Joe Moresco ________________82	76 75 77—310
Jim Hutchinson .............77	77 79 78—311
Jim Jacobs ..............   84	77 76 77—314
Paul Minnich _______________77	80 77 82—316
Phil Everist _____________  77	76 86 79—318
Joe McNerney ............   82	84 78 79—323
Jim Terry __________________82	82 76 83—323
Maurice Wade _______________78	84 87 85—324
John Bunn __________________82	83 78 82—325
Jack Powers ________________84	83 77 82—326
Ed Gschwind ..............  75	79 84 90—328
John Becker ________________78	85 84 83—330
Carolina Big Threat To Long Win Streak
By FRANK RONNENBERG, ’52
Carl Snavely’s North Carolina Tarheels, victors in their first start last week, invade Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish open their 1950 football season tomorrow afternoon. A capacity crowd of around 56,000 people are expected to jam their way into the stadium to see if Frank Leahy’s 1950 aggregation will follow last year’s pattern oi’ whether its string of 38 non-losing games will go by the boards.
No Chance
To hear the coaches tell it, neither team has a chance. Snavely’s Tarheels have lost Halfback Charlie Justice and End Art Weiner, both of whom were All-Americans a year ago. Notre Dame was even harder hit by a graduation that took ten of eleven starters including All-Americans Jim Martin, Emil Sitko and Leon Hart.
However, considering last year’s 42-6 mauling -North Carolina suffered at the hands of the Irish it is doubtful if the Tarheels will throw in the sponge. Snavely was greeted by a strong group of sophomore replacements and with returnees from the ’49 club, he has been able to weld together another rugged Carolina team. In their opening game last Saturday the Tarheels, playing under wraps, topped North Carolina State, 13-7.
Snavely has a solid, well-seasoned line from tackle to tackle pivoted around centei- and pre-season All-American Irvin Holdash. The Tarheel captain was one of the top. line backers in the country last year. This year he is being counted on to play both on offense and defense.
The starting guards for North Carolina will in all probability be returning lettermen R. L. MacDonald and Dave Wiley. MacDonald was a regular last year and one of the conference’s best guards. Wiley, who plays both on offense and defense, will shift to left tackle on defense. Two 1949 first stringers, Walton Ruffin and Bill Kuhn, will start at the tackle posts for Carolina.
Irv Holdash
Kuhn is rated one of Carolina’s best linemen in this, his second year of varsity ball.
It is practically all sophomores at the flanks. C. C. White appears to have the inside track at Art Weiner’s old left end spot. White’s blocking isn’t all it should be yet, but he is the ablest pass catcher on the team. Another sophomore, 210-pound Tom Higgins, a converted tackle, owns the offensive right end j'ob. Letterman Ed Bilputch and sophomore George Norris are the defensive ends.
Minus Justice
Chapel Hill is wondering what a North Carolina backfield minus Charlie Justice will be like. Notre Dame doesn’t have to think about that; Justice didn’t play against the Irish last season. His replacement, Dick Bunting, is back however, to see if he can repeat his outstanding performance of a year ago. Bunting was a defensive halfback until the Notre Dame game last year. This year Bunting will play both tailback in he ran wild at the tailback position in Snavely’s single wing and defensive halfback. Bud Wallace, a 195-pound sophomore, gets the call behind Bunting.
The wingback position belongs to Bob Gantt, a squat 175-pound halfback, who led the team in punt returns a year ago. Billy Hayes, the starting fullback, is
Sept. 29, 1950
John Mazur
probably the most experienced man in the backfield. At quarterback and blocking back Snavely will start Paul Rizzo, who until this year has been hampered by injuries. Rizzo is one of the best blockers Carolina has had in a long time. Hard running Dick Weiss will replace Rizzo when the Tarheels shift into the A formation and he will do his ball carrying from the “deep back” position.
In the annual Notre Dame Frosh-Varsity scrimmage last Saturday, the Irish varsity took to the air to swamp the youngsters 40-0. Quarterback Bob Williams hit End Chet Ostrowski for three touchdowns and end Jim Mutschel-ler for two more. Despite his five scoring passes, however, Williams was rushed on numerous occasions when he faded for long passes and it appeared that the Irish pass protection was weak.
An Irish running attack never materialized due to the number of passes plus the fact that halfbacks Bill Barrett and Bill Gay were sidelined with injuries.
On defense the Irish were overpowering if you use as a yardsitck the yardage gained by the Frosh. They gained practically nothing using a single wing formation such as Notre Dame will be up against tomorrow. Actually the Varsity tackling was high, spotty and on many occasions it took better than two men to bring down the ball carrier. The line backing of Dick Cotter and Jerry Groom was the defensive highlight of the afternoon.
The succession of injuries that have plagued the Irish this fall seems to have abated in time for the game tomorrow afternoon. Barrett and Gay will be ready for the game, and Frank Leahy fielded his initial line for the first time last Saturday. Ostrowski and Mutscheller Mull open at the flanks, Bob Toneff and
Bill Flynn at the tackles, Paul Burns and Fred Wallner at the guards and Gerry Groom at center. Williams of course will start at quarterback and Jack Landry will be the starting fullback.
PROBABLE STARTINI		J LINEUPS
North Carolina		Notre Dame
White 			E		Mutscheller
Ruffin 			T				 Flynn
MacDonald .		G				 Wallner
Holdash 		..	C			 Groom
Wiley 			G			 Burns
Kuhn 				T			 Toneff
Higgins 			E.....		... Ostrowski
Rizzo 				Q			 Williams
Bunting 			H			 Gay
Gantt 			H			 Barrett
Hayes 		F		 Landry
KICKOFF: 2 p.		ni.
John Petitbon
ND Opponents . . .
Tarheels! Spartans Triumph in Openers
North Carolina and Michigan State, both of whom have good chances of upsetting the Notre Dame applecart, opened their seasons last Saturday with non-convincing victories over weaker opponents.
The Tarheels, who meet the Irish tomorrow, shoved over a fourth-period touchdown to eke out a 13-7 decision over North Carolina State before 40,000 highly partisan fans at Chapel Hill.
At East Lansing, 32,500 Spartan followers saw their favorites revenge their 1949 upset by Oregon State. Scoring in every period, the Michiganders triumphed by a 38-13 count.
Dick Bunting, successor to All-American Choo-Choo Justice, brought back unhappy memories to onlooker Frank
Leahy, as he scampered 77 yards for the initial Tarheel score. The Wolf pack from Raleigh relied mainly on aerial wizardry in their third-period drive to paydirt. Tailback Ed Mooney climaxed the 77-yard march by chucking to end Alex Webster for the score.
After thwarting several State drives in the final quarter, the Tarheels tallied the winning marker. Sophomore Bud Wallace administered the coup de grace with a four-yard plunge through the State line. Remarked the skeptical Mr. Leahy, “It looked to me like North Carolina was looking ahead to another football date.”
Greatly aided by the butter-fingered activities of the over-eager Beavers from ’ Oregon, Michigan State scored five touchdowns and a field goal in their winning effort. Bob Carey, better known for his feats on the basketball court, displayed great abiltiy on the gridiron as he took indiivdual scoring honors with 20 points. Carey’s scoring efforts consisted of two touchdown passes from Al Dorow, a field goal, and five conversions. Coach Biggie Munn expressed satisfaction with the performance of Everett Grandilius, who has taken over Lynn Chandnois’ tailback post in the 1 Spartan backfield.
Tomorrow, while Notre Dame entertains North Carolina, all future opponents of the Irish will see action. Of greatest interest to Coach Leahy and his men will be the struggle between Southern California and Iowa on the coast, and the traditional fracas at Ann Arbor pitting Michigan against Michigan State.
In other games, Purdue meets Texas at Lafayette, Tulane plays host to Alabama, Indiana’s Hoosiers meet Nebraska, i Navy tackles Maryland, and the Pittsburgh Panthers invade Durham for their opener against Duke.
26
The Scholastic
University Harriers Race For Position
Positions on the Notre Dame cross country team which will face Purdue next Friday, October 7, will be at stake this afternoon when the annual University Cross Country Championship race is run. The race is scheduled to start at 4 p.m. in front of the grotto. It will continue around the lakes, passing the starting point four times — at the ends of each of the four miles — thus giving spectators a mile by mile picture of the race.
The origins of this meet are lost in the dim past, but for the last several years the contest has been held the week before the first varsity meet to determine which of the harrier candidates will form the squad in that meet.
Benny Almaguer, a Junior who has never yet lost a University championship race is a hot favorite to cop his third title in as many years at Notre Dame. Last Saturday when assistant Cross Country coach Leo McEvoy put the runners through a four-mile workout, Almaguer turned in a time of 20 minutes, 51 seconds, more than forty seconds better than his winning effort of 21:32 in last year’s University championship.
TRACK CALL
Prospective field event men and sprinters for the track team, both upperclass and Freshmen, have been asked by Coach Alex Wilson to meet in L the Old Gym at three p. m. next Tuesday.
Coach Wilson is anxious to build up the team in these events since graduation has hit the trackmen hard in the sprinting, weight throwing, jumping, and vaulting departments. Varsity men in these events from last year are also invited to meet Coach Wilson at the same time.
Middle distance men, quarter milers and half milers can keep on resting. Since the situation in these events is ' not so critical. Wilson intends to delay their call for several weks in order to spend more time looking over the sorely needed sprinters and field event hopefuls.
All along the line, the times of last Saturday’s time trial topped the results of last year’s championship race. Last year for example it took a 23 minute 50 second effort to qualify for the sevenman team. Saturday the seventh place man did 22:53 and ten men in all topped
Final Dress Rehearsal
—Munger
VARSITY BACK tries to spin away from two freshmen tacklers, aided by some timely blocking. Irish hope to get more of the same in tomorrow’s game with North Carolina.
last year’s minimum qualifying time. All this was despite high winds which hit the runners fairly hard at several spots during the race.
Three Sophs finished among the first five men Saturday — George Helf en-stine, John O’Connor and Harry Snyder. A fourth Soph, Tim Kett, ran a 23:37 four mile, a good time considering he has been running for only a week and is still a bit overweight.
During the past week the cross country men elected Jim Kittell, a Senior from Greg Rice’s home town of Missoula, Mont., as their captain.
Heroes of the Post
•
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
During the Roaring Twenties Notre Dame was in one of its most brilliant eras, both in scholarship and sports. Men such as George Gipp, Leo Ward, Eddie Anderson, .and Francis Wallace were grinding through English, Metaphysics, Chemistry, Sociology and the rest, gay-blading into South Bend on a Saturday night, and cavorting across the Niles road on Sunday.
There was a lad from Chicago, named Roger Kiley enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. In a way this young man from the City on the Lake is a highly typical product of the period, for while in school and in after life, he was an outstanding scholar and sportsman.
If Rog could have been seen on the
campus by the students of a few decades later, he would likely have been greeted with a “Hi, Luj.” For this lad both in form and feature looked like a king-sized Johnny Lujack. Yes, he was big—big, rough and fast. He used these qualities well as witnessed by the fact that he won three letters in three major sports —three in football, and two each in basketball and baseball.
Football was Rog’s favorite.. He was ■ an All-American in the true sense of the word. Though statistics of that period aren’t available, an idea of his ability is found in an amazing quote taken from the Dome of Rog’s senior year. “Rog didn’t miss a pass all season.”
But then perhaps Kiley would smile and say, “Well, look who was doing the passing, Gipp and Mohardt—a fine back whose only misfoi-tune was playing in the shadow of the incomparable Gipper.”
The game Rog recalls most often was the encounter at West Point against the Cadets in 1921. A unique feature of the Irish eastern swing that year was a two-games-in-four-days grind, the schedule freak coming just after a disastrous opening loss to Iowa. Gipp was gone and this was the year the Irish were going to eat mud and more mud—or so everybody thought, particularly the Cadets.
Notre Dame played Rutgers on Tuesday and won, 48-0. Then came Saturday and Anny. It was a typical ND-West Point brawl. The half time score was 0-0, and the Irish were having trouble, referee trouble. The ref told the Ramblers that their Rockne Shift was illegal.
Sept. 29, 1950
27
In fact, he stopped play and read the rules to them. So the boys from the Midwest switched tactics. With their chief offensive weapon gone, they started heckling the Black Knights as only the Irish can. The strategy worked; the Pointers blew their lids and the game. The NDers scored four quick TD’s, including two on passes of 18 and 35 yards from Mohardt to Kiley.
Rog went on to earn a law degree and at the same time helping Rockne coach the Four Horsemen squad. Graduation parted Kiley and his classmates, among whom, incidentally, were two young men name John Cavanaugh and Thomas Brennan.
Rog became an aiderman and committeeman in Chicago, positions which he held until 1940. He was then appointed Illinois Superior Court Judge, and in 1948 was named to the Appellate Court.
But Judge Kiley’s contact with Notre Dame goes on in a most significant and vital way. The paths of the Judge and his old schoolmates, now Revs. Cavanaugh and Brennan, were to cross again. Judge Kiley happened to hear of a new educational movement in progress at the University of Chicago directed by the heads of the institution, Doctors Hutchins and Adler. This program, The Great Books Course, won great favor with the Judge and he returned to his alma mater to persuade the Revs. Cavanaugh and Brennan to his way of thinking.
That was the beginning of a new era in education here at Notre Dame. The two Fathers and the President of the Notre Dame Law Association, Roger Kiley, established The Great Books in South Bend, where four civic groups now sponsor them at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. This fall a new General Program in Liberal Education was inaugurated here under the Golden Dome.
Notre Dame can well be proud of Judge Roger Kiley, Scholar and Sportsman.—Rudy Unger, ’52
Kevin O'Shea's Father Dies
Christopher D. O’Shea, father of Notre Dame’s All-American basketball player, Kevin O’Shea, died last summer at Killarney, Ireland, while attending the Munster championship hurling event.
Well known in both Ireland and the United States for his activity in the sports world, he began his career in sports on the championship St. Finbarr’s hurling team. He became most famous before his immigration to the United States in 1912 as a cyclist, securing several major trophies including Munster championships.
In San Francisco, he was the first President of the G.A.A. and was identified with the national movement.
Fleming Ready for Quiet Year After Tour; Huge European Crowds Amaze ND Athlete
By BILL LONDO, ’53
If you should happen to hear the whine of a Scottish bagpipe or the sound of an Irish brogue while venturing near the vicinity of 270 Dillon Hall, don’t be alarmed. For it’s just Notre Dame’s wandering trackster, Bill Fleming, trying out a few of the tricks that he picked up this summer.
Fleming, whose flashing feet have brought him victories all over the United States and smashed every conceivable Notre Dame hurdle record, was a member of an AAU-sponsored track contingent which toured Scotland, England, and Ireland in August. The speedy Rhode Islander more than upheld the honor of both the U. S. and Notre Dame by sweeping to high hurdle wins in the
Meet Mrs. Mike
—Schilling
Captain Jerry Groom, Irish mascot Shannon View Mike, left and Mike’s wife, Pat, inspect stadium turf. “Just lemme at those Tar Heels,” was Mike’s growling comment.
three dual meets held against the best those countries had to offer.
The tour itself was one of five AAU shows which displayed American talent overseas. Among the stars, who along with Fleming exhibited their wares to the British Isles, were Mal Whitfield, the ex-Ohio State great middle distance runner, and NYU’s talented Reggie Pierman.
The first meet was held in Glasgow, Scotland, before a crowd which Bill described as “five times larger than the AAU finals would draw in the States.” There on a rain-soaked grass track he easily defeated the Scottish challengers. A week later in London, Bill put on his best performance, a mercurial dash of
28
The Scholastic
14.3 seconds which broke the British record. Here again the stands were jammed with nearly 50,000 people in at-J tendance. Later that same week Fleming beat the best of the Irish hurdlers at Dublin.
In Ireland Bill found ND widely known, but as he put it, “not athletically do the Irish recognize Notre Dame, but as a great university.”
Fleming marveled at the treatment that he and his teammates received almost every day, and the prizes that we won for our efforts on the track were great—plaques, cups, and silverware— k “really expensive stuff.”
V
The thing which impressed Bill the most, however, was the attitude of the fans and athletes toward track. He said, “Track in England is on a par with football in the United States. The crowds are huge and very enthusiastic; yet, the athletes themselves, though they try their best, do not care if they win or lose. They don’t have the great will to win that marks all American sports, and when racing against Americans they seem to expect to lose.”
V Fleming also was surprised by the dress of the people of London. “They all wear suits and ties, no matter how wrinkled the suit or how soiled the tie,” he remarked. “When we walked aroimd the city in our California sport shirts, we looked as out of place as if we wore no shirt at all,” he laughingly added.
After the serious part of the tour was over, Bill and a few of the others spent two weeks in Paris. As it is with everyone who visits the French capital, he could not be elaborate enough in his i praise of the city. “We saw and did everything possible. It is a wonderful town.”
Now that Bill is comfortably resettled at Notre Dame, he expects to spend a quiet year. However, on the top of a desk in 270 Dillon is an invitation for one William Fleming to compete in a track carnival in New Zealand during the Christmas holidays. So if those talented feet which have carried Bill to so many great triumphs should get the travel urge again, Notre Dame’s 4 roving athletic ambassador may be adding a few more souvenir stickers to his already impressive collection.
REGISTRATION
Registration for the 1950 elections will take place this Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, the St. Joseph County Board of Registration has announced. A campus sub-station will be open from noon until 6 p. m. on each of these days in the Fieldhouse.


Better Days Ahead
Even though they were playing against the Freshmen, and even though they used only a handful of running plays the entire game, Notre Dame’s Varsity looked better last Saturday than they have in a long time. Particularly heartwarming was the show of the defense against North Carolina plays, but the Tar Heels will be a lot tougher than the Freshmen. Still, last year’s frosh did a much better job against the first stringers than did this years’ team. And this first year team is reputed to be one of the best to show up here in years.
Beating North Carolina tomorrow won’t be any easy job. The coaches know it, the team knows it—and the Tar Heels know it. Even though they beat North Carolina State, a lesser light among- football giants, by one touchdown, you can’t use that close score as a criterion of how well the Tar Heels will do tomorrow. They were content to use straight plays for the greater part of the game, using- only what they needed to use to win. They weren’t interested in running up a big score since it would mean showing off more than their basic assortment of plays. Their potent ammunition they saved for bigger game, i.e., us.
You can bet they’ll be out to duplicate their first-half performance of last Fall and wipe’away the memory of that last period disaster. Most of that same broken team will show up on the field tomorrow.
Something New?
The Tar Heels are using a new huddle this year similar to the one used by Notre Dame. The difference is that instead of facing the line of scrimmage, North Carolina players will face the bench. Just which bench the Tar Heel publicity man failed to say. This gives rise to a little speculation.
If a team using this type huddle is playing away, and their quarterback faces his own bench, the rest of the team null then be facing the home team’s bench, rooting section, the press box and television camera. This would 1) enable televiewers to get a full face picture of the players instead of the Notre Dame
profile shot; 2) allow the quarterback to receive signals from his bench.
The failure of this system lies in the fact that on home games, one or the other feature of the huddle would have to be discarded since television camera (if game is being televised) and the home team bench would be on the same side of the field. Calibre of the opposition will no doubt determine which choice it will be.
—5—
In the Notre Dame Tradition
It isn’t going to look the same out there tomorrow with Leon Hart, Bill Wightkin and Jim Martin missing from the picture. These fellows played a lot of end for Notre Dame these past four years and they’ve left a big gap in the line. It’s doubtful if Notre Dame ever had such a pair of giants at the wing positions as they had last year with Hart and Wightkin. No it won’t be the same. But before singing the blues, take a look at their successors. Jim Mut-scheller and Chet Ostrowski aren’t as heavy or experienced as Hart and Wightkin were, but from the way they’ve been playing this fall, they look as though they’ll be “representative.” -
Mutscheller has been tabbed as a great pass-catcher, may perhaps turn out to be one of Notre Dame’s best. His defensive play hasn’t been mentioned very often, but he’s one of the smartest -operatives around.
Of his performance last Saturday, Ostrowski seems to have shaken off the effects of the injuries which plagued him all last Spring. He’s faster than most ends as three frosh backs he outran for a touchdown last Saturday can tell you.
That big gap in the line will be filled pretty adequately, you can bet on that. Mutscheller and Ostrowski will be in keeping with the Notre Dame tradition of fine ends.
Prediction of the Week
“We will do our best. No one can ask for more”—Coach Leahy.
“Our best:” 60 wins, three losses, five ties.
It will be close. Notre Dame 28, North Carolina 20.
Sept. 29, 1950
29
Council
(Continued from Page 23) both advisable and helpful in carrying out these regulations, then the Student Council will be what it should be — a powerful good in all departments of student life, and beyond this, a means of educating the student to govern himself and to submit to democratic authority.”
Your Council representatives:
WILLIAM F. ANHUT. Council president. Senior in the College of Commerce. Vice-president of the Detroit club. Distinguished Military Student in the Air ROT'C.
RAYMOND K. YANICS. Resigned as vice-president of Council because of increased pressure of family, job and school work.
JAMES F. GARVIN. Council Secretary. Junior in the College of Arts and Letters. President of his class in Sophomore year. Senior delegate to NFCCS.
WILLIAM C. CAREY. Council Treasurer. Senior in the College of Commerce. National Debating champion in 1949-50 and president of the Notre Dame Forensic Society. Chairman of the Council audit committee.
JAMES C. HENNESSY. Senior Class president representing the senior class in the Council. Co-chairman of the Council social committee. Senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Member of the tennis team.
HENRY T. MADDEN. Senior class vice-president representing the Senior class in the Council. Co-chairman of the Council social committee. Senior in the College of Engineering.
JAMES P. MANNION. Junior class president representing the Junior class in the Council. Chairman of the Council committee on the investigation of the honor system. Junior in the College of Commerce.
JOHN HINES. Junior class vice-president representing the Junior class in the Council. Hines came in second in the elections but took over his post when Jay Fox transferred to another university at the start of the current school year. Chairman of the Council NFCCS committee. Junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
JOHN A. O’CONNELL. Sophomore class president representing the Sophomore class in the Council. Chairman of the hall councils committee. Sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters.
THOMAS W. REEDY. Sophomore class vice-president representing the Sophomore class in the Council. In charge of Student Council office. Sopho
more in the College of Commerce. Participated in Freshman baseball. President of his class in Freshman year. Vice-president of Chicago club.
THOMAS W. CARROLL. Member of the Council ex-officio in virtue of post as chairman of the Blue Circle. Chairman of the Blue Circle. Chairman of Council service committee. Senior in College of Arts and Letters. President of his class in Freshman year. Secretary of his class in Junior year.
THOMAS H. WOLFE. Senior Council representative chosen at large from the Senior class; Co-chairman of Religious, Athletic and Educational committee. Senior in College of Engineering.
RICHARD L. CLANCY. Member of Stay Council. Co-chairman of Religious, Athletic and Educational committee. President of his class in Sophomore year. Junior in College of Commerce.
GEORGE J. MURPHY. Council member representing Law School. Senior in College of Law.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY WAS NEEDY I He, was the .worst neck on campus, and everybody looked down on him the minute they spotted his-messy hair. Poor Paul was gonna zoo . somebody until he herd about Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now, he’s head and shoulders
above every guy at school I Non-alcoholic Wildroot with Lanolin keeps hair neat and well-groomed all day long. Relieves annoying dryness, removes loose, ugly dandruff. So don’t overlook Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Necks time you visit the nearest drug or toilet goods counter, get a bottle or tube of Wildroot. And giraffe your barber for pi ofessional applications. For a generous trial supply, free, send this ad with your name and address to Dept. D, Wildroot Co., Inc., Buffalo 11, N- Y.
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
DANIEL J. BRENNAN. Council off-campus representative. Council parliamentarian. Senior in College of Science.
Navy Announces Exam Date Of College Training Program
Competitive examination for the Navy’s College Training Program has been scheduled for December 9. The program is open to male citizens between the ages of 17 and 21 who are high school graduates.
Successful candidates will be given a four-year college education at govern-as officers of the Navy or Marine Corps upon graduation. Those who pass the ment expense and will be commissioned aptitude test will be interviewed and given physical examinations. The names of those candidates who qualify will be submitted to Navy selections committees.
Applications are available at the Office of Academic Affairs, in the East Wing of the Main Building.
30
The Scholastic
Television
(Continued from Page 19)
j. The rest of the staff, though not as well known as Mark Sandrich, Jr., have had plenty of experience in movies and television. The cameraman, Mitch Pe-treyko, shot Blithe Spirit in England. Assisting the Polish lensman, Ken Kennedy has worked in TV studios in New York for quite a while. Their writer will be cheering for the Carolinians tomorrow, for Jud Kinberg was graduated from North Carolina two years ago after serving as editor of the university’s publications. He is now under contract to Campbell-Ewald of New York. Tomorrow the Golden Dome series begins with the Irish season. When the last broadcast is over, the millions of Notre Dame Subway Alumni who have seen these shows will have a better idea of the University “near South Bend.” Then the movies will be recut and spliced into one film for public relations showings throughout the country, though it is doubtful that they will be able to catch as large an audience in that form as they will by being telecast for fans’ consumption and shown in a 45 theater movie chain.
Notre Dame, not just her football team but her University, comes to the fans tomorrow as the TV camera takes them Under the Golden Dome. . . .
SUCCESS FORMULA ... ON CAMPUS OR OFF!
Arrow Gordon Oxfords
Arrow
REPP TIES


ATTENTION SENIORS
All 1951 graduates—January, June or August—must make appointments now if their pictures are to be included in the 1951 DOME.
Appointments can be made between 1:30 and 5:30 every afternoon in the DOME office, basement of Farley Hall, until Oct. 15.
WND Returns to Airwaves With More Classical Music
Offering more classical and semi-classical music than ever before featured, WND is away on another season. A new regime at the helm, many of last year’s shows have returned along with new programs.
Joe Boland, sports director of WSBT, revealed the inside story of Notre Dame football’s radio coverage to a record turnout of 95 students at the campus station’s first meeting. Mr. Jerome Fallon, director of the campus station, discussed the year’s prospects and ' possibilities.
Increased attendance at WND’s meetings is attributable, Mr. Fallon said, to “greater student interest in radio and the possibility of visiting a South Bend radio station for actual appearance in one of their productions.”
Easy formula . . . that never misses! Buttondown shirts are of crisp white oxford, Sanforized-labeled, of course. All silk, striped repp ties knot and drape to perfection. See them now at your favorite Arrow dealer’s.
*Good Grooming
shirts s3.95 ties s2
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT’S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Sept. 29, 1950
31
THE THIRD DEGREE
By ED MERTZ
This minor masterpiece of literary mediocrity marks the return of The Third Degree to its niche in the gallery of campus journalism for another big year.
A small squint between the margins
VERSATILE PAIR FOR WEAR EVERYWHERE
Surrelwill suit
BUSINESS • SPORTSWEAR WEEK-ENDING • EVENING
PERMANENTLY MOTHPROOFED Surretwill Suits now only *45 Contrasting Surretwill Slacks q395
and HARMONIZING SLACKS
Definitely the smartest wardrobe investment for any campus man! Tailored in the traditionally fine Rose Brothers manner from an exclusive, all’ wool fabric by Pacific
Mills that looks and feels like gabardine. Don’t cut classes, but get yours soon!
^GILBERTS
will reveal that this is a column of news specifically designed for the edification and instruction of the graduate students of the University. In view of the dispersal of said students all over the nearby geography, it is extremely difficult to pass the word along via the usual channels, and we hope this may fill the bill.
The typical grad (a likeable, easily pleased, though somewhat retarded
type), may even learn to peruse these paragraphs with some enjoyment. For those whose literary taste is a trifle more fastidious, we can only offer our sympathy, and trust that you can learn to practice charity and forbearance while combing this mountain of linguistic chaff for what- few grains of wheat may be extracted. •
Initially, we should like to add our small bathtub barittone to the chorus of welcome for the incoming grads. We holdovers are sincerely glad to have you aboard, and hope that you may learn to like, or at least, put up with us.
A point which I like to bring up on occasion is the fact that in order to obtain the maximum from a graduate education, it is almost necessary to participate fully in the life of the graduate community. Only in such a way can the individual grad hope to enjoy the social and cultural benefits which are his for the asking. To the advanced student of course academics are of primary importance, but the graduate community can provide much more. It offers a chance for close association with a group of individuals pursuing a whole host of specialized careers, but having a congenially homogeneous background of tastes, interests and education.
. We can think of no better way to stake your claim to all this than to cast your lot with the Graduate Association. Besides providing the post-grads with representation on campus, this group goes all out to brighten the scholastic scene and overcome the barriers of specialization by sponsoring a program especially tailored to the taste and financial needs of the average graduate student.
To the 190 who jammed the Vet Rec Hall on Sept. 15 to mingle with the masses, reminisce over last year’s gridiron glories and dampen the whistles in preparation for some of the closest harmony since the advent of the safety razor, I feel the Association needs no boost. To them, I say, “pass the good word along.” As for the rest, let’s give it a whirl at the first opportunity, before that groove you are in turns out to be a rut, and the occupation hazards of mental exhaustion and malnutrition make a strait-jacket out of you.
The first business meeting of the year will be history ere this peers at the lux dies, but you can still start right by making plans to attend a football dance on Oct. 6, the eve of the Purdue game, in the Rec Hall. Plans are in the diaper stage as yet, but there will be more dope forthcoming when details are settled. Be on the lookout!
*
d
L
32
The Scholastic
The Church, the State and Mr. Blanshard
A problem, which in recent times has, with great force, confronted the American Catholic, is that of the Church and Sta+e. Two events have been largely responsible for this. The first is a book > published in 1949 entitled “American Freedom and Catholic Power,” written by Mr. Paul Blanshard. The second is the Barden Federal aid to education bill, which has caused much conflict between Catholics and non-Catholics in and out of Congress. One may remember in particular the Cardinal Spellman-Mrs. Roosevelt tiff.
The thesis of Mr. Blanshard’s book is that the Catholic Church is a threat to American freedom. The attempt of the Catholic hierarchy (which to Blanshard is identical to the Catholic Church) to “control the judgments of its own people on foreign affairs, social hygiene, public education and modern science” is diametrically opposed to the preservation of an American Democracy. The hierarchy and the Pope form a conspiracy whose aim is the eventual authoritarian control of the lives of the American people. The book is abundantly documented from “reliable and authoritative” sources and the facts as they stand, isolated by themselves, appear to support his contentions extreme-, ly well.
This book is a masterpiece of misconception, and characteristic of much modern thought concerning the Church. It is a seemingly logical expression of many of the attitudes and fears of both conservative Protestants and of secularized avant garde liberals. It involves so many errors on the part of Blan-shard’s knowledge of the Church and in his own logical thinking, that it would take volumes of books for a complete refutation. Those who have answered Blanshard’s charges, have realized this, and have therefore limited themselves to the treatment of the few really basic errors.
Father George Dunne, s.J., one of the defenders of the Church in this controversy, has said that it is actually impossible to argue with anyone of , Blanshard’s mentality. The prime reason being this: that the Church is of the ■ri supernatural order and yet, by circum-
stances, She has to operate in the natural order. Her stuff is of the absolute, the eternal, the infinite, but she must exist among and in the relative, the transient, the here and now. Blanshard cannot comprehend this; it is a distinctive trait of the secular mind. He views the church purely as a political and social force. Consequently, any valid criticism of the Church’s activities and relations to her members becomes well nigh impossible.
Blanshard is also what is called a legal positivist. This means he ascribes to the view that man made laws, state laws, are the final and unquestionable norms of human activity. Such a position in his case leads him to brand the Church as authoritarian, i.e., as interfering with man’s freedom when She rules upon social and political measures in the event that they touch upon religious values of doctrinal importance.
He uses as examples the Church’s stand on birth control, euthanasia, abortion, marriage, and others of an ethical nature. Thus he becomes inconsistent when he says that he is not attacking the personal religious beliefs of Catholics, but merely the Church qua Church. If it is true that men act according as they believe, and the Church as an organization of men, the clergy and the laity, bound to one another by a body of beliefs and practices, then he certainly is attacking the personal religious beliefs of Catholics.
As one commentator remarked “It happens to be the personal faith of every Catholic that Almighty God, through Jesus Christ, empowered the hierarchy to apply moral judgments to all areas of human conduct, social as well as private. (Robert Harnett, S.J. —The Catholic Mind, May, 1950, page 264). Therefore the question to be argued is a theological one—as to whether “God did grant the Catholic Hierarchy this authority.”
Mr. Blanshard, however, would refuse to recognize this as the fundamental question. The ultimate reason being, that he would refuse to recognize Theology as having any bearing upon his thesis. (This is part one of a three-part aritcle.)—Frank Brophy, ’51
HEALTH SPOT
VOR MBH WOMEN AND CHILDREN 209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan & Washington
o
Jewelers to
Notre Dome
for more than 25 years.
DESK LAMPS
SLIDE RULES
BLOTTER PADS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
Business Systems
126 S. Main Across from Court House
Sept. 29, 1950
33

• Calling Doctor C.
We know that the famous Northern . Indiana weather has nothing to do with it, but almost every Fall, about the second or third week of school, a rash of colds breaks out on campus. We glean this startling fact from the coughs, sneezes, and vigorously blown noses in church and the local theatres.
In most cases, of course, a cold is a minor ailment, but even a small cold can be irritating. Sometimes, however, a cold can pave the way for some more serious disease in the white-corpuscle-depleted body. Therefore it is important to be a bit careful.	•
If it stays true to pattern, the cold epidemic will die down shortly. Meantime, let’s take some rational precautions. For instance, try to avoid passing your cold on to your roommate. Keep well supplied with handkerchiefs and keep your germs to yourself. Go to the infirmary if necessary, but the average cold reacts as favorably to home remedies as to a doctor’s treatment. A little courtesy along these lines will go a long way toward keeping everyone happy.
Overlapping Sports
This is the time of year when the two national games overlap. Campus sports attention is divided between the last lap of the baseball season and the opening stretch of the football season..
The Word therefore wishes to dabble in an absorbing field at this point. If you please, some observations.
There seems to be no doubt of the Philadelphia Phillies’ safe hold on the National League lead. In short, they seem to have it “sewed up.” Being a Philadelphia man myself the American League race is a vital topic at the moment. Not, however, because of the A’s.
There is little doubt that the effect of this statement (forthcoming) will be to enrage, stir up, and anger all Detroit residents; but we wish the Tigers could have met the Phils in the Series. It’s the best thing that could happen from the Whiz Kids’ point of view.
Similarly, the worst thing that could happen would be for the Red Sox to in
vade Shibe Park for the Series. It is possible that the Sox’ power could blast the Phils out of the contest in four games.
What has happened, of course, is this: the Yanks have taken the junior league top honors. As for the Series, who’s to say? Let all Philly rooters join in prayer.
Like that guy says, “We don’t care who wins, so long as it’s the Phils.”
Potawatomie and Palais
The Frosh picnic last Saturday is reputed to have been a large success. Thanks again to the hard work of the Blue Circle, this time supported by the YCS, the Freshmen were entertained, dined, and provided with ample sports facilities. This picnic was the final phase of the orientation program provided for the neophytes. Baritone Jack Broderick and Bill Sahm’s well-known barbershop quartet provided the excellent musical side of the afternoon.
The pre-season victory dance at the Palais Royale last Saturday eve was another success, if success can be -judged by the size of the crowd. Gene Hull and his band are back to their adequate music. There is no doubt that the Palais dance floor is springier than concrete. For this dance and the coming victory dances, the Student Council takes the honors.
Steaks - Chops Seafoods
We cater to Parties
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
Special T-bone Steak every Thursday — $1.25
Football Weekend
Tomorrow the campus will be flooded with visitors who have come to see the Notre Dame-North Carolina game. Many of these people are parents of the students and close friends of the University.
There is, we are sure, no need to tell Notre Dame students that the eyes of these people will be upon them. Notre Dame has a reasonably good reputation
for housing gentlemen. No more need be said.
To the Irish of 1950, The Word wishes the best of luck. Win, lose, draw, the school is behind you to the man. A seasonful of the best from us all.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
’ WELCOME BACK
MEN OF NOTRE DAME
Let us be of service to you ... We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . . We maintain a complete Watch ' and Jewelry Repair Service.
Quality Jewelers
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
South Bend's Finest Spaghetti House
34
The Scholastic
I.	By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
At 83 He’s Still Rugged
For more years than most people would care to count, Arturo Toscanini has been vigorously waving his baton and bringing the world an exceptionally fine grade of concert music. He hides his 83 years without much trouble when he bounces around the stage demanding the best from his musicians.
Few people realize the physical strain involved in conducting a full concert. The arms are constantly raised and in motion for hours at a stretch, often exhausting the powers of conductors much younger than Toscanini. He has no trouble and still leads the orchestra with zest and power.
Most of the musicians consider him a rather exacting father and do their best to please him. The results of the cooperation between leader and orchestra have been so good that RCA Victor- decided to have the people of America meet th maestro. A six weeks tour was arranged and the success was outstanding.
Concerts were given in almost every city which had a house large enough to hold an orchestra and audience. Capacity crowds stormed the theaters and hundreds of others were turned away. One house refused permission to a large standee group, the result being a storming of the theatre and a quick change of the manager’s plans. Police were alerted in each scheduled city, and they expected riots at any moment in the last minute scramble for seats, stools, deck chairs, and standing room which had been provided for the insistent, however late, fans.
The summer is a rather difficult time to give a stiff concert tour, but Toscanini was rarely bothered by the heat. Reaching the extremes in Houston, however, he relaxed a rigid rule—Mr. Toscanini rehearsed in shirt sleeves, shedding the traditional alpaca jacket.
A little difficulty came up in the choice of music to be played on the tour, for RCA realized that the orchestra would be playing for people of different musical tastes. Mr. Toscanini solved the problem by playing the convential “B’s” Tschaikowsky, and Shubert, but he included some Dixieland (called the “Sad Symphony”) on several southern, programs, to the almost hysterical delight of the audience.
The result of the tour was that NBC, which is Toscanini’s radio sponsor, received five certificates of award for its outstanding contribution to musical culture.
the case of the Van Hensen CENTURY ■ or...the soft collar that	■
won’t wrinkle...ever	i
No lining... no fused layers to winkle and	|
buckle. Stays neat all 24 hours of the day.
Can’t-be-copied fold line always folds right. In	I
regular or wide-spread collar. §3.95, §4.95.	■
A new shirt free if your Van Hensen shrinks	|
out of size.	I
Van Hensen
“the world’s smartest
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Ifs ADLER’S for VAN HEUSEN
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Sept. 29, 1950
55
/Z
t J f
{jc.Aprncs
«l,»lpnnd ’■hesterf/e/^/s
e f°mous st°ge play

Let R.O. Mc CORMICK teffyou flow to-
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT
Copyright i$50i
jAL YOU buy a pack of YOU smell that milder Ca> YOU smoke Chesterfields Chesterfields and you	tobacco aroma. No	and prove what every
open it up.	other cigarette has it.	tobacco man knows...
tobaccos that SMELL MlLDER-SMOKE MILDER
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER-JAVA, VA.

9
OAKFIELD
«oCo.
SMOKES 1W.__