The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
December 11 19 3 1
Problem: how to answer a million a day
Users of Bell System service ask “ Information” more than 1,000,000 questions every day. Providing facilities for answering them promptly, correctly, was one problem put up to engineers of the Bell System.
So effective was their solution that this prodigious task is now a matter of smooth routine. They designed desks which enable
each operator to reach quickly the listings of some 15,500,000 telephones. They developed apparatus which automatically routes calls to operators not busy—and should all operators be busy at once, it stores up calls and releases them in the order received!
Efficient telephone service depends upon working out interesting problems like this.
BELL SYSTEM
▲ NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
December 11,1931
One
Don't Be Caught In This Fix
A modish tandem turnout is all well enough if you stay within the city limits; but if you rely on such a vehicle for longer excursions you are likely to find yourself in the same predicament as this young dandy. Here he is, miles from a livery stable, with a lead horse which apparently has decided to get in the cart and ride. Delays, such as the one pictured, are most distressing at any time of the year. But they seem particularly annoying at Christmas time when every minute of a short vacation must count. If you would assure yourself of a Holiday trip that will be speedy and free from such annoyances, get in touch with Charles Wood, 222 Lyons Hall, or the South Shore Line agent, phone 3-3111. Either will make reservations home for you and probably fix it so you get an hour or so between trains to look around Chicago.
Chicago South Shore	and South Bend Railroad
l.
Two
The Scholastic
NOTRE DAME IN WINTER
ifflerrp Christmas!
—®f)t Cbitorg
December 11, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- j	Ik I g	I I g ■ Entered as second-dass
lished weekly at the Vnivers- I	I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- ■ llv ■ iVMw l^aillw ^^V*l IVIQwMw diana. Acceptance far mailscripts may be addressed to — .	„	. „	_	, ,	.;■	ing at special rate of postage.
THE SCHOLASTIC, Publi- DlSCC QUdSl S&mper VlCtUTUS Vive Quasi Cras Monturus Section UOS, October 3,1017, cations Office, Main Building.	'	irnTTNrr>T?niaR7	authorized June 25, 1918.
NEIL C. HURLEY
HENRY B. ASMAN.
.. .Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
I
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA THOMAS HILS	BERNARD COUSINO
ROY SCHOLZ	MITCHELL TACKLEY
JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND THOMAS FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY..
JOHN PICK......
JOHN CONLEY.... WALTER JOHNSON
JOHN RYAN......
JOSEPH LOPKER...
_The Week ...College Parade ____Campus Clubs ...Features Editor .Music and Drama _Staff .Artist
Sports Staff
JAMES S. KEARNS.....Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY	IRVING B. HALPER
JAMES E. McFEELY	JOSEPH KURTH
JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM O’GRADY WILLIAM DREUX	JOHN LYNCH
EDMUND MORIARTY
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON.......Features	Editor
HARRY BURCHELL EDWIN KENNEDY STEPHEN HAUXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER. Ass’L Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY--..Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
DECEMBER 11, 1931.
Number 10.
S UMMARY
COMING EVENTS
o o o
NEWS
Nine hundred honor the football team at the St. Joe valley club banquet_______________________________ 5
“Handsome Harry,” Jack Dalton, “Our Gal Nell,” and k	others done by the University players Sunday and
Monday___________________________________________ 5
Book reviews and short stories feature in the first issue of Scrip to appear next week________________ 6
Father Miltner, speaking at the concluding convocation lecture, shows freshman the value of classical and foreign languages for a liberal education_____ 7
• Glee Club gains honor and prize at Indianapolis contest 11
In banquet speech, Father O’Donnell pleads for rational view on. grid fatalities___________________14
FEATURES
John Kramer, president of the S. A. C., professionally an ice-man, makes the “A.” in S. A. C. mean something ________________________1___________________12
A bartender found, “Gold in The Hills” can open and it promises a treat in laughs_____________________13
SPORTS
Cage squad opens season with two easy victories over Kalamazoo and Adrian______________________________18
Thirty-four men recommended for major football monograms_________________________________________18
Basketball team faces three hard games before Christmas_________________________________________19
o o o
FRIDAY, December 11—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications’ office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.— Clubs: Cincinnati club, Walsh hall, 5:00 p. m.; Buffalo club, Carroll and Brownson “recs,” 7:30 p. m.—Debates, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, December 12—Movies, Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs.. Indiana, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, December 13—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Northern New York club meeting, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.—Play, “Gold in the Hills,” the University Theater, Washington hall, 8 p. m.
MONDAY, December 14—Freshman class elections, 12:30 p. m., gymnasium.—Debate, Freshman hall vs. Brownson hall, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.—Play, “Gold in the Hills,” the University Theater, Washington hall, 8 p. m.
TUESDAY, December 15—Debates, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—Meetings: Spanish Club, K. of C. chambers, 7:30 p. m.; St. Louis Club, East Room, Walsh hall, 7:30 p. m.; Peoria Club, West Room, Walsh hall, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, December 17—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
| F it happens that you have neglected to follow news of the University players lately, it would be well to call them to your attention. They are all prepared to give the boys something entirely new and different in these parts, some real, antique melo, at which you may hiss the villain, and cheer the homespun hero without benefit of clergy. Frank Kelly, for your information, thought of this lastcentury stuff a long time before Billy Bryant got to Chicago with his floating contingent, and will owe nothing to Bryant for interpretation or costuming. We have a suspicion that melo will score here, and that Mr. Kelly will have much more familiarity with stage bars, and much more trouble getting clothes to fit his bartenders.
It looks so good to us that we’d like to bet that all the campus pooh-poohers will be clamoring for more of the same thing—they’ll want a season of The Black Crook and After Dark. After all, it may not be so bad. The vogue for melos is at a height, and even in Chicago persons are paying money to his Billy Bryant’s villains, while down here they’ll do it for nix.
♦ ♦ ❖
F OR perhaps the first time in years, The Wink is being talked about and read with added interest. This is not said to cast any reflections on the worth of Austy Boyle and Dick O’Donnell, who were at times too clever for some of our local wits, nor is it great praise for the present and just past editors of the page. The entire credit goes to a long-nosed, sharp-eared scandal-mongei- who has the local transom-peeping concession, which was one of the concessions Dan Halpin missed, or else didn’t care to bother with. At any rate, this gossip, The Stool Pigeon, has made things hum here, and has got himself a price on his head. It seems a shame that Joe McCabe can’t land himself a bird of the same type for Scrip, The Hawk or some such name, who could swoop down out of a clear sky and drag in a few readers. Maybe could even drag in a few stories now and then, and he could always be sent winging into air to find the editor. To get back to the Wink, Thumbnose tells me that within a week or two he intends to publish an imposing list of all those who have asked to have their names kept out of the column.
^KrE you afraid? Do you dare to see it?” That’s the way the exhibitors called attention to the very latest in the line of thrillers, Frankenstein. We took the dare, and we want our money back. We thought at first there must be something wrong with our reflexes, so we read the book. It was great—it made the movie seem like a travelogue as far as interest is concerned. Yet the movie men maintain that their tripe is good tripe and not fashioned for persons under twelve. It would be jolly if the magnates would put out a series containing more than Aesop’s Fables and Mickey Mouse for the children’s matinees, and let us, who please to call ourselves adults, see more of Rebecca and her idyllic cohorts. Come to think of it, Fauntleroy was a charming lad.
❖ ❖ ❖
T HE talk in a great many places about the general inability of Notre Dame graduates to gain success in after life. We never gave it much thought until the other night at the annual football banquet. Take Jimmy Crowley as an example. That other noted son of a few years ago was never any funnier than Crowley was in introducing himself and then handing out as smooth a line of speech as the crowd ever heard. Believe me, that’s success. Then when all the speeches were over we walked outside and got a look at some of the splendid cars that were lined up in front of Badin. We thought to ourselves that there surely was success—even John Frederick was a success by that criterion. And we were more than sure that we were right when it occurred to us that all those Notre Dame men had just released three whole dollars for a little steak and a little salad and a lot of smoke. And when a person can do that, in such times as these are, he has made his mark.
♦ ♦ ♦
E found out last night that Joan Blondell, the good old trouper, has smoked Luckies for five years, and hasn’t even got yellow teeth. Neither has Jean Harlow. And now we have gone the advertisers one better, and have figured out a way for Tom Mix and Harry Carey to get space. Can’t you picture them posing for the photogs, each holding aloft one of the new Target cigarette rollers, and telling Rex, who is listening with pricked ears, that there is nothing in the world like a fresh Target?
December 11,1931
Five
FOOTBALL SQUAD FETED
JACK DALTON AND PALS ON STAGE THIS SUNDAY
St. Joe Alumni Banquet Packs 900 Grid Fans Into N. D. Dining Halls
“Gold In the Hills” Presented By University Players.
With the presentation of “Gold in the Hills” or “The Dead Sister’s Secret” on Sunday evening in Washington hall, the official season of the University Theater will be launched. The production is the first for this year and will be repeated on Monday evening.
The play, a melodrama of the early nineties, was written by J. Frank Davis. The theme of the story centers about the home of one Hiram Stanley, a poor farmer. Most of the action of the play takes part in the “sitting room” of the Stanley farmhouse.
Follows The Old Plays
“Gold in the Hills” follows in form the plan of an 1890 repertoire company of players. There is the spoken prologue in which the “manager” knowingly tells the audience of the play and of the characters, and there are also various musical effects accompanying many of the lines to denote gusto and climax.
From the time when the curtain opens in the first act displaying an old-fashioned set designed after an 1890 model parlor to the close of the last act, the audience will unconsciously sense that “there is dirty work afoot.”
In the second act of the show, the principal characters are brought to New York’s bowery. The scene is the beer house and dance hall of Big Mike Slattery. Everything is complete in this scene from the intoxicated “extras” to the incomparable “Singin’ Willie” whose “Sweet Marie” never fails to make even the hard-hearted cry.
Among the characters of the production are such immortal celebrities as the villain, Richard Murgatroyd, alias “Handsome Harry” the city slicker, played by Bill Walsh. Then there is shy, honest, and loving Jack Dalton, a man of the soil, played by John Leddy. Last but not lea'st is our own (Continued on Page 10)
Speaks At Grid Dinner
Coach Heartly Anderson “. . . after Rockne, no other loss teas important.”
Announcement!
Numerous letters by campus authors have been received by the Scholastic this year criticizing and complimenting various campus activities and organizations. The Scholastic is always anxious to review student opinion. However, since many of the letters are unsigned, the Scholastic wishes to call attention to the fact that names must appear on the letter in order to be considered for publication.	-
A. B. Seniors Notice!
Seniors in the College of Arts and Letters in the University who expect to complete work at the end of the semester are requested to present themselves at their earliest convenience at the office of their dean in the basement of the Main building.
The announcement was made by Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
Father O’Donnell Is Principal Speaker; Defends Game
From Critics.
By Neil C. Hurley
Nine hundred football enthusiasts thronged through the portals of the Notre Dame dining halls last Monday evening to pay final tribute to the 1931 football team at the annual banquet of the Notre Dame Club of the Joseph Valley.
Dick Hanley, coach of Northwestern University, whose Wildcats battled the Fighting Irish in the mirk and mud of Soldier Field last October, together with Mayor Harry Mackay of Philadelphia, were the principal out-of-town guests on a program that listed an imposing gallery of football authorities.
Father O’Donnell’s Talk Stirring
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered the closing address of the evening, and topped off a night of brilliant oratory with a stirring appeal for rational thought, rather than a sentimental and hysterical viewpoint, when considering the problem of grid fatalities.
The football team, sitting directly in front of the speakers’ platform, made their final public appearance of the year as a group, and officially closed the 1931 campaign for Notre Dame.
The only matter under the heading of unfinished business that awaits the Fighting Irish is the routine task of electing a captain, which will take place after the Christmas vacation at a private banquet.
Coach Anderson Speaks
Coach Heartly Anderson, who received most of the superlatives in the dictionary at one time or another during the evening, stepped up to the microphone early in the program.
“It was a year of losses,” he said briefly, “but in a year that took Knute Rockne from Notre Dame, no other loss could be very great.” .
(Continued on Page 14)	'
The Scholastic
Six
FIRST ISSUE OF SCRIP TO MAKE ITS
APPEARANCE REFORE THE HOLIDAYS
WITTUFF GIVES PAPER
Seminar Discusses Wastes In Present-Day Advertising.
Faculty Members, Students, Contribute Poetry, Sketches and Reviews
By Patrick Corcoran
Scrip, the literary quarterly of the University, will make its first appearance on the campus for the present scholastic year early next week, according to an announcement by the editor, Joseph S. McCabe.
McCabe, however, has made it possible for the Scholastic to give a brief review of this issue in advance of its publication.
Since the number of contributions by undergraduates was very small, the editor found it necessary to solicit some of his material elsewhere.
Two Book Reviews
Professor Charles Phillips of the English department responded with two timely book reviews which were particularly appropriate since both books are at present receiving widespread attention. “Westward Passage,” by Margaret Ayer Barnes marks a crucial period in her career: it will determine whether her previous work, “Years of Grace,” was an accidental strike or the work of a trustworthy talent. This question will be found ably answered in Scrip.
“The Autobiography of K n u t e Rockne” comes at a time when the public has become a bit bewildered by the avalanche of unauthorized Rockne legends, anecdotes, and memoirs coming upon them from all sides. Mr. Phillips’ critical opinions of these books are therefore of no little moment.
Former Writers Contribute
Louis Brennan, editor of the publication last year, has done an exceptionally fine book review also, which appears in the columns of the quarterly this issue.
Father Leo Ward, C.S.C., also of the department of English, was equally generous in his response. His ' contribution consists of a review upon a newly-publfshed book of poetry by a man who is attaining a well deserved reputation for facility in poetic phrasing.
But it is not so much the subject that is welcomed as the return of
Father Ward to the pages of Scrip. His delightful writing was greatly missed last year and a dearth of material will always be a blessing in disguise if it results in his re-appear-ance in the magazine.
George Mattingly Spaulding sent back one of his latest pieces of work
Joseph McCabe Plays football, writes stories, edits “Scrip.”
entitled, “Bothered.” Whether this is to be classified as a short story or a sketch will not be entered into here, but is left for the reader to decide. Suffice to say, that it is one of his characteristic reproductions of rural life, told in a clear, honest style, with a camera-like attention to detail.
The other story, “Gascoigne,’ ’is a short story writen by Editor McCabe. It is a tale of rare beauty which should go far to establish its author as a writer of no little note.
Among the other creative works of undergraduate production in this issue are to be found two or three poems. They are all of a high quality, particularly “Desert Woman,” which comes from the pen of Mr. Cornelius Taskowski, C.S.C.
Frank O’Malley is at present engaged in attempting to rush to completion a thesis on “A Revolution Among the Poets.” Whether this will be completed in time for publication as yet remains in doubt. If not, it will appear in the next issue.
“Wastes In Advertising” was the subject of a paper delivered Wednesday evening by John Wittliff before a meeting of the Economic Seminar. The paper contained a short history of advertising, the three stages through which advertising of the present day is taken, and a criticism of the present-day methods used by both large and small advertisers, dealing chiefly with this waste.
“The two chief sources of waste in advertising,” Mr. Wittliff stated, “are inefficient methods, such as weak, unconvincing' and ineffective appeals, poor presentation, ineffective technique, and the use of too large space or too small space, and dishonesty in advertising.”
“The movement now to check the • first source of waste is seen in the etesting of advertising copy in order to make all advertisements as effective as possible.
“Dishonesty, which is seen in the use of super-advertising, publication of the truth but allowing the people to deceive themselves, trade-mark deceptions, patent medicines, testimonials, puzzles, and the use of cuts of expensive products in advertising inexpensive goods, is fatal to advertising, for if the people do not believe the statements in advertisements, there is no use to spend money to publish them.
“If these wastes, which involve an enormous loss of money, can be checked we will see a great advance in the field of distribution which has trailed for some time the field of production.”
Chemists Hear DuPont Man
On Wednesday evening, in the basement auditorium of the Law building, the St. Joseph Valley Chapter of the United States Chemical Society held its usual meeting.
The assembly was addressed by Dr. W. S. Calcott, director of the Jack-son laboratories of E. J. DuPont de Nemour company, located at Deep Water, N. J. The subject of the doctor’s discussion was “Synthetic Rubber.” The speaker gave a very detailed analysis of the new Duprene, as compared , with natural rubber.
December 11, 1931
Seven
“JUGGLER” STAFF FETED
McCready Huston Speaks On Humor Writing Field.
FATHER HILTNER IS SPEAKER OF WEEK AT FRESHMAN CONVOCATION
McCready Huston, editor of the South Bend News-Times, was the principle speaker at the Juggler dinner which was held at the Bose Marie tea room Wednesday evening. Mr. Huston, who is a regular contributor to Life and is the author of many short stories as well as four books, spoke on the humor writing field.
Editor Huston explained the characteristics of the humor field at the time he entered it, and showed how it has changed until each magazine specializes in a certain type of humor, and the contributor can no longer send a contribution which has been rejected by one periodical to another similar magazine with much hope of acceptance.
Mr. Huston warned his listeners against two mistakes which writers are apt to make when they are new in the business. One was that they tend to burn up their literary energy in a concentrated effort to market mediocre work, only to wish later on that they had saved their ideas for a work of literary merit. The other mistake was that many authors hire a representative to market their work on a commission basis when they could market the contributions themselves with little effort.
Following Editor Huston’s speech a short business meeting of the Jztggler staff was held and plans were made for the next issue of the Juggler which will appear in January and will be the Humor Number.
Mullen, ’30, Popular Artist
Cyril Mullen, Notre Dame ’30, has \	made a new record in the way of ar-
\ ?	tistic achievement this week in the
production of the book “Devil’s Ditties,” by Jean Thomas, for which Mr. Mullen made wood-cut drawings picturing the life of Kentucky mountaineers with which the book deals.
• The Thomas book, a volume of Kentucky folk tales and folk songs with accompanying music, is already hailed as an important contribution to American folk lore by such distinguished writers as Irvin Cobb, Ida M. Tarbell, Luch Furman, Dorothy Jordon and John T. Frederick.
Value of Classical Study Is Stressed In Talk on “Language And Life”
“Language is the sign of intelligence, and it.differentiates man from the animal and makes progress possible,” said the Reverend Charles Miltner, dean of the College of Arts
Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C.
Headed sixth Freshman convocation on Wednesday.
and Letters, in the sixth and concluding freshman lecture of the series, Wednesday afternoon in Washington hall.
Father Miltner’s interesting talk was on the subject of “Language and Life.” The purpose of the dean’s address was to point out to the freshmen the benefits that are to be derived from a good knowledge of classical and foreign languages and to justify the study of foreign languages and literatures in a truly liberal education.
Frosh Avoid Foreign Languages
He pointed out he could not understand why the average freshman in Arts and Letters is opposed to studying foreign or classical languages and will do all in his power to avoid courses in them.
Continuing his demonstration of the
After a man has been tried for murder and acquitted, he can confess it, and nothing can be done to him.
The Saturday Evening Post receives about 1,000 manuscripts daily.
practical value of a thorough knowledge of at least three or four languages, Father Miltner said in part that “life is action, which is a derivative of thought, which in turn is governed by a broad knowledge of speaking and understanding in various tongues.”
Heritage of Culture
It is the function of all education, he explained further, to hand down as a heritage .the culture and literature of the past to future generations. How can a person interpret and enjpy for himself this culture and literature, if his experience of it is at best indirect and second-hand.
He proved to his audience that language is one of the most beautiful things of life and the easiest way to make friends while touring in a strange country is to be able to speak the language of the country visited. He emphasized this point by quoting several extracts from Tennyson and Emerson.
Mother Language Is Latin
In concluding Father Miltner stated that the mothei- language of all tongues is Latin and that a thorough knowledge of Latin is of great help in the study of modern languages.
Preliminary to his talk, Dean Miltner mentioned that he was disappointed with the attendance at the lectures previous to the announcement that a triple cut in English classes of absentees would be the penalty. This series of freshman lectures was an experiment, and whether or not another series will be held during the second semester will be for the students themselves to decide. He asked the first year men to indicate their reactions by addressing him at Room 255, Alumni hall. •
More than one thousand songs are copyrighted daily in this country.
The Vatican, which is the world’s largest palace, contains more than 11,000 rooms.
Eight
The Scholastic
WINTER OFFICIALLY
OLD BY “JUGGLER”
Funny-Fellow Ushers in Winter Number Amid Cold Blasts.
Having presented an Autumn number and a Hollywood issue, Funny Fellow Bob Gorman is reverting to a seasonal theme in the Juggler with the Winter number which will appear on the campus December 14.
Joseph Lopker
His cover is the feature.
A brilliant Lopker cover, a girl’s head done in four colors and silver, will be an outstanding feature of the issue. According to Lopker, this cover surpasses the famous pastel which appeared on the Christmas number last year and which was reprinted as a cover on five other collegiate publications. The opinion of the artist is supported by those who have seen the head.
While this issue marks a departure from the time-honored Christmas number, it is not at all lacking in Yuletide material.
Winter sports, hitherto neglected in the Juggler, come in for considerable attention. Skiing, skating, and tobogganing all are dealt with in some phase or other, and complete instructions are given for sports which are not so well known.
The drawings of Art-Editor Lopker, together with those of Frank Conboy, a veteran of his staff, dominate the interior of the magazine.
The art prize of the month was awarded to Vicente Singson and the lieterary award was given to Billy Magarrall.
Rifle Team Idea Lauded
By Student
To the Editor of the Scholastic:
Sir: I wish to second the suggestion made by J. Ben Berger and published in your columns in the issue of November 20, namely, that a Notre Dame rifle team be inaugurated.
The advantages to be gained by such a move are many. Berger enumerated some of them, especially noting that the cost is not prohibitive, that Congress bears some of the burden, and that practically every college or university of the size of Notre Dame has a rifle team. Added to these are:
1)	It affords an opportunity for those not gifted with extraordinary physiques to represent Notre Dame in athletic competition.
2)	A new field for the formation of lasting friendship will be opened up to Notre Dame men.
3)	Competition is not limited to one section of the country due to the possibility of telegraphic matches, and, as Berger so well put it, it would be a new' field for Notre Dame to conquer.
For the past four years I have been actively connected with the Fordham university riflle team, both as a member and manager. Surely, a suitable place for a range could be found here, for fifty feet is all that is required for N. R. A. and intercollegiate competition. At Fordham we set up a range in an abandoned boiler room.* I will gladly give any assistance possible to establish a rifle team here.
Sincerely,
Philip E. Ryan.
Hurley Returns to Campus Fran Scholastic Press Meet
Neil C. Hurley, editor of the Scholastic, returned last Sunday evening from a four-day collegiate press convention in Chicago last week, where he represented Notre Dame.
Hurley on making his report to the Publications’ office, recommended that the trip be made an annual affair for editors of the Scholastic.
Over 1,200 delegates from all sections of the United States were present for the meeting, which was held held from last Thursday to Sunday in the Palmer House, Chicago.
K. OF C. BEGINS CAMPAIGN
Old Clothes To Be Collected And Distributed To Poor.
Under the direction of the Knights of Columbus the annual Christmas Old Clothes drive will be started this week. Old and discarded clothing will be distributed to the needy of the various parishes downtown under the direction of the Reverend Edward Finnegan, C. S. C.
The committee is composed of Charles Fiss, chairman, with the following members in the halls:
Sorin: Robert Streb, Leonard Donoghue, John Wittliff, Patrick Quirk.
Walsh: William Dea, Gerald Conway, Frank Miller, Charles Quigley.
Corby: Edward Barrett, Charles Nash, Hugh McNarney, Frank Don-alty.
Badin: Donard Lusardi, Peter Connelly, Warren Schwantes.
Howard: Raymond Naber, John Cahill, Howard Flannery, John Cary.
Alumni: James Gerend, John Jager, Fred Becklenberg.
Dillon: Peter Viviabo, Irwin Cretty.
Morrissey: William Murphy, Frank Homercamp, George Murphy, John Brost.
Lyons: Joseph Strauss, August VonBoecklin, George Wenz.
St. Edward’s: John J. Welsh, Charles Bolger, Harold Stone, Frank Messina.
Brownson: Leo Hazen
Carroll: James Lannon.
Freshman: Edward Calahan.
Sophomore: Teodore Pape.
PROF. MENGE TO SPEAK AT LANGUAGE MEET IN MADISON, WIS.
Dr. Paul J. Menge, Professor of Modem Languages, will represent the University at the forty-eighth meeting of the Modem Language association of America, which will be held at Madison, Wisconsin, during the Christmas vacation.
Dr. Menge has been asked to speak at this meeting on the naturalism of the modem German poet, Gerhart Hauptmann, a living dramatist, who holds an important position among the dramatists of his time.
In conjunction with that meeting is a convention of the Interscholastic Federation of German clubs, of which the German club of Notre Dame is a member.
December 11, 1931
Nine
BREEN ORATORS CONVENE
Winner of Finals to Represent Notre Dame at Indiana U.
Preliminaries for the Breen Medal Oratorical contest were held on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of this week at 4:15 o’clock each afternoon in Washington hall. The contest is open to all students of the University.
The order of the speakers taking part were as follows: Wednesday, John F. Becek, William Casazza, Leo T. Clark, T. A. Dwyer, J. Griel, Joseph Kehoe, and William Whelan; Thursday, Albo Armonde, W. L. Darrow, Ed Fitzmaurice, Frank Kelley, John H. Logan, Eugene O’Reilly, and Maurice Powers; Friday, James Boyle, Fred A. Dolph, Walter Kekich, George Ryan, John Ryan, A. A. San-duskey, and John Van Etten.
Professor William Coyne of the Department of Speech at the University, is in charge of the annual competition. The finals will be held next week, the winner of which will represent the University in the Indiana State meet in Indianapoils.
Prof. W. J. Coyne Will Meet Debating Candidates Monday
Professor William J. Coyne, of the speech department, coach of the debating team for this year, announces that there will be a meeting of all candidates for the debating team next Monday, December 14, at 12:30, in Room 409 of the Administration building.
At the initial meeting of those in-eterested in trying out for the team last week the students were given directions and qualifications necessary for the team. The finals are expected to be held early in January.
Xmas Cards Still Being Sold
Oliver and Kelly Powers, holders of the official Christmas card concession at the University, will take orders for cards this week, they announced last night by making special arrangement with the company.
Cards can be procured in Sorin hall at either of their rooms, or a note under the door will be sufficient to send a salesman to your room.
Stool Pigeon Still Secret To Students
“The Stool Pigeon,” the gay old scandal-monger of the Scholastic, whose weekly column in “The Wink” has caused great speculation concerning his identity, still walks the campus undetected.
Seventeen persons have attempted to win the prom bid, which the Scholastic has offered to anyone who successfully proves his identity, but thus far no conclusive evidence has been submitted. Six persons have been suggested, but the evidence was too flimsy to definitely reach a decision.
“He’s the only one that knew about that,” one stated, as he entered the name of Myron Crawford, who, incidentally, was suggested five times.
“It’s just the sort of thing that Bill would write,” another commented as he suggested Bill Corr, and attempted to prove a similarity in typewriter print.
But, taken all in all, there was no one who had anything approaching conclusive evidence. The contest remains open until the conclusion of the school-year, but after Prom time the prize will shift to a two-year subscription to the Juggler.
DEAN KO NOP LECTURES ECONOMICS CLASS ON LABOR LAWS
Members of the Economics class of Professor Louis F. Buckley were addressed by Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Law school Monday morning, during the regular class period. “Advantages of the Labor Laws” was the subject.
Dean Konop was a member of the state industrial commission of Wisconsin for six years. He discussed the practical workings of this commission in its various departments. He explained the reason why, in Wisconsin, there is such a wholesome compliance with all labor laws.
The dean also talked on the advantageous use of the advisory committees and how they aid the industrial commission by their representation of all classes who are affected by the law passed. He discoursed also on their cooperation and the administration of the compensation act.
CHICAGO CLUB TO HOLD XMAS DANCE ON DEC. 28
Duffy, Ostrander Head Committees For Annual Frolic.
The finishing touches for the Chicago club’s annual Christmas dance were announced last week by Thomas Duffy and Joel Ostrander, chairman of the affair.
It will be held on Monday, Decem-
. Joel Ostrander
“.. . The committee is optimistic.”
ber 28th, and the music will begin at ten o’clock.
The evening will be spent in the Drake hotel, both in the Avenue of Palms and the Main Dining room, with Tweet Hogan and Jack Chapman furnishing the music.
Reservations, according to the two chairmen, are now being taken, with each club member allowed two bids. They sell for four dollars on the campus, but retail at five in the city.
Reservation can be made with Bob Hanley in 235 Lyons hall, “Bud” Groves in 356 Sorin hall, or the chairmen in 232 Walsh hall. If they are not paid in advance, the reservations will not be held later than eleven o’clock.
.“We’re expecting an exceptionally large turn-out,” Ostrander stated this week. “Everything has been attempted to make the affair as complete as possible. The committee is optimistic concerning the outcome.”
Classes End Friday Noon
Official notice has been given by Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, that classes will end at noon, December 18, and will be resumed at 8 a. m., January 4.
Ten
The Scholastic
RALPH S0LL1T COMPANY TO GIVE MONEY PRIZES
Better Design and Construction In Architecture Is Purpose.
The Reverend Thomas Steiner, C. S. C., dean of the College of Engineering, announces that the Ralph Sollitt and Sons Construction Company of Chicago and South Bend has established a fund which will provide for two annual prizes of $50 each, to be awarded to students in the department of architecture.
One prize of $50, to be known as the Ralph Thomas Sollitt prize, will be awarded each year to a regularly enrolled student of the Architectural School of the University of Notre Dame for the best design submitted as a solution to a special architectural problem assigned during the scholastic year.
A second prize of $50, to be known as the Gertrude S. Sollitt prize, will be awarded each year to a regularly enrolled student of the Architectural School of the University of Notre Dame for the best work submitted’ as a solution to a special structural problem assigned during the scholastic year.
These prizes will be awarded for the first time at the end of the present scholastic year.
During the past four years the Sollitt Company has built the dining hall, the stadium, the Law building, Alumni and Dillon halls, and the Commerce and Engineering buildings. The structures themselves are indicative of the excellent work done by this company.
The members of the Sollitt family and particularly Ralph S. Sollitt, vice-president of the company, under whose immediate charge all the University work has been done, have always shown a deep interest in the academic work at Notre Dame. Theii-purpose in establishing these two prizes is to encourage young men not only to produce better design and construction but also to strive for originality in design, and the adoption of present-day building materials to design and construction. The University is extremely grateful to the members of the Sollitt Company for the practical way in which they have shown their interest in its work.
Notre Dame Grads Gain Radio Fame
A new radio play by Richard Sullivan, Notre Dame ’30, of Kenosha, Wisconsin, was broadcast last week on the NBC network. The play, a three-act melodrama entitled “The Beads” going over a chain of twenty-six stations was Mr. Sullivan’s first venture in radio drama.
This is, however, the second success won in this new field by former students as James Griffin Jay, ’27, has already “appeared” on WLW with a popular series of plays under the title “Crimelights.” Mr. Sullivan was the author of “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop” produced by the University Theatre last year.
Reward Is Offered
Tuesday afternoon a brown leather bill fold was found missing from a room in Corby hall. It contained an unendorsed check, a railroad pass, and other papers valuable only to the owner.
Payment has been stopped on the check and the railroad company has been notified to take up the pass and hold the one who presents it.
As the return of. the billfold and its contents means a trip home at Christmas for the owner, he is desirous of receiving it. It may be mailed to 3 Corby hall, or the finder may present it and claim reward.
La Raza Club Mass Tomorrow
A solemn high mass will be celebrated tomorrow morning at eight o’clock by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. in Sacred Heart church, as part of the ceremonies being conducted by the La Raza club to celebrate the fourth centenary of Our Lady of Guadalupe, patroness of the Spanish American countries.
The sermon will be preached in Spanish by Father Matthew O’Neill, president of Mount Carmel High school in Chicago.
Spaniards of South Bend and St. Mary’s have been invited to attend the Mass, while Anthony Diaz, president of the La Raza club; reports that any others who wish to attend are welcome to join in the homage to the patroness of the organization.
PRE LAW CLUB TO SMOKE
Father Deady Addresses Group At Special Meeting.
At a special meeting of the PreLaw club last Wednesday evening, the plans for the club’s Smoker were made public. It was decided to hold it Monday, December 14 at 8 p. m. in the Lay Faculty Dining hall at a charge of thirty-five cents per person, open to anyone. Dean Konop of the Law school, will be the principal speaker, and several other prominent members of the legal profession will discuss various aspects of the law.
The guest speaker of last Wednesday’s meeting was the Reverend Carroll F. Deady, psychologist and educator, who spoke upon “Psychology in Cross-Examination.” Father Deady discussed some of the interesting “cases” he has come across in his work as well as other phases of this part of the lawyer’s routine.
After his talk, Father Deady held a round-table discussion and answered the questions of the members.
Change Made In Junior
A. B. English Courses
Junior A. B. students who in their first semester are taking English 3a (Poetry) will take Eng. 3c (Short Story) in the second semester. Those who are taking Eng. 3c (Short Story) in the first semester vill take Eng. 3a in the second semester.
Two sections of a course in Shakespeare [general Introduction to Shakespeare and the reading of a set number of plays] will be provided for those who wish to substitute this course for their requirement in either Poetry or Short Story.
As it is possible to offer only two sections of this course in the second semester of this year, registration for these sections will be subject to the following regulations:
1)	Students who would otherwise have to take either Eng. 3a or Eng. 3c may register for this course.
2)	Registration for these two sections will be open to the first thirty who apply for each section of the course.
3)	Registration for each section will be definitely closed when the registration reaches thirty students.
December 11, 1931
Eleven
ENGINEERS WILL DANCE
Pfeiffer Anonunces Formal For Jan. 15; Toussaint Chairman.
The Engineers’ Club will hold a formal dance on the evening of Friday, January 15, 1932, it was announced Thursday by Raymond L. Pfeiffer, president of the club. It is the first time in the history of the organization that a dance has been sponsored.
Joseph Toussaint, a senior in chemical engineering, has been appointed general chairman of the affair, which is to be semi-private. Each member of the club will be allowed to invite one guest. Tickets for members and guest will be sold at $1.50 per couple.
The Jugglers, campus orchestra, have been obtained to play for the dance which will be held at the K. of C. ballroom in South Bend.
President Pfeiffer also announced that there would be a meeting of the club tonight at 7:30 in the Law building. All members are requested to attend.
SCANLAN ANNOUNCES COMMITTEEMEN FOR HOOSIER DANCE
During the past week committees for the fifth annual dinner dance of the Indianapolis Club of Notre Dame, to be held December 28 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club, were announced by President John Scanlan and general chairman William L. Sexton.
They are as follows:
TICKET COMMITTEE: J. Albert Smith, chairman; Charles Greenen,' Jack Slattery, Jerry Shine, John Sullivan, Pat Fisher.
PATRON COMMITTEE: John Sexton, Tom Meeker, co-chairmen: Harry Miller, Tom Blackwell.
ARRANGEMENTS: Michael Fox, chairman; Ed Coomes, Tom Mahaffey.
PROGRAMS: Fred Zietlow, chairman ; Bob Cillel, Ed Herold.
x PUBLICITY: Joe Spalding, Ed Lee, cochairmen.
DECORATIONS: Keler Madlden, chairman; Tom O’Connor, John Carr.
MUSIC: Bob Leppert, chairman ; Joe Argus.
OUT-OF-TOWN COMMITTEE: Bob Kennedy, chairman, Newcastle; Bob Hilger, Columbus ; John Krebser, Harold Dreucher, Dick Emmerling, Kokomo; Earl Melcher, Anderson.
The music for the occasion will be furnished by Dick Snyder and his Detroiters, a recording orchestra which is at present playing in the middle west.
Inter - Hall Debate Teams Open Season
Eight freshmen teams opened up in the annual Wranglers’ inter-hall debating season last Wednesday evening, as Chairamn James O’Shaughnessy set the various organizations into active competition for the Lem-mer trophy, annually awarded to the victorious team.
In the early results, Sophomore’s affirmative team scored a victory over Dillon’s negative. The new frosh hall, however, turned the tables later in the evening, when their affirmative team defeated sophomore negative.
Brownson scored a double victory ovei- Carroll, when both teams talked away to easy victories, when they refuted conclusively the arguments advanced by their opponents.
In the other debate of the evening, Dillon’s affirmative, by splendid constructive speeches, scored a win over Sophomore’s negative team. Although the latter proved better on rebuttal, the work of Dillon’s three representatives finally triumphed.
“GOLD IN THE HILLS” TO BE STAGED SUNDAY
(Continued from Page 5)
Nell whose problem is to choose between Murgatroyd and Dalton. The part of Nellie is portrayed by Miss F. Theresa Chissolm, member of the faculty at St. Mary’s College.
Lizzie, played by Mrs. Norbert Engels of South Bend, furnishes much of the humor of the play. Other characters who contribute are Barbara, the youngest daughter of Hiram, played by Miss Charlotte Mourer of South Bend, and the part of Slade, Murgatroyd’s “shadow,” played by James O’Shaughnessy. William Corr, Virgilius Phillips, Roger Beirne, Joseph McCabe, and James Carmody also take part. Around these characters, the “plot thickens.”
While not a burlesque, “Gold in the Hills,” is humorous in that it portrays the mode of living during that period when a girl’s reputation was judged by the length of her skirts. The tragic-comedy element dominates throughout the story.
GLEE CLUB IS VICTOR IN COLLEGIATE CONTEST
Take First Prize In Meet Held At Indianapolis.
By Mitchell Tackley
Competing with six universities and colleges of the mid-west in an intercollegiate contest for choral organizations, the Notre Dame Glee club was awarded first prize of $200. The contest was sponsored by the
Joseph J. Casasanta
His Glee Club icon the prize.
Publix corporation, and was held in the Circle Theater, Indianapolis, during the week of Nov. 27 to Dee. 3 Purdue placed second.
The plan of the contest required each of the organizations to sing at four performances on a specified day. Notre Dame day was Wednesday, Dec. 2. Other schools participating included Wabash university, De Pauw university, Franklin college, Earlham college, and Purdue university. Indiana university withdrew from the contest.
Forty-six members of the Glee club made the trip to Indianapolis. While in the city, the club members were the guests of the Circle Theater management. Following the performances, the entire group was taken to the Seville Tavern for an evening’s entertainment.
Notre Dame day was attended by larger crowds than was any other single day.
Twelve
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus » John Kramer
PHILOSOPHERS TO MEET
By Bryan Degnan
Father Miltner Will Discuss Practical Problems.
It may merely be typical of the decadent trend we hear the six year seniors snarling about: the passing of the hob nails you know; chewing tobacco on the fade; and the gradual acceptance of gentlemanly dress. Or anything you want to make it. But whatever the wTord, the latest S. A. C. President, John Kramer, swings in at the sign of the Mar-Main Arms, an apartment house in South Bend, to sleep, shave, prepare for an occasional class, and direct the destinies of the S. A. C.
But even the elegance of the Mar-Main retains John only occasionally. Three nickels in futile phone calls will convince you.
Drop in on him one Sunday morning, however, when even the Mar Main is literally in its shirtsleeves. Hectic activity—he and his roommate in a rush for Mass — twenty minutes — the room in dishabille— white shirts draping chairs— a blue cravat lining a paper strewn desk— a formidable array of texts—magazines: New Yorker, Fortune, New Republic, and a Post—casually: the book by Stuart Chase—the suit coats whirling—struggle with a collar—adjusting the tie—a search for change —the young man rather diffident— yet singularly laconic—at last—neatly dressed, brown predominating—a final glance in the mirror—he will see you—“perhaps a little later— gladly.” All in all we want you to elicit from these scraps the fact that the subject is a busy man.
But in the way of heavy occupations let’s page the S. A. C. It is whispered that this year the “A” in the middle actually means activity. The yawnishly banal “hello week” was ousted. Greetings for the freshmen were comforting. Pep meetings were well timed and not of the manufactured sort. And in general the Council has functioned with a smoothness and precsion which makes the name of Kramer one to conjure with. Former experience may be partly responsible. Early this fall he was at the helm of the Blue Circle. But when Herb Giorgio suddenly decided to leave, and a coming man was needed, Mr. Kramer was paged. Mr. Kramer has arrived.
The president of this organization needs a pair of rather sturdy shoulders. Something new always on the up: a question of tickets, a greeting
some time ago. At any rate he has for the team, the class elections. Old complications threading in again. Perhaps the president foresaw the aid of weight about the shoulders
John Kramer
Reads the “New Yorbed’; Manages the S. A. C.; is busy.
been the courteous ice-man of Fort Morgan, Colorado, his home town, for the past two summers.
Kramer prepared for Notre Dame at Regis Prep in Denver. And when alone with his pipe and—well we’ll let the scene arrange itself—somehow those good old prep school parties drift back again. But just when these interludes chance by is something of a mystery. His idle moments are rare.
The councilman participated in football and tennis while preparing for college. There were other activities of course—but in those days plenty of time. Football, swimming, whatever you happened to care for. John had a penchant for tennis. And he still gets a kick out of lobbing a tennis ball now and then.
The room-mate by the way is Leo P. Fagan, an Oklahoman who can laugh even the S. A. C. troubles away—and, once they’re faded, start talking about the best of the upperstrata blonds. She lives in a nearby city.
When John gets his degree of Ph.B. in Business Administration this June he’ll be off for New York—and a job. And whether you believe it or not it’s something rather definite. No, not going to be a bond salesman, corrects John. Have to be a graduate lawyer to do that. And this young man hasn’t time to become a lawyer. Nor has he time for dates—well, not many.
The seventh annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association will be held at St. Louis University, St. Louis, Mo., on December 29 and 30.
The Department of Philosophy at the University will probably be represented by three or four members. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., head of the Department of Philosophy and dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will take part in the round table discussion of practical problems in philosophy during the second session of the meeting.
The meeting will be divided into four sessions, two on each day. The business of the convention will take place in the following order:
FIRST SESSION
(December 29—morning)
Medieval Political Philosophy “Natural Foundations of the Political Philosophy of St. Thomas”, Walter Farell, O.P. “The Political Philosophy of St. Augustine”
Vernon J. Rourke “The Political Philosophy of the Carolin-
gian Rennaissance”...Denis J. O’Connor
SECOND SESSION
(December 29—afternoon) Round Table Discussion of Practical Problems in Philosophy “Leaders in Scholastic Cosmology and the New Physics” ........................
Francis Augustine Walsh, O.S.B.
James McWilliams, S.J. “Leaders in Metaphysics".............
Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Gerald B. Phelan “Leaders in Philosophy of Religion”...’ John F. McCormack, S.J.
Edward A. Pace “Leaders in Content of Courses in Logic and Introduction to Philosophy”.......
James H. Ryan, Charles A. Hart
ANNUAL DINNER
(December 29—evening)
THIRD SESSION
(December 30—morning) Modern Political Philosophy’ “Trends in Modern Political Theory”..... John O. Riedl - “The Political Philosophy of Vitoria”.
Herbert F. Wright "The Political Philosophy of Montesquieu” Herbert H. Coulson “The Philosophy of Saurez”............
George D. Bull, SJ.
FOURTH SESSION
(December 30—afternoon) American Political Philosophy “Brownson, the Philosophical Expounder of the American Constitution”............
Joseph P. Donovan, C.M. “Political Philosophy of the American Con-. . stitution”...........I. x. Millar, S.J.
4
December 11, 1931
Thirteen
NEW CLUB FORMED HERE
International Relations Group Will Meet Each Week.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
Under the direction of Dr. Paul J. Menge, a new organization called the “International Relations’ Club” has been formed at Notre Dame. The club is affiliated with similar organizations throughout the world.
At the last meeting, the following members were elected to hold office for the year: president, Tighe Woods; vice-president, Francis Crowley; secretary, Charles Hitzelberger; and treasurer, Paul Hallinan.
The society holds its regular meetings every two weeks with the program consisting of talks on international topics given either by a member of the club or an invited speaker.
The organization has an invitational membership of twenty-five. It is sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, which furnishes books, lectures, and a fortnightly summary of international events for the members.
N. D. Jewelry Is On Sale Nightly At 211 Walsh Hall
Official Notre Dame jewelry, smartly marked with the University seal or monogram, is still on display in room 211, Walsh hall, according to Edward J. Kelly, holder of the campus concession, together with Robert Leppert.
“We have some exceptionally different gifts for parents,” Kelly announced this week. “Then, too, we still have a complete line of compacts, bracelets, cigarette lighters, and necklaces.”
The display can see viewed nightly in room 211 of Walsh hall between the hours of six-thirty or seventhirty, when salesmen will be present to take orders. However, Kelly announces, that a note under the door at any time of the day will send a salesman to any room on the campus immediately.
Jewelry can be obtained with or without the monogram. Kelly is placing special emphasis on gifts for brothers and sisters this year, which hitherto have been neglected in campus sales.
Victoria Falls, Zambezi River, Africa, is so tremendous that the roar of its water can be heard over twenty miles.
The first night of a new season is here. A “melo” is on, and the crowd, from the seats down in front of Demosthenes near the creaky door way back to where the cold air blows up the stairs, is waiting for the lights to blink in the pit. The Jugglers take up their instruments for another number before the signal that the curtain is about to rise. The music is drowned in a whirl of speculation, criticism and gossip. Then the lights perched atop the music stands flicker —the curtain is ready! Out front the eager faces, expecting a laugh, and about to be treated to plenty of them, lean forward. Hurried whispers are dashed back and forth, and as the curtain gracefully swings to either side, a hush comes over the house. “Gold in the Hills” is on!
***#•?
Rehearsals have been hectic, as usual. One knows after a few hours around a theatre how much work is required to put on a play. Every line to be interpreted, every step to be measured, every player to be assigned his place, everything must be attended to in the weeks before the play is sent through the entire performance.
Consider the perplexity of Professor Kelly when he could find no one on the campus to take the part of the bartender! The versatility of the organization was in question. Where to find a bartender ? They looked through the football roster, the Glee club, even the Wabash Valley club, but no bartender showed up. And then the party gathered about the stage of Washington hall for an open meeting. Names, names, names; words, words, and words, and still no
Dean Konop Speaks on Causes of the Depression
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, spoke to the members of the South Bend Lions club at their weekly luncheon Wednesday noon at the LaSalle hotel. His subject was “The Causes of Depression.”
In his talk, Dean Konop pointed out that under the present capitalistic system there are three elements,
bartender. What to do ? But looking about him at the gathered Thespians, Professor Kelly seized one of them by the shoulder, asked him to read the bartender’s lines, and lo anil behold! the play was saved! The University Theatre had found its bartender, and the show could go on. You will see him Sunday night; he’s a natural!
We think you’ll like the cast, Nellie and her Jack, Murgatroyd and Slade, Lizzie and Steve, but we are certain of this, at least, that if you ever had a shiver run down your back, you’ll have another when the dashing, devastating Murgatroyd steps in. He is all that the best villain should be, for when the great Richard Murgatroyd laughs the dogs do bark.
To leave the campus for a bit, have you your tickets for “Grand Hotel?” What do you think of Charles Laughton, Mr. Murphy ? Have you seen Natalie Hall, “Marching By?” Captain Bryant is in with his Show Boat troupe, and displays his lights down Michigan Avenue at the Studebaker. It is a gay night when Captain Billy shows how they do in Cinci, where he has spent the past two years.
Late news comes in to the effect that Joe Casasanta has received a check for two hundred dollars, the first prize in the state-wide contest for college Glee clubs, lately held in Indianapolis. These boys really work, and we are all glad to hear that they came through. We wish the Band had the opportunity to enter such a contest, too; they are just as popular as the Glee club.
namely, production, distribution and consumption. He defined each of the factors,- expaining how they came about and how they affect present conditions.
In conclusion the dean said that the capitalistic sysetm has succeeded admirably in the field of production but at the same time it is dismally failing in the fields of distribution and consumption.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Father O’Donnell Defends Game at Football Banquet
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., whose stirring address was unquestionably the climax of the St. Joseph alumni club banquet last Monday, took a decided slap at grid critics, whose sentimental hysteria is liable to obstruct the saner viewpoint.
Taking up the matter of grid injuries, Father- O’Donnell, although pleading for any legislation that might tend to lessen athletic injuries, asked for rational thought when considering the problem of deaths incurred through the sport of football.
“I do not think that we will do justice to this question unless we view it in the relation to the general question of student health and mortality,” he stated.
Notre Dame’s Experience
“Our own experience at Notre Dame may serve for an illustration of what I mean. In forty years and more of intercollegiate football competition, there has never been a fatal accident to a Notre Dame player or, so far as I can learn, to any of oui- opponents.
“There have, of course, been many minor injuries,” Father O’Donnell further stated. “But the point is that, in any group of 3,000 students, there are always injuries, minor and major, there are accidents and deaths. Thus, in one year alone, we have had as many students killed in automobile accidents as lost their lives through the football injuries of more than forty years.
“Looking at the matter from another side, the positive side, it seems unquestionably true that the contribution which football as exercise makes to the physical well-being of those who participate in it far exceeds the toll it takes by way of serious injury and accidents.”
Defender of Football
Famous as a defender of football, Father O’Donnell Monday valiantly upheld Notre Dame’s right to the title of the Fighting Irish, assailed during the season by a writer in a California newspaper.
It was on the occasion of Notre Dame’s defeat by Southern California,
Father O’Donnell said, that the California newspaper called attention to the differences between the names appearing in the Trojan lineup and those appearing in the roster of Notre Dame. The article remarked that the hope of the country was in the native American stock of the Pacific coast.
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
“. . . we must stop short of sentimentalism and hysteria.”
“That this writer represents any very large body of public opinion on the coast or anywhere else I very much doubt,” Father O’Donnell said. “I doubt because I don’t want to believe that any considerable section of America, can be so un-American as this writer proves himself to be.
“Notre Dame is an American university in the full sense and best sense of the term. Football, as we know it and play it, is literally an American game. These boys who play it here and on the coast and on the Atlantic seaboard, whatever their names may be, are Americans. Notre Dame upholds no shibboleth, no superstition, no delusion of native American stock. Notre Dame could never be guilty of the cruelty and injustice of discriminating against aii American citizen because his parents, or even himself, were not bom under the Stars and Stripes.”
GRID TEAM FETED AT BANQUET LAST MONDAY
St. Joseph County Alumni Are Hosts To 900 Fans.
(Continued from Page 5)
“There was no dissension on the field among the players,” he continued. “We’re not alibing-, and we never will. And next year we’ll be out proving that we’re just as great in defeat as we are in victory.”
Jimmy Crowley, whose touch of comic relief nearly stole the humor situation from Toastmaster Warren Brown, introduced himself with the remark that “if we learn more in defeat than in victory, I’m the smartest coach in the country.”
Dick Hanley captured an enthusiastic hand as he finished a particularly fiery speech, during which he shouted, “I’d rather win a game with Notre Dame than any two conference championships.”
Pays Tribute to Hunk
“I take my hat off to “Hunk” Anderson for turning out one of the finest teams we ever had the misfortune to meet,” he continued. “Notre Dame need have no apology for the way in which the shoes of Knute Rockne were filled this year.”
The speakers’ platform was crowded with a bevy of football and athletic authorities, together with nationally prominent sportsmen and business leaders. There were, of course, the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C. S. C., Frank E. Hering, and Bernard Voll. Out-of-town guests included Kenneth “Tug” Wilson, Major Griffith, and Walter Steffen, most of whom addressed the assemblage.
Genial, good-natured Mayor Harry Mackey of Philadelphia, one of the principals in the three-hour round- of oratory, brought with him the good wishes of 2,000,000 persons from his city, who he claimed “are all Notre Dame boosters.”
“You learn more from defeat than victory,” he stated. “It’s a finer thing to lose like men than be a winner all of the time. Think straight. Realize that you cannot always win, and in losing know that you are gaining something by it, if you have the ability to use it.”
December 11, 1931
Fifteen
EDITED’/ PACE
Home Debates Only?
Almost before the intial call for candidates was made came the rather disheartening report that this season the annual Eastern trip of the University debate squad might be eliminated. Perhaps this explains why only twenty-five men, less than half the quota of previous years, turned out for the team.
Last week the Scholastic proposed a tour for ethe University Players; now, just as heartily, do we oppose the discontinuance of our debate team’s excursion.
Notre Dame has reason to be justly proud of the University Players; now, just as heartily, ing back in the nineties they have established an enviable record, replete with victories, one which has been upheld through some twenty seasons. Last year was no exception.
The annual trip, which includes contests with many of the foremost Eastern universities, has long been a feature of the season. It has served as an incentive to the debaters and a reward for their efforts. Moreover, such a gesture on the part of the University is indicative of interest and approval of intercollegiate forensic activity.
To provide an attractive schedule, debates must be arranged with larger and more distant schools. The management cannot, however, be entirely one-sided. To schedule home debates Notre Dame must be able to offer an exchange of dates and teams. This requires traveling on the part of both squads. The present system of one long tour, on which the team debated several times, was not only satisfactory but efficient and economical.
Therefore the Scholastic defends the annual Eastern trip and opposes its abolition, not only for the team and debate, but for the prestige of the University itself.
♦ ♦ ♦
Nothing But Dances?
Christmas vacation and club dances—the two have become almost synonymous for some people. . Campus organizations which have been in a comatic state all fall will come to life shortly to show the home town what a real dance looks like. This sudden burst of enthusi
asm, all the more noticeable because of past inactivity, gives vent to the thought that perhaps our clubs exist for the Christmas dance rather than the Christmas dance for the clubs.
The Presidents’ Council has made a decided effort to curb such one-track activities which apparently sap the strength of campus groups to such an extent that no time whatsoever is allotted to events as equally desirable. Pleas for smokers, banquets and inter-club athletics apparently have had no effect on the financially minded heads of local clubs.
True, there is nothing like a good Christmas dance, but it is as equally irrefutable that nothing is quite so odious as a “one-track mind.”
Complimentary Tickets
The subject of complimentary tickets to campus dances has for many years been hotly contested. In the past pseudo student leaders by right of their prominence were necessarily tendered the honoi' of being guests of the class.
Yet last year the dance committee, sensing that the privilege was being abused, abolished the free list for most of the individuals then receiving the passes. Several, however, were still left on the list by the committee for one reason or another.
This year with the rule supposedly in effect, at least one campus organization, whose right to the ticket is particularly unquestioned, asked to be placed on the complimentary list. It was refused, bluntly and decisively.
Yet, although certain campus organizations were decidedly legislated against, the committee refused to take cognizance of whoever else received complimentaries, with the result that after refusing deserving organizations, the sophomore officers deliberately handed out free passes to certain upperclassmen racketeers who convinced them that their right was paramount.
The Scholastic does not wish to go back to the time of wholesale complimentary passes. But it does believe that deserving organizations should be accorded the right of the free ticket, especially when the committee in charge refuses to take cognizance of the abuse of their ruling.
1
Sixteen
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
It’s relief to know that he has gone, And in his going, taken all of him; Memories, visage, sound of voice—torn Completely from your conscience. That slim Figure, guard-like, held erect, unbent To all save you, cannot easily be sent From your own mind. You say he is gone from yours— Well that, my dear, I find precisely is the cause Of why I feel so certainly
You’ll tell your next the same things about me!
Quick Winks
Freshman in cords ... a Philosopher in a Cord . . . Opening of snowball season . . . Has anybody found Laurrie Vejar’s monogram pin? He seems to have lost it . . . The long and short of it at the Inn Wedlast . . . Pet animosities: banquets . . . banquet-jokes . . . banquetsmokes . . . You know that night-in-night-out arrangement between the prof and the student? The prof is winning out . . . the student is broke . . . civic pride in the City of Fraternity . . . Jaskwhich’s toothless personality . . . Jimmie Crowley at Princeton? . . . the influx of tab collar shirts . . . Mahaffey has one ... Ed Crockett saying goodbye to whom this Friday eve? ... Or is she saying “no more” to him? . . .
Wink Ginks
Who will be football captain? . . . Who challenged the whole Monogram club . . . and was unmolested? . . . Who is very awful glad that who returned to Cleveland? . . . and who . . . and who . . . Who are the Philosophers that delight in Ballyhoo? . . . Who doesn’t? . . .
Tsk! Tsk!
Who are the smart little girlies from across the way who politely lifted the keys to the classrooms, locked the doors, and refused to own up? It almost cost the other gals a minimized Xmas vacation. And who wasn’t supposed to find out about it? Tsk! Tsk! again, my, my.
Similizing
As bright and cheerful as a stadium in a snowstorm.
—Old Thumbnose.
Birdie Whispers
Groves! Doerr! Maloy! Blaney! Condon! Osborne! should we tell the story about Saturday afternoon? . . . Huh? . . . What assistant football manager sprouted his monogram before any of the team did? ... It wasn’t you, was it, Joe? . . . Incidentally, Alexander took the worst beating at the initiations . . . But they were all rather cautious about sitting down Monday morn. . . .
Dunnigan, the soph, goes strong for M. A. M. across the way . . . And another- fella loves her . . . Lyons All-American moves to the second floor . . . Must be Father John’s Medicine . . . (not an advertisement) . . . O’Hara seems peeved that he’s never been mentioned in here . . . All Walsh Hall seems to be in training for the Christmas vacation . . .
Whitey Croxall and Jim McCann are house-hunting . . . What Sorin Haller says he’s going to be married the day after graduation? . . . he’s been spliced since freshman year, in reality . . . Little Joe Kennedy cheating on one of his floor pals last Saturday night at the Oliver . . .
Hill’s steady goes under the monicker of Izora Ott . . . O’Neil insisted on going in person . . . keep that stuff up and he won’t, graduate in ’34 . . . Handball season is on and again comes the usual gripes about not enough courts . . . Hitzelberger protecting the good name of Walsh Hall last Sunday night . . . Wonder why Sal-vatti asked the editor to keep his name out of this column . . . we haven’t the slightest idea . . . much . . .
Who’s writing the other column on this page now? . . . it’s changed conductors, you know . . . we’ve got him spotted though ... He lives in a double room . . . That new nurse must be plenty cute to draw all the trade to the infirmary that’s been going over for the last ten days . . . Same as all the fellows sending telegrams in the evening . . . Why don’t the Eastern club presidents do something about getting some rates for the boys going home ... Or do they get their free tickets regardless of the number riding the train? . . .
Some lady at the Indiana Ballroom in Indianapolis, on the Glee club trip, took Joe Kennedy for a gigolo and asked him to dance. How do these gleesters do it?
The Woods was all a-flutter last Saturday over the arrival of Mike Moore and Jack Witliff, who dropped in for the week-end . . . Which of those three attractive pictures on Mike’s desk was the lucky girl?
Well, got to color some maps for Mr. Bott now, so Merry Christmas, and we can promise you a great column after the post-vacation bull sessions get under way . . .
—The Stool Pigeon.
December 4,1931
Seventeen
COLLEGE PARADE
What’s In a Name?
Now that Harvard has established so noble a precedent in abolishing all “Yale” locks, it seems hardly improbable that other institutions effervescing with patriotism will follow suit. (We wonder whether, in realiation, Yale has ordered the Harvard Classics removed from its library.) For example, one may well expect to hear that the latest motion passed by the Vassar Student Council (if they have a student council) will be the absolute suppression of Smith Cough Drops on the campus. Young ladies with mal a la gorge will have to switch brands or become smugglers. Amherst will probably abolish even the mention of Williams Shaving Cream and perhaps, the House of David will have some new members. The only thing lacking, to our way of thinking, is a college rival of the University of Maine by the name of “Stein.” Then one could get rid of the song! (Incidentally, the University of Maine had last year a total enrollment of less than 2,500 students; this year they received over 16,000 applications. What could it be ?)
New?
That the fraternity system will be replaced soon in a majority of colleges by a house system similar to that in use at Harvard university is the belief of Dr. George Chase, dean of the Harvard graduate school. At Harvard each dormitory has its own library and its own dining room large enough to accommodate all dormitory occupants. Each house is supervised by a proctor, who is responsible to a faculty committee for keeping order. “Because of the contacts which students are able to make with each other when all are eating together,” the dean asserts, “this house plan has the same social advantages as the fraternity houses, yet at the same time is considerably cheaper.”
Spare Us
“If all the newspapers in the world were • wiped out and all the colleges left, there would be very little education.” So says Dr. Henry B. k Rathbone, of New York University. Yes, the doctor is the head of the department of Journalism at the university. t
77 Average
Freshmen at Haverford are given an examination of their knowledge of the handbook in the fall of each year. Their grades in the examination determine whether they go off freshman rules one, two, or three weeks later. Failure to pass the test means adherence to all rules until it is passed.
Program Selector
A plan has been worked out at Brown university whereby the student may consider the temperament of the professor as well as the desirability of his course in making out his program. On the opening day of college a “Who’s Who” is given to each new student, giving a short account of the degrees, professional experience, and principal avocations of each member of the faculty.
Sing Sing
Recently Sing Sing put a convict football team on the field against a team of policemen from Port Jervis, N. Y. This to our mind is the latest example of the “over emphasis” of football. The game also represents comic opera treatment of the criminal by American institutions.
A dollar a seat was charged because prison wardens said it would be worth a dollar to see a game between convicts and policemen. Shades of Tex Rickard appear when prison wardens launch themselves in the field of promotion, even though the start is ever so humble. It is strange that the AllAmerican aggregation of safeblowers did not produce at first try a new sensational triplethreat man to vie with those of the collegiate world. That day is not far off when other colleges, yes—colleges, like Sing Sing, will be subjected to the keen gaze of the Carnegie Foundation.
Permitting convicts to play intersectional games of this type is merely another asinine move by prison authorities who seem to have an innate fondness for molley-coddling criminals. We should like to see Sing Sing eleven’s activities confined to intramural work within the institution.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Cagers Win First Two Games
Defeat Kalamazoo In Opener, 37-7;	THIRTY-FOUR NAMED
Adrian Falls In Second Game, 37-13	MONOGRAMS
Keoganites Outclass Michigan Colleges Easily; Reserves Show Great Promise.
By T. Edward Carey
Three Notre Dame cage teams, clicking perfectly at times and equally poor at others, won a lop-sided 37-13 decision from the Adrian College (Michigan) team in a rough and tumble game at the Notre Dame gym last Tuesday night. It was Notre Dame’s second victory of the season.
Newbold led the Blue and Gold five in scoring honors with three field goals and four fouls, ten points in all, with Joe Voegele next with eight points, all from field goals.
Big Ed Krause, subbing for Ray DeCook, who was on the bench with an injured hip, played a fine game at center during the first half, accounting for five points.
The first quarter of the game was slow with the passing attack of the Fighting Irish failing to function. Baldwin intercepted an Adrian pass and snapped the ball down to Krause who was waiting under the basket and.scored easily. Newbold got the next one in a mixup under the Notre Dame basket. Woerner of Adrian then countered, and two foul points for each team completed the quarter’s scoring.
Notre Dame got going in the second quarter and with Baldwin and Crowe feeding the ball to him, Bill Newbold ran wild. Frequent fouling marred the game, and things began to get so rough near the end of the half, the game was almost nothing more than a continuous procession to the foul line. The score at half time was 16-7 in favor of Notre Dame.
Voegele replaced Krause in the third quarter and almost ruined the
Adrian passing game with his long arms. He scored four field goals in rapid succession and was then replaced by Schraeder. Voegele’s scoring, together with two baskets by Davis, subbing for Newbold, put Notre Dame way out in front at the end of the third quarter. Coach Keogan then substituted his second team and the scoring was very light, with only Leo Crowe, Johnson, and Nims of Adrian tallying.
The third Notre Dame team played the last five minutes of the game, but Fehlig was the only one to connect, while Woerner counted Adrian’s final
tally.
Twenty-four personal fouls were
committed during the game, twelve
by each team, and this together with
the oft erratic play of the Fighting
Irish slowed the game greatly. The summary:
Notre Dame	g	f
Newbold, rf ......................3	4
Davis, rf ........................2	0
Fehlig, rf .......................1	0
N. Crowe, If .....................0	0
Schumaker, If.....................0	0
Angsten, If.......................0	0
Krause, c ........................2	1
Voegele, c .......................4	0
Schraeder, c ...'.................0	0
Baldwin, rg ......................2	0
L. Crowe, rg......................1	0
Oelerich, rg .....................0	0
Burns, 1g.........................0	0
Johnson. 1g ......................1	0
Tobin, 1g ........................0	0
p
3
1 0
2 0
0
1
1 0
0 0
1
1
1
1
Totals ....
Adrian Nims, rf . Curtis, rf . Bryan, If Baker, If . Woerner, c Miller, rg Duncan, 1g Hay, 1g .. Gilver, 1g .
16 G
.1
.0
.0
.0 .2 .
.0
.0
.0
.0
5
F
1 0
3 0
1
1
0
1 0
12
3 0
3 0
1 1
0 1
Totals ............................3	7	12
Referee, Warren; umpire, Stahr. (Continued on Page 28)
Seven of Thirty-one Players Close College Careers.
Recommendations for major football monograms were made early this week by the Athletic association. Thirty-four men were named in the group that included thirty players and three senior managers. Final action on the awards has not been taken.
Included in the group of letterwinners were seven men who have concluded their playing careers. Captain Tom Yarr, Marchmont Schwartz, and Al Culver are the only men who gained their third grid monograms.
Others who will be lost to next year’s team are Nordy Hoffman, Carl Cronin, Bernie Leahy, and George Kozak. Three of this group are receiving a monogram in football, for the second time, while the fourth, Kozak, is getting his first letter. His elegibility, however, is completed. He competed for two years at Marshall college.
Nine other men, Kosky, Host, Harris, Greeney, Pierce, Kurth, Mahoney, Jackwhich, and Koken, received monograms last year and have one more year of eligibility.
The remaining fifteen men receiving awards include fourteen sophomores and one player who saw a little service last season.
The men recommended for the awards:
Left ends—Kosky, Host.
Left tackles—Culver, Krause.
Left guards — Harriss,. Greeney, Wunsch.
Centers — Captain Yarr, Gorman, Alexander.
Right guards — Hoffman, Pierce, (Continued on Page 23)
December 11, 1931
Nineteen
Another For “Hoops”!
CAGE SQUAD TO MEET THREE STRONG TEAMS
Johnny “Hoops” Baldwin
Indiana, Purdue, N. U., Here Before Christmas.
Whose brilliant floor work, blind passing, and basket shooting has brought a mid-season polish to Notre Dame guard play.
With two victories already under their belts, Coach Keogan’s basketeers are facing one of the hardest assignments of their schedule during the next ten days. Indiana, Purdue, and Northwestern, all strong contenders for the Big Ten crown, will meet the Notre Dame eagers on the local hardwood during that period.
Starting tomorrow night with Indiana, the Blue and Gold will tangle with Purdue on Tuesday, December 15, and will conclude the pre-holiday card with the first of two battles with Northwestern on Monday, December 21. The return engagement with the Purple is slated for New Year’s eve in Patton gym, Evanston.
Indiana, the only team of the three that will be seeking revenge on the Notre Dame squad, brings a veteran quintet to the Notre Dame gym tomorrow night.
The five regulars who concluded such a successful season for the Hoosiers last winter, are all back in uniform. Dauer and Campbell at forwards, Dickey, a towering center, and Zeller and Blagreve at guards, will be a hard combination to hold in check. They have been playing together for some time and will be able to give the Keoganites a mighty stiff tussle. Johnny Sudith, sophomore forward, is making a strong bid for a place on the regular five. In last year’s game, played at Bloomington, Notre Dame copped a 25 to 20 decision from the Hoosiers.
The revenge element will be turned around for the Purdue game next Tuesday night. Last season the Boilermakers took an easy 34-22 victory from the Keoganites. This year, however, should see the Lafayette aggregation finding the going a bit harder.
Johnny Wooden, captain and All-American guard for the past two years, is the feature of the Purdue offense. In the Notre Dame game last year the Purdue leader chalked up nine field goals and three charity tosses to bring his total within a single point of the Notre Dame team score.
(Continued on Next Page)
Twenty
The Scholastic
off most of the local eagers’ attention during the holiday period. The first game will he at Notre Dame, December 21. In the game here last year Joe Reiff, All-American forward, led Coach Lonborg’s charges to a 44 to 29 victory with ten baskets and six successful free throws.
Reiff is back in uniform again this winter, as are Captain Bob McCarnes, Bus Smith, and Lockhart, all regulars
A timely
Gift Suggestion to College People
GIVE Mother an extension telephone this Christmas as an all-year-’round remembrance. She’ll thank you again and again because of the steps it saves.
Extension telephones cost but a few cents a day; and you can pay for them out of your regular monthly allowance. Ask your telephone Business Office.
★ The Economical 'Voice of Millions INDIANA BELL
Telephone Company
last year. In the Wildcats’ opening they overwhelmed Bradley Tech, 33 to 19.
The second Northwestern encounter will also be played during the vacation period. In the return engagement in Evanston last year Tommy Burns and Chuck Jaskwhich held the high-scoring Reiff pointless until the final two minutes when he caged a trio of field goals to snatch a 20 to 17 victory from the Keoganites.
SCHOLASTIC SWIM MEET SLATED FOR WEDNESDAY
Deadline Set For Entrants; To Be Held In South Bend.
The Scholastic swimming meet will be held on Wednesday, December 16, at the South Bend Public Nata-torium. Only those participating in the swimming meet will be allowed the use of the pool for that evening. The meet will begin at eight o’clock and no admission will be charged for spectators. All those who intend to entei* this event must have their names listed by Tuesday noon, at which time the entries will be closed. The entry fee will be twenty-five cents to defray the expenses of the meet.
In accordance with the policy of the Scholastic in promoting minoi- sports of the University this event should be patronized by the student body. If there is sufficient interest in this sport the Scholastic will make provision to make it an annual event.
All the events which are included in the usual meet of this nature will be included. Both dashes and springboard events will be held.
It is urged that the entrants arrive in time for the beginning of the meet so that there will not be any delay in running off the various events. Report to those in charge of the event as soon as possible so as you may be checked in and you will receive the necessary information as to when your particular race will take place.
Valuable prizes have been secured for the winners. The presentation of prizes shall take place after the winner has been determined.
Any information regarding the meet can be obtained at the publications office in the Main building or from a member of the promotion committee.
Barber Shop Open Nights
For the convenience of those leaving for the Christmas vacation, the barber shop will be open on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings, December 15, 16, and 17 until 8:30 o’clock.
The shop will be closed from December 24 to Jan. 4. The management wishes the students a very happy Christmas.
December 11,1931
Twenty-one
INTRODUCING— v
RAY DECOOK
Ray DeCook is what is known as a local boy making good—that is, if you class Mishawaka in the local division. Although he lives in Badin hall on the campus, he occasionally drops out to see his parents in that not-so-far distant city.
In case there is any doubt in the reader’s mind, the Ray DeCook of whom we speak is the chap who handles the tipoff in such a masterly fashion for Coach George Keogan’s basket squad.
Playing basketball is not a new trick to the Notre Dame first string center; his four years at Mishawaka High school saw him as an outstanding player for that team. Only once during Ray’s career there did his outfit enter the state basketball tourney, and on that occasion Mishawaka dropped the first game on the schedule.
His other sporting activity in high school was with the track team. In that branch he was entered in the 440-yard run.
The close of this season will mark the third year in which DeCook has held the post of first string center. His advantage' because of height coupled with his uncanny knowledge concerning the exact location of the hole in the basket has marked him off as a most valuable man.
Working the pivot play within the foul line territory more this season 1 than he has in the past, Ray has performed some tricky shots that have given the’audiences the “he’s good” feeling. But the boy has some high-class competition coming along in the person of Krause, another center.
During the past three years, Ray has acted as the “adhesive tape man” in the training room, aiding Scrap-iron Young in putting the boys back together after a particularly rough scrimmage. In addition to his basketball activities, the Mishawaka hopeful is a member of the Blue Circle.
The Physical Education school claims Ray as a student. After his graduation he expects to go into the coaching business. He has already gained considerable practical knowledge in his chosen occupation by his work on a playground in Mishawaka in the summer.
As are many other Mishawaka res
idents, Ray is of Belgian extraction.
The contest against Indiana Saturday night will give the Notre Dame student body its next glimpse of this fast moving and rangy center lad.
Ray DeCook
Starting his third year as regular on cage squad.
Cross-Country Medals Given
Medals were awarded Thursday afternoon to the winners of the recent Inter-hall cross-country meet. Gold awards for first place were given to the six members of the championship Carroll hall team.
The team placing second received silver medals while the members of the third squad were given bronze. In addition to these medals, several of the individual runners earned their numerals in the meet.
Grimes, ’20, Visits Campus
Charles Grimes, of the class of 1920, was a recent visitor at the University. He was here on business for his own organization, the Grimes Co., which is a news, advertising, and feature service for a chain of Catholic newspapers, having offices in Washington, New York, and Chicago. Mr. Grimes, who lives on an old estate about sixteen miles out of Providence, R. I., reported business in New England as being quite good.
Christmas Special...
△
We have 32 very fine imported and domestic drawing instruments, ranging in price from
$5.50 to $32.00 each.
△
We are going to sell these from now until Christmas to the students of Notre Dame at a discount of 30 per cent.
△
As long as they last, this is an excellent opportunity to obtain a useful Xmas present.
△
Office Enginners Inc.
116 South Michigan St.
Phone 3-3119
Tzoenty-two
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS ’ By Irving B. Halper
A testimonial banquet to the St. Edward’s hall football team, champions of the Inter-hall league was tendered by the Athletic association last Tuesday evening. The dinner was served in the Lay Faculty Dining hall.
Jesse C. Harper, athletic director of the University, was the principal speaker of the evening. Among other things in his speech, Mr. Harper treated the present condition of semihysteria over football injuries.
Pointing out that the same condition existed in other branches of physical activity, the speaker showed how accidents in the grid sport seem to come in cycles. “There are long periods of time,” he stated, “when very few injuries occur. Then there are other, much less frequent periods, in which an unusual number of players will be hurt.”
Mr. Harper went on to point out how such injury “epidemics” could be combatted by better conditioning and better preparation of the players.
Coming more directly to the spirit of the meeting, Mr. Harper congratulated the winning team and spoke also of the success experienced generally in the interhall leagues.
In The Winter Smart Men Change Their Shoes
Cold, blustery days with ice and slush under foot absolutely demand a change in footwear. Light weight shoes won’t stand the gaff. So why gamble with your health and comfort? Come in now and be fitted in one of the new styles of Friendly Fives designed especially for winter wear. You can laugh at snow and sleet with Friendly Fives on your feet, and you’ll marvel at their comfort.
BALDWIN SHOE COMPANY Home of Friendly Fives
110 W. Wayne Street	South Bend, Indiana
“Most of the credit,” he said, “for this great year in interhall sports must be given to John Fredericks.”
Mr. Fredericks also addressed the group and introduced to them Leon Livingston, of South Bend. Announcing that Mr. Livingsotn was about to present the members of the winning squad with gold football charms, Fredericks thanked him in behalf of the interhall organization.
The charms were then presented to the following men: Carpenter, Rickard, Jandoli, McIntosh, Jahr, L. Crowe, Osborn, O’Brien, Miller, Carmody, Andrews, Pointek, Shinkowitz, Maloney, Newbold, Pomisani, Kin-neary, Butler, and Coach Norbert Crowe. Anthony Wirry and Clyde Lewis, managers in charge of interhall sports, also were given charms.
Coach Crowe added his word of praise for the championship eleven and gave them all the credit for the successful season. His chief rival, Coach Napolitano of Walsh, runner-up to St. Edward’s, spoke next and congratulated the team on their fine play and sportsmanship. The Reverend Alan Heiser, C.S.C., rector of St. Edward’s, also added a word of praise for the hall team.
Style No. 490, Scotch grain, full double sole, combination last.
AAAA to E
3 to 15
Sport, Dress and Street Shoes
In concluding his remarks for the evening, Fredericks, the toastmaster, gave much of the credit for the success of the season to junior manager Anthony Wirry and his untiring assistant, Clyde Lewis, pointing out that these men cared for all the details of the elaborate program.
Other guests at the banquet included “Scrap-Iron” Young, and the six senior managers: Grams, McKean, Spangenberg, Weiss, Colville, and Ross.	.
OLIVER ..Theatre..
Perfect Talkies
Sunday and Monday Dec.z 13 and 14
FOOTBALL WITH Knute Rockne “THE HIDDEN BALL”
Bargain Matinees, 1-6 p.m.
10c
After 6 p. m., 20c
4
December 11, 1931
Twenty-three
BASKETBALL PLANS
John Fredericks, head of the interhall sports program, announced early this week that the basketball season would start immediately after the Christmas holidays.
He also stated that there was a possibility that arrangement might be completed so that the teams could use the gym for practice next week. However, definite notice will be given on the bulletin boards if the plan is completed.
Double-Header Basketball Schedule on Tap Tomorrow

Coach George Keogan announced late Thursday afternoon that there would be a double-header basketball schedule Saturday with Indiana university. In addition to the previously carded battle between the Notre Dame varsity and that of the down-state institution, the “B” teams of the two schools will meet at 4 p. m. in the local gymnasium. The varsity game will start at 8 p. m.
It is understood that this practice will be carried out next Tuesday when Purdue appears here, and also at various other times during the sea
son. The wealth of top-notch cage material at Notre Dame this year makes it possible for Coach Keogan to place two well-groomed squads on the floor on the same day.
Law Students Write to Dean About Successful Practice
Dean Konop of the Law school received two letters recently from graduates of the College telling of their success since graduating from Notre Dame.
Meredith H. Doyle, a member of the 1926 graduating class, is enjoying a lucrative practice in Menominee, Michigan. At present he is engaged as counsel in a case in Pueblo, Colorado.
Oliver F. Fields, graduate of the 1931 class, expects to practice law at Woodstock, Illinois. Mr. Fields was a visitor at the University this week, stopping here on his way home from Rochester, Minnesota, where he underwent an. operation recently.
No Confraternity Meeting *
It was announced today that there would be no meeting of the Educational Confraternity next week. Members will please note this fact.
34 GIVEN MONOGRAMS
(Continued from Page 18)
Pivarnik.
Right tackles—Kurth, Kozak.
Right ends—Mahony, Devore.
Quarterbacks—Jaskwhich, Murphy, Vejar.
Left halfbacks — Schwartz, Koken, Laborne.
Right halfbacks—Sheeketski, Bran-cheau, Milheim, Cronin.
Fullback — Melinkovich, Banas, Leahy, Leonard.
Senior manager—John Grams; Associate managers: Joseph McKean, Charles Weiss.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, Inc.
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St. Est. 1900	'
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
Starting Tomorrow
THE STAR OF
"CIMARRON"
RICHARD
D I X
"SECRET SERVICE"
Rko Radio Picture
A Great Star Rises to the Heights . . . Bringing Drama That Thunders With Challenge ..... Swift .... Electric . . . . Emotional! . . .
PALACE
Last Time To-day, LEO CARRILLO In “Guilty GENERATION”. And on the stage News-Times RKO PALACE OPPORTUNITY CONTEST
>
filial's the thing!
. Fim ria mw	naeehod or. toasted
Have you noticed the new trend in cigarettes?— freshness is the popular thing.
That’s because a fresh cigarette, as demonstrated by Camels, is something smokers have discovered as better than anything they ever tried before.
Camels are fresh in the Camel Humidor Pack because they’re made fresh to start with — blended of choice, delicately mild, sun-ripened tobaccos in which the natural moisture and fragrant flavors are vigilantly safeguarded.
The tobaccos in Camels are never parched or toasted — the Reynolds method of scientifically applying heat guarantees against that.
That’s why we say with so much assurance that Camels are truly fresh. They’re made fresh — not parched or toasted — and then they’re kept fresh in the Camel Humidor Pack.
Try Camels’ freshness for a change. Switch over for just one day, then change back — if you can.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
camel quarter hour, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except
PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night ex-
_	Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System cept Sunday, N. B. C. Red Network
See radio page of local newspaper for time
Camels
Made FRESH-Kept FRESH
Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against perfume and powder odors, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresli Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked
© 1931, R. J, Reynold. Tobacco Company
Tzventy-six
The Scholastic
N. J. Club Completes Plans
The New Jersey club has engaged Wherlen’s orchestra, Les Ambas-sadeurs, to play for the Christmas Formal on December 28, at the Newark Athletic club.	’
Bill Blind is general chairman of the dance and Sal Bontempo is president of the club. Bids may be obtained from Wee Harrington in Corby hall.
Appearance is important
When you go home Christmas
White and Fancy Shirts with the new Price of Wales tab collar
Full Dress Suits and Tuxedos
AND AS A SOLUTION TO YOUR GIFT PROBLEM WE OFFER THE LARGEST SELECTION OF MONOGRAM JEWELRY IN SOUTH BEND.
Compacts	Knives
N. D. Rings	Bracelets
Pins—with guards Laveliers . Cigarette Cases Chokers
•
MAX ADLER
On the Corner Michigan at Washington
Cosgrove Speaks to Press Club
The next meeting of the Press club will be held on Dec. 15 in the lay faculty dining hall.
Gerald Cosgrove, editor of the South Bend Tribune, is to be the main speaker of the evening. The inimitable John A. Perone is going to present a little “skit” of some sort in the line of entertainment.
O’MALLEY READS PAPER
Patricians Hear Discussion of Dante’s Divine Comedy.
The universality, the deep symbolism, and the basic personal and ethical thought of Dante’s Divine Comedy formed the groundwork of a paper on Dante, “The Man Who Had Been in Hell,” presented by Frank O’Malley at last week’s meeting of the Patricians, Notre Dame’s classical society.
O’Malley declared that the most specific and most universal aspects of life are intertwined throughout Dante’s Divine Comedy, for the subject of his magnificent song is his and humanity’s wanderings from the way of God, and rescue through Christian faith.
According to the writer, Dante bewails not only his own sin, but the sins of all the world, and seeks to find again the way to God in the name of all the sinful. Accordingly, Dante and mankind must follow to redemption all the countless byways by which the devil leads weak humanity to perdition.
“The triumph of divine justice,” said O’Malley, “before which all that is best in man, his feelings of compassion, of love, must bow in silence, constitutes the greatness of Dante’s poem.
In conclusion, the author of the paper discussed the influence of Homer and Vergil, both of whom had dealt with the spirit world, on Dante’s delineation of his “comedy,” the magnitude and grandeur of the poet’s conception, the vastness, terrifying “and unwavering sincerity of his execution, and Dante’s central position in the literature of the world.
Three original verse translations of Horatian odes were read by John Pick, whose interpretations were genuinely reflective of the erotic character of much of Horace’s work. The philosophy of Horace was the subject of the discussion which followed, several members criticizing Horace’s apparent inconsistencies.
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock. 648 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
December 11,1931
Twenty-seven
GERMAN CLUB TO FROLIC
Will Hold Christinas Party In Walsh Hall Tuesday.
At the last meeting of the German club, which was held last Wednesday evening in the basement of the library, it was announced that a Christmas party will me sponsored by the club. The affair is to take place in the basemerit of Walsh hall next Tuesday evening at 7:45 p. m. To make it more interesting and humorous there will be surprise Christmas gifts for each member. These will be selected by a committee who will take into consideration the pet peeves, hobbies, likes and dislikes of each individual.
This is the first time any such activity has been numbered among the affairs of the various campus organizations. Dances, banquets, smokers, and dinner dances have been heard of, but the German club has set a precedent by staging a Yuletide party.
Officers of the club who have made this “merry” event possible are: Charles Weiss, president; Joseph Dockman, vice-president; Anthony Winy, secretary; Andrew O’Keefe, treasurer; and Irving B. Halper, press agent.
Pfeiffer Makes Appointments
Paul Flanagan, senior, and John Krebser, freshman, have been appointed to the executive committee of the Engineers’ club, it was announced by Raymond I.. Pfeiffer.
Wrist Watch Found
A silver wrist watch was picked up in the parking space north of the gymnasium, two weeks ago. Communicate with the Lost and Found office in the Main building for further-particulars.
.Science Academy Meets
The Notre Dame Academy of Science will hold its regular meeting on Monday, December 14, at 8 p. m., in room 102, Science hall. All members are requested to attend.
Papers will be presented by Edward G. Siegfried and Arthur Tutela, both juniors in the College of Science.
The average person drinks a pint of milk a day.
A Pointer
Walk-Over "METRO" has both—ample inside width and streamline
custom appearance . . Of smooth black calf
The “Metro” is one of the many
new fall Walk-Overs for men at $7
We carry a complete line of the famous Ball Band Rubber Footwear
Judge Deahl Elected Bar Head
Hon. Judge Orlo Deahl, a professor in the College of Law of the University, was elected president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association at a meeting held last Friday. The announcement was made early this week at the University by Dean Konop.
Judge Deahl has conducted the practice course in the Law school at Notre Dame for the past two years.
on TOES
Style calls for narrower toes. Men call for generous toe room. The
DUKE UNIVERSITY School of Medicine DURHAM, N. C.
Applications for admission to the first and third year medical classes entering October 1. 1932, should be sent as soon as possible, and will be considered in the order of receipt. The entrance qualificatiops are intelligence, character, two years of college work and the requirements for grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
WAB
S-H Of S -FOR. M-EN
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
\ - O V
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
CAGERS WIN TWO GAMES
(Continued from Page IS)
NOTRE DAME, 37; KAZOO, 7.
By James E. McFeely
It was a most sturdy defense w’hich Coach George Keogan’s charges presented to the Kalamazoo teachers when the latter attempted to break through to score last Friday night only to be turned back on the short end of a decidedly one-sided score, 37-7.
Twelve Notre Dame players took part in the contest and all but three scored at least once. Johnny Baldwin, brilliant Fighting Irish guard, led the offense for the victors and his whirlwind style of play marked him as an exceedingly dangerous man with the ball. His three goals from field were topped only by the five ringers hung up by Ray DeCook at center before he finally retired from competition.
That the Kalamazoo boys were able to chalk up only seven points during the entire forty minutes of play is evidence of the defense which Notre Dame has already developed in the early season. With the advance of the schedule, additional contests will undoubtedly try the defense much
more, but competition will only serve to make the barrier more impenetrable for the teams which are pitted against Notre Dame throughout the stiff twenty game schedule.
Trailing by two points shortly after the contest opened, Notre Dame hoopsters proceeded to open up with a defense which rivalled their outstanding work on the defensive. But the early-season faults that were lacking on the defense were to be seen, in the manner in which the men handled the ball under the basket.
However, that the local boys rolled up a score of 37 points speaks well for their power for the year.
DeCook’s manner of handling the ball on the pivot play in the foul line territory gave added emphasis to the seeming strength of the Notre Dame’s offensive.
Ed Krause, the boy who had just terminated his football activities for the season, entered the game, received a great hand from the large crowd, and within five minutes he had rung the bell for two counters and had successfully sunk one free throw.
The lineups and summary follow:
Notre Dame	eg	ft	pf
Newbold, rf ..................1	0	2
Davis, rf ....................2	1	0
SOPHOMORE HALL OPENS NEW SPORTS PROGRAM; HOWERY IN CHARGE
Sophomore hall men have been engaged in a new form of athletic activity during the past two weeks. Under this system, introduced by Gene Howrey, varsity cross country
N. Crowe, captain. If.............2	0	0
Schumacher, If ...................0	0	0
DeCook, c ........................5	0	0
Krause, c ........................2	1	5
Voegele, c .......................1	1	2
Schraeder, c .....................0	0	0
Burns, rg ........................1	0	2
Johnson, rg ......................0	0	3
Baldwin. 1g ......................3	0	1
L.	Crowe, 1g ....................0	0	0
Totals ............................17	3	12
Kalamazoo	fg
M.	Schau, rf...................1
Selecy. If ......................0
Bennett. If .....................0
R. Schau, c......................1
McVicker, c .....................0
Neifert, rg .....................1
Deehr, 1g .......................0
Williamson, 1g ..................0
FT PF
0	1
0	1
0	0
• 1	3
0	0
0	0
0	1
0	0
Totals .............................3	1	6
Score at half—Notre Dame, 18; Kalamazoo.
2. Referee, Schommer (Chicago) ; umpire. Warren.
Holiday Excursion Rates
Premier Coach Lines
SPECIAL ROUND-TRIP RATES to NEW YORK—PITTSBURG BUFFALO—ST. LOUIS And Other Points.
See Campus Representative
JACK LAMBERT No. 7 Corby Hall
Or when in town PREMIER BUS STATION 217 W. Jefferson Blvd.	Phone 3-5S00
December 11, 1931
Ticenty-nine
captain, at a meeting of the students on Nov. 30, the hall is divided into four teams. The captains of the teams are De Lia, Rich, Novack, and Clark.
The program opened with a soccer tournament. On Tuesday, Dec. 1 the second floor honors were snatched by the east wing when they defeated the opposite end of that level, 1 to 0. The following day the first floor laurels were copped by the west end by the same score. The winning teams were then matched for the championship of the hall.
Darkness called a halt to the first encounter with the count reading 0 to 0. The boys got together again on Saturday after rain had prevented the encounter on the previous day. At the end of three overtime periods a 1 to 1 tie necessitated another game. Carideo and Shovan scored the goals in this long match.
On Tuesday, Dec. &, the finalists were again matched in a deciding game. This time, however, the second floor eked out a 1 to 0 triumph when Yeager’s hard drive between the posts netted the only score of the game.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
To the casual observer, strolling past the library about one o’clock on any weekday, the illuminated face of Dr. George Keogan cannot pass by unnoticed. A single glance through the roster of this year’s basketball squad, and the observer can readily understand the eminent Dr. Keogan’s “peace with the world” attitude.
Perhaps in no other year, since the inauguration of the hardwood sport at Notre Dame, have the prospects been so bright. There are no less than three outstanding candidates for each position, and the task of finding a smooth-working combination should be comparatively simple.
Coupled with this fine material, which we think to be the best in the country, is a schedule that would warm the hearts of the coldest supporters. Indiana, Purdue, Northwestern, Michigan State, Iowa, Butler and Marquette from the middle west; Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, Syracuse and Army from the east—all
these major fives included on the list, and which are enough in themselves to whiten the hairs of the most easygoing mentor. Any one of these teams may be taken as a criterion of excellent basketball, and all are listed with the greatest in the land.
Notre Dame’s two opening thrusts against Kalamazoo and Adrian, while impressive, still lacked the polish that will be necessary in later games. This is to be expected at this early date, however, and we feel confident that Dr. Keogan’s charges of this year will ascend to the top rung of the 1931-32 basketball ladder.
THE SWIMMING MEET
One of the most important sports events to take place during the so-called lull which follows the football season will be the Scholastic swimming meet, which will be held next Wednesday evening at the South Bend natatorium. This strictly campus event, one of the outstanding
Gift Suggestions for Her
Practical Gifts That She Will Appreciate
Leon Navar Toilet Sets
Perfumizers
Box Stationery Manicure Sets Fountain Pens Bridge Sets Coty Sets Cutex Sets
Exquisite Perfumes Dainty Compacts Beauty Sets Delicious Candies Hudnut Sets Electric Clocks Radio
0. A. CLARK’S Restaurant 104-106 N. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST AND MOST RELIABLE EATING HOUSE.
Electric Appliances
Save at Walgreen^ Now—As	You Always Have
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
❖	❖ ❖
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
❖	❖ ❖
WE HAVE NO KEY
Thirty
The Scholastic
features of the inclusive minor sports program being undertaken by the Scholastic, should be well received by the student body in general, for it is in their interest alone that this program is being sponsored.
The meet is not intended to be a championship affair, and it is not necessary that the contestants be champions to enter. The events will be arranged so as to benefit everyone. One could not expect a man to undergo the ordeal of a long race without propel- training, and for this reason there will be no events longer than 50 yards, with the exception of the relays.
The entry fee of twenty-five cents is certainly not a matter that should keep a single student out of the meet. The admission charge at the “nat” is twenty-five cents for a single swim, and the donor does not receive free transportation and a chance at a medal for it either.
The land area of continental United States is 2,973,776 square miles and the water area 53,013. Canada’s land area in square miles is 3,510,008 and its water area 180,045. The railroad mileage in the United States is 241,625; in Canada, 55,152.
Campus Opinions
Question: “Do you think that the final selection of eleven players on an All-American football first team is too difficult a task, judging from the number worthy of consideration?”
Francis Toomey, Lyons hall, sophomore: “Yes, I think it is, because there are too many players of high caliber to be considered. The eleven finally chosen are then regarded as the best in the country and placed on the All-American first team.”
John L. Connolly, Lyons hall, sophomore: “Because of the large number of outstanding .players throughout the country, it is practically an impossibility, I believe, to select from this group eleven men who outclass all the others in all-around performance.”
John Clauder, Morrissey hall, sophomore : “In my opinion the selection of all-star players in the country should be limited to the giving of honorable mentions. Those who select All
American teams see these star players in probably no more than two games at the most and in this way are not in a position to declare one man better than another.”
Chester A. Barbeck, Howard hall, junior: “I think this is too difficult a task, because it is absolutely impossible to see each player in action. The opinion and judgment of others therefore has to be followed, and in this way the team chosen might not be an impartial selection as it is possible that those whose opinion was asked would recommend some player from their section of the country, perhaps through favoritism alone.”
Maurice J. Rigante, Lyons hall, sophomore: “The Literary Digest has a method that brings the best results, I believe. The selections of the foremost judges are taken and balloted. In this manner a popular decision is made as to which eleven players merit a place on the All-American team.”
At the present time more than twenty per cent of all the retail business in the United States is done by chain stores.
Mrs. Thompson’s Home-Made
Candies
Delicious Candies—every piece made in our local kitchen and always fresh. Leave your address now for candy to be mailed for Christmas—60c and 70c per pound, no extra charge for parcelpost packing.
203 N. MAIN STREET
Phone 2-1287
Come to FAY’S Jewelry Store with your Gift Problems
Suitable Terms Gladly Arranged
Our assortments are limitless in Watches . . Jewelry . . Novelties and Monogram Articles. :	:
Fay’s Jewelry Co.
Ground Floor, 137^ S. Michigan St.
I
December 11, 1931
Thirty-one
BILL JONES COMPLETES SUCCESSFUL SEASON AT MT. ST. CHARLES
Mt. St. Charles College, Helena, Mont., is the only college eleven in the entire country that has completed its 1931 football season undefeated, untied, and unscored upon. The Fighting Saints recently won the Montana state championship by defeating Montana State College, 6 to 0.
The man who has been most instrumental in the unusual success of Mt. St. Charles, the first time they have ever completed a season without a loss, is Bill J ones, who will be remembered as freshman coach at Notre Dame last year. Bill has acquired a host of friends in the Montana city by the successful way he has coached the team.
Scoring 192 points during the year, the Mt. St. Charles team was feared throughout the state. Coaching there his first year, Jones built up a team from a squad of about 30 men that was noted for its strong reserves and was the best eleven in the state. Incidentally, Montana is in the Pacific coast conference.
Assisting Bill in all his duties as football mentor was another Notre Dame man who left here last year together with Jones. John Good was assistant coach at Mt. St. Charles.
LARGE SQUAD OF FROSH GRIDDERS NAMED TO RECEIVE NUMERALS
Fifty-three freshmen gridders were named early this week on the list of recommendations for football numerals. Of the group named, 34 were linemen while the remaining 19 were backs.
The entire list of those recommended follows:
Ends—Breen, Brown, Davis, Quinlan, McGrath, Rogers, Alabarta, Mahar, Schraeder.
Tackles—Esser, Becker, Costaldi, Pfifferle, Nabicht, Marek, Long, Rath-baller, Kurth.
Guards—Armstrong, Leramon, Kelley, Demero, Knapman, Lesko, Linda, Woodka, Shamla, Schirelli, Jayer.
Centers — Nadeau, Tolini, Salari, • Fitzmaurice, Fulnicki.
Quarterbacks — Bonar, Ball, A. Carideo, Mettler, Culler.
Left Halfbacks—Costello, Daigle, Shackett, Winterbottom, LaLonde.
Right Halfbacks—Mudrey, Mar-etin, Young, Jordan.
Fullbacks — Bason, F. Carideo, Crosson, Ronzone, McCarthy.
In the United States today the largest number of foreign-born persons are Italians.
The heaviest substance in the world is osmium, a hard metal used in making gold pen points. It weighs 1,404 pounds per cubic foot.
EXTRA GIFTS
with the dollars you’ll save
. . . Going by Greyhound!
ROUND TRIP
EXCURSION FARES
DETROIT	6.00
FORT WAYNE	3.50
TOLEDO	5.20
FLINT	5.50
CLEVELAND	7.85
CINCINNATI	7.75
ST. LOUIS	9.00
PITTSBURGH	11.50
Low One Way Fares
KALAMAZOO	2.00
LIGONIER	1.30
Hundreds of Others
GRET^OUND
All-Opponent Team Praised
The All-Opponent team of the Notre Dame Scholastic, which appeared last week, received considerable praise recently from athletic officials and newspapers.
The Chicago Daily Nezes in a halfcolumn article reprinted the Scholastic’s selections and added the comment that ‘it compares favorably with many of the All-American teams which have been selected.”
NEVER before such travel bargains—just in time for Christmas and New Year trips I Round trip tickets purchased on or after December 17th are good until January 4th. Same low rates for 7 day excursions, before and after these dates.
Ask your campus agent, or drop in at the Greyhound office for information.
Campus Agents
L. Alaman, University Book Store R. Chenal, 209 St. Edward’s Hall
Union Bus Depot
135 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone 3-8283
Thirty-tiuo
The Scholastic
Here, MEN, smoke a man’s smoke
A PIPEFUL of good tobacco is dis-, tinctly a man’s smoke. The
women (long may they wave!) have
taken over most of our masculine privileges. But pipe smoking still belongs to us.
In every walk of life you’ll find that the men at the top are pipe
smokers. And most college men agree that the pipe offers die rarest pleasures a man could ask of his smoking.
When you smoke a pipe, be sure you choose the tobacco that will give
you the greatest enjoyment. In 42 out of 54 colleges
Edgeworth is die favorite. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold.
Here’s the smoke for
Or for a special .	. men, a pipe and good
sample packet, tobaon.
write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va. Sample is free.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes, 15^ pocket package to #1.50 pound humidor tin*
On Down the Line
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
GENE McEVER, star Tennessee halfback, has never played in a game which his team lost. . . . The HIGH-SCORING record of baseball is held by a team from BUFFALO. . . . They defeated a team from COLUMBUS, Ohio, 209 to 10. . . . GEORGE GIBSON, new manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, holds the record for catching in baseball games ... he caught 133 CONSECUTIVE games. . . . JOHNSON CITY high school was
Dr. L S. Lucas Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
omitted from the Big Ten High School football schedules because their coach was late for the meeting. . . .
V'
When the Cleveland INDIANS and the WINDSOR Bulldogs clash in hockey there will be two brother combinations on each team. . . . The first YALE-PRINCETON game was played 53 years ago. . . . Every player but one on the Michigan State football team this year was a BLONDE. . . . BARRY WOOD, Harvard’s All-American captain, has missed but ONE minute of play in his three clashes with Yale during his career. . . . DOWD of Lehigh, holds the record for long distance touchdown runs. . . . 210 yards. . . .
V
CHESTER SCOTT, Geneseo High school, plays football in spite of an artificial leg . . . and he’s CAPTAINELECT for next fall. . . . DOROTHY POYTON, Los Angeles, is the youngest member of the Olympic swimming team . . . she is just 17. . . . SAD SAM JONES will be playing with his sixth American League club next year . . . he’s been traded to the WHITE ,SOX. . . . Now SAM and old RED FABER will be able to entertain each other with tales of pre-war . . . BASEBALL. . . .
V
DERRYBERRY, Tennessee end, took a Rhodes Scholarship exam just before the N. Y. U. game . . . but his first name is MERTON. . . . ATTENDANCE at Notre Dame’s home games this faU INCREASED 6,000 . . -. and there was one less game than last, year! ... ASHLAND, Kentucky High school hasn’t lost a football game since 1925 . . last week they beat DECATUR, Ga„ 85 to 6. . . . 1,612 COMPETITORS fought in the Catholic Youth’s Organization tourney this fall in Chicago. . . . Four MAJOR LEAGUE teams are to. ■ . train in California next spring. .. ..
Best Wishes for the Holidays
DEC. 12th and 13th
Frankie Tick and His Band
CHRISTMAS NITE
JIMMY ROHNER’S Recording Orchestra
PALAIS ROYALE
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru, Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Florsheim $10 Oxfords
$4.85
Tan calf—Built-in arch support.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO'S
330 S. Michigan St.
Hello Men!
Smith 5 Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you re hungry
EXPERT SHOE REBUILDING and HAT RENOVATING
CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED
Phone 2-2228
Washington Shoe Repair Co.
116 W. Washington Street South Bend, Ind.
I suppose I'm like most people
1
•V/-.
X
who read the newspapers
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONISR LIBRARY-



I DON’T read all the ads, any more than I read the whole of any newspaper or magazine. But I do read a good many of them.
“Recently I’ve been reading more than usual, and I certainly like what Chesterfield has to say and the way it is said. I would probably like the cigarette, too, but somehow I just haven’t got ’round to trying it.
“Come to think of it, I can’t tell you why I smoke this other cigarette. It’s more from habit, I suppose, than for any real reason.
“I’d never thought about it before, but, last night, at a party, I noticed eight of my friends — five men and three girls—who had changed to Chesterfields. They told me that Chesterfields are milder, that they taste better, that they just seem to satisfy.
“Of course, cigarettes are a small thing, but, after all, they give me a lot of pleasure, and a cigarette like Chesterfield that you hear such good things about, must be good. Anyway, I’ve just bought my first package of Chesterfields, and I believe I’ll find them just like the ads say — milder—taste better—pure—satisfy. ”
© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.