THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
451
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LITERARY—NEWS WEEKLY PUBLISHED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
—ILLUSTRATED—
Bigce &ua£i temper ^icturug :	(SuaPi €rasf JHonturus
INDEX
Frontispiece —_______________________________________ The Week_____________________________________________J. A.
Editorial ______________________________ Abraham Lincoln: The President__________George A. Bischoff
Only Words (A Poem) ____________________J___Anthony Shea
The Woman of It___________________________Lester Grady, ’26
The Weave in the Character of Lady Macbeth (Second Part)
Brother Agatho, C.S.C., ’25
The Way of a Maid_________________________Lester Grady, ’27
Book Leaves — _______________________ The Poet’s Lincoln __________________Charles Phillips, M.A.
Recontrite Sin (A Poem) __ The Mail _________________i_..James E. Armstrong, Tom Coman
Sports ____________--------------------------------------
PAGE
452
453
462
464
465
466
468
470
471
472
474
475
476
Advertisers in Notre Dame publications deserve the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3, 1917, authorized June'25, 1918.
452
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The tumbling noises of the Earth about my ears, Its blatant vanity and syncopated fraud, I fled for holy sanctury through this door To hear the silent symphonies of God.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	453
It is too bad that Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation didn’t include Journalists. But after all, this week hasn’t been so uneventful. Saturday’s sport calendar looked like the event list of the Olympic Games. And even society made the Rotogravure section of the Sunday paper.
Honors for the week must be equally distributed between the Sophomore Cotillion and the Illinois-Notre Dame basketball game. Reduction in the original cost of tickets for the Cotillion, added to an actual attempt to really limit the number of tickets, lent all the thrill and excitement to that event that would accompany the appearance of John McCormack or Gilda Gray in Washington Hall. Referring to the roto section again—since the camera is said not to prevaricate—the dance must have been a decided success. The setting, and the orchestra, and the Notre Dame students present also helped. Now that the Cotillion is over the Collar Button Question can be passed on to the Juniors.
The Fighting Illini, fresh from raids against the tribes of the Big Ten, digressed in their line of march to add the scalps of the Fighting Irish to their championship belt. But the shillalah proved to be mightier than the tomahawk, and the local quintet is still in the market for Glo-Co. However, it was a battle from beginning- to end. In the war-dance before the fray the Illini looked as though they had good medicine. It probably would have been good medicine, too, but the opposing warriors were strongly averse to taking it. A situation similar to the limiting of the Cotillion tickets—the famous “1 to 1000 Edict”—packed the “Y” gymnasium long before the war parties ap
peared. Captain Kizer, Crowe, Nyikos, et al, proved to be a pretty tough lot of palefaces.
The Notre Dame relay teams in Boston and Kansas City made their presence known, but were unable to give the opposing teams a rear view. The tank team gave the Fort Wayne “Y” paddlers a damp evening and emphasized another phase of Notre Dame’s broadening athletic activities.
Harry McGuire is entered this week in the State Oratorical Contest. Notre Dame’s motto for titles is “Always room for one more,” and knowing the calibre of the speaker and his oration, it is appropriate.. And let’s all forget that it is Friday the 13th.
Colleen Moore entertained a large audience in Washington Hall on Saturday night in “So Big.” After the recent series of pictures in which Miss Moore appeared, her very different role in this picture didn’t go-“so big.” This Friday evening a travelogue, “The Great Northwest,” is scheduled. Wonder if it has policemen and all.
The Blue and Gold track meet on Saturday brought out some good material. The milers should have carried a traffic officer for the first lap, but after that they thinned out comfortably. Among the sensational events were those races in which Milbauer placed second, and Pat Canny also ran. The absence of the relay teams and Walsh and Layden deadened the time records. Clif Trombley loomed up like a second Nurmi, both for the number of events and the success in each.
To use clam logic—having nothing to say, I shall close. It would be foolish at this institution to mention Valentine’s Day.
454
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Administration
The President of the University has left Notre Dame for a vacation. He is expected to return in about a month.
---NDS--
Sixty-two men were added to the enrollment of the University during registration this week. The total number of students now in attendance is, with these additions, 2166.
---NDS--
All seniors are required to appear in cap and gown at the Washington’s Birthday Exercises to be held Monday, Feb. 23. Any exceptions must be approved by the Director of Studies. . . . Public conferring of degrees next June will be withheld from all seniors who fail to appear in the academic procession in cap and gown.
---NDS--
No classes Feb. 23.. . .The traditional program in Washington Hall will include the presentation of the flag by the president of the senior class, and a speech of acceptance by the Vice-President of the University, acting in the absence of Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C.
---NDS--
Jimmy Phelan and Chuck Crowley, monogram men of former years, were visitors on the campus during the week.
—nds—
"‘The largest senior class” will have a Commencement worthy of its size and record. Preparations are already under way: Speakers of national prominence are being sought. ... For the athletic events of Commencement Week, always an important feature, the Iowa baseball team, and Joie Ray and a coterie of I. A. C. stars have been engaged for appearance. Additions may be expected.
---NDS--
Work on Old Students Hall is progressing rapidly. The contractors expect to have it ready for partial occupancy in July in time for the 1925 Summer School.
FRESHMAN DEBATE TEAMS TO BE ESTABLISHED
Encouraged by the number and excellence of Freshman debaters who tried out for the varsity teams this year, Father William A. Bolger, director of debating, and Mark Nolan, instructor in Politics, are planning to form two Freshman teams. They ask all Freshmen interested whether with or without previous public speaking experience, to meet in the South Room of the Library next Monday night at seven o’clock.
Debates with some of the smaller colleges will very probably be scheduled for the Freshmen. Among the questions proposed for discussion are: The Child Labor Amendment; City Manager Plan; La Follette Supreme Court Plan.
Father Bolger and Mr. Nolan hope that by training Freshman aspirants this year, they may provide a number of experienced men for future varsity competition.
CAP AND GOWN COMMITTEE BUSY
On Washington’s birthday anniversary every Senior to be graduated in June will be wearing the cap and gown for the traditional flag presentation by the senior class. This announcement comes from the Cap and Gown Committee.
According to the Chairman of the committee, the garments will be ready for distribution Friday noon. The hours of distribution will be Friday from 1 P. M. to 4 P. M. Saturday from 9 A. M. until 1 P. M.; and on Sunday from 10 A. M. until 1 P. M. The gowns will be given out in the Knights of Columbus chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall.
The charge for the use of the cap and Gown is $4.10. This covers the use of the garments for Washington’s birthday exercises, and again for use during graduation week. The fee must be paid in full when the cap and gown is received this month.
An important fact to be noted is that all gowns must be returned immediately after the June exercises to ship them back to the rental company immediately.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Music
The Glee Club, on its winter trip through Michigan and Wisconsin, presented a slightly different program from that given to various groups upon the campus. Necessity caused the change of several groups, rearranging some of the numbers and eliminating some of the numbers altogether.
The program as it was given in the six cities visited upon the trip was as follows:
Part I remained unchanged as it was given in a preceding number of the SCHOLASTIC, (see issue, January 31).
Part II.
1	.—Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.
Lo, How A Rose.
Old King Cole.
Glee Club.
2	.—Quartet.
Glee Club Quartet.
3	.—Easter Processional.
Love’s Old Sweet Song.
Hike, Notre Dame.
Glee Club.
Of the numbers given, “Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes” was by far the most popular with the audiences in the different towns. This number included an incidental duet by John Butler and George Koch. Another favorite was “Loch Lomond” in which song, Butler again carried a solo part. Both songs were most enthusiastically applauded.
The program was admittedly heavy this year with very few so-called “light” numbers and only the ever-popular “Old King Cole” as comedy relief. The two numbers “Mato-na, Lovely Maiden” and “The Song of the Volga Boatmen” would tax to the utmost the artistic ability of an organization composed of the foremost musicians; but all things considered, the Club rendered them well. The depth of the latter number was probably not sounded as well as it might have been, but the singing of it was, on the whole, creditable to the Club.
In the second part of the program, one finds probably the most numbers appealing
455
to the majority of the audiences. All were perfectly suited to the program and the rendition given them by the Club, except in the case of Dr. Brown’s “Easter Processional,” in which case, one considers with regret the dropping of his “June Night” from the program in favor of the “Processional.”
“The Hike Song,” as always, was a tremendous hit upon the trip, invariably demanding an encore and an acknowledgement from the composer and director of the concert, Joe Casasanta. His direction was perhaps at its best throughout the Neenah, Wisconsin, concert, when he seemed to have the entire Club more completely under his control than ever before, and his tempos were more carefully set than in the previous concerts.
The newspapers were very favorable to the Club in every town and were unanimous in their praise of the organization and the director. Six towns were played and several programs were given at local high schools in the various towns.
SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISING CLUB. FORMED
The Advertising Club of the Notre Dame Scholastic, a new organization, will have the first of its bi-weekly suppers in Robertson’s Tea Room this evening. Mr. Robert McAuliffe, advertising director of the South Bend News-Times, and Mr. Harry Elmore, photographer for the same paper, will be the chief speakers.
Under the leadership of Alfred Diebold as President and Herbert Walther as Secretary, this club has united the men who comprise the local advertising staff of the Scholastic. Its purpose is to study the field of advertising, and, as one result of that study, to do more effective work for the Scholastic.
The membership of the Club has been limited to fifteen. Those at present enrolled are: Alfred Diebold, Herbert Walther, George Schill, Charles Casey, Rob Roy, Joseph Dunn, Edward Broderick, Franklin Conway, David Hickey, Rupert Wentworth, Edward Cunningham, Robert Strickle, D. Meinert and Burton Toepp.
456	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S. A. C. Notes
The S.A.C. meeting, which took place in the Library Sunday morning at 10 o’clock, was attended by fifteen members. The absentees: Mark Mooney, Paul Kohout, John Reidy and Elmer Layden. Of these the last two named were necessarily absent from the University.
Permission was granted the Senior Class to conduct a boxing show in the Gymnasium on the night of March 6. Though plans for this show are so far only in the formu-lative stage, it is very probable that some of the best known boxers in the Middle West will appear on the program.
---W D S--
The following men were appointed by Chairman Bischoff to collect contributions for the proposed memorial to the national football champions: Sorin, John Purcell, John Quigley; Corby, Paul Rahe, William Hurley; Badin, Ralph Heger, Edward O’Neill; Walsh,, John Tuohy, John Reidy; Brownson, Ben Resting, John Moran; Car-Toll, Dan Brady; Sophomore, Tom Green, William Daily; Freshman, Eddie Collins, Vincent Schneider.
It was thought best, after some discussion, to confine, the present week’s activity in collection of the fund to students residing on the campus. Next week is to be devoted to off-campus students. Just what method of collection will be used in the latter case is a question to be decided at tomorrow’s meeting of the Council.
Joseph Rigali, a student in the Department of Architecture has drawn a plan for the proposed memorial which was unanimously thought to have much merit. Secretary John Tuohy was instructed to ask Mr. Rigali to make a more detailed sketch of his plan and to be present at tomorrow’s meeting for consultation.
---NDS----
The revised election rules are also to be considered at the meeting tomorrow. A tentative draft of these rules will be pre
sented by the committee in charge, and discussion and suggestions for alterations will be in order.
THE SOPHOMORE COTILLION
The Knights of Columbus ballroom was the scene, last Friday night, of one of the most picturesque Cotillions ever held at Notre Dame. Lovely girls—in profusion— many of them from a great distance, danced the twelve numbers played by Harry Denny’s Collegians with the fairest sons of Notre Dame.
The soft blue and gold lights playing on the thousand miniature mirrors along the walls of the ballroom reflected the two hundred and fifty dancing couples in a picture that will long remain a pleasant memory. Due to the untiring efforts of Tommy Green, president, and the members of the committees the first formal dance of the class of 1927 was an outstanding success from every standpoint.
The programs were of a very attractive nature: a small brown leather memory book, which can be used as a vanity case, embossed with the University seal and the class numerals; the memory book devoted a page to each dance—the partner-music-memories —that original phrase—and a classical quotation of the dance.
A feature of the evening was the introduction of “Matrimonial Blues,” a decided hit written by Victor La Bedz and Norbert Engels, students in the College of Fine Arts. Disregard of the traditional importation of orchestras seemed to meet with high favor as many compliments have been given to the Music Committee for securing the services of Harry Denny.
The Neivs-Times carried a list of out of town guests on Saturday; a full page of portraits in the Sunday rotogravure section, and the photographer took the usual snap for the Danie.
Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Rockne, Mr. and Mrs. Jose Corona, Mr. and Mrs. David Weir, Mr. and Mrs. Hayward, Mr. Paul Fenelon and Mr. Vincent Fagan, were the patrons for the affair.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4-57
FOUR-DAY DANCING PARTY
The Ladies Auxiliary of the South Bend Knights of Columbus has announced a four-day dance program for the evenings of February 18, 19, 20, and 21. This affair has been put in charge of committees composed of Notre Dame men. With the Lenten season approaching, the dances promise to be an added attraction. The men who have been placed in charge have been responsible for numerous successful events of a similar nature in the past, and could scarcely have been selected more wisely.
Four orchestras, the best musical organizations in South Bend, have been engaged for the four evenings. Harry Denny’s nine-piece Collegians; the Druids, another nine-piece orchestra, will appear on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, respectively.
The new Knights of Columbus Ball-room, familiar to many of the students, is to be the scene of the dances. Separate committees have been appointed for the different evenings. A general committee composed of Daniel Kelly, Mansiel Hagerty, Peter Abel, and William Braunsdorf, are in charge of the entire affair. The special committees are: Wednesday night—Leo Beider, Joseph Nyi-kos, George Farage, Joseph Sexton, Paul Castner, John Barber, and Joseph Braunsdorf.
Thursday night—Art Bidwell, Mark Nolan, Art Scheer, Henry MacNab, Ed. DeClercq, Eddie Luther, John Droege, and John Stoeckley.
Friday night—Walter Condon, Art Suder, Burton Toepp, David Stanton, Larry Krueger, Ed Ahlerding, and Joseph P. Miller.
Saturday night—Jack Adams, Bill Krider, Dan Brady, Jerry Miller, Lewis Murphy, Bernard Loshbaugh, John LaValle, Virgil Fagan, and Francis Esch.
ENGINEERS HOLD INTERESTING MEETING
The Engineers Club met in the Carroll “rec” room Thursday night, February 5, and enjoyed a varied program of speaking and entertainment, topped off by cigars
and lunch of sandwiches, cake and coffee.
Father Charles Miltner, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, spoke on character building. Mr. A. V. Dodge, of the Perrot Brake Corporation, talked about and demonstrated four-wheel brakes. And the Electrical Engineers, represented by “Red” O’Brien, who danced, and by others (names not divulged) who presented several daring divertissements,” contributed the lighter part of the program.
VILLAGERS CLUB HONORED AT BANQUET
In recognition of their splendid service during the present scholastic year, the members of the Villagers Club of Notre Dame were guests at the banquet tendered the football champions Thursday night by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association in the College Inn of the La Salle Hotel.
The dance recently sponsored by the Villagers was a noteworthy success, and marked the high point of a year of much achievement for them. Particularly during the football season were their services exceptionally valuable in meeting visiting teams and escorting them to their hotel.
FROSH SMOKER
The Freshmen Smoker will be held Wednesday evening, February 18, in Brownson Rec room. The plans were discussed last Monday noon when the freshmen class met in the Library. The new officers were introduced to the class for the first time, and short talks were given by President Eddie. Collins, Vice-President Tom Murphy, and. Secretary F. X. O’Brien. The smoker will be the first real get-together event of the. freshmen this year.
The committee on entertainment has promised: some novel features. On the committee are: Eddie.-Collins, Jack Doyle, Joe Beaudreau and Red Berry.. Refreshments extraordinary will be prepared by Tom Murphy, Soup Conley, and John Leitzinger. Tickets may be procured from F. X. O’Brien, Tom Boyle, Joe Sullivan or Tom Murphy. The committee on arrangements consists of George Von Leppig, Edward McGauley, F. X. O’Brien and Jim Sexton.
458
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DEAN KONOP TO ADDRESS K. OF C.
Thomas Konop, Dean of the College of Law, and a former member of Congress, is to be the principal speaker at the Knights of Columbus meeting in their Walsh Hall chambers next Tuesday night. His subject will be “Confessions of an ex-Congressman.”
In addition, Grand Knight Harry A. Mc-McGuire will give important information about the next initiation which has been tentatively set for March 6. Cigars and lunch will be served.
LECTURE BY CLAYTON HAMILTON
Mr. Clayton .Hamilton, the well-known dramatic critic and author of numerous books on subjects dramatic, will address the students of the English classes of the University, in Washington Hall, at 4:45, on Friday, February 20. All others who may wish to attend are invited to do so. The lecture is given in connection with the Sheridan Festival, which is being signalized by & revival of the “Rivals” with a brilliant cast headed by Mi's. Fiske. The revival has been undertaken in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the original production of “The Rivals” by Sheridan. The play is to be presented at the Oliver Theatre on the evening of February 26th coming.
SENIORS MEET TO DISCUSS BALL
The Senior Ball will be given at the Palais Royale, Friday evening, May 15, according to an announcement by Don Miller, •class president, at a meeting of the senior class in the Library, Thursday noon.
President Don Miller and General Chairman George Laughlin, have been engaged since Christmas in directing the work of the active committees in preparation for the final social event in the history of the class of 1925.
The meeting Thursday brought out some (definite information for the first time. Various committee chairmen gave summary reports of their respective activities and the Senior Ball questionaire was distributed.
George Laughlin, general chairman, as
sured the class that plans for the event were being completed rapidly and prospects for one of the most successful class dances in the history of the school appeared very inviting.
John Lynch, chairman of the ticket committee, appealed to the seniors to secure their tickets as soon as possible. Tickets are now on sale at the general headquarters, Room 130, Sorin Hall. Tickets can also be procured from J. Neitzel and J. Lynch, Arts and Letters; P. Dooley, Commerce; J. Wrape, Law; C. Haggerty, Science; G. Rohrbach, Engineering. The tickets selling at $12.50, may be purchased in three payments extending from Feb. 12, to April 20. Invitations will be ready on March 12.
The senior class will stage a boxing show in the Notre Dame gymnasium late in March. Johnny Kilbane and other fighters will appear.
FATHER HUGH O’DONNELL ADDRESSES C. S. M. C.
The local unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade met Wednesday evening in the Main Building to plan the annual distribution of mite boxes for “Poor Ben” and to discuss the boxing show which it presents each year. Father Hugh O’Donnell addressed the unit and stressed the spiritual aspects of the work which it is performing.
The mite boxes are to be distributed at the beginning of Lent and it is hoped that by Easter* Sunday these “bricks” will be well lined with silver.
The entire unit was formed into a committee to arrange for the boxing show which is. to be given during March. The services of a boxer of international fame are being sought and it is very probable that they will be obtained. Brother Alan of Brownson Hall has agreed to assist in the supervision of the show. The proceeds from it will be spent in the interest of foreign missions.
Easter cards are to be sold under the auspices of the Crusaders and it is expected that these will sell as well as did the Christmas cards from which nearly four hundred dollars was realized.
Classes will not be held, in any of the colleges, Monday, February 23, in honor of Washington’s Birthday Anniversary.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
459
The Boy Guidance Department
Mr. Spain, Deputy Superintendent of schools in Detroit, gave two interesting lectures on the Platoon School System at the high school in South Bend last week.
---nds----
The Belgian Athletic Club, which Mr. Burchell has organized, will hold a dance Thursday evening.
---N D S--
The Parochial School Indoor League of South Bend, organized by the Boy Guidance Department, went into action Saturday morning for the first time. Games are played in the K. of C. gymnasium. Members of the Boy Guidance course act as officers and umpires in the league.
---NDS----
Mr. Hogan Morrissey will act as song leader at a Boy Scout rally in Saginaw, Michigan, this week. He will also address the Knights of Columbus of that city on the Boy Guidance Course as conducted at Notre Dame.
---NDS----
Dr. Hastings H. Hart, of the Russell Sage Foundation, of New York, spoke to the members of the Guidance course last week. Dr. Hart has been engaged in boy work for the past fifty years. He has made a special study of penal institutions, orphan asylums, and reform schools throughout the country and is regarded as an authority along these lines.
---NDS----
Much credit was given Brother Barnabas by Dr. Hart for the work he has done for boys. He said Brother Barnabas was one of the first men in the field to conduct the work along scientific lines.
---NDS----
Al Kirk reports that his scout troop is planning a volunteer dinner as part of the celebration of the Scout Anniversary Week. Messrs. Cook and McVeigh will address the scouts at that time.
---NDS----
Brother Barnabas has been confined to St. Joseph’s Hospital for the past few days. His condition is improved and it is hoped that he will be back on the campus this week.
---NDS----
At the election of the Fellows of the Knights of Columbus Foundation held in Graduate Hall on February 3, J. Daniel Culhane, of Rochester, New York, was chosen president for the second semester. Mr. Culhane is a graduate of Notre Dame, having received his degree from the University in 1923. Kenneth E. Cook of London, Ontario, and A.A. Kirk of Dubuque, Iowa, were elected Vice President and
Secretary-Treasurer respectively. Mr. Cook is a graduate of Assumption College and Mr. Kirk of Columbia College.
---nds-----
The office of recording the history of the pioneer class in Boy Guidance will have as its new head Al. A. July, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a graduate of Marquette.
The new Sergeant-at-Arms is Charles V. Lacy, a graduate of Syracuse University.
Three standing committees were also elected to function for the remaining half of the school year. On the house committee J. Alfred Connolly, H. J. Doyle and Thomas J. Murphy were named.
The publicity work will be handled by Messrs. Joseph Becker, Eugene F. McVeigh and Kenneth E. Cook.
All athletic activities will come under the guidance of the athletic committee as named by the Graduates. The new committee includes H. J. Doyle, Cyril Burchill, and K. E. Cook.
—J. D. CULHANE.
JUNIOR PROM TO BE HELD APRIL 24
The Junior Prom is to take place on April 24 in the Knights of Columbus Home. No orchestra has so far been decided upon; two of those under consideration are Charlie Straight’s from the Rendezvous Cafe in Chicago and Charlie Davis’ from Indianapolis. Five dollars is to be the price of tickets.
Thomas L. Dempsey is in general charge of the Prom. The following committees are working under his direction :
Reception: Malcolm E. Knaus, Chairman; Joseph B. Shea, Donald C. Laskey, Charles A. Mooney, Henry L. Griesedieck.
Arrangements: Edward V. Crowe, Chairman; Bert V. Dunne, Arthur J. BidwelL Miles J. Ryan, John J. Ryan.
Favors: Urban A. Simmon, Chairman Raymond W. Rurst, Clarence E. Reaume,. Michael J. Curry, Edward M. Pendergast.
Tickets: James F. Silver; Chairman; Edward T. O’Neill Murtagh P. Cullinan, W.. Wade Sullivan, John A. Purcell.
Decorations: Roger W. Nolan, Chairman; John W. Kane, Edward L. Duggan, Carl M. Schickler, Joseph L. Rigali.
Music: Joseph J. Hemphling, Chairman; Joseph C. Hyland, John J. Wallace, Bernard K. Wingerter, Donald McDonald.
F
i
460	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE UNIVERSITY GLEE CLUB
1 irst How—Harlan Herman, Arthur Haley. George Koch, George Ward, Francis Howland Victor Lemmer, John Butler, Charles Baumgartner. Second Row—James Summers, Charles Schlegel, Philip Lopresti, John Stoeckley, Ulysses Rothbnller, William Lauder, John Reidy, Eugene O’Brien. Third Row—Joseph Langton, Edward O’Toole, William Dooley, Joseph Gri....n, Andrew Mulreany, Frederick Pfortner, Millard Frantz, Alfred Meyers. Fourth Row—Thomas Knox, Herbert Braun, F. Schroeder, Vincent Carney, Donald Butler, John Lenihan, Frank Holdampt, Ronald McNamara, Neil Regan. Fifth Row—Gladstone McDermott, F. Creadon, Conret Ochoa, Vincent Ducey, Thomas Hart, Seward Bower, George O’Brien.
Sixth Row—Martin Smith, Edward Ryan, Harry Culhnne, Jay Masenich Edmund Banks, Claude Pitsenberger, Albert Foos.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	461
THAT GLEE CLUB TRIP
You have heard that the Glee Club took a trip between semesters, perhaps you heard that it was rather successful—but that you may be fully informed here is the chronicle. Local estimators claim that the club sang to aproximately 10,000 people and traveled a distance of about 1200 miles, from Saturday noon, January 31, to Sunday night, February 8.
The Glee Club’s Winter Trip became a reality when forty of its members boarded an interurban for Niles. No concert was given here, however, it being merely the stopping place for the train to Grand Rapids. At Grand Rapids the Clubmen met their first banquet. This was tendered to the Club by the Knights of Columbus, under whose auspices the concert was given. Both the solo dances and the speeches were applauded.
The story of the concert that night was told to you in last week’s Scholastic. Both the Glee Club and the Horsemen Act, put on by Rex Enright, Don Miller, and Harry Sfuhldreher, received a remarkable amount of applause. Following the Concert the well-known Kolkoski orchestra played for the dancing which continued until 12 o’clock.
A sleepy crew greeted a cold and snowy Saginaw at 7 o’clock the next morning. The Club went directly to St. Andrew’s Church, where it attended Mass and Holy Communion in a body. Following the services a bountiful breakfast was served at the parish school to the accompaniment of impromptu solos- and dances by C. Toyton Schlagel, George Ward; John Butler and others. The songsters were quartered at the Franklin Hotel, whose stationery proved to be acceptable on Sunday afternoon. Numerous private parties were arranged at homes that afternoon by Notre Dame alumni and students. Credit must be given to John Blanke. Joe Friske, Bill Hurley, and others for their efforts.
The Concert here was sponsored by the Catholic Business Girls and Father Carron, of St. Andrew’s. The Kaysee Dinner Club feted the songsters that evening, the feature entertainment of which were songs by Harlan Hermann and a maid who directed “It Had to Be You” at our red-haired Don Butler (who blushed prettily). The concert was well attended and entirely successful.
The Club left Saginaw before the sun had fully inspected the city next morning, catching a 6:48 train for Traverse City, Jay Masenick’s home town. In the course of time the Pere Marquette reached its destination and the Forty were treated to an enjoyable dinner at the K. of C. Club. Here the Club stayed in private homes. That afternoon a concert was presented to the school children of the city and received with much gusto. Several of the clubmen are reported to have purchased galoshes here. Following the evening concert a dance was held at the K. of C. Club.
Tuesday morning at 9:10 the Club left on its longest train ride. It was the beginning of the most interesting day on the trip, at least in its unusualness. The schedule called for a 14 hour ride to Escanaba btu it was a long’ 16 hour’s before it was reached. The club spent a memorable two hours at Walton Junction, a metropolis of two houses, one bearing the sign “Hotel,” and the railroad station. Both a piano and a score of government postal cards were used.
The ride on the gigantic ferry across the Straits of Mackinaw proved interesting and warm, and by 8 o’clock supper was available on the diner. After dinner, in the secrecy of the Club’s private car (day coach), the first meeting of the year of the Glee Club fraternity, “If Poppa Knew,” wa^ held and all the first year clubmen were initiated.
Escanaba, the home town of Victor Lemmer, the business manager of the Club, was practically turned over to the Glee Club. Upon the Club’s arrival aftei’ 12 o’clock Wednesday night lunch was served at the Lemmer residence and then the boys were taken to private homes where they were to reside. On Wednesday morning those men who cared to get up by 10 o’clock were taken on a toboggan party. The afternoon was taken up with a concert for the school children, and a sightseeing trip through the Birds Eye Veneer plant, the ore docks and other points of interest. One of the finest banquets of the trip held that evening at St. Joseph’s hall, given by the Holy Name Society which was putting on the concert, under the direction of John Lemmer, brother of Vic and a graudate of Notre Dame. The Glee Club is loaded with souvenirs, addresses, and pleasant memories of Escanaba.
Next morning at 10 the Club left for Neenah, Wisconsin. Here it stopped at the Valley Inn Hotel. Mr. F. E. Sensenbrenner of the Kimberly-Clark Paper Company was in charge of the arrangements. Following a successful concei’t a buffet lunch was served at the hotel, and after several delightful speeches the boys retired to their rooms. The following morning was taken up with a concert for the school children and an inspection of several local factories.
It was but an hour’s ride to Fond du Lac, the place of the last concert. Here the Club stayed at the Hotel Calumet, and mingled that afternoon in Fond du Lac with a Bowling Convention. The K. of C. put on the concert and gave a dance afterwards. Despite other dancing parties that same night the Glee Club dance drew heavily. It was reported that 300 requests for bids were sent in by the girls of the town, and it was from these that 40 were chosen.
Saturday morning and the ride to Chicago by 1:15 P. M. and the trip was officially over. From Chicago the members could return to South Bend whenever they desired. And they did.
t
462	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“THE SINGING IRISH”
The outside world has too often thought that the only side of Notre Dame worthwhile is her athletic prowess. We at Notre Danie are cognizant of the relative merits of her other activities, and it is with pleasure that one reads an editorial like the following from the Escanaba Press showing that the world is recognizing the excellence of another Notre Dame activity.
“You can’t bump off a singing army,” said Oliver Cromwell or Knute Rockne or some other famous brigadier. That explains the success of Notre Dame’s football teams.
Sport writers of South Bend and other Bends hinted broadly on two or three occasions that Notre Dame had a pretty fair football team last fall. Very little was said about its glee club. In fact when Victor Lemmer, the club’s business manager, was in Escanaba last Christmas he was pained to hear expressions of incredulity when he mentioned the fact that Notre Dame had a glee club.
So “Vic” came back to town last night and brought the proof. Escanaba agrees today that Rockne’s fighting Irish fight not a whit, nor an iota, nor even a darn bit better than Casasanta’s singing Irish sing.
The Notre Dame glee club is a splendid organization and hundreds of music lovers here are hoping Escanaba can find a regular spot on each succeeding “road trip” the organization makes.
Such an editorial is indeed an encouraging one. The Scholastic etxends its congratulations to the personnel of the Club, to its officers, and its directors. An organization of such merit is carrying out to the full the ideals of Our Lady.	—J. F. s.
MY VALENTINE
Last night, Mother, I heard a song which has made me think very much of you. Walking under the cold, winter moon, many things which have happened since my com
ing to Notre Dame returned to my memory. It seems that I have not written to you as much as perhaps I should; you probably wonder, Mother, whether your boy is growing away from you. To write more often to you, to make of myself a good man for your sake, to do only that which will make you happy, this is to be most important to me the remainder of my life.
You no doubt received the valentine which I sent. Valentines are but tinselled things with pretty, meaningless phrases; this, Mother, shall be my dearest wish for you: That you may never await a letter from me and be disappointed; that my college life may reflect glory upon you who educated me so carefully; that in college and after college, I shall bring the smile of joy to your lips rather than a frown to your sweet face; that I shall, by attending to those little kindnesses which mothers appreciate so much, make you happy—this is the valentine wish of your son, Mother mine.	—M. C.
A REAL REWARD.. .
Satisfaction is its own reward. Especially is this true with students who try out for and win a place on the university debating team. This satisfaction does not come simply from surviving the preliminaries, the semi-finals, and the finals of debating competition. It is found in something more fundamental and much more tangible, in the realization that the many long hours of study required to gain a knowledge of the question under debate, were spent to useful advantage, teaching the potential debater how to see a “point” and construct an argument.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
463
to
Abraham Lincoln, whose birthday our nation celebrated this week, was one of the greatest debaters of all times. What he had to say, he said, and then he stopped. He had learned the secret of seeing a “point” and making an argument. Those many hours which he spent with his books at study before the blazing fireplace of that old Illinois homestead, were the hours of toil and concentration which made Lincoln the eminent thinker and master of literary style.
Those who constitute the Notre Dame debating team, with six debates on their schedule, have a big task before them. They are preparing to win them all to retain the high place which Notre Dame now holds in forensic circles.
The debates' will be held as usual in Washington Hall, and the debaters hope to talk to a “full house.” They hope to find the student body showing some measure of that interest that they now manifest in athletics. Should there be no one present to hear them except the judges, the debates will proceed. And the debaters will have been rewarded by the satisfaction they receive from knowing that they proved their arguments—to the judges.
—R. C. C.
O TEMPORA, 0 MORES!
IT was just about this season two years ago that a parentless paper made its appearance on this campus of ours. Those of two years back will remember it and its consequences. It was born of the season and died in season. Such things happen when snow makes slush and mud, when a lack of fresh vegetables causes dyspepsia and indigestion, when rectors tighten up on morning prayers and permissions, when students get themselves campused, and when spring comes. It is but a natural thing.
The student at this period of the year becomes a victim of coercion, and his life, liberty, and happiness is endangered. Notre Dame is all right but the rules and regulations, the food, and a good many things are all wrong. Never does the yoke of
obedience seem so heavy when the football season is over, the Christmas holidays passed, with a grind of studies and classes staring in the face, and only a gleam of Easter vacation in the far future.
Most certainly the student has a point in the case. An eminent arbiter of industrial disagreements once said that there was never a labor strike without its certain amount of just grievance. And educators will say this of student ills and ailments. But the student will cling to his room discussing the questions of the day and of no day, of his ofttimes imagined mistreatment, without giving the proper authorities a chance to establish the reason between cause and effect. Consequently there is no harmony of spirit. Many troubles when aired, vanish thinly into the air.
Know that when your pet trouble again makes its appearance it is but an aftermath of a wet season. . . . And when winter comes, that spring cannot be far behind.
THE STAFF
J. W. SCALLAN Editor
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY
News Editor
TOM COMAN
Sports Editor
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG
Literary Editor
GERALD HOLLAND
Ass’f Literary Editor
THE NEWS DEPARTMENT
JOHN F. STOECKLEY JOHN GALLAGHER LESTER GRADY MARK NEVILS JOHN CULLINAN
ANDREW MULREANY JAMES WITHEY WALTER HAECKER ALFRED MEYERS CARLOS D. LANE, JR.
THE LITERARY DEPARTMENT
HARRY A. McGUIRE R. C. CUNNINGHAM JOSEPH P. BURKE FRANCIS C. MILLER
ANSELM MILLER EUSTACE CULLINAN BERT V. DUNNE ALBERT SOMMER
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
CORBIN PATRICK Business Manager
ALFRED DIEBOLD JAMES WITHEY
Local Advertising Mgr. Foreign Adv. Manager Circulation Manager
BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES CASEY FRANKLIN CONWAY RUPERT WENTWORTH CLAYTON LEROUX BERTON TOEPP GERARD SMITH JOSEPH HUGER DAVID HICKEY GEORGE J. SCHILL
JOHN LOFTUS ROBERT ROY JOSEPH DUNN EDWARD BRODERICK ROBERT STRICKEL EDWARD CUNNINGHAM LAWRENCE WINGERTER HERBERT WALTHER DOROTHEUS MEINERT
464	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Abraham Lincoln: The President
GEORGE A. BISCHOFF
“'Y'f ylTH malice toward none, with 1/1/ charity for all, it is for us to re* * solve that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from this earth.” This was the creed of Abraham Lincoln—
of others. He believed in setting a great example, not to follow a wicked one.
“A house divided against itself,” said Lincoln, “cannot stand.” If he was to preserve the Union, Lincoln knew that he must de his duty. “Let us have faith,” he said, “that right makes might, let us to the end
the simple creed of a simple man— whose s i m-plicity made h i m the leader of a mighty people.
“With mali c e toward none...” I do not think that it was possible for Lincoln to hate any one. He loved his enemies as he did the people of the North. To him the war meant but one thing — the preservation of the Union. In order to preserve the Union, Lincoln saw that he could not
dare do our duty as we unde r stand it.” As the war went on Lincoln grew greater in resolution and more constant i n compass i o n. His courage never failed him; his sound j u d g m e nt, steady attention, insight, energy, and tact enabled him to adhere to his policies. He had an iron will and the c o u r a g e of his convictions.
Lincoln’s own house was divided, so to speak. He was un-
carry on a war of hate, because such a policy would only incense the quick-flaming resentment of the South against the North.
“With charity for all... ” When the
Northern soldiers who had been taken prisoners were put to death Lincoln was requested to retaliate. This he refused to do. He could not kill in cold blood for the deeds
fortunate to have as members of his cabinet, men who disagreed with him in his attitude. toward the South and the war in general. At the very beginning of the war,
when the matter of provisioning Fort Sun-ter came before the cabinet, Lincoln took a great responsibility upon himself by overriding the vote of his cabinet. Again, when
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	465
Lincoln presented the proclamation for emancipation before his cabinet, and they refused to sign it, he issued the proclamation because his clear vision and his insight into national affairs told him it was the proper time to do so.
When the long weary war came finally to an end, Lincoln thought firjst, not of the victory that he had achieved, but of the people he had conquered. “Let us strive on,” he said, “to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation’s wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan—to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting
peace among ourselves, and with all nations.”
Lincoln’s service to his country was ended. After four dark and difficult years Jie achieved the great purpose for which he had been striving. He claims not to have controlled events, but that events controlled him. Fate decreed, however, that the work of reconstruction should be carried on by hands other than his. “That the Nation might live:” The echo of those words had scarce died when he was killed. He had preserved the Union and he had freed the slave—the two things that made him an immortal character in the history of the world.
Only Words. . .
“Oh, I have kept alive some words you said, Nourished some phrases you have thought were dead--------------------------”
“You don’t! Yes, I had thought you might forget,
But they’re past cure now, so, please don’t regret-------------------------”
“Pardon! Why? How could you foretell In punishing you’d punish me too well!”
ANTHONY SHEA.
466	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Woman of It
LESTER GRADY, ’26
THERE are some individuals who are of the opinion that they are capable of accomplishing almost anything imaginable. It is their belief that they are worthy of any undertaking, whether they have had any previous experience with it, whether they have any knowledge whatever about it, or whether it has yet to be achieved. Such individuals are so prominently numerous that they over-shadow members of the adverse class who believed they are unworthy of any undertaking, even if they have had previous experience with it, or have an understanding of what it is about or have been able standing ofwhat it is about or have been able before to achieve the undertaking. Martin Cook is a pillar of this latter group.
He is now in his third year of employment with the P. J. Nelson Realty Co. which has been purposely overlooking his failing in the hope that he will outlive it.
P. J. Nelson, for some reason or another, enters the office in angry fashion. His steps are heavy. He disregards salutations and slams the door of his private office.
The office force is naturally surprised, for it is customary of P. J. Nelson to be in the best of humor.
“Say, Cook! Come here.”
All present glance sympathetically toward Cook who has just been summoned. He gets up slowly, buttons his coat, forces a smile and proceeds into the private office.
For a few seconds Cook is ignored by P. J. Nelson who appears extremely busy in arranging the scattered papers on his desk. Suddenly the employer speaks.
“Sit down, Cook.”
He seats himself, his constrained smile departs and he nervously fingers the lapels of his coat.
“Cook, you’re to take the most promising prospect we’ve ever had over to that Madison Avenue house. The party will be here any minute. It’s a house that’s been on our hands for over a year, as you know, and I think we’ve finally got a chance to sell it. All the other salesmen have had an oppor
tunity to get rid of the house, but they’ve failed to come through. I’ve never given you a chance at it, but I’ve got a hunch you can land this party.”
With his eyebrows raised and his mouth opened Cook exemplifies bewilderment.
“Get your hat and coat so you’ll be ready when the party arrives. Use my car.”
“Why Mr. Nelson, I’d just as soon see one of the other men attempt this sale. Truthfully, I don’t believe I’ll be able to get rid of it for you. It’s been such a hard nut to crack right along, with none of the men being able to crack it. I’m afraid I won’t be the exception. I’d rather just attend to the office work as I’ve been doing, Mr. Nelson. I’m a very poor salesman.
“Look here, Cook, you’re going to take this party through the house, and then you’re going to try and sell it, and if you try hard enough you will. Get the idea out of your head that you’re not a salesman. When you first came here you said that you were.”
“I lied.”	'
“No you didn’t. The trouble was that things didn’t break right for you. When the other salesmen were selling plenty you weren’t able to sell anything. When I saw you becoming discouraged I put you on office work. You’ve been doing that for quite a while now, but I want to get you back on the selling end of the business. You have a big chance this morning. This prospect is really good.”
“Who is the prospect, Mr. Nelson?”
“A Mrs. Beck, wealthy widow, who likes to entertain and therefore needs a house as big as this Madison Avenue one.”
“I’m a bit self-conscious in the company of women.”
“Forget it.”
“Mr. Nelson, can’t some one else take this prospect. If I take her the chances are you’ll lose her. I’m a very poor salesman.”
“You’ve got to take her, Cook, and you’ve got to try hard and sell the house. You’ll do that?”
“I will, but no matter how hard I try I know I won’t be able to make a sale.”
There is a rap upon the door'
“Come in.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
It is the office boy.
“A Mrs. Beck to see you, sir.”
“Send her right in.”
Mrs. Beck is a tall, well-proportioned woman, her dignity blended well with the amiability of her expression.
“Good morning, Mr. Nelson. Am I late?”
“No, not one second, Mrs. Beck, you are right on time. And I hope ready to see the house in which you are interested?”
“Yes, indeed.”
“Then, may I present to you, Mr. Cook, who will accompany you and show what we have to offer.”
“Better get your things on, Cook, I’ll bring Mrs. Beck out to the car.”
It is impossible for him to comprehend why his employer has chosen him, the least qualifield of all salesmen, to interest and endeavor to sell a house which has hitherto been unsaleable to a woman who seems to be a logical buyer if handled in clever salesmanship fashion. Cook can not fathom it. However, it leads him to believe that P. J. Nelson is anxious and willing for him to return to the selling end of the business, and that if his employer takes such an interest in him, surely, it is his part to do his uttermost and see that Mrs. Beck buys the Madison Avenue house.
Determination seldom found welcome within Cook, but as he drives Mrs. Beck toward the house it is evident that determination has been welcomed and is becoming effective.
“I understand you’re a widow, Mrs. Beck?”
“Yes, I am. Have been for the past five years and always expect to remain a widow. I shall never lose the love I have for my poor unfortunate husband. When he died I thought I should never be able to live without him. I knew, though, it would be wrong for me to sit around in misery and regret and be unhappy so I have kept on the go all the time making a habit of entertaining and being entertained. You see my habit has taken on such unbelievable dimensions that I must get a larger house.”
“The Madison Avenue house will be just
467
And it is just the thing, for Mrs. Beck is not long in giving her decision to buy. Cook is astonished. He had not been brilliant in his salesmanship, for his arguments had been inconsistent and not convincing; he had forgoten to explain some of the important features of the house and even, in one of his scrupulous moments, had admitted it was not a good buy. Cook was never more surprised. There must be some cause for her buying, he thinks. Perhaps, it is the simple way in which he has gone about the matter. Simplicity, Cook decides, is the reason.
As they ride back to the office Cook has little to say. His thoughts of success have crowded all else from his mind.
“You look so happy, Mr. Cook.”
“I am. I’ve never been more happy. When a fellow doesn’t think he can do a thing and then tries it with success he’s bound to be happy. Some one must give him the start, the push. Mr. Nelson gave me a push, and I’m glad of it for I needed one. I’ll always be thankful to him. He is a fine man.”
“They don’t come any better. And he has such an interest in you, Mr. Cook. I shouldn’t tell you this, it was to be a secret, but since you understand the interest that Mr. Nelson has taken in you I don’t think it will be harmful for me to tell you. I bought this house yesterday from Mr. Nelson, himself. It was he that sold it to me. You only resold the house to me. On the way back to his office, yesterday, he spoke of you, and your failing, and I agreed to his plan of letting you sell me the house all over again. He said that it would be an incentive for you to return to selling houses. That goes to prove how interested Mr. Nelson is in you. Maybe I am wrong in giving away the secret, but I couldn’t permit his generosity, his nobleness, to go without mention. Of course, you mustn’t let on that I told you.”
Cook is stunned.
“Oh, no. No I won’t let on.”
He smiles; but it is a sorrowful smile.
“I should have known I couldn’t sell the house. I’m a very poor salesman.”
“Well, don’t worry, Mr. Cook, you have
the thing.”
a wonderful employer.
468	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Weave in the Character of Lady Macbeth
BROTHER AGATHO, C.S.C., ’25 (Continued.)
The first part of this analysis of the character of Lady Macbeth appeared in the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC. Because of lack of space the entire essay could not be printed in- a single issue.
WE stand amazed at the indomitable will power of this woman. Her suggestion to her husband that “he screw up his courage to the sticking place”* has a ring of persuasion embodied in the words of one who practices what he preaches. Her apparent savagery in the murder scene, her seeming coarseness at the thought of shedding blood are not the spontaneous manifestations of a totally depraved nature. They are, rather, the marshalling of her mental powers to carry out a purpose which she deems necessary to the attainment of a predetermined end. “Her role in the tragedy is a ceaseless war between her ambition and her better nature”—a war in which her will plays the part of generalissimo. Her husband’s realization of her unyielding nature causes him to say:
“Bring forth men children only;
For thy undaunted mettle should compose Nothing but males.”**
What is accountable for such an inflexible will power in Lady Macbeth? Doubtless her philosophy of life in general had a good deal to do with it. Nature had endowed her with a mentality superior to that of her husband. Her domain was the intellectual world. We can picture her philosophizing about the meaning of life and, unguided by the light of revealed religion, she reaches the conclusion of a fatalist: “What’s done is done” is a sentence that tells us more about her view of life than we might at first sight suppose. Then her widely discussed utterance “We fail” savours of a viewpoint.
A further source of her unbending will is
*	Act I. Sc. VII. 1. 56 if.
*	* Act I. Ss. VII. 1. 70 if.
her sane imagination. It is never beclouded in her waking moments by ghastly spectres of the murdered King. Resolutely she tells Macbeth:
“These deeds must not be thought
After in these ways; so, it will make us mad.” *
While the screen of Macbeth’s imagination is constantly haunted by fantastic forms, his wife always appears fully selfpossessed, always playing the part of the mother who strives to dispel the delirium of her sick child. When, in his haste, Macbeth brings the gory daggers from the King’s chamber and, all atremble with dread, refuses to take them back, Lady Macbeth performs the service for him. Had her mind been agitated by dreadful scenes, had she been a hysterical, vacillating person, ’ she could never have done what her husband had not the courage to do. This is but one instance of the moral support which Lady Macbeth gives her husband. In act III. Sc. I. 1. 54, a cloud of gloom hangs over Macbeth. His wife approaches him and says:
“How now, my lord! why do you keep alone Of sorriest fancies youi- companions making Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
With them they think on? Things without remedy Should be without regard; what’s done is done.”
And how solicitous she is for her husband at the banquet scene! Terrified by the apparition of Banquo’s ghost, Macbeth completely loses his self-control. It is the words of his wife which inspire him with renewed confidence, and bring him back to a sense of his surrondings. After the guests have withdrawn, we hear no upbraidings from his wife. Despite the strong suspicion he has aroused by this avowal of his imaginings, Lady Macbeth finds excuse for hint in the words,
“You lack the season of all natures, sleep.”** Instances of like nature are replete in the course of the play.
“You lack the season of all natures, Sleep.”**
* Act 2. Sc. 3. 1. 31.
** Act III. Sc. IV. 1. 140.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The question of Lady Macbeth’s fainting is as widely discussed as is her ambition. Some commentators insist that it was but a hoax, a clever means used by her to dis-'tract attention from her husband. Others hold the contrary opinion. It is to be observed that views differ on this point among writers who consistently take one or other interpretation of Lady Macbeth’s character —utter condemnation on the one side, and partial condemnation on the other. The latter class of critics see in her swooning a proof of her feminity, and evidence throughout the tragedy points out that she was very much of a woman in her makeup. We remember that she called upon the spirits to unsex her and to fill her with direst cruelty ; she drank wine so as to steady her nerves for the ordeal of the night:
“That which has made them drunk has made me bold.”*
She failed in her intention to despatch the King because he resembled her father; she refers to the murder of Duncan and the grooms as deeds which would drive her mad if she thought about them. All along she has battled with her husband’s fears; she has shielded him by checking his babblings. That she does not wear her heart on her sleeve is no sign that she has none. Then in the third scene of the second act, when Macbeth muddles everything by his feeble explanation to Macduff for having killed the grooms, is it surprising that his wife, whose nerves have been stretched to the snapping point, should swoon away at her husband’s self-incriminating words? Writing on this subject, Flathe says:
“Lady Macbeth appears the second figure of the tragedy. After a few words, uttered with difficulty, she falls down in a swoon and is borne off the stage. Any child could declaim that this swoon was only feigned to avoid all further embarrassment. But it must not be imagined that there is any feigning here. The poet, in Lady ■ Macbeth, gives another view of human nature steeped in sin from that portrayed in Macbeth himself. In her, as her former dreams prove mockeries and unreal, the whole mental organization receives an anihilating blow from that first deed of blood, beneath which it may stag-
* Act II. Sc. II. 1. 1.
469
ger on for a while, but from which it can never entirely recover. For one moment, immediately after the deed, Lady Macbeth can overmaster her husband and stands defiantly erect, as if to challenge hell to combat. But this was but a momentary intoxication; it is even now over. She is alifeady conscious that she can never banish from hei- breast the consciousness of her crime; she has found that her wisdom which spurned at reflection, is naught. The deed that she has done stands clear before her soul in unveiled, horrible, distinctness, and therefore she swoons away.”*
In a painting by Maclise, Lady Macbeth is represented as a coarse, vulgar, masculine type of woman, a woman with whom we should not naturally associate ideas of culture or of keen sensibilities. Yet we know from the play that hers was a nature keyed up to a high degree of refinement. The acute remorse to which she gives unconscious expression in the pathetic sleepwalking scene is evidence of this. In our daily life we often see people go through such trials as the death of some member of the family with a fortitude which surprises us. At the same time we know the person to be sustained by sheer nervous energy or a desire to mitigate the grief of another by repressing his own. When all is over, it not infrequently happens that those same individuals collapse under the strain which they have imposed upon themselves for the sake of others. . That is exactly ' what Lady Macbeth did. We see her as an active person for the last time in the concluding lines of the last scene of act three, where she counsels Macbeth to retire. She retires, but sleep does not visit her pillow except as a tormentor. We next behold her a distracted, conscience-stricken woman. Until this time her powerful will stood guard at the threshold of her heart, but now we peer into its depths and witness the ravages of the canker-worm of remorse. Deep furrows line her face; the eyes are sunken in their sockets, and the fire of intelligence has burned out. In the words of Poe, “We see fantastic forms moving about to the tune of a discordant melody.”* Her utterance:
*—Furness’ Variorium—Vol. II. pg. 477.

470	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Here’s the smell of blood still
All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand of mine. Oh! Oh! Oh!”**
tell us something’ of her refinement. Certainly it bespeaks a heart “sorely charged” by the burden of remorse. Were she the monster some would have us believe her to be; were she bereft of all the finer endowments of nature, a ruthless, cruel, conscienceless tigress in human form, how can we account for such unmistakable signs of compunction?
In the face of this evidence it does not
seem probable that Lady Macbeth is by nature the embodiment of all the evil passions to be found in the catalogue. She seems rather to be a lady, in the strictes use of the word—refined, cultured; a lady who for a time stiffles her better nature, her ennobling instincts, the chafings of her conscience, but in the end reveals a truly sensitive soul. Her mind snaps under the terrific strain, and we hear of her death with mingled sentiments of sympathy and relief.
* “The Haunted Palace.”
** Act V. Sc. 1. 1. 53.
I
The Way of a Maid
LESTER GRADY, ’26
SHE thought he loved her, thought it with that pure mind of hers that had barred all evil; that had given such a sweet expression to her face, that mind which thought all to be good. He had given her cause to think as she was, for he had told of his love for her. She believed him. It was her nature to believe all that was told her in sincerity.
He was doubtful of her love. It was too apparent to be true, too evident, he thought. Such over earnestness was not founded on
Lines Written Under a Photograph Sent as a Valentine
Oh, I would put upon your breast
My heart, as fencers do,
But you, I know, would not fence with it, But cut the thing in two.
truth, but rather fancy or something as whimsical. Scrupulous fellow, indeed, but willing to be loved.
What was to be done? Was her sincerity to be doubted by the scrupulous one? Nothing would result happily if such continued. Poor doubting cuss, unlucky little love rose. There must have been some way to solve the matter. Yes, there was a way—an eminent way.
It was the way of a maid.
—ANTHONY SHEA.
n
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	471
Sir Philip Gibbs begins a series of articles in the February “World’s Work” called “Tragic Europe,” the story of the everyday life in Europe six years after the close of the great war. The opening article called “The Realities of French Life” tells the story of France “outwardly gay” but this surface gayety is mostly assumed so as to attract the pleasure-seeking foreigner with money to spend.
---NDS-----
“Biographical Dictionary of the Saints,” by Rt. Rev. F. G. Holweck is said to contain probably the most complete list of names of Saints ever published in the English language. The name of every known Saint is included. As much information as could be obtained of each is given in brief form, but for many it was possible to find only meager data. B. Herder Book Co., St. Louis, Publishers.
---nds-----
Doubleday, Page have brought out four new stories of Joseph Conrad’s, now for the first time published. “Tales of Hearsay” is the title of this volume.
---N D s---
“2-5 Short Plays” is an international anthology of the most successful one act plays of the famous theatres of all the world. The editor is Frank Shay and “this is an Appleton book.”
---N D S---
Louis Hemon’s new novel is called “Blind Man’s Buff.” It is the story of a young Irish laborer on the English docks and is said to form an interesting contrast to the classical “Maria Chapdelaine.”
---NDS-----
Elmer Davis of the Neiv York Times, author of “Times Have Changed” and “I’ll Show You the Town,”, has written a novel about a prodigal or-phan/“without a fatted calf to his name,” and his adventures in a middle-sized Indiana town. It is called “The Keys of the City.” Mr. Davis is special reporter, editorial writer and columnist on the World’s Second Greatest Newspaper. His column, written anonymously, called “By-Products,” appears in the Sunday issue.
“Adventures in Criticism” is the title of a newly published series of essays by one of the greatest authorities on modern writing in the English speaking countries, Arthur Quiller-Couch, author of “On the Art of Reading,” and “On the Art of Writing.”
---NDS-----
The Golden Book is a new magazine that made its appearance with the new year. It is devoted principally to reprints of “the fiction and true stories that will live.” This very novel idea in the field of monthlies is certain to be valuable in giving us an opportunity to read or reread the great classic pieces of fiction which are so difficult to get hold of. The editor of the new venture is Henry Wysham Lanier and the Editorial Board is composed of Wm. Lyon Phelps, Stuart P. Sherman, John Cotton Dana and Chas. Mills Gayley. The publishers are the Review of Reviews Corp.
---NDS-----
“The Sea—Its History and Romance” by Frank C. Bower, has for its purpose to present to the reader of today a narrative in word and picture of the great part played by the Anglo-Saxon race in the drama of maritime warfare and adventure from the early days of history down to our times. The work will comprise nearly 800 illustrations including 80 colour-plates and will be published in twenty monthly parts by Halton and Truscott Smith, London.
---NDS-----
The 0. Henry Memorial Prize Committee of the Society of' Arts and Letters will announce the three awards for the best stories of 1924 on the 19th of February instead of in March, as has been done in former years. The judges who have served on the committee are Dr. Blanche Colton Williams, Chairman; Ellis Parker Butler, Allan Nevins, Edward J. Erwin, Robert L. Ramsay, Ethel Watts Mumford and Frances Gilchrist Wood. The three winning stories together with twelve other stories also selected by the committee will make up the volume, “0 Henry Memorial Award Prize Stories for 1924,” which will be published on the. same date that the awards are announced.
472
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
} T	The face we see was never young.
/ he Poet 5 Lincoln	Nor could it ever have been old.
CHARLES PHILLIPS, M. A.
THE perennial coming of February twelfth, Lincoln’s Birthday, turns one’s eyes toward the Lincoln shelf in the library, and sets one thinking about the vast amount of literature, especially poetry, which the memory of the great emancipator has inspired. But, strangely enough, when one examines these Lincoln verses, he makes an odd discovery. Lincoln, he finds, despite the voluminot^s tomes in which he appears, still remains a remote figure to us, so far as our imaginative writing goes. Our poets have not yet succeeded in projecting him in a living visualization, a fulllength portrait.
And yet, the face and figure and the soul of Lincoln have so caught the eye and held the hearts and pens of many of our best writers, that, reading their verses, and putting together this man’s sonnet and that man’s song, we can make for ourselves a sort of composite portrait of the martyr president. Lyman Whitney Allen, for example, shows us, in a graphic couplet, Lincoln’s face—
Uncomely face—but it was such as bore The prints of vigil and the scars of grief;
while Whittier, inspired by the Emancipation Group presented to Boston in 1879 by Moses Kimball, tells us of the
-	.... worn frame, that rests not,
Save in a martyr’s grave;
The care-lined face, that none forgot, Bent to the kneeling slave.
“Tall, ungainly, gaunt of limb, rudely nature molded him,” says Hamilton Schuyler in his Lincoln Centenary Ode:
Awkward form and homely face, Owing naught to outward grace;
Yet behind the rugged mien Were a mind and soul serene, And in the deepset eyes there shone Genius that was all his own.
A couplet of Edwin Arlington Robinson’s gives us even a deeper sense of the aspect of that homely visage—
Mark how austere the rugged height Of brow—a will not wrought to bend!
says Clinton Scollard; and Frank Dempster Sherman shows us
that face
So homely-beautiful, with just a trace Of humor lightening its look of care,
which brings to mind a visioning line by Wendell Phillips Stafford:
The sadness of the sunken eye, The kingship of the uncrowned brow.
Tom Taylor, the English humorist pictures Lincoln’s
length of shambling limb, his furrowed face, His gaunt gnarled hands, his unkempt bristling hair, His garb uncouth, his bearing ills at ease,
His lack of all we prize as debonair—
a picture which is, perhaps, unwittingly, somewhat of a British exaggeration of things American; for “shambling limb” and “unkempt hair” and “bearing ill at ease” are not exactly in the makeup of that “conscious leader” whose greatest attribute was the quiet majesty of his deep and abiding-self mastery; the man who was, in the words of Fred Lewis Pattee
.	Self-reliant as a god,
Erect, clear-eyed, unawed.
But the English poet was right so far as “debonair” is concerned.
It is curious how little of Lincoln’s voice sounds in our Lincoln poems. I know of only two poets who have given us a hint of Lincoln speaking, John Gould Fletcher and Maurice Thompson.
Slowly a patient firm-syllabled voice cuts through the endless silence,
is Fletcher’s excellent and pregnant line; while Thompson, a Southerner, a soldier of the Confederacy, who, in his “Lincoln’s Grave” has penned one of the most beautiful of all tributes to the martyred President, gives us this more objective impression:
A soft Kentucky strain was in his voice,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
And the Ohio’s deeper boom was there, With some wild accents of old Wabash days
And winds of Illinois;
And when he spake he took us unaware.
In an ode written by Henry T. Tuckerman for the funeral services held in New lork City in April, 1865, this touching- line appears—
Blood-quenched the pensive eye’s soft light, a half dozen words that somehow possess the power of summing up all the gentleness of Lincoln’s nature, and the tragedy of his mad taking off. In “The Eyes of Lincoln,” -Walt Mason gives us a glimpse of the soul that looked out on the world through
Sad eyes that were patient and tender Sad eyes that were steadfast and true, And warm with the unchanging splendor Of courage no ills could subdue!
Eyes dark with the dread of the morrow, And woe for the day that was gone, The sleepless companions of sorrow, The watchers that witnessed the dawn.
Eyes tired from the clamor and goading
And dim from the stress of the years, And hallowed by pain and foreboding
And strained by repression of tears. '
“Those perplexed and patient eyes” Tom Taylor calls them; and Clinton Scollard—
Yet in the eyes behold the light That made the foe the friend; .
while Robert Underwood Johnson pictures for us
The manly eye That conquered enmity.
Again, in a sonnet “On the Death Mask of Abraham Lincoln,” Richard Watson Gilder drew this vision-like picture of the living Lincoln:
This bronze doth keep the very form and mold
Of our great martyr's face. Yes, this is he:
That brow all wisdom, all benignity;
That human, humorous mouth; those cheeks that hold
Like some harsh landscape all the summer’s gold;
That spirit fit for sorrow, as the sea
For storms to beat on; the lone agony
Those silent, patient lips too -well foretold.
Yes, this is he who ruled a world of men
As might some prophet of the elder- day—
473
Brooding above the tempest and the fray With deep-eyed thought and more than mortal ken.
A power was his beyond the touch of art
Or armed strength—his pure and mighty heart.
Other poets at times have flashed momentary visualizations of the man. James Phinney Baxter, writing on “The Natal Day of Lincoln,” sees the young Lincoln at his toil in “the darkling forest,” where his “ringing axe chimed with the music of the waterfall.” Lyman Whitney Allen pictures the hardships of his rough earlier days, a child of Mother Nature, who
___bound him, that he might feel
The weight of oppression’s heel;
She starved him, that he might learn
The hunger of souls that yearn;
She bruised him that he might know ’ Somewhat of the world’s great woe;
while Janies Whitcomb Riley, likewise going back to Lincoln’s youthful days, sings of his “Peaceful Life”:
A peaceful life—just toil and rest— All his desire—
To read the books he liked the best Beside the cabin fire,
God’s word, and man’s—to peer sometimes Above the page, in smoldering gleams, And catch, like far heroic rhymes,
The onmarch of his dreams.
A peaceful life—to hear the low Of pastured herds,
Or woodsman’s axe that, blow on blow, Fell sweet as rhythmic words.
And yet there stirred within his breast
A faithful pulse, that, like the roll
Of drums, made high above his rest A tumult in his soul!
“Of common elements, yet fine,” says Isaac Choate:
As in a wood of different species' grows
Above all other trees the lordly pine,
Upon whose branches rest the winter snows,
Upon whose head warm beams of summer shine.
Edwin Markham uses the same imagery when he sings of the tragic death:
And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a kingly cedar, green with boughs, ■ Goes down with a great shout upon the hills And leaves a lonesome place against the sky.
Indeed, this same poem of Markham’s (“Lincoln the Man of the People”), gives
474
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
us many striking lines from which to’ draw a portrait of
A man that matched the mountains, and compelled The stars to look our way and honor us....
The color of the ground was in him, the red earth; The tang and odor of the primal things— The rectitude and patience of the rocks;
The gladness of the wind that shakes the corn; The courage of the bird that dares the sea; The justice of the rain that loves all leaves; The pity of the snow that hides all scars; The loving-kindness of the wayside well;
The tolerance and equity of light
That gives as freely to the shrinking weed As to the great oak flaring to the wind— To the grave’s low hill as to the Matterhorn That shoulders out the sky. And so he came From prairie cabin up to Capitol .... Forevermore he burned to do his deed With the fine stroke and gesture of a king. He built the rail-pile as he built the State, Pouring his splendid strength through every blow, The conscience of him testing every blow To make his deed the measure of a man.
These are but a few of the best touches-of poetic portraiture to be found in our Lincoln literature. They are sketches, strokes of coloring and characterization which, taken together, help us to see our greatest of heroes as if in the flesh. Yet none of them is in itself the great Lincoln poem. That poem is not yet written; that achievement is still to be recorded....
When?...
Will some Notre Dame man—perhaps a. student among us now, celebrating Lincoln’s Birthday with us this year—will some such, man be the one to give us the real Lincoln in a masterpiece-to-come of American Literature?
Why not? Some poet of the future will do this thing. Why not a Notre Dame poet?
Qhosts
Sins he had many
And money a lot, But one of his sins He never forgot.
It would not lie still: Walked out each day, Mimicked his face In an insolent way.
He struck at the phantom, Beat at its head, But quickly remembered The ghost was dead!
—FRANCIS MILLER.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
475
M»ggK?g!
Sorry, fellows, but we are not going to write our obituary today. Much as we are depressed in not finding several contributions in the box with the soft blue envelope from Max Adler, we still have hopes.
BOGUS VALENTINES
Please overlook this Valentine, You’ve my consent to rend it;
I hope you’ll never be mine— My family made me send it. ---------------nds----
PROMINENT MAILMEN
Anselm D. Miller, our first contributor. Mr. Miller achieved his distinction through the merit of his contribution, and by his thoughtfulness in saving the one-cent postage by presenting the manuscript in person:
Of late a young fellow named Tate
Ate late with his mate at 8:08.
Since Tate did not state,
I cannot relate
What Tate at his tete-a-tete ate at 8:08.
---nd s
Great guns! If the world is coming to an end on Friday 13, now is your chance to have your fun. Mansiel Hagerty, rural friend of Bill Armstrong, tells us that there will be a Four Day Dance at the K. C. Ballroom this week. Walkover and Klingel companies will look after your soles.
PERSONALITIES PLUS
You’re a fine fellow. What have you to moisten the whistle?
ADVANCED LIFE
If what science tells us is true, folks will have no hair, fingers, or toes 75,000 years hence. The outlook is bad for Bill Roach. In 76926 A. D.. G. Holland will not need to shave. Give him time fellows. Also the girl with the rings on her fingers and bells on her toes will be out a date.
-	---N D s--	„
We hope to have some extraordinary fillum news for you next week. Father O’Hara gave a detailed account of the Pasadena trip at the St. Joe alumni banquet and he claims to have, the low down on Rudy!	-
IMPOSSIBLE PEOPLE
Accounting students with a school girl complexion.
A LIFE TIME IN AN HOUR
On Monday Tommy Farrel celebrated his twenty-first birthday by smoking his first cigarette. T’was a long-contemplated deed for a short weed. He arose at 6:55 (page Father O’Malley) and turned the trick at 7:15. Now that he is an addict, he has purchased a package and a corn-cob pipe.	—Jake.
A DEAD MAN’S REVENGE
John “Doc” Stoeckley, songster and prominent committeeman, will forswear his funeral pile in Grundyville to offset the asparagus cast upon his career in the last issue.
---NDS----
The number of “wise cracks” wasted about the campus, if added together, would make the Grand Canyon jealous. It is our hope to be able to plagiarize enough of these, plus the heavy volume of contributions, to relieve us of all the pain of originality.
---NDS----
Remember Doc, your words will be used against you at the trial of the man who stole the chicken’s false teeth.
SOMETHING FOR NOTHING
To think that Notre Dame’s he-manity should be brought to the level of being offered samples of Glo-Co! O Tempora, O Mawruss, as Abe Potash might say. --------------------nds---
“Give me a wild tie brother, One with a lot of sins, A tie that will blaze With a hectic gaze Down where the vest begins.” Wake Give him his wild tie, brother, And a horse-shoe pin to boot, But to win my heart You’ll have to part
With a broad, bright, checkered suit.
---NDS—
Address the MAIL, Box 43, Notre Dame.
---nds----
MORE MAIL!!!

476
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME-ILLINOIS BASKETBALL GAME
Recording what may rightly be called one of the most sensational and decisive victories in the history of Notre Dame basketball, Coach Keogan’s Fighting Irish eagers held Illinois to four field goals, and defeated the Sucker quintet 29 to 18 before 2,000 spectators at the local Y. M. C. A. court, Saturday night, Feb. 7.
The scintillating rise in the fortunes of the Irish five to triumph over the Big Ten conference leaders will stand out as one of the sparkling episodes of the 1925 basketball season.
Coach Keogan’s court aggregation played one of the best games of its career, and whipped themselves into the terrific attack and iron-clad defense that held Illinois to three points in the first half and four field goals and seven free throws in the second half. Competing against one of the fastest teams in the central west, Notre Dame covered the width and breath of the court at a dizzy clip and scored baskets from all angles and distances, chalking up 15 points in the first half.
Both teams followed the game at a killingpace, but Notre Dame aware of the constant threat offered by the Rubymen held out till the final whistle and at the last gun, staggered from the floor in exhaustion.
The most impressive thing about Notre Dame’s victory aside from the individual work, was the fact that Notre Dame checked the scoring of a quintet of eagers who were almost dead shots for the baskets and whose numberless attempts for the net from the field kept the crowd in a fever heat of anxiety as the ball shot true to the back
board and wobbled off the rim for no gain.
Notre Dame found itself facing a team that was built to perfection in team work. The Suckers’ passing and dribbling was an inspiring sight, but Capt. Kizer and his guard mate, Louie Conroy, defended their territory with a vengeance that counted and Crowe, McNally and Nyikos hounded the Illini tossers unmercifully, forcing them to execute haphazard shots.
Capt. Kizer played like a demon from the Inferno. His body frame trembling with tenseness exacted by the keenness of the competition covered floor space like a magic flame and he scored baskets from mid-floor when the ground beneath the net became impregnable. Crowe flashed from basket to basket, dribbling with great speed through the Illini defense and contributing generously to the score.
Johnny Nyikos, fleet of foot, and quick of eye, carried Notre Dame’s attack into the very mouth of the Sucker defense and scored from under their own basket. McNally fought the Orange and Black at every move. Guarded close and passed well and turned in his share of points to augment the total.
Mahoney and Dienhart taking their place in the struggle, ravaged the Illini attack and defense with tactics that were neatly executed by untired hands.
Coach Craig Ruby’s men kept the game in the fire by being a continual threat.’ They had an uncanny ability to shoot fouls and their tries from the field were missing by hair breadths. The Irish eagers however, entered the game with more than the do-or-die spirit. They took no account of the strength of the visitors in such a way as to
<
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
cower them down before the conference leader. Capt. Noble Kizer and his team went out to fight and win. They had a long-score to settle and they completed their task with a decisiveness that left no question in the minds of the hundreds of spectators that fought for places of vantage and hung from skylights.
Line-up:
Notre Dame (29) :					
	G	FT	FG	PF	TP
McNally, If. c. 			2	0	0	2	4
Crowe, rf.			2	2	1	0	5
Nyikos, c. 			3	6	1	1	7
Kizer, If. (Capt.) 			2	0	0	2	4
Conroy, rg.			0	0	0	3	0
Dienhart, rf. 			2	0	0	1	4
Mahoney, If.			2	2	1	0	5
Totals					13	10	3	9	29
Illinois (18) :					
	G	FT	FG	PF	TP
Daugherty, If. 			1	3	3	1	5
Maurer, rf. (Capt.) 			1	0	0	2	2
Martin, c.			0	0	0	1	0
Haines, If.			2	3	3	0	7
Reynolds, rg.			0	1	1	1	1
Karnes, rf.			0	5	2	1	2
Lipe, c. 			0	1	1	0	1
Kassel, rg. 			0	0	0	0	0
Total 			4	13	10	6	18
Officials: Referee—Nohr, La Crosse Normal.
Umpire—Millard, Illinois Wesleyan.
RELAY TEAM AT BOSTON AND KANSAS
Notre Dame’s one mile relay team was outclassed by the Harvard quartet in a dual race at the Knights of Columbus invitation games at Boston, Feb. 7.
The Notre Dame team made up of Capt. Barr, Coughlin, McTiernan and Stack were forced to trail from the start. Adam Walsh and Elmer Layden competing in special hurdle and sprint events respectively, failed to place.
The two mile relay team composed of Judge, Cox, Masterson and Nully placed third in the Kansas City A. C. indoor meet, Feb. 7. The event was won by Iowa State, with Kansas running second. Time, 8:06.
BLUE AND GOLD MEET
The Blue and Gold meet, the annual practice run for the Notre Dame track team was held in the Notre Dame gym, Saturday afternoon, Feb. 7, the Blue amassing a total of 65 points to the Gold’s 54.
The meet was run off without the services of several veteran performers who were competing in special events in Boston and Kansas City. Layden, Walsh, Capt. Barr, McTiernan, Coughlin, Judge, Nulty, Stack, Cox and Masterson were competing away from home with the mile and two mile teams.
The meet served as a good practice run for many of the lesser lights who will bid for a place in college track fame when Notre Dame meets Illinois Feb. 14.
The summary:	-
40 yard dash— Della Maria, first; Mullin, second; Cunningham, third; Goulet, fourth. Time, :04 4-5.
Shot Put—Milbauer, first; Boland, second; Bachman, third; Labelle, fourth. Distance, 41 feet, 1 inch.
High jump—Carey first; Stace, Sullivan, Fry and Sobatski tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 9 inches.
High hurdles—Barron, first; Casey, second; Er ne wine, third; Gebhardt, fourth. Time, :05 3-5.
Mile run—Phelan, first; Ryan, second; Kelly, third. Time, 5:03 1-5.
440-yd. run—Lahey, first; McDonald, second; Krider, third; Eaton, fourth. Time, :53.
Two-mile run—Wendland, first; Dalmadge, second; Griffin, third. Time, 10:09.3-5.
Pole vault—Harrington, first; Driscoll and Hammill, tied for second. Height, 11 feet, 6 inches.
Broad jump—Cunningham, first; Riley, second; Parisien, third; Reardon, fourth. Distance, 20 feet, 4 inches.
Low hurdles—Barron, first; Gebhardt, second; Casey, third; Ernewein, fourth. Time, :05.
Half-mile run—Conlin, first; Degnan, second; Collins, third; Fisher, fourth. Time, 2:11.
Winter football practice began February 9, at the University of Michigan. Thirteen letter men from the 1924 team and a large squad of new candidates are going through the light work-outs of tackling, passing and kicking. Practice is held within the mammoth Yost Field house where September temperature and playing conditions prevail.
478
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BUTLER-NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL GAME
Butler college, 1923 National A. A. U. champions and prominent contenders for the Indiana state title, invaded South Bend Tuesday, February 10, and in the wake of the spectacular Illinois victory, defeated a disorganized Notre Dame team 32 to 23, before a capacity crowd at the Y. M. C. A.
Notre Dame did not have the punch that put the Illini quintet in first place after Notre Dame. Coach Keogan’s netters played their best ball in the first half, but throughout the entire game, that polished team work that has been so much in evidence all season was absent. The brilliant flame that gutted the airy banners of the Rubymen on Saturday, was but warm .ashes struggling in vain to rekindle their former fire. Notre Dame paid a dear price to nature for the sensational run against the Orange and Black.
The Irish were called for frequent fouls in both halves and the ability of the Butlerites to make the most of the chances from the charity line went far toward determining the victory. The feeling underlying the struggle was not the sort that has anything to lend to a good baskeball game, but the conditions were beyond the control of the players.	•
Norre Dame failed to find the basket and .against the Bulldog’s defense, the Blue and Gold took long chance shots some of which went far wide of the net, Notre Dame as- a unit was shattered for the evening and Butler scored often when more effective guarding would have checked the rampage.
Butler did not equal the polished Illinois machine. The tactics they employed smack-, ed of crudeness, but included in their ranks were four men who were able to find the basket for two goals each. Christopher, Keach, Colway and Griggs contributed 16 points while Nipper, the floor star, added foul goals.
Notre Dame took the lead at half time, but failed to hold it in the second half, allowing Butler to crawl up and finally to step away for a nine point margin of victory at the end.
Where Notre Dame failed as a unit, the individual players fought desperately against the force of circumstances and proved that they were as worthy of praise in defeat as they were in victory.
Summary:
Notre Dame (23).
	G	FG	FT	PF	TP
McNally, If.			1	2	2	4	4
Crowe, rf.			2	1	1	2	5
Nyikos, c. 			1	2	2	2	4
Kizer, If.			2	0	0	2	4
Conroy, rf.			2	2	1	3	5
Mahoney, If.			0	0	0	1	0
Dienhart, rf. 			0	3	1	1	1
Edwards, c. 			0	0	0	0	0
Totals			8	10	7	15	23
Butler (32).					
	G	FG	FT	PF	TP
Knold, If. 			0	0	0	0	0
Wakefield, rf. 			0	0	0	0	0
Strole, c.			0	0	0	0	0
Nipper, 1g.			1	10	7	0	9
Colway, rg.			2	2	0	1	4
Christopher, If. 			2	5	5	1	9
Griggs, rf. 			2	1	1	1	5
Keoch, c.	2	1	1	1	5
Totals 			9	19	14	4	32
I
Officials: Referee—Young, Illinois Wesleyan. Umpire—Kearns, DePaul.	,
NOTRE DAME-FORT WAYNE SWIMMING MEET.
The effort of the Fort Wayne Y. M. C. A. to get the top hand after holding Notre Dame to a tie last year, met with dismal failure when the Irish swimmers splashed away from the visitors 55 to 13 in a dual meet at the City natatorium, Saturday night, February 7.
Notre Dame took first place in every event with the exception of the back stroke race which went to Martin of the “Y” who barely nosed out Fuite of Notre Dame at barely nosed out Fuite of Notre Dame.
McCafferty won the fancy diving event handily, displaying a neatness of execution that was becoming one of far greater experience. Alex Sievers, Notre Dame’s champion plunger, was closely pressed by Dobler of the visitors, Sievers plunging the length of the 60-ft. tank twice and Dobler 55-ft. and 58 ft., 5 in., for second place.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame won the waterbasketball game held after the regular program of events, several members of the South Bend Flying squadron filling on the Fort Wayne team.
Summary:
160 yard relay—Notre Dame. Time 1:25.
Fancy diving^-McCaffery, N. D., first; Rodgers, N. D., second; Dobler, Ft. Wayne, third.
40 yard free style—Royce, N. D., first; Weibel, N. D., second; McCurdy, Ft. Wayne, third. Time 21 2-5.
Plunge for distance—Seivers, N. D., first; Palmer, Ft. Wayne, second; Houpert, N. D., third. Time 32 2-5; 38 3-5.
100 yard backstroke—Martin, Ft. Wayne, first; Fuite, N. D., second; McLaughlin, N. D., third. Time 1:17 1-5.
220 yard free style—McCaffery, N. D., first; Hudson, N. D., second; A. Doege, Ft. Wayne, third. Time 2:45 2-5.
100 yard breast stroke—Rhodes, N. D., first; McKiernan, N. D., second; P. Lagerof, Ft. Wayne, third. Time 1:23.
100 yard free style—Royce, N. D., first; Weibel, N. D., second; McCurdy, Ft. Wayne, third. Time 1:04 3-5.
NOTRE DAME FIRST TRACK TEST FOR ILLINI
Urbana, Illinois—As Coach Harry Gill lines up his Illinois track team for the season’s first meet at Notre Dame Saturday, few new men of unusual worth have come to the front to replace the good men lost by graduation and ineligibility.
The absence at present through scholastic disabilities of Dean Brownell, world’s indoor pole vault record holder, and Dan Kinsey, Olympic high hurdle champion, will seriously handicap the Illini. Although Notre Dame collected only three firsts in two meets with Illinois last year and has never beaten the Illini, the Gillmen expect a nip and tuck battle this year.
Coach Gill selected the following men for the trip:
50 and 300 yard dashes—Evans, Kyle, Yarnell.
75 yard high and low hurdles—Rehm.
440 yard dash and mile relay team— Shock, Mehock, Sittig, Yates.
Half mile run—Ponzer, Warner.
479
Mile run—Captain Mieher, Makeever.
Two mile run—Marzulo, Miller.
High jump—Wright, Meislahn.
Broad jump—Wallace, Sweeney, Meislahn.
Spot put—Kimmel, Usrey.
Pole vault—Kunsley, Barnes, Seed.
Kyle pushed the mighty “Bud” Evans, world record holder in the 220 yard and 200 meter dashes around one turn of a quarter mile track, to speedy time to win the 50 yard sprint tryouts, but Evans ran away from everyone in the longer dash. Miller, also a newcomer, outlasted the veteran Marzulo in the two mile run for an unexpected victory, but his time was slow.
Gill inherited several promising sophomores and new men for his depleted quarter mile ranks. Mehock, Sittig and Schock head this category. All have turned in :51 quarters and should give Coach Gill the nucleus for a fast mile relay team.
Meislahn and Barnes are the most promising sophomores in the field events. Meislahn placed second in the broad and high jumps while Barnes tied for first in the pole vault and took third in the high jump in the tryouts. Kimmel came through to displace the veteran Usrey in the shot put with a heave close to 43 feet.—Neivs of Sports.
FIRST CALL FOR BASEBALL CANDIDATES
Seventy-five prospective ball-tossers answered Coach George Keogan’s first call for baseball men at a meeting held in the Main Building, Thursday noon.
More than two months before the start of the regular season, Coach Keogan called the men together for the purpose as he expressed it, “to get you started thinking about baseball.”
The prospects for a winning ball club at Notre Dame this year are exceptionally good, with nearly an entire team returning to competition from last season. The biggest part of the 1924 team was made-up of sophomores of considerable ability.
Added to the veterans from last year, are many very promising player's who were freshmen last season. To build up a pitch
480
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ing staff of Magevneys is one of the tasks of great moment that faces the Notre Dame mentor, although the work of building up the team as a great unit will be the deciding factor between defeat and victory this year.
At the first meeting, Coach Keogan stressed the necessity of getting started ■with the proper spirit; the spirit of the football team; to forsake personal ambitions for the good of the team as a unit. Condition was another element given much •emphasis, the coach pointing out that physical fittness makes for a more perfect ball club, and that an indifferent mental and physical attitude would soon wreck Notre Dame’s chances for a good season.
The spring trip will get under way April 8 and the regular schedule will open on April 25. The card for this year, while not ready for publication, included some of the best competition in the central west and Notre Dame has a task of no ordinary proportions cut out for it.
In concluding the session, Coach Keogan referred to the spirit of the team and reminded the candidates that competition for places on the team was the making of an enthusiastic ball club, and that none of the lettermen were certain of their positions.
ELIMINATION TESTS FOR INTERHALL TRACK HELD THURSDAY
The first series of the annual interhall track meet was run off in the Notre Dame gymnasium Thursday afternoon at 4 o’clock. The first series included the 40-yd. dash, 440-yd. run, mile-run, high hurdles, high jump and spot put.
Without exception the field in every event was crowded with competitors for a position in the first eight places which qualify for competition in the finals to be run off in March. The mile run found nearly fifty tracksters at the mark, and as the race advanced, the contestants were strung out almost the distance of the lap. In the 40-yd. dash, Coach Rockne ran off eight trial heats with five men competing in each heat. The semi-finals followed to determine the en
trants for the final meet.
Brownson, Carroll and Sophomore each placed nine men in the various events run off in the first series, who are eligible for the finals. The off-campus department placed five, and Walsh, Sorin and Corby placed three each. Badin hall failed to place a man in any event. Wallie Cyr, Rip Miller and Ed Scharer will represent Sorin in the finals.
Summary:	•
Mile run—Phelan, F., Ryan, F., Collins, Car., Maloney, Br., McCafferty, Soph., Lopez, Day, Konop, Day, Kenny, Br. Time 4:56.3.
High hurdles—Wynn, Soph., Griffin, Br., Ernewein, F., Lloyd, Car., Scharer, Sor., Schevegny, Br., Covert, Car., Scheibley, Car. Time, 0:05.9.
High jump—Stace, Br., Loshbaugh, Day, Schevegny, Br., Lahey, Car., Walsh, W., Cyr, Sor., Moore, Soph., Hagenbarth, Cor., McAdams, Soph. Height, 5 feet 5 inches.
440-yd. run—Gurnett, W., Prelli, Soph., McCauley, Br., McKinney, Car., Lahey, Car., McDonald, Soph., Parisien, F., Winberry, Day. Time, :54.9.
Shot put—Bachman, Br., E. Miller, Sor., McSweeney, F., McManmon, Soph., LaValle, Car., Hagenbarth, Cor., Hanoqsek, Cor., DeVault, F. Distance, 38 feet 6 1-2 inches.
40-yard dash—Parisien, F., Morrissey, Day, Collins, Car., Hagenbarth, Cor., McDonald, Soph., Trombley, Br., Prelli, Soph. Time. :04.
The Notre Dame boxing team left South Bend Friday morning at 9:50 for Annapolis, where the Irish glove pushers will meet the Naval academy team, Saturday night.
The fight with the middies will be the first intercollegiate encounter for the local boxers this year. Ames college will appear at Notre Dame, Feb. 21.
The team in charge of Charley Springer includes the best varsity scrappers at the university. Many of the men hvae been seen in competition at recent boxing exhibitions and their work has been received with great favor.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
481
DR. F. L. AXTELL DENTIST
315 UNION TRUST BLDG.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
7 ~	—1 — .
EVERYBODY’S STORE
330 SOUTH MICHIGAN
ALL-WOOL PLAID SHIRTS^ x $3.25 Each; two for $6.00
WOOL SPORT JACKETS $5.85
U. S. ARMY STYLE RUSSET SHOES—Goodyear Welt $3.00
LARGE STOCK OF SPORT GOODS
TELEPHONE LINCOLN 1415 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
f 1..	1	-----—T.	—
VISIT THE
CENTER CHOP SHOP AND CLUB ROOMS
..Light Lunches..
Steals and Chops
115 WEST CENTER STREET BEHIND OLIVER THEATRE
482
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Famous Yells that’s
GOOD!
AV/E HEAR this famous expression around ™ here quite a bit these days, but of course not in the same connection. It happens when the boys try on the new Kuppenheimer “U" suit. Invariably, their comment is: “That’s Qood!” usually with a strong adjective in between.
.	Come in and see them.
LIVINGSTON’S
117 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
K—T