

Join Our Gang 
L··.· 
I i 
ts,: 


tI;-:.· 

Picture of Minims at Notre Dame, 1916, by Robert P. Galloway 

SCHOLASTIC NEEDS YOU 
Applications are now being accepted for these positions on next year's Editorial Board: 
l\tianaging Editor  Fiction Editor  
Art Director  Copy Editor  
Production Man ager  Layout Editor  
News Editor  Photography Editor  
Culture Editor  ·  ·.·  Business Manager  
Sports Editor  Ad Manager  


Apply Now! Deadline is 5:00 p.m. Friday, April 13 
If you need any information or encouragement, contact the SCHOLASTIC office at 7569 or 7419. 

Photographs: 



scholastic 
Vol. 120, No. 10, April 6, 1979 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
2 On Painting the Town Red Anthony Walton 
4 A Chicago Loop Architectural Tour Thomas Stritch 
6 A Culinary Cruise Liz Donovan 
8 Everyone's Kind of Town Eileen Durkin 
14 Bilandic Byrned, Machine Dead Paul Peralta 
16 North Side ..• South Side .Jim Trausch 
18 John Prine:. Chicago's Folk Hero Tom Balcerek 
20 .•. And All That Jazz Joe Carey 
REGULARS. 
11 Gallery Mark Bonner Mike Cantwell Theresa Rebeck Phil Whitmer 
Pat· Casey 1, 2,. 3, 4, 6, 7, B; Scholastic 
Archives, 4, 9, 20; Mike Guay, 14; Bruce 22 Perspective ·Paul Lauer 
Harlan, 15; Phil Johnson, 18, 19; Collegiate 
Jazz Festival, 21. 
Artwork: : · 
Mike Cantwell, 17, 20. 
Cover:· Pat Casey 
Editor 
John Morrissey 
Managing Editor 
Theresa Rebeck 
Art Director 
Mike Cantwell Production Manager 
Bernie Valenti 
News Editor 
Elizabeth Donovan. 
Culture Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Spo'rts Editor 
Mike Kenahan Fiction Editor Tom Balcerek · 
Copy Editor 
Bob Southard 
Layout Editor 
Lisa Hartenberger 
Photography Editor 
Phil Johnson 
Business Manager. 
Kimberlie Gumz· 
Advertisement: Manager 
Marcy Weigle · 
Advisory Board 
Elizabeth Christi-nan,. Mario Werge, Thomas Jemielity, Jones, S.C., Edward Fischer. 
APRIL 6, 1979 
Pedi, Thomas John Miriam 

fuff ~ 
Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Anthony Walton, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Clay Malaker, Tom Lucid, Greg Vansueh, Kevin McCarthy, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl, Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Greg C. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sean F. Faircloth, ·Paul Hurley,·. John Bondaruk, Michelle Gerard, Dodee Carney, Paul Mullaney, Lou Severino, Joe Carey, Jason Joyce, Paul. Mortenson. 
Hall Representatives: Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean Berry, Brad Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift, Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, John Cuckovich, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey; Dave Mayernick, Dan Letcher. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do -not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of .Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student 
body. 
Themagazin~ is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising . Services ·and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are available from Scho_lastic.. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 
. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright© 1979 Scholastic / all rights. reserved / none of the contents ·may be repro­duced without permission; · 

Red· 
by Anthony Walton 
2 

Some Easterners might tell you that "Chicago" and "entertainment" are mutually· exclusive terms. Not so. The Second City is a · potpourri of interesting. happenings for either the once-a-year venturer or for the connoisseur of entertainment and excitement. The possibilities range from the sporting._ to the cultural and, you can find almost anything between these two extremes. There is so much to choose from that it is hard to find a place to begin de­scribing it all. 
For the sportsman, there are sev­.eral major-league teams from which 
to choose. The Bears, Bulls, Black Hawks, Cobs, White Sox, and Sting all offer exciting and competitive professional sports. Chicago also hosts several . individual sporting· ·events during the year such as ten­nis and golf tournaments..For the gambler, Chicago has several race­-tracks, where both thoroughbred and harness races are held. Infor­
mation about all these events. can be found in the Chicago newspapers. 
For music lovers, Chicago plays 
host to concerts by artists in all dif­
ferent fields of music. Large rock 
concerts are held at Comiskey Park 
and Soldier Field. Two theatres, 
the Uptown and · the Auditorium, 
host medium-sized concerts. A more 
intimate setting is. provi~ed by the 
Park West, a nightclub on.the north 
side. Among those appearing there 
in recent weeks have been Herbie 
Hancock, Weather Report, Santana, 
Judy Collins,. and Boston. Chicago 
also has much to offer in classical 
music and dance. __The New York 
City Ball~t, featuring Mikhail ·Bar­
yshnikov, · will be performing in 
April. The Chicago Symphony Or­
chestra, directed by Sir •_ George 
Solti, performs weekly at Or­
chestra Hall in Chicago. 
The Shubert, the Arie Crown, the Drury Lanes, and the Mill Run are just a few of the many theatres in Chicago. Broadway plays and orig­inal first runs are among those available for your viewing pleasure . . Recent examples have been ''.A Cho­rus Line," "Beatlemania," and "The Wiz." Now playing are "Dracula," and "Bosoms and Neglect." The local hit is "Sexual Perversity in Chicago" by David Mamet, recently invited to the Sophomore Literary Festival. Chicago also offers a special treat in the field _of _theater-::--the Second City troupe, improvisational comics par excellence. Second City is na­tionally acclaimed and has its own syndicated television program. Its alumni number, among · others, several "Not-Ready-For-Prime-Time­Players, including John Belushi, 
Dan Akroyd, and Gilda Radner. 
For the museum-goer, Chicago again is a leader in the field· ~nd has something for even the most dis­criminating tastes. The Art Insti­tute and the Museum of Contem­porary Art have wide collections of both classic and modern art. The Impressionist Collection at the Art Institute is especially fine. The Ori­ental Institute, the Field Museum, the Adler Planetarium, and the Mu­seum of Science and Industry are favorites of the historically and sci­entifically minded museum-goer. For the animal lover, there are such world-renowned· and popular sights as the Brookfield Zoo, the Lincoln Park· Zoo, and the Shedd Aquarium. 
. SCHOLASTIC 

I'm sure I'm overlooking a myriad of other entertainment possibilities. There are just too many things to mention _them all. For further in­formation on any of the above. sug­gestions, or many other possibilities, there are several places to gain in­formation. Chicago Magazine con­tains ratings on all the restau­rants in. Chicago and offers hints for new things to do. The Chicago newspapers contain ads for ,all of the mentioned activities and· run weekend sections on entertainment. For specific information, here are some • phone numbers to call: . For the update on. rock concerts, call JAM's rock hotline, 312-666-6667. To find out what's happening in jazz, call 312-666-1881. · Dial 212­F-I-N-E-A-R-T for information on general entertainment. 312-372-5-178 is the number of CAP A, Chicago Alliance for the Performing Arts, for theater information. · 312-454­6777 · is the number for TICKE~ TRON, for information on availa­bility · of tickets and ordering; · 
Chicago. It's ninety minutes away and holds in store another world of new and different things to do. It's the perfect cure for a case of the South Bend blues. Give it a try, and I think you'll agree. For entertainment, it's your kind of town. . ' 


APRIL 6, 1979 
3 


If Charleston, South Carolina,· is the United States' most interesting city architecturally for the period before the Civil · War, and San Francisco for the period just after it, Chicago seems to me to beat New York for the modern period. From the air or the deck of a ship New York is more dazzling, but up close Chicago is more original and varied. 
For one thing, it all started here, or very nearly so. Modern architec­ture is a Chicago invention. Most of its founders lived and built there: the straightforward engineer, Wil­liam Le Baron Jenney; ambitious, elegant Daniel Burnham; cultivated, facile John Root; inventive, brilliant John Holabird; and the great pair of Louis Sullivan and Frank Lloyd Wright. Wright trained in Sullivan's office and got . his vision largely there. Which of them deserves the. title of the greatest artist this coun­try has produced is a nice question. Surely it is one of those two. 
That's the early generation. They, and many others too numerous to mention here, during the period from 1875 to 1925 dug Chicago out of the Lake Michigan sand and swamp and swept away the debris of the great fire of 1871. Chicago had to rebuild and had learned to build as nearly fireproof as possible. So its archi­tects seized on every new technology that came along -first iron, then · steel framing, elevators, plate glass, revolving doors, flush toilets, and all the rest. Unchallenged by any such catastrophe, other cities went at · a slower pace. 

But the triumphs were not merely technological. Most of these archi­tects were real artists in handling scale, proportions and . textures. Above all, they knew how to deco­rate their new steel cages. Had_ Sulli­van and Wright done nothing but their. decorative designs they would still be known as fine artists; 
As the early generation . petered out, Chicago architecture got a new impetus when Mies van der Rohe· moved there in 1939 as a refugee from Hitler's Germany.· His Chicago · legacy is enormous-fourteen apart­ment towers all over the city,. ·most . of the. campus of the Illinois Insti­tute of , Technology, and-numerous houses...On this. tour we'll see his huge • new Dirksen Federal · Center and glimpse .• his splendid IBM Building. But Mies' influence is even greater than his buildings. The Chi~ cago. architecture firm of 'Skidmore, 
Owings and Merrill, several of whose 
buildings are on the tour, was so in­
fluenced by Mies that they are often 
referred to as three blind Mies. And 
the three splendid new Loop build­
. ings by C. F. Murphy are straight 
out of Mies. 
So the Chicago tradition goes on, 
some of it in Mies' wake, some of it 
exploring different approaches to 
the finest art the United ·States 
has produced-modern building. 
If you want to see what's best in 
modern architecture, you've only got 
to go the_ ~hort 90. miles to Chicago . 
. The Loop (downtown) part of the 
following. tour can ix;. easily done in 
two to three hours, and even if the 
North Side part is added, it will only 
take a long afternoon. This tour is 
obviously incompiete ·and, obvi­
ously, represents my personal taste. 
A convenient place· to begin is the 
Art Institute of . Chicago,. which is 
the only building on the east side of 
Michigan Avenue, in Grant Park at 
the foot -of Adams Street. · 
Pause there for a moment and 
look at the splendid panorama be­
fore you, one of the world's finest at 
this distance. New · York's Fifth 
Avenue in the fifties 'is. more ele­
gant at shopwindow distance, but 
for the long view it's Chicago :_ and 
Rio de Janeiro. To your left is the 
fine old Railway Exchange Building, 
a big square faced with delicately 
designed terra-cotta blocks on the 
corner of Michigan and Jackson, de­
signed by Daniel Burnham. To your 
right, a block north, are two build­
ings on either side of Monroe, both 
designed by. Holabird and Roche, the 
23 East Monroe Building and the 
University Club. Purists sneer· at 
them because of the derived decora­
tion, but· they_ seem to me to have 
some style. 
Now, turn right and sweep the 
horizon toward the east. You'll see 
at considerable distance four new 
skyscrapers: · the Prudential, Build­
ing; ·the Standard . Oil Building, 
farthest away Lake Point • Towers, 
with its rounded four ends, like a 
gigantic and elegant Sorin Hall, and 
the ·apartment building at the foot . 
of Randolph Street, much nearer to . you. Of . these, the only one of any 
distinction is Lake Point Towers,. 
designed by . Mies' disciples SchiP:­
pereet and Heinrich in 1968, and the 
main reason for this eyesweep is that it's so far out of the way you might not otherwise get a glimpse of it. 
Turn back now and cross Michigan Ave. Hang a right and walk a few doors to the building at 18 South Michigan, whose facade is the work of Louis Sullivan (1898). Note the delicacy and charm of its orna­mentation -compare it with the inept decoration of the Chicago Ath­letic Club next door. 
Turn. around and head south till you hit one of Sullivan's master­pieces, the Auditorium Hotel and Theater. The hotel is now Roosevelt College, but the ·theater has been tastefully refurbished by Harry Weese. It's worth the price of ad-· mission to go there just to see Sulli­van's glorious ornamentation, around the stage especially. There is noth­ing like this in the world so fine ­the somewhat similar work of Victor Horta, mostly in Paris and Brussels, is simply not as imaginative. Perhaps the Plateresque decoration of south­ern Spain and northern Mexico comes closest, but this, executed in plaster and terra-coUa, seems heavy by comparison. Across the street from the Auditorium is the· Pick­Congress · Hotel, designed by Clinton 
J. Warren, which a few of us persist in· thinking one of the finest hotel buildings in the world, inside and out. 
Head ·west on Congress Street to State Street, only two blocks, to .the Sears Roebuck (!owntown store, possibly designed by William Le Baron Jenney in 1889. Think of that date as you look at this utilitarian structure, no work of art, but per­haps the very first modern building with plenty of windows for light and air set into a free-standing steel-and­iron frame. This is a· genuinely im­portant landmark. 
Keep on · State Street another block to Jackson, and turn left on it. a· block or so to 53 West Jackson, the famous Monadnock Building, de­signed by Burnham & 'Root in 1889 and added to by Holabird·& Roche in 1893. This forns its back on Jenney's brilliant originality; it is a rnasonry building with immensely thickwalls, like the Auditorium. Sullivan did not master: the steel structure form for another two years. 
Keep going down Jackson Street till you hit LaSalle,· then turn right 
APRIL 6, 1979 · till you come to the Rookery, at 209. Designed.· by Burnham & Root in 1886, and a precursor of the modern skyscraper, this building was re­modeled in 1905 by Frank Lloyd Wright. You can see his hand in the beautiful lobby, with its tinted glass and wrought-iron staircases and ele­vator cage. Turn west now to the river and the fine new buildings that line Wacker Dr., most especially SOM's Sears Tower. 
Now turn back east, still on Jack­son, till you come to Dearborn Street. There before you, still only about half ·completed, is the vast Dirksen Federal Center," basically the work. of Mies van _der Rohe. 
C. F. Murphy worked with' van der Rohe on this complex, but I prefer his ContinentalCenter, a few blocks east on Wabash and Jackson. 
That takes you back east almost to Michigan Avenue, but now go west again, only one block to State Street, then north a couple of blocks to Madison Street. There you will · see, in the Carson, Pirie & Scott store, . how a great architect, Louis Sulli-· van, improves the work of an engi~ neer like Jenney. Note the beau­tiful broad . windows, the famous "Chicago" windows, with side pan­els for air. Note especially the beau­tiful decoration ·over the entrance­and once again compare it with the vulgar stuff on the O'Connor & Goldberg store next door at Madi­son Street, to see. the · difference. 
From Carson's go north on State Street .another block to Monroe Street, and there turn left to the Inland · Steel Building one block west. Many think this the master­ten over his fascination with Gothic ornamentation by the time he de­signed for. the same ownership the Daily News Building in New York. The prize he won in competition for the Tribune Tower should have gone, many think, to the Playboy Building much · further north on Michigan Street, .the work of Hola­bird & Root. 



But on the way there you pass the charming old Water Tower, Chi­cago's oldest landmark building 
· (1867), and the controversial John Hancock Bldg., another Skidmore, Owings & Merrill design. I am· one .1 of those who think it very· beauti­ful. For a buck you can whisk to the top.' 
Well, that ends our walking tour. 

You are now in Chicago's fashion­piece, along with Lever House in able near north side, and you ·can New York, of Skidmore, .Owings keep on going to your satisfaction, 
•and Merrill. Look in the lobby at perhaps as far as. the now-fading Richard Lippold's beautiful wire hippie hangou.t, Old Town, about a construction, the most perfect dee-mile north to North Avenue and oration for a big building lobby I then west· to Wells Street. know-superior, I think, to the.sim-But, if your achitectural sensibili­ilar one he did for the new Metro-ties are still a-quiver, and there's a politan Opera House in New York. tomorrow or· another day, you 
Standing in front of the Inland might try some further excursions. Building, look down left on Dear-. Two fine college campuses are quite born Street to the fine new First close to the Loop: Mies' Illinois In­National Bank Building, the work stitute of Technology, 3300 South of Perkins and Will, but walk north State, and · Gordon Bunschaft's (for (right) on Dearborn to Skidmore, • SOM again) Chicago Circle campus, Owings & Merrill's fine Brunswick · 1800 South Halsted.· The University Building. Stand in front of this for of Chicago is well worth a visit, for . a good look at the new Civic Cen-the new Regenstein Library (SOM 
.ter, obviously inspired by Mies yet again), Eero SaarineI1's · Law though the work of others, and see Quadrangle, and Bertram Goodhue's if you like the Picasso sculpture. older {1929) chapel. 

Cruise: 

Many think it may have been good You don't have to drive around enough as a smaller piece, hut that to see the 30-odd buildings, mostly it is grotesquely blown up here. houses, · tlmt Frank Lloyd Wright That ends the Loop tour. But let's built in the near-west suburb of Oak 
. go on. Go back to State Street, Park during· the early 1900's, · for about two blocks to your right from they are mostly close together. His the Civic Center, and turn left, i.e., . home and studio are at. 428 Forest north, till you come to Wacker Avenue and a list of his other Oak Drive and the Chicago River. Look · Park buildings may be had from across it at Bertram Goldberg's the Chicago Public Library. Bear in imaginative and . beautiful Madna mind that most of these are not the Towers, .arid at Mies' . fine IBM . mature Wright you know. That is by Liz Donovan 
· Building just across· the street. But · best seen :'in Robie · House, 5757 .wait till you get to Michigan Avenue South Woodlawn, near the Univer­. to. cross the · river, where ·you can.. sity.of Chicago'. ... 0 
see the Wrigley · Building ( designed by the same firm that did our old 

··· This · is an u'f)dated ·version of: an Commerce Building: · Graham, An­
·article Prof. Stritch wrote for Sebo"' 
derson, Probst .& . White) on your 

lastic six .. years ago • . Scholastic. 
left, which looks ·like· a giant wed­

tltanks Prof: Stritch for all his help 
ding cake, and on your right the 

on this reprint.
Tribune Tower, designed by Ray­, mond Hood in 1924. Hood had got­
6 
.· SCHOLASTIC 

When asked to name his fa­vorite restaurant in Chicago, one Notre Dame student replied, "The Berghoff. Great restaurants begin there and radiate outward." The Berghoff is located at 17 W. Adams St~, just down the street from the Art Institute. A finer German res­taurant would be hard to find ·this side of Munich. Don't be intimi­dated by the long lines .of people waiting outside at lunchtime. The Berghoff has earned a reputation for fast service, and, you'll find, the · food is well worth the wait. For a reasonable price, the Berg­hoff offers many selections of hearty German fare such as wiener schnitzel, bratwurst and sauer­kraut, stuffed cabbage, and apple streudel. Annexed to the main din­ing. room is a stand-up cafeteria called · "The Men's Buffet." The Buffet serves men (and women), a fine variety of · ·German sausages, sandwiches, ·and side dishes. A com­plement to any meal is the Berg­hoff's family brewed beer. Good alone, too. 
According to Ohicag<! Magazine, 

Chicago is "the natural and spiri­tual home of the deep-dish pizza." Pizzerias abound, and each one claims to make .the best in . town. One of the most . popular places is Gino's at 160 E. Superior St., fa­miliar turf to many students ven­turing into the Windy City. Deep dish is a happy wedding of tomato sauce, . cheese, and options piled high· on a' 'thick crust and. served in: a skillet. Veteran deep-dish fans pace themselves when at Gino's. Eat conservatively, for the pizza is. de­ceivingly filling. Also nice are .Pizzeria. Uno, 29 E. Ohio, and Piz­zeria. Duo;' 619 N. Wabash Ave., a two-link chain of ·restaurants' where the deep-dish· pizza ·is said to have originated. :On. Friday and Sabir­day nig~ts it's often difficult to get into : these places without waiting for ·as long as an hour. If bribing the hostess doesn't work, ·try Gior:­dano's at 6253 S. California Ave:, a restaurant off the beaten . ·tourist path which is highly recommended by those ·who know Chicago well. "Six .pounds ·of double-crusted de­llght,u is .the. description of G_ior­d&no•s · pizza offered by. one fan. ·· 
'Consist~ntl~--rated· a~ one: ~f Chi: cago's .'. finest <restaur.ants is . The l\_lagic ~&n: Creperi~ _60 ~-Walton near Rush St. It's · always · a good idea to make reservations when din­ing out in Chicago, and it's ~spe­cially true for this popular restau­rant. The decor is · tastefully_ done, very chic. A typical dinner costs around $6.50 and includes soup or sabid·and two of the all but typical crepes.· A nice combination is the com chowder, chicken and mush­room crepe, • broccoli crepe with cheddar cheese sauce.. It's a sliame not to. try dessert: If you're not counting pennies or calories, have-a chocolate mint crepe, a specialite d~ la maison. · Memorable. ·. Then take a long walk down Rush St.! 

For a high-brow experience have lunch at the Hya.tt ;Regency on Wacker Dr; Here the upwardly mobile meet at . noon to see, be seen, and: lunch on what niust be Chicago's most.· expensive bani-burgers. .The shrimp salad is good, as are the crepes, but the prices are a bit extreme. If someone is 
· treating you, you'll enjoy it; If no_t, 
. try someplace else. The decor is sleek and sophisticated, yet I was distracted by the ·fact that the waiters emerged with food from be­hind a· door marked ''MEN," effec­tively cancelling the posh image. . I presume the kitchen door is right behind this one, but really! ···•If you prefer something a bit more genuine than the Hya.tt, try Diana.'s Opaa., a locale at 212 S. Halsted · in Greektown. Why the curious name? After a few min­utes in this lively place you'll know. One of Diana's speciaUies · is a cheese appetizer which the \Vaiter 
· · flambees at the table and an­· nounc·es · with an. enthusiastic "OPAA"! The theatrics are great, and the -food is a real treat at a . good price. Try a Greek salad with . the cheese·• and spinach pie. And after ·a few bottles of Resina, din­ers .let down their hair and almost anything can happen. Have I heard stories-Opaa! Also a real hoot is the Parthenon, just down the street 
APRIL. 6, 19-79 
at -314 S. Halsted. Both· are dee-at the Water Tower, skip McDon­orated in early kitsch, both are ald's and head into D. B. Kaplan's great fun. Delicatessen. Allot plenty of time 
Unmatched for their imagination for lunch, because the menu takes and food are the restaurants of the ·a good thirty minutes to read. Win­Lettuce Entertain You chain. Each. ner of the 1977 Great Menu Award place offers something a little differ-from the National Restaurant Asso­ent, and each is a sure bet for a ciation, the menu is a hilarious de­super lunch or dinner. The .Great , scription of their 152 sandwiches, Gritsby's Flying Food Show, 21 E. salads, quiches, drinks, and sweets. Chestnut near Rush St., . has a · A brief sampling includes #34, "The cheese bar included in the price of Chicago Clubs"; #68, "De Bird and an entree: If you've never . tried D.B.'s"; #85, "Yes Sir, Cheese My chocolate chip cheese spread, or Baby.'' _The chocolate chip cheese­if you think.you wouldn't want to, cake _has. earned its way into -my ·duck into the Flying Food_ Show. hall of fame. ._ -_ . Lawrence of Oregano, 662 W. Di-These are just a few of the many, -versy Pkwy., is a nice little Italian -·-many, great restaurants in Chicago. place complete .with _checkered ta-If I neglected · to mention your Ja­blecloths, _terrific food, and a good · vorite place, 'don't get mad. -Bring salad bar. The veal is top drawer. · me along next time you go, and I'll Also, ask -about · their daily spe-rewrite this · article. Someday I'll cials. jonathan Livingston Seafood, be a silver-haired lady with a bag 5419 N. Sheridan Rd., has seafood of money, and then I'll check. out so good you'd swear you weren't_ Chicago's more expensive: eateries. landlocked· in the Midwest. R. J. My wish list includes Beniha.na's at Grunt's, despite the . indelicate 166 E. Superior, a Japanese restau­name, ls home to one of Chicago's rant where the waiter chops, cooks, favorites -the "Gruntburger," a .and serves the food right at the one-half-pound monstrosity. It's a table,· all with· great fanfare. Also, challenge. Grunt's. is located· at the Cape· Cod at the Drake Hotel, 2056 N. Lincoln Park West. · The the French restaurant on the 95th ·Pump Room, 1300 · N. State, and _ floor of the Hancock Building, Fritz. That's It, in Evanston, are Maxim's on Michigan Ave.'s Gold also part of the Lettuce; bwich; Coas!, and .. : . -. 
If you get hungry.while shopping 


Every:pne's ·Kind­
. . . ' 
of: 
~ 
.... 

by Eileen O.!Jrkin 

.The second day of. October break, my-_ motlier shouted up the stairs to me, '.'Ron wants to .see -some Chi­cago. neighborhoods.. Would you like to conie along?'; .:._:· .--­
.•, Ron was spending-.the weekend with us before heading down . : to Notre Daine. for a conference. on neighborhoods..·He_ is familiar with niany cities, but .he •' had "never toured Chicago's streets'.' Chi~ago '.is the home: of many different ;ethnic groups, . arid .the old . neighborhoods are often changing. This flow haP,: pens'. so fast. at times~ that'i decided I had better' join·, in the exploration beyqnd the street signs before.Ii got to be too. late... I screamed back/ ·••Give me flve niinutes!''. _ .. . . Twerity~tive .minutes ·1ater _Ioun<i us at point zero, the corner of. State and Madison:·; ready· to begin ot.ir ex~ peditlon.. ·Armed' -with the_ script "Historical arid .Architectural. ;Tour of Chicago,"·my 'mother insisted ori reading the -entire. introduction: Un~ 
. SCHOLASTIC . 


tifshe reached __"Our bus is equipped with a lavatory ... ," that is. This was news to my bus. driver .father, who was instructed to keep his. eyes a_nd the Chevy wagon on the roaci as we_ took a quick spin around the downtown area. to point_ out . the many architectural landmarks to Ron... 
Two blo_cks .south is Adams, and as we traveled west on that street to Halsted· (800 W), we got our first sampUng of Chicago's plurality. We passed Berghoff's _Restaurant, which is still operated in the Euro­pean manner (with each waiter running his own business) and Chi­cago's_-oldest church, St. Patrick's. 
At Halsted we hit Greektown. Greek . shops -and restaurants _line the street. for a block or so. . The Congress Expressway, a bit south, uprooted a Greek neighborhood, and the result of. this tragedy was the attempt .to. recreate cafe life in Greece._ Qur script mentioned "in­expensive .. food, modest wines, and . a friendly· atmosphere.". We could see for ourselves the flavor of . Soc­rates' world in_ such. stores · as the Mediterranean Pastry Shop and Diana's Grocery and Restaurant. My 
mother explained that the author of 
APRIL 6, 1979 
Zorba the Greek, which was later 
made into a movie starring Anthony 
Quinn, · frequented this store. Win­
dows·-· in Greektown boast such 
goodies as . gyros, baklava, saganaki 
(brandy-flamed Greek cheese), and 
within _Diana's Opaa at 212 S. Hal­
sted, kisses to all the ladies. 
I still cannot pronounce Ron's 
last name, except for the "-elli" at 
the end, but I knew that he appre­
ciated the next leg of our trip best. 
This_ portion took us south on Hal~ 
sted to the Roosevelt Road area, 
University of Illinois' Circle Cam-' 
pus, ·and Hull House, all within' Chi-
cago's "Little Italy." . 
_The University uprooted a tight­ly knit neighborhood of_ Italians, along with some Polish and Irish; too. Many ethnics in the Vernon Park community, however, have not left, and signs abound of the Ital­ians who immigrated . here -and stayed. My father drove us up and · down many little side streets to see the Hull House, Mother Cabrini Hos­pital, Our Lady of Pompeii Church, 
and Victor Arrigo Park. 
The first · of these sights, Jane 
Addams'-famous Hull House, opened 
in 1889 in .the heart of the first set­
tlement .of the immigrants in_ Chi­
cago. Hull House workers encour­aged (and often pushed, so I have heard) these new citizens. into pro-­grams to preserve their own her­itage and· to learn th_e American: culture. Across the street from Hull House is the ·Fire Academy, built. on the spot where the disastrous Chicago Fire o·f 1871 allegedly began: Further down the street is the Mother Cabrini Hospital. Mother Cabrini, _the first saint who lived in America, was born in Italy,' and helped the immigrants in their harsh struggle to survive. Continu­ing our tour, we came to Our Lady of Pompeii · Church. The church's most recent claim to fame· involves a ruse to throw off the press. It was the parish of the wife of th_e late· Mayor Daley's son, and their wedding· ·was scheduled there, . but actually took place at' the Mayor's church in Bridgeport. The Irish contingent in. our tour bus appreci­ated that story. 
Twenty-four million . dollars has been granted to Vernon Park to compensate for'the destruction done by the University and, again, ·by an expressway. Victor Arrigo Park on Lexington Avenue (730. S) is an example of the ongoing: renewal, 
.

'. 
complete with a statue of Christo­pher Columbus. 
In this area, we also went by Notre Dame Church, the only French . church in Chicago, which has confessions in French, by re­quest.. The French have long since left the surrounding neighborhood, but a French-Canadian order of priests remains. We also drove by the old Irish parish of Holy Fam­ily, which borders on St. Ignatius High School. The Irish, too, have left this area of the "Church of the Prairies," but urban renewal is im­proving the neighborhood for its new members. 
The day was advancing quickly, and Carter had not yet revealed the Peking Pact, so we skipped the section of the script labelled "China­town." I know, however, that it is a _fascinating place, with bilingual street signs and many small shops, restaurants, and Chinese organiza­tions. We merely glanced down Maxwell Street, which, while it is slowly losing its popularity, still re­tains its flavor. It is the last of the City's open-air markets. Many of these markets used to line the Chi­cago River in the downtown area, but they were closed by such big­wigs as Marshall Field who wished to prevent workers from having a place to meet and rally during the early days of the unions. 
Instead, we traveled south on the Dan. Ryan Expressway, got off at 35th Street, and drove a short while to the community of Bridgeport. Descendants of many different eth­nic groups live here, but it is pri­marily an Irish enclave and home of ·the last four mayors-Kelley, Ken­nelly, Daley, and Bilandic. With their gift of blarney, the Irish here have been very successful in poli­tics. (They· were also the only ma­jor immigrant group who could speak English.) My mother read, "It has been said that every home in Bridgeport houses at least -one person on the. county or city. pay­
roll." · 
People who move into Bridgeport stay, even mayors. We drove past the Daley. and the Bilandic homes, two modest little bungalows. We then drove past Daley's church, Our Lady of Nativity (where the wedding took place), which is one of 12 . churches within about one square mile. 
10 

Next, we headed north, to the Lincoln Park area. We deviated from the script a little and showed 
. Ron some of the homes in that area, in one of which we believe .my great-grandfather lived. We have addresses from the Chicago His­torical Society dating back ·to the 1880's. There is an incredible amount of building going on be­tween North Avenue and Armitage, a little west of the lake, and sev­eral of the addresses now house . modern townhouses. The old is jux­taposed with the new, however, ·and we were able to see the homes which are, by now, · below street level be­cause they have been paving the streets over for so many years. The · family was Irish, but the neighbor­hood was German, and my great­grandmother taught school in that. language. We visited St. Michael's Church where they undoubtedly heard Mass in German. The beer gardens and breweries which used to line North Avenue are long since 
·torn down, though. 
Our next stop was Wicker Park, a former suburb which is very rich in architecture and heritage. This area is bordered by Milwaukee, Da­rnen, and North Avenues. Many dif­ferent immigrant groups have set~ tied here, .the latest being blacks and Puerto Ricans. The largest re-· maining group· is the Poles. As a matter of fact, there are more Poles in this area than in any other urban concentration except Warsaw. Amidst some urban decay, there re­mains one street of beautiful homes which began as residences for Ger­man burghers, were converted to Polish boardinghouses, and are now being fixed up by wealthy young 
. couples. One of these famous Pierce Street houses is called the · "Pade­rewski Cottage'' because this famous Pole gave a piano concert from the porch in the 1930's. 
Pope John Paul II was inau­gurated that October day, and Ron was very interested to see what, if any, festivities the Poles were haV-' ing. · Consequently, we drove up Milwaukee Avenue from Division Street (1200 N.). This street has always been known for its Central European flavor, particularly· influ­enced by the Poles. We passed Zlata's Belgrade, a Serbian restau~ rant named by the Chicago..Tribune as· one of the .-10 . best· in Chicago. 
The script suggests that tourists try to spot as many nationalities as possible from the storefronts and windows. While we did not play the game, we could clearly see the evidence of such an "assault of cul­tures." 
A very large Latino population has moved onto Milwaukee Avenue, and the Poles have just kept moving north along the street. We had to drive almost to the suburbs to see successive Polish stores. The Polish · Daily Zgoda, a Polish daily news­paper, has left its longtime post at the corner of As~and and Milwau­kee and m_oved north. The churches remain, however, and the · ethnics from the suburbs still return on Sundays to their neighborhood churches to hear Mass said in their native tongues. 
Ron was expecUng pictures of the Pope to be in store windows, but he was disappointed. We did see a dis­play, however, in the window of the Polish museum, · which was the final stop called for .in the script. It was not open on Sunday, but it is a very interesting little museum. I had been there several years before and had seen such diverse exhibits_ as the hotel room in which Paderewski died and a spear· of St. Maurice's dating from 1000 A.D. From the museum we· could see St.· Stanislaus Church. The pride of the immigrant Poles is manifested in their encoun­.ter with the city of Chicago, when the Kennedy Expressway was built. The Poles did not want their neigh­borhoods ·to be · destroyed by · the expressway. · The result of this clash rerouted the · expressway around St; Stanislaus Church and 
the parish school. 
On ·the• orders of the driver and 
out of deference to Pope John Paul 
II, our bus pulled over on 'Milwau­
kee Avenue, and we dined on Polish 
food · in a · small restaurant. Ron 
assured ·my mother· that-she had 
been a most informative· guide, and 
we all c0ricluded that the neighbor­
hoods in Chicago lent themselves 
quite well to an introductory tour 
on a Sunday during break. ·• Polish 
dumplings taste pretty . good, too, I 
discovered. Perhaps I will try. those 
Greek goodies next. .0 
Freshman Eileen Durkin, in addi­tion to being Scholastic's neighbor­hood expert, has appeared: in both "All Over" and "Spring Awakening." 
-SCHOLASTIC 

Gallery 



Mark Bonner 

APRIL. 6, 197_9_° 

Mark Bonner 


Gallery 


Theresa Rebeck 

Phil Whitmer 



BILANDIC BYRNED, MACHINE DEAD 
This title may have appeared in some newspaper a few weeks ago to describe the stunning upset of Chi­cago mayor Michael Bilandic by Ms. Jane Byrne. Her unexpected victory in the Democratic ma)'.oral primary was thought to have spelled the end of the legendary Chicago poliUcal machine. Many political observers, however, view the primary result as not the death knell for the machine but as a harbinger for its rejuvena­tion. 
Interestingly, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community has been affected by what has happened in "The Sec­ond City." Members of the faculty and student body, both past and present, reflect the ties between the city and the two schools, and sev­e_ral of them have expressed reflec­tions on what has transpired. 

Monsignor John J. Egan, Special Assistant to the President and Di­rector of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, has been familiar with the Chicago political· mecha­nism. From 1956-1970, Msgr. Egan worked with various organizations, such as the Inter-Religious Council of Urban Affairs, Model Cities, the Urban Renewal Program, etc., which brought him into constant contact with city officials. Msgr. Egan de­fines the "machine" as "a coalition of people of differing opinions, inter­ests, and cultures brought -together to work wi_th one another for mutual . survival a·nd for the survival of the Democratic organization." This or­ganization, Egan states, is built on a system .of patronage. The success ·of the organization depended on how 
--well the mayor held together his_ coalition which included ward· com-· mitteemen, precinct captains, and aldermen. Msgr. Egan points to the late mayor Richard Daley as one who "effectively managed the Demo­cratic organization." 
Outlining the history of the Chi­cago machine, Msgr. Egan says, "We must remember that Mayor Daley did not build the Democratic organ­
. ization. It came through a long ser­. ies of years from around 1930 dur­ing the administration of Mayor Anthony Cermak. Successive ad­. ministrations which carried on the coalition were the Kelly-Nash ma­chine, Martin Canelli, and then Daley, who came in the early 50's." 
Msgr. Egan knew Mayor Daley 
by Paul Peralta 

personally. "I knew him and knew him well, but I was not a personal friend; I don't know if anyone was really a close friend. He was a pri­vate individual and only had a few intimates. We had, I think I can re­spectfully say, a good working rela­tionship between the two of us... We had a cordial relationship al-· though we did disagree on matters of policy." 
Contrary to popular belief, the machine is not dead, as Msgr. Egan states: "Jane Byrne is in the direct line of the building of that organiza­tion (the machine). I think we can expect a continuation of the Daley regime. I think we can expect the word 'coalition' to come to the fore far more than it did with Mayor Bilandic." 

Chicago, as a predominantly Catholic city, was attracted to Notre Dame, the predominant Catholic university of the Midwest, primarily for ecclesiastical reasons. Religion notwithstanding, however, athletics also drew Chicagoans to Notre Dame. 
"Saturday afternoon football games were a tremendous magnet for a city as close as Chicago," states Egan. "The .Four Horsemen and Rockne started an athletic legacy. A tie naturally developed, and graduates who lived in Chicago in time assumed positions of power." 
An example of this is the ties Jane Byrne has with the ND-SMC com­munity. Her daughter, Kathy, is a senior at St. Mary's. Her late hus­band was a graduate of Notre Dame, and as Egan c:ited, her uncles, Msgr. Burke and Fr. Joseph Burke "would always find. their way to South Bend on. the. Saturdays of home football games. Jane grew up with this re­lationship (to ND) and so her asso­ciation is natural.". In addition to Byrne's ties, Mayor Michael BHandic attended Notre Dame for a semester. in 1947.. 
In contrast with Msgr. Egan's near firsthand observations on the Chi­cago political system, Prof. Edward Cronin ' of the General Program Department views the .system from afar: "My uncle was a precinct captain, and that's about as close as T came to politics." 
Echoing Msgr. Egan's definition of the "machine," Cronin stresses its professional quality. "With Chicago, politics is not an amateur's pas­time; that's for the pros. You can tell the pros by the way the machine works; with them, it works as well the day after the election as the day before." 
The popular notion of political payoffs and under~the-table dealings within the machine has an interest­ing place in Prof. Cronin's view of Chicago politics. Referring to the Sain-Bilandic .alleged , payoff for snow removal; he says, "Now I sup­pose most Chicagoans are ·not sur­prised when they find .out a poli­tician gets paid something for doing something for the city. In fact, as a Chicagoan, I'd be surprised if he did it for nothing. In other words, a Chicagoan is a good politician be~ cause he's not shocked when he sees the resuit of original sin. Now, a Republican is always shocked with original sin and its aftermath." 
To Prof. Cronin, Mayor Bilandic's downfall came not as a result of the Sain affair, or as a result of the stifling blizzard, but as· a result of "losing his cool." In a speech in which he likened himself to Jesus Christ being persecuted, Bilandic ap­parently lost any aura of profession­alism. Cronin states, "If was truly shameful." 
Political machines have not been viewed popularly, something _Cronin finds strange. "For a society like America to knock the , machine is a little odd. If the machines_does good things, it's a good machine. If it doesn't, it's a bad one. ·· For the most part, the Chicago machine has been a good one, and not only for its own mechanics.... When a man (Daley) wins by 75%, that's winning big, and you win that big by being that good." 
Part of "being that ·good" in­volves efficiency in government, again reverting to the idea of a 

working coalition. To start in that 
organization, Cronin states, requires 
starting "pretty much from the bot­
tom," as opposed to starting from 
the outside. "You might say, 'What 
about Jane Byrne?' Well, she's a 
homegrown product; she's one of 
Daley's appointments. She was an 
insider who was pushed outside but 
wanted to be inside where .she al­
ways thought she belonged." 
As for those who claim the ma­
chine is dead, Cronin states, "The 
machine has not been wrecked. This 
election proves it's merely being re­
tooled. I believe Chicago voters saw 
that Bilandic doesn't know how to 
drive (the machine); Byrne has had 
her driving license for quite · some 
time now." · 
In illustrating some of the ties be­
. tween Chicago politics ·and Notre Dame, Prof. Cronin says, ''I taught Mr. Byrne while .he was at Notre Dame; he was in the General Pro~ gram. I also taught two of the ·Nash boys of the Kelly-Nash ma­chine. With those two, whenever I wanted to know what was really going on in Chicago, I'd just go to them. And then I had Dan Shannon in a class. He was a linebacker for 
APRIL 6, 1979 
the team, a·nd his family was· in­natural.. "Mom's whole campaign all volved in the inner circle. I also had along had been pointing out the in­Joe Bertrand, a great basketball equities in the Bilandic administra­player for ND. He was a city tion." treasurer and is presently running As the nominee's daughter, 
for alderman." 
Prof. Thomas Schlereth of the American Studies Department iden­tifies the machine in not only a posi­tive light but a negative light as well. 
· "It is politics conducted with nep­otism, family preference, patron­age for supporters, etc.," says Schlereth. "Often in the course of elections, it's a mechanism that has gotten out the vote by several means. In the course of operation, it's not out of the ordinary for the machine to reward with political patronage: jobs." 
Culturally speaking, the machine is unique in its person-to-person familial operation. "What the ma­chine reflects," says Schlereth, "is almost a feudal orientation towards politics; city hall was the paternal figure to help immigrants get started. To_ them, -this was expected and understood. __ Such acceptance nurtured the machine's growth. 
"Mayor Daley exemplified the ideal leader in such a system. He was of the philosophy that you should take care of your own. He saw this as perfectly natural_· and good." 
The contemporary Chicago scene, unlike decades past, is not character~ ized by new arrivals ·. and "looking out for our own." As a result, such a system's function comes into ques­tion. -"There are challenges, rivals, who wish to reform the machine. Many ·of these people do it 'for per­sonal gain but I think the significant challenge to the system is the neigh­borhood groups who seem to lie vy­ing for the Big Brother role. This tends to -pressthe machine and I be~ lieve the machine will have to assert 
. . . 

itself in response. _"One __ such reform . politician is Jane Byrne: She's interesting be­cause she· seems to straddle the fence," he says. ."We can be -sure that she will try to continue Daley's legacy. She's fiery." · · No one is more familiar with Jane Byrne -. than . her -own. daughter, Kathy Byrne.-A senior at St. Mary's ··.majoring in government,: : Kathy worked on her mother's campaign ~nd vie~s the election results as 
Kathy enjoys occasionally being both confidante and unofficial ad­visor: "There have been a few times 
-when she has asked me 'What do you think about ... ?' but usually when her mind's made up, it's firmly made up." 
·Commenting on her mother's probable· tenure as mayor, Kathy speculates that "she'll be very IJ!l;!_Ch . like Mayor Daley in terms of ad­-ministration. ·In that respect, she will carry on the machine tradition." To be· mayor of Chicago involves 
-a certain degree of national prom­inence. If elected mayor, does she expect her mother to eventually en­ter national politics? 
"I hope not," says Kathy. _"Run­ning for Chicago office is bad enough. I don't think she's going to seek na­ticmal elective office. She'll work for the cities at the national level and that's about as far as I think she'll go." 
Greg Oberland, a . senior govern-. ment major, is also a native Chi­cagoan and an interested_ observer_ of Chicago poHtics. The primary result, he concurs, did not spell the end of the Democratic organization. 
"She (Jane .Byrne) was part of the machine all along,'; he says. "You-must. remember that Daley gave (Byrne) her first break_ !n poli­tics. __ 
"What's really .interesting about the primary is that I don't think she won so much on a pro-Jane Byrne vote but rather on an anti~Bilandic vote." Oberland _continues, -"The election came at a very bad time for Bilandic; it was right after the blizzard and inefficiencies in admin­
-istration were -starting-to show. If · the primary had been in the sum­mer, Bilandic might have won. 
· 

"Chicagoans have _high expecta­tions of their government because it worked so well _under_ Daley. Bilan­dic's administration was showing signs of ineptitude and so the peo­ple looked for a change. Jane Byrne will definitely bring change." 
_Whether Chicagoans definitely de­cide to bring about such a change will soon be seen. The mayoral elec~ tions were held April 3. ~achine · dead? We'll see. _O .· 
NORTH SIDE .... SOUTH SIDE 
by Jim Trausch 

(February 20-8 a.m.) The phone is 
ringing in my room for what seems 
like the twentieth time already. The 
caller, without so much -as a hello, 
begins~••What do· you think of the 
trade the Cubs · made with the 
Phillies?" I mumble something inco­
herent in return and glance at a Chi­
cago Tribune Sports headline pro­
claiming the· trade on· my bedroom 
floor. Being.. the _number-one Cub 
fan on campus has such drawbacks. 
But the trade has made one im­
portant contribution to my day: The 
long winter of Black Hawk hockey, 
Bears football, and Bulls on CBS is 
over. On this steely-grey Indiana 
morning there is a glimmer of light; 
Next Year is here for the Cubs. 
Just what would make a Cub fan 
eagerly await the start of a new 
season is unfathomable to outsiders 
of the Windy City. How could any­
one in their right mind like a team 
that has not won -anything · since 
1945? Every year they start out 
strong and every year it's the same 
old-story --"June. Swoon," ahd 
"Good-bye in July." But -Cub fans 
are tough and loyal; .they don't let 
little things like errors and ten-game 
losing streaks in September dampen . · their enthusiasm. Their ties to the · North Side Boy Wonders go beyond 
the usual fan-team relationship. 
Chicagoans love the Cubs. 
_Their love for the teameven starts 
with the ball park. God himself built 
Wrigley Field, -the hcmie of the Cubs. 
SCHOLASTIC 


There is no shiny, slick, green astro~ turf stretching from wall to wall like indoor-outdoor carpeting. Instead, a beautiful, lush, green field of real grass. The ivy on the walls gives it a scholarly quality. No electronic scoreboard flashing large-scale pic­tures distracts Cub fans. The score­board is manually operated and gives only the information essential to the enjoyable viewing of a.game. 
Curt Gowdy often refers• to Fen­way Park as · a "cozy and exclusive nightclub." If that is accurate, then Wrigley Field is your living room­homey and casual. The best seats in the house are in the left field bleach­ers. You have to get to the ball park by ten a.m: to gain those coveted seats, but the bother is well worth it. Once there, most fans discard un­necessary· clothing, spread on some suntan lotion, kick back, soak up some ·rays, and, of course, watch the 
game.. 
Cub games are always excitingbe­cause the _smallness of the ball park means that many• runs are scored. No· deficit is too large for,the Cubs to overcome and, unfortunately,· the reverse is more often true. No Cub lead is really safe. But that brings back: the . subject•.of winning, and this. is .not a topic Cub fans intelli­gently'discuss. ·Yes: Cub fans really believe that this year they can win the Eastern Division.' No, they are not candidates for Nurse Ratchet's floor. 
Cub fans look at the season as they do a Peanuts comic strip-the one. where Lucy · holds the football for Charlie Brown. Everyone knows that Lucy will pick the ball up at the last moment and Chuck will fall flat on his back. Yet, just once, you hope Lucy will leave the· football there and let Charlie Brown kick it. Lucy can not keep it up forever, sooner or later the law of averages will right things and Charlie Brown will kick that ball. It is the same way with Cub fans. Everyone knows that the Cubs cannot win the division, every­one except Cub fans. They are the same ones who believe that someday Lucy will be nice to Charlie Brown. One of these years they just have to win it. In fact, the more the Cubs lose, the more adamant Cub fans be­come in their belief that this will finally be the year. 
The annoying thing about it is that the season always starts out so welt On opening day you can be sure of three things; thousands of grade-schoolers will mysteriously call in sick, they will recover in time to pack Wrigley tQ the tune of 40,000, and the Cubs will win. They will win in April and they will win in May but, with each win a dark, ominous cloud . appears. It is the same boogeyman that haunts them every year. They're too far out in front, they will never be able to sus­tain the pace, they're gonna choke. Fighting hard, the true Cub fan can 
',,,--~-. 
./ J~~><it0 "1.• Ll ;"~: 

suppress these thoughts. But a new danger appears. 
About this time, the White Sox be­gin to make noises. Up until. then it was easy to ignore, but they begin to steal the limelight from the Cubs. Sooner or later, it never fails, soine unknowing person suggests the won­derful possibility of a Cubs-White· Sox World Series. Let's get one thing straight right now: such ·an event would be the worst thing, be­sides more snow, that could happen to the city. Cub fans hate the White Sox and Sox fans hate the Cubs. Neither would have it any other way. 
·Furthermore, the lowest. day in a Cub fan's life would be the day the White Sox beat the Cubs in a Series. The reverse is true for Sox fans. Cub fans would rather see their team finish in last place than watch them lose to the Sox in a Series. It is the same for ChiSox backers. 
But letis give the White Sox and their fans credit. They weather a lot in their love for the Sox, too. They coexist with what they view as a 
. hostile press. Most sportswriters are unabashedly pro-Cubbie. Soxers root for the only foam ever to throw a World Series. Even more embar­rassing is the fact that they did not even get paid for the deal. They have not seen Series action in two dec­ades. Yet, their fans remain as in­tensely loyal and devoted as their Cub counterparts. 
APRIL: 6, 1979 
This is not an easy task. Whereas Wrigley Field is likened to your liv­ing room, Comiskey Park is like the attic above the garage -,-cramped, stuffy, dusty, and unbearably hot. It is in this sauna of a park that the· South Side Hitmen chase the di­visional crown. In spite of the en­closed nature of the park, it does have a certain character about it ­being one of the oldest parks in the American League. 
Sox fans do not give a hoot about the structure of the park, just what kind of outrageous behavior they will unleash once inside. They are the crazy fans of the American League. They dance in the aisles, sing songs (they put "Sha-Na-Na­Na," "Hey, Hey, Goodbye'' back into Casey Kasem's Top 40), and wor­ship beerguzzling announcer Harry Caray. They take particular delight in unnerving the crybaby Kansas City Royals who come apart at the seams at the first contact with Sox fans. 
The average Sox fan· is ·a factory worker with a big beer belly who pays his two dollars to come out to the park to watch his team and drink, but not necessarily in that order. 'The Sox players reflect their fans. They are the misfits and cast~ offs from around the league molded together by 'their eccentric owner Bill Veeck. There are no loudmouth, lazy, overpriced free agents on the team, and the fans appreciate this. Their uniforms fit this image. They look like they should be worn by the 
Acme Plumbing and Storm Door Company softball team. 
The play on the field often r~ 
sembles a softball game -lots of 
home runs and very little defense. 
This makes for good entertainment 
and White Sox fans will trek to the 
·park in droves again and again to 
enjoy the good times. 
In fact, .. both the . Cubs and the 
White Sox attendance records figure to be in. jeopardy this year. Last year, with both teams out of the pennant races by -September, they drew over 1½ million apiece. If either team could stay in the race the entire season, a gate of 2 minion is n_ot inconceivable. Regardless of whether the Cubs or the_ Sox make · a legitimate run for the top, the fans will continue to support their team. Rain or ·shine, win or lose, Cub and Sox backers love their boys. D . 

John Prine: 
Chicago's Folk 
Hero 
·by Tom B~lcerek 


You may see me tonight with an illegal. smile/. It don't cost very rnuch but it lasts a · long while/ Won't you please tell the, man I didn't ·kill anyone/ I'm just tryin' to have -me some fun-John Prine 
One lazy Saturday afternoon I cranked the television . dial past Bandstand, baseball, cartoons, Wild Kingdom and ·Sesame Street, only to stop at the sound of..fiddles and a cheering crowd. On the stage was a man who looked like he needed directions and a shave. He was awk­wardly sipping at a Budweiser and trying to introduce his next song while a zipping bee laid claim to the immediate area . around· his head. He swatted at the bee twice before he lost his composure com­pletely, put down his guitar and ran. That's when I saw his pointy­toed cowboy boots. 
I decided to stick around. for this one. 
The man on _the stage :was John Prine. The occasion·, was the 197 4 Philadelphia. Folk Festival and . up to this . point . in time I • had . never even heard of the guy. John Prine returned from the bee. attack gig­gling and went into an appropri­ately inspired , rendering of "Dear Abby," a comic song in which Abby answers.all questions with the mes­sage: "You have no complaint. You are what you are and you ain't what you ain't." By now my a_tten-. tion was solidly focused on Prine 
SCHOLASTIC 

as he stood staring at who knows what and blinking away occasion­ally at something that seemed to be trying to get at him. Only this time there was no bee in sight. Prine followed Dear Abby with . a weighty song called Sam Stone, a poignant yet cynical piece about a Vietnam· veteran hooked on heroin. He was sharp here too as his rusty­can voice etched out the haunting lyrics, "There's a hole in Daddy's arm where all •. the money goes/ Jesus Christ died for nothing I sup­pose.II By this time, John Prine had himself a new fan. 
The next time I saw John Prine on TV was a couple of years later on Saturday Night Live. He looked like a scared rabbit as he barely eked out a song about a station wagon full of · nuns or something falling to "the bottom of the bot­tomless pit."· He came back on later in. the show, '"a little less strung­out, t~ sing what had become one of my favorites,· Hello. in There, a song about old people: I was glad to see hini again but it was obvious that he had changed: he was clean­shaven arid a little less sure of him~ self. ·I guess national exposure can· do that to a person. 
John Prine js Chicago's own, but he's a country boy.at heart. He grew up Jn a working-class suburb called Maywood where his. nickname was "Hillbilly." Apparently Prine had kept close ties with his heritage: the coal mining town of Paradise in western Kentucky where his pater­nal grandfather was a carpenter and his mother's father ran a ferry~ boat on the Green River. In May­wood, Prine struggled .through high school and then held a variety of jobs before going to work at the post office as a mailman. .He was drafted into the · Vietnam war and got married . to his high school sweetheart while · in the army. Shortly after he_ returned from the war, Prine .found his post office job was a grind, so he started writing songs in 1970 ·and performing them at the·Fifth. Peg, a Chicago night­club. He started playing on a. regu­lar basis at. the Earl of Old Tonio, another Chicago club where he . was eventually discovered_ by . Kris Kristofferson, who whisked. him off to New York shortly thereafter~ 
The transition from civil servant to public persona · was unsettling. 
· Referring to his overnight success, Prine stated, "There were people saying 'You're great, man-you're a fucking· genius!' If I'm such a genius, how come it took· me five years ·to get out of high school?" But the praise heaped on John Prine was warranted. His coarse voice is not very pretty, but his lyrics and the conviction with which he sings them are sure to find a place in the ear of the thoughtful listener. If he takes you in with his lyrics, you're hooked. Besides that, Prine has the knack for writing tunes that are catchy. 
On the one hand, critics have accused him of trying to copy the style of Bob Dylan (there arc some similarities) and on the other, Prine himself says that if there were anyone he wished to emulate it would be Roger Miller. "I like tunes that pop right out at you from the car radio and you can't help but tap your feet," says Prine. "Those are the kinds of songs that I would like to write." 
Well, there have been catchy, "poppy" tunes in John Prine's past like Flashback Blues and Your Flag Decal Won't Get You Into Heaven Anymore but none of them·· have ever gotten the chance to pop out of car radios with any consis­tency. · With the qualified exception of Hello in There, John Prine has never had· a hit. And after listen­ing to his most recent album Bruised Orange it appears that he would. like to have one. This album, released in 1978, is his most commercial attempt to date, but that's · not saying very much considering his previous material. With a voice that you could ·strike a match on, 1;1.nd a twangy hillbilly tinge to his songs, which stay pretty much in the realm of folk and blue­grass, Prine hasn't sold enough · al­bums to be considered a "major artist." But with major artists such as the Bee Gees these days, the dis­tinction is dubious at best. · 
Bruised 'Orange, which was produced for Electra/Asylum rec­ords by Steve Goodman, is a clean album with a "poppy" texture with­in which Prine's snappy lyrics are showcased for optimal ·ustening pleasure.· Admittedly, the album is a commercial attempt, but· it is a good commercial attempt not sac­rificing any of Prine's integrity for the sake of airplay: The album can be seen as a washed and scrubbed 

APRIL 6, 1979 



John Prine. And considering his in­solubility as an artist, it is, per­haps, John Prine at his best. It is in­teresting, too, because it seems to reflect a change in Prine's way of looking at things. He &eems to be telling the listener he has learned something. In a statement concern-· ing the. title cut of Bruised · Or­ange (subtitled Chain of Sor­row) Prine says, "The chain of sorrow is getting pissed off about getting pissed off and· you just end up double pissed off, like a chain reaction." He expresses this idea more eloquently in the lyrics of the song: 
· A heart stained. in anger/ grows weak and grow bitter/ You be­come . your own prisoner/ as you watch yourself/ sit there/ wrapped up in a trap/ of your very own/ chain· of sorrow 
Without this infinite· regress of melancholy that has both plagued and graced• his . previous . albums, Prine now seems to be ready to register perceptions of another kind:• less psychological, more ex­periential. The old guard John Prine fans will surely miss wallowing in the mire of such classics as The Late John Garfield Blues and Far From Me, but Prine contends that the change was necessary. "I'm getting to be 31 and I ain't out to kick the world's ass no more," he explains,. "I just want to get up in · the morning and have a good time." Prine has even developed a prayer for his new life-style: 
Father forgive us for what we must do/ , You forgive ·us, we'll forgive you/ We'll forgive each other till be botli turn blue/ Then we'll whistle and · go fishing in heaven. D 
•-:M•.· · ·· • • ··:' · ~ l 
-i 
, 

Take a scat-singing emcee who is irked by liver, a clarinetist who-en­joys dueting with Canadian accor­dionists, two funked-up dudes on reeds and keyboards, and a drum­mer named after a city, place them gently alongside a bassist/horse­man and an ever-present critic, and you \\'ill have undoubtedly begun to 

explore the deep-rooted logic of the Collegiate Jazz Festival, the annual du Lac Bacchanalian-mu~ical rite of 
• 

.. sprmg. 
Something, though, as .the toe: tapping jazz connoissieur will sure­ly note, is . missing from this rhythm-stained crowd. Some. final rounding of the heptagon's . edge, . one last magical gesticulation, one 
· final brick of entertainment. The pro­curer of this solid cube, and al~ mighty· man of mortar;. is · none other than _Jethro _Burns, possesso_r of an acoustic mystique, and, _of course, talents worthy only of the world's greatest mandolinist. 
For Jethro Burns, prankster ex­traordinaire and nimble-fingered wizard ·of fretted wood, a special musical category must, and does exist. Few people · in any mode of artistic expression are ever . criti­cally, or publicly, acclaimed .as un­disputed master of their .particular endeavor. Fortunately, one of the few exceptions to this. subjectivity of taste, technique or talent is the question: "Who is the greatest man­dolinist?" By anybody's abacus, any type of music from . Classical to Bluegrass (with amuscled emphasis on Swing) the· answer is, naturelle­ment, Monsieur Burris.. ' . 
Although. Jethro exists peacefully these days in local an'd suburban Chicagoland pubs such as Char­lotte's Web .and' Somebody E'lse's 
. Troubles, he first found earthly foot­ing in Conasonga, · Tenriess·ee. Born in this· Southern mecca in 1920, he endured a • Knoxville • adolescence which, to · music's gairi, introduced him to the mandolin. · By the age of 12, already a pro­digious plucker, .Jethro landed . a studio job at WNOX in: Knoxville along with brother Aytchie (ori bass) and_ two other~-young '· guitarists, Henry Haynes and · Charlie Haga~ man. Utilizing creativity · in the extreme, fine :wit· and lavish spon­taneity, they named themselves the String Dusters arid becarrie station regulars: .. remaining.,at • WNOX for the next seven years.· In-1937, Jeth­ro and Henry isplit • from the four: some and' headed· for Kentucky. There they joined forces with the Renfro Valley Barn Dance ·as a mandolin-arid-guitar" dtiet. ·.· Hank changed his professional name to Homer, and, to Renfro's good for­tune, Homer and. Jethro were born. 
· SCHOLASTIC 


After dual hitches in the war, H & J reunited somewhere in the Mid­west and began recording for King records. After a few musical years, they moved to R.C.A. The first hit Homer . and ·Jethro produced for their new payrollers was a satire on a Frank · Loesser tune, which they titled Baby, It's Coul Out­side. · Released'' with "apologies;" this number seemed to take a tar;. paulin off the duo's hoard .of humor. For the next twenty years, until Henry Haynes' . death; they un­leashed a typhoon of parodies on every imaginable hit with, of course, thin-grinned apologies every time. Their versions of Hound Dog, .and . Battle of Cucamonga were tre­mendous sellers, the latter reaping a Grammy for best humorous record­ing of 1959. 
So, Grammy intact, Homer and Jethro proceeded to cut two albums of light, swinging instrumentals en­titled Playing It Straight, and It Ain't Necessarily So. Both sold out in their initial releases and, -for some unfathomable rea­son, have never been reissued. After this output, however, there is a gap in Jethro's recorded material, lead­ing the jazz enthusiast to howl the question "where is .that dude?" Has Jethro's ·. inandolinic · voice been ·stifled? · Has he cut any discs, scrawled· his musical finesse into plastic anywhere? Has . his stringed mallet become , warped, infirm or wholly closeted? Hardly. 
Since' :the breakup of H & ..J, 

Jethro· Burns· has been· one of the . busiest. studio . men around. Mak­ing his way into the ears of Chi­cagoans during the folk boom of the late 60's and 70's, he soon ac­quired a mystique equal to that of the early John Prine. Chi-towners of acoustic patronage grin upon 
APRIL 6, 1979 
mention of his name, and spill beer on their shirts in reverie. They re­member the swinging music, spon­taneity, and drive of his perform­ances. They recall his wit and spark and his droll, occasionally bordering­on-bawdy stories. Most of all, though, they recall the man, and his style, his touch of class .. 
Whatever the case, whatever the occasion, Jethro Burns must be re­garded as a virtuoso performer, and a pickin' legend whose motto exists in the words placed after this semi­colon; "pure swing." Jethro has come of age, certainly not an age 
by Joe Carey 

of talent, for he achieved .that long ago, but, ·more importantly, an age of recognition. In the same way, the 'collegiate Jazz Festival, too, has come of age.: So, whether you be Chicagoan, townie, a religious on sabbatical, Gregorian monk, or a just plain jazz-hungry music. buff, join Jethro and his combo on Satur­day night, April 7, in Stepan Center as he etches the final musical lines of the twenty-first Collegiate Jazz Fes­tival into the past. It may be the most enjoyable jazz encounter ·yoti have until CJF _#22 rolls around. D 

Perspective 
I 
The purpose of this essay is to speculate about what rape is, its im­plications, and how it may serve to instigate change. 
To that end, let me give five ex­amples: ,. ·: · Rape· most commonly might be thought of as a violent · assault oc­curring on the street. Rape is also one of the atrocities that accompa­nies war, often . occurring on massive scales. It . is also rape when an employer. forces an em­ployee to have sex with · him with the often implicit -threat of firing· (the employee who uses her body to "get ahead" to some extent is anticipating her employer). Rape can occur between •. a married couple, and I mean here :to include not only when violence is used but also simply when a woman does not feel she has the right to refuse her husband sex. Finally, let me include the macabre incident that happened to a friend ( and prompted -these re­
flections): after going out for sev­eral weeks to restaurants, the theater and other shows with a man, at his 
expense, there came a time when he felt he had a right to have sex with her and became outraged upon being denied; clearly he felt there was a tacit· agreement which had been broken. I am told situations like this, though perhaps not as overt, are not uncommon. 
These actions are dissimilar in a number of ways: Only the first two are commonly thought of as_·criminal other -but it is rape in :that the woman no longer feels she has con­trol over her body; the fifth is not, of course, actually rape, but per­haps most readily yields to an analy.:­sis of the attitudes that rape man­ifests. 

There is a fundame~tal similarity among·· · all these . actions, · though, when· examined in connection with our economic relations. Let me men­tion, then, what we · all know: that we are in many ways not members of an egalitarian society. There is a hierarchy of power, if you will, that determines the control we have over the worldly affairs of our lives. There is a frightening equivalency between our economic and political or social positions in society. This 
by Paul Lauer 

nomically so as well. 
Rape in war is one way of show­ing that the people you have con­quered, or are trying to conquer, are in your power. War is, of course, all about domination, but .it is fought by men with women only rarely participati~g .. Why, then, do ·men so consistently rape women in·\Var?_ Is rape really just one·:way of subject­ing a people? Is it incidental . to an end or an end in· itself? Is it some­thing which happens . when men, jaded . from. slaughtering other men, turn their attention to women? But still the question remains, why rape? 
Victory in war is usually· accom:-. panied by some fo~ of . economic subordination or exploitation; .it can be· an overt power-play making a 
"This hierarchy, which: places one group over another, underlies· · the phenomenon of rape.II . 
hierarchy, which places one._person or group over another, underlies the phenomenon of rape. The employer, husband and my friend's date all have economic power; the employer most obviously. As I· .understand the Rideout · case, there is still no legal· precedent of a . man · having been convicted of raping his wife. 
I understand that economic relations will be bound by law but when such an effect·• of that·. subordination as . 
and sometimes only the first is· .· rape is also legally sanctioned; ·we thought to . be done by criminals; . must make changes'. · And my friend the first and second are not. always . placed herself in a. compromising directed at the young and beautiful position by unquestioningly accept­as I imagine the third usually is; the ing a custom that · has, at best, a fourth, paradoxically, might occur .. questjonable origin; Women; in order. between two people who love each to be . independent, •must be eco~ ability to control his life. Compare this to the employer raping his em­ployee where there is no economic impotence. 
whole country only means  to your  
end. But this is ·only an overt ex­ample of_ what · all too often never  
comes to violence because the condi­ 
tion of the subordinated is not such  
.that they· can resist being exploited  
(Le., blacks in America).· And with  
the war comes all too often extensive  
an'd brt1taf raping of women:  ·  
-The rape in the street is .similar to rape in war, at least· so tar:~ both  
depend ·on physical' strength, and in .that tbey are more conscious. demon­strations. of '. power. They :differ, though, in that :the rapist in the streets needs to assert. powei?and, 'in ·some cases I piink; this.·'. 'need  l I i  
. might be grounded in economic im_. potence, in a:.frustration at ' an iri­ 

What I would ·like to conclude from this is that rape accompanies the subjection of-women· to men, the subjection that shows itself more conventionally in man's economic, social, and political power over women.. We may learn much about rape by not viewing it as an isolated phenomenon committed by. psycho­paths, but by examining our own re­lations with women. These five ex­amples cover .a·'frighteningly com­plete spectrum_of life. They show how desperately .wrong something is in the way men,· as a whole, view women. The fear is that there is in man's collective psyche a view of women that gives itself to rape.. 
II 

The second part of ·this essay at­tempts to reveal how we consciously or unconsciously view ·women. I really have only one. other observa­tion to make; Jt wiII not answer why, but it does move the inquiry to a different leveL 
· Let me begin in the following way: if I as a man say that I take enjoyment or delight in the beauty of another man's body, I believe that I would be at least suspected of be­ing a homosexual. A moment's.· re­flection will determine the truth ·of this observation. The reason for this, let me postulate, is that we, as men, 
equate a woman's beauty with the desirability of having sex with her. So unconscious and strong is this equation that my comments on a man's beauty· are confused with a sexual desire· on my part. That there is no necessary connection between beauty and sexual desire should be obvious, though I fear it is not. 
Most advertisements arid maga~ 
zines such as Playb<Y!J are notorious 
for making this equation, and I here 
point to only the most obvious ex­
amples. The· difference between last 
month's · foldout and an Edward 
Weston nude is obvious. Yet, are 
fashionable clothes a celebration of 
a beautiful body or the slick pack­
aging of a sexual object? 
The distinction between enjoying the beauty of a woman and seeing and appreciating that beauty only in relation to one's own misdirected desires may be hard to make. When_ we view another as the means to the satisfaction of our desire we are treating that person as an object, not as a person, not with . respect. And when we judge people by their beauty or clothing styles, we are being equally vicious, equally shal­low. This is the main point. Erot­icism and erotic love are, I think, healthy aspects of culture, but sex­ual desire, when out of place, loses its meaning. As the point is subtle, I may only be able to give one ob­vious example to make the distinc­tion more clear: a pretty girl walks . by and a crowd. of men, with· the dull and stupid curiosity of buffalo, swing th°eir heads around to stare. David Mamet's Sexual Perversity in Chicago is a caricature, I hope, o! just this type of behavior and is in• 
deed perverse. 
There is a reciprocity to this be­
havior when women see themselves 
as objects. In what other way can 
we understand the fashion, perfume 
and cosmetic industries with their 
overemphasis and wro'ng emphasis 
placed· on physical beauty? 
This consciousness is a rape of 
women, not less because figurative, 
bu·t worse because so pervasive. ,It 
is rape in· that we treat women as sexual objects. The thesis of this es­say is simply that rape is amani­festation of this consciousness.. The outrage of my friend's· date and the violent assault on the street are re­lated in. that they are0• express ex­amples of :the way men view women. If you have ·not already, I can only ask that you examine how deeply this attitude pervades our culture; from the last issue of Playboy mag­azine to, for example, the sonnet sequences of the English Rena.is-. sance and certainly beyond, man has· portrayed. women as . objects of his sexual gratification. 
III 

What remains unclear is whether 
this is a special . problem or part of 
a larger problem..What is the dif­
ference between our treatment of 
women and, say, blacks? What is the 
extent to which we treat an· others 
as means to our ends? (I feel that 
our mistreatment of women is more 
substantial but I would have trouble 
pointing out why _that is; · so let us 
stay with the similarities.) 
Even if our society· was fully in­
tegrated there would still be a hier­archy of power. And even if all in­dividuals were able to move freely, according to their talents, _to a cer­tain level, we still would have a diffi­cult time justifying the treatment of those on the low side as means to an end. At alnevels of an organiza­tion, from the ·assembly. line to the president, individuals are replace­able, they fulfill certain roles. These . roles are all means to a larger·end, even those at the top are constrained in what :they can do by the ends of profit and market position. It be­comes a necessity to treat others in the hierarchy, as their role demands, either as a means to your end or 
APRIL 6, 1979 
with obedience if they are higher than you.. And if this is not bad enough, all too often the only rela­tionship we have with our roles is that we are paid to fulfill them; the roles are.not intrinsically satisfying. This leads to a schizophrenia when we try to live our· lives as human beings •and also · try to ·fulfill the roles we have. taken on to support ourselves. The result can only be that eitherour·hopes and values as human beings conflict with, being an assembly-line. worker or vice-presi~ dent, or' tlie qualities exercised and· 
reinforced in the role invade our lives, making us uncreative or un­caring. 
The absolute absurdity of this comes home when we realize that often what _is. sold,· for which the corporate hierarchy supposedly. but not actually exists, does not fulfill a real need but _one that has been literally_ created by our prodigious advertising agencies. 
· It is a process of self-deception; a circle that is complete and utterly devastating."· The. seriousness of the charge lies in ·that our very image of ourselves as. human beings, how we see each other, is at stake . .We begin to see each other not as fellow men and women but as means to our end. 
.. The very structure· of capitalism and. its complete indifference to val-, ues other than. profit lead me to think that it is a paradigm of ethical egoism· (the view that we act simply out ofself-interest and are incapable of altruism) with that. «:>ne horri­fying qualification; th,e self-interest that we act _out of is defined by the requirements of the role .we have' taken on--::-the self-interest is not in~ tririsic to us as huinari beings. In other words, we..are alienated from our work in that we take it ori not out of intrinsic interest but need for money: we are alienated from our fellow workers to the extent that we are forced to treat them as means or blindly to· obey them, and we ar~ alienated from those for whom we produce to the extent that we do not respond responsibly to their needs­to the extent that we manipulate

them. . . I would like to conclude not that ethical egoism is the universal con­dition of man in spite of the prodi­gious evidence (for we all agree, I hope; that ·we can act not out of self-interest), but rather that capital­ism actually requires this behavior toward individuals and the world. And this behavior is very similar to our. treatment of women as sexual objects, as means to our ends. 
IV 
. Women's liberation must demand 

a change in . consciousness so that 
men regard women . truly as . equals. 
This change in perception, .if you 
will, must be accompanied by a 
change in our economic· reiations; 
it is· important to see that socialist 
theory is an attempt to do just that. 
If .. we see others as ends in them­
selves we cannot in our economic re­
lationships treat them as means. We 
musf be consistent. Women . (and 
men) must realize that to· simply de­
mand entry into all areas. of society 
and to . be paid · equally for equal 
work is limited; it is to demand 
equality for a class and not for its 
individuals. . . 
. For a. revolution to begin, there must. be widespread awareness of a bask 'wrong. Rape is a symbol of, a terrible wrong. What rears .its ugly head in war; in dark streets and . lonely apartments hides its hideous bulk in our relationships with worn~ 
en, with other men, with ·other 
races, with other religions and with 
other countries. ._By focusing on 
rape and trying to understand its 
origins, its extensiveness and its im­
plications, . we might create an 
awareness that would demand mean­
ingful change. Women's liberation 
more than any other single move­
ment has. the potential· to become a 
transcendent force; the · more in­
tensively we see .that, the more ex­
tensive the change. , . 
I fear, though, that some women 
may. be responding in kind. The 
image of man in Pmygirl or Cosmo­
politan is the mirror image of wom­
en in Playboy.. Wonien here take 
on .the frightening face of their op­
pressors;, by, equating ·women's 
liberation _with sexual_ promiscuity 
and by viewing· men as sexual ob­
jects, they cultivate this conscious­
ness that I as a man find so narrow 
and defeating. It is to enter into a 
tired and deadly . strugg~e from 
which there are no winners.. 
. . -~ . . _­

It is my hope that these lines will provide a dialogue among members of our community. The topic is cer­tainly of enough importance . that, whatever the worth of this essay, it is not .unreasonable to ask for a re­sponse. Scholastic, it seems, would be an ideal place to print responses.: Needless to say, this does not repre­sent a, fully developed . theory but rather some thoughts I have recently had that I wish to zn.ake coherent and share. D 
Paul Lauer is a junior. /ram South Bend. He is. double majoring in . English and Philosophy. This-.is his 
first contribution to Scholastic. 

I Without your help,we can't afford to win. I 
I Make check payable to U.S. Olympic Committee, II P.O. Box 1980-P, Cathedral Station, Boston, MA 02118 · 
I 

I 
Name I 
Address

I I 
City

I I 
State Zip
I I 
A $___ Please send me the sy1T1bol of support checked below. I
I 
contribution D Stickpin ($10) D Tote Bag ($25) D Desk SpinnerI is enclosed. D Pendant ($25) D Visor Cap ($25) ($50) I 
Your contribution is ta.-deductible. . 
•• ...J 

' 
L -----------------­
ENGINEERING GRADUATES 
Research Assistantships are available at both the Master's and Doctoral levels in the fol­lowing areas: 
Structures 
Mechanics 
Materials 
Energy 

Computer Systems 
Others 
BENEFITS: 

• Free tuition 
e Stipend 
• Challenging research 
RESPONSI Bl LITIES: 
• 
Research Assistance -half time (20 hrs/week) 

• 
Academic Performance 


(3.0 GPA or better) 
Inquire about this excellent oppor­tunity by writing or calling 
Dr. Gerry Albers University of Dayton 300 College Park Avenue Dayton, Ohio 45469 :(513) 229-2241 





