

This annual Notre Dame event will provide you the first opportunity to meet with representatives from ... 
* 
200+ Student Clubs/Organizations *Academic Clubs 

* 
30+ Local Service Agencies * Club Sports Teams 

* 
RecSports * Ethnic Clubs 

* 
Center for Social Concerns * Service/Social Action Clubs 

* 
Student Union Board * Special Interest Clubs 

* 
Student Government 


Over 3,500 students attended last year! Don't be left out! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CHECK OUT ACTMTIES NIGHT ON-LINE AT: 
,-...;
w w w • n d • e d u I s a 0 I a n 

M E R
20Q(JM 
-·' 't
,:,• ···--·: 
,.·..: -~_-_,:.:_:; 
(~h-;Bi~ s~~ops . 1 1·O 
'\_ by Jared Marx 1 
'~~-o~~s-ti~ ·;~vi;:st~~~~~~ n~:~ 
stories of the 1999-2000 academic  j  
year to bring you up to date.  1 II .  
I  

((Clti~~-i~~ at Notre Dame 13
'i· 
\. . by Jacki Kiefer 
'<----· .· -· ·..... . .... --·-···------····-· -----·-.. _J
·•-•,o-••-··-·•• ---··-----····-·-···--7
~ 
i 
A world of opportunities -ranging from service to athletics -"-is available to ND students. 
/ Pack it 
up, Move it out 16 
~; by Jacki Kiefer and Kristen A/worth , '-•:.= ..ccc·c···: ,_.......~ . =-.c......... ·.• c~·-, ......=,1J 
Start preparing for the move now! , Some advice from veteran packers. · 
. -~--------------------­
;(/ ' 
l Something to Believe In 7 by AggieNoble ._ 
:1 Names fo ·Remember · 8 
I by Lies/ Marx 
l: 
i.:_ : · 
Home Sweet Home 
1 by Jacki Kiefer 
11 Long Uve Sports ­
22
i: by Gerard Meskill 
l: And Now For Something Fun 26 
by Kara Zuaro 
1; ActNow 28 !i byKathleen Corte 
'.,\ 
'\~ 
'-:.....,__,_,_· _____ --• ----.··---~-~-%·:::,;~;_:;;:-::::_-:----··-­
7: . ' ' 



Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore 
Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Jared P. Marx, editor 
Agatha Noble, assistant 
Jane E. Pater, assistant Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant 
Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Kathleen M. Corte, assistant 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, assistant 
Design Matthew Barr, editor 
Crissy Manary, assistant 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Nolan D. Orfield, assistant 
Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Online Brian Scofield, webmaster 
http://www.nd.edu/~scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The official fraction of Scholastic magazine is 1/81.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. · 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
really don'tknow?" he asked. I explained again that I really didn't 
know who the quarterback of the football team was. In fact, as a new arrival on campus, I didn't know very much about Notre Dame's traditions. I had seen pictures ofthe Dome and the Basilica, and, while I had attended a Notre Dame-Army game, it was in Giants Stadium, not on the hallowed ground of Knute Rockne and legends past. 
I had a lot to learn. 
Over the next three years, I became intimately familiar with the traditions and legends that haunt this campus. The folklore and stories became a part of my life, not just obscure tales about faraway places. But for all the traditions at this university, the most important thing about it is not its legends, but its people. This fall, you will be joining a group of incredibly talented and incredibly good people. What you make ofthe experience will be entirely up to you. Ifyou choose to spend your entire time here slaving away in an obscure comer of the library, you will have missed what Notre Dame is about. Notre Dame is certainly about academics, but itis also about going to Meijer at 3 a.m., it is about running through Stonehenge and it is about discussions that stretch into the wee hours of the morning. Don't let the work and the stress make you lose sight of the opportunities you have. Because it's very easy, watching the sun rise over South Bend from a computer lab, to forget that thousands of people would jump at the chance to be at the University of Notre Dame. 
But I would also urge you never to let the gilding of the Dome blind you to the problems that exist on this campus. Real people with real difficulties go here. What sets Notre Dame students apart is the way that they respond to those difficulties. Notre Dame is not perfect, and it will only improve if the students continue to insist on a higher standard. 
When I came to this campus, I did not know much about Notre Dame. In fact, I wasn't even sure if I belonged here. Now, I can't imagine my life without it. 
A Notre Dame Tradition 
Scholastic is a student-produced biweekly magazine. Founded in 1867, it is the nation's oldest college publication and one ofNotre Dame's oldest traditions. Each year, Scholastic offers undergraduates the chance to get involved in all facets of magazine production, from writing and editing to photography and design. If you're interested in any of the opportunities available at Scholastic, feel free to stop by our office in the basement of South Dining Hall, give us a call at 1-7569, or drop us an e-mail at scholast@nd.edu. We 're always looking for new staff members to continue the 133-year-old tradition. / ~ 
r Jim Pastore 
Editor In Chief 
SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 



PrejudiceReductionWorkshops 
Dates and times will be announced 
I am interested in the Prejudice Reduction Workshops. 
name 
home address 
home phone number 
campus address 
Students, staff, and professors will be offered the opportunity to participate in diversity sensitivity workshops. 
These workshops are presented by the Notre Dame 
affiliate of the National 
Coalition Building Institute. 
If·you are interested in learning 
how to confront oppressi~n ... 
Sign up for more information. 
Dates and times will be announced. Keep watching Scholastic for more information. 
Please send ,,to: Adele Lanan Student Activlties Office 315 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
campus phone number email address 



Learn Your Irish 
A lexicon of key words you'll need to know 
AFS {space): University-provided per­sonal storage space for computer files. Ac­cessible campus-wide, from both Macs and PCs. 
D6, D2: Student parking lots. Located west of South Quad and east of Mod Quad, respectively. 
DART: Direct Access Registration by Telephone. The touch-tone class-registra­tion system. 
Detex: Trademark for electronic door keys used at Notre Dame, primarily in women's dorms. 
Dogbook: The annual photo directory of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen. Traditionally used as an aid for finding SYR dates. 
Grab-N-Go: Take-out dining-hall meals in a brown paper sack. Just make sure you only take five items. 
Fieldhouse Mall: Landscaped area im­mediately surrounding Stonehenge used for outdoor festivities. From former location of the Fieldhouse, a long-demolished athletic facility. 
Hookup: Random opposite-sex fun time. HTH: Hometown honey. If you've got one of these, you can't do the above. Huddlemart: Convenience store in 
LaFun. 
lrishLink: Online system for accessing personal academic information. 
JACC ("Jack"): Edmund P. Joyce Ath­letic and Convocation Center. Location of the basketball and hockey arenas as well as all-purpose space. 
LaFun: LaFortune Student Center. 

Monk: Rev. Edward A. Malloy, univer­sity president. 
Your Number: From a student, your phone number; from anyone else on cam­pus, your Social Security Number. 
O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall. The Col­lege of Arts and Letters building. 
Quarter Dogs: Hot dogs that sell for a quarter apiece in the Huddlemart after mid­night. 
Parietals: Dorm visiting hours for oppo­site-sex guests. Reckers: 24-hour restaurant. Located on the south side of South Dining Hall. The Rock: Rockne Memorial. An excercise facililty on South Quad. 
Smick (Chicks): SaintMary's (students). 
Stepan Center: An ugly building used for large fuctions located on the far north side ofcampus. Don'tconfuseit with Stepan Chemistry Hall, which is attached to the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Stonehenge: War-memorial fountain at the south end of North Quad. SUB: Student Union Board. Sponsors various campus activities. 
SYR: Screw Your Roommate. The non­official term for what is now officially the "semi-formal dance." From the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate for the event. 
TCE: Teacher-Course Evaluation. Sur­veys given at the end ofevery course asking students their opinions. 
Touchdown Jesus: Mosaic on the library that blesses the football team. -compiled by Cristin Fenzel 
judgementt~·@lJifl Sure, it's fun meeting new people, but continually Frosh 0 ++ repeating your name, dorm and hometown is enough to make anyone go crazy.  
Where else can you get a kerosene lantern, a tub of Meijer t lard and a Britney Spears CD at 3:30 in the morning?  
++ Learning is good, but does this mean it's back to Classes work for us?  
Main Over $50 million was spent to renovate the Dome. Building l Too bad Stanford Hall is still a cockroach cluster.  


Beth Wilda/Washington, Pa. is the Class of 2000's valedictorian. A history and CAPP double major in the Honors pro­gram, she had a 3.975 GPA after seven semesters. She is the daughterofThomas and the late Cathy Wild and the step­daughter ofRebecca Wild. We managed to pryherawayfrom the books to answer a few questions about the novel she's writing and her time at Notre Dame. 
Were you raised in blue and gold baby outfits? 
I don't know about the outfits, but we have drinking cups that are Notre Dame, blankets, sweatshirts, dog collars and leashes. My dad is a '75 alum and my extended family just loves everything about Notre Dame. In fact, I'll have 22 people here for graduation. 
Twenty-two people?! 
Yes, my little cousin is coming because she likes Reckers pizza, so she's going to spend her time eating Reckers pizza. Actually, even more people wanted to come. 
Did you always plan on becoming the valedictorian? No. When I came infreshman year, I just thought I'd be good enough to graduate. I didn't even realize I'd have a shot at it until back in December when I talked to a professor and he said I'd have a shot at it. After that semester, I couldn't really do anything else, I couldn't work any harder because they only take into ac­count seven semesters. 
Is it based strictly on GPA? 
No, or else I would not be valedictorian. The initial cut is based on the GPA, and then after that they ask you to submit a five-minute address, then you're inter­viewed by the dean of your college, and 
continued on next page -.­
scHOLASTICNOTEaooK 
ten questions 
continued from previous page 
then after that a committee in the provost's office meets and then they decide who they think would best represent the uni­versity. 
Why did you decide to write a novel? 
I've always enjoyed writing, and this honors thesis is really the only opportu­nity when I'd have the time to do it. I've actually been thinking about it for the pastthree years and researching different ways to go with it. It was originally going to be an historical novel, but I realized I needed to create a fiction set in present day. 
What's it about? 
A girl's coming of age in our technologi­cally advanced and sometimes morally

[ 
! 
questionable society. 
l I 
What piece of advice would you give to freshmen? 
Don't try to get all of your work done; you'll never be able to do it. 
What are you going to do after gradu­
·ation? 
I'm working for McKinsey and Com­pany, a managerial consulting firm, in Pittsburgh. 
What was one of your most memo­
rable experiences at Notre Dame? 
While spending a semester in the Notre 

I 
i 
Dame Washington program, I got to meet l the president and Rosa Parks at a recep­tion. I also got to see the opening gavel 
strike at the impeachment trial. 

I 
i Basketball or football and why? 
1· That' sreally hard. Football. Idon'tknow,I though, I really like them both. Can't I I say them both? 
Sure. 
Good. -Jim Pastore 
1101 YEARS AGO 
In the June 14, 1899 issue ofthe Daily Scholastic, the editorial board bid a fond farewell to its university and fellow stu­dents with these words: 
"Once a Notre Dame man, andthe Gold and Blue will be your colors for life. " 
That fierce Irish loyalty still pervades today -just wait until your first home football game. -SEC 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 



Eat It 
Where to go when you're tired of the ol' DH 
Eating at North and South dining halls may be thrilling at first, but the novelty wears off after awhile. Luckily, there are other on-campus options -and they all accept Flex points. Reckers: What ever did we do before Reckers was established? This 24-hour eat­ery is the sole salvation for students facing parietals and 3 a.m. munchies. Besides such food as burgers, pizzas, ice cream and shakes, Reckers has TVs, video games, CD-listen­ing stations, computers with Internet access and board games. During the evening hours, Reckers features musical performances, lec­tures and even poetry readings; during later hours, long lines are a main attraction. Greenfield's: Located in the Peace Stud­ies building, this out-of-the-way restaurant generally caters to professors and their wives rather than students. However, the service is friendly and the food is both inexpensive and excellent. It's a great place to escape without ever leaving campus. Waddicks: If your professor asks you to come to his office and you end up in a cafe, don't panic. Many professors in the College ofArts and Letters hold their office hours in here, an eatery located in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Although the food is decent, most students patronize the cafe for its cozy at­mosphere. With old wooden booths and tiny tables, Waddick's is a great place to study --'-or eavesdrop on conversations. Cafe Poche: It may not live up to its exotic name, but the food is tasty and served with a genuine smile. Tucked away in the basement ofthe Bond Hall ofArchitecture, this little cafe offers soup, sandwiches, past­ries and espresso to ease the effects ofan all­nighter. 

Common Stock Sandwich Co.: Located in the basement of the Mendoza College of Business, the Common Stock Sandwich Co. supplies all the essentials for a quick meal, from baked potatoes to pocket-sized piz­zas. This mini-mart also. provides conve­nient items such as newspapers and bottled beverages. 
Food on the Go: When you don't have time to sit, swing by one of the fast-food restaurants located in LaFortune, such as Burger King or Allegro subs, which offers made-to-order sandwiches as well as cheese­cake and espresso. Besides serving the ob­vious, Tomassi to' s pizza also offers stuffed breadsticks and will deliver to your dorm. 
-KaraZuaroandSarah Childress 


Coast to Coast 

Here's a look at the origins of the class of 2004. 
1. Illinois, 201 
2. Ohio, 173 
3. Indiana, 169 
4. Pennsylvania, 124 
5. New York, 122 6. California, 101 
Every state is represented at Notre Dame. From the Pacific to the Atlantic, high-school seniors make the decision to come to northern Indiana to enjoy all that ND has to offer. The states with the most confirmed freshmen are listed here. Don't be surprised if your future roomate has a Chicago accent or actually folds his pizza. 
:!! 
Iii 
"C 
:I: 
Q 
0 



Something to Believe In 
Student Body President Brian O'Donoghue and Vice President Brooke Norton hope to support students and improve campus unity 
AGGIENOBLE
From the beginning oftheir campaign, senior Student Body President Brian O'Donoghue and junior Student Body Vice President Brooke Norton have been proud ofthe endless opportunities avail­able to Notre Dame students. Their vision is based on a belief in students' abilities to achieve and excel at any pursuit. O'Donoghue, who goes by Odie, remarks, "We believe in Notre Dame students. It's our job to help them do really great things." O'Donoghue and Norton have many new plans for the 2000-2001 school year. Some oftheir primary goals center around campus unity and togetherness. From bigger, better basketball and football pep rallies to events during the Christmas season, Student Gov­ernment promises to keep in mind the spirit ofunity on campus. At the beginning of the year, Student Government plans to hold an outdoor student event after the opening Mass. O'Donoghue says, "We wantto build a true Notre Dame family. From events and other programs on campus, our emphasis will be: we are a family." Both O'Donoghue and Norton have acquired extensive experi­ence in student government during their years at Notre Dame. O'Donoghue served three years as a student senator, two years on the Campus Life Council, and worked on the Junior Class Council, dorm councils 

every event possible for students. 
Besides the Rector Endowment Fund, stu­dent government is also working on the Greatness Project. O'Donoghue says, "We want the student body to do extraordinary things." The project will attempt to provide students with the funding to follow any dream, from attending a lecture in Washing­ton, D.C. to helping Habitat for Humanity at 
and other committees. Norton has 
IBRIAN O'DONOGHUE •#;i¥JM§lil
served in a number of student govern­ment positions as well, including sopho­
"The best part of my job is to serve
more class president, freshman class secretary and freshman dorm represen­students. Please come talk to us tative. O'Donoghue believes Student anytime." Government is not just the responsibil­
ity of the president and vice president; 
he encourages all to participate in hall gov­
ernment, as well as the many other positions 
available in the Student Union. From con­
certs to pep rallies, students can help plan 
any event. Norton explains, "My advice to every incoming freshman is to recognize and appre­date the amazing, gifted people you're surrounded by. Notre Dame has so much to offer, and you will make connections here with people that will last forever." Apart from their goal to continue bringing the cam­pus closer together, O'Donoghue and Norton will provide new forms of academic and social pos­sibilities for the Notre Dame community. Their first project is the Rector Endowment Fund. By funding dorms with extra money, Student Govern­ment hopes to allow all students to participate in hall activities, regardless oftheir financial situation. From section dinners to hall dances, O'Donoghue and Norton want to make 

home during the summer. O'Donoghue con­tinues, "I would encourage any one to do great things or paint the future. This is the time." 
Finally, O'Donoghue and Norton hope to use the Internet to provide an array of ser­vices to the student body. One of their goals involves an online search engine for cheaper book buying. The site will search the Inter­net for inexpensive textbooks and school materials, giving students an alternative to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. An­other project aims to make the results from Teacher-Course Evaluations available on the Notre Dame website for students to use each semester. The evaluations will help students decide which classes and professors to se­lect. Student Government also hopes to es­tablish a webpage ofusefulinformation about South Bend, including a city map, movie times and fun things to do. 
O'Donoghue and Norton want to fulfill the interests and hopes of every student at Notre Dame. They both feel that as breath­taking as the campus is, or as exciting as the first football game can be, it is the people at Notre Dame that make the experience so amazing. O'Donoghueemphasizes, "Weare all here to help you. So, if you want to get involved in the Student Union or justwant to talk, feel free to stop by the Student Govern­ment office on the second floor ofLafortune. It would be our honor to meet you." 0 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 
MALLOY 


[ Names to remember 

MONK MALLOY 
Rev. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, CSC is the 16th president of the university, a posi­tion he has held since 1986. He was recently elected to a new five-year term. Malloy is more accessible than most university presi­dents; he teaches a freshman seminar ev­ery year and lives in Sorin Hall, behind which he sometimes shoots hoops with guys from the dorm. He attended both Notre Dame and Vanderbilt before ac­cepting a teaching post in the Notre Dame department of theology in 1974, a posi­tion he still holds. 
Malloy is active in public service, chair­ing the American Council on Education and Campus Contact, among other organiza­tions. He has served as founding director of the Points of Light Foundation and as a member of the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Cur­rently, Malloy acts as co-chair of the sub­committee on college drinking of the Na­tional Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alco­holism, a component of the National Insti­tutes of Health. 
Malloy has also written many articles and several books. His fourth book, on major issues in higher education today, was pub­lished in the fall of 1999. 
TIM SCULLY 
Recently elected to a five-year term as the university's executive vice-president, Rev. Timothy Scully, CSC succeeded Rev. E. 

William Beauchamp on July I. As the third­ranking administrator at the university, Scully is responsible for finance, business operations, human resources and campus construction. 
A member of the faculty since 1989 and an officer since 1994, Scully has wrought many changes at Notre Dame. Previously serving as a vice president and senior asso­ciate provost, his responsibilities included international programs and new initiatives in undergraduate education. Under his lead­ership, Notre Dame now has the highest percentage ofstudents studying internation­ally of any American research institution. He also helped to establish the Institute for Latino Studies. 
MARK POORMAN 
Beginning his second year as vice presi­dent ofstudent affairs, Rev. Mark Poorman, CSC is responsible for areas that include Campus Ministry, residence life, student activities, Notre Dame Security/Police and alcohol and drug education. Students caught breaking the rules will get to know him well. 
Previously, Poorman was an associate professor of theology and had directed the university's Master of Divinity program. Other posts he held include associate direc­tor of Campus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and priest-in-residence in Grace Hall. 
KEVIN WHITE 
Replacing former Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth is Kevin White. White hails from Amityville, N.Y. He received the AlumniAchievementAwardatSaintJoseph's College in 1997, where he did his undergradu­ate work. He did his postdoctoral work at Harvard University's Institute for Educational Management, received his doctorate from Southern Illinois University and his master's from Central Michigan University. 
White has been the athletic director at Arizona State University for the past four years. While at ASU, White reorganized academic and student services for athletes, strengthened the athletic department staff, hired five head coaches and reformed the athletic budget. Before working at Arizona State, White was the athletic director at Tulane University, the University ofMaine and Loras College. He has also served on several NCAA committees, on the execu­tive committee of the Division I-A Athletic Director's Association and as chairman for the Pacific-IO Conference's teleyision and bowl committees. 
Malloy identifies White as one ofthe elite members in his profession. One of his first jobs as athletic director will be i:he restora­tion of Notre Dame's football program. White will be the first athletic director who reports directly to the university president. 
BOB DAVIE 
After finishing one of the worst football seasons in more than 20 years with a losing record of 5-7, Head Coach Bob Davie will 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 
DOHERTY DAVIE 



for your freshman year ] 
be looking to rebuild his team for the 2000 
season. Facing a tough schedule in the fall 
that opens with Texas A&M, Nebraska and 
Purdue-all ofwhich saw post-season play 
in bowl games last year -Davie is under a 
lot of pressure to perform. 
Much ofthe spring season was focused on 
improving the defense. In the 1999 season, 
the squad allowed an average of27.6 points 
and 383.7 yards per game. "The potential 
for us to be an explosive offense is defi­
nitely there," Dav~e says, "but defense is 
definitely our number-one priority as we · enter the spring." 
While the Irish roster looks very strong 
with more depth than the past three years, it 
will be losing key players, including quar­
terback Jarious Jackson, who was the lone 
captain of the 1999 team. Junior Arnez 
Battle will replace the record-setting Jack­
son. The Irish will also lose top-receiver 
BobbyBrownandfourofthe team's top six 
tacklers. 
However, except for the loss of Jackson 
and Brown, the offensive unit is returning a 
solid core of experienced players. Seven 
starters will return for the offense while the 
defense can count on five players returning 
from last season's starting lineup. 
MATT DOHERTY 
Heading into his second year as the men's basketball head coach, Matt Doherty is al­ready a household name for many Irish fans. He led the team to a 22-16 season, with post­season play in the NIT championship game. Taking on one of the toughest schedules in the country, the Irish beat ranked teams like the University of Connecticut, Rutgers, St. John's and Seton Hall. Doherty is also re­sponsible for increasing student support by giving out free MOB (Matt's Outrageous Bunch) T-shirts to the first 250 students at some of the games, and going to all of the dorms to talk to the students. 

Before corning to Notre Dame, Doherty worked as an assistant coach at Kansas for seven years, where he was responsible for recruiting some of its best players. Prior to coaching at Kansas, Doherty was an assis­tant coach at Davidson for three years. His college-basketball experience at the Uni­versity of North Carolina includes starting as a sophomore on the Tar Heels' national championship squad in 1982 and being part of the starting five in '84 that included Michael Jordan. 
Even in his first year at Notre Dame, Doherty quickly became involved in stu­dent activities, participating in the campus­wide Bookstore Basketball Tournament. He is also involved in several charities, includ­ing the National Kidney Association, Spe­cial Olympics and the Salvation Army. 
THEODORE HESBURGH 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC pre­ceded Malloy as president ofthe university. He served for 35 years, from 1952 to 1987 -alonger tenure than any active American university president. His name can be seen 
all over campus: the library, the Center for 
International Studies, and the Program for Peace Studies are all named after him. 
Despite his commitments, Hesburgh can often be seen around campus. He some­times makes guest appearances in class­rooms and presides over dorm liturgies. He has an office on the 13th floor of the Hesburgh Library. Contrary to popular be­lief, he does not live there, but makes his home in Corby Hall. 
His major retirement role includes devel­oping several Notre Dame institutes and centers that he was instrumental in found­ing, principally the Kroc Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies, the Kellogg Insti­tute for International Studies and the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Hes burgh is also involved in the_ Center for Civil and Human Rights, Notre Dame's Hank Environmental Research Center near Land O'Lakes, Wis. and the university's. Ecumenical Institute in Jerusalem. He spends much of his time giving talks and fulfilling his obligations as a member of numerous international organizations. 
Hesburgh is best known for his public 

service. He has held 15 presidential ap­
pointments ii:J. areas such as civil rights, 
atomic energy, campus unrest and Third 
World development. His commitment to education is reflected in his 135 honorary degrees, more than any other American 
holds. D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS · 9 

,'
! 
I 
t 
i 
i 
!: 

THEBIGSCOOPS 
BY JARED MARX 
1999 / 2000 
football ticket distribution 
Thefall 1999 semester marked 

the implementation ofa new student foot­
ball-ticket-distribution system. Ending a 
two-decade-long tradition of "camping 
out" for better tickets, the new system removed the incentive to wait in line by assigning students numbers and then ran­
domly selecting a student to begin the 
ticket buying. If it sounds complicated, you're not the only one who thinks so. Many students, 
especially those living off-campus, com­
plained that the system was never explained 
well and that it took away the fun of the 
traditional campout. The organizers, who 
included representatives from Student Gov­
ernment, the Student Union Board and ad­ministrators, pointed out that it was much safer, it didn't involve drinking and that 
students were no longer forced to wait in 
line for hours. 
Each class still purchased its tickets on successive nights, starting with the se­niors. In addition, organizers attempted to keep the campout tradition alive by offer­ing food and entertainment and allowing students to sleep in the football stadium on each night of distribution. But when only two seniors kept watch on the first evening, the precedent was set and the stadium remained unoccupied during the following nights. 
Many concluded that the tickets were in 

fact distributed faster and safer than ever, 
but many students still disliked the confu­
sion and missed the tradition. In response, 
the same group that reorganized the system for last year is again revamping the event, planning to move distribution for next year 
to Stepan Center. 

sweatshop controversy 
For the second year in a row, 


the specter of Notre Dame apparel being produced in sweatshops in both the United States and around the world has remained prominent in the news. As universities across the country address the problem as well, some on campus have been very vocal in their belief that Notre Dame is not suffj­ciently serious about making sure that all workers who produce official Notre Dame products are paid fairly and work in reason­able conditions. 
This year, the university took significant steps toward achieving the goal of being certain that workers are treated fairly. It promised audits of all production facilities that produce Notre Dame paraphernalia and joined the Fair Labor Association, an orga­nization that advocates fair labor practices. The university was also asked to join the Workers Rights Consortium, a fledgling or­ganization of colleges and universities that will work to combat sweatshop labor. Ad­ministrators met severe criticism when they turned down the offer on the premise that 
there was insufficient information on the­
organization. The topic remains very sensi­
tive on both sides, and more debate is sure to 
come. 
ex corde ecclesiae 

A Catholic university that re-
. quires all students to take two semesters of theology, Notre Dame is very concerned 
with the integrity of its theology depart­
ment. Ex Corde Ecclesiae is a document 
produced and ultimately accepted by the 
National Conference of Catholic Bishops 
that requires all professors of theology at 
Catholic schools to be approved by local 
bishops. Many in the Notre Dame commu­
nity felt that most local bishops are not 
sufficiently qualified to assess the academic 
merit of theology professors, and that the 
requirement threatened the theology depart­
ment and its members. 
University President Father Edward 

Malloy and local Bishop John D'Arey have 
made an agreement that will allow Notre 
Dame to retain its prerogative for choosing 
its theology faculty. Nonetheless, the issue 
remains hotly de~ated, with some welcom­ing the document as a means to bring way­ward Catholic institutions back into line, 
and others faulting it on principle. And 
although the first discussion of the docu­
ment has largely blown over, the long-term 
ramifications of Ex Corde remain to be 
seen. 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
ncaa sanctions 
In mid-January, the NCAA sanctioned the university for the first time in its history. The sanctions were in response to what were deemed major violations of NCAA rules by the football program. As a result, the program has been placed on pro­bation for two years and will lose one schol­arship for each year of probation. 

The infractions that led to the sanctions include a player who tried to sell compli­mentary tickets and a student t1,1tor who was paid to write a paper for a player. However, the primary trouble was related to Kim Dunbar, an Irish football fan. Starting in 1993, Dunbar had offered players expen­sive gifts and trips, largely financed by money apparently embezzled from her em­ployer. When she joined the·now-defunct Quarterback Club for $25 in 1995, investi­gators say she became an official booster, and her gifts were violations of NCAA rules. Some ofthe coaching staff apparently had at least a limited knowledge of the expensive gifts and trips that she continued to provide through 1998. 
When the sanctions came out, many com­plained that they were not harsh enough and that Notre Dame had received preferential treatment because of its reputation. Others argued the opposite, saying the sanctions were too harsh for an offense committed primarily by individuals outside the pro­gram. But when the infractions were com­

>>> 

pared to precedents, most -including Malloy-admitted that although the sane­tions were nothing to be proud of, they were fair. 
outreach nd ads 

Last fall, the administration 


refused to allow an unrecognized group, the Gay-and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's, to run an ad in the Observer, the daily student newspaper. This sparked a controversy that has yet to be resolved-. 
The administration banned GALA from advertising in response to allegations that the group had run ads in the Observer on behalf of the previously banned gay and lesbian student group, OUTreach ND. OUTreach ND had already been forbid­den from advertising in campus publica­tions. GALA denies these allegations and believes that it should be able to advertise regardless ofthe claims. When the admin­istration refused to repeal the ad ban, many argued that dialogue about sexual orientation was being unfairly and un­healthily stifled. 
The controversy also highlighted the ap­parent lack of editorial freedom at the Ob­server. While the paper claims indepen­dence from the university, the ad contro­versy showed that this independence is ac­tually limited. And although several groups of both students and faculty lobbied for the Observer to be given true editorial indepen­dence, in the end, the ad ban remains in place. 
the water boy 

After witnessing a 5-7 football 


season that included losses to rivals such as 
Purdue and Boston College, many Irish fans 
were ready to hang up their shamrocks. But 
when new Head Coach Matt Doherty led the 
men's basketball team to wins over several 
top-IO teams, including two wins against 
defending national champion UConn, at 
least some semblance of hope for Irish vic­
tory was restored. By the end ofthe season, 
the team, led by sophomore Troy Murphy, 
had posted a winning record and made arare 
post-season appearance in the National In­
vitation Tournament. 
Many fans, however, believed that the 

Irish deserved a place in the NCAA tourna­
ment-and perhaps would have gotten one ifnot for a controversial last-minute loss to powerhouse Syracuse. During the critical 
game, the crowd was rowdy at times and was 
warned repeatedly not to throw objects onto the court. In response to a foul call against Notre Dame in the final seconds ofthe game, a student-later dubbed "the water boy" ­threw an empty water bottle onto the court in disgust. Syracuse was awarded two addi­tional free throws on the resulting technical foul. Although Syracuse made only one of the two extra free throws, in the end, Notre 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 

>>> 

HANOVER'S DISQUALIFICATION MADE NO 
Dame lost by just two points. 
The outraged reaction was perhaps the bigger story, as furious letters poured into the Observer from campus and across the country, and heated discussions on the sub­ject erupted in the dining halls and the classrooms. Despite the general sentiment, neither the team nor Coach Doherty blamed the student. The Irish went on to be very successful in the NIT, making an appear­ance in the final round. 
student elections 
It was a bizarre, controversial 


DIFFERENCE IN THE RACE 
year for student elections, at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The Belles' student-body presidential election resulted in a tie. Crissie Renner won in the end, but the situation led to the reexamination of the rules followed in such cases. 
Notre Dame also endured a rocky elec­tion process. Early in the campaign, cur­rent Stud~nt Body President Brian "Odie" O'Donoghue and Vice President Brooke Norton were given a one-day campaign suspension after appearing on a campus radio station before campaigning officially began. The incident was apparently unin­tentional, as O'Donoghue and Norton turned themselves in after discovering 
IAM&A, 4;;;4;;a-1M&MW&Wii¥W&i ±EH 
they had.broken an election bylaw, but it was only the beginning ofcampaign sea~-' dais. ·· --~ · 
The general election resultedT11 ~ run-off between the O'Donoghue-Norton ticket and juniors Hunt Hanover and John Micek. However, theresultsoftherun-offwerenot revealed until weeks later. The Hanover ticket was disqualified from the race for using e-mail to solicit votes, a violation of the newly rewritten bylaws. As it turned . out, the disqualification did not alter the results of the race as O'Donoghue and Norton won the run-off election. Still, some complained that the incident did little to increase students' trust in their elected lead­ers. D 
., 

~AnthonyllaV,e/ 
The Official Travel Service ofthe University ofNotre Dame 

Passport· Photos fiiiii Cuhn!ted LiA~o Brtsus Tickets to 
1cago trpo Hotels for Special Events at Notre Dame Car Rentals 



1: 

~ Foreign Currency 
~~ Amtrak A!!iL5_ European Rail Passes 
' Spring Break 
Student Discounts ·~.Wholesale International Fares 
!' 12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
----~--------· --_,. I 
I \ , '• ' • • • • I I • • 
1 

your guide to 
Clubbing 
at Notre Dame 
Afraid you'll be bored in college? Never fear: ND has something for everyone! In high school you were captain of the basketball team, president of student council, a member of the Spanish Club, a volunteer at the local hospital, and a lifeguard at the 
pool. Well, maybe you didn't do all those things, but now you're here, and you begin to wonder what you are going to do with your time besides study. Scholastic enlisted the help of the Club Coordination Council to get a sampling.of clubs on campus. 
Here's a look at the results. 
Compiled By r.ji::(cJ•l#il ATHLETIC 
J""CKTr.,;._ . ..... •.KTE.•E·R..... F . \. 




You don't have to be a varsity athlete to participate in sports at Notre Dame. Donns offera widevariety ofinterhall sports each year, but Notre Dame's club sports might provide a better option for the more adventurous types. 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club combines the skills of soccer, football and basketball with Frisbee tossing. Every year, the team competes in tournaments across the country. Last year, the team finished second in the Great Lakes Open and went on to the national tournament. 
Another club, the Notre Dame Field Hockey Team, was started two years ago. Itoffers both men and women a chance to participate in this field s?ort. The team practices four days a weekinthe spring and fall and competes agamst other club teams in the area. 
If you are a horse-lover, Notre Dame has several equestrian clubs. The Equestrian Team takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders of all levels -from first-timers to seasoned veter~~s -~e welcome to join and do not need to own a horse. The team participates m competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association through­out the year. Ifsteer wrestling, goat-tying, and bare­
back bronco-and bull-riding are more your style, you might want to check out the Rodeo Club. Students formed the club last year to educate others about rodeo, giving them the opportunity to work towards competing in a particular event. 
If animals aren't your thing, there are other op­tions. The Judo Club teaches students takedowns, ground-control techniques and submission maneu­vers for those seeking self-defense skills, competi­tive experiences or just a good, hard workout. 




SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 
r•=W•);4i ETHNIC 
IDESCRIPTION 

While Notre Dame is sometimes criti­cized for its lack ofdiversity, many clubs are doing their best to expose the student body to cultures from all parts of the globe. 
One of the largest ethnic clubs on campus is La Alianza, which was formed five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates stu­dents through programs that include the annual Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Fonnal. 
Other ethnic clubs include theFili­pino, Italian, Polish, Spanish, French, Australian and Indian clubs. While the particular programming for each group differs, they pro­mote the languages and culture of the different countries and na­tionalities. Meetings sometimes feature ethnic cuisine prepared by members of the group. 
Perhaps the most interesting ethnic club is the Texas Club, which boasts a membership of 500 Texan students. The club organizes dances, dinners, rides to and from the Lone Star State and an alumni net­work. 


INTEREST 

The Baptist Collegiate Ministry provides students from all denominations a chance to 
meet and interact with other students who have similar concerns and interests. The group holds weekly Bible-study meetings and arranges transportation to non-Catholic services in the South Bend community. 
For those seeking to learn more about the Virgin Mary, the Knights of the Immaculata promote devotion to her in the spirit of St. Maximilian Kolbe. Through praying and reading the works of Saint Louis de Montfort, the club offers members a chance to show their devotion to the Blessed Mother. 
One of the many musical groups at Notre Dame is the Women's Liturgical Choir, a choir run through Campus Ministry. The group sings at the 5 p.m. Vigil Mass on Saturdays, at Vespers in the Basilica and in collaborative events such as Junior Parents Weekend and the opening Masses. The Notre Dame Chorale is the university's premiere concert ensemble and performs both religious and secular music. The group tours the United States every year and Europe every three years. Auditions are held in the fall through the music department. 
Clubs that don't fit well into any of the other categories are considered special-interest clubs. 
Destination ImagiNation, formerly known as Odyssey of the Mind, is a problem­solving competition in which students work as a team and compete against other colleges in a tournament at the end of May. 
Political groups like the College Democrats and the College Republicans, religious clubs and musical groups also fall under this catch-all category. 






! ·., 

Notre Dame students are an active bunch who are not afraid to get involved with social issues. Social action and service clubs form the largest of the five divisions and provide a forum for students to get involved, both globally and locally. 
Taking a global perspective, the East Timor Action Network seeks to educate the students about the continuing human-rights abuses in East Timor. They hope awareness will compel action in the form of medical, food, educational and reconstruction assistance. Closer to home, the Women's Resource Center, located in LaFortune Student Center, has an extensive library on women's issues. The center organizes aid services to students, including rape-support groups and eating-disorder counseling. It hosts awareness activities featuring speakers and films. The Students for Environmental Action are dedicated to informing the Notre Dame community about environmental concerns and raising a call for action. It organizes an Earth Day celebration and a dorm energy-conservation competition. 
For those who want to get involved in volunteer work, Circle K provides service opportunities in Greater South Bend. Each week, the club offers 20 projects covering a wide range of interests and needs, from playing with animals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Center. This is the club to join if you can't decide what kind of service you want to do. 
Other clubs offer more specific service opportunities. A campus chapter of the international Best Buddies organization pairs Notre Dame students with a developmentally disabled adult from the South Bend community in order to establish one-on-one friendships. Members of the Special Friends Club, a group similar to Best Buddies, spend time with autistic and developmentally disabled children. 
Other organizations that reach out to the youth ofSouth Bend include Lunch PACK, a group that serves several local elementary schools during both recess and after school. Members play games with children, listen to them and-let them know that people care about them. In similar fashion, the Big Brother/Big Sister program pairs students with a little brother or sister, giving them a chance to act as a friend, role-model and mentor to the child. Children who participate in the program usually come from poorer areas and single-parent households where they are missing a respectable adult influence in their lives. 
Ifyou're interested in teaching opportunities, the Special Tutorial and Education Program collaborates with th.e South Bend Juvenile Facility to provide tutoring and reading lessons to facility residents throughout the academic year. The Ms. Wizard Day program offers another chance to participate in children's education. The group gives girls in the fourth through sixth grades the chance to visit science, business and math classes at Notre Dame. 
Ifyou are interested in volunteering at a hospitl;l.l, HUGS -Helpful Undergraduate Students -serves the pediatric ward at Memorial Hospital. Members spend two hours each week visiting patients and helping the nurses. Another health-related organization is the First Aid Services Team. The team serves as the first level ofthe emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team members hold Red Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. The team covers events including football games, fall and spring RecSports activities and other special events. 
For men who want to put their Catholic faith into action, the Knights of Columbus is a religiously ­oriented service group. On campus, the group maintains its own building, operates football-game-day steak sales that generate over $45,000 for charity annually, holds council dinners, lectures and engages in service activities with the Boys and Girls Club. 
There are also ethnic service opportunities available, especially serving South Bend' s Hispanic population. The Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics works with local community centers and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and English-language instructors. 
Notre Dame features several organizations that are continuations of high school service programs, such as ND HOBY and University Young Life. ND 
...... 

HOBY provides a forum for HOBY alumni at Notre Dame to continue develop­ing their leadership through social and service activities while University Young Life trains college students to be Young Life leaders in the local area. 
:-·.." 

Cl) 
0 

C) 
.§: 
~ 
o.
::, 
Ro 
en 
CD 
s. 
2 
JACKIKIEFER & KRISTENALWORTH 
PackIt Up 
Suitcases are only so big. They fit only so much. 
Decisions: you've been plagued with them during the past months. The last thing you want to do is decide what to bring with you to Notre Dame. When I started to pack, I tried to avoid these decisions by bringing virtually everything. Ii I Unfortunately, when the time came to trans­I port all of my belongings, I found that everything I wanted to take would fill two vans and about three dorm rooms. It is tempting to bring all ofyour earthly posses­sions to college, but dorm rooms are quite small, and you must realize that 
you will be sharing that room with at least one other person. Here are some packing tips and a little common sense II~ • s you preparew~·~ ,~ \W:;ij~_,_ -' .. 
to make the !:AC · J.L-4 .I_!· •. great j, -~IC..~· iti, '" ;-. ! ;;'i · _..._ · ; ·/"'.~\ 
/I 
. I 16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

migration from home. 
Furniture: Figuring out how to arrange 
furniture in a dorm room requires a magi­
cian. Students who do not live in the newer 
dorms -which have modular furniture ­
often make extra space in their rooms by 
constructing lofts, elevated beds that leave 
open space underneath. Lofts can be a pain 
to build, but the added space often makes 
the trouble worthwhile. Loft kits are avail-· 
able at hardware stores like Lowe's. There 
are usually "loft-men" roaming the campus 
to help the not-so-handy parent build it for 
a small fee. However, the university does 
regulate loft dimensions, so look into your 
dorm's rules before constructing one. Also, 
if you live nearby, buying wood at home 
may be an advantage as there always seems 
to be a shortage of kits around campus. 
All dorm rooms come with beds, desks 
and wardrobes or dressers, but most stu­
dents bring extra furniture. Couches, inflat­
able chairs and futons are popular, since 
they are a lot more comfortable than sitting 
on the floor. Carpeting and padding will 
help you avoid hard, tiled floors. You 
should receive the dimensions ofyour 
room in a packet from your dorm, 
making carpets easier to 
price. 
Gadgets & Gizmos: Elec­
tronics are an important source 
-.r~ of entertainment -and pro­
._-o-..;;_,r,_,~· ,. , crastination -in dorm 
rooms. It is a good idea to 
bring a stereo because most students 
find South Bend radio lacking. A TV and 
VCR are nice additions to a dorm room, but 
because cable is not available, antennae, or 
"rabbit ears," would be a wise purchase. All 
dorms have TV lounges with cable, so you 
can catch your favorite cable programs with­
out buying a TV. 

There are numerous computer clusters on 
campus. They have both PCs and Macs, and 
some are open 24 hours. All cluster comput­
ers are equipped with Internet access and 
CD-ROM drives. However, during busy 
times of the year -such as midterms and 
finals -you might have to wait in line for a machine, so you may want to bring your own. Every dorm room is wired to the Internet via ResNet, the campus network. The Office of Information Technologies will send you a brochure describing the hardware you need to connect a PC or a Mac to the network. 
Most students bring a refrigerator, which is useful for beverages and late-night snacks. A hot pot is also nice, since it can make everything from hot chocolate for cold win­ter days to the college student's staple food: ramen noodles. Creative chefs can even make macaroni and cheese. If you plan on hot-potting very often, a bowl, mug and utensils are important. Finally, a fan is cru­cial during the first few weeks of school if you are living in an older dorm that lacks air conditioning. 
Personal Touches: Decorating can per­sonalize a dorm room and make it inviting. The flourescent overhe_ad lights in most rooms are dim and will make the room look like a cellar, so pack some lamps. A desk lamp is a must, floor lamps brighten your room tremendously and Christmas lights provide fun mood lighting. You may also want to pick up a dry-erase board for outside your door so your new friends will have a place to leave messages. Posters and pic­tures, whether of a favorite music group or a Monet print, add character to a room. Picking out these finishing touches with your new roommate is a great way to get to know each other. 
Odds and Ends: Apart from furnish­ings, there are many miscellaneous items that you will need for dorm living. Since you will have to trek down the hall to take a shower, a robe and a shower caddy are important. Shower shoes, or cheap flip­flops, are also wise, as the dorm showers aren't always the cleanest places in the world. 
You will need to bring bedding, as the university provides only a mattress. Some dorms have extra-long beds, so you might want to check with your rector before buy­ing a new sheet set. A laundry bag or basket, a stain stick, laundry detergent and lots of 

Move It Out 
Heres whats important. 
quarters are essential if you plan on doing your own laundry. For the washing-ma­chine-challenged, the on-campus St. Michael's Laundry service will pick up laundry each week, wash it and deliver it ifyou opt for a semester-long contract. St. Michael's also has dry cleaning and tai­loring open to all. 
The unpredictable weather in South Bend makes both winter and summer clothes essential. It will be hot and steamy when you first arrive, but it won't be long before winter's bitter cold sets in. Also, you will want to bring duds suita~le for the semi-formal and formal dances dorms have during the semester. You will need to bring hangers. Crates and under-bed boxes are useful for increasing storage space in your room and can be a good place to stash heavy winter clothes during the very short off-season. An alarm clock -preferably a trusty, loud one -is necessary to wake you up for those dreaded 8 a.m. tests. 

South Bend has plenty of discounfstores if you forget something. Meijer, for ex­ample, has absolutely everything you would ever need. The Student Union Board also sponsors a "Fall Mall" at Stepan Center, where they sell items like couches at re­duced prices. 
There is really no need to agonize about forgetting something as you pack for Notre Dame. Your friends will probably loan you that obscure tool or reference book on the one occasion you really need it. And, re­member, your parents are only a phone call and a cai-e package away. 0 
( 

A very good fan A loud alarm clock ·· Shower caddy/shoes Camera· Water Filter Hot Po~ 
( 

Answering Machine (we have v9ice mail) . Microwave & Toasters Vacuum· Pets &, Carnivorous Fish ·. Wastebasket 

· the latest campus news and sports in-depth coverage of campus issues reviews of campus entertainment off-the-wall humor 
1----:-----'S_c_b_oJasiic_ke_ep_track_o.Lyo_uckids_'-'¥itb_a_s:ubs.crip_tioo_tQday.,_____ 

r·· · --•--..· -.---·· -----.. ------·· -. · -7·· 
1 · .•... PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOURi(1JJ~§fJIJ~liif@~I LIST. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM AND I ­·. . $35.00 PAYMENT TO: :­
1 .NAME: · · · · scHOLASTic MAGAZINE l
I 303 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I . .··I Ai;>DRESS: .· NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 J 
I .1 
I -----------I· I­



SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 
'i~\,
\ .--~ ' 

Siegfried: In the brief history ofSiegfried Hall, the Ramblers have estab­lished the tradition ofthe annual Rambler Scram­bler. For this dance, each section has three minia­ture-golf holes strategi­cally placed in their hall. 
Throughout the night, couples can play golf while taking a break from the dance. This year, sales of Rambler Scrambler T-shirts raised $1,000for the Conor Murphy Bone Marrow Drive. The drive entered students in a national marrow registry to benefit Murphy, a junior who was stricken with leukemia earlier this year. Knott: The men of Knott, also known as the Juggernauts, are quite 
· athletic: they were champions ofboth interhall football and soccer 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

------~----­' 
,~Home
.
' 

Sweet Home 
Everyone knows Notre Dame 
has a long history oftradition, 
butfew people besides alumni 
and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. From the charitable to the bizarre~ read on for abrief introduction to some ofthe these time-honored events. 
by Jacki Kiefer 

last year. Once residents of Flanner Han, along with the Siegfried men, they were relocated to their current home in 1997. As a result, Knott and Siegfried participate in the annual Flanner Cup, a competition that showcases such manly events as car-pushing. Knott was the undisputed victor of last year's competition. Pasquerilla West: This women's dorm, home to the Purple Wea­sels, is most often referred to as PW. In 1991, the tradition of a Queen of PW was begun. Each section chooses a queen to defend the honor ofher section in competitions against Queens from other sections. The victor is then crowned at the SYR at the end ofQueen Week. Pasquerilla East: Also a women's dorm, PE is home to the Pyros. They are famous for their women's football team, which has won the interhall championship two years in a row. They also host the annual Pyro Olympics, where the ladies of PE run around in costumes dressed according to their section's theme. 
-· \ ' 
E:JS :t•·.~~~~>~'.','->·,_T~h_e~···f\1ainl:Juildi_rig;.Basilica and.·l:.aFortt.ine-borde'rthisquad.','< ;, :.<:·.··..•·:g Q[)iQIJ~-IJI 
Sorin: Thefirst dorm built on campus, it is named afteruniversity founder Father Edward Sorin. The home of the Otters is often called Sorin College, as it seceded from the university during protests of the Vietnam War. Every fall, Sorin hosts a talent show for charity featuring the grossness, creativity and all-around amusing talents of the Otters. Walsh: In addition to being one of the first dorms built on campus, it was also one of the first dorms to house women after the university became coeducational. It is now home to the Wild Women, who host the Walsh Wild Weekend every fall. This weekend features many fun activities for the entire campus, such as a mascot contest. Lewis: The home of the Chicks, Lewis is located behind the Main Building, right next to the Grotto. The dorm hosts a spirit week every spring called Camp Lewis, which is designed to foster dorm spirit and raise money for a camp for the physically challenged. The week's premiere event is the Lewis Crush. Every Chick sends an anonymous invitation to her crush and hopes that he will show up at the dance. St. Edward's: St. Ed's is located behind Zahm and near Lewis. If you live here, feel privileged: you have very high· ceilings. St. Ed's also sponsors the St. Edward's Hall Players, who put on a play once a year. Carroll: Ifyou live here, a bike is not an option-it's a necessity. The hall is located on the edge ofcampus, part-way around St. Mary's Lake. However, it has some important traditions. The first is A Carroll Christmas, which includes the lighting of a 30-foot Christmas tree and singing of Christmas carols by university choirs. A toy drive and hall dance complement this event. Carroll Hall also hosts the Fu.sic (Food and Music) Festival with all proceeds donated to the Make-A-Wish Foundation. 
[./ :·:r:·,•·'\::c:~:):::;::'·:.·.:,,·:.:.:::.,T,'/::.r.'.•:::'.$fY~tq~~s,fr,6:trtSt61]e}jerige.to·1--1a:ggat,rjall: }_,;:/fJO-R4f-lE:Q.lJA{IJl 


Breen-Phillips: Just steps from the library, LaFortune Student Center and North Dining Hall, it boasts one ofthe best locations on campus. The BP Babes have earned freputation ofbeing big eaters due to a frozen-yogurt-eating contest several years ago. In honor of this, the ladies host a meal auction every spring to benefit the American Diabetes Association. They auction off meals with such notables as Coach Doherty, Father Hesburgh and popular profes­sors. The Babes also have an annual Beach Party in the middle of February, where the women of BP and their dates can pretend they are having fun in the sun, a nice break from South Bend's freezing temperatures. Farley: Located between BP and North Dining Hall, Farley was converted to a women's dorm in 1972 and is now home to Farley's Finest. Perhaps its most well-known tradition is Pop Farley Week. Each January, the Finest celebrate their dorm's namesake, Father John Farley, in a week offestivities. A hall-decorating competition between the sections is 

.'"<\,06~ .
>j'

followed by a dorm-wide 
dance. 
n:

Cavanaugh: Located next to Lafortune, Cavanaugh also pos­sesses an excellent loca­tion. The Chaos are re­puted to be the most spir­ited ladies on campus, and they can be seen at pep rallies and interhall football games wearing green from head to toe. They also 
· host the annual SnowBall, their winter formal. Zahm: Perhaps the dorm with the most infamous reputation, the men of Zahm, or Zahmbies, wish to keep their traditions shrouded in mystery. However, there was a petting zoo at their Winter Carnival with a llama ... Keenan: Keenan is located on the north side of the quad and shares a building with Stanford (see next tradi­tion). The Keenan Knights host one of the university's best-known traditions, the Keenan Revue, a presentation of skits that make fun of anything and ev­erything around campus. The Revue is prepared throughout the entire year and is then performed for three nights in Janu­ary, with the final performance followed by a dance. This event is a must-see! Stanford: The other half ofthe Keenan­Stanford building, whose residents were once known as the Studs, have taken the name of their former rector, Father Griffin, as their mascot. The Griffins host a Dance-a-Thon every fall. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 

. . . . . --­
~ 
---------~-------­


WES+· Q-lJAD-~--·._·_N_e_w_e_s_t_do_r_m_s~·,_in_·_cl_o_s_e_,__p_ro_x_im_ity~·_to_._th_e_b_o_o_k_s_to_r_e_:_·---------~__.
.. 

The 4 dorms of this quad short history is the Mardi Gras dance, where just about any style of host the West Quad For-dress goes. The men ofO'Neill crown a Mardi _Gras king during the mal in the fall. week, who presides over the festivities. McGlinn: Every spring, Keough: Located next to O'Neill, this men's dorm is home to the the Shamrocks host Ca-Kangaroos. In 1998, it began the tradition of the Keough Chariot sino Night to raise money Race, in which dorms build and race chariots. Italso hosts the White forcharity.Everywoman Wedding, a traditional dance in the spring during which a selected invites at least three couple is "married." people to gamble the Welsh Family: Home to the Whirlwinds and located next to the 
night away with play money that can be redeemed for raffle tickets. Morris Inn, Welsh hosts a "Family Feud" game show each year in Prizes from the raffle have included Notre Dame apparel and gift which the dorm families can compete against each other. Welsh is certificates donated by local restaurants. also creating a tradition of service; last year it raised nearly $3,000 O'Neill: This men's dorm is located next to McGlinn and is the for the Juvenile Diabetes Walkathon in Chicago. home of the Angry Mob. One of O'Neill's biggest traditions in its 
SQ-lJ+H~QlJA[l·-Stretches from the Rock11e-Memorif:ll to O'Shaughnessy Han>.­


Alumni: Built in the 1930s, the men ofAlumni refer to their dorm as ''The Center of the Uni­verse." Itis located at the intersection of South Quad and God Quad. The mascot of Alumni is the Dawg, derived from the 
first official Irish mascot, the Irish Terrier. The most notable Alumni event is the Wake. Held during the dorm's spirit week, the event involves the Dawgs running around campus in ties and boxers carrying a coffin. The men of Alumni can also be seen during finals doing "bun-runs" in the library. Dillon: As this hall was also built in the 1930s, Alumni and Dillon have been rivals for quite some time. Dillon is known as the Big Red, primarily because it is the largest dorm on campus. Dillon hosts an annual pep rally on South Quad before the first football game of the season. Generally, the pep rally includes an elaborate and amusing skit based on a movie, such as The Dillon Kid and Back to the Future. The rally usually culminates with avisit from the head coach of the football team. Fisher: Distinguished by the large green "F' on the front of the building, Fisher Hall is known as the Green Wave. It was home to Regis Philbin when he was a Notre Dame student and is host to the annual Fisher Regatta. A tradition since 1987, the Regatta features a race across St. Mary's Lake in boats built by students, which are rowed across St. Mary's Lake. May the most seaworthy win! Pangborn: Pangborn is a relatively small women's dorm located between the Rock and Fisher Hall. Although it is now home to the female Phoxes, Norm from "Cheers" resided here when it was still a men's dorm. Every year Pangborn and Fisher host the Spring Fling dance, which is held in the courtyard between the two dorms. Pangborn also hosts a charity event modeled after "The Price is Right." 
~~;i,~s\~~=#~~~~~:~~~~~-~--~~~~~r~'.:/f.:t
more·s~aV11orthYJtian others.··· ·•. ,:r 
Lyons: Built in 1927, this dorm possesses the arch made famous by the movie Rudy. Itis located next to the Rock on South Quad and boasts a wonderful view of St. Mary's Lake. Each fall, Lyons sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run. This event raises funds for a scholarship founded in the memory of Mara Fox, a Lyons resident who was killed by a drunk driver in November 1993. Morrissey: The Manor has a tradition of celebrating Christmas season with an SYR on the last Saturday before study days. Each section is responsible for decorating its hallways to correspond with a dorm-wide theme. After parietals, the men of Morrissey invite their dates to their lounge space and treat them to sub sandwiches and Rector Father Bill's homemade chili. What better way to ensure the non-violation of parietals? Howard: Howard became a women's dorm in 1983, at which time it adopted the mascot of Howard the Duck. Howard is reputed to be one ofthe quietest dorms on campus. Because most ofthe rooms are singles, many women transfer in from.other dorms. Badin: One of the smallest dorms on campus, the home of the Bullfrogs officially became a women's residence hall in 1972. It is one of the oldest dorms on campus and has a long history of tradition. Before the old bookstore was demolished last year, the Bullfrogs often hosted bands on their balcony to entertain shoppers. Part of the reason Badin women call themselves the. Bullfrogs is because ofthe nickname given to their front yard: the "Badin Bog," where hall events are often held. D 


20 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

lowdown on the university, and he never
TIP THE G I P P . GIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
breaks a promise. You've already heard the radio-edit version about Father Sorin, our history of football and our beautiful lakes. Well, Father Sorin is dead, we went 5-7 last season and the lakes freeze solid during the 
(__}~rnPus 
winter. Don't get the Gipp wrong, he loves 
,, '•, 
this place. There's just a lot they left out of the brochures. For one thing, they don't tell you about the weather. When you get to campus, ex­
4(.~ 


pect 90-degree weather. Most dorms, how­ever, will hover around a comfortable 120. But don't worry, the sun won't stick around for long. Out of laziness -or just sheer spite -it takes an eight-month vacation during the school year. If Eiffel 65 lived here, we'd be listening to "Gray." Expect the 
ira,c~ 
sun to emerge sometime in the spring semes­ter, usually right around finals. This makes
The beautiful lakes, the Golden Dome, In the true Christian spirit, the Gipp wants cramming an entire semester of knowledge the ... debauchery. That's right, you to share -share your thoughts, your into your head in one week even easier. youngsters, the Gipp is here to tell memories, your dreams. But most of all, Parietals are another Notre Dame tradi­
you the real deal about the goings on at the share your tips. You can call the Gipp at 1-tion that they relegate to the fine print of the University of Our Lady. While you .choke 7569, but don't expect to speak to him brochures. According to that great bible of down your dining-hall food on Thursday personally: the Gipp's got his reputation to undergraduate regulations known as du Lac, nights, make sure you grab a freshly printed protect. You can also e-mail him at these rules exist "to foster the personal and Scholastic and keep an eye out for the Gipp' s gipper.1@nd.edu. The Gipp, like all college social development of residence hall stu­column, because the Gipp will certainly be students, feels loved when he gets e-mails, dents." They foster this growth by kicking keeping an eye on you. especially e-mails with tips. Remember, the guys and girls out of each other's dorm Gipp can say all those things you've always rooms at midnight during the week and 2 w11at's Mu Name? wanted to say. a.m. on the weekends. Similar plans to fos­Sau Mu Name! "But Gipp," you cry, "how will I know a ter intellectual growth by taking away your 
Before we start the tour, the Gipp would good tip when I've got one?!" books were scrapped, because it's pretty like to introduce himself. You see, the Gipp There's no easy answer, young Gippling. easy to hide books in dorm rooms. is a lot like Bob Dole, because the Gipp Ifyou think something' seven remotely tip­refers to himself in the third person. And, worthy, the safest thing to do is tip the Gipp. II Was Nice Meeting You just like the war hero, the Gipp needs a little But for those of you who still need more Well, the Gipp hopes you found his com­something to help keep himself up on cam­direction, the Gipp has put together a quick ments helpful -that's what he's here to do. pus events. That's where you come in. Like guide for the beginner tipper. So help him help you, and tip the Gipp. an out-of-control Linda Tripp, the Gipp Remember: the journey ofa thousand miles loves to record what other people say and The Campus Tour starts with one step. And if they're not all in do, and make it very public. It's not because (Unauthorized) a straight line, the officer probably isn't he's a bad guy, but because he loves this The Gipp promised to give you the going to be too happy. 0 campus and wants to keep it honest. Some­times, students do funny things -very 
A GUIDE TO TIPPING THE GIPP
funny things -and he thinks the campus should know all about them. And some­

Bad Tip Good Tip Bad News 
times, administrators do shady things ­

Your roommate in Recl,ers before going to l1is 
ve,y shady things -and he knows the 
''i

unclressed 2 p.m.class 
:i
1,,
whole campus needs to hear about them. 
~

Your underage friend You saw a corrupt admin-Tl1e administrator 
'!
You Know Mu Name ... 

dri11l,s to l,icl, bacl, istrator tal,i11g RiCRbacl,s saw uou
Now Gimme Mu Tips 
Your mission is to keep the Gipp in­formed about campus goings-on. You see, the Gipp is only one person. With the long 

You stalled vvl1ile i11 auniversitu golf while trui11g to 
arm of the administration constantly reach­

driving 011 Grape Road cart outru11 tl1e cops 
ing for the poorGipp's shirt collar, he barely has enough time to sleep through his classes. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 21 


basketball's resurrection 

After the dismal combination of a 1998-99 campaign, 
a 14-16 record and the resignation of Coach John MacLeod, the future of Irish basketball appeared grim. However, the 1999-2000 Irish basketball team, led by first-year Head Coach Matt Doherty, quickly filled the seats of the once-vacant Joyce Center. The Irish opened the season with a shocking win over fourth-ranked Ohio State in the preseason NIT tournament.. Notre Dame then advanced to the preseason NIT finals before finally falling to Arizona. The Irish gained national recognition on December 5, when they domi­nated the defending national champion Connecticut Huskies at the Hartford Civic Center. Later in the year, Notre Dame defeated the Huskies once again, completing its first sweep ofUConn. As March Madness arrived, the Irish remained watchful, hoping to receive an invitation to the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1990. However, Notre Dame was denied a dance card, and instead found itself in the NIT tournament. Determined to make a statement, the Irish stormed through the 32-team competition, finally meeting Wake Forest in the tournament final. The season came to a disap­pointing conclusion as the Demon Deacons claimed the title with a 71-61 victory over the Irish. However, with the return of All­American junior Troy Murphy and the addition of transfer Ryan Humphrey, Notre Dame promises to again challenge for an NCAA bid. 
2 a tarnished dome 
Although NCAA violations and sanctions are nothing new to the world ofcollege football, Notre Dame has al ways prided itself on its squeaky-clean image. However, for the first time in its history, the university received sanctions from the NCAA. The punishment was a reaction to a scandal surrounding Kimberly Dunbar, a member of the now-defunct Quarterback Club, whose money was readily accepted by several Irish football players. In addition, Dunbar purchased many extravagant gifts for the players, including two trips to Las Vegas. After an extensive inquiry and investigation, the NCAA committee concluded that Notre Dame was guilty ofa low-degree major infraction. The accompanying penalty -the loss of one football scholarship for each of the next two academic years-was far less severe to the university than the humiliation of its first NCAA violation. 




·3 a time out? · 

Throughout the last football season, many references 
were made to the "century of greatness in Notre Dame football." Despite the Irish' s successes in the past century, the campaign that be3:fs the most resemblence to last year's season was that of 1962 
PHOTO COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION 

-the last time an Irish football team finished with a worse winning percentage than the 1999 squad. From poor calls at the one-yard line to inopportune timeouts and missed PATs, nothing went right for the Irish. Last year's defense ranked among the worst in Notre Dame's history, allowing 27 .6 points per contest, while the offense. averaged only 29 points per game. The Irish' s struggles were most evident on the road, as they posted a 0-5 record in away contests. Notre Dame will attempt to prove last year a fluke in its opening two games this year. The Irish face No. 23 Texas A&M and No. 3 Nebraska at Notre Dame Stadium to open the 2000 campaign. 
4 easter in south bend 
With the conclusion of the NCAA investigation, Uni­versity President Father Malloy allegorized the troubles of Notre Dame's athletic department, saying, ''This is Good Friday. Tomor-

SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

row is a brighter day. Easter is coming." With this idea in mind, Notre Dame welcomes recently appointed Athletic Director Kevin White with open arms, hoping that he will do his part to resurrect the struggling Irish football program. Prior to arriving at Notre Dame, White served as the athletic director at Arizona State University, accomplishing a wide variety of feats, ranging from raising ASU from No. 23 to No.12 in the Sears' Director's Cup to converting a $3 million budget deficit into a $1 million surplus. His extraordinary reputation as both an athletic director and a man of character is the reason behind Malloy's choice of White as the savior of Notre Dame's most popular sport program. 
5 just short of the goal 

Notre Dame's women's soccer team entered the 1999 
campaign determined to improve on last year's "disappointment," in which Portland denied the Irish their sixth consecutive trip to the Final Four with a 2-1 overtime victory. Despite losing the head coach that was responsible for building the successful Irish pro­gram, the 1999 squad came out ready to contend for the national title. After dropping the season opener in overtime to defending national champion North Carolina, the Irish steamrolled through the regular season and early playoff rounds. Notre Dame then advanced to its sixth Final Four in seven years with a shootout win ovei: Nebraska. In the semifinals, the Irish again proved their mettle, upsetting first-ranked Santa Clara, 1-0. However, the Tar Heels proved to be too much for the Irish once again, winning their 15th title in 18 years, 2-0. 
6 get outta my house 

--------------------;·;\~·
.. ,)-;
'',·,,-~ ' i ( .~ The women's basketball program at Notre Dame has . z"" always been dominant at home. The 199~-2000 squad was no exception, establishing the most dominant record at th_e JACC in the program's history.Notre Dame finished 13-0 at home, conclud­ing the regular season as the No. 5 seed in the AP and ESPN/ Coaches polls. Based on this stongregular-season performance, the Irish earned a No. 2 seed in the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame's first two rounds were played at the JACC, where the Lady Irish continued to be invincible. With the two wins, the Irish found themselves in the Sweet 16 round, facing the No. 3 seed, Texas Tech. In a heart-wrenching battle, Texas Tech edged the Irish 69-. 65, putting an early end to an unbelievable season. Bright notes for the Irish this year are the return of Ruth Riley and Big East Rookie of the Year Alicia Ratay. 
7 the loss of a leader 

Mike Berticelli, head coach of the Irish men's soccer 

team from 1990-1999, passed away on January 25. After conclud­
ing practice that Tuesday, he returned home, where he suffered a 
fatal heart attack. During his 10-yeartenure as head coach, Berticelli 
compiled a 104-80-19 record. The Irish advanced to the NCAA 
Tournament in three of those seasons (1993, 1994 and 1996). In 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

1996, the Irish advanced to the second round, securing the program's first victory in the NCAA Tournament. During his 24-year coach­ing career, Berticelli received Coach of the Year honors on 10 separate occasions. He is survived by his wife, Cinda, and his two sons, Nino and Anthony. 
8 amazing speed 
Junior All-American cross-country runner Ryan Shay 
placed fourth in the lOK at the Mt. SAC Relays. He ran a personal best and school-record-breaking time of 28:26.91. The time also bested the Olympic Trials qualifying time by more than 23 seconds and the Olympic Games B qualifying time by a little more than one second. 
9 unsatisfying 

For most teams, a 20-9 finish and an NCAA Tourna­ment bid mark an incredibly successful season. For the Notre Dame women's volleyball team, it was the bitterest of disappointments. After completing a remarkable season, which included finishing the regular season with an 11-0 conference record and advancing to the Big East final against Georgetown, Notre Dame looked for success in the postseason. The four-game loss to Ohio State in the opening round ofthe NCAA Tournament marked the first time that the Irish did not advance to the second round since 1992. 


1Q a giant stri~e 
Notre Dame's men's track and field team captured its first Big East title since joining the conference in 1995. The Irish posted 164 points, blowing away their competitors. Connecticut 


(111) and five-time defending champion Georgetown (106) were the only other squads to come close to challenging the Irish in the championship. Junior All-American Ryan Shay won the 5,000­meter and 10,000-meter runs, while seniors Chris Cochran and Marshaun West each scored in three events for the Irish, including the 100-meter relay. Junior Travis Davey and freshman Tom Gilbert joined the two seniors to set the Big East record in the relay, winning in 
;:::

40.54 seconds. 
~ 

Sophomore Luke 
() )> 
en

Watson won the :i: steeplechase and 
JJ 
m 

placed third in the 5,000-meter run. In recogni­tion of the stellar effort, the Irish coaching staff was recognized as the Big East 
Coaching Staff of HEAD OVER HEELS All-American Jennifer theYear. 0 Engelhardt competes in the high jump. 
==--------------------------------------------~ 
· ·_.· ·:·.·. ·... ·.:.__ :_· ... , -N.:oTRE·DA.ME·.. ·. ·· · · : · · · · 
' ··. . . ·. .FILM,_ TELEVI.SION, .AND TH.EATRE .. : . . . . .· 
WASHINGTON HALL--Donald Crafton, Chairman of Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre, (FTT) has announced that the annual reception for students interested in film, television or theatre will be held Wednesday, August 23, at 6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in any aspect of acting, directing, scenery, costuming, lighting, management, or who are considering film, television and theatre as a major are en­couraged to attend. 
Notre Dame student films are shown each year at the popu­lar annual film festival. Many FTT student films have won awards at national film festivals, and a collection of the best Notre Dame films is available. 
FTT has a terrific relationship with area television stations, and many students have earned internships in a variety of pro­duction areas. WNDU, the local NBC affiliate, is owned by Notre Dame and provides television professionals who teach some Notre Dame classes. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activi­ties is available including: acting, scenic design and construc­tion, costume design and construction, lighting design and ex­ecution, marketing, directing and stage management. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. 
This season, FTT will present a mainstage season consisting of five plays and many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions will be: 
As You Like It, Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet), Love's Fire, The Winter's Tale and Oedipus Rex. 
As You Like It and The Winter's Tale will be performed by AcTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE who will make Notre Dame their American home beginning July 1. All FIT projects will need student involvement. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for first semester plays will be held Wed., Au­gust 23, and Thu., August 24, at 7 :00 PM. 
FIT activities are an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
Ifyou cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about film, please e-mail Ted Mandell at Mandell. I@nd.edu. Ifyou are interested in opportunities in the­atre please e-mail Richard E. Donnelly at Donnelly.4@nd.edu. 
visit our web page at http://www.nd.edu:80/~cothweb/wwwhomepage.html · · . 
• , I -• ' o • 

THE DELICIOUS WHOPPER VALUE MEAL IS AT BURGER KING! 
(WHY ON EARTH ARE YOU STILL STANDING THERE? GO!) 
THE HOT AND DELICIOUS WHOPPER® VALUE MEAL. Go get the flame-broiled WHOPPER® sandwich -AMERICA'S FAVORITE BURGER™. -with hot crispy fries and·an ice-cold drink. 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY~

LOCATED IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Flex 14 meal plan points accepted 



MDll]E$/i"·,:_t· "· J_'":,;,_::·';;·,·,, 
CINEMA@THE SNITE 
For a mere two bucks, you can catch the cream of Holly.wood, independent and in­ternational films right in the basement ofthe Snite Museum of Art, located on the north­west corner of the football stadium. Every Friday and Saturday night, Cinema @ the Snite features second-run films-the mov­ies that have left __ regular theaters but have yet to hit the video store. Some favorites from last semester include Fight Club, Be­ing John Malkovich, Run Lola Run and Boys Don't Cry. On Monday nights, the Snite shows classics, ranging from Casablanca to Citizen Kane. Pickup a sched­ule at the Snite Museum or find one online this fall at www.nd.edu/-cothweb. SUBMovms The Student Union Board, better known as SUB, shows $2 movies every Thursday, Friday and Saturday night. It also shows second-run films, but ittends to focus on the big Hollywood hits, like American Beauty, American Pie and The Talented Mr. Ripley. 
STUDENT FILM FESTIVAL 
Every January, the films made by Notre Dame's film-production students are show­cased for three nights at the Snite. Consider this your chance _to check out the films before they hit the indie film-festival cir­cuit. This must-see event promises contro­versy, art arid even a few laughs. 

ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Every Thursday night at LaFortune Student Center, SUB hosts an open-mic night for student solo musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some Dave Matthews Band and Jewel covers ­or you just want to check out the original music produced by campus talent -this event is free for everyone. If you're inter­ested in being a performer yourself, SUB has open sign-ups each week. 
SUB CONCERTS 
Not a heck of a lot of bands pass through South Bend, but you can count on SUB to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Ben Folds Five, Ani DiFranco, Third Eye Blind and, just this past spring, a double bill of Vertical Horizon and Stroke 9. COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts nationwide, including Branford Marsalis, who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 


BLUEGRASS FESTIVAL 
The second annual Bluegrass Festival took place this spring, featuring the Galoots, straight from Louisville, Ky. Co-sponsored by the dining halls, this free event offered chili and watermelon to all who attended. This year, even city folk like myself were caught square-dancing barefoot on the cool grass of North Quad. 
RADIO-.---~~ 
WVFI 
The Voice of the Fighting Irish, or WVFI, can be accessed from the Internet on cam­pus at wvfi.nd.edu. The station features a wide range ofmusic, from indie to oldies to mainstream. 
WSND 
Corning to you straight from the radio tower in 0'Shaughnessy Hall, WSND on 88.9 FM plays classical music by day and varied student programming by night. 

SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
For one week each February, a committee of sophomores hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Going into its 33rd year, it has featured writers such as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, John Irving and Tom Clancy in its impressive history. 
THE VISITING WRITERS SERIES 
The Creative Writing Program, a graduate· program at Notre Dame, also hosts a num­ber of writers throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal of press, so look around the hallways of 0'Shaughnessy for posters, orcheck out the English department's calendar of events at www .nd.edu/~english/calendar.html. 

SNITE MUSEUM 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, though many students and professors attend the opening of the spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 
AND=n1I.OilE.•.Uc...-...-c.--...-~'·.....;..,j 
ANTOSTAL 
Yet another SUB-sponsored event, An Tostal is Gaelic for "The Festival." In years past, this springtime celebration has in­volved all kinds of events to help blow off school stress before the onslaught offinals. Favorite aspects ofAn Tostal include blow­up Sumo-wrestling suits, velcro walls and those bouncy things that you used to jump on at carnivals as a kid. 
D.I.Y. 
If all entertainment options fail, you' re go­ing to have do it yourself. Though this list may seem extensive, nobody is trying to convince you that you aren't going to hit a few gray and dismal Saturday evenings here in South Bend. Butyou'11 soon find out that Notre Dame isn't so much about the things you do as it is about the people you meet. When your calendar is empty and the snow is piled up outside, there's nothing like an impromptu dorm-room luau orsome­thing as simple as hot chocolate and videos among your new friends. Freshman year can be the best oftimes or the worst oftimes, but a little creativity always helps to make it as good as it can get. Itcan save a lot ofmoney, too. 
And of course, ifyou're still not satisfied with any of these options, you can always apply for a job at Scholastic. 0 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 

Act Now 

Theater opportunities abound at Notre Dame 
KATHLEENCORTE

Scene One: Freshman Orientation weekend. Student moves in, meets roommate, goes to tie exchanges and video dance parties. Anyone could getlostin the hustle and bustle 
ofactivities. "I was homesick until I went to the first meeting," Siiri 
H 
,-I
I; 
w 
><'.

I· I en cc <( 
m :a: 
0 
I-­IL 
0 
in 
w

I 
ti: 
::, 
0 
0

.11 
~ 
:i:

!I 
n. 


TRAGIC HEROES Brad Charron and Tara Murphy act as Pereus and Philomena in last spring's Mainstage production of the Love of the Nightingale, which retells an ancient Greek myth. 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
Scott remembers. 

The first meeting for a play, that is. ForScott, who attended Saint Mary's and is now a visiting professor at Notre Dame, becoming involved in theater not only offered her a.creative outlet, but also helped her meet new people. When I left [the meeting], I had friends," Scott says, "many of whom are still my friends now." 
"We encourage freshmen to get involved," says Tom Barkes, building manager of Washington Hall, where most performances are held. Barkes stresses that students can participate in any part of the process, from costumes to lighting. "In theater, you can do everything," he states. "You can get involved as an actor. You can get involved building scenery. You can do stage management. You can plug in at any point that you want." 
Students can take part in the Mainstage Productions, the four main plays sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. One of these plays is normally performed by a visiting 
ITOM BARKES l=INl••UIIHMl.IIM 
"In theater, you can do everything ... You can plug in at any point that you want." 
theater company. Forthe2000-2001 season, however, theMainstage listing has been stretched to include five plays, two ofwhich will be performed by the visiting theatrical troupe Actors from the London Stage. This company will make Notre Dame its home while touring the United States and will perform two of Shakespeare's plays during the upcoming season. While these two performances will involve professional actors, students are encouraged to take part in the other three Mainstage plays. 
For students interested in musical theater, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company provides another option. Formed in 1997, this company performs a musical every spring semester and has sched­uled Guys and Dolls for the spring of 2001. Since the group is student-run, it offers students a chance to do everything from direct and act to choreograph and play in the orchestra that accompanies the show. Other acting groups can also be found on campus, such as the St. Ed's Players and the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Com­pany. These groups all hold performances throughout the year and offer opportunities for students to become involved. 
For students who cannot imagine life without the stage as well as for those who would like to become involved in theater for the first time, an organizational meeting will be held in Washington Hall on Wednesday, August 23 at 6 p.m. "Any and all people are absolutely welcome," Barkes states. 
"I recommend trying to get involved as soon as possible," says Michael Cochran, a junior who started participating in plays on campus his freshman year. "It's fun, and it gives you the opportu­nity to meet a lot of people. You get to know people really well." 
Although aspiring actors and directors can anticipate plenty of theatrical opportunities at Notre Dame, those students who would rather watch the shows than bein the spotlight can still look forward to an exciting season of performances. . 
swift simple smart 
Announcing 


Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollar Account $__ (minimum $50) 
Deposit is by: _Cash _Check _Money Order 
t··st@,i;3:8fSig'H~(~r~•,/ ":s:_.•·.•S •'.~~, >•;,t,,r;q~-t~~~;J 
Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office 
P.O. Box 1043 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 631-7814 

The latest in student convenience -Domer Dollars can be used at the Hammes Bookstore. With a simple swipe of your university ID card, you can use your Domer Dollars to purchase not only textbooks, but great Notre Dame sportswear, gift and insignia merchandise, religious items and general books. 
The Copy Shop in LaFortune Student Center also offers a variety of products and services including: high speed copying, color copying/scanning/printing, binding, fax service, laminating, resumes, business cards, office supplies, desktop publishing services and much more. 
Domer Dollars can be used at all Food Service locations accepting points. Do you have friends or family visiting? Why not treat them to·a meal using your Domer Dollars? 
Future locations will include Vending Machines and Laundry 

Welcome incoming first year students from Notre Dame's Student Union Board Look for these big events when you arrive: 


@ Stepan Center 
(the funny looking dome on North Campus) 


WelcomeWeek 

Thursday:

ii Thursday & Friday
Tye-dying, D.J., and Giveawaysi 4-7pmat the Fieldhouse Mall Aug.24 & 25 · 

Friday: 

Outdoor Movie and Giveaways 9 pm at Rolfs Athletic Center 
All this and more, brought to you by: 

College ... Now! 
Keeping you up-to-date on the latest hits for your freshman year 
CRISTINFENZEL 

You know Rod Roddy, the hyper-emphatic announcer on "The Price is Right" who owns, like, 500 sportcoats made entirely out of glitter? The following works better if you read it while doing your best impression of him. Aww, come on. No one's looking. 
You've sent in your acceptance letter. You've packed your bags. You've said goodbye to the dog. As you embark on your college journey, the only question you've got left is the same one plaguing the mind of every other incoming college freshman: What in tarnation am I going to listen to on the way there?! 
Search no further -the answer is available on two full-length CDs or audio cassettes! That's right: COLLEGE...NOW! It's a whirlwind tour of the freshman experience, set to the funkiest beat around! Worried about fitting in at the big, scary university that will soon be your home? Dance those insecurities away! We guarantee that all the cool kids will be bobbin' their heads to COLLEGE... NOW! when you arrive. 
Hear smash hits about typical freshman problems with domestic tasks, like: 
I Want Your Socks (Sing to the tune of I Want Your Sex by George Michael) The way that you dress is important, you know 'Cause style is a must, and you're screwed if you don't Know whites are washed in warm And darks are washed in co-old When mom did the wash I didn't sweat it But now I'm expected to iron and fold! 
I said I won't tease you, won't tell you no lies Just give me your shorts and your pants and your ties I'm clumsy with Clorox, with Wisk I'm the worst A man needs his wardrobe, so give me your shirts I want your socks! I want your ... socks. 
Roommate anxiety? Don't bug out, dude! Chill to the psychedelic strains of: 
Room with a Stranger 

(Sing to the tune of Beautiful Stranger by Madonna) We haven't met ... They expect me to room with a stranger What if she's bad for me? What if my life's in danger? If she's crazy I'll run away, But there's nowhere else I can stay! Haven't you heard? I have to go now and room with a stranger. 
Leaving home tugs on everyone's heartstrings. Let some slow, sad country twang help you cope: 
I Can't Go Places (Sing to the tune of Friends in Low Places by Garth Brooks) On the day that I left, I was feelin' bereft Full of sadness I couldn't ignore I gave one last hug to my VW Bug And I forced myself out the door. I tried not to cry, but there were tears in my eyes As I sank further into my seat: I just couldn't bear the thought of leavin' it there So cold and alone on the streeeeeeet! 
Well without a car, you can't go places You sit in your dorm while everyone else races Away from school But it'll turn out cool It's a fact of life that every freshman faces Still lots of folks got cars, and in mo-ost cases You can catch a ride, and gooooo places. 
Driving to school with the 'rents and worried they won't "dig" COLLEGE...NOW!' s kickin' rhythms? Placate them with classics like: 
Ode to South Dining Hall 
(Sing to the tune of Heartbreak Hotel by Elvis Presley) Well since I went to college (bah-dum!) I found a new place to eat (bah-dum!) It's down at the place where dinner's Always nutritionally complete. I get so hungry, baby, I get so hungry, etc. 
So what on earth are ou waitin for? Order today! 
·,, ' .. 
. ~ } . 
(. ~.,.\,,,,, ~ 



SCHOLASTICNEWS 31 
by Father Gary Chamberland, CSC 

Coming Home 
Today is the quietest day of the year. The last Suburban has pulled away, and paper is strewn about in empty corridors. My first year 
as rector is over. Just yesterday the vans arrived, disgorging pie-eyed freshmen. Heck. Just yesterday, I arrived as one of those freshmen. 
On August 23, 1980, my adventure began. My parents and I drove up Notre Dame A venue and saw the sun glinting off of the Golden Dome. We turned into the old Main Gate, and the air was filled with the Victory March as the Band of the Fighting Irish marched our way. It was here to greet me, confirma­tion that I was meant to be here. This was heaven's sign that all would be well. 
I moved into Dillon Hall that Friday morning with no idea that my life would be changed forever. Changed by the people I would meet that very day. Changed by the questions asked in class and in late­night bull sessions. Changed by the words that com­forted and challenged me at Masses over the next four years. I had no idea that this journey would lead me to places I never dreamed ofand would lead me back to Notre Dame. 
I remember meeting the other freshmen in my section thatfirstmorn­At Notre Dame, I found a ing and not liking them at all. I remember my voice which would become first home football game when Harry
authentically my own. 
Oliver kicked a 51­
Father Gary Chamberland, a member ofthe class of1984, is the current rector of Keenan Hall. 

yard field goal into the wind to beat Michigan and envisioning four years of football bliss. I remember arriving at Advanced French, my very first college class ever, and having a crisis ofconfidence when everyone was convers­ing fluently. I knew that I didn't belong here and that I would soon flunk out and return home in shame. 
Well, none of that happened. I passed Advanced French, Notre Dame football hit the skids and the guys in my se~tion became my closest friends. To­gether, we shared the greatest moments in our lives­and the lowest. We pondered life's great questions, debated careers, and questioned the reality of God. We helped ea~h other through calculus and Core, cheered on new relationships and tended each other's broken hearts. We grew up together. 
AtNotreDame,!leftboyhood behind and struggled to become a man. I faced new challenges and found a voice which would become authentically my own. I learned that my decisions had consequences. I fell in love with a beautiful woman and came to believe that I was lovable. At Notre Dame, I began to develop a mature faith and ask how I might serve God. 
On May 21, 1984, my parents and I drove down Notre Dame Avenue with the Dome reflecting morning's light in the rearview mirror. I left a differ­ent person than the one who had arrived four years earlier -a better person, !hope. I left intent to make a difference in our world; I leftmore sure ofwho I was and what I believed. I left kno~ing that I had friends, men whom I had met the very day I arrived on campus, who would always be there for me. 
Life has brought us to different places. Most have married, and two of us have been ordained. Swim practices and soccer leagues dominate our conversa­tions now. One ofus has been serious} y ill for IO years now, and another we· laid to rest after the ravages of cancer. I don't call them often enough, but they are with me daily, in my random thoughts and my delib­erate prayers, in who I am and who I still strive to be. 
Thoughts of my friends fill me on this afternoon when the hall is still. I think of those freshmen (now sophomores) that have just left for the summer. Con­fident young men, they have begun to address life's questions and are, by and large, answering them well. I see the 300 men with whom I have lived this year and recall the good times we shared. I also remember the difficult times: the suffering, the doubt, the serious illness and the pain of life, the death of a parent, and the struggles with personal identity. I rejoice in the attempts of young men to be good friends in times of need. In their efforts, I see Christ. 
I think of the seniors who are moving on to new arenas. They shall be missed, but I am not worried about the gap they leave behind. Their place will be taken by those juniors and sophomores whom they helped form. This year's freshmen will return to teach next year's freshmen the ways of this place and help them feel at home. They will become tomorrow's big brothers, mentors and friends ... 
The cars are gone and I will enjoy the quiet for a while. Yet I already miss them. I miss the hum of activity and the shouts in the halls. I look forward to August, when the next generation of Notre Dame arrives at our doorstep, a little pie-eyed, a little scared. I look forward to welcoming them into our commu­nity and growing together in faith and love. D 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 


HOP
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Q·uality 
COPIES 

· Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly/ 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly/ 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly/ 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly/ 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly/ 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 

LaFo.rtune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone (219) 631-COPY • Fax (219) 631-FAX1 www.CopyShopND.com 
WELCOME CLASS 0-F 2004! 
The Copy ·shop on the lower level of the LaFortune Student Center is Notre Dame•s student copy center. The Copy Shop offers a wide selection of products and services. 
High Speed Copies · • ·Color Copies/Printing Fax Service • Binding • Resumes Desktop Publishing • Course Packets · Printing • Thesis & Dissertation Copying Overhead Transparencies ·ft School Supplies Laminating • Carbo~less Forms • Diskettes 
And a Whole Lot Morel 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE &WEEKENDS 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 

Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  Quality  
COPIES  COPIES  COPI.ES  COPIES  COPIES  COPI.ES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES  COPIES COPIES  COPIES  
Quickly!  Quickly!  .Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  Quickly!  



NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PAID 
Permit No. 2 
NOTRE DAME, IN 






