SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send
years of Scholastic to:
Name:_________________________________
Address:______________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
Contents
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
4 Black and White
7 Hear No Evil, See No Evil, Speak No Evil
12 Notre Dame for the Homeless
14	Christmas Around the
World
15	The Entrepreneur’s Club
16	A New Beginning
18 The Fall of Troy
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Editorial
22	On Other Campuses
23	Week In Distortion
24	Final Word
20 Out of Bounds
21 Jesus Lizard
Cover photo by Ken Osgood
BBBMBER 19,1992

Editor's Notes
NOTREDAME’S STUDENT. MAGAZINE
77?	.
■. . ■<<. / : November-19/ 1992- ' . / ■ ^ ‘
: ?. 7: Disca Quasi Semper Victurus '	,
•; - 7.. ••' Vive Quasi Oras Moriturus .
■ ■■ ?■ / ••■
7EDTO^	.'■■ 7 //	■-
;;Patricia.K/ Doyle?. ?777; :’ ’■'■ ■7 7?
MANAGING EDITOR/?^ ; \
.. 'MargaretS.:Kenny:-/ . i. •	7 .
EXECUTIVEEDITOR? -
. David J. Holsinger ? 77 7?.
/ CAMPUS LIFE ? <-,/ <,.7.. \ ' ;
Editor: Mollie. Mudd .. ./
;;NEWS<%^	•/ ; ' ; ;
Edito^	'/■ - y . /	7 7' ;
- Mark Mitchell? :v' 777-
•/sports? 7/.?.i-;	7.
^Edjt6r:;Jim'Ku	7 ? • 77
X/Assis^nt: Amanda Clinton 77 „7-?7; '?
^ENTERTAINMENT ? ? 7 /7"7 : / 7? '■
7Editor:J/^	7.-;.	■ < ; ?•
7 DEPARTMENTS 7 ? "vy■ V 7 ■ 7
/Editoir^	77	\ 7, 7
.PNP^	-?/ <
7Editor/Ken 'Osgood77'7 7 7/,.' r-	'
■ V>7-
£;EM>r:‘Chjte	> a-/< ?■/ VV;:-
:' Amanda Clinton, Pete McGi
\MariceiIeW
'■Manager:. JakeProsr-^ ’'
Manager:'QhiijWang. ?' '-Ay-'■	"',’.
.^Mager:jSte0nS^^
•SlDl^TRlByTibN/
^tettagei?B^
On The Cover
Freedom of the press or just plain hatred? Where do we draw the line between standing up for our first amendment rights and offending others? This week, Photography Editor Kenneth Osgood examines the roles of media at Notre Dame. After the anti-Semitic column written by L. Clifford Cheney, the advertisement against gays and lesbians paid for by alumnus Paul Fisher both appearing in The Observer, and the “award” given to Professor Suzanne Marilley by Dialogue much discussion has arisen. However, this week’s article takes a look at what all the talk is really about. In the case of Marilley, the focus has centered around the responsibility she has to her class instead of the role that research is taking at Notre Dame. In the wake of Cheney’s article, Fisher’s hateful advertisement received little response from the Notre Dame community.
In This Issue
In news this week, Michelle Crouch looks at the problem of racism on campus. What' is the cause of this and what can we do to prevent racism ath Notre Dame? Campus Life writer Beth Fehring writes about Christmas Around the World, which will take place from November 30 to December 3. This celebration is sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council and will feature the diverse ways that different cultures celebrate this holiday. Also in Campus Life, Theresa Hennessey looks at the events that have taken place during “ND for the Homeless Week 1992.” Finally, Chris Lenko looks at Notre Dame’s newest club, the Entrepreneur’s Club.
After last week’s victory over Penn State, the football team has a week off of before it
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $25.00fyearand back issues are available al $1.25 jeopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
heads west to play the USC Trojans. Kevin Weinman previews this upcoming battle. Assistant Sports Editor Amanda Clinton prepares us for the women’s basketball season. Although the team lost several of its starters from last year and has suffered many injuries, with the help of the incoming freshmen and the returning members from last year’s squad, the Irish women are looking forward to their upcoming season. In Entertainment, J. Bradley Keck enlightens us with “Out Of Bounds” and Executive Editor Dave Holsinger reviews the Jesus Lizard’s album Liar. As usual, you will find “On Other Campuses,” “Week In Distortion” and “Final Word.” The “Coming Distractions” calendar will return in our December 3 issue following the Thanksgiving holiday.
Money, Money
Are you interested in earning some extra cash? Do you like to work with people? Would you like to gain some sales experience? Ifso, Scholastic would like you to join our advertising staff. Having a car is not a prerequisite, nor is previous experience. If you are interested in this position, stop by our office in 303 LaFortune or call Karen Riley at 239-7569.
Clarification
In last week’s issue, the photograph appearing in the “Road Trip” article should be attributed to David Hungeling of The Observer. Scholastic regrets this error.
Patricia Doyle
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include thewriter's name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should in elude their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves theright to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC,
EDITORIAL
What is the mission of a newspaper? Scholastic would agree with Joseph Pulitzer’s statement that a newspaper should “always fight for progress or reform and never tolerate injustice and corruption, always fight demagogues of all parties, never belong to any party, always oppose privileged classes and public plunderers, never lack sympathy with the poor, always remain devoted to the public welfare, never be satisfied with merely printing news, always be drastically independent, never be afraid to attack wrong, whether by predatory plutocracy or predatory poverty.”
Those who write, edit and publish the news have a responsibility to their readers. This responsibility involves education and the dissemination of information which is needed by society. We have been given freedom of the press, but also the duty to use that freedom responsibly. Scholastic does not question The Observer's right to print letters by L. Clifford Cheney and Paul A. Fisher. Rather, we question its motivations in doing so. The fact that anti-Semitic and homophobic elements exist in our society cannot be denied. Is it necessary, though, to disseminate their beliefs through our campus media?
One might reconsider the quote at the end of Paul A. Fisher’s despicable espousal of homophobia, which says, “An error which is not resisted is approved...” Wouldn’t this apply just as well to those who print bigoted viewpoints without considering the effects of doing so?
The campus media has finally seen a response from the faculty and administration for something which it has done. President Edward Malloy even decided to scold The Observer for its irresponsibility.
We at Scholastic only ask why it has taken so long for the faculty and administration to say anything, whether critical or not, about the role of the media on our campus. It is regrettable that abuses of the freedom of speech are the only things which have managed to elicit any kind of response.
Twice so far this year, Scholastic has touched on issues of free speech in our editorials. We remain committed to the right of free speech, but we also remain committed to a standard of responsibility in what we publish. The media has both the opportunity and the responsibility to raise consciousness in a positive manner. Spreading hateful polemic, as The Observer did by running the anti-gay and anti-Semitic letters, is irresponsible and makes its editors accomplices to propagating those hateful, counterproductive ideas in our society. If those who espouse hate as a philosophy wish to have their views heard, they have every right to say them. We, however, will refuse to be a vehicle for hateful and destructive opinions. If you, the readers, find that we have been party to the spread of such views, please tell us. Our magazine may be lacking in the readership which a controversy-mongering publication would have, but we will try to promote responsibility in the press rather than to draw attention to ourselves by creating scandals.
—Scholastic
Beneath the surface of campus racism
by Michelle Crouch
Only 295 African-American students attend Notre Dame. This unbalanced situation causes much racial pressure and tension, according to many of these students.
“The university has tried to do everything possible to ease the pressure,” said sophomore Rochelle Stewart, but “they don’t realize the depth of the pressure. They can only appease us, not please us.”
With the aid of the Lily Endowment Grant it received recently, the university is planning several events that will address these and other pressures experienced by students. The focus of these coming activities will be multicultural acceptance and awareness.
A prejudice reduction workshop held on November 8 was one result of this grant. The university is also using the grant to train faculty and administrators, rectors and resident assistants in cultural awareness.
The Office of Minority Affairs has set up a programming series through which it is planning to bring a number of speakers to Notre Dame. The first speaker will appear on Saturday from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. in the La Fortune Ballroom. The speech is entitled “-isms 101: How to recognize and overcome stereotypes.”
The need for these programs is readily apparent in the campus dining halls, where two or three tables of black students stand out among the predominantly white patronage. Freshman Kate Mawdsly commented on this tendency: “When I got here,
I was shocked by the obvious segregation, and it was most apparent in the dining hall.”
Racism occurs here when students try to cross these unofficial barriers, said senior Shawn Davis. He describedasituation thathas occurred to him more than once. He has sat down at a lunch table, and being the only black there, watched people leave before they appeared to be finished eating. He said that sometimes the people who do not leave give him strange looks.	'
Racism, although seldom talked about, is a compelling force that spurs the minorities at Notre Dame to band together. Senior Anita Pace said that, although many blacks choose to sit together in the cafeteria, “It’s not that we’re trying to separate ourselves; it’s just that it’s the only time we get to see each other. We want to bond, to feel a sense of closeness.” She also mentioned that if they did choose to sit “randomly somewhere” every day, “the black community would call us snobs and say we didn’t want to be involved.”
“If this was a black college, a white person would go over and sit with another — it’s easier to communicate with that person because they’re more like you,” pointed out another black student.
Stewart spoke for most of these African-
Americans when she said that, although there is little blatant racism on campus, they can feel it through “little stuff that happens.”
For example, when she and another minority student went to hang up a poster on a bulletin board in a dorm, the rector asked them not to. Five minutes later, two white students came and hung up a similar poster, and nothing was said to them.
Pace’s first encounter with racism occurred when she was moving into her dorm at the beginning of the year. After she accidently walked into a white freshman on her way up the stairs, the freshman dramatically wiped off her shoulder.
Thus, dealing with prejudice is another common experience in which minorities look to each other for support. Although he did not say that such actions are excusable, Davis tries not to let them bother him. “Some people are just ignorant—prejudice is a big factor on this campus. A lot of it has to do with the way they were raised,” he reasoned.
Some of these prejudices, however, are not hidden so well. An even more direct example of campus racism was described by a black student who wishes to remain anonymous. She said that she received numerous phone calls in which thecaller has made crude comments and called her a “nigger.” She said that she tries not to let it bother her, although sometimes this is very difficult.
rji he prejudice at Notre Dame is also 1 evident in the stereotypes people have about African-Americans. “People expect me to know how to dance becausel’m black, and I’m supposed to have rhythm,” said Pace, “but I know some black girls who can’t dance.”
The predominantly black campus gospel choir is subject to a similar misconception. “Justbecause we sound well collectively, in Voices of Faith, people expect us to know how to sing very well,” said Stewart, “butall of us can’t necessarily sing. 'We don’t all listen to only rap music either;”-.-. x
Another student, sophomore Reggie Fleurima, said that here blacks are also expected to “talk jive.” He said that “everyone” asked him to do that last year.
Pace’s Catholicism is also a surprise to many whites, who often believe that all blacks are Protestants: “When I went to Mass in the dorm, people thought that I was just sitting in or with a friend. They eventually made me feel so uncomfortable that I couldn’t go back to mass in the dorm.”
Stephanie Carson, a black-Hispanic student, thinks that the black men at Notre Dame probably experience more prejudice than the women do because “if you’re ablack male at Notre Dame, you must be an athlete.”
communityon^^^^^ campus|iis to stay ppen-miiided and tostopmakinggfg
integrated.; We; need to learn mo aboutourseives
com£to£etlier one trig
^Rbcheiie Stewart
Black athletes are doubly confronted with stereotypes since they are both black and participate in sports, according to Fleurima, who believes that black student athletes are perceived to be academically less serious and lazier than the general campus population.
Davis experienced this athletic stereotype head-on. After the Michigan game, someone congratulated him by saying “good game.” Davis had not played football in two years.
Davis and his roommate were subject to another stereotype last year — that blacks are more likely to break the law. According to Davis, some residents of his hall had items stolen from their room and, for no stated reason, the security office took pictures of Davis and his roommate. He said his roommate was called to Student Affairs about the incident, even though he was not in town the weekend the theft occurred. “Many people always assume the black guy did it,” said Davis. The security office was not available for comment.
A ccording to these students, such ste-XX reotyping has extended to the classroom as well. Stewart said when she first came here, she was uncomfortable in class because she felt others perceived that black students “either played a sport or were here to fill a quota.” Consequently, she felt she had to censor everything she said. Since then, however, she has learned that she “made the situation worse than it really was because [she] didn’t know how to act.”
Pace agreed that racial differences are often perceived rather than observed in classes here. “Sometimes I feel favored in the classroom, like the professor tried to explain things differently because ! might not get it. I can’t prove this; it’s just a feeling I get sometimes,” she said.	-
In her philosophy class, Pace experienced a stereotype when the professor asked everyone to say what they think of when he said the word “poverty.” Many of the students in the class vocally associated poverty with blacks. Furthermore, according to Pace, “When racial questions or cultural questions come up in aclass, everybody gets a little uncomfortable.”
Another problem African-Americans experience in the classroom is that if they are not in class, “everybody notices, including the teacher,” said sophomore TraCy Graham. He also said that, as a minority, Ire often feels “out of place” in a classroom, and that because of this he feels pressure to do everything right.
NOVEMBER 19,1992	.	\ s."-	s'g '5..
hese prejudices that blacks experience here would be difficult to explain to a white person, whereas other minorities can relate to their difficulties. It is for this reason that minority students gravitate toward each other. “You tend to stick with a person you can relate to rather than a person you have to explain to,” said Stewart.
Davis said that he has just as many white friends as blacks, but his best friends are black because they often have the same backgrounds and they are the same culturally. He emphasized that making friendships with whites is possible; his five roommates are white and they all get along very well.
Stewart said that separation is needed at times, though. “All I ask of the community on campus is to stay open-minded and to stop making everything so integrated,” she said. “We need to leam more about ourselves before we can come together as one big whole."
Despite the number of other student ethnic organizations, some whites find the number of black groups on campus disconcerting. “Blacks demand equality, but then they make separate black clubs,” said Tom Ahem, a white freshman, “They say anything all-white is discriminatory but they can have all-black groups.”
T nterracial dating is another controver-8 sial issue which has caused division within as well as between black and white communities here. Many from both groups agreed with Davis, who said: “It depends on the individual. Females are females, males are males, skin color does not determine love or feelings for another.”
However, some students, according to Graham, “don’t think it’s bad when a black guy dates white girls but it’s bad when a white guy dates a black girl.” This could be because white men rarely date black women, Graham speculated.
As a white male, Ahem explained why it would be hard for him to date a black woman: “It wouldn’t seem right as a result of my
“We’re not pointing fingers. We just need to learn how to deal with racism since it’s still prevalent. We all belong to one race, the human race, and we need to learn how to live together and accept our differences.”
-Iris Outlaw, Director of Minority Affairs
upbringing. ... Black women have so much more presence. I admire them, but it’s also intimidating.”
The black men who spoke seemed more inclined to be open to interracial dating than the black women. Stewart spoke for the women when she said, “I’m totally against it. We as black people have enough problems as it is in our. race. To see a black man cross the racial line and turn against the strong black women really disturbs me.”
According to Pace, many African-American women believe that black men often turn their attentions to white women because they think they can “get more” from a white woman or they want her as a “status symbol.”
Graham disagreed: “We know a lot of black girls around here who do the same
things the white girls do. You have to look at the individual.”
These problems and disagreements highlight the disparities often attributed to ethnicity on campus. Fleurima voiced a common opinion when he said, “I don’t think the university can really do anything about it; they can’t do anything to make people treat you differently. Their hands are tied.” Although many students have voiced distrustful or separatist views, the university is continuing its effort to promote multiculturalism.
Iris Outlaw, Director of Minority Affairs, emphasized, “We’re not pointing fingers. We just need to leam how to deal with racism since it’s still prevalent. We all belong to one race, the human race, and we need to leam how to live together and accept our differences”	□
;	• • •	.	"	• SCHOLAST1QJ
News Commentary
Hear No Evil, See No Evil, Speak No Evil
Campus Press Under Fire
by Kenneth A. Osgood
John Barry, editor in chief of Dialogue, wrote in his editor’s notes, “It is gratifying to know that Dialogue has sparked some debate on Notre Dame campus ...dialogue is Occurring.” Itis true that articles and advertisements in The Observer and Dialogue have sparked a debate on campus, but about what?
Dialogue’s article, in an attempt to spark debate over research commitments and Notre Dame faculty granted a professor from the government department an award “to be granted to those administrators and faculty who could not care less about the Notre Dame undergraduates.” Far from creating any sort of dialogue about the emphasis on teaching at Notre Dame. rcsponse to the article centered around whether Professor Suzanne Marilley cared about her students or not.
L. Clifford Cheney’s column on “Jewish Slave Law” launched readers of The Observer not into a debate about anti-Semitism, but rather on the experience, professionalism, and responsibilities of The Observer's editorial staff. Arguing about the letters’ contents or dangers of anti-Semitism took second place to the discussion over
freedom of the press.
Notre Dame alumnus Paul Fisher’s two-page advertisement calling homosexuality “inherently wrong” escaped relatively unscathed, receiving little attention in the shadow of Cheney’s article.
From each, of these publications, debates have centered not on the issues directly
' “A scholar who /';
• a second rate
'' A • S KS-4 good teacher
who is a slow ■
• A?	Stizand^
raised, but rather on more distant issues. To the editor’s of Dialogue and The Observer it should not be surprising. Who could responsibly debate the unhistorical claim that “the American Civil War was fought to try to rid Jewish Slave Law from American soil?” Could anyone who had no personal contact with Professor Marilley respectfully discuss her concern for students? Who could intellectually give an exegesis of Paul Fisher’s use of Scripture in his denunciation of homosexuals?
Ultimately, all three of these are instances of journalism being used to hurt people. Dialogue's article represented nothing short of character assasination. Fisher and Cheney, taken together, made blunt statements to their readers: “I hate Jews and homosexuals.”
The effects of these articles remain. Cheney’s column brought to the surface not only the issue of freedom of the press, but also the realization that anti-Semitism is not as far from Notre Dame as many would like to think. Paul Fisher’s homophobic advertisement reignites the debate on the position of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame. Dialogue, aside from serving as an example of how not to write responsible journalism, reopened the controversy over university emphasis on research and publication.
NOVEMBER 19;i992 .	/A:	7

Dialogue Attacks Professor to Vindicate Teaching at Notre Dame
John Barry, in defense of Dialogue’s article on Professor Marilley, stated that the approach Dialogue took to raise the issue of faculty research commitment was “necessary.” “It is necessary to shock students to raise the issue,” he said. “There might have been abetter way to approach the issue if we were on a different campus, but hereat Notre Dame it needed to be hard-edged to get a response.” When asked if he, or Dialogue, owed Professor Marilley an apology he answered, “No.” He admitted to not interviewing Professor Marilley beforehand, stating, “We had talked to several students and felt that was enough.” Even though no one from Dialogue interviewed Professor Marilley, Barry said he believed he had all the facts necessary when the article was written.
Professor Marilley made no written defense at the time the article was printed and felt that none was due now. She did, however, admit that as a junior faculty member trying to obtain tenure, as a mother of a newborn baby, and as a victim of viral pneumonia, “Dialogue assailed the most vulnerable around.”
She did not wish to comment directly on Dialogue’s article, but ironically expressed her affection for two of Dialogue’s founders she had had in her class. She revealed particular affection for founder Matt Schlapp, who was her “greatest antagonist. I could
always count on Matt raising important questions, he was intellectually exciting. It was fun!”
When asked if she preferred research over teaching, or vice versa, she said, “I am sort of in the middle. I love to teach, and I enjoy research... I only wish there was more time to put into courses when you first start out, time to develop new courses.” She advised one change which would alleviate some Of the pressure on faculty: give professors more time to grade exams at the end of the semester. “I never give multiple choice exams because they don’t test the necessary analytic skills,” She said she gives essay tests to all 71 students, and then has only one week to grade them. She continually emphasized the need for essay tests “to test analytic skills and concepts,” which she sees as absolutely necessary for the education of her students.


Speaking of the previous semester, she described how she restructured her course and put a lot of time into her teaching. “I could have gotten by in the course if I had taught it at an unchallenging level, but I changed the course considerably. In the end, I found the class very rewarding as a result.” She also described how she had difficulties juggling her teaching efforts with the duties of caring for and feeding her newborn baby. She said the efforts drained much of her strength and she became sick from expending so much energy. In an almost comic situation, Professor Marilley, having a sick newborn, redeveloping a course, grading 72 essay tests, working on a research project and sick with viral pneumonia was called in for jury duty — twice!
What about the controversy surrounding research over teaching? Marilley volun

teered that it is a “very important issue”, and offered her support for both teaching and research. “I love teaching, but research'and publication are a good idea and important.” She expressed concern, however, over the “question of quantity over quality.” She warned about overemphasizing in which journals articles are published and not emphasizing that works are studied for substance. She admits that this trend is true of most universities, not just Notre Dame, saying, “A scholar who is a second-rate teacher will advance faster than a good teacher who is a slow researcher.”
Finding another junior faculty member who would speak on the issue of research and teaching was challenging. Five faculty members refused to comment on that subject, and two spoke on the condition of anonymity. One professor admitted “Notre Dame doesn’t appear to re
ft
“John”
ward good teaching as well, as good research.” Anotherprofessorrevealed thatitis not “that good teaching is in anyway neglected” but that increased pressures to publish naturally “lead to a decline in time put into the teaching effort.”
Professor Robert Wegs from the history department expressed delight in the “rewards of both teaching and research.” He found that he had always been able to do both, “The excitement of discovery you get from research ... it has to reflect in your teaching!”
Professor Marcia Weigle from the government department explained the relationship of teaching to research in detail. For a professor, she said, there are always three responsibilities at a university: “Teaching and administration, research (engagement with the wider scholarly community) and
8 • ■■	' .....	- ■-	.■•	SCHOLASTIC
community service (getting involved with students, clubs and organizations on campus.)”
In the past, she explained, there were teaching institutions and research institutions. Notre Dame, for example, had an “excellent reputation” for its teaching, she said. In the past decade, the prestige of research has caused an increased emphasis at many universities, including Notre Dame. While universities do not wish “to slight either aspect,” the criteria for tenure is often getting published, she explained.
From the point of view of the untenured professor, it is natural to deal with students and prefer it: “It’s human relations, it’s fun! ” However, it isn’t always easy to do research, she elaborated, if you take teaching really seriously.
Alumnus Pays Big Bucks to Publicize Homophobia
j^Ln alumnus of Notre Dame’s class of 1943, Paul A. Fisher, paid The Observer $880.00 for a two-page advertisement to have his argument against homosexuality be heard. Quoting extensively from Scripture and from Fr. Edward Malloy’s book, Homosexuality And The Christian Way of Life, Fisher’s advertisement attempts to convince readers of “the evil inherent in homosexual activity.” One source of confusion arising from Fisher’s advertisement was that it lacked clear indication that it was in fact an advertisement. Michael Hobbs, advertising manager for The Observer stated, “It was a mistake,” a mistake which Editor in Chief
Monica Yant described as “unfortunate.” The following issue of The Observer published a notice explaining the mistake.
When asked to comment on Fisher’s use of his book, Fr. Malloy stated, “it was a mean-spirited and inappropriate interpretation.” He said he didn’t want to dignify it with a response, “because of the spirit with which it was written.” He encouraged anyone who might question the meaning of his book to read it for themselves: “It’s a public document It’s in the library.”
Sharon Miller, a member of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College (GLND/SMC) commented on the advertisement. She felt “the timing was atrocious... we were just beginning to make headway.” Even though GLND/SMC is “far from being recognized,” she continued, “administrators and students were at least affirming the need for Notre Dame to be a safe place for all students, including gays and lesbians.” Miller was disturbed by the “miniscule” response to Fisher’s advertisement compared to the “overwhelming” response to Cheney’s article. “Both articles were attacking a minority group,” she said.
Another member of GLND/S MC, John*, echoed Miller’s concerns: “Our rights are being violated every day. We are not allowed to tell the truth about who we are.” When asked about his personal reaction to the ad, John, a graduate student in theology, said, “It didn’t make me angry. I read it as a theologian and saw it as Catholic fundamentalism ... The problem is a pastoral problem, not a theological problem, this guy is hurting.”
According to John,the real problem with Fisher’s ad is that most gays on campus would agree with what he wrote. “I once did,” John admitted, “I felt that it was wrong to be gay. What Fisher’s ad does is sheer condemnation: it condemns gays without offering any sort of solution.”
John continued, “there is no forum allowed on campus for homosexuals to discuss this issue.” John explained that GLND/SMC is not a recognized club at Notre Dame, and as a result they have difficulty reaching other gay students.
* Name has been changed to preserve anonymity.
The Observers Appeal for Free Press
w hen the The Observer ran L. Clifford Cheney’s column on “Jewish Slave Law” the response was overwhelming. Editor in Chief Monica Yant said, “The outcry was surprising. This article was as equally offensive and hurtful as some of the stuff we run every day.” Yant also said, “It is to be applauded that Notre Dame has no intention of being identified with anti-Semites.”
When asked if she learned anything from the outcry against the article, Yant said she discovered that “this community, especially the intellectual community, isn’t as open-minded as we’d like.” She said she also learned how important it is to listen to her readers. For Yant, it is a great honor as an editor to know that her paper is being read. She stated, “We learned that we’re being read — closely. It’s fantastic!”
Yant believes Viewpoint Editor Joe Moody wanted to show students that “these thoughts are out there.” She observed that the reaction against The Observer’s printing of the column was “overwhelmingly” from faculty, and believes one explanation for this is “students don’t have as much of an awareness of the issue.” She believes this is because students haven’t been exposed to anti-Semitism as much as faculty members have.
Stephen A. Fredman, an Associate Professor of the English department, found “the unconsciousness of students depressing. ... That people thought the article was weird rather than actively pernicious was shocking
NOVEMBER 19^1992 < <'■ <
L
to me.” Fredman said he hadn’t thought about anti-Semitism in years. “When I grew up I had a general sense of being a Jew. There were certain things I couldn’t do, places I couldn’t go... I remember being in a position of being a victim.”
Fredman said the printing of Cheney’s column put him in touch with “the whole structure of bigotry.” He said, “this article stirred a depressing contemplation that has taught me something about my own life... it caused me to see how much of my life has been dictated by this [bigotry].”
Fredman said, “I’ve seen that kind of rhetoric all my life.... It was the fact that it appeared here, at Notre Dame, that was shocking to me.” He said he doesn’t blame The Observer, but believes that Cheney’s article only said,‘“I hate Jews.’ And ‘I hate Jews’ isn’t a viewpoint or an opinion, it’s an emotional statement. That’s where the whole argument that The Observer is making falls apart.”
When asked about the presence of any anti-Semitism at Notre Dame, he replied
How insulated g how unhistorical
that anti-Semitism exists here “in institutional forms.” While there is no one “actively slurring Jews,” there is also no one “confronting Judaism at all... it’s as if Judaism doesn’t exist.” He said, “it is disturbing to see how insulated we are as a campus, how unhistorical we are.”
Fredman expresses concern that “the hurtfulness of that rhetoric hasn’t come home.... People do take it seriously. These things are real.”
From those most affected by these issues, important lessons can be learned. From “John” it becomes obvious that Notre Dame is not a safe place for all students, especially gays and lesbians. Professor Fredman brings an understanding of the hurtful effects of anti-Semitism to life. Both of these, and Professor Marilley’s story, are examples of contempt in journalism misleading readers from the real issues at hand. There is no place for hate in journalism. □
10	 ■ SCHQtASTiC
V	News Commentary < I
--------------------------------------
Campusl/V&tt
So how about them Irish? The Gipp has spent the weekend recovering from injuries sustained when Notre Dame’s Securitate (better known as Security) decided to start beating on people who were near the goalposts after Saturday’s game. Oh, don’t worry, he’s all betterhow. If only the Gipp knew a good lawyer...
It seems that the e-mail idea has really caught on. The Gipp has received five pieces of mail since the last issue was published. That’s more than he’d had all year until now. Thanks, folks, and keep it coming in!!!
DEEP THROAT SAYS
SEX IS O.K. AT SMC
One of the Gipp’s electronic tidbits this week came from a source identifiable only as “O” at nd.edu. An electronic “Deep Throat” maybe? In any case, this “0” person had some interesting comments to make. First on the list was the fact that there is no anti-sex policy at Saint Mary’s. Al-> though this news won’t reach Saint Mary’s because ourpublication is no longer distributed there, the news still may be of interest to some Notre Dame students. It seems that the well-intentioned SMC administrators thought that their draconian parietals policies (including testosterone-sniffing dogs and nuns with semi-automatic weapons) would be enough to discourage even the thought of hanky-panky within the confines of SMC residence halls. Technically, they are wrong. Since there is no specific policy forbidding sex in the dorms, this means that SMC students are free to do as they wish with male guests as long as they’re duly registered, escorted and they’re out by 2 a.m.
“Deep Throat” also informed the Gipp of further rumors on the dorm-conversion
situation. Our informed-sounding source projected no dorm changes for the next school year, but advised first- and second-year St. Ed’s and Morrissey residents not to get too attached to their homes. “Deep Throat” revealed a shockingly large amount of common sense by making the suggestion that Student Government start a commission to look into starting a co-ed dorm, and agreed with the Gipp’s suggestion that one wing of Keenan-Stanford be converted, effectively creating a co-ed dorm.
THE GIPP GETS SPANKED, AGAIN
There is someone out there who really doesn’t like the Gipp. Every few weeks, the Gipp receives a letter in scrawly handwriting, usually on a tom-outpage of the latest issue of Scholastic. These mailings are always highly critical of something that the Gipp has said. Someone out there is taking this column a little bit too seriously. (At least someone is reading it.) Well, person, we’ve decided to give you a name, since you don’t give us anything else to call you. From now on, you are going to be referred to as “Nemmy,” short for Nemesis.
This week, Nemmy chewed out the Gipp for noticing the abundance of parking spaces outside both the post office and Galvin. These spaces, says Nemmy, serve not just the post office but everything from the Faculty Club to Hayes-Healy. Parking slots in the Galvin circle also serve a huge number of faculty. In response to the Gipp’s claim that he hasn’t seen that many handicapped persons, Nemmy says that the Gipp isn’t all that observant. We never said that there wasn’t a need for adequate handicapped parking. It just appeared strange that the rather puny parking lot near the Post Office had a higher percentage of handicapped slots than the average parking lot. And please remember, the
original comment came from a reader— the Gipp merely investigated further what appeared to be an abnormality. We’re looking for answers, Nemmy, not spankings. But do keep sending us mail in interesting envelopes - we especially loved the one from the IRS
S.U.B. NEEDS A DICTIONARY
The Gipp has become wary of pointing outthegrammarmistakesofothers. Itseems that last time he said something, some smarty-pants had to send in a note correcting errors made elsewhere in this publication. Yeah, well, we all make mistakes. This particular mistake was pointed out by someone else, so the Gipp has no moral qualms about running it. Besides, this column gets double-checked ever since “Grammar Cop” decided to send us nasty mail.
Now that we have that out of the way, will someone please buy S.U.B. a dictionary? The Gipp’s second e-mail letter of the week, from sophomore Elizabeth Caruso, points out a repeated misuse of the word “formally.” Specifically, there was an ad run in both The Observer and Scholastic for comic Willi Collins which stated that he would be performing in “The Ballroom (formally Theodore’s).” The sharp-witted Ms. Caruso asked whether the importance of the guest was the determining factor in naming that particular venue. She asks whether an appearance by Joan Collins instead of Walli Collins would be an occasion formal enough for the name “Theodore’s.” Clever woman, ..thatLiz. Abitofadvice to S.U.B.: the word you’re looking for is “formerly.”
As always, you have three options for contacting the Gipper, but his favorite media for receiving mail is e-mail. Send your questions to "gipper@nd.edu" and we'll be happy to run a response.
NOVEMBER 19,1992
1.1

Campus Life
Notre Dame
for the
HOMELESS
A week of awareness for students created by student government
By Theresa M. Hennessey
T t is difficult for the Notre Dame com-JL munity to imagine exactly what being homeless would be like. Most students have been blessed with good fortune and a good life and, therefore, have never had the chance to witness or experience homelessness.
Homelessness is a rapidly growing problem which is oc-curringnotonly in our country, but in the community in which we presently reside.
This past week, the Notre Dame student government has opened the university’s eyes. They have presented facts, events and images to increase awareness of the homeless situation and to shed some light upon a subject which needs attention.
Senior Michael Griffin and
sophomore Kellie Abbott headed the committee which organized the “ND For the Homeless Week 1992.” The purpose of this week was two-fold. It served as a fund-raiser for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. In addition, it was intended
to increase awareness and to get students to start talking about the issue.
“I think the issue of homelessness is not only ignored at Notre Dame, but across the. country. If the week sparked 15 to 20 conversations at dinner, that in itself was a success,” said Griffin.
Members of the homeless community spoke to students in Alumni Hall on Monday.
On Monday evening, numerous residence halls invited homeless persons and staff from the South Bend Center for the Homeless to give personal perspectives on homelessness. It allowed students to meet with these people one on one and hear what
life on the streets is like for them.
“Initially, some people weren’t too happy with the idea of this event,” said Griffin. “They thought that it was mean for the homeless people to see how good we have it here in our dorms. It’s important for us to know about this problem, though, and be aware that it does indeed exist.”
The movies Down and Out in America and Shooting Back were shown on Tuesday night in Cushing Auditorium with free admission. These movies provided an opportunity for students to see the actuality and effects of homelessness in America, Griffin said.
The events, programs and efforts of the week will culminate tonight at 9:00 with the student “Sleep Out” outside Stepan Center.
Organized by Father Tom McDermott, CSC, and Lou Nanni, Director of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, the “Sleep Out” will serve as a way for people to experience for one night, what the life of a homeless person is like. The program of events will include group discus
12
SCHOLASTIC
sions, guest speakers from the South Bend Homeless Center, movies, a reflection time and refreshments. The evening will come to an end with the participants “sleeping out.”
“No one really wants to talk about the the bottom of the bottom, so this is the perfect opportunity to remedy this,” Griffin added. “Part of our mission is to serve the poor, and I think this is a great way to allow everyone to do just that.”
The individual events as well as the whole concept of an awareness week has been an attempt to include students in an important problem that has reached debilitating proportions, Griffin said.
Homeless Week was created to make students aware of the extensiveness of theprob-
lem. In the planning of events, the purpose of the week, Griffin said, was to make the point that not only is homelessness obvious right here in South Bend, but it is also prevalent around the world. It is ah important global issue.
Mother Theresa of Calcutta has claimed that poverty in the United States is worse than poverty in India. Even though it is more acute in such countries as India, the masses are able to
share a commonality in their poverty. In the United States, the poor are forced to live in one of the wealthiest nations in the history of civilization and are viewed by many as fail-
ures, bums, drug addicts, alcoholics and every four homeless persons in urban rejects of society. The homeless person areas is a child. It is also estimated
must confront this mentality every day.
It is difficult to assess the numbers of such a transient and rapidly-growing population, but it is estimated that there are anywhere from 600,000 to 3 million homeless persons in the United States. According to the United States Conference of Mayors, homelessness continues to grow by 25 percent a year.
It is important to remember that homelessness is blind to age, sex, race and level of education, said Griffin. Homelessness is indiscriminate and persons from all different backgrounds are repre
sented in this population.
The national homeless population is typically broken down into three groups: the mentally ill, the substance abusers and the working poor. Each of these groups represents roughly one-third of the homeless population. Many homeless persons fall into more than one groups.
It is commonly said that 40 percent of homeless persons are employable when they enter a homeless center. The other 60 percent often have acute problems, such as mental illness or chemical dependencies, which need attention before they are prepared for employment.
The Center for the Homeless is on S. Michigan Street in downtown South Bend.
According to a 1990 Children’s Defense Fund study, families with children represent more than one-third of the homeless, and one out of
that 23 percent of the homeless population nationally is make up of United States Veterans.
These facts, compiled by Notre Dame student government, create a picture of homelessness around the world and emphasize its prevalence in the United States.
ND for the Homeless Week 1992 is an attempt to create an awareness among students and the university community of the issue of homelessness in South Bend, in the nation and in the world.	□
The Center For The Homeless September, 1992 Statistics '
4 Total-Number'of Nights Lodging Provided For September ,f, 2,598
A Average number of people per night 87:
A Total Number of Nights Lodging Proided-Year To Date	. fo 22,563
A'Total Number Of Volunteers 426
A:Ayefage number of people per night 84
A Total Volunteers Year To Date '•■■■■	- .•	3,749
A Total Number of Meals Pro-::	g vided for September
J: p- - : \1,154'
A Total Number of Meals Pro- ’ ' - :; ‘? vided Year to Date
4i,58i;
A Unduplicated Count Of Indi-' viduals Served In The Center:
AdUlt Males AdultWomen Children f'
Total ''mV) '
160 50
■ 28 238
A Breakdown Of Person’s Served
Caucasian .	. f
African American
Hispanic.; ?
•Other-?
A AverageAge 48 and under 19-40
57%
36%
7%
0%
A Average Length OfStay:..' Emergency (1night) A:.18% 2-7 daysfo-•;A?‘: ■'t48% : 8 daySfor more );. J;34 %\
•1.14%
63%
16%
^7%-
The Sotuh Bend Center for the Homeless
NOVEMBER 19,1992

. Campus...,.
CHRISTMAS
Around The World
A celebration in cultural diversity
By Beth Fehring
Just as the bitter chills of the South Bend winter strike, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s Multicultural Executive Council (MEC), a group of ten students representing different cultural backgrounds, brings warmth to campus with its fourth annual Christmas Around the World.
Christmas Around the World 1992 is scheduled to run from November 30 to December 3. On each day, an informal fireside chat will be held in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune from 12:15 to 1:00 p.m. These chats will feature student guest speakers from various religious cultures relating their personal experiences of Christmas. Last year, for example, students represented such diverse countries as Lebanon, West Africa and the Philippines.
The MEC’s goal in the fireside chats is consistent with its efforts to promote cultural awareness on campus throughout the year. They are an “informal way to educate people about different points of view. Students can compare and contrast the ways in which the holiday is celebrated among dif-' ferent cultures,” said senior council member Maria Santos.
The official kickoff for Christmas Around
the World will be the performance of Charles Dickens’ Mr. Pickwick.'s Christmas Tales, which is to be held Tuesday evening at 8:00 in Washington Hall. The MEC, in conjunction with Student Activities, will
the play.
sponsor
I.
Tree decorating will take place in the LaFortune television lounge on Wednesday, December 3, from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. The MEC is requesting international students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s to donate ornaments from their home countries. Santa Claus himself will participate in the event In addition, cookies, punch and hot cider will be served.
Other events such as a sleigh ride and caroling on Wednesday evening have been
tentatively scheduled and are dependent upon the weather situation. The MEC also intends to hold activities centered around such holidays as Hanukkah, a Jewish holiday, and Quanza, an African-American tradition, in order to demonstrate that “our Christmas is not the only way to celebrate the holiday,” and to “expose students to new ways of celebration,” said council member Michael Swanson. These programs will occur on Thursday night.
Funding for Christmas Around the World comes directly from the Multicultural Executive Council’s budget, and all of the activities will be free of charge. Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students are overseeing each event in the program.
. Christmas Around the World has been met with great enthusiasm from students in the past. Santos
said that it is a fun and educational opportunity for people from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities to gather together in the spirit of the holiday and to share the uniqueness of their Christmas . traditions with one another.
As council member Annette Semanchin commented, the program aims to make people aware that “each culture and each family has a different Christmas tradition to offer, yet all are united in the purpose of the
holiday.’
□
14	..	..	.■ „ ■■	;/• , ■	SCHOLASTIC
By Chris Lenko
VX/hen Ray Kroc opened the W first McDonald’s restaurant in 1955, he could not have imagined
that his hamburger establishment would create an entire fast food industry and revo
lutionize the way Americans eat. Thirty years after the first pair of golden arches were erected in Des Plaines, Illinois, McDonald’s is the largest franchised restaurant in the United States and has made hamburgers and french fries a staple of the American diet
Today, 96 percent of American school children can identify Ronald McDonald, and, in 1985, a new McDonald’s restaurant opened every fifteen minutes somewhere in the world, reported The Fast Food Guide. The success of the McDonald’s corporation suggests that with a little bit of creativity and the backing of a solid marketing campaign, the possibility of striking itrich lies within the reach of any enterprising individual with a vision.
Ray Kroc is the sort of man that comes to mind when Notre Dame sophomore Tim Schenck defines an entrepreneur as “a person who is willing to take a risk and create a venture to see his or her ideas actualized.” Actually, Schenck is something of an entrepreneur himself. He is a man who has a vision of a great university entrepreneur’s club, and together with junior Gene Sheikh,
A marketing campaign generated widespread interest in the club, and student leaders Schenck and Sheikh
Gene Sheikh and Tim Schenck presented their new club to students on November 9.
Schenck has worked to put his ideas into action. The result of their efforts is the
Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s Entrepreneur’s Club.
The difficulties Schenck and Sheikh encountered as they struggled to establish their organization are typical of those faced by any enterprise trying to get off the ground. Since the club involves finances and the chance for students to win monetary awards, Schenck and Sheikh had to convince the Student Activities Board that the club was legitimat. Once the board saw the men’s determination the Entrepreneur’s Club was given permission and status and is now an official university organization.
Schenck emphasized that marketing skills are valuable for all people to have, so the club is not for business majors exclusively. All students can benefit from learning how to effectively present their ideas and proposals and from interacting with members of the business community. The club is also an attempt to put Notre Dame’s business-oriented students on equal footing with their counterparts atHarvard, Stanford and Penn State universities, all of which offer majors in entrepreneurship or similar disciplines, he said.
were pleased with the strong turnout at the club’s November 9 meeting.
“Things are really coming together. Everyone is willing to help us,” Schenck said.
The meeting included lectures by Notre Dame graduate John Cohoat, CEO and president of Bonnie Doon ice cream, and Dr. and Mrs. Kitson Logue, owners of Stewart Pet Products, who were featured in Inc. magazine. These speakers were also recipients of Marketing Excellence Awards from the American Marketing Association and were willing to share their business experiences with interested students.
Future club activities and events include a business plan writing contest where students submit business proposals and compete for a monetary award, as well as seminars and workshops with speakers from the Small Business Development Center.
Students interested in entering specific fields will be placed with company owners in those areas, providing club members with valuable hands-on experience in the financial world, said Schenck.
The Entrepreneur’s Club under the direction of Schenck and Sheikh, will also attempt to line up summer internships for students so that they can put-their practical knowledge and ideas to work. □

Beginning
Head Coach Muffet McGraw and the women's basketball team hope to bounce back from injury and into the prime time.
By Amanda Clinton
When the Notre Dame women’s basketball team learned that it was matched up against Xavier for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship game last season, its hopes for a chance to win the tournament and an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament dwindled. During 1991-92 regular season play, Xavier downed Notre Dame twice. No opponent had ever succeeded in this since the Irish entered the MCC in 1988. Despite the odds, Notre Dame was able to oust Xavier, 59-54. Even though the Irish lost to the UCLA Bruins in the first round of the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame was able to make an appearance at it for the first time in Irish history.
Notre Dame achieved-its goal of playing in the NCAA tournament, but the road there was a rough one. The Irish played four top -15 teams last season. In fact, during the first weekend of play, Notre Dame was matched up against Penn State and Stanford, both in the top five. After losing to these two squads, the Irish tallied a win against Marquette before losing to Purdue, Georgia and Michigan, bringing the Notre Dame record to 1-5.
“There’s no doubt in my mind that maybe we bit off a little more then we could chew. We didn’t have our team chemistry together, and we lacked the confidence and execution you need to have against top teams,” commented head coach Muffet McGraw.
Nick Spangler
Freshman Carey Poor pulls up for a jump shot as junior Andrea Alexander turns away after a collision beneath the basket. Physical play is a trademark for McGraw-coached teams.
Despite such a slow start, the Irish women were able to win six of their last eight regular season games. Notre Dame ended the 1991-92 season with a second place finish in the MCC, a conference record of 8-4, and an overall record of 14-17.
Much of the season was played without the talent of starters Audrey Gomez or Coquese Washington. Gomez injured her knee and was replaced by Kara Leary. Leary was a walk-on who moved
hfr” '•	SCHOLASTIC
into the starting lineup for the remaining 16 games of the season. Washington, injured with a sprained knee in mid-February, missed five games but will return toward the end of the year.
McGraw explained: “Last year, I think we really wanted to secure a spot in the NCAA tournament with our strength of schedule, and maybe we weren’tquiteuptothatchallenge. We were a young team last year, and playing four games against top-15 opponents in the first three weeks of the season didn’t do a whole lot for our confidence.”
Notre Dame will have to reach these goals without the help of three of last year‘s letter winners, Margaret Nowlin, Comalita Haysbert and Michelle Marciniak. Nowlin, the 1992 Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament MVP, and Haysbert both graduated. Marciniak, the team's second leading scorer, transferred to Tennessee after one year , under the Dome. Despite these losses, McGraw is confident thatNotre Dame will have a better season this year.
“One glance at the roster and we look young. But with injuries over the last two years and shuffling in the lineups, we actually have a lot of game experience,” stated McGraw.
The returning starters are sophomore Letitia Bowen, juniors Kara Leary and Sherri Orlosky and senior Coquese Washington. Bowen, Orlosky, and Washington all played in over two-thirds of the games last year.
Washington shuffled between the point position and the two guard spots, tallying 141 assists and an average of 7.4 points per game in the 1991-92 season. This year she hopes to play at the shooting guard position. Junior Sherri Orlosky will also be competing at the shooting guard position. Last season she averaged 8.4 points a game, the highest among returners this year. Also in the backcourt is Kara Leary who tallied 11 assists in the Day ton game, a career high. Gomez aided the Irish in their game against the Tennessee Volunteers
McGraw will be counting on the play of seniors Coquese Washington (below) and Majenica Rupe on the court and the coaching of Dionne Smith, who will be on the sidelines due to injury.
Sports Information
with eight points and two steals before tearing her anterior cruciate ligament. If it heals quickly, she could be back on the court as early as midseason.
“We have flexibility in the backcourt because we know we can count on everyone to get their job done and not make mistakes. Not only that, but we’re versatile enough to move people around without disturbing our offense,” said McGraw.
The talent of sophomore forward Letitia Bowen will lead the frontcourt. Bowen averaged 7.8 rebounds and 7.5 points per game last year. Sophomore Tootie Jones returns to the lineup this year. Last season, after playing in six games, Jones took off the rest of the 1991-92 season to focus on academics. Jones . averaged5.6pointsand4.3rebounds in the games in which she played.
The Irish women have strong prospects among this year's recruits. Freshman Stacy Fields will join the Irish backcourt. Fields is noted for her abilities to shoot the three and take the ball to the basket. Freshman Carey Poor will aid the frontcourt. She averaged 19.9 points and 9.5 rebounds last season in high school.
The Irish are captained by senior Dionne Smith. After sitting out her first two seasons with a knee injury, Smith will not take to the court this year either. Instead she will help her teammates from the bench.
“We’ll miss Dionne on the court. She did some great things for our .morale. She realizes her role changes, that she is going to have to motivate from the bench, but she is still going to keep the team upbeat,” said McGraw.
With more experience and a less challenging schedule, the Irish plan to tally more wins early in the season in the hopes of producing a winning record and a NCAA berth.
Stated McGraw, “We came to two conclusions at the end of last year. First, we don’t like to lose. And second, we’d like to go back to the NCAA tournament.”	. □
NOVEMBER 992	» •••	17
The Irish have beaten the Trojans in nine consecutive games. Will they make it an even decade?
By Kevin Weinman
A s Notre Dame students and fans bask Zjl in the glory of last weekend’s thrilling victory over nemesis Penn State, the players and coaching staff have the unenviable task of preparing for a showdown with USC in the Los Angeles Coliseum. Notre Dame’s current nine game winning streak versus Troy certainly has not been easy. The previous three meetings have resulted in shaky, fourpoint victories by the Irish. Quarterback Reggie Perry and the rest of the Trojan offense had their best game of an otherwise
dismal season when they visited Notre Dame last year, racking up 222 passing yards and 462 total yards before ultimately being subdued by the Irish, 24-20. The luck of the Irish played a role as well, as the Trojans twice did not score when inside the 10-yard line in the third quarter of that game. Also, the Irish were awarded a touchdown on a Tony Brooks 15-yard reception despite a fumble that replays showed occurred before he crossed the goal line.
A lot has changed, however, in a year. Reggie Perry has assumed the role of cheerleader after his power as play caller was usurped by sophomore upstart Rob Johnson
(which certainly has given Perry more time to pursue his hobbies of classical music and opera). Johnson does not possess the elusiveness of Perry, who penetrated the Irish defense for 51 rushing yards last year, but he has been very successful as a drop back passer. Thelrish secondary should be busier than usual against a USC offense that often throws the ball, now that it no longer has the option capabilities it had under Perry and current Detroit Lion quarterback Rodney Peete.
The running game of USC that stalled in the Trojan’s 14-7 win over a surprising Ari-zona team Saturday (only 75 yards on an
SCHOLASTIC
amazing 47 carries), should nonetheless keep the Irish defensive front on its toes. Redshirt freshman Dwight McFadden will pester the Irish next Saturday and for three more years to come, and senior speedster Estrus Crayton poses the threat of breaking a big one if given a block or two.
Overall, this season has resulted in a marked improvement for USC over its 3-8 performance last year. Eighteen starters from that squad (nine on offense, nine on defense) plus one kicker return to lead a much more experienced team to a 6-2-1 record thus far.
“Last year is behind us,” said Southern Cal head coach Larry Smith. “We have a lot of very hungry players this year. Although we’re still a sophomore/junior dominated team, we’re older and more mature now, and we must take advantage of that. We must take our mix of maturity and youth and blend it into a good, solid team. We’ll try to pull everything together and be a winner.” So far, he and his team have done just that.
However, with games pending against UCLA this Saturday (despite the Bruins 2-5 record in the Pac-10, this game annually
proves to be a toss-up) and a fired-up Irish squad the following Saturday, the Trojans are in need of two big wins to secure a bid to one of the more prestigious bowl games. Although students and fans at most universities would be thrilled about an invitation to the “Poulan/Weed Eater Independence Bowl,” Trojan faithful probably will not be satisfied attending an event named after a lawn care product. The Irish can expect to see a Trojan squad ready to play with a vengeance.
The Irish kept their slim national championship hopes alive with a tremendous come-from-behind victory over traditional rival Penn State last Saturday (in case you missed it) to end the series between the Irish and the Lions for now at 8-8-1. Smith hopes to put an end to these championship aspirations.
“Offensively, we’ll limit our formations. Defensively, we’ll play a wild-and-crazy style to beat Notre Dame,” he said.
Smith articulates five goals for each of his players at the outset of a season: win the Pac-10 and the Rose Bowl, win the national championship, be a class team with unity, earn a degree, and beat Notre Dame.
This focus on beating Notre Dame should cause concern among Notre Dame faithful. The combination of several factors including the need for a win to earn a quality bowl bid, the desire to beat Notre Dame for the sake of fulfilling a preseason goal, and the fact that this game is the final home game for USC’s seniors makes the trip to Los Angeles a very dangerous one for the Irish.
The greatest intersectional rivalry in college football annually results in the passing of a jeweled shillelagh to the victor, made of oak or blackthorn saplings since these woods are said to be the only ones tougher than an Irish skull. Since the Irish have won nine consecutive games in this series, the only shillelagh Troy has received from Notre Dame lately is the Daily Shillelagh, which it has used to determine the date of the next loss to the Irish. This season could prove different. The Trojans are strong enough to defeat Notre Dame for the first time since 1982. If the Irish play to their capabilities, however, they should return to South Bend with their winning streak intact, a jeweled shillelagh, and short one Daily Shillelagh.	□
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Carl Picconatto: Picconatto, a senior from Stevens Point, WI, aided the Notre Dame men’s hockey team to a tie against the University of Illinois at Chicago last Saturday. Picconatto saved 28 shots for the Irish as they came from behind to tie the score, 4-4. Notre Dame fired 42 shots on goal to UIC’s 32 shots.
Majenica Rupe: Rupe, a senior from Big Rapids, MI, led the Notre Dame women’s volleyball team last Saturday in its. last home match of the season. Rupe tallied two solo blocks and two block assists against LaSalle. The Irish dominated the meeting, 15-0, 15-3, 15-0. Rupe is also a member of the women’s basketball team.
|j|EMB ER 19,1992

It
by J. Bradley Keck
H ave you ever met someone who said he or she was from a city like Dallas or Los Angles and then as you got to know that person better (or went home with him or her for a break) you discovered that that person really lived in a small town about 100 miles away? I’ve known people who have said they were from N.Y.C. but were really from places like Suffern in upstate New York or anywhere in New Jersey. Another person I’ve met recently first said she was from Philadelphia but when pressed admitted she was from Allentown and when pressed further confessed that she was form a small town outside of Allentown. My favorite example of this phenomena occurred freshman year when one of the guys in my section said he was from Chicago — “well, Joilet, Illinois is not that far away.” If I applied that same sort of geographical reasoning to my hometown, I could be from Indianapolis, Lexington, Columbus or Dayton, when in reality I’m from Cincinnati — okay, not really, but I do live just outside in Hamilton, Ohio.
Glasnost with Her Clothes Off
The first issue of Playboy ever to be produced in an Eastern Bloc country hits the streets in Poland this week. The magazine is
l.KingMissIc — //n/jpyJ47/2—NDAdmin:LetJohnS.IIalltcacliTIicol ()().'
2..ATghanLXVliigS;-—O7?z«ivA
3.
4.Supcrchurik—A7mverE;P/—Conlinuedcxciteincntfroin^^M^
5DaisyChainsaw —Eterno	—Ycah,dirtypunk rockwiihinsancgir^
6.Ncd’sAtoihicDuslbin—A^zS/ee/?/H^Aro/o/d—SongsaboulD/d.ac\; ^',
7.of Cake—Istill.thing they’re abluesband.
7:85;J<Kus'LizaK£g^i«r^^
■ 0. ;Sipuxsic-and Tfe Bt^
10. Eugemus—-()om<ilama—- Smooth and silky.
reaching newsstands from Warsaw to Cracow amid a flurry of hype from Playboy’s parent company in America. “We share with our Polish partners the excitement of bringing new local works to the attention of our Polish readers and look forward to uncovering literary treasures that have been suppressed under communism,” said Michael Perlis, Playboy’s Publisher. Three comments on this new Playboy Publication: 1) I didn’t know that Playboy was considered a literary work, 2) I think the only excitement to be found will be in the eyes of Polish men, and 3) the only treasures that to be uncovered will be those of the issue’s first centerfold, Malwina Rzezkowslea.
More Election Madness
A lot of election talk was tossed around this year at the College Music Journal’s Music Marathon. Yes, that was the same huge once-a-year happening that the administration did not allow members of the WVFI staff to attend because the liability to drive all the way to New York was just too much for our small, poor college to shoulder.
Anyway, at the Music Marathon, the Village Voice reported that Nirvana manager Danny Goldberg said, “The difference between Tipper Gore and Marilyn
Quayle is the difference between a bad tooth ache and a heart attack.”
Meanwhile, The Ramones were passing out their single “The Ballad of Tipper Gore” and Corrosion of Conformity was passing out handbills that read “political hunting season begins November 3 ... If you only
have one vote it’s time to ‘vote with a bullet.’” Below this plea was a bull’s eye centered on many Republicans who were up for re-election.
David Letterman was also getting into the fray elsewhere in New York. Even though he had used fellow Hoosier Dan Quayle’s jokes every night for two weeks up until the election, he was not disheartened that Al Gore was taking over Quayle’s job. Al Gore, Letterman said, would be just as funny because “the nature of the job is to stand two or three feet behind the President and keep your mouth shut, so you can always make jokes about that”
Up and Coming
Clown College auditions tonight at the Executive Plaza Hotel (not listed by Career and Placement)... Annie, opened yesterday at the Drury Lane Theater... Buddy Guy, tonight through Saturday at Buddy Guy’s Legends ... Grover Washington Jr. and Ashford and Simpson, Friday at the Star Plaza... M.C. Search, Friday at the China Club... Kiss with Great White and Trixter, Saturday at the Chicago Theater... Saturday, Danzig and Kyuss, Sunday at the Rivera Theater ... Al Jarreau and Joe Sample, Sunday at the UIC Pavilion... Ministry and Helmet, November27 attheUICPavilion.. P J. Harvey and David J, November 27 at the Metro. At the Movies tomorrow: The
Bodyguard, starring Whitney Houston and Kevin Costner ...Aladdin, from Disney and starring Robin Williams as the voice of the genie. Home Alone II, starring Macaulay Culkin and Joe Pesci... Samantha, starring Martha Plimpton. In record stores next Tuesday albums by: Harry Connick Jr., 11 and 25... L.L Cool J ... Wreckx ‘N Effect ... Stephanie Mills ... Color Me Bad (remix)... Erasure (hits)... Smiths (hits 2) ... Goddess... Cheap Trick... Spin Doctors (live)... Pink Floyd (box)... Journey (box) ... Dr. Dre and Ed Lover... GBH.
; Entertainment .	- - .J
—-—	.... B
,heJESUS LIZARD /
' • ■ •
B	•
•••••••••••••••••••••••••eeeeoeeeaeeeeoeeaeeoeeeeeoeeee • • . ■ ‘ •
•	by Dave Holsinger	*
of whether we can dance to it or not
। t’s strange to think how easily onecan get used to I really loud, nasty music without getting unsettled by it After taking a first listen to Liar, the new album from the Jesus Lizard, I’ve decided that they were the first band in quite some time to jar me enough to pay attention to them. They demand to be more than just background music. This band provides an exception to the high-volume monotony which many alternative bands and record labels are trying to push on listeners. Loud and ugly is getting passe: what the music world needs is a dose of raw insanity, and the Jesus Lizard is just the band to provide it
Chicago’s indigenous music scene is filled with bands far more creative and unique than that of a city such as... oh, say... Seattle. Like Seattle, Chicago, too, has a label which features the creme de la creme of the local scene. The Midwest’s equivalent to Seattle’s now overblown Sub Pop records may well be Touch and Go records. This label is home to the Jesus Lizard, as well as to goofball punk1 legends the Didjits and noise masters Big Black. Although Touch and Go has never seen a sliver of the financial success that Sub Pop has, it features some o Chicago’s most innovative music.
To get a real feeling for one of Touch and Go’s bands, a concert is a must. The stuff sounds great recorded, but the individual personalities which move these bands have a perverse intelligence and sarcastic wit which will endear them to any jaded music fan. Take Dave Yow of the Jesus Lizard, for example. “You’re all a bunch of stupid white people who keep bumping into
each other ,” was his most coherent exhortation to the crowd at a recent show.
The band’s affinity for
Leinenkugel beer (or possibly for all similar products) shows through not just in their live shows but even in their writing style. This is music which makes lurching drunks very happy. If musical and spiritual enlightenment can rcome from a bottle of Wisconsin’s finest, then the Jesus Lizard should start a religion. Among some Chicagoans, they already have.
The music of the Jesus Lizard is so strangely minimalist that it demands the listener’s attention. In general, expect loping bass lines, crunchy rhythm guitar work or else disjointed, distorted melodies, coupled with vocals and lyrics that make you wonder just what is wrong with the singer.
A good example of the Jesus Lizard’s form on its new album is the song “Slave Ship.” Beginning with a grinding guitar line in odd meter, the song turns weirdly hypnotic but somehow won’t let the listener settle into it “Slave Ship” features little more than a repeated guitar riff, a strangely bumbling bass line and eavy, on-the-beat drum playing. Hypnotic, repetitive ... sounds like dance music, right? Just try to move to a Jesus Lizard song like it’s dance music, though. You’ll end up lurching around just like their singer does on stage. That’s the 'really weird thing about this band: people do actually try to move to their music. Ah, well. Symbiosis can be a good thing— the Jesus Lizard can keep coming out with disjointed, hypnotic, loud music and we’ll just be happy that they’re doing it, regardless
□
NOVEMBER 19,1992	' . ’	■	■ •	^21-
Cardboard Boats, Castration, and Fraud at the Bookstore:
News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities
Just in time to relieve some of the pre-Thanksgiving stress, here ■ is some humor from other colleges. You may notice that Kansas escaped the mocking this week. For all you Kansans, we promise we ; will have some more dirt next issue.
|L	Row, Row, Row Your Boat
’; - Students at the University of Miami recently competed in a i	contest that could have been helpful during Hurricane Andrew. The
i fourth annual Cardboard Boat Race, sponsored by the American Institute of Architecture Students, featured seven boats made from ! only glue, tape and cardboard. Because of the high probability of capsizing, all team members had to know how to swim — a good thing, since six of the boats capsized or fell apart in the first 20 feet oftherace. The winning boat, named “Liquor Box,” was built by the H	winner of last year’s race. Their design featured massive amounts
fe	of cardboard, two quart-sized bottles of glue and 180 yards of duct
ih tape.
A New Kind of Pep Rally
r You sometimes have to wonder what they feed football players i	before big games, or at least how coaches psyche up their teams. We
know Lou uses good, old-fashioned, inspirational pep talks, but not all coaches are as eloquent as Lou. The American Spectator reports that Mississippi State’s coach has tried a new technique. Before i,:	their big game against Texas, Coach Jackie Sherrill had his team
:	watch a 525-pound bull being castrated. The scare tactic must have
worked, because Mississippi State trounced the Longhorns. Fol-i;	lowing protests from the Mississippi Animal Rescue League, Coach
J	Sherrill explained that he was only attempting to educate his rather
stupid athletes. Isn’t that what biology classes are for?
I| ■ '
|	Padding Their Pockets
pl Hammes Bookstore, beware! The Stanford Daily reports that, £ thanks to an exposd they did on their bookstore, the California attorney general has begun an investigation of the bookstore’s finances. The Daily originally reported that Bookstore officials j i were enjoying perquisites such as luxury cars, a motor home and a
vacation home, while losing $2 million in the stock market. The story prompted the investigation, which has already cost more than $300,000. Like the Hammes Bookstore, Stanford’s bookstore is run independent of the university, but overseen by a board of directors that includes faculty and staff. Now we know why sweatshirts (and everything else) at the bookstore are so overpriced. Where exactly are Mr. and Mrs. Hammes, anyway? My guess is someplace warm.
Pizza Problems
Students at the University of Portland are being threatened with some very heavy penalties. The Beacon reports that Domino’s Pizza is threatening to stop delivery to students on campus because of three recent incidents involving the Domino’s deliverers. In the first, the driver was jumped from behind; soon after that, another driver had her purse stolen out of the car. In the latest incident, pizzas were actually stolen out of the delivery car. Knowing the fare usually served in college dining halls, Portland students better cut it out soon.
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
Week Sn Dism—ion
9-Come, Sweet tKome
A freshman reminisces about his Southern roots
By Theo Helm
I am a freshman. I might as well get that off my back before 1 start this article.
Being a freshman does come in handy, though — you would be surprised how many things you can getaway with if you’re caught and you say “Hey, I’m only a stupid freshman.” But as the year progresses, my freshman excuses no longer receive help as much as they receive abuse. As I find myself adjusting to that, there is one thing I cannot seem to get out of my mind: home.
Thinking of home may be considered a generic thing for a freshman to do, but you have probably never been to my shining metropolis of a home, Asheville, North Carolina (sometimes better known as Ashe Vegas). This is the land where your social status is judged by: a) how many old cars you have sitting on cinder blocks in your front yard, b) how wom-in the circle in the back pocket of your jeans (or overalls, depending on your personal preference) is from your can of Skoal, or c) how many velvet paintings you have of either Elvis or Hank Williams, Jr., country music’s kings extraordinaire. (And if you have a velvet picture of them together, you might as well be considered God.) This is the place where my brother, when he was five years old, said there were two ways to pronounce his name: Michael Helm, or Mah-kul Hay-yulin.
I will admit that not all of North Carolina is like this. There are many fine cultural places to visit if you drive, say, three or four hours from Asheville. Even Asheville itself isnotbad. But whatl’m talking aboutare the tiny places you find when you drive 10 or 15 minutes into the mountains from Asheville. These are tiny places where your social standing is improved if you have two first names (e.g., Betty Sue, Norma Jean, Teddy Bob or Billy Ray), and if you or your
girlfriend (depending on which gender you may be) has bangs that reach into the high heavens and must be fixed by first sleeping with your face in the pillow and then lathering on four or five pounds of hairspray so that they look like someone is shooting off 4th of July fireworks using your hair.
Actually, as my mother always said, let he who hath not big hair, spray the first hairspray insult (or something like that). I have fallen victim to another generic freshman fault: I’m no longer with my parents, so I can grow long hair and do stupid things and only get yelled at about it two or three times a year. The only problem is that through some horrible genetic mutation, I ended up with James Brown hair. I once was able to wear normal hats, walk through normal doors and do all the things normal kids can do.butnow thesizeofmy hairprohibits that My hair decided to grow up instead of down, and now I look like some sideshow freak from “Rudy.” It was bad enough that I. went to a Halloween SYR dresesed as a swingin’ 70s man, but it got even worse when I asked a friend what I should do to my hair to make it look 70s-ish, and all she could do was laugh and say “nothing, nothing.” I’m thinking about re-writing “Baby Got Back” into “Baby Got Bangs”: I like big hair and I cannot lie... but I digress from the wonderful world of North Carolina.
Anyway, while I was living in Asheville, I never thought I would miss the atmosphere all that much once I left. After a few weeks of being here, I realized how much I had learned from seeing all these strange things. Who else can claim to have seen an actual, honest-to-God Honda CRX that was painted glow-in-the-dark white cruising down the same streets that mere mortals like you and I drive every day? Who else can claim to have seen trucks that have neon lights running down the bottom sides to make the road
glow underneath them?
So as I thought about it, I decided that for me to cure my homesick ills, I was going to have to find some good ol’ boys to remind me of home. I obviously wasn’t going to find them on this campus — I don’t think Notre Dame is particularly well known as a real big redneck school. I went to the movies, since that was always a good place to find them in Asheville, but I left disappointed. My hopes soared for a moment when I saw that the girl selling tickets had the mall hair I was looking for, but as I bought my ticket, I realized she didn’t have a good Southern accent, and my hopes came crashing down. I went to the mall, but once again I walked away feeling empty.
Then some of my friends suggested to me that we should go bowling when the weekend came around. At once my heart rose from the depths of depression. I had never been to Beacon Bowl before, but I guarantee that I will go again. As I walked through the front doors, everything seemed to move in slow motion. I kept expecting to hear the guy from the “Wonder Years” reading my thoughts aloud over theP.A. system. I could hear the sounds of country music. I walked into the bar, and I found home. There, before my very own eyes, was a live country band, the Bushwhackers, playing rhythmless music to an audience of big hair, big belt buckles, and Harley t-shirts. I was so ecstatic that I think I bowled a negative score.
So if you’re from the South, or just want a little taste of the South, give me a call so we can go bowl a few frames, listen to the Bushwhackers and dance. If I’m not at home, I’m probably already bowling. □
Theo Helm is the freshman with big hair you’ve probably seen around campus.

Biml Word
World Hunger Coalition Asks
Us to Give Thanks by Christine Fleischman

Christine
Fleischman is the student coordinator of Saint Mary's College World
Hunger Coalition
Op hanksgiving is a time when families all over X the world gather to give thanks for the food that they are about to eat together. Sometimes we forget that an es timated one billion people around the globe suffer from hunger. Oxfam America is one organization that tries to change this fact, not just by giving out handouts but by creating long-term solutions. Oxfam America invites people from all over the world to take time to realize what it would feel like if you did not have enough food. This organization allows the world to take action against hunger and poverty through the annual World Harvest campaign.
Saint Mary’s, along with other colleges, participates in this fast every year. Today alone, a week before Thanksgiving, about300 students will give up their meals for this great cause. The Marriott Corporation will donate the money for each student giving up his or her meals to Oxfam America.
The World Hunger Coalition at Saint Mary’s organized a week of events to make people aware of hunger in our world. Sunday, November 15, was Hunger Sunday, and the Masses for the day were set around the theme of hunger. There was a slide show at the end of each of the Masses showing the students that there are hungry people, especially children, in our world who often do not get as much food as we have in one meal. During this week, there has been ajar in each of the residence halls in which people could drop their extra pennies. This money will be added to the donation to Oxfam America. Also today, November 19, there will be a short reflection held in Holy Cross chapel to give thanks for the food we have and to pray for those who are hungry every day.
The World Hunger Coalition hopes that those who participate in any of these events will reflect on how we should be especially grateful when we sit down and eat dinner with our families and friends this
□
Thanksgiving.
OHM
; -CScliolas tie
hiring assistant editors in’the®
2.5 News®;
ijepartments
Call 239-7569 Or f st<ipit>yTiW you are interested.
24

Mammoth Crossing	by Dave Kellett
JCK____________________
What's X U^£T0-Tfliig^E0F -THoSC Rjr.jtY4€$TS 4 6W5S. W£
You 5££N <2^
YSM^CAtlX	1
Take it Too?	।
„HaV£ You &/feR SeeH
A	Mw/e?
... f/Av£You£Y€^
EX^A6Et)
Xu-ro€W^i5^f
■DotSTriAT
MEAbl
Id A6A^'?
ARE XiDDjM^
2'VE starred )H SeiEPAL!.
... 1 P^HT lOJPERS-njrfD tSjs . i 'T»/hk k's a
-TYPO. TAe $i YKY-
Quesil^ JH5T
Mas a mark
ArJp NO VJORD3... Ojf (
<7
OP
jAa^VoukE 6^/HA
AS Pug£
AS iwcy nJ ^r!
[ATf£^ IT'S Alc OVER...	1
ZJ^Ar dip You
SEvert. ORDEK T> ZOhJER MY Scare A^Y bdoULb MWeTo CHAdOE MV ORJEHTM^
Ahlb/OR 6ROwd £JP IN EuRflL 6E0R6IR .
5£v&*n¥-oi^€.

tRa^SFcr
Astate~ School Ahd #MER \iiUrL
w
U_____/t J_____________„ _,	_____ DCA&g.1 i ____________________
J/ ZAWZ# j.cfi are ^Sinocll^O 3tV-'•. ain[<
COMING ATTRACTIONS:
Spaceballs
Thursday, November 19
Star TrekVI
Friday, November 20 & 21
Movies will be shown in Cushing Auditorium at 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.
Price of Admission is $2.00.	_
non-profit organization U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame, /N
Permit No. 10
STUDENT UNION BOARD