MORRIS offers the smoker an extra
PHILIP
ftmtr
BSTAbUSHU
(jgts

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
Q****»YtMg

benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
s W MORRIS
TRY A PACK... TODAY
LETTERS
IRATE CAGE FANS INC.
Dear Editor-
Referring to Mr. Robert Stock’s crude bit of literary work in his “Bottom of the Week,” whereupon he degraded the popularity of Indiana high school basketball, I would like to say that that commentary certainly deserves to be placed at the “bottom” of something or other.
It appears that Mr. Stock is not from any of the states of Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio or Illinois, which boast of the top high school basketball with a very avid following. Anyone living in these states knows the meaning of “tournament time.” Maybe though one of the South Bend stations will provide a symphony for Mr. Stock instead of an exciting basketball game. May I plead for the abolishment of such generalized statements as “Notre Dame men were getting sore ears.” Please, Mr. Stock, speak for yourself.
Bill Moore Breen-Phillips
Says Columnist Stock: “Air Moore leaves himself open. As a matter of fact, I do come from one of the states he mentions—to be specific, Ohio, a state which manages to retain at least some semblance of mental balance at ‘totimament time.’ Would that Indiana could do like-unse.”—Editor
MY. MY. MR. WILCOX
Dear Editor:
The Constitution itself provides for its defects to be corrected. Slavery was abolished in this country 83 years ago, see 13th Amendment. The framers of the Constitution were not divine, so a fortiori—neither are the Supreme Court justices (especially recent appointees) ; the declaration of the sterilization acts as constitutional could be a misinterpretation of the Constitution by the august justices. The Supreme Court not only can but has reversed itself on various stands. The third objection of Mr. Wilcox is so indefinite that it does not deserve comment, however, as I understand it, the whole import of the objection is that we should legislate religion a la Stalin.
Could the wild swinging Mr. Wilcox be ducking by placing responsibility on Mr. Cosgrove? Could Mr. Wilcox with his borrowed collar tell me why the T-H Act is basically immoral?
In his column last week, Mr. W again moralizes, to wit “Congress has a moral duty to extend immediate aid to Italy.”
It’s Adlers
FOR
VAN HEUSEN
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
wvwvwwwvwwvw
White magic
for Easter
Van Heusen pulls white magic out of the hat for you —with fine, smooth white broadcloth and oxford shirts in all your favorite collar models. These shirts feature the wizardry of Van Heusen’s sewmanship in every detail: the new low-setting "Comfort Contour” collar styling, action-room tailoring, tapered fit, tug-proof pearl buttons. They’re Sanforized, too—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size. Make like a bunny to your nearest dealer. §3.50, S3.95 and §4.95.
Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, New York.
I	You’re the man most likely to succeed in
0 Van Heusen Shirts
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS . PAJAMAS
3
Due to the mighty mental midget’s fervent taste for morals, 1 suggest the University set up a chair in moral theology with him as the recipient. Also, it would be incumbent on the Philosophy Department to drop this outmoded Thomistic philosophy and succumb to the new era of overwhelmingly logicality of Wilcox-ianism.
A. J. Frericks
Dillon Hall
GLEE CLUB CRITIC?
Dear Editor:
After hearing the Glee Club in concert Sunday, March 7, I want to thank it for making my presence so regretful. Never before have I heard a Notre Dame Glee Club give such a poor performance. I could use more emphatic words but they would never pass the censor.
What became of the organization which entertained the students and friends of Notre Dame at the Army rally last fall? If that Sunday’s performance was an example of what customers received during the mid-semester tour,
Donald J. Atkinson* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked the Finger Nail Test
WHY ACT like a donkey just because your ears are pointed? Don’t “burro” your roommate’s bottle . . . cf Wildroot Cream-Oil, that is! Get some for yourself. See how it grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that gooey look! See how quickly it goes to work relieving annoying dryness and removing ugly, loose dandruff! Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic is non-alcoholic — it contains soothing Lanolin. Helps you pass the Fingernail Test. No wonder Wildroot Cream-Oil is “again and again the choice of men who put good grooming first!” Get a tube or bottle today at any drug or toilet goods counter. And ask your barber for a professional application.
of 38 Deumant Terrace, Kenmore, N.Y.
they were taken. I always thought it was unlawful to accept money under false pretenses, but it seems you got away with it.
A glee club is a vocal musical organization or so it is supposed to be according to Webster and others in the same field. You, gentlemen, may be an organization, but you are anything but musical. I hope I never hear another note of music if what you gave forth with Sunday afternoon comes under that general heading. Circuses need never fear a shortage of barkers as long as you as a group are functioning. Expression and feeling must be very vague terms to you. As a whole, your musical ability seems to be nil. In general, I thought each man was trying to outshout the fellow next to him. I don’t know how many accomplished what they set out to do, but if they did not succeed, it wasn’t because they didn’t try.
Pitch and tone quality seem to be two essential factors in making a good glee club that are unheard of. Since the first tenor section carries the melody most of
the time, why didn’t the other three sections sing in tune with it, since they are continually flat. That is the way you sang Sunday from beginning to end. You were given a very good assist by the bass section in their solo in Psalm 150 by Franck. Too bad that Rosary College couldn’t have given this concert by themselves. They were weak in spurts but at least they sang in tune.
If I may, as a former member, offer a suggestion I would say to disband this group and reorganize—before it is too late. If you are to make the annual Easter tour—you’ll be sorry!
- (Name-Withheld)
WHAT EDUCATION WON'T DO!
Dear Editor:
The busy mind of a student cannot be bothered with incidentals; this produced the following memo on my roommate’s desk—-
9th, Tuesday—Accounting Quiz
12th, Friday—Corp. Fin. Test
16th, Tuesday—Report due
17th, Wednesday — Outside Reading Quiz
32nd, Tuesday—Comprehensive Sack-ology Test. This will be an open-sack test. Small students may bring “cribs.”
R. Weber
Dillon
P.S. Well, it sounded funny to me!
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER 1948 styled and produced by Parker-Winterrowd
English and Domestic Gabardines (in all colors)
English Shetlands for Suits Camel’s Hair Coatings Coverts and Worsteds Irish Tweeds
Harris Tweeds Worsted Flannels (all shades)
Select your next suit, top coat, trousers, or sport coat, from either our ready made stock or custom made, at reasonable prices.
Parker-Winterrowd
115^-117% N. Main, upstairs (North of Oliver Hotel)
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
iiititiiitiiiiniiiriiiiiimtiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiaittiiiitmitiiiiiiiiuiiiiittiaiiiiiiiintiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiniii
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR. Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL Photography
Editorial Associates HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT	KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON	VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN Librarian
JOHN CLARK Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL Circulation
B. T. KYSER Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiittiiiiiiiiiKiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiii
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
mimBiiiimamiiiiimHiaaiiatmaiiiuiuemuuiiiaiHttiiiimmiiiiHUiaiaumttaiimtiiiiaMmtiMMiimaw
Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
STUDENT COUNCIL—President Approves Council Plan 9
OPINION POLL—Professors Split, Students Against---- 11 CONVENTION—Plans Set for Drill Hall, Late April --- 12
FEATURES
MYSTERY—Campus Statues Confuse Many --------------- 14
SPORTS
BENGAL Bouts—Stories and Pictures_____9, 19-22, 24, 25. 33
FOOTBALL—Leahy Worries Over First Game 23
BASKETBALL—1947-48 Season Reviewed ________________ 26-29
FENCING—Tribute to a Successful Season ------------ 30-31
COVER
Easter bonnet being viewed skeptically by SCHOLASTIC Photographer Jim Ferstel. Photo by Gene Reynolds.
CALENDAR
MARCH 19
FEAST OF ST. JOSEPH, patron of a happy death. Reconsidering, he could also be the patron of a happy life.
GRANADA, Bury Me Dead. Well, I hope so.
CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, F. J. Sheed, Aquinas lecturer and plague of Dogma students, speaks on the “Modern Idea of God.” Begins at 8 p. m.
MARCH 20
NORTHSIDE, Rage in Heaven. The Mishawaka theatre brings back one of the best of the early psychological thrillers, tense and suspensaful. Ingrid Bergman and George Sanders are adequate, but Robei-t Montgomery is signal.
MARCH 21	.
STATE, Moss Rose. A psychological shiverer about those mad doll-people, the ballet troupers. Companion feature, This Time for Keeps.	•
MARCH 24
EASTER VACATION BEGINS AT NOON.
PALACE, Campus Honeymoon. Has this been cleared through proper channels? Evidently a satire on courses in commerce.
MARCH 25
HOLY THURSDAY
COLFAX, Captain from Castile. A recent best-seller, saturated with swordplay and narrow escapes, comes to the technicolor screen with Tyrone Power in .the swashbuckler’s role. It’s disappointing. Cesar Romero makes a toothy, cocky, phoney Cortez. His expedition is made up of doltish soldiery recruited from Hollywood’s shabbiest overpaid extras. One wonders what Thomas Gomez, the plodding Franciscan, is doing in the picture. The religious element is introduced clumsily. Jean Peters is cute, and amazingly hardy for such continent-crossing. Dashing Tyrone has too many close shaves for credulity; should have been run in Saturday serial installments at the Anno.
MARCH 26
GOOD FRIDAY.
MARCH 27
HOLY SATURDAY.
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, National Male Quartet. Sounds great. Opera to operetta by a terrific foursome. A nice evening’s entertainment.
MARCH 28
EASTER SUNDAY. Top feast on the Catholic calendar.
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Artist’s Contest Concert. South Bend Symphony in works by Ward and Franck, plus the winners of local vocal and piano contests. PALAIS ROYALE, Sunny Dunham and his orchestra. GRANADA, Desire Me. Rumors persist Greer Garson’s friends are trying to ship the film to Smolensk. Companion feature, Return of Rin Tin Tin. It’s about time that danged mutt got back to see what happened to the films since he last nuzzled into the lens.
MARCH 31
VACATION ENDS. Hitch up the belts for the long haul.
APRIL 1
.APRIL FOOL’S DAY. Classes as usual.
COLFAX, Gentleman’s Agreement.
APRIL 9
JUNIOR PROM, Carmen Cavallero at the keyboard, your best girl on your arm, and the prom committee at the ticket office. Good deal.
5
SSV
*96
TOP OF THE WEEK
The Knights of Columbus have several quarts of slightly soiled blood left over from the Bengals. Anybody in need of a good stiff shot of fighting gore can get some in the basement of Walsh Hall for fifty cents a corpuscle.
OVER THE WALL
ND men will take their haggard looks, busted billfolds, and tortured stomachs home for Easter next week. Testless, tensionless relaxation and soul satisfying home-cooked meals will be their lot for six glorious days. For some, though, the homecoming will be somewhat marred by unfavorable parental receptions.
Take Stanley Grapehandle, for instance. Stanley is a junior in the A.B. school, majoring in Advanced Dyspepsia. He comes from Rochester, Nevada. Stanley’s first-semester bulletin beat him home by about two weeks, and he’s a little worried. It seems Stanley hasn’t been hitting the books too hard this year. No telling what Mamma and Papa might say.
As Stanley staggers into the house with his suitcase (full of Dining Hall sugar bowls), Mom, always sympathetic, rushes to greet him.
“Stanley, darling, you look terrible!” she cries. “Do they beat you with clubs up there? Here, sit down and rest; your father will help you upstairs.” 1
“Yeah, Mom, it’s pretty rugged,” Stanley croaks. “I don’t see how I can last much longer at the pace they’re driving me. I’m gonna have a nervous breakdown or an epileptic fit or St. Vitus’ dance pretty soon.”
Stanley casts a bitter glance at the floor, shakes his head sadly, and chokes back a heart rending sob.
Stanley’s father enters the room, growling. The elder Grapehandle is clutching his son’s bulletin and looking no little perturbed.
“Well, Stanley, what kind of grades are these to be getting on my money? Look at that bulletin? Neuralgia, 71; Advanced Dandruff, 69; Theory of Dyspepsia, 58; Advanced Nausea, 43; Candle-Dipping, 47; and Advanced Advancing, 12! That’s not a good report card, son.”
Mr. Grapehandle will evidently stand for no nonsense.
“Aw, them profs gave me a dirty deal, Dad,” bleats Stanley. “I shoulda got a 49 in Candle-Dipping. Old Rumplemyer was just sore at me ’cause I played my saxophone in his class a couple times. And that Advanced Advancing course; jeepers, it was rough! For outside reading I had to read Tom Harmon and the Great Gridiron Plot, 251 pages! I didn’t get it finished in time for the Advancing Department’s test, so they flunked me. Everybody hates me.”
“Those are pretty flimsy excuses, Son. I’m afraid you’ll have to spend your vacation studying in the public library.”
Exit Papa Grapehandle, exit vacation.
THE WEEK'S ALL-AMERICAN
Comes time for The Week’s annual All-American basketball team. This year’s outfit is about as representative a bunch as we’ve ever had, although it could use a little height.
LEFT FORWARD — Ellis Arnall. Made a brilliant showing in his first appearance on the 'home floor. Formerly played for Georgia; when he left, two men fought it out for his position. Has unorthodox style for a Southern eager, but manages to do a nimble job of ballhandling. May coach the U. S. entry in the world league some day.
RIGHT FORWARD—Father Thomas McAvoy. Keeps rival hoopsters leaping high with questions like “Outline the ecomienda system in New Spain,” and “Who was William Von Klieft?” Rumored to be authoring a new book on the history of basketball, called The Age of Naismith. Will be compulsory reading for all basketball majors.
CENTER—Lou Burns. A little short for this position, but smart and steady. Showed what students could do when given the ball; pitched in enough points for a collegiate record with his Foreign Student Relief campaign. Sideline: fencing.
LEFT GUARD—The State of Indiana. Caught napping in early season, the State finally woke u^, dribbled a while, and then effectively blocked deadly
LEAVE PAY (PL 346)
Veterans in training under PL 346 (GI Bill) will be automatically granted a 15-day extension of training time (Leave Pay) at the close of the present semester, June 4, 1948. If the veteran does NOT desire this x-tension, which reduces his time and entitlement accordingly, he must complete the necessary form in the Veterans Administration Office, Main Building, 30 days BEFORE the close of the semester.
Homicide Highway’s attempt to up its score. Strictly not a team player; has to be coaxed. Has ‘hysteria’ during March.
RIGHT FORWARD — Jim Martin. Good floor man. In fact, floored several men lately. Heavy, but fast and shifty. Devastating hook shot, loves to rebound opponents off the ring posts.
We may challenge the Harlem Globetrotters.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Memo to the Dining Hall: Let’s put a little juice in the cole slaw, eh, gang?
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
TUXEDO FOR SALE
SIZE 38 — $20.00
Phone: 4-9150
HOLIDAY
The Most Talked About
Pipe Mixture ii^America ☆ Aromatic in the pack... Aromatic in the pipe!
Holiday also comes in a 16 oz. , Humi-Seal Glass Jar Larus & Brother Company, liichmond, Virginia
6
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
The Cavanaugh Concerts were held for the last time before the Easter Vacation on Thursday, but will resume Wednesday, March 31, with the playing of Beethoven's Piano Concert No. 5.
Anyone interested in classical music is invited to these concerts, which are held from 12:30 to 1:30 in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room.
TUXEDO RENTALS
Formal for All Occasions
LOGAN'S
107 N. Main Street Oliver Hotel
For...
Luggage
Leather Goods
Pipes and ... Gifts for
Every Occasion it's
HansARintzsch
Shep
SCORN ER'S SEAT
From A Veteran—Some Gripes:
Windy Speeches Don’t Build Homes
By Joe Wilcox
SWEET DREAMS DEP'T.:
Last week I heard a man representing a real estate interest in a radio debate. This individual, who presumably has spent the last five years in a ghost town, says there is no housing shortage. People (largely veterans) are living in base-m e n t s, trailers, tents, lean-to’s, and various other shelters not intended Tor human habitation, and this Pollyanna says there
is no housing shortage at all. Meanwhile, Senator Taft, who introduced a housing bill into Congress in the distant past, does not seem particularly interested in pressing it. It is this bill for which the eminent Republican senator was denounced as a big bad red. Perhaps the Senator feels that it would not be discreet at the moment to displease those who might assist him in winning the nomination. It seems to me that it is more important for people to be properly housed than it is for politicians to be nominated.
This situation is another example of the run-around the veteran is getting. When we came back from overseas, we were met with a lot of sound and fury about the debt the country owed us, how nothing was too good for us, blah, blah, blah. Certain interests immediately began to gouge the G.I. for all he was worth. Flimsy houses, which lasted about a year, were erected. Their porches slipped off on frolics of their own; the walls cracked and the cellars displayed a return of the Great Flood — $10,000 shot to you know where. Veterans organizations, specifically the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars, devoted most of their time to schemes to collect ridiculous houses. The various “madmen” on the used car lots sold used cars at black market prices, and as soon as the price ceilings were lifted (under pressure) the prices went up still higher.
If, then, the veterans are disillusioned, and if, as Scholastic said last week, they are “emotionally upset, embittered, over-critical,” there is good reason for
it. The speeches of the professional welcomers home were so much hokum. Piactically alone, the student veteran has had a good deal. Other veterans, whose houses and used cars are falling apart, can wonder just how much sincerity there is in mankind.
TWINKLE, TWINKLE, CANDIDATE
I.	Truman
Twinkle, twinkle, Harry T., Where’s your haberdashery?
Don’t you think you’d like to go Back to Independence, Mo.?
II.	De^vey
Twinkle, twinkle, Tommy D., With your subtle coquetry.
The presidency of the nation Does not reward equivocation.
III.	MacArthur
Twinkle, twinkle, Doug MacArt., The horse is far behind the cart;
You have a way to go, now havenue, From Tokyo to Pennsy Avenue?
IV.	Stassen
Twinkle, twinkle, Harold S.,
You didn’t leave us long to guess;
But though your pudding may be tasty Wasn’t it just a little hasty?
V.	Taft
Twinkle, twinkle, Bobby T., With your august paternity, Alas for you, the White House lease Does not descend from pere to fils
VI.	Eisenhoiver
Twinkle, twinkle, General E., You have declined the palm, I see. Or is your presidential bent Merely given up for Lent?
VII.	Vandenburg
Twinkle, twinkle, Artie V., Let’s dispell the mystery;
The time is now, without a doubt.
Now are you in or are you out?
VIII.	Wallace
Twinkle, twinkle, lonely Hank, There’s no more horses at your tank; How nice it would have been for you If Frank had died in ’42.
IX.	Anybody Else Twinkle, twinkle, Whosoever, I wish success to your endeavor; This man you scorn and castigate May later be your running mate.
7
tyxMn the- 2be&k .
Builders All
From thousands of throats these past few nights have come the cheers of the electrified mob that spurred on, with hoot and scream and thirsty command, the flailing Bengal Bouters. They came to see somebody get hurt, and to see somebody win.
Inside the arena, two young Notre Dame student athletes eyed each other respectfully. As stalker and his victim they shuffled around the ring, breathing hard, hitting harder. They were sweating, brawling fighters, but they were missionaries, too. They were knocking each other down, but building Notre Dame up.
The Bengal Bouters are all amateurs and all volunteers. For the most, their only reward is the roar of the mob, and that doesn’t last long. But each knew that, long before the call went out for boxers to sign the Bengal roster. And when that call came they answered impatiently and the workout room rang with the jab of light bags and the dancing shuffle of sparring enthusiasts. For the Bengal Missions in far-off India a broken nose, a mouse under the eye, a jeer from the mob, even a good licking, wasn’t too much to give.
It’s students like the Bengal Bouters that built Notre Dame. He’s the volunteer who steps forward to take the punishment of training or time-giving, whether in athletics or extra-curricular activities like Student Council work, Blue Circle efforts, club organizations, campus publications, campus radio, campus dramatics and the like. It’s the student employee and the student participator who give the university its growing pains, because they make it stretch and expand. They are the vital principle that makes the place throb.
In this role of participant in the extension, both spiritual and material, of Notre Dame, the Bengal Bouter and the active student are brothers under the skin. Both want to see a bigger, better Notre Dame. Both are volunteers, peppy, eager, often downright dreamy. Both are subjected to the roar of the crowd: the fighter can hear the mob yell for the kill, or jeer in disappointment; the active student hears the siren call of his apathetic, disinterested friends among those who knock off with a minimum of work and head downtown every afternoon for a beer session and a show.
The student-builder is dynamically epitomized by the Notre Dame athlete, that guy who jogs out on Cartier every afternoon this spring and learns his blocking fundamentals from Leahy’s corps of masters. He’s the guy who plays a fighting lot of guard down on the sixth team. He’s the hamburger that always comes back for more.
The student-builder, too, is the Sunday altar boy, the cafeteria steward, the towel-taker at the gym, the club organizers, the carnival barkers, the Council representative, the interhall coach, the trumpeter in the band, the dance chairman. He’s the active student who participates.
With adventurous young hearts Father Sorin founded Notre Dame. With such young hearts Knute Rockne put Notre Dame on the map. With such fighting hearts Dominic Napolitano can put on his annual Bengal Bouts for the missions overseas.
The active student-builder of today is the active alumni-builder of tomorrow.
8
To the Forgotten Men
This is dedicated to that horde of forgotten men who answer the bell in the Bengal Bouts, but don’t score the knockout or win the decision. By no means is this intended to diminish the praise of the winners who prove themselves superior in ring skill as well as good, clean sportsmen.
The Bengal Bouts are a great leveler. All train together and everyone knows that only eight of the crew will walk away victorious. The others, though sometimes badly outclassed, even injured, will never say die. They’ll absorb punishment, get up off the canvas, answer the bell until the officials stop them. They are constantly razzed by their hallmates before the fights. The bloodthirsty crowd works on them while they’re in the ring. Nevertheless, they’re out to prove they’re made of the right stuff. And while the fickle mob showers plaudits upon the victors, they must trudge off into the shadows, perhaps the victim of a close decision or an ignominious knockout.
It’s easy to play the hero’s role; it’s tough to play the villain. It’s easy to bask in the limelight; it’s tough to shrink into the gloom.
Certainly, everyone at Notre Dame is supposed to play to win. Yet it’s consoling to know that there are plenty of guys who can swallow defeat, too.
When the bouts are over, most folks remember the winner, his tricky footwork, his rapid punching or death-dealing blows. But who remembers the losers?
Someday, somewhere, they’ll prove they were winners, too. For life contains more knockouts than victories, and the lesson they learned under the bright lights will supply them the punch to come back and win.
When some club gets around to it, there should be a plaque erected in the fieldhouse. It can be a plain plaque because it will honor some plain guys. Our only suggestion is that the inscription on it read: “To those unsung boxers whose absence of skill lost one decision while the presence of untold courage and spirit was winning another.”
Salute to Rosary's Spirit
The lights were burning late recently at Rosary College. That school’s glee club was busy entertaining some visiting firemen from Notre Dame, who next day joined voices with them before well over a thousand listeners in the • Stevens Hotel’s Grand Ballroom.
There was nothing in the concert contract that demanded pre-performance festivities for the visitors. It was just Rosary’s way of saying, “Glad to have you visit us, Notre Dame.”
It wasn’t a polite brush-off gathering, either. After joint rehearsal there was a dinner; then a short program capped by dancing. When it was all over, members of both glee clubs seemed more than pleased with their new acquaintances. Particularly happy were the visiting Irishmen.
This was the second year that the two glee clubs joined voices in a Chicago concert; it was also the second year that Rosary held a party for the visitors. The spirit attendant to such a gathering is reminiscent of what relations should be like between Catholic colleges from men and women. Too often, they’re not.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
»
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	-
at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 20
MARCH 19, 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
President Approves Council's Program
Crowd Records Set as Bengal Bouts End
By HARRY MONAHAN
Having opened to the sound of shattering attendance records, the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts came to a climax with yet more records falling on St. Patrick’s Day. With over 5,000 fight fans in attendance, eight new champions were crowned. The attendance is believed to be the largest crowd ever assembled in the bulging Notre Dame Fieldhouse to witness a sporting event. The five-day fistic tourney played for an estimated 18,500 spectators from the campus and South Bend.
1948 BENGAL CHAMPS
THE CHAMPIONS
127-Pound Class James Sullivan of Worcester, Mass.
137-Pound Class
Jack Griffin of Brooklyn, N. Y. 142-Pound Class
Mike Conley of Boston, Mass. 147-Pound Class Jim Klockenkemper of Batchtown, Ill. 157-Pound Class
Ned Dailey of Pelham, N. Y. 167-Pound Class
Jim Brennan of Milwaukee, Wis. Light-heavyweight
Bill Roemer of South Bend, Ind. Heavyweight
Jim Martin of Cleveland, Ohio
The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, c.s.c., chairman of this year’s event, and General Promoter Joe Dillon are more than pleased with the returns which their efforts have produced. Together with the whole committee they will turn over to the Bengal missionaries of the Congregation of Holy Cross in India the largest profits of any Bengal tourney.
Band Director F. Lee Hope added to the evening’s festivities by bringing the (Continued on Page 37)
FIGHT BY FIGHT STORY OF FINALS ON PAGE 19 WITH PICTURES ON PAGES 20 AND 21, AND SIDELIGHTS ON PAGE 22. OTHER FIGHT STORIES AND PICTURES ON PAGES 24, 25, AND 33.
From top to bottom, left to right: Martin. Roemer, Brennan, Dailey, Klockenkemper, Conley, Griffin, and Sullivan.
Final O.K. Expected After Easter Vacation
Notre Dame’s rebounding Student Council received a much needed boost last week when Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, expressed his approval of the council program which was submitted to him.
The measures agreed upon will be sent to the various committees and departments for clearance and the entire program, as approved, will be released through the Office of Student Activities after Easter vacation.
While not all of the proposed plans met with approval, Council officers were
SEEK STUDENT TRIP CHOICES
The Student Council requests that students indicate their first and second choices of next fall's student trip to their hall or off-campus representative on or before this Monday night. They may also be submitted at Room 122 in the Main Building. This request is made in order that plans for the trip can be started as soon as possible. The games away from home, with their dates and sites are as follows:
Oct. 1—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
Oct. 16—Nebraska at Lincoln
Oct. 23—Iowa at Iowa City
Oct 30—Navy (undecided)
Nov. 6—Indiana at Bloomington
encouraged by the President’s favorable attitude. A complete discussion of the program will be carried on at the next meeting of the Council.
Beecause of the Bengal Bouts, the all important amendments were tabled until the next meeting. A motion to appropriate $25 for the Bengal heavyweight trophy was passed unanimously, as was an award of $50 to the Florida Club for having the largest intake at the Mardi Gras.
The Council is seeking backing for a (Continued on Page 36)
9
Prom-Goers Await 'Musical Fantasy' April 9: Bid Sales Soar for Cavallero Appearance
By GREG HALPIN
Junior Promers will find themselves swirling in ths midst of “Musical Fantasy” the night of April 9 in the Palais Royale. This bit of atmospheric background to the big night was revealed this week among a number of Prom announcements made by Co-Chairmen Ed Raymond and Jim Manning. “Musical Fantasy” is the theme that has been selected for the dance and will show itself in the makeup of the bids, the favors and the decorations of the Palais.
It was also announced by Raymond and Manning that the sale of bids has been progressing at a fast rate with over 350 already sold. Because of the large early sale the bid committee has arranged to hold 100 bids for sale after Easter to benefit those who are waiting for their March checks or who are planing to make dates while home for the holidays. They will continue to be on sale in the basement of the Caf.
Those who have yet to be measured for tuxs will have another chance Tuesday night when a fitter will be in Room 103 of the Law Building for their convenience. All those who wish to cancel tux rentals must do so before the Easter holidays for no cancellations will be accepted after that date.
Ted Gallagan, local maestro, will play for the tea dance to be held the following evening, Saturday night, at the Palais from 6 until 9. As for the prom itself, Carmen Cavallero is planning on bringing a band of over 20 pieces down from Chicago. Some of his music will go on the air from the Prom over WSBT Friday night to be rebroadcast Saturday over WND.
A tentative 2:30 permission for Friday night and 1 a. m. for Saturday has been obtained according to Committee reports but an official announcement of this will not be made until the week of the dance.
The big attraction that Raymond and Manning are offering for their $6.75 to all those eligible is the music of “The Poet of the Piano,” Cannen Cavallero and his orchestra. Cavallero, for years one of the nation’s biggest band sensations, will bring to the Palais a veteran organization that. has played in four movies, appeared on two radio shows for periods of over a year, has been guest stai’ on the Coca Cola “Spotlight Band,” the Fitch Band Wagon, the Jack Smith Show, the Carnation Contented Hour and Hildegarde’s Raleigh Room. Caval-
10	’
CARMEN CAVALLERO
Next day — Ted Galligan
lero has made a towering stack of hit records, many of which have been placed in the six Cavallero albums now being sold.
In addition the Cavallero organization has appeared in every famous hotel and night club throughout the country. Such hotels as the Waldorf-Astoria in New York, The Palmer House in Chicago, and the Mark Hopkins in San Francisco have treated their guests with his piano magic. Night club patrons of the Rainbow Room in New York, Ciro’s in Hollywood and the Surf Club at Virginia Beach have danced to his rhythms. He has appeared on almost every well known stage in the United States, massaging the keys from the boards of New York’s Paramount, Cleveland’s Palace, Baltimore’s Hippodrome and countless others.
Cavallero’s interpretation of modern music has made him outstanding in his field. He is called “The Poet of the Piano” just because of that. He. uses love ballads and Latin-American songs as the basis for his unusual treatments.
COMPANY. ATTENTION!
Any members or former members of Company F, 423 Infantry, 106 Division: there is a publication put out by your outfit, called the “Company F Guidon," available free to you. Contact Art Kuespert, 816 E; Jefferson, South Bend, Ind.- . . ...
Pegis Discusses Avicennian Direction in Epistemology
Continuing a series of lectures begun here in December, Dr. Anton C. Pegis, head of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, described the Avicennian direction in epistemology and the consequences of the movement last week in the Law Building.
Dr. Pegis’ lecture was sponsored by Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, the Toronto institution’s only counterpart on the continent of North America. The series, which ran from Monday to last Friday, was the third in the Institute’s program for this semester. ■■-----------------------
Irish Meet Duquesne In Debate Today
Duquesne University will provide the competition for the Notre Dame debating team today in an afternoon-evening series.
Frank Finn and Tim Kelley will battle the Pittsburgh invaders from an affirmative aspect on Federal World Government at 7:30 tonight in the Law Auditorium. This afternoon at 4, Jim Beymer and Bill Dixon will uphold the Irish negative arguments in Room 327 of the Main Building. Professor William J. Eisen of the Speech Department, will judge both contests.
Marquette will meet the ND argu-ers here, sometime in the near future, in what is heralded as one of the prospective “ten best debates of the year in the U. S.” This debate, on the subject of Universal Military Training, will be recorded in its entirety and incorporated in the 19^7-48 University Debater’s Annual. Colonel John V. Hinkel, University Publicity Director, will act as judge.
Finn and Bill Carey will carry the affirmative banner on World Government against Fordham April 1 in the Law Auditorium.	.
Although the West Point Invitational Tournament will not take place until May, the ND debaters have already begun extensive preparations for the important competition. After six weeks of research for new arguments and aspects of the topic, they will each take an oral and written examination from Coach Leonard Sommer in order to determine Notre Dame’s representatives in the tourney.
At present, Coach Sommer is engaged in sorting and selecting applications for participation in the Tau Kappa Alpha National Tournament at Bloomington, Indiana. As chairman of the regional nominating committee for the event, it is his task to select the six foremost debating teams from six neighboring states.
ANNAPOLIS-BOUND
Tom Carroll admires the braid on the ensign s uniform modeled by R. D. Boyne. Both will attend Naval Academy classes during Easter vacation.
March 'Concord' Raps Federal Aid Policy
A warning that aid from Washington “can lead to federal control’.’ of schools is sounded in an editorial appearing in the March issue of Concord, national student magazine published by the Young Christian Students. The editorial, entitled “Federal Aid to Education,” states that the aid is “at best a mixed blessing.”
Referring to an excerpt from President Truman’s recent State of the Union message, it comments: “It is good that the President is disturbed about the educational crisis. Yet it would seem that this is not a crisis of inadequate facilities— especially in the realm of higher education — but rather one of incorrect orientation.”
President Truman’s Commission on Higher Education is outlined in the article with mention given to the federal aid, increased facilities to permit doubling the college enrollment, extension of free education to include the first two years of college, and a general revision of American education. The editorial doubts that the problems which the Commission is discovering and delineating in its reports will be solved by education legislation. Since the final outcome will affect us all, the editorial concludes with -a plea that students keep abreast of the developing picture.
Poll Shows Profs Split on Departmental Exam Question, Students Solidly Opposed
Scholastic reporters working on the Opinion Poll last week found themselves lighting fuses to little powder kegs all over campus as they asked the explosive question: “What do you think of departmental Examinations?” For the first time, the pollers canvassed the faculty for some of their answers. They came away with quotes that may go down in Notre Dame’s history.
The disposition of the student body towards departmentals has come to be traditional. Their reactions to this poll were as could be expected. But for the first time the thoughts of the Notre Dame faculty as they mull the question are here exposed.
The biggest salvo directed at departmentals to come from faculty guns was fired by the Reverend Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., handball-playing logician. Father Brennan loaded, took dead aim and said: “I am sincerely opposed to every method that impairs the personal relation between the teacher and the student.”
Father Brennan’s statement was strongly backed by Reverend Bernard B. Lange who said: “The only true representation of the student’s knowledge is given during class, and only the instructor is in a position to determine the student’s ability.”
Mr. Thomas Cassidy, professor of English, took a stand a little more towards center but did state: “Excessive departmentals are dangerous because they tend to put an overemphasis on fact mongering. From the teacher’s point of view, it minimizes the originality of the teachers.”
History Department Head, . Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., backed the system he helped inaugurate at Notre Dame, “I think these tests are impartial, and I am in favor of them . . . the student’ is tested on what he should know.”	-
Professor ' Walter Langford, tennis coach and- head of -the Department of Modern Language,' expressed his sentiments thus: “When properly set up they. are a big step forward in improving the caliber of work done by the student ... a more reliable indication of what each student has gained from the course ...”	!
“If the course lends itself to departmental treatment and the exams are worked out carefully ...” were the qualifications placed on the exams by the Reverend Roland Simonitsch, c.s.c.,-Head of the Department of Religion. .
Professor Edmund Smith was quoted as saying that departmentals are “de-
sirable, but in most cases there is a distaste created in the student toward the course.” Reverend Raymond Murray, Sociology Department head, admitted that the exams are “much disliked by students because they think them unfair” but thought that “each student is tested on the same material and obscure questions are eliminated.”
Dr. Paul Bartholomew answered the question in these words: “I believe it would work in large sections. It gets uniformity into work. The ‘luck of the draw’ of teachers is minimized in such a system.”
And from Physics boss Reverend Henry Bolger came a strong defense. “The departmental examination gives objectivity to work done. In science courses where there are several sections it allows one standard on which to grade. It eliminates talk among students such as: ‘If I had so and so he’d have given me a better grade’.”
Doctors Gurian and Simon declined to offer an opinion, both claiming lack of knowledge on the subject.
Almost as significant as the quotes themselves were the silent reactions of some profs when questioned by reporters.
The students’ reactions speak for themselves.
Murray Powers, 339 Farley: “. . . de-' partmentals are a direct reflection on the profs themselves.”
Phil Reilly, 314 Lyons: “Absolutely of no value except to flunk students. They don’t prove anything except to show what your prof did not tell you to study. It doesn’t pay to study for them.”
Fred Teschemacher, 300 Lyons: “Spoils the courses for the students because all they think about is passing “that” exam. .Makes the whole course based on the idea of cramming for one exam.”
Dan Clark, 152 Cavanaugh: “If I were a teacher, I would be insulted by the fact that up to 50 per cent of the mark I give a student is determined by another person’s grading.”
Joe Pheifer, 125 Alumni Hall: “Departmentalization is unfair because dif. ferent professors have different views ,A;on the subject material, and none- co' /■ijicide. with those taken by the exam-
iners.” :
- -Bob Reynolds, 416 Walsh: “Depart- mental exams work injustice by placing emphasis on features other than those stressed by. your professors.”
II
Donald Kersten Wins Breen Oratory Medal
There were no . laurel wreaths handy, but Donald Kersten, C.S.C., was hailed as N.D.’s closest approximation to Cicero, Tuesday night in Washington Hall in the finals of the annual Breen Oratorical Contest. Expanding his topic of “Radicals for Christ,” the silver-tongued young seminarian presented a plea for Catholic Action, judged eloquent enough ro gain the nod over fcur othei- finalists.
Among the other contestants who drew hearty rounds of applause from the audience were freshman Will Dixon, who spoke oii the subject “What Price Peace?”, and another seminarian, James O’Halloran, C.S.C.. who chose the theme “Blessed Night." Joe O’Toole's vivid description of autos, turned by carelessness into murderous “Bull Elephants” kept the crowd thoroughly interested and entertained as well.
Kersten’s winning oration urged modern Catholics to return to the fearless defense of Christ exemplified by St. Paul. He stressed the idea that radicalism, if directed into proper channels, can be a sign of active sanctity.
Although the decision was announced immediately by Professor William J. Eisen, who acted as chairman, presentation of the medal is reserved by tradition until Class Day.
FATHER HESBURGH HELPS HIMSELF AT VETVILLE POTLUCK Afterwards a rod and reel
Vetville's Social Life Hits New High at Potluck Supper
Vetville set its social life into high gear last week with the community’s biggest event of the year so far. The affair was a potluck supper, a huge success with nearly 100 couples attending.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., guest of honor, delivered a talk stressing the importance of Catholic leadership to meet challenging world conditions. Father Cavanaugh emphasized the necessity for an increase in the University endowment which would be developed into facilities for more recreational opportunities and for research in the physical sciences.
The high point in the evening’s festivities was a presentation of a suitcase and a rod and reel to Father Hes-burgh in recognition of the work he has done and the sacrifices he has made to help the entire Vetville community in every way.
The entertainment side was handled by Marty Galvin and Vetville’s Chuck Perrin, who presented a short Irish skit in keeping with the near holiday.
Other guests included Rev. John J. Lane, Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss and Rev. Joseph Barr. Mayor Gulyassy, Toastmaster Bill Ball and Trudy Rumely, Chairlady of the supper, arranged the affair.—J. Nachtegall.
Convention Slated For Navy Drill Hall Last Week in April
While the first presidential primary election was being held recently in New Hampshire, Notre Dame students observed the results and started their preliminary spadework in lining up delegates for their candidates for the mock convention of the Republican party.
Tentatively scheduled for three days during the last week of April, the convention will be held in the Navy Drill Hall with student-delegates from the 48 states. While campaigns for five candidates have already been launched, it is expected that the usual number of dark horse potentials will be entered in the political race.
Under the chairmanship of Frank
In preparation for the forthcoming mock Republican convention, plans have been made to enter at least five of the more prominent candidates for the presidential nomination. Anyone interested in actively supporting any of the following candidates is urged to contact the campaign manager:
Thomas E. Dewey—Lou Burns, 341 Dillon; Earl Warren—Don Brady, 325 Walsh;
Douglas MacArthur — Chuck Russ, 261
Alumni;
Robert Taft—Tom Francis, 204 Dillon;
Harold Stassen—Ralph Thorson. 11 Lyons.
Anyone interested in organizing a campaign for another candidate should see Frank Keenan in 200 Howard Hall.
Keenan, a national committee has been organized to do the behind-the-scenes work of the convention. Committees have been set up to formulate the convention agenda, arrange for the selection of state delegations, provide for the details of the actual convention meetings and handle publicity.
According to Curt Kiesling, chairman of the delegations committee, delegates will be chosen through the various campus geographical clubs. Prior to this however, Political Science students will be asked to volunteer as delegates, giving their club affiliation. When this step has been completed, the committee will inform the clubs of the number of delegates needed to fill the state’s dele-gation. It is believed that all interested in becoming delegates will be able to do so. However, in some of the states with a large representation here, it may be necessary to select the delegates through an election or some other means.
While it was at first intended to have
12
some prominent member of the Republican party here to deliver the keynote address, this plan has been dropped in order to have participation in the convention an exclusively student activity.
Sponsored by the Political Science department, the convention committee is being guided by Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew who originated the idea in 1940. In addition to National Chah-man Frank Keenan, the committee is composed of: Curt Kiesling, Kevin Harrigan, Bill Slavik, Tom McLaughlin, Joe Rozier and Jack Donahoe, delegations; Lou Burns, Len Boykin, Don Brady; Tim Kelly and Jim Cassidy, agenda; Ralph Thorson, John McShane, Bob Uhl and Tom Francis, arrangements; Chuck Russ, Shaun McDermott, Dan Gentile and Bill Pfaff, publicity.
New Features Added To WND's Busy Sked
Station WND’s expanding program schedule takes on three new features this week. The Moreau Seminary Choir will preview Holy Week services with a half-hour broadcast tonight at 7:15. The choir, directed by Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., will feature numbers to be sung during the closing devotions of Holy Week.
The hit songs of yesteryear are plat-tered in a new program every Tuesday evening at 6:15. Master of ceremonies George Murphy digs deep into WND files to spin records that even antedate the first world war.
Classical and semi-classical music will fashion a special program next Tuesday evening at 7:15 by xylophonist William MacMillan.
WND will be off the air during the Easter vacation. Broadcasting will resume’Wednesday, March 31.
WND PROGRAM SCHEDULE Week Beginning March 22
Monday Evening
6:00 Jumptime
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Winter Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music
8:00 Sign Off
Tuesday Evening
6: CO Sack Time
6:15 Yesterday’s Hits
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Xylophonist
7:30 Winter Theater
8:00 Sign Off
Typing Done
ACCURATE AND NEAT WORK
PHONE 4-3936
NFCCS and Mexican Fiesta Set for N. D.
Notre Dame will be all out for Latin America on the weekend of April 9, 10, and 11. Not only will the juniors be moving their shapes to the Latin rhythms of Carmen Cavallero, but the NFCCS will be having a big powwow on Mexico with about two hundred delegates, mostly women, representing 21 colleges and universities. The occasion? Pan American Day and the annual Congress of the Triregional Commission on Inter-American Action.
After registering late Saturday afternoon, the hemisphere enthusiasts -will assemble in the Law auditorium to hear Richard Pattee deliberate on “Mexico, the Land of Contrasts.” Something quite unusual will follow when the InterAmerican Affairs Club and La Raza Club members will be dinner hosts to the delegates in the east dining hall, then the group will make for Washington Hall to siesta ... we mean, see Esther ... in Fiesta. On the same program will be a technicolor tour of Vera Cruz.
Not to be outdone by the Prom-goers, the Pan Americans will dig shins at the Vetville Recreation Hall for the rest of the evening.
Bright and early Sunday morning the conventioners will be seen filing into Dillon chapel for 8 o’clock mass.
PROSECUTING ATTORNEYS OF LAW BALL
Donley Brady and Tony Gizolanu. cb-chainnen of the spring Law Ball, scheduled for April 9.
At 10 o’clock, everyone will gather in small huddles to hash over various phases of Mexican life, after which they will pool the results at the general session. Then back to Dillon chapel, where Benediction will terminate the annual affair.
This congress is not a closed affair, but open to the entire student body. The only hitch is a fifty-cent registration fee to pay for the dance orchestra and the programs.—Tom Murray
D.C. Trip Pulls 30 Students; Group Leaves Campus Riday
At least 30 students have shown interest in the four-day Easter holiday trip to Washington, D. C., according to Dr. Paul Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science.
The trip, a regular event before the war, is scheduled to leave Friday, March 26, for the capital city. J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is expected to be on hand to meet the group when they arrive in Washington. The tour will consist of visits to historical and governmental places of interest under the guidance of Dr. Bartholomew.
Those planning to make the trip were asked to arrange payment with Dr. Bartholomew before March 18 if possible.
13
Vlvctvrv CamPus Statues y - Baffle & Bore
by JVILLIAM H. L ^MAN
“This is my fifth semester in this room and I never even knew there was a saint right outside my window,” said Frank Thometz of 226 Dillon Hall.
Frank is typical. The fifteen-odd statues put up on the buildings around the campus during the war have aroused almost no curiosity.
“Sure, I’ve seen them,” said Jim Burke of Alumni, “but they certainly haven’t affected me vitally ... in fact, they haven’t affected me at all.”
Rev. Henry G. Glueckert, c.s.c., rector of Alumni, took a haphazard guess that the two statues in the west court of his hall were of St. Dominic and St. Francis. His guess was wrong, but Rev. Thomas F. Butler, C.S.C., rector of Dillon, wouldn’t even- venture a stab at the identity of the cast-stone imagery on his hall.
“They just came along one day and put them up,” he said. “Nobody told me whom they’re supposed to represent, so T don’t know.”
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion, who lives just across the court in Dillon from a statue of Commodore Barry holding a rope, said in a dry voice, “I don’t know who the rest are, but that one over there looks like an Irishman with a shillelagh in his hand.”
You can’t exactly blame these people for being puzzled, for, in erecting the statues, one detail was overlooked: except for St. Thomas More on the Law Building, all were left unlabeled. And, as some great person must have said at one time or another, “There is noth
ing quite so dull as an anonymous statue.”
Mr. Byrne, University Librarian, finally decided that at least some record should be made of these statues so that they wouldn’t be a complete mystery in another ten years. Mr. Kormendi, Notre Dame’s sculptor in residence, was very helpful in identifying his own work but couldn’t remember anything about the other seven statues. Mr. Sessler, head of the Art Department, was in the service when, they put up the statues, so he didn’t know.
The last hope was Mr. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture. He knew three of the missing seven but couldn’t recall the four in the court between Dillon and Alumni. As a last resort, he walked down to take a look at them. Sure enough, they were four doctors of the Church. The record was straight.
The catalogue:
ALUMNI
St. Bonaventure (east court, upper side) St. Thomas Aquinas (east court, lower niche by entrance)
Graduate Student (south tower)
DILLON
St. Jerome (west court, upper niche) St. Augustine (west court, lower niche) Cardinal Newman (above southwest entrance)
St. Patrick (south wall)
Commodore Barry (west court)
LAW BUILDING
St. Thomas More (above west entrance) Christ the King (south tower)
INFIRMARY St. Raphael (south wing) Good Shepherd (above main entrance)
HOWARD
St. Timothy (south, above arch)
MORRISSEY
St. Andrew (to be put in soon over- main entrance)
LYONS
St. Joseph (above.arch)
ROCKNE MEMORIAL
St. Christopher (above main entrance)
Timothy, Andrew, Joseph and Patrick are the first names of the men for whom Howard, Morrissey, Lyons and Dillon Halls are named.
New York-Chicago Experts Invited to Trade Conference
Plans for the Notre Dame Foreign Trade Conference which will be held here May 13 went into full swing last week as definite invitations were sent to New York and Chicago to the nation’s most prominent foreign trade 'experts. Students will be given an opportunity to openly discuss with these businessmen the problems which confront the modern foreign trader.
The conference is to be held in connection with National Foreign Trade Week which the government has proclaimed to be from May 16 to May 22. The Marketing Department, which is handling all the arrangements, hopes that this will be the first of a long series of annual Notre Dame Foreign Trade Conferences.
Left to right: The Good Shepherd, St, Augustine, St Christopher, St Thomas More, St Timothy, St Thomas Aquinas, St Bonaventure, Cardinal Newman
14
JACK DONAHOE The Air Corps was welcome
Middies' Big Night Slated for May 1st
Jack Donahoe, NROTC midshipman of Lyons Hall, announced last week that a formal dance will be held for the Naval unit at Notre Dame on May 1 in the Vetville recreation center. Donahoe, chairman for the Naval Ball, added that the dance will last from 8 p.m. until midnight. The middies will dance to the music of Bill Cullen’s orchestra. Members of the Army Air ROTC unit at Notre Dame are invited to attend the affair.
Prescribed for the dance is the midshipmen’s dress uniform: white twill trousers, dress blue coats, and visor hats with white hat-covers.
One o’clock permissions will be given the men who attend the Ball, and their dates from Saint Mary’s will be allowed 12:30 dispensations. For their convenience, busses will be running between the recreation center and the college across the road before and after the dance.
Members of the committee for the Ball are, besides Donahoe, Midshipmen John Ryan, decorations; Frank Richards, programs; Don Buseck, tickets; and Joseph Becker and Tom Carroll, entertainment. The refreshments chairman has not yet been appointed.
Tickets for the dance will go on sale for $2.30 a couple on May 1. Entertainment during intermission will be furnished by the freshman and sophomore classes.	'
Rebel Club Poll Shows Majority Favors End of Negro Discrimination in South
Southern students at Notre Dame have gone on record as favoring the overthrow of traditional prejudice and discrimination against the Negro. A poll conducted last week among members of the Rebel Club on such hot questions as anti-lynch legislation and Jim Crowism in the land of magnolias and mint juleps showed a surprising liberal trend.
Because of an increasing demand for consideration of traditional and current Southern problems the Rebels elected Travis Marshall, commerce senior from Apalachicola, Fla., to serve as the first chairman of the club’s Southern Affairs Committee. The leading members of his group included Bill Slavick, president of the Rebels, Greg Despot, club secretary, Eugene Podesta, corresponding secretary, Bill Phaff, Rebel member of the Wranglers, and Bob Brown, Texas Club vice-president.
Over 200 Mason-Dixon boys were polled in reference to the controversy between President Truman and the Southern governors. They were asked to give an opinion on five issues: anti-lynching, fair employment practices, poll tax abolishment, “Jim Crow” transportation, and segregated education. The answers demonstrated a gratifying lack of the usual Southern prejudice and discrimination toward the Negro.
Old time “pappies” might be stunned when they hear that a solid 97 per cent want more energetic action of some kind taken against lynching; 87 per cent want fair employment practices; 90 per cent want the poll tax abolished; 50 per cent want “Jim Crow” transportation to end; and 55 per cent want segregated education abandoned, now or eventually.
In answer to a general catch-all question, should all races be given full civil and economic rights and privileges?, 73 per cent said yes, 17 per cent replied no, while 10 per cent did not answer. This cautious attitude was felt in many comments.
Donald Derivaux of Zahm spoke on the issues collectively: “The Negro should be given his full citizenship, with all the rights and privileges that go with it. But, in order that he may properly use them, he should be educated to their significance ... to make himself worthy of them. And certainly there must be more sympathy on the part of both races.”
An off-campus rebel, J. E. McMiilan, said: “I’m not quite sure that at the present time full equality for the Negro would be feasible in the South (as in
deed, it doesn’t seem to be even in the North!) Perhaps equality in everything with the exception of social equality would be preferable.”
On the other hand, many threw reservation and caution away, and answered, as did Bob Barry of Alumni: “There is no basis, moral or otherwise, for the way Negroes are treated in the South; it is a result of white stupidity, and prejudice. Southerners say they can handle their own problems. Well, when are they going to get off their overallbottoms and give the Negro equal opportunities? They have had 80 years already!”
Caution reappears in James W. Frick’s comment: “The present convictions concerning the Negro held by the South are deep-rooted and have been handed down from one generation to the other ... no legislation will change these convictions overnight.”
The anti-lynching issue brought a clear plurality for Federal legislation; . 48 per cent. J. O. Knobloch, off-campus, summarizes the Southerners* viewpoint: “Federal legislation should outlaw lynching. As long as such rabble that make up mobs continue to elect Bilbos, Talmadges, and Longs to public office, the states so afflicted will not legislate anti-lynching or fair employment laws of their own accord.” .	• -
Commentaries on “Jim Crow” transportation and segregated schools were sharply divided. W. N. Sheehan of Morrissey said, “Jim Crow” transportation and segregated schools can be maintained in the South if equal facilities are provided for whites and Negroes alike.” Joe Naughton, also of Morrissey, felt that the general transition should be made gradually to avoid cries of “Yankee interference.” He said, “Schools should not be segregated because tolerance would be instilled in children if bi-racial education existed.”
Bob Kuehner of Howard replied that Negroes should not be barred from colleges, and the division should be op-, tional on grade and high school levels. Others do not want bi-racial educational facilities now, but see it as a final goal.
The Southern Affairs Committee will now make a study of the moral validity and economic advisability of segregated education in the South. Memories of “chocolate mammies” and stereotyped darkies seem to have seen their day, at least as far as the intelligent Notre Dame Rebels are concerned.	.
—Ken Thoren
15
85 Science Men Make Dean's Honor List
Eighty-five students in the College of Science have had their names placed on the Dean’s list of honor students for work completed in the past semester.
The Dean’s List is the roster of students whose average is 87 per cent or better. In order to he eligible for the list a student must have completed two semesters of science with the required average. Once the student has made the list he must keep the 87 average in order to remain.
Thirty-three members of the List had averages of 90 or over, while seven just made the List with the required 87.00. The highest mark was attained by Robert Joseph Luther who had a 94.40 average for the first semester’s work.
The honor students are:
Calvin J. Benning, Albert J. Bisese, John F. Blackhurst, Donald I. Bermann, David E. Brickl, John J. Budd, Albert W. Burgstahler, William J. Cahill, Louis W. Cappucci, Paul E. Carroll, Edward S. Ciprus, John F. Commerford, William P. Crowley, Michael E. Donley, William E. Donze, Thomas A. Dooley, Richard J. Downs, C.S.C., Donald D. Ewing, George B. Finn, John B. Frankel, Donald S. Freiburger.
Stephen J. Galla, Emilio R. Giuliana, Richard A. Glass, David S. Greenberg, John P. Harm, Richard J. Herberg, William R. Hessert, Frederick A. Hickey, Frank R. Hieber, Gerard J. Horn, Donald E. Howland, Vincent P. Hughes, Norbert L. Immel, John D. Johnson, Walter F. Judge, Brother Mel Keil, C.S.C., Robert C. Kelleher, Joseph T. Kivlin, Richard J. Kloecker, Thomas J. Klug, John D. Kramer, John R. Lackey, Victor J. Lash, Davey E. Lieb, James C. List, Robert J. Luther.
Colin F. MacKay, George E. Maha, William J. Marshall, Chester J. Maternowski, David K. McAfee, Philip T. McCormick, James E. Monaghan, Harry D. Mosier, Thomas N. Mottolese, George Muinch, Jack L. Mulligan, Robert W. Ninneman, Fred P. Nisi, Joseph L. O’Brien, Charles V. Owens, Joseph L. Owens, Paul E. Peckham, James F. Powers, Frank A. Puyau, Paul A. Reilly, Ralph W. Riley, Francis N. Ritter, James A. Rourke, Philip P. Ruetz, Henry R. Rutzkowski.
Donald P. Schilder, George R. Schrodt, Robert L. Scribner, Donald L. Stoner, Cornelius J. Styers, Frank P. Thometz, Ralph E. Thorson, Jack L. Titus, Robert J. Tufano, Philip H. Utz, John T. Vincent, James E. Wack, James A. Wuell-ner.—Murray Powers
16
Scholarship to Be Awarded For Harvard Law School
An award will be made on or before next June 1 of the Walter Kessler Scholarship in the Harvard Law School for the academic year 1948-1949. The scholarship is restricted to residents of Indiana who intend to return to Indiana for practice and give some attention to public affairs.
The stipend is §1200 during the year 1948-1949 and §450 during each of the two succeeding academic years, provided that the recipient maintains a scholastic record which meets the approval of the dean. Prospective students desiring to apply for this scholarship should write to Erwin N. Griswold, Dean of the Harvard Law School, Cambridge 38, Massachusetts, for copies of formal application blanks which must be returned by May 1. 1948.
Band Will Serenade Eight Eastern Cities
Two chartered buses will carry the Notre Dame Band in its annual Eastertime tour of the eastern states. In its tour this year, the Band will visit eight cities in three states. After leaving on March 28, the Band will visit New Castle, Pa., on March 29; Connellsville, Pa., March 30; Shenandoah, Pa., March 31; and Mount Carmel, Pa., April 1. After an open date on April 2, the band will be heard in Hazelton, Pa., on April 3, and in Allentown, Pa., April 4.
The first appearance outside of Pennsylvania will be in New Haven, Conn, on April 5. The windup of the tour will be in Medina, N. Y., on April 6. The sponsors of the Band appearances are ■ the American Legion in Shenandoah, th: Catholic High Athletic Association in Mount Carmel, the music department of the Holy Cross Brother’s new Notre Dame High School in New Haven, and in the other cities, the Knights of Columbus.
Feature of the program will be a xylophone solo, “The Flight of the Bumblebee,” by William MacMillan. The band schedule includes six marches, a waltz, an overture, a symphony, and several selections on the more serious side.
In addition to the regular concerts listed above, the band ■will play matinees for the school children of the several cities.
The white shirt problem is always very knotty on such a trip, but Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the Band, has solved it by purchasing 300 false shirt fronts and 450 cardboard turn-down collars to be worn by the members a few times and then thrown away.
—Dan Brennan
Anne Byrne Scores With Piano Recital
Although sandwiched in between the Bengal Bouts and midsemester exams, the piano concert of Miss Anne Byrne drew a sizeable crowd of Notre Dame’s music lovers to Washington Hall last Tuesday night. Those who attended the Juilliard student’s concert were well rewarded, for Miss Byrne gave them a true picture of how the piano should be played.
In a program designed to show all the various types of composition in a proper balance, she played works by Beethoven, Chopin, Liszt and Bach. The impressionistic composing of Debussy and Griffes was also represented, along with the more startling, dissonant Visions Fugitives by Prokofieff.
Etude, No. 2, by Liszt and Paganini allowed Miss Byrne to demonstrate her piano ability. The work gave the performer a chance to display her virtuosity, even though the melody is not one to be remembered by the audience. Her playing of the Etude was surpassed only by her faithful rendition of an organ work, written by Bach and transcribed for the piano by Busoni.
Although only 22 years old, Miss Byrne has studied the piano for fourteen years. Those who attended her campus concert are positive the time was not wasted. Only one step down from the ranks of Casadessus and Rubinstein, she shows promise of crashing this select fold after a little more experience on the concert stage.
—Joe Herrington
Modern Culture Becomes Restricted Elective in Fall
Beginning with the September semester the Depai-tment of Journalism will offer its senior course in contemporary affairs, Modern Culture III and IV, to 25 no-Journalism majors.
The course deals with contemporary problems in foreign affairs. It is taught by a staff of experts from the various . departments in the University who give groups of lectures in their specialities.
Senior non-Journalism majors must have the approval of Mr. Thomas Stritch, 123 Main Building, to take the course.
ATTENTION. VETS
All veterans, PL 16 and PL 346, who plan to attend summer school at another institution, or who plan to transfer permanently, should contact the Veterans Administration Office, Main Building, before April 30.
Veterans who plan to change colleges at Notre Dame should contact the Veterans Administration not later than April 30.
Pre-Regis+ration Fee Due after Easter
Pre-registration for the fall semester will be held shortly after Easter. The official date has not been set as yet, but announcement is expected within a few days.
Students will be required to make a deposit of $50. This fee ■will be credited to your account when the next semester accounts are mailed.
The bulletin board will soon carry official reminder of the required deposit in such language as this:
“When the student pre-registers he will be required to make a deposit of $50.00 as evidence that his reservation of a place in the University is made in good faith. Experience has shown that the $50.00 deposit is necessary to protect the enrollment opportunity of the student who does apply in good faith, and to permit the University to make accurate arrangements for the school year.”
Chicago Club Books Easter Dance at Sherman Hotel
The Chicago Club’s Easter dance will be held in the grand ballroom of the Sherman Hotel on Easter Monday, March 29, from 9:00 until 1:00, according to an announcement made by CoChairmen John Broderick, of Oak Park, Ill., and Frank Murnane, Chicago. Johnny Marlowe and his orchestra will play for the informal dance; bids will be $4.00 per couple, tax included.
The club has arranged to hold rooms in the Sherman Hotel for non-Chicagoan Easter weekend visitors from the campus who wish to attend the dance. Reservations may be made for these rooms at 117 Cavanaugh, 334 Alumni, and 105 Dillon.	>
Hearst Papers Announce Annual Oratorical Contest
The 6th annual Hearst Newspapers’ National Oratorical contest will be held during the month of April in 13 key cities of the Hearst chain. The contest subject this yeai- will be “Benjamin Franklin, Patriot and Statesman.”
All high school and college students in this area will be eligible to compete in the Chicago contest. One winner will be allowed to compete from each school. At Notre Dame, the contest will be supervised by Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the Department of Speech. All entries must be filed with him as soon as possible because the name of the college winner must be filed with the Chicago office before April 17.
St. Mary's, ND Frosh Hear Father Burke at Second Mixer
At one time, relations between St. Mary’s were at such a restricted, cloistered stage that a few Sorin sharpies had to resort to donning the black cloth in order to pay the girls a visit. This was one of the many entertaining and true incidents with which Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., regaled 150 freshmen from here and the Rock last Sunday afternoon in the Vets’ Rec Hall.
The occasion was the second in a series of Freshmen informal mixers. Father Burke not only gave one of his inimitable talks but also remained to play and sing some of his classic tunes. Murray Powers also entertained by playing his accordion, with the gathering joining in on many all-time favorites.
Refreshments were served after Father Burke’s talk. Tom Carroll, class president, was in charge of the affair with Ed Sullivan, John Haley and Tom Wolff assisting in conjunction with a committee from St. Mary’s. The third Sunday afternoon mixer is being planned for a weekend shortly after the Easter holidays.
NBC to Televise Universal N.D. Night
The Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia has arranged for a nation-wide broadcast on the Mutual Broadcasting System of their celebration of the twenty-fifth annual Universal Notre Dame Night, April 5. A television program also has been arranged to reach approximately 100,000 sets served by Eastern NBC.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, Mr. Clarence E. Manion, and Mr. Frank W. Leahy will be featured speakers on the radio program which will run from 10:30 to 11:00 p.m. (EST). The telecast will be aired from 9:30 to 10:00 p.m. (EST). Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, and Mr. H. G. Hogan will also be present at the Philadelphia meeting.
Arrangements have also been made for speakers by many other Notre Dame Clubs. In New York Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., will speak. The Chicago Club will hear Prof. J. A. Reyniers and Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., and in addition an octet from the Glee Club.
The west coast will see Rev. Richard Grimm, c.s.c., and Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., at San Francisco and Los Angeles, respectively. Dean J. E. McCarthy will visit Davenport, Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., will be in South Bend, Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C., will speak in Akron, and Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., will be in Rochester, N. Y. Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., will be the guest of the Detroit Club.
Frosh Drop Tradition; Slate Dance for May
Notre Dame’s energetic, progressive Freshman class threw tradition once and for all into the wastebasket this week with the announcement that the Frosh will positively hold their own dance this spring, for the first time in many a long year.
Class president Tom Carroll broke the news to 200 eager freshmen gathered in the Vetville rec hall last Sunday for a general class meeting. The dance, set for May 15, will be an informal affair in the Drill Hall. Plans are afoot to make it a successful prototype for Freshman dances in years to come.
Carroll set the keynote for the meeting with his declaration that the rejuvenation of the cobwebbed Notre Dame spirit was the guiding light behind the new freshman activities—activities designed to tighten the ranks of the class and instill some of the drive lost daring the war years. An example of Frosh aims, the spring dance is a direct break with old-line traditions and an attempt to put Freshman classes on a higher plane than those of the past.
Other business conducted at the meeting included the appointment of Ward McCabe to head all recreational functions of the class. McCabe has already started things rolling by setting up his committees and erecting the framework for future plans.
Installed as chairman of the religious committee was Gene Myler, who takes up the job of promoting religious exercises within the class and coordinating them with the University administration. Lou Reich, chairman of the scholastic committee, has assumed the duties of obtaining review and refresher courses at the end of the year for the men who desire them.
After President Carroll explained the proposed activities, Jim O’Donnell, representative of Freshman YCS, summarized that organization’s work throughout the year. Stressing the importance of student interest and cooperation with YCS, O’Donnell reminded the gathering that it was YCS which did what was accomplished for the freshmen until their class officers could take up the reins.
Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame Freshman unit of YCS, dwelt on the cohesion and cooperation needed for success in any undertaking, and the incentive and conviction necessary to start and successfully carry out ideals for the betterment of the class, Notre Dame, and the world.
—Al Laporte
17
NOTRE DNME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Auld Sod
In Flint, Michigan this week the Rev. FRANCIS P. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, delivered an address in the annua! observance of St. Patrick’s Day. In his speech before a gathering in St. Matthew’s Parish Hall Father Cavanaugh warned that the people of Irish descent in the United States arc becoming a “soft people in the land of plenty." In pointing out this danger he argued that the Irish “frequently fail to rear sumcient children to reproduce ourselves . . . The result is that in many places, notably New England, the Irish are being replaced just as they years ago replaced the Puritan as he, too, lost, his vigor.” . . .
The weekly meeting of the South Bend Rotary Club in the Oliver hotel last Wednesday featured a St. Patrick’s Day program. Rev. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., addressed the Rotarians on “St. Patrick and The Day,” and Rev. EUGENE BURKE, c.s.c., delivered his well-known rendition of “McNamara’s Band.” . . .
And in another celebration last week honoring the same saint’s feast day the Ancient Order of Hibernians held a dinner. Dr. CLARENCE E. MANION, dean of the Law School was the principal speaker, but other entertainment was
JOHN BRODERICK
For St. Pat's — an Irish lullaby
JESS HARPER AT ARMY RALLY For his protege — a new job
provided by baritone JOHN BRODERICK, who won the K of C Vodvil prize last semester; Rev. JOHN GALLAGHER, c.s.c., pianist; BROTHER JACOB, c.s.c., cellist; and members of the Notre Dame glee club. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, alumni secretary, handled the emcee chores. . . .
Old Campaigners
Back'on the campus last week for the preliminaries of the 1948 edition of the Bengal Bouts was PAUL PORTER, of Beaumont, Texas, himself a former Bengal champ. The hard-hitting right hander wasted few punches while capturing the 147-pound championship when he was at Notre Dame in 1946. An accomplished golfer, “Tex” has been employed as a pro at one of the courses near his home town. He is remembered here not for his abilities on the fairways nearly so much as for the lethal jolt he carried in his right hand. . . .
The singing prexy of the Chicago Club, jovial ED HOBAN, "was on the mike end of some fine warbling at the University of Wisconsin recently. Ed, who has also performed with Chuck Foster’s orchestra in South Bend, is thinking of accepting a position with Fred Waring when he graduates in June. He is a senior in the College of Commerce......
The rising wave of war splashed on the campus last week as JOHN M. McDONOUGH, of Chicago and Alumni
Hall, was informed by the War Department that he had been promoted from staff sergeant to technical sergeant in the Finance Department of the Enlisted Reserve Corps.
Named new coach of the Los Angeles Dons in the All-America grid conference is JIMMY PHELAN, head coach at St. Mary’s University, who played under Coach JESS HARPER at Notre Dame. ■
Notre Dame’s 1947 national champions are still receiving recognition from various All-America factions. Recently Rev. Kenneth G. Stack, editor of Exten-iovs magazine, a national Catholic publication, presented little gold footballs to JOHNNY LUJACK, BILL FISCHER, GEORGE CONNOR, and JIM MARTIN for having been named on the 1947 AllCatholic All-American team. . . .
.. .and Old Lace
Engaged to ANTHONY M. AANS-TOOS, engineering student from Colon, Panama: Miss Frances Jambrick, St. Mary’s grad from South Bend. The wedding will be held in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart church on June 12. . . .
Engaged to ROBERT OLIVIER, freshman law student from Cleveland, Ohio: Miss Helen MacDonald from Detroit, Michigan. No date has been set for the marriage. . . .
ED HOBAN
For dance bands — a new singer
18
SCHOLASTIC SLCRTJ
Martin Beats Fallon; Roemer KOzs Cotter
Brennan Surprises With Dickson Defeat
By ED SNYDER
They’re the toast of the campus. They’re the cream of Notre Dame boxing. They’re 1948 Bengal Champions— Jim Martin, Bill Roemer, Jim Brennan, Ned Dailey, Jim Klockenkemper, Mike Conley, Jack Griffin, and Jim Sullivan.
And none of them won it the easy way, as over 5000 fans, who jammed the fieldhouse to overflowing capacity Wednesday night, will testify.
Right to the head of the list goes Jungle Jim Martin, the ex-Marine from Cleveland, who blasted his way into the finals with a pair of TKO’s. His opponent: the two-time heavyweight king, Jack Fallon, a proponent of the flurry and clinch attack. But when Fallon made his first flurry and headed for a clinch, he stepped into a faceful of Martin leather' and from there on he knew he was in for a battle.
Both boxers worked cautiously with Fallon pushing the fight a little, but landing few solid punches. Martin, the cool, contemplating stalker, winged in a pair of rights to the head, but stayed away from clinches and the Fallon body attack. By the second round Fallon was beginning to tire rapidly and after being tagged with four rights on the side of the head, he began flailing wildly.
In the final stanza, the situation had changed and Fallon came out swinging wide and fast, sending Martin into the ropes, and scurrying for cover. By the closing bell both were weary, but Martin had gained an early edge and the split decision went to the Cleveland puncher.
Then Dick Cotter can’t be forgotten, for he almost reached the height of ring glory, only to be thoroughly grounded by a trio of thudding lefts from the explosive fist of Bill Roemer, South Bend’s lightheavyweight titlist. Foi* two rounds, the Austin, Minn, towhead played it smart, dodging wild lefts and countering with damaging right crosses. In the second round he staggered the champ with a vicious right, then caught him on the ropes with another onslaught. As the final round began, he was ahead on points, just seconds away from that title he was seeking for the second straight year.
THE RUNNERS-UP
From left to right, top: Fallon, Cotter. Dickson, and Engle. Middle: O'Brien and McCarthy. Bottom: Van Keuren and Satti.
But sooner or later, they say, that Roemer left will catch up with a fighter, and in 25 seconds it had finished Cotter. Roemer backed him into his own corner, took careful aim, fired once, twice, three times, and Dick crashed to the canvas. He struggled to get up and it seemed as if the referee pushed him back. When he finally did regain his feet, the timer signalled that he’d taken a count of ten. The crowd booed wildly, but it was Title No. 2 for the lethal-leathering South Bender, who rushed to Cotter’s corner to congratulate him for a great fight, probably one of Zip’s toughest.
If there was a golden boy in this year’s crop of punchers, it was Milwaukee’s Jim Brennan. Beaten by Paul
Boulous after a back-pedaling preliminary engagement, Brennan had a second chance when Boulous was eliminated on doctor’s orders. His first hurdle, Paul Cordasco, was TKO’d. That matched him with George Dickson, famed for his boxing skill, though lacking in punch.
Wednesday night, last year’s 155-pound champ proved once again that he was of championship calibre by snaring a split decision from the LaJolla, Calif, ringman. In the first round he tagged Dickson twice with solid thrusts, and though George opened a cut over his right eye, Jim kept moving and driving in with a body onslaught.
As the second round opened, he floored Dickson with a stinging right, then stood up under two rocking rights. Dickson threw his bobbing and weaving style to the winds and tried to match blows, but once again Brennan seemed to have the edge. By the third round, Dickson had recalled his ring skill and went to work on the tired Milwaukee youngster, rocking him with a pair of lefts and rights. Nevertheless, the early points were Brennan’s and he took the championship, which the fans greeted with another display of booing.
Ned Dailey proved to be too aggressive for Jim Engle and took a split decision in the 157-pound title tilt. Engle constantly stalked his red-haired, shorter foe, but waited until the final round to start throwing any leather. By then, Dailey had slipped in numerous forays of lefts and rights to the head and body, while avoiding Engle’s occasional wild thrusts.
Jim Klockenkemper, displaying a better-timed head and body attack, claimed a unanimous decision from John O’Brien, to keep the 147-pound crown firmly attached to his brow. He floored O’Brien (Continued on Page 22)	•>!
CRASH
and Jim Ferstel's camera catches Martin's right compressing Fallon's face
like an
accordion
STOP—Dickson wards off Brennan's left with a glove
LEFT—Sportsmanship Trophy presented to Russ Skall by Honorary Referee Frank Leahy
20
THUD and Dick Cotter crashes to the canvas after a trio of Roemer lefts. Note ghostly images of fighter and referee in background caused by double exposure. First picture lacked sufficient light.
TAKE THAT says blood-spattered Mike Conley as he clips Steve McCarthy with right hook.—N.D. Photo.
NEAR MISS as Russ Van Keuren's right whistles past Jim Griffin's head
21
Martin Beats
(Continued from Page 19) in tthe second round with a thumping right after rocking him with a pair of lightning lefts.
A pair of fast, solid sockers, Mike Conley and Steve McCarty, tangled for the 142-pound honors. McCarty, working from a crouch, carried the fight in the initial stanza, but elicited boos from the crowd with his hit-and-clinch tactics. Conley, slugging from an upright pose, hit more effectively. In the second stanza, Steve sent Mike rolling into the ropes with a well-timed right, only to absorb the same punch as he moved in. A wild clinch in the final heat, saw Conley rolling out of the ropes onto the edge of the ring. But he was pushed back in and survived to gain a split nod from the judges and also a split share of the cheering.
Jim Griffin and Russ Van Keuren opened their 137-pound tangle with a flurry, and by mid-round Griffin had bloodied Russ’ nose. A wild left dispatched Griffin canvasward in the second stanza, but he recovered and continued to press the punching. Save for one spurt of accurate rights by Van Keuren, Griffin kept his edge with an effective barrage of lefts in the finale. The split decision favored Griffin.
In a whirlwind opener, Jim Sullivan retained his 127-pound title, by gaining a split decision over Bob Satti. Sullivan, with a slightly longer reach, carried the fighting in the opening round and caught Satti with numerous sharp rights to the head. Then both fighters began locking arms and flailing at each other with their free hands. Satti opened the last round with a rush of well-delivered rights, but once again the flailing resumed, with Sullivan enjoying a slight advantage.
Battling Bush Wins ’Best Fighter’ Trophy
Battling Mike Bush from Davenport, Iowa and Alumni Hall, was the first winner of the Outstanding Fighter Tropy presented by the Central New York Club. The hard-pounding slugger won by a decisive majority over runner-ups Bill Roemer, Dick Cotter and Russ Skall.
The fight fans themselves picked the winner of this trophy by balloting conducted immediately after the final fight on March 17. The Central New York Club intends to make this award a regular part of future Bengal Bouts.
The dynamite right of Mike Bush put Joe Fallon on the canvas in one minute of the second round in their preliminary bout on March 12. Bush received the
22
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Golden Had Spirit of the "Green," Skall the Smile of True Sportsman
By Pete Brown
No one was more in the spirit of the “Green” at the finals of the Bengal Bouts on St. Patrick’s Day, than Mike Golden of Denver. Mike on the campus as a guest of John Lu jack for the opening of spring football practice was wearing Lu jack’s green varsity jersey while sitting at ringside with his dad and the “Luj.” Notre Dame was Mike’s first stop on his nation - wide tour in behalf of the Easter Seal campaign for the benefit of crippled children.
One other young on his face. That
was Russ Skall, who won the sportsmanship trophy for the 1948 Bengals. It was a doubly gratifying thing for Russ. First, the trophy itself was a great honor, but the second probably was more important to him. Head football Coach Frank Leahy presented the award to Russ, who is one of Leahy’s student quarterbacks. The trophy was awarded to Skall for proficiency in three phases of the Bengals: 1) outstanding boxing ability; 2) training preparation for bouts; and 3) ring sportsmanship. He really deserved it.
We would also like to add here a few pats on the backs of three other fighters —Tom King, Paul Boulous, and Joe Archibald. King fought his way into the semi-finals of the 147-pound class only to have head injuries force him out of action. Boulous had a similar mishap. He entered the ring and defeated Jim Brennan, the eventual 167-pound champ, with a pair of badly swollen eyes and a bad cold. Boulous was unable to continue
same treatment in his semi-final match with Roemer. After dishing out plenty of trouble for Zip in the opening rounds, he succumbed to three quick lefts in the third round and the referee halted the fight.
Presentation of the award will be made at the banquet which will be given later in the spring for all contenders.
in competition after the Brennan fight, so under intercollegiate rules Brennan took his place and went on to defeat George Dickson for the title. Archibald in his first fight accidentally butted Jim Sullivan. The referee did not notice the accident and told the fighters to continue. However, Archibald took one look at the pained condition of Sullivan and withdrew to the far corner. The referee gave Sullivan one minute to recoup himself, but Jim was unable to continue. Coach Dominic Napalitano rematched the fight for the following night. Sullivan won and went on to take the 127-pound title for the second consecutive year.
The sportsmanship throughout the bouts was superior and no one man can be pointed out as sole owner of that quality.
Bill Roemer* proved conclusively why he is champion. In both fights his opponents had him on the ropes figuratively and literally, but Bill unleashed his mighty left hand to finish the whole business. Dick Cotter, Roemer’s finalist opponent, made the best comeback of any man in the Bengals this year. Last year Cotter made the mistake of stepping into Roemer’s left in the second round, but this year, Dick showed all the skill that is his, and by it almost relieved Roemer of his title. However, a left from Roemer turned the tide.
The most colorful bout of the tournament was fought by Jim Klockenkemper and Tom Crowley in the 147-pound class last Thursday. The color was not in the boxing, but in the shorts that Crowley wore into the ring. They were a box-cut creation with monstrous red ants (the garden variety) crawling up and down.
Barnhorst, O'Shea Named All-Opponents by ND Foes
Late basketball notes . . . Leo Barnhorst and Kevin O’Shea are making quite a few all-opponent teams. Latest reports show that Barney topped balloting at Marquette where he was named on 13 or 14 first team selections. He and O’Shea also were selected on the teams picked by Northwestern and Kentucky. O’Shea was the only unanimous choice on the Southerners’ squad.
’First Game’ Worries Leahy; Injuries May Shelve Ace Backs
By HARRY MONAHAN
“Our whole season may depend on that first game . . .”
These words from the genial master of the Breen-Phillips Athletic Office should be enough to set Purdue enthusiasts scouring Lafayette for combustible material to celebrate the Boilermaker’s impending achievement of a feat that college elevens have been shooting at for the last couple of years —defeating Notre Dame.
Irish rooters will remember only too well the inhospitable afternoon last fall on which the Purdue eleven entertained the local boys. Coach Leahy is worried by reports that THAT Purdue squad was badly mauled weekly by the Boilermaker Frosh. With these capable freshmen moving up to the varsity, Purdue is tagged to be the power of the Big Nine next fall.
“You might say that Purdue will have a ‘representative’ team,” the Irish mentor added with a smile. We know what the last two Leahy appointed “representative” teams did!
But he thinks they are going to have to be very good to pull the trick. Admitting that the loss of Lujack, Connor, Czarobski and others will be keenly felt, Coach Leahy believes his 1948 edition will be able to turn in a creditable performance. In anticipation of a close season, a replacement for Fred Earley’s reliable toe for conversions occupies an important spot on this spring’s agenda. Steve Oracko, through his kick-off demonstration last season, looms as the most promising candidate.
“Some people are worried about the ability of Frank Tripucka to step into Lu jack’s shoes. I have every confidence that he will develop into a capable field general.”
Thus Coach Leahy expressed his optimistic feelings about the quarterback situation. The 1948 pigskin strategy will repeat the offensive-defensive quarterback plan of 1947, but just .who will take over the defensive assignment hasn’t been decided. Roger Brown, Gerry Begley and Bill Heywood will have to fight it out for the job.
. After- the Purdue worry, the question of legs raises a shaky shank—the legs of T. Brennan and E. Zalejski in particular. Terry will not participate in spring practice unless the doctors are certain that his knee has fully recovered.
“We certainly don’t want to risk Terry if his legs are not ready. Ernie is
LEAHY (RIGHT) AND FRIEND
Purdue looked 'representative'
able to run, but still feels a weakness in the bad knee. We’ll have to wait and see how he makes out in the opening drills before making any plans.”
Questioned about the apparent reluctance of some major teams to schedule the Irish grid machine, Coach Leahy reported quite a different attitude in the Lone Star State. To switch an old patriotic Rebel hymn, the eyes of Notre Dame are upon Texas. Southern Methodist, Texas, and Rice are all anxious to sign with the Irish on a home-and-home basis. It is also the Athletic Director’s personal opinion that, although no official action has been taken, the Army series will be resumed shortly, also on the home-and-home set-up.
“We would like very much to schedule Michigan,” Coach Leahy stated when questioned on the possibility of such a meeting. Which proves that the Rose Bowl debacle did not change the aggressive Irish mentoi-’s attitude towards the vaunted Wolverine attack. Leahy was enthusiastic about the two-team system which Michigan’s Coach Crisler uses, but does not see how men like Connor and Czarobski could be confined to just one type of attack. “It would be fine to have enough specialists to use such a system. A coach with that power wouldn’t have to worry about a thing.”
In closing the interview, Coach Leahy furnished1 material for sportswriters ru-mor stories for the next two months. The coach-signing story has been reversed. Now Frank Leahy is looking for a new coach. He needs a replacement for Moose Krause, newly appointed assistant director of athletics, who has been relieved of football duties. One of the present staff will move into the No. 2 slot, to bring the staff to full strength. But he has found it hard to pick a man.
“We would like to get a Notre Dame man, preferably one who played under me. But it is difficult to choose a man because so many of the capable men are now in professional ball.” With that, the writers can pick their own candidates, and Mr. Costin will handle all denials.
Captain Fischer Faces Psychological Set-Up In '48 Grid Campaign
By BOB LEANDER
At Kerrigan’s Kozy Korners the 17th of March signified St. Patrick’s Day and a visit from Ajax Cassidy. At Notre Dame the feast of St. Patrick brought forth bilious-looking ice cream and a surfeit of neckties ranging from chartreuse to pooltable green. On Cartier Field, the grass brown and shaggy, March 17 was heralded with battered green jerseys, red noses and blue hands. Led by Captain Bill Fischer, next fall’s Irish varsity took the field partially obscured among 150 candidates and occasional snowdrifts.
For two years lumbering Moose Fischer has been collecting All-American accolades. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he was selected by Paramount News for their nation-wide eleven. Last year his consistently spectacular play won recognition from Paramount, Associated Press, United Press, NE A, Football Writers’ Association, the New York Sun and Daily News and Chicago’s MBS affiliate, WGN.
Fresh from Lane Tech, which nestles close by the Chicago Bears’ Wrigley Field, Moose entered Notre Dame in 1945 and played tackle under Hughie Devore. The following spring Frank Leahy resumed command of the local football fortunes and promptly switched the 6' 2" Fischer frame to guard. The success with which Moose adapted himself goes without saying. However, it is worthy of mention that last spring he won the Hering Award as the ‘best blocking guard’ on the ’47 squad—and there’s at least one badly bent athlete who will concur.
Against Tulane last fall, Moose rolled off an opponent’s down-field block and presented his posterior to the ball carrier who slammed into him and therewith climaxed what might otherwise have been a highly successful run. Turning and viewing the remains, it was a toss-up as to who was the more startled combatant, the crestfallen visitor or the magnificent Moose.
Youngest of eight children (four boys and four girls), Bill can claim two other distinctions. He’s the largest member of the family and also the only one who was born in this country. Mr. and Mrs. Michael Fischer brought their family to Chicago from Bonn, Germany, in 1924.
If the coming season is as treacherous as Moose foresees, he’s afraid he may be (Continued on Page 34)
23
Seven TKO's Delight Frenzied Crowd at
Bengal Semi-Finals
By HARRY MONAHAN
Twelve title-eyed Bengal Bouters threw leather thick and fast and drew plenty of blood to the delight of a full house which witnessed the semi-final round of the annual tournament, Monday night.
Bob Satti found himself in trouble in the first round of the first bout with Dick Greenwell pounding lefts and rights into him against the ropes. But his recovery in the second round more than made up for the slow start. Greenwell could not move in to take the lead and Bob won a unanimous decision in the only 127 pound bout on the card.
Toe-to-toe slugging featured the two brief rounds that Russ VanKeuren and Fred Nisi were in the ring to earn a final spot in the 137-pound class. Both fighters hit the canvas in the first round, but it was Nisi who held the lead. VanKeuren opened the second round with a hard right to the head as Nisi moved in to touch gloves and launched an attack which floored Fred twice before the referee stepped in to stop the fight at 1:44.
The 142-pound Conley tornado didn’t wait long to explode against James
, BLOCKBUSTER DEFENSE TACTICS
Mike Bush throws up a shield of leather and arms as- Bill Roemer's explosive left comes winging his way. Roemer won by TKO.
- PORTRAIT OF A STRAIGHT RIGHT
George Dickson lands one on the grimacing jaw of Pete Varda, in their semi-final clash which Dickson won by decision
Smith. In the first round Smith was in trouble against the ropes and didn’t seem able to ward off the body and head blows which Mike pounded home. Smith made an unexpected comeback in the second round and both fighters drew blood in a fast exchange of blows. Conley continued his pressing game in the third round to batter dotvn the Smith defense and the bout was stopped after
one minute and four seconds had elapsed.
Jack Leahy was unable to use his height advantage to subdue the agile Jim Klockenkemper. Jim moved fast, in and out, working on Leahy’s midsection to good advantage. Leahy \vas able to hold Jim off during the second round and pressed him for the lead, but in the final stanza Jim worked under Jack’s defense and held the advantage all the way. Klockenkemper’s tactics kept him out of the range of Leahy’s swings, but garnered the points and the decision in the 147-pound class.
Tom Kenney suffered a broken nose in the first round of his 157-pound class bout with Jim Engle. The lanky towhead, Engle, pumped solid rights to Kenney’s face to put Tom in trouble in the first few seconds. The Florida boy tried to reach Engle with flailing lefts, but only left himself wide open for more blows in the face. Kenney was unable to answer the bell for the second round on orders of the tournament doctor.
Displaying the fury that his fiery thatch did little to conceal, Ned Dailey battered and mauled Bernie Boute until :55 of the second round of their 157-pound contest. Boute’s slow, deliberate tactics could not cope with the lightning attack that Dailey threw at him. The redhead didn’t give him a chance to get set to land a telling blow. Boute was groggy at the end of the first round, but answered the second bell to try once more to stop the Dailey power, but went down before the whirlwind.
George Dickson, 1946 light-heavy-(Continued on Page 33)
24
BENGAL BOUT GYMNASTICS
Dick Cordasco looks like he's doing a fancy push-up as he hits the
canvas after absorbing Jim Brennan's left.
- - Brennan, who won on a TKO, stands over his falling foe.
RETREAT IN THE NICK OF TIME	MAYHEM ON THE ROPES
Russ Skall steps back in time to avoid an overhand right	Mike Conley pins wildly-flaying Rm Smith to the ropes with a
from Jim Martin, who was victorious on a TKO	left prior to scoring a TKO in their semi-final match
25
Irish Fire Played Like Robin Hoods
By DAVE WARNER
Concerned only in an abstract way. for the moment, with the oft deceiving mechanics of statistics the 1947-48 basketball season wasn’t anywhere near being a great season for Notre Dame. The 17 and 7 record would assure any coach of his job next season, but the record is not too impressive for a club which before the season began was rated as high as fourth in the country. Sometimes, however, figures are foolers.
This year’s basketball squad, for the most part, played like a swashbuckling band of Robin Hoods, taking games from the high and haughty and handing them out to the less fortunate. There were times when this kind of unorthodox charity sent students reeling around the campus chanting like monks. The boys who played the game had their own system; at least it worked out that way. They won the ones they wanted to win, the tough ones. In a way that’s having a successful season — defying the odds and coming out ahead. But lo! consider the lot of the feverish rating experts who tried to keep pace with Notre Dame’s zany ways on a basketball court.
Before the season began everyone had
speculated the loss of Franny Curran. They just about forgot Curran when assistant coach Tommy Brennan directed the team to a 66-49 victory over a better than average Indiana State team. “We’re in this season,”- yammered a bespectacled student through a mouthful of peanuts after the game was over. But by the time Coach Krause’s group had reached its seventh game it had already lost three games. The third defeat was one of those embarrassing hang-your-head kind to Indiana, 72-46. Looking back now, it is difficult to decide which game was the worst played —, the Indiana game or the second Michigan State game. The concensus gives the call to Michigan State because Indiana led all the way whereas the Michigan State game was an outright gift.
The Irish reached perfection in whipping Kentucky, the nation’s best at the time. It could be argued, but some say the Kentucky victory was the greatest exhibition of basketball by Notre Dame on its home court. The Kentuckians were smart, sure, fast and experienced, but Notre Dame just did everything better that night. They wanted that one
KEVIN PREPARES TO RUIN THE ACT
O Shea clamors over NYU's sprawling Foreman to halt his ball-juggling act
badly, and they got it. O’Shea, Barnhorst, and Foley, particularly, were the boys who had Adolph Bupp ready to tear his famous brown suit into shreds.
Just when everyone had agreed that Notre Dame would certainly retain most of the perfection it had achieved in snagging Kentucky, the polish began to wear. In one-two order St. Louis and DePaul ruined a good chance for the Irish to get back in with the fast crowd. The Billi-kens, billed as the classiest crew to appear in New York this year, ended the home victory march at 38 games. Ed Hickey’s boys made Notre Dame look like so many stationary props at a coaching clinic. When the whirlwind of faking, cutting, and marksmanship subsided the board read 68-51 for St. Louis.
And so it went — in streaks. Win three, lose one; win one, lose three became the pattern.
Yet, the basketeers kept digging. Convinced that they could do better, they eyed the eastern tour as a last chance to get back into the good graces of everyone. As security John Brennan was taken out of plaster and taken along on the trip. Brennan had hardly touched a basketball since his injury in the Denver game two months back. The squad tuned up at Buffalo and after a slow start beat Canisius 64-53. Then two nights later in a game which has been described as having been won on guts alone, Notre Dame halted the NYU victory parade at nineteen games. The East thought it was a wild, exciting and inciting affair. Wonder what it would think of one of the choicer Notre Dame-DePaul skirmishes? After quelling and outlasting a close call by the University of Pennsylvania in Philly’s Palestra, Notre Dame returned to a jubilant South Bend.
OH HE FLIES THROUGH THE AIR . . .
Kaufmann tries to ground Marquette's sharp-shooting, high-jumping Berce
THE NOSE' OUTSMARTS FOLET
Kentucky's Groza eludes an outstretched arm to open fire
TOO MUCH JUMP FOR DEPAUL Gordon grabs rebound away from DePaul's Coorlas
27
All considered, it was a season of team playing. It worked both ways. When it rose, it rose as one. When it flopped, it flopped miserably. Of course there were those games when one or two players looked better than their mates: Foley stepping into the Kansas game, replacing Brennan, and scoring 18 points; Mo-Mo O’Halloran’s great performance in the Georgetown, Purdue and first Northwestern game; Buster Hiller’s clutch shooting in the NYU game; Johnny Goonen’s snap shot in the Purdue game; Paul Gordon’s showing in the Michigan State home game, NYU, Penn,
KRAUSE AND FRIEND The charity was unorthodox
and the second Marquette game; Dick Kluck bagging five fast field goals in the first Marquette game; Brennan offering his services down in the dressing room just before the Marquette game and
1947-48 RECORD: Won 17; Lost 7
Dec. 6—Notre Dame 66; Indiana State 49
Dec. 8—Illinois 40; Notre Dame 38
Dec. 13—Notre Dame 61; Northwestern 55
Dec. 20—Denver 61; Notre Dame 60
Dec. 23—Notre Dame 51; Kansas 49
Jan. 1—Indiana 72: Notre Dame 46
Jan. 2—Notre Dame 42; Purdue 40
Jan. 5—Notre Dame 77; Georgetown 69
Jan. 7—Notre Dame 71: Butler 47
Jan. 10—Notre Dame 52: DePaul 46
Jan. 17—St. Louis 42: Notre Dame 40 ..........
Jan. 24—Notre Dame 59; Northwestern 48(overtime)
Feb. 2—Notre Dame 64; Kentucky 55
Feb. -1—None Dame 53; Detroit 52
Feb. 5—Noire Dame 55; Detroit 30
Feb. 9—St. Louis 68: Notre Dame 51
Feb. 14—DePaul 50; Notre Dame 46
Feb. 17—Notre Dame 51; Mich. State 44
Feb. 21—Mich. State 54: Notre Dame 50
Feb. 25—Notre Dame 72: Marquette 55
Feb. 28—Notre Dame 64; Canisius 53
Mar. 1—Notre Dame 64: New York U. 59
Mar. 3—Notre Dame 60; Pennsylvania 56
Mar. 6—Notre Dame 76; Marquette 62
then going on to become one good reason the team did so well in its last four games; Kev O’Shea, one of the few players who somehow managed to look average even when he is having a bad night; Leo Barnhorst, the best rebound recovery artist in basketball and a team player whom many should imitate.
You can doff that chapeau to the shock troops — those guys who keep coming out to shape up the varsity even when a monogram is as far out of sight as the first football Gipp kicked. They
were: Wayne Curran, Jim Fritsch, Don Gatens, John Holloway, Ralph Hinger, Tom Johnson, Frank Kaufmann, John Loftus, Dick Niemer, Jim Reis, the Sobek brothers, Chuck Sposato, Jim Stevenson and Red Foley’s entire, well-drilled freshman squad.
TOP SCORER BARNHORST In 24 games— 290 points
Underrated Barnhorst Tops Scoring Roster
HEY. QUIT GANGING UP. YOU GUYS!
Foley and O'Shea put a twin hex on Butler's Shepherd to steed the ball
Conceded to be the most underrated man on the 1947-48 Notre Dame basketball quintet, Leo Barnhorst left no doubts in the statistical department concerning his ability by taking high scoring honors with a seasonal 290 total. He was 25 points ahead of runner-up Kevin O’Shea when the final whistle of the season sounded at the Marquette game.
The six-foot, two-inch forward from Indianapolis proved by his consistent floor play that he was entitled to more than the honorable mention and also-ran positions on the various press association All-American fives. His aggressive tactics under the basket kept opposition scoring down. For rebound recovery ability the Notre Dame fieldhouse did not present anyone on the 1948 home schedule to match leaping Leo.
Barnhorst was the workhorse of the starting five. While O’Shea, Paul Gordon and John Brennan were benched at ■ one time or another for injuries, the ir-represible Leo was still' carrying the Irish team. When Buster Hiller and John Foley began to run hot and cold, Barney was still clocking the playing time. Shifted to center during the mid-Febru-
28
Left to right: Front row: Johnson, Gordon, Goonen. Capt. Hiller, O'Shea, Loftus and Curran. Second row: Publicitor Donovan, Assistant Coach Brennan, Kaufmann, Bamhorst, Foley, Brennan, Fritsch, Student Manager Jacobs, and Freshman Coach Foley. Bear row: O'Halloran, Sposato, Gatens, Niemer, Stevenson, Kluck and Hinger.
ary slump which found Coach Krause trying every possible combination to bolster the faltering Irish, Leo was the shot of life needed in defensive work under the basket.
When two such cage stars as O’Shea and Barnhorst are teamed together, the intersectional politics, which govern press association awards, unfortunately often fail to give credit where credit is due. But Barney gave them all food for thought with his performance this year.
—Harry Monahan
NOTRE DAME 1947-48 BASKETBALL STATISTICS
ALL-AMERICANS
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Forwards—Murray Wier, Iowa, and Jim McIntyre, Minnesota.
Center—Ed Macauley, St. Louis.
Guards—KEVIN O'SHEA, NOTRE DAME, and Ralph Beard, Kentucky.
Honorable mention — LEO BARNHORST, NOTRE DAME.
Players	Pos.	G	FG	FGA	FT	FTA	PF	TP
Leo Barnhorst 			... F	24	116	290	58	88	77	290
Kevin O’Shea 		... G	23	100	316	65	106	47	265
John Foley 		.. C	24	81	236	46	80	70	208
Paul Gordon		... G	23	64	212	32	48	65	160
Jim O’Halloran				.. F	24	56	186	38	68	62	150
John Brennan 		... C	9	46	121	24	39	31	116
John Hiller 				.. F-G	23	41	145	9	24	53	91
John Goonen		.. G	23	13	44	13	21	37	39
Dick Kluck 		.. F	14	12	30	3	8	14	27
Jim Stevenson		.. G	10	5	15	1	4	7	11
Tom Johnson 		.. F	6	2	4	1	2	1	5
Frank Kaufmann		.. G-C	15	3	10	1	2	15	7
Jim Fritsch				.. F	3	0	2	0	0	1	0
John Loftus		.. G	5	0	2	0	0	1	0
Andy Sobek 		.. F	1	0	1	0	0	1	0
Notre Dame Totals:		24	539	1614	291	490	482	1369
Opponents Totals: .		-	24	476	1717	304	532	431	1256
ALL-OPPONENT TEAMS
TRUE Magazine and SPORTS-WEEK selected the same first teams: Forwards—Arnold Ferrin, Utah, and Tony Lavelli, Yale.
Center—Ed Macauley, St. Louis.
Guards—KEVIN O'SHEA, NOTRE DAME, and Ralph Beard, Kentucky.
Notre Dame's All-Opponent Team
F Gene Berce, Marquette
F Kenneth Rollins, Marquette
C Ed Macauley, St. Louis
G Ralph Beard, Kentucky
G Jim Doyle, Butler
Marquette's All-Opponent Team
F LEO BARNHORST, Notre Dame F Bill Sticklen, Northwestern C Walter Osterkorn, Illinois.
G Bob Harrison, Michigan G Leo Kubiak, Bowling Green
29
Jennewein Topples Pins to Tune of 255, Leads St. Louis to Twin Victory over Rochester
By BOB CASURELLA
Jim Jennewein of the St. Louis bowling team cracked the maples for a terrific 255 single game to take undisputed lead of the high individual single game division last week at the Bowl-Mor alleys. Jim’s sizzling pace enabled the Missouri boys to take two games from the then second-place Rochester team.
In other Gold League games John O’Brien led his Jet Propellers to three wins over Youngstown and thus moved a full four games out of the cellar. The Inter-American Affairs Club took three games from ASME to move into a second-place tie with the Villagers. The Italian Club remained on top by taking two games from Rockford.
In the Blue League Chuck Perrin’s Vetville squad is still dominating the play. They took two games from second-place Toledo in a crucial match that could have seen either team come out on top. Vetville showed champion form by moving a full four games out in front to eliminate the Toledo threat. Vic Gulyassy was the big gun for the Vets.
Dominic Lopano led the Met Club to three wins over the Syrian-Lebanese
Lyons, Walsh, Badin Knot Western Division Cage Lead
Notre Dame’s own version of “Hoosier Hysteria” broke loose this week as the student basketball leagues rolled to a smashing climax. The top-notch teams of all the leagues are battling for the school championship, with the final games to be decided on the Feldhouse court next week.
The outbreak of hostilities found the western division winner still shrouded in mystery. Lyons rebounded from its 35-29 loss to Walsh by edging out Badin, 27-25. Badin returned three hours later to upset heavily-favored Walsh 46-32, throwing the race into a three-way tie.
Lyons	B	F	p	Badin	B	F	p
Fahey-	1	4	3	Michaels	2	1	4
Loos	0	1	3	Kiernan	1	1	2
Samario	0	4	2	Sinkewich	1	0	6
Fitzgerald	1	2	1	Martin	2	0	5
Spangle	0	1	1	Tambouris	2	2	2
Hanifin	0	0	1	Cullinan	1	0	1
Weber	1	1	2	Zupanzic	0	1	3
Lane	4	0	3	McLafferty	1	0	3
In other contests Cavanaugh levelled Zahm 34-20 and Farley Defeated Sorin 31-26. Other scores: Morrissey Gold 36, Lyons Gold 32; Morrissey Blue 42, Dillon Blue 38; Dillon Orange 24, Morrissey Orange 21; Physics 16, Chemistry 13.—Tom McNally
camel riders with a 225 single game.
Other Blue League games saw Texas rake the Chemists for three games—the Monogram Club took two from Pittsburgh—and the Aeros took two games from Columbus.
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts.
Vetville .............. 26	7	35
Toledo ................ 22	11	30
Pittsburgh ............ 18	15	23
Red River Valley ...... 17	16	23
Met Club ............   17	16	22
Monogram Club........... 16	17	21
Texas ................. 15	18	20
Chemists .............. 15	18	20
Aero .................. 15	18	19
Syrian-Lebanese ....... 14	19	18
Milwaukee.............. 12	21	18
Columbus .............. 11	22	15
Schedule for March 21
Met Club vs. Monogram Club Aeros vs. Texas
Vetville vs. Fox River Valley
Pittsburgh vs. Chemists
Toledo vs. Syrian-Ixsbanese
Columbus vs. Milwaukee
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts.
Italian Club ............ 24	9	34
Inter-American Affairs —. 21	12	28
Villagers ............... 21	12	28
Rochester ............... 19	14	26
Detroit ................. 18	15	25
Boston .................. 17	16	23
Buffalo ................. 17	16	22
Rockford ................ 15	18	19
Jet Propulsion .......... 13	20	16
St. Louis ............... 12	21	16
ASME ...................L	12	21	15
Youngstown ............... 9	24	12
Schedule for March 21
Inter-American Affairs vs. St. Louis
Rockford vs. Detroit
Youngstown vs. Buffalo
ASME vs. Boston
Jet Propulsion vs. Rochester
Italian Club vs. Villagers
High Individual Single Game
Jim Jennewein, St. Louis, 255
Art Arquilla, Italian Club, 254
Paul Pukish, Rochester, 242
TRAPPIST RETREAT
All those interested in a Holy Week retreat to be held at Our Lady of Gethsemani, Trappist Ky., should contact either Tom Kenny, 389 Dillon, or Don Eeoghan, 347 Dillon.
Coach Kline Seeks Slugging Gardener and Mild Weather
Coach Jake Kline is mad at the weatherman. For the last few weeks he has had his baseball-throwing charges in the Fieldhouse competing with football players and track men. Now is the time to go outdoors, thinks Jake, but the Indiana cold just won’t leave him have his way.
So far, about all the team has been able to do is have infield practice and warm up the pitchers’ arms. Above the general hub-bub of ball smacking glove, Jake’s voice can be heard giving instructions and advice.
However, he admits he can’t do a thing until the temperature goes up. He doesn’t know if he has any budding hitters in the camp because the only one who has had a bat in his hands is Jake himself and that was during infield practice. Next to a .350 hitter playing left field, his only wish is that the birds coming back from the south bring some of that delectable warm weather with them.
Interhall Swim Meet Summary
Below are the summaries of last week’s swim meet held ip the Rockne Memorial Pool, which was won by Morrissey Hall, with Off-Campus placing second:
150-yard medley: Morrissey (J. McCarthy, R. Monaco, A. Ifflander), first; Howard, second; Off-Campus, third. Time—1:32.6.
200-yard free style: F. Harrison (Howard), first; T. Grote (Zahm), second; J. Miller (Off-Campus), third. Time—2:32.6.
50-yard free style: L. Zuckowsky (Off-Campus), first; T. Claydon (Morrissey), second; J. Winn (Dillon), third. Time— :24.6.
50-yard breast stroke: R. Monaco (Morrissey), first; E. Caparo (Off-Campus), second; W. Ward (Morrissey), third. Time—:32.6.
Lowboard diving: J. Winn (Dillon), first; S. Heekin (Zahm), second; R. Es-penan (Alumni), third.
50-yard back stroke: J. McCarthy (Morrissey), first; P. Brown (Howard), second; T. Grote (Zahm), third. Time —:32.
100-yard free style: L. Zuckowsky (Off-Campus), first; A. Wallack (Walsh), second; A. Ifflandei* (Morrissey), third. Time—1:00.6.
200-yard relay: Off-Campus (W. Sheehan, B. Barrett, E. Caparo, L. Zuckowsky), first; Morrissey, second; Alumni, third. Time—1:52.
The meet was under the supervision of Mr. John Scannell, Head of the Department of Physical Education, and Mr. Gil Burdick. '
30
Swordsmen Foiled All But Chicago U.

In Notre Dame’s football-featured sports picture, fencing has long been relegated to the background. To pigskin-pandered students, it was something from the Middle Ages or a million dollar Hollywood extravaganza. Only twice (in 1935-36) did the touche tribe make a bid for entrance into the Irish athletic Valhalla and then by virtue of unbeaten seasons.
This year was a different story. The reasons: N.D. fencers won nine of their 10 meets (their only loss, to Chicago, perennial flower of midwest fencing); the foil team went through the campaign unscathed; Mike DiCicco, diminutive, dark-eyed Newark junior, survived 30 bouts with 29 victories and a new individual record.
To drawling, law-bound Coach Herb Melton, himself a three-time monogram winner in fencing (1941-42-43) the season record had added significance. It gave Notre Dame claim to the unofficial midwestem title and overshadowed the 7-0 season enjoyed by the unbeaten 1935 foil team.
And it was the foil team that formed the backbone of this year’s fencing successes. Composed of Capt. Lou Burns, Washington, D. C. senior, Jerry Lubin, El Paso junior, Colin MacDonald, Providence sophomore, and DiCicco, it won 63 of its 90 bouts to set a new record. Bums and DiCicco established another new mark by capturing 52 of 60 bouts, bettering the 1941 showing of Jack Gaither and Kuss Harris, who came through in 44 out of 54 bouts.
The sabre team, with a deceiving 6-4 record, nevertheless will go down on the books as one of the University’s most dependable, according to Melton. Made up of Bob Schlosser, Springfield, Ill., sophomore, Ralph Witucki, of South Bend, and Bob Bosler, Louisville sophomore, it delivered three crucial decisions in the Michigan State, Northwestern, and Illinois matches. Schlosser and Witucki wound up with 19-9 and 19-8 report cards, a shade behind the honor students in this department—John Gav- ' an and Joe Smalley of the *40 squad. One sabre man, Detroit’s Tom Roney, wound
UNBEATEN FOIL TEAM: BURNS. LUBIN, MacDONALD AND DICICCO • hi 90 bouts, 63 victories	'
31
Left to right—kneeling: Gross, Witucki, Schlosser, Bosler, Lubin, Weir, and Capt. Bums; standing: DiCicco, Roney, Jansen, Dixon, Coach Melton, Faculty Adviser Langford, Assistant Coach Peck, MacDonald, Marshall, Martin, and Vincent.
up with a 1.000 average by virtue of five wins and no losses.
The pre-season question mark was the epee team. It was solved by Ralph Dixon, Long Beach, Calif., sophomore, who rose up and produced 21% wins in 30 bouts. When lettermen Pete Gross, Brooklyn junior, and Jim Jansen, Altoona sophomore, retired from the squad, a pair of sophomores from Aramillo, and Jacksonville respectively John Vincent and Jerry Dobyns, filled in the gap. With week-to-week improvement, the epee division hit its stride with a victory over highly-touted Wisconsin and a shutout of Illinois Tech. The season record: five wins, four losses and a tie.
Feb. 2 marked the start of the season and Ohio State bowed 15% to 11%, as Schlosser took the deciding point in the 26th bout of the afternoon. Case was next, and four days later it fell, 18% to 8% with Schlosser again garnering the decisive point.
Michigan State did a fadeout for Schlosser in the the 26th bout, loisng 15 to 12, after it had led 11 to 7 at the end of epee and foil flourishing. Northwestern’s stubborn Wildcats held on until the last match which Bosler came from behind to win and give Notre Dame
a 14-13 decision. The match provided DiCicco’s sole defeat of the campaign at the hands of Humphrey Sullivan, Big Nine foils champion.
Next day Chicago put the damper on a perfect season with a 15-12 setback. After that Illinois fell into line 17-10, with Schlosser again taking the deciding point. Detroit was next, 17% to 9%, as Bosler returned to the decisive-point spotlight.
The largest crowd of the year (500) watched Wisconsin swamped 20% to 6%, avenging a 1943 defeat, worst ever suffered by Irish swordsmen.
The season was capped last Saturday as Illinois Tech surrendered to the N.D. swordsmen, 26 to 1. Notre Dame made a clean sweep of the epee and sabre events, losing its lone point in the foil bouts.
In general the team had an average of .629 with 170 bout victories against 100 losses in its ten matches, which is second only to the ’35 squad’s .643. The team’s nine victories ties the 1936 outfit’s unbeaten record of nine victories, and the season record as a whole brings the standing of Notre Dame fencing to . 72 wins, 29 losses and two ties in 12 years of existence.
April 3, the NCAA will hold its annual tournament at Annapolis and DiCicco, Dixon and Schlosser will be on guard for Notre Dame.
Next season’s outlook? Only Burns graduates, and a pack of promising freshmen are rumored to be on the way up.
The past season’s team began practice Oct. 15, and kept at it six days a week until last Saturday’s finale. Melton, Assistant Coaches Lou Peck and Jack Marshall, along with Burns, say that hard work and team spirit were the key to success. A look at the record only bears this out. A team membei’ best expressed it when he said, “It was worth every minute of it.”
The All-Opponent team picked by the Notre Dame fencers is as follows:
Foil:	Lacey—Michigan State
Sullivan—Northwestern Bell—Ohio State
Epee:	Thompson—Chicago
Washburn—Michigan State Gifford—N orthwestern
Sabre: Cohen—Chicago
Saye—Ohio State
Bruce, G.—Detroit
32
MARCH 11 127-Pound Class Richard Greenwell defeated Bob Pas-quarella
Bob Satti defeated Don Ewing
James Sullivan vs. Joe Archibald (postponed due to accidental injury to Sullivan)
137-Pound Class
Jack Griffin defeated Jim King
Russ VanKeuren TKO’d Jack Young
Fred Nisi defeated Bob Weber
147-Pound Class
Jack Leahy defeated Frank Fahey
Jim Klockenkemper defeated Tom Crowley
John O’Brien defeated Norm LaLone
142-Pound Class
Mike Conley TKO’d Jack Sanford James Smith defeated Howie Chittenden
MARCH 12 127-Pound Class Jim Sullivan defeated Joe Archibald (rematch)
142-Pound Class
Steve McCarthy TKO’d Jim Farrell
157-Pound Class
Bernie Boute defeated Jim Driscoll James Engle TKO’d Dan Finn Ned Dailey defeated Walt Evans
167-Pound Class
Paul Boulous defeated Jim Brennan
Light-Heavyweight Class
Paul Schafly defeated Bernie Lavine Mike Bush TKO’d Joe Fallon
Dick Cotter TKO’d Tony DeBaggis
Heavyweight Class
Russ Skall TKO’d Jim Leary Jim Martin TKO’d Ray Doherty
Seven TKO's Delight
(Continued from Page 24) weight champion, fighting in the 167-pound class this year, was hard pressed to take a split decision from an aggressive Peter Varda. Varda crowded Dickson from the opening frame and shattered the poise of the former champion. Dickson reversed the situation in the second round and began to tag Pete with hard lefts to the head. Dickson worked a body jabbing right to good advantage on the in-fighting and was able to ward off the majority of Varda’s blows on his arms and elbows. George was stepping in and out to harass Varda through the last two rounds to take the decision.
In what was by far the slowest fight of the tourney to that point Dick Cotter took a unanimous light-heavyweight decision over Paul Schafly. Cotter tried to mix it up, but Schafly was reluctant to move in and tangle with the 1947 finalist. The first two rounds featured Schafly’s back-pedaling and Cotter’s trailing. The third round opened with a
WHO SAID THIS WAS FUN?
Bernie Boute and Bob Wagner wear similar grimaces after landing simultaneous punches
short flurry and the fight showed some signs of getting active, but the exchange didn’t last long. Cotter’s aggressiveness definitely earned him the points and the decision.
Battling Paul Boulous was forced to drop out of competition on doctor’s orders and Jimmy Brennan replaced him in the semi-final bout with Dick Cor-dasco for a shot at the 167-pound crown. And Jimmy ably represented the ailing Boulous. Cordasco made it a fast fight, constantly circling the Milwaukee boy, trying to find a hole in the Brennan defense. Jimmy fought a different type of fight against Cordasco than he had the previous Friday in losing to Boulous. He followed fast and moved in, tying Dick up against the ropes at one time and pouring it in. Toe-to-toe was the order for the second round and Cordasco paid for it by hitting the canvas three times. Jimmy finished it up in 33 seconds of the final stanza with a quick left that sent Cordasco sprawling once again.
In what proved to be the outstanding contest of the evening, Zip Roemer, the defending light-heavyweight champ with the sleep-producing left, met Mike Bush, who turned up with a swift, thumping right. After a short period of sparring, Bush unleashed his power, driving Roemer into the ropes, but Zip sprung back and sent Bush sailing to the canvas with an exploding left. Bush, however, recovered and returned to his onslaught of the titlist, keeping Roemer on the defensive in the second round. After a
toe-to-toe engagement in the opening seconds of the third stanza, Roemer found his range, and blasted Bush with three sharp lefts, at which point the referee stepped in and called a halt after one minute and 23 seconds had elapsed.
Russ Skall furnished the surprise of the evening by standing up to the heavyweight favorite Jim Martin and mauling him groggy in the second round with only the bell saving the big ex-marine. Skall took a bad beating in the opening frame. Jim closed one eye of the scrappy challenger and drew blood. But the blood was on Martin in the second round, with Skall slashing in to pound hard lefts to Martin’s head. Martin was holding on as the bell sounded. Jungle Jim caught his breath between rounds and came out with two hard rights that sent Russ all the way across the ring. Martin was a very lucky winner when the referee stopped the fight at 1:30 of the third.
The other heavyweight favorite was rocked back on his feet by the first four blows landed by Gus Cifelli. Gus had all 227 pounds behind those four punches and Fallon was dazed by the onslaught. It was a slugfest from the opening bell, with both fighters giving and taking a flurry of stiff punches. Fallon recovered from his first round difficulty to outpoint his opponent, but he landed very few hard blows as Big Gus tied him up and didn’t waver under a single punch. Gus went in for a quick kill and almost got it, but Fallon outboxed him for the decision.
33
Captain Fischer Faces
(Continued from Page 23) asked to seek out an equally distant and dismal refuge. For, as the Hulk sees it, the entire approach to next year’s schedule will have to differ from last season. Whereas the ’47 opener was with a weak and thinly spread Pittsburgh outfit, this year a promising Boilermaker squad rings up the curtain. It will be very nearly the same Holcomb team which last October gave the Irish their stiffest competition of the season before bowing 22-7. Added experience will make them even tougher and Notre Dame will have to be “up” for the game.
CAPTAIN FISCHER The puzzle was ambitious
The shrewdly mapped ’47 slate enabled Coach Leahy to ‘bring his lads along,’ the games generally becoming more difficult as the season progressed. Not so next fall, says the Moose. The quality of the opposition will be up and down, and adjusting to that is a difficult psychological problem. It takes deft handling to keep a team “up” when the competition is known to be second-rate.
However, after expressing all these apprehensions, Moose didn’t appear discouraged. He was concerned with several newcomers and a multitude of seasoned subs who roamed the Cartier gridiron. Moose himself may be caught in another Leahy “shift” and move to tackle; to those who would deplore the tackle situation he offers names like Fallon, McGehee, Cifelli, Dick Kuh, Deane Thomas, and the voluble Bull Budynkie-wicz. Bob Lally and Johnny Frampton are back at guard to understudy Moose and Marty Wendell. In addition there’s sophomore Bill Higgins who was AllState in Illinois with Fischer in ’45.
34
These he mentions as examples of lads Coach Leahy may select to complete the jig-saw which is the 1948 season. It’s an ambitious puzzle, the solution to which would give Notre Dame its third consecutive national championship. The way has been made more difficult with the return to a ten-game schedule, but Moose is quietly confident—and not without cause.
FROSH ENGLISH EXAM.
The third "Essentials" examination in Freshman English will be given on the second and the third floors of the Main Building on Monday, March 22, from 7 to 9 p.m. Freshman English instructors will assign rooms.
COPP MUSIC SHOP
NOW AVAILABLE
10 Albums of the complete Ordinary of the Mass containing the 18 complete Gregorian Masses; 6 Gregorian Credos; ad libitum chants; complete Requiem Mass.
CONTENTS OF INDIVIDUAL ALBUMS
Album 1. Asperges; Vidi aquam; Mass I (Lux et Origo); Mass II (Kyrie fons bonitatis).
ST. BERNARD’S SEMINARY CHOIR. ROCHESTER. N. Y. ’	.
REV. BENEDICT EHMANN, DIRECTOR.	$7.88 including tax
Album 2. Mass III (Kyrie Deus sempiterne); Mass IV (Cunctipotens); Mass V (Kyrie maguac Deus potentiae).	'
NOTRE DAME SEMINARY CHOIR. NEW ORLEANS. LA.	A	...
REV. ROBERT STAHL, S. M., DIRECTOR.	$6.30 including tax
Album 3. Mass VI (Kyrie Rex Genitor); Mass VII (Kyrie Rex splendens): Mass VIII (De Angelis).	'
ST. MEINRAD ABBEY CHOIR. ST. MEINRAD, IND.
DOM RUDOLPH SIEDLING, O.S.B., DIRECTOR.	$7.88 including tax
Album 4. Mass IX (Cum jubilo); Mass X (Aime Pater); Mass XI (Orbis factor).
ST. MARY’S SEMINARY CHOIR. BALTIMORE, MD.	.
REV. JOHN SELNER, S.S., DIRECTOR.	$6.30 including tax
Album 5. Mass XII (Pater cuncta); Mass XIII (Stelliferi Conditor orbis); Mass XIV (Jesu Redemptor).
SULPICIAN SEMINARY OF PHILOSOPHY CHOIR. MONTREAL. QUE.
REV. ETHELBERT THIBAULT, P.S.S., DIRECTOR.	$6.30 including tax
Album 6. Mass XV (Dominator Deus); Mass XVI (Ferial); Mass XVII (Sundays in Advent and Lent); Mass XVIII (Ferias of Advent and Lent).
ST. AUGUSTINE SEMINARY CHOIR, TORONTO, ONT.
REV. JOHN E. RONAN, M.C.G., DIRECTOR.	$6.30 including tax
Album 7. Credos I, II, III, IV, V, VI.
ST. JOHN SEMINARY CHOIR, LOS ANGELES, CALIF.
REV. ROBERT BRENNAN, MUS. D., DIRECTOR. .	$7.88 including tax
Album 8. Ad libitum Kyries, I to XI.
ST. JOHN SEMINARY CHOIR, COLLEGEVILLE, MINN.
DOM DOMINIC KELLER, O.S.B., DIRECTOR.	$7.88 including tax
Album 9. Ad libitum Glorias, I, II, III; Sanctus I, II, III; Agnus Dei I, II; Ambrosian Gloria; Responses at Mass.
MT. ST. MARY SEMINARY CHOIR, CINCINNATT1, O.
DR. JOHN FEHRING, DIRECTOR.	$6.30 including tax
Album 10. Requiem Mass complete with Subvenite, In Paradisum, Libera me, Ego sum and Benedictus.
ST. CHARLES BORROMEO SEMINARY CHOIR, PHILADELPHIA. PA.
DR. JAMES A. BOYLAN, DIRECTOR.	$8.93 including tax
Complete set of 10 Albums — $63.00 inc. tax
Announce Rules for Oration Contest; Scripts Due April 24
The Director of Studies announced last week the rules for the annual Goodrich-Cavanaugh Contest, which will be held beginning the week of May 3 and will close with the finals on Monday, June 3. The prizes of $100, $35 and $15 go to the undergraduate who, in the opinions of the judges, delivers the best oration on American government.
The manuscript of any oration must be submitted, in triplicate, to Professor Frank Kelly of the Speech Department no later than noon Saturday, April 24. They must be double spaced on 8% by 11 inch bond paper and must be no less than 1000 and no more than 1200 words. The orations are limited to 12 minutes.
N.D. to Hold Session South of the Border
Clicking castanets, seductive mantillas and the lazy strums of a gentle guitar will serve as the backdrop for all who trek down to Mexico this summer to participate in the second annual Notre Dame summer session in Mexico. The courses will he given in conjunction with the Mexico City College and will last from June 22 to August 27.
The program will provide interested students with a three-fold opportunity: to develop a fluency in the Spanish language in its real-life atmosphere; to gain broadened education by residence in a foreign land; and to better interAmerican understanding. Director of
the session will be Dr. Paul F. Bosco, associate professor of modern languages.
Adeptness at the hippy rhumba and samba are not prerequisites in applying for the session. All that is needed is an •evident interest in certain background in Spanish studies or a desire to pursue such studies through the opportunity afforded by the program. Though planned primarily for Notre Dame students, the special session is open to other interested persons, both men and women.
Students may register in the special session for either six or nine weeks, according to Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies. The six-week course ■will end on August 4, while the nine-week period will close on August 27. Credits will be transferred through transcript from Mexico City College to
any institution in the United States designated by the student.
It is anticipated that students in the session will give major emphasis to the study of Spanish or the literature of Spain and Spanish America. Classes, however, will be available in other fields such as Art, Anthropology, Economics, Education, Geography, History, Philosophy, Sociology, etc.
FINAL BETHEAT
The fourth of the series of Lenten retreats begins at 8:30 Saturday night in Farley Hall. Bev. Eugene Burke. C.S.C., will conduct the services. OH campus men are invited to join in the last of these highly successful retreats.	.
GENERAL electric
PHYSICIST... CHEMIST... ENGINEER
For each, General Electric has assignments to his liking
General Electric is not one business, but an ing that the 93 plants of General Electric offer organization of many businesses. Graduates opportunities to all degrees of specialists, all of American collegesand universities arefind- sorts of enthusiasms, all kinds of careers.
ATOMIC PHYSICIST
With the construction of both a new Atomic Power Laboratory and a new Research Laboratory at Schenectady, and with the operation of the huge plutonium-producing Hanford Works in Washington, the opportunities which General Electric offers in all phases of nuclear research are increasing rapidly. Dr. Herbert C. Pollock (left) works now with electron accelerators.
CHEMIST
General Electric is the largest molder of finished plastics parts in the world. It has also aided in the development of silicones, new chemical compounds from which a whole new industry is springing. Chemical engineers and chemists like Dr. J. J. Pyle, who became director of the G-E Plastics Laboratories at the age of 29, are planning careers with General Electric.
ELECTRONICS SPECIALIST
For good reason, General Electric’s Electronics Park has been called the “Greatest Electronics Center in the World.” Its laboratories, shops, and production lines are the most modem of their kind. It’s a Mecca for men like Dick Longfellow, who has worked his way up through television and high-frequency assignments and is today section engineer in charge of ground radar equipment.
For your copy of "Careers in the Electrical Industry," write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.	'
GENERAL ELECTRIC
35
Tracksters Compete In Top Relay Meets
Notre Dame’s steadily improving trackmen will cover a lot of ground in the next few days in an attempt to finish the indoor season in a successful manner. Tonight, some of the top Irish stars will compete in the Knights of Columbus games in Cleveland, and then will leave immediately for Chicago where they will take part in the midwest cinder classic, the Chicago Relays, tomorrow evening.
Next weekend the squad will participate in the Purdue Relays at Lafayette, Indiana. Final decision has not been made, but a group of the thinclads may make the trip to the first Southern Relays at Birmingham, Alabama on April 3. A large portion of the squad is already inactive until the outdoor schedule opens, because most of these remaining contests are for special events and outstanding performers.
Coach Elvin R. Handy, will take a larger squad to the K. of C. games, thanks to the Chicago spectacle. Vai Muscato, one of the outstanding freshman trackmen has been invited to compete in the 600-yard run at Cleveland. Muscato is a powerful runner, and may show what the spikemen can count on
Our Campus Representative — Mr. Thomas Kiley 352 Dillon Hall
WEYENBERG
I
for next year. Bill Leonard will run in the special 1000-yard run tonight. Bill will be in an event in which he has given star performances in past invitational contests. Running for the Irish in the two-mile, will be Jim Murphy.
Also invited to the K. of C. battle are two Notre Dame hurdlers, John Smith, and Bill Fleming, who will hit rugged competition from several other top college hurdlers. The Irish mile relay group will take part in the Cleveland runs too. This relay group will be composed of Capt. Ernie McCullough, Steve Provost, Ray Sobota, and Paul Schwet-schenau. Coach Handy has indicated that Leonard may replace one of the runners in this event if it does not come too close to the 1000-yard run.
President Approves
(Continued from Page 9) basketball banquet; it was suggested that a presentation dinner for all spoils be held next year.
The treasurer reported that the Council has a balance of §532.76 with the aforementioned donations and §300 for NS A participation still unpaid.
George Kashmer of Morrissey Hall presented his resignation which was accepted. He will be replaced by James Cassidy.
How to
st-retc-h
Your
s
Spring Vacation
There’s more time for holiday fun when you take a safe and dependable train. Leave and arrive as planned. Zoom past traffic jams. By-pass stormy weather, skiddy roads in thrifty modem coaches, cozy sleeping cars. Come back on the last possible train. See your ticket agent for convenient schedules, thrifty fares. Or use return portion of your Christmas “College Special” ticket.
How to
stretch
Your
Travel Dollar
Buy a new “College Special” Round Trip ticket when you get home. It’s made-to-measure for college men and women and teachers who need longer roundtrip privileges. Use it for your Spring trip back to college ... and for going home after exams. “College Special” tickets are on sale from now until March 31st.* Ask any ticket agent or Railroad Representativeaboutticket costs, return limits, stopover privileges.
For a Time and Money-Saving Trip Go by train
IT’S CONVENIENT-COMFORTABLE — SAFE
*Ifyour vacation ends after this date, buy a regular 3-month round-trip ticket. It’s good until school closes.
AMERICAN RAILROADS
36
. Crowd Records Set
(Continued from Page 9)
Notre Dame concert band into the Fieldhouse to provide the entertainment before the fight and during the intermission.
The highlight of the evening was the annual presentation of the sportsmanship trophy by Director of Athletics Frank Leahy to Russell Skall, heavyweight contender in this year’s bouts who was defeated by Jim Martin in the semi-finals. Russ put up the gamest fight in the 1948 tourney when he made a desperate effort to come from behind in his semi-final bout with the big exMarine.
In opening ceremonies, the faithful service of Dominic Napolitano as trainer for the Bengal Bouts was recognized by the presentation of a plaque by Grand Knight Tom Broden of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, sponsors of this annual event. The success of the Bengals each year is due in no small part to the work which the diminutive phy ed instructor has done.
Checking back on our crystal gazing done a couple of weeks before the bouts got under way, we were amazed to find that our batting average wasn’t too slim for the first time out. Of the 14 names we picked to meet in the finals, ten of them did make the St. Patrick’s Day program. One selection dropped out of the tourney before it opened leaving us with a ten out of 13 count for a .769 average. Weight classes were somewhat scrambled as last minute road work melted off the pounds, but we aren’t going to ruin that average by calling it too close.
When the chips were down on March 17, our substantial average was pushed to some very embarrassing levels. Out of eight predicted champions, only five made the finals. Of these five only Jim Martin, Mike Conley and Zip Roemer were able to walk out with the victors’ laurels.
The most surprising fight of the finals was the display which Dick Cotter put on when he tangled with his 1947 finalist foe, Zip Roemer, for the light-heavy crown. Dick had the Roemer left solved for two rounds and 25 seconds of the third. The champion was again in trouble during most of the fight. The South Bend strong boy found two opponents in Mike Bush and Cotter who could make him work to earn a win.
Typing Done
TERM PAPERS — THESES
PHONE 2-8747
Five former champions retained their former Bengal crowns or acquired new ones. Gentleman Jim Sullivan, the Batchtown brawler Jim Klockenkemper, and Roemer retained their 1947 titles. Mike Conley relinquished his 135-pound title to cop the 142-pound crown, and Jimmy Brennan moved up from the 155-pound group to the 167-pound class.
Multiply your savings for Easter finery or fun—by going Greyhound. Add the comfort and convenience of Greyhound’s cushioned chairs and frequent schedules. Subtract all strain or worry as you relax behind an experienced, dependable driver. Divide your budget more ways—because of low fares—like these:
	One Way	Rd. Trip	One Way		Rd. Trip
New York 		... $12.95	$21.80	Denver 		... $18.60	$33.50
Boston 		.... 14.05	22.65	St. Louis ....		 5.60	10.10
Washington .	.... 10.95	19.75	Cincinnati 		.... 4.95	8.95
Detroit 		.... 3.30	5.95	Grand Rapids	.... 2.50	4.50
Miami 		.... 19.25	34.65	Louisville 			.... 5.00	9.00
Columbus ....	.... 4.75	8.55	Memphis 			.... 9.65	17.40
Toledo 		.... 2.50	4.50	New Orleans	.... 13.95	25.15
Pittsburgh ...	.... 6.20	11.20	Chicago 		.... 1.40	2.55
Los Angeles ..	.... 37.95	64.30	Cleveland ...	.... 4.00	7.20
Plus U. S. Tax
GREYHOUND LINES, INC
133 S. Lafayette Blvd South Bend—Ph. 3-8283
LEAVE PAY (PL 16)
Veterans in training under PL 16 who desire leave pay at the close of the present semester. June 4, 1948. must file VA Form 7-910. 30 days before the close of the semester. These forms are available at the Veterans Administration Office, Main Building.
OUN
37
CAMPUS CLUBS
MASS FOR PITTSBURGH WAR DEAD -
A High Mass in Sorin Hall Chapel attended by all the members of the Pittsburgh Club and celebrated by their Moderator, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., will close a spiritual bouquet offered during Lent by the Club for the repose of the souls of those Notre Dame men from the Pittsburgh area who lost their lives in the war.
The bouquet will be sent prior to the Mass to the mothers of these men so that they may join with the Club in their intentions in home parishes. The Mass will be followed by a Communion breakfast in the Cafeteria. The affair is being sponsored by Ernie Huffman, who urges all Pittsburghers to attend.
REBELS TO MEET FOR SHRIMP
A shrimp dinner at the American Legion Post Club, 411 Wayne Street in South.Bend, will be the scene of the next gathering of the Notre Dame Rebels. Louis Cohen of Texas and Badin Hall is in charge of the arrangements.
A. I. Ch. E. HEARS TALK ON INDUSTRY
Chemical production in relation to other manufacturers and the economic position of the chemical industry was discussed at the first in a new series of meetings of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers at Notre Dame. The first paper, entitled “Let’s Look at the Chemical Industry,” was given by Maurice Tessin. A round table discussion followed the talk.
Points brought out in the informal discussion period included the fact that the foreign market for chemicals is vast but the United States is not able to fulfill the present demand. Other points were the fact that scientific greatness of Germany was destroyed by the Morgenthau partition plan, and the fact that the trend of the chemical industries in this country is to expand in the west and southwest.
The Headquarters for ARROW
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
The Best Known and Best Liked White Shirt in the Worid
Bears This Labei
From Cairo to Mexico City and from Stockholm to
AlttOW )))> NUDE IN IWA —
• sanforized •
KG.U.S.PAT.OFF.

AAF PICTORIALS
—of each of the above AIR FORCES Each contains over 250 photographs (most of them Official AAF pictures). Photos of bombers and fighters in action—men at work and at play—points of interest. Official War Dept, history of the particular air force in each book (except the 8th AAF). D-Day—The Atomic Bomb—London —Paris—New Guinea—U.S.S. Missouri Surrender Ceremonies. $3 each, postpaid. Specify which Air Force Pictorial you want. COD’s okay. Ash trays with crests of above Air Forces in color 3 for $1 postpaid.
With CT. S. demand for Arrow whites still far from filled, we cannot yet supply the stores in 100 foreign countries that carried Arrow before the war. But when we can, you may be sure that Arrow white shirts will still be an export America may be proud of and that the Arrow label will continue to mean style, quality, and value in the American manner!
AAF PUBLICATIONS CO.
1631 Tenth St. Santa Monica L Calif.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
38
How many operators will we need NEXT YEAR?
Tin’s is but one of the many questions telephone men are called upon to answer.
Part of their work has always been to anticipate demands for personnel ... to determine what additional equipment must be provided, what new construction will be necessary to handle the constantly increasing demands for service.
Careful planning in every phase of telephone work requires the services of many qualified men. For them, this growing business offers the opportunity for active, interesting careers.
There’s a future in telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
CHARLE! COBURN
-.4
*
Copyright 1946, [igcett & Mr»s Tobacco Co.
IN DAVID.6. SELZNICK’S PRODUCTION
MHmdine:case'
DlRECTEDBYALFREDHlTCHCd
LOU lit * ,/&)<& A'N
ocGErr1Knfi5ToBAc<;oco
With the STARS its chesterfield | BECAUSE^ ALWAYS MILDER S BETTER TASTING COOLER SMOKING
The Right Combination. .. World's Best Tobaccos