
JPW GOES HOLLYWOOD!! 
I' -••• • '" --, 



Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs Fri. Sun. 
7-9 
Morning Concert
9 -12 
Children·, Hca.1r 
M Spotlight 
E 0
12 -1 
on SBSym . 
T pR Sunday
0 E
p R
1-2 
0 E
R
L Q
I 
T A u
2-5 
A E N 
s 
T 


ft 
5-7 
Tafelmusik Show
Saturday RequC5l Piano Lit.

MacNeil -Lehrer News Hour 
ldeal~sues
s 
Performer$

Philadelphia Chicago Salzburg and Words and hvflled/ Symphony Symphony Vienna Music Mi..oc H
BIG BANDS 
of our 
Re,qua1b 
0 Time

Orchestra Orchestra Festival Remembered 
Celtic Cafe Jazz

mu.es a, w
Broadway

Traditions duLac Unlimited
Review 




7-8 
8-10 
IMPRES­
10 -12 
SIONS 
12 -2 

SPRING SCHEDULE 1990 
Tune in to 88.9, WSND, Notre Dame's fM, $iell'eo music station, for the best in fine arts radio every day. Listen in for our specialty programs each evening from 10:00 to 12:00 for everything from Blues to Jazz, from Celtic to New Age. 
tiB,'9 W~NlD-ffm, rgm@©l-r;©J~ii'f1l@ irmm 1~® i@W®IJ' @fr o•5J~©JILll@'t1l®'®ls®V rn1©1 111 




~!-ill; .. ,-'..~a;-t....•-----·--·~ 
~-..... : ,:......... / ..... ~ .. 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
COVER 

10 
JPW Goes Hollywood 
Junior Parents Weekend salutes Tinseltown in its opening 
dinner by Kristine DeGange 
13 JPW Calendar 
Cover artwork by Vivienne Padilla 
NEWS 
7 
Hungering for Awareness 

The World Hunger Coalition fights the problem of hunger 
by Steffanie Keller 
SPORTS

14Topsy Turvy An inside look at a pivotal match in Notre Dame wrestling's harried season by Kevin Guilfoile 
Editor In Chief: 
Andrew H. Hilger .•·

17Precision Between the Pipes Notre Dame's Lance Madson personifies the lost art of stand­
:~ii~1'~,n~Edi;~r;·• •· ·· 

up goaltending by Brian McMahon .MichaelCi Wieber 
Sports:Jim Maggio . Sports Asst.: Brian McMahon 

:.:··. ···,.• ,.. :. :: ...'.::: ._,.:·::.. :.::··:·.: ..::':;:···.:~.<--.:·''' 
· .·• .. t:Jews.: DerikWeldon . .i News Asst;: PatiickWatkins , · ' ... 

··· litll\ 
...... : ; Copy:1:raci:faglfon .. •·•··•·••·••· 
··•.•i i;H/ifc~~NJ.e~.=t:.IB f0itche11••·••)•i.·••i
•.·. • • • Featuret\ As~t;: Kristine De Gange·•' . i >• Departments: Chris Fillio . 
•·• iSalnrMary's: Robin Spurr 
... •. Photo: Mari Okuda . Photo Asst: Ian Johanson 
Production: 
•·i.ri••••c.:$Y~W~i'.~;WJ~lf: Mitt·l~~Bi~!1lti: 
;~rapttl,c.~.a ....~~~gar:.•Vivierih~ ,e~?ill~:; 
HH! 1i; if;,{3;ij,~ti:iiori12:t;~~tm::·..... 
;'.l~cl~lgn:Betti.Kaise'r'.••·. ,•..• ·' 
:Layo1.1t Manager: Patti Doyle

EDITORIAL: Taking the Weekend Off 22 
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available at $1.25/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1990 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. 
FEBRUARY 15, 1990 
Off-campus Students, Faculty and Graduate Students: 
Please go to the information desk in LaFortune to pick up your copy of the 
1989 Football Review 
SCHOLASTIC 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
Dead Ahead 
The advent of computer cadaver technology 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 

The dawn of the dead has arrived for students at some medical schools across the country. The University Daily Kansan reports that students at that school as well as the University ofMiami, Wisconsin, West Virginia, Michigan State, and the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine have been learning anatomy from cadavers that are not quite dead-yet. The computer program, called the Electric Cadaver, is an interactive simulation brought to life at the Med Center for use by first-year medical stu­dents. The program, which includes full motion video sequences of actual surgeries, received mixed reviews from students. "A few students thought it was a complete waste of time," said associate pro­fessor of anatomy and cell biology Joseph Bast, "while others abso­lutely loved it." The Sex Squad of the Champaign, Illinois, police force seem to be putting in some overtime as of late. According to the police round­up in The Daily Illini, officers recently arrested a local woman one night after a man she was with gave police what he said was the woman's price list for sexual favors. Police responded earlier to an anonymous report of a suspicious vehicle parked in downtown Champaign. When they shined a spotlight into the car, they saw a man laying on top of a woman, then a flurry of clothing. The man told police that no money had been exchanged, and he was released after the officers searched the woman, only to find 25 cents in her posses­sion. The twenty-four year-old woman was arrested and later released on bail. 

It appears as if the Greeks are still up to their old tricks. In a scene reminiscent of the popular college flick" Animal House," students at a University of Washington fraternity have been suspended for an alleged 'sheep-related incident' in late January. A news brief released by the College Press Service reported that the Interfraternity Council at UW has suspended the Theta Xi chapter there after residents were found semi-clothed and in the company of two sheep during initiation rites at their house. "The evidence presented clearly demonstrates (the members') guilt and complete insensitivity to hazing and animal rights," said a statement issued by the IFC. The sheep and pledges were in a room with a sign on the door that read 'Nobody allowed except actives, pledges with permission and clo­ven-hooved animals.' Theta Xi members were unavailable for comment. 
University sports programs are big on law-breaking, The Brown Daily Herald reported in a shocking story straight out of stop-the­presses movie scripts. In fact, 57 ofthe 106 Division 1-A level teams were sanctioned, censured, or put on probation on the past ten years for various infractions, many of them several times. Arizona State University and the University ofWisconsin at Madison lead the pack with four separate punishments each. Colleges in Texas had an aggregate 15 sanctions, followed by California universities with 13 violations. D 
MUS IC/ JASON WINSLADE 
The Return of the 
The seventies ushered in the prepro­grammed, sequenced and sampled computer age with the progenitors 
ofall electronic music, whether it be techno­pop, techno-funk, house, hip-hop, electronic new age, eurodance, Germany's Kraftwerk, Japan's Yello Majic. Orchestra, and England's Gary Numan. Techno-pop still exists under the guise of bands like Depeche Mode, Erasure, and New Order. House music is still popular on dance floors with its mindless sampled beats, but the new wave of electronic music is in its newest form: industrial. Critics of the computer state that the programming takes the human element out of music, and usually produces a souless, tinny sound. Many industrial bands have proved this assumption wrong, even crossing over into hardcore and thrash influences, along with the .dance/house elements. Bands from the Chicago based Wax Tracks label, which deals with American and Euro­pean talent, present this combination of thrashy sounds with danceable beats, especially with their most popular projects: Vancouver's Front Line Assembly and Front 242. However, one man in particular was responsible for the new surge of industrial bands in the Chicago and New York area, Ministry's Alain Jour­gansen. 
After starting in the dregs ofeurodance pop with Ministry's debut album, "With Sympa­thy", and the classic disco/techno-pop songs "Revenge", "Effigy", and "Work for Love", Jourgansen further reached into the realm of electronic/industrial with the hit "Every Day is Like Halloween," which became the an­them for the growing faction ofyouth consid­ered punk, weird, or rion-comformists. Later, Jourgansen produced and wrote Ministry's second album, "Twitch," an album consid­ered the premier industrial work. While 

making a name for himself with Ministry, Jourgansen produced and performed in liter­ally dozens ofside projects, most notably the Revolting Cocks (along with members ofthe Scottish group Fini Tribe, and Front 242), Pailhead, and 10,000 Homo DJ's. 
In 1987, after a long hiatus, Jourgansen produced another Ministry album, with new collaborator Paul Barker, called "Land of 
· Rape and Honey," shocking former fans with a new electronic thrash staccato style, and harsher, distorted vocals, demonstrated by the abrasive single, "Stigmata." Today, Jour­gansen, still under the guise of Ministry has released a new, more structured, yet even harsher work, entitled "A Mind is a Terrible Thing to Taste." He has recruited the best names in industrial, metal, rap, and hardcore to help him out on the album and the tour, which ram­paged across the country over the Christmas holidays for violent and energetic crowds. Jourgansen, aided by Chris Connelly ofthe Fini Tribe and the Revolting Cocks, Ogre of Skinny Puppy, the Grand Wizard, rapmaster K.D. Lite, and others, have produced a work si­multaneously sparse and dense, fil­tering thrash, metal, and hardcore, through an industrial/hip-hop ap­proach. This cacaphonic style is most evi­dent in the thrash/neo-rap song ''Test", in which the Grand Wizard violently challenges the listener to "be your own person" in the test of life in a corrupted world. The singles "Burning Inside" and "Thieves" bludgeon the listener with messages ironi­cally condemning the destruction and vio­lence that the sampled metal guitar structure seems to promote. Other intense tunes like "Never Believe" and "Breathe" further con­front the listener with thrash/drum machine beats, not unlike the technique of the thrash/ drum machine sound ofBig Black, while "So 
SCHOLASTIC 
M US IC 

Industrial 
evolution 
What?" uses easier grooves though still · 
producing an uneasy harsh mood with 
its metal guitars and distorted bullhorn 
vocals rejecting the idea of the 80's 
thrill-seeker. 
While many newer bands are ~till 

safely within the genre of industrial, like Acid Horse, the house influenced Greater than One, Noise Unit, Meat Beat Manifesto, Neon Judgement, and a;grumh, other bands like KMFDM and the dance/thrash Nine Inch Nails are following in Ministry's footsteps by expanding the genre. One band in particular has made its own innovative path into electronic music. Skinny Puppy, the project of vocalist Nivek Ogre and keyboardist/guitarist/percus­sionist Cevin Key, has been laying waste to dance floors, since their 1984 EP "Remission" and its single "Smoth­ered Hope", yet they are hardly a dance band. Their crushing combination of percussive keyboard rhythms, sampled ·guitars, deep and heavy-handed beats, 
Ogre's cryptic and malignant vocalizations, 
the stream of consciousness lyrical phrases 
dealing with the social horrors of the world, 
and the subtly interwoven film and television 
sound-bites are more the stuff of nightmares, 
psychological head trips, or horror movie 
soundtracks than of any dance floor. 
But the success of their past singles, like 

"Testure," "Assimilate," "Dig It," and 
"Addiction" have proven huge successes 
around the world, moving the band past cult 
status. Critics from such diverse publications 
as People and Melody Maker describe Skinny Puppy as determining mood, hurting and exhilirating simultaneous_ly, and taking the listener into the nightmarish world of social reality. Appearing on the Capitol sub­sidiary, Nettwerk of Vancouver, Skinny Puppy have released their sixth full length work, "Rabies". 

In the past, Skinny Puppy has dealt with many social issues, like corporate greed and corruption ("Dig It"), anii:nal experimenta­tion ("Testure"), drugs ("Addiction"), AIDS ("First Aid"), and militarism ("Second Tooth''). "Rabies" is no exception, demon­strated by the single "Tin Omen," dealing with the Kent State shootings and their impact on events like Tian­namen Square, and "Hexonxonx", castigating Exxon and other groups for the environmental disasters. Other songs, like "Rodent" and "Fascist Jock Itch" display the Al Jourgensen influence (he plays guitars, does some vocals, and helped to produce), while ''Tin Omen" uses a pounding guitar riff and a hardcore section of the song which is supposed to simulate ma­chine gun fire. Other works, like the danceable, and even melodic, "Wor­lock," and the atmospheric instru­mental ''Rivers," featuring samples from "200l" and various old vampire movies, hark back to older Skinny Puppy styles. The album ends in the slow and haunting "Choralone," with its slowed, distorted phrases. "Ra­bies" is harder and heavier without departing too much from Skinny Puppy's usual horrific style. 
Bands like Skinny Puppy, Ministry, Nine Inch Nails, and KMFDM are the pio­neers of a style of music which may become the wave of the future. Look for "A Mind is a Terrible Thing to Taste," "Rabies," Nine Inch Nails' "Pretty Hate Machine," KMFDM's single "Virus" and Revolting Cock's new album soon to be released this month. You'll find something completely different, experimental, and musically ful­filling: unadulterated energy, experimenta­tion, and sounds from your darkest night­mares and harshest realities. . 
FEBRUARY 15, 1990 
WEEK IN DISTORTION/T.IM ROGERS 
\ es tra -jdn \ 
Today's insight deals with women. As someone who is neither a woman nor cares to be one, I have the objectivity to speak on the subject. I know that some ofus with the ability to write our names in the snow have trouble under­standing those who can't, but brethren, don't believe "Yhat women tell you. For centuries now, womankind has blamed our beguilement on matters hopelessly be­yond our control. Since the start of time, women have used an excuse in the form of original sin which left men so clueless that they wore wigs and wrote lengthy poems about breasts. Also, women coined the phrase "The Fall of Man" and blamed us every time they found the toilet seat up. Well, I mean to clear up this confusion. Understanding women is as easy as sleeping in late if you know the sole cause of every­thing that women do. While some might want to keep this information secret (like women), I am pleased to tell you that the key to understanding women, the one thing that makes them tick, the reason they zig when we zag is: ES1ROGEN. Understand estrogen, and you understand women. · First, some details of a slightly technical nature need explaining. Scientists have only recently unravelled the baffling mysteries of womanhood. What had them stumped was the fact that the biological processes which occur in women make absolutely no sense at all. This manifests itself in the shape of senseless behavior which we men see every day, and deal with every weekend. Scientists, aided by enormous grants from our government which is run by frustrated men, finally solved the puzzle when they trained their microscopes on that peculiarly female apparatus, the womb. The womb is responsible for producing barrels ofestrogen each waking hour. Then, through the use of many enzymes and other chemicals: women 
soak their cerebral cortices with estrogen, thereby producing a sense of euphoria and well-being which causes them to wear over­sized T-shirts, drink Slimfast and generally act flitty. 
Now ifestrogen was all we had to deal with, 

Did someone hit her with an ugly stick? No, It's Just a low estrogeh level. 
men would do just fine. They would watch golfifthat was the (?nly sport on T. V ., scratch themselves in public and get along with women effortlessly. But estrogen is the least ofour worries. It is the lack ofestrogen that causes men grief, and makes them start wars. We have all seen those dubious commercials 
· ondaytimetelevisionwhereinamotherhelps her daughter rid herself of that troublesome "not so fresh feeling." These ads are written in a special code language that only women speak, because they want us to continue thinking that our Big Fall left us unable to figure them out 
Ha. Understand estrogen, and you under­stand women. Without it, women are help­less. Once a month, their womb shuts down and women are forced to face reality in all its reality without their crutch, estrogen. No estrogen, no euphoria. No euphoria, no way to cope with life as we men must every day of our lives. But do we get cranky? Nope. Women just aren't able to face reality with­out drugs (estrogen is, ofcourse, a drug.) 
People in the Dark Ages realized that women had this problem with estrogen, only they called it bile and thought it came from the liver. These medieval geniuses also thought the universe was made of four ele­ments and tried to tum just about everything into gold, but we shouldn't let those small mistakes cloud the the real issue: People in the Middle Ages (so-called because guys wore stockings and went around throwing their jackets on mud puddles) knew about the evils of estrogen and they knew what to do about them. When a women started acting a little out of line and the moment a sensible Middle Ages. guy had any trouble under­standing her, a well-trained doctor would come and drain off a few quarts of blood­usually from a small hole drilled behind her ear. Every once in a while, a lady would die from this, but that isn't the point. The point is that they tried. These guys didn't just sit around and complain about not understand­ing their girlfriends, they did something. 
Now don't get me wrong. I'm not suggest­ing that we drill holes in girls' heads every time they get out ofline. That would indeed be silly. Notonly that, but you would most likely get arrested and eventually spend a lot oftime in cramped quarters with strange men who have no qualms about using their rec­tums to smuggle contraband. I'm only sug­gesting that we redirect some of the money we're spending on Slimfast technology and find a way to manufacture estrogen so that the rest of us can get in on the fun. 
Oh, and one more thing, girls. The gig is up. Forget about feeding us that line about The Fall ofMan. We're smarter than you think. 
.
Tim Rogers Is studying to be a figurehead. He currently resides In 105 Fisher Hall, where he welcomes almost any constructive criticism and hate mall. 
SCHOLASTIC 
NEWS 

HUN 
ING 

The World Hunger Coalition fights the problem ofhunger through raising m0ney and increasing student awareness 
BY STEFFANIE KELLER 

0 nee a week, over four hundred No.tre Dame students forgo lunch in the dining halls to participate in the World Hunger Coalition's Wednesday Lunch Fast. At the beginning ofeach semes­ter, members of the Coalition, with the coop­eration of University Food Services, solicit student participation in the Fast with the goal of raising money and awareness to help combat world hunger. The World Hunger Coalition was started at Notre Dame in 1975 and operates through the Center for Social Concerns. Senior Me­leah Potter, president of the Coalition, said that the group has two main goals. "Our first goal is to educate the Notre Dame community about world hunger," Potter said. "There are many myths about hunger-that it's caused by overpopulation, that there isn't enough crop land. We're trying to dispel these myths and make people more aware of what can be done to help alleviate this problem." 

NEWS 


The group's second goal, according to Potter, is to raise money to help the cause. The Wednesday Lunch Fast is the group's main fundraiser for this cause. Sign-ups for the fast are taken each semester in the dining hall and student identification numbers are used to enter input into the University Food Service's computer system. Students who participate in the Fast are then tracked by the computer, preventing fasters from eating lunch on Wednesdays. The computer is also able to track the numberofstudents who drop from the program each week. 
"Typically, 300-350 students sign up for the Lunch Fast," said Potter. This semester, 475 students are participating, the result of a phone campaign by the organization. "We called all the people who had participated last semester to ask for their support again," said Potter. "Some students do not realize they have to sign up both semesters." 
University Food Services gives the Coa­lition $1 for each person who gives up their Wednesday lunch. The current price for a guest meal ticket for lunch at the dining hall is $2.35. The amount of money given to the group is based upon the dining halls variable cost per meal, said Potter. In determining its figures for lunch costs, the dining hall proj­ects the number of people who do not eat lunch on a given day due to class schedules or time constaints. "The amount of money we havereceivedhasnotgoneupinafewyears," said Potter. "Weareconsidering a request for a larger amount, but there are several chan­nels that we have to go through." 
Student Missy Holland has participated in the Lunch Fast in the past but no longer does so. "I signed up for the Fast because I thought that fasting once a week would be a good reminder of an experience that a large part of the world suffers through." Holland stopped participating after she learned ofthe amount of money that the dining halls con­tributed. "The dining halls are giving only a dollar, while the amount of money that stu­dents pay for lunch is higher," Holland said. "I decided I could give my money to charity in a more efficient way, although I still think that the Fast can provide a good reminder to students." Holland said that she would have continued her participation had University Food Services contributed an amount equal to the cost of a lunch. 

The Coalition uses the money it raises throughout the year, a figure ofabout $8000 according to Potter, in various ways. Much of the money is sent overseas to organiza­tions like the International Development Exchange, which uses the money to provide fresh drinking water to people in Nepal, and the Holy Cross Associates Family Gardens project in Chile, which teaches families how to cultivate vegetable gardens. Other pro­grams include an organization in Argentina which feeds schoolchildren and another in Chile which teaches farmers techniques to raise better crops. 
At Thanksgiving, the Coalition makes food baskets for the hungry in the South Bend area and this year provided over $3000 to a local single parents center. The group brings in speakers and sponsors the OxFam Fest to facilitate more awareness of the problem of world hunger. 
"We are hoping to try a new project this April," Potter said. "It would be a symbolic meal, in which the particpants would reflect the distribution of food in the world today./' In a group of30, approximately three people would receive the steak dinner representing the first world. ·The rest of the participants would receive a meal ofrice and bread orrice and water representative of the remaining countries. TheCoalition ho~s to continue to sponsor programs to raise awareness and support for their cause in the Notre Dame community. 
8 

SCHOLASTIC 

¦ 

FEATURES 


Junior Parents Weekend salutes Tinseltown in its opening dinner as hundreds offamilies visit campus 
BY PATRICK T. MURPHY 

It'sthattimeofyearagain. Christmas is a distant memory and every sun-filled afternoon directs students' minds to thoughts of summer. The idea ofputting the body on automatic pilot until spring break Ihas entered thousands of minds. But wait! 
I 

! • 
i,· ­
Clean up that dorm sink and remove the clutter from the room; hide the comics and place a thesaurus on the ·desk; wash some clothes and disassemble that Budweiser throne constructed out of ten cases of beer. Campus social life is put on hold. For hun­dreds ofjuniors, mom and dad are coming to visit Junior Parents Weekend (JPW) is here again. 
For 38 years the parents ofNotre Dame's junior class have been invited to come to South Bend to participate in and observe a weekend ofcollege life. Next to graduation, JPW is the biggest annual parent-oriented event on campus. For many parents this weekend will be a unique chance for them to finally meet their son or daughter's college friends whom they may have only previously known as a name in a long distance phone call. The students have the opportunity to meet their friends' parents and interact in a social atmosphere with them as well .. 
David Richardson, a senior history major, looks back on his participation in last year's JPW with fond memories. "Itwas nice to get the chance to see my parents away from home," said Richardson. "Junior Parents Weekend was a first real adult encounter in which my friends and our parents got to sociali~e on an equal level." Furthermore, Richardson added that "JPW was one of the best experiences I've had at Notre Dame and it was interesting that it included my par­ents." 
10 

SCHOLASTIC 

FEATURES 

Tom Darin, another senior and mechanical engineering major, adds to this, saying, "The week­end in retrospect was a watershed event in lessening family ten­sions and bringing my parents and I closer together." The plan­ning for every year's JPW begins months ahead of time. 
Every part of the weekend has been carefully planned out by this year's JPW committee. This committee is led by Chairman Maryann Cenedella, an Ameri­can Studies major from Denver. She was appointed to chair the committee last April. "The com­mittee began i~ the summer on little things; then when school started we got· right into it," Cenedella said. Planning an event of this magnitude takes quite some preparation. Because the administration has no hand in the planning of the we~kend, much pressure is placed on the committee to make sure that ev­ery detail is meticulously cov­ered, and every cent of the $200,000 budget is carefully spent. 
"A lot of people don't realize 

the amount of work and time that 
The President's Dinner was a focal event in last year's Junior Parents Weekend. 
goes into planning something 
1 
1 
· like this," said Cenedella. "Thousands of letters have to be mailed and 
every aspect his to be carefully thought out, right down to the lighting on the tables." Cenedella attributes much of the weekend's success to the cooperation of the planning committee. "I have a great committee of people who are willing to do small tedious tasks which all lead to a perfect weekend," she said. This committee ofjuniors is not the only group which plays a large role in the success ofJPW. When the time comes for the weekend to begin, a group of25 sophomores becomes very important in executing count­
less tasks. 
This group of sophomores is led by Laura Mallach, a PLS major from New Jersey. "I had an interview on November 17 for the position of sophomore committee chair­man," said Mallach. "By November 28, all 25 members were selected and work began in preparation for (JPW)." When asked why she chose to work JPW and head the sopho­more committee, Mallach responded, "Last year I saw how much the juniors enjoyed the weekend so this year I decided I wanted to be a part of it." Mallach also added that she "eventually would like to. be involved again my junior year." It is likely that the sopho­mores on this year's JPW committee will be the juniors running next year's JPW. As a sophomore Maryann Cenedella herself worked during JPW. 
The sophomore committee will perform countless behind-the-scenes tasks. "Sopho­more committee does most of the grunt work," said Cenedella. "When the weekend starts the sophomores do it all: coat checks, escorting, and ushering are some of their duties." Mallach adds that, ''The juniors did the background work, but when the weekend comes they get a chance to enjoy themselves and our work begins." 
On Monday, February 12, and Tuesday, February 13,juniors concluded their regis­trl,ltion process for the weekend by picking up a packet which included a detailed schedule of events, and tickets for the activities they planned on attending. The preparation of these packets was another one of the sopho­more committee's numerous tasks leading up to the weekend. 
The weekend itself begins on Friday night with the Opening Night Gala in both domes ofthe Joyce ACC. This year's themeis"Hats Offto Hollywood," and booths will represent Tinseltown landmarks such as Capitol Rec­ords, Universal Studios and the Hollywood Bowl. This evening will be highlighted by cocktails and hors d'oeuvres, as well as live music performed by The New York City 
11



FEATURES 


Marl Okuda 
The JPW committee spends long hours doing behind-the-scenes work such as covering these paper stars with foil. 
extremely positive. The parents relish this chance to see their s~n or daughter like never before." 
For parents, the weekend might bring back memories of their days in college. Juniors may have to listen to the legendary "college tales" told once again, but this chance for parents to spend time with their son or daughter at Notre Dame will long be cherished. For the student, the weekend becomes an opportunity to play host to their parents and involve them, if only for the weekend, in student life at Notre Dame. 
For three days in February most of the campus comes to a standstill as all attention is focused on the junior class and their parents. Junior Parents Weekend provides students an oppor­tunity to show parents what their chil­dren have been doing for the past two and-a-half years, and it gives students a chance to deal with their parents on an adult level. This year, though JPW 

Swing. The band is considered one ofthe top college attractions in the country and has won numerous awards. The band's long list of songs includes swing, contemporary and oldies music ranging from Benny Goodman's "Sing, Sing, Sing" to Bruce Springsteen's "Born To Run." Juniors can also look forward to hearing those classic songs every band in existence knows how to play, such as "Mony Mony," "LouieLouie," and "Wild Thing." 
After dancing the night away with their mothers and fathers, juniors have to make sure to set the alarm clock for early Saturday morning when collegiate workshops pro­vided by all four of the colleges will take place. The workshops are designed to give parents an informative look at their son's or daughter's education at Notre Dame. The workshops will vary from college to college generally including tours, discussions and a reception breakfast with the deans, depart­ment chairmen and professors. 
Later that afternoon, the campus residence 
halls will host lunch receptions. These recep­
tions will enable parents and students to 
mingle with friends and members of the hall 
staff. Later that evening the junior class mass 
will be celebrated by Father Edward Malloy 
with Father Peter Rocca as the homilist 

Saturday night, the President's Dinner will take place at the JACC. Highlighting the evening will be live music and an address by salutes Hollywood in the opening dinner, the real stars are the juniors of Notre Dame and their families. 0 

the guest of honor, University President, Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. The final event of the weekend will take place on Sunday at a closing brunch in the JACC and will host guest speaker, Professor William Sexton, the vice presi­dent of university relations and a professor ofmanagement who also happens to have a son in the junior class. 

From the first gala hollywood dinner to the final closing brunch, each event of the week­end has been carefully planned to convey the different areas of student life at Notre Dame. "The academic workshops, celebration of Mass, and hall and cocktail parties are a chance for our parents to see us, outside of a football weekend, interact­ing with friends," Cenedella said. When asked how the par­ents respond to JPW Cenedella added that "Parental feedback is Maryann Cenedella heads the JPW committee. 
~---­

SCHOLASTIC
12 

, ~--•_, -~ ~ • .-• -~ •-j ,_ ~-,.. ,: ,,,. .••~~ ,-.~, ',, ,.--~. 1 ',• •.~'-, •,•-~ •-• "'; : ,~/ ..,".-'. ~.,l,.~,:.::!.,, ;"",~ •"'~~,.,:~ ,=;,_:_:~: __,,./' \ '1
• c-­


FEATURES 


1:00p.m.-4:00p.m. "Wake up the Echoes" will be shown hourly in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 1 :00p.m. & 3 :00p.m. Campus tours will originate from the LaFortune Dooley Room. 9:00p.m.-1 :00a.m. "Hats Off to Hollywood" Gala dinner dance in the JACC. 

10:00a~m.-12:00p.m. Academic workshops are scheduled for each of the four colleges. 
10:30 a.m. Campus tour originates from the LaFortune Dooley Room. 
11:00a.m., 12:00p.m., 3:00p.m. & 4:00p.m. "Wake up the Echoes" will be shown in the LaFortune Montgomery Theater. 
12:00p.m. Tour of the Snite Museum of Art. 
12:30p.m.-2:30p.m. Hall Lunches sponsored by each dorm. 
1 :30p.m. & 3 :00p.m. Shenanigans performs in the Snite Annen berg Auditorium. 
2:00p.m"-4:00p.m. ROTC receptions. 
2:00p.m. Notre Dame Jazz Band performs in Washington Hall. 
2:30p.m.-4:00p.m. Center for Social Concerns open house. 
4:30p.m.-5:30p.m. Alumni Legacy Reception on the upper concourse of the JACC. 
t 5:30p.m. Mass in the south dome of the JACC. 7:15p.m.-10:00p.m. President's Dinner in the north dome of the JACC. 

9:30a.m.-12:00p.m. Closing Brunch in the north dome of the JACC. 

SPORTS 

Topsy rvy 


An inside look at a pivotal match in Notre Dame wrestling's 

harried season 
BY KEVIN GUILFOILE 

February 2, 1990. 7:15 p.m. Notre Dame Wrestling Coach Fran McCann sits on the Irish bench, watching his team warm up on the mat. Three hundred or so fans have already settled into the lower-level seats of the Joyce Arena and it is still early. Tonight's match is a big one. On the other side of the media table, to McCann's right, the Ohio State team loosens up. The Buckeyes are one of the best teams in the Big Ten, a conference boasting seven of Division I's top-20 teams. Ohio State's record is 16-2, and its only losses have come at the hands of the second and fifth-ranked teams in the nation. The Buckeyes them­selves are ranked 10th, and many people think that underestimates their abilities. The Irish, on the other hand, have struggled this season. After several impres­sive tournament finishes and a 23-12 drub­
bing of Illinois State, Notre Dame was ranked 13th and expectations had the Irish placing even higher. But for a 30-day period in December and January, Notre Dame was without one of its top wrestlers and had to forfeit the 118-pound match in six consecu­tive meets. They lost four ofthem. Now they find themselves with a4-5 record, and for the first time in years they are fighting for re­spect. 
McCann thinks the Irish can win tonight. In fact, he knows it. Notre Dame is a good team, much better than people think. Butfirst they have some monstrous obstacles to hurdle. Ohio State is stacked in the lower weights-the Buckeyes' first three wrestlers are among the top 10 in the nation in their respective weight classes. Notre Dame, however, will battle an even more frighten­ing opponent this evening--themselves. In 35 years of varsity wrestling, the Irish have never defeated a top 10 opponent. Mccann is more worried about his team's confidence than its ability. 
7:25 p.m. 
Notre Dame retreats to the locker room for some last minute preparations and a pep talk. The Buckeyes remain on the mat, anx­ious for the meet to begin. The smaller wrestlers jump imaginary ropes to stay loose. Members of the large entourage travelling with the team skitter back and forth behind the bench. On~girl with a Buckeye wrestling jacket checks the battery on the video camera and takes a seat by Ohio State Coach Russ Hellickson. Another young co-ed doodles in the Ohio State scorebook. 
A few minutes later the Irish bolt from the locker room as the Notre Dame Fight Song blares from the rafters. The Anthem plays, followed by introductions. Then they wrestle. 
Ohio State's David Range is one of the most highly respected 118 pounders in the nation. He steps to the middle of the mat to meet Andy Radenbaugh but finds himself alone in the center of the arena. An uncom­fortable 20 seconds or so go by and there is 
SCHOLASTIC 

I 
SPORTS 

still no sign of Notre Dame's leadoff wres­tler. "Trying to pull a Lou Holtz," someone says. Radenbaugh finally appears to the de­
. light of the 400-something on hand. It is only his second dual meet after nearly a month's layoff, and he is still not wrestling at the level he was in the fall. Still, McCann knows what his 118-poundercan do: "Andy thinks he can compete with anyone in the nation and he has proven it," McCann has said of him. As good a wrestler as Range is, Radenbaugh beat him by nine in a tourna­ment earlier this season. The frrst period is scoreless. Both wres­tlers are respectful and cautious. In the second, Radenbaugh opens up and takes a 3­0 lead. Range battles back in the third, scoring a takedown with two seconds left to Lie it. The rules allow Radenbaugh an extra point for the minute and a half he spent in control, though, and the referee signals a Notre Dame win. The public address announcer, how­ever, cannot see the clock and declares the match a draw. McCann throws him a stem look. Nobody is going to take points away from him tonight, certainly not the guy at the microphone. The mistake is corrected. Notre Dame 3, Ohio State 0. . Thelrishhitasnagin thenexttwo bouts. Sophomore Marcus Gowens battles val­iantly against seventh-ranked Adam Dis­abato, but DiSabato takes control for good in the third period to wiri the 126-pound match, 11-5. Jam~s Posey, a freshman surprise for McCann :at 134­

Against the Buckeyes, Mccann worried more about his team's mental state 
than Its abilitya 
pounds. McCann expects a win from Boyd, a fifth-year senior and an All-American, de­spite his opponent's 22-4 record. But after two periods, Mike DiSabato has a 1-0 advan­tage. 
McCann had worried about something like this. "When you go up against a big­name team like Ohio State," he theorized, "everybody tends to wrestle a little more conservatively than they probably should." 
These two wrestlers are so conservative, in fact, that neither one scores a takedown throughout the match. Irish Assistant Oftlch Rick Stewart screams that DiSabato is trying to run out the clock, but the referee sticks the Irish with a stalling warning instead. Boyd, however, ties it up in the third and, like Radenbaugh earlier, wins 2-1 with a point for riding time. Ohio State 9, Notre Dame 6. The Irish are in it, but barely. 
In the next bout, Notre Dame Co-Cap­tain Todd Layton handles Ohio State's Nick Lieb without trouble, and the 8-2 victory ties themeet9-9. McCann looks a little relieved. 
The struggle at 158 pounds is much closer. Notre Dame's Todd Tomazic battles back and forth with Mike Schyck. After one period Tomazic is up by two; after the sec­
ond, the match is 


tied at four. With
pounds, is over­
Schyck in control in 

matched against the 
the third,

more experienced 
Tomazic's arm

. Mark Marinelli. 
twists behind his

Marinelli wins with 
back and the referee 

a pin in the first pe­
stops the clock as

riod and another six 
the Irish wrestler

points go into the 
clutches his elbow. 

Buckeye's column. 
In obvious pain,

Ohio State 9, Notre 
-Tomazic waves a

Dame 3. 
Notre Dame trainer 
PatBoyd, Notre 
back to the bench.

Dame's best wres­
He knows how

tler and one of the 
much Notre Dame

most expert wres­
needs this match,

tlers in the nation, 
and it would be dif­

takes the mat at 142 Boyd (top) wrestled conservatively and squeezed out a 2-1 win. 

SPORTS 
ficult for them to recover from an injury 
default here. The Irish need points. 
The clock starts again with about a minute left. Tomazic has the lead, but Schyck steals it back with a takedown. Sec­onds later, Tomazic escapes from Schyck's hold to tie it up. The score remains even for over half a minute until, with just seconds left, Tomazic shoots for Schyck's legs and scores the takedown. Time runs out and the Irish retake the lead, 12-9. 
At 167 pounds, the Irish have one of the country's best, Mark Gerardi, and he leads Ohio State's Paul Reinbolt for the entire seven minutes and a Notre Dame win. In the next match, however, Curt Engler falls to the Buckeye's Dan Ritchie, 11-5. Notre Dame 15, Ohio State 12. Two more matches to go. 
The 190-pound contest shapes up as a battle of freshmen. Notre Dame's Steve King and Ohio State's Heath Eddleblute feel 

. h . h h Paul Webb
Referee Peter George caught Assistant Coac Rick S tewart,s wrat when e
each other out for six minutes, neither one 
called the Irish for stalling. 
scoring big points. With a minute left the 


As the Buckeyescore is tied at 1, and wrestlers walk out toneither wrestler has a shake hands, none ofclear advantage. A tie them glance at thehere would put the scoreboard. TheyBuckeyes right back in know what it says:the meet. 
"Notre Dame 18,Suddenly, with Ohio State 15." 

five seconds left, the "Does this mean · referee raises both fists you' re a top-IO team,to indicate stalling coach?" a reporteragainst both wrestlers. 
asks McCann. 

For King, the signal is "I'11 let youonly a warning, but for know after weEddleblute, it is a sec­wrestle Iowa,"ond offense and he McCann says, refer-loses a point. King's . ring to their upcom­teammates rise to their ing match against the feet as the buzzer 
third-ranked

sounds. Buckeye Hawkeyes.
Coach Hellickson is fu­On the otherrious. McCann grins. 
side, HellicksonA six-point lead should shakes his head atbe enough to cement another sportswriter. 

the victory. 
''This may sound like The heavyweight sour grapes, butmatch is close, but so­we're a better teamphomore Chuck than Notre Dame,"Weaverloses by two to he says. 

FerdMiller. OhioState Not. tonightgets in the last word, coach.
but the Irish are done -""'"'"'""'""'':::,., 
Not when it

talking. Freshman Steve King (right) won his 190-lb. match to cement the victory. 
counted. . 
SCHOLASTIC 
SPORTS 


Precision 
Between the Pipes 
Notre Dame's Lance Madson personifies the lost art ofstand-up goaltending 
BY BRIAN MCMAHON

0 ne word comes immediately to mind when watching Notre Dame hockey's Lance Madson play goal: efficient The 6-foot-1, 185-pound senior from Minnetonka, Minnesota, brings size and cat­like reflexes to the Irish ]).et. These qualities, ideal in a goaltender, are only a part of what makes Madson the goalie he is. His success is a product of how he uses his gifts. There are two schools of thought regard­ing goaltending. There's the flamboyant style, characterized by wild, spectacular saves. The goalie employing this style goes down often and stays back in the net, relying on his reflexes to stop the puck. This ap­proach works for the most part and, when the goalie is hot, he seems invincible. Until it backfires. Never does anyone on a hockey 
rink look worse than a goalie when he flops around helplessly as he's burned for a score. Then there's the style Madson has em­ployed in his four-year career for the Irish-
stand up and come out ofthe net to cut down the shooting angles. Simple. No extraneous movement.· Every move is geared toward stopping or being prepared to stop the puck. Sometimes it looks easy. The problem is, few goalies have the discipline to play this way. Flamboyance is more fun. 
Madson' s style stops more pucks, though, an irony that leaves coaches pulling their hair out They want their goalies to stand up. The goalies like to go down. Ask any coach to describe his ideal style and most will offer something close to the way Madson plays. 
Madsen's brilliance is a product of his "understanding" ofhis position, according to Irish Head Coach Ric Schafer. 'The perfect goalie is probably like the one on the table top game," he says, "staying up, moving from side to side. Lance is good because so many shots hit him by his positioning." Efficient. 
Case in point: In last Friday's victory over Lake Forest the Irish struggled, turning the puck over in their own end often. One errant pass met the stick of a Lake Forest defense­man, who sent a low shot toward a sea of bodies in front ofMadson. The puck changed direction two or three times before Madson kicked out a leg for the save. The rebound went right of the net to a Lake Forest winger, who sent a shot over a fallen Madson. But Madson was back on his feet and out of the net, leaving the shooter nothing to shoot at His shot went right into Madson' s pads and the goalie covered the puck. 
Madson is sold on his approach to the game. "A great thing I always had growing up from Pee Wees to squirts up through high school was that on every team I played on, we 


SPORTS 


had a goalie coach," he recalls. "It was drilled into me all the time, 'Stand up. Stand up.'· Now it just comes natural." 
Madson didn't really choose to play goal. Nooneever does. He started skating when he was 4 years old on the pond near his house. Since he was always the youngest, he had to play the nets. The classic shinny hockey scenario. 
The older kids knew better. They liked to skate and score and pump their arms after a goal. A goalie faces about 30 shots in the average hockey game. Ifhe stops 27 or 28 he is doing well. After none of the saves does he pump his arms ordo a dance. Buton the two or three occasions he gets beat, a big red light goes on behind him and he has to watch some jerkplay windmill. Such is the nature ofthe most pressure-packed position in sport. Forget the physical perils that go with trying to stop galvanized rubber fired at you at speeds exceeding 90 miles per hour. The mental pressure is unparalleled. 

That pressure, along with the loneliness of the position, has been known to breed certain peculiarities in goaltenders. Strange rituals and superstitions have been used by goalies to help deal with the position. Some talk to posts. Others have trouble holding down their lunch the day of a game. One goalie would strip down between periods and shower before putting his equipment back on. 
These are just three samples from a vast array of goalie lore. Stories like these, strange enough to warrant medical attention in the real world, are accepted in goalies. Never questioned. Never analyzed. 
Heads shake. Eyes roll. Leave him alone. He's the goalie. 


M.adson didn't play goal in or­ganized hockey until a time when his team had no goalie. "One day in mites they didn't have a goalie and I decided to play," says Madson. "They thought I had potential so I stuck with it." It's been a happy marriage. As a junior in high school, Madson led Minnetonka High School to the prestigious Minnesota State High School Hockey Tournament, posting the lowest goals-against average and highest save percentage in the tourna­ment. As a senior he earned all-conference honors. With such an impressive resume, Mad­son hoped to be courted by Division I powers. The Ivy League and Division III schools expressed interest, but he chose Notre Dame. "I was highly recruited by most of the Division III schools in Minne­sota," he recalls, "but IchoseNotre Dame because it was the best academically and it was a Division I school." His arrival in South Bend dawned a four-year assault on theNotreDamerecord book he continues with each game. With every save and win in his remaining six games, Madson adds to his career marks for most saves and wins in a career. His next shutout will establish a career record as well, a standard he matched against Mankato State in December (four). As a sophomore, he set records for shutouts 
18 
SCHOLASTIC 



SPORTS 


made it look effortless." 
His similarities with Dryden go beyond just playing style. He takes a cerebral ap­proach, avoiding superstition and unusual preparations much like Dryden did. He handles the pressure of the position well, avoiding the mental maladies that afflict so many goalies. His lone superstition is a t­shirt he has worn every game since fresh­man year. He doesn't go crazy before a game, either. "I try to be myself and keep calm," hesays. "I'll watch movies and keep it light so I don't get burned out. Listen to music. I like to get to the rink early, get in the hockey environment, the environment of the rink. Being around it gets you going." 
His preparation mirrors his play. No wasted energy. No flash or crazy tenden­cies. Cool. All business. 
He is always looking to improve his game. With the natural skills and the perfect style, he wants to hone his concentration. Momentary lapses really bother him. 
"Sometimes a pass will go to a guy I don't see and then he scores," he laments. "Itbugsmealotwhen that happens. It might have been a tough save but it makes me feel better if I at least knew the guy was there." 
(two) and wins (24) in a season. Last year he tallied 1288 saves, a single-season rec­ord. After the season, he was invited to compete in the World University Games in Bulgaria. 
The records hold special meaning for Madson. "They mean quite a bit," he says. "I knew I could compete when I came here but I didn't know how good I'd be. The records show I did pretty well. Its a nice feeling to h~ve." 
If attitude is half the battle for a goalie, Madson's temperment is well suited for the position. "I love the personal challenge of playing goalie," he states. "When someone shoots it's just him and me. I like that challenge."· 
His competitive nature and pride show when he's asked to name the record he savors most. "A lot of people would probably say wins," he says with a shrug. "I like the saves one. The wins are a team thing. I can't take full credit for them. I made the saves, though." 
When Madson was growing up, he idolized former Montreal Canadiens' great Ken Dryden. "I was a big fan," he says. "He was a big guy who stood up. He 
Irish Assistant Coach Scott Gosselin has been instrumental in helping Madson maintain his focus. "Goalie is such a special position," Gosselin says. "He has to be ready to make a save at any split second. A goalie needs to think ahead and anticipate." 
One thing noticable about Madson this year versus last is his ability to handle the puck. He's much more proficient now. "Lance is a quiet guy," says Gosselin. "We wanted him to be more aggressive. He'slike a third defenseman now. He really helps our transition." 
He's not a rah-rah type, but a leader by example. His role as al­ternate captain on this year's squad is a result of the respect his teammates have for him. 
Madson's leadership goes be­yond that, though. In addition to the confidence his team has play­ing in front of a goalie of his 

caliber, the aura ofcontrol Madson carries has a settling influence on the team. ~o does his consistency. Nothing takes the wind out of a team's sails like a bad goal. Madson doesn't allow many. 
No one listens to a guy who aJways yells or doesn't play well. Madson's word speaks volumes. "It's when he's standing on his head that he'll start yelling," says senior defenseman Mike Leherr. "One word from him usually does it He doesn't say much but when he does say something, we listen. Werespecthim. Dayin,dayout, he's been awesome. When we get lazy, he gets us going." 
Madson, with all his accomplishments, isn't overly concerned with how he goes down in Irish hockey history. He's more concerned with his future. The success he enjoyed here, his love of the game and his enthusiasm for challenge leave him look­ingtothenextstep. He may play in Europe or on the East Coast He just wants to play. 
"Right now I can't give up hockey," he beams. "I want to keep going until I can't be competitive. I want to see what that level is." 
0 


19


SPORTS 


sp rt 
The Irish hockey team swept Lake Forest this past weekend behind a strong power play. LOU ZADRA scored two goals and added an assist to lead the way in a 6-4 win Friday. Saturday, the Irish beat the Foresters 7-3. 
The improving Irish stand at 17-11 and visit the Huskies of SL Ooud State tomorrow and Saturday nighL This marks the second time the teams have played, with the Irish taking one of two at the JACC earlier this season. 
The Irish lost a closematch to Purdue on Febru­ary 10. ANDY RADENBAUGH, MARCUS GOWENS, PAT BOYD, TODD LAYTON and MARK GERARDI all recorded victories for the Irish in a match that went down to the wire-a tough 17­15 Irish defeaL 
The Irish wrestlers hit the mat against Ohio University tomorrow nighL The Irish shut out Ohio 
U. last season at Athens, OH. In other wrestling news, Head Coach FRAN 
Fame. He will be inducted on February 28 at the Hall in Fort Hays, KS. 

•··•····~~iji~.l~~~~i~»:~p!1
·::11 
The women's team defeated the Lady Ramblers of Loyola February 6, 75-63. Freshman COQUESE WASHINGTON paced the Irish with 20 points, in­cluding 4-4 on three-pointers. KRISS! DAVIS grabbed eight rebounds as the Irish placed four play­ers in double figures in scoring. 

k COMPILED BY JONPAUL POTTS 
The Irish, 10-0 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and 15-6 overall, are riding a four-game winning streak. They take to the road against the SL Louis Billikens on Feb. 20, then return home for games against Xavier (Feb. 26) and Dayton (March 3). 
The Irish men's tennis team swept its own Notre Dame Quadrangular this past weekend to improve to 6­1 on the season. The Irish dominated in shutting out Bowling Green, Southern Illinois and Western Michi­gan. 
Freshman CHRIS WOITALIK was the big win­ner at 4-0 with two wins at number six singles, one win at number four and a victory at second doubles with PA UL ANTHONY. Freshmen ANDY ZURCHER and RON ROSAS both went 3-0 to contribute to the Irish victories. 

This weekend, the Irish face four matches in three days against Wake Forest, Colorado, Ball State and Minnesota. All four matches will be played at home in i----r=--=;:;--­
the Eck Pavilion. 

McCANN was elected to the NAIA Wrestling Hall of 1='-'--==-.._;="'--""=--="'-­
western this past weekend to open its dual meet season against the Wildcats, losing 6-3. Sophomore KRISTY DORAN and junior KIM PACELLA won their singles matches, while sophomores TRACY-BARTON and ANN BRADSHAW won at first doubles for the other Irish poinL 
The Irish travel to the Lone Starstate this week for matches against the Texas Longhorns tonight, Texas A&M tomorrow and Texas-San Antonio Saturday. 
The men's swim tearnsetfiveMCCrecordsat the league meet this weekend, scoring 966 points. Second place Evansville scored only 524.5. DAVE THOMAN set an MCC record in the JOO-yard freestyle, and took first in two other events. Diver ED VEOME captured two events in scoring a conference-best 465.90 points. 
The men get a much needed rest before they head to Oeveland on the weekend of March 1-3 for the Eastern Intercollegiate Championships. 

---""""----'"t 
The women's swim team also won big, surpassing the men in margin of victory by scoring 1078 points. Freshman SUSAN BOHDAN set a record in the 1650 freestyle and captured another firsL SHANA STE­YENS and KAY BRODERICK also posted two victo­ries apiece. 
The women's Eastern Intercollegiate Champion­ships are in Baltimore February 22-24. 

TheNotre Dame men• s track team travels to the Indiana Intercollegiate meet in West Lafayette, IN next week. This past weekend, the Irish competed at the Central Collegiate Championships in Madison, WI and finished fifth. 
MIKE O'CONNOR placed first in the 1000­meter run and ran the lastleg of the first-place medley relay. RYAN CAHILL placed second in the 3000­meter run, and RUSTY SETZER took third in the 50­meter dash and sixth in the 200-meter dash. 
In action at Cleveland State University this past weekend, the Irish battled and steamrolled over five teams. Ninefencers went undefeated, withfoursabre­men and -five foilists crushing the opposition. LESZEK NOWOSIELSKI upped his career record to 62-1 in the sabre division. 
The team will have this weekend offas a handful of sophomores and freshmen travel to the Junior Olympics this weekend. 
The women also competed at Oeveland State last weekend and continued to roll this season. Senior KRISTIN KRALICEK went 10-0 for the weekend, and sophomore HEIDI PIPER went 15-1 as the Irish went undefeated. 
Thewomenalsohavetheweekoff,withthenext meet coming February 24th. Several underclassmen will travel to the Junior Olympics. 
SCHOLASTIC 

COMING DISTRACTIONS 

SPECIAL 
Start of JPW weekend. 
Sophomore class trip to American Bal­let Company in Chicago. Club Cup Nite, Alumni Senior Club, 
9:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. 
MUSIC 
Student Honors Recital: 8:00 p.m. Science Hall Octorium, Bethel College, Admission Free. 
MOVIE 
7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. "Talk Radio." Annenberg Auditorium. 
SPORTS 
Wrestling: Ohio University at Notre Dame. 
SPECIAL 
Sophomore Escape to Chicago. 
Windy City Shuttle, 9:45 a.m. at Main Circle. 


MfiMllt;:~~ll
.:;:;;: ;.;:,~-,;:=~ =~-~-i~t{:-::? ·1:::~:t:t::t? 
MOVIES 
7:00 P.M., "The Conversation." An­nenberg Auditorium. 
9: 15 p.m., "Laura." (B/W) 
MOVIE 

7:00 p.m. "Melvin and Howard." Annenberg Auditorium. 
SPECIAL 

Fireside Chat: "The Messages in the 
Music," 12:00 p.m.,.ISO Lounge. 
Cultural Roots of Music Dance, 8:00 p.m., Theodore's. 
MUSIC 

Cross the Border, Alumni Sr. Club 
EDITORIAL 


Taking the Weekend Off 
Junior Parents Weekend is a very special time for almost every ju.nior. For freshmen, sophomores and seniors, however, it is a period of boredom as a result of vague university policies forbidding other events from occurring. Ideally those students will leave campus for the weekend. But realistically, many students cannot afford a trip. Furthermore, DuLac denies freshmen the privilege of having a car creating transportation problems. How does the university respond? It cancels an approved student activity in its late planning stages. The policy outlining what can and can't occur during JPW must be clarified. Furthermore, that policy should allow for gatherings such as the Freshman Class Formal. JPW is a time for sharing the Notre Dame experience with those who have raised us. Why, then, does the administration attempt to create a facade by shutting down all campus events during this particular week­end? Students will drink regardless of whether or not they are attending a dance. To think that cancelling an event will significantly curve typical weekend behavior is wrong. Off campus parties will be held and (gasp) drinking will take place in the dorms as well. On top of not solving the problem·, the cancelling of the Freshman Class Formal can be taken as an insult to those planning to attend the dance. It's time to start treating college students as responsible adults .. Much time and effort was put into planning the event It would detract little if anything from the JPW experience. Inevitably, the administration feels obliged to create a perfect Notre Dame when the parents arrive. Freshmen, sophomores and seniors should not be made to suffer as a result. 
-Scholastic 
22 
SCHOLASTIC 
FINAL WORD 


Gospel Music at Notre Dame 
BY JENNIFER JENNINGS AND MARY MURRAY 
Gospel music at Notre Dame? Could it be done? Would it be accepted on a predominantly white campus that is accustomed to mellow church choirs? Well, in 1982 a small group of black students decided to try to bring gospel music to the Notre Dame campus. They formed a small gospel ensemble and namedit"The Voices ofPaith." The choir's purpose then and now is to enrich the Notre Dame community through the expression of gospel music and to establish and main­tain a spiritual link between Notre Dame and the South Bend Christian community. In these\early years "The Voices ofPaith" was virtually unknown on the Notre Dame campus. It was a small group ofstudents­about ten to fifteen individuals. It was de­cided that the Voices of Faith would open the annual Black Cultural Arts Festival with a concert and. invite local South Bend gos­pel choirs to join them. All the odds were against this small group surviving more than a couple of years. There was no faculty supervision (well, that could have been a blessing), few members, and very limited funds. But the Lord does work in mysterious ways. The last two years' growth of the choir, renamed Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble (NDVOFGE), has been incredible-almost unbelievable. Under the leadership ofJoce­
lyn Allen and Niobe Joseph, the choir grew from twenty to sixty people. These leaders were instrumental in organizing, uniting, and inspiring the members to establish and reach new goals. Through it all they helped the members to remember their purpose; that has helped the choir become what it is today. 

halls, and talked personally to students vis­a-vis for the concert that took place Febru­ary 4, 1990. Theconcertshowedhowmuch God can do for those who focus on His purpose. The choir, represented by about sixty members and musicians, along with five other local choirs, praised God with standing-room only in Washington Hall. This crowd was invited to sing, clap, and just praise God freely-and it did. As Cristina Ortiz, a student who attended the concert, said,"... the music just became a part of you... and you just wanted to get up and sing along." We know that many others were touched by the very same spirit. 
NDVOFGE's mission for the future is to continue growing as it has in the past. It encourages membership from all races. Presently, there are two white members in the choir, one of whom is the co-author of this article. "I joined simply because I love gospel music... I just had the courage to join." Notre Dame Voices of Paith Gospel Ensemble is certain that more students of almost every race on this campus would like to join it in singing God's praises, also. The choir welcomes you to join next semester .. AND THAT'S THE GOSPEL! . 
Mary Murray and Jennifer Jennings are both commissioners of the 
. I 
NDVOFGE. 
23

HUNCHBACK/GREG DELATE 
/Y· 
'I 

Hurr:; upJ I have -fo Cowie. oV\ mc,Y\ ) where. are. ~01,,,­prior; -J-,"e.5 ( 


24 



non-profit organization US POSTAGE 
PA ID 
No!"' Dame. Indiana Permit No. JO 

COMING ATTRACTIONS: 
FEB. 15 BLUES BROTHERS 
FEB. 17 THE ABYSS 
LOCATION: CUSHING AUDITORIUM SHOW TIMES: 8 PM AND 10:15 PM 
COMING SOON: 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 

Sponsored by 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 


