

Our team at Moreau Seminary 

• !,:_, <!?'> .


11.·-·! 
',-• ,1
...., 

lllllf -i,'. 



Julio Bozzo, C.S.C. Jimmy Correra !\fork Coomes Ste,·• Davidson Lou DclFrn, C.S.C. 







Phil Donner, C.S.C. Joe Fagun, C.S.C. Jim Gnllagher, C.S.C. Drew Gnwrych Mike Griffin, C.S.C. 
l : . _. 
. 
I ,, 


~: 
' 
. -.'
i.. 
~ . 



Ralph Hang, C.S.C. Greg Haake, C.S.C. Mark Holloway, C.S.C. Tom King, C.S.C. _Stephen Koeth, C.S.C. 






Vince Kunn Steve Lacroix Pete !lfcCormick, C.S.C. Charlie McCoy Pat McGowan, C.S.C. 






Joe Miller, C.S.C. Dan Pnrrlsh, C.S.C. George Plggrord, C.S.C. Kevin Sundberg, C.S.C. Andy Sebesta, C.S.C. 

ANSWER~ THE CALL'<))/ 

, HE.TWEN Y-SIXTH F SEPTEMBER -· . . · · . . · 


I 
08
Regulating at Reckers 
by Christopher Kelly 
_TABLE op· CONTEKITS _-. . ­
, It's no secret that the days of dorm : drinking are quickly fading away, but i are the on-campus crackd()wns going 
» For Safety's Sake by Mike Borgia 08 : a step too far? 
» Former QBs Find a Niche by Jimmy Atkinson 20 Separate and Unequal by Carolyn LaFave 
I ' I 12 
» Rocky on the Road by Gerard Meskill 22 COVER: After 30 years of co­
i Ieducation, how do" Notre Dame 
» SUB par? by Alexandra Gierak 28 female students stack up to their male counterparts? ! 
I 

-___ --26
. Hey, Mr. DJ ­
From the Editor  2  Out of Bounds  24  by Tracy E~ans  
ND Notebook  4  Week in Distortion  30  ,  Scholastic_ takes_ a behind-the_-scene_s  
Campus Watch  17  Calendar  31  look at the production of a WVFI radio  
Splinters  18  Final Word  32  hour.'  :  



look for 
ISSUE 04 
on 
OCT10 
Vol. 144, No. 03 • 26 SEP 2002 


SCHOL8STIC 
~-Editor in Chief 
Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
Cristin E. Fenzel 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Annie Robinson 
News 
Mike Borgia Christopher Kelly 
Campus Life 
Sean Dudley, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 
Carrie E. Sweeney, editor Tracy Evans, assistant !Matt Killen, assistant 
: Departments Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design 
Ryan Greenberg, manager Eric Doversberger, creative director Kristen Klein Curtis Leighton David Redenbaugh Tekla Sauter 
. Photography i Mike McNary, editori i Liesl Marx, assistant ! I 
Ii t !Graphic Design ! l Maryn Necel, editor 
r.-l i1 Copy i i Cecilia Hadley, chief · 
Jenn Belliveau Mo Ertel Claire Hadley Kim Thompson 
Distribution 
Mike McNary, manager 
, 
Business 
/ I Mary Ursu, manager 
! jOnline 
l: , Jamie L. Moran, manager
iiAdvisor 
L! Robert Franken '69 
[l 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of
i j the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume f ; liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All i' 1correspondence should be sent to Scholastic ti I magazine, 315 LaFortune Student Center, Notre 
J Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, /' ·1 letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before i i the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, 
[ . ! address and phone number. All letters must be signed. ' 
Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. What can I say now? Everybody reads this message. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days alter publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues 
, are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and 
i number, or date. Copies of the annual football review ; : are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates I available on request. The opinions expressed in , Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the 
U
University of Notre Dame or the student body. 


Eww, Cooties! 
0 n the day ofmy first home football game, I was about to head up to my dorm room in Pangborn Hall when I was stopped by a middle-aged man. "Do you live here?" he asked. When I nodded, his face twisted momentarily into a grimace. "I used to live here ... before it was turned into a girls' dorm," he said mourn­fully. Then, he stopped, and looked at me expectantly. Once I realized he was waiting for an invitation, I asked if he would like to come in. I watched how he stepped across the threshold, almost reverently, and looked around the inside of his old home that he could now only enter, according to the old rules, from 10 a.m. to 12 a.m. on the weekdays, and 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. on the weekend. (Provided, of course, he left an ID at the door in the evenings.) He seemed to want an audience, so I listened to him reminisce about the good old days when there were no Phoxy Ladies, only the Pangborn Violence. Although my tour guide wouldn't admit it to me, he clearly felt that when the university ripped out Pangborn's urinals, it also uprooted its residents' sense ofbrotherhood. He did, however, concede that the hall's smell had improved. And after 30 years of co-education, so have gender relations. But there's still something funny going on. It is still "Us vs. Them." There are boys, and then there are girls. They don't live together, sit together or work together. They don't even raise their fists at the same moment during the fight song. And when they do, occasionally, play together, too many of them rely on alcohol to ease the tension. They don't understand each other. So it's easy to generalize: Girls here don't do a, they're too b. Boys are so a. Why can't they just do b? And the resentment grows, and the gap widens. What's to blame? Is it parietals? Same-sex dorms?The university's Catholic tradition? Students' own backgrounds? Perhaps it's a combination of all ofthe above. Regardless, the situation ofwomen at Notre Dame is a unique one. And, at the 30-year mark, it's time to evaluate how far the university has come and measure the distance to bridging that gap. Scholastic's Carolyn Lafave takes out the ruler on page 12. 
Welcome aboard 
I'd like to welcome a new face to our editorial board. Mary Ursu, a Cavanaugh freshman, will be handling advertisements and other business matters for the maga­zine. We're glad to have her with us. Congratulations, Mary. We're sure you'll do a great job. 
~~ 
Sarah Childress, Editor 

Correction: The photographs for the Sept. 12 article "Acting in the Aftermath" were incorrectly attributed. The photographs were taken by Lies! Marx. Scholastic regrets the error. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 


It's hard to put a price on good taste. How does $2.99 sound? The Bacon Cheeseburger Value Meal. 

Got the urge?TM The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 
~------­
. . ~ .:· 
--------·-· --·------•­

I III,ii
!!
I I 
; 



4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 


"On the Ban~s of the Red Cedar, / There's a school that's 
known to all;/ Its specialty is farming,/ And those farmers 
> play football." 
-original Michigan State fight song 
"Notre Dame! More like Notre Lame." ·__:: inebriated Michigan State sorority girl 
> 
I32 Years Ago What Would Your Mother Say? 
In solemn reflection upon the current rules and regulations of this fine university, one might conclude that the administration is "tightening the slack." As rules banning naughty things such as hard alcohol, SYRs and even the term SYR demonstrate, there has been a movement in recent times toward a more conservative campus community. 

The Nov. 13, 1970 issue of Scholastic re­ported a similar tightening of slack on the Holy Cross campus. 
"Sex! Sex! Sex behind us! Sex before us! Sex, the inescapable reality! Being thor­oughly infuriated with their disobedient stu­dent body, the Administration ofHoly Cross College threatened to close down the Uni­versity ifthe students did not begin immedi­ately to obey the ban on inter-dorm visita­tion ... That's quite the solution to Univer­sity problems. Maybe if one concentrates real hard on such problems, others will go away." 
Sadly, it appears as though little progress has been made in the past 30 years with stu­dent-administration relations. 
-Meghan Gowan 

ended, I don't remember a whole lot. We just picked out the tackiest clothing pos­sible. 
Any more bets in the future for you? 
Oh yeah, I've already lost one. Now I have to get on my best clothing, like a suit and tie, get flowers, and go to the PW rectress and ask for her phone number. 
Are you going to take them up on it? Definitely, I'm not going to renege on a bet. 

What do you think will happen? 
I'm expecting a "No," and then a lecture on maturity. 
-Tracy Evans 

"All students should have blinkers on their butts to show 
-overheard student walking back from DeBartolo Hall 
-
the quad, like "I Touch Myself." I like some Vanilla Ice and The Safety Dance. "You Turn Me Right Round" was a real good one. 
Did you get many strange reactions from people passing by? 
There were a number of really strange looks walking through the hallways of DeBartolo, but most people were smiling and a great deal were laughing ... we did have a couple people dance to the tunes out on the quad once. 
How heavy is that boombox, and what do you do with it once you get to class? 
After about five to 10 minutes, it starts to 
-philosophy professor 
get heavy, but then I just switch shoul­ders. I play it right up till the point I sit down in class. I've gotten some funny looks from teachers. 

How about in the dining halls? 
I would just take it in and leave it playing ... North people seemed to like it better. I got a couple standing ovations and there were people coming over, telling us to turn it up. In South, some chick told us "Some ofus are trying to have conversa­tions" ... then we would turn it down for a few minutes before turning it back up. 
Do you have fond menwries of the de­cade? What inspired your look? 
Since I w~s, like, seven years old when it 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 

r 
): 
I' 
d 



I Judgment Calls 
Ill Opinions and observations 
t 
ND GIRLS 
After 30 years, we're still glad you're here. 
t 
THE SKUNK 
The new night watch on North Quad keeps students in line. Well, except for the Keenan guys who attempted to trap it under a box and release it in Zahm. Don't give up, guys. 
.+ NATIONAL RICE MONTH 
Jars of rice? Rice posters? What's the big deal about rice? Yet, somehow, it makes the NOH experience very special. 
t 
BEFUDDLED AND 
BEMUSED 
Who would have thought we'd 
miss it so much? 
t 
WILLI-DILLI COMBO 
Tyrone Willingham, with Pat Dillingham's fourth-quarter heroics, has done what Rockne could not -win his first four games as Irish head coach. 
MICHIGAN STATE FANS 
"Well, I still feel bad for you, 
because you have to go back to 
Notre Dame," said one such fan 
after the game. Excuse me? Since 
when did East Lansing become 
Miami Beach? 

I Domelights
I COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 

It's almost an American ci.ne·m·atic tradi­tion -the interminable marathon of movie previews before a feature film. Strings of these movie trailers seem to last longer than the films themselves, and all too often they reveal the entire plot. This fall's best offerings still might be months away from release, but the verdict is in on those too-revealing previews. One of October's most anticipated re­leases is Red Dragon, the prequel to both The Silence of the 
trailer for Harry Potter.: and The Chamber ofSecrets. The follow~up to last year's sur­prisingly entertaining original, this second installment of the well known novel se­ries could have cut a far better preview. The trailer certainly is filled with eye candy, but little more. Shots of new and familiar characters at Hogwart's School are interlaced with semi-coherent hints at the plot. The entire thing feels more like a toy commercial than a movie preview, which, depending on 

Lambs and Hannibal. how the studio looks at
This fall's best offerings
With such an estab­it, could be exactly what lished pedigree be­still might be months away they wanted. 
fore it, Dragon has from release, but the ver­From one popular some big shoes to fill. franchise to the next,

dict is in on those pre-
The trailer hints at a Star Trek: Nemesis style and tone more views. comes to theaters in De­
akin to the suspense of Lambs than the gruesome brutality of Hannibal, but how will such an established franchise survive in the hands of the direc­tor ofRush Hour? 
James Bondis back on the big screen this November in' Die Another Day, Pierce Brosnan's fourth outing as agent 007. Will this entry follow its recent predecessors with a contrived plot, boring action and a less­than-witty Bond? Loaded with the huge and · elaborate action pieces that made the Connery-era great, the trailer also boasts Bond girl Halle Berry as a classic-looking femme fatale named Jinx. Nevertheless, there's little evidence ofwit, and what's this -James Bond surfing? To paraphrase the mediocre trailer, here's hoping this series lives to die another day. 
They don't get m.ore pointless than the 
cember. Nemesis is the 10th entry in the semi es, and the trailer hints that it might also be the last. Will Nemesis live up to the hype? 
. Ifthe trailer is any indiciation, it certainly has a darker and more sinister tone than the previous movies. The trailer itself is packed with great space battles and combat scenes, but fans and non-fans alike might question how, exactly, a c~r chase in SUV s can plau­sibly occur in the 24th century."This generation's final journey" will either leave its fans satisfied with a rousing ending to the phenomenon, or just glad that this franchise is being finally put away. 
Trailers might not always give away the entire movie -the best never do -but until Hollywood wises up, why bother spending two hours and eight bucks when you've al­ready seen the best parts? 

Source: Dan Brazo, manager of Athletic Facilities 
Eighty thousand people + one Notre Dame Stadium = an extremely large mess. A crew of 30 to 40 people start the cleanup Saturday night after each home football game. They don't finish until Monday, when they blow out all the peanut shells from the stands. So what about the rest of the campus? 
60-100 workers clean up the tailgate lots and grounds on Sunday morning. 10 tons of garbage are cleaned from the parking lots by a trash compactor during the game to curb the mess later. 20 truckloads of garbage are hauled away each game. 
10-15 hours later, the campus and stadium are left squeaky clean. 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 26 SEPTEMBER 2002 






Now It 
.Comes With 
A List Of lngredientsa 
A short new report from your water sup~li_er will tell you what's --in• yourtap water. Look for your report and read it. When it comes _ 
to your drinking water, the most important ingredient is you. 
Drinking Water; Know What's In It For You. 
Call your water supplier or the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791. Or visit www.epa.gov/safewater/ 
··············································~ 
: UniversityResources · .:
. :
. . 


: ·for Gay, Lesbian, ~ : : Bisexuai Students :
••••m •
• THE 9'.l'ANDINO COMMITTEE ON 
: GAY AND LESBIAN 
• STUDEf'.!T NEEDS 

• •• ••• The Standing Committee on Gay arid Lesbian Student Needs
.•

.. . (Confidential information, education, and resources) 
I
.. ·.-. Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudeni • ! 
.. -• 

'!'embers (see web site for student contact info.) 
••• . 
Office of Campus Ministry . 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students · •••••and their friends; pertinent library resources in · ... 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) ••Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu • 

University -Counseling Center •
•
(Individual-counseling) Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • ••••• • 
~----------------------~ ,...................~ .........................~ 

Don't let your left-brain have all the fun... 

Exercise your right! 
Weld words into poetry and prose, paint a 
portrait, craft with clay, cast color onto canvas... 
whatever tickles your creative fancy. Then, submit your work to THE JUGGLER, ND's student literary, art and design magazine. If we like it, we'll print it 
in this semester's issue! Submit artwork to Robert Sedlack in 212 Riley Hall. Written work can be submitted to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Supply slides for pieces larger than 11" x 17" or 3-D work. All submissions should include title c,f piec~ . author/artist's nam~ and an email address. 
DEADLINE FOR ALL SUBMISSIONS: Friday, 

November 1st 

!, 
u 
ii: 
:11 



id~rtl.\,
i) 




Regulating at Reckers 
Drinking in your room might be OK, but walk outside and you could be in for some serious trouble as campus security and police step up patrols 
CHRISTOPHERKELLY
Carefully watching the students chomping on a late-night snack at Reckers, a security guard paces back and forth. It wasn't always that way. Manager Paula Roberts remembers dealing with the late­night crowd in the earlier years of the res­taurant: "We'd find beer cans all over the place, missing or destroyed furniture, ketchup packets smashed," says Roberts. Fellow manager Holly Mwachande says stu­dents attempting to leave with couches and armchairs in tow was quickly becoming a common occurrence. "It was tough to be able to run the restaurant smoothly when everyone was out of hand -the students' patience level isn't as long when they're in­toxicated," Roberts says. "We have to have 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
hands behind the line to get the food out, so when we had to deal with crowd control it made it a lot harder." 
A couple ofyears ago, Reckers manage­ment decided to make a change. They em­ployed security officers from the Notre Dame Security/Police department in an at­tempt to reign in unruly students. "The de­struction was the big key ofwhy we needed the security," says Roberts. 

Roberts acknowledges that things have changed since Reckers started employing NDSP officers. "(Security) makes it easier -our production can stay on a timely fash­ion," says Roberts. "From the beginning when we opened up, it was a lot different from now." Currently, Reckers employs se­curity officers from Thursday through Sat­urday. Four NDSP officers rotate this posi­tion. 
The Reckers transformation foreshad­owed this year's crackdown on underage drinking and intoxication. Only a month into this school year, there have been 114 cita­tions for underage drinking and/or public intoxication on campus, leading some stu­dents to link the new alcohol policy to the increased security presence in popular late­night spots and out on the quads. (The sta~ tistics for citations given by this time in fall 2001 could not be made available by the NDSP.) 
"It's fair to say we're cracking down," says Rex Rakow, NDSP director. "In the last two years we have increased our alcohol en­forcement." 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 
Some students' weekend nights have been drastically affected not only by the presence ofthe security officers, but also the simple little objects in the officers' possession. The security officers at Reckers are equipped with "Alco-Sen­sors," which are hand-held breath testing devices. Roberts says officers only have started using the devices within the past year, and Rakow does not believe the use of them should be an issue. "They're not a deterrent, just a tool we use," he says. This tool, however, has led to underage drinking citations being given to nine stu­dents at Reckers this school year. "Ifwe are using (Alco-Sensors) more, it's be­cause we're coming in contact with in­toxicated students more," says Rakow. 
To some students, it seems the recent push to eliminate public intoxication at Reckers and other campus locations is linked to the school's first major revisions to the alcohol policy since 1984. (See sidebar). 
Sorin sophomore Ryan Morton does not think the Alco-Sensors are unnecessary; rather, he is worried that the officers will use them to target everyone instead ofthe students whose behavior warrants atten­tion. "Unless you are acting drunk, fall­ing around and making a scene, or unless you actually have a beer, there is no rea­son for them to 
dents to be conscious that it is a public restaurant, and just like any other place on campus, it needs to be respected. I think, more or less, the security lets them realize that they need to be on their better behavior," says Roberts. This year, how­
"If we are using ''(Alco-Sensors) more, it's because we're coming in con­tact with intoxicated students more." 
-NDSP director Rex Rakow 
''

ever, "once in a while" is happening more often. The night ofSeptember first, seven citations alone were issued by NDSP to students for "Liquor Law Violations" at and around Reckers. 
Like Rakow, Roberts does not view use ofthe the Alco-Sensors in a negative light. 
"From my point ofview, we have the best interests ofthe students in mind. We want to be able to feed them 24 hours a day and also look out for their safety. We care about each and every one of them," says Roberts. She does not believe the secu­rity guards are looking to cite underage drinkers. Rather, the intoxicated students' behavior draws the attention of the offic­ers. "When they see them stand in line and there is unusual conduct, such as cutting in line or abusive language, that's what catches the security officers' attention. And at that point they may ask them how old they are. They're not out looking for underage drinkers," she says. In some cases, she says, students should be thank­ful that security officers approached them at Reckers. "A few have been sent to the hospital that had ungodly alcohol levels," says Roberts, "so it may actually help someone in the long run." 
Only time will tell whether this spike in citations at Reckers is related to a grand cam­paign against public intoxication on cam­pus. As for now, it seems that with the sup­port ofthe restaurant's management and the NDSP, the security guards and their Alco­Sensors will continue to deliver a strong message to students: come sober, or don't come at all. D 
-with reporting by Annie Robinson 

breathalyze you." Rakow, however, sees 
Dulac 
no connection between the two events. He says 
A closer look at the new alcohol policy 
it's too early in the year to see if there is any cor­The new alcohol policy has 
relation between the new been etched into this year's 
alcohol policy and any DuLac, but some of the details 
increase in public intoxi­might have gotten lost in the din 
cation on campus. 
ofliquor bottles hitting the Main 
Morton,· however, al­Building. Just in case you 
ready sees one: "Now, haven't memorized pages 90 
one has to worry about through 92, here's a closer look 
whether or not they 
at what's in the fine print. 
might get in trouble if One change involves under­ing was not too noisy and did not spill into the hallways. The 2002-2003 edition of DuLac contains no such provision. That gives the university more power to intrude upon students who might be drinking, regardless of whether they cause a distur­bance. 
Another revision involves the 
Perhaps most significantly, the punishments for policy viola­tions are more severe. The old policy allowed for rectors to dis­cipline students for abuses such as transporting unconcealed al­cohol and "severe" intoxication within the dorm. The current policy allows the first abuse to occur within the hall to be 

they go there after only a few beers in the dorm,"he says.Saying that students are apprehended for pub­lic intoxication only "once in awhile," Rob­erts does not believe that the presence of security officers is detrimental to Reckers's business. "The security just reminds stu­age possession ofalcohol within dorm rooms. Section 1 of the previous policy states: "The University will enter a private residence room for the purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such a room becomes public in any way," which means that underage drinking would be tolerated as long as the gather-serving size of alcoholic bever­handled by the rector. Second ages. Part of the definition of and other violations must be "abusive drinking" (section 4b dealt with immediately by the of the new policy) is that "con­Office of Residence Life, and sumption of alcohol directly the $200 fines formerly asso­from containers intended for ciated with these violations multiple servings" is prohibited. have been replaced with the Translation: Np swigging from possibility of suspension or wine bottles or 40 oz. bottles of expulsion. beer. -Jim Ryan 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 




For Safety's Sake . .... . . 
Two potentially linked muggings spark NDSP and faculty reaction 
MIKEBORGIA
Among the spate of campus crimes in recent weeks, two incidents in particular have prompted reactions 
from the administration and campus secu­rity. But concerns still remain among stu­dents and faculty about whether enough has been done to ensure campus safety. 
The first incident, an at­tempted robbery, occurred on Thursday, September 5 at approximately 10:30 p.m. between Keough and O'Neill Halls. The second, in which a student was robbed of about $50, oc­curred a week later on Thursday, September 12 at 
11 :20 p.m. on the south side 
ofthe Rockne Memorial. NDSP director Rex 
dence hall. Pangborn Hall students and other 
area residents still pass through the court­
yard after dark as a shortcut on their way to 
and from West Quad and Reckers. Pangborn freshman Katie Murray adds: "The hall announcements from rectors are often [ignored] so I don't think they are very 
effective." 

· ··.: ·-ButevenCampusWatchbul­letins, notices posted by NDSP to notify students of incidents 
that occur on campus, aren't sufficient, some studen~s say. 
"[The bulletins] reiease some random unrelated details and not much information," Murray says. Other students described the NDSP postings as "lacking in detail," and sev­eral students interviewed were even unfamiliar with the inci-. dents in question. "I haven't heard much about the robber­ies at all," Nelson says. 

Rakow says campus security responded by sending out plainclothes officers to patrol South Quad, specifically the area around Fisher, Pangborn, and the Rockne Memorial on the evening of September 19, the Thursday evening following the second incident. 
"Our investigative section has analyzed both of the robberies and is working with area departments on the suspect information that we have," adds assistant director Chuck Hurley. "We are watching the entire cam­pus, but paying particular attention to the area by the Rock and the West Quad." Hurley also referred to a series of other in­vestigative measures which he did not wish to have publicized. 
Despite this reaction, some members of the campus community feel that more needs to be done. Fisher Hall junior Andy Vitt suggests a need for the university to improve poorly lit areas through additional lighting and emergency phones. "The school needs to take a proactive approach to making stu­dents feel safer on campus rather than wait­ing for more incidents to occur," he says. Pasquerilla West sophomore Kelly Nelson agrees: "I have no idea where the 'emer­gency· phones' on campus are located. 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
Maybe campus security could add a few more in obvious places, or make them stand out more than they do. I'd hate to be in need of assistance and have no idea how to get it." 
Pangborn Hall rector Heather Rakoczy is particularly concerned about the lighting in the courtyard between Pangborn and Fisher 
WATCHER IN THE WOODS A pair of muggings has prompted the university to 
dispatch plainclothes police officers to patrol campus. 
Halls, since the first victim was followed from here to West Quad. Rakoczy worries about the large trees which obstruct the· 
courtyard's lights despite agreeing that the 
lighting itselfis sufficient. Similarly, she be­lieves that the shrubbery between the Rock 
and the putting green, where the September 
12 incident occurred, is the cause ofdoubts as to the area's safety. The rows of shrubs create hiding places for potential assailants and a "fence" which prevents any escape. "There is no place to go," says Rakozcy. 

She decided to contact the Department of Risk Management and Safety, asking that the branches in the courtyard be trimmed to resolve the problem. Accord­ing to Robert Zerr, Risk Management and Safety director, the department has sug-· gested that the university consider im­proving the lighting in the area. How­ever, risk managment is playing no active role in the issue and to date, no landscap­ing changes have been made. 
Rakozcy also advised her residents in a voice-mail to avoid the areas where the muggings occurred. But the courtyard and putting green border almost the entire resi-Still, as. is usually the case, 

many students remain un­shaken, and do not pl~ to make significant changes to their behavior, aside from an in­creased awareness oftheir surroundings. "I think the only precaution I will take is look­ing around andbeing aware ofmy surround­ings_ if I am in a poorly lit area like by the Rock," says Vitt. Other students said that they would try to travel in groups more of­ten when walking after dark or try to avoid poorly lit areas whenever possible. Others said the incidents would not affect them at all. "I go jogging nightly and have no fear ofbeing held up," says Keenan Hall sopho­more Stephen Dick. 
Despite the rarity ofthese incidents, Notre Dame is not immune from crime. "It is al­ways important for everyone to stay aware and alert oftheir surroundings and to con­tact our department immediately when they observe anything that arouses their suspi­cions," says Hurley. 
Even the second mugging victim, Phil Wittliff, wasn't too worried: "No matter how strict campus security is, it can't stop ev­erything," he says. "Being at Notre Dame gives you a false sense of security, but you still have to be careful." . 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 

.c: 
.'!: lv 
LL 
j 
"O C: 
lv 
QJ 
u 
C: 
lv 
0 .c: 
V, 
'i:
-
ti 
(IJ

a. . 
a. 
~ 
v:i 
V, V, 
lv 
iJ 
""' V,
-
PERFORMANCES BY: Harmonia, FASO, Porn Pon Squad, Bagpipe Band, 
!lJ

SHOWCASING CULTURES FROM AROUND THE WORLD :::c 
-· 

·N'7tre.D{i\,fn,e, {;,{i\,fn,fU5 Wit{e ]=fi\,ir -· ~ 


Saturday, Sept. 28 
rAtir "J'e:ns p.,t t:,o }'_·f),,· ?e-rfrrf),,p.,nus stp.,rt p.,t ..e.:oo J'·f),,· 
North Quad Admission is FREE 

C: 
O' 
~ 
G1 C: 

FREE FOOD from China, the 
£fr' 
""'I


Caribbean, the Philippines, 
iJ 
cii


· France, Ireland, Guam, 
~


Hawaii, Korea, Latin 
""'I 
V,


America, Poland, Russia, 
)> 
VI


and Vietnam 
VI 
0 
r' 
~ 

Sponsored by Student Government, Student Activities, MSPS, SUB, and Campus Ministry 




---_. · . . ·, I ..---··I 
SEP;ARATE AND ,,,.E~UAL After 30 y~ars,1women at ND itdl f1rugkle to _oM~rccpme double stan~·ar9~-• ._ 

In 1842~ the Rev. Edward Sorin established the Uni~~rsity of Notre Dam~ du Lac to ~du~ate young men aspiring to learn and achieve· success. · And so it was for 130 years. 
And then, the women arrived. Women who were determined to find their place in an · environment dominated by men. Since the first day of a co-educational campus, the university's females increasingly 
have become leaders, athletes, and even rivals of their male classmates. But has a balance been reached? As the university celebrates 30 years of co-education~ Scholastic examines the -role of female students on campus, and the challenges they face in a university with a historically masculine identity. 
12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 

Student Life 
Perhaps it isn't surprising that an institu­tion whose celebrities are priests and foot­ball players took 28 years to elect a woman as student-body president. Brooke Norton made history two years ago when she was voted into office, and this year, senior Libby Bishop has followed in her footsteps. Women also have served in other campus leadership positions for years, whether as members ofstudent government or club of­ficers. "It's been on the upswing in the last few years, almost to the point where the majority ofleadership positions are held by women," says Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. This year, about 44 per­cent ofstudent clubs have female presidents. 
Yet the university still has far to go, ac­cording to a report by the University Com­mittee on Women Faculty and Students, that examines and proposes solutions to gender inequalities on campus. The UCWFS con­sists of 12 elected faculty members, four menibers appointed by the university presi­dent, two graduate students elected by tbe Graduate Union, and two undergraduate stu­dents elected by Student Government. '.'The opinion ofa lot ofus who've been here for awhile is that gender relations are not that good," says chairwoman Teresa Phelps '73. Last year, the committee appealed to the Rev. Mark Poorman, CSC, vice presiderit ofStu­dent Affairs, in a report that details main gender inequities and proposes solutions. 
First, the report states that there are fewer assistant rectors for the female student popu­lation than for male students. "Overall, the women's dorms have a 208: 1 student to AR ratio; the men's dorms have a 154:1 ratio," the committee wrote. "The decision as to how many ARs should be hired in a dorm thus appears to be based on a single imper­missible factor -sex." The report recom­mends that a uniform standard for the AR-student ratio be equally applied to men's and women's dorms. · 
The committee's report also highlights inequality in residence hall security. The fact that there are no security guards for men's dorms presents an initial disparity, but the committee also questioned the actual role of security guards. "The Committee had some difficulty obtaining a job description for security monitors; at first, Human Re­sources, Security, and Student Affairs all claimed not to have one. Finally, Security 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 
provided two descriptions ... The security monitors are expected to '[p]erform fire watch and security functions to protect the lives and property ofthe University ofNotre Dame' and to '[b]e aware of, and act in ac­cordance with University rules and regula­tion [ and] to notify the shift commander and rector ... ofany violation ofrules and regu­lations, or any other suspicious or unusual many rectors in the women's dorms more strictly interpret what has to be done and when, and what may occur during a party ... [Secondly,] students report that the rec­tors in women's dorms are much more likely to react strongly to women's overconsump­tion than the rectors in men's dorms ... stu­dents report that a male's drinking is often treated 'as boys will be boys' while a woman 


"We believe that arbitrarily treating our women students _differently from men students, treating them as irresponsible and in need of watching, demeans them and sends a message contrary to our educational mission." 
-report by University Committee for Women, Faculty, and Students 
occurrence."' The report drew two conclu­
sions: First, the lack of security guards in 
men's dorms implies that only women's 
dorms should be kept safe -that men's lives 
and property are not in as much need of se­
curity. And secondly, it indicates that 
women's behavior should be more closely 
monitored than men's. 
The report criticized security monitors' 
behavior as well, calling it "inappropriate, 
judgmental, and patronizing," and also in­
consistent. "Many women students claim that 
they feel 'spied upon' by the security moni­
tor," the report continues. "Some security 
monitors make inappropriate remarks to the 
women and the men who visit them, telling 
them, for example, to 'keep their feet on the 
floor' if sitting together on a couch in 24­
hour space watching television. As a result, 
some women are so uncomfortable that they do not use their dorms' 24-hour-space ...We · believe that arbitrarily treating our women students differently from men students, treat­. ing them as irresponsible arid in need of watching, demeans them and sends a mes­sage contrary to our educational mission." The report suggests that ifdorms are to have security monitors, they should have them in all residence halls. It also recommends out­lining a specific code of conduct for the monitors, with consequences for violating it. 
Lastly, the report details discrepancies in. 
rule enforcement between men's and 
women's dorms. "Certain procedures are 
necessary for having a party in the dorm, but 
student's drinking is treated as a moral or character problem." The committee pro­posed training for rectors that would focus on gender equity. 
So far, the Office of Student Affairs has taken little action in response to the report. Sr. Jean Lenz, assistant vice president ofStu­dent Affairs, explains why the university hasn't addressed the report's issues. The number of assistant rectors "was based on [enrollment] numbers in the past," says Lenz, who has been employed by the uni­versity since 1973 and spent 10 years as rec­tor of Farley Hall. Fewer students meant fewer ARs, and there was a lack of avail­able living space for ARs in some women's dorms. "In the beginning, [the issue] was never raised in the sense that 'I need another assistant rector.' It's definitely something that is a concern [now]. It's time to look at it seriously and for something to happen." She thinks there is a definite possibility for equal numbers of assistant rectors in the future. 
Lenz sees upcoming changes for security monitors as well. "There is a need for some kind of night security on campus. We have concerns from men's rectors too," she says. Although there is no plan for phasing out security guards, Lenz said they might be installed in men's dorms. She predicts the development ofa more consistent system in the next few years, and mentions that there are already some standards put forth in the job description. But that does not account for modifications made by each hall's rec-
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 



tor. "The security guard takes a lot of her cues from what the rector expects. [But soon] there'll be a set of policies that will be uniform for everyone in security." 
Aside from the standards outlined in Du Lac, "Rectors have all different styles and expectations," she says. "You're never go­ing to make this place all uniform because you have rectors who have their own unique personalities and ways ofbuilding commu­nity. It's like watching coaches on football teams ... !Cs not like [the rectors] are against uniformity, but it's never going to be per­fect." 
One future change Lenz doesn't see is co­ed dorms. "The longer I have been in this kind of work in Student Affairs and the longer I have watched it across the country, I think there's strong evidence that shows there are advantages and disadvantages of single-sex and co-ed dorms." After her 10 years as a rector, Lenz recognizes the im­portance of building strong friendships through living with a group ofpeers ofthe same sex. 
But Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, suggests the disadvantages outweigh the advantages. "There is a sense that women have to be protected," she says. "The more repressive the atmosphere, the more it creates that kind of attitude ... We have programs like Lon-. don, where students live in co-ed situations, and in fact students tend to enjoy it and make friends better than they do on campus. They tend to think of themselves as brothers and sisters." 
Academics 
When women began enrolling, the admis­sions department capped the number of women who were admitted because oflim­ited space for housing, says Jill Bodensteiner from the Office of General Counsel. Now, she says, "We do totally gender-blind admis­sions." 
The policy has led to 54 percent males and 46 percent females in the 2000-2001 school year. And according to Institutional Re­search, statistics do not reflect a disparity in test scores. For the fall 2001 semester, the average SAT score for male applicants was approximately 1294, and the average score for women was about 1268. 

Despite the overall balance, students tend to segregate themselves within colleges and majors. Fifty-five percent ofstudents in the School ofArchitecture are women. The Col­lege of Business has fewer: There are 37 percent women and 63 percent men. Perhaps the most striking disparity can be seen in the College of Engineering. "At one time we . were at 23, 24 percent female, but in the last four or five years we have tracked down­ward ... Now it's 20 percent," says dean Frank Incropera. This summer, the college hired Cathy Pieronek as the director of the Women's Engineering Program, which aims to encourage a sense of community among female engineering students. "I don't think we have done well in the past, but hopefully . we will do well inthe future," Incropera says. 
The committee also plans to lend a hand in its next report, brainstorming solutions to lure more women into the field. 
The College of Science, with 49 percent women in fall 2001, has also made steps to­ward recruiting. Fifteen years ago, they es­tablished Term Chairs, a program that ap­points different professors to a chair posi­tion every five years to grant money to women and minority faculty members. It gives them the opportunity to achieve more prominent status and make progress in their research. Administrators also plan to intro­duce amentor program in which female un­

dergraduate science majors will have the 
opportunity to interact with alumnae who 
have succeeded in the field. Additionally, the chemistry department sponsors a "Miss. Wizard" program in the summer to encour­
age female high school seniors to major in 

the sciences. 

The College of Arts and Letters, which reports 58 percent women for fall 2001, has also taken strides to educate the campus about gender issues by establishing a depart­ment devoted to the subject. Officially be­gun in 1989, Gender Studies addresses top­ics that affect both men and women, yet the majority ofits students are still women. "We do actively recruit and reach out to men," says Assistant Director Dr. Sophie White. One of the biggest efforts to get students involved in gender issues is the addition of agender section ofthe Arts and Letters Core 
course, which addresses various elements of 
gender issues, including historical, cultural and racial influences, as well as an attempt to define gender and its effects on society. 

Athletics 

In 1972, Title IX of the Educational Amendments -a federal law mandating financial and participatory equality between the sexes in athletics -was passed. Bodensteiner, who is also chairwoman ofthe athletic department's Gender Equity Task Force, says Title IX includes three require­ments with which the university must com­
ply: participation opportunities, which in­
volves equal chances for participation for males and females; financial aid, which fo­

·. . . ~ ,: ~, ~ .~· .~ \' "• 
·PERCENT FEMALE COMPOSITION OF UNIVERSITY COLLEGES 
• > • -, • ' ' • • • '-, I,,., • •, \ ' : --~~ • 
Architecture Arts & Letters Business Engineering Science 
55 58 37 2049 
14 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 

NOT QUITE POWDER PUFF Since women are unable to have a varsity football team equal to the men's costly program, interhall football is as 
good as it gets. 
cuses on differences in money granted to men and women; and the "laundry list," which details several items that the univer­sity itself will control. 
Participation opportunities includes three standards of compliance. The first, known as "safe harbor," indicates that the propor­tion of athletes of either gender should be equal to the proportion of students of that gender. The second option is a "history and continued practice of expansion," and the last one is "fully and effectively meeting the interests of your students," Bodensteiner says. "We believe we are in compliance ­maybe not with all three ways, but [ a uni­versity] just has to [ comply with] one." She · adds that the university does not meet the standard because the number ofstudent ath­letes does not exactly mirror gender percent­ages of the student population. 
Title IX's financial aid requirement states that scholarship money must be distributed to within one percent of the proportion of athletes. In other words, if female athletes make up 45 percent of the total number of athletes, 44 to 46 percent of total scholar­ship money must be given to females. "Notre Dame is very close to being in compliance with that," Bodensteiner says, and will move even closer to full compliance as the ath­letic department gradually phases in schol­arships for new programs, such as women's rowing. 
The "laundry list" contains 11 items, such as facilities, promotions, training and recruit­ing, for which a university may control its use of money. "It's not a dollar-for-dollar analysis [in this requirement]," Bodensteiner says. The law suggests that universities treat men and women the same in these areas, but does not regulate such decisions. 
In the 2000-2001 school year, the univer­sity spent $18,714,713 on men's varsity ath­letics, including $11.8 million spent on foot­ball, and earned $45,980,723. Women's var­sity sports, on the other hand, incurred ex­penses totaling $7,067,939, while generat­ing only $311,891 in return, including 
$200,000 for the NCAA championship. So 
though the university made almost 28 mil­
lion dollars on men's sports, it lost nearly 7 
million dollars on women's sports. 
These numbers are not quite indicative of the norm because ofthe football team's com­petition in the Fiesta Bowl -the $11.8 mil­lion spent on football includes transporta­tion to the game for the team and all univer­sity attendees, including the band. The women's basketball team's extended season leading up to their victory in the NCAA National Championship added $200,000 to the women's total, as well. But during typical years, men's sports returns still greatly ex-& ceed those of women's sports. 
W 
So why does it appear that the university spends so much more on men's sports than women's? "If you just use the word -'football,' that explains it," Tom Nevala, assistant athletic direc­tor for business operations, 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 
.1 I 
11-,.i. ·~ ----~ ·•' ,! 

NO GIRLS NEXT DOOR Some say single-sex dorms inhibit relationships between men and women, forcing students to look elsewhere for friends of the opposite sex. 
says. "It just costs a lot more to run a team of 100 members that's been around for 100 years than it does for some of our newer teams. Ifyou took out expenses for football, it would be even." He adds that a lot of the money goes toward scholarships -the foot­ball team alone has 85 awards. 
Despite these discrepancies, Bodensteiner is happy with the status of gender equity in sports. "Over the last four years, we've made significant progress," she says. "We have never really been tested, but we self-audit and our self-audits indicate compliance [ with each Title IX requirement]." 
There are now 13 varsity teams each for male and female athletes. Since 1988, there have been no additions to the men's varsity sports, and wrestling was dropped as a uni­versity offering, in order to make room for women's sports. The most recent additions -women's lacrosse in 1996 and women's rowing in 1998 -mark an attempt to pro­vide more varsity opportunities for the in­creasing population of females in the stu­dent body, as stated in the athletic department's Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act. 
And many women athletes do feel that they receive equal treatment in terms ofac­commodations, facilities and training. "The athletic department does a pretty good job making the women's department feel as welcome as the men's. I feel that we are just as important," says Sarah Keefer, a member of the varsity rowing team. Alicia Ratay of the women's basketball team also thinks the treatment is equal. 
Ifthe university balances funding, dispari­ties remain in the teams' fan base. When the women's basketball team won the NCAA 
National Championship in 2001 with a 34­
2 record, they had an average home-game 
attendance of 6,376 spectators. The men's 
team, which finished 20-10, attracted an av­
erage of 10,413 fans per home game -f!nd 
the men's team charges admission. 
"Not as many students support women's 

sports. Most of the fans are locals or fam­
ily," varsity basketball player LeTania Se­
vere says. When they returned from the 
championship tournament, she recalls: 
"There were a lot of students waiting for us 
when we got back, but it wasn't like that 
during the rest of the season." 
Perhaps a cultural bias comes into play as 

well: "Men are better," says Nick Kheriaty, 
a junior in St. Edward's HaH. He attended 
his first women's soccer game just 3 weeks 
ago, and finds men's games more entertain­
ing. "Not everyone's going to go to all the 
athletic events and ifanyone's going to pick 
one, they're going to pick the most elite.':I'm 
not saying that's right or wrong, but that's 
what happens," he says. 
Perhaps it does. In the 1998-1999 basket­

ball season, the men finished 14-16, with an 
average of 8,298 spectators at home games. 
The women's record was 26-5, but the av­
erage attendance was only 2,996. 
Women have been a significant part ofthis ·university for 30 years now, and there has 
been much progress in that time to adjust to a co-educational institution and lifestyle. ."The very best thing women ever did was they went to class and they were good stu­dents," Lenz says. "And they continue to come here and do well. They leave here and they do so many incredible things with their lives. And that's what put balance in this 
place." 
Balance? Maybe not. The university has 

a lot to improve on before it reaches an ac­
tual balance between sexes. Many efforts 
indicate steps in the right direction, espe­
cially as Notre Dame women continue to 
challenge double standards and strive for 
true gender equality. 0 
-With reporting by Sean Dudley 

16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 26 SEPTEMBER 2002 

G'day.• Gipplings. The Gipper has been in high spirits recently-the football team seems to have re­covered quite nicely from the Davie Era, the snow is unseasonably late, and the Gipp hasn't had to deal with hundreds of SYR rejections. And, most importantly, the Gipper's· inbox has been positively brim­ming with high-quality tips .. 

Soft Evidence 
Our first report brings us to the hallowed halls of Keough where a mysterious, scatalogically-obsessed individual has ap­parently been plying his trade. A pair of roommates, weary from a hard day's study­ing, returned home last week to what had become a familiar smell emanating from the comer oftheir room. Deciding that they had had it, the two young men set to work on a search-and-destroy mission against the of­fending substance. (The Gipp's first ques­tion: Why did it take them half a week to do something about it?) They inspe~ted the sink and rinsed it out-thoroughly, but the smell remained. "How about the cabinet under the sink?" one of the sleuths sug­gested. And like the pot of gold at the end of a rainbow, there it sat -a steaming, three-day old, human dump. 
After overcoming the initial shock, the roommates decided to inspect it. (Second question goes without saying.) They de­scribed the defecator's diet as "fibrous." They also detennined that the average hu­man behind could not have fit into their cabinet, meaning that someone had scooped up the excrement and brought it down the haU into their room. Wash your spoons, Gipplings. . 
The tipsters made no mention as to whether the feces were ever cleaned up or whether they just sat around staring at it all week. 

Twice as Nice 
Watch out next time you're ambling' down Corby Street alone -the Gipper has • received reports of a dangerous duo op­erating in the area. Apparently, a recent alum of this fine university was walking along unsuspectingly when he was. accosted by a young woman ofrandy persuasion and was taken into her apartment. After an hour or two ofhelping her wax the coffee table, he re-emerged and went for a cigarette on a neighbor's porch. Not three minutes later, the vixen's roommate stumbled his way and snatched him back for another bout, this time in the neighbor's apartment. 
Of course, this all could have been con­trived to feed our dear alum's post-gradua­tion, never-got-none-at-ND fantasy, but to be on the safe side, make sure you bring a buddy whenever you're out in that direc­tion. 

Sailing Too Close to the Wind 
The Gipp never gets tired of good Boat Club adventures, so here's one that you'll all enjoy. Three roommates were in town a few days be­fore school began with little to do, so they decided to hit the bar. It was, in the tipster's words, "one of 
· those nights when townies outnumber students." Trouble. 
1

So these three did 
·what people do at the Boat and later de­cided it was time to head home. Some­how, though, in­stead of doing that, two ofthem "slept" in the parking lot while the other went 
back inside for a pitcher. Eventually, he re­emerged to find his friends still out cold on the ground, and, mustering every valiant brain cell he had left, he decided to thumb down a passing car to get them home. Ac­cording to our tipster, the driver "was as townie as townie can get," evidenced by a Budweiser in her left hand. The four ofthem enjoyed a scenic tour around downtown while the most "preoccupied" fellow in the car pulled a Technicolor Yawn out the back window. The young men, however, declined when the driver offered to take them over to her place. 
The three gents eventually got dropped off at Library Circle, at which point the puker decided it was time to take another nap. His roommates found great amusement in watching him lie under Touchdown Jesus' outstretched arms until an NDSP officer caught sight ofthem and began the pursuit. It all ended happily, though: with no time to waste, the two coherent individuals scooped 
up their roommate and toted him back to 
the safety oftheir donn. 
Well Gipplings, that's it for this week. Thanks for the great batch, and keep 'em coming. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 17 



IThe Rant The truth might hurt, but its better than the alternative. 
by Gerard Meskill -respond to the king ofsports at gmeskill@nd.edu 
To the men who represent our great university on the football field, I offer my apologies. I sold you all short when I predicted a Michigan victory in my last column. You proved not only me, but the entire country, wrong. As for those of you who informed me before the Michigan game that I was out ofline for picking the Wol­verines to beat our Irish, I offer something a little less cordial than an apology. If I had my way, this column would now become R-rated. Sometimes, I guess it's a good thing that I don't always get my way. Nevertheless, I'd like to address those who claimed that a Notre Dame publication should not print opinions that negatively portray this university, or, more to the point, this university's revered football team. That is the most foolish thing I've ever heard. I know that Scholastic Magazine isn't the New York Times, but it still is a journalistic publication. All such publications are called upon to be objective, even those whose audiences share the same views on certain issues, such as football. To say that I should only write pro-Notre Dame propaganda simply because I work for a Notre Dame media outlet is no different than to say the Washington Post should only print pro­America propaganda. After all, it is an American-based paper, right? Why would you even bother to read the paper, ifyouknewthatitwasjust acollection oflies? What value would you draw from it, aside from the crossword puzzle? Nevertheless, ifthere are enough ofyou out there whom I haven't convinced, I guess I should just concede to what the majority wants. Maybe if I pulled some strings, I could get The Observer, the. South Bend 
Tribune, the Chicago Tribune and even 
ESPN to join in on the plan. See, after each Irish football game, we'll report that Notre Dame won, even if the Irish are beaten by 
100 points. But then, of course, we'll also 
need to usurp NBC and close Notre Dame football games to the public. After all, we can't have people witnessing the truth, the ratings. 
So there you have it. I'll start writing pro­Notre Dame stories with a free conscience, because I know I'll always be correct. Not only that, but think of the profits we'll all make at Vegas! Ifweputdown$1000, we'll collect $1000.05 back. It'll be like betting on the Harlem Globetrotters. 
This scenario, my friends, is the only way that this column will become automatic propaganda for anyone. Otherwise, you're out ofluck. But getting serious again, though 

We can put Notre Dame football on Pay-Per-( .... View, and get Don King to promote it. Sure, he'll ~: ~ take 90 percent of the profits, but he'll also make sure that Miami takes a dive in the fourth. 
because that will mess up the whole scheme. the above example is an extreme one, it is 
So what ifyou'll never get to see another .nevertheless relevant. Journalism is not Notre Dame football game? It'll be worth it. journalism without objectivity. I also The Irish will never lose again. The whole understand that the nature ofThe Rant lends thing will be rigged, just like several other itself to subjectivity, since it is an opinion popular sports, such as the WWE and ·column. But the subjectivity ends there, professional boxing. because it's my opinion. I still have an 
Speaking of boxing, that gives me an obligation to print what I think, not what even better idea. We can put Notre Dame you want to read. _ football on Pay-Per-View, and get Don King So ifyou want to laugh at me for choosing to promote it. Sure, he'll take 90 percent of Michigan over Notre Dame, that's fine. I the profits, but he'll also make sure that laughed at my own article after we won the Miamitakesadiveinthefourth. We'll have· game. However, if you're just looking for the same result as before, except now fans something to psych you up for next week's can watch the Irish, provided they're willing game, I can'tdo it for you; go to the pep rally ­to wait four months between games. It will instead of complaining to me. I'm not be worth the wait, though, and just think of changing for you. D 
MEN'S SOCCER: The 10th-ranked Irish 1-2 overall and 2-0-0 in the Big East, Notre 
men's soccer squad scored three goals in a Dame now is offto its best start since 1996. On ­·1 :30 span during the second half and went on Thursday, the Irish play at No. 2 St. John's. to defeat Providence on Sunday, 5-1. Senior WOMEN'S SOCCER: After a pair of 1-0 forward Erich Braun and sophomore victories over Mid-Atlantic Division foes defender Luke Boughen each scored twice Seton Hall and Rutgers, three Irish women 
and junior forward Devon Prescod tallied a have earned weekly Big East honors. Junior goal as well against the Friars, giving the forward Amy Warner was named Big East Irish their second win in Big East play. At 4-offensive player of the week, sophomore 
26 SEPTEMBER 200218 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


Sophomore RyanGrant is the football . t,eam's starting tailback.Afterp,laying a limited role last season,, Grant has improved each. week since being . promoted to sta,rter.Shc:iwing his abjli.tY. i 
· ·to perform under pre~sure,Grant had·· 
· his :best game against the ·highly. acdaimedMichigandefense,rushing for 132 yards and two touchdowns · and recording hjs firsnoo-yard gar:ne . 
.. ·· Against Michigan State, he rushed for 90•.ya.rds and .aJouchdown despite · being limited to.ohlf17 carries by an 
injury in the first half.· · · · · 
ldecided to attend Notre Daine: bebiusel felt it was the best place for me, . There Were numer()us opportunitiesfofmelhere. The football is secondto noiie, and s6 ardhe a~ademic statidarcls. ·. . .. •. 
j have b¢e~ playing:football:sinceJwas nine,. · ·.· •· · ··•.·· .··.. ·. > I don't feel extra pressure being the starter because: this is why! Callle to Notre Dame. lam definitelyipreparipg myself for this. I just have tostay humble, stay"focused, and everything will work out. Marcus [Wilson] ancl Rash.on [Powers-Neal] are doing a great'job right t1ow too. . .·•. .. . · 
When I_'m sit.ting in the backfield o~ a running play, the last thing thaf goes through my head right b.efore the snap is:J:un hard and bepatient. The thing I like most about<Joacli WiUingha~ is: his'demeanor;He is 
. someone that takes care of business. I respect so.m~one' who has a great deal of integrity for himself and whathe d?es: ·· 
. My toughest class was: clefinitely mfF:YC class last year. I had towrite more papers than Lhad probably written during my entire high school career. My favorite thing about Notre Dame is: the expectations. Everything that 
. is done is top-notch. · 
· I prepare for each game: by going out everyday and practicing hard and preparing my body and mind for the taskat hand. My favorite hobby outside of football is: reading. Thave always had an interest in reading. I feel that is ~ great way of developing your mind. My ideal woman is: someone who is intelligent, curious,open minded ­and beautiful,,of ccnitse:. · . · < · ·· . Tlie best advice T'vie~erbeen given was: to always have the confidence to know and understand th~t You have the ability to do whatever you want. Don't allow yourself to perform second rate in anything you do. Also, don't give anyone the opportunity to say thatthey worked harder than you. 
-DavidMurray 



IOur Calls MEN'S SOCCER 
OPPONENT: SAINT JOHN'S WHERE: JAMAICA, NY WHEN: THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 
7:30 PM EDT 
No. 1ONotre Dame is enjoying one of its most successful seasons in school history. However, the Irish never have defeated second­ranked St. John's on the road. Maybe another year, boys. The Red Storm over the Irish, 1-0. 
GERARDMESKILL 
SPORTS EDITOR 

> 
The Irish will get off to a fast start in their first conference game away from Alumni Field. The Red Storm 
will put up a fight early, but ND will pull away in the second half. Led by senior Erich Braun, the Irish will remain undefeated in Big East play as they top St. Johns, 4-1 . 
DAVIDMURRAY 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

> 
The Irish are 5-1-2 in games played on September 26 in the 25-year history of the program. Another tie 
would look· good, eh? The Red 
Storm and the Irish play to a 2-2 
dead heat. 
JIMMYATKINSON 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

OUR CALLS RECORDS DAVIDMURRAY: 1-0> JIMMYATKINSON: 1-0 GERARDMESKILL: 0-1 
Joyce Center for the annual Blue-Gold intra­squad scrimmage. Admission is free, and word has it that they're giving away Papa John's pizza for this one! The Irish should be a serious contender this season as they return 12 of their top 13 scorers from last season, including All-American candidates Evan Nelson, senior defenceman, and Connor Dunlop, senior center. D defenderMary Boland was named defensive player ofthe week, and freshman Erica Bohn was named goalkeeper of the week. WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL: Notre Dame's domination over the Big Ten extends pastthe football field. The Irish volleyball team defeated Michigan on Saturday evening in four games (30-22, 30-24, 23-30, 30-20). The victory gives Notre Dame its 30th consecutive home victory. The Irish have not lost in the Joyce Center since September 7, 2000. Junior setter Kristen Kinder finished with 39 assists, 11 digs, and three blocks. Sophomore outside hitter Emily Loomis led the offensive attack, hitting .406 w:ith 15 kills and three aces. MEN'S HOCKEY: The Notre Dame hockey team hits the ice this Sunday at4:00 pm in the 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 




!,: I,! 
i·!
1:·'""'-+-,------------------------------------------------­
r: 
,· 
-GARY GODSEY 


ARNAZ BATI'LE JARED CLARK 
FORMER.QUARTERBACKS 
Godsey, Battl~ and Clark still are finding FIND A' N'ICHE 
ways to contribute to Notre Dame's success 
JIMMYATKINSON 
ith just over a minute remain­
ing last Saturday at East Lan­
sing, the Irish were down 17-14, 
and the team needed a big play. Backup 
quarterback Pat Dillingham, replacing the 
injured Carlyle Holiday, hooked up with 
wide receiver Arnaz Battle for a 60-yard 
touchdown as tight end Gary Godsey threw 
a block on two Spartan defenders 
downfield. Final score: 21-17, in favor of 
the Irish. 
All season, former Irish quarterbacks 
have made big plays at different positions 
to lead the Irish all the way to No. 10 in the 
polls. It isn't uncommon to see up to three 
former Irish quarterbacks break out ofthe 
huddle at once -in two tight end sets, jun­
ior tight end Jared Clark, a backup quarter­
back last season, often will line up next to 
Godsey and Battle. Count either Holiday 
or Dillingham under center, and there are 
four players on the field at the same time 
with unique insights into the offense from 
a quarterback's perspective. 
W
20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
That three former quarterbacks line up at receiver positions makes the offense all the more dangerous because of these players' quarterback experience. Battle, Godsey and Clark have a deeper understanding of the offense and can therefore read coverages and see what opposing collegiate defenses are doing better than the average receiver can. 
"[As a former quarterback,] you see things from a different perspective and can visual­ize things. You know what's gonna happen next and see coverages better," says Godsey. 
Clark agrees, adding that because he has played the quarterback's role, "as atight end, you know exactly where you're supposed to be and why you're supposed to be there. You have a picture of what's going on with all of the receivers and not just yourself." 
The three former QBs have taken unusual paths to arrive at their new receiving posi­tions. "It's something we can all joke about;' Battle says. "We've all been in that situa­tion being quarterback and we've just got an opportunity to help this team out in some kind of way and it's been great for .all of .us." 
Battle's early-season success is the prod­uct of an arduous -and frustrating career marked by many ups and downs. In 1998, his first season, Battle served as backup to Jarious Jackson. After Jackson injured his leg against LSU, Battle shared time at quar­terback with Eric Chappell in tl1e season fi­nale against USC. Battle went 7-for-19 with two interceptions as the Irish lost to the Tro­jans, 10-0. The next year, Battle once again was Jackson's understudy and received little playing time, attempting only 15 passes dur­ing the season. 
2000 was supposed to be Battle's year to shine. As the starting quarterback against Texas A&M in the season opener, Battle completed 10 passes on 16 attempts for 133 yards and two touchdowns, leading the Irish to a 24-10 victory. The following week against Nebraska, however, was a different story. Battle injured his left wrist on the first play of the game and finished 3-for-15 for 40 yards in a 27-24 overtime loss to the top­ranked Cornhuskers. Although he finished 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 



the game, Battle required surgery on his bro­ken wrist later in the week and was side­lined for the rest of the year. 
The improbable success offreshman quar­terback Matt Lo Vecchio, along with the ris­ing status of Holiday, then a backup, pro­vided the coaching staff with enough quar­terback depth to switch Battle to wide re­ceiver for future seasons where his speed could be used more effectively. In 2001, Battle made the switch, but a dormant of­fense and a broken leg that caused him to miss four games resulted in his hauling in of only five receptions for 40 yards on the season. 
carry. 
Heading into spring drills before this year, Clark was one ofthe candidates for the start­ing job, but he asked coaches to move him to tight end where he might see more play­ing time. The coaching staff agreed and when Lo Vecchio left Notre Dame over the summer, Holiday was left as the only schol­arship quarterback for the Irish. 
For Battle and Godsey, this season means receiving the opportunity to start for the first time in two years. For Clark, it means just getting the opportunity to play. Battle, after his 60-yard touchdown reception against Michigan State on Saturday, is in the spot­sonal standpoint." 
As for Godsey, this season is his first as a starter since he replaced Battle at quarter­back two seasons ago. At first, Godsey was somewhat resentful at being replaced by Lo Vecchio, but now he sees his tight end position as an important opportunity. "It's human nature to be a little bit down on your­self when that happens, but now I think it's gonna pay off for me. This year, I've been called upon to be more of a receiver than I was in the past," he says. Last season, tight ends John Owens and Godsey combined for eight receptions whereas this year Godsey and Clark already have combined for 10 re­
"Knowing my athletic ability and what I can do, [I knew there were].otherways I can help this team and still be successful." -Arnaz Battle 
G(?dsey, unlike Battle and Clark, was not recruited primarily as a quarterback but as a tight end. In his first season, Godsey saw no action at either position. Going into his sophomore year in 2000, he was slated as Battle's backup and got called into action after Battle's season-ending wrist surgery. Godsey's stint at starting quarterback, how­ever, was short-lived. Starting in his first game against Purdue, he went 14-for-25 for 158 yards and led the Irish 59 yards down the field to set up kicker Nick Setta's game­winning field goal. The following week against Michigan State, Godsey turned in a 
27-21. He was then demoted to LoVecchio's backup and threw only one more pass dur­ing the course ofthe season, a 46-yard touch­down strike against Navy. Two weeks later, the coaching staff switched him back to tight end. 
Godsey saw playing time in the final three games of the season but had no receptions. Last year, he played in all 11 games but caught only two passes, both against Navy, for a total of 50 yards. 
Clark's path has been less of a roller coaster ride than either Godsey's or Battle's. He came to Notre Dame in 2000 as a quar­terback and in 2001 was third string behind Lo Vecchio and Holiday. His only game ex­perience at quarterback came against Texas A&M last season in the fourth quarter with the Irish down24-3. Clark threw one incom­plete pass and rushed for five yards on one 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 ,. 
2-~-~-~~-----~-~' . --, 
light for the first time since beating Texas A&M in 2000. He even completed a pass against the Spartans during Notre Dame's first offensive possession for a 30-yard gain, reminding him of how fun it was to play quarterback, he says. 
But he doesn't dwell too much on what his football career might have been as a quar­terback. Battle only is concerned with the present. "I've put my focus and goals into becoming a better receiver," says Battle. " ... Knowing my athletic ability and what I can do, [I knew there were] other ways I can help this team and still be successful from a per-ceptions after just four games. 

Clark is convinced that the move from quarterback to tight end was best for him as well. "I've already gotten more playing time this year than I have in the past two years, and it's more fun for me," he says. 
Battle, Godsey and Clark, the former quarterbacking trio, each have found a niche in the Notre Dame offense and their goals are the same: just win. "With me, and with the other guys [Godsey and Clark], it's ba­sicallyjust getting on the field and winning. That's what we came to Notre Dame to do is win," says Battle. D 
Rocky on the· Road 
ND's volleyball must overcome road woes to take this year's Big East Championship 
GERARDMESKILL 

t. . . .
For Notre Dame's volleyball team, says sophomore outside hitter Emily · there's no place like home. Since Loomis. suffering a 3-0 defeat against No. 7 Notre Dame opened its latest campaign . 
Colorado State on September 23, 2000, the ·by hosting the annual Shamrock Irivita-· Irish have collected a school-record 30 con-tional. Th~ Irish faced off against Wiscon-.. · secutive victories at the Joyce Genter-:--Notre--sin-Milwaukee in the opener, securing a 3­

tournament.Atthetournament,NotreDamt:@'and six blocks during the three-match suffered a 3-0 defeat to No. 20 Michiga,,,.i) event. Teammates Kelbley, Brewster and 
State. Despite this early exit, the Irish I9f upon last season as a success and hoP,ito use it as a springboard for 2002. 
jf 
"I think we're always buildirif and wanting to improve as a progdf{:;_, look­ing further and further intofih'e touma­ment, getting high7doing better," 
~1/ 
Ovictory (30-26,30~17, 30-26).Leading the 
. drive were two freshmen middle blockers; Lauren Kelbley aridJauren Brewster: The two combined for 22 kills. Meanwhile, Alderete helpe'd the Irish take advantage of the new libero position, recordi~g IQ digs in thi .final two games of the match. ·As a team; the Irish secured 15 blocks and are­spectabl~ :2~8 hitting percentage. 

Notre Dame continued to have success within the friendly-co_nfines of the Joyce Center, defeating both ~ei11ginnati and Cal Poly by 3-0 margins to se~ri&tlie:~ham~ r //gk .Invitational title. Senior setter"'~~=:; fIisten Kinder was named the tournament 
//MVP, tallying 19 kills: 22 digs, 99 a~sists 

Loomis joined Kinder on the all-tourna­ment team. ... : · · i -·· 
The Shamrock Invitational gave 'Notre Dame early momentum, elevating the Irish to a quick 3-0 record and a national ranking of 25. 
"[The Shamrock Invitational] was a 

26 SEPTEMBER 2002 

great weekend for us. We're·a very team," said A.ld_erete. "The experience gained from that weekend and the confi­dence was huge." · 
However, Notre Dame's new-found confidence would soon be challenged. Despite defeating Cal Poly in the tourna­
. ment final,. the .Irish showed some significant offensive woes, as they 
· recorded a meager .185 hitting per­centage during the match. The low markwas a concern for Notre Danie as they prepared to leave the suc­cesses• of home behind to try their luck on the road. 
•. ''Wewere kiridofco~cernedwith . [the lowhitting perc·entage]. We had to pick it up, play better than that if · we wanted to do well oilthe road," says ju~ior middle. blocker Katie 
· Neff, "We felt we really didn'tplay as well as we could have against Cal Poly." 
The Irish· faced host Loyola Marymount in the first match._ of the . LMU Classic· in Los Angeles. The trip started unfavorably as the Irish sput­
.-, ..---: tl-.--, . 
· tered toan abysmal .106 hitting percent­age in a3-1 (30~26, 16-30; 23-30~ 24-. 
• 30) defeat. LMU's Kristen Gallup Cal}S~d most of the damage, scoring an amazing 26 kiUs and 15 digs. Notre Dame's 12 blocks were the team's sole highlight, as the Irish recorded double-· digitsin that statisticlorthe fourth con­
secutive match. · · · · · Notre Dame resumedtournairtent play · the following day, taking on Colorado and· St. Louis in a doubleheader. The Irish fell 
..in three games to Colorado hefore rally­ing to sweep. St.Louis. Kinder, who was .namedto the all-tcmrnamentteam, hit .364 with 31 assists and five kills in the loss to · ~13uffaloes,while the I~ish team hitfor. just .19i1. Against St. Louis, Notre_Dame snappea out of its hitting woes, compil­ing an impressi;e 0430 percentage and 
·winni11g its first game ofthe yeat away from the Joyce Center. .· . · · ••.. . ··._ "The game was awesome,'' says Kinder .. 
"Not only was it a huge rivalry, _because . we lost to them the week before, but that . was the firsftinie that we played like we 
were able to.It felt good·to be on our game. 
· 26 SEPTEMBER 2002· 
"It's always good to beat people on the ~_pad," she continu_e~, "when you're not in a(place that's famrhar to you." 
N<;)Jre Dame completed its two-city four-match road trip at Valparaiso, secur­ing a 3~:o. (30-22, 30-24, 30-18) victory over the 8\'1,saders. Despite awful condi­
· 
' 

tion:s due to a heat wave and a gym with­outair conditioning, several Irish athletes had strong performances. Loomis led the way with 11 kills, While Kinder and Neff added six and seven ~ills, respectively. The victory evened Notre Dame's road 
. . ···.. · -. . l 
reco~d at 2-2._ ·... . _ j · With the wm; the Insh returned home, 
· where they have been1 virtually unbeat­abie. The Golden Dome Invitational was no exception. The Irish breezed through Northwestern and Loyola (Md.), winning both matches 3-0. In the final, the Irish 
squared offwith No. 10 Pepperdine, who threatened to break Notre Dame's streak of28-straight home victories. Pepperdine led 1-0 and 2-1 in the match, but the Irish rallied in the final two games to preserve the streak and win the invitational title. Kinder, her sister Jessica Kinder, Loomis and Neff were named to the all­tournament team as the Irish cel­ebrated their first victory over a top-10 opponent since a win over USC on September 2, 1995. 
"[Beating Pepperdine] was a huge win for our program, and even bigger for this team," said Alderete. "When we were out on the court, we felt like a machine. We had confidence in one an­other, and confidence that we had the ability and the drive to outlast the opponent." 
Once again, Notre Dame's confidence was immediately chal­lenged as its road woes continued against Purdue in West Lafayette. Af­ter the Irish seized the first two games, the Boilermakers rallied with three wins to take the match, 3-2. The loss dropped 
<Notre Dame's road record to 2­3,~pd sent the Irish back home with,something to prove in their last ~atch before Big East com­petitiori\ Against Michigan, Notre Darhe extended its home winning strehl<: to 30 matches with a 3-1 victory.\ 

The victory\vas just the lat­est swing in a pendulu'm season for a team carrying six freshtµen. 
"I think we're a youilg team, and we're just discovering a \lot about our potential," says Loomis.\ "We've had some bad losses on the roid, but I think we're really a great team this year, and 
I 

we really have a lot of potential to be an awesome team. I dori't think [our road history] will hold/us back any . We'll prepare for our road matches, and be ready for the Big East competi­tion." 
All Irish, young a1/d old, will need to prepare well if _Notre Dame is to capture its seventh Big East title m the last eight y?1rs. D 
/ 
/ 
/ 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23
/ 





Mind Over Munchies 
008 briefly considers eating its own foot 
It all started innocently enough. Killing time one after­noon, and a little tired ofdying ofcholera before I reached the Blue Mountains in Oregon Trail, I came across the "Belief-O-Matic," an Internet religion selector test. It seemed devilishly simple -input a little information on your vari­ous beliefs and find out if you get to be told you're going to Hell by a hippie carpenter, jolly fat man or six-armed el­ephant. I punched in my various responses and was informed that all my life I've been a Reform Jew without even know­ing it. Now the Internet is also the source that told me I have an IQ of 269 and that I am definitely a "Be Good" candy heart. Still, the idea that the an­swers to my deepest spiritual questions could be summed up into a nice, neat, printable package was so ridicu­lous it became somewhat intriguing. So I decided to put the test to the test. I attempted to observe Yorn Kippur, one of the Jewish year's most im­portant days, in the cus­tomary manner: by fast­ing for 25 hours. It seemed like it would be easy enough. I'm by no means a fat man, and besides, typical dining-hall fare is enough to put most people right off food anyhow. (Soy milk, I'm look­ing in your direction.) But what ultimately happened was what a dust jacket of my experience might describe as "a horrifying odyssey into the darkest reaches of man's psyche." I kept a log of the day's events on the off chance I might be asked to reprint it in a semi-humorous column. 
Hour 1: The sun sets just as I dejectedly realize that Alto ids. probably count as food. 
Hour 5: Plan has hit major snag. Not only am I not al­lowed water, but bathing and marital relations are also ta­boo. I cheer myself up by realizing that without bathing, marital relations probably are not going to happen anyhow. Absentmindedly, I dab at a spot on my computer screen. 
Hour 13: Awakening after a fitful night of unsettling dreams, I notice the spot on my computer screen still remains, laughing quietly to itself. I am hungry and briefly wonder if moisturizer is edible. I trudge off to class, haunted by the evil laughter of the spot that would not die. 
Hour 15: Somehow I man­aged to get out of that room. But getting out of this man­sion won't be as easy. I have to get past all the booby-traps. Tiger-eyes, gold emblem ... I have to try and remember for my own sake. 
Hour 19: Have realized my nature as purely spirit, tran­scending all the physical and ethereal. I am everything and nothing and we as humans are both part ofexistence and the whole, simultaneously. Weather continues fair. 
Hour 25: The fast has ended. I am carried to Subway, feel­ing a giddy euphoria second only to that of waking up next 

Ravenously devouring my Subway club with extra ham and cheese, I reflect back on the events ofthe past 25 hours. Has any of this helped me attain a better understanding of my spirituality? I honestly believe it has. My ordeal was far from a genuine attempt to embrace Judaism. But it did cause me to reflect on my actions, and I emerged with a legitimate resolve to be a better person. The Belief-O-Matic didn't give me all the answers, but it did get the ball rolling. 
Hungry for more information? The Belief-0-Matic is located at www.beliefnet.com. 



24 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 26 SEPTEMBER 2002 




TRACYEVANS
"D ude, we played this song last week. Isn't it our job to be all hip and counter-culture?" points out Dave Lodewyck, spinning around in his chair to 
face his partner. "Too bad, I like it," 
Matt Meyer retorts, the other half of Dave-Matthew's Punk Show airing on WVFI Sundays from 5 and 6 p.m. 
It takes a minute to adjust, not only to the size of the room, but also to the attitude of these WVFI disc jockeys. To a listener on the other end of the speakers, radio personalities seem hidden behind a mys­tique of musical au­thority and formality. But, a quick glance at this pair is a lesson in informality. 


' ' ' 
; /' 
·.._.,. ·._.. 
Lodewyck, who spontaneously decided to dress Nelly-style in honor ofhis home­town, St. Louis, settles in at his side of the studio desk in front of the computer. Meyer takes a seat near the station's six tape decks, CD and record players, and begins to leaf through his personal col­
i' 
lection of music. The show will kick off at the completion ofa long jazz piece from the previous hour. 

The surge of a high-energy amplifier and the shout of a punk singer releases staccato bursts of noise as Meyer sca~s his first CD selection. After passing roughly six tracks, both he and Lodewyck look at each other and nod. They've found a winner. The show jumps to life. 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
"It was hard rock and high energy. Nothing less than I would expect from an AntiFlag show," Lodewyck says, as the duo opens their show with tales of their previous night's visit to a Pray for Peace concert in Chicago. Meanwhile, Meyer intimidated by the fact that we are broad­casting to a global audience." 
As freshmen, Lodewyck and Meyer went through the typical training process for WVFI DJs. Novices go through a short interview, where they tell the staff why 

IT'S GETTING PUNK IN HERE Dave and Matt wind down after another energetic show and a wardrobe change. 
II 

Scholastic opens its eyes and ears to a Hve WVFI radio broadcast 
lines up a song by Bad Religion to follow 
the introduction. 
Swiveling in their chairs, laughing and 

sipping soda, the guys seem completely at ease beside the multi-pegged switch­board. While their demeanor has not changed much in terms of professional­. ism, Lodewyck recalls a time when be­
ing on air wasn't quite so comfortable. 
"As freshmen, we had no idea what we 
were doing. I suppose we haven't changed 
all that much since then," he admits. "The 
biggest change has been that we are much 
more relaxed on the air and are no longer they want to work with radio, what expe­rience they have with radio, and the area in which they ·are most interested. Each year, WVFI ranks all oftheir shows based on seniority, diversity and experience and then assigns preferred time slots accord­ingly for each group of DJs. 
Lodewyck watches the computer screen as Instant Messages pop up, one of the ways listeners can get in touch with the station and request songs. Meanwhile, Meyer enjoys the dead time to sing along himself, mechanically tapping the censor button to block out the profanities that 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 



pepper one of their selections. For punk fans, Lodewyck and Meyer 
'
:1
can mix in their own tastes with a wall of pre-selected rotations of new CDs sup­plied by promotional companies. The ro­tation offers opportunities for the DJs to sample the most current releases from lesser-known bands. An important part of WVFI's image is maintained by provid­ing music that cannot be found on the av­erage radio station. 
"We like to give priority to people who play something out of the ordinary, that you wouldn't hear anywhere else," says Joanne Davidson, assistant station man­ager. While Lodewyck and Meyer's show focuses on. punk music, other time slots give airtime to genres such as jam bands, Asian pop and techno. 
Most of the rotation CDs are covered with a hand-written review that one ofthe music committee members on staff pre­pares. Generally, the descriptions assess the value of the songs, and highlight which ones contain content inappropriate 

for playing on air. The DJs canuse them as a guide in making their selettions and for those who are seeking an outlet to per-this album, so I think I'm going to go out building t·rore eclectic mix of tunes. 0\orm. WVFI hopes to fostct'a year-round and buy jf?'says Meyer on a new c/1ce 
Occasi • nall)'.\WVFI allows camy<is e~thusiasm for music t oughllieir broad-by The Queer)\. bands so e airti1\1e as well. On Sunray, en d presence. \ "I d;/nno, I th\nk it's exceptional1y me­Meyer Jnd Lodew~k mixed in a stdec-' he campus mu C scene c~mes to-diocrr... if I ,ay use the words ex­tion frqhi Clark, a 1, cal band featu~ig an getHer for NAZZ, b t then falls fpart by cep~rbnally and 11\ediocre ... juxtaposed," ND sttfdent. Last ye r, the station o fered the tkd of the yea ... we'd like to have a Lodl~ck says. Wfateverthey say on air, an aciustic hou: d~r\~g. whic? th ?ands place\vhere peopl can _go and fin\ infor-theif exchanges ar\ never scripikd. . c?~ld perform l!ve m h.e stu_d10. 1J 1s tra-matio~ about wha 's gomg on, to flill thati'fwe usually sta\t ?ur cotvrsat10ns d1t19'n, along with an . vent m Nd'vember void," Bradley sa s. ~ w h verbal abuse anti 1t goes fr m there," 

tha( will bring a large~and to J1ay with Lode1yck indrrupts the energeti set eyer says. \ cafupus groups at the lull)ifii-Senior of songs\;;i~h) required public ser \ce The.tongue-in-c.hee~ac7 fthe Dave­, lub, allows lesser kno · -ffilent to get announce~rft. which he spices up with'a Matthew's Punk Sho~Keeps rolling their names out into the public. parody of a formal radio personality. Even along with the upbeat rifts and rhythms, 
Station Manager Tim Bradley hopes to promos are entertaining with this duo: right up until the show's conclusion. resurrect an early '90s idea of creating a Their selected ads include one by Ozzy Lodewyck sums up what has become ap­compilation CD ofvarious campus bands. Osborne against drunk driving and a clas-parent over the course of the hour. 
"The more familiar I got with the sta­tion, the more I realized that it really
"That's what's great about WVFI -any 
doesn't take much knowledge to actually be a DJ," he says. "That's what's great
student can give it a shot" 
about WVFI -any student can give it a shot and eventually learn to put on a very 
-WVFI DJ Dave Lodewyck 
professional-sounding show." 
The station hopes to expand "We really try to promote the on-campus sic resurrection of Bob Davie endorsing listenership with an FM frequency in the music scene, and the new CD would the station. future, a step up from their already world­[showcase] bands that I felt have contrib­While they are both clearly well versed wide· audience online. At an estimated uted to the campus music scene in my four in the punk music genre, their views and 2,000 hits per month, the station is estab­years here." attitudes complement as much as they lishing themselves as a new way to listen 
MindSet, a feature of the WVFI web contrast each other. on air. When h comes to music where requests are as easy as an site, is another outlet for local music tal­to filling time between songs, the chem­IM and DJs are just like any other avid ent. It has grown to encompass music re­istry comes in handy. fan. Except, of course, that they some­views and interview as well as classifieds "I've loved everything I've heard off of times dress like Nelly for the heck of 
it. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 2726 SEPTEMBER 2002 


?
-

SUB strives to entertain, but a shortage of funds keeps marquee events away from Notre Dame 
ALEXANDRAGIERAKWith the administration's crack­down on alcohol use on campus, both the university and the stu­dent body are looking to groups like the Stu­dent Union Board (SUB) to keep students on campus while they're not in class. "We're going to need even more alterna­tives [and] creative social ideas, and SUB replaces the gap to be filled," says Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. Expectations are high. But after years of mediocrity, is SUB up for the challenge? Going by last year's track record, one might not think so. "If you think about what we lacked last year, it was a big marquee event," says senior Stephen Christ, SUB's manager. "We also didn't have a big marquee speaker, someone that the whole campus is talking about." Christ acknowledged last year's lack of concerts as well. "We like to throw two big music events each year," he says. "Two Stepan events where we get 2,000 students for each event, and we only had Pat McGee [Band] last year." Why didn't SUB do more during the 2001-2002 school year? According to Christ, they were so busy with the business end of a large concert at the JACC that planning for-other big events was put on hold. "They were working incredibly hard on a big JACC show," Christ says. "As a result they focused all their attention on 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
that show. They might have lost focus on the big marquee events." 
Although SUB' s attempt to bring a big concert did not work out, the group would like to try again. However, if they do, they'll have to do it without an advisor. The resignation of last year's program coordinator, Melvin Adams, leaves a void in the link between the university Student Activities office and the student-run SUB. For the start ofthe 2002-2003 academic year, Christ, Coughlin and Peggy Hnatusko, the assistant director of programs for Student Activities, have teamed up to lead SUB. Although they have spoken with many interested candidates to fill the position, they have not chosen anyone yet. 
Another one of SUB 's problems is a lack of funding. SUB recognizes the success of U2's appearance at the JACC last year, but say it is difficult, as a student activities group, to put on a show ofthat magnitude because they simply cannot afford to pay as much to host 


to bring a profit, so we wouldn't charge 
$100 a ticket. We're only allowed to 
charge, like, $25 or $30 because we are 
working for the student body. We want to 
make sure that everyone who wants to go 
can afford to go. But we still think that 
charging that can bring a band to the 
JACC," says Christ. 
"We want to make our events bigger and 
better," he says, "which is tough because 
we really don't have the budget that most 
student-programming boards have at other 
universities." 
SUB's yearly budget is decided upon by 
the Financial Management Board (FMB). 
The group, made up of students working 
under the leadership ofHnatusko, decides 
the budget for many student-run groups on 
campus. 
Junior Andrew Lam, SUB' s chief 
controller, handles the group's budget. 
SUB's total allotted sum for the 2002­
2003 school year is $176,000, which Christ 
says is not sufficient since the money must 
be spread throughout SUB's divisions. 
"We have eight different sections of SUB 
and concerts is just one," Lam says, which 
is why it is hard for SUB to bring in some 
of the more well-known bands. 

According to Lam, SUB is further . crippled by inflation. "[All students] pay 
these large shows as a concert ~ SNO-CONES FOR ALL Free food often is a SUB tactic to promoter can. "We're not trying draw students to its actitivies. 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 


doesn't rise with inflation," he says. "Because of inflation, everything costs more every year." Lam hopes to have this fee rise in proportion with the rise in tuition. 
One of SUB's ideas is to cut costs but still bring expensive performers to campus by combining funds and efforts with other clubs. "We'd really like to branch out and make sure that we work together with clubs, that we get to do co-sponsorships with different organizations on campus," Christ says. "That's one of our major goals." 
Another idea that is inexpensive and that Christ hopes will attract students is the SUB monthly loft shows and comedy acts, which will bring bands and comics who are up-and-coming, and therefore cheap, to campus. "It's a chance to branch out and hear new music -hear stuff other than Dave Matthews Band," Christ says. 
SUB thinks students will give a lesser­known loft show performer a chance as they would a comic performing in SUB's comedy series. "What we want to do is build a core group of people that go to every loft show that say, 'We want to go to see a music scene on campus, at Notre Dame. And so we're going to go to this loft show every month no matter ifwe've heard ofthe artist or ifwe haven't heard of the artist,' " Christ says. 
Hnatusko thinks the comedy series will draw students. "There's a strong following 
~ WHAT DO YOU MEAN IT DOESN'T COME OFF? A student receives a (temporary) henna tatoo at one of _SUB's events celebrating the opening of the school year. 
difficult because of price," Christ says. But not enough people saw the second, older movie to justify the amount SUB was paying for it, he says. This year, instead of bringing two movies every weekend, SUB will show one popular, recent movie to try to attract students. 
this week's movie, The Sweetest Thing. 
In addition, last year SUB began using AOL Instant Messenger to keep students informed of activities and events by posting an away message under the buddy name "NDSUBinfo." Besides these two techniques, SUB generally relies on word-

of students willing to take risks and go to 
see these up-and-coming comics, and 
afterwards they'll brag," Hnatusko says. 
"SUB has brought some rising comics to 
campus. For instance, Jimmy Fallon was 
here a few years ago, but he was up-and­
coming. To talk to campus it would seem 
that 4,000 people came to the event when . actually it was 400." 
SUB also has decided to cut costs by 
making a change in its movie program. 
"Two years ago we started trying to bring 
two movies a week, and that was a little "We're just focusing on the new movies, trying to get as many people into DeBartolo 101 every weekend as possible," Christ says. 
Also new this year is SUB' s institution of a different marketing strategy to bring students to their weekend film. For every movie, SUB will have a promotion relating to its title. For example, SUB representatives gave out free coffee at DeBartolo to advertise last weekend's· movie, Insomnia. Students can expect something sugary and heart-shaped for of-mouth advertisingforrecurring events, such as AcoustiCafe and its current comedy series. 
Christ, Coughlin and Hnatusko currently are brainstorming a I 0-yearplan to improve SUB. "We feel we're at a crossroads," Christ says. SUB' s leaders are treating this year as one ofp Janning and organizing for the future. Meanwhile, grounded by monetary limitations and a shortage of leadership, SUB will have to keep students entertained with low-profile bands, comedy acts and a weekly movie at DeBartolo. D 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

. ~ , --~---------------­
--~-------~­

n 
I've Got the Moves 
How a stripper got me more job offers than the Career Center 
JESSICADAUES 
The dark room pulsated to a disco beat. Red, blue and yellow spotlights ar­ranged on the floor ran together to give the muscled, greased-up figure a brownish hue. Twenty pajama-clad college girls, sitting Indian-style in a circle on the floor atop of their Care Bear, Strawberry Shortcake and Hello Kitty sleeping bags, squealed as though they were at a Beatles concert. I didn't join them. I had driven the hour and a half 
teddy bear posted at my side and climbed over me so that his head was to my left and his posterior was to my right. I froze, but the thong-clad Leon, only inches from my face, didn't return the courtesy, bobbing and sway­ing to the disco beat. The seconds dragged by as Leon danced, but finally he backed away. I let out a breath and closed my eyes. It was over. 
But then, no, it wasn't. I felt someone grab my hands and pull me to my feet. I opened my eyes and saw Leon smiling back at me; 
A half hour later, Katie and I sat out by the apartment's front door. I had managed to return my face to its normal white color, but still was trying to concentrate my pow­ers of memory-repression on the night's events. Katie wasn't making that very easy. 
"The look on your face!" she gasped, still laughing. "I wish I had a video camera!" 
I sat silently, pondering how horrific it might be ifthat moment had been captured on film. A few moments later, Leon walked out the front door, past us and towards his 
car. 


to Columbia, Mo. to visit my "You were great tonight!" friend Katie, expecting the crazy Katie shouted at him. night out to include dinner at a "Thanks babe," Leon said. pizza place and bar-hopping. In­Then he looked at me. "You stead, Katie had decided that an were great tonight too." all-girls slumber party would be "Thanks," I mumbled, and more fun. I didn't mind the idea felt my face get hot again. -itseemed kind ofcute at first; "I'm going to give you my in a fourth-grade kind of way. card," he said. "Give me a call Cute, at least until I met the guest if you ever need anything to of honor: a male entertainer do. We always need help." named "Leon." "Ummmm, OK," I said, and 
A pig-tailed girl wearing he passed the card to me. He Winnie the Pooh pajamas with turned around, walked to his 

feetjumped up and hooted, beck­oning Leon forward. I stared at the ground. I should have picked a different weekend to visit Katie. My eyes traced the pattern of my flowered sleeping bag. A blue daisy. ,A. pink tulip. A yellow daffodil. I looked up. Leon was on his hands and knees now, crawling along the periphery of the circle, growling at a girl in a Miss Piggy night­gown; A purple violet. Another blue daisy. A white rose. Leon was getting closer. Yel­low tulip. White rose. Pink daisy. Now he was about three girls away. Yellow tulip, blue rose. I felt my face get hot. Somehow, 
some way, I knew what was about to hap­pen. 
"Hello, young miss," I heard Leon whisper in my right ear. My head snapped up from my chest. My stomach dropped. The girls squealed. 
I looked on in horror as Leon, still on his hands and knees, tossed away the white stuffed 
"I'm going to take you for a ride, babe," he 
said, and pulled me to the middle of the 
circle. The squeals turned to cheers as Leon 
tossed me across the room in some crazy 
dance. I grabbed his back to keep from fall­
ing as he dipped me, but his body was too 
greasy to get a firm hold. I fell straight back, 
and Leon fell facedown on top ofme. 
Lying on the ground, -I.couldn't move, 
partly because I was frozen with shock and 
partly because Leon pinned me down as he 
continued dancing to the beat, further cov­
ering me with his greasy rubdown. 

"Baby, you're great," he told me, giving me a grimy kiss on the cheek. That was enough to rouse me, and I managed to free my arms to push him off me. The room erupted in applause as I crawled back to my seat, wiping oil off my face as Leon took -his final bow before retiring to the bathroom 
to shower and change. 
car and sped off. I threw the card into the bushes. "Like I'm ever going to need a stripper." · "Jessica," Katie said slowly. "I think that he just offered you a job." 
"No, he didn't!" I replied, then thought for a moment. "Wow," I said, stunned. "He really did." I laughed, for the first time in hours. And I couldn't stop. 
We sat for a little while longer while I giggled and Katie smoked a cigarette. "You ready to get out ofhere?" she asked, throw­ing away the butt. "Let's go to the Berg and get some beers." 
"Good idea," I agreed, and stood up as she walked back inside to get our stuff. But before I followed her, I quickly ran be­hind the bush. Sighting the small, white card, I grabbed it and put it in my pocket. After all, I'm an American Studies ma­jor, so I'll need some way to pay off my student loans. 



Submit an BOO-word e~say for Week in Distortion. E-niail us at scholast@nd.edu. 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
26 SEPTEMBER 2002 


Lend us your ears, eyes, nose, mouth and fingers! In this installment of Coming Distractions: beat the nothing-to-do blues with events that will tantalize all five of your senses. Keep those event submissions coming to scholast@nd.edu. (All submissions are subject to 
Scholastic approval.) 
SMELL: The 20th Annual Domer Run When: September 28, 11 :00 a.m. Where: Begins at Stepan Center Why: Need motivation to sweat away the ever-haunting Freshman 15? This event, sponsored by the Department ofAthletics, raises money for Notre Dame Prostate Cancer Awareness Education. You have your choice of a two mile walk, three mile run or six mile run. At the end of your walk or run, you will feel warm and fuzzy inside ­because of the endorphins, because you ran for something other than your waistline, and because they give you pancakes. 
. TASTE: The Sorin Talent Show 
. When: October 4, 8:00 p.m. Where: Outside Sorin How much: Free Why: I have no Sorin connections, so I can't guarantee that last year's antics will be re­peated at this year's show. However, last year, one audacious boy played mommy bird 
to another bold fellow by masticating the essential elements of an ice cream sundae and then spewing the said elements into the other fellow's mouth. It's sort of like a car collision: You don't want to look, but you always do. 


TOUCH: A handmade purse or pillow, courtesy ofthe Crafting Club When: October 4, 9:00 p.m. Where: Dooley Room, Lafortune How much: Free Why: You might think that in a place like northern Indiana there just wouldn't be great opportunities to craft with friends. Oh, but there are. If you missed last week's brick decorating, don't stress. This week: you, your imagination and a new small purse. Happiness is just that simple. 


26 SEPTEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 


Domes & Grottos: 
by Lisa Moore '77

The Anima of Notre Dame 
The basic discove1J' about any people is the discove,J' ofthe relationship between its men and its women. -Pearl S. Buck 
When the '60s became the '70s, I was a high-school student in a small Ohio town. When anyone asked me where I wanted to go to college, my reply was "Notre Dame." "But you're a girl," they would smile, for everyone knew that only boys went to Notre Dame. And then, the university "went co-ed." In the fall of my senior year, I applied for early admission and be­came a Notre Dame Scholar. I packed my bell-bottoms and my flowered bedspread and set offfor Walsh Hall, to this university named for a woman. When you consider those earliest ratios (10: I), it's easy to assume that we went to Notre Dame for "MRS" degrees. Far from it. Although we brought our raging hormones along, that's not what called us to this bastion of prowess and patriarchy. I flip through my old Domes and remember when my psyche was so raw and shapeless, and I wonder why young women chose this path. I mean, thanks to the 
I flip through my old Domes and remember when my psyche was so raw and shapeless, and I wonder why young women chose this path. 
Lisa Moore ('77) is a writer, poet, and teacher in Harrison, Maine. She shares life with two sons, three dogs, a cat, and a scientist. 
60s, "Women's Liberation" was a catchword. Wasn't Notre Dame among the last all-male holdouts? Wasn't going there a step back­ward? 
On the contrary, the Notre Dame I entered was a huge male population dedicated to a goddess. Her statue sits atop a gleaming breast that, guided and dominated that sea of 

priests and altar boys. At Notre Dame, I was signifi­cant because I was a woman. I was the new dame on the block. I was noticed for being female. It was very exciting. 
Two feminine icons dominate my memory ofcam­pus: one so prominent in the South Bend skyline, the other tucked behind the cathedral. I have written a short story called "The Grotto" about a young woman who loses her virginity in a dorm amidst sweaty socks and hockey sticks, who then has an epiphany in that most female of campus enclaves. She throws candles at the statue of Mary in rage and release. She feels, for the first time in her life, her own power. 
So yes, coeducation had its Stephen King side. We were locked in at night with Detexes as "parietals" replaced "parentals." We hid young men in our dorm rooms; they peed in our sinks and waited until noon on Sundays to leave. I was sometimes the only girl in classes and so I was called upon for "the female perspective." If someone asked me this today, I'd just laugh. I only went to one football game. I was "passed up" in the stands, screaming in terror, to the top wall. From that point on, I sold every ticket. In my major classes, dead white men dominated syllabi: Hawthorne, Eliot, Frost, Shakespeare. Oh yes, there was Emily Dickinson, who like Our Lady, shone in quiet solitude. 
"How was it, being surrounded by all those men?" folks ask. Actually, some 100 Walsh Women sur­rounded me; women from Florida, St. Louis, Nebraska and Texas became my closest friends. We giggled through pillow fights, borrowed tampons, shared al­cohol and studied ... oh, how much we studied. Hours and hours in libraries and carrels and dorm rooms and study lounges. Sure, we talked about men, but mostly we talked about ourselves. In fact, the most tangible gift the university gave me is not a man at all: it's my best friend, Brydie. For 25 years, our lives have mir­rored each other, intertwined in the most intimate of friendships. It is this friendship -with a woman ­that is my most precious degree. 
Evecything seemed in transition then, not just the university, but myself, the country, the world. I fell in love and was "dumped." I shifted from being a "Right­to-Lifer'' to being pro-choice. I survived the sexual advances of an aging English professor and met my first husband, who was to epitomize tlie way men dis­respect women and break their hearts. The Ara era ended. I voted for Jimmy Carter. Watergate led to gov­ernmental distrust. Vietnam ended in a whimper. Elvis sang his last song. 
Such a passionate and controversial and confusing time and place! My life has followed suit. By our par­ents' standards, my path has been non-traditional and organic at best, chaotic and immoral at worst. My lib­eral arts education gave me freedom, and being a pio­neer female gave me confidence. Both, however, came with a price. My life has been neither linear nor pre­dictable. It meanders, like a crooked river, through decades of adulthood, eroding and carving, fecund and full. 
As I visit the university today, I am struck by the fact that there are so many strong female teachers. All ofmine were male, yet from the best ofthem, I learned the principles that I now associate with the anima. 
I learned so much at Notre Dame, so much about 
souls, whether they be male or female in this small 
life. Through it all, She was there, no matter how out­
numbered She ever was. D 
26 SEPTEMBER 200232 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 




ACOl,(,STICAfG  
thurs 10/3 and 10/10  
9 pm-midnight  
MOvres  the huddle  
the sweetest thing and braveheart¼ 9/26-9/28  
sum of all fears 10/3-10/5  
scooby doo 10/1 0-1 0/12  
thurs 1 0 pm,fri and sat 7:30 & 10 pm  
dbrt 101  $3  
f:-dbrt 155  $2  
MIA.SlC  
Campus Band  
10/4, more info to co me  
FSIA..TICJG6TLOrreR.Y  

10/3, more info to come lafortune ballroom 













