THE METRE EAME
SCHOLASTIC
---------NOTRE I AHI . INE.—
★	Father Bednar Wins Second in Art Exhibit
*	V-12 Trainees Invited to K. ot C. Ball
★	Irish Pennant Yearbook Appears
The initial appearance oi the “Irish Pennant Yearbook" makes hit with NROTC students.—(See story on page 5).
Vol. 83, No. 11
Feb. 2,1945
^he cT^otre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
...By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON BOB O'TOOLE AL KUENZLI
Navy Associate Editor
Managing Editor - Sports Editor Circulation Manager Advertising Manager
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY JOHN POWER HARRY WALTERS GEORGE KRAUSER ART WAGNER
-	-	- Observations
- The Green Banner The College Parade Splinters from the Press Box Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
HARRY SIEMONSMA
ROBERT MOLNAR FRANK GRIMALDI JACK McGRANE
ENRIQUE LULLI BOB COCHRAN JACK MILES TOM McNALLY JIM CAREY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH JOE BRESLAW JOHN FEENEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
FRANCIS GUIDO
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate ' Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and. examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuseript te the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
In gathering material to fill this space on the Scholastic’s second page, we thumb through the publications of approximately 60 colleges and universities, reading stories of campus queen selections, band concerts, Junior Proms, visiting lecturers, and sorority and fraternity pledging. These stories all seem to fall into one set pattern—the pattern that is college life in the United States, in which thousands of young men and women have prepared and are preparing themselves to be better citizens.
There is another story which is appearing with increasing frequency on the pages of the college newspapers. It announces the death of a graduate, or former student “over Germany,” or “in the South Pacific.” Flynn, Johnson, Silver-ston—the names are different—but the story is the same— another friend killed in action; another gold star added to the school’s service flag.
All over the country the story is the same. On the pages of the Daily Northwestern and the Detroit Varsity News, the Ohio State Lantern, and the St. Bona Venture, there is written the account of American college life during the war, a combination of the gaiety of the Junior Prom and the sobering reality of war casualties.
THE $64 QUESTION
“Hello Mary Jane? Watcha doing Saturday night?”
“Gotta date.”
“And the next Saturday night?”
“Gotta date.”
“And the next Saturday night?”
“Gotta date.”
“For Pete’s sake woman, don’t you ever take a bath.”
—Rocky Mountain Collegian
THE $64 ANSWER
One upon a time, a temperance lecturer came to Auburn. He was lecturing on the evils of alcohol and in the course of the evening he asked his audience, “Suppose I place a bucket of water here and a bucket of beer over there and then brought out a healthy donkey. Which do you suppose he would drink?”
“The water,” someone in the crowd shouted.
“Why yes,” the lecturer was elated with his success, “now can anyone tell me why?”
“Cause he’s a jackass,” cried the same voice.
—The Auburn Plainsman
KANSAS KAPER
The University of Kansas, noted for its pipe-smoking coeds, and well written newspaper, comes up with another item in our “Parade”:
“The other night the phone rang at the Sigma Kappa house and a low mellow voice warned the girls that they j should fill all the bathtubs and lavatories with water before I it was turned off as a result of a break in the main on Ten- I nessee street. Fifteen minutes later, the phone rang and a | pledge answered.	|
“Got your bathtub filled?” the	voice asked.	I
“Yes,” replied the pledge.	|
“Good,” he said, “we’ll be right over in a few minutes— 1 we want to sail our sailboats in your tubs tonight.” 1
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
FEBRUARY 2. 1945
No. 11
Father Bednar Wins Prize in Salon Exhibit
Sorin Holl Holds Dance;
Informal Set for Feb. 10
Challenged by the success of the first two informal dances sponsored by the student council, the politicos of Sorin hall this week brushed the cigar ashes off their well padded vests and announced that they would “show these youngsters what a really good informal is like.” The dance will follow the same general pattern set by the other inform-als and will be held in the Rockne Memorial on Feb. 10.
The dance will be chairmaned by the Sorinite who is probably the “biggest dealer” in old Sorin, Frank Linehan, whose claim to political fame was swinging the Sorin student council representative election. Assisting Linehan as ticket chairman will be “The Dealer” Jim Clynes; “Ward-Heeler” Harry Walters will be in charge of the publicity.
In spite of all “wise guys” and their comments, Chairman Linehan had this to say of the plans. “We have seen the excellent jobs the two other halls who have presented dances have done, but those who attend our dance will have the pleasure of attending the greatest, most super-collosal spectacle of informal dance arrangements ever seen this side of a Hollywood lot. I can promise every student at Notre Dame (and I do not say this as a campaign promise—I really mean it) an informal dance that will be complete.”
With this comment, Linehan expressed the confidence which has spread through Sorin like wild-fire. These politicians are out to show the entire campus that they can do more than “shoot the breeze” about the “good old days'” and can make it the terrific present.
Ticket will again be $1.20 and dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30 to the music of Tony Bristol’s “Cavaliers” in the Rockne Memorial. The dance will be open to civilians, Navy V-12 and NROTC students.
Friends Fete Herb Jones
Herb Jones, business manager of the University, and formerly business manager of athletics, was feted last week by 75 of his close friends at a South Bend hotel. The testimonial dinner was highlighted by the presentation of a valuable gift and considerable “ribbing” by the diners.
Among the speakers were Lieut. Frank Leahy, Elmer Layden, Paul Butler, Jim Devaney, Pete Redden, Tom Hickey, and Mr. Jones. Toastmasters were Joe Bo-, land and Joe Donahue. Also on the program was a fake “broadcast” and a fake “lie detector” test.
At the dinner were Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, E. M. Morris, and acting head coach McKeever.
V-12 Program Continues
If new legislation, already passed by the house, is enacted into law, the Navy V-12 training program will continue under a new name. The program, which provided many of the nation’s football teams with talent, would not disturb V-12 engineering, dental, medical and theological students, except to make them members of the naval reserve officer training corps.
V-12 students other than those enumerated above would also become members of the NROTC and would remain on theii- original campus for eight additional terms of work following completion of primary instructions, and would no longer be shipped to midshipman’s school.
This announcement spikes any rumors that the V-12 program is being dropped. The Navy has expressed its gratitude and pleasure for the work done by the program, and this legislation goes far-toward proving the department’s pleasure with the success of the program.
A few issues of the SCHOLASTIC "Football Number" yet remain. They may be purchased at the Publications Office in the Administration Building.—The Editors.
His "St. Jerome" Wins 2nd Prize at Indianapolis
The twenty-first Annual Hoosier Salon, meeting in Indianapolis recently, awarded second prize for outstanding work in sculpturing to Father John J. Bednar,
C.S.C., head of the department of fine arts, at Notre Dame. The work selected for the prize-winning award was Father Bednar’s statue, St. Jerome. First prize went to another university art instructor, Mr. Robert Laurent, of Indiana University, for his alabaster carving Salome.
The statue, St. Jerome, is one of a group of statues executed by Father Bednar, under the direction of the University Art Committee. Ultimately these statues will be placed in niches in the various buildings on campus, particularly in the new plaza.
The statue, St. Jerome is intended for Dillon hall, and will be placed in a niche overlooking the north courtyard, and will complete the group of statues executed for that location. Other statues in this group include the figures of St. Bonaventure, St. Thomas Aquinas, and St. Augustine, all of which were installed during the past summer.
3
Aero Dinner to be Held at Hoffman on Feb. 13
Plans have been completed for the coming dinner to be held by the members of the Aero club, local chapter of the
the dinner, a turkey the time of the dinn<
Institute Aeronautical Sciences.
The dinner has been set for the night of Feb. 13, the day before Ash Wednesday. The Hoffman hotel has been chosen as the site of menu ordered, and r set at 6 p.m.
Mr. Frank N. Brown, head of the Department of Aeronautics, is scheduled to give an informal talk about his recent trip to China for the United States government, at this dinner.
The guest speaker will be Mr. Tom Delker, ’37, who graduated as an aeronautical engineer in the first graduating class of the department. He has been working for the Detroit branch of the Bendix Corp., and makes weekly inspection trips to the South Bend branch.
Reservations from the V-12 trainees, the ROs, and the “civies” indicate that about 40 to 50 aero engineering students will be on hand for the affair.
The club held its regular bi-weekly meeting last evening in the Engineering building. Official membership cards to the Institute were distributed to all enrolled members of the club. After the business meeting, refreshments were served, and a newly released film, “The Lightning P-38,” was shown. Also on the program was a shorter film on “Building a Tank.”
—Bob Snyder
V-12 Invited to Dance
Another dance sponsored by the Mary-Ann club of the Studebaker Corporation will be presented on Saturday, Feb. 10. The dance is another in a series of such affairs which have been presented each semester by the members of the club. The dances in the past have been notable as well-organized and enjoyable with spacious floor facilities and good music, and have been attended by a large number of trainees.
All members of the naval unit are invited to attend free of charge. Refreshments will be served. The Mary Ann girls will be present in numbers strong enough to insure a plentiful supply of partners for dancing. The dance will be held in the Studebaker administration building from 8:30 until 12:00. Music will be provided by Ted Gallagan and his local orchestra.
Observations...
By LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY. USNR
1.	Estimate of Future Number of Veterans in Colleges: Between 800,000 and 1,000,000 veterans of this war may study eventually at educational institutions of their own choice under the “GI Bill of Rights,” according to the Office of War Information. By October 31, 1944, the Veterans Administration reported, 5,772 ex-servicemen and women were already studying in educational institutions under this bill, and a total of 24,021 applications had been received, of which 17,723 so far had been determined eligible.
To meet a likely trend on the part of veterans toward education somewhat like the training received in service, the U.S. Office of Education expects that many states will provide some new types of schools, or introduce new courses in existing schools. New York State, for example, has appropriated approximately §65,000,000 for technical education in ° eleven technical institutions in upstate areas and eleven in metropolitan New York City, to provide education in aviation, graphic and industrial arts, food occupations, etc. That state has also authorized the establishment of eighty junior colleges with provisions for specialized educational and vocational guidance for veterans, including both liberal arts and technical studies.
2.	Navy News: All six Japanese carriers whose planes attacked Pearl Harbor now lie at the bottom of the Pacific, Admiral Nimitz has announced. Four were sunk in the Battle of Midway, one in the Battle of the Philippine Sea last June, and the sixth in the Second Battle of the Philippine Sea last October. Of the U.S. ships sunk at Pearl Harbor, Admiral Nimitz added, all but five have returned to action. Only one, the Utah, is still on the bottom. Five of those “raised from the dead” were the battleships Pennsylvania, Maryland, Tennessee, California, and West Virginia — which, with the Mississippi, sank eight Japanese warships in Surigao Strait in the Second Battle of the Philippines.
3.	Origin of Commission Pennant: In the 17th century, when the Dutch were fighting the English, a Dutch admiral hoisted a broom at his masthead to indicate his intention to sweep the English from the sea, and hence the origin of the expression “to make a clean sweep.” The English admiral answered this gesture (Continued on page 17)
New Constitution of Student Council
Pending Approval
The Student Council this week approved and sent to the administration of the University for ratification a new Student Council constitution. This new constitution, if ratified by the administration, will effect major changes from the present organization of the council.
The new constitution was drafted in great part from the present constitution but with changes in representation, elections, officers, and powers and with the addition of certain articles to facilitate the operation of the work of the council. The work was done by a committee
1. Student body represented in four ways, through Hall. College, and class representatives, plus the three officers elected at large.
2.	Each hall representative elected by popular election in hall.
3.	Dean of each college appoints a senior to represent that college.
4.	President of each class serves as class representative.
5.	Three officers elected by entire student body are members of and serve as officers of the Student Council.
6.	Student Council elects three of its members to serve on Executive Council.
7.	Three officers elected by student body are also members of and serve as officers of the Executive Council.
headed by James Clynes, with the help of Jim Donnelly, council secretary, and Robert Riordan, council president.
Representation Changed
Representation under the proposed constitution would be through halls, colleges, classes and from the student body i
(Continued on page 18)	j

All-Request Program for Student Concert;
Band Presentation to be Held February 15
BY OCTAVE EMOND
According to a recent poll of V-12 and civilian students, “The Bells of Saint Mary’s” was the outstanding selection for the all-request program to be presented by the Notre Dame Band in Washington hall on Thursday evening, Feb. 15.	'
Albert Ketelbey’s “In a Persian Market” was the second most popular selection in the semi-classical group.
Ferde Grofe’s “Mardi Gras” was the winner in the modern vein with David Bennett’s “Calfskin Callisthenics,” a drum novelty, sneaking into the number two slot. “Star Dust” was the big favorite in popular music while Jerome Kern’s “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes” was a very close runner-up.
“The American Patrol” and John Philip Sousa’s electrifying “El Capitan” were the two most popular marches according to the poll. Another overwhelming favorite was Charles Lee Hill’s “Gremlin Ball,” a band novelty in swing time.
These nine selection received the most student votes in the poll taken by members of the band, and they will constitute the program for the special concert
"Nights and Daze" Show Has Many Feature Acts
As the high point of the winter recreation program thus far, a “Nites and Daze” show featuring some of the outstanding talent of St. Joseph county was presented before a capacity crowd of trainees and their guests on Wednesday, in Washington hall.
After the overture by the V-12 “Commanders,” Mr. Leroy Longnecker gave an outstanding demonstration of ventriloquism using three different dummies. Mr. Longnecker’s best feat was a skit in which he threw his voice into a closed trunk with amazing results.
Following Mr. Longnecker were Miss Agnes Haney and Miss Catherine Harre-man, vocal soloists. Miss Haney sang “Begin the Beguine” and “Always,” while Miss Harreman sang “One Kiss” and a Romberg medley. Miss Haney and Miss Harreman then joined in a duet on “Indian Love Call” and “Too-ra-Loo-ra-Loo-ra.”
which is to be presented exclusively for V-12 and civilian students and their guests. It will be the last band concert of this semester, and it is being designed especially for the students’ pleasure.
All of the requested selections (regardless of the number of votes cast for them) have been recorded, and this list will be used as an index of student opinion by Mr. Hope when making up the programs for future band concerts. A few of the othei- high ranking selections included: “Firefly Selection,” “On The Trail,” “Rhapsody in Rhumba,” “All The Things You Are,” “Oklahoma Selection,” “Porgy and Bess Selection,” “There’s Something About a Soldier,” and “March Of The Steel Men.”
George Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue” was a dark horse favorite. Although it was not included in the list of selections offered, it received many votes. Because of the length of the selection and the difficulty of obtaining a piano soloist on short notice, this composition could not be considered for the concert of Feb. 15. However, Mr. Hope declared that they would like to perform the number with • the band and that it may quite possibly be presented during one of the band’s spring conceits.
An act which called for many encores was a jam session featuring the Harlan Hogan Quartet from radio station WSBT. The Hogan arrangements of “Body and Soul,” “Night and Day,” and “Red Hot” met with an enthusiastic reception.
A short tumbling act by trainees Don Toker and Robert Vosburg was followed by an instrumental duet by Dorothy and Margaret Bosscawan who presented several difficult duets on the trumpet. Miss Marilyn Beabout and Miss Beverly Broman then played a group of classical solos on the cello and piano, respectively.
A skit entitled “Leo the Lionel” was then narrated by Seaman Ed Gunn, master of ceremonies, depicting the horrors of inspection week.
To close the show, Mrs. Geraldine Roy and the Royal Hawaiian All-Girl orchestra presented a group of Hawaiian chants and melodies including an aria from one of the few Hawaiian operas.
Irish-Pennant-Yearbook
is an Excellent Tribute
Fashioned and folded in a rich green cover of tooled leather, the first Irish Pennant Yearbook made its appearance in Walsh hall, this week—25 days ahead of schedule. The book came as a pleasant surprise to the entire unit, and at the same time paid tribute to the organization and persistent determination of the small staff charged with the production of the volume.
Joseph D. Usina
Most ambitious of Naval ROTC projects yet attempted, the Yearbook was conceived, designed, and produced by a handful of first classmen headed by J. D. Usina, as editor-in-chief, with Don Claeys and Hany Gilligan as associate editors. Bill Grant and Ed Stroot handled advertising. Bob Snee and Ed Ball managed circulation. Art work was provided by Herb Daiker, John Cassidy, Tom Brownell and Charles Lugton. Bill Waddington and David Armstrong did special writing; and Lieut. Anthony E. Coryn acted as faculty advisor.
The layout of the book is based upon the theme of the Memorial door of Sacred Heart church — God, Country, Notre Dame—and is dedicated to Ensign Roy Grumbine, missing in action, and to the other members of the first graduating class of the Naval R.O.T.C. Both Father O’Donnell and Captain Barry contribute eloquent messages to the new navy officers leaving Notre Dame for active service.
Contents of the book include portraits of both University and Navy officers and personnel, the members of the graduating class, group shots of younger ROTC
(Continued on page 18)
5
Knights of Columbus Ball One Week Away;
V-12 and RO's Invited to Attend Semi-Formal
all three departments.” With this comment and the report for those who have heard the band that Phillips favors slow numbers, every dancer should really be “out of this world.” To those whose forte
“Ya Gotta Ac-cen-tu-ate the Pos-i-tive” and get that ticket for the K. of C. Ball now “Or pan-da-mon-i-um is li-able to walk upon the scene” about Feb. 9 when every other N.D. man is going to the Rockne Memorial to “Spread Joy up to the max-i-mum.”
Tickets for the Ball are now on sale at $3.60 from all members of the local council, and are also available in both the Bookstore and downstairs in the cafeteria.
Members of the Notre Dame NROTC and V-12 units were invited to attend the K. of C. Ball as a result of action taken at a meeting of the local council this week. The invitation was issued by the Knights because of the feeling on their part that these men in uniform are as much Notre Dame men as is possible under the circumstances. Tickets for the Navy men will be the same as to others, $3.60.
With ticket sales mounting, it may not be long before the limited supply will be exhausted, and as a result there may be a lot of disappointed ND lads at the Colfax that night with their “one and only’s,” wishing they had been more prudent and bought that ticket early.
General Chairman Ben Mammina has reported that rave notices continue to come in on Teddy Phillips’ band playing at the Downtown theater in Chicago. With Teddy and his clarinet fronting the band, and his lovely vocalist providing sentimental melodies, the music promises to be good.	,
As far as decorations are concerned, Bob Benes, chairman of the decorations committee has surveyed, measured, and estimated in the Rockne for a number of afternoons and has come up with a great plan for decorations. Mr. Benes has announced that the theme will not be new, but will be carried out in a unique manner and the dance-goers are in for a surprise when they see the Rockne gym transformed into a Gargantuan valentine with appropriate colors and sweetheart atmosphere.
With bids going at $3.60, everyone is assured a memorable time at a price which makes admission very low. For
Prof. Leo F. Kuntz, Ph.D. urges students interested in taking the Graduate Record Examination, scheduled for Feb. 9-10, to contact him immediately at his office in the Law building.
6 .
these few coppers in the coffers of the Knights, a bargain buy is assured.
Arrangements have been made for the broadcast of the dance over radio station WSBT from 11:05 to 11:30. This action on the part of the oldest broadcasting station of South Bend shows the appreciation the music director of that station has for this fast rising band of Ted Phillips.
In one musician’s trade magazine, Ted Phillips is described thusly, “Phillips is another triple threat band-leader. He’s an arranger, musician, and composer, and it looks as though he will excel in
RO Ball Is One Week Away
Notre Dame’s NROTC comes into its own a week from tonight when the Cadets and their fair damsels rendezvous at the Service Center for the unit’s Seventh Naval Ball.
An evening of continuous entertainment is now the keynote of the affair. Having scored a dance hit with the selection of Eddie Stone and his band as the paramount feature of the evening, the committee is even going further to take care of intermissions with a special attraction which will be stationed on the mezzanine (poop deck). This innovation
is jitterbugging, Phillips presents at suitable intervals hot jive numbers which should satisfy even the most avid fan of the “jam and jump” crowd. The band’s hot version of “Is You Is?” has been chalked up by Variety as a minor classic, and with Ted riding the licorice stick it promises to be the treat of the evening in the line of novelty numbers.
Grand Knight Dick Sadowski has reported that every committee is functioning efficiently and nothing is standing in the way of the complete success of the ball.
Tickets are now on sale at $3.60 from all members of the Knights, so get yours now before the supply runs out.
for the “time-out” periods remains, however, a pleasant surprise that the Ball committee does not wish to divulge at this date—they’re confident of a surprise success when eyes start popping at next Friday’s nocturnal event.
On the decoration front, Chairman Jack Cassidy and John Kramer have been diligently at the grind, getting the atmosphere into shape. As a pre-commissioning dance for those who are about to depart, it will be tops in the memoirs line while for those who stay behind, it will linger long as a pleasurable reality.
Fifth Naval Ball Now "Pleasant Memories";
V-12 Week-end Goes Over Successfully
The first half hour of the floor show saw the return of the Royal Hawaiian All Girl orchestra with another enjoyable and interesting program of Hawaiian chants and hulas. Trainee talent
The Drill hall has reverted to form as a midshipman proving ground, Mabel has once again become just a letter from home and a photograph on the desk, and another V12 weekend has come and gone. “Winter Frolics,” the fifth in the series of Regimental social functions has passed into history as a memorable and successful week-end, true to all past traditions for the grandeur of military balls at Notre Dame.
merrymaking than the atmosphere was re-adjusted to simulate a Broadway night club in preparation for the second phase of “Winter Frolics.” At 2000, the entire contingent of 500 seamen and their guests returned in informal attire for “Sailors on Parade.” The first hour was devoted to dancing to the music of Red Morris and the “Commanders” and at 2100, the spotlight was turned to the floor show.
supplied the latter phase of the program with Ed Gunn as emcee. Dick Abbott
started the program with a vivid imitation of Johnny Mercer’s “Duration Blues” followed by a medfley of popular ballads. Jack Milder then traced tAe cycle of piano melody from the classics to boogie-woogie for the evening’s outstanding musical performance.
Following a brief but impressive appearance by the Floradora Sextette, “The Great Pisano” D’Alonzo took over as the poor man’s Leonardo da Vinci to
The week-end began on Friday eve-
ning, Jan. 26, at 2100 with the presentation of the formal ball, featuring Vaughn Monroe and his nationally famous band. Vaughn divided his arrangements equally between sweet and swing, alternating the tempo so as to please jivers and sentimentalists alike. High points of the evening were the Monroe ballads with Vaughn’s own distinctive baritone on such favorites as “My Devotion,” “Shrine of St. Cecilia” and the sensational theme song “Racing With the Moon.” The music was broadcast over radio station WSBT from 2300 to 2330.
Dance programs with transparent covers embellished with a drawing of the bow of a battleship under full steam were presented to each guest attending the ball. The ball was under the general direction of the V-12 Executive Committee assisted by Lieut. J. H. Northrup, recreation officer.
No sooner had the E.P.D. boys cleared away the debris resulting from Friday’s
combine artistry, operatic arias, and innuendo. Next came the Redcaps’ vocal octet, who combined on several pieces of barbershop harmony and Negro spirituals. At 2230, the “Commanders” took over again for a final hour of informal dancing.
Sunday was devoted to Mass, sightseeing on the campus and finally, a closing period of dancing at the Service Center with Ted Gallagan providing the mood music for farewells. Thus the curtain came down on the week-end, unexcelled social splurge for winter.
Left: Dancing to the very danceable music of Vaughn Monroe at the Navy "Winter Frolics."
Below: Singers with Monroe Band render a snappy number as they highlight an evening of mirth.
7
GGlee ®€lub Continues ©Successful Record
The Notre Dame Glee club, one of the largest and best-known student organizations on the campus, will appear in formal concert Sunday afternoon, Feb. 4, at Immaculate Conception Parish, Michigan City, Ind., singing the fourth concert of the present semester.
Present strength of the club is 90 voices, one of the highest number of members to be carried through the semester in the club’s history. An even number of V-12 and civilian students form the basis of the organization, with a few NROTC men rounding out the personnel. Members of the Marine Corps formed an important part of the club before they left the campus at "the close of the last semester.	‘
Pedtke Directs
Director of the Glee club is Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the music department here. Mr. Pedtke has a rich background of choral work, which helps to explain his extraordinary success with the club. Before coming to Notre Dame he was head of the department of music at the College of St. Theresa in Winona, Minn., where he also directed a Gilbert and Sullivan opera each year and a Gregorian choir and choral club. Prior to his work at St. Theresa’s, Mr. Pedtke had been organist and choir director in many outstanding churches in Chicago and at the cathedral in Grand Rapids, Mich.
Club Officers
President of the club this year is Bob O’Toole, senior civilian student from Chicago. Besides his singing activities Bob is head cheerleader and circulation manager of the Notre Dame Scholastic. Other officers are: Vice-president Jim Clynes, senior civilian student from Ithaca, N. Y., retiring president of the Economic Roundtable, member of the Student Council and of the varsity golf team; secretary, John Caron, former battalion commander of the NROTC, a senior in chemical engineering, from Rochelle, Ill.; and Dick Ames, publicity chairman, a senior English major from St. Paul, Minn. Dick, a former campus editor of the Scholastic, ex-president of the Bookmen and secretary of the Wranglers, is one of the soloists appearing with the club this semester.
Other soloists are V-12 students Arch Kane, pre-med from Great Ledge, Mich., and John Stanfill. The former is a baritone, while Stanfill is a tenor.
The reason for the success of the Glee club since its inception is its growing fame, brought about by successful concerts and through the hard work of its
8
members. War-time restrictions have cut down on the activities of the club in that the traditional trips have been called off because of transportation difficulties.
Travelling in chartered busses, it had been the custom to tour all the Mid Western cities on week-ends during the spring. The long tour made by the club included concerts in the principal cities of Ohio, Massachusetts and New York, climaxed by a concert in the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City. Patrons of this conceit included Deems Taylor and Martinelli, director of the Chicago Opera company.
The reviews of this trip, as of all others, were most favorable, helping to
Glee Club of 1944-'45
build the prestige of the club and Director Pedtke.
In the last few years the club has sung on all the majoi- networks, featured with Kate Smith, Bill Stern and others.
Long hours of practice are required to mold the many voices of the club into a full rounded whole, and to accomplish
McCarthy Addresses Boston Advertising Club
James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce at the University of Notre Dame, addressed members of the Advertising club of Boston, at a luncheon meeting Tuesday, Jan. 30. Topic of his talk was “Promotion of Economic Literacy Through Advertising.”
Dean McCarthy became a member of the Notre Dame faculty in 1921, as instructor in foreign trade after spending two years in South America for the Charles Morse Co., importers. Two years later, in 1923, he was made dean of the College of Commerce, a position which
this objective the members meet for a half-hour each day, calling special practices whenever the need is felt. The history of successful concerts attests to the value of the efforts given to such sessions.
The problem of keeping the club up to its usual strength when the calls of Selective Service and other war activities depleted the ranks seemed insurmountable, curtailing the club’s concert schedule for a few semesters, but the present group lacks neither numbers nor talent.
A recent campus concert was regarded by many as one of the most artistic in the history of the club.
Personnel of the club will again change
next semester, as many of the civilian students will leave school to enter the service, and many of the V-12 men will go on to midshipman school. All those who are interested in auditions for becoming a member, should watch the bulletin boards and the Scholastic for announcements.	•
he has held since that time.
One of the nation’s experts in domestic and foreign trade, Dean McCarthy is a member of the National Foreign Trade Council; a director of the First Bank & Trust Co. of South Bend; director of Associates Investment Co., South Bend; ■ Member of the Advisory Board of Amer- i ican Enterprise Association, New York j City; chairman of the Indiana Tax Study I Commission, 1939; member of the Vene- | zuela Social Service Commission, 1939; ! $ and member of the Notre Dame Bureau | of Economic Research.	|
TRAINEE SUGGESTS DRASTIC AMENDMENTS TO STATION REGULATIONS
Section III of Station Regulations is to be changed to read as follows: DAILY ROUTINE
0930—Reveille
1000—Bed check; ham and eggs will be served in bed
1030—Clean up
1100—Rest from cleaning up
1130—Calisthenics; push ups without the push
1200—Noon chow formation
1300—Rest to let chow digest
1400—Classes; instructions on how to use spare time
1500—Nap time
1700—Knock off nap time; movies
1800—Knock off movies; prepare for evening chow
1830—Rest to let evening chow settle
1900—Study period (Dancing, tall-tales, etc.)
1905—Knock off study period; rest from study period
"1000—Bed check; ham and eggs will be served in bed"—Griffith amendment to station regs.
1930—Prepare for taps
2000—Taps
There will be no musters, bed checks (other than 1000), roll calls, inspections, drill or other bits of inconvenience to the trainee.
Liberty will commence at 1200 Saturday and continue until the trainee can no longer stand up.
Monday and Tuesday are declared rest days to rest up from strenuous weekend liberty. If the trainee feels that he does not need any rest, he may remain on liberty through Monday and Tuesday. This, of course, means that he will get only the prescribed fifteen hours sack duty on Wednesday.
By direction—
Donald R. Griffith,
Acting S.R.A. (Station Regulation
Amender)
DILATORY MAESTRO
Those of you who were wont to string Vaughn Monroe to the yardarms for depriving you and the little woman of the first forty minutes of dancing at the V-12 Brawl will perhaps be pacified
INVITATION TO K. OF C. BALL
The K. of C. Ball committeemen extend a cordial invitation to al] servicemen on campus, especially the V-12 navy group, to attend the K. of C. Winter "Semi-Formal," to be held in the Rockne Memorial, Feb. 9.
The bids are priced at $3.60. and are on sale at the Bookstore, and at the Zero Deck Canteen of the Dining hall.
to learn that the band’s lack of punctuality was justified due to a string of bad breaks such as shouldn’t happen to a Marine.
While Vaughn was enroute from Detroit, an accident occurred on the line and his train was delayed for two hours, finally enabling his arrival at 2000. All taxicabs were used by us social lions so the entire band had to take the bus. Due to a mixup, a truck was not available to bring his instruments from the station, so more delay.
To compensate for his late arrival, Vaughn agreed to take only two intermissions throughout the entire evening and remained on the stand to give us some of the finest music ever heard at this or any other ball.
DA BRAWL
As is the custom every four months, it is time again to give a rah-rah and a fanfare to the committee for gala fling in the calisthenics chamber. The ball was true to all traditions for a migration of feminine pulchritude such as might do justice to Earl Carroll’s Vanities, a well organized program for three days, and some Boi-is Karloff hangovers at early Monday’s classes. The navy editor and myself await only a raucous vote of disapproval from a certain lacrimose epitaph-writer who _ struggles through Tower Notes before declaring this the best of the balls.
FEBRUARY GRADUATES
At a meeting in the Law Building auditorium at noon, today, Seniors graduating at the end of this term agreed to participate in the publishing of portraits and commentary in the “Commencement Issue” of the SCHOLASTIC. The portraits are to be taken on Monday and Tuesday at 12:30, in the Basement (south) of the Library. All Seniors, not possessing a recent portrait of themselves, must appear on these two specified dates or the project must be abandoned. Charges for new portraits of Seniors have been reduced to $1.50.—The Editors.
9
St. Eds Former Home of Minims
BY BOB MOLNAR and HARRY SIEMONSMA
In building' the University of Notre 1 lame, the founders sought to make it a home front which the benefits of Christian education might be spread to the youth of the land. In connection with this, those in authority decided to maintain a preparatory school.
Minims Department Begun
As a result of this, a preparatory department was begun and was made a separate school in itself in 1S-A4, twelve years after the founding' of Notre Dame. The name given to this school was the Minim department, and those attending were known as Minims..These boys were generally under the age of fourteen.
During the first years of its existence, the school was in charge of lay teachers, principally women. However, in 18fi-’>. Father Sorin decided that it would be more advantageous to have the Minims
in charge of Sisters than to have them governed by lay teachers. Hence Mother M. Angela, foundress of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in America, was entrusted with the organization.
Housed in Old Infirmary
At first the boys were housed in the ground floor of the old infirmary, but as progress was made and the school grew in enrollment, it was found necessary to erect a separate building for their purposes. This led to the erection of the present spacious building known as St. Edward's hall, which received its name from the founder of Notre Dame, Father Edward Sorin. The building was occupied in 1882.
The hall had more than a hundred pupils with a staff of thirteen Sisters as teachers, and three Brothers of Holy
Cross who looked after the Minims during their recreation hours and watched over them in the dormitories.
St. Edward’s hall is located a little to the north of the Music hall and east of the Main building. It is a large, four-story, brick building, one hundred and fifty feet long and sixty five feet wide.
The various rooms in St. Edward’s hall were all large, well lighted and well ventilated. On the eastern end of the building was an annex more than two hundred feet long, which was divided into a library, game room, play hall, gymnasium, athletic club rooms, clothes rooms, etc. In front of the building was the St Edward’s park which had a frontage of about four hundred feet.
On the lowest floor of the Minims hall were located the lavatories, locker rooms, one or two of the closets, baths, etc. The second floor was divided into the St. Ed
St. Edward's Hall—Where Campus Elite Reside
10
ward's chapel, parlor, reception room, class rooms, study and society hall. On the third floor were the class and recitation rooms, the music hall and the principal dormitories. On the fourth floor were the remaining- dormitories.
Boy School Discontinued
Then, in 1929, it was announced that St. Edward’s school for boys would be discontinued and remodeling would beein so that in September, 1929, the building would be available for the University students as a residence hall. The announcement .was made by Kev. T. A. Steiner, C.S.C., chairman of the building
committee. The building was remodelled to accommodate two hundred students of all four classes.
The new arrangement reduced the number of off-campus students to less than four hundred. Professor Vincent F. Fagan, of the department of Architecture, was in charge of remodeling the hall. It was ready for occupancy on September 12, 1929, the first day of the 1929-30 school year.
At the present time. St. Edward’s hall houses members of the sophomore class. It is fairly well-known as the house of the athletes. Kev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., is rector. In the summer he may be seen
every afternoon basking in the sun, and down at the "Pock” during the winter. In all interhall sports, St. Edward’s is always sure to put out a winning team. This was well illustrated last semester when this hall won most of the honors in sports. No other hall on the campus can boast of such a consistent record in interhall athletics during the past war semesters.
St. Edward's hall may not be here in a few more years, but the traditions, both new and old, which have been upheld by the St. Edward's boys will be' remembered always; it will always be a part of Notre Dame.
The Pema*d Staff at Work
Last fall, the plan.- for a graduation publication vveie in the form of a mighty challenge. However, a nucleus of ambitious gentlemen set out to produce a strictly Naval R.O.T.C. annu-'l which would suipass any such book as yet published. Yet. carrying the full academic load and the additional burden of February commissioning, the editors anti the stall' progressed smoothly, anticipating and surmounting the manv difliculties in efficient production. The men responsible for the book gave freely of their liberty hours and their extra sack time. At times it was a headache: but more often it proved to be a source of enjoyment and inteiesting experience.
Listed above are snapshots of some of the various editors at work on the publication, in the following older:
Upper hjt: Jack Cassidy and Herb Daiker bring their excellent nonsense
to life in the foim of cartoon- reproducing v.ith alarming similarity some ot the better characters in comie -trip- today.
Uppir rii/ht: Pon Cl”ey.- ami J. I>. U-ina discus-, in their layout problems. just where material should be placed to rhe best of advantage.
[Mirer lift: Bill Grant and Ed Snoot conspire to finance the book through extensive advertising. The results of theii effort- were remarkable.
IjOircr rent) r: Bob Snee and Ed Ball iron out the mysteries connected with the matter of circulation.
Imh-i r ripht: Frank Milligan and Harry Gilligan are other associate editors who faced more than one difficulty in the process of bringing the book to life and reality.
11
Qfieett &GHM0L
YE OLDE N.D.
Ray McEnery, Ralph Hayman, Bill Carey, and “Dipper” Evans dragged then- dollies from across the way. Incidentally, the ball was a smooth affair, and above all, well planned. Busses ran from St. Mary’s to the Drill hall which is more than can be said for any other-dance we’ve attended.
Big Blows, too, to the men of Cavanaugh, for their gracious lend-lease program of “Tuxes for Sorin.” The way some of the second-floor Sorinites were running around, like chickens with their necks cut off, we thought they would wind up wearing green window shades. The second floor prefect survived the invasion; but reported as “missing in action,” were one black overcoat and one tin of black shoe polish.
LEND LEASE
What the well-dressed man will borrow for a date—speak of lend lease— take Frank Linehan, for example: Frank’s lease consisted of Jim Clynes’ pants, Jack Allen’s wallet, Joe Brandy’s money, Jack Clynes’ tails, Mike Garry’s shoes, shirt and collar belonging to Bud Malone, Barney Slater’s scarf, his own socks and shorts, and Tom McGaughey’s girl (with apologies to Mae Heslin).
Other individuals whose clothes were seen at the ball, although the owners were not there: Tom Dinges, Dick Gallagher and “Doc” Glaser. Sorin came to attention with a snappy salute as Rudy Lopez barked orders in his Navy dress blues.
John Prawdzik left the drill hall attired in black, but when he returned at the two o’clock curfew, it was black and blue. He is now engaged in writing the novel, Doorstep Catastrophe.
Missing over the week-end were the St. Mary’s gals who went elsewhere for their inter-semester weekend. One gal was in line at the baggage counter at the N.Y.C. station. As she stepped up, the agent looked at the man standing behind her and said “Which bag do you ivish to check, Sir.”
ATHLETIC SORIN
The story of Sorin hall, as printed in last week’s Scholastic, stated: “the lead in the athletic field can no longer be claimed exclusively by Sorin.” Sorin has never claimed to be “exclusive” in anything, but never in its history has it housed so many favorite sons of the Irish as it has done recently. In its portals reside Captain and All-American Pat Filley, plus the three men chosen to represent the Blue and Gold in the East-West game, Boley Dancewicz, Frank Szymanski, and the high-scoring Bob Kelly. “The hall with the porch” also lays claim to John Adams, Pete Berez-ney, Tom Schrieber, Mike Manzo, John Bresnahan, Walt McDermott, Frank Gil-hooley, Steve Toczlyowski, plus the greater portion of the coaching staff— can it, then, be said that Sorin is lacking in its contribution towards Notre Dame athletics?
EDITOR'S NOTE: SCHOLASTIC regrets not making clearer that it meant Sorin can no longer claim exclusive lead in the athletic field in inter-hall competition.
HOME IN INDIANA
My! what a picturesque state! At least, according to the Hollywood version, it is. At every turn in the road (as
Ryan Departs—as Sadowski Threatens
we viewed the cinema version) you find a racetrack, and beautiful girls, the only state in the union where there are two lovelies to every man! The racetracks are more stunning than Hialeah. Obviously, we haven’t seen any lovelies at the local swimming hole. What’s more, if they were there and the local law caught up with them, they would go out of here much faster than one of Bing Crosby’s horses. Bill Carey saw the picture and ever since he thinks he’s Tom Mix as he goes about singing, “Tony boy, won’t you be my Tony boy!”
TIME TAKES A HOLIDAY
Tempus Fuff it, Bats in ths Belfry, or what have you, still the clock in the tower is so slow it must run on Southern War time. ’Tain’t a German made clock, >- ’cause Germans always run fast. In any ' k. case, it causes a lot of trouble on the church side of Sorin. Joe Walker gazes cut the window, spots the time as twenty-five to two and says, “’Tis the shank of the morning.” Bill Granfield does the same and says: “Well, I have no afternoon classes anyway,” and so they both cut out of their eight o’clock class. Better days are coming, boys—the clock shall run again—along with F.D.R.
❖
HAPPY LANDINGS
There is a gent’ in Cavanaugh who throughout this semester has taken quite ! a ribbing in this column. Tomorrow he leaves Irish-Land to join the Naval Air Crew. Despite the fact that we have kidded unmercifully, The Banner thinks hs is one grand Chicago Irishman, and so says “Happy Landings.”
♦
EX -SURTS
Hurry, Hurry, Hurry—Have you a date for the K. of C. Ball? If not, see Ben Mammina. He waves at every girl that passes the Bowl-Mor, so he must know them. Maybe he knows one who may not be working on the night shift at Bendix. Or do youse woik at de plant yourself?
“Boss” Kelly has laid out the welcome mat in the form of the Wildcats and the Demons, and after tonight we think the mat will be well trampled by Messrs. Gilhooley, Hassett, Dee, Boryla, Ratterman, et al. After Djoc Gillespie’s tall tale of the Lakes-Irish fiasco, two weeks ago, we wouldn’t miss this one for all the buttons on the laundry floor.
A total of 62.862 academic degrees have been granted by the University of Wisconsin since the first class was graduated in 1854.

12
Big Week-End In Store for Crowemen With Tilts Against De Paul, N. U. on Stadium Court
BY BILL WADDINGTON
“Scholastic" Sports Editor
Beat Great Lakes by four points one week-end, then double back to annex another victory from a team like the Kentucky Wildcats in an overtime session— well, then you’ve got a ball club on your hands. And that’s just the way Coach Clem Crowe is feeling these days about his hustling eagers who take on De Paul in the Chicago Stadium tonight in one of the most talked about matches of the year. In the curtain-raiser, Purdue will take on Northwestern.
To add hard work to already expended effort, the Irish will take to the Stadium hardwood for the second evening in a row when they engage Dutch Lomberg’s Wildcats on Saturday. This two-night round-robin billing gives the Mid West the basketball limelight of the week and will undoubtedly result in giving the Mid West one of the most thrilling weekends in sports history as well as producing a top team from the sector.
Coach Ray Meyer’s De Paul quintet have already exploded in their opponents faces 14 times this season while suffering but a single set back to Illinois. After taking it easy in topping the Hilltoppers of Marquette last Saturday, the Blue Demons will be keyed up to razorsharp perfection for the week-end tussles, as Ray Meyer is well aware of the tremendous basketball skill and speed wrapped up in Notre Dame and Purdue, whom De Paul plays Saturday night. Firmly of the belief that the Demon forwards and guards will continue to present a formidable scoring threat, Coach Meyer will work this week to complete a smooth offensive and defensive unit which will be sparked by George Mikan. “Big George,” the scoring machine, plays a feeder role as-well. His real strength is his ability to grab the ball off both backboards and consequently control the game.
Regard N. D. as Potent
Notre Dame looms as the most powerful opponent De Paul must face this season. The Demon-Irish series is of recent origin but from the very first game three seasons ago, a strong, heated rival
ry has been the key note in each encounter. The record stands at one game apiece De Paul having swamped the South Bend boys 61-45 last season after dropping the initial encounter, 50-47, in the ’42-’43 billing.
The playoff game Friday might easily be tabbed an All-Star preview, for it seems likely that George Mikan at center, forwards Johnny Dee of ND and Gene Stump of De Paul, and guards Billy Hassett of the Irish and “Whitey” Kachan of the Demons will be picked on many of the all-American teams of the nation. With the point-minded Vince Boryla at center, and rebounders: forward George Ratterman and guard Frank Gilhooley rounding out the squad, Notre Dame’s varsity will present strong opposition to De Paul’s first-stringers: Mikan, Stump, Kachan, Allen and DiBenedetto.
After finishing with De Paul, Northwestern becomes the foe for Coach Crowe’s lads. Although a none too impressive record of two wins and four losses confronts the ’Cats in Big Nine competition, they still have plenty to offer in center Max Morris, Frank Wright, Ben Shadier and company. Northwestern has lost five in a row and while it would seem that they are at low ebb, there’s always that strategic bit of “surprise” that they can toss at the enemy. Morris is the current Big Nine scoring leader with 106 points in six tries for a 16.3 average.
TRACK MEET TOMORROW 2:00 p.m.
Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan
General Admission___________60 cents
V-12 and Servicemen_________25 cents
Basketball Playoff Scores — Civilian Championship: NDTC, 55; Rocketts. 48.
V-12 Tourney: NROTC Co. 2. 39; Co. F, 28; Co. I. 50; Co. F. 38.
Games Next Week: NROTC Co. 2 vs. Co. F; Co. I vs. Co. F; NROTC Co. 2 vs. Co. I.
N.D. Host to Broncos in Trock Meet Tomorrow
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s indoor track team takes on Western Michigan in the fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 p.m. to unveil the 1945 version of Irish thinclads. This will be the first appearance of the year for the Broncos, who will bring a young civilian and V-12 team.
Both outfits held intra-squad time finals last week in preparation for this contest. Coach Handy expressed confidence in his boys who have improved greatly in the last few weeks. Dave Murphy, an NROTC cadet, was easily the class of the meet, taking the 60-yard dash and 440 yard run in splendid style.
Bill O’Neil copped both hurdles events for the only other double win of the day. In the half mile, Bill Tully proved that he’s the man to beat in the Irish winter camp, as he pounded out a clean-cut victory. George Sullivan and Joe Kelly began anew their shot-putting duels and finished first and second, respectively.
Reports from Kalamazoo state that the Broncos strength lies in the dashes and field events, but that they have a weakness in the middle distances where Tully and Ken Muening of the Blue and Gold may well decide the meet. Bill Moore of Western Michigan has bettered 13 feet in the pole vault, however, and with Bill Haidler in the high jump, the Brones may counter-balance this defect. Coach Roy Wietz is relying heavily on Lawrence Pratt in the dashes, and Bill Hahn and Bill Porter in the hurdle events. The big question to be answered on the morrow will be the mile relay. Notre Dame tradtionally strong in this event, will start a quartet built around Murphy and Fred Jones, to face the untested Brones.
The results of last Saturday’s final intra-squad meet were:
60-yd. dash—Murphy, LeBrau, Janson, LaBonte.
60-yd. low hurdles — O’Neil, Hosbein, Entrikin, Laurita.
60-yd. high hurdles — O’Neil, Walsh, McConville, Entrikin.
440-yd. run—Murphy, Jones, Schriner, McShane.
880-yd. run—Tully, McCarthy, Slovak, Colver.
Pole Vault—Struble, Vossburg, Brennan.
High Jump—Hull, Majors, McGee. Shot Put—Sullivan, Kelly, Scott.
13
JACK MILES
Irish Eke Out Win Over Kentucky in Overtime, 59 to 58; Record Now Stands at Ten and Three
BY JACK FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
207 points in 13 games! That’s the total compiled by Vince Boryla, the East Chicago freshman. That is an average of 15.9 points a game. Leo Klier, in breaking the Notre Dame scoring record last year, averaged only 14.6 tallies a contest. Thus, if Vince keeps it up, that record is within easy reach.
The 6' 4" Hoosier attended Washing-
VINCE BORYLA
ton high school, winning three letters in basketball and holding down the captaincy in his senior' year. In June, 1944, Washington lost him and Notre Dame received him in July.
He is planning to major in chemistry, and would like to be a doctor or an engineer. Glenn Miller rules his rhythm roost, along with the always-popular Bing Crosby as top entertainer. Orange juice gets his endorsement as favorite beverage, and the athlete’s delight— steak—is a decided gastronomic delight as far as Mr. B. is concerned.
A date with his girl is “Bullets’ ” most enjoyable pastime, and he is enrapt every time he hears “There Goes That Song Again.” The diamond feats of Lou Gehrig and his sportsmanship and clean life are factors that make that outstanding sports idol Number 1 on Vince’s list. His biggest sports thrill came when the Gold and Blue came from behind to defeat Great Lakes in Chicago Stadium recently.
At the moment, Cavanaugh Hall claims him (425 to be exact), but he’ll be eighteen in March. Then Uncle Sam will have priority on his services.
Chalk up another one for the Fighting Irish eagers! Yes, Notre Dame’s high flying court quintet annexed its fourth consecutive win and its tenth in 13 tries by turning in a rousing 59-58 triumph in an overtime period as the potent and scrappy Kentucky Wildcats met theii' second setback in 14 games in Louisville’s spacious Armory Saturday night. The fray was so closely contested that it took Johnnie Dee’s left handed story book swisher from the side to turn the trick for N. D. With a minute left to play in the extra period, Clem Crowe’s diminutive scoring ace hit with the basket that erased a one point Kentucky advantage and gave Notre Dame the ball game. A capacity gathering of more than 6,000 rabid enthusiasts sat in on this year’s edition of the annual feud and, while the K. U. supporters departed minus the Irish scalp they had come to collect, not one considered the game anything but a brilliant display of top-caliber, high-scoring, exhilarating basketball, worth the price of admission anytime.
Regulation time elapsed just after Jack Tingle of the Cats potted a charity effort to knot the score at 53-all. Tingle, Kentucky’s big gun with 21 salvos, was awarded two tosses when, with only five seconds remaining, N. D. guard Frank Gilhooley, seeing him race unmolested toward the basket and a Wildcat victory, obviously fouled him. Tingle hit on one to necessitate the five minute aftermath.
Irish Grab Lead
Bill Hasset of the Irish sent his club ahead with a dead-center long heave in the opening seconds of the added session. Tingle offset this for the losers but center Vince Boryla edged the Golden Domers to the fore once again with a pivot shot. After Campbell’s free shot made the count 56-57, Parkinson’s bucket from the free throw line escorted Kentucky’s to the lead for the first time, 58-57. Came then Dee’s clincher that settled the issue.
Notre Dame found the hoop with pleasing accuracy during the first 20 minutes of the contest and also presented an effective defense. These combined factors enabled the Blue and Gold to erect a 35-23 guarantee at halftime.
In the second period, opposing centers Boryla and Campbell exchanged baskets. Then Hasset slipped through for a set
up, stretching the difference to 14 at 39-25. With Tingle doing yeoman work for the Cats and Dee carrying the brunt for the winners, the count went up to 47-37. Kentucky had seen enough. The Southeastern Conference champs opened up and evened the reckoning at 51-51 with three and a half minutes left. Dee’s one hander was counter-balanced by a free-for-nothing connection by Tingle and anothei- one by that same worthy in the final moments. The hectic overtime followed.
Navy Basket Tourney Determines Hall Champs
Inter-company basketball champions have been virtually determined in both Dillon and Walsh halls as the battles within the confines of the respective navy residence halls move into their final stages. In Alumni, the rightful king is Company I.
In Dillon, Co. F has emerged the victor by virtue of impressive victories in each of its games to date. F’s smallest margin of victory is a nine-point advantage over Co. C, 32-23. Outstanding performers for F are McCoy and Rafferty, although the other three boys out there are far'from mere “walls” serving only as stopgaps between dribbles for their two stars.
In Walsh, as in Dillon, there remains no doubt as to the superiority of one team—Company 2. These NROTC boys have run up terrific scores such as: 76-32 over Co. 4, and 56-28, again over Co. 4. Co. 2’s main opposition has come from Co. 1, but even here the contention has been slight, Co. 2 winning first by a count of 44-32, and then by a 40-28 margin. Co. 2’s “deadeyes” thus far have been Wade and Gilligan, the former hitting for 24 points in one game.
Alumni Company I has defeated Company J, 40 to 34, while J has triumphed over I by a score of 34 to 30. Particularly effective for Company I have been Skaff and Obie. Co. J. has come up with a rugged squad paced by Tully’s uncanny shooting ability and Benigni’s rebounding power.
The service championship will be decided with RO 2, I, and F each playing each other twice. The winner will emerge from the best of each teams quartet of games.
Center Continues Source
of Good Entertainment
The Servicemen’s Center on Colfax Avenue, invariable week-end mecca for a large percentage of trainees from Notre Dame’s three naval units has announced a broad program of entertainment for the winter and spring terms of 1945 to continue all previous traditions for the best in week-end and midweek enjoyment.
The year was begun on a festive note with the presentation of the annual New Year’s Party with all food and refreshments contributed by Mr. and Mrs. Henry R. Frepan who were on hand for the traditional service of serving the punch. Since then the busy routine of dinners and tea dances has been reinstituted to insure a full calendar of occupation for all servicemen.
Miss Barbara Ebersole, chairman of the junior board, announces the continuation of the regular program of dancing from eight to eleven on Saturday and from two until five on Sunday afternoon. Arrangements are now underway for the appearance of several outstanding service bands including those from Baer Field and Bunker Hill naval air station. Each week South Bend’s best orchestras including Myron Walz and Ted Gallagan appear at the center with a radio broadcast over WHOT at ten o’clock.
Also each week, the Studebaker corporation presents its radio show featuring naval trainees; “Stars and Stripes.” The show features Guy Wallace, outstanding Blue network emcee and several cash prizes consisting of five or ten silver dollars are given to all who appear on the show. All trainees with talent of any kind are invited to contact program authorities for an audition leading to a spot on the Saturday show.
Meals will be served on Saturday evening and during the week for seamen on midweek liberty. The coke bar is open at all times for those desiring soft drinks and cookies.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Business and social success depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained graduates examine your hair and scalp ...treat the real cause of receding hairline. Free * examination. Treatments
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'^ SHOP
NTEPS
FROM THE
QESS BOX
By GEORGE KRAUSER
Well, just look what our boys did to those old rough and tough Wildcats. Guess they won’t claw anybody for a little while after what Gilhooley and Company did to the Kentuckians. The only thing that remains now for the Blue and Gold to do is to make a clean sweep.. in Chicago this weekend. Of course, there is the small matter of coping with Mr. Empire State Building, that’s long George Mikan, and the Northwestern Wildcats on successive nights. However, from the way the Irish have been heppiin’ it up lately one might find the Notre Dame flying at the top of the basketball world, and this could easily mark them as the year’s most surprising court five besides adding a feather to Clem Crowe’s coaching head-dress.
The weeks come and the weeks go but Vince Boryla doesn’t go from the top of the Irish scorers. Against the Wildcats he tacked 18 additional tallies to his already huge total to bring his season’s sum to 207 and his average to 15.9. Just 36 markers back is Johnny Dee, who pitched in 16 points against Kentucky, with a 13.2-a-game total. “Gentleman George” Ratterman, Notre Dame’s fairhaired boy of the courts, sails along in the No. 3 spot having dusted the draperies for 126 counters, which is just short of 10 points per contest. The fourth courster to pass the 100 mark is Billy Hassett who has nudged the nets for 107 tallies and a 9 point a game average.
(Continued on page 16)
Appropriate GIFTS for VALENTINE'S DAY February 14th
AM ^gyiarvin^
126 N. Michigan Street
Bridge Tourney Enters Quarter-Finals Round
Reported by an Innocent Bystander
The “knock - out” Contract Rubber Bridge tournament, in session for the past two weeks, is now entering the quai-ter-finals, and the devotees of Goren, Culbertson, Lenz et aL are rapidly acquiring “Bridge Palsy” as they get closer to the mythical crown of “University champs.”
Breen-Phillips has two teams in the quarter-finals: Jim Regan and Ulysse Berube and Bob Shaw and Frank Paxton, the latter pair fresh from victory over an old pair of Sorin Bridge addicts, John Prawdzik and “Chuck” Sartore.
Cavanaugh still has two pairs in the fray: likely looking Pete Ricciardi and George Nichols plus the dark-horse combination of Don Crowell and Ernest Schorer.
Sorin isn’t out of the battle, for apparently the slamhappy team of George Weiss and Bill Granfield is going into the quarterfinals at the expense of Henry Lulli and George Despot. Jim Clynes and John Dockweiler, also of Sorin and many a Bridge engagement, are also in the quarter-finals.
With the contest entering the higher brackets of seven rubbers per match, the play will be sharper, the consideration deeper and the kibitzers quieter. Ten more days will tell the story... and then, please heaven, we’ll hear no longer those famous last words: “.... but the other guys had all the cards!”
Notre Dame Jackets, Sweat Shirts Golf Clubs Pennants Hand Balls and Gloves
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
Phone 3-3702
15
SPLINTERS
(Continued from page 15)
Notre Dame continued their blistering 62 points per game average when they added 59 points to their total to bring their aggregate to 803 and their average to 62.
The starring role is nothing new for George Ratterman as he compiled quite a record while he was pastiming for St. Xavier High in Cincinnati. He won all
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
city and all state honors in basketball and football, pitched and played shortstop on the baseball nine, and played tennis well enough to be ranked No. 1 in the Ohio Valley, junior class. While playing against Norwood High in 1943, George tossed five touchdown passes to lead his team to victory. Touted as one of the greatest athletes in Ohio Valley history, he won nine letters for his play in four sports.
When Frank Gilhooley grabbed Jack Tingle from behind to prevent his certain basket, he prevented Kentucky from making a duplication of last year’s Wildcat-Irish go. It was last year that the Wildcats were trailing 54-52 with a minute and a half to play that Bob Brannum, Kentucky’s All-American, stole the ball and dribbled in for a quip making it and being fouled in the process. He made the free toss and gave Kentucky a 55-54 win. This year it was different for the goal didn’t count and Jack Tingle made only one of two free throws to just tie the score and delay the Irish victory.
Sucker of the week: Bob Veeneman, the Kentucky Colonel, took all wagers on the Kentucky game last week and came out five ($5.00) dollars in arrears. This only added insult to injury because Bob had lost 10 bucks on Tennessee in the Rose Bowl contest. Don’t get discouraged, Bob, you’ll just have to wait till racing ’ returns to get it back on “Bobby Boo,” your namesake and old dad’s bangtail sucker!
A sweet young co-ed asked the Oklahoma A & M basketball coach, Hank Iba, if he knew that her brother had played for the Aggies five years ago. Iba mulled over the name but he could not place it, although he was sure he knew all the athletes that year. “What did he play?” he inquired.
“Oh, he wasn’t an athlete,” she explained. “He played the trumpet.”
In a year’s time, 2,922 soldiers received instruction in drafting, surveying and geodetic computing at the University of Kentucky.
HansARintzscn
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Center Action Studied
Announcement was made this week of the appointment of a sub-committee to study the matter of future action of the center by the advisory committee of the Service Men’s Center.
No word was given as to the nature of any plans or the reason for the appointment of the committee. However, it is possible that the proposed reduction in the Navy V-12 program at the University had something to do with it.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
We will arrange for mailing
Let us worry about mailing your Valentine gift.
PURSES COMPACTS BILLFOLDS JEWEL BOXES PICTURE FRAMES
16
Alumni Board Meets
The hoard of directors of the Alumni Association met at Notre Dame on Saturday and Sunday, Jan. 27 and 28. Present were Honorary President Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.; president, Thomas F. Byrne; vice-presidents, Gerald Ashe and E. B. Bailey; directors, Reverend M. L. Moriarty, John T. Higgins and William J. Mooney; alumni office directors James E. Armstrong and William R. Dooley. Rev. Frank P. Goodall, C.S.C., attended a part of the sessions.
Aftei- hearing a most stimulating presentation of the University’s status, with all of the problems further progress involves, the Board emphasizes the need for intensified attention to the present helpful programs which are being fostered :
1.	The Third Annual Fund, which despite the success reflected in both the Alumni and Public Relations reports for 1944, must enjoy continued and increased success if the University’s opportunities and obligations in the postwar or continuing war periods are to be met.
2.	Cooperation in restoring a full enrolment, now at a very low ebb through Navy program curtailment and the selective service limitations on civilian enrolment.
3.	Development of a coordinated lay and religious leadership based on training in fundamental principles, which, through the Local Alumni Clubs, will bring the force and benefit of this leadership into all the maj’or areas of this country and into the national problems challenging such contributions.
4.	Preparation for the placing of Notre Dame veterans in both industry and education to their maximum benefit.
5.	Improving the mechanics of the Association and the University to serve all of this program effectively.
Valentine Cues for Cupid ... *
JEWELED PINS BRACELETS COMPACTS LOCKETS
Come in and let us help you make a wise selection!
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
OBSERVATIONS
(Continued from page 4)
by hoisting a horsewhip, indicating his intention to chastise the Dutch, and he did. From this origin came the custom, adopted by all nations, of flying a nar-now pennant, symbolizing the original horsewhip, as the distinctive mark of a naval vessel in service. The commission pennant, as it is called today, is flown at the main of all naval vessels in commission except when, on flagships, its place is taken by the commodore’s or admiral’s personal flag.
Evidence indicates that Adolph Hitler suffered from hysterical blindness for six months after the last war, says Dr. Victor A. Gonda of the Loyola university (Chicago) school of medicine.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
---------Try Our	-
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, Green Salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
17
IRISH-PENNANT-YEARBOOK
(Continued from page 5) classmen, and numerous views of the University and of NROTC activities, even to excellent caricatures of the NROTC faculty by Tom Brownell.
Colored tip-in pages add to the artistic make-up. For humor, there is an abundance of Herb Daiker cartoons, as well as several pages of informal satire on life aboard the U. S. S- Walsh.
The book is thoroughly indigenous, as it was designed on campus, and even printed by the local press. It stands as a tribute to the industry of a small group that, for three months, gave generously of time and labor to record a stirring chapter of wartime life at Notre Dame.
Stop at the Notre Dame BOOK STORE
for the new NOTRE DAME MEDAL
$1.95
For Valentines and Gifts you’ll want to send home:
CARDS FOR EVERYONE N. D. JEWELRY BOOK ENDS SOUVENIRS PILLOWS
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Best proof of the excellence of the book was the enthusiastic reception accorded the opus by the NROTC men.
NEW CONSTITUTION
(Continued from page 4) at large. The present method of representative by campus clubs was discarded because of obvious disproportionate representation.
With this new constitution every student would have either direct or indirect voice in the selection of three representatives and the three officers. Each student would have a vote in the election of his class president who would represent that class on the council, and each student would have a vote in the election of his hall representative. College representatives would be appointed by the Dean of each college, and it is assumed that in making such an appointment the Dean would have the interests of the students in his college in view.
Three officers would be elected in a general election by the entire student body. These officers would be the president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer. The president and secretary-treasurer must be seniors and the vice-president a junior.
Executive Council Set Up
Another innovation is the proposed creation of an Executive Council composed of the three officers and three other members elected from and by the Student Council. These six students, three seniors, two juniors, and one sophomore, will be empowered to carry on any business of the Student Council and make such decisions and take such steps as are necessary to the benefit of the student body.
In the exercising of this power, two limitations are placed on the Executive Council. First, they shall not act on those problems which may reasonably be deferred until a regular Student Council meeting. Second, members of the Executive Council are elected by the Student Council.
This Executive Council would meet at least once a week to consider pertinent
for those you want to remember: MOTHER, DAD, SISTER, BROTHER ... and that girl you sort of go for.
BRUGGNER'S NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington St. “In the LM.S. Building"
problems and act upon those requiring immediate attention, deferring those which could wait for the regular Student Council meetings held every two weeks.
Another major change proposed in the constitution provides a channel through which the most constructive of student opinions might reach the administration of the University. This part of the constitution provides that upon a three-fourths vote of the Student Council, a committee of the Student Council might meet with a committee appointed by the president of the University at a time and place designated by the president of the University.
It is hoped that in this way the Administration would be more conscious of problems and student proposed solutions, taking appropriate action on those pro-
Qiiiiiiiu'iniiiuatiiimiMiiiiaimtiiiiiUMttm....
tylowetiA.
make the perfect
VALENTINE'S DAY
REMEMBRANCE
Williams, the Florist, will help you make the right selection.
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel
PHONE 3-5149
18
posals they feel worthy of consideration and action.
Council Powers Outlined
The- powers of the council are not otherwise changed, but it might be well to state just what other powers the Student Council possesses. The Student Council is to be asked at any time to cooperate with the University in any legislation concerning the students.
The Student Council may, as it sees fit, regulate and order, in cooperation with the University officials, all student organizations, celebrations, customs, ceremonies, entertainments, general elections, and all other matters pertaining to student activity. It shall also have charge, under the director of athletics, of all interhall sports.
The Student Council is to hear any complaint brought before it by any student or hall board. If, after consultation with the party concerned, it deems such complaint merits attention, it shall decide upon a recommendation in the matter and appoint a committee to present this recommendation to the administrative officials of the University. The new power to ask for and receive a meeting with a committee from the Administration would provide a more definite channel for the execution of this power.
The Student Council also has the pow
er to intercede for a student charged with infraction of rules. Under the new constitution this intermediary power would be vested in the Executive Council. The Council is not required to concern itself with all such cases presented to it, but may take a hand if it believes the circumstances of the case deserve such action.
In this way the Council exercises a form of preliminary judgment, for in refusing a case it tacitly decides the student is guilty. In accepting a case for presentment to the Board of Discipline the council shows that it believes the student is not guilty. In prudent use of this power, the council may soon show the Board of Discipline that their decision to take or refuse a case is their honest opinion of innocence or guilt and such decisions may play an important part in influencing the decisions of the Board.
The Student Council in office today feels that it has recognized cei-tain weaknesses in the organization and through this new proposed constitution has attempted to provide the student body of Notre Dame with a representative and constructive student government, if the students take full advantage of the opportunity offered to them.
.. DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS -
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
It’s great to be here... Have a Coca-Cola
...or helping a soldier feel at home
When he’s back on furlough, three words, Have a Coke, bring a soldier’s old life back to mind... his days after school or after work, with the gang and with his girl. Ice-cold Coca-Cola holds a friendly place in American life. It should have a place in your family icebox. Wherever Americans go, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become a symbol of our friendly way of life.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
u
o u
19
Safest
Chesterfield
Here you sit
and in I walk and say
And that’s a mighty happy picture. Chesterfields never fail to fit in with your plans ... to add to your pleasure.
Chesterfield’s exceptional Mildness, Better Taste and Coolness are built on the only fouudation you can depend on in a cigarette ...
RIGHT COMBINATION * WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Mye»5 Tobacco Co.