SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:_______________________________________
A d d r ess:________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
2 Editor’s Notes
22 On Other Campuses
23 Week In Distortion

3 The Firefighting Irish
5 Road Trip
8 Giving Hugs
10 Notre Dame’s New Community

14 Room to Grow
16 Beware .
20 Out of Bounds
21 Jennifer 8
24 Final Word
Cover photo by Ken Osgood
liOiMBEni 2,1992
1

MES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTREDAME’S^
Vol. 134.No.10 November 12,1992
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Patricia K. Doyle .
MANAGING EDITOR: . Margaret S. Ken ny y
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
David J. Holsinger
CAMPUS LIFE
Editor: Mollie Mudd
NEWS-Jg-j^^
Editors: K.L. Lawrence /■ J	:: Mark Mitchell
pPORTSiny;^ Editor: Jim Kuser • Assistant: Amanda Clinton
ENTERTAINMENT Editor: J. Bradley Keck
DEPARTMENTS
Editor: Kate Wiltrout
PHOTOGRAPHY : Editor:. Ken Osgood
On the Cover
This week’s cover story previews the Notre Dame basketball team, about to begin its second season under Coach John MacLeod. The team lost four starters — LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet, Elmer Bennett and Keith Tower — to graduation last spring, but the team is looking to regroup, building on the strengths of its remaining players. Senior Monty Williams returns to the court after a two-year hiatus and is expected to be an asset to the squad.
In This Issue
Also in Sports, writer Peg Ward previews this Saturday’s football game against Penn State. Despite losses in the past two seasons to Joe Patemo’s team, the Irish are seeking redemption against the Nittany Lions as they enter the stadium this weekend.
In News, Editor Mark Mitchell takes a look at the Notre Dame Fire Department, letting us know about its history and how it functions as a preventative department. Also, Editor K.L. Lawrence covers the story
of ten Notre Dame students who travelled to Little Rock, Arkansas, last week to share in Bill Clinton’s Presidential victory.
Also, in this week’s issue, Campus Life writer Maricelle Ruiz-Calderon examines Campus Ministry’s latest project, Communities ND. Another Campus Life story, written by Christy Hall, profiles 30 Notre Dame students who volunteer at Memorial Hospital in the Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) program each week.
Scholastic also includes Entertainment Editor Brad Keck’s review of the thriller, Jennifers, and “Out of Bounds.” We have our usual departments as well — “Week in Distortion,” “On Other Campuses” and the calendar.
Margaret S. Kenny Managing Editor
Edito^
SENIOR STAFF WRITERS Amanda Clinton, Pete McGillicuddy, MaricelleRuiz-Calderori, JennyTate, s Heidf£aura;tobohi:/':jJf
GRAPHIC ARTS
Manager: Jake Frost
S"?./.: ip LAYpUT^^i^y^j^ IMt^dg^fji^
•Manager:; KarepWey ’
iMaridger:Eifeen:'Shblley
wsTRi^yTipNi:^^
•Marfager:^ Rhomberg
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rale is $25.00/yearand back issues are available at $1.25 [copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors arid do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, Us administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsoliatied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leflers to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address md phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholast ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous ar obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit /or copyfitting: grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholast ic cannot print all let lers received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
.	Scholastic
LaFortune Center
■	Notre Dame, IN 46556



News
The Firefighting Irish
One chief, ten men, four trucks and modern technology protect the university once destroyed by flames
by Mark Mitchell IV
On the wall of his office hangs a large, framed photograph of a stone cross surrounded by flames, falling from the roof of St. Edward’s Hall. Through a door to the right rest three bright red trucks which constitute the bulk of the university’s fire protection fleet. He is Jack Bland, Director of Fire Safety —. “But the men, the rectors, faculty, pretty much everybody just calls me Chief.”
The university maintains its own fire department, as do only 25 other universities in the nation. And B land notes with pride, “We have very minimal losses to fire. That’s a pretty good indicator that we’re doing our job well.” But modem fire protection goes much further than the days of firemen hanging off the back of engines with dalmatians riding shotgun.
“The vast majority of my responsibilities and the work of this whole department is to take preventative measures and to ensure that fires don’t start.” With one engine company of three men on duty at a time, the Notre Dame Fire Department could not battle a large working blaze. Thus, the efforts of Bland and his men are in protective measures.
“Oh, sure, the big red trucks and the flashing lights are great for out on the street. I grew up just off Notre Dame Avenue, and when I was a kid, I loved to hang around the fire station and watch the trucks go out. But the present state of firefighting and our particular situation here have turned the fire truck into the last resort,” said Bland.
With over 150 buildings and over 5,000 residents to protect, Bland and his firefighters concentrate their work on making the buildings fire-proof—or as close to that as they can come. For every new build-■ ing built, Bland sits with the architects and
engineers when they plan the facility. He is responsible for ensuring that the Indiana fire codes are incorporated in the planning. Fire exits, construction materials and hall widths all must meet the fire codes. In addition, Bland makes sure that each new building is fully equipped with smoke detectors and a sprinkler system. He and his inspectors then supervise such aspects of the construction.
The buildings that have been constructed with full fire prevention and protection facilities include DeBartolo Hall, Siegfried Hall, Knott Hall, the Pasquerillas and all of the new sports facilities next to the Joyce Fieldhouse. However, the great majority of campus buildings was built before fire protection was viewed in terms of early warning and early suppression devices. For these, Bland has a program under which the structures are first equipped with smoke detectors and alarm systems and, later, sprinkler systems.
“My main concern is the residence halls, of course. All of those [the older halls] now have smoke detectors, and the ones which are very old and more fire prone, like Sorin and Badin, have sprinkler systems already.” Presently, the men of the fire department are supervising the installation of sprinkler systems in Nieuwland Hall of Science and the Galvin Biology Labs. The Computing Center and Math Building was just fitted with sprinklers as was the basement of the library.
“The idea is that with the smoke detectors and sprinklers there will be enough advance warning and advance suppression that by the time we arrive on the scene we will be able to handle any fire on campus with one engine company,” explained Bland..
Bland’s department consists of eleven men including himself, three of whom are on duty 24 hours at a time. They are all professional firefighters and most have previous
experience in other departments. All the firemen have emergency medical training, three are classified as first responders and the primary medical officer for the department is a paramedic. The men all have the medical aid background because the Notre Dame Fire Department must respond to emergency medical calls within its jurisdiction of Notre Dame, St Mary’s, Holy Cross College and also on the surrounding highways.
Many fires are reported by campus residents and staff; however, alarms also reach the fire department from alarm systems that are operational in each building. Once a pull-station has been activated or the alarm has been activated by smoke detectors, a signal is immediately sent to the fire station, which is located behind the power plant. The engine company then responds to the building designated by the alarm code. If the alarm has been accompanied by phone calls or if the firemen on the scene find a large working fire, they then request aid from the South Bend Fire Department over their mutual radio channel. The experience of the Notre Dame firemen is that South Bend fire engines are never more than seven minutes away.
The largest fire to which South Bend has responded was that which destroyed St. Michael’s Laundry in the winter of 1989. According to Bland, the fire had grown out of control before he and the engine company were able to respond because the flames were fed by drying chemicals and because no sprinkler systems were operational in St. Michael’s. “By the time we pulled up—and it was literally just down thestreet—we had flames coming through the roof. We nearly had a fire in Brownson Hall, too,” he said.
Prior to St. Michael’s, the largest campus fire was the one which burned the roof off St. Edward’s Hall. The irony of that fire was
1^:1992

■
The six Holy Cross B rothers of Notre Dame's first professional fire department, ride the running boards of the fire engine they built themselves. Chief Borromeo is in the front seat.
that it was caused by welders who were installing a new sprinkler system. The St. Edward’s fire did not occur while Bland was chief; his predecessor Brother Borromeo, C.S.C, was fire chief at the time.
Borromeo was originally the chief engineer at the power plant. He held that position from 1937 to 1978. However, he was also the effective founder of the Notre Dame Fire Department, of which he was chief for 50 years. In fact, the Indiana Fire Chiefs Association cited Borromeo as the longest reigning fire chief in the nation at the end of his career.
Borromeo did not found the first fire department on campus, though. After the gymnasium burned in 1900, Holy Cross Fathers John Zahm and Andrew Morrissey organized a volunteer fire department of students under the direction of Holy Cross Brothers. The volunteers had three handdrawn hose carts and three hose houses located behind Sorin Hall, the Administration Building, and across the lake where Holy Cross Hall used to stand.
However, in three years, the volunteer brigade saw no action and disolved rather quickly when the university gave the city of South Bend the land at the comer of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues for Fire Station No. 7. This station provided fire protection free to the university. South Bend firemen battled a large blaze in 1913 when the Holy Cross novitiate building burned^ To extinguish that fire, the firefighters had to lay
a hose line from the fire hydrant in front of what is now the infirmary, all the way around the lake, past the boat house, to the burning building near the present Morreau Seminary. The second major fire for the firemen of S tation No. 7 came in 1917 when the chemistry building (the present Crowley Hall of Music) was gutted by fire.
The South Bend department responded to all alarms
on campus until Borromeo, then director of campus utilities, was appointed by university president John O’Hara, C.S.C, to take on the responsibility of campus fire protection. “In the main, larger two door-fire shed, located sixty feet north of Saint Edward’s Hall, I found a two-wheel handdrawn cart with four hundred feet of badly deteriorated hose. Also found in this shed were three leather water buckets, two playpipe nozzles and one scaling ladder. That was it. All the metal helmets and clothing gear were long gone, likely taken home by students,” reports Borromeo, now retired at 79 years of age.
“By 1940,1 had built our first fire truck from the chasis up,” Borromeo stated. Finding his fire protection resources limited, Borromeo built, with the help of fellow Brothers from the power plant, a full ladder truck with an ample hose bed. Borromeo’s truck served the university until 1981, when it was sold to Portage Township Fire Department, where it is still in use. Borromeo also helped design the university fire station which was erected in 1945.
“Why was I the chief for 50 years—who was going to tell me I wasn’t? I built the fire truck, I commanded the Brothers who worked in the power plant with me, I built the fire station — who was going to say someone else should be chief,” remarked Borromeo.
The Notre Dame Fire Department has grown from a one-truck, ten-Brother opera
tion to an entirely professional organization which even aids the South Bend Fire Department when called. Next year the department will update again with a new fire engine with increased pumping capacity, and more equipment.
In 1940 when Borromeo’s department went into operation, there were nine alarms in the entire year. Last year, under Bland’s administration, the department responded to 806 service calls. However 40 percent of those calls were for medical aid. “Most of them are athletic injuries; our more serious medical cases come on football weekends when there’s so much action on campus,” Bland said. Bland expects that the department will have its first heart defribulator within a month. His men will then begin to train with modem heart-resuscitation technology.
Aside from the medical runs, as a result of the alarm and sprinkler systems in the campus buildings, the fire runs are usually no more than electric motor fires or dumpster fires. Still, Bland has his concerns about the general safety of the campus: “I worry most about the library. Not that it could go up in flames any minute, but it is such a vital building to the university and there is so much combustible material within it that in my position I won’t feel entirely comfortable about its safety until I have sprinklers on every floor. Aside from the library, I think the Architecture Building is in need of serious retro-fitting and renovation to bring it up to meet the fire codes — and we need sprinklers there, too.”
In terms of general safety from fire, Bland reports that the campus is quite safe. “There are only about25 campus fire departments in the nation, and I’d say we’re right at the top,” remarked Bland.
“The less we have to use the trucks, the happier I am. That means we’re doing our job; ideally, the detectors will let us know early, the sprinklers will keep it small, and one engine company will handle it quickly,” he said. And from the firefighters’ perspective, Borromeo said, “You don’t miss a ride on a fire truck: being shocked out of bed at three in the morning, running to the truck to ride in an open cab in 20 degree weather —no, prevention beats the fire truck routine any day.”	□
4
7 scholastic:
Road Trip
Notre Dame Democrats celebrate victory
with President-elect Clinton
by K. L. Lawrence
On November 6, campus Clinton-Gore campaign coordinator Wes Kirkpatrick and several other Notre Dame students were invited to Clinton’s campaign headquarters in Little Rock, Arkansas, for the final leg of the presidential race.
The students, all butone of whom worked extensively with the campus College Democrats, made the trip independently, without any school support or funding. The group was made up of nine undergraduate students and Kirkpatrick, a graduate philosophy major.
According to Kirkpatrick, a professed “hard-core Clinton supporter;” the students arrived in Little Rock, where streets were blocked off and a number of private gatherings were in progress, around 5:00 p.m. The true festivities began, he said, after President Bush called to concede the election to Clinton shortly after 10:30 p.m.
Clinton’s appearances at the victory celebrations that followed were “more personal and chatty” than they had been during his campaign, Kirkpatrick said. At his own campaign party that night, he spoke to members personally, thanking them for their support and asking if they were enjoying themselves.
Senior Paul Shuga, an accounting and philosophy major, offered a different perspective of the trip. He said he enjoyed the
David Hungeling
Clinton addresses his campaign supporters after his Nov. 6 election victory.
Several Notre Dame students were among the crowd at his Arkansas headquarters.
party atmosphere that night in Little Rock and remarked that, after they were sure they had won the election, “Bill and Al began having a good time with their supporters.” Being at a Presidential candidate’s campaign headquarters during the announcement of his election was awe-inspiring, but Shuga stressed the expectancy and fun of the evening. Shuga said that he enjoyed being able to “go off hootin’ and hollerin’ with the
other Democrats.”
Neither of these students were certain of Clinton’s victory until the election results were announced, but both were optimistic throughout the campaign. Kirkpatrick summarized the guarded optimism they both shared when he said, “We hoped we’d win; we suspected we’d win, but we weren’t certain we would win until it was over.”
Kirlqpatrick, a 32-year-old veteran of the

Presidential arena, was most concerned with the political implications of the election. He had worked for the Democratic Presidential candidate in every election since Carter in 1980 but representing a campaign at a college campus was something new to him. He saw the conservative student body here as a challenge, a challenge that he met with surprising success.
Although Bush won the November 2 campus mock election, Clinton claimed a greater percentage of actual voters from this area than he did in the popular vote nationwide. Kirkpatrick said that the Clinton-Gore campaign had taken the students at Notre Dame seriously during this election, and they were “very pleased” with the response from this campus.
Despite the campaign’s success, Kirkpatrick is still disappointed with the
level of political apathy he sees on this campus. The dominance of wealthy students, he said, has lead to “a really crass way of voting” based on the candidates’ promises for the financial well-being of the upper classes.
With Clinton as President, Kirkpatrick is looking forward to a “return to this country’s Democratic heritage” and a shift away from the self-centered focus of today’s average citizen. In one of many statements comparing Clinton to FDR, Kirkpatrick said that the public should ask themselves what they do to contribute, rather than how they will benefit from their government.
Another measure of student apathy and downright hostility toward the Democratic Party is evidenced in the student media, Kirkpatrick said. He feels that, despite the nationally-recognized success of the cam
paign here, campus reports have given an inordinate amount of space to divisive single-issue arguments such as abortion. To Kirkpatrick, the Democratic Party best represents the broad social fabric and concerns of American Catholics, but they are too often swayed by their refusal to look beyond certain issues.	.
Amid all the fanfare over the Democratic return to the Presidency, Kirkpatrick and Shuga both expressed reliefat the election of Clinton. They saw the re-election of Bush as promising only more of the same economic and domestic problems that characterized the Reagan-Bush era. Although Kirkpatrick said that he didn’t really think about the country under four more years of Bush, he did say, “If Clinton would have lost the election, it would have been a disgrace, a tragedy.”	O
..-	.SCHOLASTIC I
News.Commentary
Campus Watch
H	DVTUEriDDED
Hey hey hey! The Gipper is in full swing again, thanks to some help from you readers. Apparently the e-mail account was a good idea—at least two people have used it so far. Last week’s “CampusWatch” said that the account wasn’t working, but it seems to be back in working order again. Just send your mail to “gipper@nd.edu” and the Gipp will be happy to answer all of your “queries” (a little e-mail humor there).
PILLAGE AND PLUNDER, AGAIN
Our lead off story this week comes to us through the wonder of e-mail. The letter, from a CHEG (of course) tells us yet another tale of shameless profit-mongering by the Hammes® Notre Dame Bookstore (who else). This poor guy tried to return an unused Perry's Chemical Engineer's Handbook which was even still in the plastic wrap. The Bookstore, in its infinite generosity, agreed to buy back the unused merchandise (valued at $118) for $30. Now, everyone knows that this book will not go back on the shelf as a “used” book. Those shameless bourgeois labor-exploiters are going to sell that book to some unsuspecting schmuck for $118 and sneak away with their $88 profit Eww. That just rankles the Gipp.
By the way, can anyone substantiate the rumors going around that the Bookstore is
trying to buy out Senior Bar as a possible .	.
sales outlet for licensed merchandise on , There have to be some engineers out there
football weekends? Let’s hope this is only a rumor.
CALLINGALL CIVIL ENGINEERS
It would take a blind person blessed with ’ the power of levitation to be able to ignore
Notre Dame’s extreme drainage problem. Yes, the Gipp realizes that Indiana is a flat place, but there has to be some way to get the #$%* water off the sidewalks around here! Every time it rains, the Gipper has to pull on his hiking boots and hip waders just to walk to class. Informed sources tell the Gipper that the sidewalks installed near Grace and Flanner halls have been equipped with
drains. Unfortunately, sidewalks on North quad have not. Drainage also seems to be a severe problem on the walkways which lead past Riley and Nieuwland to LaFortune.
who can come up with a very simple solution to this. The university doesn’t normally listen to feasible, logical ideas, but maybe we can force them to accept this one.
The Gipp would also like to thank those of you who, at the beginning of the year, insisted on hopping the barrier around South Quad to create the new diagonal shortcut from the mainLaFortune-Riley-Nieuwland
artery to DeBartolo. There was a perfectly usable sidewalk just 10 seconds’ walk from the spot where most of you jumped the wires. Now, thanks to you, there is another ugly patch of concrete marring the vegetation of S outh Quad so that you buggers could save a few seconds. Think before you deface the grass, kids. Was that sidewalk really worth it?
VOCABULARY ENHANCEMENT
CampusWatch would like to sponsor a contest to see who can create a much needed vocabulary word. What we are looking for is a term to describe concisely and accurately the aggregation of water and walked-on leaves that coats many of the concrete surfaces of the campus during autumn. This substance, usually reddish-brown, is extremely slick and not very pleasant to have on your shoes. Submit your entries to. the Gipp at 303 LaFortune, ■


71
GIVING
Hug$
Notre Dame students visit and entertain hospitalized children in South Bend
By Christy Hall
yr ugs, hugs and more JLl hugs. That’s what the children at Memorial Hospital receive each day. Ap
proximately 30 Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) from the University of Notre Dame volunteer their time, energy and love each week to the children in this South Bend hospital.
The program evolved in the fall of 1991 when Dr. Edward Manier, a philosophy professor at Notre Dame, brought his class to Memorial Hospital to seek and explore various ethical situations related to his course. During their visit, Dr. Manier introduced the students to his friend and colleague, Dr. Robert White, a neonatologist at Memorial’s Regional Center for Mother and Child Care. White spoke of his interaction with the children and how unfortunate it was
Frank Denny
Julie Bradley, one of HUGS' student coordinators, watches over a sleeping baby at Memorial Hospital.
that some of their families couldn’t be with them more often. Since the Center treats patients from many miles and hours away, some families do not have the opportunity to spend as much time as they would like with their children.
Together with Dr. Manier’s students, Dr. White decided that it would be beneficial to organize a weekly student/patient interaction program with the kids. Seniors Julie Bradley and Lisa Kelly, coordinators of the HUGS program, are enthusiastic about the project. Bradley says, “HUGS supplies the love and TLC that children need, and, at the same time, we’re having fun!”
Each HUGS volunteer spends at least one
hour a week entertaining the children and bringing cheer to the general and pediatric intensive care units of the hospital. They have mastered the arts of
feeding and bathing infants, reading stories and changing diapers, as well as giving hugs. Dr. White and the hospital staff are impressed with the hard work and devotion of these Notre Dame HUGS volunteers. “This program has so many positive aspects to it,” White said. “For the staff at Memorial, this has been wonderful. The students provide a kind of care — reading a story or singing a song—that the nurses often don’t have time for. For the parents and children, it’s a real plus. The parents are very happy to have someone working with their kids when they can’tbe there. It’s encouraging to see this next generation is so willing to give of themselves.”

Recently, HUGS volunteers have been planning special activities and projects for their little friends at the hospital. There were no tricks at Memorial on Halloween, only treats. Face painting proved to be fun for everyone, and, with Christmas just around the comer, students are busy planning holiday activities. In addition to these extras, Bradley said, “it’s the little things that
“HyGS supplies the
childrenneed, and, at ; the same time we’re
count. A lot of the children, especially those in the intensive care unit, are too sick to respond. That does not seem to matter because just being there helps.”
An important part of the healing process is dependant on love and affection. “Notre Dame students play such an essential role in the therapy of these kids,” said Dr. White. “The primary focus of the hospital staff is to give necessary care. The primary focus of HUGS is to entertain and give love.” The staff and student volunteers have developed
Lisa Kelly, a student coordinator of HUGS, spends Sunday	Ffan|< Denny
evenings visiting with and feeding patients.
a system between themselves balancing both love and care for the children. One without the other would seem incomplete at Memorial Hospital.
The HUGS program has opened many new doors for the students involved. Prc-med students, like Lisa Kelly, are “thrilled with the privilege of observing the doctors and nurses in action and catching a glimpse of actual hospital practice and procedure.” Students interested in physical and respiratory therapy have been able to meet with specialists this semester and receive hands-on training. As the HUGS program evolves' and expands, students will have op
portunities to explore various areas of personal interest. There are also plans to establish a directed reading project for students to pursue research in areas such as medical
Kath Ann Baumel smiles at two new babies sleeping in her arms.
ethics or critical care treatment.
Various occasions have enabled the student volunteers to meet with the hospital administration and learn about the business
and decisions they must deal with. Several students were invited to attend an Ethics Committee meeting with anagenda thatdealt with the decision of whether to keep a child on life support. The hospital encouraged these Notre Dame students to share their feelings and opinions on the issue and were given roles in the decision making process.
HUGS, although afairly newprogram, has already had a positive effect on the hospital and the children. “It works great for the kids because they have the opportunity for students to come and spend time with them, people who have no other interest in mindbut to entertain. Most everyone else at the hospital always has to provide care first which is generally unpleasant,” said Dr. White.
Kids need HUGS. Everybody needs HUGS. And remember: if you can’t be a HUG, at least give a hug.	□
9
Campus Life
DAMES
COMMUNITY
Campus Ministry Begins A New Group Project
Communities ND: The Challenge of Adult Christianity
By Maricelle Ruiz-Calderon
For many centuries and in many countries, Christians of all sexes, ages and social classes have come together outside of the hierarchical church, in order to reflect upon their daily experiences. An example of these gatherings or “communities of faith” is Jesus’ meetings with the twelve apostles and with the people of Nazareth. Another example is what liberation theologians call, “base communities.” These communities are organized mainly in poor sectors of society in order to bring the Gospel closer to the people.
Father Thomas McDermott, CSC, and Kate Sullivan Barrett, staff members of the Office of Campus Ministry have already started to work on a project called Communities ND: The Challenge of Adult Christianity, Notre Dame’s own version of a community of faith.
Barrett described the project and its purposes: “We’re doing it because we feel that there are needs on campus that are in some
ways being met but not in an organized form.” She distinguished the needs as the “chances for people to talk about their faith and to talk about what it means for them to be growing up.”
She further explained that these communities or groups will address the more tangible dilemma of “what it means to be a Christian who is leaving home and at the same time trying to take up responsibility as a Christian.” Barrett said that although these topics are usually discussed around campus, “they are not necessarily discussed in an organized fashion and probably not as much as they could be between men and women.”
For instance, Barrett mentioned students stopping by her office in Badin Hall and asking her how to do something as simple as their readings for Sunday Mass or how they can find out more information on Catholic teachings. Inspired by this, Barrett said, “what we would like to do is to provide an opportunity for men and women to talk together regularly about being Christian
and about growing up.”
Fr. McDermott said that Communities ND focuses on life at Notre Dame. “It is for people from second semester freshman year on. This year we’ll be inviting freshmen, sophomores and juniors.” Seniors will not be admitted because they would only be able to participate in the first six meetings during the spring semester. Barrett said, for the seniors, “it would be like reading the introduction to a book and then not getting through with it.”
Fr. McDermott further explained that the people who sign-up will be divided into groups that will meet during a convenient night for all of the members. The staff of Campus Ministry will help them, Fr. McDermott said, with “directions on how to have a good meeting and with some suggestions for the first few topics.” Nonetheless, he said, Campus Ministry, hopes for an eventual “shared leadership.” That is, Fr. McDermott explained, “where the groups could meet in different study lounges or student rooms that are convenient, and who
ever is hosting that night would welcome the group, watch the clock and keep the discussion going.”
Barrett added that “there would not be any adults in the groups at all.” That means no faculty, university staff or graduate students would be allowed because their presence may keep undergraduates from truly expressing their feelings.
The groups would also be confidential. “What people say in their groups would have to be private. There has to be a level of trust that invites people to disclose their true feelings,” Fr. McDermott said.
Tpr. McDermott stressed that the role of J? Campus Ministry in Communities ND is to “support the groups, try to help and make sure that the meetings go well, by giving advice ahead of time and reflecting on that experience afterwards.”
“We’re trying to provide a way that people can talk about the integration of their faith with their life, better understanding of the Scripture, of authority and the Church and having a deeper commitment to their faith that leads to action,” Fr. McDermott said.
Barrett said, “Those would be the topics that we would start out with in order to give people a kind of common ground, to help them to get to know each other and to trust each other.” She added that, in the long run, Campus Ministry would provide “a menu of topics.” The staff at Campus Ministry would also provide background information to answer questions related to the topics provided. This “menu of topics” may include issues such as “the origins of the faith and the family, what students believe about the Bible and authority, how relationships affect students’ lives and what does faith ask students to do today,” she said.
Fr. McDermott said that their “idea is that in the first semester of the group’s life they would follow a simple plan'that would guide them. Then, after the group is bom, they could decide for themselves what else they want to work with. The first six meetings should help to bring the group together and give them the right attitudes to succeed.”
In order to recruit students for this program, Barrett and Fr. McDermott have talked to several groups on campus such as Notre Dame Encounter and the social con
cerns and Liturgy commissioners of each dorm. The office of Campus Ministry will also ask rectors for the names of people who may be interested in participating in this
''	.S' .? . ' -///A ‘	. z	, v/:, H	"
project. They will announce further details regarding sign-ups through the media, and the Hall President’s Council.
Fr. McDermott and Barrett feel that the project will be a successful one because they have sought much advice from students, rectors, and faculty. A major kick-off “rally” for the project is scheduled for the first Saturday of the spring semester, January 16,1993.
They have developed a tentative agenda for the group meetings. “In every meeting we’re hoping that the groups will spend some time looking at the Scripture, some time in prayer, some time in discussion about their own lives,” Fr. McDermott said.
“We will try to give them a common beginning, and give them as much advice and early shaping as we can, without controlling them, but also to try to give them every advantage for a success. After that it will depend on the people involved to take responsibility for their own group,” Fr. McDermott said.
The groups will be comprised often under-’ graduate students. They will be paired together randomly. The only factors that will affect pairing, as Barrett said, will be
student’s schedules or availability, and the need for an equal ratio of men to women in every group. Barrett compared this random placing process to the Church. “Think of the Church and how you come together in a Church group. It is that sort of a random thing. That’s the way the people of God are, we’re all sort of random. We get thrown together and we learn to appreciate each other’s gifts.”
Fr. McDermott said the primary reason
Campus Ministry decided to engage in such a major project was the “desire to let people have an earlier chance in their college career to get a focus on what’s most important; a desire to give people a chance to integrate their faith and their life, so that we can help them feel confident about who they are as they move from here out into the churches of our country.”
Fr. McDermott also mentioned that the project has developed as a response to “students who are looking for a chance to talk about the challenging issues of their lives. Communities ND would be a place where their thoughts and worries would be welcomed.”
Over time, Barrett hopes that the project will become “a normal thing at Notre Dame.” She also hopes that the students will “share this with the parishes they belong to after they graduate and that they will become a real life-giving person wherever they worship.”
Fr. McDermott added that, after experiencing Communities ND, he hopes that the participants “feel the need of community, the benefits of community and that they can relate closely to others.”
Fr. McDermott stressed: “We’re not trying to create a religious elite. We think that the normal way to live a Christian life is to have a community, the people who you work with, pray with and share with.”
Similar to the base communities arising aroung the world, Communities ND stems from “the same idea that comes out of Latin America and that has been in other parts of the developing world and in many parishes in the United States. It is a revitalization of the church,” Fr. McDermottsaid. “We hope that Notre Dame is a place where our students can taste that and become confident in that, so they can share in that throughout their lives.”	□

Send informationfor your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions, i
Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
i
Thursday 12
Movie: "Femgully," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Video Series: The Africans: "A Garden of Eden in Decay?" and "A Conflict of Culture," Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, 7:30 p.m.
Lecture: "Only North American Women Want Full Participation in the Church?
Third World Catholic Women Challenge Romels Assumption," Sister Francis B. O'Connor, C.S.C., 4:15 p.m., Room 103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies.
Lecture: "Connective Aesthetics: Making Art as If the World Mattered," Suzi Gablik, visiting author, Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
Concert: Universtiy of Notre Dame Chorale, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Friday
13
Saturday 14 :
Movie: "Far and Away," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Howard's End," 7:00 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Illinois-Chicago, North Dome, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
Pep Rally: North Dome, JACC, 7:00 p.m.
Movie: "Far and Away," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Howard's End," 7:00 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: Shenanigans Pregame Show, 12:00 p.m., North Dome, JACC. Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous, Multipurpose Room, CSC, 9:30 am. Football: Notre Dame vs. Penn State, 1:35 p.m.
Volleyball: Notre Dame Women vs. Duquesne and LaSalle, JACC, 10:00 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.
F F F o E
Ii

For More Information Call
t|ag®i^mSrmOO
:StuderitmibhmcWO39^757hW
SniteFilm Series HoILine:
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD ,WeekendWheelsSchedule: .... 283^]^''^
/®uchSbur:'’:& Dial 239-2500, then press: x 1211 for news headlines x 1212 for local news x 1932 for top pop albums x 1911 for prime time TV x 1906 for video releases
Sunday
15
Tuesday
Performance: "Con Tempo," contemporary music ensemble, Annenberg Auditorium, 2:00 p.m.
Performance: Notre Dame Chorale, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8:00 p.m.
Monday
16
ilm: “Sabotage," 7:00 p.m., Snite, S2.
'ilm: “Halloween,” 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
toundtable Discussion: "The Dilemmas
x 1600 for local weather f
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie rew^^
x/13 00 for local sports info:;
|x IL 301 forsports even^ tM; X:-1303 for national sports report
Film: "Vertigo," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Performance: Comedian Walli Collins, LaFortune Ballroom, 8:00 p.m., $3.
Senior Class: Margarita Nite at Chi-Chi's, 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Seminar: "The Reasons and Consequences of Uncertainty in the Transition from State Socialism," Maria Csanadi, Room 103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies, 12:30 p.m.
TOUCH FOUR
Wednesday 18
Performance: "The Richest Dead Man Alive," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m.
Senior Class Dinner: Barnaby's, 5:30 pan.
to 7:30 p.m., $4 for all you can eat
f Binational Families at the U.S.-Mexico lorder," Room 103, Hesburgh Center for atemational Studies, 7:30 p.m.
mhviWTheatres;
100 Center Cinema I&II :	259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre
291-4583 ::
Town & Country Theatre:
University Park Cinema East:
UnivefsityParkCinema West:
ForumI & II Cinem a:
Room to
Grow
After graduating four starters, Head Coach John MacLeod and his hoopsters face the toughest obstacle of all: inexperience.
By Nic Mathews
Allow me to quote from the "Bible," Street and Smith's College Basketball Preview:
Back is Coach John MacLeod and a lot of guys whose averages are going to double, triple and, MacLeod hopes, quadruple. Billy Taylor is the only starter back. The rest of the lads you may have seen for a minute here or two minutes there.
Gone are the expectations, the pressure and the national scrutiny that surrounded the 1991-92 Notre Dame Fighting Irish men’s basketball team. Gone also are 81 percent of the points scored and 65 percent of the minutes played on that team. Gone are forwards LaPhonso Ellis (17.7 points per game/11.7 rebounds per game) and Daimon Sweet (16.8 points per game), guard Elmer Bennett (16.5 points per game/6 assists per game) and center Keith Tower. All four have graduated and gone on to the professional ranks. For first-round lottery pick Ellis, that means the prime time of the National Basketball Association. For Sweet, Bennett and Tower, that means theUnited States Basketball League and the aspirations of polishing their skills enough to join their former teammate in the big time.
The lone returning starter, as the college basketball “Bible” makes us so painfully aware, is Billy Taylor. He leads a young and inexperienced Irish team, including two freshmen, five sophomores and four juniors, into the fire of top flight NCAA Division I college basketball.
High expectations surround senior forward Monty Williams as he returns to college basketball from a rare heart disorder that sidelined him for two years.
Among the new changes for the 1992-93 season is the placement of the student section in the Joyce ACC. Anyone who attended the National Invitational Tournament at the end of last season understands the impact that the new student section has. During the tournament, the student section was put behind the basket, resulting in a boisterous, enthusiastic, “Duke-like” crowd that menaced the opposition and cheered the Irish all the way to the finals.
Coach MacLeod commented, “This was one of the things I was hoping we could get done. There’s no doubt about it. The last four or five games were much more interesting.”
The change has been a great success, as this year’s preseason student ticket sales have exceeded those of the previous six years.
One pleasant surprise for the team, which will also serve to
counter the inexperience and lack of leadership, is the return of Monty Williams to the roster. Williams received medical clearance to play after a battery of tests revealed that risks caused by his rare heart disease were minimal. Although he has missed the last two seasons after starting his freshman year (7.7 points per game), he has grown two and a half inches and appears to Coach MacLeod to be in excellent condition.
Aside from the inexperience, the most overwhelming problem plaguing the Irish is their lack of size. “We’ll be small,” said MacLeod, “but we’ll have to be able to handle that. We’ll have to concentrate on our technique, pound the boards and run with the ball.”
The team will have to continue the successful running style that MacLeod implemented last season.: MacLeod believes that the team's rigorous off-season conditioning has led to dramatic improvement which will enable it to run and pressure the ball with MacLeod’s trademark, tenacious man-to-man defense. The Irish will also have to rely heavily on three-pointers to offset their lack of size.
The projected starters at guard are Lamarr Justice and Brooks Boyer. Notre Dame’s two heralded recruits, 6-foot- : 1-inch Ryan Hoover and 6-foot-2-inch Keith Kurowski have been described as fo-cused and competitive. They will both press Justice and Boyer for playing time once they find their way into MacLeod’s system.
On the inside, twins Jon and Joe Ross will pound the boards. The loss of 6-foot-8-
Ken Osgood
Sophomore guard Lamarr Justice (above) will assume ball handling responsibilities, and junior forward Carl Cozen (below) will set screens and shoots three-pointers.
inch Nathion Gilmore, who will transfer at semester’s end to another school, will be significant. However, the Ross brothers, each of whom added 20 pounds in the off-season, should become factors in the middle. At forward, the Irish will feature returning starter Billy Taylor, Monty Williams, Malik Russell and Carl Cozen. All told, the Irish must, and will, play many more people.
The only thing that has not changed much for the Irish is the schedule, which can only be described as murderous. It features three of last season’s NCAA Final Four teams, including repeat champions Duke, Bobby Knight’s Indiana and Michigan’s “fab five,” who have had a year to mature. It also includes 10 other tournament invitees, including Ricky Patino’s Kentucky, Dean Smith’s North Carolina, Missouri and longtime rival UCLA. Six of the Irish opponents are ranked among Street & Smith’s Top 15 teams.
Despite the question marks,. MacLeod has been impressed with this group’s desire and effort.
“We’ve got all kinds of people battling for positions and that’s healthy,” he said. “People who didn’t get much, playing time last year are going to get a ton of it now. We are inexperienced, no doubt about that, but I’m looking forward to this. I think this team and this season are going. to be great fun for all of us.”
The players will have to ad-just to new and expanded roles quickly, and treat the screaming fans behind the. basket in the Joyce ACC to exciting basketball against the nation's best teams.	□
fe»MS
BEWARE
Despite dropping three of their last four games, Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions will roar into South Bend.
By Peg Ward
Coach Lou Holtz and the Fighting Irish will be ready to pay back some old ; debts when they take the field against Penn : State this Saturday here in South Bend. Few victories would be as sweet as a win over Joe Paterno and the Nittany Lions, to whom the Irish have lost twice in two seasons. A 1991 come-from-behind victory by ; Penh State dispelled Irish hopes for a na-. tional championship, and last season’s 35-13 drubbing led Coach Holtz to term the loss as “maybe the most demoralizing defeat" of his career. Revenge is surely on the minds of Notre Dame players, coaches and fans. The Irish are riding high as they head into Saturday’s game. They have resoundingly defeated their past four opponents Pittsburgh, Brigham Young, Navy and Boston College by an average margin of 34 points.
While Holtz and his team may be raring to go this Saturday, they have to wonder which Penn State will come toplay in South Bend. Will it be the old Penn State, with its tradition ofcrushing opponents and smashmouth football, or the Penn State of recent weeks, with losses to Miami, Boston College and Brigham Young? Lately, it seems as if the roar of the Nittany Lion has become a timid meow.
Controversy and turmoil have surrounded the Lions since the preseason. Over the summer, several Penn State players were arrested on charges, ranging from drug dealing to assault. It seemed,
David Lee
Controlling Richie Anderson, shown above scoring one of his two touchdowns against Notre Dame in last year's 35-13 Nittany Lion rout over the Irish, will be one of the primary goals for the Notre Dame defense this Saturday. Anderson rushed for 136 yards on 26 carries In that game.
however, thatPatemo was managing to keep his players in line on the field, as Penn State stormed through the first part of its season with a 5-0 record. After a heart-wrenching loss to Miami, though, trouble once again seemed to be brewing among the ranks. After their past four games, the Lions are 1-
3, and their last loss came at the hands of a less-than-tremendous Brigham Young football team.
Still, Penn State can never be counted out. In the words of tight end Troy Dayton, “We have a ‘never-say-die’ attitude. We know that anything is possible.”

Coach Patemo has been known to work wonders over the past 27 years that he has coached atPenn State. Along with the added benefit of having two weeks to prepare his team for this game, Irish football players and fans can count on a competitive contest
At the helm of the Penn State offense will bejunior quarterback Kerry Collins. Collins will be making only his third start of the season when he faces the Irish, and he is the third quarterback to start for Penn S tate this season. A preseason favorite for the job, Collins was sidelined for the first six games while recovering from a broken index finger that he suffered in a volleyball game during the summer. Collins assumed control of the offense when John Sacca injured his knee in practice following the Boston College game. Collins led the Lions to a win over
West Virginia. In a losing effort against Brigham Young two weeks ago, he broke Penn State passing records as he completed 28 of 54 pass attempts for 317 yards and a touchdown.
The target of many of Collins passes will most likely be offensive sensation O.J. McDuffie. McDuffie, a senior wideout, is a multi-talented player who has burned many opponents with both spectacular catches out of the offensive set and incredible returns on special teams. He is on the Penn State all-time top ten lists for catches, receiving yards and all-purpose yards. In addition, he is the only Penn State player ever to accumulate over 1000 yards in punt returns.
Patemo praised McDuffie by saying, “I don’t know whether there is a better football player in the country than O.J. He can literally win a football game all by himself.”
Irish fans can certainly counton McDuffie to be right in the middle of the action this Saturday as the Notre Dame secondary matches its defensive stopping power against McDuffie’s receiving prowess.
Leading the Lions’ ground attack will be tailback Richie Anderson. At 6-foot-2-inches, 210 pounds and with a 40-yard sprint time of 4.39 seconds, Anderson could prove to be a formidable challenge for the Irish defense. Through nine games this season, Anderson has 17 touchdowns and is the leading scorer for Penn S tate. He is one of 50 candidates for the Doak Walker Award, which is awarded yearly to the top running back in the nation. Anderson’s brilliant per
formances on the field have evoked memories of past great Penn State runners such as Franco Harris, Lenny Moore and John Cappelletti. He has scored three touchdowns in a single afternoon in games this season against West Virginia, Maryland and Boston College. In last year’s victory over the Irish, Anderson tallied 136 yards and ran for two touchdowns.
Said teammate McDuffie of Anderson, “He has become a focus of our offense.”
Penn State has had a long tradition of tough and stingy defenses, and this year proves to be no exception. Anchoring the defense is a core of experienced and proven players such as linebackers Reggie Givens, Rich McKenzie, Phil Yeboah-Kodie and tackles Lou Benfatti and Tyoka Jackson. Outside linebacker Yeboah-Kodie leads the
team with 48 tackles, with seniors Reggie the stakes are high because pride is on the
Givens and Lou Benfatti following close line.
behind. The Irish offensive line will also have to contend with linebacker McKenzie, whose five sacks this season are the most for any Penn State player.
Two other players to watch for are defensive backs Derek Bochna and Shelly Hammonds. Bochna is the top tackler of the secondary this fall, with a personal best of nine tackles against West Virginia. He has more tackles for losses of yardage (9 for 30 yards lost) than any other member of the defensive unit. Hammonds, meanwhile, has experience on both sides of the ball as he spent a couple of seasons as a reserve tailback. This year, though, Hammonds is back at the position where he feels most comfortable: namely, cornerback.
The outcome of Saturday’s game means
a great deal to both teams. A win for the Irish this Saturday would serve to avenge some very painful losses that have come at the hands of the Nittany Lions in the past Penn State, though, is also looking to redeem itself. The Lions have already secured themselves a bid for the Blockbuster Bowl this January, but a victory over the Irish could signal an end to the apparent self-destruction of coach Patemo’s team. The game also marks the end of a long rivalry between the two schools. Penn State’s move to the Big Ten Conference next year will end theannual series, and both teams will try to take advantage of this last chance for victory. So this Saturday, both Lion and Irish fans can expect to see some hard-hitting, slug-it-out football between two teams that are both very determined to beat one another in a game in which
Jerome Bettis provided the only highlight for the Irish when they suffered a devestatlng loss to Penn State last season by rushing for a touchdown. He carried the ball 12 times for 53 yards In that game.
IBIBlER 12,1992-
Sports
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Greg Cornick: Comick, a senior from Mill Creek, WA, led the Notre Dame men's swimming team with a first place performance against Bowling Green last Friday. Comick won the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 47.7 seconds. Despite his victory, the only first place finish for the Irish, Notre Dame lost the meet. Comick also placed second in the 200-meter freestyle.
Angela Gugle: Gugle, a junior from Whitehall, OH, won the three meter diving event for the Notre Dame women's swimming team last Friday against Bowling Green. Gugle scored 223.8 points on her dive. Her performance helped the Irish to attempt a comeback but Notre Dame fell short and lost to Bowling Green by a score of 134-109.
Enjoy
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich

CLASSIC
For ANY Size Appetite ! ! !
UB
Wk
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatball Sub

Only $1.69!
From $37.95!
Big Appetites:
6 Foot Party Sub
'^UBLUAV'
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31N (By North Village Mall)
18
SCHOLASTIC ,

Gret a taste of tie
” REAL WORLD”
Student Alumni Relations Group
EXTERN PROORAM
*A one week "internship” in YOUR MAJOR over Spring Break.
*We can place you in most areas across the United States.
Organizational Meeting:
Nov. 19,1992
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 7p.m. ■ ■ - '
Past Sponsors:
IBM, AETNA, Pepsi, Travelers
by J. Bradley Keck
himself to check whether it was obscene. Hamilton county decided no, the book is okay to sell. Now,forwastingtheirtimeand $50 on the book they have achieved one goal: I’ll bet the book is great inspirational material in the deputy’s locker room.
meant that Mrs. Clinton will not be publishing a book about the First Dog.
Up and Coming
rp hanks for the positive feedback regard-J. ing last week’s issue. I can’t say that
this week’s will be as good, but that’s... OK. As always, Out of Bounds tries to provide a quality column at a low price. Ijustwishthe university would try to do the same. Anyway, the entertainment department’s ideas cost each individual reader a mere quarter of a penny. So, here follows your quarterpenny for my thoughts.
Radical South Bend
Election Aftermath
Now that the Democrats have recaptured the White House, it is time for all the bleeding-heart Hollywood types (except Arnold) to jump on the bandwagon in hopes that their wacked-out causes might land on a sympathetic ear. The entertainment industry has been rallying behind Bill Clinton, but I’m not too sure if it is for his leadership or his saxophone skills. In Little Rock last week, Woody Harrelson (he should have voted in Indiana) and Richard Dreyfuss showed up to show their support for Clinton. Barbara Striesand, a vocal supporter, was slated toU attend, but the rally conflicted with an AIDS benefit. She did send a congratulatory telegram, though. Here is a small excerpt: “(Hillary Clinton) will be the first woman since Eleanor Roosevelt to be such a positive role model for the independent American woman.” Great. She is still only the President’s wife.	I
At the New York Democratic Campaign^ Headquarters celebration Kevin Klein, ] David Bowie, Iman, Richard Moll, Valerie Harper and Ed Begley, Jr., were all on hand. Much of the talk was again focused on the new First Lady. Kitty Kelly (tight with the Reagans... OK, not really) had this to say: “We’re going to have a professional, committed First Lady who is really going to do something.” WeatO.O.B. think thatshe
We know that the bookstore is not selling it, but Madonna’s book, Sex, is coming under fire one other place as well. Believe it or not, the second place is not South Bend. Hamilton county, home of the most conservative city in America, Cincinnati, and minutes away from my home, has hadnumerous complaints about the book. Instead of saying “thank you” and moving on to bigger problems like going out to actually fight crime they sent the complains on to the sheriff s department. Sothesheriffdidwhat any self-respecting law officer should do — he bought Sex to have a look-see for
Charlie Daniels Band, Friday at the Star Plaza Theater ... Wayne Newton, Friday through Sunday, at the Drury Lane in Oakbrook... Andrew Dice Clay, Saturday at the Star Plaza Theatre ... Vulgar Boatmen, Friday at the Metro ... Mekons, Saturday at the Metro ... David Sanborn, Sunday at the Star Plaza. At the Movies: Traces of Red, starring James Belushi, Lorraine Bracco and Tony Goldwyn ... Bram Stoker’s Dracula, directed by Francis Ford Coppla and starring Gary Oldman, Winona Ryder, Anthony Hopkins and Keanu Reeves... Malcolm X, directed by Spike Lee and starring Denzel
Washington.	M
WVFITOPTEN
2.
3.
1
i i
SuperChunk—. KingMissilc— J^aisyChainsaw
Sebdoh

Mower E.P.— Happy14-12 ' — Elevcntcei
Thrccsongslo skiploclassto^^^^ ;
— Detachable orgaris arc fun to play wdh
—-She win.hurt you lots?
SmashYour Head bn tlicP link Roek—Nol likclypurjiK^ Qaibappeninu— Ko/z 7 urz; A/e — You should call vour inolher- lhev?^ J|«Pipney
B||J|^sLizard—LM7? — DonTgctcaughtinanelevatorwilhlhesegiiys. ^
widrSriapplc®^j^^
10. Ned’s Atomic Dustbin	More fun thah a philosopliy TiA
9^^^mpiled by 'Jibe: CdnhontGwfyci^
20
SCHOLASTIC
an obsessive police detective frantically feels out the existence of a serial killer. John Berlin (Andy Garcia) is a Los Angeles cop reunited with his mentor Freddy Ross (Lance Henrikson). After a divorce and a nervous breakdown, Berlin starts over in the police department of a small Washington town. He is looking for peace and for a quiet time to rebuild near his friend Ross and his family. Unable to relax even in his new atmosphere, Berlin finds all the markings of a serial killer in his first homicide investigation. Soon the movie begins its wild, twisting chase.
Berlin discovers that someone is killing then decapitating young blind girls. The other men on the force won’t accept Berlin’s theory. They all think that he is trying to relive his early days as a ringleader in the L.A.P.D. circus. Berlin, however, will not give in to their pressure and relentlessly works to find clues that would support his theory about the case.
Uma Thurman plays the part of a blind musician named Helena Robertson whom Berlin discovers first as a witness and then as
a lover. She is a timid, frazzled resident of onstrate both his enlightened questioning an evening of your time.	□
the forboding Institute of the Blind, where and his stark, sanitary demeanor. The~
NOVEMBER 12,1992 : '	...p- 7W ;■■	P 2T*
the most recent victim of the seven serial murders had lived. As a witness and as a young blind woman, she is next on the psychotic killer’s list
The film is a true thriller that relies on suspense, darkness and plot twists in order to entertain the viewer. No hatchets, gore or sexual deviancy is used in this story to keep the viewer’s attention. They are neither missed nor needed; the strong plot of the film does not need these sensational crutches.
Director Bruce Robinson does an excellent job of defining the characters through subtle use of context and props. Berlin is always on the edge of a panic but finds some way to restrain himself. This is reflected in his habit of throwing a few cigarettes away from every pack so that he does not go overboard with his smoking. Toward the end of the movie, a pressure cooker of an FBI agent (John Malkovich) is broughtin to investigate. Who or what it is he is investigating is best not to say. Intense lighting of Malkovich’s face is used effectively to dem
into the world of the blind, by the case and by his beautiful, ethereal witness, the cinematography begins to express this. Helena’s lack of sight, Berlin’s depressing life and the ominousness of the crimes all combine to take the movie into a heavy mist The shadows, the snow and the fog depicted in the setting all reflect this collision of dark worlds and adds to the movie’s tensions.
The movie is one of the best pure thrillers that has recently brought theater-goers to the edge of their seats. It is a stripped, exciting bit of fantasy without the confusing sexual overtones of Basic Instinct or the sensational nature of the crimes and the character of Hannibal Lector that one finds in Silence of theLambs. One will notlaugh at this film nor will one cry. One will not be unduly frightened or bored. For two solid hours, this movie will keep the audience guessing and hoping and imagining. It could have kept doing this for much longer. Jennifer 8 examines the uncertainty and fear found in darkness, as it twists and turns around an interesting plot. The story, the artistic style and the ending make this movie well worth
Muscular Evangelists, Fun with Vegetarians, and Flashers on the West Coast
Don’t despair, folks, we're not the only university in the nation with bizarre occurrences. Here's some of the best stories this week:
Breaking Bricks for God
The students at the University of Kansas got a treat recently. In the middle of campus, 6-foot-2-inch, 280-pound former college football noseguard Tom Sirontak broke through two sets of six cement bricks with only his arms, much to the delight of a crowd of more than 250 people. No, he’s not mad that he didn’t get drafted by the NFL. Sirontak is now a chaplain that travels to campuses around the world combining his brute strength with a message of evangelism. He told the University Daily Kansan “Bricks are like walls in peoples’ lives, whether they be walls of rejection, fear, stereotypes or sin. God gives people the power to break down walls , in life.” The crowd had mixed reactions. One sophomore said, “Being thatl’m Jewish, itreally doesn’t matter to me. I’m from New York, and I’ve seen a lot better in Times Square.” What can you say? It’s only Kansas.
The Blue Jogger Heads West
It seems thatNotre Dame’s famed blue jogger has turned up on the West Coast, at another Catholic school. The University of Portland’s Beacon reports that a man has exposed himself to students in three separate incidents. Two incidents have occurred while female students were jogging, the third while a female was stopped at an intersection. Portland Police officer Robert Walliker offered some enlightened thoughts on those who feel the need to expose themselves. He said “They get a feeling of power and arousal from shocking people. ... They commit the exposure in order to rid themselves of low self-esteem.” Sounds like these people need in course in Stuart Smalley’s Daily Affirmations,
Life in the Enchanted Broccoli Forest
Some male students at Notre Dame may worry about whether their dorm will be the next one targeted for a sex change. At S tanford University, however, there is more a concern about being assigned
to a dorm actually named Enchanted Broccoli Forest No joke, this dorm is named after a vegetarian cookbook, and it houses mostly students concerned about such things as cruelty-free eggs (laid by humanely raised chickens) and compost. Some students, however, had low lottery numbers and no choice aboutresidency in EBF. The vegetarians and carnivores are doing their best to live side-by-side, however. The Stanford Daily quoted an Enchanted Broccoli Forest RA as saying, “We’re just taking care of where the meat is put and making sure the juices aren’t flowing everywhere.” Maybe University Foodservices should send them the recipe for meatless baked ziti.
“Straight” A’s
As part of the National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week, the University Daily Kansan did some research to find the correlation between GPA and alcohol consumption. They found a telling survey administered by the Department of Education. After surveying 56,361 students at 78 colleges between 1989 and 1991, the Department of Education compiled the following results. Students who consistently received D’s and F’s had an average of 10.87 drinks a week, those with C averages 6.77, and those with B averages 4.95. Even those with straight A’s weren’t so “straight,” however, consuming the lowest average of 3.45 drinks per week.
Pastries and Planets
So much for Einstein and his abstract theories. According to Daniel Wells, a physics professor emeritus at the University of Miami, the key to understanding the universe lies in, yes, it's true, a jelly roll. Wells has recently published a theory about the formation of planets that predicts the radii of the new planets and their orbits. Skipping all the physics hogwash, Wells told The Miami Hurricane that the wholeprocess “looks like a jelly roll.” Sounds nice and easy, but are we sure this wasn’t the guy who taught all the Miami football players?
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
Breaking Mv Y
Notre Dame Students Save Their Sanity Over Fall Break
By Elaine Sirmans
The day I left home to come to Notre Dame was one of the saddest days of my life, I realized that many of my friends would change and I would never see some people I called friends, again. Life would never be the same. Ibegan to realize just how much everyone changed when I went home over fall break. I was not expecting the changes that had occured.
True, my roommate and I are constantly having thermostat wars and our musical tastes are far from compatible, but she and I exist without any major spats. Of course, right before we get ready to kill each other or do something incredibly stupid, we get a break. The roomie hasn’t done anything to shock me. Well, at least she hasn’t told me of anything she’s done that would shock me.
My friends from home, however, are a different sto«y altogether. They (well, some of them) have gotten stranger than they already were. My friend Leora was always a little weird. She is a new-waver, and she would come to school with her head shaven, asking questions like “Dude, does the drug dog sniff in the student parking lot?” (I am serious.) Leora started classes in early August and has not had a break since. S he hates her roommate and has a calendar marked with how many days are left until Thanksgiving break, her first break of the year. Leora called me about a week ago to inform me of her experiments in bisexuality. I
know I have become slightly more conservative since arriving at Notre Dame so, needless to say, I was very shocked. I sat on my end of the phoneline in silence with my eyebrows arched as she insisted on informing me of the gory details. I remember little after her initial announcement. I think I have a mental block. Another friend, Nicole, tried to commit suicide after her boyfriend of two years broke up with her. She called me two weeks after her stomach was pumped of a vial of sleeping pills. I was again seated on the floor, looking as though I’d been slapped in the face. I was completely shocked. I kept telling her that no person of the opposite sex (or in Leora’s case, the same sex)
was worth killing herself for. It took her a while to comprehend this; after all, she is a Florida Gator and she was tired. She had been taking a full class load since mid-July (summer session) and still has not had a break to get away. She goes to counseling now and has returned to the party scene at the University of Florida. I’ve visited there and it is not difficult to find a party there on any given night of the week.
I think I have figured out a link between these problems my friends are having. These two major occurrences in their lives occurred in the past two weeks. Neither of them has a mid-semester break. I think college life had gotten to them. Mid-semester break exists so that one does not go crazy and do incredibly stupid things. (And I’m not referring to the stupid things that go on
during those popular home football game weekends.) Break is also a time to straighten out friends and laugh at them, because generally they don’t have breaks. I really haven’t had any major crises since I have been here. The only crises I have had to face here are Michigan and Stanford, and those really weren’t crises. Travesties of justice, maybe, but not crises.
How does one react to occurrences in friends’ lives of this magnitude? I do not know. I went into a friend’s room down the hall and discussed the problem I was having dealing with my friends at home. They were helpful in the suicide case and cheered me up to a degree. However, they were too busy being disgusted (and that’s putting it mildly) about the bisexuality to offer me any ideas on how I should react I think one person I told was rather shocked that I could even have a friend who was slightly confused about her sexuality. I know the dome keeps everyone a bit sheltered here, but there is a strange, messed-up world outside of our little community that must occasionally be acknowledged. Scary, huh?	□
Elaine Sirmans is a freshman who has neither suicidal or bisexual tendencies. She has reached the point where she almost dreads her friends from home calling because they scare her.
||||MBER 42,1992 V
X^XyX-X-XX;
J_?. / ■fiMjWwZ
Maybe You Can Save
the World
by Julie N. Robinson
Julie N. Robinson is the co-president of Students for Environmental Action.
FTt he environment is a strange cause, because 1 therearen’treally two sides to thecoin. No one is really against the environment. No one wants to see the world and its resources destroyed. The only issue at hand is how much people will change their way of life to save it
Many people call themselves environmentalists. They truly have a concern for the earth. Their only problem is apathy. They don’t know exactly what they can do to help the situation, so they don’t do anything at all. Edmund Burke said it best, “Nobody made a greater mistake than he who did nothing because he could only do a little.”
So what do I want you to do? Whatever you can. It’s that simple. It all goes back to the slogan, “Think globally, Act locally.” Really, all that means is, don’t try to save the world all by yourself. One person can make a difference. You can do it by changing your own behavior and influencing others to do the same. Maybe it just means recycling your beer cans and bottles, or maybe you think you can to more than that. Just do something.
Here’s the pitch you knew was coming: A perfect time to educate yourself on the environment is next week, Campus Earth Week! Students for Environmental Action will be sponsoring movies, speakers and a concert, Earth Jam, to raise awareness of environmental issues.
One issue in particular that will be addressed is environmental racism. Most peoplehave never heard of it, but it has become a serious problem in our society. The issue boils down to the fact that often those communities most seriously injured by environmental crises are poor minority areas. This is no coincidence. These areas are chosen as sites of such environmental time bombs as hazardous waste incinerators because they lack the political voice to fight back. Let’s face it, money talks. The lack of it sends a message, too.
The country gets in an uproar if someone is rejected for a job just because he or she is black or Asian, green or purple, for that matter. Butput an incinerator in the middle of a community for the exact same reason, and no one bats an eye. Let’s wake up and look at what’s going on around us, shall we?
OK, I told you to change what you can, and you’re probably thinking right now that you can’tdo much to change problems like environmental racism. But that’s where you’re wrong. You’re not going to be at Notre Dame forever. And when you leave, you will be out in the real world. We are the leaders of tomorrow. It sounds horribly clichd, but it is true. If you educate yourself on the issues, you can make responsible decisions that have a positive impact on the environment.
The opportunity for self- education is one of the greatest opportunities you have while you are at school here. When will you ever have this many resources at your fingertips? The library itself contains a wealth of information on the environment, but also take advantage of the people around you. Talk to the students and faculty who have researched environmental issues. DART classes from the new Science, Technology, and Values concentration that address problems you are interested in.
At the very least, simply listen to what’s going on around you. Ask questions. “Why don’t you recycle?” “How is that chemical disposed of?” “What are the environmental policies of your company?” Questions are great. Maybe you can impress someone at an interview, or maybe you will just make someone squirm. Either way it’s worth it, isn’t it?
Take advantage of the opportunities that are all around you, and set a goal to make a positive impact on the world around you. For now, watch for signs about Earth Week, and start getting involved locally. If you work up to it, maybe you really can save the world.	□
24	.	SGHOLASTIG
I	-----------------
I
ftWZSytyM vasM^f
<507^-39 S2XKX
B^Vd 3X10^
i-rtWy-^^s-
W3avh <a- e«xi»fA 'WS/aH "^v SjNVfA
AVa^,
4©||e>| 9ADQ Aq
aafH'crt^ swj, .•pVjXtonsMsir^r
DUISSOJO lUOUUUUDIAI

whisk oj-Wfog 3& <nnoM -asuvi BS13 yo'crU-ttviscij
„ ^3}/t ^0
3^ Qo9 XHWy,
J SAVZf Jr 1*1
• Jat<L
Waxw^ $3f/
] sjan^^^ix^-ZHti-*. ail $Kt-
; tnnvTws 3aji\ ^3
di 5F
“ A-M/<n>n<O ?f xjrT^fJjf 3H>
M 3arwj.$ 511
^-<3aWlH2
HBlJVKir 31^2
^>3X17
V Nl 335-Mt^ 5>tt7 nxwy SWf/tf Jff-nry 3SM-& aw
5Jfr7j-«^ •9(j.ey_a3yu,s^ 'GHHW^saa mtwy, V warned
V jivniugia'^
/	^2	ypj.^<5
HL /	VJ?a nic
'$GMWV7a<W4H¥M
. ayspva-wntb'ow^jy
A«*0 J
•-201X25^
frt*m<9	^52^9
V 21cm>a ?L9rio9
•wa-k^O ^4J
pv<nw *hOA
s.xwfA

