

V
V 
We're now hiring: Assistant News Editor Assistant Design Editor 

Assistant Advertising Manager 
You think you're good enough? Prove it! If you've got talent and ambi­tion, contact Scholastic at 1-7569 or stop by our office to pick up an application. We're conveniently located in the basement of South Dining Hall. The application deadline is December 8. And don't you forget it! 


V E M B E R 
KATE FOSTER 

thedepartments 


From the Editor  02  Out of Bounds  26  
ND Notebook  04  Week in Distortion  30  
Splinters  19  Calendar  31  
Campus Watch  18  Final Word  32  


.,,._ ........,.. ··. -·-·--------11111!11-­
(" Is There a Doctor in the oa·l.•· 
" House? by Tina Zurcher 
The South Bend Medical · Center keeps their skeletons -and aspir­ing doctors -in the basement of 
!

Haggar Hall. ·I 
,,,,::-----------l 
(~ T::.·~a: ::::!.Casp:rsen j 13 
COVER: The Notre Dame-South Bend relationship has never been smooth, but new developments could ease tensions. 
(5;alki~~ ~!ri~rrie Sweene;J 2 8 
-'--...:: :.-.:;:,;:.:.._--=.:::........:;"· ._ ----------·­




::c..:..;.._.~i 
Scholastics assistant entertainment 
1 
editor catches up with Guster's Adam·Gardner_:_ in a tree. 
-/ Music to Om Ears 
07 
-, byJenny Wahoske 

Dance Fever 
11 byJennifer Morgan · 

Anchored in Tradition. 
22 
by Gerard Meskill 

Foiling the Competition 
24
·'L by David Murray · 
j .·. i, i'

)f Princes otBabylon HeadWest I 
27 
\" by Carrie Sween§y. __:_ _ ·-_.. ___ I 
. . . . . 
l 


,.;>) 
,·Design by Mik~ Griffin Photo by Kate Foster ·.. and Nolan Orfield·'' 


I 
I 
·; 
. i 


Vol. 142, No. 6 • 9 November 2000 
·-L,')-vnVnVro )
scholastic0r UJU,J , staff 
·-----~' 1.::-.... -~ ..L1 "-~------~----, 
Editor in Chief James J. Pastore Jr. 
Managing Editor Associate Editor Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie Caspersen, editor 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 
Katie Browning, 
Jessica Chamberlain, 
Erin Dowe,Katie Wales 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor Nolan D. Orfield, assistant Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor Michael delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Jennifer L. Wahoske 
Distribution Angela Polsinelli, manager 
Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 
Online Brian Scofield, manager 
Subscriptions Morgan Anderson, manager 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at 
Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of 
Scholastic magazine is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No 
contentsofthis magazine, either in whole orinpart, may be reproduced 
in any manner without written consent _of the publisher. Scholatstic 
magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscrfpts or 
material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, 
Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Jessica Daues is 
the official office southerner.To be published in the next issue, letters 
must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters 
must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All 
letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain 
instances. Scholasticreserves the right to edit letters for space. The 
subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per 
copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the 
annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates 
available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholasticmagazine 
are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the 
student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
My friend's father has a tradition: every Labor Day weekend, he stands on his deck and waves at the people going home for the winter. Occasionally, he climbs off his deck to help one of his summer-time neighbors load a car. While all appearances might indicate he is wishing them a fond farewell, the truth lies closer to wishing them a good riddance. I live in Breezy Point, N.Y. It sounds idyllic, and, in many ways, it is. But it's probably not exactly how you picture it. For one thing, my hometown properly belongs to the borough of Queens, one of the five that makes up New York City. Although officially located in one of the world's busiest metropolises, my house sits 1,800 feet from the ocean in one direction and 1,800 feet from the bay in the other. It is nestled at the tip ofthe Rockaway Peninsula, a small piece of land only a few blocks in width. Every summer, hordes of people make the trip across the bridge from Brooklyn and settle into bungalows -and some more extravagant vaca­tion homes -to enjoy the beach for the season. Twenty-five percent of Breezy Point's residents live in the community only during the summer. And the other 75 percent of us can't stand them. "Summer people," as we call them, are only a small step above the slugs that we used to pour salt on as kids. They come into the community, guzzling beer, leaving trash on our beaches and keeping things noisy until the wee small hours of the morning. Their children spend most of the summer barefoot and shirtless, hair matted down with the salt ofthe ocean and sand crusted over face and body. They take up all the parking spaces in the community, invite their friends down for the day and crowd the oceanfront. They ride bikes on the sidewalks -in blatant violation ofour no-bike rule ­and don't seem the least bit concerned about being decent neighbors. And when Labor Day weekend comes, we rejoice to see them go. We have a big parade in my community that we call Mardi Gras: in theory, one last party before the summer ends; in reality, a celebration that the summer people will soon be gone. In a lot of ways, the South Bend-Notre Dame divide resembles the dynamic that operates in my hometown. Approximately 10,000 students swoop down on this area for nine months every year, taking up residence in houses and apartments off campus and filling the bars and clubs during the week. On football weekends, tens ofthousands offans pour into the city, congesting roads, crowding restaurants and overflowing the hotels in town. While great for business, it makes life in South Bend a bit more hectic. Townies and Domers: the divide is familiar. But just how does the existence of Notre Dame affect the area? Measuring the exact impact the university has on South Bend is difficult, but Katie Caspersen explores the topic in this week's com story, Heneport begins:7~ 
r Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 


' . . .... . , . :, ' , . ' . ~ -... .' ~ ' . . . 

---------·­
TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY LOVES. 

America's all about big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER:' How could you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really hungry-come and get one. 
The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR-WAY! 


I 
Share Some Warmth 
Story by Katie Caspersen 
The ND community donates coats to the coatless Art by Carol Wolf 
The recent dip in temperature and the return ofholiday decorations remind us that winteris planningits first attack. While most people can relate to the dread of pull­ing out the long underwear for another long season, few can understand what it is like to head into the snowy season without a winter coat. Each fall, Project Warmth attempts to address this pressing problem. On October 25, the project began collect­ing used jackets and coats from the Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross communi­ties for those in need. The project is a partnership between the Centerfor Social Concerns, Gearfor Sports, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and several campus organizations. The partner­ship exists not only to provide coats, but also to raise social awareness of the causes ofhomelessness through educational mate­rials. Students provide short-term solutions with coat donations and can also learn how to 
., 
f:r_.: _. •·: 
. 



~~ten p_ue,f!ti~o11_~-~,~~,-~
l < ·1111/ththe
}'.': own_e(q" :>
il:;: ·--_. . . ­
achieve long-term solutions inthe future. Coat collection sites can be found in all resident halls, the dining halls and many other campus locations. 
In the past, coats were distributed to South Bend shelters, as well as to sites in the Appa­lachia region and Native American Indian reservations in the Dakotas. 
"Since the project began in 1996, over 6,100 coats have been collected," says Katie Flanagan, publicity chair for Project Warmth. "This year we hope to continue the success. We are trying to get the message out to let people know what a wonderful service this is and how easy it is for them to help." 
After December 3, the number of coats from each dorm will be divided by the number ofresidents to determine the percent­age ofparticipationin each hall. The winning dorm will receive a check for $1,000; the runner-up will receive $500. All donors also receive a coupon for 25 percent off Gear for 
>> 
So your parents have finally gotten ahold oftickets to the big game. They've made reservations at the nearest open motel on I-80/90. They're ready to drive down to see some Notre Dame football -and their beloved son or daughter, of course -but there's just one problem: where to park? Every football weekend, Zolman Tire rents out spaces on its lot to fans. Scholastic sat down with the manager ofZolman Tire, Bob Guzman, to find out just how crazy those week­ends are. 
How long have you lived in South 
Bend and worked here? 
Sports merchandise at the bo.okstore. 
Thanksgiving break is as an excellent opportunity for students and faculty to take a long hard look at their closets back home. Ifyou'renotsureifyou'11 everwearthatone coat again, chances are good that the answer is no-butthere is somebody else who could get a lot of wear out of it this winter. 0 




~~-,, 
r1, r 
,,._ , ,_
·I., f.; ~:\ \\, ,; ; . 
-~\ 1/ ' ·,.,~. 

" 
.CiJJ''f:.:..~, 

I grew up in Chicago, so I ·actually have just been here since March. This is my first football season here. 
How many people usually park here on football weekends? 
We use the whole lot, so usually be­tween 150 and 200. At least that's how many receipts we turn in! 
How did you settle on how much to 
charge people? 

It's kind of been established forever that everyone in the area charges five dollars. The Salvation Army, across the street, just started letting people park this 


Whether you call it dream pop, alterna­tive dance or the sound of honey-glazed desire, the sound of Emiliana Torrini's Virgin Records debut, Love in the Time of Science, is one you'll want play­ing from your ste­reo for a few days straight. Torrini's soft, slippery vo­cals, like the voice of the siren both modern and mythical, calmly summon an island of emotions. Itis no coincidence thatTorrini's vocals sound a little like fellow Icelander Bjork, but the complex music that backs Torrini moves her debut album into the melancholy and electronic realm of bands like Portishead. 
The slow beats drip like warmed honey onto the lips of a waiting lover. The deliber­ate rise and fall of sweaty breath that punc­tuates a track titled "Fingertips" dreamily 
creeps up the back of your neck. Playing, 
perhaps, on the legends of sea nymphs who 
lured sailors into rocky shipwrecks, and 
combining those ancient myths with the 
science of our times, Torrini weaves a sea 
theme throughout her songs. In "Tuna Fish," 
she metaphorically mentions a scientific 
fact: "Didyouknowthattunafishflowedup 
to the surface? /Belly to the moonlight just to 
cool their heart down." And, in the closing 
track, "SeaPeople,"shesings, "When you say 
goodbye, my lungs ache, filled with water." ' 
The sylphlike 23-year-old singer/ 
songwriter, who is Icelandic on her mother's 
side and Italian on her father's, has already 
graced magazine covers all over Europe. 
She sings in English but is a marked radio 
favorite in Holland, France, Germany, Italy 
and Scandinavia. After opening for Sting in 
London, she is currently on tour in the U.K. 0 
For more information on this Scandina­vian songstress, check out her Web site at www.emiliana.net. 


judgmentcalls @~··_...__A--'--mer_··i.tec~h;I 
The worst. Ever. 


Parents Weekend 
They gave us life. Now they visit and take us to dinner. And 
that's pretty nice. 


CD 
· · ~ ·· Non-Voters I 
With the closest presidential election in years, every vote mat­tered. Too bad your apathy kept you from casting a ballot.
CD •Bike Thefts j 
Freshman year, they stole my bike. So I bought a new one and got a U-lock. Now, they stole the seat. Bloody savages. 
>> 

year and they charged $10, but that changed pretty fast. 
Do you advertise? 

There's really no reason to advertise, since so many people are looking for places to park. And they tend to know this is a good place. 
Does anyone get special parking privi­leges? 
Employees do -we can park for free. But for everyone else, since we have male and female parking attendants, there's no special privileges for, say, pretty girls. 
Have you ever been offered a bribe to squeeze in an extra car? 
No, there hasn't been any of that. We're open to suggestions, though! 
What are the coolest and ugliest cars you've had park here? 
Last weekend we had a Mercedes SL500 convertible, which was cool. For ugly cars, nothing can beat the-employees'. 
Do you get any rowdy or irate drivers on game days? 

The most problems we have are actually with lines for the bathrooms. We tend to think people should be happy just to park here, since that's all they're paying for, but . 
I guess all that beer works on them! 
If Lou Holtz and Bob Davie were run­ning for president, who would you vote for? 
I'd have to abstain from voting, unless Anna Kournikova was running as a third party! · 


What's love got to do with it? 
Love has eve,ything to do with it! It is all-encompassing -it seriously makes the world go round. 
-Kimberly Blackwell 






~ ~-,:: · ?Ni~.,:of tnbtie lines in service on campus: about 11,000 
• /4 I -~ 
_ · _,, -~-' ~~!5"@ice-mail messages processed by the system in one month: about 1,000,000 ,, Q·~e.-~merical prefix "631" stands for "ND1 ." .



dk,, y ,-­
iv17J · ~. 

Sources: Campus phone directory and Steve Ellis, manaier of telecommunications. 
53Vears Ago 

Up the Proverbial Creek 

Sit right back and you'll hear a tale ... 
The April 18, 1947 issue of Notre Dame Scholastic reported the sea-faring antics of three "would-be admirals" from Dillon Hall. The trio took to the waters of the St. Joe River in a raft constructed from two old telephone polls and a discarded wooden roof. Nay-sayers collected a whopping $31 to bet against their making it to Niles. Oh, how wrong they were: 
Following the successful and highly prof­itable trip, [the three] are planning to go commercial. Better and bigger rafts are to be built, weekly passenger trips are being plannedfrom South Bend to La.ke Michigan. It has also been reported that Mr. Ford, of the University Dining Hall, and Mr. Clark, a restaurateurfrom town, are now vying to obtain food concessions on the rafts. 
Learn from history, weary travelers: ifthe South Shore Line ever temporarily suspends train service again (it did this past weekend, between South Bend and Miller), you can always paddle to Chicago. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
"So the dean doesn't like it. What do I. care? I have 
tenure." 
-economics professor 
.. ' 
.. 

CAPP professor: "What were you for Halloween?" CAPP TA: "Uh ... drunk." 
.. .. ·· .. . .,: -<-i. --­
' "Math is designed to scare you off so that someone else can control your life using it." 
-economics professor
'.·· 

·•-·-· ·-· 
"Hey Falcons, take Davie and fly away." -sign seen at tailgater 
ake me want to drink hard alcohol m 

Real residential numbers that spell interesting (and sometimes scandalous) things: 4-BDDN 

4-GETT 4-BEER 4-AGUY 

~~---.,-, 4-AGRL ._ ~.\@.J~)f ·•. \ . . 
~-(i-' ' @~--{ 


If you're as fascinated as I am by the fact that you can play "Mary Had a Little Lamb" using only the first row of numbers on a touch-tone phone, you'll 
love the following phun phone phacts: 



DING DONG The carillon of the Basilica tolls the alma mater every night at 10 p.m., plays Christmas hymns during the season and rings in celebration of home football victories. 
JENNYWAHOSKE 

Just after 10 p.m. on a chilly Novem­ber night, a lilting melody is heard near the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A special setofbells housed in the Basilica's 209-foot tower is playing "Notre Dame, Our Mother," the university's alma mater. The music floats through the air-it seems to come from nowhere. Sophomore Sheila Payne loves to hear the beautiful melody played at night. "It makes me feel at home," she says. The traditional playing of the alma mater used to mean lights out for Notre Dame stu­dents and, though it does not have this impli­cation anymore, it is still played each night by the carillon, thespecialsetoftowerbells. Ordered by bell-lover Father Edward Sorin in 1856, the carillon is one of the oldest in North America. It comprises 23 bells, each of which plays one note of the musical scale. The· bell clappers are con­nected to a keyboard through a set of rods. When a key is pushed, a rod pulls the clap­per, which strikes the bell, sounding a note. This is quite a noisy process, and senior Brett Perkins has experienced it first-hand on a bell-tower tour. "The keyboard was a riot -if you could hear the bells over the noise it made, you were doing well," he says. "I guess it makes sense, though, since it is all mechanical action that has to pull the clapper to make the bell sound." The carillon can be played either elec­tronically or manually. When played by 
hand, the player strikes the keys -onNotre 
~ Dame's carillon these are actually wooden pegs -with his or her fists. The largest of the 23 bells is the eight-ton bass bell, or bourdon. Each bell in the car­illon has its own name: the bourdon was christened "St. Anthony of Padua." This immense bell stands over seven feet tall and is almost seven feet in diameter at its base. Because of its inordinate size and weight, were the St. Anthony bell swung, it would create a force that could knock over the entire bell tower. So, instead of swinging or striking the bell from the inside, St. Anthony is struck externally with a special clapper while it remains stationary. "It's 
the carillon is housed inside a small cham­ber about halfway up the tower, and the walls ofthis alcove are inscribed with names of people who have been in the tower. The names of many past and present choir direc­tors and students are scrawled on the walls. 
In ordinary time, the alma mater is the only song heard from the tower, but the bells can be programmed by disc to play other pieces. Father Rocca says, "The carillon only plays hymns or carols during the stronger church seasons, such as Easter or Christmas." 
"At Christmas time [the bells] play 'O Come, 0 Come Emanuel,' "Regina Collins, '00, says. "I remember being surprised the first time I heard it, but I began to look 
not as loud," Father 


"Since I've become rector, we ring it for 
Rocca, the rector of the 


home football victories." -Father Rocca 
Basilica, admits, "but it's safer." 

Because it is such a special bell, the bourdon does not play a part in the regular repertoire of the carillon. Father Rocca says, "The St. Anthony bell is only rung on great solemn occasions: solemnities ofthe_church, ordinations, final vows, grand celebrations such as the opening Mass of the school year and, since I've become rector [of the Ba­silica], we ring it for home football victo­ries." 
The tower is generally closed to the pub­lie, but on rare occasions visitors are al­lowed to climb its rickety steps. Some of those who have ascended into the tower· have left their mark there. The keyboard of forward to it that time every year. It's so easy to rush around in late December trying to study for exams and finish papers, but hearing that song from across the campus always seemed to help me focus on what was really important." 
As the semester winds down and the stressful craziness of final exams ap­proaches, the carillon, high in the tower of the Basilica, will commemorate the season ofAdvent. While hustling across God Quad on a cold evening this winter, pause for a moment and listen to the bells of the tower. Their floating melody is more than music -it is an historic prayer. D 

SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 7 








I 
TH 
A DOCTOR
I 
I 
A par(ne~shlp betw~en Notre Dame and Indiana University brings . . '. 
ii 
I 
TINAZURCHER 

Ii i hat rumor about bodies in the base­Ii ment of Haggar? It's true.
T:1. 
j! 
Since 1971, Notre Dame has hosted 
,I 
1: a program called the South Bend Center for 
l: Medical Education (SBCME). Housed in the basement of Haggar Hall, the center is 
: actually an Indiana University satellite medi­cal school, one of eight such sites through­
ii,, 
out the state. As an ill program, the center i! merely rents space from Notre Dame; it is 
I! not funded by Notre Dame at all, although the program does use Notre Dame's system to order some supplies and hires Notre Dame staff for some jobs. The program is open to IU medical stu­dents, who can apply to study at one of the satellite locations for the first two years of their schooling; for the third and fourth years, they return to the main campus at Indianapolis. Students who attend the South Bend center apply through and pay tuition 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
to Indiana University. 

The idea for the program originated in the 1960s in response to what Dr. John O'Malley, director of the SBCME, calls a "brain drain" that was occurring in Indiana: more than half of the people being educated in professional schools were leaving the state. Many who stayed in Indiana settled in the cities, leading to a physician shortage in less populous areas. As a solution, the satel­lite system was established. The theory was that students who attended these sites would build contacts and be more likely to practice in the surrounding region after graduation. At South Bend, the theory seems to hold true. 
"We've identified 63 students who have gone through the South Bend center who are practicing within a 30-mile radius, and that's better than it seems because you don't in­clude the upper arc of the circle in Michi­gan, just the semicircle [in Indiana]," O'Malley says. 
The South Bend center is special because of its small size and close relationship with Notre Dame. Seven fullatime Indiana Uni­versity faculty teach the 32 first-and sec­ond-year medical students as well as the several graduate. students who attend the center. Trina Helderman, a student in the program, remarks, "I was a lot more inter­ested because of the personal contact. The professors here are almost always around." 
The Notre Dame-Indiana University part­nership brings other benefits as well. Sev­eral joint M.D./Ph.D. degrees allow stu­dents to receive medical training through IU and obtain a Ph.D. from Notre Dame. "It's really unique because, as far as we know, it's the only such program in the country where you have a major private institution like Notre Dame joining forces with a state medical school for such a combined degree," O'Malley says. He explains that the opportunity to offer these combined degrees led Indiana Univer­sity to establish the center at Notre Dame 



IN THE HOUSE? 
medical students to campus ~~d cadavers to the'base~ent of~Haggar Hall. 
·· 
. 

instead ofthe IU campus in South Bend. Both parties benefit from the relationship as faculty from each institution join together to conduct medical research. 
Indiana University professors also teach some courses in Notre Dame's pre-profes­sional program. "Iteach an undergrad human musculoskeletal anatomy course for Notre Dame that they would not be able to have otherwise, as they do not have an anatomist on ·campus," O'Malley says. Despite these offerings, O'Malley estimates many Notre Dame students do not realize the center ex­ists: "I would say that more than half, even close to two-thirds of my. students do not know we are here." Medical student Violet Kramer agrees: "Hardly anyone knows we exist-it's really surreal sometimes." 
But the medical students can serve as valuable resources for Notre Dame under­graduates. Joe Miller, a medical student at the center, says, "Just last week some ofus talked to an anthropology class -the pro­
. . 
fessor asked us to come in and speak." 
Aside from working with Notre Dame undergraduates, students in the center reach out to the South Bend community. They present a "Science Alive" day to children every year, and they give medically related presentations at various elementary and high schools. The center also hosts a Mini-Medi­cal School lecture series for the community every spring. Open to the general public, the series introduces and explains many impor­tantmedical issues. The 2000 series included presentations covering integrative -healing, the medical benefits oflaughter and the aging of the brain. Local physicians can earn con­tinuing-medical-education credits when they attend various programs at the center. 
This interaction with the community at­tracts students to the center. In the second year of the program, students take a "mas­sive medicine course that is team-taught by local physicians," O'Malley says. Close to 100 physicians teach two or three lectures 
each in their specialty areas. Overall, Indiana University and Notre 
Dame have had a smooth partnership, a 
significant feat for two mega-universities -one public and one private -trying to 
cooperate. O'Malley could recount only one sensitive situation that has arisen during 

his 29 years at the center. "We had a new . hire on faculty that was doing research on 
human fetal tissue, and that was not allowed 
here at Notre Dame," he says. 
Themedical students do have some com­
plaints, though. Most are about the time 
spent in the basement ofHaggar Hall, or, as 
they affectionately call it, "the dungeon." 
Helderman comments, "We're stuck in the dungeon working, and everyone else seems 
to be outside having fun." 
The students take all their classes in the 
same place with the same group of16 people, 
and after the first week, everyone sits in 
their chosen seat every day. "Uh, it's a nice 

classroom,"·Miller observes. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 

But the medical students do get to experi­ence being part of the Notre Dame commu­gity. They are considered to be special gradu­ate students of Notre Dame and are accorded many student privileges. For example, they can get season tickets to all athletic events (including football), work out at campus fit­ness centers, use Notre Dame e-mail and get meal plans. 
Despite Notre Dame's efforts to include the medical students, their low profile on campus can be daunting. "I feel mostly like we're in our little group -there's just not time to do much else," medical student Marla Schrock says. 
Students at the center who attended Notre Dame as undergraduates seem to feel more connected to the community than those who did not. Miller, a Notre Dame graduate, says that he feels involved because he knows a lot of undergraduates but adds that others have a harder time getting into the atmo­sphere. Kramer, who also attended Notre Dame as an undergraduate, specifically wanted to come to the South Bend center because "med school's pretty tough -I didn't want to try anything too new and different." For Kramer, being at Notre Dame is "familiar but strange." While the sur­rounaings are the same, the lifestyle of a medical student is very different from that of an undergraduate. One reason for the difference is the amount of work, but most students manage to juggle work and play. "I make free time. I won't stay in ali week­end," Kramer says. 
Miller enjoys seeing people on campus whom he knows and who think he has graduated. "They'll be like, 'What the hell are you still doing here?' and I try to ex­plain, and they just go, 'Huh?' They just don't know about the med school," he says. 

On average, two or three ND graduates join the 16 new students entering the center each year. O'Malley says, "A lot of undergrads will come to me and they'll say, 'I've been accepted at IU -what do you think I should do? Should I go down to the main campus or stay at ND?' And Itell them that the best thing to do is go somewhere else ... they're ready for a new experience. And they say, 'But you know, I really love it here, I love the football games, I love the atmosphere.' And then I say, 'You've an­swered your own question then. Stay here if you really feel that strongly about it.' " 
Students who choose to attend the center will see some major changes over the next few years. Indiana University is planning on constructing a new building to house the 
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

center at Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard. Jeff Kantor, associate provost for Notre Dame, has been involved in plan­ning the new center, but, "it will be an IU building on IU property," he says. 
Despite the location change, Notre Dame and Indiana University will continue their close relationship. In a reversal of the cur­rent situation, Notre Dame will lease about a quarter of the building for some of its science programs. Notre Dame tentatively plans to use the space to house the CenterforTransgene Research -currently in the Stepan Chemis­try Building -and a smaller program in medical ethics that is currently in develop­ment. The space in Haggar Hall will revert to the psychology department for its own use. 
The Jot for the new center is currently occupied by the former Northern Indiana State Hospital, which is being demolished 

in preparation for construction. According to Kantor, however, the building is coming dow11 slowly because of asbestos problems that have to be contained. It will probably be severalmonthsbeforeconstructioncanbegin. 
"We're still working on agreements with IU architects doing preliminary designs ... I had hoped we'd be at this stage about a year ago," Kantor says. 
When it finally is completed, the new building will have more spacious facilities than the center's current location. A large auditorium and library will allow the center to host the Mini-Medical School series on site instead ofin 102DeBartolo. The grounds will have plenty of parking room so that "even the students themselves will be able to park right next to the building," 0'Malley says. 
The curriculum is also set to expand. Dr. 
. Rudy Navari, director of the Walther Can­cer Center, is working with a committee of representatives from various Notre Dame departments to offer a master's degree in biomedical ethics. Indiana University ap­proached Notre Dame about developing the program because of Notre Dame's strength in traditional ethics. Administered through Notre Dame, the program will allow IU medical students to take one year of classes in ethics as Notre Dame students in addition to their two years of Indiana University medical school. People with baccalauerate degrees and interest in the field will also have the chance to participate in the pro­gram. 
Navari feels a background in biomedical ethics is important in today's society. "We can do a lot of things now we couldn't do 20 years ago, and the question is should we do them," he says. 
Navari says that the program will have contributions from many fields of study, including psychology, philosophy and an­thropology. Organizers hope to have the pro­gram operational in the fall. However, Navari says, "This is a beginning program. People shouldn't be calling me to enroll in it yet!" 
Even students who choose not to enroll in the ethics degree program will experience intense workloads and challenging topics. "I'm in class 35 hours or so a week, and I spend at least 15 to 20 hours studying be­sides. And that's not much compared to some people!" Miller says. 
Despite the workload, students generally find the transition from college to medical school manageable. 
"I was so excited and motivated to be here at the beginning that I didn't mind studying four hours a night," Helderman says. 
Kramer agrees. "Hey, this is what you've wanted to do all along, so you may as well enjoy it!" 
Until the center moves to its new build­ing, a few lucky Notre Dame students might be able to catch a glimpse of the bodies in the basement, but only through the win­dows. One time, according to O'Malley, a custodian forgot to close the blinds on the North Quad windows of a lab in the base­ment. A psychology class was letting out while a medical class was working in the anatomy lab. O'Malley's son was in the psychology class. A friend of his peered down as they were walking by the windows and exclaimed, "Look what they're doing down there! They're working on cadavers!" 
"Yeah, I know, my dad's down there," O'Malley's son replied. 
The other student became very quiet and said in a small, confused voice, 'Tm sorry, I didn't know he was dea_!i!" 
So the next time you·hear of medical stu­dents at Notre Dame, don't laugh. They are telling the truth -the bodies vouch for it. 0 






DANCE FEVER 
Tapping shoes and swishing dresses 
have been enlivening night-time 
campus venues. 

A new trend has set in at Notre Dame in 
the past few years. Ranging from the rhyth­
mically impaired to the finest performers, 
students have formed and eagerly joined 
dance clubs of all kinds. Even professors 
have joined the frenzy, instructing and par­
ticipating in dance classes. Each club has its 
own flavor, providing an opportunity for 
everyone who likes to dance. 
The Ballroom Club hosts classes and com­
petitions on campus. Every Tuesday night 
from 8:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., room 301 of 
the Rockne Memorial is transformed as· 
members of the club learn and rehearse the 
steps of classic dances such as the cha-cha, 
swing, rumba and tango. Club members 
meet again on Thursday nights from 8:00 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in 219 Rockne to practice and perfect their new moves. If the students choose, they can compete at various univer­sities throughout the year.Notre Dame hosts a competition at the end of March. 
The light-hearted atmosphere and many 
facets of the Ballroom Club account for its 
appeal to members, from those with inten­
sive dance backgrounds to those with no 
dance experience at all. Clay Berkley, co­
advisor ofthe club, provides another insight 
into ballroom's popularity. 
"Itis appealing because it takes the physi­
cal conditioning associated with other dance 
forms and puts it into the framework to work 
with a partner; there is a social and an 
athletic aspect," Berkley says. 
Students seem to enjoy both aspects. For. 
senior Meghan Healy, a member since her 
freshman year and the current president of 
the club, ballroom provided a way to ex­
press her love of dance while in college. 
"I always did dance in some form and, 
since Notre Dame doesn't offer many dance 
classes, ballroom seemed cool to continue 
dancing," she says. 
For Saint Mary's freshman Meg 
Dominick, ballroom was "a chance to meet 
people with the same interests." 
But ballroom isn't just for experienced 
dancers. "Ialways liked to shut my door and 
dance in my room, so I figured in college, I 
· would be productive and join the club," says 
senior Dorell Garcia. Likewise, sophomore 
A variety ofclubs offer students the opportunity 
Scott Gavin and freshman Jordan Ryan joined the club for the obvious reason -to

to learn many different styles ofdance 
learn how to dance. · A few years ago, the familiar tune of the by Jennifer Morgan Gap's "Swing" commercial filled the heads 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE  11  
~ ,l,  ~  •  ,  •  ~~-::::=::;:­ 
\  --­-~-~,.. - 

. 

,, 
of teenagers and college students across 
;! America, including those at Notre Dame, sparking a renewed interest in dance. The -Notre Dame Swing Club was founded in 1998 by students Angela Bauer, Kevin Coleman, Charlie Cassidy, Scott Davis and two alumni; it has truly evolved since its onset. "I had gone home over the summer and swing was really popular," Bauer says. "When I came back to school, everyone saw a friend and I dancing and wanted to learn, so in two days we put together a swing-in on the quad. There were over 600 people there, so we decided to start the club." Bauer and Coleman contacted the presi­dent of the Ballroom Club and learned that other students had contacted him about start­ing a swing club. They met with the inter­ested students, including Cassidy and Davis, and the Swing Club was born. "The Swing Club is unique because we strictly do swing stuff," Bauer says "And there is no membership. The club is for anyone who wants to learn." The Swing Club practices on Mondays from9:30p.m. to 11:00p.m.in215Rockne and offers different levels of dance on dif­ferent dates. It starts with Beginning East Coast Swing and progresses to Intermediate East Coast Swing and Advanced Swing. 
"We have people who have never danced before come to Intermediate and Advanced, also," Bauer says. "You can come once or anytime!" 

The club holds swing dances periodically . in LaFortune Ballroom and usually has a competition at the end of the year. 
First Class Steppers is the first dance club devoted to step, an African-American cul­tural dance designed to make music by clapping and stomping. The club has a dif­ferent purpose from other clubs, as its mem­bers don't dance just to dance. The club, according to its constitution, aims to "edu­cate the greater area of South Bend, espe­cially the community ofNotre Dame, ofthe African-American tradition and culture of step dancing ... [by] performing at numer­ous events throughout campus, performing for the community, and teaching stepping to others on campus through workshops and events." The club performs several times both on-and . off-campus throughout the year at events, including Freshman Orienta­tion, Blak Images, Fiastang and Latin Ex­pressions. Sixteen steppers constitute this year's group -nine· females and seven males. All those who wish to join the Step-. pers must audition, including old members. 
"Auditions were the most stressful part 
·f 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

JUMP AND JIVE Founded in 1998, the Swing Club teaches students how to strut their stuff. 

"It is appealing because it takes the physical con­ditioning associated. with other dance forms and puts it into the fram·e­work to work with a partner; there is a social and an athletic aspect:' 
-Clay Berkley 

-. .
. 

ofStep," says Margaret Mason, a freshman. 
Despite the auditions, members enjoy the 
club but admit thatit is athletically chal­lenging. "As far as how often we practice, Step is not too demanding; but as far as what we do and how much we _do at each practice, 
it is hard," Mason says. 
In addition to the club's purpose, Thelma "Ting" Aurelio, the president of this year's Steppers, points out that the club's diversity is unique. "We are a diverse group of people and we attempt to promote that diversity .... We are a very close group, and I feel that the members are some of my closest friends." 
Troop ND is another dance club on cam­pus. Like First Class Steppers, students must audition to join this group, which performs at various events such as Blak Images, the Keough Chariot Races and Asian Allure. 
Freshman Zaki ya Vallier defines the type of dance the club does as hip-hop, "I like being in the club because ofall the different people in it," Vallier says. "There is a wide range of people from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and they encompass a wide range ofyears." 
The club is entirely student-run. The mem­bers make up the dances for each perfor­mance, which requires dedication and at­tendance at practices several times per week. To Vallier, however, it is worth it. "I have made a lot of new friends," she says. 
Clubs are not the only way to get involved with dance on campus. The department of athletics offers two types of dance, Ameri­can ballroom and Latin ballroom, as physi­cal-education rotations. Formerly it offered only social dance; because of increasing demand for it, the department decided .to 

split the programs. · 
Even after the split, both programs are among the department's most popular. In American ballroom, students learn dance basics and etiquette for dances including the waltz, foxtrot, swing, polka and two-step. In Latin ballroom, students learn the meringue, cha-cha, mambo and tango. 
Since physical education usually involves freshmen only, the dance courses tend to be popular, as they provide a great way to meet people of the opposite sex. "I have a theory aboutdanceinP.E.," says junior Dan Welch. "Girls do it. to have fun; guys do it to meet girls." 
No matter why students take the class, they seem to view it positively. Megan Scott, a freshman currently taking Latin ballroom, says, "It is a ton offun, and it's great to learn the danceslsee on Dirty Dancing!" . 


Notre Dame and South Bend community.leaders_·· share ideas in an attempt to change attitudes and revitalize a neighborhood 
KATIECASPERSEN 
tis no secret that Notre Dame and South 
Bend residents do not share a perfect re­
. lationship. When students use the word 
!!townie," it's usually not meant as a,com­
pliment, and, for many local residents, the 
term "Domer" has become synonymous with 
arrogance and apathy. The university and 
members of the northeast neighborhood are 
part ofa collaborative effort to work through 
old stereotypes and rebuild a lasting rela­
tionship. 
"Over the years, things had become very 
tense between the community and the uni­
versity," says Ken Nelson, project coordi­
nator for the Northeast Neighborhood As­
sociation and an AmeriCorps volunteer. "As 
the university became larger and gained 
increasing national prominence, it began to 
cast ashadow over the comm11nity and the 
surrounding neighborhoods." 
-As the shadow of the Dome grew, some ' residents became leery of the town's in­. creased dependence on the school. When big industry, such as Studebaker, left in the 1960s, the university becaine the largest 
employer in St. Joseph County. 
"We have very competitive wages and 
benefits packages," says Richard Nugent, assistant vice president ofhuman resources at the University of Notre Dame. "We, keep the employment playing field at a certain level, which has a positive impact on the_ · community. We are also very stable-the university has never had a lay-off in a sense 
that a big business does,· and we are not · 
I 
going to move anywhere else like other · · industries." 
In addition . to steady employment, tl}.e immense popularity of football gaines_also · began to draw more and more revenue to the area. While football weekends bring excite­ment and incredible business, residents kriow · · that they alsb bring maddening crowds, stop-and-go traffic and a slight increase in crime. 
"There is an increase in larceny during · football weekends," says Captain John Wil­liams ofthe South Bend Police Department, "but it is notenough ofan increase to cause us to boost our numbers." · 
in the late ·sixties, while Notre Dame expanded, built up a national a~ademic pres­ence and maintained its golden reputation in college football, locally, students became increasingly known as spoiled brats, and the university garnered a reputation for being insensitive and self-serving. 
"That is absolutely right, and the univer-. 


:~r/::u:;:?r!~1i:.::::;;:~:!~ni; .
~_-:_,,_L_r_~_:_-,f.t_I_~::_.-i 
the neighborhood. association and board E:,.._ · memberofthe N9rtheastNeighborhoodRe-fll vitalization Organiza_tion. "Up until a year B or so ago everything centered on the univer­sity. They were insensitive when it came to decisions that, impacted the neighborhood and did not _wap.t to hear our concerns." . 
The university began buying more prop­erty surrounding campus, and students also started moving into the neighborhoods. 
"The mindset began that Notre Dame was taking over without worrying about what kind of impact they made," says Taylor. "I have lived here all of my life, and I have 
·watchedthe northeast neighborhood go from areal neighborhood to I don't know what. It has not been very pleasant, but it is on the rebound. The concern was that from St. Joe's Medical Center to Notre Dame there would be no more neighborhood." 
Some residents saw the migration of stu­dents off campus and into the northeast neighborhood as a threat, while others saw a chance for breaking down walls. 
"With students moving in and residents seeing them on a day-to-day basis, I think a lotofthe old stereotypes were broken down," says Nelson. 
Taylor disagrees. "Students moved into neighborhood homes, and the landlords were able to start charging exorbitant rent. They can rent a three-bedroom house to six kids for something like $1,800 a month. You cannot rent at that rate to families, so we lost a lot of the community," says Taylor. 
In 1970, the owner-occupancy rate in the neighborhood was about 90 percent; today, the rate hovers just above 50 percent. 
"Any neighborhood with this kind ofrate is going to be in trouble,"says Lou Nanni, exeeutive assistant to the president of the university and board member for the neigh­borhood-revitalization organization. "When you have renters as opposed to owners, there is less care for the property and less stability in the community. We ·need to increase owner occupancy and reduce the number of absentee landlords." 
Mark Cramer, owner of Domus Proper­ties and the main landlord for students in the northeast neighborhood, says that he definitely started to target students as op­posed to South Bend residents. "At the income bracket to which I cater, students are much more reliable and higher-quality tenants. After 15 years of renting to stu­dents and non-students, I have found that students pay their bills on a more timely basis and get along reasonably well with the neighbors." 
Jim Roemer, director of the Office of Community Relations at the university, agrees that the presence of the students in the neighborhoods did create more ten­sion. 
"When there is a house full of students with a DVD [player] and five nice cars outside and right next door lives a family with none of these things, there is going to be some tension," says Roemer. "There will always be a certain tension between a university population and a neighborhood population, but there can also be a great relationship in spite ofthose tensions, and that is what we are striving for. It is al­ways difficult, because there are many old stereotypes that will probably always be around." 
Despite attempts to improve relations, the popular stereotypes ofresidents by students and vice versa keep a certain distance be­tween the two groups. Many students' views of South Bend residents are limited to "townie" stereotypes, while many residents hold to the "rich kid" view of the students. 
"It can be difficult," says Sheryl Overmyer, a South Bend native and senior 
There will always be a certain tension between a university population and a neighborhood population, but there can also be a great relationship in spite of those tensions. 
-Jim Roemer, director of the Office of Community Relations 
at Notre Dame. "I think most students have a misconception of what South Bend is anyway. They don'thave a sense ofthe city. They think it is a lot smaller and a lot more backward than it really is. In fact, students come here and fall in love with Notre Dame, and South Bend is a part of that experience. Most people do come to like South Bend, but they would never admit it." 
Students' perceptions ofSouth Bend and its residents range from "hard-working and kind" to "awful and weird," and the local view of students is just as vast. 
"There are several opinions, really," Wil­liams says. "Some guys despise Notre Dame students, some have absolutely no problem with them at all. I know that those who hate Notre Dame students feel the students have the attitude that they can do anything they want because they go to Notre Dame. I have spoken with many of their parents, and it's easy to see why. I would say that 95 percent.· of the students are decent people. It's the five percent that are rotten and ruin the image." 
One South Bend resident, when ques­tioned about Notre Dame students, was quick to point out, "You guys do sin," while an elderly woman who has lived in South Bend all of her life said that she had never met a Notre Dame student that she didn't like. 
Taylor notes that the students living in the northeast neighborhood are respectful and kind, just not your ideal next-door neigh­bors. "Don't get me wrong, the students are really positive and the best thing is that they play with the kids," Taylor says. "They are out in the street playing Frisbee and other games. It is not so much that they don't do anything, it is just that they do their thing and then go home. They are not very neighborly. They are only here for nine months, so they don't have a sense of community, yet they live right in the middle of ours." 
Just last year, a central fixture for the ,,/. struggling neighborhood closed its doors. • I I For many years, aplace ofgathering for this community was the Goodwill building on North Eddy Street just south of campus. 
"It was the place to go. It was conve­nient," Taylor remembers. "People didn't plan to go.there, they just did." 
When Goodwill moved out and news broke that the university had purchased the building, tempers flared in the community. Taylor says that the university denied plans to buy the building initially, but eventually went through with the purchase. 
"Iunderstand that ifyou come outand say that you are going to buy property, the price goes up, but it was just another instance where they said no and then went ahead and did itanyway," Taylor says. "Itwas how the whole thing came about that really upset people." 
Jim Lyphout, vice president of business operations for the university, says there was a large misunderstanding surrounding the purchase of the Goodwill building. 
"The university never denied plans to buy the Goodwill building," Lyphoutsays. "The neighbors thought that we were the ones driving out Goodwill and their grocery store, but Goodwill actually approached us. After they had already decided to leave, they came to the university. Goodwill recog­nized the ce~trai role that the property played in the area andthey did not want ittofall into 
-14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

the wrong hands." 
Initial frustration within the community was quelled when the university came to the Northeast Neighborhood Association to ask what the neighborhood would like to have in the building. 
"Initially a lot ofthe residents just wanted the grocery store back, but we knew we had to move on to something that could hap­pen," Taylor says. "That was when the ideas for the Community Learning Center started to surface." 
After purchasing the building, the university's Center for Social Concerns be­came involved in the planning process and the discussion over possible uses for the building was opened to the neighborhood. 
"When the opportunity arose to use the Goodwill building, the CSC made a deliber­ate effort to include the community in the decision-making process," says Rebekah Go, a 1999 Notre Dame graduate and CSC volunteer. 
Starting in February, meetings began, and the idea for a Community Learning Center was developed. "It was a wonderful idea to fill a lot of the gaps in the neighborhood," says Go. "The neighbors were the first to voice the need for computers." 
Neighbors and CSC volunteers envisioned a center that would serve as a place of gathering, education and health care. The university has since moved very quickly to make this collaboration a reality. The pro­posal was approved in August and renova­tions began in October. The center is sched­uled to open January 15, 2001. 
The two centerpieces ofthe center will be a computer teaching and learning center and a health-maintenance center and neighborhood clinic, the latter operated by St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center. The center will begin with 20 computers but will have the capacity to expand with increasing demand. The center will also provide free Internet and e-mail access and will also offer instructional software and classes. 
At Perley Ele111entary School on Eddy Street, just a block from the future CLC, students have computer access but are unable to print any documents or projects, due to· the high cost of ink. At the nearby Leighton Center, e-mail has became so popular with the senior members of the neighborhood that there is a waiting list just to take classes, and the librarian at 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 


I 
the local library spends half of her day 
'teaching neighborhood residents how to use e-mail. 
"The neighborhood and the university are concerned about the digital divide that will continue to grow if not addressed," says Go. "Computers are becoming more and more important in society and those who do not have access are going to fall behind. Right now, the kids have computers at school but 
l 
! nothing at home to reinforce. Also, many parents and seniors have no computer experi­ence at all." Other educational opportunities at the CLC will include tutoring, life-long learn­
ing programs, SAT and ACT test prepara­tion, college-placement assistance and GED preparation sessions. 
The health center will provide nurses and family-practice residents at scheduled times and offer a variety of free services, includ­ing physical examinations, screenings, pre­natal assessments and medication assistance. It will also administer smoking-cessation, stress-reduction, diabetes-management and cancer-prevention programs. 
The CLC project has had extremely posi­tive effects on town-gown relations over the past year and a half. "The recent develop­ments are helping to improve the university's image," says Taylor. "Someone over there is finally listening. It always used to be, 'Thanks for your input, see you later.' There was never input on this level before." 
"There is a lot ofmistrust ofthe university and a desire to keep a distance that goes back several years, but there is an interde­pendence between the university and South Bend," says Go. "People often see it only from the perspective that the city depends on Notre Dame for employment and a great deal of revenue, but it goes both ways. In order for Notre Dame to look good, South Bend needs to look good, too. This project is not going to fix everything, but ifwe start building positive relationships we are headed in the right direction." 
Although Roemer is pleased with the co­operation and bonds that have stemmed from the CLC project, he is quick to note that the university has been showing con­cern for the community for years. 
"I have a hard time with people saying that it is just within the past few years that the university has really taken notice," says Roemer. "There is a long history of a rela­tionship and of service." 
Roemer remembers more than 25 years ago when roughly 1,000 Notre Dame stu­dents consistently tutored twice a week through the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram. Today, over 1,600 Notre Dame stu­dents volunteer in more than 30 different service organizations in the South Bend community. 
"The CSC continues to grow, with more than 17 vehicles transporting students who wish to serve their South Bend neighbors," Roemer says. 
Christmas in April, Dismas House, Drug Court and Habitat for Humanity" are just a few of the service programs benefiting people in need in the local community. 
"Granted, you have to ask what our moti­vations are," Roemer says. "Some of our 
The recent developments are helping to improve the uni­versity's image. Someone ... is finally listening. It always used to be, 'Thanks for your input, see you later.' There was never input on this level before. 
-Marguerite Taylor, neighborhood organizer 

motivations are noble, they come from the Gospel and from the university's mission. We have a concern for those who are our neighbors and those who are less affluent, but, yes, there are selfish motivations as well. The university does have to take into account what parents will say if crime continues to increase and whatnot. Self-interest is involved and to pretend that it is not there is to be untruthful, but by no means is that the main reason that the university contributes to the community." 
While it is true that the university has 
provided service to the community for years, 
Nanni can understand why residents have 
seen a difference in just the last few years. 
"The university has definitely contrib­
uted to the community for a long time, but it 
has not been a concerted effort," Nanni 
says. "Departments and individuals have . 
done many good things, but this is the first unified effort with the entire university be­hind it. They were dealing with many differ­ent Notre Dames before, and now we want it to be one. The [neighb9rhood-revitaliza­tion organization] is the vehicle through which we want to make this happen." 
Over the past five years, the university has given $750,000 to the neighborhood­revitalization organization to fund the pro­posed Northeast Neighborhood Revitaliza­tion Project. This project, although still in the very early stages, could mean a com­plete redevelopment ofthe northeast neigh­borhood. The City of South Bend, Memo­rial Hospital, St. Joseph's Regional Medi­cal Center and the Madison Center have also contributed substantial funds to the neighborhood-revitalization organization; five year pledges total more than $,1 million. 
Possible components of the master plan include re-mapping the streets and the con­struction of a new bridge across the river that would allow traffic to bypass downtown. In addition, the project includes plans to bring in a whole commercial development down Eddy Street, with restaurants and stores appealing to the neighborhood as well as students and football fans. 
"What the Northeast Neighborhood Re­vitalization Project is proposing is a lot of long-term changes," Nanni says. "It would be premature and false to say these things are definitely going to happen. What we do know is that there is a lot ofwork to be done, and we are going to be inclusive ofeveryone in the process." 
Other plans could include off-campus stu­dent residences, so that students would move out of the family homes in the neighbor­hoods. Renovations to current houses are part of the plan, as is the building of more expensive homes. 
"A trend began as the neighborhood be­came older. A lot of our faculty and a lot of other people moved to Granger," Roemer says. "Some people wanted newer homes. Somedidn'twanttheirchildreninSouthBend schools. We want to address the problems that made people leave and reverse that trend." 
The public accounting firm Crowe Chizek plans to increase its base in South Bend from 400 employees to 1,200, bringing an influx ofnew residents. The proposed rede­velopment would also attract people visit­ing on football weekends to the northeast neighborhood instead of Grape Road. 
"I grew' up in the northeast neighborhood, 
16 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
and I want to see it revitalized," Roemer says. "This collaboration is beneficial for every­one involved. I want to see the faculty move back, have one car and walk to work again." 
While the stereotypes and old wounds will never fully disappear, the recent col­laborations between the university and the community are strong foundations for re­building trust and overall relations. 
"We have a lot of work to do, but we are on the right track," Nanni says. "It takes
ATale of One City: 
time, work and action to rebuild trust. Even if the things that led to mistrust were only
a quick glimpse .at South Bend 
perceived, that perception is still there and needs to be addressed." 

through the years 
"Have we achieved a wonderful public relations image in the city of South Bend?" 1923 -At its peak, Studebaker alone em­Roemer asks. "No, I don't think so, and we 
ployed more than 23,000 workers in South 
never will, even with the recent develop­
Bend. 

ments. But we are headed in the right direc­tion, and we are helping and sharing with 1948 -Ralph Hallenstein of the Chicago our neighbors, and that is why we are in it in American wrote: Faith in itself-and faith in 
the first place." 
a future bright beyond dreams -is the key­
Ken Nelson hopes that the university's 
note of the friendly atmosphere in this North­
image will get a boost in the community. ern Indiana city of 165,800 population, in­"In our meetings at the neighborhood as­cluding its sister city, Mishawaka. 
sociation, there are still people thinking about the old days and who still have a bitter taste 1957 -Population soars to almost 257,000. in their mouth," says Nelson. "I think if the It was written that, after brief financial trouble, 
university continues this open dialogue with 
South Bend had become the "Valley of Prom­
the community, a lot of people will come 
ise." 

around and the relationship will continue to grow." 1959 -South Bend was 10th in the nation in 
Taylor agrees. "In the last year or so, the 
automotive production. 
university has taken on a new view of the community that will be very beneficial to 1963 -With the closing of the Studebaker the overall state ofrelations," she says. "In­plant, the unemployment rate jumped from 
stead of seeing us as a something separate, 
2.4 percent to 8.4 percent, and South Bend 
the university is viewing the neighborhood 
began to decline. 
as the gateway to Notre Dame." While the new collaborative effort does 
1·967-South Bend was in decline. The city 
mean improved relations and new opportu­
witnessed widespread race riots and a strike 
nities for the neighborhood, Nanni holds 
of more than 500 schoolteachers. 
that another fundamental issue is at stake as well. 1968-Despite its troubles, South Bend was 
"I think Notre Dame needs the neighbor­. designated an All-American City by Look 
hood even more than they need us," Nanni 
Magazine and the National Municipal League. 
says. "Even though across the nation we 
· Many thought that the honor would not have 
have a good reputation, it is a big problem 
. been given without Notre Dame's recent $52 
that the people who live adjacent to us dis­
million expansion project. -­
trust us. These collaborations are not just beneficial for the community, but also es­
NOW :-The population of South Bend and 
sential to the soul, integrity and identity of 
· Mishawaka has declined to roughly 145,000, 
this institution." D 
and the University of Notre Dame is the area's largest employer, with about 3,500 t-·­
Matt Ziegler and David Harman contrib­workers on the payroll. f~·-· uted to this article. 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY ·17 

lipstick. The Gipp's not sure whether to feel 
TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU happy or sorry for this guy. 



(_})ffiP(ls 
/ ' 
dt,'.de~ 
While the Gipp's talking about Dillon Hall, he wants to respond to an e-mail he got about the bathroom story in the column. It seems that a miffed Lyons Hall resident found the Gipp's account "audacious" and "distasteful.'' (The Gipp hopes she's enjoy­ing this week's column.) More importantly, she claims the Gipp ran' false information and needs to be more careful with his re­search. Now, contrary to popular belief, the Gipp is extremely diligent in checking out the tips he gets. In fact, he checked out a numberofsources before running the Dillon Hall tip. But, for the sake ofabsolute clarity, he wants to make one thing clear: the young girl mentioned in last week's column was a resident in Lyons Hall, but not a resident of Lyons Hall; she was visiting a Lyons Hall resident. Now, the irate e-mailer goes on to mention the damaged morale and integrity of"the women ofboth Lyons Hall and Notre Dame." People were apparently so upset, they couldn't even send a message to the Gipp. He got just one obnoxious complaint. 
Tastes Just Li~e Chirnen 

While the Gipp' s on the subject of man­eaters, here's a warning for you: if you're wandering through Fisher Hali, you might want to watch out for alligators. A pair of sophomores woke up to find a baby alligator in their room. The critter -apparently someone's pet -had escaped from its rightful owner. When the sophomores woke up to this unexpected_ guest, they took the most logical course ofaction: one showered and went to class while the other wondered how to snag the 'gator and get it out of the room. With the protection of a ski glove, the reptile · was apprehended and re­turned to its owner. A towel was stuffed into the gap under the door to prevent any more es­
cape attempts. 
Well, the Gipp hopes there was something for everyone in this week's edi­tion. From gators to newspa­pers, and rising rankings to rising . . . tempers, 



IPa,c"
The Gipp would like to begin by point­ing out that we rise more in the polls during bye-weeks than we do when 
we play football. Too bad for Davie that there's only two per year. But the Gipp hopes you're doing well, anyway. With the elections in the past, the Gipp is looking forward to the usual broken campaign prom­ises and political posturing. He will miss Nader, though, and his group of idealistic followers. Establishing a viable third party is about as likely as abolishing parietals. As for the Gipp, he counts any week that he gets an e-mail calling him "audacious" and "dis­tasteful'' as a success. Butmore on that later. On to the tips. 
AHuge Right-Wing Conspiracy 

Speaking ofaudacious and distasteful, the Gipp heard an interesting tip about Common Sense, the monthly liberal that makes even the Observer look like The Wall Street Jour­nal. The tree-buggers were set to publish their paper and had dropped off the final materials for publication to the Observer (they use the same printer). Somehow, though, the materials mysteriously disap­peared. The editors of Common Sense were surprised when they got a call from the pub­lisher asking when the newspaper materials 
·i 
would be delivered. Unfortunately for the en­vironment, the editors managed to get the materials to the printer in time, and many trees met a horrible end by becoming pages in this month's issue. 
Sweatbox Lovin' 

Trees ... that reminds the Gipp ofanother tip he got this week. When you're partying, it's important to keep your head in the game, as one freshman from O'Neill Hall certainly 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 
found out. As the tipster explains, this young man "came to Notre Dame with 'twisted' dreams of continual drunken debauchery and wild midnight orgies that would even satisfy the insatiable hunger of Caligula." Of course, he was sorely disappointed "un­til he stumbled upon the mythical sexual oasis known as 'The Freshman Party.' " 
During the party, our dashing young fresh­man stole away into the corner with a girl. Perhaps the girl dropped an earring or lost a contact lens, for she was soon on her knees. While the music pulsed and the crowd swayed, our couple was bobbing to its own beat. And the Gipp thought this sort ofthing only happened in Dillon Hall. 

Dillon, Den ofSin 

Dillon might not hold a monopoly on inap­propriate lovin', but it's definitely in the lead this semester. On the heels of last issue's bathroom episode, the Gipp' s got some more interestingnewsfromDillonHall. This time, the action went down in the 24-hour lounge. After a Howard dance, a girl and her date wandered over to Dillon to relax. Although the lounge was report­edly crowded with post­dance (and somewhat inebriated) folks, the couple got very com­fortable and had some fun ala the bathroom­stall incident ( or the fresh­man-donn-party incident, forthatmatter). What'smost interesting about this story? . · When the girl recounted her 
adventure to some friends, she .""!'B~~~-f.;#f.i==lll}!!!!!!i!!!!"'•• keep those tips com-decided to use a visual aid: a tube of '(/lJOJf irig. D 



F~eshman Rebecca Rogers became the sixth Irish women's golfer ever to win an intercollegiate event when she shot a 70-81-74 in 54 holes to win the Notre Dame Invitational on October 15. Rogers tore up the course, finishing eight strokes ahead of the se~ond­place finisher. Her first-round score of 701s the best in Notre Dame history. 

. . 
The hardest thing about golf is: that it is such a mental game. You really have to concentrate and not let yourself get too discouraged with bad shots. Another thing that makes it difficult is that the golf swing can be really complicated, and if one movement is off ... well, let's just say it isn't pretty. 
My favorite course to play is: 
Sycamore Hills Golf Club in F?rt Wayne, Ind. I basically grew up playmg that course. It's always been a challenge to play well on it, but it's the one course I can really determine how much I've improved. There are also some great courses in Ireland that I had the chance to play this past summer. 
If I could play another sport at ND, it would be: volleyball. I played it in middle school but gave it up for golfin high school since they were the same season. I would definitely play it again, although they probably wouldn't want me now becauseI'm only five-foot-three and don't have that great of a vertical. 
My favorite professional golfer is: Jack Nicklaus. He was my dad's favorite, and therefore I decided I was going to be just like my dad. 
The best part about winning the tournamentwas: thatlhadn'tbeen playing well (by my standards) in the previous tournaments, and it finally came together for me. It was just a great feeling to go out there and just have everything working. My parents came up for that toumam~nt, and it was the first one they had made tt to this season, so it was really great to be able to have them there to see it. 
I think plaid pants are: great for those who can pull it off! I was considering getting a pair on my last golf trip (we went shopping one afternoon after playing), but they didn't fit right. 
The best part of the movie Happy Gilmore is: the whole thing! It's just so outrageous! Definitely a great movie for anyone who knows anything about golf and what the game is "really like." 
-Jessica Daues 
---· ~-~-~-~--·--------­

Jerry's Jabber 
Notre Dame football (6­
2) narrowly averted disaster against Air Force, escaping with a 34-31 overtime victory. 
QB Matt Lovecchio 
completed 1 0 of 25 passes for 171 yards and three touchdowns. FL Joey Getherall was on the receiving end of two of those touchdown passes, notching 116 receiving yards. SS Glenn Earl blocked the kick that would have put Air Force ahead 31­28 as time expired .... The top-seeded women's soccer team (20-0-1) continued the NCAA's longest un­beaten streak, winning the Big East title 1-0 over Connecticut on Sunday. MF Mia Sarkesian netted the lone goal, her second of the tournament, earning her Big East Tourn­ament Most Valuable Player honors .... After entering the year with a pre-season ranking of 20, the Irish hockey squad (3-5-1) has struggled to live up to early expectations. However, Notre Dame snapped its three-game losing streak this weekend, posting a win and a tie against Miami. RW Ryan Dolder and RW Rob Globke lead the Irish scoring with five goals apiece .... 

·Marcie Bomhack has 
been the guiding force 
of late for the Irish 
volleyball squad (21-5). 
Her .540 hitting and 36 
kills in three matches 
this weekend earned 
her Big East Player of 
the Week honors. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 
-


f982 . _· -;,_> 
, , 
by Jennifer Morgan 



FROZEN 

MOMENTS 


In its third year of existence, Notre Dame's volleyball team enjoys a breakthrough season, attracting the attention of both its opponents and its fans. 
NOTRE DAME: 3 INDIANA UNIVERSITY-SOUTH BEND: 0 


The 1982 Notre Dame women's volleyball team was not expected to do great things. In 1980, volleyball had become one of the university's first five varsity women's sports. The team had experienced disap­pointing seasons in both '80 and '81, with records of 3-19 and 17-25. In addition to having to overcome two losing seasons, the team had moved from Division II to the more challenging Division I for the 1982 season. With all the obstacles it had to face, it seemed unlikely that Notre Dame could pull off anything close to an outstanding season ... but, with a little luck and a lot oftalent, that is exactly what the Irish did. 
Going into its final game ofthe regular season, Coach Sandy V anslager' s team had bumped, set and spiked their way to a 24-9 overall record, with an even more impressive 17-1 record in non-tourna­ment play. Despite such a record, the season had been one of ups and downs. Injuries to many of the starters during the first half of the season almost spelled defeat for the team. According to Mike Sullivan of the Observer, however, "[The] abundance of experience and talent saved the team from what could have been a disastrous second half of the season." Many players had returned from the 1981 squad, including co-captains Mary Jo Hensler and Josie Matemowski and the team's only senior member, Jackie Pagley. According to Sullivan, the team also boasted a host ofoutstanding fresh­men, particularly Karen Bauters and Mary McLaughlin. With talent and teamwork, injuries were not going to keep this team from proving everyone wrong. 
The team, however, had an intangible obstacle to overcome. Attendance at home games was extremely low, despite the team's impressive record and significant improvement. And, as Sullivan pointed out, in "a sport where emotion and momentum are important, the lack of crowd support could be costly." The team wanted to prove to the fans that they deserved a place in the spotlight. 
At the end of the season, Notre Dame had only one more obstacle to overcome -the Indiana University-South Bend Titans. The match was set for 5:00 p.m. on November 13, when the Irish would host the Titans in the ACC Pit. With the largest crowd in the program's short history in attendance, the Fighting Irish easily took the first set 15-1, scoringl4 consecutive points behind the serves of Pagley and Bauters. The team played so well, in fact, that the game took merely 10 minutes to complete. 
The second game was neither as speedy nor as well played as the first. The team seemed uninterested and made both physical and mental mistakes, allowing the Titans to get ahead early. Notre Dame eventually established a definitive lead, but again lost its concentration. The Titans kept the game close until Pagley served an ace to win the game 15-11. 
The beginning of the third game brought more physical and mental mistakes, and the team appeared to lose heart. Assistant Coach Dan Anderson attributed this to the girls being "too interested in it being Jackie Pagley's last game." When the team fell behind 8-2, however, Anderson quit making excuses and realized something had to be done. "At that point, I was going to do some massive substituting if there was another blatant error," Anderson told Sullivan. Apparently, Anderson's threat served his purpose and the team came together to take the game 15-12 and win the match. 
The Irish had beat the Titans in three straight games, ending their season with a victory and proving to students and fans that Irish volleyball was worth coming to watch. Sullivan admitted that the "out­come of the match was never really in doubt. The Irish, despite playing some lackluster volleyball stopped every rally that IUSB could muster and appeared to be able to score whenever they did not make any major mistakes." With that win, the Irish finished the season with a 25-9 record, 18-1 in non-tournament play, and an undefeated record at home. The Notre Dame women's volleyball team had proved that they could overcome hard­ships and were here to stay. 0 



The Eagles.have a proud tradition of spoiling Notre Dame's post-season hopes. BC will come out strong, but the Irish will prevail -Notre Dame's seniors don't want to lose 
· . their last tiome game. Irish victory, 27-21. -Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 

Notre Dame was lackluster against Air Force, narrowly averting a season-crushing defeat. The experience serves as a much needed wake-up call, rejuvenating the Irish in time to defeat one of their peskier rivals, Boston College, 38-31. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor 
' 

• 
· Notre Dame's defense 
struggles but ultimately 
keeps the Eagles' 13­
ranked defense under 
control as the Irish defeat 
Boston College in their final 
home game 27-21. 
-Jessica Daues Assistant Sports Editor 
.

f -, '• ------~­
I ' • -. 
. . . . 



St. Michael's Laundry 
~, I\Ssoc,




UECT 
f]Jsl,V,:. 
CENTER FOR 

-0 SOCIAL
< = CONCERNS 
Hammes Bookstore 
Student 

Activities




RMTH 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT

Give away your coat ... and Share the Warmth! 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore *LaFortune Information Desk * RecSports *Alumni Community Service Office * Campus Ministry/Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering * Flanner Hall * Galvin Life Science Center * Grace Hall * Law School * Main Building * O'Shaughnessy * North/South Dining Hall * ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office in LaFortune 

Nowt~rough November 30, 2000 



the latest campus news and sports in-depth coverage of campus issues reviews of campus entertainment off-the-wall humor 

Scholastic 
i---,----~-----,----·understand_camp_us_ey_ents_e.v.en_whe.n_y~o-u~.re_no_t_o.n_camp_us.___1 
11 ~~ ISSUES . ~ DOLLA_RS­
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: -­'-NAME: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE . II 303 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 ' -.· 
. I ''ADDRESS:. .·' . '. . , 
. I I 
I . I·• . 


ANCHORED IN 


TRADIT 
Despite Notre Dames 37th-straight win over Navy, a shared history ensures the Irish will always battle the Midshipmen 
GERARDMESKILL

Every year, Notre Dame's football team plays one of the nation's most competitive schedules. And then, there is Navy. Notre Dame's 2000 schedule is rated among the IO most 
difficult in the country, according to the Bowl Championship Series rankings. Wins against Texas A&Mand Purdue and a tough overtime loss against No. 1 NebraskahelpedN otre Dame regain national respect and ascend to a No. 12 ranking 
Navy, on the other hand, is 0-8 this year and has only finished two of the last 10 seasons with a winning record. Notre Dame has played Navy every season since 1927 and holds an NCAA-record 37-game winning streak.against the Midshipmen. With seeminglylittle to gainfrom the annual contest, it is easy to question why the Irish play Navy at all. 
"We withstand a lot of criticism by having service academies on our football schedule, but we will always play the Na val Academy," says Commander Greg Luttrell, executive officer of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) unit at Notre Dame. 
The reason behind the yearly contest dates back to the United States' entry into World War IT in 1941. In order to satiate the military' s dire need for men, much ofthe college-student pool was shifted to the armed forces. The result was a severe cutback in enrollment, and many private schools suffered monetarily. 
Notre Dame was no exception. "For obvious reasons, a small, private school in periods of world war, your candidate pool of college students is going to diminish," Luttrell says. 'The young men were going off to war, so without being a state-funded institution, your ability to remain afloat without tuition moneys is going tobe difficult." 
Recognizing the university's need to draw more students, Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, then Notre Dame's president, decided to draw a branch of the military to campus. He first offered Notre Dame to the Army, who declined, so O'Donnell handed the offer to Navy, who accepted. 
Prior to America's entry into the war, Notre Dame had some naval presence in the form of a Navy ROTC unit, founded in 1941. Participants studied four years ofnaval science and tactics and were commissioned as reserve officers. These candidates did not receive Navy scholarships, and many never saw active duty. 
I · 22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
ANCIENT HISTORY Notre·oame's wfrining streak of 37 games over the Naval Academy began after this 1963 matchup where the Midshipmen posted four second-half touchdowns to upend the Fighting Irish. 



The Navy's formal presence on campus brought marked changes. Starting in February 1942, under the V-7 program, officer candi­dates were first educated at Notre Dame before continuing their training, either at Abbott Hall in Chicago or aboard the USS Prairie State, anchored in the Hudson River. In September ofthat year, Notre Dame became the fourth Midshipmen Training Center in the nation, joining those in New York, Chicago and Annapolis, Md. This allowed midshipmen to be educated, trained and commissioned at Notre Dame. 
In 1943, the Navy expanded its presence at Notre Dame, instituting the V-12 program. Under the new program, officer candidates were offered two 16-week semesters of academics, followed by further training, depending on what was called for by each officer's specialty. The V-12 program also brought a Marine detachment to Notre Dame. 
The effect ofthe Navy's presence at Notre Dame was staggering. In 1944, 2,610 students were enrolled at the university, 1,771 of whom were in the military. In effect, roughly 70 percent of the Notre Dame student body during that period was also in the United States Navy. Without the intervention, it is possible that lack of funds would have permanently stunted the university. Since that period, Notre Dame has never forgotten the Navy's assistance. 
"Ever since World War II, Notre Dame has always had a tremendous debt ofgratitude to the Navy in general," Luttrell says. "Part ofthat debt ofgratitude to the Navy is that we will always play the Naval Academy in our football schedule." 
The'gratitude was mutual. At the original Navy ROTC' s celebration of Navy Day, Admiral C.W. Nimitz spoke at Washington Hall. According to the 1999-2000 Irish Wake, the Navy ROTC's annual yearbook, Nimitz said, "Father O'Donnell, you sent forth to me, as to the othernaval commands on every ocean and continent, men who had become imbued with more than the mechanical knowledge ofwarfare. Somehow, in the crowded hours of their preparation for the grim business of war, they had absorbed rtot only Notre Dame's traditional fighting spirit, but the spiritual strength too, that this [u]niversity imparts to all, regardless of creed, who come under its influence." 
Today, Notre Dame maintains the largest scholarship Navy ROTC unit in the country. Since World War II, the Naval Academy is the only commissioning source to produce more naval officers than Notre Dame. 
PAST AND PRESENT Running back Julius Jones led the Irish past Navy with 146 rushing yards in 1999's 24-21 victory (left). En route to a touchdown in the1955 game, QB Paul Hornung outruns Midshipman in Notre Dame's 24th win over Navy {below). 

i 
I. 
1 • 
This relationship carries over to the annual Notre Dame-Navy football game. Unfortunately for Navy, this portion of the 59-year­old relationship is not even close to mutual. Navy has not defeated the Irish since 1963. Notre Dame_ holds a convincing 64-9-1 advantage in the all-time series. Despite the lopsidedness of the contest, it still holds significant meaning for both sides. 
"We've been playing the Navy in football for a long time," says Lieutenant Jos.h Gaul, alumnus of Notre Dame's Navy ROTC program. "There are a large number of Notre Dame graduates that serve as naval officers, so there still is significance to the rivalry. 
"The guys who I'm friends with who went to the Naval Academy joke that they could lose every game ofthe year, and ifthey still beat Notre Dame and/or Army, it's a successful year for them." 
For Navy, the rivalry is about more than pride. The fact that Navy plays Notre Dame on national television every seasori is a powerful recruiting chip for Midshipmen football. The Navy-Notre Dame football game is one of the top draws each year for Navy, bringing in revenue both from ticket sales and national exposure. Since Irish football garners enormous attention for every game, the fiscal benefit is not the same for Notre Dame. Nevertheless, the game is still about pride for the Irish faithful, particularly the Navy ROTC unit. 
"For ROTC guys at Notre Dame, a lot of them considered the [Naval] Academy first," senior Navy ROTC cadet Al Zangrilli explains. "When they turn down the academy, it's because they liked Notre Dame more. And so when we play them, especially considering we've won the past 37 years; to lose to the academy while we're in college would be horrendous. We would take abuse from that for the entire year, maybe until the day we die." 
Last year, Navy almost made that nightmare come true. The Mid­shipmen entered the game 2-5 and without their starting quarterback, Brian Broadwater. On the other hand, Notre Dame entered on a three­game winning streak and appeared to be running on all cylinders, but it took a final-minute touchdown pass from Jarious Jackson to secure a win over an inspired Midshipmen team. 
"Navy plays a lot of teams, but they see Notre Dame as the pinnacle of college football," offensive guard Mike Gandy says. "Everyone wants to knock the'king off the mountain." D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 





·Foiling 1W ~petition 
A young and talented Irish fencing team sets its sights on first place 

Irish fencing has been one of the peren­nial powers ofthe NCAA since the mid­1960s. Themen'steamwontheNCAA championship in 1977, 1978 and 1986, and the women captured the title in 1987. Since 1990, when the men's and women's team championships were combined, the Irish have continued to succeed, placing among the top three teams eight times. In 1994, they won the national champion­ship and placed second for the past five years, losing to Penn State each time. This year, the Irish look to capture the NCAA title; they have a great coach and enough experienced returning fencers to accom­plish the feat. Coach Yves Auriol enters his seventh season as the head coach of both the men's 
ri~-. 
,,:i: 
'; 
' 
~ ' 
t;, 
i: 
···~ 
1:--'----'--'-'--""""""--..:.....=~.;......;;..;..--'---'-----------------------­
a and women's team. He has coached at Notre 
0: 

Dame since 1986, when he took over the head position for the women's team. The fencers have clearly responded well to Auriol' s coaching style. "He is probably the best collegiate fencing coach in terms of modifying his teaching style to fit different types of fencers," sophomore epeeist Anna Carnick remarks. "He's very professional but also very personable." 
Under Auriol's leadership, 42 Irish fenc­ers have been named All-Americans, and Notre Dame has won two NCAA champi:­onships. His career record at Notre Dame is an astounding 441-27, including 18-2 records for both the men's and women's squads last year. "He brings a whole new sophomore foilist Forest Walton. "He's an Olympic coach, which is not something that every university is fortunate enough to have." Auriol has also used his coaching skills at higher levels. He gained valuable experi­ence coaching for the U.S. national team in the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles, the 1988 OlympicsinSeoul,andthe 19920lym­pics in Barcelona. Sophomore foilist Ozren Debic, a native of Zagreb, Croatia, says, "He just tries to make us all a little bit better." 
Assisting him is sabre coach Janusz Bednarski, who coached the Polish national team prior to coming to Notre Dame. 
The coaches will have some talented fenc­ers to work with this year. The men's top epeeists for the 2000-2001 season are sopho-
The team has finished second so many times that many people no 1o·nger recognize second place as a major accomplishment. 
more All-American Captain Jan Viviani and junior Brian Casas. After finishing the regular season with a 32-7 record, Viviani took third place in the NCAA champion­ships with an 18-6 record, the best finish by a Notre Dame men~s epeeist since 1991. Viviani also fences for the U.S. national team. Cassas, an All-American last year, had three more wins than Viviani in the regular season, but came up short in the tournament, finishing 18th. 
The women are also very solid in epee as the team's top two competitors look to build upon the strong freshman perfor­mances that earned them third-team All­American honors. Carnick finished with a 37-10 regular-season mark. She won the ship and finished fifth at the Midwest Regional Championship. Sophomore Meagan Call won four more times than Carnick during the regular season and finished fourth at the Midwest Regional Championship. One of the top young women fencers this year will be freshman Keri Walton, an experienced epeeist who tried out for the U.S. Junior national team last year. 
Two outstanding sophomores anchor the men's team in foil. Walton and Debic combined for 76 wins and only 10 losses in the regular season. Debic is coming off an unbelievable 42-3 season, including an 11-0 record he compiled in winning the Midwest Regional Championship and a 20-3 record to finish second in the NCAA 
championship, the ·highest place an Irish 
foilist has achieved since 1991. Walton 
won 34 times in the regular season, finish­
ing second to Debic in the Midwest Fenc­
ing Conference Championship, third at 
the Midwest Regional Championship and 
14th at the NCAA tournament. 

The women's foil squad will be without 
Magda Krol, an All~American last year who compiled a 33-7 record last year and won the Midwest Regional Championship by going 11-0. However, they can rely on sopho­more Captain Liza Boutsikaris, who was named a third-team All-American after her · strong perforin_ance at the NCAA tourna­ment. Boutsikaris.earned a 36-8 record in the regular season. She was a semifinalist at 


replace last year's seniors. The most widely talked about recruit is Alicja Kryczalo, a foilist from Poland who is expected to have an instant and dramatic impact on the team's success, should she finalize her decision to come to Notre Dame. 
Several members on the team are attempt­ing to improve themselves and gain experi­ence by fencing during Christmas break in national tournaments around the world. Debic will most likely be competing in a world cup in Haifa, Israel. Szelle plans to return to his native country of Hungary to sharpen his fencing skills. Many ofthe other fencers will travel to the San Diego area to fence in the North American Cup in early December. 
Coach Auriol says that the goal this year is the same as it has been in each of the past few years. "Every time we start the season, we are shooting for a national champion­ship," he says. 
Walton agrees that this is the year. "I think the team is going to pull through. The team is a little bit stronger this year on both the women's side and the men's side." When you finish second five consecutive times, a little might be all it takes. . onship, and she finished second only to Krol at the Midwest Regional Championship. Freshman Maggie Jordan will also see plenty of action. 
The men are strongest in the sabre, an event which they won at the NCAA tourna­ment thanks to first-team All-American junior Gabor Szelle. Under the guidance of Bednarski, Szelle captured the title last year after coming in second his freshman year. Szelle was 41-3 during the regular season, placed, _second at the Midwest Re­gional Championship and reached the semi­finals..in the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships. Aside from Szelle, the Irish can rely on junior Andre Crompton and senior Andrzej Bednarski. Bednarski -a second-team All-American-placed third at the Midwest Regional Champi­onship and fifth at the NCAA Champion­ship. He also had an impressive 40-7 record last year. However, Bednarski may miss the season because he plans to study abroad. 
Last year marked the first NCAA women's competition in sabre. Sophomore standout Natalia Mazur looks to build on a great freshman year, in which she was 49­4, placed fourth at the Midwest Regional Championship and was named a third-team All-American. Senior Captain Carianne McCullough won 41 matches last year and placed third in the Midwest Regional Cham­pionship. 
Notre Dame returns 11 ofits 12 qualifiers at last year's national championship, raising hopes of finally capturing the elusive title that has slipped away by one place each of the last five years. "We have been consis­tent in each of the past five years," Auriol says. "Unfortunately, we have been consis­tently finishing second." In fact, the team has finished -second so many times that many people no longer recognize second place as a major accomplishme~t. This is rather frustrating to some of the team mem­bers. "It's definitely frustrating," says Carnick. 
"It would be really nice to win." Debic agrees. "We really don't get credit any­more for being second. Last year, we barely finished second, which was a rela­tively good accomplishment because we were down by almost 20 points going into the last day." 
However, there are some big shoes the Irish will have to fill. Auriol cites women's foil as one or°the few possible weaknesses on the team because of Krol's departure. The freshmen will have to work hard to 


LOOKING AHEAD Despite the loss of talented seniors such as 1999 men's epee Captain Tim Monahan, Irish fencers anticipate success. 

SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 


. PlAY THAT BONGO 

The Beat Goes On 
A look into the Underground World ofNotre Dames Literati 
Standing atop a picnic table on a Ma.rion Street front porch, Matt Barrett reads Ginsberg's Howl from the paperback in his palm: · 
"Everything is holy! everybody's holy! everywhere is holy! everyday is eternity! Everyman's an angel!" He reads, free arm flailing, over the costumed crowd of 
ghoulies, goblins, cheerleaders and an oversized bumble bee. It's a beat poet's nightmare. The squeals of born-again 
cheerleaders drown out an entire stanza. Nobody is really 
paying attention. Nevertheless, Matt's com padres, all dressed in black, turtlenecked and bespectacled, stand beside him, 
calling out lines from Ferlinghetti and some avant-garde 
tome picked up at Pandora's Books. Smoke from stubbed-out cigarettes swirls from the ashtray at their feet. A tall guy, a six-foot-six firefly, sporting a tiny pair of 
wings on his shoulders and around touch-lite on his butt, asks 
. me what the guys on the table are supposed to be. I tell him 
that they're beatniks, but he's never heard the word before. 
"Like Mike Meyers in So I Married an Axe Murderer," lsay. "During the parts where he goes to that bar and rants while people play bongo drums." 
"Oh!" says the firefly, slapping alight the bulb on his buttocks. · · Almost everybody who passes seems kind of bewildered by the beat poets. It's funny, since nobody even bats an eye 
as they pass the 200-pound bumblebee. 
When Matt climbs down from the table, he and I grab a pair of plastic porch chairs, and he tells me between puffs of smoke that he wishes every day was Halloween, that maybe he'll just start showing up places in his beat gear and, if anyone asks questions, just act as if he thought it was a costume party. If anyone were to recognize him as a poet, 
he'd have to pretend it was just a disguise. 
And so, to avoid excessive questioning, the poetry move­
ment at .:Notre Dame must stay underground. A small but growing ·group of writers and readers meets, somewhat se­
cretly, one night each week. They congregate over candles and tea and wine, carrying their favorite books arid sometimes hauling those nerdy Norton anthologies. They're the kind of kids who read the parts that aren't assigned, thirsty for words on benches between classes. I guess this makes me one of them. 
We sometimes invite professors when we get together, and we read our own work. alongside readings of the greats ­Pablo Neruda, Gwendolyn Brooks, e.e. cummings, Yeats. We read into the night, and somebody starts beating a bongo, singing or strumming a guitar. I spend the day selfishly praying that Madolyn Orr will be feeling low enough to sing us the blues, and when she does, Mia Nussbaum flings me a maraca." 
The group includes a bunch of PLS majors, but there is also a few who stµdy English-and Matt, the modern beatnik who studies the sciences with ·some philosophy and anthropology on the side. And it wouldn't be poetry night without the presence of a man-child we call Craz:y Tom. He's a med student from IU, but somebody picked him up at Lula's one day and invited him over. He's been a regular ever since. 
The first time I met Crazy Tom, he entertained Matt and me with philosophical frenzy. "What are the chances," he asked, "of us being here tonight? What are the chances that we even exist? What are the chances that humanity evolved like it did? What are the chances that our parents met, that our genes ended up they way they did from the collision of a single sperm and an egg?" He and Matt ramble on about science, and I don't completely understand, but I keep on listening. What are the chances that you were right on time to cross each person you pass on t~e sidewalk on the way to class. ''Every time you wal~.down the sidewalk, you're beating all the odds," Crazy Tom hollers. His voice is like a volcano. He's living like Epictetus, wishing for things as they happen and making no demands: He's howlingHke Ginsberg. He says, "What are the chances that we would get to have this conversation?" What are the odds that we would end up on a porch on a cold Indiana night, a bu~cl:i of mis­matched kids from all over the country, smoking ciga­rettes and· huddling close and hugging our heavy books and making wishes on each moment because everything is hoiy--and we don't need to disguise. D 





by Kara Zuaro 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


The Princes of Babylon Head West 
This Philadelphia-bred group schedules a Notre Dame performance with hopes ofattracting attention outside ofthe East Coast 
CARRIESWEENEY

·The members of the Princes of 
Babylon don't hesitate to ex­
. plain why they've decided to per­
form at Notre Dame on November 18. "It's 
the first step in our ultimate Manifest Des­
tiny plan," says guitarist and vocalist Davy 
"Quicks" Quickness. "We're moving and 
expanding westward. Next summer, we hope 
to have a fan base on the West Coast, and 
this is our conscious effort to make our way 
out there. We know we're solidly holding 
down Northeastern cities like Boston, New 
York and Philly, but we really wantto run 
the world." 
The band and its modest ambitions 

originated in Philadelphia with five other., 
members who have "been friends for 
most of my life," according to Quick­
ness. "We've been close since grade 
school, but we didn't form the band until 
two years ago." 
Before joining forces, two members 
played with G Love and the Special Sauce, 
another Philadelphia-based band. "The 
group appeared on G Love's album Yeah 
It's That Easy and has opened for G numer­
ous times," explains Jenn Zatorski, campus 
entertainment programmer for SUB. She 
was responsible for bringing the Princes to 
Notre Dame. 
"Emmet [Malloy, the co-programmer] and I were the music editors of the Observer for three years prior to joining SUB this year," she says. "One bfour reviewers who lived in Philly had seen POB perform and raved about their live set. We investigated the band further and decided that we wanted to bring them to ND." 
While vocalist Smiles and bassist/vo­calist Katman were performing with G Love, Quickness says he was ."doing my own stuff," touring the country with The Ed Riley Trio, an acid-jazz band, and then performing solo in Philadelphia. When G Love joined with Special Sauce, Katman and Smiles left to hook up with drummer/ percussionist Ryan "Riggity Ry" Pilla, percussionist Uncle Craig and Quickness. 
They call their music "hip-hop soul" and are, according to Zatorski, "managed by Philadelphonic, the same people who man­age G Love." He says that "their sound is an eclectic blend of funk, soul, blues and hip­hop." 

"We're similar to G Love in the respect that we always want a good party with a good beat," Quickness explains. "How­ever, we're distinctly different because we have three vocalists, and each has his own style." 
The band's name is as unique as its sound. "Our band name is derived from the idea of people who were blessed by a system that is less than equal, and so they're given acer­tain amount ofresponsibility," says Quick­ness. "You're given an education, and it's up to us to turn it around and not buy into the corporate world, but, you know, to give it a flip." 
The group's self-titled CD came out two months ago, and members have already started their next project, hoping to "really capturing our live flavor," says Quickness. "We're hoping to really heighten the pro­duction value this time. I'm spending a lot of time in my personal lab, studying tech­niques." 
The band is looking to increase its na­tional recognition, and, according to Zatorski, have "supported many other big­name bands, including Big Bad Voodoo Daddy, Macy Gray and Cypress Hill." 
Bringing the Princes to campus is part of a larger SUB effort to provide quality enter­tainment for students. "We want to bring students back to campus on the weekends by providing enjoyable events," says Zatorski. "We hope to achieve that goal in part by bringing more live music entertain­ment to students this year. 
Zatorski hopes to revive the tradition of "Loft Shows." "Historically, the Loft Shows took place once a month at ND and featured local musical acts," she says. "Princes of Babylon will be the third Loft Show this year, after The Elms in Septem­ber and Best of Acousticafe in October, and we're planning another for Decem­ber." 
The band is excited at the prospect of increasing its fan base, but its ultimate goal, Quickness says, is not being the most popu­lar band. "I can tell you in all honesty that our sole mission is to make you shake your booty," he says matter-of-factly. "There are no rock-star attitudes here. We're just hav­ing some fun." And bringing that fun west­w~. . 

MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE The Manifest Destiny of the Princes of Babylon has brought them to west from Philly to South Bend. 
~ 


SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 


CARRIESWEENEY 

When I heard that Guster was com­ing to Notre Dame, I decided that Ii 11 I could use my enviable title of Scholastic' s assistant entertainment editor 
ii to my great advantage. My roommates and I have been on somewhat of a Guster kick since the beginning of the year, so I was rather excited at the prospect of interview­ing the band. I talked to the other editors, and they gave me the OK to write a story about the band. · My stalking of Guster began. I harassed them for about a week via e­mail and phone messages, and I finally managed to secure an interview from Mike Corcoran, the band's manager, whom they apparently (and, no doubt, affectionately) call "Pasty." But there was some confusion regarding the time; the band was nowhere to 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

How we managed to annoy the band during its South Bend stint and got to know Adam Gardner 
be found when I arrived at Stepan Center on the Friday afternoon before the performance. Feeling more than a little desperate to fill two pages, I resorted to interviewing two random kids who had been waiting in "line" -comprised solely ofthe two -since 2:30 p.m., five hours before the start ofthe show. One was a St. Mary's freshman; the other, a high-school senior who apparently did not want to divulge what particular high school he attended. I inquired why they were wait­ing in line with no competition in sight for good seats. "Well, we really like them," the girl said. 
"Well," I continued, hoping for a deeper response, "what are you going to do for the next five hours?" 
"Leafart," the guy said matter-of-factly, ripping up one leaf after another and toss­ing the pieces into an ever-growing pile. Logically. 
After that fruitful interview, I headed into Stepan to wait for the band with a renewed sense of urgency. Guitarist and vocalist Adam Gardner finally showed up, apolo­getic for being late. "I was in the book­store," he explained. "I thought!' djust drop in, but no. That place is amazing. Ridicu­lous. All they need are real Frisbees -the Wham-O, 175-gram ones." 
Since he had a legitimate excuse, I decided to forgive him, and we sat down for a chat. Well, actually, we didn't sit down: Gardner, when told that our photo editor needed some pictures of him, immediately started climb­ing a small tree outside of Stepan, claiming that it would be a "great ass shot." 

After I managed to recover from the real­ization that my stalking had finally pro­duced some darn good results -not only actual contact with a legitimate member of the group, but also some quotes regarding a member's behind -Gardner began pon­dering the group's origins and future. 
The three band members -Gardner, guitarist and vocalist Ryan Miller, and drum­mer Brian Rosenworcel -met during fresh­man orientation at Tufts University in Au­gust, 1991. Calling themselves Gus, they played their first gig together at a campus center during October, 1992. In 1994, they recorded their first album, Parachute; after graduating in 1995, the band hit the road. They recorded their second album, Goldfly, in Los Angeles the next year and released it independently in 1997. 

The band started receiving more attention at the end of 1998 and into 1999, when they signed with Sire Records, re-released Goldfly and made an appearance on Late Night With,, Conan O'Brien. Last year, they wrote and released Lost and Gone Forever, and later performed at Woodstock '99. The band has opened for Bob Dylan and the Dave Matthews Band. 
Of the group's growing popularity, Gardner says, "It's been a gradual build, so we got used to it all of a sudden. Four hundred [people in an audience] turned into five, and five into six, and it just slowly built up, so it wasn't a shocker.-There are obvi­ously certain steps that you go through ­from playing clubs to ballrooms and ball­rooms to a theater, and theaters to a large venue like we did with Dave Matthews." 
The band's stop by Notre Dame comes at the end of a tour that started in September. "We played at colleges in the N ortheastduring the first week, and then did a lot of shows at arenas," Gardner says. These·shows included opening for Barenaked Ladies, a group that Gardner calls "awesome." "We' re going to do another week of colleges and then take a break," he says. 
In light of the upcoming Boston College game, we were determined to get these Bos­ton natives to recognize how infinitely supe­rior we are to the Eagles. They keep a road journal on their Web site, www.guster.com, in which they mentioned that they performed at BC last spring. They described doing their laundry in a Walsh Hall there, which thor­oughly excited me, since I live in Walsh Hall here. I suggested that they let me do their laundry in our Walsh Hall, and then they could decide which washers and dryers left their clothes smelling more meadow-fresh. Gardner suggested that we just continue the interview where we were. 
Even if he wouldn't agree on the excep­tional quality ofour laundry facilities, Gardner did have other praise for Notre Dame. "Well, you have Touchdown Jesus," he said, which was possibly the ninth time he'd mentioned the landmark since he arrived at the inter­view. The band members were so taken with the mosaic that they snapped several pictures of themselves in front of it with their digital camera; they plan to post them on their Web site. After expressing his deep appreciation for Touchdown Jesus, as an afterthought, Gardner added, "And you have a better foot­ball team." 
Gardner says that once the tour is over, the band plans to take a break and work on its 
"Well, you have Touchdown Jesus ... And you have a better football team [than 
BC]." 
-ADAMGARDNER 
fourth album. "We're taking from December to April to write, and then we'll go out and tour for a month in April. We want to write songs and then test them live," he says. 
We decided to let Gardner go at this point so the band could start its sound checks. Before he left, we subtly and tactfully hinted that we wanted to continue our stalking of them after the show. "Um, what are you doing after the show?" my photo editor inquired. 
At this, Gardner's eyes lit up. "We're going to house parties!" he exclaimed. "People have been e-mailing us about where to go tonight, and we have the day off tomorrow." It soon came out that he was the self-proclaimed "king of keg stands." "Well, I used to be," he added. "I'm old now. We used to do that stuff all the time, but not so much any more." So, as we eagerly envisioned helping Guster mem­bers recapture their college glory days, they told us to find them backstage after the show to figure out what they were doing. 
I returned home to type up the interview and wait for the show. I headed back over to 
INTERVIEW: AnAl\11 r.\L'll=lnf\11=1=1 
Stepan with my roommates around 7: 15 p.m. and found that my photo editor had saved a couple of seats for us around the eighth row. We found this fortunate, as we were already beginning to tire of this stalking thing and were too lazy to arrive at the concert early enough to secure good seats on our own. 
Gardner calls the opening band -Joe, Mark's Brother -"super cool." The band took the stage and played for about an hour before Guster. 
Guster played most of the songs from Lost and Gone Forever, because, accord­ing to Gardner, playing old songs is "as if someone was like, 'I really like this pic­ture of you in the sixth grade -can I put it in the Pigbook [Tufts' version of the Dogbook]?' "He added, "It's like a snap­shot of our past, which was a while ago, and we feel like we've developed since then." 
During the performance of "All the Way Up to Heaven," Miller made yet another refer­ence to the band's favorite campus landmark, reciting an impromptu, and slightly edited, version of the poem "Footprints" in which he replaced all the references to Jesus with "Touchdown Jesus." He also complimented the enthusiasm of the full-capacity Stepan crowd, and-called freshman tuba player Mike Murphy and sophomore violinist Kevin Reen to the stage. 
After the concert, my roommates and I made our way towards the stage, where we were told that Pasty had overruled the band members and decided not to allow anyone backstage. At this point, I was getting highly annoyed with this Pasty character, but we chatted with the drummer from the opening band for a few minutes, and then went out back near the tour buses to wait for the band to emerge. 
After waiting awhile, we headed for Turtle Creek, and, a few hours later, heard people claiming that Guster was in one ofthe apart­ments nearby. We wandered in and looked for them for a few minutes, to no avail, and then decided to head home. 
The next morning, some girls from upstairs confirmed that they had indeed partied with the band in the apartments. According to junior ;Katie Beeler, "They all did keg stands, and we played cups. We offered to take them to bars, but they said that all they wanted to do was experience a Notre Dame party." 
We're still getting over the disappoint­ment and are consoled only by knowing that we at least got a fabulous performance out of the whole ordeal -as well as multiple reminders ofjusthow cool Touchdown Jesus really is. 0 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

-' ~ . . . -..,., -. 
',. . ~ . . . . 
" 



L • • JJ • 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 



-(,Cachai?* 
Living abroad makes me Miss Understood 
TONIPLUMMER 

Iwas on the patio behind our house with my sister last March. We were setting two picnic tables for lunch under a warm summer sun that fell in long rectangles on the tablecloths and brick-bordered garden. Chappy, the family dog, had just run away again. My sister muttered something about how Mom thought that Chappy was in heat, to which I replied, "Oh, like me!" Now before you get the wrong idea, let me explain. Perhaps the summer sun in March tipped you off already. Last semester I studied abroad in Santiago, Chile. In keeping with popular belief, they speak Spanish there, and this particular day in March I was having a conversation with my brand new Chilean sister. It started off quite innocently. She was talking about Chappy, and how she had escaped that morning. Feeling very confi­·dent in my language abilities, I took the liberty of assuming I understood. How­ever, I missed an essential word, and as I was not yet familiar with the shenanigans . of Chappy (she was always running off), I only heard her say that Chappy was lost. I thought that I would poke fun at my myself, the clueless American. "Oh, coma yo," I offered cheerfully. And I was more right than I knew. Anyone who's taken Spanish, or any other language, knows of the potential for such entanglements. The "embarazada phenomenon" is a classic example.You' re 
telling a story in class, about what you did · that weekend, and you end up saying, · "And then I came out of the stall and 
everyone saw me! I was so pregnant!" 
Then there are the times when you are 
saying the right thing, but you' re misunder­
stood anyway. My Chilean brother (you 
will note the emphasis on Chilean here) 
asked me to marry him one day. We were in 
the kitchen, preparing for a birthday party, 
as was our custom. I laughed and told him, 
"No estas en serio. "He thought I said, "No 
es necesario." Boy, did he have fun with 
that one! The story soon became a favorite 
of his grandma. It wouldn't be strange for 
me to pass by the living room and hear her 
retelling it to visitors. Do Freudian slips 
count when you don't know what you're 
saying? 

Despite all the danger, learning a new 
language really is one of the most fun things 
you can do. It's like being a little kid all over 
again. You're learning all these cool names 
for things, and how to express yourself. My 
Chilean mom agreed. We were having an­
other birthday party (I told you), and her· 
cousin came over with his wife and baby ­
the most adorable little girl you could imag­
ine. All she could say was "hola." We were 
all cooing to her. I think that in every culture 
adults must lose their wits when a baby 
enters the room. They tried to get her to say 
"chao" but she only looked up at them and 
declared, "Hola." My mom said that the 
two of us could converse all night. 

Letting a new language in can really 
confuse you. It seems like the two are fight­
ing in your brain, trying to dissemble each other. I would find myself misspelling simple words in e-mails. Spanish and English are just so close together. The DJ introduced English songs in Spanish. You went to the movies and there were subtitles. (I must say, however, that having subtitles can be most helpful. I finally was able to under­stand Jar-Jar Binks.) It was fun to travel around as a group of Domers. Sometimes we found ourselves merging English and Spanish into one bizarre language of our own. "Am I molesting you?" became an acceptable question. We knew what we meant. 
But all the frustration pays off when you find that you can communicate. Whenever I said anything clever and grammatically correct, my fresh brother would tell me, "Eres Latina!" And it's true -speaking the language of a culture really does bring you into it like no other knowledge can. It's all about relating to people. One evening I went out with my friends from France and Germany. The three of us were seated around a table in Santiago, speaking Spanish because it was the one language we all knew. It was nobody's first language, but there we were, sort of borrowing it, just so we could have a conversation. Now that is priceless. 
Coming back to the States was a strange experience. My family took me out to eat, and the entire time I was waiting for the waitress to break out the Chilean accent. I kept wanting to tell her "hola," "porfa," "gracia." This went on for a little while. I think I actually did lapse into Spanish in a 7­Eleven while buying milk. All of this dis­placement has made me think that living in a country where you speak the language is just too easy. You've got to misunderstand and be misunderstood in the most basic of ways to appreciate communication and lan­guage. 
Bob Dylan sings, "I'm livin' in a foreign country, but I'm 
bound to cross the line." I'm 
not exactly sure what he's 
talking about, but I . know 1 where he's coming from. 0 
*Cachai? is Chilean slang for "Do you get it?" 
Let the record show that when I went to see Scary Movie over the summer, I viewed the film consuming my usual movie-going fare: a modest bucket ofpopcorn with no extra butter (which I shared) and a tasty-yet-low­calorie raspberry iced tea. Let it also be known that many scenes in the horror movie spoof are so disturbing they become hilarious. Such scenes might even make the average viewer fall back into the chair in violent laughter. Yet I am confident that multiple witnesses would be able to testify that upon the movie's conclusion, out"of all the chairs in the theater, mine had the most structural integrity. But who can stay bitter when Shel Silverstein's The Devil and Billy Markham is coming to Washington Hall's Lab Theater? Billy's story is told in the rhymed verse of Where the Sidewalk Ends fame. Not to be missed. 
-Cristin Fenzel 

lectures 
• 
Mon 13 "Corazon y Conversion: The Dynamics of Undocumented Mexican Immigration and Spiritual Transformation," 4:00 PM, Center for Continuing Edu­cation, McKennaHall, Rooms 112 through 114. 

•
Tue 14 "Sharing Jerusalem: The Preconditions for Just Peace," 4:00 PM, Hesburgh Center, Room Cl03. 

• 
Wed 29 "History as Myth: The Return of the Hero," CenterforContinuing Education, Mc Kenna Hall, Audi­torium. 


cinema 
• 
Thu 09 The Original Shaft, 10:30 PM, DeBartolo, Room 155. 

• 
Thu 09 Shaft, 10:30 PM, DeBartolo, Room 101. 

• 
Fri 10 and Sat 11 The Original Shaft, 8:00 PM, DeBartolo, Room 155, and Shaft, 8:00 PM, DeBartolo, Room 101. 

• 
Fri 10 and Sat 11 Topsy Turvy, 9:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Mon 13 Breathles_s, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Tue 14 Tango, 8:00 PM, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. 

• 
Thu 16 Scary Movie, 10:30 PM, DeBartolo, Room 101. 

• 
Fri 17 and Sat 18 Sca,y Movie, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, DeBartolo, Room 101. 


the arts 
•Sun12 ShelSilverstein'sTheDevilandBillyMarkham, 
8:00 PM, Washington Hall Lab Theater. 
• 
Wed 15 Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orches­tra, 8:00 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

• 
Sun 19 Faculty Chamber Music Concert, 2:00 PM, Snite, Annenburg Auditorium. 




• 
Fril0 Hockey: ND vs. Boston College, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Sat 11 Football: ND vs. Boston College, 3:30 PM. 

• 
Sat 18: Volleyball: Big East Semifinals, 1:30 PM and 2:30 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Sat iS Basketball: ND men vs. Sacred Heart, 8:30 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Mon 20 Basketball: ND women vs. Arizona, 7:00 PM, 


• 
Wed 22 Basketball: ND men vs. Loyola (Illinois), 7:30 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 24 Hockey: ND vs. Northern Michigan, 7:05 PM, Joyce Genter. · · 

• 
Sat 25 Hockey: ND vs. Northern Michigan, 7:05 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Mon 27 Basketball: ND women vs. Fordham, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 



i 
! 
J 
. i, 
i 
I
I 
!I 
~I 
r 
ii· 
II 
I 
by Father Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 

What is a Basilica, Anyway? 
On December 16, 1997, my classmate and long-time friend, the Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., was ordained a bishop. He 
was now a "Most Reverend," and the change in title marked, in many ways, a radical change in his life. No longer would he be bound by the vow ofpoverty as a Holy Cross religious, and no longer would he be the rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Daniel Jenky's episcopal ordination changed my life as well, though far less dramatically. Forsome 12 years, I had served on the senior staff ofthe Office of Student Affairs. With Bishop Jenky's ordination, I was asked to become rector ofthe Basilica. Since the Basilica is not a parish in the usual sense, but a collegiate or university church (though there is a separate parish in the crypt of the Basilica with its own pastor), the term "rector" is applied to the person who has responsibility for the upper church. 
On January 17, 1992, Sacred Heart Church was designated a "minor basilica" by Pope John Paul II. "And what exactly is a basilica?" I asked myself (a question asked by just about everyone who visits Sacred Heart). I thought I had better find out! Ac­cording to Father Richard McBrien's Encyclopedia of Catholicism, a minor basilica is "a church of particular hist~ric, artistic or devotional importance honored by the pope. The church so honored must be 
-------------------the center for a vibrant faith community where
[The Basilica] has served the sacraments are prop­erly' celebrated" (144). 
as the mother church of 
Thanks to the hard the Congregation of Holy workofBishop Jenky and 
his able staff over the

Cross in the United States years, the Basilica richly 
deserves this honorary

for over 125 years. distinction. It has served 
Father Peter Rocca, 
C.S.C. received his B.A. in I 970 and a master's in theology in 1973, both from Notre Dame. He has been the rector 
ofthe Basilicafor three years. 

as the mother church of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States for over 125 years. For many years, Holy Cross priests and brothers were sent forth from 'Notre Dame · to found parishes and schools· in Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Illinois. It is in the Basilica that Holy Cross religious (brothers and seminarians) .make final profession of vows; it is here that our seminarians are ordained priests; it is here that our deceased religious are commended to God. 
Over the years, the Basilica has been a source of inspiration and faith and a place ofprayer and worship for untold numbers of people. It is estimated that just last year, almost 250,000 people visited the Basilica. 
The Basilica continues to. fulfill the "artistic criteria," thanks to the very generous benefaction of Thomas Coleman, recently deceased. It was restored to its original beauty and splendor in 1990 after some five years of renovation. Among other improve­
ments, the Stations of the Cross-and the murals in the 
Basilica were restored. These 56 or so murals were painted by Luigi Gregori in the. late 19th century, along with the Christopher Columbus murals in the Main Building and the interior of the Dome. 
More importantly, the Basilica fulfills the latter part of McBrien's definition. One of the principal tasks I have as rector is to ensure a faith-filled celebration ofthe various liturgical rites ofthe Church, from daily Mass and confessions to the most solemn celebration of the Paschal Triduum. At times, trying to keep straight all the various liturgies or other events taking place in the Basilica can be mind­boggling. In addition to two daily Masses (with music) and confessions held three times daily, as well_ 
as Exposition ofthe Blessed Sacrament every Friday, the Basilica usually is the site offour weddings every available Saturday (make your reservations early!), Vespers every Sunday during the academic year and many sacred concerts, either by one of the Basilica 
choirs, by a university-related choral or instrumental 
ensemble or by a visiting choir. Itmay also be the site of special dedication Masses celebrating everything from the endowment of faculty chairs to the dedica­
tion of a newly constructed residence hall, or even a new golf course! What helps make the Basilica such a favorite 
place of worship for so many people is not just the variety of services offered. There are also the presid­ing skills and excellent homilies of the priests who lead the community· in prayer and worship and the truly uplifting and inspiring music offered by our various choirs. 
We are also blessed with hundreds ofstudents and others who assisJ with the various liturgical minis­tries of acolyte, Eucharistic minister, lector, usher and cantor. Many others function as tour guides who welcome our many visitors and pilgrims. 
Of course, it would be impossible for one person to oversee and coordinate all these ministries and services alone. Indeed, I am indebted to an outstand­
ing staff of dedicated men and women, religious and 
lay, who provide for the Basilica's every need gener­ously, quietly and often behind the scenes. Father Sorin once remarked that Sacred Heart Church was a "splendid monument to God's glory." 
Thanks to the dedication and service of so many men 
and women, it stands as a fitting sign of what is central to the life and mission ofNotre Dame. Serving as rector cif the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is an honor and a privilege for which I humbly thank God everyday. . 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 




Waiima-san says••• 

SUB!!! 
You'd better too•••OR ELSE. 
There will be no Sumo Wrestling this weekend, BUT there will be movies. Shaft and The Original Shaft Friday &Saturday, 8and l0:30 
Plus The Princes of Babylon will be here next weekend. Keep your eyes peeled for more info. 






