



NEWS 04 
HIRE EXPECTATIONS Emily Paladino 
Scholastic takes alook at how the Career Center can assist students in securing post-graduation plans. 

EMINENT DOMAIN Jim Ryan 
Jim Ryan examines of the future of Notre Dame's study abroad programs. 



CAMPUS LIFE t4 
PROTESTING FOR PEACE 
Lauren Wilcox 
Agroup of Notre Dame students travels to Fort Benning, Ga., to protest a controversial military training camp. 




ENTERTAINMENT 24 
TOMORROW'S MUSICTODAY 
Katie Galeone and Dana Ergas 
Scholastic reviews Metro, a Chicago concert venue known for booking rising bands. 



SPORTS 30 
CHANGING "TY"MES Christopher Meskill 
Scholastic explores the questions and speculations surrounding the shocking decision to fire head football coach Tyrone Willingham. 


HUMOR 36 

MUSINGS OF A MISGUIDED MESSIAH Steve Mattingly 
The author recounts a frighteningly realistic dream. 


From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Cribs ............. 22 ND Notebook ........ 4 Strew ............. 29 1Campus Watch . . . . . . . 16 Being Like Mike . . . . . . . 38 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . 20 The Scholastic Interview . . . 40 
2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

·Does only Saturday matter? 
Is Saturday now the only day that matters at Notre Dame? 
Notre Dame -which, according to the quip of one New York radio host, tries to be "Harvard Monday through Friday and Alabama on Saturday'' -made athletic history on Tuesday. For the first time in its history, the university prematurely terminated its contract with a head football coach-who also happens to be its first African-American head coach in any sport. 
The controversy surrounding the firing ofTyrone Willingham is not bound to die down anytime soon. Was Willingham given enough time to properly establish a winning football program? Are the re­markable academic achievements of his players inconsequential? Is the future of minority hiring in college football at risk? Ifas Notre Dame's 
look for 
image been tarnished? 

ISSUE 8 

on These are only some of the myriad questions dominating the sports 

JAN28 

headlines this week. Regardless ofwhere one stands oifthe decision 
"not tq retain" Willingham, it is clear that the university made a bold 
.. statement on Tuesday and broke a tradition that harkens back to the Hesburgh era. The next few months will see significant discussion about the direction of Notre Dame football and of collegiate football in general. This discussion is long overdue. 
From One Family to Another 
Our thoughts are, and will continue to be, with the Ebersol family. We hope that the long-standing love demonstrated by Diclc and Charlie for this school is returned equally with the heartfelt prayers of the Notre Dame community. 

~!)'
'. ... : ~ 
:· :; .:,·; v' 

Annie Robinson Mike Borgia Editor in Chief Editor in Chief 
2 SCHOLASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
Vol. 1 .6, No. 7 • 02 DEC 200. 

SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors In Chief Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor 
Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor 
Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor NlckAbrams Assistant Managing Editor 
Jim Ryan General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News 
Emily Paladino, ed'itor Alisa Rnelll,asslstant 
Anna O'Connor.assistant 
CampusUfe 
Lauren WIicox,editor Katie Solan,asslstant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments Mike Healy, editor Erik Powers,ass)stant 
Design 
Nell Ryan, assistant David Redenbaugh,asslstant Telda Sauter Amy Meyers Andrea Shloleno 
Jana Stewart 
Photography Phil Hall, editor 
Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy Mo Ertel, chief JennlferWadklns,asslstant Drew Dodge Diana Dollnsky Kate Dresser Maggie O'Connell David M. Poell Doug Schlannan Georgia Schulte 
Distribution 
Bryan Lowery 
Advisor Bob Franken '69 

Cover photos courtesy 
of ISP student photo 
contest 
COVER ILLUSTRATION NICKABRAMS 
Disce Quasi Se'lllper VicturtlS Vive Quasi Cms MoriturtlS 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine Is copyright 200. University of Notre Dame. All 
rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or In part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent 
of the publisher. Make the Scholast your new Facebook buddy. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manu­scripts or materlal,AII correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be publlshed In the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. All letters must Include ·the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request In certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for ·corrections made more than 21 days after publlcation cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year.Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date·. Cifpies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on reques~The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine 
are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the 
student body. 
02 DECEMBER 2004 





Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

Priesthood ordination at the Basilica. 


ANSWE:Rj;J;: THE CALL•\.(!'2.• 


I I I 
'
j·. 
' ' 
I 

Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
SNOW ON THE BUSIEST TRAVELING DAY OF THE YEAR 
Why couldn't God have picked a different day to dump five-and­a-half inches of snow on Notre Dame? 
COPIOUSAMOUNTS OF CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS 
They remind us that the holidays are just around the corner, but there's also a mountain of work that has to be done before Dec.17. 
NON-SEXY/NON­ALCOHOLIC FACEBOOK.COM HEADSHOT 
Photos of pigeons.John Rawls and elephants are far more engaging than your favorite Boat Club pie. 
LILLIPUTIAN BEN & 
JERRY'S CUPSATTHE HUDDLE 
Cherry Garcia is best enjoyed out of the less-fattening mini­cups, complete with a midget spoon. 
0 
TOMATO FAMINEATTHE 
DINING HALL 
One would think that $7 per 
dining hall meal would entitle one to the red fruit, even if the hurricanes have devastated the 
U.S. supply. 

Notre Dame avoids the real issue over free speech on campus 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 

As a private institution, Notre Dame is not legally obligated to uph?ld its stu­dents' First Amendment rights on campus. However, two events this semester evidence the need for the administration to re-evaluate and revamp its regula­tion ofstudent demonstrations on campus. The first ofthese events occurred on Oct. 9, the day before the home football game against Stanford, when Notre Dame Right to Life's "Cemetery ofthe Innocents" dis­play was vandalized. The destruction of the display's white crosses was disrespectful and should be condemned. However, while the vandalizers' motives remain unknown, their actions raise questions about how the university manages perspectives which it sees as contrary to its Catholic mission. Sadly, because the administration would never allow a pro-choice demonstration, the anonymous destruction ofa pro-life display is one ofthe only methods available to pro-choice activists who desire to make as visible a statement on campus as the striking rows of crosses. The second event occurred on Oct. 11, the Monday following the Stanford game, when the Office of Student Activities told members of the unofficial student group AllianceND that theywould face disciplinary action iftheywent ahead with their plan to display a giant "Coming-Out Closet" in support ofgay and lesbian students on cam­pus. The university explained its actions byhiding behind duLacverbiage, stating only that a protest by an unrecognized group was not allowed. The closet display was later permitted when it was sponsored by the Department ofSociology and the Graduate Student Union (GSU). By portraying the difference merely as one ofrecognized and unrecognized groups, the administration skirted the real issues at hand. AllianceND is not recognized because the university sees the group's stances on homosexuality as irreconcilable with Notre Dame's Catholic mission. The only likely explanation for why the university allowed the sociology department and the GSU to hold the display is to avoid the outrage that would stem from denying the school's professors and graduate students basic academic freedom. Unfortunately, the administration does not see undergraduates as deserving of this same freedom of speech. The problem with.Notre Dame's current treatment ofstudent speech stems largely from the administration's insistence that students or student groups looking to hold a protest first clear their intentions with Student Activities. Essentially, the school's stance on studentprotestingis thatitis not allowed unless special permis­sion is first granted. This is in opposition to the principles ofthe FirstAmendment which apply on public grounds -including public universities (although the exact application ofthese principles at public college campuses also has been the subject of fierce debate). Although Notre Dame is notlegally obligated to model its own campus speech regulations after the First Amendment, the university denies the members of its community access to free dialogue ofcontroversial topics by turning the issue into one of regulatory semantics. However, if the university wishes to promote a culture oftrue academic discourse, free dialogue is essential. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
2 DECEMBER 2004 

-------.... • • • -. • -'~ • -.... _ --• \ • ,, 

P..-M:tca)Mii@INEWS1_·-----------------------, 
lsYour lnbox forYour Eyes Only? 


Putting a campus rumor to the test 
ANN.IEROBINSON 

·sc~olastic decided _to c~ear the _virtual Dame system are scanned to prohibit the · air: Does the university monitor, or propagation ofspam -most likely from 
censor, e-mail sent on Notre Dame commercial senders. accounts? Many Notre Dame students Inspecting e-mail for "harmful content'' hold fast to the belief that it does, relay­-such as virii and spam -isdone in an 
ing tales of roommates or friends who effort to safeguard the recipients ofspam were held accountable for the content of and messages that are potentially infected, their e-mail. OIT says. (Intentionally sending virii and 
However, according to two admin­commercial bulk e-mail are violations of istrators of the Office of Information the Responsible Use ofIT Policy of the Technologies, the "Big Brother" theory university.) OIT also monitors atypical is fiction -for the most part. "This rumor spikes in the "traffic patterns" of e-mail, has been prevalent and recurring through Russell says. A spike in sent e-mail might the years, but remains a myth," says Gary be a sign that a student's e-mail account Dobbins, director ofinformation security has been infected by a worm or virus. 
appeal of cheap red-eye flights for OIT. "Theuniversity does notmonitor Cases causing concern are then referred individual e-mail messages to, from or be­to the OIT Help Desk. 

and you're deposited in the tween individual e-mail users," adds Paul Russell confirms that OIT does not 
middle of a deserted foreign city Russell, senior systems administrator for use any other form of content filtering 
at 2 a.m., those park benches the OIT Messaging Services Team. software, nor does OIT become involved 
look like your best option for OIT does, however, proactively use in student disciplinary measures unless 
overnight accommodations. anti-spam and anti-virus software, he OIT staff receives a complaint of e-mail says. Messages sent between Notre Dame abuse by an individual. "ff the nature of 
Visit Amsterdam. 

users are scanned for virii (such as worms the complaint is that the message [he or 
4. 
Need we say m~re? and Trojans), and messages sent from she received] was abusive, malicious or outside the central Notre illegal in nature, the incident is re°ferred 

Walk..;...alot.

to the appropriate administrative unit of 
3. 
You'll learn so much more about

the university," Russell says. OIT refers 
your surroundings than if you

student cases to the Office of Student resort to public transport. Plus, it 
Affairs, faculty cases to the Office of the Provost, and staff cases to the uni­
burns ca.lories, so you can indulge· versity Human Resources department, 
in more foreign food and drink. Dobbins says. Why, then, is there the seemingly 
Travel. like it's your job. 

2
widespread misconception among 

• · When else will you be able to do · many Notre Dame students? Some 
it so affordably and so easily?
Web sites reject e-mail messages based on their content -but Dob­
Dress like the locals.
bins says OIT does not. "Incidents in 

I
• It will make you feel like you fit 
which students' messages to external addresses were rejected by content 

in_ even if you don't. Just wait for filters on external systems may have 
. the thrill .you get when someone contributed to thimisconception that 
actually asks you for directions. 

we monitor or filter messages based on content," he says. Similar situations can be construed by students as university­sponsored censorship of e-mail. D 

2 DECEMBER 2004 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 


Does. the Career Center fail or succeed 

in helping seniors secure jobs?




Hire Expectations 

EMILYPALADINO

W:en May rolls around, ove.r 
,000 seniors will leave 
Notre Dame with a college degree. Yet less than half of them -44 percent -will leave with a full-time job to complement their diplomas. 
Iflastyear's statistics apply to the cur­rent senior class, 64 percent of Notre Dame Business graduates, 50 percent of Engineering graduates and 75 percent of Architecture graduates will accept full-time positions after they leave the universityinMay. At the same time, only 34 percent oftheir Arts and Letters coun­terparts will begin full-time careers, and even fewer Science majors -21 percent -will join the ranks of the employed upon graduation. 
Instead, about 35 percent of Arts and Letters students and 61 percentofScience students will continue their education in graduate school. Many graduates from these departments also will participate in post-graduate service at the respec­tive rates of22 and 13 percent. 
A considerable amount ofthis disparity likelyis due to the fact that many Arts and Letters and Science students make the deliberate choice not to work fuff-i:ime immediately after graduation. Even so, some say Notre Dame's Career Center could do more for career-seeking students in these undergraduate schools. 
Career Center Associate Director Anita Rees says such criticism is not fair. She adds that the Career Center has counsel­ors-specifically assigned to help students in each respective college. Rees serves as the counselor for the Arts. and Letters program. "We offer plenty of help for Arts and Letters students searching for jobs," she says. She points to several spon-. sored career nights for specific majors in the College of Arts and Letters, notic­ing that the Career Center will feature a career fair in January that is specifically · aimed at Arts and Letters stµdents. She says she has seen plenty ofArts and Let­ters students at the Career Center this fall and expects to see even more during the spring semester, when many companies begin their recruitment ofArts and Let­ters students. 
Lee Svete, director ofthe Career Center, says it may seem that the center focuses its efforts chiefly on Business and Engineer­ing students because these industries hire a majority oftheir new employees during , the fall semester. Companies in the busi­ness, retail and technology sectors usually hire eight months before graduation. In contrast, jobs in public relations, media, public policy, government and publishing often have "just in time" openings that fill up during the spring semester. "For these career areas, students must be available to work within four to six weeks of the extended job offer," Svete says. 

Rees says that because of the spring recruitment schedule, Arts and Letters seniors need to understand the nature of the industries in which they are seek­ing employment. "With a lot of these jobs, students need to realize that they have to approach the industry in a more deliberate way," she says. "Part ofour Arts and Letters strategy is to educate students on how to market their skills to a potential employer: It's a whole different job strategy." 
As Svete points out, that is not to say that Arts and Letters majors are not com­petitive candidates for jobs offered during · the fall semester: A number of econom­ics, political science and anthropology majors receiyed job offers from Fortune 500 companies this fall. But many Arts 
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
2 DECEMBER 2004­




and Letters students interested in full­time careers will find jobs of more inter­est to them during the spring semester. The center also is planning a career fair featuring jobs in the non-profit sector in March, he says. .. 
Svete says another reason Business and Engineering students seem to get a great deal of attention is that many of the companies they interview with have extensive resources to devote to on-campus recruiting and interview­ing. "A number ofArts and Letters-type employers do not have large recruiting budgets and HR offices with recruiters who travel to hire graduates," he says. However, the Career Center does cover expenses for some companies to come to campus. In fact, it spent about $20,000 to bring recruiters from several institutions -including the Smithsonian Institution, MTV, ESPN, ABC News, the Kennedy Center and several other institutions -to campus last fall. 
Part of the problem for on-campus re­cruiting is also the university's relatively remote location in South Bend, Svete says. Many of the companies willing to come to Notre Dame to recruit are located in Chicago. Svete admits that this is a "major challenge," but says that the Career Center is combating this by actively encouraging recruiters from all areas ofthe country to come to Notre Dame's campus. "We are a national school, and our students want to work in 50 different states." However, this challenge is not unique to Notre Dame, he says. Other universities are facing the same problem. For instance, Svete says, most ofthe recruiters at Stan­ford University come from Los Angeles and San Francisco, and most recruiters at Pennsylvania State University come from 

§.i§j:coJfl,i.'j.iij@NE:WS_J­

New York City and Philadelphia. 
Another part of the problem may be 
that many students perceive the cen ­
ter to be focused mainly on aiding \ 
only career-seeking students. But :\ 

as Allison Keller, counselor for Sci-\\ 
ence students at the Career Center, \\ 

points out, the center's resources for 
Science students are geared specifi­
cally toward students seeking to con­
tinue their educations after graduation. 

Because the majority ofScience students go to graduate or professional school after graduation, Keller says, her office also of­fers sessions to assist students with their . graduate school plans. The center .offers mock interviews for students preparing for medical school interviews and sessions 
on graduate school funding, she says. 
Still, the Career Center's mission never 

has been just about job placement or on­
campus recruiting. Svete says that the 
center's focus is on providing resources 
to students and alumni that will enable 
them to explore all career options. Rees 
adds that only about 10 percent of col­
lege graduates receive job offers through 
on-campus interviews. "So, we're not all 
about job placement," she says. "Instead, 

we try to help people understand where 
their passions and values lie and how that 
translates into the best job for them." 
With the current economy, Svete says, 
there are limitless options for students 
anxious to begin careers. Rees says that 
last year, fewer than two out of five em­
ployers felt the job market to be strong. 

This year, according to the National 
Association of Colleges and Employers, 
four out of five say the market outlook is 
optimistic for graduates seeking jobs. 
The strength of the market has meant 
an increase in recruiting at many univer­sities, espe­ciallyNotre Dame. "We are up about 25 percent compared to last year in terms ofon-campus interviews," Svete says. In the midst ofseveral high-profile corporate scandals, companies especially are interested in Notre Dame students, he adds, because of their personal integrity, honesty and intelligence. "Notre Dame students are some ofthe most gifted stu­dents in the country," Rees adds. "I'm so proud to work with each and every one 

of them." 
Still, the effectiveness of the Career Center ultimately depends upon the in­dividual students that are seeking help. "We can only help the students who make the effort to come in and see us," Rees says. "The good thing is that we've seen many students this fall. In fact, we've been swamped. The best piece of advice I can give to anyone looking to begin a career is to come and visit us." 0 
~:?l~ K:~{'.t~f~--~-.tl !.'\ t ( ~:; ( A. N.CD-:;·\ 
0

'h~o : tiitlf!
• 

l°\ ·y· ;_: : ·,~ H~·: ~ 
! . . ··1,n'p\i: !:,C; 1 r;:..i~:t n:::,11 
JIMRYAN 

ur campus is in South Bend, 
Indiana; our classroom is the world." 
These words from the Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., are the mantra for the Office of International Studies (OIS) at Notre Dame. They are plastered on the International Studies Web site. They were even the subject of an official com­mercial that ran during Notre Dame football games. 

Notre Dame can support Malloy's claim -the university boasts a plethora of international study opportunities: 24 programs in 17 countries, to be precise. It was recently recognized by NAFSA: Association oflnternational Educators as one of 13 universities with outstanding studyabroadprograms.NotreDamewas .., lauded in particular for its ability to send as many as half of its students from all five 
O

• 1i .· 
.,· ; 
ofits colleges abroad. 

The mission statement ofOIS is to pro­vide each ofits students studying abroad with "the maximum benefits ofacademic and research exploration, cultural engage­ment, and an awareness of their place as leaders in a global world." 
To what extent is it successful? 

The London Programme is by far Notre Dame's largest study abroad pro­gram, with 139 students studying there this semester. Students in the program attend classes in a building owned by Notre Dame, and some ofthe guidelines of the London Programme are more strict than those governing the South Bend campus. For example, studen!s ma.y not .. .have guests spend the night i11'their flats, · · ey:eJ:1 ifthe guests are::N:otre -pame,orSt.
.,;; -_.......,;-..·::··: . ·.' .. -''•~~,_---:=.. :,:-.-:~ ..·:=. <' .·.~;:' ..· ·.-'. 
_/<'.~-· -:_ . .· :·: .. -.· 
Mary's students. Because of this, some London Programme alumni do not be­lieve the program offers the cultural im­mersion the university desires; they feel instead that the program is just as insular as Notre Dame's home campus. 
The strict nature of the London Pro­gramme is not its only drawback. Senior Marianne Magjuka spent the spring 2003 semester in the Rome program and the spring 2004 semester in the London Pro-gramme. She said the Rome program of­fered a more profound cultural experience than the London Programme because living in Rome required her to learn a foreign language. Furthermore, because students in the London Programme live and attend classes exclusively with other Notre Dame students, she says, "It was harder to make connections with the people that live in London." 
In its Strategic Plan -a projection of the university's progress over the next· 10 years -: the. university bemoans the "ghettoization" of students in the Lon­don Programme, as well as the Fremantle · and Perth, Australia programs. To rem­edy this, the plan calls for adecrease in the percentage of Notre Dame students studying in English-speaking countries and an increased focus on expanding its offerings in Asia, China and Latin America. 
"Four-fifths of the world's population lives in the third world," according to the plan. "The history of our young century will largely hinge on how this relationship between the developed, capitalist societies and the third world ev9lves. The issue has ,~r.emendpus (!C<>.Ilomic:, political, s9cial 
' ·:~­



~Y--~t~·)·,.,. ; . 



(Efriio,,--portlain 
\Scho/asbt;~amines' ~~{foture ofinternational 
.: : :-," ! ....~Zt(-~:, -;~\?':\·.\ ,;-;·. . . ii 
.· stu9y,,prpgraq:tS_9,t;[hlotre'\Dal1'.le · · · 
.-_:/~t:: :·t/:.r:· ·. .. ·.. 
,.(, 

and ethical importance." 
But few Notre Dame students want to study in developing nations. The plan also states, ''At present, student interest in programs in Latin America, Africa and Asia is extremely limited. We may need to construct a new set ofinducements to bring larger numbers ofstudents to third world programs although the form this would take is unclear." 
What are somepossible inducements· for studying in a developing nation? 
Julia Douthwaite, assistant provost for International Studies, offers more than a few. 
The experience is extremely shock­ing, she says. "It makes the students get out of their comfort zone and get a cold, strong sense of how other people live. It · gives them some sense of the grave im­portance of American foreign policy and the current unilateral way ofdoing things of the American government," she says. But this is exactly the reason Notre Dame students would benefit from studying in a \developing nation. Douthwaite adds that the Catholic upbringing ofmany students gives them a strong sense of social justice. Studying in these countries, therefore, "makes them even more steadfast in their resolve to be committed to help the poor, help the disadvantaged. It can also galvanize a student's conscience on behalf of the environment." 
Tom Bogenschild, director of Inter­national and Off-Campus Programs, is working toward Malloy and Douthwaite's goal of sending more Notre Dame stu­dents to developing countries. 
"We're tryinij' to promote as widely and -'.{! 


------------------------j!I!Ijlll(<io~~~Y,j§113;/JSTORY]-------------------------, 

as broadly as possible," he says. 
Bogenschild says word-of-mouth from alumni of programs in developing countries is the most effective recruiting tool. 
"The best ambassadors are retur-0ing students," he says. "Most of them have had an experience that has transformed their [lives] in some way." 
Senior Michael Poffenberger is one such student. He spent the spring 2004 semester in Uganda through the School for International Training's Develop­ment Studies at Makerere University in Kampala. 
For the first two months of the pro­gram, Poffenberger lived and studied with a Ugandan family in Kampala -Ugan­da's capital and largest city. For the fol­lowing six weeks, Poffenberger conducted independent research in other parts ofthe country. He and his classmates -17 stu­dents total from various schools around the United States -also took brief trips to Rwanda to track gorillas and to visit memorials of the Rwandan genocide. 
Poffenberger was drawn to the program by its high degree of immersion. "I was able to get an insider's perspective into family life in Uganda -a dimension of life in a foreign country that study abroad programs aren't often privy to," he says. 
For Poffenberger, the very experience ofliving in Uganda was as enlightening as the classes he attended and the research he conducted there. 

"The program is highly successful be­cause it integrates academic study with experiential learning, connecting for us the way that our studies can affect reali­ties for individual people," he says. 
Poffenberger recommends the program for other Notre Dame students -three of whom will be studying in Uganda next semester. 
"It's a fantastic way to gain new per­spective, to get out of the bubble, to have new and different enriching and forma­tive experiences," he says. 
OIS recognizes the benefits studying in developing nations has to offer Notre Dame students and it is trying to establish a Notre Dame program in sub-Saharan Africa. Bogenschild said the program would likely be in Uganda or South Af­rica. A proposal has been submitted to the administration, and a program could be up and running as soon as fall 2006. 
Until that time comes, it may be more difficult for Notre Dame students to study in Uganda or in other non-Notre Dame programs, as the university has become increasingly stingy about granting the study .leaves of absence required to par­ticipate in such study abroad programs. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the Col­lege ofArts and Letters, says the number ofstudy leaves has been reduced recently · for budgetary reasons and to encourage students to participate iil Notre Dame's 

JULIA DOUTHWAITE works as the assistant provost for International Studies. 
own study abroad programs. Arts and Letters currently can grant only eight study leaves each semester. Students seeking a study leave must submit a pro­posal in which they explain why a non­Notre Dame program will be beneficial to their academic development in their majors. Study leaves are not granted for programs in cities where Notre Dame of­fers programs, except in London. 
Douthwaite does not. expect the list of cities in which Notre Dame offers programs to grow significantly anytime soon. 
"Because ofthe world stock market, the 


' 
. ' 
1 -----------------------!iia,~i;,.1·~IO.R'(;':-----------'-----------. 
falling dollar and the stress ofthe endow­who got lower than an A-." they have to do is go to class; and there's ment of the university, we're not in the Senior Allison Vater, who spent the not much there, because the professors . kind of growth mode that this office was spring 2004 semester in London, said the are giving these very broad lectures," 
in the last decade," she says. classes there were not taxing, either. she says. "Oftentimes our students fail Although recognized for the resources "The workload in-between the mid-because they haven't been trained the 
available to students who study abroad, the university has had dif­ficulties funding some of its existing programs. Recently, funding for cultural programs and field trips were eliminated.for the program in Angers, France. 
Bogenschild said this was a result of the decrease in the value of the dollar compared to the euro. In Oc­tober 2000, the euro-dollar exchange rate was 0.825. The rate now hovers around an all-time high of 1.33. As a result, university funding does not go 
as far as it used to in Europe. 

"We're trying to economize as much . as possible," Bogenschild says. "Our bot­tom line is we don't want to compromise the academic quality of the programs, so we're taking hits in areas that are less . directly applied to the student academic experience. But it's a tough call." · 
How do students' educational expe­riences abroad compare to their course loads at Notre Dame? 
The qualityof the academic experience for students who study abroad has. been . called into question by some students, regardless of the cuts. 
Senior Jenna: Linder, who spent the spring 2004 semester. in the Toledo program, said classes there were excep­tionally easy. "They're like high school classes," she says. "I don't know anybody way a Spanish student or a· Chilean 
student or · a Chinese student has 
been trained." 
Douthwaite also says foreign in­stitutions place more emphasis on oral examinations, which·are more rigorous than most American stu­dents expect. 
"This oral exam business, this sense of being quick on your toes, quick in front of a group of people -we're not necessarily doing that 

THOMAS BOGENSCHILD is the director of the university's here," she says. "In the world after 

International and Off-Campus Programs. 
term and the µrial wasn't very great," 
she says. _ . 
Douthwaite, however, does not believe 
the classes abroad are easier; according 
to her, they are merely different. "The 
way they teach in other. countries is not 
the way they teach in·our country," she 
says: "Other people look at our system 
and think it's rather infantile -that we 
hold our students' hands." 
Douthwaite says most institutions out­side0 the United States have "magisterial classes," in which a well-known scholar _will deliver a lecture on a broad topic and will slip in suggestions for further study. Itis up to the students to pick up on these suggestionsandpursuetheirowncourses 
ofstudy. · ., 
"I think a lot of our students don't get 
those subtle codes; and they think all 

college, you may find that[... ] being · nimble on your feet in front ofa group of·. 
people -speaking .clearly and concisely 
-is also an important part of being an 
effective leader." 
Are Notre Dame students appropri­ately immersed in foreign cultures? 
Educating the future leaders of .the global. world is one of the objectives ·of · the international studies programs, but Notre Dame students have not always impressed the locals abroad. 
Notre Dame students in Australia made 

international news last spring for their in­
volvement in a fight with off-duty police 
officers at a bar. This semester Notre 
Dame students in Spain also allegedly 
were involved ina bar fight . 
The problem of American students 

abroad antagonizing locals is not unique 
to Notre Dame. An article that appeared in The New York Times in August, en­titled "Colleges Tell Students Overseas Party's Over," highlighted the behavioral problems students of several universities had while abroad, ranging from those warranting jail time to those seriously 

.. endangering their health. . . Bogenschild believes Notre Dame's disciplinary problems. generally are not · as serious as those faced by other uni­versities. "We're slightly different from many universities going over there because
1 

. our programs are highly competitive," he says.' "We are able to screen effectively." .·· Bogerischild says thatat least 800 hours J;}}:/ ··.. ,go into reviewing students' study abroad ::<: ,::/·:, ·appl~cations,,_As a.result; st:µden,t~.without 
_.,:-'.::;~:•:\··.:-;\>>·:.. ·(\'.-; ·• ... : '-: ."-:.·· . --.., ,.....,-~·-..:.J:.-·:·:·=·:..,t:'i(•-:.:-··· ·· __.'} 
the best intentions for their time abroad -international study programs pay the 
usually are weeded out ofthe programs. . . nortnal Notre Dame tuition, r~gardless 
"I look •at motivations," Bo gens child ofthe actual cost ofhousing, feeding and 
says. "Ifsomeone is properly motivated.. · educating the student abroad. Sometimes 
to go, then why would they engage in this this cost is less than that oftuition, lead-· 
stupid behavior? They just don't." ing some ·students to ·believe they are.· 
However, Bogenschild is aware that . being cheated economically. 
students'_ ability to legally consume al-Bogenschild says the board of trustees 
cohol in Europe -where the drinking · decided that students studying abroad 
age is generally 18..;.;.. sometimes leads to should pay the standard Notre Dame 
misbeha~or..... ·. · · tuition, His office does notreceive that · 
"Alcohol is certainly an issue," he says, . money directly; rather,· they· receive a 
"We tryto de-emphasize the role ofalco,-. budget from the university and can send 
hol in any group function we have." . . • as many students abroad as they want, 
While·mechaiµsms· are in place to ·.·.·. provided they staywithin the budget. 
supportNotreDamestudentssocially, ''We can send one student or 1,000 . .· h<>w are they supported financially? . • · students," he says. "Obviously, our incli-· '..···.Stud~his.i11, ..N()tre Dame.:.sponsored_ • natio_n is to send. asm~ny.~tl.ide11ts llS\Ve 
>.:;:-:;-<,;>, ,'.··· .. :.,;.-·.,·-·-. .:·.· .. •, ·-..-~·,,,,:·,•.:.-·..'<::·,:.·;·.···.~_:.'..\.:,.'''' .:­


,--------------------~i•~li.1·s::tdl\Y]-----p-o-s-si_b_ly_c_a_n__,,----------~ 
When students study through facilitat­ed programs -programs that are run by institutions other than Notre Dame yet are recognized by the university -they are required to pay their own expenses and are not responsible for standard Notre Dame tuition. However, the financial aid for Notre Dame usuallystill applies to the facilitated programs. Students apply for these programs through Notre Dame's OIS and are not required to obtain a study leave of absence. 
Both Bogenschild and Douthwaite would like to see more Notre Dame stu­dents studying abroad, whether through Notre Dame or facilitated programs. 
Douthwaite says studying abroad is an "essential component" of fulfilling Malloy's goal of having a bilingual stu­dent body. She adds that studying abroad also has become an important component of the Notre Dame experience on the whole. 
But both Douthwaite and Bogenschild realize the logistical and financial dif­ficulties of increasing participation in international studies programs. 
"The reality is we only have so many · beds in London, so many beds in Dublin and so many beds in Australia," Bogen­shild says. "We're having a hard time right now accommodating everyone who really wants to go. Our first priority from our office's· perspective is to try to help all those students who really want to study abroad right now." 
Douthwaite says accommodating more students would require an increased finan­cial commitment from the university.· 
"We appreciate the level ofsupport we get from the administration," she says. "But with the level of interest we have among students, I think it's safe to say we would like more funding." 
Despite their desires to increase study abroad programs, Bogenschild and Douthwaite say the state ofinternational studies at Notre Dame is strong. 
"I think we're in pretty good shape," Bogenschild says. "I think the best tes­timony for this is the high demand of students here. They really understand the value of studying abroad." 
Douthwaite expresses a similar senti­ment: "The high level of applications reflects well_on the vision and courage of our students." . 
2 DECEMBER 2004 




....-----------------------~:~(SJ~i''l:/~:{i'fr;OPINION;-·----------------i 


Bush's Budget: 
RICHMclVER

Talking Uriity,Acting Partisan 
Following his re-election, President Bush declared that our nation is far too divided and that he will recon­cile these differences by being a "uniter, not a divider." Despite these conciliatory words, what can America really expect in the president's final four years in office? Harkening back to a campaign line used by the Bush camp -"You can run, but you can't hide" -the best way to deter­mine where the president really stands is to look at the type of legislation that he and the Republican Party are support­ing. Now that the president is no longer concerned with re-election posturing and Congress is now firmly under Republican control, the GOP can fi­nally accomplish its political agenda as it sees fit. A good early indication of this agenda can be seen in the budget bill approved by Congress on November 20. The frugal $388 billion spending bill, which underscores the Re­publicans' focus on deficit cutting, emphasizes a return to the type of fiscal responsibility we tradition­ally have expected -but have not seen -from Republicans. Most federal programs saw significant cuts, exceptions including the FBI and NASA, which grew significantly. Aside from these, the most notable exception was education funding, which increased by a meager two percent. What makes the bill particularly telling of the Republican agenda, however, is the inclusion of clauses embedded in it that have little or no relation to the budget itself. For example, Republicans tried to _ include a clause in this budget bill that would allow the chairmen of the Ap­propriations Committees and their staff assistants to examine Americans' income tax returns and publish them without penalty. An overwhelming public outcry followed the discovery of the clause, so it was eventually removed. But the mere fact that the GOP thought it could sneak in this clause demonstrates its willingness to push it_s agenda at all costs. 
While saying in his post-election speech that he will be a uniter, the President is legislating his pet policies -which, by many accounts -are very divisive. But he is not without justification in doing so, as he did win a majority ofthe vote in the general election. And he has interpreted this re-election, despite whatever he says to the contrary, as a mandate to press even harder for his core agenda, divisive as it may be. This became evident when, in a single piece oflegislation, we saw a trim­ming of domestic programs, an expan­sion ofsecurity and military technology programs, an attempt to increase the nificant political symbolism. It was the first gesture of the Republican Congress in the wake of elections that strengthened GOP control of both the House and Senate and re­elected President Bush, an opponent of abortions. 
House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi of California called it "an extraordinary sneak attack against rights and a disgraceful display· of ideology over health." 
Supporters ofthe legislation, how­ever, said it was simply a logical ex­tension of a "conscience" clause that prohibits doctors from being forced to offer abortions or undergo abor­tion training. The new provision says 
government's access to private citizens' 
information, and, lastly, an undermin­
ing ofRoe v. Wade. 
The budget bill controversially includes 

a clause that ensures federal financial funding for hospitals and health-care providers that do not offer abortion-re­lated services. As President Bush clearly made abortion a key issue in his re-elec­tion campaign, the inclusion of this clause in the budget bill comes as no shock. However, since Bush made the issue a gauge for morality in the 2004 presiden­tial election, some might argue that this "values" issue, more than tax cuts, defines the modern Republican Party. While some states have already taken this step on their own, the willingness ofthe GOP 
to "solve" this debate and stifle dissenting opinions demonstrates their readiness to push their agenda despite its polarizing effects on an already divided nation. 
The real impact of the abortion leg­islation is hard to determine. Forty-five states already allow health-care providers to refuse to provide or pay for abortions. Because the legislation is tucked into a one-year spending bill, the country will have to wait until the bill comes up for renewal to see its true consequence, unless it is made permanent in separate legislation. 
But the legislation definitely carries sig­

the government will not discriminate against health care providers who refuse to offer abortion-related services. 
But supporters of abortion rights said states that offer abortion under their Medicaid coverage might lose federal funds if they demand that all Medicaid providers provide abortion services. They say the bill will encourage abortion op­ponents to pressure hospitals and HMOs into refusing abortion services. 
"Roe v. Wade is the law of the land; but Republicans are gutting it step by step," Pelosi says. Republicans denied that the legislation would restrict access and said it was intended only to prevent government agencies from "intimidating" health enti­ties that neither perform abortions, nor provide training or referrals. D 
2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

' .VY HAT; s c;·o ING ·:o·o 
. ,, . ' . ' 

ponieLig::::-:-h=t=s==== 
COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY 




SUB Bonanza 
Source:TreyWilliams and Jimmy Flaherty of SUB 
At long last, finals week is upon us. It is now time to cram for all those classes you blew off for the last four months, or 
Q&A 
With the Campus Circus Performers 

Matt Deihl, a senior philosophy and psy­chology major from Keenan Hall, has aspecial skill you may have seen him exhibiting on North Quad. He has taught himself the sport ofslacklining, which is similar to tightrope walking, but on a much looserpiece ofwebbing. Recently, Scholastic convinced Deihl to take a breakfrom his balancing act to tell us about his unique hobby. 
How did you get started with a sport like slacklining? 
I was first introduced to it through a climbing club at another university. Slacklining itself only began about 20 years ago, when climbers got bored and started playing with their equipment. The first time I set up the webbing here, it took me one week before I could stand. 
When and where do you slack­line? 
I go as much as I can. Last year I even dropped a class for it. I'll slackline in different places, between two secluded trees ... Last week I was 20 feet in the air between Keenan and Stanford ... Sometimes hecklers will come out, or people will go on the roof to take pictures. 
Is there a certain slack­liner that you admire? 
Absolutely: His name is Dean Potter, and he is a free soloist. 

maybe just to enjoy a fun four days and 3 Professionally trained masseuses happily take your C-. Thankfully, you I00 Jimmy John's sandwiches won't have to deal with undue stress, 5 Platters of delicious fare from hunger, or even dry lips, because the Houlihan's good folks over at the Student Union 40 Pounds of holiday candy Board have been so kind as to provide I00+ Packets of tissue and tubes of Chap several luxuries during finals week: Stick for sickly students 
Have you ever thought of joining the circus? 
Well, I have the family history for it, because my mother was a trapeze art­ist; and I can spin plates in the dining hall. But I think I prefer the circus as a spectator. 
Have you ever taught anyone how to slackline? 
Yeah, I've taught lots ofpeople. Anyone interested should come to hang out the next time they see me slacklining around campus. 
Bertram Koelsch, a junior chemical en­gineering major, has taught himself a skill that many people have been able to admir~, as he often displays it around campus. Koelsch taught himself how to mountain unicycle six years ago, after seeing one in a bike shop. Scholastic was able to catch up with him 
and find out more about his unusual mode oftransportation. 
What are the best places to go mountain unicy­cling? 
I'm from Colorado, so I moun­tain unicycle on the mountain bike trails. My favorite place to go is the 
University of Colorado campus at Boulder, but I also just use it as a mode of transportation. 

Can you see yourself ever ~r ., unicycling in the circus? 
No, but I do juggle, and I have juggled fire torches while on the unicycle. I guess I could be a street performer, at the most. 
thing about riding a uni­cycle? . 
In the beginning, of course, it is a matter ofsim­ply maintaining your bal­ance, but now I do tricks on my unicycle that I wouldn't dream ofdoing on a bike. The skills are the most challenging, such as what type ofline to take when going down a mountain bike trail. 
Do you wear any type ofprotective equipment while riding? 
It's easy to fall a lot while mountain uni­cycling, so I wear shin and wrist guards, as well as a helmet. The seat is also air cushioned to make it more comfortable for extended rides. 
Do you consider Circus Peanuts candy to be among your favorite snacks? 
I have a~tually never had them, but I do like to eat Indian food. -Laura Marrs· 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
2 DECEMBER 2004 




Finding Family 
One student ends lifelong s~earch and is reunited with her biological family before the holidays 
CLAIRESOBCZAKWhile most Notre Dame stu­dents were showing off their costumes on Halloween, senior Annie Envall spent the evening chatting on the phone with her mother. For many, spending this festive night on the phone with a parent would seem to be a burden. But for Annie, that phone call started a new chapter in her life; itwas her first time ever speaking to her mother in Annie's 21 years. Dave and Joanne Envall adopted An­nie from Catholic Charities when she was nine years old, and they raised her in the northern suburbs of Chicago along with their biological son, Christian. "I always knew that I was adopted," Annie says, "but that never changed my attitudes toward my parents or my brother Christian. They are my family and always will be." But as Annie got older, she felt an increasing desire to uncover her roots. "Curiosity motivated me," Annie says. "I love my family dearly, and nothing in my home life drove me to find my birth mother. I just got sick of continually wondering." So when Annie turned 16, she decided to try to contact her biological parents. ByIllinois state law, however, no identify­ing information can be released about an adopted person's biological parents until the adoptee is 18 years old. In an attempt to expedite her search, Annie sent several letters to Catholic Charities that were then put in a file viewable by her biologi­cal parents in case they ever wanted to contact her through the adoption agency. Her birthparents never responded to her attempts ----, which crushed Annie -and she deferred her search for two years, when she could legally search for her par­ents. As itturns out, her biological mother contacted Catholic Charities in 2001 and asked to see the items in Annie's file, but for a reason still unknown to Annie and her biological mother, Annie's letters were not passed on. 

Upon turning 18, Annie registered herself with an online adoption locator and hoped that her mother or father would someday attempt to search for her. She posted some information about herself -including her name at birth, her birthplace and her birthdate -along with the few pieces of "non-identifying" information she had about her biological mother, including her first name, her age when Annie was born, and the fact that she is left-handed. The effort seemed fu­tile, as three years passed with no word from her parents. 
However, on this past Halloween night, Annie finally was able to put an end to her curiosity. Annie was watching television in her dorm when her cell phone rang. "When I answered it, the person on the other line asked for Anastasia. I was so confused. No one calls me Anastasia," Annie says. "Then she said her name was Donna, and that she was my birth mother. I was absolutely . . . flabbergasted. I just couldn't believe that this was really hap­pening. The moment was truly surreal." 
The next day, Annie found herself driv­ing to Highland, Ind. -located about four miles from the Illinois border on the Indiana Toll Road -in a complete daze as she prepared to meet her biological mother. As Annie pulled into the drive­way, Donna rushed to her from her chair on the front porch. 
"Neither of us could contain our emotions," Annie says. "We had such an incredible connection from the first moment. It felt like we hugged for an eternity." That day, Annie and Donna began the long process of catching up on 21 years of separation, and Annie finally received answers to the questions she could only wonder about while growing up. Donna gave birth to Annie at the age of 24, during a time in her life when she was struggling with personal issues. 
Donna did not feel that she would be able to provide adequate care for her daughter. She received prenatal adoption 
LIKE MOTHER, LIKE DAUGHTER Annie Envall embraces her biological mother Donna. 
counseling through Catholic Charities, an organization which also provided Annie with temporary care for six days -the time between when she left the hospital and when she was adopted by the Envalls. 
Since then, Donna has turned her life around. She overcame her problems and has been married for 12 years. She lives with her husband and three children -Adam, 11,Jason, 9, and Bethany, 5. 
Donna was motivated to find her daughter after her children saw a TV commercial about abused adoptees. They began to pressure their mother to locate their older sister -who they knew had been adopted-for fear that she was fac­ing something similar. 
The day before Halloween, Donna went online and searched the adoption locator Web sites. She entered everything she knew about her first child, and Annie came up as the only match. By the time Adam,Jason and Bethany returned home from trick-or-treating the following night, their older sister had been located and was coming over the next day. 
"Donna made the right choice," Annie says, "I am so grateful to her for opening up my opportunities and potential by giv­ing me to the Envalls." 
As for Joanne and Dave Envall, they could not be happier with Annie and Donna's reunion. With a smile, Annie says, "They know I have wanted this for­ever. They gave me my identity and will continue to be there as I piece together the rest of my life." q 
Although the holidays are quickly approaching, there are few gifts -if any -that could be more meaningful to Annie than the one she has already received. 
"I never felt like I was missing out," she says, "but now that Donna ... found me, I feel so much more complete." D 
2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 
CA 


Greetings once more, my devoted friends. The Gipper was as shocked as the rest of the country to hear about the firing of our head football coach. Yours truly considered crafting an in-depth analysis of the decision, but, as it turns out, the "real" journalists of this magazine ~i~-~~~t. !nJtead,_I~l:!~i~~d_to giye m1r res_i~ent ~ages of pigs~in travels a send-off in_true Gipper fash_iC>n. ~ett_h~ d_irt-slinging begin ... 
Now that is one defensive coordinator 
While making the rounds through his favorite all-ages Web sites, Gipp happened upon a particular destination that held quite a juicy rumor for all to see -full ofintrigue, deception and, possibly, stifled romance. As it would seem -and Gipp must stress that this has not been verified -at some point last month an interested devotee of the traveling tackle football team left a discontented voice message with a certain Irish assistant-we'll call him Kent B. -suggesting that the coordinator was not exactly waking up the echoes, nor shaking down any thunder. Unfortunately, it turns out that our caller reached Coach B. on a bad day. In fact, you could say that the coach's day had been the absolute Pitts. In any case, later that evening, Coach B. returned this concerned fan's call and, in no uncertain terms, challenged his manhood in a manner worthy of Errol Flynn. Being somewhat put off by this, the fan in question brought the conversation to an abrupt end. Coach B., assuming a bad connection, attempted to call back. But he was betrayed by caller ID, and his number was declined. Later that evening, however, this suddenly very popular fan received a call from a different, unknown number. Curious, he answered, only to find himself verbally accosted once more by Coach B. Ifonly some of that craftiness had made its way into the pigskin gameplan ... 

Bookstore blunder 

Marketing majors tell Gipp that the usually wonderful folks at the ND bookstore recently sent out a flyer announcing a staff and faculty "appreciation sale." Headlining the flyer was a quote from President John F. Kennedy, who was assassinated in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, nearly 41 years to the day from the much publicized bookstore sale. You'd think the university would have a little more class than to even appear to be celebrating the death of our only Catholic president. 

Bringing the roommate relationship to the next level 
Gipp has it on reliable information that two Keenanite roommates recently had a night to remember. What started out as a pleasant evening ofhaving a drink or two as gentlemen, quickly devolved into a bout ofrugged heterosexual wrestling. Gipp isn't sure whether the animosity escalated or dissipated from this point, though. All he can be sure ofis that the next morning there was an exhausted Notre Dame man sporting two hickeys courtesy ofhis roommate. 

Paging T.O. and a Sharpie 

Gipp hears that a couple ofWednesdays ago some LaFortune loiter­ers were wondering the identity of the middle-aged woman who was shepherding a certain sophomore star football player through the grease-soaked student center. As the duo left Sbarra, our unidenti­fied babysitter blocked an attempt by a lady who wanted the signal caller's John Hancock for her young child. Our tight-lipped thrower said nothing as his chaperone shouted, "We're late for a meeting!" and hustled him away, while onlookers were left shaking their heads. Now, Gipp isn't always one for manners, but -given the wild week our football team had been through -we need all the fans we can get. Gipp thinks this gal needs a crash course in the niceties ofND etiquette. (And to our player, how about an audible here -"This will only take 10 seconds off the play clock.") 
-> And now, in the constest of Best Stat Line ofthe Week, we have USC QB Matt Leinart (24/34, 400 yards and 5 touchdowns) vs. Lafortune Thieves (5 bar stools, I couch and 2 marble­top tables). 
--> In regards to the above, Gipp doesn't know what is stranger: the fact that two marble-top tables have been stolen so far this year, or the fact that one of the higher-ups thought to furnish Sbarro with two marble-top tables so drunk kids can enjoy greasy pizza on them. · 
-> Gipp Career Achievement Award goes to Carlyle Holiday -a great athlete and a class act. No wonder Madonna wrote an entire song about him. 

No campus for you 
One ND girl will have an extra seat at graduation come spring, thanks to a visiting pal. At a recent home game, our Darner's friend (from another school) knocked back a few too many Bacardi Breezers and walked ... er, stumbled ... away from the stadium at halftime as ·the proud owner of a ticket for public intoxication from NDSP. But the loving embrace ofOµr Lady, ever hospitable and welcoming to campus guests, didn't stop there. When our out-of-town friend returned to her own place of higher education, she was greeted by the following love letter at the post office: 
"Dear Ms. Public Intox, 

Based on a report by the security police department, it has been determined that your presence on the grounds of the University of Notre Dame can no longer be permitted. Your entry upon university property will be subject to arrest for criminal trespassing and viola­tion of criminal code." · 
Just a tad harsh. Now, the Gipp could -be mistaken, but isn't that also the same punishment dealt to students expelled from the university for alleged felonies? 
Well, that's all for now, my friends. Gipp wishes each ancfevery one ofyou a happy holiday season, and ifSanta ends up putting you on the naughty list, don't fret. just make a point of finding out why and then tip the Gipp. 

16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 
2 DECEMBER 2004 





HUDDLEMart 

FOOD 


NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 



PRESENTE Students raise crosses which bear names of men and women killed by SOA graduates. 



Protesting for Peace 
LAURENWILCOX 
Agroup of Notre Dame students stand en masse, raising white crosses and yelling "presente" -meaning "we are here, present" -in unison with thousands of others at the annual protest of the School of the Americas, a military training camp in Georgia. The group of60 Notre Dame students drove 15 hours to Fort Benning, Ga., joining more than 16,000 other protest­ers marching at the gates ofthe Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Co­operation (WHISC), formerly known as the School of the Americas (SOA). 

Students protest to shut down a military school accused of facilitating human rights abuses 
The yearly protest calls for the closure of what is now the WHISC, a facility that provides trainees with highly spe­cialized militaristic skills that protesters feel are later used to violate human rights in Latin American countries. OnJan. 17, 2001, legislation changed the former SOA into the WHISC -a result ofa proposal by the Department of Defense included in the 2004 Defense Authorization Bill. Under this bill, the SOA was required to amend some of its former practices, such as teaching trainees methods of torture and coercion. However, some Notre Dame students believe that the WHISC -a U.S. government funded military academy run by the Army that trains soldiers and military personnel from Latin American countries in coun­ter-insurgency, infantry tactics, military intelligence, and counter-narcotics and commando operations -is a continua­tion of the SOA under a different name. "All they really did was change some of the course requirements and rewrite part of their visionary statement. They haven't been able to prove to the public that they have actually changed," junior Alice Pennington says. It is for this reason that protesters-join in a solemn procession 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 2 DECEMBER 2004 


----------------------flj@~gt!1.l:.\l~;~gr;am11aJly.r.il.j LI_F EJ----'------------------------, 
in memory of the victims who have suf­fered human rights abuses at the hands of WHISC graduates. 
The annual protest -which also is coupled with a Mass -was created by the Rev. Roy Bourgeois, a Maryknoll priest, in 1990 as a response to the Nov. 16, 1989 murders of a housekeeper, her daughter and six Jesuits priests in El Salvador by SOA graduates. Bourgeois also founded the SOA Watch -an organization that sponsors vigils and fasts, demonstrations and nonviolent protests, as well as media and legislative work -all in an effort to pressure the government to close the former SOA. 
In support of Bourgeois and the mes­sage behind his efforts, Notre Dame organizes a group of students to partici­pate in the annual protest. They receive sponsorship from a variety of campus organizations, including the Center for Social Concerns, the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Center for Civil and H1~man Rights in the Law School, the Institute for Latino Studies and Amnesty International. 
The CSC has become the "home" de­partment for the trip, guiding the student leaders in the planning of the pre-and post-trip educational sessions, and also sponsoring the vehicles, says Rachel To­mas Morgan, director of Peace and Justice Education, who oversees the trip. 
This year, the group of Notre Dame participants left campus on Fri, Nov. 19. They arrived in Fort Benning early Sat­urday morning in time to attend the all-day protest which featured a parade and music, as well as speeches by celebrities Susan Sarandon and Martin Sheen. 

"Saturday is a free spirit, fun, setting-the-stage thing," Pennington says. "You walk down a long street with hundreds of tables about every possible cause you can ever think of." 
On Saturday night, the group attended a Jesuit-community Mass, which was "very moving ... they pay a lot of respect to the martyrs," Pennington says. After the Mass, the stuqents headed to the Koinonia farm, a Catholic Worker farm outside of Fort Benning -where they spend the Saturday night of the protest every year. 
On the Sunday of the weekend-long event, a vigil is held to commemorate those killed by WHISC graduates. Par­ticipants line up on one side of the street in rows of 10, holding white crosses. Staged over the course of four hours, each line slowly approaches the gate that bars entrance to the school with the crosses, which represent the victims of human rights abuses perpetrated by graduates. 
"The procession was truly a time of grief and mourning for me, but also a way to physically show my disapproval of my government's foreign policy," senior Dana Stovall says. 
Each cross bears the name of a man or woman killed by a graduate of the WHISC. As a part of the protest, mu­sicians sing out the name of the victim written on a cross, at which point the protestor holding the cross that bears that name, raises it up, and the crowd 
responds, "Presente!" to

h."-.."·,. 
demonstrate the victim's

h."'-. '· 
' 
~•. ", presence . 

. 1,1~i~ •~ l Pennington was moved by the experience. "Many 

-~ ~~h· ­
people personally affected 

~~~1~1c ·~1~~ 
by the murders leavesome­

~; .. ~~ ~b 
~:i· ~ thing in remembrance of the people who died on the gate. At the end of the day, the gate is covered in pictures and drawings and poems and blankets and flowers," she says. 
Eyery year, arrests take place when protestors de­cide to cross "the line" -a wall and a gate that separate the school from the protest. 

CROSSING THE LINE C:_rosses are placed by protesters into the 
Some trespassers have been 
outdoor fence of the SOA. 
detained, but no Notre Dame students have been arrested. 


"We talk a lot before we go and we tell everyone ahead of time if you want to take civil disobedience, you need to think about it a long period of time. You need to have a lot of reasons and thoughts, and we don't encourage people to do it," Pennington says. 
The Notre Dame participants value the experience despite their anger at the academy's continued existence. "This is my fourth year attending the protest, and I feel like it is becoming more frustrating that the school is still open, given the strength of the protest," junior Jamie Kralovec says. The protest, however, is not ineffectual. A bill to close down the WHISC is continually up for consideration in the Armed Services ap­propriations bills, and it tends to get more attention following the annual protest. "It shows that grass roots movements do have some effect because -since this protest has taken place -more senators have voted for the bill to get rid ofthe school," says sophomore Deanna Garcia, a trip or­ganizer. Additionally, individual students benefit personally from partaking in the protests. "The experience was very much spiritual and fulfilling," Kralovec says. 
Sophomore Aine Richards, one of the Notre Dame trip organizers, says that college is the best time to participate in such a protest. "We are the young and idealistic people of the world," she says. "This is one thing we can do -it's really such a small thing-a 15 hour drive and $30 dollars." 
As senior Dana Stovall says, "It is our responsibility to use the voice we have here as democrats." The good of democracy, she feels, is in each individual citizen's hands, and that is why she participates in the demonstration against the SOA. "I have a strong belief in the protest." . 
2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 



· Blow Through the Windy City 
SCHOLASTIC .. 


$11,fiaL 
PHOTOS BY PHIL HALL 


Old College may not have the beach ... but it sure has the Son. 
ANNAO'CONNOR 
As one of the oldest buildings on campus -built in 1843 by the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. -Old College houses only seven stu­dents, remaining shrouded with mystery for the rest of the Notre Dame student population. Old College is home to Notre Dame students wlio are considering the priest­hood. The young men live together in order to . build community and to assist them in deciding whether or not to pursue a religious vocation. "A lot of people pon't really know what we are about," says Brad Tucker, a second-year Old Collegian. "We're not priests yet, but sometimes people think they have to act different around us," he adds with a laugh. Seven students call Old College home this year, but the number fluctuates from year to year, depending on the level ofin­terest from prospective seminarians. The house can hold as many as 21 students; First-year Old Collegians live in dou­bles, while returning students are given their own rooms. The young men attend Mass daily and pray together several times ,a week. 

They also cook meals together on Monday nights -with varying degrees of success. According to first-year Old Collegian Brian Ching, "Sometimes it turns out really good, but sometimes not so good." 
Living in OId College is similar to dorm life in many ways, but there are some dif­ferences in rules and procedures. At Old College, women are not allowed in the bedrooms at any time and must remain in one of the two social spaces, located on the main floor and in the basement. Parietals begin at 11 p.m. on weekdays and at 1 a.m. on the weekends. Ifany stu­dents intend to sleep anywhere other than Old College for a night, they must notify the 
Rev. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., ·· ~SoPPo/d' J ROTC " as Tucker calls it
{_$,~r.••,•, ~-' ' ' 
director of Old College. ';g\., ': , ~ut many of ~he guys who Although the living situa­
...., :;~;\ ', live the~e lo~e 1t. tion of the men of Old Col­'.,, \"'o',;t,t · "I thmk it's the perfect lege may be very different place for me," he says. "The than that of the average dorms seem to have a lot of Notre Dame student, they go talking and not enough lis­through many of the same col­tening. There's more listen­lege experiences as everyone ing here." . · else. "Some people are trying to figure out their majors," Tucker says. One ofthe few differences for Old Collegians is that, according to Tucker, "We are trying to figure out if this is the life for us." 
Ifa student decides to pursue a religious vocation, the Old Collegian will spend three years living in Old College before moving in to the Moreau Seminary for his senior year. After graduation, the student goes on a one-year Novitiate, or 
· "boot camp for priests," which serves as a time for intense prayer and reflection. He then will return for three years of graduate study and a one-year Pastoral internship -a total of nine years from 
start to finish. ~ .• , , The Old College program .·:/•,<</.·~ "> is tough, like "religious 
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
2 DECEMBER.2004 


2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 






ENT!EJRTAUNMENT 


Bouncin' with 
***** 
-CDREVIEW
The Black Keys 

PAULSTEINLE 
It's the summer of 2003. I'm with a friend at Record Exchange in Akron, Ohio, staring at a copy ofthe Stooges' latest CD. Aside from that one Iggy Pop track on the Trainspotting soundtrack, my friend has never heard ofthem. I'm not really concerned with what he buys and step backward to walk away when I see Pat Carney -drummer for the little-known Black Keys. He's wearing hipster glasses, donning greasy hair and has Muppet-like limbs. I barely manage to get out, "Black Keys?" Carney says, 
"Yeah?" I grab his hand and shake it, stammering, "Uh .. ~ do you like the Stooges?" 
The Black Keys is a blues-playing duo from Akron. Dan Auerbach's vocals and guitar-playing complement Carney's drumming. The image of Black Keys is more honest than most bands, and by honest, I mean raw. Their music is dis­torted and dirty. They have no hidden agenda and play extremely pure, driven music, without any polishing. 
I get tired of labeling them "blues" because it is such a limited definition and they are so much more. Listeners should keep an open mind. Sometimes Carney seems to think he's audition­ing for the Ramones. And sometimes Auerbach seems to decide that Pete Townsh­end didn't bleed enough when he played guitar. 
Their newest CD, Rubber Fac­tory, features such standout ex­amples of their blues/rock fusion as the songs "10 AM Automatic," 

"Girl On My Mind," and "Desperate Man." Encapsulated in each song are pain and resolution. But this music is not nostalgic; it is not reinterpretation; it is assembly-line production .of open 
Not quite Venice, but the gelato's good 
JESSICAWHITE Most students have been to, or at least heard of, Lula's Cafe -located at the crossroads of Edison Road and State Route 23 -the coffee shop where the Creative Writ­ing Program stages its graduate student readings and where java-junkies go for a reprieve from the Starbucks monopoly on campus. But few have realized that on the opposite corner ofthe same inter­section, Caffe Amalia provides a similar off-campus coffee shop experience, but with an Italian atmosphere. Upon walking into the small, single-room cafe, a large mural stands out, depicting gondolas parked along a watery canal with one ofVenice's many famous cathedrals in the background. The mural gives patrons the impression that they are looking out the window of an actual Venetian cafe at the daily life of old, romantic Italy. 
The room is clean and cozy, filled with a cluster ofwhite-clothed tables. Green plants and geometric designs enliven the room, and Italian phrases ofgood health and cheer adorn the walls. To the left of the counter where customers order, a musical. wounds. This album is a solid piece ofwork. 
That day last year, on Carney's ad­vice, myfriend bought the Stooges' Raw Power. Ofit, Carney said: "The Stooges really tightened up their songs by this point and tried to capture the sound on tape. The drums are mixed way down in the mix, and Iggy's voice \ just erupts over top ... \ It's great; everything \ works together ... a lot .,. oftension." Exploding vocals? A lot oftension? 
Everything works together? Not that The Black Keys would know any­thing about that. Or would they? 
Listen to Paul Steinle and DJ Biggs Thurs­days from 12 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
http://wvfi.nd.edu. 
***** 
dessert display attracts hungry eyes with the delights of cakes, candy and gelato. Ifyou'd like to order a sit-down meal, a 
. server will bring your food to the table of your choosing. Drinks are available for dine-in or take-out. 
Caffe Amalia -which offers entrees for breakfast, lunch and dinner, as well as specialty desserts and espresso bever­ages-brings the hallmarks ofa Vene­tian cafe to South Bend. For breakfast, sample i fruit smoothie or a tall glass of the frothy, sweet, spiced chai tea, perfect for cold winter mornings. 

24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
2 DECEMBER 2004 

---------------,------___:ij:!li:f!it!§iii]#:I![e~l!!.:.1$-iiiii!C!l@ENil;RTAINMENTJ----------------------, 

Laugh and dance 'til you drop 
Nothing to do on a Friday night? Then sit back and laugh un­controllablywith your best friends before hitting the dance floor and grooving to your favorite songs. Check out the convivial atmosphere thatwill fill Legends on Fri, Dec. 3 at 10 p.m., when comedianTonyTone debuts his young, fresh and hilarious new act. Tone has performed in 14 states and is reputed to be on the 
. cutting edge of comedy. After enjoying Tone's jokes and his 
· masterful talent for impressions, stick around for the late-night club scene .. For those who are 21, every Friday night Legends brings you "Frosty & Foster's Fridays," featuring $3.25 frozen Long Island Iced Teas and White Russians. 

VACOto ND 
On Sat, Dec. 4 at 10 p.m., Virginia Coalition (VACO) comes to campus. This four-man band features the layered and tex­tured music characteristic ofthe DC-area. Their music blends rock, soul, hip-hop, R&B and bluegrass, creating a sound that transcends musical barriers. Come to Legends to enjoy VACO's show, which has been said to showcase a deluge of energy that takes listeners on a journey through the evolution of music. 

Shopping in Chicago 
The holidays are right around the corner. Haven't you found 
·the time to buy gifts for your family and friends? FlipSide has your back. FlipSide is sponsoring a trip to Chicago on Sat, Dec. 4, giving you a chance to do some last-minute present shop­ping and have fun in the city before the hectic last days ofthe semester. Rides will be arranged to drop you off and pick you up, allowing you to spend the day as you please (see article on page 26 for some ideas). Total cost and times ofdeparture and return on Saturday have yet to be announced; keep an eye outfor posters, or check out www.nd.edu/ Nflipside/index.htm for updates. 
Howard HALLiday brings joy to underprivileged 

children 

Whatbetter way is there to begin theholidays thanby decorating 
Christmas trees and shopping for toys? Come support the 
underprivileged during the holiday season on Thu, Dec. 2, 
from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m., in the courtyard between LaFortune 
and Hayes-Healy, where Howard Hallwillbehosting its annual 
HowardHALLidayextravaganza, featuring a Toys for Tots drive. 
Other activities include a Christmas tree decorating contest, a 
marshmallow roast and a concert performed by Harmonia to 
help warm holiday spirits. Prizes will be awarded to the dorm 
that collects the most toys and the dorm that decorates the 
best tree. 


Enjoy a Christmas brass ensemble 
The music of Empire Brass -an award-winning quintet composed ofaccomplished musicians from around the United States -is the perfect remedy for any humbug. The group will be performing a Christmas concert on DP.c. 10 at 8 p.m. in the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, featuring Christmas songs ofpast and present. Student tickets are $15 and can be purchased in the PAC or by calling (574)631-2800. Visit www.empirebrass.com to learn more about the group. 

Jackie 0. makes a Midwest appearance 
The Field Museum in Chicago will be hosting the exhibit "Jac­queline Kennedy: The White House Years" from now through May8. Ifyou're planning to visit Chicago this school year, stop byto see over 70 ofher garments, along with photos, documents and film clips of one ofAmerica's most intriguing and stylized First Ladies. Visit www.fieldmuseum.org for details and ticket 
information. 
-Compiled by Sarah Barrett 

For lunch and dinner, the menu has light and satisfying meal options, includ­ing paninis, wraps, soups and antipasto. Try the classico panini, dripping with mozzarella cheese, salami, sausage and a tangy Italian dressing, coupled with ei­ther the creamy potato soup or the zesty vegetarian vegetable broth. 

For dessert, one of the luscious-look­ing chocolate cakes or cheesecakes that fills the display window may provide an enticing treat. But Italy's trademark temp­tation is, of course, gelato. Caffe Amalia delivers with an array offlavors, from va­nilla and chocolate to fresh strawberry, apple pie and pistachio. Though not as heavenly as the gelato you may consume while in Europe, Caffe Amalia still serves a smooth, rich treat and a tasty alternative to the everyday ice cream found in South Dining Hall. 
Caffe Amalia attracts a mellow breed of clientele and is a great place for an intimate lunch with a friend or a quiet place to study. Prices are comparable to food court dining at the University Park Mall. But why bother with the hustle and bustle ofa shopping center when you can head to Caffe Amalia, a comfortable and tranquil coffee shop experience that is within walking distance ofcampus? . 
i6-'.~.0\Solith BendAvenu~:f: :.Phqrie:{574)289.:6666 · ... \:.: . Prices for enirees: $5.50 ~$8.00. .Qei~fo: $1.99 for a singlescoop/. · $2.99for two, $3.99for three: > 
" ·;'. ' . ·: .. ···. ,, ;· 

2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 


_BETH MURPHY 

.·. '. ·, -:.\_.''::. ;.I> ,: -;\ lt.}•"Jhen: ·....·...·. on1rres· ,bfSoiit::
··• :, ;s 
.\t', Vi~6;4oh';w§~#!Msi,~:, 

. .·• ;Linean.dspe11da,·dayi11<Jh~cago;C~f!st·· 
.,re,f•:•; ,:zi\lllt~iflii()i,,0 



·•·\\\:~;iiii,!~~i;rf~;;!~:]··•l·S: 
'. : :i. 
bet~e~n ·Raridolph a~~ Washington·-.  '_·  
~~~~-~~~-~~~~-~~=-=:~---.streets--~-where-the.display-windows.are~  :  
decorated with holiday cheer. The depart­ 
ment store's windows, which wrap around  
the building, are decorated each year with  
a literary theme that tells a story, all the  
while promoting the store's merchandise.  
Past years' displays include Charlie and the  
Chocolate Factory and Harry Potter. This  
year's theme is Snow White and the Seven  
Dwarves.  
Young and old alike gather outside the  
department store and travel from window  
to window as they read various excerpts  
about the fair-skinned maiden. Mothers  
can be seen crouching down and reading  
the stories aloud to their children.  
The images, however, speak for them­ 
selves. In one window, Snow White is  
fashionably clad in an exquisite lavender  
dress, daintily holding a violet Louis Vuit­ 
ton handbag. In another window her faith­ 
ful dwarves are equally stylish, frolicking  
through the forest wearing small versions  
of camel-colored Ugg boots. It's fun to  
watch the story-portrayed in beautiful  
· scenes -as it unfolds around the building.  

The Magnificent Mile 
Once you've checked out Marshall Field's, take a trip up the Magnificent Mile, aka Michigan Avenue. Illuminated trees line this shop-a-holic's haven, and even the subway stops are aglow with festivity. Plastic reindeer gallop mid-flight above subway entrances, and various other holiday decorations adorn every lamppost. Street musicians seem to be on almost every corner, belting out tunes like "Jingle Bells" on their saxophones. The holiday spirit is simply everywhere, and walking around town is enough to send shivers down your spine -if the gusty Chicago winds haven't done· so already, that is. When 
2 DECEMBER 2004 

you reach the Water Tower shopping center, stop by Ghirardelli's chocolate shop for a rich, warm cup of hot cocoa. 
Chicago Holiday Tree 
Last week marked Chicago's 91st an­nual Tree Lighting Ceremony at Daley Plaza (formerly known as Civic Center Plaza). The city's "holiday tree" measures 85 feet tall and glitters with red, green and gold lights. With a tree ofsuch mag­nitude, one can only hope for some sub­stantial gifts to be stashed underneath it. 

Millennium Park 
Continue to sip on your hot cocoa while taking a stroll through Millen ­nium Park, which opened this past sum­mer after several years ofplanning. This 24.5-acre parkis brimming with modern art, stunning architecture and an outdoor ice-skating rink. SBC Plaza is the first place you should go. There you'll find a 110-ton elliptical structure called the "Cloud Gate," designed by the British art­ist Anish Kapoor. This structure, one of the park's biggest attractions, is intended for public interaction; people literally can walk through and around its design. 
Just in front ofthe Kapoor structure is a balcony that overlooks what recently was turned into an outdoor ice-skating rink for the holiday season. Crowds ofpeople can be found resting here, watching the skaters as they glide across the ice. Ifyou want to join in on the fun, head down to the McCormick-Tribune Ice Rink, where skate rentals are only $7. The rinkis open every day from 10 a.m. until 10 p.m. 

Theater and Concert Events 
Ifyou ':ant to get off of your feet for a while, check out one of Chicago's sev­eral theatrical performances. Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol" is play­ing at the Goodman Theatre through Dec. 26. This timeless tale is perfect for the season, and ticket prices range from $30 to $50. (www.goodman-theatre.org) 
The Chicago Theater also is hosting some stellar performances this month, including a show by the Barenaked La­dies on Dec. 14, who are currently on their "Barenaked for the Holidays" tour. American Idol runner-up Clay Aiken also will be there belting out holiday tunes on Dec. 20. (Go to www.ticketmaster.com for tickets.) 


Museum Madness 
Visiting one or two of Chicago's many museums can be a day trip in itself. The Field Museum of Natural History hosts a formidable Ancient Egyptian exhibit, as well as the current, much-publicized, Jackie Kennedy exhibit (see page 25). The museum also houses Sue, the largest and most complete Tyrannosaurus Rex ever discovered. (www.fieldmuseum.org) 
Right next door, fish lovers can visit the Shedd Aquarium to see a wide array of sea creatures from around the world. They are grouped into such re-created environments as the waters of the Ama­zon, Pacific Northwest and Caribbean. The large Oceanarium amphitheatre periodically hosts a marine mammal show featuring dolphins and whales. 
(www.sheddaquarizmz.org) 
The Museum of Science and Industry is another popular institution, and it has a special seasonal exhibit on Christmas customs and celebrations from around the world. Other exhibits include an explor­a model railro ~o Seattle; (w ; The. Shed 1vlriseuin are· 
I . .· . 
!Avenue by ta 
l . . , -. 
fTheSoi.IthS !57thStreet

I., .. 
ncirthehtra ,andindust 
: 

2 DECEMBER 2004 




Tomorrow's Music Today 
Chicago's Metro showcases rising stars 
DANAERGAS & KATIEGALEONE 
If you've stopped by Metro -one of 
Chicago's most storied music venues 
-lately, you've been lucky enough to hear such rising bands as The F-Ups, Big D and the Kids Table, Go Betty Go, and The Voodoo Glow Skulls. Never heard of them? Let's put it this way: Ifyou had been going to Metro for concerts a few years ago, you would have been listening to formerly little-known bands like The White Stripes and The Get Up Kids. Still not convinced Metro has an "in" to musical newcomers? The Flaming Lips, Nirvana and Radiohead are only three on a long list of groups who made sure Metro was a stop on their initial tour and eventual ascent to commercial suc­cess. Sold? 
Metro's motto ofbringing fans "tomor­row's music today" started in 1982, when its staff booked a little known band from Athens, Ga., called R.E.M. The rest is Billboard chart history. The same fate may lie ahead for some of the bands cur­rently playing at Metro. 
Metro is a haven for underground music junkies, where there is no such thing as a bad seat -everyone is on their feet. Those whose ideal concert­going experience invovles being on their feet, thrashing to the music, and being right up against the stage will feel right at home. With a constantly shift­ing schedule, Metro's lineup is anything but pedestrian. Whether you like reg­gae, punk, emo or anything in-between, Metro's got it all. 
When Scholastic visted Metro, The F-Ups, Big D and the Kids Table,· Go Betty Go, and The Voodoo Glow Skulls were all on the bill, with nary a pompous 
rock star in sight. The bands set up, tune 
and break down their own equipment. 
There weren't any techies from a hired 
road crew. There weren't entourages or 
publicity flacks in action; in fact, it's much 
more likely that you'll buy the CD ofthe 
band you just heard from the guy you 
just heard singing. The barrier that you 
encounter all too often at conventional 
concerts is nonexistent. The only way to 
be closer to the music is to actually be 
part of the band. · 
Right away, it was clear this was going 
to be anything buta sit-down concert. Big 
D and the Kids Table's lead singer trusted 
the crowd to keep him from accidentally 
nose-diving off the wobbly partition he 
was crooning on. One Big D fan even 
nab bed the chance to belt out the lyrics to 
asong-on the lead singer's mic. Midway 
through Go Betty Go's set, some stage 
equipment fell over, just barely missing 

their drummer. But the show must go on -and Go Betty Go hardly flinched. The band joked about it momentarily, then ripped into their next song. After The F -Ups' show, their drummer handed out drumsticks and set-lists to some concert­goers, chatting with them the whole time. Each band was overflowing with thanks · to their fans for the support. 
The venue's structure is integral to ere-



ating the intimate shows for which Metro is famous. Metro's main floor, where the stage is located, is a level, open space -perfect for throngs of fans to pack to­gether and dance during the sets. Ifyou need a breather, head up to the balcony 
-which offers great acoustics, cocktail tables and a better view ofthe band. And for the of-age concert-goers, both levels boast bars. While at first glance the ar­chitecture at first glance is more befitting of.an opera house, it is that aesthetic that makes Metro a unique venue. 
Metro's location is not bad, either; it is just two blocks north of Wrigley Field, nestled in-between a row ofcozy restau­rants and hopping bars. You can catch an early show -which usually begins around 6:30 p.m. (CST) -and sample the surrounding nightlife afterwards. Or, wander around the city during the day and then head over to the Metro for a 9 p.m. show. So take the chance -the featured band might just be gracing the cover of Rolling Stone before you know it. 
For more information, check out Metro's Web site http://www.metrochicago.com. Ticket prices usually range front $10 to $35. 

28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 

-----------------------[7JsJ}ilc:iC'.";:~ft":·op1NIC>N··;___________________---, 
' '. , ,• C i 
The Case fOr Fervor 
Why it's OK to be angry about politics 

ROQUESTREW 

are not mere irrational outpourings, she says, but are instead "intelligent responses to the perception of value." They come from judgments made about people and events and objects that, while beyond our control, remain important and hence "part and parcel of the system of ethical reasoning." Emotions such as love and anger and grief are tightly knit to mo­rality. Plato argued that emotions form a part ofthe soul distinct from thought, moving from skepticism oftheir value to morality to a more positive view. Aristotle linked emotions closely with judgment and belief, arguing they can be cultivated through moral education to help compose a virtuous character. Put another 
way, in the right doses, they form a healthy facet of ethical living. 

The Stoics have been winning the war against emotion, however. Under the spell of German Romanticism, Nietzsche, in the Birth of Tragedy, offered an unorthodox vision of Greek culture. Agreeing with Schopenhauer, he be­lieved that at the heart of all creativity 
-even reality itself -lay non-rational forces. These forces fell under what Ni­etzsche termed "Dionysian" energy, wild and amoral, as opposed to "Apollonian" energy, sober and ordered. Nietzsche mourned the slow eclipse in Western culture of healthy Dionysian energy by stifling Apollonian energy. The eclipse is almost total: The back­slide into an Apollonian abyss proceeds. Hope lies in a revival ofDionysian energy in America, of rich expression, of fervor. We have a right to strong emotions. In particular, we have a right to be angry. There exists a constructive species of anger that one might call "intelligent an­ger"-passion with direction, tempered, but not thwarted by reason, which stirs us to action and activism. Injustice is legion. The horror of the status quo, a world of widening chasms, sparks intelligent anger. The vision ofa just world, a world without chasms, sustains it. . 
Calm is king. Nowadays everyone worships in public at the altar of equanimity. It has gone too far: 
We have coached automata for politicians and stage-managed recitations for politi­cal debates. Feelings, especially strong ones, are verboten. 
Under President Bush's leader­ship, however, strong feelings have returned to the fore. Before he even set foot in the White House con­servatives -dead to irony -laid into liberals for their so-called politics of rage and hate and sneer. The avalanche of vit­riol issuing from the left, they say, is unacceptable. They are wrong. 
I want to make the case for fervor. Defending the pow­erful emotions that we feel -from alienation and fury to hope and love 
-shouldn't be necessary, but it is. To ask us to water down our passions, to enfold everything within calm argument, is to ask us to surrender much ofthe discourse. This would imply that, for instance, the dejection and ire of the Democrats lacks validity, that the only legitimate discourse must be frigidly academic, detached and hyper-logical, individualistic to a fault. 
Barring passion from the discourse brings many problems. First, it reaches the heights of Beltway hypocrisy: Either side, Republican or Democrat, will cry foul if it wins votes. Second, it breathes new life into sexist ideals: Stubborn Atomic Age values link emotion with femininity. Third, it mistakenly writes off emotion's value to ethical thinking. 
In two-party politics, accusation is an art. Both parties have mastered it. The fantasy is that one side plays fair and the other side plays dirty. The reality is that one side plays dirty and the other side plays dirtier, alternately. Anger fuels both sides equally. If decrying the enemy's 
tactics as beyond the pale, yoked to ugly emotions, helps gain Senate seats, then that is all that matters. Democrats and Republicans are equally comfortable in attack mode. The case of Howard Dean vividly showed the widespread hostility to emotion. At a rally, 
heaven forbid, the man emptied his lungs of a cathartic, pre-logical yawp. Within hours, the press was all but fastening the buckles on his straitjacket. Headlines proclaimed breakdown. In to­day's political theater, when the dramatis personae are mostly male, this all smacks 
ofsexism. You know the cultural routine: Men have to be Gary Cooper, emotion betrays weakness, and weakness is wom­anly. This old syllogism should be extinct by now: Sexism equals anachronism. 
Gary Cooper's followers are sort of dime-store Stoics (or Kantians, or Chris­tians). They see emotion as reason's ene­my, the former subverting and disrupting the latter. Emotion, to this crowd, arises from parochial needs and interests. It follows in this tradition that the good life is lived above this plane, free of the worldly realities ofaccident, pain and de­sire. For Martha Nussbaum, a renowned philosopher at the University of Chicago, this tradition fails to appreciate the value of emotion to thought. Strong emotions 
2 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 29 

The firing ofWillingham left a num­ber of questions unanswered, with the biggest being, "Who is going to coach the Fighting Irish next year?" I agree with most analysts who believe that No. 6 Utah's Urban Meyer is going to be coaching Notre Dame next year. Meyer was an assistant coach for five seasons at Notre Dame under Davie and Lou Holtz and has high opinions of the program. "[Notre Dame] truly is one of the great places," Meyer told ESPN.com in September. "It's college football in its truest form. It's true student-athletes. You can't say that about every university. Most universities can sneak guys into certain majors -and, if some of them succeed there, that can be good. But that doesn't happen at Notre Dame." Meyer's contract with the Utes has an "out clause" for three schools -Michigan, Ohio State and Notre Dame -meaning that if the head coaching position at any of these schools becomes available, Meyer is allowed to leave Utah without any fur­ther explanation. Meanwhile, Michigan's Lloyd Carr and Ohio State's Jim Tressel 
are unlikely to be exiting anytime soon, which means Notre Dame's slot is the only position that Meyer can leave for without having to pay a fine for breech of contract.Next on the list would probably be Dan Hawkins of Boise State. Hawkins recently said that, as a Catholic, Notre Dame would be the school ofhis dreams. Given Meyer's and Hawkins' successes at formerly low-profile programs, either would make a suitable replacement. Other candidates include Butch Davis, who was recently released as head coach of the Cleveland Browns, andJon Gruden, head coach of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and 
a long-time Notre Dame fanatic. 
While many Notre Dame fanatics would love to see Jon Gruden in blue and gold, this is almost entirely out of the question. Gruden is currently in. a contract with the Buccaneers that pays him an unmatchable $4 million a year. Butch Davis would be more likely to return to the state of Florida -where he previously enjoyed plenty ofcollegiate success with the Miami Hurricanes -to coach the Florida Gators. D 




STATZONE 
Christopher Meskill brings you ... 
c~~~~--'· .--. ·.. . ..... · ....~·· -.· c:::=:::= 



Who's-Next on the· 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL


Coaching Carousel? 

Football (6-5): 
On Saturday, the USC Trojans trounced the Fighting Irish 41-10, marking the third consecutive year in which the Trojans have beaten the Irish by exactly 31 points. USC's quarterbackMatt Leinart passed for a career-high 400 yards and tied the single-game record for touchdown passes against any team with five. For the Irish, sophomore Brady Quinn had 105 passing yards, moving him past Notre Dame greats Terry Han­ratty and Joe Montana into 6th place on the all-time list for total passing yards. This loss ended Notre Dame's 


30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 2 DECEMBER 2004 
"ISGl::IGl:ASTIG SPORTS': 

·· 1·R·1--s·HEYEsoN:'LAUREN 
. . • . BREWSTER 
Lauren Brewster, a junior marketing and sociology double · 
major from Brentwood,. Tenn., is one of the key defensive 
players on the Notre Dame volleyball team. She is the 
defending NCAA Division I blocking leader and is a six-time 
Big East Player ofthe Week. Brewster was named MVP of 
the Big East tournament when she helped lead the Irish to ·· 


their eighth Big East championship. 
What are your goals as you get ready for the NCAA tournament? 
One ofour goals was to win the regular season Big East, so we went in and did that. At this point, we are just taking it one step at a time. We're going to try and mix things up a little bit, and we'll be ready to play.• 
You are. highly-ranked in .many ofNotre Dame& record books.· Do ·those statistics put any additionalpressure on you asyou go into a match? 
lreally don't keep:track ofthose. I mean, when you hear about them after it happens, it is kinda nice to hear about, but I don't play for the statistics. I'm not aware what records I hold or am about to break, soit does not weigh on me too much. 
What motivates you as an athlete? 
For me, it's the girls that I play with.They are my best friends. I hate to see the disappointment on their faces and on the coaches' faces. Thatmotivates me to play. I don't like, to see them disappointed andI don't like to be disap­pointed. When we come back in a game, thatis just being competitive. We fight our way back, and that's what I enjoy. 
Wbat one word best describes you? . Focused. It is hard. to be a student,-athlete with both school and athletics. You want to achieve your goals both on and off ofthe court. It takes focus to achieve those goals. It is a lotofwork, butit is worth itifyou just focus. · 
-Bryan Lowery 


WHERE: CARY, N.C. 
WHEN: FRI., DEC 6, 4:30 P.M. EST 
I The Irish defense, anchored by the outstanding play of goalkeeper Erika Bohn, has dominated opponents in the NCAA tournament so far, allowing just one goal in three games. Notre Dame beat Santa Clara earlier this year and will do so again.The Irish win, 2-0. 
MIKEBORGIA 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
The Fighting Irish have battled past all obstacles this year, and nothing will get between them and the national championship. Junior Erika Bohn will hold Santa Clara to only one score in the semi-finals, and junior Katie Thorlakson will add two assists in a 3-1 Notre Dame victory. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
SPOKTS EDITOR 

KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Momentum The Irish come into the. match against Santa Clara with a 4-0 tournament record. Keeping the team's momentum going is of the utmost importance for Head Coach Randy Waldrum. If the Irish can manage to keep in their current mindset, they should be able to roll over any opposition. 

15-game winning streak for games played following a regular season bye week. 
Women's Soccer (23-1-1): 
After a 2-1 loss to Connecticut in the Big East final, the No. 2.Irish returned t,o _their winning ways and advanced through the first four rounds of the NCAA Tour­nament. Junior goalkeeper Erika Bohn helped her team shutout their opponents until the quarter finals, when Portland midfielder Lisa Sari managed to score a goal.Junior Ka­tie Thorlakson scored 3 goals and 5 assists during the first four rounds to help lift the Irish over Eastern Il­linois, Wisconsin, Connecticut and Portland. The Irish will face No. 4 Santa Clara on Fri, Dec. 3 in the semifinals in Cary, N.C. The game will be on ESPN2 at 4:30 EST. . 
2 DECEMBER 2004 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 31 




Speculations and lniplications 
The termination ofTy:A Sports Analysis
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 

fter Notre Dame's third consecu­tive 31-point loss to USC, many 
rish students, alumni and fans had enough ofthe Willingham Era. Outraged by continual on-field failures, a group of students scheduled a rally to demand Willingham's ousting to be held in front ofMain Building on Tuesday, only three days after the embarrassing loss. 
However, their demands were met be­fore the first oftheir cries was uttered. 
The administration and board oftrust­ees decided to relieve Tyrone Willingham ofhis head coaching responsibilities just hours before the scheduled protest. 
While many fans found Willingham's performance to be sub-par, the an­nouncement ofhis firing came as a shock to many of the Irish faithful, especially considering that the decision was made so soon after the end of the regular season. "My first reaction was shock, because I never thought it was going to happen," says Tom Mahoney, sophomore band 
member. · · The feeling was similar among many of 
Willingham's players, who were notified Tuesday before the press conference. "We were pretty much shocked," says Ambrose Wooden, sophomore cornerback. "Itcame out ofnowhere. We all got an e-mail that said the team meeting was moved to an earlier time, and just announced that they were going to fire him." 
Already there has been a great deal of speculation about the true reason for Willingham's sudden firing. Also, a number ofquestions are left unanswered as to the future of program and the re­percussions of the head coach's quick termination. · 
Speculations: Why fire him now? 

Since the decision was made so quickly, many are asking, "Why now?" After all, according to White, Willingham was never informed that his position was un­der immediate threat. In fact, many of Willingham's assistant coa,ches were away from South Bend recruiting players when they found out they had lost their jobs. 
When·asked ifWillingham ever knew 
that his job was in jeopardy, White 
responded, "I would say that Coach 
Willingham and I had not had those 
specific conversations and really waited 
[until] the end of the season to sit down 
and have kind of a program evaluation 
conversation. We began that conversation 
on Sunday." · If talks began on Sunday, why did the 
university accept the offer to play in the InsightBowl, considering that we possibly -are pulling out ofit due to the coaching situation? Something does not add up, and so many possible explanations must 
be examined to discover the truth. 

The first possibility is that Willingham realized that his status at the university was in question, and began to explore other options. Ithas been widely reported that the University ofWashington is pur­suing Willingham for its head coaching position. Several sources confirmed that Washington has expressed interest in Willingham. Also, Stanford University -where Willingham formerly served as head coach-recently fired its head coach 
32 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 02 DECEMBER 2004 
and Willingham could be a candidate there. It is a possibility that Willingham had begun to search for a new job, which could have led to a pre-emptive termina­tion by Notre Dame. ,, 
Another explanation is that the admin­istration already had been considering the termination ofWillingham, and the potential bad press the rally could create simply expedited the process. 
There are many more possibilities when considering the number of coaching candidates that are currently available to Notre Dame (see page 30). IfWillingham was fired because another coach seemed immediately available and interested, Notre Dame could very well hire a new coach within the next two weeks. 
Repercussions: What are the effects of firing Willingham? While many students accused Willing­ham of being a poor coach, players have 
I 
i expressed satisfaction with his personal­ity and his coaching style. Unfortunately, this means that some players may transfer to other schools ifthey are unhappy with tlie·new coach. Ifthis is the case, it could delay Notre Dame's rebuilding process a few more years. · Willingham's termination also could have serious negative consequences for recruiting next year's freshman class, as well as for recruiting in future years. Notre Dame currently lias received ver­bal commitments from 11 high school seniors, but some of those may rescind their decisions because the coaching staff that recruited them we will be gone next season. Both current and prospective signees could be scared away from Notre Dame because ofa perception ofinstabil­ity and uncertainty within the program 
-a perception which may be difficult to shake off. 
Unfortunately, potential instability might be the smallest tarnish to Notre Dame football's reputation following Willingham's firing. Also, the program may be sending a message to potential coaches that its administrators and fans are unwilling to give a head coach enough time to turn the program around. Willingham is the first coach in Notre Dame football history to be fired in the middle ofhis initial contract (aside from O'Leary). Following Willingham's firing, many analysts expressed their disappoint­ment with Notre Dame's decision, argu­ing that the school did not give Willing-ham adequate time to prove himself. 
Even more signifi­cantly, many analysts believe that Notre Dame's decision to fire Willingham so soon is a sign that the school is surren­
1 
dering to pressures 'J of the college football f~ world and becoming ~ a "football factory," ~ · hll!_..a11.-:i-:
1 
where winning on 

the field trumpseverything. "On THE END OF THETUNNEL Willingham was fired after only three seasons in which he had a 21-15 record overall. 

any number of levels, the fact that Tyrone Willingham will not be returning illustrates how Notre Dame is not Notre Dame anymore," ESPN analyst Ivan Maisel wrote on ESPN.com following the press conference. "The uni­versity that has not let a coach go without him fulfilling his contract let Willingham go three years into a five-year deal ... The unique quality ofwhich Notre Dame has been.so proud offor so many years -that it doesn't do things the way the typical 

"football factory" does -became a lot less visible around 1:15 EST Tuesday afternoon. Sending a coach on his way three years into a contract is what any school would do. Florida and Stanford come immediately to mind." 
During the press conference, White ex­plained that, although the university was extremely happy with the players' success offthe field, the decision to fire Willing­ham ultimately came down to wins versus losses. "[O]ur football program under his watch has never been stronger in terms of academic performance. We simply have not made the progress on the field that we need to make," White says. 
This has led some to wonder if Notre Dame has come to value on-field wins over moral character or in-class perfor­mance. Mike Francesa, the host ofa New York City-area sports talk-radio show on WFAN, said on Tuesday, "ND wants to be Harvard Monday through Friday and Alabama on Saturday.'~ 
In his autobiography published in 1991, the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., 

-the former university president often cited as leading Notre Dame to academic prominence -heralded the value ofthe players' academic performance and the im­portance ofhonoring a coach's contract. "I would tell [the coach] that ifhe followed the rules and made sure his players gradu­ated, he would not have to worry about alumni pressure," Hesburgh wrote. "If he lost some games, or even had a losing season occasionally, I would take the heat, not he. Ifhired, he would be assured ofa five-year contract." Hesburgh is largely responsible for building Notre Dame's reputation as a school that demands much more from its football program than just wins. This reputation could now be in jeopardy. 
Further complicating the matter, Willingham is the school's first black head coach in any sport and was one of five black head-football coaches at the 117 Division 1 schools. Willingham is the third of those five to be forced out this season, leading some, such as Floyd Keith -executive director of the Black Coaches Association -to express con­cern that black head coaches are held to higher standards than white ones. The fact that Willingham is the first Notre Dame head football coach to be fired in the'middle of his first contract could add fuel to Keith's argument and attract negative attention to the school. In fact, during the scheduled time for the anti­Willingham rally Tuesday, a number of black students protested the university's decision as a move against diversity. "I find this insulting. Notre Dame means a lot more than football," junior Ukachi Okoronkwo says. Many assert that Notre Dame was making a powerful statement by hiring its first-ever black coach, and some may wonder ifthe school isn't mak­ing a disastrous one in firing him after just three years. . 

02 DECEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 33 









Family Matters 
South Bend native Jacqueline 
Batteast attributes her 
successful hoops career to 
her family's constant support 
\ , 
HOME COURT ADVANTAc:iE Jacqueline (in middle with white headband) is not the 
only Batteast on the edge of her seat, as her father Wayne (top left, in hat) anxiously watches the Notre Dame drive. 
MIKEISELIN 

0 ctober was a decorated month Coaches, teammates and friends at:.. for women's basketball for­tribute it to sheer drive and unwavering ward Jacqueline Batteast. The . focus on improving. But what Batteast 
senior was named the NCAA National highlights is a whole other source of 
Preseason Player of the Year by Sporting support: her family. 
News Magazine. A few days later, she was That is largely why, after growing up 
honored as the 2004-2005 Big East Con­in South Bend and attending nearby 
ference Preseason Player of the Year by Washington High School, she chose to 
the league's head coaches. These weren't play college basketball close to home. 
her first athletic accolades: She was named "Being at home makes a big difference," 
Big East Conference Rookie of the Year says Batteast, who sees her family nearly 
in 2002 and was a finalist in 2004 for the everyday. "I don't thinkI could have done 
Naismath Award, which is given to the as well ifl was away from my family." 
NCAA Player of the Year. Basketball is in her blood. Batteast first 
It's clear that Batteast is a phenomenal learned the game from her father, Wayne, basketball player. So what exactly gives who played college basketball for the Uni­her such a gift for the game? versity ofMontana. "I guess I got most of 
02 DECEMBER 2004 
~SGH01iASTIG SPORTS>]---,-------------------,,----, 
my talent from him," Batteast says ofher father, who works in Building Services at Notre Dame. Batteast's younger sister -a sophomore at Vincennes University -and a younger brother -a high sc!:!ool senior -both play basketball for their 
respective schools. 
Wayne Batteast, however, speaks mod­
estly of his influence on his daughter's 
game. "I've showed her some things, but 
I have to give her credit; she's worked 
hard," he says. Wayne never coached one 
of her teams while she was growing up, 
but he admits to giving her a lesson or 
two in the backyard. 
"[My parents] never forced basketball 
on me, but because it came so naturally, 
they made a lot of sacrifices so that I 
could come to Notre Dame," she says. "They had to pay a lot of money for me to play in all the travel leagues." While growing up and playing bas­
is going in." This season, Batteast has great 
expectations for herself and for 
the team: Their goal is to reach 
the Final Four in Indianapolis at 
the RCA Dome. So far, Batteast 
has risen to the challenge and met 
both her team's and her personal 
expectations. She led the Irish to 
the Preseason WNIT champion­
ship, averaging 21.5 points per 
game. Batteast already has made 
a number ofbig plays this season, 
including a tremendous block on 
Ohio State's Caity Matter, who 
was attempting a game-tying 
three-pointer with two seconds 
remaining in the WNIT final 
game. This block secured the 
championship for the Irish. 

Through the beginning of this 
week, Batteast has led the Fight­

"[My parents] made a lot of sacrifices so that I could come to Notre Dame." 
-Jacqueline Batteast 
ketball in her backyard with her father, 
Batteast dreamt of playing in college, 
but not necessarily for Notre Dame. 
She says that the University of Ten­
nessee was her top choice. In fact, she 
didn't consider the university next door 
until it started to recruit her as a high 
school junior. 
Both of Batteast's parents hoped she 
would choose Notre Dame. For her fa­
ther, the decision was a simple one. "If 
you get an opportunity to go to Notre 
Dame, how can you pass it up?" he says. "After looking at the other schools, she decided there is no place like home." Batteast knew her father would be 
more than pleased with her decision: "My dad whispered every five minutes, 'Notre Dame. Go to Notre Dame,"' she 
says. 
And her father is still right behind her. 
Staying close to home and having her parents at all the home games -and even some of the nearby away games -has been irreplaceable for Batteast. Her parents have seats right behind the Notre Dame bench in the Joyce Cen­ter, where Batteast easily can see them. "My mom usually gives me a thumbs up." Batteast says. "Ifmy shot's not going in, it's a thumbs up, and a thumbs up if it 
02 DECEMBER 2004 
ing Irish to a 7-0 record and a No. 3/6 national ranking. In her first six games, Batteast averaged 19.7 points and also has led the Irish in scoring in four ofthe team's six contests. Batteast has made a strong case to be named 2005 NCAA Player of the Year. 
Batteast isn't averse to a relocation after graduation, however. Playing pro­fessional basketball in Europe or the WNBA are both options -meaning Batteast will, most like­ly, move away from the South Bend area for the first time in her life. 
But the prospects of flying solo aren't as dire to Batteast as they may seem. She'll still have her mom by her side, wherever she moves. 
"My brother and sister will both be in college," Batteast says, "And my dad said he could live without her for a couple of months." No matter where she ends up, Bat­teast knows she always has a solid fan base at home. . 






LISTE 


"You know, with an endowment of $3 billion, I think we could've af­forded to pay the refs more than Pittsburgh did." -student exiting the stadium after Notre Dame's loss to Pittsburgh 
"Oh, no ... bad things are going to happen to you. I mean, I'm not saying I'm going to do them. I'm just saying ... cell phone karma is a bitch." -literature professor after a student's cell phone rang in class 
"What's that?" 
"Scholastic:• 
"What is it1" "It's campus news for literate people:• 
-law school students 
"God, I felt Amish at that party last night." -student describing the attire of her fellow females 
"Reading [is] not really my thing." -Notre Dame football player 
Not-So-Sunny Southern Cal: 
A USC fan proves the power of plastic with his innovative rain gear. ­Underneath, he sports a fuzzy, pink, polka-dot hat that wouldn't be half as stylish if soggy. 

109 Years Ago 
You can tell from Old Navy ads and American Idol specials that Christmas is creeping up soon, but what do you get that special ga!-pal that you haven't swiped from the dining hall already? A hop, skip and a jump into the way-back machine might help deck the halls with boughs of holly. From the Jan. 19, 1895, issue of Scholastic: 
We have been asked, "What does the new woman want?" After the matter ofthe Yankee, we reply: "What doesn't she want?"[. . .] What a strange world itwould be if all the modern woman's ideas were carried out! The meek and lowly man, probably, would remain at home, while the fair sex, in the words ofan end-of the-century poet, "[. ..] would spank their babies at the polls when women vote." 
Meek and lowly baby-spanking gender equality? How do you gift wrap that? 
-Erik Powers 



36 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 2 DECEMBER 2004 



'·.,,··•_,
: .i 
j ! ; 
•--~ _,. 
.J.' ~·-~-' 

Under the Dome and Dreaniing 
One student's vision of a twisted reality ,JtJJ0;,

STEVEMATTINGLY 
Ihad the strangest dream last night. It was one ofthose weird •. dreams that approximates reality, yet is so twisted and bi­zarre that you breathe an audible sigh ofrelief upon waking up and realizing that the world hasn't really gone crazy. I haven't discerned what it means yet, so I'll just recount the dream and see if anyone can explain it. First, it seemed like President Bush had actually been re­elected, but that wasn't too surprising, because he was running against this hilarious stiff who was so boring that his speeches made babies and old women cry. But the real kicker was that Bush then pushed out the most knowledgeable and competent person in his Cabinet and promoted the worst-performing member of his staff to the most critically important position. Hilarious! Then, I was watching an NBA game on TV, and some fan decided to try to win a Darwin Award -an award given to those who find unique and clever ways to remove themselves from the gene pool -by throwing a full beer at an angry player with a history of smashing expensive video equipment and other players' faces. Then that player and several of his teammates actually ran into the crowd and started an all-out brawl. In this crazy dream world, fans were throwing punches, beers and sodas, and one of the league's star players landed a right hook directly to the 
face of a fan! 
Next there was some sort of closet being built on South Quad. When administrators tried to stop it, the closet-builders decided to change sponsors and allowed people to "come out of the closet" as anything they wanted to be. Students were outing them­selves as everything from sports fanatics to "anal-retentive accounting majors" to pedophiles! It was all very egalitarian and very cool. 
Soon after that, the FCC began to pine for the days of scarlet letters, witch burn­ings and other nifty things. In maybe the strangest segment of the dream, they started a reign of morality-policing, the likes of which hasn't been seen since Oliver Crom­well-or the Notre Dame administration. They turned a blind eye to the mind-numb­ing trash that fills the airwaves each day and instead decided to prosecute the dastardly folks who allowed Janet Jackson's right breast to pop out, and also those who let some third-rate actress drop her towel 
. <· >:•"c· .· .<f 

have laughed, had I been awake. 
But that wasn't all from the morality police. Many local network affiliates, terrified of being fined, refused to show the scheduled ABC broadcast of Saving Private Ryan on Veteran's Day. They avoided showing the film -a moving and accu­rate depiction of the horrors ofwar -not because it was too graphically violent, but because they feared the FCC would send them to timeout for broadcasting the "f-word." Then, a college quarterback was chastised and forced to apologize for letting a harmless f-bomb slip in his post-game exuberance after playing the game of his life to help beat a certain storied college football team. This segued immediately into the next part of the dream, which was hysterically implausible. 
[This portion of my column was once a sarcastic diatribe about how, in my dream, a talented young football coach-and former ND assistant -had turned Utah's football team into a powerhouse while Notre Dame allowed its program to slide into obscurity. I've had to make some changes, as now it appears we are going to take their coach and have him lead us back to football glory. I feel sorry for Coach Willingham: he is a good man who simply couldn't produce on the most visible stage of his profession. Still, I find myself as giddy as a schoolgirl and would like to offer the Board ofTrustees and the university's incoming leaders a sincere expres­


sion of my gratitude. As an Arts and Letters major, I may never have enough money to ex­press my gratitude in the form of a check, so I will offer you the next best thing: my firstborn son. Now, back to your regularly scheduled dream sequence ... ] 
The dream had a strange ending. Someone was reading a passage from a book called "A Tale of Two Bars." One bar was filthy, fetid, cramped, and made it a habit to sue ND stu­dents. But everyone insisted on going there on Thursdays. Another had plenty of room for the whole senior class, a nice lounge upstairs, and some pretty good drink specials. Yet, for some reason, no one could stop re-living freshman year memories ofsneaking into the first bar with hilariously bad IDs and then making out with hilariously funny-looking people (OK, maybe that last part was just me). 
,: But anyhow, the misguided ND students in 1 the dream continued to eschew the nice bar ~ for a place whose only remaining novelty is z' the sheer joy of drinking directly out of a $1 ~ pitcher of beer. 
before a Monday Night Football Game. It ---~---------5__, As I woke up, I couldn't help but wonder was all so delicic;msly irrational that I would -am I taking crazy pills or something?! D 
37 SCH0LASTICHUMOR. 2 DECEMBER 2004 
--.. . ..... ~---­
::,.;___ ----------_,.__ --~----~~ ­
~SCHOL:ASIIG HUMOR, 

.... -.---~: ' __. 




My Enemy List 
Things and people I hate 
MIKEHEALY 


Icame home from class the other day wanting nothing more than to relax and maybe take a nap. Much to my dismay, ; however, when I opened the door to my room, I found my roommate, Kenton, had returned from his afternoon day-trip with a huge Star Trek poster an~ life-size cardboard cutouts ofCapJ:;.I~irk and Mr. Spock. When I told him we had to take these down and that I couldn't believe what a dork he was, he argued that our two new "roommates" were "sweet" and 
"babe magnets." It was at this point I told him that ifhe didn't get rid of all his newly-acquired paraphernalia, we wouldn't be friends 
anymore. Luckily for me, Kenton rationalized that maybe his Mr. Spock and Capt. Kirk cutouts might be bet­

ter used at his home (so he could round out his collection), and the crisis was averted. 
The whole situation got me thinking. Nothing got Ken­ton to see my perspective more quickly than the threat of incuring my wrath. Bearing this in mind, I figured that the smartest thing for me to do is to make a public "Enemy List." This way, ifpeople know that I am unhappy with them, they will change their ways, or at least know that I am coming to destroy them. 
So, without further ado, here is a listing of my most bitter foes at the present time: _ Karl Malone -The Mailman. Man, do I hate this guy. Karl didn't really bother me until 1997 and 1998, when his Utah Jazz went up against my beloved Chicago Bulls in two con­secutive NBA Finals. During these heated series, I noticed two things: 1) Karl Malone and Miami Dolphins wide receiver Marty Booker are the only two athletes in recent sporting history to actually wear wristbands exclusively around their wrists. Very annoying. 2) Karl Malone is the dirtiest, most underhanded basketball player since former Golden Domer Bill "Elbow to the Throat" Laimbeer. All throughout the Finals, Malone would deal cheapshots to Dennis Rodman ·and manipulate the referees to his own advantage. He also took a really long time to shoot free throws. Drew Barrymore -The darling of one of the most pres­tigious families in Hollywood, Drew Barrymore started her career young, making her debut as the adorable little girl in E.T., and then as the terrifyingly powerful little girl in 
Firestarter. Then she ran wild. By the age of nine, she had 
already started doing drugs and looking really scummy at 
public events. Then, all of a sudden, she has the lamest part 
ofall time in Scream, ruins Adam Sandler's career in The Wed­
ding Singer, and she becomes America's sweetheart? I'm not 
buying it. This is the· same chick who seduced the dad from 
Picket Fences in the movie Poison Ivy. ­
The Wave -During a blowout, it doesn't bother me quite as much, but during close games, nothing upsets me more than seeing the Wave. (Actually, I'm sure there are things that would upset me more, like getting stabbed or 
something, 
...,w 

but I really 0 0 can't stand 
t:> 
t:> 

1;; w the Wave.) I ., I:;;::, just don't get 
...,_,____._-....., 8 ­

it. What's so 
great about everyone putting their arms up? Also, why do people feel the need to make that weird yelling noise when they go up for the Wave? "Whoa! This is crazy! I'm putting my arms up! Ifthere's any type ofsubstance flying through the air, I'm going to get it all over my hands!" I know, people say it's a cool effect in a stadium full of people, but it would also be a cool effect to have everyone in the stadium belch at the same time, and we don't do that. Asian People -Just kidding! Wolverines -I'in not talking about the University ofMichi­gan football team. A~tually, there are no wolverines in Michi­gan Gust as there are no badgers in Wisconsin). What most people don't realize is that wolverines are the most fearsome creatures in all of nature. Deadlier than the deadliest robot, more determined than the most determined robot, wolverines are the most ferocious little demons man has ever known. If someone were to let a wolverine loose on campus, 80 percent ofthe student bo~y would be dead within 40 minutes, with the other 20 percent insane froin fear. People say I'm insensitive for listing an animal as my enemy, but they don't understand that, ifgiven the chance, a wolverine would destroy everything you believe in and hold dear. So, there you have it, the first public acknowledgment ofmy enemies. I'm sure there are a lot of you out there who were holding your breath while reading. this, afraid that my ven­geance was coming your way, and were relieved to see you didn't make the list. To you I say, "See Malone? I knew you couldn't read." · . 

38 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 2 DECEMBER 2004 




The Scholastic Interview 
withNicoleMendes'05 


Nicole Mendes, a senior political science major, is no stranger to cultural diversity. She was born in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and spent most of her pr_e-college life there. Her father is Bangladeshi and. her mother is Irish and Armenian. Though most ofher family resides in Toronto, Mendes was born in Bangladesh and spent most ofher pre­college life there. Despite all this, she still felt it important to study abroad, and didso in London in thefall of2003. After she graduates in January, Nicole has hopes ofattending law school and -some day -returning to Dhaka. 
Who do you admire most? What stands out the most to you Mother Teresa. She was my grandmother's among the four different cities in which teacher in school, so she has become my family's you have lived? role model. The cultural differences. I think London is one of 
the most international cities I have ever been to. 
I strive to be ... Tolerant. What are your plans for after graduation? 
What work of art has most influenced I don't really have any yet. your outlook on life? ~he Alchemist by Paulo Coelho. What is your best memory of your time 
at Notre Dame? I would like Notre Dame to be more ... My first Thanksgiving celebration. Culturally aware and less ignorant. 
What is your greatest fear? What do you miss most about Flying. Bangladesh? 
My family. If you could be anywhere right now, 
where would you be? If you could have any job, what would it Dhaka. be? 
World traveler. 
40 SCHOLASTICINTERVIEW 2 DECEMBER 2004 



., 




WVFI 
wvfi.nd.edu 
AcoustiChristmas 
THIS THURSDAY! please come for Christmas songs, treats, and holiday fun 
LaFortune Basement 
l 0:00 PM-12:00 AM 

AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday in LaFortune Basement 
l 0:00 PM-12:00 AM all musicians, poets, singers welcome to sign up contact Mike Tallarico Michael.V.Tallarico.l@nd.edu 
check out SUB.ND.EDU ~ for other great SUB events! brought to you by the student union board. 






