f The
Modern
Gilbert's
Customized
HICKEY-FREEMAN
NAVY OFFICERS UNIFORMS
$60and up
THERE are no finer made. Tailored to Hickey-
Freeman standards and individualized by the Modern Gilbert’s expert fitting, these uniforms assure naval officers long, hard wear and complete ease and comfort. In buying your uniform here you have the advantage of a fine store’s taste and exacting quality standards.

DOBBS Officers’ Caps
With 3 covers, 518.50
In South Bend —• TAXI FREE to Gilbert's
THE MODERN
GILBERTS
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
T SOUTH BENO'S LARGEST STORE FOK MEN!
2
3
p -3g	23 CL 3E 3g_	J3E 3C 3d
College Parade
f3C_ 3E - 3E 23 d - ae- 3C 3d
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
WELCOME
The Scholastic, official University news-weekly, welcomes you to the campus and to the household of Notre Dame. The Scholastic believes that your days under the Dome will be happy, knows that they will be busy ones, and promises to make a whole-hearted effort to keep you thoroughly and accurately informed on up-to-the-minute happenings on the campus.
The Scholastic realizes that you are, for the most part, newcomers and, therefore, strangers to the Notre Dame way of life and in this first issue, attempts to present to you what it hopes will prove, to be an adequate introduction to your new environment.
INVITATION
At the same time, the Scholastic wishes to declare that its store of editors has been depleted, and requests that you thoughtfully consider becoming a member of its staff. This Notre Dame campus weekly finds itself in need of the following men to comprise its Board of Editors. It is imperative that these appointments be made before the next issue appears:	.
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Campus Editor :
Administrative Editor
Two Re-write Editors .
Promotion Manager
Staff Photographer
Columnist for The College Parade Columnist for The Week
Columnist for Man About the Campus
A Sports Editor .	.
A Columnist for Pressbox Splinters A Columnist for Music . Numerous Reporters .
, NO ISSUE NEXT WEEK
_• Due to the problems involved in securing and organizing an editorial staff, the next issue of the SCHOLAS-
’ TIC will not appear until July ,16. Meantime, the SCHOLASTIC wishes to thank those who by their interest and labor made the current issue possible. .
Applications for these positions are being received at Room 215 of Walsh Hall — and at the first staff meeting which is called for 7:30 on Monday evening, July 12, in the Editorial Rooms located in the old Ave Mana building.
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
Editor's Note:
V-7 Trainees, interested in contributing to the magazine, should report to Lieut. Sprinz, of the Public Relations Office, Deck 1, of the U.S.S. Lyons. All V-12, and Marine-candidate reporters should report to the Scholastic Editorial Rooms, -where they will receive assignments and be notified of deadlines. All stories which treat in any way whatsoever of Navy, activities must, of necessity, be first censored by Lieut. Sprinz before they are released for publication.
At. present, it is not known whether the N.R.O.T.C. will continue publication of the Irish Pennant. Nevertheless, the Scholastic welcomes all N.R.O.T.C. members to its staff.
Purpose of SCHOLASTIC
In recent years the Scholastic, though primarily an outlet for campus news, has, through the medium of its Promotion Department, made rich contributions to campus activities.
The sole purpose of the Scholastic is that of disseminating information of interest to the entire campus. Rarely are,, “letters to the editor” published, for the... very good reason that not many letters are received; more especially because. . the letters are not news. The Scholastic , is . not a. medium for airing complaints, . or seeking redress for the very good .. reason that it-is.not a magazine.of re- -
1 form. It is nothing more than a spectator .
. at the local.scene, reporting.what it ob-. w serves, and interpreting these events in conformity with the best Notre Dame / traditions.. Apart from this broad plaii, , there is no platform nor traditional pol-
' icy. Onthe contrary, readers are directed to take their observations to . those '.whok; have it within.;their jurisdiction to act L on such observation in a . manner con-
< ducive to. the. satisfaction" of all involved. :
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated ’ Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHO-' LASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
CAMPUS	.
Navy Class Graduates ___________5
' University Clothed in Traditions_ 9
Notre Dame—A City Different_11 University Panorama_________I_16-17
ADMINISTRATION .
' . President's .Message-_1_______________ 7
. ’ Captain Burnett Greets V-12	8
, . V-12 Program Outlined _____________...13
-Laetare Medal ’ Presented ..:_.’._.'._20
SPORTS . .. .	'
. . . Leahy Plans Practice. ~ -_- _____„■_15
< - V-12 to Play.,—.	25
.'.;. Golf and Basebail _________1..25
FEATURES	:	’< ?
,-.V Colleg’eSParade C---—  4
k -.. Splinters - ~  14
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana; Acceptance for mailing	•	,
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	■ . -	'
VOL. 79	JULY 6, 1943	NO. 1
Navy Class of Notre Dame Graduates
Admiral Cluverius Gives Advice to New Officers; Invocation Delivered by. Notre Dame President, Father O'Donnell
As the regimental orchestra swung out with “Anchors Aweigh,” 1,033 new ensigns roared a farewell cheer to the United States naval reserve midshipmen school at Notre Dame in a conclusion of short but colorful graduation exercises on the morning of May 27 in the navy’s massive drill hall on the university campus.	.
Resplendent in the new white uniforms, the ensigns, with four months of strenuous training behind them, embarked upon active navy careers with the passing advice from one of the navy’s greatest career men, Rear Admiral Wat C. Cluverius, that faith in the service and faith in the cause for which they are about to fight will send them forward in the footsteps of navy men who have distinguished. themselves in the past as well as in the present conflict.	-
In attentive silence they had also heard Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., • president of the university, in his invocation, pray that-the new navy officers be instilled with the appreciation of God as they go forth to meet the enemy. They heard Father O’Donnell refer to them
as the “protectors of our Altars and our homes in what has been called a crusade for the God-given rights of man.” .
-	Hear of Others*.Fame •	. :
The new officers, obviously withholding . . their tingling excitement. through the ; forced dignity of .the occasion, had heard -1 . Capt. H. P. Burnett, commandant of the midshipmen school, tell how others of the . first class of graduates from the young-’ . est of all midshipmen schools had distin-. guished • themselves in action . and how today’s second class ,is expected to follow that tradition; ■	'	•. - -	\
Tension was .somewhat relieved: when laughter/ and applause accompanied the presentation; bf honor awards and diplomas, but was restored again as 4he midshipmen choir: sang; “For Those in Peril on the Sea.” .	■ - . .	"
The huge hall, filled with the graduating class and spectators, was stilled when the orchestra opened with the stirring number, “Anchors Aweigh.” After the’ dignitaries had left the stage and the orchestra moved into the second chorus, Ensign J. F. Clark, of Toledo, Ohio, stepped to the stage microphone and dismissed the regiment. .
Most Cherished Gift
Admiral Cluverius, president of the Worcester, Mass., Polytechnic Institute, who was recalled to active service at the start of the war, opened his stirring talk with the assertion that “you men have received the government’s most cherished gift — a commission in the United States navy.”	-
The man whose career in the navy began as a naval cadet on the battleship Maine when it was sunk in Havana harbor in 1898, told the graduating ensigns that leadership cannot - be taught. He declared that leadership is a combination ■ of characterLtics that include energy,
Notre Dame Midshipmen Are Sworn into the Navy as Ensigns by Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N.
faith, loyalty, devotion to duty and -courage. .	:	? .
Admiral Cluverius, who as commandant of the United States naval academy at. Annapolis several years ago, has seen . other midshipmen - graduate to commis- . sioned ranks, told of feats of distinguished navy men in the past and during the present conflict whose efforts came as the result of training and the . faith they had in that training.
The nervousness of those who won honor awards as they marched to the . stage to receive the awards caused a reduction in the formal tension that existed to that time.	.
- First of the awards went to Edmund R. Bellows, of Chicago, who was given a watch by Father O’Donnell as the university’s gift to the midshipman displaying the highest military and academic rating in the regiment. Capt . Burnett. disclosed that Ensign Bellows
had attained a grade of 127.72 points out of a possible 136.
merit -


5!
Other watches, given by school staff officers and “friends of the regiment” went to Ensign Clark, for outstanding-leadership; Ensign Raymond E. Hayes, of Detroit, for navigation; Ensign Louis K. Denmark, Springfield, Mo., for seamanship; John D. Walton, Glen Ridge, N. J., for ordnance; Calvin J. Osberg, Melrose, Mass., 'for damage control; and
Ensign Fred E. Graff, of Pittsburgh, Pa., for contribution to morale.
A special gift of a watch was presented by the officers of the school to Richard Tainter, band-master. ,
The diplomas were presented to the regimental staff officers, battalion commanders and company commanders who later distributed them to members of
the various companies. Capt. E. . A. Lofquist, chief of staff for the Ninth naval' district, presented the diplomas. Capt. Lofquist was graduated from naval academy in 1907 and since that time has served as commander and navigator aboard cruisers and battleships and established the naval training station at San Diego, Calif., in the first world war.

President Hugh O'Donnell and Captain H. P. Burnett Welcome 1,850 Additional Seamen to Campus.
6
The President's Message to V-12 Trainees
Reverend Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Explains	.
Purpose and Pattern of Notre Dame Living.	'
As you become better acquainted with the University and its ways, you will no doubt hear a good deal about Notre Dame spirit and Notre Dame tradition. I refer to the pattern upon which Notre Dame was founded one hundred years ago, and in which it has risen to its present place in the educational life of America.
The founders of this University brought to the Indiana wilderness a true understanding of the philosophy of education. Recognizing God as the center—the very heart of the program, they taught, as we teach today, the sacredness and dignity of the human personality; that man has an immortal soul; that he has certain God-given faculties that need proper development through education. The founders believed that man, a social being, must be so trained that, in addition to culture and refinement, he acquires the use of tools that make him a success in life.
In other words, the purpose of Notre Dame is to teach men not only how to make a living, but also how to live. We feel that insistence upon Christian principles is unusually necessary when cur country is. engaged in a global war against man-made ideologies; when, in President Roosevelt’s words: “We are fighting as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are created equal in the sight of God.”
Complementing this philosophical background is a tradition of patriotism of which we are equally jealous. In war as in peace, Notre Dame has always contributed without reserve to causes best suited to furthering American democracy. Our part in the Civil War, when Notre Dame was less than twenty-five years old, is a matter of history. When the United States entered World War I, Notre Dame was celebrating her Diamond Jubilee, and World War II found us on the very eve of our Centenary Year. In, each instance Notre Dame set aside the projects, she had in mind in order to devote all her facilities to her patriotic duty.
It goes without saying that Notre Dame has placed her laboratories at the disposal of the government; several important research projects are being carried on by the staff of the Graduate School. Local industries engaged in war work have permission to use our labora
tories in making tests necessary for meeting strict government specifications. Thus far we have trained more than 3,000 defense workers in sixty-five college-grade courses.
And of course Notre Dame haj been contributing man-power. Faculty members have been granted leaves of ab- -sence; priests have volunteered as chaplains. In all, about 4,000 students, former students, and alumni are in the armed forces. Forty-five of them have already given their lives for their country.
Briefly, these are Notre Dame’s traditions. Now they are your traditions, too. From what I have told you, you can see that you as an individual and the University as an educational institution have two duties in common in this struggle against forces that deny God, and hence the dignity and integrity of the human personality. The first is to help overthrow the false principles that make man the creature of the state. The second is to prepare ourselves for post-war leadership, because peace, when it comes, must be a lasting peace built upon fundamental morality until its concepts of rights and corresponding duties as they apply to individuals and nations.
The Liberty Ship, S. S. "Knute Rockne" is christened at Richmond, California, by Ioan Shaw, daughter of “Buck" Shaw. '22, Santa Clara Coach.	*
7
The purpose of the. V-12 program then, as I see it,. is not only to train good, officers, but good citizens. All signs indicate that the purpose will be achieved. You, for example, are a select body of men, chosen because of your promise for. the future. To help you pre- ' pare for your coming tasks are two institutions—Notre Dame and the Navy— which have long cooperated with each other with complete harmony and un-darstanding of mutual problems. The program itself is in charge of Captain H. P. Burnett, an adopted member of the Notre Dame family, whom we respect and admire as the finest type of officer and citizen. Finally, your academic work will be under the direction of Notre Dame’s faculty; that is, under men . who by temperament and training are worthy to carry on the traditions that have made Notre Dame great, and the title “Notre Dame man” a hallmark-
And now, you are members cf the family of Notre Dame. It is a pleasure to welcome you to a campus that has always been a stronghold of Christian and American ideals. I hope that you will be happy, and that you will find here the same inspiration that your predecessors have found.
Captain Burnett Greets V-12 Unit
Commanding Officer Lists Many Reasons for Academic and Military Training on Campus.
Since the beginning of time man has looked ahead into the future. His ceaseless searching and probing to better his creature comforts and his standard of living have brought about such inventions as the steamship, the locomotive, the automobile and the airplane — such discoveries as the X-ray, the principle of radio waves, and insulin.
In step with his material advancement he has sought to make the world a better place in which to live, not only for himself and his contemporaries, but for his posterity. He has sought freedom of speech, freedom of thought and freedom to worship at whatever shrines he may see fit. He has ever been willing to die, if necessary, to accomplish these ends.
From time to time men utterly possessed with an egocentric desire for personal power and world domination have upset for an interval the natural
and lawful course of man toward his ideals, but in the end the forces of law, order and decency have invariably triumphed.
Today we are again faced with the task of overcoming the hosts of evil. That is the reason that this class and the many others like it throughout the country are assembling today.
It is with the future in mind that I, your commanding officer, welcome you to Notre Dame — your future, not only as prospective officers of the United States Navy and Marine Corps, but as citizens of this great land of destiny after a victorious peace shall have been restored.
Your academic and military training for commissions will be taken care of by the adequate facilities of this great University, which has so thoroughly and whole-heartedly cooperated with the
Navy in the past, and by experienced officers assigned by the Navy Department. You will wear the prescribed uniform during your assignment here. You will follow a prearranged physical fitness program. You will learn the meaning of discipline and its correlation with a successful plan of concerted action. What you will learn here will make you not only a better officer, but a better citizen as well.
You young men who are assembling-today will be the inheritors tomorrow of the task of bringing world order out of chaos and the ruins of war. How well you apply yourselves here will, in a measure, be an important factor in our winning of the war. Bear in mind always that freedom is the essence of our fighting faith. Its fate is also the fate of this institution of learning and of others like it which are now free to impart knowledge to all mankind.
The WAVES, shown here at one of their first Saturday morning inspections by Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., are the newest Navy group on the campus. They work in the local Navy offices, drive Navy cars and in other ways take over the places of Navy men. They reside in South Bend. The group is made up of both commissioned and non-commissioned personnel.
8
University Clothed In Traditions
One Hundred Years Have Built Legends ol Sorin, Corby, Rockne, Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and Have Created and Strengthened Privilege and Custom.
THE NOTRE DAME WAY
To the many hundreds of young men who, for ths first time today, moved down the long maple-bordered avenue to the campus, Notre Dame extends the invitation to become a part of her life, her learning, her traditions, her legacy; and that in the fullest measure possible.
Notre Dame, though geared in wartime efficiency, cannot sever her ties with the past, is still Notre Dame. Nor are the young men, late of many other universities, expected to cast aside the rich memories that have bound them to other halls of learning. On the contrary, it is hoped that they will augment and strengthen that regard for scholarship and patriotism through their days under the shadow of the Dome.
For a hundred years now, Notre Dame has been an apostle for the rugged and manly way of life and learning. It is here on these grounds that the Notre Dame of Sorin, of Corby, of Rockne, of the log chapel by the lake, has sprung outward and around the lakes. From two or three humble buildings, a few teachers, a dozen students, Notre Dame has, today, burst into a university of quadrangles, of many halls, of libraries, of a faculty numbering hundreds, and a student body in the thousands.
“This one - hundred - year progression was no mere matter-of-course enlargement, but a living achievement, a cumulative realization of the dreams of its founder who must have had some intimation, in his years of hardship and disappointment, that his struggles would produce something great and enduring. And because Notre Dame was founded in struggle and hardship, it has endured and enlarged through the years. Notre Dame is a strength, a guide, a repository of Catholic faith and learning in America.
THE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME
“Though Notre Dame has grown much in one hundred years, though curricula have been widened and diversified enormously, though changes in educational methods have coms about, the University still adheres strictly to the ideal of Catholic tradition and culture; Notre Dame men of today are schooled undevi-atingly in these elements of Catholic education, just as preceding generations
have been schooled. There are thousands of Notre Dame alumni who are livingproof that Our Lady’s University is not just one university among thousands; there is something in them, an intangible something that was acquired at Notre Dame, and that can be found only at Notre Dame. This something marks a Notre Dame man from all other college men. It is not a manner of dressing, nor a mannei- of speaking, nor is it entirely a fanatic devotion to the “alma mater.” It has been popularized as the Spirit of Notre Dame. The public has mistakenly attached to it, and identified it with, the courage of Notre Dame athletes or with the pride and exuberance of the Notre Dams students at athletic contests. But these, perhaps, are merely the most outward manifestation of this “spirit.”
THE FIGHTING IRISH	.
New men coming to Notre Dame may, for the first few hours, walk wide-eyed and wary. There are no fraternities, no cliques, no class distinctions. Though wealth is not unknown here, the vast majority who come to Notre Dame are the broad American middle class; sons of physicians, contractors, farmers, lawyers, shippers, merchants. Under these conditions, finding acquaintances is not hard; the South meets the North, Texans befriend New Yorkers, and Californians come to know Vermonters. Race problems, grudges and wrinkles are all smoothed out under the protective and proud synthetic which, for convenience, is labeled, “Fighting Irish.”
CAMPUS LIFE
Notre Dame life is a campus life, which strengthens the spirit of democracy, levels social distinctions and garners countless friendships. It does not take long for new students to adjust themselves to their new environment. After the first mad rush to find out where buildings are and what they are for, the Notre Dame man settles down to a rigorous and somewhat Spartan existence of a man’s world. Amazement and excitement slowly give way to experience. The Indiana weather, the food, the schedule of classes, the profs — all humbly share the torrents of words which they inspire and which cascade down upon their heads. That, in itself, is an old Notre Dame custom. Beware of the man who doesn’t gripe about one
thing or another; he is too easily pleased, or not interested at all in his surroundings. But, after a few months, everyone becomes reconciled, realizing that his hours have been planned for him with economy. Then, all admit, though grudgingly, that the program has done them good; furthermore, all, while home on vacation, will brag about the rigorous life they lead. .
RELAXATION
Nor is the entire day filled with hard work. The golf course, tennis courts, the swimming pool, and other facilities of the Rockne Memorial, the interhall program, and the spacious campus, all provide outlets for the “steam” generated during hours of study. The afternoon “touch” football games on “Badin Bog” are as much of a tradition at Notre Dame as historic Badin Hall itself. Three or four games are often played simultaneously, and the air is full of footballs and- grasping arms,' while the havoc worked on neckties and other wearing r.pparel is nothing less than devastating. Forms of relaxation on the campus are numerous and manifold. And though Notre Dame possesses the unique atmosphere of masculine informality, there hovers ever near the delightful menace of St. Mary’s with its traditional Saturday “dates,” Sunday afternoon tea dances, and pleasant companionship for the more stately University “formals.”
There are no barriers between a Notre Dame man and a Notre Dame prof; the classes are informal, but never casual. Many Notre Dame professors have sat in the same 'worn benches in which their own students now sit, and therefore, they have a special interest and understanding with regard to the student problems. But a laxity in excessive formality does not imply a laxity in law, or in law-enforcement. There are rules at Notre Dame which if not obeyed “inevitably involve the separation of the student from the University,” as the Student Manual euphemistically puts it.
CONDUCT	. .
New men coming to Notre Dame are expected to -fall into a pattern of conduct long established here, and to respect certain customs that have become a part of the Notre Dame daily routine. For example:	'
' 9
Second Class of V-7 Midshipmen Receive Commissions
It is customary to greet those encountered on the campus, even though you do not know their names, and to tip your Iiat to religious members of the faculty;
All stand reverently during the playing of the “Victory March” official University anthem. Likewise, the entire campus stands at respectful attention during the raising and lowering of the . flag each day. Hats should be doffed in. both instances, weather permitting;
The front steps of the Administration Building are used by no student until the day of his graduation. Nor does anyone smoke cigarettes in front of the Administration Building;
Private student devotions at the Grotto are spontaneous, and have hallowed the spot past all description;	, .
The middle aisle in Sacred Heart Church at the Sunday ten o’clock. Mass is reserved for guests and escorts. And all visitors to the campus at any time are accorded a respectful deference;
Uniformed men, in marching formation, are always given the right of way, even in congested areas;
The Notre Dame monogram is the sole
10	.
emblem of athletic achievement honored and worn on the campus;
The various creeds and nationalities which make up the student body create neither barriers nor cliques. The matter of family finances is likewise astonishingly unimportant. Precedence or distinction at Notre Dame comes only through criterion that personal merit and achievement should be the sole . gauge for bestowing individual awards.
PRIVILEGE
The.University, looking to the welfare of the student in his extra-curricular . ; hours, invites him to participate in any or several of the manifold activities on campus which are provided for him. As . a student, he is privileged to attend all athletic contests; numerous concerts, en- . tertainments, and movies in historic Washington Hall which is the Univer-. sity Theatre; to make use of the library; to avail himself of campus medical treatment and hospitalization; to use the facilities of the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse, the golf course, and the recreational rooms in the halls; and to participate in all campus activities in so far as
ability and free time warrant. He likewise receives all campus publications.
New men are at once convinced that Religion is part of the Notre Dame plan of education. Yet formal religious instruction is required only of those who profess the Catholic Faith. Non-Catho-lics are welcomed to the student body, but are not required to attend Catholic services; they are, however, encouraged to worship Ged. after the dictates of their own consciences.
These are some of the traditions which conspire to make one’s days at Notre Dame a time filled with serious purpose and fruitful remembrance. There is not a single man but is made sharply conscious, as the weeks lengthen into months, that he has been initia-ated into the Notre Dame way of life — a way that will not soon be forgotten, but rather gauge every single thing he meets later. For the philosophy of Notre Dame is not merely the philosophy of this world. That truth is part of the great heritage which Notre Dame bestows on her sons, enabling them to “think Notre Dame” as long as, they live. For they are Our Lady’s special watch and charge, forever.
Notre Dame—A City Different
Cosmopolitan College Town Is Unique Municipality; World Famed Indiana School Has 1,700 Acre Campus.
Editor’s note: The following article is inserted to act as a “Guidebook” for the birdseye sightseeing tour on pp. 1617. It represents a description of life at, and commentary on Notre Dame, and comes from the pen of one student, editor of the recent yearbooks.
Out South. Bend’s Notre Dame avenue, just past the north city limits, sprawling out over the plain, dipping down to the shores of two clear, blue, spring-fed lakes — St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s — is a unique city. In America’s most representative county, it. is a city unike any other in the U.S.A. A city apart, yet it is as cosmopolitan as any from East to West. It is Notre Dame, Indiana, known scholastically as the University of Notre Dame. .
Municipal area of the college-town is a 1700-acre campus, with forty-eight buildings, large and small. Spread orderly over the flat, green land, they form a T-shaped main quadrangle and numerous side courts. Citizens, this summer, number approximately 4,000, plus instructors, professors and administrative officials. Unlike most U.S. college men, Notre Dame citizens might well spend all time in their town, never venturing into industrial South Bend (pop. 110,000). Though Notre Dame is not incorporated municipally, it has all the aspects of a city in itself.
Notre Dame has no private, homes or fraternities. Citizens live in large residence halls, (lately become ships), built in quadrangles resembling apartment courts. On campus are fourteen halls. Two, in wings of the great, golden-domed Administration Building are dormitory halls. Here, unlike residence halls where citizens live in private rooms, residents sleep in great white-curtained dormitories, study in bright, high-win-
dowed halls. Residence halls vary greatly in size, age, and appointments. Priests and lay professors live in halls as rectors and prefects.
Though Notre Dame has no departments of public service like most municipalities, it has many public services, some of which most cities do not have. Campus policemen wear blue uniforms with N.D. insignia, patrol the campus in regular beats. Their most important duty is keeping citizens off the lawns, tooting whistles at the main entrance to keep automobiles from entering the campus road. Only persons with campus permits may drive over the road that encircles the buildings on the main quad.. The campus fire department possesses a new sparkling red truck equipped with the latest gadgets and a competent crew. Other N.D. public services include the Game Warden w’ho guards wild life on the lakes, and a group -which cleans snow from the wnlks in the winter, and maintains the lawns and paths in the summer. There is also a lamplighter who flips switches.
Most utilities at N.D. are publicly owned. On campus is a great modern power plant which heats campus buildings and pumps -water from St. Joseph’s - lake for plumbing. Level of the lake has sunk so low* in recent years that wells have been drilled to supplement springs that feed it. Winding for two miles under the campus are lighted tunnels containing heating and -water pipes and electricity conduits. Drinking water comes directly from wells. Student laundry and dry cleaning are also a public utility at Notre Dame.
Outside utilities also serve the campus-towm. In each hall is a pay-station telephone for use of the citizens. Western Union and Railway Express have joint: campus offices next to Science Hall. Railroad siding on the campus is used to deliver carloads of coal to the power house, and to accommodate special trains for football crowds. The Post Office has three deliveries daily.
At N.D. even eating is a public utility. Citizens eat in noisy, factory-like mass production, in two huge modern-gothic , halls, seating 1,200 each, and in cafeteria style — all under the same roof. Dining hall building was designed by the eminent architect, Ralph Adams Cram, lately of Boston. The cafeteria is used
by visitors, professors, graduate students, and by those who desire to supplement their dining hall nourishment.
N.D. “department of recreation” provides excellent facilities for citizens. The new Rockne. Memorial is called the most modern, best-designed athletic building in an U.S. university. In three different places on the campus are groups of tennis courts. Separating the university buildings from South Bend residential district is the excellent, well-kept, but flat 18-hole golf course. Citizens use St. Joseph’s lake in spring, summer and fall, and St. Mary’s lake for skating in the winter.
N.D. provides many cultural facilities for students. A large main library and departmental libraries contain more than 230,000 volumes. Art galleries in the library building house a permanent collection of 300 canvasses, also exhibit travelling collections, works of professors and students. Two herbaria on campus contain 150,000 specimens. -
. The campus town also has shops and stores. The Huddle has a soda fountain, caters in general to “between-meal” needs of inhabitants. In the same building are watch and shoe repairs and a tailor shop. In the Rockne Memorial is a golf shop which serves golfers and other athletes at the 19th hole. The Bookstore is the nation’s nearest competitor to Marshall Field’s. Campus also has a barber-shop, recreation rooms for pool, billiards, ping-pong, bowling. NJ), is not without door-to-door salesmen who are sometimes, “working their way through college.” They sell ice cream, stationery, school jewelry, chances on everything.
Notre Dame has a curious form of municipal government. It is a democracy within an autocracy. Its democracy is
pure as any in the world. Its. autocracy is absolute. The intrusion of military protocol has wrought little change in the habits and the routine and the discipline of campus regulations. Order, in its highest sense, has always prevailed at Notre Dame. Yet citizens are truly democratic, and generously relinquish all distinctions of family, fortune, fame. They contrive to make their own way, their own friends, their own names among their fellows. There are few re-
wards at Notre Dame for social position. Fraternities do not exist; students may not drive automobiles. Most come to Notre Dame to study; none for social life. Municipal ordinances provide for this democracy; fellowship of American youth promotes and insures it. When young men apply for entrance to the University, they are accorded citizenship only on record of scholastic average, and general desirability. Admission is only awarding of first papers, however. Citizenship is retractable at any and all times. Rules of the University which provide for this N.D. democracy are the test. Precedence or distinction at N.D. comes only through superiority of class or of scholastic average. .
Citizens must wait in line a great deal; it is an essential note in N.D.’s democracy, and includes the daily routine of meals; occasionally for laundry, registering for classes, athletic books, tickets for all occasions, including the soda fountains — largely because citizens generally do things, go places at the same time,, and facilities cannot accommodate all immediately. .
Notre Dame exists for. one prime purpose. That purpose is the campus-town’s = _ main industry— education.. Here they live in an atmosphere of education with as little_or as much to do with the^outside life as - each may desire, but within :
•12' ‘	.. •-<.	- ■
limits set by the University. Study is the main thing in their lives. An :l education is more than books at N.D. Life in the campus town is designed so that everything contributes to education and cultivation of students. Citizens come
from all parts of the U.S., and from many foreign countries, live with their fellows, know them more intimately than most U.S. college men know their fellow students. Thus, they become cosmo-' politan in views and manners, are freed of local prejudices and provincialisms. And here, religion is the center, the guiding principle of all life and education.
The University attempts to keep N.D. educational facilities abreast of the times and does a remarkable job with limited finances. On campus are eight classroom and laboratory buildings. The Administration Building, main library and Rockne Memorial also house classrooms. Fourteen laboratories foi' different studies are provided. Classroom buildings also house departmental libraries. The University is composed of five colleges , which contain thirty-three departments in which students may take major subjects, and in which the University may confer master or doctor degrees.
For the most part, N.D. citizens are convinced of the value of the course they take. Relative value of the colleges and their courses is a popular topic of conversation far into the night. Greatest
feud is between Arts and Letters and Commerce. “A.B. men are not practical” — venture the Commerce group. A.B. men base their argument on cultural values, say education cannot be practical and still be education, and believe Commerce men get “mere” business training and should not be classed as University material. Engineers and Pre-Meds have little respect for A.B. discussions, though involving personal elements, still have a basis in sincerity, and show that the average N.D. citizen has some purpose and interest in his college work.
No walled city is Notre Dame, but like all towns in industrialized America, it is dependent upon the outside world. Though N.D. citizens consider South Bend an industrial hodge-podge to their south, they make use of many of the city’s facilities. Many shop for clothes, room furnishings, get haircuts in South Bend. Citizens flood downtown movie houses on Sundays and when popular orchestras make personal appearances.
Recreation and social life are a part of the N.D. life, perhaps even a part of N.D. cultivation. And, like most U.S. men’s colleges, Notre Dame has a girl’s school hovering nearby. Around St. Mary’s lake, and across the Dixie Highway, it is St. Mary’s College for Women, known at N.D. as the “Rock.” Should one inquire after the title, there comes the quick reply, “Because they’re strict as Alcatraz.” Yet citizens at N.D. go to St. Mary’s frequently, meet with a gracious. reception,, and participate in the numerous social functions of that institution. By the same token, St.. Mary’s provides an envious line of “dates” for alii campus “formals.” Downtown dates with; St.. Mary’s . girls are usually for movies, and dinners, for skating parties, bowling, and picnics.
y Blit, for the most part, since life itself is an education, Notre. Dame lives within itself.-	.	-
ADMINISTRATION
On July 1, the University will open its doors to a student body vastly altered from any previous group comprising the student enrollment. Yet, regardless of all the changes made necessary by the current war, the University will present a complete curriculum, and a full teaching faculty. Civilians have been limited to 750 in the undergraduate school. These men will live in five halls on campus — Brownson, Carroll, Sorin, St. Edward’s and Breen-Phillips. They will comprise 200 new freshmen, and approximately 550 old students. Applications for admission to the University were closed on April 30, this spring, due to the limited facilities of the Dining Halls . to feed more than 3800 daily. Graduate students who live off-campus are not included in this group.
Rev. John Lane, C.S.C.
Father James Connerton, Registrar, noted a surprising rush of applications early this spring, all of which necessitated an early closing date for both transfer students and freshmen. The Registrar likewise announced that Notre Danie would receive more V-12 Navy men than any other school in the country, and 500 more than any other school in the Ninth Corps Area.
Although Navy activities will predominate on campus,: Father Connerton intimated that there was every reason to believe that the full University life of previous years would still obtain,.in so far as it is possible to have entertainment, class dances, and athletic contests with other institutions.	■	..
Divisions of the Navy Program
Student groups on campus, this semester, will include the civilian student group, the V-12, the V-7, the N.R.O.T.C., and a number, of Marines. Of these various groups, the newest and largest is the V-12 division.	'
All incoming freshmen enrolled in the Navy V-12 will follow the General Curriculum, for two semesters of 16 weeks each. The course of studies offered will be the same for all — save for the Pre-Meds who will take a language instead of Drawing for Engineers, and Descriptive Geometry. At the end of these two semesters, achievement tests will be given to all enrolled in the General Curriculum. Following the achievement tests, all the men enrolled in the V-12 course will be classified according to:
a)	Deck-Officer Candidates
b)	Supply-Officer Candidates
c)	Aviation-Training Candidates
d)	General-Engineering Candidates e) Special-Engineering Candidates f) Pre-Chaplain-Candidates
g) Pre-Medical or Pre-Dental Candidates
The next steps in the training program are as follows:
The Deck-Officer and the Supply-Officer Candidates will take two more semesters of training. At the end of that time, the Deck-Officer Candidates will go to a Midshipmen’s School for four months; the Supply-Officer Candidates will enter a Supply School for four months.
Marines will take two more semesters of training (totaling four semesters at Notre Dame) and will then be sent to an Officer-Candidate School, for* four months.	.
The N.R.O.T.C. will take four more terms .(totaling six at Notre Dame); at the end of that time they will be commissioned Ensigns in the United States Naval - Reserve.
Rev. James Connerton. C.S.C.
After two semesters at Notre Dame,: the Aviation-training Candidates will be sent to Aviation Training Center.
Those enrolled in the General-Engf-neering course will take four additional; semesters, and then be sent to a Midshipmen’s School. Men in the SpecialEngineering Course will take six additional semesters, after, which time they : will be assigned to general duty, or “to . ‘ . more special , training.	;	<
which they lack at the moment of entry to Notre Dame, and which are demanded by their particular branch of Navy service. There will, of course, be a. healthful amount of. calisthenics and other means of physical development and well-being.
The V-7 program (the Midshipmen’s School) will, as heretofore, be staffed and taught, and remain under the direct and exclusive supervision of the regular Navy personnel. All other divisions of the Na\y training program will be instructed by the regular faculty of the University.	’ ; , - .	. >
Theological students will be sent to . a Theological Seminary for six: nibre-semesters.	- '	.
Pre-Med Students -, will take three • more semesters, and then , be assigned to study at a medical or dental school for eight terms (a total of 13 semesters of training).	.	. .
Of the V-12 group at Notre Dame, about 320 will be Freshmen students; ' the remainder (1290) will be V-l and . V-7 transfer-students who .will come to Notre Dame to continue their regular collegiate studies, f These -men will he well distributed through the various col, leges. They will have no special program other than acquiring those prerequisites.
Trustees Convene
The Board of Lay Trustees of the University held the semi-annual meeting . at Notre, Dame on Friday, May 21. At-■ tendance was somewhat curtailed by war ' conditions. .The-meeting was. decribed by Father/Hugh O’Donnell as restricted to routine business.. <	' .	;
One of the members absent was' WMA ter Duncan,?an •alumnus of the Univer-, sity, who was flood-bound in Illinois. .
Attending the meeting were Postmas- . ter General Frank C. Walker; William J.. Corbett; Chicago; Byron V. Kanaley, . Chicago; Ernest M. Morris, George L. O’Brien, and J. J. O’Brien, all of South Bend; Peter C. Reilly, .Indianapolis; , John H. Neeson, Philadelphia?* Gratton . T. Stanford, New York Cii^-and John C. . Tully, Chicago.	‘ -F..	; ; ’ -
"(Other Administration News on page/24)
WALTER KENNEDY
New Sports Publicity Man Succeeds Petritz
There’s a new face behind the number one desk over in the sports publicity office where Joe Petritz and Ray Donovan formerly cooked up the press releases.
New director of sports publicity is J. Walter Kennedy, a 1934 graduate of the University department of journalism. Announcement of Mr. Kennedy’s appointment was made in a press release by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., in a press statement on Saturday, June 12.
Coming from Stamford, Conn., Mr. Kennedy was eastern representative of the Loyola Press of Chicago, prior to his signing the Notre Dame contract. He had formerly • worked with the Macmillan company, been a publicity writer for the Century of Progress in Chicago, and had been a publicity writer for the Stamford community chest.
He has a wide background in the field of sports. Following his graduation from Notre Dame he was athletic director and head football coach at St. Basil’s, a Connecticut preparatory school. Lately he has been a baseball scout for several major league clubs and in 1939 was made president of the Stamford Baseball league. He has officiated at football, basketball, and baseball games in Connecticut. His education after he left Notre Dame consisted of work at the New York School of Social Work, and at Columbia and Yale universities.
An active member of the Knights of Columbus while he was on the campus, Mr. Kennedy edited the K. of C. publication, Santa Maria, and was a member of the Dome and Scholastic staffs.
Petritz at Work
Fighting Irish In Action
Notre Dame, under new Head Coach Frank Leahy, completed its first undefeated season since the days of Knute Rockne when it registered a 20-18 victory over Southern California in November, 1941.
Dartmouth Picks Irish Star as Head Coach
The Notre Dame systems of Rockne and Keogan have gone to Dartmouth!
And you can add the name of Earl M. Brown, ’39, to the list of Irish coaches who have arrived in the big time, following a June 13 announcement that Brown has been appointed head football and basketball coach at Dartmouth.
Only 29 years of age, Brown has had a sensational career since he graduated from Notre Dame. He was an All-American end on head coach Elmer Layden’s football aggregation and an outstanding pupil of the now deceased George Keogan, basketball coach and last of Notre Dame’s triumvirate of the “good old days.”
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Brown played on the College AllStar squad in the annual Chicago Tribune all-star game at Soldiers Field in 1939. He became end coach, tennis coach, and freshman basketball coach at Brown, that same year. He later played professional football and in 1941 went to Harvard where he was coach of ends and head basketball coach. He brought his Harvard basketball squad to the Notre Dame fieldhouse in early January of 1942, only to suffer a defeat from his old master, George Keogan.
Brown came to Notre Dame from Ben-.. ton Harbor, Mich. He is married and. has two children.
Pressbox Splinters
By "Red" Lonergan
WELCOME
Welcome to many, and welcome back
to a fortunate few. As your reporter
sits at home writing this column in
“Red" Lonergan
a literary state of rigor mortis, he only wishes that he, too, had just one more semester on the campus. . . . By the looks of things athletic facilities may be somewhat stymied, but there will be many
athletic contests which you and the ma
jority of students throughout the United States will have the pleasure of enjoy
ing. ... At the meeting of the Western Conference last May the officials decided upon an early Fall practice. The logic behind this was that,, as long as we are working with new material, we had better have a little bit longer to round it into shape. It is an accepted fact that it will take the members of many teams the greater part of the season to. get acquainted with each other and to bigtime football. Taking this into consideration, many fans have asked the question, “Why have a regulation season then, .when the material will be of such an' inexperienced nature?” These people are missing the real purpose of continuing college football.
' (Continued on page 18)
14
Smile Matt RetiJiei,
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Coach Leahy Plans Early Football Practice;
Big Ten Rules Freshmen Eligible for this Fall
Notre Dame’s summer football practice will open around July 8-10 and will continue for four weeks, according to the announcement made recently by Coach Frank Leahy.
Leahy’s plans were made known after the Big Ten athletic heads had voted to permit a four-weeks summer session for the duration, and then to allow fall practice to open three weeks ahead of the first scheduled game. Since Notre Dame meets Pittsburgh in its opener on September 25, the Irish fall drill will start on Sept. 4,
Another unusual regulation adopted by the Big Ten for the particular benefit of Michigan, Illinois and Minnesota, and which likewise affects Notre Dame as it does those schools, will allow freshmen or other new students to participate in varsity games before the students in question ever have attended any classes.
This was brought about because of
Pro Football Czar Elmer Layden, 1941 Captain Paul Lillis, and Head Coach Frank Leahy.
the change in time for the opening of the fall semester at the schools which have V-12 navy trainees. These latter report July 1 for the start of their summer session, and 16 weeks later start their fall semester. Each university’s regular academic program is timed to coincide with the navy program, which means that the fall semester at Notre Dame, for instance, normally opening around Sept. 10-15, will not get under way until the latter part of October.
High School students, finishing their courses late in the summer, consequently must wait until the latter part of October before they could enroll in Michigan, Illinois, Minnesota or Notre Dame; and to take care of them the conference passed its special rule saying that they will be allowed to join in .the fall practice and represent the varsity . of each school in its games prior to October 25 when they will start their classroom work.
Freshmen, or other new students entering for the fall term, to be eligible to start practice and play on the varsity, must have had their credits accepted, paid their fees, and must satisfy the faculty representative of the school, that they will be bona fide students. These men, however, can not participate in summer practice, as this is limited to those enrolled in the summer semester.
Coach Leahy said that he would not decide upon a definite date for the start of summer practice until after he had conferred with Captain ‘ Henry P. Burnett, U.S. Navy Commanding Officer at the Notre Dame Midshipman School, who will be in charge of the 1851 special trainees to be sent to the University by the Navy on July 1.
(Editor’s note: The Scholastic is indebted to Mr. Janies Costin of. the SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE for the expose of the new and complicated ramifications of recent Big Ten rulings on football.for the. duration:)
Oliver Hunter, m
Two-Miler Hangs Up Shoes
• By Ray Donovan
Oliver Hunter III, who holds all Notre Dame records for the two-mile run, is hanging up his track shoes for the duration, possibly for good.
The good-natured Irish distance runner, who - was graduated from Notre Dame in the May 2nd commencement, is enrolled in the Navy V-7 program and declared before leaving Notre Dame for his home in Erie, Pa., that he has a more important job to do now and he may not resume running after the end of the war.
“I’ll be out of practice after the war,” commented Ollie, “and I may be too old to start again. I may change my mind between now. and then, but I doubt it
. .very much. I would like another chance to take a crack at Greg Rice before I retire, but the job in front of me now is much more important. That hoy (Rice) is the greatest runner in the country.”
.Hunter ran three superb races against the stocky Rice during the past indoor season, but the famous last lap spurt of Greg proved too much for Ollie.. During one of these races, in the New York A.C. meet in Madison Square Garden on Feb. £0, the Erie, Pa., runner finished
- the two-mile in 9:01.1 to set a new Notre Dame record—and he still finished some 15 yards behind Rice. The former record was held by Rice, who ran a 9:05 two-.
(Continued on page 30) -
!5
Angelo Bertelli, the Springfield Rifle will be handling the ball from T formation and tossing long ones to ... .
JIM DELANEY
Lone N. D. Entrant in NCAA Meet at Chi.

The mighty Notre Dame track squad of 1943, reputedly the best in the nation, was with only one-man representation at the recent National Collegiate Association’s track championships at Evanston, Ill., on June 12.
The Irish, with only Jim Delaney competing, were far away from the 46-point total compiled by Southern California, who won the team championship. Notre Dame scored 12 points.
Delaney, not in the best of condition following a hasty plane trip from the coast, won third place in the shot put with a toss of 49 feet 9% inches, far below Iris usual standard which had made him the pre-meet favorite in the shot event. Delaney also captured third place in-the discus throw as he slung the weighted phonograph record 138 feet..
Prior to the meet it had been hoped that Notre Dame’s recent graduate and ace two-nriler, Oliver Hunter III, might be able to compete. Ollie wired Coach Handy, however, that he wasn’t in condition. The winner of the two-mile race, Jerry Thompson of Texas, who circled around in 9:29.9, was almost 28 seconds slower than Ollie’s best time and slower than many other Notre Dame lads who jogged the two-mile course this year. Ollie, undisputed king of collegiate two-milers and second only to J. Gregory Rice, Notre Dame’s mighty mite of former years, in the nation, had hoped to be stationed at Notre Dame with the V-7, but his orders took him elsewhere.
18	.
"Red" Lonergan's Pressbox Splinters
(Continued from first Sports Page)
around athlete. He was recently appointed by the University Athletic Board as head basketball coach. This is a most fitting honor for a man who was Notre Dame’s first official All-American basketball player and who is. still considered our greatest player. While at school he participated in baseball, track, football, and, of course, basketball. . . . By those who played with or against End Coach Hugh DeVore, he was acclaimed to be one of football’s hardest players. Hugh can still get out there today and dish it out as well as any of the more spry men on the squad. He worked with Coach Leahy when they were developing one invincible line after another at the Jesuit University in the Bronx. Many of the students of the east were telling us of Hugh’s prowess and ability long before he ever became a coach at Notre. Dame. But then good news travels fast. . . . The man most of you freshmen will become acquainted with first will probably be “Jake” Kline. “Jake” is one of these “jack-of-alltrades” for he is not only the freshman football coach but also the varsity baseball. coach; then, to make sure he keeps busy, he teaches math during the school year. If you think you’ve got what it takes, try a routine like that some day . just to see how long you last. When
“Jake” left Notre Dame he went into professional baseball for a few years, and since his return to the alma mater we have had a series of mighty fine ball teams. ...
ODDS AND ENDS
Notre Dame’s showing at the Central Intercollegiate in Milwaukee was most comforting, when you consider that we had only a skeleton squad present due to our May graduation. . . . Arch Ward informs us that there will be another one of his extravaganza when he presents his tenth annual All-Star game at Soldiers Field late this summer. He has sent letters of inquiry to the various potential participants, asking them if furloughs could be granted them. The ma- jority have answered in the affirmative.
. . . Men like Harry Wright, Lou Rym-kus, and Wally Ziemba have fond hopes playing some. professional ball this fall. They were drafted by the champion Washington Redskins, and they will be at the Marine base at Quantico, which is a short jaunt to Griffith Stadium. With their daily workouts at the base they feel that they will be in good enough condition to play each Sunday.
Victories this year are incidental; the real objective is to get these men into condition for the various service organizations which they will enter upon graduation. It will instill the players with that same fighting spirit that has been one of the basic reasons for our successes on the battlefields of the world. Another pet gripe of the pessimist is that with so many inexperienced players on the prominent collegiate ball clubs the fans will turn to pro-football for solace. This has always been the cry of the half-hearted sportsman, but this will be no more a worry today than it has been in the past. Many prominent universities paid little attention to the material that came to practice, yet they ■ have been able to fill their huge stadia to capacity at least several times a year. No, the fervor, pride, sportsmanship, and interest in the alma ma^er that comes with collegiate ball will never be supplanted by any “dollars and cents league.” . . . Even Coach Leahy informs us that, regardless of the difficulties, Notre Dame will continue to have a team that all of us can be proud of. . . .
INTRODUCING
For those entering Notre Dame for the first time, we are going to give you a little insight on the men who direct the destinies of the Fighting Irish on the football field. . . . Athletic Director and Head Coach Leahy was born in Nebraska, but actually hails from Winner, South Dakota (and he has been one ever since). He was one of the finest amateur boxers in the northwest, and, if it hadn’t been for a few influential friends, Coach Leahy would have gone into professional boxing. He was the man who developed those famous “seven blocks of granite” which you heard so much about a few years back. They made that Fordham line almost impregnable for three years. Three of his four years as head coach have been spent instructing teams that never tasted defeat; this achievement is nothing short of phenomenal. . . . Mr. Leahy’s assistant coach, Ed McKeever, won his fresh- ■ riian numerals here at Notre Dame before entering Texas Tech the following year. There he passed his team to 30 victories in 35 games for a three-year record that anyone should be proud of. Ed holds the distinction of having coached teams that participated in four consecutive bowl games. ... Ed . “Moose” Krause, the line coach, is a Chicago product and is considered by many as Notre Dame’s greatest all-
(lay	A RecapA
Track
Notre Dame, 94; Navy Pier, 10
Notre Dame, 76; Indiana, 28
Notre Dame, 64%; Michigan State, 45;
Western Michigan, 19 (CCC Meet)
Notre Dame, 61 liy 28; Illinois, 37 9^14;
Michigan, 28% (Illinois Tech Relays)
Notre Dame, 39%; Indiana 24; Purdue, 17 (Purdue Relays)
Notre Dame shared honors with Michigan State Relays. No points awarded. Michigan captured 7 first places, Notre Dame 6 first places.
Notre Dame took a first, a second and a third in the Chicago Relays.
Ollie Hunter finished second to Greg Rice in the Millrose Games in Madison Square Garden, in the New York A.C.
games, finishing in 9:01.1 for a new Notre Dame record.
Jim Delaney finished second to Bernard Mayer (NYU) in the shotput of the A.A.U. meet.
The Irish split the squad and sent portions to the Penn Relays and the Drake Relays, held on April 23-24. The squad at Penn came home with firsts in the distance medley relay, the four-mile-relay and the two-mile run.
The squad at the Drake events captured two second places, a third, a fourth and a fifth.
The successful completion of the spring sports schedule gives 1942-43 Notre Dame athletic teams a record of 46 wins, 14 defeats and two ties.
.... the sticky-fingered receivers who have made Notre Dame passing combinations famous since the days of "Dorais to Rockne."	.
HIGHEST PAID
'Moose' Krause Once Romped on Cartier Turf
5	”1 don't care what they call you, you can't wear that thing on the field."
I
Slip Madigan Signed As Hawkeye's Coach
Perhaps the greatest personality in the football world since the days of Knute Rockne, and a pupil of the old master himself, has been named head football coach at the University of Iowa, succeeding Maj. Edward Anderson, who is in the armed forces.	-
The personality plus man is J. Edward (Slip) Madigan, who was center , on the Notre Dame eleven in 1917, and , came back from the war to complete, the 1919 season with the Irish.
Madigan, the highest paid coach in the football world when he was at St. Mary’s college, Moraga, Calif., started, at the California school when it was a one-building institution. It was Madigan -who built the school up and created a . football team that was second only to the Fighting Irish as a big time “inde- . pendent.”	.
The Galloping Gaels of St. Mary’s under Madigan’s tutelage became a power on the Pacific coast. Slip built, V up the gate receipts of the college by : \ moving home games to Kezar stadium in San Francisco and playing the contests on Sunday in order not to conflict -with Pacific coast conference team -schedules.
In 1940 Madigan left St. Mary’s and ’ . entered private business. The showman . was mentioned for the Notre Dame po- ;	.
sition when Elmer Layden resigned. He was named to the Iowa position in June.
Woodlock Receives Laetare Medal
University Vice-President, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Delivers Citation on Behalf of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame’s sixtieth Laetare Medal, awarded to Thomas F. Woodlock on Laetare Sunday, April 4, was presented to its recipient in the auditorium of Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart, New York City, on Monday afternoon, May 17.
Most Reverend J. Francis McIntyre, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of New York, presided. The citation was read by Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., VicePresident of the University of Notre Dame. The address on behalf of the medalist was delivered by Very Reverend John J. Hartigan, S.T.D., President of Cathedral College. Bishop McIntyre pinned the medal on Mr. Woodlock. The assemblage was a distinguished one, numbering Bishop John F. O’Hara, Military Delegate, Monsignor Donahue, VicarGeneral of the Archdiocese of New York, Mother Dammann, R.S.C.J., the faculty and student body of Manhattanville College, officers of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New York, the Board of Trustees of Manhattanville College, as well as the special friends of both Mr. Woodlock and the University. Father James H. Young, C.S.C., Chaplain at the College, assisted Father Cavanaugh in arranging the program which was highlighted by the appearance of the Pius X Choir of Liturgical Music, under the direction of Mother Stevens. The choir sang three numbers during the afternoon.
Mr.	Woodlock’s	distinguished	record	memory the divine paradox of Christ	,	ply of; the treasure of blood to capture
of secular	achievement	in	the	fields	of	that to save the life we must lose it.	and keep it. Your- roots, fibrous and
Thousands of cur youth die that other	deep, are sunk in the earth of Ireland;
thousands may live and continue to enjoy	-	. your branches, leaves, flowering and
the bountiful freedom that has been	fruitage are the rich possession of your
adopted land. You, and. thousands like you, belong ; in the essence of what has made this nation conspicuously great among the nations of the earth. You are in one of the racial streams that have flowed into our country to enrich it with . the passion for liberty denied them in . their homeland, the yearning for cultural, social and economic betterment . that the domination of class over mass withheld from them in less favored en-. vironments.	.	.	. -
Mr. Woodlock’s distinguished record
business and journalism have been paralleled by a strong Catholic faith that' has found recent and current expression in a book, The Catholic Pattern, and in magazine articles of apologetic nature, all heralded as outstanding contributions to the literature of the Catholic Church in America.	.	.	-	\
The medalist is a trustee of Manhattanville. Other New York Laetare Med-
alists include Alfred E; Smith (1929), express epic, deeds in a war the extent; Richard Reid (1936), General Hugh of which taxes the reach of imagination.
Drum (1940). William Thomas Walsh, . ‘ Recognition, these days, is high lighted on men whose names are written large.
- winner of the medal ■ in 1941, was pres- „	.	.	_
ent at. the. ceremonies. ’	..	. f \ . on the honor rolls of battle fronts. Oita.	•	;.	; tions and medals, publicity and acclaim .
The Scholastic herewith presents, in go out to those who. meet the strong its entirety, the citation read at the challenge of oppression with the strongpresentation of the medal: .	er challenge of liberty in battle-scarred. .
” 20 7\	:
The University of Notre Dame
.	TO
Thomas Francis Woodlock
Greetings:
Sir: These days through which we are passing will be remembered in our
Thomas F. Woodlock
annals
as days when mammoth issues
.	.	Centenary of her Foundation. You are
were decided through the destroying. of a race that has suffered mightily for
angel of a titanic war. They bring to.
the pattern of: our tradition and.; the foundation of our hope. :	.
So in the temper of this time, thought and emotion; have gone out to the fight-
ers of our battles,: to those who in war j fronts by service, sacrifice and. heroism,
have shown resolution , and courage ?to
lands that border on the long lanes of the Mediterranean, or rise as a litany of islands out of the Pacific.
The University of Notre Dame has honored in peace times generals and admirals with her Laetare . Medal. This year — a war year — she selects a man from the field of peace, whose values are peace values, well established, authentic and nationally known. Were she determined by opportunism, did she give thought to an undercurrent of publicity, to a surge of flood-tide emotion,' she would have expressed her will by bestowing her honor on someone already many times honored. She might give recognition prematurely at a time when merits are not definitely established. So she would miss the objectives visioned by the founders cf this Laetare Medal award.
When distinction and merit are identified as valid and permanent in the military records of our nation, then the University of Notre Dame will turn in grateful, permanent recall to the military heroes of this war. She .wants, when values are finally determined, to recognize the substance, not the shadow of worth.
Therefore, Thomas Francis Wodlock, the University of Notre Dame selects you, a patriot of high thinking and right living, as her Laetare Medalist for this
freedom; that has given a plentiful sup-
Your life .story' illustrates the. con, quest of circumstances: to achieve honored station and deserved acclaim. Abil--- .... (Continued on page 22) .	. .
i
■ /It Max /IMeJt Go-. ■
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
£3*
NAVY MEN
THANK THE U. S. NAVY
for these great uniform values—they pushed quality up and pushed prices down
The U. S. Navy thinks just as straight as it shoots. It said if we want the best uniforms for our officers, let’s go to America’s best mills for our fabrics and to America’s best clothes makers for our quality tailoring. And that’s just what they did. But they pushed the prices down just as far as they pushed the quality up. We doubt if you can buy a finer uniform at any price.
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 . RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50
NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers $1850
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
21
ity and worthiness are the foundation and keystone of the arch you have erected. Merit, not the push of influence, has secured for you a primacy of place in the field of your service. You have served as editor of the internationally known Wall Street Journal, a position which neither your antecedencies nor your affiliations secured for you. Your- far-seeing ethical and business sense was in the background of your appointment to the Interstate Commerce Commission; and it is recalled that President Hoover spoke of your contribution to that body as a very distinguished service to your country.
Your Catholicity has been active, effective and unafraid. You illustrate as in-spiringly as any man in public, business
or cultural life the truth that worthiness always finds its level and that level has always been conspicuously high. You have not dropped your Faith as a handicap to your ascent. In youth, manhood, age; in obscurity and through a series of mounting successes you have not failed the One Thing Necessary. The One Thing Necessary has not failed you.
Some Catholics grow in mental, political and business stature, but shrink spiritually. They exchange the Kingdom of God for the kingdoms of this world. They win to lose; win time-things, and lose the spirit which is life.
You, Sir, have achieved high rankingin your field of work. You have been honored and acclaimed. You have ad
vanced the progress of right thinking and useful, living. And through it all the God of your fathers is still your God; Christ and Christ’s brave, ageless teachings still give inspiration to your thinking, and direction to your work. Your right hand has not lost its cunning in signing yourself with the Sign of the Cross that was planted on a hill and shines as a light of hope to a bewildered world. Your eyes still see the wonder of change in the miracle of the Mass, your tongue yet whispers the prayers that comforted the Dark Kose when she worshipped below hedges and sighed for the freedom so long denied.
Notre Dame then honors you for conspicuous achievement in letters, social service, and the literature of business. She honors you because in reaching high rank in these pursuits you still kept faith with God, with yourself, and with the things of the spirit. Many secure name and. station but leave the scattered fragments of their Faith in unused discard all along their path to glory. Your Faith is still yours, a possession and a love.
Foi- that, even more than for secular achievement, Notre Dame honors you. She has no greater gift than this award.
i X
h
s i
1
“Cancel my reservation, Oswald— these Arrows are home to me!”
Arrow is a good old American name for .comfort and long-lasting quality. The fabric, the thread, even the buttons in Arrow shirts are constantly tested for their endurance qualities. Moreover, they carry the Sanforized label, guaranteeing fabric shrinkage less than 1%.
Arrows in service white and khaki, or civilian colors. §2.24, up. Arrow ties, §1 and §1.50.
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS * BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
22
She is proud and glad to pin her symbol on your breast and to add your name to that select company of men and women remembered for right living and hono-able service.
Thomas Francis Woodlock, the University of Notre Dame bestows upon you the Laetare Medal for the year Nineteen Hundred and Forty-three.
LATEST
Casualties Posted By Alumni Office
Since last going to press, the Scholastic has received from the Alumni Office the following list of Notre Dame men who have lost their lives in the service of their country:
A/C Edward J. Brockman, ex. ’45, killed on April 10, 1943, at Middleton, Wis.
Ensign John G. Casey, ’41, killed in May 1943 while serving in the Pacific.
A/C Pierre de la Vergne, ’38, killed in a plane crash on • May 20, 1943, at Pensacola, Fla.
Pfc. Joseph A. O’Brien, ex. ’40, killed in action in North Africa on April 23, 1943.	.
Lt. Edward H. Phelan, Jr., ex. ’40, killed in service in Africa on March 22, 1943.	■
Ensign James 0. Schultheis, ex. ’41, killed in service.
SIC Arthur C. Smith, ’33, drowned on May 12, 1943, when he fell from the deck of the C.G.R.-118 into the North Branch of the Chicago River.
Corp. Daniel J. Sullivan, ex. ’36, killed in action in North Africa on March 23, 1943.	■
Capt. Douglas C. Weaver, ex. ’40, killed in action in the Asiatic Area on May 8, 1943.
Ralph G. Wingfield, ’40, killed in service — was on patrol duty — Naval Aviation.
May Graduation
Visitors 'to Notre Dame’s third commencement of World War II were greeted as the campus turned out in its best green foliage to provide a fitting background for the 179 serious-minded seniors who received diplomas from Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in ceremonies Sunday afternoon, May 2, in Washington hall.
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., assistant editor of The Ave Maria and author of the centenary publication, Notre Dame— 100 Years, was the commencement
speaker. He urged the graduates to “cling to the principles of your Catholic education.”
Besides the 179 diplomas handed to seniors, the University also conferred
We'ue Moved!	I
|	Bruggner's News Corner is now located at	|
|	127 West Washington Street — adjoining	|
I	Bruggner's Cigar Store.	|
I	The Ideal Spot for N. D. men to spend their	|
|	idle moments or loose change..	|
READ! LOAF! RELAX! i
NEWS CORNER	j j	CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington	110 N. Main
HEADQUARTERS for FLORSHEIMS

15 graduate degrees, including one. doctors degree presented to Eldred Emsley Young, of South Bend.
Another highlight of the graduation was the presenting of a diploma to
23
► ►
Matte ^basne
BOOKSTORE
► SERVING «
► SERVICE MEN <
Navy, Marines and N. D. Students:
Have your insignia on your correspondence
When you want to remember THE FOLKS AT HOME
Let us suggest souvenirs.
Also	4
SOAPS TOILET ARTICLES FOUNTAIN PENS 4
SUPPLIES
► NOTRE DAME ► BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
►
Thomas AV. Cain, an invalid in Niles, Mich., who has been unable to attend University classes since he was crippled in an automobile accident on June 13, 1941. Mr. Cain’s law degree was presented by Clarence E. Manion, dean of the law college. Mr. Cain came to Notre Dame for two years of law work after attending the University of Michigan. Since his accident the professors of the University have been going to his home in Niles to give him instruction.
On Sunday morning, in Sacred Heart church, Father O’Donnell was celebrant at a Solemn High Mass. The sermon was delivered by University vice-president Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Many of the graduating class of May, 1943, planned to enter service immediately. A few are now back on the campus in the Navy midshipmen school.
ADMINISTRATION
Graduate School In Special Summer Term
A special summer course in the Graduate School of the University, extending from June 29th until August 20th, was begun last Tuesday.
Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C.
According to Reverend Philip Moore, C.S.C., director of the Graduate School, about 300 men ‘and women religious are registered. Limited space permits only priests and Brothers to reside on campus; the Sisters are quartered at St. Mary’s College. All classes are being taught by regular members of the graduate school’s faculty. And because of the unusual class schedules, there will be no special lectures.
The Departments in the Arts and Letters Division of the University are offering special courses in Economics, Education, English, French, History, Latin, Philosophy, and Politics. The College of Science will offer special courses in Biology and. Ch'emistry.
In the Department of Metallurgy,, there will be no work in the graduate session, but only' in the regular summer term.
PASTURE POOL
Golf, Baseball Lead Summer Sport Card
The golf season during the spring session suffered from both the weather and the limited time of play. However, Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the golf team, indicated that every
WILLIAMS the Florist
offers you
for anyone ANYWHERE
Flowers say so much for so little.

FLOWERS WIRED
WILLIAMS the Florist
West of Oliver Hotel
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.

Use our lay-away plan.
24
effort would be made to assemble a creditable team and continue through the summer months. It is likely that several old players will return under the Navy program, and that they will be eligible to play. In the meantime, Father Hol-derith has carried on negotiations with several mid-western schools regarding dates for proposed matches. Regardless of varsity eventualities, he declared that there will be the usual campus and interdepartmental tournaments with suitable prizes being awarded to winners.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C.
Coach Kline of the baseball team intimates that he will, continue in much the same manner as he did last year. While long trips are prohibited, there is a surprisingly large number of well-organized semi-pro teams in the neighborhood and surrounding territory, and these aggregations will afford excellent opposition for the Slugging Irish. There is also the likelihood that mid-western colleges will attempt to continue baseball through the summer months. Personnel for both the golf and baseball teams remains largely a mystery, even now. However, it is not at all unlikely that a suitable squad can be selected for each sport. Navy V-12’s will be eligible to compete. Bulletins, advising candidates of developments, will be posted.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Leahy Invites V-12 To Squad
Following the announcement by Navy officials that V-12 trainees would be eligible and would be permitted to play football, in so far as their training schedule of classes and other naval activities permit, Coach Frank Leahy issued the following invitation to all Navy V-12 trainees on the campus:
With the joint beginning of the. new semester and the inauguration of the Navy’s V-12 training program at Notre Dame, the Athletic Association is extremely happy to have the new Navy crew with us on our campus. We are anticipating a very happy relationship between the Navy and Notre Dame. Past relationships have always been most warm and cordial; and we are definitely certain that there will be no change.
We sincerely hope that many of the V-12 men will be able to come out for varsity sports while they are here. Realizing, of course, that our athletics must in no way jeopardize the trainees’ opportunities in the V-12 program, we plan on having short and snappy practice sessions. After all, the primary purpose for which the V-12 students are in training is the completion of the Navy’s cur-riculum. Oui- government is taking a great interest in these young men and is spending large sums of money for their training. Consequently, their*. duty to our government and to the Navy comes first. But we believe that, many of the trainees will find time to carry on both their Naval academic program as well as participation in athletics. This same thing has been done at. Annapolis and West Point for many, many years — and we see no reason why we cannot do likewise at Notre Dame.
Although we are not certain just when summer practice will start, we can state definitely that it will include very little contact work. Most of our practice will be along “skull session” and mental lines: planning plays, and learning the principles of the T-formation. Because of the intense heat we usually experience during the months of July and August, hard contact work will be very limited, and for the most part practice will be carried on in track suits.
We shall be more than happy, to welcome a large turnout for varsity football, and every boy who reports will be given a chance to participate in practice, regardless of his athletic ability. While we should like to field a representative team, we believe our most important: obligation is to provide athletic participa-
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
25
To CHICAGO-and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section . of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
*
STYLED FOR
AT WAR
FDR VICTORY BUY U.S.WAR BONDS AND STAMPS
ALNATION^S
*g.5O *050
Other styles $5J0
Douglas “Down-to-tbe-Wood” construction assures you bitter fit.
The Colonel Ever popular miiiMry buckle oxford, in soft durable tan leather, with rugged leather sole. Smart for dress or street wear. No. 4538
Tlie Commander Service men and civilians choose this taa military type oxford, for all-day walking comfort. No. 4563. In black No. 4035
^cualaA Shoei
W. L. DOUGLAS 4 SHOE CO.. BROCKTON. MASS. 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
50U[UH°RE
Open Monday Evenings until 8:30
tion for all those young men who are eager for it.
Like many other men in athletics, we are of the firm conviction that a well-organized athletic program is definitely advantageous to young men preparing
Coach Frank Leahy
for military life. Athletics in general and competitive games in particular foster: A desire to emerge triumphant, physical fitness, character growth, development of will power, loyalty, lessons in accepting victory and defeat, cooperation with one’s mates, respect for opponents, resourcefulness, discipline, sportsmanship, co-ordination, self-confidence, selfimprovement, a democratic attitude, unselfishness, steady performance under pressure, and last but not least, faith — faith in one’s self, in one’s teammates, and in the Divine Powers. Throughout the past two years of this, the toughest and grimmest war. in history, these qualities have proved their value time and time again. They are the attributes of the final victor.
Accordingly, we sincerely hope that it will be our good fortune to be associated with the V-12 students on the football field, for then we shall feel that we
26
are contributing in some small way to the achievement of their goal, and the goal of all of us — ultimate and complete victory.
Joe Lords Squash Star
Joseph Lordi, who first gained prominence among Notre Dame fans as catcher on the Irish baseball team in 1928-29 and 1929-30, recently continued his bid for fame in another field as he won his second consecutive Red Cross squash tournament in New York City.
Lordi, who captained the Notre Dame baseball team in 1930, displayed unusual talent in walking off with honors in the recent tournament of the National Squash Tennis association by turning back the bid of Richard Berger, of the University Club of St. Louis, and more recently conquered this same Berger in the Yale Club handicap tournament.
Lordi, who has been playing squash since his days at Notre Dame, has just passed his Navy physical examination, however, and this was probably one of his last matches for the duration.
It's Ensign Kerr, Now
Ensign William H. Kerr, U.S.N.R., former end on the Notre Dame football team, is now on duty at the Navy PreFlight School in Athens, Ga., training aviation cadets.
Kerr will be remembered, among other achievements, as the aggressive end who played his best football against Carnegie Tech. In both the 1938 and 1939 Tech games it was Kerr who led the Irish attack, both offensively and defensively.
Since his graduation, the former Irish
star served two years as football coach at Goshen (Ind.) high school and since 1940 as assistant grid mentor and physical education instructor, at Washington University in St. Louis.
In Athens, Ensign Kerr has been reunited with two former teammates, Ensign Larry Danbom and Ensign Edward Broscoe, both members of the 1938 class at Notre Dame.
Coach Shaughnessy Fulfills Ambition
When Notre Dame opens its football season against Pittsburgh on Sept 25, it will mark the culmination of an ambition of Clark Shaughnessy which dates back to Sept. 29, 1928.
It was on this date that Shaughnessy, now coach of Pittsburgh, last coached a team that met Notre Dame on the gridiron, and his Loyola of New Orleans team gave the Irish quite a battle before losing a 12-6 decision. It was in this game that Johnny Niemiec plunged over left tackle, manned by erstwhile big league basebailer Zeke Bonura, to score the winning marker.
Shaughnessy probably had no desire while at Chicago to meet Notre Dame, and once at Stanford fate intervened and Shaughnessy moved to Maryland before the first game of a home-and-home series between Stanford and Notre Dame was played last fall.
When wartime conditions caused the cancellation of the second Notre Dame-Stanford game and left the Irish with an open date, Shaughnessy immediately expressed a desire to compete against Notre Dame once again and scheduled the Sept. 25th game.
NAVAL OFFICERS
ED. V. PRICE & CO. offer you
AN APPROVED
UNIFORM SERVICE

Our Uniforms are hand cut and individually tailored to your own measurements. Entirely in our own shops.
ENSIGN OUTFIT complete from £160.70
We carry a complete stock of Haberdashery and Accessories.
Take no chances on your money being lost or stolen, change your cash into American Express Travelers Cheques. Spendable everywhere like cash, but refunded in full if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of S1O, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75g for each -$ 100. Minimum cost 40c for $ 10 to $ 5 0. For sale at Banks, Railway Express offices, at principal railroad ticket offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
Stop in Our Store for inspection of Quality and Prices.
J
NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER’S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
Individually Hand to Individual Measures
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville . . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, courteous, efficient personnel to serve you.
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailoring that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
J. B. SIMf
NA I'd!. ;
IN SOUTH BEND - 20 p or our Campus location in the “Zero Deck” if th
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., WAU BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS CIrY’ CI WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOUS rON’ ’
Ait $ • i ^lAN IN J *
YOUR abel be every S and nu identific:
SBCREI Maay of handy. I is easily
POCKET REMOV. just; a i the^faci: the$cas( facing c
□
CHOICE op or vithin i
NAVAL OFFICER’S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S WINTER WORKING
11 OVERCOAT
NAVAL OFFICER’S OVERCOAT’ (Two-piece half belt in back)
28
•1
ORMS of Character
'ut and Tailored
J. B. Simpson, Inc.
^lANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED IhK J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
$
YOUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram abel bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, every Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date and‘ number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, quick and positive identification can always be made.
BODKIN BUTTONS with the attached slide that (I?	and "'hich are so easy to remove are
UI a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
SBCRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: Many officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty handy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) ; is easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.) ,
POCKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK REMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in just; a minute’s time through the little pocket opening in the <;facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is the^case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the facing open.
CHOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter op or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed sithin regulations, are followed on all personal details.
PSON, Inc.
I TAIL OHS
) NORTH MAIN STREET
” of the Dining Hall — opposite your Naval Store
MAIL COUPON TODAY-
me ntee tuasTtura tummtrtmafauK
with price list and actual samples of uniform materials.
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 395 N. Main St., Smith Bend. lad.
Gentlemen :
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of ' Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of m»--terials.
Name
U [EGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, | Addre“	:	|
-j CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. . city_______________________state------ i
8 TON, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND. |_______________________________
,	29
Joe Petritz Lauded By Press Association
■ Joseph S. Petritz, for thirteen years sports publicity director at the University and now a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy, has received a special citation from the American College Publicity Association.
Petritz was one of only five publicity directors and newspapermen to receive awards from the Association at its recent convention in New York City.
The college publicists commended Petritz specifically for “his part in helping the American people to appreciate the importance of inter-collegiate athletics in preparing young men for national service during this difficult period; for his development of standardized sports statistical records, which have proved valuable to sports writers and sports publicity men of the nation.”
They also noted Petritz’s efforts “in raising college sports publicity to a high plane, thus enhancing the dignity of this professional field” and expressed appreciation for “his unfailing cooperation with and unselfish aid to sports publicity men in other institutions.”
Petritz was lauded for “his modesty, friendliness, and high ideals which have won for himself, his University, and college sports publicity men in general, the respect and friendship of the sports writers of America.”
The former Notre Dame sports publicity chief recently completed his indoctrination training at Princeton University and spent a three-week’s leave at home before reporting to Boston for further training.
Even before his graduation from Notre Dame in 1932, Petritz aided Knute Rockne in the writing of the University’s sports publicity and spent thirteen years as director of this department before departing for the Navy in February.
Petritz had gained the friendship of almost every newspaper man with whom
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS SKOO.
Phone 4-1481
he came in contact and became noted for the efficient manner in which he handled the huge task of managing the press box in the Notre Dame stadium during the football seasons.
TWO-MILER HANGS UP SHOES
(Continued from page 15)
mile in the Chicago Belays in 1939. Rice is now a chief specialist in the maritime service.
Hunter, who last December was awarded the Byron V. Kanaley prize
DO YOU DIG IT ?
Submitted by Jerry D. O'Brien
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
given each year to the varsity monogram . winner who is most exemplary of sportsmanship and a student and leader of men, was president’ of the Notre Dame monogram club in his senior year. He also consistently ran the mile under 4:20 and anchored the Notre Dame four-mile relay team which broke the American indoor record for that event at the 1943 Purdue Relays.
Ollie, who majored in foreign commerce in the Notre Dame College of Commerce, hopes to entei’ export ship-. ping after the Axis are defeated.
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.
30
Law and Engineering Announce Changes
Two major changes were annnounced for the University College of Law when the summer semester opened on July 1.
Afternoon and evening classes in the law curricula will be offered for the benefit of defense workers, many of whom have completed a part' of their training. Courses will be held at convenient hours as the result of recurring demands from war workers for this opportunity.
New courses in aviation law and in the laws of federal and state taxes will be offered to regular students and to others interested, such as trust officers of banks, accountants, business executives, attorneys, government agency employees, etc.
In announcing the changes in procedure, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and Clarence E. Manion, dean of law, pointed out the need for a stable legal structure to protect the American democratic system, and the need for a continuing program of training. Many lawyers have been taken from practice for military service, and those remaining are faced with difficulty in mastering the new laws arising to meet^new conditions.
The last named problem resulted in the decision of Notre Dame to institute the new courses. Laws affecting aviation promise to increase in significance in post-war development. Problems of federal and state taxes are already crowding court dockets, with little or no precedent.
Students in the College of Law under the new program, or in the advanced
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
classes, may live off the campus. They are not subject to the 750-enrollment ceiling recently imposed by the reduction of the number of halls available for civilian students to five. While civilian, enrollment has already reached this figure for July 1, the College of Law is continuing to accept registrations.
Notre Dame’s law department is the oldest Catholic college in this country, established in 1869.
Clarence E. Manion, Dean of Law
Summer sessions in the engineering, science, management war training program began in the University shops and laboratories and classrooms with enrollment of 500 workers from the defense plants of the St. Joseph Valley area, on May 17. The courses, largely in engineering, science and commerce, are sponsored by the U.S. Bureau of Education. Training of workers in defense industries and special defense fields was begun at Notre Dame in the spring of 1941, before war was declared. The present group is distributed in more than 20 classes, which meet once each -week for three hours, during an average 15-week period. Classes are taught to a large extent by members of the University faculty.
Boxing Champ Now Aviator
Robert J. Duffey, Monroe, Mich., who scored one of the quickest knockouts in the history of the Notre Dame boxing championships, is now doing his fighting for the Naval Air Corps. Duffey, who just completed his primary flight training course at the Naval Air Station at Glenview, Ill., has been transferred to the Naval Air Training Center at Corpus Christi, Tex. After successful completion of the primary flight training
course at the Corpus Christi center, Cadet Duffey will be commissioned either an Ensign in the Naval Reserve or a Second Lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve.	•
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS -CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist -•	-
FOOT AILMENTS	-
406-40S Tower Building	Phone 3-257-1
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
/ GENERAL DENTISTRY	.
'• Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and-Jaws . X-Rays and Consultation . -
■ Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S-Bldg., South Bend-Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS	- .
- 503 Shetland Building .	.
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. ’Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
, .	' -	825 Shetland Building	■
L. E. Fisher. M.D.	M. J. Thornton. M.D.
'	31