
I'm a dele·gate,. you're a delegate ... 
1000 DELEGATES ARE NEEDED TO THE 
1988 MOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION 
' : , , ; ' 
Applications are aVa.i1ab1e inthe 
student go.vernment offices . 2nd Floo·r LaFortune 
APPLICATIONS ARE,DUE TOMORROW 
•· 


For more information, call Vince or Denise 239-6283/7668 



Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student t-kgazine February 4, 1988 
Sports 
21/ Sportsweek 

Cover 
11/ Discussing Issues By Rob Hennig


Departments 
14/ Women's Ways By Suzanne Lutz 

4/ Week in Distortion: Double Talk 17 / Looking Both Ways By John Coyle By Andy Hilger 
5/ On Other Campuses: Sex, Drugs and Religion 
20/ Pass/Fail Student Life 
By Pythagoras and Weird Beard 
22/ Coming Distractions 6/ Going International By Chris Dauer 
24/ Final Word: Straight Messages About Booze 8/ GraceVision By Dave Dannison By Carla Morris 
Scholutic ii publi ¦ hecl weeklr durin1 the ¦chool yoar except durinc uaminalion1 ud vacation period, at No&re D11111•; IN 46556 and printed al Th• Papan, Inc., MIiford, IN '8H2. The aubecriptioa ra'-i, U0.00/year and back issues are available 81.00/c:opy. The opinion ¦ apnaed·la ScltolMtic are thi1 of the author¦ and. ecliton. and do no& nec111arily reproNnt the opinion¦ ot &IN 1nlin .di&orial board ol lcholutlc or the Univenit, of NotN Dame, lu adminiatration, !acuity or 1tudent body. Editorial, represent the opinion of a ~ority of tho Nitorial board. Manu1c:ript ¦ are welcome. All un101ic:ited material become the property of Scholutic:. Sc:holutic: i¦ ftPNNnted nationally by CASS Communicatiou, lac. 
• 19118 Scholutic --,uine. All rich'¦ l'INl'Vecl. ReproducUoa in whole or part without permi11ion i1 prohibited. 


February 4, 1988 


Editorial 



aucu 


Should autious 



Notre Dame now has a group on campus devoted to women's issues --the newly formed Women's Caucus. 
And it's about time. 

Schools with a much larger female population and a more even proportion of females have had groups similar to the Women's Caucus for years. Notre Dame women, who tend to be conservative in their thinking, can benefit from this sort of con­cerned group, providing the group doesn't immediately alienate the mass of women by becoming a haven exclusively for the most stringent feminists on campus. 
The Caucus founders have some good ideas. First off, the caucus should be commended for starting small. Aiming to acquire a meeting or lounge space for informal meetings is a 
great idea. 

But the group should be careful about some of its own ambi­tions. Some of its ideals are lofty, almost too lofty. The group has already displayed a tendency to latch onto issues which arc not central to the major concerns of women on campus. The caucus should be careful to avoid scaring away people who could most use an awareness group. Sponsoring informal talks and lectures is the best way to increase the profile of this campus' concerned women. A women's studies department is simply not necessary: there is insufficient interest in such a program at this point. 
The Women's Caucus has the potential to help the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community realize its full co-educational potential. But some caution necessarily should be exercised. The Women's Caucus has set up some worthy goals; it must now be careful to make sure it doesn't lose sight of those goals in a fer­vor that only serves to alienate possible members. 
Scholastic 

li~H~ialliii~ 

tfol': .·· atliI~~ri tvtbt<i.'

··~~~fiH~i·~~/8~,·Xt,.i
j. :····: ·'._:/:..:':: .'I·:: ··:: ,:"_:'.;:":,"}:/·/\-•\;.,_._".., >=· 
• C; •· EditofiJj'~ a 
...-.'·········.:.·.. ,·.. ::.. 

i~:m:~t
.#ie~lJ:i 
nttif~: 

Chj2£:J]
.':Nfafg~f: 

Scholastic

2 





Letters 


•nanie, addS~S$ andiphone number;••• 
..:+:s:.··. ,, · / ette . . . e lirriitici'\d
t\,!.~i~:rsity st~de.nts:should inclu1e / .. •• • 
fewer than 250 words. A · · · · · · · 
i~f!JI~e~~~~3;,it"i:'JiiM1tfg!jfi)<' .,· ,...... ,.. ·.·•················•·· 'ii:c'~ i:fr&C')Ji}''•'d 
thefr depllt"tfoent. All letters ~usf •· • · 
i~~lfft~!~!Jflt~!!!~1:::i"'L 
,Jcj¢~tlettef~.f~at are :l,it,elops .. ()/:n[o\Js~~ne.. b)1Xhc lawso[the/(Jnitect.•··. iS~atfiS·••§C??liistkal.~p ,will•· eciit·. fo.rt···
ir~~wf~ti~;J~dctm~~Htflti~~ift1gl;1,
,ij¢cause: ofspace timitations •.· Scho.;; <
}l1~t;gg~rinoi (pri~(... <ail i •Iiiie •·•·· 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6th 10 pm 



AT THEODOR.E'S 
·r 
., ' 
i 
i 
i 


3 

.; 
Week in Distortion/John Coyle 






ouble Tai 
What we really want to say to some people 



om always said 

Sheena chick? (Boy, ain't she the 
Bohemian prep. Does that 
that if you can't 

bathing beauty and quite the 
sweater itch? It did when I threw 
say something 

rocket scientist.) 
it out. Why don't you go out and 
nice about some­
blow a doob in front of the 

Ding: Yeah, things are going
one than say 
Administration Building, you

well. I like her a lot. (I wonder
nothing at all. But 
rebel you.)

how much. you had to pay for
sometimes you have to be social 
Ding: No, I picked it up at 

your last date, Don Juan.)
so you are forced to say some­
Goodwill. (Yeah, I remember 

thing. So while the mind is 
Dong: That's cool, I'm happy for 
when I was a freshman in high

thinking evil the mouth is saying 
you. (I guess I won't be telling 
school and owned a Member's 

nice. It's called double-talk and 
you that I saw her all over a guy 
Only jacket.) 

we all do it from time to time. 
like a cheap suit in D-2 last 
Dong: This is a pretty cool party?

What follows is a typical party 
night.) 
(Well, this conversation has just

double-talk conversation. 
Ding: So have you been going out 
been swell. I gotta get away from 

Dong: Hey, how you doing? 
a lot? (Did someone finally 
this guy. Mmmm, should I use 

Long time, no see. (Great, I've 
manage to pry that differential 
the always reliable, "well, I need 

been trying to avoid this loser for 
equations textbook out your arms 
a beer" or how about the "I'm 

the entire semester and now I'm 
going to mingle a little bit" line.)

for a few hours?)
cornered.) 
Ding: Yeah, it's alright. (This guy

Dong: I usually go to Senior Bar.
Ding: I'm doing allright. I tried 
(Sorry, I'm not one of the 
is about as deep as a sidewalk 

to call you a few times but no 
puddle. It's about time to pull the

beautiful people who like go to 
one was home. (Right, like I'd 
"old bathroom excuse" or maybe

Bridget's and get pushed around 
even think about calling you, 
the "I'm going to try to find the

in a smoke-filled rathole, drink­
dorko.) 
rest of my friends so they won't

ing warm beers, trying to hold a 
ditch me routine.")

conversation while that stupid
Dong: Yeah, well I've been busy. 
Talking Heads tape is blaring in
You look great though. Have you 
Dong: Well, I need a refill. It's

the background.)
been working out? (Geez, that 
been good talking to you. Give 

gut of his is huge. I guess that's 
me a call sometime, maybe we

Ding: Yeah, I haven't really made
what happens when you sit 
can do something some night.

it over to Senior Bar too much,
around eating Oreos and watch­
(Time to change my phone

I'm more of a Bridget's person.
ing T. V. for entertainment.) 
number.)

(Oh boy, aren't you the nut? 
"Senior Bore," "Club Paste",
Ding: No, not really. You look 
Ding: Yeah, I should find my

"and what instrument do you
awesome yourself. (How's that 
friends. Take care, I'll definitely

play?")
zit the size of Toledo on your 
call you. (Right, I'll call, "maybe

nose treating you?) 
I'll talk to you again before we

Dong: I really like that sweater, 
graduate in two years.")1111

Scholastic 


Sex, Drugs, and Religion 
! 
Other campuses explore both sides of these probing issues 
Tired of traditional religious ideologies? 
A guru at the University of Pennsylvania is looking for disciples. According to the Brown Daily Herald, Vincenzo LXX Giallanardo periodically takes out advertisements in the "Pennsylvanian" to recruit. Evidently, Vincenzo is friends with Leonardo da Vinci and has spoken with Stalin and Hitler, accord­ing to Elly Jones of the newspaper's advertising department. "He says World War II was his fault and he apologizes for that," Jones said. Apparently, Vincenzo missed a 'meeting' in the l 930's that would have determined the fate of the world. In a related story, the U.S. Attorney General's Office is prosecuting a former Wharton student who allegedly sold 20 pounds of cocaine at the University of 
. Pennsylvania. 

A part-time DePaul University student 
last week confessed to running a sex service out of her dorm room at the Catholic college reports The College Press Service. Joyce Owens, 22, was sen­tenced to two years' probation and a $1,000 fine for using her phone at McCabe Hall to link customers with prostitutes working for her "Exposure Unlim­ited" operation. DePaul had suspended Owens in June, soon after police arrested her on prostitution charges. "Owens," police Sgt. Jack Halpin said, "was strictly a middleman between the prostitutes and the customers." 

Two University of Arizona students 
hope to keep "extremely obnoxious" preachers from orating on campus. James Gillis, in an article pub­lished by The College Press Service, claims that the "zealots" are "extremely obnoxious and disruptive to students who want to relax on the mall.'' Gillis and Keith Shachat hope that UA officials adopt a program similar to that of the University of Vir­ginia, which has a policy limiting freelance speakers to certain days, hours, and areas of campus. Robin Brand, a UA med center employee and occasional campus preacher, promises to fight the proposal; he states, "They will have to drag me from the mall.. I am here to preach the gospel, and I have freedom of speech to back me up." 

Not have time to shower this morning? 
Feel lucky that you're not subject to the dress code of Florida Southern College. The FSC dress code prohibits anything "extreme in appearance", a rule Assistant Dean of Students exercised in ordering 12 students to get their hair cut or transfer to another school wrote a recent release of The College Press Service. Eleven of the twelve students got a trim, with the lone dissenter transferring to Purdue. James D'Loughy, FSC student body president, termed the dress code "archaic and puritanical." He stated, "It's subjective. It talks about anything 'extreme in appearance.' Does that mean over­weight? Does it mean musclebound? It's hard to know what they look for. "II 
EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 
February 4, 1988 
5 

Mansfield Soroptimist Club, stu­dent government, Campus Minis­try, and Grace Hall. 
Schadek's interest in politics is not a new phenomenon by any means. As far back as high school in Mansfield, Ohio, Schadek had politics on his mind. As a senior, he worked for the mayor of Mans­field. Recognizing his own interest in politics he decided to try to get some experience on a larger scale. The predecessor of his recent letter to Tutu was the result of this desire. By writing to Mayor Edward Koch of New York City he obtained an invitation to spend the spring break of his senior year working as a special intern. "That was a big success and after that experience I knew I definitely wanted to go into politics," said Schadek. 
Schadek ran for District 4 sena­tor last year on a platform that included ideas for making the Notre Dame campus a nuclear free zone. "It would have been a sym­bolic gesture of the student com­mittment against nuclear weapons. I also wanted to have a David Letterman Week with activities centered around Letterman as well as to push for general cafeteria improvements. 
Currently, he's a member of the cabinet of the student government working on governmental issues and ideas. The position involves working with any issues that might affect the student body in any way, for instance the new tax law and its effect on students is currently being explored. Schadek also hopes to bring Attorney Gen­eral Charles Brown from West Vir­ginia to campus to offer a question and answer session for students interested in state level govern­ment. 
This journey presents still another memorable experience to be had, and while Schadek doesn't know what he'll be doing in South Africa, he is certain it will be "an unforgettable experience." He goes on to explain that "This is such an important issue. It should be eye-opening, and hopefully things will seem clearer when I come back." Schadek will be stay­ing in the Bishop's Court as a Voluntary Staff Member. He admits, "My mother is a little wor­ried but I know I'll be safe." 
Schadek also wrote a letter to 
President Peter Botha. "I wrote 
him a couple of weeks ago 
expressing my interest in speaking 
to him. Since I sent the letter kind 
of late I don't really expect a 
reply. I'm going to be over there 
anyway though and it'd be great to 
get an idea of the ideas behind the 
policies." 
Schadek's, spring break will be 
radically different from anything 
most students will ever experi­
ence. With a little luck he'll soon 
be writing another letter that will 
lead to even new experiences. ¦ 



•
01ng 

International 
BY CHRIS DAUER 
vcr feel like you'll never catch up on all that letter writing? Your best friend from high school, 

the people you worked with over the summer, and that letter home that just never seems to get in the mail. Michael Schadek probably has a better correspondence record than most. Schadek is a sophomore Arts and Letters major living in Grace Hall. Last March he looked up Bishop Desmond Tutu's address in Who's Who, and wrote a letter to that address expressing a wish to visit South Africa and help Tutu in any way possible. On March 12, that wish will come true. 
"I never really expected a reply 
· at all," Schadek says. "When it was answered, needless to say I was very happy." He received that response last March, so it will be almost exactly a year when he makes the trip. That sort of wait tune things out. Tutu is one of the making sure the pro_iect wouldhas in no way dampened his most prominent activists, and this happen. He wrote letters to Father
enthusiasm, however; Schadek just seemed like a great way to Edward Malloy and Father Andre
repeats again and again how "exciting . . . interesting . . . fas­become more aware. Especially at Leveille requesting funding for 
the trip. The administration is
cinating" it will be to visit South the time I wrote the letter apartheid was the issue in the financing about fifty percent ofAfrica. 
the eighteen-hundred dollar bill,
"You hear so much about news." apartheid," he explains, "that you Upon receiving a positive reply and the remaining half will be just sort of get numb. You start to to his letter Schadek set about paid for by donations from the 


7

_,J 

Grae 

With creativity and hard work Grace Hall sets 
the pace 
BY LAURENTEEN C. MORRIS 
I 
magine coming in from a long day of classes, turning 
on the tube and flopping 
down on that Goodwill couch. That doesn't require too much creativity for most, but now pretend that with the aid of your remote control you are able to switch from a channel showing dining hall menus --looks like a good night to hit Maeri's --to a 

for a campus wide cable system 
rebroadcast of the interhall foot­ball finals. This probably doesn't seem very likely --unless you happen to be a resident of Grace, in which case it's already a reality. GraceVision is a "cable television" system that allows each room, each student a variety of viewing possi­bilities. 
GraceVision began in 1969 when the north quad tower was constructed. Coaxial cable was installed throughout the building. 

The system was used to circulate music as well as periodic announcements. But with the passing of time new residents arrived possessing the ambition and foresight needed to explore the full potential of the system. Students became involved in the huge realm of television program­ming. 
When Grace Hall rector Father Gerald Lardner arrived in the fall of 1985, he brought with him a Commodore 64 computer that has enabled hall announcements to be seen on channel 4. This electronic bulletin board addresses many interests and concerns dealing with dorm functions, sports, news, upcoming birthdays, shuttle schedules, mass schedules and the dining hall menus. 



''A ent nobod can ate thc1t sys 
t~r)l... Ho,wever, .in th next.few years the. whole. campus w· . ired for computer~ fully, 

And that's just a beginning. The purchase of a portable Pana­sonic VHS camera gave students the opportunity to produce their own shows and to create live pro­gramming. Hall events can now be taped and broadcast at a later time. Interhall sporting events have been filmed, games rebroadcastcd, can­didate speeches for hall positions filmed and aired. Sunday Night Live was created and aired once a month, and Chicago stations are broadcastcd. Lastly, with the help of Educational Media, GraceVi­sion became affiliated with National Coll~ge Television and airs four hours of programming a week, ranging from documen­
tarics, cartoons, college news seg­ments, and talk shows to sit-com classics, music videos, concerts and a campus-based soap opera. But this is only the tip of the GraceVision iceberg. With the leadership and creativity of Exe­cutive Director Ed Trifone and Programming Director Scan Lyden, GraceVision's potentials are e· ·er-expanding. 
A new graphic generator will provide a more sophisticated pro­gramming style. Possibilities include a bouncing ball across the screen during sports announce­ments or a movie projector to announce movies. Trifone said, "The graphic generator will make it easier to program in new mes­sages (providing) more program­ming exposure for the commun­ity." 
Grace Vision is beginning to work with the Grace Hall Coffee Shop, which is a new activity featured in ther dorm's party room on Friday nights. Plans include the filming of live entertainment, pro­viding more exposure to campus bands. This type of program would be aired Sunday night after Mass. A larger project in its pri­mary stages concerns the Bengal Bouts. GraceVision will be work­ing with the boxing club, filming the bouts. The film will include a history of the bouts along with footage of their practice sessions. This film will be duplicated and marketed to the participants, com­plete with a quality professional look. The proceeds will go back 
into GraceVision, which runs strictly on a volunteer basis. Lyden said, "These tapes will be some-

9 



thing for them to remember, something for them to show their relatives." 
Soon, a TV monitor, already donated, will be installed in Grace's lobby. Trifone said, "This system will provide more exposure as to what Grace is all about." 

C"l
::r 
,..~ 
:d
.. 
.... 

Looking ahead, Lyden said, "I want to refine the equipment to use every channel from 2 to 13." Presently GraceVision makes use of channels 2,4,6, 7,9, 11, and 13. Trifone would like to see more programming in the future. Both he and Lyden praised the past suc­cess of taping candidate speeches for hall elections. "Having each student state what they hoped to do made it easier for the candi­dates to have access to each stu­dent rather than trying to go door to door." So why is Grace Hall the only dorm enjoying such a system? 
10 
According to Lardner, "a cable and a few boosters" are the only things that prevent other dorm.s from similar opportunities. "It's a matter of taking advantage of it. There's so much untapped poten­tial, any dorm could take it to unbelievable heights." Trifone said with student interest and cooperation the. system could spread. 
Sister Elaine DesRosiers, direc­tor of Educational Media, said, "At present nobody can duplicate that system. However, in the next f cw years the whole campus will be wired for for computer. Hope­fully, video signals will be able to be used." DesRosiers said when the system is set the possibility of each dorm having such a system would be great. "GraceVision is a good model of what could happen in each dorm, but it will take time and energy." 
If all goes well, students in all of the resident halls will one day be able to enjoy the benefits of "campus cable"iJ 





men's Ideas 
Female undergrads discuss their perceptions and experiences of Notre Dame 
BY SUZANNE LUTZ 


otre Dame is over­flowing with tradi­tion, and that tradi­tion revolves around 

men. Those who made this school famous are priests, football players and coaches; they are the legen­dary graduates who provide Notre . Dame with its strong sense of his­tory. Founded by men and for men, the University thrived for well over I 00 years before women were admitted into its classes. Even after the admission of women to Notre Dame, it will take the University more than 16 years to allow for an equal ratio of men to women, making it much tougher for female students to earn admission to Notre Dame. After interviewing ten female freshmen, six female juniors and eight female seniors, it seems that the upperclassmen are somewhat more sensitive about faculty atti­tudes regarding female students than than freshmen are. The fresh­
men interviewed could not recall any situations in which they observed any negative attitudes on the part of their professors towards female students. The majority of upperclassmen inter­viewed also said they had not per­ceived any negative or chauvinis­tic prejudices on the part of their professors; however, there were several who did claim to have wit­nessed or directly experienced chauvinistic attitudes from some Notre Dame professors. 
"During my sophomore year, I had a professor who showed a pretty bad attitude towards his female students; most of the women in that class felt that he was definitely a chauvinist," said Mary Elberson, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Elber­son added that that professor has since left Notre Dame. Junior Sheila Casey also recalled a nega­tive experience in which a profes­sor expressed chauvinistic atti­tudes. In a personal conversation, this faculty member once recom­
mended that she not worry about 
her classes and direct her energies 
towards becoming a housewife. Barb Sachar, also a junior, said that she had one professor who apparently dislikes fem ale stu­dents. "He has a habit of making derogatory comments about women during class in an off­handed and flippant manner," said Sachar. She adds that many women in the class were offended by the chauvinistic remarks made by this professor. 
None of the women inter­viewed feel that female students at Notre Dame are intimidated in classes where there are many more men than women. All said that they participate in classes as much as they would if those classes were attended by a female majority. Jennifer Bonvechio, a freshman, added that in some classes the female students are more assertive than the male students. 
Bonvechio said that some of her male friends claimed to be intimi­dated by the more outspoken 
February 4, 1988 



women in these classes. Says Jen­nifer, "It seems that many fresh­men women are more academically competitive than most of the freshmen men. Several freshmen men have told me that they're intimidated by the girls who are very assertive in class," said Bon­vechio. 
"My female friends seem to feel more pressure to succeed than my male friends. They don't find it more difficult than my male friends, but the girls seem to have more of an intense drive to get good grades. Some of my male 
friends have told me that they're intimidated by the girls who are so competitive," said Jennifer Sal­mon, a freshman enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 
All the freshmen interviewed said that they find Notre Dame to be tough academically, but most of them said that their classes aren't quite as difficult as they had e:{pected. They all said that once .:hey could discipline themselves to 
a set schedule, it became easier to 
succeed. Several said that they 
found their classes to be boring 
compared to what they had 
expected, especially the large lec­
ture classes. 
"Some of my teachers aren't as interesting or as effective at teach­ing as I expected, and a couple of them seem to have kind of condes­cending attitudes towards the freshmen," said Bonvechio. She added that she expected to find her classes more interesting when she became a sophomore. The upperclassmen who were inter­viewed agreed that while classes themselves don't get any easier, they become easier to handle as study habits and concentration improve; in addition, they pointed out that classes become more interesting as students advance in their majors. 
None of the freshmen found it unusually difficult to become socially adapted to Notre Dame. In fact, most of them said that they 
chose Notre Dame after visiting and experiencing the friendliness of the students here. Several fresh­men, in particular those from large cities, found the social and cul­tural atmosphere of South Bend to be stifling; this was a disappoint­ment for them. Jennifer Salmon, a freshman from Dallas, is one of those who feel that South Bend's atmosphere is restrictive to Notre . Dame social life. "I guess I'm used to having a great choice of fun things to do at any time, with everything close by and accessible. In South Bend it takes more plan­ning to find something to do and it's a hassle to get transportation. I think that at Notre Dame you definitely need a car to take advantage of anything in South Bend. If you don't have a car you feel restricted to the campus," she 
said. 
As far as the on campus social 
life is concerned, however, the 
freshmen feel that it is about as 
good as they had expected, or in 
some cases better. The freshmen 
interviewed are not at all intimi­
dated by the ratio of men to 
women, and they found most of 
the Notre Dame men to be rela­
tively open and easy to meet. Sal­
mon remarked that it seemed to 
her as though some of her male 
classmates find it a bit more diffi­
cult than most of the women to 
accustom themselves socially at 
Notre · Dame. According to the 
freshmen women interviewed, 
Notre Dame's social atmosphere is 
not difficult for those who make 
an effort to find friends. 
Senior women have a somewhat 
different view of Notre Dame's 
social atmosphere. In addition to 
the widespread disenchantment 
with South Bend's cultural oppor­
tunities, the upperclass women 
find the student body to be 
overwhelmingly· homogeneous and 
overly conservative. Says senior 
Maureen Kibelstis, "This campus 



is extremely conservative and 
homogeneous and I think that 
leads to some social barriers 
between Notre Dame men and 
women. However, I don't think 
these barriers are insurmountable 
where mature and relatively intel­
ligcn t adults are concerned." 
"I've never really had any problem with Notre Dame men, and none of my girlfriends have ever seemed to have any difficul­ties in forming strong relationsh ins with the men here. I think I've formed life-long friendships with some of my male friends here, and I feel pretty fortunate to have the opportunity to meet the special people, both male and female, that I've become close to here," said Natalie Illig, a junior accounting major. 
Several of the freshmen found Notre Dame to be even friendlier and more receptive than they had anticipated. Jcnnifer Long, a freshman in Farley Hall, men­tioned that Notre Dame's male stu­dents are a reminder that chivalry is not dead as she recalled doors that were held open for her. "I don't think that the courtesy shown by Notre Dame men is at all . indicative of chauvenism. I think that some of the men have just been brought up to think that it's the way they should act. I don't know any women here who are insulted or annoyed by the extra courtesies here; most women I know really appreciate having doors opened for them," said Long. 
When the social environment of 
Notre Dame is discussed, the pre­
vailing stereotypes of Notre Dame 
women are sometimes said to be 
indicators of a stifling atmosphere 
and a general narrow-mindedness 
that hinders social growth. Most 
of .the women interviewed, how­
ever, feel that the stereotypes 
reflect more upon the few students 
who maintain them than the women to whom they pertain. 
"Anyone who thinks that Notre Dame women should be seriously concerned about these stereotypes has to admit that Notre Dame men are also grouped into stereotypes and generalizations that are some­times pretty insulting. It really takes very little to break down Notre Dame's fem ale stereotypes when dealing personally with the male students on an individual basis. When it comes to meeting someone in class or at a party, the female students who deserve the respect of intelligent and mature male students will get it, and vice versa. It just takes some personal interaction at Notre Dame for you 
·•s:.•.••.•.·.·tev~•···•··l]~V~r·...r~<JllyCijctcJ.••.. ·• >~llY< Pf'.oblern :vvith<··NoJre\ 
.'I!~ii~~1;;,J1L,1i, 
·•··•··~tr~•Jg .rel,tio.n.~hi.ps.:vvi'~········
:fh~'<rnen :here/~i'•··•Nat:alie•·:~;:JJ','!i~{ j!CtcjQ,i~jri[ 
to get what you deserve as far as friends are concerned," said Theresa Barnhart, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Molly Burtchaell, a junior, feels that the social atmosphere at Notre Dame is stifled as far as dat­ing is concerned. "No one casually dates several persons just for fun here. You only see opposite ends of the spectrum. Either you don't date at all, or you're expected to spend almost all of your time with one boyfriend. I think it's unna­tural and pretty repressive," said Burtchaell. 
Junior Sheila Casey commented that this is probably partially a result of a lacking social atmo­sphere in South Bend. "I think that there would be a greater degree of dating casually here if there was more to do in South Bend. It's such a project to find something to do and to get transportation that it makes dating tough in South Bend. There's just not that much to do here. I think that the dating situa­tion would be better if the Notre Dame campus were in or very close to a big city with a good cul­tural atmosphere and an easily accessible means of transporta­tion," said Casey. 
Overall the reactions of the women interviewed were positive. Most of the freshmen had very opt1m1st1c attitudes about the social and academic situation at Notre Dame. The upperclassmen seemed to be less enthusiastic overall when questions were posed regarding faculty attitides towards women. While some women recalled classroom situations that were frustrating because of pro­fessors with negative attitides, however, the upperclassmen didn't seem to feel it was a widespread campus dilemma. 
As far as the social life at Notre Dame is concerned, few of the upperclass women expressed any real concern about the attitudes of Notre Dame men. They seemed to think that the social opportunities provided in South Bend were much more of a hindrance than the outlooks or social skills of Notre Dame men. Most women interviewed f eit that their years here at Notre Dame are providing them with the opportunity to develop lasting and strong friend­ships with male students who are intelligent, considerate and sup­portive. II 
February 4, 1988 
' . 
' l ~.::.i=-J;,;,~--=~~,.,. :=:;,.'---~~-•,_.,~J;:,;_.,...u;-"~ 

Faculty members and students get together to 
BY ROB HENNIG 

The University of Notre Dame has been a co­educational i~stitution for some 16 years, yet, women are still very obviously in the minority here. They face predominently male classes and a predominently male faculty at what was once considered the epi­tome of the male bastion. Notre Dame alumni in the l 970's viewed women as an invading and very unwelcome army. There is an increasing awareness now about the need for action and greater sensitivity in regard to woman's issues--issues that concern not only the women who attend Notre Dame, but also the general female populace. Recently, a Women's Caucus at Notre Dame was formed. Twenty-two women attended a organizational meeting January 20, and two other meetings have been held on subsequent Wednesdays. At the organizational meeting, 
form the Women's Caucus 
many woman voiced their concern 
about the role of women at Notre 
Dame. 
"I came to get together with other 
people who are concerned with 
feminist issues on campus," said 
Susan Hrach, a junior American 
studies major. "Women are still a 
minority, genderwise. Notre Dame 
is so far behind other universities 
in terms of what's available for 
women here," Hrach continued. 
"I'd like to get the chance to 

meet other women. Econ is full of 
men. Even the classes I teach are 
mostly male," said Economics gra­
duate student Lisa Jordan. 
"People here seem to reward 

you for being childlike and, once 
we get out, the real world is going 
to expect something different," 
said Beth Mirko, a senior Electri­
cal Engineering major. 
"When I came to Notre Dame, I was honestly appalled that there was no organization. Women do have unique and different prob­lems as students and profession­als," said Christine Mercer, an assistant professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. "One of my first priorities would be to have a room of our own," Mercer said. 
"I have become aware that there is a problem with sexism at Notre Dame," said Catherine 


Francis, a junior Arts and Letters student, who organized the first meeting. "I know last semester I felt I was the only women on campus that was a feminist. There really isn't any way for women to MelllOOiii of the Women"s Caucus discuss campus issues. 

14  Scholastic  
~  --­-~-­ - - - - .  
~-­ - - _, F~­ •­~  ~--:'."  ,,, --,,-,_  ~,  ,,,.,~  -~  ,,,,--, _.,  O-.  _,.,,,_­ , '  '''''•~"'I  ;';.,>  ( (! 1 '°'J1J  ,'  \,A,  •  C oa  ,a  ,­ ;  '  ,  2,f/'  


get in contact with each other at 
all," added Francis, who lives 
off-campus. 
.The Women's Caucus would work toward some specific goals according to s Francis. "There are two things that any decent univer­sity that is concerned with women should have: I) a place for women to meet and discuss issues that concern them and 2) a women's studies program," Francis said. 

Chenoa Seaboy, a Philosophy and Theology double-major, agreed with junior Francis. "One of the things we hope to accom­plish is to get a women's studies program at Notre Dame, because, anytime you get a history class, it's basically men's history," Sea boy said. 

The · Caucus should be con­cerned with other issues as well, said Seaboy. For example, Ruth Meyers, a Notre Dame graduate student and Episcopal priest, sought University recognition for an Episcopal student organization, but was refused by Campus Minis­.... try Director Father Andre
..
...

... Leveille, according to Seaboy . 
C'.l

.. The issue concerned the Women's Caucus because "besides being a
i ~ .. support group and a consciousness-raising group, it should target certain issues. We're hoping that people become informed about the problem," Seaboy said. 
15 


According to Ruth Meyers, currently enrolled as a doctoral candidate in the Liturgy Program, she spoke with Father Leveille once. Meyers would not comment further, other than to say, "I'm an Episcopal priest and a graduate student in theology and I don't feel free to discuss the situation at hand." 
Father Leveille would not comment about his conversation with Meyers. According to him, his relationship with Meyers is a counselling relationship and if he were to say anything, it might damage that or other counselling relationships. When asked about the general University policy con­cerning the recognition of reli­gious groups on campus, or the role of Campus Ministry in gen­eral, Father Leveille still refused to comment. 
According to du Lac, the offi­cial guide to student life at Notre Dame, a non-Catholic group "which is clearly organized to serve the religious needs of non­Catholic students will be given approval and will receive the com­plete cooperation of the Office of University Ministry." Further­more, any religious organization "that seeks to become involved in direct pastoral ministry, evangeli­zation, or catechesis, on this campus or using University struc­tures, facilities, or services, must also be approved and directly supervised by University Ministry for their individual programs." 
Some non-Catholic groups have received recognition, such as the Baptist Student Union. Nancy Ross, missions chairperson of the BSU, said the group meets weekly across the street from campus. "It's a Bible study," Ross said. She estimated the membership at about 
15. Doug Dieterly, director of the BSU group, indicated, however, that they do not hold services. "We meet with students on a personal basis," Dieterly said. 
Other issues that were discussed at the initial Caucus meeting included the need for the use of inclusive language, according to Seaboy. "[When] we refer to God as Father we have distorted images of Him as being male," Sea boy said. Also, Francis voiced concern about the lack of press coverage. "There are complaints with The Observer not taking women's issues seriously," Francis said. 
"I'd like to see us work on the relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women. There's some general animosity that makes me sick. It's like we're in com­petition for the guys here --and that's ridiculous," added Hrach. 
The Caucus also decided to allow men to attend meetings. "It's not a struggle between men and women. It's more of a strug­gle between those who believe in equal dignity and those. who don't," Seaboy said: According to Francis, George Howard, Chair-. man of the Psychology Depart­ment, is the faculty adviser to the Caucus.· Francis said Howard was .the adviser to a previous Women's Caucus at Notre Dame. 
The Caucus and its members hope to expand membership and awareness on Notre Dame's campus in the coming months.. They plan to be the central, head organization for several splinter groups of faculty, gfaduate and undergraduate students. II 


UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES EXPANDED PHYSICIAN 
HOURS . 
In an effort to better meet your health care needs, the hours in which physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: 
Open at 8:00 am Available during the lunch hour 
On duty from 5:00 pm -8:00·pm 
PLEASE NOTE: Above schedule is Monday-Friday 
HOURS MAY VARY WHEN SCHOOL IS NOT IN SESSION 


. ,. / : . . --·· . . ' 
m·rtm1-.·11 111. 1m1:1 
SCIIOLASTIC
•

Lo 
ID oth Ways 



People involved in the transition comment to co-education on now and then at Notre Dame 
BY ANDY HILGER

Throughout much of 1971, Saint Mary's Col­lege and the University of Notre Dame dis­cussed the possibility of merging the two schools. When the negotia­tions fell through, the University announced its plans to begin accepting undergraduate women. Father Thomas Blantz, then vice president of student affairs, said, "People at Notre Dame were con­vinced that having a school of both men and women was the best way to go." Ann Pettifer, a 1976 magna cum laude graduate and one of the first undergraduate women to attend Notre Dame, has "very positive feelings" about the time she spent at the University. But, she questions the direction that the administration has taken, particu­larly from a theological stand­point, since deciding to make Notre Dame a co-educational institution. 
The primary reason for decid­ing to admit undergraduate women after the break up of the merger talks was the value of a Catholic education. "If you really felt Catholic education was worthwhile, and all of us did or probably wouldn't have been in it, then why not have it for Catholic women also?" Blantz said. 
An even more pressing issue was the fact that some of the smaller women's colleges were having financial difficulties. "They might not be able to expand or might even have to close down. And, if that was the case, then once again, there would not be that many places of Catholic edu­cation for women to attend-­
~ 
1984••. co-ed 

unless some all male schools, like Notre Dame, admitted undergra­duate women," Blantz continued. 
While the aforementioned rea­sons were the strongest, other fac­tors played a part in the administration's decision to admit women. Both the opportunity to upgrade the education supplied by Notre Dame as well as social con­siderations pointed the administra­tion in the direction of a co­
educational environment. 
Blantz remarked on the chance to upgrade the University: "Every university is trying to make itself better, upgrade its student body and upgrade its faculty. Sometimes those two go together. You can attract better faculty, obviously, if you have better students." Admit­ting women meant the ability to select students from the entire population and not just half of it. 
17 





In Blantz's words, "It opened up a whole other pool of very bright stud en ts." 
The social aspect that came under consideration dealt with the fact that single-sex high schools were gradually becoming a rarity. "Students were used to relating with men and women in a co­educational establishment. We sim­ply continued that normal development of men and women that they . were used to," Blantz said. 
Reasons for not going to an even ratio immediately were of a practical nature. According to Blantz, the administration was worried that if they admitted equal numbers of men and women, they might discover that "we were going to need to hire a lot more faculty members in the college of Arts and Letters: because there'd be more [students] coming in, while we might have tenured faculty ·memb.ers in pre-med or in engineering with no students to teach." This concern never did become a realistic problem. 
With this precaution in mind, the fall of 1972 saw only 365 woman enter the University of Notre Dame. All of these women were guaranteed housing because the University didn't want "the women to come here and find that all the attractive houses had already been taken up. They really wouldn't have had a fair competi­tive pick of off-campus places," said Blantz. 
The displaced men had the en tire spring of 1972 to look for off-campus housing. Walsh and Badin were chosen as the two halls to be converted into women's 

dorms primarily because the numbers they housed were correct. Morrissey, which had the right amount of beds would have been ideal in terms of numbers, but Blantz decided that he didn't want simply one hall of women with one female rector and one female hall president. 
To make the transition to co­education a smooth one, Father Blantz handpicked five Saint Mary's students he had gotten to know through the merger talks, to advise the University on things of a practical nature. "When you're talking about Residence Halls, 

A Badin Hall resident takes advantage of her quiet-time alone to catch up on some reading. 
Dining Halls and Health centers, they obviously were the ones who had experienced this and could have good advice on what was going to be_ necesssary [for the transition]," stated Blantz. 
A primary example of the con­tributions that these Saint Mary's students made involves the conversion of residence halls. According to Blantz, "There were 
-two things that they thought would be important. One, a lot of public rooms in the hall because the women might want more privacy, and, secondly, closet space. These suggestions made Walsh Hall a rather logical choice for conversion because the whole basement was completely open for public space and at that time, it was the only hall on campus that had walk-in closets. 
Residence Hall conversions were just one example of the changes that needed to be made. There "had to be changes all over," said Fr. Blantz. He pointed out that the ACC and the Health Center were also primary targets for conversion. Women's lockers had to be installed in the ACC. While the health center already had several different wards for patients with different illnesses, like the flu and mononucleosis, as well as post-operating rooms, the arrival of females necessitated further separations. Instead of having four or five separate wards, double that amount was necessary so that men and women with similar problems could be housed in separate rooms. 

~ One area that was not changed 
:: to accommodate women was the
.. 
~ laundry service that is offered to
.. 
males on campus. The initial females .on campus were surveyed and the results indicated that the women preferred to do their own laundrv. acccording to Guadelupe Garcia, a St. Michael's Laundry representative. 


' , ' 
f .. ,., l , . __. • . , , 
t 
Garcia noted that laundry ser­
vice is, in fact, available to 
women. The difference being that 
laundry is not picked up at 
women's residence halls and 
women do not pay a semester fee 
like the men do. 
Ann Pettifcr attended Notre 
Dame after it became co­
educational, but she was also at the 
University while it was still a sin­
gle sex college. While there were 
some female graduate students, as 
well as some Saint Mary's students 
in her classes, Pettifer admitted to 
being "a bit apprehensive" toward 
a situation that she referred to as 
"a bit intimidating." With regard 
to how she was treated by her 
classmates and professors, Pettifer 
responded, "Very well. Very sen­
sitively, but with a good deal of 
respect." 
Looking at the present state of 
the University with respect to the 
female undergraduates and 
faculty, Pettifer was not nearly as 
content. 
"What really disappoints me is that the University didn't change when co-education came in," she remarked. She questions why women are not, for the most part, in positions of power. "There is an almost entirely male adminis­trative scene. The power structure is almost entirely male. I some­times wonder what the reason for going co-ed was," she remarked. Pcttifer is "profoundly disap­. pointed" that there is no female 
Vice-President, Dean, or Provost. 
Pettifer claims that "Notre 
Dame has done very little to 
advance equality in the church. 
They are not challenging Rome on 
their thinking of women as second 
class citizens." As one of the most 
prominent Catholic universities in 
the world, she feels that the 
University "should do more to 
advance the position of women in 
the church." 
Pettifer also questions the direction the University has chosen to take with its undergra­duate women. She feels that the University is "pushing women into the top of the corporate world but not advancing them as theological thinkers." Pettifer regards the latter as an "important priority." 
Sister John Miriam Jones, CSC has worked as an Associate Pro­vost overseeing the developinent of co-education at Notre Dame. She began in 1972 when women were first admitted. She described her initial job as "the responsibil­ity to integrate co-education." She dealt with "student life as well as the academic side and did a lot of trouble shooting." Since that time her job has evolved a great deal. 

"I do very little of those things now. The situation has normal­ized." 
According to Sister John, the main difference between the situa­tion now as compared to 1972 is mainly the fact that there were only 365 women on the campus. Sister John describes them as "very self-conscious. They hadn't anticipated !ife being that diffi­cult. They were very resentful of not being just a college student. but always being in the spotlight." 
One strong challenge that con­fronted the women at Notre Dame was "feeling a sense of belong­ing." Sister John concedes that this was not achieved in her eyes for about ten years. 
With regard to the attitudes of women currently on the campus, Sister John said, "I still sense a feeling of being a minority." The main difference that she notices, however, is that "they no longer feel as though they are women in a men's school." 
Sister John then outlined the plan in terms of the ratio. This is the first year of the plan which will accept 180 extra women and 150 fewer men each year. Last year, women comprised 28% of the studet body. The plan will mean that eventually about 38% of Notre Dame students will be female. This, in effect, is parity because it reflects the percentage of women who apply. Sister John describes this equality as her goal: "taking a proportionate number of men and women." 
The following excerpt from the Scholastic, dated October 13, 1972 (approximately one month after the arrival of women on the campus ), highlights some of the vast attitude changes the University has undergone in its 16 years of co-education: "Co­education carries more weight in connotation than in definition. Even the most gracefully imple­mented official transitions-hardly graceful in Notre Dame's case­must be followed by real adjust­ments. So where do we go from here? There are all the easy answers of course. The ratio of men to women could be lowered. The dorms could become coed. (Thus, each dorm could have one girl to twenty males.) Parietals and locked dorms could be abol­ished." II 


Music/Pythagoras and Weird Beard 

/Fail 
Dream Academy makes the grade 

playing at home hockey games,
he Dream 
Believe" tells of an individual 
Academy 
and especially his release of "I 00

"born and raised in privilege" 
released its 
Years", a tribute to a century of

who turns his back on his 
second album 
Notre Dame football. Those of

cushion-laden existence to 
you who went to the Keenan
last semester as 

"listen to the world" and gain the 
Revue may have noticed an order
a follow-up to 

"power to believe." Although 
its self-ti tied 
form on the backs your tickets

less impressive lyrically, "In the 
debut. The latest release, 
for the song. Our opinion is

Hands of Love" is an extremely 
Remembrance Days, establishes 
don't waste your money or your

catchy and upbeat tune. 
the trio of Nick Laird-Clowes, 
stamps.
Finally, "Ballad in 4/4" and 

Gilbert Gariel, and Kate St. 
Neither of us saw his Wash­

"In Exile (For Rodrigo Rojas)" 
John as masters of beautifully 
ington Hall performance, nor

are the best songs on the album. 
soft, almost dreamy melodies and 
have we been to a hockey game

In the former piece, Laird­
harmonies. 
yet, but we did buy "100 Years."

Clowes sings of a seven-year 
The Dream Academy met the 
Although paying tribute to our

affair with a married woman and 
challenge of the sophomore 
football program was a worthy

the mistake made in leaving her 
slump by producing a fine album 
gesture, it is sad to say that the

for a younger girl. "In Exile." 
due mainly to the production 
meanwhile, is a strong political 
song does not measure up to what 
efforts of the lead singer, guitar­
statement against the oppression 
it is praising. With its weak 

ist, and lyricist, Nick Laird­
the Argentinian people have suf­
melody and cheesy lyrics, and 
Clowes. Although Laird-Clowes 
fered. The song is very moving, 
song exemplifies what is lame on 
enlists the production aid of oth­
with the dirge-like wailing of 
contemporary pop music. 
ers -notably Lindsey Bucking­
electric guitars bridged by an 
Vocally, it seems that Abowd, in 
ham on two tracks -his vision 
almost carnivalesque jazz. The 
overdoing every pop cliche', 
remains the cohesive force that 
song thus ingeniously contrasts 
neglected quality, and the result 

best utilizes the invaluable 
the naturally optimistic character 
is a slightly off-pitch, Andy 

talents of Gabriel on keyboards 
of the Argentinian people with 
Gibb voice. Even worse is the 

and St. John on such instruments 
the prevailing governmental 
B-side, "Making Up My Mind," 

as the cor anglais, oboe, and sax­
oppression. 
Abowd's self-pitying ode to 

ophone. 
Remembrance Days is an 
indecision. Since we have such a 
While every song on this 

excellent album for those mel­
hard time taking the song seri­
admittedly mellow album tends 
low moods -especially those that 
ously, we feel we can't ade­
to grow on the listener, several 
descend with a degree of pen­
quately review it (it's hard 

pieces are inarguably superior. 
sivity. 
enough listening to it without 

"Indian Summer" is a beautifully 
laughing). 
crafted ode to the passing of 
A little closer to home, Peter 
The 45 rpm single of "I 00 

summer. "Humdrum" is an 
"The Whip" Abowd has been 
Years," was available at the 

effective statement against the 
making his presence felt on 
Bookstore. We don't know if it's 

care.II





ATHLETES OF THE WEEK ANDREA BONNY 


Bonny, a senior from Columbus, OH, and a top competi­tor in diving events, recently qualified for the NCAA regionals in one-meter diving. In addition, Bonny captured first place 

this weekend in both the one-meter , and three-meter diving events as the Notre Dame women's swim team 
St. Bonaventure. Bonny currently holds school records in both those events. 
Kuehl, a sopho­more winger from Edina,MN, had an outstanding weekend 

.. >The we.men's swim teatii faced defend_: in leading the Irish ing)v1idwest champion Illinois State last 
hockey team to its col'Iles t~is. ~~ek~rid. iigiiiri~t }\jr>Force. friday. but• ciim.e· up .short,.152~98.. The, sweep of Kent State, Both the Irish and the Falcoiui rank ' . Irisll re~ouncled on Saturday; though, scoring a total of 
all'lcirii the tbp ihdepericlerit ~chb61; ~yirif posti1;g a .150-1!4 win over St. Bonaven-five goals. Four of for'.ari NCAA bid> . . .... . . .... ..... . . . ... ture:iThe team ofCHRISTY MOSTON, 
ine in Saturday's game 

.. : ;.: f-wbl\1:E~;§tiii<:triiii:t> 
BECKY•WC>OD;AJ-:!NETTE QUILL and· -2 rout for the Irish. The ~birieri•~ b~sketbiiff iearil $hitace' .•.•. ·. . • ·J'RAQY JORNSO,N won the 200 Jnedley: g the Irish team leaders assists (19).
its.:Jo... •u·•.·.•.gh.·.•·•.es.. t.·•.•••··>•c..•....11.a.·.j.Jen.ge.••...••:o..f.·.·.·.•. th.e/se.·...a.son···> :·~~.lay,. wh.ile (J'C>HNSON ... AND QUILL
wcl · · d · h · ... · · ·. ·... · · · · · tea111ed .v.:ith I(E:LLY qun:•m ~nd .. (24-S)on.Saturday; Th~I;ish win stl'eak••··· is now at 90 meets i11 a r.ov.:, datillg bacl<: ? 
.l~~?i~~I~Ri:W]f~i~~l}~\i!. c . f!;t;;.;t\;:;~;}t;It;i 
to .•. February, ... 19~f .•. Seni.or YErIUDf KOVACS went 9~.()'.-ovei. th'e ~eekerid to
game•·.•in :which jllili<>p lI~IDI.IlUNEK···· . 
raise his.career record tciioo.:.fover thr~e•••.•brok~/theN?tre"D.ame single~arrie \sc.or-. 
.years. The Irish face Wayne. State at •[ingrll<:ord ·of.3lpoin~;. l3Ul\l~K;rra.nked•. 
home this•Frid~y.~nd •• th!ln competeJn a ....• ten,team meet on·. Ratur-dayagainstteams.. from Northweste~n•. <Jase ~este.r11, ()hio St;; Michigan aridMichig1mSt; .
~f!'~tt}!l~~h{I!ltt~t· :lf~;~{flJ}q~:1=;!ftl1;· 
.WOMJ<:N;~ FE~CI~(;; .. 

. Thll 1s:.1 w~~eh;s fehcini t~ari1)~11J~ : Wayne State by ii 9-7 courit last Fd~ay/ . but·• rebounded •Saturday .. i11•· a• six.:team••·•
IF!~iliiit:f~CT(iii!tti1.••· ....i]:lifiip~~:li,Ei~!· 
.meet. held •• iit .. Micl;ii~an-Dearborn.• Thi:!••••• Irisll • def~ated .··•• E¥t~i:n ,Michigan H-2,,j·.·' ; :x. "'~~i'£fNf : .''... x>······ PACELLA•• iirid NATALIE ILLIG.• The··· 
•;< •. ;Thisj:\as~ V1eek~11d .the Ids4 wrestler.:; Irish al;io woii ail tliree of. theil' doubles 'fri-St~t~. lS:-1, Detroit:.·1s..1, Cievelarid ··.· 
St.·.· 16-0 ..•. arid: Michigan~Dearborri 1~-0: .
•~iiptur~d the:•·•N'ati~pa~ satholk Tot1rna-:' \.rri~tches:.Notr.e •Pame•.•chi:ise••to !)lay five 
The defeat to·. Wayne. St/snapped a 50~ ••••· ,meet· win streak for: ,'coach.· YVES 
0

· AU:RI()L.. itearn h°:sti;
Wii••i1!~&Tlli:t~&:~Yia~f~~>··dW'if:Z:ltE;-i;~fitr;:i:~;s..· ·.·.·•···• .···•· ..· ·. }The ! 
·. Wayne St, °:P Friaay and thdn t~keJ' (ln ' )IBl.rnova\ SetOIL llall; Marqu~tte; pay~ • field •.·in the.• E<:k •Doubles. Classic on. Feb · Big Ten powers 6hio .st. and
r· ····sie·······•·n·ight··········.. d M 'h tt'· ·'·'th.·.· ·/12~14.• ·.··},,fa~quette,·.. Miami· (C>hio),···•Ohio···. North..vestem ~ well as Case 
th 

·and Michiga11:
tit!i;1tt1t~t:i:@:L~!JiJgi}JJ~t[.·..•.·•·•••· ·..•:•·••!:::s•.c:~;e;i~;~h. ~hlI~e~~-: among . e ~EN'STRACK>" ..
•J3Al'Jq:H .and}E}RilY;.D'QR13Ocdefen.ded ······· ·. MEN'S FENCING 
· The men's :·track'"tean'l ..ed·.!.·.·.r.:·.·'.1·.c ..·'..·o .. ....s·.·.b.•• .• ..P·.i..e·.n.·,·c.·.n.·t.~1nvge.·.·1'•y·t··•·.·.h.•.·.e.n,.···.·.10·1.·Ns........ '
i. ta·..···h···n· .. ..3h.·.4a.·~,··.•mp·...p.u·.i.•·.no.·.·.·.nd.'s.:.·.n··.·ti1pt'....1s..•.e· ..:.•.•··y.··r·.,.•e··••sw.· •.·.••.. . :: . The .meri 's fencing tealil i)11proved its. 
. meet to Mkhiga~. this ,past ir.eeken.d by a 'Y'I13NIE:V\1Sl\I •·JH2)./'l'ODD.·\LAYTON'.. \)ng ··vyayne St~te; .18-9., on. E'.ri1ai, and · . . reco~4 t?}S-0 oyer the.weekend, defeat-•.·• 
scqre of 78-44, but reb'c;uncled}o t~ke •. '(150J;IMARK :qERARDI '(158) /,CHRI~ i •. then defeating E~sfo·n Michigan. (26~t), North~e~terri85-35. I~i~i/wiii h~st th~ GEN'ESE~ .(177)>a;ncIJGtOR<JE>I.O(;S.; •·•.·• . ,Tri-State: ·(25~2);Detroit·· (21'-6); Clev.e-·•·•·• Meyo 'In~itatiohal ti-iis. $atiircl~y at''t11f \ :P<?fy° (l9Q}:~!sti.,tllf1;1lclit;i, fitst•pliife pe~; . ·: land ,St; '(22-5) : and Mjchigan-Pearborn : . Loftus'' Center. ' 
21

February 4, 1988 
, ' ­~ ', ":-~2~_-;.~~<-,.,-~,$ ~ ~ ...d&-1~'.<!l.~~-"'-~J ~1--~.<: 
J • • ; '·. 
• :t -' ' ~ •• : •. ,.;...... . ; 
.;~ 
I,. 
His Electric Band 
Saturday, 6 and·9:30 p.m.
7644 N. Sheridan 
Sunday, 3 and 7 p.m.
February 6 
$19.50-$24.50 


Billy Preston & 

----------------. 
-~~,,.. .---·~ --~ -: . ~ ·_,_,· ..,,~ ,,_ ..,,-~ -, •·4,. 5cw~-:;::-,,.,.: ___ _r_..._ ••..'.,-:·~-•-·•'~'-' ~--:,"•~:::•~"i~~-/.,~_,,: . ;'-,t""~-~~!:::~tj-~~;..c~
--, Y••-~~';..... 

COMPILED BY MIKE FARNAN 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6,1988 Track· 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1988 

SPORTS: 
Tennis ND Men vs Toledo Eck Tennis Pavillion 
11 a.m. 
Tennis ND Women vs MSU Eck Tennis Pavillion 11 a.m. 
MICHIANA 
MOVIES: 
Forum Theatre 
"Missing in Action Ill" 
7:45 p.m. "For Keeps" 
7:40 and 9:40 p.m. "Broadcast News" 
7:05 and 9:35 p.m. "Eddie Murphy Raw" 
9:45 p.m. 
100 Center 
100 Center I-III "Dirty Dancing" 7 and 9 p.m. "The Big Easy" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Meyo Invitational JACC Fieldhouse 
1 to 4 p.m. 
WWF Superstars of Wrestling JACC 2 p.m. $12 and $9 
ACADEMICS: 
Graduate Record Examination Engineering Auditorium 8 a.m. to 3 p.m, 
ARTS: 
SMC Guest Artist Recital Patricia Berlin Little Theatre 3 p.m. 
The Spanish Liturgy Farley Hall Chapel 4 p.m. 

Unive~sity Park West 
"Good Morning Vietnam" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Empire of the Sun" 8 p.m. "Planes, Trains, Autos" r·~L&gJ~: t~!-p~/' .i''; ···'' • , ,,, . . :!i~ 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
77;;.t 

University Park East 6~£!1{"iRi&
"Throw Mamma from the Train" \iv 
7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. ':-" ·.}?~~­"The Couch Trip" 

7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. "Wall Street" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Rent-A-Cop" Town and Country Scottsdale 

7:30 
and 9:30 p.m 


"Three Men and a Baby" ·"Throw Momma from"Sign 0' The Times" 
7:10 and 9:40 p.m. the Train" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. 
"Fatal Attraction" 7:45 and 9:45 p.m.
"Return of the Living Dead II" 
7 and 9:30 p.m. "The Couch Trip"7:45 and 9:45 p.m. 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 

February 4, 1988 
23 



Final Word 
Straight Messages 
About Booze 
BY DA YID DANNISON 


ebruary 5, 1988 marks the official dedication and opening of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. As its first director, I want to use this space to state some of the goals and concerns of my office and to invite all members of the University com­munity to become involved in the discussion and debate about alcohol and drug issues. 
February 8-15, 1988 is National Collegiate Drug Aware­ness Week. Many campuses across the country will be mark­ing this occasion with publicity and events, and with a rededica­tion to the task of eliminating drug abuse on campus. I want to support efforts such as those, but I also do not want to lose track of the fact that by any standard or measure I have seen, and from any conversation I have had, the overwhelming drug of choice at Notre Dame is ethyl alcohol. There may exist a small group of users and abusers of other drugs around campus, and there may even be a group of addicts, espe­cially to cocaine or prescription drugs. But even for these peo­ple, I am certain that alcohol is the major source of difficulty, and the greatest number of addicts are addicted to ethanol. 
Therefore, I begin Drug Awareness Week with a simple message: Alcohol is a very, very powerful drug, with a great number of people addicted to it, and perhaps an even larger number of people harmfully involved in its abuse. Working in an office where the masthead slogan could be summed up as "Straight Messages about Booze", there is no warning label I could imagine that would be more suc­cinct than: NEVER UNDERES­TIMATE THE POWERS OF ALCOHOL. 
Our focus here is upon pro­
viding a number of services, 
including: 

-Alcohol information sessions in dorms. If you· are tired of lec­tures about drinking, then come and see what we are doing that is different. 
-Alcohol seminars aimed at specific needs. This includes assisting students with informa­tion about children and families of alcoholics, and with acquiring skills in assisting those that you love who are hurting themselves and others, or who are just plain hurting. 
-Information Resource Center. We will have articles, pamphlets and bibliographic references for any student for any reason (term papers? alcohol-free parties? brother or sister who is in trou­ble?) This can include confiden­tial, informal information ses­sions with trained experienced professionals. 
-Promotion of student leadership and service in areas of alcohol and other drug abuses preven­tion. Experience in outreach programs will be possible. (Remember: community service is viewed by most leaders in business as very important, and there is no more current or valu­able area of knowledge than add­ictions. See the covers of Time November 30, 1987 or' Newsweek, January 18, 1988). ' 



-Assisting in elevating the social status of those who choose not to drink, and in promoting alcohol-free social activities. I know that the majority of stu­dents believe that they do not put social pressures on non-drinkers to go along and to drink, but I must remind you that those pres­sures are often very subtle. If you don't believe this, go to a party where there is drinking, take along a good supply of 7­Up, consume it conspicuously for the whole evening, and observe what happens. I will be 
surprised, and actually pleased, if you do not have a number of overt, and especially covert, pressures applied to you. 
FinaHy, I want to invite you up to the dedication ceremony tomorrow, Friday, February 5, at 
4:30 p.m. at Theodore's, and to our first alcohol-free event the 
' 

same evening at 9:00, also at Theodore's. We are asking a one dollar donation at the party to begin the Memorial Fund for student alcohol and drug treat­ment and education, in memory of Mike Cogswell. I hope that I will be meeting some of you tomorrow and most of you in the next months and years. I am available at 210 LaFortune Stu-· dent Center, and my number is 239-7970.II 

AN INCORRIG ISLt CAQTOCt-1 SE.~1($ 
WHAT \5 JU~\OR H\b\.\ StHOO\. FOR? 
JUNIO~ Hl~t-\ SCl:l \-\Ot.tn,JG P&J OE$l TO Htl-P VS THR.OU t=oa.MP."i"\I/ E " Sl'I cm-
B~ IS0LI\T1M, \JS FROM 
&RAOI=. ScHOOL._ ~10$, ult WI l,l, Be L.c5S Ltl'EL.', "fO "t"OQ.WRE. Tl-l&M. 
H Sc.HOOL. l::t lLL-BE. LtSS l. 
~Ec.cwc ·m A_,rl'l(?,S LOE. S IC:1.1.1..'1 OE.ScR.v 

W~AT TOOO lf.)\-\1;:N ~OUR. <bUSHING, 
HO~MONt~ WOt-l'T (..E.T '10\J PAI:? 
f). lTEI\Jil0I\J 
ARE ALL Ju"noR. 
HIGH -SCHOOL kH:>S OBN0~\O\JS MONSTERS? 
NO. Sotv\E: OF Tl-\E. MDl'lSTl:.2'3 ARc 
QUITc Cl-lARM1iJG>. DIFF"E.l<€"3C.ES !Ill Tt-le. RATE. OF GQ.CWTH CAUSE. W\(]E: VA.RlP.TIOt-.JS ltJ t'\ONSTRo<:;11'::? l»-\Or-l(::J J1.h,l10R. HIG,~ SC.HOOL-1:-IOS". 
I 

~OU l'-\1\t:, 8E. 
A l-l1JL.t::;1111G (:,\~,Ji 
WITH TUE. D\GrJl"Tlj DVI; 1 A MC.TU RE k!1-J1JE.R611~TEr-JER. ;­
~-------r---....----~~_ ......"1 ~
......_•_-_-_..,_:,J.,4) 
I O\.,f $ c.J:,Ji°" 
'T l.OORR.'1 A.BolJ 
12. -r~ollSU:S, '-:,OU 
l.s1t.-rr1 -ro lo,JC. (}.. St-Ull\1€.FVL uR 2. '1ouR-p1,~,.,,ME ~pDt.S". tTS AI­R., of=" C:,12.ow ,,_, 
BE. J vST L.l ouft PAREN, 



DJ's Tom Tisa & Mar1ty Crowe_ Open 9:30 -1=00 
Two Bands! 

I 


and 


Open_-9:30-2=00 

t r 



9 

live band from Chicago " I 
I 
I 
I -9=30 -2·=00 
l I 
I 
. I 
I 







