PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
HOWTO
WATCH A
FOOTBALL GAME
Do you watch the ball on kicks? Punts? Forward passes? (Experts say you should not!7
If your team is kicking from behind its own goal, do you watch your team? Or the opponents?
Are you always missing the referee’s signals?
What player do coaches agree is most exciting to watch?
You’ll get twice as much fun out of a football game if you let Referee William H. (Red) Friesell tell you where to park your eye from play to play. Get your copy of this week’s Saturday Evening Post and turn to page 36.
ALSO—THE INTIMATE LIFE STORY OF WILL ROGERS— the human story of a great American and world idol, told by his first sweetheart, his wife and lifelong companion, Betty Blake Rogers. What was the secret of the thousands of friendships Will found time for in his busy life? Read Uncle Clem’s Boy. First of eight installments this week... ALSO a dozen or more other features—short stories, serials, articles, cartoons.
lAAAAAAi
THE SHTUI^DHY EVENING POST
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
— RAYMOND J. KELLY ii	»
Collegiate Celebrations
The past week or so, anniversary celebrations were the regular order of things. The various Jesuit schools commemorated the four hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Order, while the University of Kansas held a Diamond Jubilee celebration and the Xavier University News came out with a 20 page issue, the largest in its history, to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of the establishment of the school. With our own centennial still far away, all that we could celebrate is the fact that Nov. 1 “The Week” begins its second year under the same administration. “Botch my copy and call me Wemhoff!” is still operating at the same stand and doing well, thank you.
Short Speech; 109
The Daily Northwestern tells the story about the Negro evangelist who laid down his rules for effective public speaking; “Fust ah tells ’em what ah’m gonna say. Then ah says it. Then ah tells ’em what ah done said.”
Where could you get the lids?
The Daily Cardinal of Wisconsin U. came up with a story on a professor at Ohio State. He came into the classroom 12 minutes late to find the class gone. At the next session the class received a reprimand for the professor said that his hat had been on the desk and that it had been a sign of his presence. At the next class, the prof again found an empty classroom. On each desk was a hat.
Snaps...
When a student at Catholic U. refers to a young woman as a “fatty” it has nothing at all to do with her general appearance but is the nickname generally applied to the girls from near-by Trinity College. Needless to say, Georgetown men are great favorites at Trinity.... Most co-ed schools held dances for incoming frosh. These were labeled “mixers” as a general rule, but Miami University decided to be frank about the housing problem and referred to their affair as the “Sardine Bounce”.... St. Mary’s (Calif.) gridders must travel over 30 miles of land, 20 miles of water and pass through three counties and met-
ropolitian cities in order to reach their home field, Kezar Stadium, San Francisco.
Propaganda Dept.
“A determined-looking Democrat armed with a Roosevelt pin and shouting “Wilkie! Willkie!” doesn’t make sense.
But students in the reserved book room of the university library observed such a phenomenon last night. Behind the checking counter the discharge assistant, wearing a Democrat button repeatedly called for “Willkie.”
A Republican prankster had filled out a reserved book card, fictitiously signed it “Willkie” and then stood by to watch the results.”—Daily Californian
Fashions...
On clothes she spends her legal tender, Because this truth she’s found—
A dress can make a girl look slender, and a hundred men look ’round.
—Ball State News
❖
The Week at Work
“You’ve been out with worse looking fellows than I am, haven’t you?”
She did not reply.
“I said, You’ve been out with worse looking fellows than I am, haven’t you?”
“I heard you the first time. I was trying to think.”
—St. Mary’s (Texas) Rattler
Definitions at Random
Fashion—something so ugly that it must be changed every six months. Mason-Dixon line—dividing line between the you-all and the youse guys.
Woman—someone who reaches for a chair wrhen she answers the phone.
Cheating—copying from three books; opposed to reference which is copying from five books.
❖
In Music Circles
From Chicago comes the De Paulia, quoting again:
“An amateur string quartet played Brahms here last evening. Brahms lost.”
❖
The Eternal Feminine
Many times in the columns of the Scholastic have appeared disparaging words directed against girl’s schools in general and the one across the tracks in particular. However, we feel that the only one who can really drive a dagger home are other women. Mills College, a California institution for female education, recently scratched out at the Stanford co-eds, to wit:
They run around in Packards and rags “Stanford women all are hags
They can’t get a tumble
Unless they can mumble
‘My papa has money in bags.’”
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF—
OPINION
Top of the Week
Easy sailing on the placid Pacific.
❖
Weekend wreckreation
This is a little yarn that was told to me by one who is in the know. It is dedicated to those lil fellers who worm their way to “the rock” every Sunday, sip a coke at the Club Oriole, and dance to that grand recorded music: Swing and sweat with Charlie Barnet. In the absence of a title this story will be labeled “The Evolution of a Misogynist” or “Beat me, daddy, back to the bar.” The action, for such it is, opens without delay. Our hero, Fairan Wermer, is seen worming his way through the gayly chirping couples gathered for a festive occasion on Observatory Square (Somewhere in “the rock”). He is waiting for his true love, Desdemona Kooch. The local grapevine had passed the word along the cell block for Desdemona to start operating. So Desdemona takes the elevator and arrives without mishap on the first floor. She cups her hands over her eyes to get used to the sudden light. She spots Fairan and fleas down the hall toward him, knocking over 82 corsage salesmen on the way, and falls on her face into a freshly mowed pile of carpet. Fairan looks nonchalant puffing on a cigar as he hauls Desdemona up by the back of the neck.
“Ma feef! Ma feef!”
“Oh yes! Just a moment, deer.”
Fairan gropes around in the carpet and picks up something gold and white that Desdemona worms into her mouth.
“Gosh, thanks, Fairan, and now let’s go over here where we can bull.”
Desdemona worms her way to the other side of the room. She begins speaking in her beautiful lilting voice:
“Now get this. Name your Pizen. Two cokes in the Oriole, a class in Jitterbugging 5w, or once around the driveway. Take your pick.”
“It seems a little worm in here. How about a brief canter out to the bus stop?”
So Desdemona and Fairan walk paw in paw along the worming driveway. Fairan tries to push the conversation along:
“Gosh, Desdemona, look at them swell pigeons.”
“Them ain’t pigeons, Fairan, them’s gulls.”
“Well, gulls or boys, them’s mighty fine pigeons.”
And thus the merciful curtain falls on the first part of “The Evolution of a Misogynist.” Will it rise again? For further details, consult your correspondent. Any references to places dying or dead is purely coincidental, I suppose.
*
Cracks from the whacks
“But is Washington Hall equipped to show first run pictures?” . . . “Then we happened to glance at a Listerine ad and she blushed.” . . . “Naw, a Holstein is two half steins.” . . . “Layden for President.” . . .
Jots between Dots
The CAA gives a lot of people the opportunity to get up in the air literally .... and by the way, that CAA exam is a good one not to flunk—at 10,000 feet .... HaaaaAAAAYYY ELLLLMERRR has graduated.... We hope his successor has been determined by Friday night.... Heard one the other day about a fellow who had a blind date.... and she brought her seeing-eye dog along.
yum-Yum
Last week a large truck drove up behind the dining hall as we were leaving, with this lettering on the sides: “The Supreme Dog Food”.... “The Seven Course Dinner for all Dogs.” But we don’t get seven courses!
❖
The Home of Caf Books
Tourists have a way of asking embarrassing questions. This one stopped in front of Sorin Hall at the end of his travelogue and accosted an inmate who was sitting on the porch: “Is this the museum?” Add fire and brimstone!
♦
Bottom of the Week
Attend the Premier Ball for a cool fin. ... The dance starts at eleven.... parole ends at twelve.... have a good time.
Question of the Week: What are your football predictions for the coming season?
Sorin Hall, Paul DeLay: “Minnesota will manage to defeat Ohio State . . . Navy will take Army . . . Fordham will beat Pitt . . . Washington, in spite of losing to Minnesota, will be Pacific Coast conference champion, with Oregon State helping in the elimination of Southern Cal . . . Piepul, Saggau, Scott and Kimbrough for all American backs.”
Badin Hall, Red Lonergan: “Ohio State has the edge over Cornell; Washington will go undefeated after this to take Pacific Coast championship; Northwestern’ll be our toughest, and it’s between Saggau, Piepul, and Scott for top player in the Midwest.”
Cavanaugh Hall, Dan Foley: “College of the Pacific is noted for winning first games. They won’t be as easy as we expect . . . but we’ll take Iowa by two touchdowns. Texas A. & M. will be Southwest conference champ.”
St. Edward’s Hall, Henry Dahm: “I think Ohio State will defeat Cornell . . . Navy will take Army . . . S.M.U. will unseat the Aggies . . . Tennessee will take Duke . . . and Piepul and Saggau will be All American.”
Carroll Hall, Chuck Fanelli: “Minnesota over Ohio State . . . Texas A. & M. over S.M.U. . . . Saggau to make All American . . . Southern Cal to be Pacific Coast champ, and also our biggest threat.”
Morrissey Hall, Frank Kaiser: “We’ll -go undefeated . . . Minnesota will lose to Ohio State but whip Northwestern . . . Ohio State will lose to Cornell . . . Southern Cal will be Coast champ.”
Lyons Hall, Bill Frye: “Ohio State will take Cornell . .. N.D. will take Iowa by a big score . . . Southern Cal will win the Coast championship . . . and Piepul and Saggau will make All American.”
Alumni Hall, Aloysius Redd: ‘Outside of Piepul, Saggau has the best chance of our players to make All America . . . Washington will be Coast champ . . . we’ll take Georgia. Tech, but after a harder struggle than in ’39.”
Brownson Rall, Joe Carson: “We’ll be tops in the Midwest. . . Washington will rule the Coast . . . Cornell will take the East . . . and the Aggies will sew up the Southwest.”
—Carl Rohrer
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
OCTOBER 4. 1940
Number 3
Candidate Willkie Visits N. D. Campus;
Praises Synthetic Rubber Discovery
Crowd Cheers Republican Nominee During Speech
Praising the scientific discoveries of the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., as the possible “salvation of this civilization,” Wendell L. Willkie, Republican nominee for President of the United States, halted on his nation-wide tour to speak on the balcony of the Administration Building Monday at the University.
“As I look out at you men this morning,” Mr. Willkie said, “I cannot but give reverential thanks that you are here in this University today instead of in the shambles of a trench, as millions of young men like you are in various parts of the world. And whether we be Republicans, Democrats or Independents, we can all join this morning in thankfulness —and pray God that it may never be true again.” Mr. Willkie’s comments met the applause of several hundred students and townspeople who gathered on the quadrangle lawns.
Academic Freedom
“The great glory of this country and of this way of life is that scattered all over this country are these great institutions of learning, and particularly those supported by the religious bodies, where there is complete academic freedom, where men meet and learn and discuss and go forth to play their part in world affairs. For 98 years, this institution has gathered here young men and taught them, and whether it has sent them forth as missionaries of the faith it teaches or as men better equipped to perform their respective tasks in life, no greater contribution can be made to our civilization and our democracy than that we have such institutions as this.
“I have been much impressed, of course, by the great athletic prowess of Notre Dame. It is known throughout the world. But more than that, great as that has been, just think that in this moment, such a thing as rubber may determine the productive ability of America.
“If war breaks out in the Far East,” Mr. Willkie added, “whether we are in
volved or not, our source of rubber may be taken from us. Yet in this quiet spot, in one of these University halls, Father Nieuwland developed synthetic rubber, which may be the salvation of this civilization. This has always happened and it always will happen where human society permits the mind to develop the sciences and the arts.”
In closing, Mr. Willkie said: “We are
Wendell L. Willkite and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
here today close to your hundredth anniversary, and, still unhampered, you are also celebrating the achievements of the late Knute Rockne. Our prayer is that Notre Dame not only will remain an institution known for its athletic prowess, but, more than that, an institution known for its scholarship, its zeal, and its research and shall march on to another 100 years of achievement.”
Father O’Donnell Greets Mr. Willkie
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, greeted Willkie and his party as they arrived
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in an auto-caravan from South Bend. In his introductory speech, Father O’Donnell said:
“In accordance with the traditional practice of the University, it is a privilege to extend a cordial welcome to our distinguished guest. In the past, several outstanding statesmen and eminent leaders have visited this campus, and we cherish the memory of those visits. So cnce again Notre Dame is glad to tender her hospitality to a leader who is the nominee of one of the major political parties to the exalted office of President of the United States.
American Way of Life
“This is in keeping with the American way of life so beautifully expressed by the founder of the University, the venerable Father Sorin. On arrival in New York from France, in 1841, he first gave thanks to God for a safe passage and then, bowing low, he kissed the land of his adoption and thenceforward championed the basic principles of Americanism as found in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. And these principles still remain an integral part of Notre Dame’s program of education.
“It is a genuine pleasure to present to this audience the Honorable Wendell Willkie, fellow Indianian and nominee of the Republican party for President.”
Mr. Willkie met the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial, and other Administration and Congregation of Holy Cross officials on arriving in the Faculty Parlors. Among the prominent personages in Mr. Willkie’s group were: E. M. Moms, South Bend, Republican national committeeman; Robert A. Grant, Congressman from South Bend; Congressman Charles A. Halleck, of. Rensselaer, Ind., who placed Mr. Willkie’s name in nomination at Philadelphia; F. A. Miller, editor of the South Bend Tribune; and Raymond E. Willis, nominee for state senator from Indiana.
Visits With Shrenker
“You’ve surely got an enthusiastic group of boys here,” Mr. Willkie told Henry Schrenker, senior from Sorin hall and Willkie’s home town of Elwood, Ind., as they chatted on the balcony. “Things are coming alone fine,” Mr. Willkie admitted as he shook hands with Schrenker.
Coach Elmer Layden, director of Irish football destinies, exchanged remarks with Mr. Willkie as cameramen snapped pictures. Several of the leading news agencies of the country were represented for the ceremonies.
After arriving at 7:55 a.m. at the
Union station in South Bend, Mr. Will-kie’s group motored to the University, then to St. Mary’s College, and later to the 12-car special train at the Dore road crossing. Mr. Willkie wore a blue serge suit under the oxford grey overcoat. His light grey felt hat was unpretentious. Mr. Willkie’s characteristic habit, other than waving to the large crowd present,
Father Putz Rates Catholic Action "A Miracle of the Twentieth Century"
“A Miracle of the 20th century,” said the Rev. L. Putz, C.S.C., when he spoke of the heroic youthful zeal shown in the
Father Putz
movement known as Catholic Action. Begun and organized in Belgium, the movement spread to France where it now enjoys an enrollment of over 100,000 young men and women, and bears the title, “Catholic Youth Movement.”
Father Putz, intimately associated with the headquarters of the movement in Paris and speaking before the Third Order of St. Francis Club here, defined Catholic Action as an attempt to live as a Catholic not only in lay life but also secular life, to render the world safe for Christian belief, and to spread the words and teachings of Christ.
Takes Hold in France
Prior to 1934, when the movement began to take hold in France, nearly all 15 and 16-year old boys entering factories directly from high school had lost their faith before they were 20, victims of a false environment. A few noticed this danger, but it took three young men who were working in a factory, and to whom the existing material and moral evils were very evident, to bring the tremendous problem to the attention of a priest. The priest had known of the situation for a long time, but his hands had been tied
Scrip
Deadline for contributions to the November number of Scrip is Oct. 10. All students of the University are invited to submit contributions. Send or bring manuscripts to Felix Pogliano, 268 Alumni Hall.
was hooking his thumbs in the corners of his trouser pockets as he talked.
During the speech, one of the photographers who arrived in a large red truck full of newsmen which preceded Mr. Willkie, tripped on the microphone. Mr. Willkie continued talking, however, and his smile was genuine and enthusiastic.—Bill Scanlan
because most of the people shied away from priests and religion. The earnestness of these lads evinced a ray of .hope in the priest, and the four banded together to convert the workingman, with the priest acting the role of advisor and chaplain.
From time to time meetings were called, and each time new members who could be trusted were enlisted in the crusade. Within a year two to three thousand members were actively following the movement. Two years later, at a congress of young men and women Catholic workers, over 100,000 young people met to continue spreading their faith among the people with whom they came in contact.
Their aim was to spread Christ and His influence, and they accomplished this work by their actions and speech. Of their own initiative youths in Communistic factories began to do something for the laboring class, and they realized that the only way to impress their fellowworkers was by good example.
Participation of the laity, young and old, in all walks of life the world over, proves the value and success of the movement, and this activity by the lay people is especially necessary, since the priest is not able to approach the workers in either the factories or the homes. The layman, on the other hand, is in contact with these people, and by his actions and kind words he can do his part as a Catholic.
The Catholic Youth Movement has regular officers and is carried on just as any other large organization. The chaplain directs the spiritual programs, and the young people carry on the meetings themselves. They refuse, however, to be called a political party, because their aims are much higher than politics and because such a name might disrupt their purpose among the non-Catholics. “Natural ability coupled with Supernatural aid has worked wonders in France,” said
(Continued on Page 31)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Pep Rally, Two Movies Featured Tonight During Climax of Gala Rochne Weekend
Wightman Gallery Shows International Prints
By Professor Francis J. Hanley
Washington Hall Scene Of Campus Premiere
This evening’s pep rally and tomorrow afternoon’s Notre Dame-College of the Pacific football game will climax, for Notre Dame students, what is perhaps the largest local opening-game weekend in recent history. The world premiere of the moving picture of the life of Notre Dame’s “universal man,” Knute Rockne, is the main reason for the 100,000 visitors in this vicinity. “Knute-Rockne— All American,” Warner Brothers4 recently completed production, was shown to movie audiences on the campus and in South Bend theatres for the first time today.
Two more showings of the Rockne movie will be held in Washington Hall this evening at 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. The campus presentations are exclusively for students of the University, and athletic books must be presented for admission to the show. Later campus showings of the movie are expected during the year. The usual pre-game pep rally will be held in the fieldhouse this evening, immediately after the 5:30 p.m. dinner.
Radio Programs
As part of the Rockne Week festivities, Kate Smith’s 55-minute radio show is to be broadcast from John Adams High School auditorium in South Bend, over CBS at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. tonight. The Notre Dame band and glee club are scheduled to take part in the broadcast. The glee club is to sing an obligato part to the song Kate Smith made famous, “God Bless America.” The band will play the “Victory March” on the program from the campus studios in the Engineering Building.
A Grand Ball will be held at the Palais Royale this evening after the stars of the picture and other Hollywood people have made the final round of the four theatres in which the premiere is being held. Celebrities of the screen and radio world and civic leaders of South Bend will lead the grand march. Some of the actors who will be here are Pat O’Brien, Gale Page, Donald Crisp and Ronald Reagan. Besides these Rudy Vallee, Rosemary, Priscilla, and Lola Lane, Jane Wyman, Anita Louise and Bob Hope are to be present.
On Saturday morning the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will lead a group to pay tribute to the memory of Rockne at his
grave in Highland Cemetery. The assemblage will include Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, Pat O’Brien, Ronald Reagan, Gale Page and Donald Crisp. They are scheduled to make a short call at St. Mary’s College after returning from the cemetery.
The College of Pacific game Saturday afternoon is expected to draw one of the largest opening game crowds at Notre Dame. Some of the nation’s best newsmen have been in the city since the Thursday night banquet, held in the dining halls on the campus, and many of them are expected to be at Saturday’s game. Included in the corps of Fourth Estaters are such men as Damon Runyon, Joseph Connolly, head of King Features, William Randolph Hearst, Jr., Bill Corum, Dan Parker, Ed Sullivan, Louis Sobol and Hollywood’s Ann Marsters. Ronald Reagan, who plays the part of George Gipp in the Rockne film, will broadcast at least a quarter of the game. Reagan is a former NBC sports announcer, and broadcast a world series before he was claimed by Hollywood.
Varsity football players will attend the picture in Washington Hall Friday night, a speciial section being reserved for them at the 7:00 o’clock show.
Bob Hope at Banquet
At last night’s Rockne banquet, part of the speaking program was broadcast over MBS from 7:30 to 8:00 p.m. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, was one of the principal speakers. The glee club also represented the University at this dinner. Besides Master of Ceremonies Bob Hope, speakers other than Father O’Donnell included Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, Frank-Jin D. Roosevelt, Jr., Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend and Actor Pat O’Brien. The first print of the film was presented to Mrs. Rockne at the banquet by one of the Warner Brothers executives. Words flew fast during talks by at least two of the speakers, for Bob Hope and Pat O’Brien are said to be just about first in the art of rapid-fire diction.
The week closing tomorrow has been one of honor for Notre Dame and her great coach, Knute Rockne. In addition to the many nation-wide radio programs dedicated to the memory of Rockne, the governors of several states issued proclamations designating Sept. 29 to Oct. 5 “Knute Rockne Week.” President Roosevelt delivered a personal message through his son, Franklin, Jr., to Mrs. Rockne at Thursday night’s banquet.—John Casey
Great variety of technique and of subject matter is noticeable in the current exhibition of prints displayed in the Wightman Gallery in the Library. This is the first in a series of exhibitions of national and regional importance to be been at the local gallery during the coming months. These displays are sponsored and supervised by the Department of Fine Arts.
Save for an occasional etching or woodcut these prints are lithographs.
Professor Hanley
Lithography is a 19th century minor art now outmoded by new forms but used in salon work, commercial poster art and fine book illustration. The process is a laborious one and is done upon a special stone with grease crayon. Impressions are then made from the master drawing. All lines must be made in reverse upon the stone or plate used. The Parisian lithographer, Dorfinaut is justly famous for his drawings, illustrating editions de luxe of Julian Green and Princess Bibesco.
Four Distinct Sources
Four distinct sources of inspiration are evident in the series and the artists can be classified as exponents of the American Scene, Abstract Design, Social Satire, and the School of Paris.
In the first group Lozowick’s “Brooklyn Bridge” and Howard Cook’s “Lower Manhattan” are distinguished chiefly for clarity of design and dramatic arrangement. Biddle’s organizationa of animal forms is aptly demonstrated in his print “The Goat Herder’s Wife.” There is a sharp definity of values in these three prints.
Ernest Fiene’s “Barns” and a dry point by Mahroni Young called “Navajo Woman” are traditional treatments of familiar scenes. Orozco, the Mexican propaganda painter, contributes a stark glimpse of America during the thirties in his paper entitled “Unemployed.” Mabel Dwight in a lighter mood has depicted New York subway travelers in a
(Continued on Page 27)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Army Game Sold Out Week Ago
With the opening of the 1940 Notre Dame football season this week, it was not surprising to find the ticket office in Breen-Phillips Hall geared to full efficiency.
Herb Jones, impressario in charge of ticket distribution, found time to pause momentarily and optimistically, if not breathlessly, to inform us ‘that the advance sale of tickets has been brisk.” “The Army game in New York, an annual favorite, tops the popularity list having sold out over a week ago,” he said.
Applications for home game tickets has been heavy too. Iowa, which threw consternation into Irish ranks last fall, is due for a South Bend appearance on the 16th of November- and no less than 10,000 tickets have been requested by
Re-Open Libraries at
Three Halls on Campus
Libraries in the offices of the Prefects of Religion have been reopened for use of the students, according to the Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion. These libraries are located in Dillon, Howard and Cavanaugh Halls. Many valuable and interesting additions have been made to the collections during the summer, including recent novels, biographies and books on the subjects of picking careers and securing jobs which should be helpful to seniors and juniors.
The following are included among the new books of these libraries: Career Clinic, by Esther E. Brooke; My Mother, Daniel A. Lord, S.J.; Stock Charges Against the Bible, Kean; To the End of the World, Helen C. White; So Falls the Elm Tree, John Louis Bonn; Character Education in Adolescence, Rudolph Allers. The libraries are for the use of the students, Father Lynch stated, and are at their disposal at all times.
Shortened Classes Mark
Football Saturdays
A change has been announced by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, for the Saturdays of Oct. 5. 12, 19, and also Nov. 16. The alteration reduces the time of the class period to 35 minutes. Lunch is served for the student body at 11 o’clock. The move follows a practice of recent years in order that the many visitors to the campus might be accommodated in the dining halls.
loyal lowans.
“College of the Pacific,’.’ he continued, “while not ranked with Purdue, last year’s opener, is, nevertheless, outdraw-ing Kansas, the 1938 starter, by a 2 to 1 margin.”
Tickets for the two Tech games are also in demand. Currently, Georgia Tech is attracting more than six times the number of customers as compared with last year while requests for Carnegie Tech tickets are four better than 1938.
As we left Mr. Jones juggling a telephone in one hand and a pencil in the other, he bade us good-bye with a word of warning for all: “Be sure you read the instructions on the back of your athletic book,” he said, “so that you’ll have no difficulty in acquiring your tickets.”
—Sam McQuaid
The class schedule is as follows: First period, 8:00 to 8:35; second period, 8:45 to 9:20; third period, 9:30 to 10:05; fourth period, 10:15 to 10:50.—Joe Mara
Hold October Devotions For Sixth Year in Row
The class schedule is as follows: First period, 8:00 to 8:35; second period, 8:45 Sacrament will be exposed in the Lady Chapel, directly behind the Main Altar of the Sacred Heart Church. Devotions will begin every day at 7:30 a.m. and will continue till 5:00 p.m. with the exception of Saturday when it will be ended at 10:30 a.m. Benediction at 5:00 p.m. will close the daily adoration period.
Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C.
Law School Enrollment
Shows Increas^of 42
The Law School for ’40-’41 has been increased to 105 with the entry of 42 freshman lawyers.
The first meeting of the Law Club was attended by 96 members of the Law school. The meeting was held on Sept. 18, with the Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., as guest speaker. Father Trahey asked for “new spirit” in the Law Club. He stressed the fact that every member of the Law School should belong to the Law Club. Strong alumni support was promised through the aid of Mr. Dooley who will contact alumni lawyers in effort to aid new graduates. More and livelier meetings were urged.
The Law Club now has a lounge on the first floor of the Law Building. Although not completely furnished yet, the lounge has met with the hearty approval of the members. It is very probable that the lounge will now replace the Caf as the meeting place for lawyers. Lockers have been placed in the down stairs smoking room as another convenience for the lawyers.—Regent-Dell
Select Officers for z
Knights of Columbus
In his first official act of the year, Robert Sullivan, grand knight of the local Knights of Columbus unit, last week made known the chairmen of the Supreme Council’s five point program of progress and of the standing committees of the council.
Slated to head committees incident with the five point program are: Harry L. Murray, Catholic Activities; James H. Murray, program; Richard L. Walters, insurance promotion; Donald T. Heltzel, press relations; and Raymond A. Du-briske, manpower.
Responsible for the four standing committees are: Donald McNally, house; Edward C. Roney, ushers; Lee P. Lee, ways and means; and Robert J. Doran, relations.
A key position in council activities went to D. Gerard Sullivan, chosen to edit the Santa Maria, official publication of the council with a circulation reaching 2,000. James D. Fayette and others to be appointed will assist Sullivan.
The Grand Knight also announced that Thomas W. Tearney and William M. Hickey, working with the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will promote the K. of C. student vaudeville, scheduled to take place in December.
—Don Heltzel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Present 19th Century
Letters to University
Letters of the outstanding 19th century English Cardinals were among the documents contained in a collection of letters donated to the University library this week by Robert Sweeney, ’03, and Shane Leslie, who taught here in 1935. Announcement of the gift was made by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
The collection, which was gathered in England during the last few years by Sweeney, a New York businessman, and Leslie, a noted writer, also contains letters written by Charles Dickens and Henry the Ninth, Archbishop of York. The latter, addressed to a banker, is dated 1771.
Cardinal Newman’s letters go back to 1876 and those of Cardinal Manning to 1862. There are some original copies of Cardinal Newman’s famous pamphlets, the opposition to which led to his coming into the Catholic Church.
Two Dickens notes in the collection contain no historical information, but are of great interest and value because they are in his own handwriting.
One of Cardinal Manning’s letters, dated 1884, tells of a meeting with Henry George, author of the One Tax theory. The gift was to have been delivered last year but was delayed because of the war.
In accepting the collection for his department, Paul Byrne, Librarian, said: “It is one of the most interesting and valuable collections this department has received in many years. These letters are all in the handwriting of the Cardinals themselves, and as such are highly prized.”
Shane Leslie taught at Notre Dame in 1935, and also received an honorary LL.D, that year. He is a noted writer and expert on the works of Swift and Shakespeare.—James V. Cunningham
Guest at University
Visitor at Dr. John M. Cooney’s journalism classes last week was Morris Starrett of Port Townsend, Wash., a graduate of the University’s department of journalism. He was on the return trip to his home after having attended a meeting, in Washington, D.C., of the national association of postmasters.
Mr. Starrett attended Notre Dame during the period of the World War, his education being interrupted at that time. He returned to finish after the close of the war, then went to work on a newspaper in his home town before accepting the postmastership of Port Townsend. Knute Rockne was one of Mr. Starrett’s close friends during his years at Notre Dame.—John Casey.
By Russell Harris
“That fellow, the editor of Scrip? Why, he looks just like any ordinary person.” You are right, friend. He does look like the average person you would expect to see on campus. His hair flops, his beard often grows too fast for his razor, and throughout the winter he wears gum-soled shoes that vaguely suggest having once been
Felix Pogliano white. But don’t be fooled by appearances. Felix B. Pogliano, jr., conveniently shortened to “Bud” by his friends, is actually very unsual. Besides being editor of that esoteric Notre Dame quarterly he is also business manager and second bass of the Glee Club, columnist for the Scholastic, poet, short story writer, and student par excellence. Nothing less than one of the highest averages in the University got him that disgracefully large room in Alumni.
But what is a man without a sense of humor? Certainly not a very pleasant thing to have around at a party, nor around at a University for that matter. So in our hero of the week we should expect to find a sense of humor, and of course we do. Last year you will remember him as the editor of “The Juggler” in the Dome. While pursuing his duties as humorist-in-chief, he discovered that at Notre Dame the autonomy of the art of satire is purely theoretical and must at all times be subordinated to prudence. As an English major, however, Bud is always exposed to the danger of sinking into a cynical morbidity, so he has taken out insurance against this sort of thing in the form of a roommate—No. 1 humorist, Frank Wemhoff, of “The Week” fame who assures Bud that life is not as cluttered up with dust and old bones as T. S. Eliot would have us believe.
Bud’s passion for the mountains is partly inherited and partly the result of environment. His ancesors came from the Alpine area of northern Italy. His present home, Denver, is within striking distance of some of the best ski-ing country and some of the best climbs in the West. The snow slopes are familiar to Bud’s skis in summer as well as winter. There
is always snow above 12,000. But during the summer there is the added attraction of mountain climbing. Last summer the three thousand foot rock face of Long’s Peak succumbed to Bud’s rope and boot. For most of the summer he was chief counselor at a boy’s camp in Estes Park; his chief duty—to instruct the youngsters in the technique of mountaineering. After camp was over, he decided to take a little holiday. What did he do? You guessed it—he climbed mountains'
Of such stuff is the new editor of Scrip made. And if you have formed a prejudice against that magazine, forget it. Bud doesn’t like obscure poetry either.
New Organization to Stage Victory Dance
An organization with a long name plans to throw a short dance Saturday night to top off the week’s Knute Rockne-College of the Pacific activities. Sponsorship of the first Victory Dance of the school year was awarded by the Prefect of Discipline’s office to the National Federation of Catholic College Students, Notre Dame chapter, Decent Literature committee, and Louis Kurtz, chairman, promises the best.
Customary with past years the dance will be informal, taxed $1 per couple, and clocked from 8:30 p.m.to 10:30 p.m. Freshmen will be permitted to attend. The dance will be held at St. Joseph’s Hall, Hill and LaSalle streets.
Proceeds from the dance will be used to further the program members of the Decent Literature committee have outlined.
The Modernaires will supply music, and the committee of three is made up of Kurtz, Bob Nenno and Ted McDonald.
—Don Heltzel
Mooney's Story Judged , "Excellent" by Harper's
Last summer, Erwin J. Mooney, Jr., a senior English major, was awarded a certificate of excellence in the Harpers magazine student writing contest. Mooney contributed a short story entitled The Golden Ear-Ring. He analyzed the character and temperament of southern Negroes without exploiting their unhappy situation.
Mr. Mooney was born in 1919 in Clarksdale, Miss., where he attended public schools until his matriculation at Notre Dame. He is now studying English, and is working for a Catholic University law scholarship.
The contest was open to undergraduates in American universities, colleges, normal schools and junior colleges, during the school year of 1939-40.
—William K. Mulvey
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Northern Indiana becomes League of Nations With 14 Countries Represented on Campus
Northern Indiana’s geography took on cosmopolitan shadings when a recent statement out of the director of studies offices reported that Notre Dame has drawn students from all corners of the world for the 1940-41 school year.
Students have matriculated at the University from the region of the Yukon; Chile, Brazil, Columbia, Peru and the Canal Zone in South America; the islands of Hawaii, Philippines, Puerto Rico and Cuba; from China and even West Africa, as well as Canada, Mexico and the United States.
Altogether the University has enrolled 3,267 students, 42 of whom are from 14 foreign countries.
New York Leads Way
New York has the largest representation ■with a total of 497. Illinois comes second with 488 and then Indiana with 466. Ohio and Pennsylvania have sent 258 and 214 respectively. Michigan, Wisconsin and New Jersey are the only others who have 100 or more men studying here.
Of the total enrollment, 2,541 students are living on campus. Living off campus temporarily are 164. Approximately 80
Library's Incunabula Lent to Indianapolis
In accordance with National Newspaper Week, Oct. 1 to Oct. 8, which commemorates the 500th anniversary of the invention, of printing, the University library has lent some specimen volumes of early printing to the Library of Indianapolis for display. This collection consists of several examples of block printing of the eleventh and twelfth centuries and some papyrus and vellum manuscripts of an earlier date.
Enthusiastic bibliophiles will be interested to know that the University library is the proud possessor of numerous printed primitives. The best known and most epochal work of early typography is the Gutenberg Bible. The University has been fortunate in acquiring one page of this rare collectors’ item. A complete edition is preserved under glass and in the constant attendance of guards at the Library of Congress.
The fifth centenary of printing confronts us with the embarrassing fact that we have surprisingly little accurate knowledge about the invention of this craft. Despite claims advanced by con-
of these are transfer students. There are 225 Villagers and 211 graduates or undergraduates living in South Bend.
Among the 869 Freshmen are 275 Arts and Letters men, 31 Physical Education, 141 Science, 170 Engineers and 270 Commerce students. The entire Arts and Letters school has 1,063, Science 332, Engineering 529, and Commerce 1,094. There are 509 men who expect to graduate in 1941. The Junior class numbers 538 and Sophomores total 818. Approximately 165 men have not called for their registration envelopes.
193 Non-Catholics
There are 193 non-Catholics of 15 various denominations in school.
Of these different groups, 28 are Presbyterian, 25 Episcopalian, 25 Methodist, 14 Lutheran, 13 Jewish, 12 Greek Orthodox, 7 Baptist, 5 Christian Science. There are two each of the Evangelical and First Christian group; and the Congregationalist, Unitarians, Russian Orthodox, Church of the Brethren and the Christian Church all have one student each in the University. This total of 193 students presents an average of 5.9 men who are non-Catholics.
—Paul R. Toland
tenders such as Laurens Janszoon Coster of Haarlem and Joanner Fust of Mainz, circumstantial evidence seems to ascribe the honor to John Gutenberg.
Foremost and extremely categorical among the earliest sources of information on the subject is the Cologne Chronicle of 1499. In ponderous Dutch seriousness it credits Gutenberg with siring the printing press. “This right worthy art was invented first of all in Germany, at Mainz, on the Rhine. And that is a great honour to the German nation that such ingenious men are found there. This happened in the year of Our Lord, 1440, . . . and the first book that was printed was the Bible in Latin, and this was printed with a letter as large as that now used in missals.”
After disposing of a Walloon from France, Nicolas Jenson, whom a certain Omnibonus claimed to be the inventor of printing, as a ‘notorious lie,” the document states very clearly that the “first inventor of printing was a Burgher at Mainz ,and was born at Strassburg, and called Yunker Johann Gutenberg.”
History Essay Contest Offers Two $25 Prizes
The History Department of the University announces two prizes of $25 each to be known as the Father Charles O’Donnell and the Charles Phillips competitive essay prizes, to be offered annually in competition for the most satisfactory essay on specified topics. The contests are open to all students pursuing studies in history. This year the assigned topics are: for the Father Charles O’Donnell prize, A Comparison of the Ideals of Religious Liberty in Puritan Massachusetts and Catholic Maryland. For the Charles Phillips prize, St. Peter in Rome. The essays must be submitted to the contest committee not later than Saturday, April 19, 1941. The contest committee is composed of the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., and Professor T. Bowyer Campbell.
These contests have a two-fold purpose: to stimulate interest in historical writings and to add to student’s knowledge of controverted points in Catholic history. The other historical prize, the Monsignor Francis O’Brien History Prize, which has for its topic this year, Father Gabriel Richard, was founded to stimualte interest in the Catholic history of the Northwest Territory. Any undergraduate student interested in these contests may obtain information about them from Mr. Campbell or Father McAvoy.
Army Trip Prices
Further announcements concerning the Army game trip came out of No. 9, Sorin Sub, early this week when Raymond C. Bowers, general chairman of the trip, released price statistics.
Train fare will be $18.50. Train fare plus the football ticket will amount to $20.60. Train fare, football ticket, and hotel expenses for the two nights total $23.60.
Bowers definitely confirmed the Hotel McAlpin as headquarters for the students while in New York, and also said Pennsylvania railroad’s crack “Trail Blazer” will be utilized for transportation.—Don Heltzel
Law Ball Is Oct. 18
“Irrelevant, incompetent, immaterial,” are terms not to be applied to the evening of October 18, for on this night Notre Dame’s law students will hold their annual Law Ball. Setting will be the Palais Royale, with music by Dick Shelton and his Musical Mariners, currently playing at the Blackhawk in Chicago. Announcement of the event was made by Larry Petroshius, Law Club president.—James V. Cunningham
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Father Baldwin Says Cosmic Rays
Often Penetrate Earth 2,000 Feet
OUR DAILY BREAD
In a shaft of a cement quarry on the outskirts of LaSalle, Illinois, beneath 100 feet of solid rock, rests a curious, box-like arrangement. The instrument, recalling the days before streamlining when every family car had a hunch-back detachable trunk, was placed in the quarry by a physics professor of the University of Notre Dame, the Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C.
Father Baldwin describes the affair as a portable, cosmic ray “telescope.” With the aid of the instrument Father Baldwin hopes to add to the information already possessed by science on the nature of cosmic rays.
Explains Experiment
After describing his apparatus, the priest-physicist went on to explain how the experiment is being conducted. Because of the generosity and kindness of friends at LaSalle, and particularly the interest displayed by a prominent resident of LaSalle, Walter Duncan, a Notre Dame graduate of 1912, Father Baldwin found accessible a spot in the Marquette Cement Company’s quarries which has been regarded as ideal for experimentation.
Father Baldwin is comparing the distribution of cosmic rays at ground level with the distribution of the same rays at 100 feet beneath solid rock.
The cosmic rays are the most penetrating of high speed particles known to science and travel at about the same speed as light. They have been known through experiments to have penetrated as far as 2,000 feet into the earth’s surface. While at sea level it is possible to record practically all of the particles, beneath solid rock it is more difficult because some of the particles are screened. The cosmic ray “telescope” when placed in the quarry automatically registers the number and describes somewhat the nature of cosmic ray particles. Present plans call for inspecting the machine at intervals of a month throughout the period of a year.
Constructed at Notre Dame
The cosmic ray “telescope,” constructed by the priest himself at the physics laboratory at Notre Dame, is an ingenious device and speaks well for the long and continued ardor with which he has pursued his studies since his graduate work with Dr. A. H. Compton, of Chicago University. Father Baldwin’s interest in investigating the nature of cosmic ray particles led him to the lab
oratories of the University of Texas where he conducted experiments similar to the present one.
The material Father Baldwin obtains, he intends to turn over to Professor M. S. Vallarta of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for interpretation.
Father Baldwin
Professor Vallarta is one of the foremost authorities in the field of cosmic ray research and it was he who suggested the experiment to the priest. Shortly after the suggestion Father Baldwin began work on the intricate mechanism he is now operating.
Geiger-Mueller Tube
One of the most interesting, and the the essential feature of the “telescope” is the Geiger-Mueller tube, a copper cylinder of about five inches in length, through the center of which is drawn a fine tungsten wire and which is enclosed in a narrow, glass envelope containing gas of a determined pressure. This tube does the actual counting of the cosmic rays. As the ray enters the tube it ionizes the gas, causing a current to flow, which when amplified by an elaborate electrical circuit causes the rays to be counted.
Father Baldwin had little to say when questioned on the possible practical effects of his experiments. He closely maintained that the purpose of the physicist is to understand better the nature of the physical, otherwise described. as the natural world. A study such as the one he is presently pursuing in investigating the properties of cosmic rays will help immeasurably in better understanding the construction of matter.
LITURGY
Assisting at Mass with the intention of fulfilling the precept of the Church for the sanctification of the Sunday is an excellent motive. ... It is an act of obedience from which merit flows. . . . It is an acknowledgement of the honor we owe to God. . . . However, it is the part of wisdom not to be content with the lesser when the greater is within our grasp.
The Mass becomes more fruitful for us the more we realize not only its significance but also our own supernatural dignity in relation to it. ... A guest in the house, no matter how welcome, is still far removed from the intimacy that obtains between members of the family. ... In our Father’s house we are more than mere onlookers, guests for a short period on Sundays. ... We are sons with all a son’s rights and privileges. . . . We are sharers of the Divine life of the Father.
The Church is the society of all the baptized in Christ. . . . “As many of you as have been baptized in Christ have put on Christ” (Galatians 3,29).... Christ is the Son of God by spiritual generation. ... We are the sons of God by spiritual adoption. . . . Priesthood, the power to offer sacrifice, belongs preeminently to Christ.... The sacramental character every Christian receives in Baptism makes him a participant in the priesthood of Christ.. .. Thus St. Thomas: “The sacramental character is specifically the image of Christ to whose priesthood the faithful are made conformable, according to the sacramental characters which are nothing else than certain participations of the priesthood of Christ communicated by Christ himself” (Sum. 111. 63, 3).
All the sacraments enable the faithful to participate in the priesthood of Christ because they give grace. . . . Baptism and Confirmation do so in a special way because of the character they confer. ... Of course this participation is to be understood in a spiritual or mystical sense. . . . There is no question of assuming the powers of the official priesthood received in Holy Orders. . . . Once understood, the priesthood of the faithful impresses them with a new dignity. ... It is good to know that they are active cooperators, not mere spectators, in the action of the Mass. . . . Especially for those, who. look upon the obligation of Sunday Mass'as a form of regimentation does it open up new vistas. .
(Mass Calendar on page 27)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Plan Organization of Gregorian Choir Here Notre
The blessings of singing mass in Gregorian music as well as a deeper understanding and more direct participation in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass will be offered to all students who wish to avail themselves of the opportunity to become members of the new Gregorian Choir. It is being organized by the Rev. Janies W. Connerton, C.S.C., assisted in direction and teaching by the Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C.
Those who wish to join will have advantages of voice training, instruction in the appreciation and learning of Gregorian music as well as in the direction of a Gregorian Choir. One of the purposes of the choir will be to sing in Cavanaugh Hall Chapel where masses are said for student intentions. Depending on the progress the choir makes, it may later sing in Sacred Heart Church and perhaps in conjunction with the Moreau Seminary Choir. “The success of our undertaking,” said Father Connerton, “depends upon the fidelity of the students and their willingness to work.”
As a nucleus for his choir, Father Connerton has 32 boys who met for the first time last week. A meeting will be held in the Music Hall Monday, Oct. 7 at 4:15 when final organization will take place and fundamental work will get under way. Other meetings are scheduled tentatively for Wednesday at 4:15 and Thursday at 6:30 of the same week.
The choir will specialize in Gregorian and sacred music but will not necessarily confine its activities to that. In certain respects it will be similar to the Linnets of two years ago. If sufficient promise and initiative are displayed other musical categories may be considered.
For the student to learn and to appreciate Gregorian chant the only requirements are a fairly responsive voice and an ear sensitive to music.
Due to the sincere and widespread interest evidenced by many students, a large gathering is anticipated at Monday’s meeting to encourage Father Connerton in his efforts to found a Gregorian Choir at Notre Dame.—Francis Carver
Dame Glee Club
Makes Debut on Air
The Notre Dame Glee Club will have the honor of taking part in two nationwide broadcasts tonight, to be held at John Adams High School in South Bend, as a part of Rockne Week’s entertainment. They will accompany the popular singing star, Kate Smith, on the program which will include a host of stage and screen celebrities.
All the school songs will be sung by the club along with some special arrangements from New York. They will also form the choral background for Kate Smith in the closing song, “God Bless America.”
The first program, starting at seven o’clock, will be heard by the eastern half of the country while the second broadcast at eleven will be for the west. Extra rehearsals have been held all this week by the club in order to contribute to the Rockne Week success.—Neil Quinn
Glee Club Will Shine Tonight
University Band Appears On Kate Smith Program
The familiar strains of “God Bless America” floated from the University band room during the past week. Professor Joseph Casasanta and his boys have been hard at work in preparation for a busy week-end.
Tonight a concert band of 50 selected
pieces will take part in the two Kate Smith broadcasts over WSBT. The complete organization will make its first public appearance of the year at the football game Saturday afternoon. New but rapidly developed formations and specialty numbers will be featured.
A complete set of novelty music has arrived, some of which will be included in this week’s program. Such tunes as the “Bartender Polka,” “When the Moon Comes over the Mountain,” and the “Belle of the Campus,” better known as “There She Goes,” are included in this group.—C. S. Coco
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
THE
Select Two Students x For Los Angeles Meet
As representatives of Notre Dame, Jerome O’Dowd and John Reddy will attend the National Convention of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine which is to be held in Los Angeles from October 12-15.
Both representatives are well known for their widespread Catholic Action, at Notre Dame. Last year, Jerry won an award from the National Federation of Catholic College Students in its contest for examples of Catholic Action by Catholic college youth. His prize-winning article on the the writing and distribution of “No Smut” was published in Sign, a national Catholic magazine. His topic will be: The Distribution of Catholic Literature.
Reddy, a graduate in Social Science and former president and executive secretary of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, will speak at the main session of the convention on “The St. Vincent de Paul Society and Confraternity Work.” His active work in the St. Vincent de Paul Society has given him a thorough background for his subject.
The Los Angeles Alumni Club of Notre Dame will be the host of the two representatives and has planned to show them as much of Los Angeles and vicinity as time will allow.—Bob Nenno
Chemists' Club Sponsors /
Victory Dance Oct. 12
Chairman Lee Garvey announces the Third Annual Victory Dance sponsored by the Chemists’ Club as a climax to the Georgia Tech-Notre Dame football weekend on Saturday, Oct. 12. The Modern-aires, under the direction of Bob Richardson, will provide the music. Dancing will be from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m. at the Progress Club. The price per couple is one dollar.
Permission has been granted for the attendance of St. Mary’s students. After the dance, buses will provide transportation to St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
Schoolmen Club Invites
Membership Applications
Juniors who are philosophy majors and are interested in joining the Schoolmen, may apply for membership at 119 Walsh Hall, between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. on Oct. 7, 8, or 9, as announced by Joe Callahan.
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
The University could be isolated for the rest of the year, and yet no one could truthfully deny that these have been times of ■wonder, these have been times of glory. For not only were we able to witness a world premiere, a citywide celebration, and the national air show, but we had also the privilege of receiving a visit from one of the candidates for the Presidency of the United States. And all within one week!
* * *
The appearance of Mr. Willkie on the campus was to us most significant. His visit was a symbol of courage, and a proof of the unceasing devotion of the American educational system and the youth of the land to tolerance and fair play. There was Mr. Willkie, a defender of big business, and an out and out Republican bravely marching into an institution where members of the middle class predominate, where his opponent had once received an honorary degree, and where the son of the Postmaster General is enrolled as a student. We shall never forget it.
* * *
After three years of intimate relations we were certain that the University would take care of us. And because we are the products of a cynical and fastmoving era we never had much difficulty in looking bored. So when the Religious Bulletin advised us to do those very things in reply to rumors that the students would not be permitted to see “Knute Rockne — All American” we were not worried. But try as we will, we find it impossible to do both at the same time.
* * *
The most informative and appropriate words spoken all week came, strangely enough, not from the mouth of Mr. Willkie or any of the Hollywood delegation, but from the bruised lips of an unknown warrior on- the Freshman squad. Immediately after the Varsity had scored their sixth touchdown this young man walked up and down the line, slapped his team mates where they must be slapped on such occasions, and shouted: “What we need is some spirit; that’s what we need, spirit!” We think he was right; although a few touchdowns would have helped a little.
* * *
John, the head-waiter in the west dining hall, continues conservative. He
is wearing a new suit, and it’s another blue one. We await the day when the head-waiters break out in gray tweed.
* * *
Last week a student who was confined to the Infirmary found that the meals over there merely teased his hunger, so he dressed, -walked to the Cafe and had a meal, then returned to his bed in the Infirmary. Later he learned that the wash rooms were not supplied with soap or towels and once more he departed from the sick ward. After he had washed in his own room he returned without being challenged and the Infirmary Corps are still blissfully ignorant of his furloughs.
* * *
The more we see those motor driven lawn-mowers the more we are convinced that they should be a part of the equipment of every college man. We suggest that the University assign a plot of grass to each student and allow him to cut it once a week. Instructions could be given, and later an escadrille might be formed. It would be a lot safer than the C.A.A.
* £ *
Whatever one may think of the chances of the College of the Pacific in the football game tomorrow one must admit that never has an opening game brought forth a team with such a nice name.
* * *
We were talking to a friend of out’s last Saturday night when a breathless young man ran up and asked if the movie was out. We said it was. “Is it really?” he asked again. We said it really was. The young man then snapped his fingers. “I forgot to mail that letter.... Is there a collection from any of the campus mailboxes tonight?” Our friend said there was not, but added that he would be glad to drop the letter in a South Bend box. The young man remained silent for a second, then abruptly said: “No, no, it’s all right; I haven’t written it yet.” As he disappeared into the darkness, he left us feeling very bewildered and very suspicious.
* * *
If we were the betting kind, we would be willing to bet that a devilish Democrat had something to do with that malfunctioning microphone during Mr. Wendell Willkie’s speech.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES.
Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
BERNARD LONGO, Art Editor
REV. 0. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc 420 Madison Avenue. New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. TTTF, SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre name. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7.:00 P.M.
Manhandler
The scene—a basehall diamond. Two summer camps, neighboring rivals, were fighting for a score that would break a tie and win the game. A tall, thin young man stepped up to the plate and hit the first pitch for a single. He stole second. Then, as the next batter slapped a hard hit grounder toward short stop, the thin, fast man on second scampered for third. The ball trickled through the short stop’s fingers, and our base runner, speedy and alert, crossed the plate with the winning run.
That game was played in 1929, the winning tally was scored by a counselor who played second base. His name was Elmer Layden.
We were fortunate enough that year to be one of ten year olds running around that camp where Layden was counselor. And, even as far back as 1929 seems now, we remember that all the youngsters in the camp followed him around from morning until night not only because they knew he was a member of the Four Horsemen, but because he was a friend to all of them. The other members of the counselor-staff looked to him as a leader; the owners fully appreciated his outstanding talents for leading boys, his glowing personality.
In the fall of 1929, Elmer Layden came to Pittsburgh to take over football coaching duties at Duquesne University. Before that time people in the Smoky City didn’t even know the Dukes had a football team. But before Layden left Duquesne, Carnegie Tech had felt the sting of the Layden technique, and a great Pitt team won only by a hair in 1933.
In those days, we used to sit on the bench every Friday night and watch,
over the padded shoulders of the substitutes, the “Night Riders” whip such teams as Detroit, Marquette, and West Virginia. Layden could handle little boys and he could handle men I
Coach Layden is a true disciple of Knute Rockne. He is strict exponent of good blocking on the football field. Out there on Cartier Field, Layden-drilled Notre Dame teams have heard, over and over again, “block, tackle; block, tackle” until the words buzz constantly through each man’s head.
It was in the fall of 1938 that Layden first stood at the helm of an all-Layden squad at Notre Dame. Until that time he was coaching men who had played under Rockne and under Hunk Anderson. Two all-Layden teams have compiled a record of 17 wins against 3 losses, quite an achievement especially when the type of schedule is considered.
Ten years ago, Notre Dame won the national championship. The majority of pre-season dopesters are predicting that the tenth anniversary of that title year will be celebrated by repetition.
Material is plentiful, but the schedule, as usual, is back-breaking. Big college elevens nowadays must be “up” for every game; a coach has to be on his toes to spot weaknesses that crop up every week. An injury jinx may spoil an entire season.
Notre Dame has the coach, a man who knows his football and can keep his men keyed up for victory. Interview him and he will give the impression that, to say the least, all is not well; he will certainly not be confident of victory on any one of these coming ten Saturdays. Neither was Rockne!
Coach Layden deserves the national title this year. He is a determined, hardworking coach, a man who wants glory for Notre Dame and his players. If
(there are very few ‘if’s” this year) injuries don’t hamper the team, if the players are “up” for each game, and if some of the boys with “first teamitis” play football as they really can, Coach Elmer Layden will boast a nation-wide champion; he will be, most deservingly, the coach of the year, the mentor who best handled his men.
—John Patterson
Vote While You May
This is addressed to students 21 years of age and over, thus including those individuals to whom the coming election affords the first opportunity to vote in the selection of a president of the United States. Viewed in another light, this article is also addressed to those individuals, but this time in the light of conscription and the veiled destiny which lies beyond it.
How will the average Notre Dame student proceed in exercising his right to vote, duty or privilege—(however he chooses to regard this function of a free democratic citizen) ? For most student voters this will be the first opportunity for such activity on their part and they should be anxious to exercise their new-found powers. Especially with political conditions such as they are, the individual should at least express himself by ballot. Then if things turn out to suit the voter he may feel that he helped to bring the blessings about; if the opposite is the case he may say that he at least did his bit to save “the fate of Democracy” (whatever that slightly obscure phrase means in this era) even if he wasn’t successful.
His ballot is the weapon, the only instrument the citizen has to combat the enemies of democratic governments. Those who will be permitted to vote in the coming election should do so; if the nation really gets in a mess the voter won’t feel quite so futile. He may either feel philosophically that he helped create the mess—or that he did his best to prevent it.
There is some comfort in either situation — to know that he had some part in the final outcome, good or bad. A man need not blame himself, then; he need feel no self-remorse; he need make no self accusations. It is a good feeling, healthier and far more serene than a conscience which will not be assuaged.
And you had better vote in the coming election; you may not be allowed to vote in the next one because, quoting Time magazine, “The Army’s Judge Advocate General says that in 29 States soldiers and sailors are barred from the polls.”
—John Dinges
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
COURIER
By John A. Dooling
March 12, 19—. “Future Presidents”
Vincent Aloysius Curran, born at 11:55 last night in St. Mary’s hospital to Mr. Thomas V. and Mrs. Elizabeth J. Curran (nee Williamson). The baby weighed nine pounds, seven ounces at birth.
June 20, 19—. “Graduation Exercises”
.... Curran, Vincent A. Scholastic ranking, second in class; Also received medal for Christian Doctrine....
June 20,19—. Editorial
“American Youth”
.... Also outstanding in his class was young Vincent Curran, son of Magistrate T. V. Curran of Milford. Leaving Milford next fall, Vincent intends to enter LaSalle Military Academy in New York, where he will take a preparatory course for college. He was an exceptional scholar through his eight years of grammar school, and we sincerely hope that he will continue to succeed in all his future studies....
June 6, 19—. News Item
After an absence of four years, Vincent Curran has returned to Milford upon the completion of his high-school training at LaSalle Military Academy in New York. Graduating with honors, he had no difficulty in securing a recommendation to the Connecticut College of Arts and Sciences, where he will study law. While at LaSalle, he attained the rank of lieutenant.
October 16, 19—. News Item
Last night at the Jefferson Auditorium in Hartford, Conn., the Connecticut College of Law debating team defeated the team of C.C.N.Y., upholding the affirmative in the debate, “Resolved: That the United States Should Avoid Foreign Entanglements.” Particularly noteworthy was the oratory of Vincent Curran, of Milford, whose superb rebuttal was the deciding factor in favor of Connecticut. Mr. Curran is a sophomore at C.C.L.
December 3, 19—. News Flash
UNITED STATES ENTERS WAR ON GERMANY AND RUSSIA! ! !
Allied with France and Great Britain, the United States once more takes arms to preserve democracy.... By Jan. 1, 19—, it is expected that 15,000 American troops will be overseas.... totally unexpected. ... probably will be ended before next summer.... “must be made safe for democracy—”....
December 5, 19—. Editorial
“Peace Forever”
..., and it is our boys who will, at last, bring to us this peace we have so long sought after. Boys like our own Jerry and Hank Kane, whose father owns Milford’s largest factory. Boys like young Vinny Curran, the only son of Magistrate Curran of this town, and one of the first Milford volunteers. I repeat, it is these lads on whom we depend for peace, democracy, and even civilization itself....
December 19, 19—. News Item
Today, according to a United Press dispatch, the American troopship, S. S. President Wilson, landed at le Havre, France. Among the troops on board were Privates Gerald Kane, Henry Kane, Joseph Norris, and Charles Golden, and Lieutenant Vincent Curran, all of Milford.
March 24, 19—. News Item
Lieutenant Vincent A. Curran was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross by the General Staff of the Allied Forces for heroism beyond the call of duty. Lieutenant Curran was instrumental in the capture of a pill-box and the subsequent seizure of an important enemy outpost. He was wounded while heading his volunteer squad against a German salient, and is now on furlough in Paris.
August 9,19—. News Item
Lieutenant Vincent Aloysius Curran, D.S.C., was killed in action yesterday along the Maginot Line. He is to be posthumously awarded the Croix de Guerre by the General Staff. Surviving him are his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. V. Curran, of Milford.
August 10, 19—. Editorial
“Vincent A. Curran”
Milford grieves at the death of Vincent Curran, but rejoices that his spirit, his indomitable courage, lives on in the hearts of America’s doughboys. He did not die in vain, and the cause for which he fought will yet be achieved by his successors.... And so Milford is proud that Vincent, one of her brightest stars, was able to die gloriously, valiantly, that men may, in the future, still possess life, -peace, and even civilization itself, without threat to the prosperity and happiness. It is, then not sadly, but proudly,.
that we pay this final tribute to Vincent Aloysius Curran, who gave his life for democracy, for peace, and for mankind _____ In pace requiescat
(Unpublished article by the Editor of the Milford Daily Courier)
* * *
I kept this scrapbook on Vic since the day he was born. I don’t quite know why, except that his dad was probably my best friend, and Vic was sort of an adopted nephew. Anyway, I’d like to tell you the real story of Vic Curran, as we really knew him.
You see, the netvspaper business is a tough racket, and we can’t always say what we want. We couldn’t tell people about how much Vic hated to leave for France, or even how he detested war in general. Don’t get me wrong, now! Vince was no coivard. It was just something logical and reasonable and human that made him see through all the hysteria and zinderstand the stupidity of it all.
Then there was Ellen Hogan, his girl They had everything all planned for their future, and with Vic only a year away from his degree things looked pretty secure for them. Now Ellen is lost— Vic meant the world to her, and he’s gone. Knowing that thousands of other girls are the same way certainly doesvlt make it any better. It only makes it worse.
But Tom Curran and Betty were hit worst of all. They have to take it, and try to pretend that they’re glad he went that way. Why? So other parents will be glad to send their boys over to France, to die “gloriously, valiantly, that men may possess life, peace, and civilization itself.”
Vic Curran, good-looking, .intelligent, is gone. Now the only Vic Curran people know is Lt. Vincent Aloysius Curran, D.S.C., a name on the casualty lists and a mangled body, with a shell-hole for a grave.
And all along we’ve been hypocrites. Telling the public how glorious it is to leave their sons to fertilize Europe’s fields. I only wish I had the nerve to defy this self-imposed censorship and tell the truth. Maybe some day newspapermen will. Because if they all did, then no more boys would be eulogized— “He died, but not in vain. For the world must be made safe for democracy, and for civilization itself.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
16
Fighting Irish Meet Golden Tigers In Season Opener; Prospects Bright
Strong N. D. Team Faces
Minus the cinematic glamour and frills of tonight’s premiere, the Fighting Irish and the spirit of Knute Rockne will live again tomorrow afternoon in all their traditional glories, as the 1940 Notre Dame football squad takes the field to meet Alonzo Stagg’s stubborn charges from College of the Pacific.
Odds-on favorites, despite the loss of 17 major lettermen, Notre Dame is predicted to have little trouble in trouncing the diminutive Pacific Tigers. They point to Irish reserve backfield power, to huge bruising tackles, to strong guards and towering ends. They point to the small enrollment at the Stockton, Calif, institution. emphasize the traditional weakness in the College of the Pacific line.
Others of a different opinion insist that the dopesters remember the lack of regulars in the center and end positions on the Irish squad, demand that the inspiring Pacific wins over St. Mary’s Gaels and the University of California be evaluated, and urge that the Irish become aware of the unorthodox brand of football concocted by Pacific’s famed coach, America’s oldest mentor, Alonzo A. Stagg.
Irish to Play Safe
Elmer Layden was in midseason form — his features clouded with that typical worried stare—as he gave his preview version of the battle: “With this game we hope to find out just exactly what we have. We are looking forward to the meeting with much concern and anticipate a game that is hard to figure beforehand. We have meager information on the College of Pacific’s squad. We know Mr. Stagg has cooked up something for us, maybe too potent a mixture. Our squad has been working well and we won’t be caught underestimating Pacific. We expect a fine contest and we’re glad to have Mr. Stagg here at Notre Dame.”	■
The College of the Pacific Tigers, capable of their most inspiring play when engaged against their toughest opposition, present a diminutive but powerful roster. The ace of the crew is Jack the “Giant Killer” Frishholtz, vet-
TOMORROW THE
Laydenmen Will Be Ready
eran halfback whom West Coast fans say Stagg has developed into one of the greatest tailbacks seen there in years. With two-year letterman Tommy Olaeta calling signals, blocking back Emil Seifert and the 203 pounds of drive of Dwayne Mears, fullback, clearing the path, this backfield star should show the Saturday spectators fancy running plays with the Stagg trade-mark. The line lacks not experience but weight. Guards Al Irwin, Dave Gay and Harris Fine and Tackles Vaughan and Swagerty are invincible in their own rite. Dow and Captain Hugh McWilliams, veteran centers are big factors in the Pacific anchor spot. Ends are rangy and excepting Linschied lack experience.
The Stagg game of football is one of wide-open formations, with flankers, peadingers (names given to a back 20 or 30 yards away from the ball in the flat). From this formation passes, lateral or forward and a running play may be tried. However, this wide-open style of play may be scrapped for the sheer power used in defeating the powerful University of California last year.
With injured members of the Varsity coming back to their own, the Irish aggregation will be at almost full strength for the contest. The starting lineup of
Piepul, Saggau, Juzwik and Hargrave in the backfield, O’Brien and Rassas at the ends, Pete Kelly and John Gubanich at the guard slots, Gallagher and Lillis at tackle and Osterman at center, represents the elite of Irish gridiron strength. Reserve duties will fall upon such capa-bles as: Fullbacks, Chlebeck and Crimmins; halfbacks, McGannon, Bagarus, Prokop, Hogan, and Evans; Gilorami and Hayes understudying Hargraves; ends, Kovatch, Dove, Kelly and Elbi; Brutz and Brosey shouldering the work at the tackles without the aid of injury-jinxed Rymkus and Ziemba; guards, Lai-ber, Bereolos, Sullivan and Schrenker; and Jim Ford, O’Reilly and McHale substituting for Osterman.—Tom Powers
. OFFICIALS
Referee, Frank Birch (Earlham); Umpire, John Schommer (Chicago); Linesman, Jay Wyatt (Missouri); Field Judge, Dick Miller (Indianapolis).
Game time, 2:00 p.m.

The Tentative *
College of the Pacific
PLOCHER .......
SWAGERTY ......
Pos ..Left Left
i
IRWIN .....................Left
DOW .....................    Cei	:<
GAY........................Right	G
VAUGHAN ...................Right	I
JACOBSEN ..............Right
SEIFERT...............Righ.J
OLAETA ...........    Quarts
FRISHHOLTZ ...............Left '1
MEARS ................Fullb:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Splinters From the Press Box
-	JAMES NEWLAND ■	■
lading Lineups:
;ion	Notre Dame
End.................. RASSAS
Tackle............ GALLAGHER
Guard................. KELLY
er................. OSTERMAN
Guard.............. GUBANICH
Tackle............... LILLIS
End................. O’BRIEN
Half..................JUZWIK
jrback...........   HARGRAVE
Half..................SAGGAU
jack..............    PIEPUL
High atop the Administration Building overlooking this campus, like a brilliant gold star giving color to the twin lake, stands the beloved Statue of Notre Dame. It was ten years ago this very night Our Lady watched closely as Knute K. Rockne spoke to Notre Dame students in the held house, preceding the opening game of the 1930 season. Tonight, with the stage set for another great season and as Our Lady still watches, we pause and salute the master of them all, whose psychology of men gave to the spirit of this school something it had never known, and something that will never die.
When Coach Elmer F. Layden steps up to tell his usual story at tonight’s pep rally, perhaps his thoughts will travel back through those years when Rockne sent his greatest elevens fleeting over the turf in the most dazzling football parade this country has ever known. And when he is through talking, another* gentleman who tried desperately for years to solve the mastery of the great coach, will say a few words to students and guests. Amos Alonzo Stagg, 78-year-old leader of College of the Pacific football who gave Chicago gridiron memories it shall never forget, will perhaps think back over those games when Rock’s grid magic sent his Maroons floundering into defeat. Most of all he will remember the times his Chicago team was clever enough and good enough to stop the Fighting Irish in their tracks.
As you have already heard, Stagg’s Golden Tigers are not to be taken lightly. Strong enough to trounce California’s mighty Bears last year, 6 to 0, Tiger followers have sent warnings this way to watch out for an impending storm. A press release from Pacific reads in part: “There is strong optimism among the candidates that the 1940 team will be as strong as the Golden Tigers of 1939. This optimism is based largely on the improvement which a number of reserves of last year have made.”
One must take into consideration the fact that football material at this far western institution is not so plentiful as at Notre Dame. Nevertheless, very im
pressive is the fact that this team has 17 lettermen returning from last year’s squad. Coach Stagg lost several key men by graduation, consequently the possibilities of his present aggregation are not definite. But Mr. Stagg is not a gentlemen to fool around. He will send a squad on the local turf tomorrow with everything to gain and little to lose.
Since “the grand old man of football” took over the coaching duties at College of the Pacific in 1931, his teams have engaged 'outstanding elevens on the Pacific Coast. In 1934 the University of California edged out a 7 to 6 win. over the Tigers and in 1936 they again won, 14 to 0. Southern California eked out a 6 to 0 victory in 1934 and a year later the Trojans finished on the long end of a 19 to 7 score. The Tigers held St. Mary’s Gaels to a 0-0 tie in 1937 and the following season trounced the “notso-good” Chicago Maroons, 32 to 0.
There will be no deep, dark memories of other* games in the minds of players and fans tomorrow afternoon, this being the first time the Irish have entertained this fighting team out of the west. But let there be no mistake about it, explosives still come, in small packages. All it takes is the strike of one match to ignite a small pack of dynamite.
The Irish have been “heading” for Pacific all week, tightening loose parts, getting those fundamentals down cold. The Frosh encounter last week proved they can score when each man plays his individual part. Realizing the Freshmen had only a very few days of practice, the fact remains the broken-field running Saggau and Bill McGannon will definitely prove a hazard to opposing teams.
One gentleman reports the Pacific team as small. The weight chart reads as follows: Ends — Smallwood, 200; Lin-schied, 190; Schmidt, 195; Plocker, 173. Tackles — Ijams, 215; Vaughan, 194; Dean Gay, 180; Remple, 187. Guards — Irwin, 195; Fine, 200; McGowan, 170; Tilson, 180. Center — Dewey, 190; Moore, 195.
Yes sir! This Pacific outfit is down to a mere shadow!
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
ALBERT DEL ZOPPO
“Whitey” Cronin, football coach at Leo Catholic in Chicago, happened to walk into Leo’s gymnasium one day and spied a husky six-footer running over his teammates in a basketball scrimmage.
“This is no place for that boy,” Whitey said to himself. “He should be out on a football field.” Next fall Tom Gallagher was playing first string tackle for Leo. And he did such a grand job at that post that before he graduated he was honored with a place on Chicago’s Catholic All-High team.
Notre Dame was Tom’s next stop. And again he made good in a hurry. All-American Joe Beinor was holding down the first string left tackle position in Gallagher’s sophomore year, but Tom showed Coach Layden enough interferencespilling finesse easily to win the understudy job. Layden moved Gallagher up to the starting squad last season and he’s been there ever since.’
Tom Gallagher is far from being the most colorful tackle Notre Dame has ever had. He’s not garrulous; he doesn’t show his teeth or make faces at opposing linemen; nor does he have the knack of showmanship. But Tom does rank with past N. D. greats in the quality of his tackle play. He is a fine blocker, and knows how
to drive gaps in an opponent’s forward wall. On defense Gallagher’s real worth is recognized through his ability to smash down interference, making it possible for his teammates to spill the ballcarrier.
Like most ball-players Gallagher enjoys playing against one team more than any other. Northwestern gives Tom his biggest thrill, mostly because he has a chance to play against some of his Chicago buddies. But it is Carnegie Tech and other teams using the same style of play which give Gallagher and all tackles a headache. And it’s easy to understand why. Carnegie is a power-house team, one that relies mostly on a strong run
ning attack. And consequently about 75 per cent of its plays are run off tackle. That doesn’t mean, however, that teams like Carnegie find it easy to steam-roller through Gallagher’s spot. For 210 pounds of fighting weight is an awfully stubborn thing to move when it refuses to budge. Merlyn Condit and George Muh'a found that out last year.
Such backs as Muha, who will accompany the Tartans on their trip to South
Bend again this year, Bosch of Georgia Tech, and DeCorrevont of Northwestern will find Tom a hard man to get past. Blockers will know what a stone wall is like when they make first contact with him.
Tom Gallagher is enrolled in the College of Commerce, majoring in business administration, and looking forward to a teaching and coaching career when he graduates. He has another ambition too. He wants to see his “kid” brother, who is 16 years old and weighs 215 pounds, play college football when he graduates from Leo Catholic. If he is anywhere near as good as Tom, Notre Name will be able to use him.
Four Monogram Men Spark 1940-41 Cage Squad
Vith king football holding the spotlight for the next two months, basketball moved unobtrusively into the Notre Dame fieldhouse last Monday, as Coach George Keogan sent his varsity squad through their initial paces by way of getting them into condition for the long campaign ahead.
Missing from the opening drill were five of last year’s monogram winners who walked the diploma plank last June, namely: Centers Mark Ertel and Rex Ellis; guards, Gene Klier and Dick Smith, and forward, “Red” Oberbrunner. Thus Coach Keogan will build his team around the four remaining letter-men, namely: Captain Eddie Riska, leading Irish scorer for two consecutive years, and the flashy George Sobek who made a pair of brilliant forwards, and two senior guards, Larry Ryan and Bob Smith.
Jim Carnes, Al Del Zopo, Sam Yezer-ski, Charley Gillespie, Art Pope, and Frank Quinn, head the list of returning reserve players who will command quite a bit of the Coach’s attention throughout the succeeding weeks.
Also battling for varsity berths will be a group of promising sophomores, among whom are: Ralph Vinciguerra, Sy Singer, Jim Kelly, Chuck Butler, Chuck O’Leary, Jim Engel, Bob Rens-berger, Frank Chapman, Jim Carberry, and Bob Fisher.
When asked what he thought of his team’s prospects for the coming season, Coach Keogan said, “It’s a little too early to tell what we’ll do yet. Our chief problem lies in finding a new center and adequate reserve strength. The team will be a mixture of sophomores, juniors, and seniors; it will be a fast one, and should play/an interesting brand of ball. We’ll start slow but should improve rapidly as we go along. It all depends on how fast the sophomores develop.”—Jim Clemens
Exercise, Honor Await
Interhall Gridders
Definite incentives for participation in the forthcoming interhall football tournament were established this week by the Notre Dame Athletic Department, under the leadership of Director Elmer F. Layden.
Among other things it was announced that at the conclusion of the tournament, a banquet will be held for all players taking part. A notable speaker will be present for this occasion. Individual awards will be presented to an alltournament eleven. A training table will be set up for the teams taking part in (Continued on Page 22)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
THE
Coach Alonzo Stagg is
Wily Football Veteran
“The Grand Old Man of Football,” Amos Alonzo Stagg, must seem very old to college students of today, but he is old only in years, not in spirit. With all due respect to the College of the Pacific it must be admitted that the Irish.will really be pitted against the wily Amos Alonzo rather than the team of gridders which a coed school with an enrollment of 439 could put on the field. But even from such a small school a Stagg coached team is a. factor to be reckoned with. We don’t deny the possibility of an upset —but what an upset it would be I
In homage to the memories of those past golden autumn afternoons which now haunt the Midway and reminiscent of the days when the positions of Notre Dame and Stagg were reversed and the then mighty Maroons rolled over the Irish in four straight games, Notre Dame salutes Stagg by renewing one of the oldest rivalries between a coach and a school. Notre Dame will seek to avenge Mr. Stagg’s record of four victories over the Irish, 8-0 in 1894, 18-0 in 1896, 34-0 in 1897, and 23-6 in 1899. One of these games was played at Notre Dame, the other three at Chicago. The series opener in 1894 was played in ‘Tattersall’s indoor Chicago horse show pavilion” where Stagg figured as a playercoach, serving as an end. All four of these games were prior to the Rockne era.
Aside from showing Notre Dame some fancy football in the good old days, Stagg has had a more direct influence on grid history. He helped mould the destinies of two Notre Dame head coaches. Frank Hering, a transfer student from Chicago and Stagg’s quarterback in the 1894 game, appeared as captain and coach of the Notre Dame outfit in the 1896 meeting. Another Stagg alumnus who had still greater effect on Notre Dame’s destiny was Jesse Harper, a Chicago graduate and a product of Stagg’s grid teachings. Harper was head coach at Notre Dame in Rockne’s playing days, 1910-13. He appointed “Rock” as assistant coach where he served until he became head coach in 1918.
After the Chicago victory of 1899 Stagg’s only association with the Irish in football activity has been his pari; in the film, “Knute Rockne—All American.” In it he offered his services as an actor with other coaches in a scene where the gridiron leaders defend the sport against the efforts of a misinformed group seeking to legislate foot-
*A*UH»**
Don't worry a minute about your Clothes being right . . .
Let us help you . . . and you'll KNOW they are correct. Tweeds, Flannels . . . variety of materials, patterns and colors from which to choose . . . And select your own price range.
PARKER-WINTERROWD I 15% - 117% N. Main Street
Capt. Milt "Moose" Piepul — 107 Alumni John Ryan — 337 Walsh
1940 Notre Dame Varsity Football Roster
Name	Pos.
♦Bagarus, Stephen Michael	R.H.
Barry, Norman John	R.E.
Bechtold, Joseph Hubert	AT.
Bereolos. Hercules	AG.
Brock, Thomas James	O.
♦Brosey, Henry Clifford	AT.
♦Brutz, James Charles	L.T.
Callahan, Thomas Francis	L.E.
Chlebeck, Andrew John	F.B.
Creevy, Richard Cassell	F.B.
♦Crimmins, Bernard Anthony	R.H.
Doody, Frank Arthur	Q.B.
Dove, Robert Leo	L.E.
Earley, William Joseph	AH.
Ebli, Raymond Henry	LA
Evans, Fred Owen, Jr.	LA
Ford, James Brendan	C.
♦•Gallagher, Thomas Chas.	L.T.
Girolami. Anthony Gregory	Q.B.
♦•Gubanich, John Aloysius	R.G.
♦Hargrave, Robert Webb	Q.B.
Hayes, John William	Q.B.
Hogan, Donald John	L.H.
Juzwik. Steve Robert	R.H.
Kelly, James Lavelle	L.G.
♦Kelly, Peter Mullen	L.G.
Koch, Robert James	Q.B.
Kopshever, Ed Donald. Jr.	AG.
Korth, Howard Joseph	AG.
Kovatch, John George	R.E.
Laiber, Joseph James,	AG.
Lanahan, John Francis	C.
Lee, Albert Bush	F.B.
Leonard. Robert John	F.B.
♦Lillis, Paul Bernard	AT.
Maddock, Robert Charles	L.G.
Maloney, John Malachi	C.
McGannon, Wm. Vincent	L.H.
McGoldrick, Owen Aloysius	AG.
McHale, John Joseph	C.
McNeill, Charles Edward	F.B.
Michels, Andrew Jacob	L.G.
Miller, Thomas Seeay	R.H.
Mortell. John Edwin	O.
Murphy, George Edward	R.E.
’ Neff. Robert Hudkins	AT.
♦♦O’Brien, John Dennis	RA
O’Brien, Richard Charles	R.E.
O’Meara, Walter Charles	Q.B.
O’Reilly. Martin Gordon	C.
Osterman, Robert Thomas	C.
Papa, Joseph John	L.T.
Patten, Paul Edward	Q.B.
Peasenelli, John Joseph	llH.
Ptepelnjak, Nicholas Francis LH. Perko, Thomas William	LA
Peterson, Elmer John	AT.
t**Piepul, Milton John	F.B.
Postupack, Joseph Victor	F.B.
Prokop, Joseph Michael . R.H. Rassas, George James	LA
Riordan, Wilbur Eugene	Q.B.
Rively, Clair Michael	L.T.
Rymkus, Louis	L.T.
♦♦Saggau, Robert Joseph	LH
Schmid, Charles William	AT.
Schrenker, Henry Pershing	L.G.
Sheridan, Phillip Francis	LA
Sullivan, Edward Joseph	L.G.
Sullivan. Lawrence Pat	L.T.
Walsh. Robert Michael	' L.G.
Warner. John Andrew, Jr.	LA
Webb, Robert Bailey	AG.
Wright, Harry Charles	F.B.
Ziemba, Walter John	AT.
*—Indicates number of monograms f—Indicates captain.
Home Town	Preparatory School	AgeWgt. Ht. Ex.			
South Bend, Ind.	Washington H. S.	21	163	5:11	1
Chicago, Ill.	Fenwick, Oak Park	19	175	5:8%	0
Sioux Falls, 9.Dak.	Washington A S.	21	205	6:2	1
Hammond, Ind.	Hammond A S.	21	203	5:11	1
Columbus, Nebr.	Kramer A S.	20	195	6:1	0
Ozone Park, N.Y.	Brooklyn Tech.	21	233	6:1	1
Warren, Ohio	Warren H. S.	21	215	6:0	1
Stamford, Conn.	Stamford H. S.	19	175	6:0	0
St. Paul, Minn.	St. Thomas Military	21	195	6:0	1
Chicago. Ill.	Mt. Carmel H. S.	20	190	6fl"	0
Louisville, Ky.	St. Xavier A S.	21	190	5:11	1
Oak Park, Hl.	Fenwick H. S.	20	185	5:11	2
Youngstown, O.	South A S.	19	195	6:2	0
Parkersburg, W.Va.	Parkersburg H. S.	19	180	5:11	0
Ironwood, Mich.	St. Ambrose A S.	21	200	6:2	1
South Bend, Ind.	Riley A 9.	19	180	5:11	0
Binghamton, N.Y.	Allentown, Pa., Prep.	22	200	6:0	1
Chicago, HI.	Leo EL S.	23	205	6:1	2
Chicago, Ill.	Crane Tech A S.	19	197	6:0	0
Phoenixville. Pa.	Phoenixville, A S.	21	160	5:9	2
Evansville, Ind.	Reitz Memorial A S.	20	180	5:11	1
Atchison, Kans.	Maur Hill Prep	22	175	5:9	1
Chicago, Ill.	St. Ignatius H. S.	20	195	6:2	1
Chicago, Ill.	DePaul Academy	22	188	5:8%	1
Peoria, Hl.	Spalding Institute	20	178	5:10	0
Chicago, Ill.	Fenwick, Oak Park	22	192	5:10	2
Calumet City, Ill.	Cath. Cent.* Hammond 21		175	5:10	2
Chicago, Ill.	Leo H. S.	19	138	5:8%	0
Saginaw, Mich.	Saginaw A S.	21	192	6:1.	2
South Bend. Ind.	Washington A S.	20	180	6:3	1
South Bend, Ind.	Washington A S.	20	170	5:10	1
Jacksonville, Fla.	Imm. Conception H.S.	19	189	6:1%	0
Carlinville, HL	Carlinville H. S.	22	190	6:0	2
Cincinnati, Ohio	St. Xavier A 9.	23	190	6:1	2
Mt. Vernon. N.Y.	Bennett, Buffalo. N.Y.	19	205	6:2	1
Santa Ana. Calif.	Santa Ana A S.	20	206	6:0	1
Boise, Idaho	St. Theresa Academy	23	195	6:2	2
Evansville, Ind.	Reitz Memorial A S.	21	175	5:9	2
Philadelphia, Pa.	W. Phila. Cath. A 9.	21	180	5:11	0
Detroit, Mich.	Cath. Cent. A S.	19	210	6:3	0
Midland, Pa.	Lincoln A S.	21	195	6:1%	1
Mishawaka, Ind.	Mishawaka H. S.	20	180	5:11	0
Wilmington, Del.	Alexis I. DuPont	19	192	6:1	0
Kankakee, Ill.	St. Patrick’s A S.	22	185	6:0	2
South Bend, Ind.	Central A S.	20	185	6:1	0
Buckhannon, W.Va.	Buckhannon-Upshur	20	230	6:1%	0
Swissvale, Pa.	Swissvale A S.	22	189	6:%	2
Peoria, Ill.	Spalding Institute	19	180	6:2%	0
Stamford, Conn.	Stamford A 9.	22	170	5:8	2
Chicago, III.	Mt. Carmel A S.	20	185	6:2	1
Detroit, Midi.	St. Theresa’s A S.	21	210	6:3	2
Pittsburgh, Pa.	Kiski Prep	22	210	6:1	2
Canton, N. Y.	Canton A S.	20	180	5:8	1
Rochester, Ph.	Rochester A S.	20	182	5:11	0
Virginia, Minn.	Roosevelt A S.	20	185	5:11	1
Chisholm, Minn.	Chisholm H. S.	19	190	6:1	0
Chicago. Bl.	Crane Tech H. S.	19	210	6:2	0
Thompsonville. Conn.	Enfield A S.	22	207	6:1	2
McAdoo, Pa.	McAdoo H. S.	20	195	5:11	1
Cleveland, O.	Cath. Latin A S.	20	190	6:1	1
Stamford, Conn.	Stamford A S.	24	196	6:3	2
Sioux City, la.	'East H. 9.	20	175	5:10	0
Altoona, Pa.	Altoona Cath. A S.	21	200	6:1	1
Chicago, III.	Tilden A S.	21	230	6:4	0
Denison, la.	Denison A S.	20	185	6:0	2
Detroit, Mich.	De La Salle A S.	22	183	5:9%	2
Elwood. Ind.	Elwood A S.	22	195	5:11	2
Rutherford, NJ.	St. Mary’s A S.	23	187	6:2	2
Belle Harbor. N.Y.	St. John’s. Brooklyn	20	198	5:10	1
Brockton, Mass.	Brockton A S.	21	220	6:2	0
Springfield. HL	Cathedral H. S.	21	198	5:11	0
New Haven, Conn.	Cheshire Academy	19	185	6:0	o
Santa Ana, Calif.	Santa Ana H. S.	19	185	5:9% 6.0	o
Hempstead. L.I., N.Y.	Chaminade, Mineola	21	195		o
Hammond, Ind.	Hammond A S.	21	230	6:3	0
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ball out of colleges on the charge that players were “commercialized.” Stagg was joined in this sequence by such other coaching greats as Glen (“Pop”) Warner, Howard Jones and Bill Spaulding; and oh yes, Pat O’Brien as the recreation of the immortal Rockne. None of the coaches accepted a cent for their services as actors.
Tomorrow’s game will mark the passing of exactly 41 years and one day since Stagg last led a team against the Irish but it will be the first game between the College of the Pacific and Notre Dame. The Grand Old Man, now 78 years old, is beginning his fifty-first year of coaching. He is a product, as so many early coaches were, of the “Ivy League,” (Yale ’88). After two years as coach of Springfield, Mass., college he became head coach at the University of Chicago in 1891 where he served for 41 years. In his seven seasons at College of the Pacific his teams have won the Far Western title twice, finished second
Douglas Scores ... with new, smart styles for Fall. Look them over! See the Wingate and those snappy new brogues in mellow antiqued finishes and rich grained leathers.
The^ Wingate
Shod.
W. L. DOUGLAS SHOE STORE ] 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET	1
SOUTH BEND	1
twice, and been third and fourth place winners once each. Not a bad record at all; the Irish salute College of the Pacific and their coach, a lean, wiry, slightly grizzled person with white tousled hair, The Grand Old Mon of Football himself, Amos Alonzo Stagg.
Grid Stars Experiences Offer Thrills for Fans
Picture a packed stadium every spectator comes to his feet as a halfback starts around end shakes off a tackler veers towards the sidelines and finds a clear field before him; a fullback crashes into the line, for a second he is lost from sight, but he smashes and fights his way for a first down; an end streaks down the field cuts behind the secondary and without breaking his stride takes the ball in the end zone for the all important touchdown. These thrills and many more will be repeated over and over again on every gridiron in the country, but now
&




jhS

op'
But, eye appeal is only a | k prevue to the discovery of real comfort and long wear.
|HE|L You will find Douglas shoes a wise choice.
•i

RjSH




Custom <md Nomal-Trud mm* $7.00



let us look in on some of the thrills our own players have taken part in.
Quarterback Bob Hargrave received his athletic training at Reitz Memorial, Evansville; he succeeded in winning letters in baseball, football, and basketball. His high school team won the Indiana State Championship in 1937, with Bob further gathering glory by winning all-state honors. He first came into prominence during last year’s Georgia Tech game when he directed the team to two touchdowns covering 45 and 55 yards in five plays to average 20 yards per play. Bob received one of his biggest thrills when he eluded three Northwestern tacklers who were doing their best to spread him all over the field and returned a punt 50 yards to set up a Notre Dame touchdown.
James Brutz won all-state football honors in Ohio and a total of seven letters in football, track, and basketball but he says that track gave him his biggest thrill. No, he did not win a 440 with a last second spurt of speed, he did not break any records but he did manage to stop a javelin with his leg and one can well imagine his surprise to find something like that protruding from his leg.
Bernie Crimmins, as a freshman won the Hering medal for halfbacks blocking ends. He received one of his biggest thrills when he started last year’s Army game. In the Carnegie Tech game Merlyn Condit slipped around end, eluded the Notre Dame defense and brought visions of a long run and six points to Carnegie rooters but our Mr. Crimmins had a different idea. He caught up with Condit on Notre Dame’s 40 yard line and saw to it that he went no farther. And so keep your eyes on these gentlemen for you are going to see plenty of them during the coming football season.
—Joseph Lafferty
Bad News from Atlanta
From the old South drifts word that Notre Dame is going to have its hands full on Oct. 12, when a very determined group of men from Georgia Tech come to town. Heading the array of stars the Yellowjackets plan to put on the field are Bob Ison whose sterling play at end may land him an All-American berth; Johnny Bosch, 145 pound diminutive package of dynamite, who defies all the hard and fast rules that say a man must be big and rugged to play football; Neil Cavette hard charging guard who drops back from his position to punt, and Jim Wright veteran center. Put these four men into a well balanced line and backfield and you have a team that will put grey hairs on any opposing coaches head.
Coach Alexander’s team which has developed the art of razzle dazzle to a point of perfection will probably cause much
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
eye strain among players and spectators alike as they try to follow the ball.
The Yellow Jackets ran up a very impressive record last year winning eight out of ten games. The two teams to beat them were Notre Dame and Duke. They lost to Duke by the narrow margin of 7 to 6. The coming game should be packed with thrills galore, but remember —just try and follow that ball.
—Joseph Lafferty
RADIO
By John M. Coppinger
Tonight at 8:30 the National Broadcasting System presents the premiere performance of “Everyman’s Theatre,” a series of radio plays by the writerproducer - director, Arch Oboler. The opening performance will be ‘This Lonely Heart” starring Alla Nazimova. It is the love story of Peter Hytch Tschaikovski and Nedjda Von Meek. This particular play is already a classic in radio dramaturgy and it will be worth your while to listen in.
The author, Arch Oboler, is the foremost radio writer in his field. He has devoted all his time to radio writing and it has paid him excellent dividends. His 1940 contracts with a sponsor pays him
"Life of Rockne"
By Harry Stuhldrehr
With illustrations, from Warner Bros.’ “Knute Rockne - All American.” The first edition sold for $2.50 — NOW
50c
$3,000 a week for a half-hour play. His first bit of radio work came when NBC bought one of his scripts titled ‘Futuristic” and sent it to New York where it was used for the program opening Radio City.
Since then, ten years ago, he has written half-hour personality scripts for such stars as Don Ameche, Maurice Evans, Henry Fonda, and Edward G. Robinson. In June 1936 he took over “Lights Out” and authored this for more than two years.
Arch attributes the variety of subject matter for his scripts to his omnivorous reading. As a boy he learned to capture a paragraph at a glance. This peculiar ability enables him to plow through an incredible number of newspapers, magazines and books of all sorts every week in search of material.
The more effective Oboler plays are those which express his hatred of war and dictators. He explores the individual soul to its depths and with his literary scalpel he lays it bare for the listener.
VJhen t<? Buy-a
The success of Oboler is so singular that it should offer encouragement to anyone interested in creative writing. There are a few on the campus known to us and there must be others. It is the only department in which the Radio Club is deficient. The work cannot be done by one or two individuals. More talent is needed in the script department. We hope it is forthcoming. ...
Freshman Health Tests
Approximately thirty per-eent of the freshman class have not yet taken the immunity tests for scarlet fever, diphtheria and tuberculosis. These tests are based on the theory of preventative medicine, and are being given to help health officials to control the diseases in epidemics.
Dr. James McMeel urges that all freshmen who have not yet taken these tests, do so as soon as possible.
—John Aselage
"T. E B.'s Year Book"
A collection of verses well known to readers of “The Wake” —
25c
WHERE ARE YOU ON THIS CHART?... READ
"Lessons in Liberty"
By Dr. Clarence Manion of N. D. Constitutional Law Faculty
Should be “required reading” for every American —
$1.50
IT’S HUMOROUS . • «tooce'
“How to Choose
a Slide Rule”
by MM IEIBU
The sooner you find the right Slide Rule, the easier your life will be. Don Herold, who caa explain anything, has taken all the mystery oat of Slide Rules in this handsome new book, rich with illustrations. Choosing a Slide Rule is a cinch when yon do it the Don Herold way.
' "How to Choose a Slide Rule” is yours with the compliments of the management—if you ask • for it in time. See your campus K & £ dealer
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
IT’S HELPFUL..
IT’S FREE
ut.imi
KEUFFEL * ESSER COL NSW YORK—HOBOKKN. M. J.
CHICAGO - ST. LOUIS
SAN FRANCISCO - LOS ANOUKS - DCTNOrr • MONTREAL
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTERHALL GRIDDERS
(Continued from page 18) the final game of the tournament. It was further announced that the final game will be staged in the stadium.
Held annually so all students may have an opportunity to participate in competitive athletic events, the interhall-football tournament is in itself a tradition at Notre Dame. Coach Layden has stated he will personally watch the play of each team in an effort to uncover varsity talent. In past year hardly a tournament went by that did not produce first string material.
The only requirement of players is that they present a medical slip from Dr. James McMeel. Each player will be fully equipped and coaches will be selected by Mr. Layden. Practice sessions will be held on Cartier Field along with the varsity.
Both lightweight and heavyweight teams will be organized in each hall, thereby giving every student an opportunity to take part in tournament play. Students who do not play are urged to lend their moral support to their hall gridders.—Floyd Richards
"Practice Makes Perfect"
Stressed by Tennis Pro
Fundamentals and practice were highly stressed by Mr. George A. Gaudet in his tennis clinic Monday afternoon on the University clay courts. Mr. Gaudet, who conducted a similar demonstration here last May, is tennis pro at the Evanston Country Club, Evanston, Hl.
Each fundamental of the game was in turn explained and demonstrated by the pro, with emphasis placed on serving, backhand strokes and play close to the net. Contrary to the popular belief, Mr. Gaudet explained, the server should stand at a spot close to the center of the court. Many players have the mistaken idea that service should be made from one of the corners.
Continuous practice is the only way of successfully mastering the backhand stroke, according to the Evanston pro. When hitting the ball back across the net after a fault, it is a good policy to hit it backhand in order to develop that difficult shot. Hip action is also important in getting power in backhand drives.
Mr. Gaudet closed his demonstration with practice on “playing the net.” He emphasized the fact that timing and footwork are of utmost importance in this phase of the game, and that constant practice during the winter months is the only way to perfect all phases of the game. In accordance with his theory that fundamentals alone do not make a tennis player, he conducted individual
practice and instruction among each one of the participants in the clinic.
—Ray Donovan
Ellis, Hunthausen Tryout In Majors This Spring
As a result of successful minor league efforts this summer, Norvall Hunthausen and Rex Ellis, hurlers de luxe of last season’s baseball squad, have earned spring tryouts with the Washington Senators and Cincinnati Reds, respectively, next year.
Following Commencement, Norv worked out for a brief spell with both St. Louis clubs and then journeyed East where, for the greater part of the summer, he hurled for Bennington in the
Kuppenheimer Clothes
Manhattan Shirts
Florsheim Shoes
THE NEW STORE IS EXCLUSIVE HEADQUARTERS FOR LEE WATER-BLOC HATS
___ THE MEN'S CORNER
■ V FOR MEN AND ■ ^.YOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
Hour
vith a
LttWer-BlocHat
The UNIVERSITY 35.00
Not only a new color but a new band and a new edge. Khaki is the color—with a feltbind-ingofcontrasting color.
Makers of the Aetna
Insured Hat... |330.
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REG. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Northern Vermont league. At the close of the Northern Vermont league season he joined Springfield, Eastern league property of the Washington Senators.
When Rex trudged from the mound of Cartier field to toss his curves for Columbia in the South Atlantic circuit, it wasn’t long before the National league champions put in a bid for his services.
These two former team mates share much in common. To win major league berths represents the attainment of boyhood ambitions. Furthermore, both are versatile athletes; symphonic music lovers and all-around scholars and gentlemen. This strange parallel may even carry on into the future for both Norv and Rex plan to teach when their active playing days are over.—Frank L. Kunkel

£.*.vtpMp
..I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
ALLIGATOR
SOMETHING ULTRA FOR THE “ULTRA" ... SAMTHUR SPECIAL FINISH Same style. Tailored in Alligator’s suede-like finish water repellent fabric. Another outstanding value.
AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE THE ALLIGATOR CO., St Louis, Los Angeles, New York
$13"
{With Slide Fastener Front,
^ire the peter/ ?6one the meter/ time to Bey an
ALLIGATOR-'
PKes^r^'STs
3 >]0»
{With Slide Fastener Front, $11.50}
According to our style scouts this is the “hottest” fashion of the school year. Alligator designed it for you—and tailored it in the new Stormwind cloth, another Alligator exclusive. Dependably water repellent—wind and dust proof, too. Heavy stitching at bottom and cuffs adds that final touch of distinction. Better dash over to your favorite store now and get yours for rain or shine wear.
Other Alligator Raincoats $5.75 to $26.50
W/WM ft HA
because . . . IT'S SURE TO RAIN!
Establish Notre Dame Chapter of Federation
As an outgrowth of work done by the Notre Dame Committee for Decent Literature, especially in writing and distributing the pamphlet, “No Smut,” the National Federation of Catholic College Students has asked Notre Dame to set up a chapter of the Federation.
The Federation is an organization composed of units established in Catholic colleges through the United States. Its purpose is to unite the Catholic college youth in and to promote different forms of Catholic Action which will deal with the modem problem of the day.
The Notre Dame Chapter will experiment with different plans of distribution and promotion of decent literature. Any project that proves practical after a trial here will be sent to the national headquarters where. it will be studied and sent to the large number of Catholic colleges belonging to the Federation— for their similar use.
The committee is completing plans whereby an office-library is to be set up on the campus. The office will supply on request, a pamphlet to any alumnus who wishes information on some dogmatic or moral problem.
This campaign against indecent literature is being encouraged by such civic leaders as Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia of New York who has already begun a vigorous and colorful clean-up of salacious literature.—Bob Nenno
Dummy for 1941 Dome Sent OfF to Printer
The editor of the Dome likes work, art and seeing his plans completed. As a result the dummy for the 1941 annual is ready to be pasted up with pictures and the necessary lines of type, preparatory to being sent to the printer for an ink treatment.
Neil McCarty, chosen last spring to head the year-book staff, while mentioning completion of the dummy said, “Life is our bible. Our aim is not simply to get news pictures, but also to get human interest shots.” He added that “a good deal of art work will appear in each section of the book.”
The Dome photographer has been keeping up with the stream of events that has inundated the campus since school started. He has snapped registration activities, Father Lord and the mission, the Frosh - Varsity football game, Wendell Willkie and currently is shooting the star-studded activities of the Rockne premiere.
In way of diversion he spent the past week lining up and taking group pictures of members of the residence halls.
—Don Heltzel
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
Jack White, who is still a student here, is the first Notre Dame actor ever to have received a Broadway try-out. His story begins with last summer’s successful campus production of “Twelfth Night” in which he played Feste. Mr. Robert Speaight, who directed the outdoor production, was very much impressed with Jack’s performance. He even claimed that Jack’s Feste was the best he had ever seen, and we know Mr. Speaight was for many years associated
118 So. Michigan St.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory-
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
with Shakespearean companies throughout England, notably London’s “Old Vic.” This in itself was quite a testament for the diminutive, well-proportioned, talented young Jack. Mr. Speaight proved liis sincerity when after being assigned a role in the currently rehearsing Helen Hayes’ production of the Shakespearean comedy, he recommended Jack White for the role of Feste. Inasmuch as Burgess Meredith was not available, and the part was inadequately filled, Margaret Webster, Miss Hayes director, wired Jack here at Notre Dame two weeks ago. Jack left for New York on a Saturday, two days later.
On Monday morning in Miss Webster’s office Jack read several scenes, and was asked to report to the St. James Theatre for further tryout. He arrived at the St. James in the afternoon, again accompanied by Mr. Speaight, to meet Maurice Evans (who will play Malvolio) and Helen Hayes (Viola). And so there before the critical eyes of that famous trio, Mr. Evans, Miss Hayes, and Miss Webster, Jack pulled out his bag of Feste tricks and showed them just what kind of actor he is. He gave his auditors some of the most difficult lines of the movement and sang the songs of Feste. When the little show was finished Helen Hayes walked up to the stage and congratulated Jack on an excellent bit of work. Maurice Evans nodded his approval. And Margaret (Peggy) Webster asked Jack to await the decision of a three-way conference.
Mr. Speaight was so convinced that Jack would be approved for the role that he promptly swept him off to an agent. Tentative plans hinging on the Hayes-Evans-Webster decision were made, and Jack was to join Actor’s Equity as a junior" member.
The decision, however, was not what Mr. Speaight had so enthusiastically predicted. The big three readily granted that Jack would make an excellent Feste in the Broadway production, blending youthful vigor with a keen interpretation, but he "was still ranked as an amateur. Inasmuch as Feste has scenes alone on stage with both Mr. Evans and Miss Hayes, they feared giving the role to an amateur, however good he may be. It is the code of the professional theatre, especially when the cast of a show is so star-studded as this one, to choose rather a mediocre professional than an excellent amateur. A professional, they maintain, is far more predictable, far more reliable in setting a performance. Whereas, a man with no professional experience may vary his work from night to night, and even go stale after the show has played a number of times.
But not to discourage such real talent
as Jack’s Miss Webster offered him the understudy position with a salary of fifty dollars a. week.
So Jack, at the advice of Mr. Speaight, returned to the University to complete his senior year. Next June Notre Dame’s envoy to Broadway will be “ready” after graduation to accept Margaret Webster’s offer of assistance. And we know, as do Mr. Speaight, Helen Hayes, Maurice Evans, and Miss Webster, that he is destined for great things in the theatre.
BOSTONS
124 S. Michigan Street
fir Men?
THIS WING-TIP
Boston does it again!
Fine Calfskins AVAILABLE in . .
Guy McGregor	। CO
OLYMPIC	00 0> co
MODERN ARISTOCRAT	UI UI o
^Haggagic	CH e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
VINCENTIANS
During the fall when there is a good bit of emphasis on the raising of a working fund for the year’s work, the students see or hear little of the nature of the real work of the Vincentians on the campus. While this fund raising is a necessary part of the work it is hardly the chief work of the conference, so we shall present in a series of articles descriptions of the various types of work done.
Serving primarily as an organization to help those unable to obtain aid from public agencies, the St. Vincent de Paul Society’s case records are extremely varied and interesting. One of the more unusual problems that presents itself is that of the transient.
Though it spreads across the entire nation, the Bell Telephone System is simple in structure. You can think of it as a tree.
J	BRANCHES
The 24 associated operating companies ... which provide telephone service in their respective territories.
TRUNK
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company... which coordinates system activities, advises on telephone operation and searches for improved methods.
ROOTS
Bell Telephone Laboratories... whose functions are scientific research and development; Western Electric ... manufacturer and distributor for the system; Long Lines Department of A.T.&T.... which interconnects the operating companies and handles Long Distance and overseas telephone service.
* * *
With common policies and ideals, these Bell System companies work as one to give you the finest, friend> liest telephone service... at lowest cost.
South Bend being an industrial town it is one of the major stop-offs in the transients’ search for employment. In order to apply for work they must present a decent appearance, which is pretty hard to do after “riding the rods.” If they are able to obtain some old but decent clothes and money for sustenance until they get work they are often able to find a steady job and settle down.
Transients have always been a problem in the United States; before the days of the depression there used to be a well worn path from the tracks to the parish house, where they could be sure of a welcome. However, in more recent years the numbers have so greatly increased that this solution was impossible. Various town, county or state welfare agencies turned the transients away as not being residents of their vicinity so that one of the principle means of aid became private charities. The Notre Dame Vincentian Conference took on this work soon after their organization and Father Kelley became known along the rods as the man to see if you needed help around South Bend. Each man was interviewed and if he was found deserving, the aid was given.
This year when Ft. McCarragher assumed his job as director, he was immediately impressed with the transient problem; one morning alone he had eight visitors from the “road.” Traffic this year is particularly heavy because of the National Emergency Program putting so many to work and promising vacancies with impending conscription. Through the year this problem may grow and some new method will have to be evolved whereby a more perfect system may be worked out.—John Quinn
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ROP/^S FOR tOHUE
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
MUSICAL MASTERPIECES
Borodin’s—Prince Igor-Dances of the Pol-ovetzski Maidens—Leopold Stokowski conducting the Philadelphia Orchestra—was $4.50, NOW $2.50.
Debussey’s Nocturnes—Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra — was $6.50, NOW $4.00.
Scholastic, Dome Awards
For the second consecutive year, two campus publications, the Dome yearbook, and the Scholastic, campus weekly, received the award “'All Catholic” from the National Catholic Press association. This award is the highest that may be attained under the rules of the association. The 1940 Dome, edited by Thomas F. Carty with Ralph A. Gerra and Raymond J. Kelly as assistant editors, appeared entirely revised.
Under the capable leadership of Editor William C. Fay, the Scholastic, with William C. McGowan, Donald Foskett, James Newland, and Frank Wemhoff as news editor, managing editor, sports editor, and literary editor respectively, brought out a new cover with each weekly issue. This practice has been continued with this year’s magazine. Both publica- -tions also received the award, “All American” from the Minnesota School of Journalism.
Irish to Meet Stanford, Michigan in 1942-43
Michigan and Stanford will meet Notre Dame on the gridiron once again when the teams clash in a new two-game series agreed upon recently. The Irish will play Michigan at Notre Dame on Nov. 14, 1942. The following year the teams meet at Ann Arbor on Oct. 9. This will mark the first time the teams have met since 1910.
The Stanford Indians will try their forces against the Irish at Notre Dame on Oct. 10, 1942. The following year the local gridders will travel to Palo Alto. The teams last met in the Rose Bowl in 1925. Notre Dame emerged the victors with a 27-10 score.
The schedule for 1942 now stands: Stanford, Wisconsin, Illinois, . Navy, Army, Michigan, Northwestern, and Southern California; still lacking one game for completion.—Bill O’Neil
NEW ALBUMS
BIG TEN College Songs—Southern Conference—Pacific Coast and Middlewest— FOUR DISTINCT ALBUMS, $2.00 each.
Tschaikowsky’s—Romeo and Juliet Overture—Boston Symphony Orchestra—Sergei Koussevitsky conducting—was $6.50, NOW $3.50.
Believe It or A/ot /
VICTOR POPULAR RECORDS
—were 75c, now 50c
Artie Shaw recording “Frenesi,” "Gloomy
Sunday,” “Dreaming Out Loud.”
Duke Ellington—“Five O’clock Whistle” and “There Shall Be No Night.”
Tommy Dorsey—“We Three” and “Tell Me At Midnight.”
BLUEBIRD RECORDINGS, 35c
Larry Clinton — “Dig Me Honey” and "My Buddy.”
Abe Lyman—“She’ll Be Coming ’Round the Mountain” and “Hand Me Down My Walking Cane.”
Charlie Bartnett — “The Sergeant Was Shy” and “Ring Dem Bells.”
Complete stock of GLENN MILLER, BOB CHESTER and CHARLIE BARTNETT on Bluebird.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Wen-Informed Clerks
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
BODHIS
NOT IMAGINARY GENII. BUT
ACTUAL 56CRETINGREDIENTS
COMEOUTOFTHE bottle and INTO YOUR PEN
-WHEN YOU ALL IT WITH PARKER
•Reg.U.S. git.Off.
Quink
hereS an ink iHAToeutGer WHiPeHAS
!TM1T£S... DOES WHAT NO OTHER INKCAN DO!
STEPPX
YDRYQtunA3|XQ(OER 0NFWERW5TEPPED-UP' PElCTUnoN-AWBy EVAPORATION."
u AGENTN21
HUNGRY
"I DISSOLVE GRIT <u*> SEDIMENT LEFT
INYDURPENBy ORDINARY INKS. THUS I END. CLDGGMS.
AGENT N° 3
MISTY 'I RETARD EVAPORATION— THUS KEEP Quink FROM DRYING IN YOUR PEN."
AG£NTNS4 .. Floaty "IFIjOATDEPOSITSAWW-MAKEQuihk CLEANSE YOUR PEN AS IT WRITES, khoCOKTROLIHEFLOW*
ASEltTNSS flashy'
Tsaxs&szg*
TOUCHES PAPER'1
This revolutionary pen-cleaning ink V^S CREATED BY The PARKER PEN COMPANY TO GUARD THE FAMOUS PARKER PENS FROM PEN-CLOGGING INKS. GETQumk ATANY STORE SELLING INK AND TRY IT-ONLY I5C ITMAKESANYPEN WORK LIKE A CHARM-A PARKER OR ANY OTHER PEN.
Believelt orAot/
HEASEMIJENEhCARE OFRARKERPENATJAIESmiE, WTEUME0FY0UR EXPERIENCE WRHQutnk/
~/EirLer_
QiiW
I5<r
AND 254
The pen-deoning ink—Quick-starting—Quick-drying
T VS O KINDS PE Riran? n t a VY A S H a D i e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
19 Trains Daily
to Chicago
• Hourly service between 6:00 A. M. and Midnight. Fits in with your plans morning, noon, or night.
Just remember this schedule : the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Thereafter, until 9:30 P. M.,there is a train-an-hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
For detailed information inquire of ticket agent, 301 N. Michigan St. Telephone 3-3111.
WIGHTMAN ART GALLERY
(Continued from page 7)
sly study called “Abstract Thinking.”
Timely subject matter is contained in “Workers,” a sketch by Grosz in which he burlesques the regimentation of labor in a totalitarian state, presumably Nazi Geramny. A rich pattern of black and white dramatizes the central figure of Rockwell Kent’s contribution, “Precipice.” It epitomizes fear and has overtones of the English mystic, Blake.
A now discarded “ism” of art reappears in the cubistic study “Landscape” by Feininger. The theme concerns the conflict of architectural forms.
Salvadore Dali’s “Chant de Maldorer” is a linear interpretation of great delicacy and is an etching. As usual the
Don’s Fiesta
Don F. Hickey, ’38, proprietor
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
STEAK SANDWICHES
HAMBURGERS MEXICAN CHILE CON CARNE FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Drive In and Table Service
“The Mosta of the Besta at Don’s Fiestrf’
420 LINCOLN WAY WEST
3 blocks west of Michigan Street out La Salle Street
LEARN TO
DANCE or IMPROVE YOUR DANCING
Class will start Wednesday, October 7, at 7 P. M. Private lessons by appointment.
We teach thorough foundation and the very latest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba, Conga and Tango.
Maxine Mollenhour School of Dancing
Telephone 3-4079
320 W. Jefferson	South Bend, Indiana
foremost surrealist presents a speculative theme. It may well be a Lilliputian mortal observing the struggles of two gigantic bladders. A fantastic theme done in a realistic way or technique is Dali’s method.
The School of Paris is well represented by its leaders Henrt Mitisse and Pablo Picasso. Matisse’s composition is a contour drawing called “Head and Arms.” Picasso has a delicate rendering of a profile entitled “Visage.” This was done during his classical period and in it he displays great control in mastering subtle forms.
Color lithography is represented by Pascin’s satirical treatment of the old French tale, Cinderella. Nuances of dainty color contrast strangely with the cynical treatment of the subject. In it the prince discovers that the slipper fits and that the scullery maid is very much a scullery maid.
The following artists are represented in the current exhibition: Pablo Picasso, Salvadore Dali, Henri Matisse, Mahroni Young, Howard Cook, Wanda Gag, Mabel Dwight, Louis Lozowick, Ernest Fiene, Teng-Kwei, George Biddle, Orozco, Feininger, Kandinsky, Rouault, To-mayo, Pascin, Kallowitz, Groz, Adolf Dehn, Andre Derain, and Rockwell Kent.
The exhibition will continue through October 6.
Mass Calendar: Oct. 6-12
Sunday, 6—Twenty-first after Pentecost. 2d prayer, St. Bruno, Confessor, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 7—The Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 2d prayer, St. , Mark, Pope, Confessor, 3d Sts. Sergius and Companions, Martyrs. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Tuesday, 8—St. Bridget of Sweden, Widow. Mass: Cognovi (in CommonJ. Prayer proper, 2d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 9—Saints Dionysius and Companions, Martyrs. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 10—Saint Francis Borgia, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common) Prayer proper, 2d, and 3d as yesterday. Votive or Requiem.
Friday, 11—The Maternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Saturday, 12—Our Lady on Saturday. Mass: Salve (Common from Pentecost to Advent) 2d prayer, the Holy Ghost, 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Preface of the Blessed
Virgin. Votive or Requiem.
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
The ninety-ninth season of the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society will open next Thursday evening when John Barbirolli conducts his orchestra in the first of this season’s Carnegie Hall concerts. Mr. Barbirolli will con
^AUSE THAT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
tinue his duties as principal conductor of the orchestra for another two years. This season, he will be assisted by several guest conductors, chief among whom is Bruno Walter. He will conduct fourteen concerts, from January 13 through February 9. Mr. Walter is, of course, no stranger to New York audiences, for he has long been known as something of a star among the guest conductors who have appeared with the New York Philharmonic. On December 16, Dimitri
Mitropoulos, who made his American debut with the Boston orchestra in 1936, will make his first appearance in New York. He, too, has been engaged to conduct fourteen concerts. Like Stokowski, Mr. Mitropoulos conducts without a baton. Third among the New York orchestra’s guest conductors, will be Walter Damrosch. Mr. Damrosch apparently grows younger with the years; we had thought that by this time he would have begun settling down. He will take the orchestra through a revised version of his own opera, “Cyrano de Bergerac.”
In Boston, Serge Koussevitzky will open the sixtieth season of the Boston orchestra in Symphony next Friday. This will be Koussevitzky’s seventeenth year as director of the organization. Guest conductors will include Igor Stravinsky who will direct Tschaikovsky’s more unfamiliar Third Symphony — and, of course, some of his own works. Too, there will be Desire Defauw, the Belgian conductor, to lead the orchestra in some concerts. New works by Stravinsky,
Select your DR. GRABOW PIPE from the largest pipe stock in South Bend.
Bruggner’s
Cigar Store
110 N. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING The Natural N. D. Hang-Out
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
1107 Beyer Avenue
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
29
Hindemith, and Roy Harris are to be performed by the orchestra. This year will mark the 150th anniversary of Mo-zart’s death and several of his works, including the Requiem, will be played. It is reported the orchestra will tour the middle West, assuredly with no stop at South Bend.
Unfortunately, the most we can do is to read the reviews of these concerts and wish that we might hear them. We hope that Columbia will again give us the
Sunday afternoon broadcasts of the New York Philharmonic, for they have always proved to be some sort of nourishment in the musically barren Indiana prairies.
Will Rogers Quotation
And once while commenting on higher education he declared: “College is wonderful because it takes the children away from home just as they reach the arguing stage.”
Greetings Notre Dame Men
Come in to the
HUDDLE
F
Get More fw M f Sports, Work, Social L|,e Chew Delicious ooublemint bum m
Aids,OUI
breath and keep y wholesome, satisfying.

Look over our pipes — large selection at all prices.
"You Said iV
Don Wilson
a
30	THE
70 Student Aviators
Begin Training Monday
Campus chatter from now on will concern “barrel-rolls” and “power dives,” instead of “laterals” and “power plays,” for beginning next week 70 young aspiring aviators, 20 of them enrolled for the secondary course, will commence the Civil Aeronautics Administration training course. Candidates have been selected pending the successful passing of the physical examination by the Civil Aeronautics medical examiner. In event that some of those selected do not meet requirements, there are five alternates ready to fill the vacancies.
A change in plans was made on Tuesday when it was announced by the Eev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and coordinator of the training program, that for a while at least all flight students, both primary and secondary, would receive their training at the South Bend airport. It was originally planned to have 40 of the primary students receive their training on the field adjoining the campus. Provision is made for a shelter to be erected on the field east of the stadium to house a bulletin board for weathei- reports and other necessary data.
Ground work ■will start on Monday, under Professor F. N. M. Brown, in navigation, meteorology and related subjects. Seventy-two hours are required.
At least one of the training ship will be kept at the University to give the students an opportunity of familiarizing themselves with the planes without actual flight.—Bill Welch
Rockne Memorial News
Rockne Memorial news enters the fall athletic picture as swimming, handball, and interhall volleyball tournaments are scheduled to take place in the very near future.
The freshmen swimming meet, which is open to all first year men, will take place next Wednesday and Thursday evenings. However, if the number of contestants does not necessitate preliminary trials the entire meet will be held Thursday, Oct. 10. All men are urged to submit their entries to the director as quickly as possible.	■
The interhall volleyball tournament is will get under way within two weeks; all students are invited to participate. Formal announcement as to date and requirements will be published next week.
The interhall volley ball tournament is scheduled to start Nov. 4 with 15 teams ready to get under way. It is probable that the faculty will enter a team to complete the bracket.—Al Clark
NOTRE DAME SCHOLA
Academy of Politics
In line with the suggestions of Gene Tunney, former boxing champion and present Catholic youth leader, the Notre Dame Academy of Politics intends to debate the issues of the current political campaign. These debates will take place in Washington Hall, sometime between now and Election Day.
The Academy is open to those students who are taking Politics as their major subject and other students who wish to
ITS
And Its Lubricated Point
Writes “as smooth as oil'
Exclusive One-Hand Filler, the EASIEST, most convenient, as verified by Deavitt laboratories testing 24 models of best-known makes.
When You Need It!
Extra-Deep
Ink Capacity
is just like money in the bank
GUARANTEED for LIFE by Parker's Blue Diamond
What’s the use of being a quick-thinker if your pen won’t work when your brain does?
A college professor found that this gets many a student down. So he invented a brand-new way of filling pens—a way that makes more room for ink INSIDE by dispensing with the customary rubber ink sac.	.
Parker spent 5 years to engineer this revolutionary principle to perfection—this sacless “One-Hand” Filler—the Parker Vacumatic—the largest selling pen in the world today.
A pen that holds nearly twice as much ink as our old style, and shows days ahead if it’s running low, so it won’t run dry. Whose lubricated 14 K. Gold Point—non-brittle, extra resilient—is tipped with Osmiridium so smooth and hard and dense that it won’t wear scratchy as long as you live!
And its crowning glory is that streamlined Pearl and Jet style — laminated, Ring upon Ring, as shimmering as velvet—wholly smart, original and exclusive—winner of the Pen Beauty contest.
Go and see it and try it—don’t make the mistake of writing “the hard way” throughout your college course and life’s career.
Pens, $5 to $13.75
WrHefme Pencils to match, $3.50 to $6
er

♦ Pent marked with the Blue Diamond are guaranteed far the life of the owner against everything except loss or intentional damage, subject only to a charge of 35^ for postage, insurance, and handling, provided complete pen is returned forservice« The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis.
STIC	2
st
be admitted as associate members. Those ® students who are interested should apply to the President of the Academy, Thomas F. Carty, of 369 Alumni Hall.
Engineer Departs	;
The chief engineer at Notre Dame, ■_ Mr. Lewis V. Hart, has resigned from • this position which he has held for the ; past eight years. Mr. West has accepted the appointment as chief engineer at the state prison at Michigan City.	J
Guaranteed for life by Parker's BLUE DIAMOND
TELEVISION
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
OFFICE PHONE 3-4822
OFFICE HOURS 9-12 AND 1:30-5 TUES. ANDTHURS. . 7-9
EDWARD F. SCANLON, D.D.S.
DENTIST
ROOM 1, MAIN COLFAX BLDG. SOUTH BEND, 129 W. COLFAX AVE.	INDIANA
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE EYE, EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8909	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X - RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d. d, s.
Cyril F. Rose, d. d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d. d. s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
Two Ties Feature S. A. C.
Elections This Week
In the elections held last Tuesday evening to select Hall representatives for the Student Activities Council, Edward P. Reidy and Paul Patten of Howard Hall received an equal number of votes, as did Henry P. Schrenker and J. Howard Essick of Sorin. Walter P. Jones of Morrissey won by default when his opponents were eliminated. Other victorious candidates were: John E. Mortell, Alumni ; Donald B. McNally, Dillon; Gerard J. Rabbett, St. Edward’s; Henry A. O’Mea-lia, Lyons; Thomas E. Conley, Badin; John Kelly, Brownson. The representative from Walsh Hall has not yet been selected.—Ed Drake
FATHER PUTZ
(Continued from Page 6)
Father Putz, and he added, “the United States offers a great field for this work, and Catholic Action can work in the U. S
Action is found through activity, and, with our responsibilities as Catholics to our fellows, we enjoy such work, deriving great satisfaction from progress. In France the sailors worked Catholic Action on their fellow sailors; the lawyers brought the movement to their fellow lawyers, and each member tried to impress the movement upon members of his own environment. A problem arose when the farmers claimed that their sense of dignity was being abused because they were not being taken into the movement, so a Catholic Youth farm branch sprang up immediately to inform the farmers of the crusade, thus each member could reach members of his own group.
250,000 Subscriptions
A newspaper with a circulation of 250,000 subscriptions, which is as large a circulation as most of our large papers is run by the movement. Clubrooms are located over the entire city of Paris and surrounding towns, and these meetingplaces are open at all times. Non-Cath-olics are entertained in these clubrooms, and the generosity and kindness of the Catholic Youth workers accounts for many converts.
In this day of struggle for truth and fairness, the Catholic Youth Movement has come to the front as the champion of these virtues, and this “miracle of the 20th century” is being followed and repeated by the virtuous the world over.
—Frank McDonough
ne to Columbia
- f> m a s r c r in o r k s
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
Masterworks
Mozart’s—“Symphony No. 38 in D Major” (“Prague”), by Chicago Symphony Orchestra—Frederick Stock, conductor— was $4.50, NOW $3.50.
Liszt’s—“Spanish Rhapsody”—Egan Petri, pianist with the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra — Dimitri Metropoulos, conductor—was $4.50, NOW $2.50.
Ravel’s “Bolero”—just released—Leopold Stokowski conducting the All-American Youth Orchestra—NOW $2.00.
Columbia Popular Records, 50c
“Practice Makes Perfect” and “I’m Home Again”—Eddie Duchin and his orchestra.
“Whiffenpoof Song” and “Oh By Jingo”
—Ella Logan with Perry Botkin and his orchestra.
"Liza” and "Sweet Lorraine” — Teddy Wilson and his orchestra.
“Harlem Nocturne” and “From Oakland to Burbank”—Ray Noble and his orchestra, featuring Alto Sax by Jack Dumont.
“Falling Leaves” and “Crosstown”—Horace Heidt and his Musical Knights.
Okeh~Vocalion Records, 35c
“I Could Make You Care” and “If I Had You”—Jack Leonard singing — orchestra under direction of Ray Block.
“Dream Valley” and “And Tommy Goes, Too”—Frankie Masters and his orchestra.
AND — at 35c — the one and only Gene Krupa and his “Blue Rhythm Fantasy” in Parts 1 and 2 — one minute and thirty-six seconds of solid drums.
HODIHS
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
a
COOLER, MILDER, BETTER-TASTING ... that means Chesterfield
there’s a whole World’s Series of good smoking in Chesterfields.. .that’s why it’s the smoker’s cigarette. The best tobaccos in all of Tobaccoland .. . blended together for MILDNESS, COOLNESS and BETTER TASTE.
Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES
Copyright 1940, Liccett & Myehs Tobacco Co.
MORE AND MORE.. .AMERICA SMOKES
THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES