TRADITION SETS THE
FASHION FOR WELL-DRESSED
NOTRE DAME MEN


The straight-cut three-button fashion with natural shoulders, narrowed lapels and pleatless, trousers has been a choice of well-dressed men for three generations. And, it looks smarter today than ever. When you wear this ageless suit, go all the way back in tradition and fasten the top two buttons. Why not come in soon and see these classic Ivy League models? You’ll find your favorite colors in a fine selection of imported and domestic woolens ... by America’s finest makers.
■A
IM

4
I
i

^GILBERT'S
OntheCampus—NotreDame
4

4
OnCbqns Mx Shulman
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! “and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
HOW GREEN WAS MY CAMPUS
Don’t tell me: I know how busy you’ve been! I know all the things you’ve had to do in the opening days of the school year —registering, paying fees, finding lodgings, entering a drag race, getting married, building a cage for your raccoon. But now with all these essentials out of the way, let us pause and join hands and take, for the first time, a long, leisurely look at our campus.
Ready? Let’s go!
We begin our tour over here on this lovely stretch of greensward called The Mall. The Mall, as we all know7, was named in honor of our distinguished alumnus Fred Mall, inventor of the opposing thumb. Before Mr. Mall’s invention, the thumb could not be pressed or clicked against the other fingers. As a result, millions of castanet makers were out of work. Today however, thanks to Mr. Mall, one out of every three Americans is gainfully employed making castanets. (The other two make croquet wickets.) Mr. Mall is now 106 years old and living in seclusion on a sea cliff in Wellington, Kansas, but the old gentleman is far from idle. He still works twelve hours a day in his laboratory, and in the last year has invented the tuna, the cuticle, and lint.
But I digress. Let us resume our tour. At the end of The Mall we see a handsome edifice called The Library. Here books are kept. By “kept” I mean
“kept.” There is no way in the world for you to get a book out of the library . . . No, I’m wrong. If you have a stack permit you can take out a book, but stack permits are issued only to widows of Presidents of the United States. (That lady you see coming out of the library with a copy of Girl of the Limberlost is Mrs. Millard Fillmore.)
Next to The Library we see the Administration Building. Here one finds the
president of the university, the deans, and the registrar. According to ancient academic usage, the president is always called “Prexy.” Similarly, the deans are called “Dixie” and the registrar is called “Roxy.” Professors are called “Proxy” and housemothers are called “Hoxy-Moxy.” Students are called “Algae.”
Diagonally across The Mall we see the Students Union. It is a gay, mad place, frankly dedicated to the fun and relaxation of we undergraduates. Here we undergraduates may enjoy ourselves in one of two ways—with filter or without. We undergraduates who prefer filters, prefer Marlboro, of course. Oh, what a piece of work is Marlboro! The filter filters, the taste is smooth but not skimpy, mild but not meagre.
We undergraduates who prefer nonfilters, prefer Philip Morris, of corris. It is a natural smoke, a clean smoke, a flavorful, zestful, pure and peaceful smoke . . . Now hear this: Philip Morris and Marlboro each come in a choice of two packs—crushproof Flip-Top Box, or the familiar Soft Pack.
So now, as the setting sun casts a fiery aura over the spires and battlements of our beloved campus, let us hie ourselves to our tobacconist’s and lay in a night’s supply of Marlboro or Philip Morris, and then let us, lowing, wind slowly o’er the lea to our dormitories and sit upon our army surplus cots, spent but content, and smoke and dream and hark the curfew toll the knell of parting day. Aloha, fair campus, aloha!
© 1058 Max Shulman
ONTARIO MOTEL
Apartments - Tourist Kitchenettes Sleeping Rooms
•	Away from Traffic Noise	:
•	Modem - Private Baths	?
•	Bargain Rates - Day or Week { Phone MU 3-3510	1112 Ontario,}
4 Mi. N. of Notre Dame Niles, Mich.?
200 ft. E. of Gulf Station on U.S. 31 ' (% Mile North of State Line) ~
SHIRTS LAUNDERED
5 for $1.00
•
EXPERTLY FINISHED NEATLY PACKAGED •
Rubin Cleaners 217 E. JEFFERSON Right Downtown — On the Bus Line
RWTURBOW XpRYOMirmsT
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces"
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
SPECIALS FOR STUDENTS
Chests of Drawers ... $5 and up
Books.... 10c Lamps....50c and up Knee Hole Desks ..... $5 and up
Set of Encyclopedias .... $5 and up
Radios, TV Sets, Lounge Chairs, Single Beds, All kinds of other j furniture bought and sold.
THE WHITE ELEPHANT SHOP
2216 Mishawaka Ave.
UHMS LIBRARY nd BNK SUP
For e complete tour of smoking pleasure try filtered Marlboro and non-filtered Philip Morris, whose makers take pleasure in bringing you this column throughout the school year,
4	■
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
The Scholasti
Scholastic
Vol. 101 October 10, 1958 No. 2

Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritunis
Founded 1867
Eentered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
GEORGE CLEMENTS
Editor
BOB SEDLACK
Associate Editor
	RON BLUBAUGH			News	Editor
	WALT RUDGE			Copy	Editor
	JIM YOCH			Features Editor
	TEDDY THOMPSON..		Sports	Editor
	PETER HASBROOK—	..Business Manager
f	BOB FANCHER			Photography
	DAVE SOMMER			Photography
	LYN RELPH.			Assistant News
	ROY RUBELI			.Assistant News
	BOB MARUYAMA			Assistant Copy
	CHAS RIECK			Assistant Copy
	TOM ROMANS			-Assistant Copy
i	FRANK DUDA		..Assistant Features
	JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass’t Features	
!>	CHUCK MILLER			Assistant Features
	TOM ROSE			Assistant Sports
	BOB SCHAEFER			-Assistant Sports
	BOB HORN		....Assistant Business
। — ■ ..... i
i V Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, 3* Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the z school year, except during vacation and warning, tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manu-scripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
*1* Publication Schedule for the 1958-59 school year, Volume 100: No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No. 3, 1	Oct.	17; No.	4,	Oct. 24; No. 5,	Oct. 31; No. 6,
Nov.	7; No.	7,	Nov. 14; No. 8,	Nov. 21; No. 9,
-■ Dec. 5 (Special Football Review); No. 10, Dec. 12;
I	No.	11, Jan.	16;	No. 12, Jan. 23;	No. 13, Feb. 13;
j , No.	14, Feb.	20;	No. 15, Feb. 27;	No. 16, March 6;
No. 17, March 13; No. 18, March 20; No. 19, t April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May 1; No. 22, L May 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, May 22; No. 25, May 29.
y ------------------------------------------
J	OFFICE HOURS
? Sunday, 7:30-11:30; Monday, 1:30-5:30, ?	7:30-11:30; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday,
1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1	1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
October 10, 1958
i
coats and ties
In die past three years there have been a number of changes in the dining hall situation at Notre Dame. Obviously die most beneficial change took place last year when the new dining hall began operation for the northeast section of the campus. This year further innovations took place in the old dining hall with the acquisition of colored trays (replacing the penitentiary brown one of Rockne’s era) and a new paint job on the walls. Since these changes have met with only a very few favorable comments we would like to commend die dining hall manager not for these particular items but rather for the effort which they represent in attempting to cheer up a rather prosaic part of campus life.
These changes, new trays and a new paint job, discommode die students not at all. As a result they have been generally disregarded. On the other hand, an innovation made last year, the new regulation on coats and des, remains in an unsatisfactory state because there is some feeling that an inconvenience has been wrought. There is a small amount of inconvenience, certainly, but this seems inconsequential when it is weighed against the general improvement in appearance. There is always die complaint that meals are merely a mechanical action, done without any enjoyment or camaraderie. There are also complaints about sitting at tables in the order in which we come through die line and, an old one, no tablecloths. All of these complaints have a certain degree of merit; but notice, all of them aim at making meals a more pleasant experience. This is precisely die aim of die coats and ties regulation. This is the first step towards that goal. Who knows, if this step succeeds someone may decide that tablecloths aren’t such a bad idea and that we should be able to sit wherever we like.
This week there is a notice on all hall bulletin boards to the effect that die coats and ties regulation will be enforced. Last year the regulation had to be restated at least once, re-phrasing the rule to eliminate the removal of said apparel after entering the dining hall. Over die course of die year die rule was disregarded anyway; so, this year it will be enforced. The administration wisely waited until cool weather to announce the enforcement, at the same time giving us a period of probation to see if enforcement is really necessary. It is.
The coats and ties regulation must be enforced because a few boors (none of whom, of course, are reading this editorial) refuse to acquiesce. Their opposition to the rule is, unfortunately, a precedent. For the great number of students who will sincerely attempt to comply with die rule, despite die slight inconvenience, their example justifies the opposition of everyone.
Finally, we would like to point out that the object of this editorial is not any kind of plea or entreaty to the majority to coerce or ostracize die few serious offenders. We are neither so naive nor so fatuous to believe this possdile. We merely wish to point out that, in our ardent demand for mature treatment, we must at least do our share by proving that we are able to accept the responsibilities which come with die privileges. We must, if we are mature, take the first step even though it may be an inconvenient one. —B. S.
J


author no. 2
an interlude of literacy
Now that the school year has swung ponderously into its usual dignified crawl, and a few of the more blatant errors of the first frantic weeks are being corrected — notably the authorship of this column — I feel the desirability of publishing a Solemn Proclamation of Policy and General Manifesto (in this shabby, cheaply bound, free edition) so that my millions of eager readers will know where I stand:
I.	I will publish all the news I see fit, and when it doesn’t fit, I will suitably distort it. After all, this is a lot of space to have to fill, and I’m not a Pulit-i^ 'zer. (I’m a Catholic.)
II.	I will fearlessly speak out in defense of the helpless students of this University and shield them against any unjust oppression. (Doesn’t that make you feel good?) It is a little-known fact that my influence alone has once more terrified the administration into granting us Christmas vacation and causing the year to be divided into two semesters, the second not to begin until the first shall have ended. But I digress.
III.	I will continue the tradition of the Sorin joke. Yes, I live there too. We’re everywhere.
IV.	I will never represent St. Mary’s girls as vicious, mercenary husbandhunters. After all, this is supposed to be a pleasant column. (See title.) -
V.	I will ever strive earnestly to live up to the literary traditions set by my predecessors, Shakespeare and Milton, with about the success you’d expect. (Of' course they’re my predecessors, you idiot. I wasn’t bom until 1937.)
Courageously inscribed this tenth day of October, 1958, by
—CHARLES BOWEN.
Ah! Now we can begin. I suppose first I’d better thank the office handyman for filling in for me last week. He did a pretty fair job considering his near illiteracy. I suppose he’ll be back again next week, unless good taste wins out — an eventuality which, in view of the crackbrained editorship of this journalistic playpen, is discouragingly unlikely. Besides, I think he’s blackmailing one of the editors.
I certainly wouldn’t recommend reading his puerile maunderings. People say that all artistic interests should be encouraged, but I don’t know. I bet old Papa Presley would think twice now before he brought home that toy guitar. : Perhaps I should explain my residence in the tradition-reeking (Editor’s note: So that’s what it is.) hall next to Sacred
■October 10, 1958
Heart Church. It isn’t that I want to live there (unlike Bellairs, who actually seems to like it, and even gloat over it — an activity which I regard as several times lower than bragging about a case of acne.) No, I didn’t choose to live in Sorin Hall, but due to an unfortunate occurrence in my remote youth, I am forced to live in this crumbling ruin. When I was seventeen months old, my father, leaning a little too eagerly across a railing at Marineland, Florida, to catch a glimpse of the giant octopus, let me slip out of his arms and fall into the lair of the monster below. Well, needless to say, Dad’s whole afternoon was ruined, but the incident was eventually forgotten, and it wasn’t until six years later, when the octopus one day failed to show up at feeding time, that I was thought of again. The pool was hastily drained, and I was discovered munching sleepily on the last tentacle of my erstwhile foster parent. Understandably, this incident has sharply affected my life. You know what the Jesuits say about those first seven years. One of the less fortunate effects has been that I still cannot spend much time above water. This is the lamentable circumstance which necessitates my residence in Sorin basement. (There are a few bright spots, though. For instance, nobody wants to borrow a six-armed sports jacket.)	■
I share my room with a toothless old plaster bishop, who is fighting a losing battle with dry rot. I wish I could tell you his name, but I don’t know it. If anyone has any suggestions as to a means of identifying him, I wish they would drop in (literally) at 39 Sorin and help me out. There’s something eerie about living with a bishop for two years and never learning his name. (If my search fails to turn up any clues, per- ■ haps later in the year I will hold a Name-the-Bishop Contest and award His Excellency to the winner. I am presumably graduating next June, if no responsible official of the College of Arts and Letters sees this column in the meantime, and I’d like to see that the bishop gets a good home.)
Now down to the serious, uplifting business of this column. A local talent, who shall remain nameless until the reviews are out, has written a starkly realistic one-act drama entitled “Freshman Mixer.” I know these things are usually introduced in the Juggler, but they have already turned this one down. In fact, the author was severely-manhandled by several members of the
Juggler staff as he was attempting to . re-enter their office. (Of course, this was < back when they had an office.) But again 7 I digress. Here, then, is:	.
FRESHMAN MIXER	j
A starkly realistic one-act drama . !	■
Cast of Characters	t /
BOY -------------------a boy j -
GIRL ------------------ a girl • \
BILLION-FOOTED MAN-	"
SWARM--------sort of a Greek	'
chorus, except that they all „ •? sweat profusely.	-
(NOTE: During the Drama the chorus, which fills the entire stage, circulates madly, so that no two lines are spoken ■ J. by the same character, as they cannot . remain in sight long enough. The lines ' ' of BOY and GIRL are spoken by who- . ever is closest to the audience. As the . chorus keeps up a constant buzzing, with . the result that the speeches are gener- J ally undistinguishable anyhow, we do . a not feel that any additional confusion ' will result.)	-
BOY: Where are you from?	. .
GIRL: (Answers will vary. See note.) ~
And where are you from?
CHORUS: Where are we from? We are from the million tiny towns and great cities in this giant land. We form a great, trampling crowd. (They trampie.)
BOY: Which school are you from? St. . Joe’s, St. Mary’s, or St. Mary’s?
GIRL: (See note.) I guess you go to Notre Dame, giggle, giggle. Do you have the rector with the tennis shoes?
BOY: (mistily) Yes, I go to Notre \ Dame.	;
CHORUS: (chanting in a minor key) . Cheer, cheer for ol’ Notre Dame, J Get off my foot and I’ll do the same; Send the volleyed thunder high, And get your fat elbow out of my eye.	■.
BOY: Do you like modem jazz?	..
GIRL: Tell me about the rector with the ? tennis shoes.	'
VOICE: Busses are now loading for St. \
Joe’s, St. Mary’s, and St. Mary’s. __ BOY: But we just—	<
GIRL: But we—	£ .
BOY: Good-bye...
GIRL: Good-bye. . .	.	. .
CHORUS: You say good-bye, ...
And you say good-bye.	. ; y •-
But we go on forever,	< . <7
We trample^ we shove,	.•
We sing, we sweat, (They do so.) t And we go on forever.	.
Cheer, cheer for ol’ Notre Dame... VOICE: BUSSES ARE NOW LOADING. . .	■	~
CHORUS: Cheer, cheer, for ol’Notre Dame. . .
VOICE: FAILURE TO WILL RESULT?
: IN. ...	:	■	' .	£ £\ ???>
CHORUS: Ah, youth, Ah, WAh,
■	' CURTAIN ?
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Geodel's Surplus Sales B-15 JACKETS & FIELD JACKETS You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
Naming of Committeemen Begins Festival Planning
Initial planning has begun on the 1959 Mardi Gras celebration. General plans are being formed under the chairmanship of Tom Carroll.
Paul Quinn is in charge of the raffle while the carnival is being handled by John Boyce.
Details of the dance are being worked out by Duncan LaVigne with publicity matters being handled by Brian Foley. Wayne Faist is taking care of business matters.
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
■ •
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
CcutxLLnxLL Bai^L
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg.
Best Climate for Growth?
General Telephone Territory
America's Second Largest Telephone System
The Great Migration is under way-out of crowded metropolitan centers, into the areas General Telephone serves;
In suburban and rural America, populations are swelling at five times the big city rate. Industry is expanding at three times the national rate.
And that’s where Gen Tel is installing new phones at the rate of over 15,000 each month.
That’s where we’re meeting the future with investments which—in new construction alone—will run $190 million in 1958.
Result: we are the nation’s second largest telephone system.
America is on the move. And Gen Tel is moving with it
—moving up!
GENERAL TELEPHONE
The Scholas
MARINE BAND TICKETS AVAILABLE
Tickets for a special performance of the U. S. Marine Corps Band will be sold in the Navy Drill Hall this week. Prices are $1.50 and $2 each. The band will perform in the x John Adams High School Auditorium at 8 p.m. the evening of October 20.
Rep&uxMiati
* Dear Editor:
In the first paragraph of “Back Page,” Bob Ghelardi cites the present generation’s anxiety and insecurity, stating further that “The art of conversation is dying...,” showing no close connection between the two. It is my opinion that the insecurity first spoken of is responsible for the purported dying conversation. Students have a fear of stating an opinion. If something is disliked, it is “all right,” if it has some value the superlatives are on parade, and if something else deseiwes the superlatives there 4 is nothing left. It seems that students fear voicing an opinion because of the possibility that somebody they have yet never met may be alienated. Strangely though, students, as in Fancher’s monologue in “A Debt to Himself,” are content in “association with a group.” It was Fancher’s feeling that he had friends, people he could rely on — security. But the very association with one ► group almost automatically alienates another group, and by merely identifying themselves they alienate more people than they ever could with an intelligent critical opinion.	.
Conversation can never continue if students refuse to voice their opinions, even if these opinions be false. Intelligent discussion can only flow from opinions and arguments exchanged and logi-■ cal reasons advanced and reinforced.
Probably the reason “Repercussions” receives so few letters is that in a letter such as this the student must voice an opinion and sign his name to the letter, this act being the most embarrassing it r seems to many students.
Thank you,
Lyn Paul Relph 332 Morrissey
“BREAKFAST’ TICKETS ON SALE
There will.be a Communion Breakfast for the members of the Junior class on Sunday, Oct. 26. Tickets for the breakfast will be sold next week by the hall representative or they may be purchased in 117 Pang-bom. The meal will be served at the Morris Inn.
COMMENTARY
Yesterday, Notre Dame’s version of the democratic process resulted in the election of hall officers and senators. A close scrutiny of the election and preelection events is quite revealing. In the sophomore halls, there were a number of candidates nominated, a portion disqualified for academic or disciplinary reasons, and another group who desired to run for office but for one reason or another were caught by the quick-closing nominations deadline. Last spring the Senate decided that they wanted the elections as soon as possible in order to have a full Senate operating. A few people were unaware of the rapidity at which the august body moves and thus were left behind.
The sophomores, if their two out-spoken Senate members (John Patton and John Keegan) are any indication, are enthusiastic about student government. In fact, Keegan proposed that the nominations be re-opened to take care of more candidates who wished to run for office. This proposal was wisely defeated by the Senate and the elections were (were, because anything can happen and this is being written Wednesday morning) supposed to be held yesterday.
At the Tuesday night Senate meeting, a rather humorous contrast was brought out. In the more sedate senior halls, there is a definite lack of interest in officeseeking by qualified candidates. Alumni Hall, for instance, will function this year without a president or other hall officers; a senator is to be their only representative. Sorin Hall has only one candidate running for senator and president although other unqualified students did indicate a desire to run for office.
What this all indicates is quite obvious: somewhere over those two years, an apathetic attitude arises which is quite difficult to overcome. Senior Class President John Hayward rightly called it “senioritis” and commented, when referring to any postponement of nominations, that the date could be set back to May 1 and there still wouldn’t be any more seniors running for office. This problem, of course, is not new and is not something that will be corrected in a year or in several years. It is something for all of us to think about.
From our previous comments on the elections, it would seem that we do not think yesterday’s winners are capable people. That is not true, of course. We think that the students elected, no matter who they are or whether they ran opposed or not, can be of great help to student government in what looks like a trying year. It will take the interest and the enthusiasm of all concerned to accomplish anything. We only hope that this will be the case. Good Luck.
During the course of the year, the SCHOLASTIC receives letters from a number of varied sources on about as many different topics. Generally, a good percentage of these letters are complaints about something here on campus or something with the SCHOLASTIC itself. Most of these letters we do not print simply because it would not do any good or, and more often the case, that which is complained about is usually beyond the control of anyone or anything. This week we received a letter complaining about the shortage of some standard engineering textbooks at the Bookstore. The writer insinuated that the Bookstore had no regard for. students and did not care whether they stocked the necessary books or not. We did not even bother to investigate this letter to find out the reasons for the shortage. Considering the number of books that Brother Conan handles and the number of satisfied (perhaps poorer!) customers he has, it seems highly unlikely that there could be any grounds for insisting that there was not any regard for students and for engineers in particular, as was insisted in this case.
Too often, members of the student body, when some minor irritation such as this arises, are quick to proclaim their persecution and the general ignorance and lade of responsibility on the part of administration, faculty, and heads of student organizations. A little caution—a little study—and we can confidently predict that there would be less letters of this type. What we want in our mailbox are constructive, thoughtful letters that would serve to inform others about a particular situation or about a particular view on some topic of campus-wide interest.
Our cover this week is the artistic product of Bill Battaglia. Bill, who has captured some of the pageantry and color of this week end, is a senior in fine arts. We hope that this Alumni Hall resident will be able to furnish some' future covers for us.
Lastly, welcome to all the Army cadets and West Point friends who are invading our campus this week end. We only hope that your stay will not be spoiled by the unbeaten Irish who didn’t see or believe the polls and the dope sheets.
—The Editors
9
October 10, 1958
Ever meeta Doubting Thomas?
A college senior once remarked to a Bell System inter- : . .	. .. • viewer: “A telephone career must be a mirage. I hear talk	.
about fabulous training, fascinating work, grade-A job se-. .	.	. curity, and rapid advancement in management Sounds a . .	. .
? r bit too rosy. What’s the real story?”	.
.	.. The interviewer knew mere talk wouldn’t sell a skeptic.	..	J
-	So he showed him some “profiles” of recent college graduates	'	]
.	\ who had enjoyed that fabulous training, had worked at	,	• :
intriguing jobs, and Add won early management promotions. . , . Our. once-skeptical friend has been with the Bell System	।
3 years now—and is currently supervising the work of 55	.	1
:	:	people. .	. •	;
r	-	;	. We’ve converted a host of Doubting Thomases. Whether .	<
.	//	doubtfulor not, you’ll learn alotaboji^rewarding telephone
• s;	: .	careers by. talking with die Bell Systeiqtinterviewer when he	;
:visits your campus. Also read the BeBTelephone booklet on ;	.. j
file in your- Placement Office, or write for “Challenge and
; •	. • Opportunity” to:	7	.	i - - -	>
■?v- f' - ’ - ”r \	.	< College Employment Supervisor ,	.	'
'•........’	' ’ ’ ’ :	American Telephone and Telegraph Company	, ..	J
- -.....- .	195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. .	...	...	..	..	. *
"~S ■	”■-'
10	r	The Scholasti
VISITORS JAM CAMPUS FOR ARMY WEEK END
High-Scoring Cadets Test Undefeated Irtsli; Capacity Throng To Watch Gridiron Contest
Week-end festivities climax tomorrow afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium when Earl Blaik sends his high-powered Army football team onto the gridiron to face Terry Brennan’s 1958 Irish. Both squads are undefeated in two games, the Cadets having trounced South Carolina and Penn State while Notre Dame has beaten Indiana and SMU.
Last week against SMU the Irish i scored one touchdown in each half against an SMU team that surprised everyone by curbing its famed passing offense and relying on its ground game, t* Bill (Red) Mack galloped 41 yards late in the second quarter to give the Irish a 7-0 lead. Mack’s run climaxed a 90-yard march in ten plays.
> SMU came right back early in the third period as halfback Tirey Wilemon took the ball on an option play and scampered 44 yards to paydirt. Coach Bill Meek elected to try to even the count with a placekick but Stan Eckert’s boot was wide to the left and Notre Dame led 7-6.
With 14:10 left to play Notre Dame took over the ball on their own 28 and began a relentless, devastating ground attack that ended 16 plays later in the SMU end zone. Quarterback Bob Williams skillfully shuffled his plays while sending Odyniec, Just, and Doyle through gaping holes in the tiring SMU line. Only once did , Williams use a pass and this was a crucial 23-yard screen pass to Norm Odyniec. When Williams finally sneaked over from the one-yard line and Monty Stickles added his second
EARL BLAIK
Unveils new offense ... .
October10, 1958
PETE DAWKINS
Has six TD’s in two games conversion, there were only six minutes to play—SMU never seriously threatened thereafter.
The Irish offense was considerably improved against SMU. Notre Dame piled up 258 yards by rushing. Once again Nick Pietrosante led the attack with 94 yards in 18 carries.
Army shellacked an outclassed Penn State squad 26-0 last Saturday, scoring all of their points in the first half.
The Army offense is one of the mostt powerful in the country. The Cadets were the second-ranking team in the nation for total offense before the Penn State game and the 501 yards gained against the Nittany Lions certainly justifies this rating.
The most unique feature of the Cadet’s offense is a “lonesome end” formation inaugurated this year. In this formation the right end is split 15 yards from the tackle. This “lonesome end” goes downfield on every play and never returns to the huddle. He receives the play signals by hand signs from his teammates. Also in this unorthodox formation the ball is centered to the halfback. Last Saturday, against Penn State the “lonesome end,” Carpenter, caught four passes, for 90 yards and a touchdown.
Coach Earl Blaik has two All-America candidates in halfbacks Bob Anderson and Captain Pete Dawkins. Anderson was picked on most All-America
Army's Team Arrival	;
Begins Fall Festivities
Army’s highly-touted football team	?
arrived at the airport this noon made- A. ing the official beginning of what pro- ; raises to be one of the busiest and most -exciting week ends ever experienced at .. Notre Dame.	;	■-A
Beginning with the pep rally tonight ~ there will be a complete schedule of ae- . tivities which include the Sophomore . A . -Cotillion also tonight, the Army-Notre . Dame game Saturday afternoon, and A. the usual victory dance Saturday eve- A’ ‘ ning. Also on hand will be a 450-man delegation of West Point Cadets. J. A
Student Body President Denny Shaul . will welcome the Cadets as they arrive' A by train at 10:15 a.m. tomorrow morn- \A ing.	.
National publicity of the weekend will A be increased by the fact that Life mag- : azine has informed the University that it plans to cover the whole weekend in- : eluding the game and other activities.
Official dignitaries from West Point, A including the Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, Lt. Gen. Garrison H. Davidson, will also be . here. Top brass from the Pentagon may also be present as Gen. Maxwell Taylor, Army Chief of Staff, has made tentative A plans to attend the game.	A A A
The pep rally program tonight is loaded with former Notre Dame stars. The featured guest will be Jesse Harper, former Notre Dame football coach, who A ' arranged the first Army-Notre Dame A game in 1913. Don Miller and Harry A Stuhldreher, two of the Four Horsemen, '	;
will be here along with Dave Condon, A sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, and possibly a few special surprise: ... speakers.	A
Coach Blaik sent his squad through a . . A brief workout this afternoon in the Sta- .. ' dium after which the Cadets returned to A their headquarters at the Hotel Spalding • A: in Michigan City.	AAA
Also on campus this weekend are two : ■ ' official University groups. The Board of AA Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Ab- A? .A sociation held its meeting today as did fA j the College of Commerce Advisory A Aj Board.	A : / A
teams as a sophomore last year. Dawkins scored two touchdowns against Penn State, one of them on a 72-yard pas». ; ; AA play, bringing his total to six5fbr.;tiieAAA| year. ■	• A.	A AAA;
The quarterback spot in the 'Cadets AaA^ regular T-formation offensewas
, (Continued on page 23)AA^ .Aaz'AA ' . .	■.AsAAAf^g^
THE LONG GREY LINE INVADES THE IRISH CAMPUS
Ticket Sale Announced For Concerts, Lectures
Ticket sales for this year’s concert and lecture series will be held Oct. 20-24. Season tickets can be purchased at the Washington Hall box office from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. Prices for students, faculty, and staff are balcony $5, main floor $7.
Individual performance tickets can be purchased at the box office each Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday from 3:30 to 8:30 before the production. Main floor tickets are $1 and balcony 75c. Prices for the general public are slightly higher.
Theodore Ullman, concert pianist, starts the series on Friday, Nov. 28. Promoted with the idea of broadening the student’s scope of entertainment, this season’s presentations include Oedipus Rex, Twelfth Night, The Gay Tyro-liers, Juilliard String Quartet, Goss and Whetsei, and Segovia.
West Pointers Arrive For Saturday’s Game
Approximately 450 first class cadets (seniors) from the United States Military Academy arrive at 10:15 tomorrow morning by special train to spend a day at Notre Dame.
Upon arrival, the Catholic cadets will attend Mass, followed by lunch in the new Dining Hall for the group. After lunch they will march in formation to the stadium.
The cadets will be drilling on the field until a half-hour before game time, accompanied by a regular Army band, since West Point does not have a cadet band. One hundred and eight of the cadets will eat dinner with the seniors in the old Dining Hall following the game. Some of them have dates and will attend the Victory dance in the Drill Hall that night.
At 11 p.m. buses will load at the circle to take the cadets to the New York Central Station, the train to West Point leaving at midnight.
There is a national campaign in progress to construct a new Catholic chapel at West Point, since federal funds do not authorize the construction of single sectarian churches. The Student Senate has voted to turn over the proceeds from the victory dance Satur-
FELLOWSHSP DEADLINE SOON
The Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., announced that applications for major graduate scholarships and fellowships should be in the mail before Nov. 1. Applications and directions of proper procedure for such grants as Fulbright, Marshall, Rhodes, Danforth, Foreign Government Fellowships, Kent, and Wilson grants are available in the Graduate School office.
day night to West Point to aid in the construction. It is hoped that the University will add to these proceeds, perhaps even match them.
The Military Academy was officially opened on July 4, 1802, after serving as an Army post for 24 years. Since that time it has supplied thousands of officers to the U. S. Army. Cadets receive a bachelors of science degree at the end of their fourth year.
Navy Ticket Sale Scheduled Thursday for Baltimore Trip
Tickets for the 1958 student trip to the Navy Game at Baltimore, Md., will go on sale Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Rathskeller. Because of their limited number, the tickets will be sold only on that day. Roommate arrangements at the hotel during the trip may be made at the same time.
Total cost of the trip is $45. This includes bus transportation to and from the campus, rail passage to Baltimore, Washington, and back to South Bend, and bus transportation to the game in Baltimore.
Also included in the cost is the game ticket, hotel accommodation for Saturday night, and two box lunches. Total cost without the game ticket will be $40.
Excused cuts for the last two classes Friday, Oct. 31, will be granted only to those making the official trip.
The group will leave South Bend late Friday afternoon for Baltimore. They will attend a mass on All Saints’ Day Saturday morning. Transportation will be provided from the mass to the game at Municipal Stadium.
Immediately following the game, the group will proceed to Washington and will spend the night at the Sheraton-Park Hotel there. The special student trip train will leave Washington Sunday afternoon and return to South Bend early Monday morning.
Facilities
THE LIBRARY: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sun., 1 p.m. to 10 pan.
THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL: Mon. through Fri., 8 a.m. to 8:30 pan.; Sat., 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sun., 9 a.m. to 5 pan. Swimming periods: Mon. through Fri., 3:30 to 5:30 pan. and 7:15 to 8:30 p.m.; Sat. and Sun., 1 to 4:30 pan.
GILBERT’S: Mon. through Sat., 9 aan. to 6 p.m.
THE BARBER SHOP: Mon. through Fri. 8 aan. to 5 p.m.; Sat., 8 aan. to 12 noon.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANERS: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 a.m. to 3:45 pan.
THE HUDDLE: Mon. through Sat., 8 aan. to 10 pan.
TREASURER’S OFFICE: Mon. through Fri., 9 a.m. to 12 noon and

V
s
1
2 to 5 pan.
WESTERN UNION: through Fri., 8:20 a.m. to 12 and 1 to 5 p.m.
BILLIARD ROOM:
Mon. noon
Mon.
through Fri., 9:30 a.m. to 9:30 pan.; Sat., 9:30 aan. to 6 pan.; Sun., 12:30 pan. to 5 pan. and 7:15 to 9:30 pan.
POST OFFICE: Mon. through Fri., 7:30 aan. to 5:30 pan.; Sat., 7:30 aan. to 1 pan.
RAILWAY EXPRESS: Mon. through Fri., 12:30 to 2:30 pan.
THE BOOK STORE: Mon. through Sat., 9 a.m. to 5 pan.
THE BOWLING ALLEYS: League Bowling: Mon. through Fri., 6:45 to 11:30 pan.; Sun., 6:45 to 8:45 pan. Open bowling: Mon. through Fri., 2 to 5 p.m.; Sat., 1 to 5 pan. and 6:45 to 11:30 pan.; Sun. after 8:45 pan.
GOLF SHOP: Mon. through Fri. 7:30 aan. to 4:30 p.m.; Sat. and Sun., 6:30 a.m. to 4:30 pan.
12
The Scholastic:

'Silhouettes' Provide Background for Cotillion; Dance Slated As Highpoint of Army Week End
With the theme of “Silhouettes,” the Sophomore Cotillion will be held tonight in the LaFortune Student Center. The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, under the direction of Warren Covington, will provide the music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. j The queen for the night is Marilyn ' Wolter of St. Mary’s College. She is a I sophomore from southern Illinois who is preparing for a career in teaching. She is the sophomore Student Council representative at St. Mary’s. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., will crown the queen. !*	Miss Wolter is the date of general
chairman Armando Loizaga from Mexico City. Armando is in the College of Arts and Letters and is active in student government and the Blue Circle. He is also
MISS MARILYN WOLTER
Sophomore Cotillion Queen
the NS A vice president of International Affairs for the Indiana region.
The silhouette theme will be carried out through the use of silhouette screens with black abstract figures in front and lighted from behind. A large white mobile, covering almost the entire ceiling, is in the ballroom. A louvered wall, lighted from behind, will silhouette the band. The program booklet will continue the theme. It presents sketchings of what the girls should wear to the different functions.
With the death of Tommy Dorsey last year Warren Covington took over the direction of the band. The group is now on a nationwide tour and has been appearing at the Hawaiian Room in New York. Their latest hit is Tea for Tivo Cha-Cha.
Tickets for dates have been provided for the Army-Notre Dame game tomorrow afternoon. Two victory dances will be held tomorrow evening. One will be in the Drill Hall with Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen and the other is in
the Student Center with Bruce Cossachi and his Dixie Land band.
After the 9 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church there will be a Communion Breakfast for the sophomores and their dates. The guest speaker is Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C.
Those attending the Cotillion have 2 a.m. permissions. Car permissions will extend from noon Friday until noon Sunday. Accommodations are being provided in private homes in the South Bend area.
The decorations chairman is Jim Cassidy while business affairs were handled by John Cooney. Don Schmiel handled accommodations and the tickets chairman was Mike Ferrick.
Refreshments were handled by Bob Brown and breakfast arrangements by John Walsh. Publicity chairman was Rogei- Driscoll.
WSND's Schedule Features 'LP' Show, Panel Discussion
Programming on WSND this fall includes three major new features. Week days from 9 a.m. to noon, Rudy Hornish spins request selections from a varied stock of LP albums on “Music ’till Noon.” The show is specifically intended to provide a light background for the morning study hours.
Sunday nights from 9 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. News Director Jim Bennett presides over “Round Table,” a discussion of controversial questions conducted by students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Mike Ahern will be heard on
News Briefs
Thomas Field, a 1954 graduate of Notre Dame, has been awarded an honors degree, first class, by Oxford University in England.
Field, who served as president of the Notre Dame student body during 1953-54, was one of three Americans to receive first class honors in the Final Honour School of Philosophy, Politics, and Economics at Oxford. The other two were graduates of the United States Military Academy, West Point, N. Y.
Robert B. Burckel has been awarded the Bordon Freshman Prize for having maintained the highest academic average of last year’s freshman class. National Merit scholar Burckel is a- mathematics major from Louisville, Ky.
The $200 prize, sponsored by the Bordon Company Foundation, is now in its third year of existence.
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem., director of the University’s Mediaeval Institute, was elected regent of the new International University of Comparative Sciences of the Grand Diuchy of Luxembourg.
The International University was founded
Seniors to Get Booklets From Placement Bureau
In preparation for the 300 organizations that will take part in the University Placement Service, the Placement Bureau has printed a sixty-four page pamphlet, “Campus Inteiwiews.” This interview aid will be handed out to those seniors that have completed and handed in their registration forms. Interviews will be held November through March inclusively.
The new Placement Bureau pamphlet includes such information as the principal product or service of organization, degree programs eligible for interviews, type of jobs available and geographical location of jobs. A discussion of “The Principles and Practices of College Recruiting,” is also included.
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., director of placement, urges those interested in the program to fill out and turn in their applications as soon as possible. Fifty per cent of the employers will be holding their interviews during the fall season, and they will not return later in the year to repeat interviews for the same degree program.
“Musical Scoreboard” on Saturdays right after the Notre Dame football game, mingling tunes with the college football news.
Modifications in standard shows have given a new look to the quiz show “Where in the World” and to the news coverage system. The former, originating from the La Fortune Student Center, offers contestants prizes in the form of movie passes and gift certificates, courtesy of Gilbert’s. This year’s news programming puts a heavier emphasis on campus news than formerly.
in 1957 to promote comparative studies in law, economics, history, literature, and art.
Father Gabriel recently returned to Notre Dame from Europe, where he gave a series of lectures and attended the opening ceremonies of the Luxembourg institution. His lecture tour included the Universities of Strassbourg, Paris, and Oxford.
Tickets for the music show of the TV dancing team Rod Alexander and Bambi Linn are now on sale at St. Mary’s College. Their “Minstrel Days to Springtime” featuring 16 dancers, singers, and musicians will be presented at O’Laughlin Auditorium Sunday, Oct. 19, at 8:30 p.m.
Admission prices are $2.85 for the main floor and $2.25 for the balcony. Tickets are available at the ticket office in O’Laughlin Auditorium and at Office Engineer’s at 111 So. Michigan St. They may also be ordered by addressing a request to Box 114, St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Ind.
Former jet pilots who have returned to school are requested to investigate the opportunities offered by the Indiana Air National Guard to continue their flight training and possibly add to their income.
Information concerning the Guard can be obtained from the chapter at Baer Field, Fort Wayne, Ind.
October 10, 1958
13
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
7:30 p.m.—Pep rally in Field House.
SATURDAY:
4 p.m.—Coffee hour after game in Student Center.
8:30 p.m.—Victory Dance in Drill Hall and Student Center.
SUNDAY:
1:30 p.m.—Monthly masterpoint duplicate bridge tournament, Room ID of the Student Center.
7	p.m.—“Where in the World,” rooms 1A and B of Student Center.
MONDAY:
7-10 p.m.—Ticket sales for Senior Trip at the sen-ice bar in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
8	p.m.—Lecture by Professor Pfister in Law Auditorium, “American Aid and Economic Development in Europe. " All are invited.
TUESDAY:
7-10 p.m.—Ticket sales for Senior Trip.
7 p.m.—Indianapolis Club meeting in rooms 2A and B of the Student Center.
WEDNESDAY:
8 p.m.—“World Technology, World Economy, and World Policy,” lecture in the Law Auditorium by Professor Bernhard Pfister. All are invited.
THURSDAY:
6:30 p.m.—Student Trip sales in the off-campus room of the Student Center.
7 p.m.—WSND staff meeting in rooms 2A and B of the Student Center.
7 p.m.—Production and Management meeting, room 1A of the Student Center.
8 p.m.—“The Political Credit in the World Economy,” a lecture by Professor Bernhard Pfister in the Law Auditorium. All are invited.
8 p.m.—First Moot Court competition in the Law Building.
Announcements
Anyone wishing to announce activities in the “Calendar” should call the Scholastic office between 1:30 and 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday; 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. Sunday and Monday; and 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday. Written announcements can be addressed to Lyn Relph, 332 Morrissey; Ron Blu-baugh, 309 Pangbom; slipped under the door of the Scholastic office in LaFortune Student Center, or mailed to the SCHOLASTIC. The deadline for announcements is 9 p.m. on Monday before the issue in which they are to appear.
Chief Justice Harrison Calls Court Useless; Senate Group Formed to Investigate System
The fate of the Student Court was the key issue before the Senate as it met on Thursday, Oct. 2, for the second time this semester.
Joe Harrison, chief justice of the court, went immediately to the heart of the question when he began: “To be pretty frank, there doesn’t seem to be much need for a court on campus at this time.”
Harrison went on to point out that each of the present functions of the Court could easily be assumed by other existing organizations. To date, the Court has concerned itself only with the litigation of campus club censures and the settlement of summer storage claims.
John Patton pleaded for a more optimistic attitude toward the Court and it was suggested that the Court might function to decide the cases which could result from an honoi- system. Bruce Babbitt, senate secretary, broke in briefly to explain the local concept of the honor system, emphasizing that a student court was expressly left out of the plan.
Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., was asked whether there were any administration plans for delegating more authority to the Student Court in the near future. “In my opinion, no,” an-
Commerce Club Sets First Meeting Thurs.
The Labor Management club of Notre Dame will hold its first meeting of the school year Thursday evening, at 7:30 in the LaFortune Student Center.
Jim Sutter, a senior business administration major from Cranford, N. J., is the president of this new club which succeeds the College of Commerce’s Manpower Management Association.
Open to all undergraduates in the Colleges of Commerce and Arts and Letters, particularly business administration majors, the Labor Management Club has planned a full schedule of activities. Some of these include attendance at union meetings, field trips to local industries, and movies and lectures on current labor developments by important personnel executives in the area.
Its members are the only students in the country who belong to the American Management Association. This relationship affords the members an opportunity to attend the A.M.A.’s Annual Personnel Convention in Chicago. The club will make the trip to Chicago at the beginning of the spring semester.
The other officers of the club are: Tom Valpey, vice-president; Terry Conway, secretary; and Joe Krug, treasurer.
The moderator of the Labor Management Club is Dr. Richard Martin Lyon, labor lawyer, lecturer, and a new member of the faculty in the College of Commerce.
swered Father Bernard, but he reminder the Senate that his was not the only voice in the administration.
A committee composed of Babbitt Patton, and Ed Butler, junior class president, was formed to study the questior and was directed to report back in twc weeks.
Other arguments against maintaining the Court hit on such weaknesses as thr lack of a “police force” which would bring up the cases and “general philosophical grounds,” which Babbitt is expected to explain when the committer submits its report.
Earlier in the evening, Bill Graham, senate vice president, urged the Senate to consider the budget “ours” and not “a blob that comes from someone else.” President Shaul echoed these sentiments with a short admonition to the Senators that they should examine seriously any requests for appropriations.
Reports on the NSA and NFCCS summer conventions took up most of the remainder of the evening.
Bill Graham presented the “liberal” view of the NSA convention while Patton and John Keegan recommended that a little more “conservatism” be employed in the future.
Shaul labeled the so-called “declaration of conscience” of the conservative element at the convention, along with the intimation that the Catholic schools formed a bloc as examples of “muddled thinking.”
Babbitt, in his NFCCS report, insisted on Notre Dame’s duty to hold the organization together by imaginative leadership even though it appears we get nothing tangible from our membership.
The first rtudent run lecture series, entitled Vital Issues Lecture Series, was established by the Senate. On a resolution proposed by Graham, the Senate voted to invite from two to four nationally prominent speakers this year. They will speak on topics of nationwide interest. Funds for this series were appropriated last semester.
Notre Dame Debaters Begin Season in Lexington Tourney
This year’s debate team will state their arguments on the topic, Resolved: “The further development of nuclear weapons be prohibited by international agreements.”
The debaters will open their 58-59 season with two meets this Wednesday. A team of Bob Dempsey, Gerry Gou-dreau, Guy Powers, and Tom Banchoff will travel to the University of Kentucky tournament at Lexington. Another group with Joel Haggard, Jay Whitney, John Patton, and Richard Schiller will journey to Mount St. Mary’s College in Milwaukee, Wis., foi- a cross-examination exhibition.
Professor Leonard Sommer is the team coach and Bob Dempsey the captain.
14
The Scholastic
The second floor of the east wing of O’Shaughnessy Hall, for all the interests its melodious atmosphere holds for the perceptive ear, is a place seldom visited by the average liberal arts student, and members of the other three colleges are probably unaware of its existence. Accessibility is rendered difficult bythe two thick sound-obscuring doors that close the area off from the rest of the building and prevent the strange and diverse sounds emanating from this quarter from disturbing the classes in the main wing. For here is located the Music Department of Notre Dame: a series of classrooms, a dozen closet-sized piano cubicles, the glee club practice room, department offices, and music storage rooms.
Music-majors, new glee club members, and the few other wanderers who have somehow got lost or who find the back stairs at the end of the hall a quick way to get to the parking lot, have probably noticed a new face in these regions of
JAMES BASTIEN
New Music Teacher to Give Concerts
by Jerry Kriegshauser
late—the young, handsome, bespectacled face of the new instructor of music, James Bastien. His ‘modern’ appearance and unprepossessing manner mark him as anything but the traditional ‘longhair,’ but a brief glimpse at his tremendous musical background reveals that in him Notre Dame has truly ac
quired an outstanding and skilled musical artist.
When he is asked that customary question demanded of all pianists, of all musicians for that matter—“How long
have you been studying music?”, Bastien replies, with a significant laugh, “Years”! His first recital was given in his home town of Portland, Oregon, at the age of eight years, and from that time on, his life has been a continuous succession of lessons, concerts and more lessons.
When he reached college age, it was a happy occurrence that Bastien should choose the University of Portland for the continuance of his musical studies, for it is here that he met the person responsible not only for much of his technique and artistry, but also for his presence here at Notre Dame—Dr. Louis Ar-tau. During his tenure as head of the music department of Portland University, Dr. Artau, building his department into one of the most efficient and productive organs of the University, firmly established it in the top ranks of the country’s music schools. Professor Bastien no doubt benefited much from studying at such an institution, and his relationship with Dr. Artau is now renewed, the latter being head of the music department of St. Maiy’s College and part-time instructor at Notre Dame.
After completing his college work and attaining his degree in music, Bastien continued to study, giving an occasional recital and entering various music contests. His first place rank in the highly competitive Northwest Contest, in which accomplished students from several states participated, enabled him to appear with the Portland Junior Symphony, and shortly after, he won a similar victory over all southern contestants in the Southwest Contest. As a result of this latter triumph he will appear as guest artist with the Albuquerque Symphony Orchestra on Nov. 6.
For the last two years, Bastien has studied under the tutelage of the noted Hungarian recording artist and concert pianist, Gyorgy Sandor, who, as “artist -in residence” at Dallas University, took a great interest in his young student’s talent and development. Bastien has good reason to be proud of this professional training from the renowned performer' whose abilities have taken him on a musical tour of Europe for the 1958-1959 season.
Proficiency in the art of music performance cannot be gained only by constant practice and diligent study, for although these are perhaps most fundamental in developing a technical skill, they do not take into consideration other important elements of musical experience which the true musician must acquire.	-
(Continued on page 25)
October 10, 1958
15
A Day
in Student Government
by L. David Otte
had to have late excuses because of the A.B. meeting for those graduating seniors interested in scholarships and fellowships for further study.
Bill Graham, the Student Senate vice-president, has his chief function as being assistant to Shaul. Together they handle the many administrative tasks necessary to keep the Senate functioning.
Treasurer Scheckler has the complicated job of controlling the finances of the Student Senate. From the budgets requested by the various commissioners and the class officers, the master budget is prepared, and it is Scheckler’s responsibility to see that it is strictly adhered to. All the incoming and outgoing money, and the future financial planning, are under his stringent supervision.
Academic commissioner Mike Halpin controls those extracurricular Senate activities which serve to complement the students’ class work. A program for lectures by faculty members in the campus halls is being broadened and strengthened by Halpin’s commission. The initiation and testing of the new academic honor system falls under his jurisdiction.
SENATORS SIGN REPORTS
, Since its inception over ten years ago, the Student Senate has aroused considerable controversy on the campus. Some of the criticism has been constructive and some derogatory, but few critics have taken the time to become qualified judges. Before accurate criticism can be made, it is worthwhile to attend one of the weekly Senate meetings. They are indeed eye-opening and provocative.	-
To the non-participators and the non-attenders, the Student Senate might appear as a somewhat nebulous body, filled with elected politicos whose toughest job is getting elected. There has been, and still is, some unfounded censure concerning the role of the Student Senate and its worth as a functional body accomplishing some concrete worth.
Unbiased observation at one of the Student Senate meetings shatters this misconception. The attendee will find instead, a group of students dedicated to their administrative jobs, putting in many hours a week, and accomplishing a myriad of tasks for the Student Body.
Take for example, last Thursday, Oct. 2. At 4:30 p.m., there was a cabinet meeting. This is a weekly occurrence in preparation for the Senate meeting. In attendance were Denny Shaul, Bill Graham, Bill Scheckler, Mike Halpin, Don Gillies, Crane Day, Tom Cahill, and Warren Grienen-berger.
In the course of the meeting Shaul heard reports from each of the commissioners. Primarily, these reports concerned projects now in. progress, and the many, forthcoming events being planned. Many suggestions were heard that related to better ways of handling present problems, but also improvements of the organizational and the functional setup of the Senate. The agenda for the evenings meeting was considered; but, as usual, accommodation had to be made for conflict. In this case, many of the key members
Halpin is also trying to start a Student Forum for the intellectual stimulation of the students and the soap-box type voicing of their opinions. Revitalizing the Hall Presidents’ Council after the coming elections is another of Halpin’s projects, as well as the formulation of a student-faculty relations committee. The Vital Issue Series is another program of lectures being instituted. The speakers will be people who have achieved nationwide fame in a particular field, or have notably defended their stand on a controversial issue.
VACANT CHAIRS AWAIT NEW SENATORS
16
The Scholastic
SHAUL ADDRESSES THE SENATE
Don Gillies is the religious commissioner. His job is to do as much as possible for the students to supplement the work of the Prefect of Religion. This year Gillies will supervise the Advent Lecture Series and the details involved in the Founder’s Day Mass. He has already contributed much by so widely and effectively publicizing the Junior-Senior Mission. The program of the Church Unity Octave also falls under his jurisdiction. Gillies also has the concern of the funds in the Student Charity Chest.
As social commissioner, Crane Day supervises all of the Victory Dances, Senate Dances, and big-name entertainment. He secures contracts from the dance bands, and arranges for the decorations, publicity, tickets, and entertainment. For example, Bobby Christian playing the weekend of the Purdue game, and Ralph Marterie later on the North Carolina week end, present a number of immediate considerations. It is Day’s job to estimate the number that will attend the various dances, and plan for the overflow, their costs, and probable returns.
As the commissioner for student affairs, Tom Cahill has charge of various administrative functions, as well as the physical facilities. Cahill must see that all the campus clubs are properly registered, their constitutions recorded, their finances in order, and the officers known for better co-ordination of all their activities. A campus club council is now in the works. The tie-in of all the activities for the Purdue game weekend is also under his charge. With Bobby Christian and his band playing at the Senate Dance that Friday, Cahill has much responsibility for arrangements. The big screen TV broadcasts of three of the away football games is also under his control. At present, Cahill is also working toward the installation of an effective traffic light on the Dixie for
St. Mary’s traveling. The service concessions also fall under his supervision.
Bruce Babbitt, student government secretary, takes care of the minutes of all the meetings. He also handles correspondence with all those having business with the Senate or the student government. John Bourgon assists as recording secretary.
Father George Bernard, C.S.C., is also present at each of the Senate meetings in the capacity of faculty adviser.
Besides the above-mentioned people, the college senators and the stay senators were at the evening Senate meeting. Their principal functions are to determine the student feeling on the topics up. for consideration, and then to facilitate pro and con discussion at the Senate meetings. They also serve as valuable members of the many Senate committees that arise. Considerable help will come to the Senate after the elections Oct. 9, with the many additions to this legislative group.
There are usually people at the Senate meeting who do not have voting status, but have business with the group. At last Thursday’s meeting, Bill McCullough gave his customary Blue Circle report, and the activities in which they are involved with the Senate. A YCS report generally accompanies the meeting, too, as do summary reports of the NSA and the NFCCS. Last Thursday’s session included a report by Joe Harrison, chief justice of the Student Court, on that group’s activities.
From all of this it is evident that many people contribute to the functioning of the Student Senate. Since the
THE AUTHOR IN THE SENATE
elimination of the numerous commissions that existed in years previous, the organization is considerably streamlined. Instead, the four remaining commissions are encompassing enough so that all the areas are suitably included. The extra jobs and details that exist are handled by specially appointed committees, and are never left dangling. Efficiency increases with each session.
The people involved in the Senate and student government work are not concerned about their political futures to the extent attributed to them. Instead,
(Continued on page 19)
October 10, 1958
A New Library?
by Jim Rose
Any student who uses the facilities of the Main Library is immediately aware of one inescapable fact: our library facilities are limited and inadequate for the needs of the students.
Academically, the most important building on a university campus is the
library. It is the repository of the books, documents, and other records vital for the study and research of the students and it truly permits the university to function as an educational institution.
Under the very able and farsighted direction of Victor Schaefer, our present library has been extended, stretched, and double-utilized until imagination can no
longer cope with the lack of space, or conceive of the further expansion which the University merits. In the past years, the academic standards and the academic reputation of Notre Dame has increased at a phenomenal rate; the academic quality of the incoming student has been raised, and the faculty has been enlarged and improved by such innovations as the Distinguished Professors Program. Adequate library facilities are an intrinsic part of any continual improvement.
The University administration has long recognized the need and importance of a new library, and the construction of such a building is one of the first projects in the new sixty-six million dollar fund-raising campaign conducted by the Notre Dame Foundation. One can only express admiration and gratitude to the
PRINCETON’S FIRESTONE MEMORIAL UBRARY
EXPANSIVE MSU LIBRARY
administration for the building schedule, the faculty salary improvements, and other programs. Without definite assurance of immediate financial support, the administration constructed the badly needed buildings, which were subsequently underwritten by generous benefactors.
The most evident question now is:

Why hasn’t construction begun on this vital building? The answer is twofold: First, the library is still in the planning stage and there are many opinions as to its location, size, and facilities. How- : ever, the greatest deterrent is that, at the present time, there is not enough money for this project, estimated to cost from $4,000,000 to $6,000,000.	j
An incomplete list of possible locations for the new library follows:
1)	Razing the Main Building completely, including the Dome. Some con- t tend that the Main Building will have to be replaced within 25 years by a substantial building which would be a combination building for administration and library with a large wing extending toward the lake. The architecture would demonstrate a new concept of the twentieth-century Notre Dame. •
2)	Razing the Main Building, yet retaining the Dome on a new building as . architecturally sympathetic as possible with the Dome; this building would house both the administration and a new library.
3)	Retaining the Main Building as it stands in order to maintain the Dome and architecture of a building which has meant so much to Notre Dame men, but < remodeling the entire interior for admin- j istration offices and a library, including suitable study space for the faculty in ' a new wing to the rear.	j
4)	Construct a new library building | somewhere near the center of the cam- ' pus, perhaps between Sorin Hall and the I present Main Library, or possibly in the 4 center of the Main Quadrangle.	J
5)	Build the library on the far side of the campus past O’Shaughnessy with 1 the expectation that if the campus ex- । pands, it will be in this direction. |
These five do not exhaust the possibilities, but they certainly provide food for thought. However, speculation on the location of a new library is quite difficult when the funds for this building are not ' immediately forthcoming.	*
But why should students concern I themselves with the problem of a new I library? You might say, “After all, it’s the administration’s problem. Why should we worry? And besides, what could we possibly do as students?”
First of all, we are all members of the
18
' -The Scholastic
educational community; administration, faculty, and students should be vitally y concerned for the general improvement of this community. Our interest can vary from a realization of our own financial investment in our education, to the cognizance of the fact that with each yeai' that we do not have a new library, thousands of Notre Dame men | are being deprived of the advantages of a perfect place to study, a place with I study alcoves, tape recorded lectures, j records, microfilm, and other modern library equipment.
Last year, the Student Senate initiated a “New Library” committee to contact University officials and evaluate the situation to determine how students could A best fulfill their obligation, within their sphere of activity, in the construction of a new library. A resolution was passed । unanimously by the Senate and sent to the administration which established the student opinion that a new library, because it would serve the majority of the students at the University, should be z considered first on the list of new buildings to be constructed. The Senate also requested that all the funds collected L s during the local Foundation Week drive f be specifically earmarked for the construction of a new library. In addition, other investigations concerning study habits, student use of a library, and ' other new libraries in the United States, were carried out in cooperation with the ’■ director of the library and other University officials.
The individual student can do his pail by supporting the Senate in this project, encouraging membership in the newly formed Notre Dame Library Association, the funds of which are directed to the _ improvement of library facilities; and, where possible, convincing potential benefactors of the need for a new library.
Senator's Day (Continued from page 17) *
' there is an .all-pervading sense of responsibility. Considerations for Senate' student and Notre Dame-public relations are in the fore. There is a conspicuous amount of anxiety and concern that their projects will materialize and succeed. Hindsight and foresight concerning the ' budget and general financial position are always present in an attempt to profit from past mistakes and minimize failure in the future. Student conditions and charity are not overlooked in any way. The resolutions concerning conduct on football week ends, and the contributions to South Bend’s Torch Fund and the new Moreau Seminary are proofs of the Senate’s conscience.
The writer noticed a healthy nononsense kind of dedication at the Senate meeting last Thursday. Interviews with the principals involved confirmed their sincerity of purpose. The nonbeliever could well profit from a visit to a Senate meeting.
At the Movies
AVON
Girl in the Bikini’. (Oct. 9-15) Swimming instructions by Olympic star Brigitte Bardot, who is a blonde.
Also: Value for Money. Not even the title makes much sense. This one sports Diana Dors, who is another blonde.
COLFAX
The Barbarian and the Geisha’. (Oct. 10-16) John Wayne (barbarian) and Eiko Ando (geisha) say tender things to each other against the silky, oriental background of leering fat men chiseled from stone. John Wayne is back. Wow.
GRANADA
Me and the Colonel’. (Oct. 9-15) Danny Kaye, as a Jewish trader during World War II, is forced to leave Paris with Curt Jergens, a vodka fiend, and a military fool who hates Jews. Before they head west, they turn east through the Germans, so that the colonel can rescue a friend of the family, Nicole Maurey. All turns out well when they reach England after a rough trip across the channel by car. A serious comedy is what they call it.
PALACE
Queen of Outer Space’. (Begins Oct. 10) The United States Rocket Squadron (known at Canaveral as the U.S.R.S.) aims for a space station, winds up on Venus. You know how things can get on Venus when Zsa Zsa Gabor is in charge. Instead of ray gun battles, they stage a fashion show for 1985 space travelers. Painted in crayon.
And: Legion of the Doomed. The inside story of the hopes, fears and emotions of captured jungle animals in zoos all over the world. Candid reporting by an orangutan named Hoo Lahoop.	-
RIVER PARK
No Time for Sergeants: (Oct. 10-14) Lil’ Abner goes to war. Andy Griffith, a humble hillbilly with an immunity to four gallons of wood alcohol, drives a frustrated boot camp sergeant out of his silly little mind. Two weeks of processing him sets the Army back six years, so they give him to the Ail- Force along with his tiger-type buddy who has dreams of being another Audie Murphy. Slapstick, but enjoyable.
STATE
The Snorkel: (Begins Oct. 10) Another murder story, this one with a gimmick (rare device). Peter Van Eyck kills his wife with a snorkel and hides under a trap door. His daughter, being a thinker, uncovers the “plot.” But instead of pretending not to hear Dad caught under the floor, thus effecting a torturing Hitchcock ending, she runs to the police for a good, solid Hollywood anti-climax. Also: The Camp on Blood Island. Supposed to be a red hot war picture.
WASHINGTON HAU
Witness for the Prosecution: (Oct. 11) Charles Laughton maintains his reputation for superior performances, here as a penetrating London barrister. Marlene Dietrich has one secret; Tyrone Power has two. And Lawyer Laughton wins two victories. 6:20 and 8:50 pan.
—Terry Shea
Back Page
(Continued from page 26) tinction between the whole realm of student affairs and that part of it which actually governs must be made, for at present the term “student government” is used, at different times, to apply- to both. I think the STUDENTS ORGANIZED concept can be a great help in this clarification. - It is in no way a substitute for previous definitions, but is merely, a supplement, placing them in a broader frame of reference. For the
absence of this distinction in our thinking has been, perhaps as much as any other single factor, a major cause of the Student body’s misunderstandings of, and unfavorable reactions to, the whole student government idea and process, and has retarded the progress of the student leaders themselves. I hope to deal, in a future article, with the ways in which misunderstandings, on the part of the student body as a whole, and on the part of the Senate and those around it, has . impeded the progress and best interests ' of the student community.
October 10, 1958
19
Nave a HOW of FUN!
s
Travel with SITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
g»m^Earopt
60 o«y« $645
V Orient dw« fc— $998
""■""Z wflUF. 1 Atony tovn incluat coHege credit
.cpfHD **__JaI»o low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
"*	Ask Your Travel Agent
2M Year
k 332 Sa. Miduare Aw. MC-Ciricegs 4, NA 7-2557
INDIANA UNIVERSITY CENTER FILM FORUM Presents Four Unusual Imports AT THE RIVER PARK THEATRE
MISHAWAKA AVENUE AT 30TH STREET
Wednesday, October 15—“HUNTERS OF THE DEEP’—Flight into deep space. “ANIMAL FARM”—Based on George Orwell’s political satire Wednesday, October 29—‘DAY OF WRATH” (Danish with English titles)
Drama of witchcraft and conscience in the 17th Century
Wednesday, November 12—“PASSION FOR LIFE” (French comedy with English subtitles) —with Bernard Blier and Julliette Faber
Wednesday, December 2—“THE LAST BRIDGE” (German with English subtitles)—Featuring Maria Schell. Awarded Catholic film prize
2 Perfomances Nightly, 7:30 and 9:15. Series Enrollment, $2.40; Single Admission, 90c. Series and single enrollments available at the box office
KQDL KROSSWORD
No. 2
ACROSS
1. —— Ie Moko
6. Tennis court untouchable
8. Big laugh
12.	Kind of Ladd
13.	Beach acquisition
14.	Eastern bigwig
15.	A word that acts like a key
17.	Tyre: American spelling
18.	A picnic accessory
19.	Well padded can mean
21. Croreword-type
DOWN
1.	Mama’s Roommate
2.	A dash of French
8. Used when sticking together
4. Half-striper
6. Repent
6. They’re also
transportation 7. Puts up with 8. What honor students have in the middle 9. Leave out
10. Popular Eastcoast island
28. Little little state
24. Brought in from the outside
26.	A type of leg
27.	Kools are
29. The atomic age stepchild
SO. Kin of ICAAAA SI. A tree that streets are named after
82. Half of mile SS. Lucky Pierre? ST. Colgate color 40. Brainstorm
41. FSter Kools are
44. They make it wet A dry
45.43,560 aq. ft.
46. Orford fellows
20. Why aren’t yon --------up a Kool?
22. She can cook, buteanshe—?
24. Sibilant attention-getter
25.17th Century motel
26. A little French
28. Cheese dish, individually
31.	Cheeses
32.	His “Olympia’’ is in the Louvre
83.	Kools taste dean, and tab, and---------
84.	Peculiar prefix
85.	Faculty VIP
36. “Of-----and
15
18
33
43
46
12
24
29
“WF
37.	A Tena university
38.	Pound ofpoetry
SS. Cr—~iirr
42. What the gal did with the nei^hboc'a kid
What a wonderfill difference when you snitch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feds dean and cool... your throat feds smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience in smoking. Smoke KOOL... with mild, mild menthol.. .for a cleaner, fresher taste all throu^i the day!
10
ARE VOU KOOL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
Mirand )
•to Srnw Fresh )
KGDL
KGDL
K®L
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE—REGULAR. OU...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER I
Baseball Team Faced
With Rebuilding Task
Notre Dame’s 1959 baseball squad opened fall practice on Sept. 29 with nearly 50 hopefuls turning out to greet Coach Jake Kline. Included are only three regulars from last year’s NCAA entry which won 17 and lost only eight. The practice will continue “as long as | the weather holds out.”
' Leading the returnees are co-captains Dick Selcer and Gene Duffy. Selcer was the regular second baseman last season and the sparkplug of the infield. Duffy, who sat out the last half of the season with a sprained ankle, was the starting * centerfielder and was one of the team’s top hitters.
Principal gaps which need to be filled are the left side of the infield, two outfield spots and the pitching staff.
Gone from last year’s mound corps are the two top hurlers, Frank Carpin and Chuck Symeon. Carpin left to sign a professional contract and Symeon graduated in June.
There are two returnees back on the , ; mound, Chuck Scrivanich and JimHan-non, both of whom had some starting assignments last year. Depth will have ' to be supplied by newcomers from the ; freshmen squad of last season.
I** Catcher Ed Wojcik is back from the 1958 team and will make that position >. solid.
. At first base John Caretta, a parttime starter last spring, and Bob Broem-mel will battle it out for the starting spot. Third base and shortstop are wide open with no definite candidates set for either position. Sophomore Carl Yas-tremski has an edge in the shortstop slot.
In the outfield Duffy is the only sure starter. The other two outfield spots are ‘ up for grabs, with sophomore Chuck . Lennon and junior Tod Darrow the leading candidates.
The fall practice is used by Coach Kline to pick his traveling squad for i, the annual southern tour in the spring ’ from the returning lettermen, new pros. pects and top sophomores. Most of these ■ players are still in peak condition from playing summer ball and Kline has opportunity to view them at midseason - form. This fall practice will be especially valuable because of the big re? building job Coach Kline is faced with.
The prospects for the 1959 season are dim, but Kline stated that “we were faced with the same problem last season and look how far we went.”
TIME OUT
ARMY DRILL TEAM
The Army ROTC Drill Team will perform between the halves of tomorrow’s Army-Notre Dame football game. The team, composed of sophomores and juniors for this performance, is under the command of Capt. Michael Fucci USA and drilled by Cadet Maj. Hugh Murphy of New York, N. Y.
From around suppertime Thursday, October 2, until the same time . the next evening, rain fell in Dallas in a constant drizzle. Even after it stopped, the sun did not come out and Saturday’s entire game was played under overcast skies. The field in the Cotton Bowl had been covered with . a tarpaulin all during the rain so that the field was dry for the football game. .
With the temperature in the low 60’s all afternoon and the playing surface dry, SMU’s decision to run the ball for the better part of the first half seems just a little incomprehensible. In Don Meredith, a 6-3,194-pound junior quarterback, the Mustangs have last year’s best collegiate passer.
But Coach Bill Meek of the Mustangs decided to try a ground offense against the Irish. SMU had the ball for 24 offensive plays in the first half, 18 of which came before the Notre Dame touchdown scored by Bill Mack with less than three minutes to play in the half.	:
14 GROUND PLAYS
Of the 18 plays before the Irish score, 14 were ground plays and only on four occasions did SMU throw the ball. In the last three minutes of the half, however, the Mustangs passed or attempted to pass on all six of their plays. Then in the second half, SMU passed or attempted to pass on twelve of the eighteen plays from scrimmage.
It is obvious from these statistics that Coach Meek had instructed his team to run with the ball until the Irish scored, and the ground attack pounded out 76 yards in the 14 attempts which shows that the ground of- -fense was far from futile. But the second half showed that the Irish had caught up with the ground offense. Excluding the 44-yard TD run of Tirey Wilemon, they had a net total of minus five yards rushing in the second half.
With the weighty Notre Dame defensive line in front of them, the ques--tion is: Why did SMU run at all? There seems to be a couple of plausible :. reasons. One, the Mustangs wanted to test the Irish rushing defense with their two fleet halfbacks, Tirey Wilemon and Glynn Gregory. Two, they -wanted to surprise the Irish in much the same manner as did Lennie Dawson of Purdue here two years ago. Dawson, an outstanding passer, crossed the Irish up with a devastating ground attack and threw very few passes all day.
BOTH REASONS VALID
It looks as though both reasons may have entered into the decision to run, and both reasons are sound. If SMU had beaten the Irish, Mede and . Meredith would have looked good with the ground offense, but, as it is, the Mustangs may have done better with a constant passing attack against an ; Irish pass defense which was conceding the short passes, those up to 15 yards.
Even if the Irish defense would stiffen and break up the ten and fifteen- ~ ■ yard passes once the Mustangs crossed the 20-yard line, at least SMU . would be keeping the Irish deep in their own territory when they relinquished control of the ball. With passers like Meredith and Billy Dunn, this looks - -like it would have been a smarter offense. .
This brings up the topic which allows such a conclusion to be drawn— Don Meredith. Many times in the spread formation, which Meredith em- ' ployed often in the second half, he would stand behind the line with no ? backfield blockers. He was forced to pass in the face of the onrushing ; ? < Notre Dame linemen. Yet this 6-3 junior completed eight of 14 passes for ~ 101 yards even though he was forced to leave the game twice because of in- - ' juries. Meredith showed himself to be a truly great passing quarterback behind a relatively light and inexperienced Mustang line.	.. .
IRISH BLOCKING STILL POOR	<
If the Irish expect to continue winning, they will have to improve their offensive blocking considerably. How much of their ineptness can be at- - ; tributed to the new one-arm blocking rule is hard to say. But often last -Saturday Irish ball carriers, especially fullback Nick Pietrosante, Ind to .< fight their way past the SMU defenders almost completely unaided. While \ S the passing attack and the rushing offense improved last Saturday over the Saturday before, the lack of crisp sure blocking showed that the Irish '■ have a lot of work before them.—T.T.	■- >.
October 10, 1958
The Week Before
by Greg Rogers
The day after a football game brings with it the usual Sunday quarterbacking among the students, but the real Sunday quarterbacking takes place in a small room in the basement of Breen-Phillips Hall. At one p.m. on Sunday afternoons, Head Football Coach Terry Brennan meets with his assistant coaches to view the films of the previous day’s game. At this meeting, the individual Irish players are graded for their performances in the game and this information is recorded.
Later in the afternoon, the coaches view the films of Notre Dame’s next opponent. The team is evaluated and the coaches begin to formulate their plans for the practice sessions during the coming week. Before the conference ends, the coaches hear the scouting report on their ensuing opponent’s previous game.
At eight a.m. Monday, Brennan again meets with the assistant coaches in his office on the first floor of Breen-Phillips to discuss how they will solve the problem of determining offensive and defensive patterns for the coming game. This conference is interrupted only by a short recess for lunch and continues until about a half-hour before the team reports for practice.
Practice on Mondays is usually limited to a light workout which lasts approximately an hour. Before taking the field, Brennan briefs the team on the changes in the offensive and defensive patterns. The workout includes calisthenics and a preliminary check-out of the plans to meet the threat of the coming opponent. All workouts include some punting and place-kicking practice.
Tuesday and Wednesday are the tough days for the squad. Individual contact work is usually emphasized according to how much is needed. The injuries that the team has sustained as a whole in the previous game govern the amount of contact work.
By this time, the coaches are decided on what the team must do in order to be ready for the coming game and in Tuesday’s conference, two coaches copy down the plans for the practice sessions and this information is mimeographed and given to the players prior to Tuesday’s workout. After the contact work the members of the team are separated into offensive and defensive units and the patterns for the coming Saturday are worked out. These sessions last about two hours.
On Thursdays the workout is usually an hour long with emphasis on sharpening-the offensive and defensive forma
22
tions. After the squad has showered, a written test is administered to the players covering each one’s assignment on each play pattern.
Unless the team is on the road, there is no workout on Friday. If the team is away from Notre Dame, Brennan holds a 15-minute workout to loosen up the players after the plane trip. Most
COACH TERRY BRENNAN
Explains play diagram
of the Friday team meeting is spent ironing out all the mistakes and misunderstandings on Thursday’s test.
At nine a.m. on Saturday, whether at home or on the road, the team and coaches attend Mass and receive Holy Communion in a body. When the team is at home, the Mass is held in Dillon Hall Chapel with the team chaplain, Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., officiating. At noon the team reports to the locker room at the Stadium where they are taped for added protection by trainer Gene Pasz-kiet and suit up for the game. About a half-hour before the kick-off, the squad takes to the field for their pregame warm-up. This includes calisthenics, punting, extra-point tries, passing and running through plays.
About 15 minutes before game time, the team returns to the clubhouse for their final preparation for the game. According to Coach Brennan, this is the time of greatest tension for the team. The coaches go over last minute details and double check assignments with the players.
Many students and fans think that Brennan gives a pep talk at this point, but he states that “in many situations,
a few words at the right time might fire | up the team to a high pitch, but, on I the whole games are won by knowing 4 what to do and that is what we try to | show them during the week prior to the particular* game.”	-	T
During the game, the coaches on the 5 bench receive additional information £ from assistant coaches Hank Stram in S the press box and Bernie Witucki in the / end zone. Several Polaroid shots are taken of the opponents defensive formations for the halftime conference. The . coaches meet with the quarterbacks first for about five minutes and then with the £ rest of the team to point out first half 5; mistakes and to make any necessary J changes in the Irish patterns for the sec- | ond half.
With the final gun the week’s work is J over, but Sunday afternoon begins a new week of preparation.	f,
-	sS
Cross Country Team I Entertains Marquette |
Notre Dame’s cross country team en- | tertains Marquette today to kick off the g 1958 season. The dual meet begins at s four p.m over the four - mile Burke J Memorial Golf Course layout. Starting $ point is the eighth green.	S
The Irish harriers captured last year’s g dual meet with the Warriors, 19-36.	?
Notre Dame Coach Alex Wilson is 4
e building this year’s squad around the K three returnees from last year’s NCAA § championship team, Captain Mike Ha-verty, Dave Cotton, and Galen Cawley. Haverty is a senior; the other two are-: juniors.
Non-lettermen on the squad are seniors John Buch and Bud Doha, and soph-|v
omores Ron Gregory, Dan Rorke, Dennis^) Johnston, Dave Wehlage, Charles Fer-W. nald, Terry Leonard, and Chris Mona-g han.	||
Wilson stated that the team was defi- gi nitely hurt by the loss of last year’s 3 Captain Ed Monnelly, plus four other 3 lettermen. The success of this year’s^ team will be determined by the per- a formances of the large group of sopho-g mores, several of whom show good 1 promise.
On Nov. 24, the Irish will defend their NCAA championship at East Lansing, a Mich. The other big meet on the sched- 3 ule is the IC4A meet in New York on 1 Nov. 17.	I
A week from today, Oct. 17, Indiana | will host the Irish at Bloomington, Ind., 1 and on Oct. 24 the Burke Memorial course will be the scene of an invitational with Michigan, Central Michigan, J Western Michigan, Loyola of Chicago, q and Bowling Green competing.	3
Nov. 1 the Notre Dame runners will g get a look at the NCAA course when I they travel to East Lansing, Mich., for | a triangular affair with Michigan State * and Wisconsin. The next- week they will compete in the Big State Meet at Indianapolis on Nov. 7.
The Scholasti
Cadets
, (Continued from page 11) posedly a weak spot this year, but Joe Caldwell, a junior who saw little action last year, has handled Dave Bourland’s old job very adequately. He has a ' reputation as a great passer and is often regarded as the best Army passer since , Pete Vann. The threat of Caldwell’s * passes keeps the opponent from concentrating too heavily on the Cadet’s ' strong rushing attack.
! If the Black Knights have a weakness, lack of experience and depth in the line is it. Only one member of last year’s starting line is back, guard Bob Novo-x gratz. But judging from the manner in which the Cadets have mauled their opponent’s defense, the new linemen have learned their jobs quickly.
The top ends are Don Usry and Bob Carpenter. Carpenter is Caldwell’s favorite receiver. Standouts among the tackles are Ed Bagdonas and Maurice ( Hilliard. Novogratz’s running mate at guard is Al Vanderbush. Center is possibly the weakest spot where ex-guard | Bill Rowe has shifted to fill graduated << Jim Kernan’s vacancy.
Army has the offensive weapons to attack with this year and Coach Blaik, realizing this, has promised “a more _j open game” than his teams traditionally ’ play. The Cadet backfield includes power at fullback in the person of Harry Wallers, the threat of Caldwell’s passing, plus the new “touchdown twins,” Anderson and Dawkins. This quartet will scare even the most formidable opponent.
But in the end the test of Army’s success as a .football team is whether or . not their manpower is sufficient to withstand 60 minutes of rugged play against a first-class opponent. Last year the thrilling 23-21 upset of Army by Notre Dame was the result of the greater depth of the Irish. Colonel Blaik’s big problem is still manpower.
< Sailing Team Opens Season; Drop Regattas
Notre Dame’s sailing team, weakened by heavy losses through graduation, finished fifth and foui-th in two major sailing regattas the past two week ends.
Sept. 27 and 28 at the Wayne State Invitational Regatta at Orchard Lake, Mich., the Irish took fifth place behind Michigan, Detroit, Wisconsin, and Wooster. Wayne, Ohio State, and Oberlin trailed Notre Dame in the point totals.
Racing was done in strong air in 19-foot Y-class sloops. In the “B” division । Notre Dame skipper Mickey Pavia took high point honors with 51 points. Commodore Joe Boland and Dan Schuster did the sailing in the “A” division.
The Irish hosted the Notre Dame Fall Invitational Regatta at Eagle Lake, Mich., Oct. 4 and 5. Again plagued by inexperience, the Irish sailors could finish no higher than fourth in the six-school competition.
The breezes were so strong on Saturday. that racing had to be suspended
October IO, 1958
N. D. Cogers Hold First Session Wednesday, Hawkins and Duffy Head List of Returnees
Notre Dame’s basketball team begins practice next Wednesday Oct. 15 in preparation for the opening game against Bellarmine on Dec. 3. Coach Johnny Jordan has just three lettermen back from last year’s NCAA tournament entry which lost to Kentucky, the eventual champion, in the quarter-finals. Last year’s Irish finished with a 24 won, five lost record.
Coach Jordan’s biggest job in the first few weeks of practice will be to find replacements for last season’s cocaptains, Bob Devine and John McCarthy. Devine set an all-time Notre Dame record by starting 81 consecutive games during his three year career and scored over 1000 points. McCarthy was a big factor in the Irish scoring attack with an average just under 20 points per game and was also a top rebounder.
Others lost from last year’s squad were reserves Ed Gleason, a guard, and Jim Williams and Lee Ayotte, forwards.
Jordan plans to build his squad around returning lettermen Tom Hawkins, Gene Duffy, and Tom Reinhart, all seniors. Hawkins and Duffy are the co-captains and both are returning starters. Hawkins set a single season scoring record last year with 730 points in 29 games, an average of 25.2 points per game. Duffy, while not a high scorer, is valuable as a play maker, setting up his teammates for easy goals with his passing.
Reinhart was a starter in the early part of last season and continued as a top reserve in the second half of the schedule. He is a good rebounder and can score regularly in double figures.
Mike Graney, who started the last half of the season, will not be available for practice until after the football season and probably won’t see much action until after Christmas.
Others on whom Jordan is counting for help are Mike Ireland, Mike Farrell, Emmett McCarthy, all on the forward line, and Mike Bekelja and Bob Bradtke, both backcourt men. Three men up from last year’s freshmen squad will be depended on for depth. They are John Tully, a center, and Bill Noonan and Bill Crosby, both guards.
In the first two weeks of practice Jordan will devote most of his time and efforts to finding the replacements needed at guard and forward. He stated that
temporarily. On Sunday the wind diminished, and the regatta was completed without further interruption. Boland and Pavia skippered for the Irish while Schuster, John Gaffney, Jack Devanney, and John Millei- served as crews.
Indiana’s Hoosiers won the regatta with Wisconsin and Michigan trailing them.
Remaining for the Irish are regattas at Wisconsin and Purdue and after them the Timme Angsten eliminations.
the jobs are wide open and there will be plenty of competition for the starting berths. He will use a “trial and error” method to find the right man for the two slots.
The squad will start right in with a full scale practice period. The players are expected to report in shape and ready for a scrimmage the first session. Jordan plans to run one-on-one offensive and defensive drills to determine the offensive and defensive weaknesses of the players. Then he will hold half-court scrimmages to sharpen the teamwork and execution of his basic offensive patterns.
At the end of the half-court scrimmage, which will usually be about a half hour in length, Jordan will begin a full-court session. For the first few days this will only be a ten minute scrimmage, but it will gradually be increased to the point where the team is going at top speed for the regulation game time (40 minutes).
Again this year the Irish .will be using the one-three-one offense. Hawkins will be the deep man under the basket, moving out to either side for shots. Reinhart will be on top of the free throw lane with Duffy bringing the ball up court and setting up the plays. The two outside men will try to feed Hawkins or drive in for close shots.
Prospects for a successful season are very good. Coach Jordan is optimistic about his team’s chances for as good a year as last season. However, he does point out that the Irish have their usual rugged schedule. “We play six Big Ten teams for a total of eight games and none of these teams is a pushover. We also play North Carolina twice and Kentucky, and Army is on our schedule for the first time.”
The Irish have been invited to compete in the annual Bluegrass Festival at Louisville, Ky., on Dec. 19-20. In this tournament Northwestern, North Carolina, and Louisville University will be competing. The Irish are again entered in the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis, Ind., on Dec. 26-27.
COLD VACCINE GIVEN MONDAY
The newly developed cold vaccine will be given to all those students with parental permission Monday night. The innoculations will be given in rooms 1A and IB in the Student Center beginning at 7 p.m. Students will be innoculated by halls; complete information will be posted on the hall bulletin boards along with a list of those students with permissions. Any dis-crepencies may be straightened out with Dan Cullen in 228 Walsh.
23
Grace Captures Open With Blistering Finish
Tom Grace, a freshman from Lathrup Village, Mich., shot an unbelievable 30 on the final nine holes to win the annual
K3DL ANSWER
P
P A
E L
P A s
10 330
□000
EMIR TIRE
N
[PlOP
io ni3B2ann00 0320 00
100 000
320230 23313
ITlNlTl
□□U
3M00B3ZJQ2
I
RlElD
1000 00233000
01
J_A ON
IB 200
■A C R E
■teiam
Swi+ch -from Mots ■io Snow Fresh KGDL
Notre Dame Open golf tournament last Sunday. Grace, with a sensational exhibition of putting skill, shot a two-over-par 286 for the 72-hole tournament.
Runner-up with 288 was Jim Kennedy. Kennedy entered the final 18 holes tied with Grace. He shot a fine 37-33—70 on the final round but it was not good enough to beat Grace who went out in 38 and then came surging from behind with his five under par 30.
Grace’s total for the first round of competition held on September 28, plus last Saturday’s round was 147. On Sunday he had a 71 for the first 18 holes followed by a three-under-par 68 final round. This 68 included seven birdies.
Third place went to Frank Hund who finished the 72 holes with a 298 total, ten strokes back of Kennedy. George Mack, who led the’tournament after the first 36 holes,- skied to an 81 in Sunday morning’s round and finished in fourth place with 303.
The tournament was originally scheduled to end on Sunday, October 12, but
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., the No-^ tre Dame golf coach, decided to finish ill last Sunday because of perfect weather; conditions and interference with the/ Army week end.
TOM GRACE AND JIM KENNEDY f Runner-up watches Open champ putt
use
Iv
^5
PrE-ELECTRIC SHAVE MOTION

to get a bettor shave!


PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
Quicker ... closer .. . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tax
SHULTON NswYork • Toronto
24
The Scholastic
. Music Teacher (Continued from page 15) ' Recognizing this necessity for a * more diversified training than that of . the classroom, Bastien has previously ’ taken posts which involved him in a working experience in music and a practical application in musical princi-pies. In his home town he served for f three years as accompanist and coach I for the Portland Civic Association. At । a summer session of the Music Academy I of the West held in Santa Barbara, Bastien once again profited from association with a great figure of the music world in his capacity as accompanist for the opera and lieder singer, Lotte Lehmann. ! While in California he also gave a concert with the Santa Barbara Symphony.
And so it is obvious from this impres-k sive cumulative background that Bastien J comes to Notre Dame in the role not J only of piano teacher and class profes-| sor, but also—and this is perhaps more 5» significant for the student body—as a ) concert performer. He has already been presented in recitals in Saint Mary’s Lit-| tie Theater last wintei- and at a campus concert in July, his real position at the | University having commenced at the be-■ ginning of the summer sessions. His teaching during the academic year con-V sists of an undergraduate class entitled A Survey of Piano Literature, a course ' not previously taught at the University, ' in which representative works for solo ‘ piano are studied the first semester, and the available piano concertos for the second. In addition, he will teach piano ! to advanced students, occupying the place held last year by Dr. Artau.
Next Thursday evening, October 16, ‘ at St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium, Bastien will give his first concert of the year; it will be open to the general pubs lie, and admission is free. This will also be the first big musical event of the season and it promises to be an exceedingly enjoyable one. With the local musicians* union Per Musica Orchestra, he will | play one of the more brilliant and popu-. lar piano concertos, the Mendelssohn No.
1 in G minor. Mendelssohn spoke of this j concerto as “a thing quickly thrown off,” ! and the phrase aptly describes the character of the work. It is a sparkling re; flection of the vigor and happiness of Mendelssohn’s youth, and though some | may complain of a lack of depth or label ► it one of the composer’s lesser works, ■ there is no doubt that its brightness and i vivacity have particular appeal for the audiences of today. At any rate, it is
4 REQUIEM MASS THURSDAY
A requiem Mass will be said for the repose of Rev. James Smith, ‘ Thursday, 5:10 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Father Smith, long a member of the Religion department, passed away before school opened. All students are invited to attend the Mass.
the product of a virtuoso, and as such, it is a taxing and difficult work, requiring the clear and-precise technique that Bastien most surely possesses. This concert will later be repeated at Notre Dame.
The Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., head of the Music Department, has given us a tempting glimpse of what to expect in the line of concerts and recitals in the future — among the prospects are a presentation of the Liszt Second Piano Concerto in A major, a solo piano recital, and in March a performance of the ever-populai’ Concerto No. 2 in C minor of Rachmaninoff, to be presented in conjunction with the Elkhart Symphony Orchestra. The SCHOLASTIC will report the dates, times, and places, along with any other necessary information concerning these concerts in later issues. Notre Dame is indeed fortunate in its acquisition of this young artist, and we hope that Bastien’s association with the University will be satisfying and long-lasting.
Handball Club
There will be a meeting for all those interested in joining the Handball Club on Wednesday evening, October 15th, in the study lounge of Badin Hall. The meeting will be at 7 p.m. and all interested participants are urged to attend.
Circle Juniors Conduct Who's Who Nominations
Nominations have been opened for the annual Who’s Who list. Final selections will be made by a committee of juniors in the Blue Circle under the chairmanship of Dick Corbett. All seniors and graduate students in their last year are eligible.
Anyone may enter their own name or that of a qualified student in nomination. Accompanying the name, there should be some mention of the nominee’s extra-curricular activities. All names are to be mailed to Dick Corbett, 5 Pangbom Hall. Letters must be postmarked no later than midnight Friday, Oct. 17.
The purpose of this honorary selection is to choose men who will be representative of Notre Dame among the students throughout the nation. The group selected will appear in this year’s edition of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.
The emphasis is on a cross-section of the student body and the committee is interested in those students who have distinguished themselves by scholarship and extra-curricular activity. Results are expected to be announced about the middle of November.
Theater Ticket Drive Begins Next Week for '58-'59 Season
The University Theater subscription drive opens Monday and runs until Friday. The box office in Washington Hall will be open from 3:30 until 8:30 pan. on each of these days.
Student rates for a season ticket to the three productions are $2.50 for the orchestra and $2 for the balcony. The plays will be given on the evenings of Wednesday through Sunday, inclusive. Season ticket holders have the same seat on the same night for each of the three productions. Some subscriptions have already been sold, but many are still available.
The cast for the first production, A Hatful of Rain, has been selected and rehearsals are in progress. The play is the story of a drug addict who became addicted while undergoing medical treatment.	■
The production will be staged Nov. 12 through 16 and stars Joe Harrington as Johnny Pope, the addict. His wife, Celia Pope, is played by Betsy Finnegan, while Jim Cooney has the role of his brother, Polo.
John Pope, Sr., will be played by Lee Lagessie and the dope peddlers are portrayed by Rudy Hornish, Jerry Dodge, and John Smith.
Trip Ticket Sales Scheduled Monday for Pittsburgh Game
Tickets for the senior trip will go on sale Monday and Tuesday from 7 until 10 pan. in the service bar of the La Fortune Student Center.
The trip will be to the Pittsburgh game on Nov. 8. The group will leave' the campus Friday afternoon preceding the game, and arrive in Pittsburgh around midnight. They will leave for school Sunday night and be back in time for Monday morning classes.
The price of $27 includes a game ticket, hotel reservations for two nights, and bus transportation.
There are two mixers and other activities planned with girls from Mount Mercy College, according to Chairman Joseph O’Connor.
Junior Moot Court to Open Competition Thursday Evening
The first round of the 1958-59 junior Moot Court competition will be held in the Law Building next Thursday evening at 8 pan. The case, which is the same as the one used in the national competition, involves the right of a corporation to spend money in an attempt to influence a federal election.
The Moot Court program enables law students to develop skills in arguing cases on appeal. The law school invites all Notre Dame students to. attend the arguments.
25
October 10, 1958
Bach Paijc
by MIKE HALPIN
Although everyone on campus is affected by student government, not everyone understands what it is — and I don’t mean what it does or how it works, but rather the full nature and significance of the term; the whole idea of student government, what it can mean, what it ought to be, and where the present differs from the ideal, not only in setup, but in outlook and objectives.
At present, and for the past few years, there has been much discussion of these matters, with students demanding accounts of their representatives, and often expressing dissatisfaction: and the representatives either countering with accusations, defending their policies, or admitting failures and promising amelioration.
It appears to me that this seemingly never-ending joust has been fought, in most cases, on entirely the wrong ground, and that the issues involved have too often not been the central, or at least the largest and ultimate ones.
The first area of misunderstanding is in the concept of what student government is. We are presented continually with attempts at definition by various members of student government, as they justify their thinking and programming to each other and the Student body. But too often the framers of these definitions consider the subject only in terms of structures, or of operational organizations, or of specific groups of projects and areas of responsibility.
These definitions and re-definitions have led to an increasingly effective student government within certain areas where student activity is presently concentrated. But, because they have, in general, not been comprehensive enough, they have tended to limit the growth and expansion of student government by confining it to these areas.
These limited concepts are reflected in the ideas of the student body, for • most of the Students also think of student government as a small organization, principally the Seriate, which operates in certain specific areas, the boundaries of which are pretty well known.
This idea of student government has some validity; it is accurate, in a sense, and for many cases it will suffice. I think a larger definition is needed, however; one that will include the first, but not absorb it, and which will be separate from. it. The need for extension and refinement of the concept of student government on this campus has been felt for some time, especially with regard to the determination of the natures, places,
26
and objectives of various organizations in or connected with it.
The key difficulty lies in the word “government.” The students, within the past ten years, approved that term and voted, as well, to change the name of the campus representative organization from Student Council to Student Senate. There are many good reasons for the terms “Senate” and “government,” but among their drawbacks is the fact that they tend to limit, at least by connotation, the concept of student government to a small group that meets once a week, and to limit the idea of its spheres of operation to those matters immediately administrated by the Senate itself.
Any discussion of student government will soon reveal the fallaciousness of these limited views, for it is apparent that many non-legislative and non-rep-resentative organizations are currently included in student government, and its areas of operation include far more than just the things immediately dealt with by the Senate. To exclude them would be to reduce student government to complete ineffectiveness.
The Student Senate’s role then, is not always to be the student government, but to supervise it. This includes overseeing and coordinating many organizations and activities which are not directly or essentially dependent upon the Senate at all. There will be times, of course, when the Senate is the student government in a very real and literal sense; but there will be other times when its function is to advise, coordinate, assist, approve, or serve. And in these latter situations can be seen the clear cut need for a more comprehensive concept of what student government is.
Student government, it would seem, is the students organized.
This definition, while very general, can also be very close to the true nature of the issue when fully understood. It must, of course, be elaborated. To qualify the word “organized” would only restrict the definition unnecessarily. Bather, the key word is “students,” and this brings us down to the root of the problem: the place and purpose of student government in context, that is, in this particular educational community. For, needless to say, since all activities here derive their being from the fact that there is a university here in the first place, then any particular aspect of student life can have validity and meaning only in terms of the purposes and objectives of the educational community, insofar as it furthers or fulfills these objectives.
the student
organize
Where then, does student organizati fit in? Dennis Shaul, student body pres^g dent, in a Scholastic article last weer^R touched on the idea, though in different! terms, in referring to “a field totally its (student government’s) own ... a sphei ... in which ... it is agreed by both administration and students that stu-dents can do the best job ...” Job, asjj stated above, must apply to some func-J tion of the educational process.
This definition points up the raison d'etre for co-curricular activities. There^ are, among the benefits to be derived from an education, certain things which g the administration and faculty cannot best provide of themselves. Therefore,^ student organization is called for.
The students, as organized, exist forp an educational purpose, (this is not to| be confused with a Strictly academic pur-^ pose) for unless student organization can be included under some phase of the educational process, it would exist onlyj^ outside the educational community.
This organization necessarily entails political organization. Further, given all ® the various areas, under the one broad area of the educational process, within which the students might operate, some central, co-ordinating, all-embracing, and~ therefore all-representative, organization is necessary. This is the Student Senate.
The Senate then, is responsible for many areas of activity of the students^ organized. But it certainly does not comprise the whole of the students organized. No on organization could, short of the student body itself.
The’ question boils down to a clarification of all our thoughts about the term “student government,” and possible redefinition of that term. If student gov ernment is to include more than just the Senate and a couple of closely related organizations, then we must quickly draw and illuminate a line of distinction, to prevent the confusion and retardation that has been caused in the past by mistaking the merely political and social parts of “student government” for the whole of it.
But if the term is to be limited to its more literal meaning, then it should 1 apply only to the Student Senate, and ' another term should be coined to apply to all the various non-legislative, but still valid and effective forms of Student organization, many of which have fully as great a priority in this community as the Senate, by virtue of the close identity of their raisons d’etre with those of the University.
Some clarifications regarding the dis-Turn back to page 19)
The Scholastic
You're always ready for a date...
thanks to Arrow
Wash and Wear
Your timing is as neat as your appearance when the shirt is a new Arrow Wash and Wear. No waiting for the laundry. Just suds— drip-dry—and you’re ready to go! Economical, too . . . your allowance goes further.
Carefully tailored by Arrow of 100% cotton oxford and broadcloth. Choice of collar styles in whites, stripes, checks, solids. $4.00
, up. Underwear by Arrow, too.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
Choose your color! Choose your style!
—from our Arrow Wash and Wear selection
Pick the new Arrow Wash and Wear shirt that’s just right for you—from our wide selection of collar styles, colors and fabrics. Tab, Pin-Tab and Glen button-down collars; smart new checks and stripes, handsome solid colors and whites—all in 100% cotton, broadcloth or oxford.
Stop in today while the selection is still ample! $4.00 up.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS , Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend
menthol fresh rich tobacco taste modern filter, too
As refreshing as the trickle of water down a mossy rock is the taste of a Salem. For through its pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest, cleanest taste in cigarettes. Rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness. Smoke refreshed, pack after pack. Get Salem by the carton!
'	Created by K. J. Reynolds Tobacco Comnany