
Noyember, 198'.2 


_Now Wit:L 
11

Sir R· 
(from I 

/chard's
eft to •
,.,9,.tJ 
SoeNI LQorQ ;tthews 
Soe p Qsore ,. PQo/ QrPQrf ornre,-1y ofJ: Jones 

(l'lhich is 'lllntand Pert, out of bu . ornrance
Th siness) 
• ft• e" J .

"''Ch o,,.,
I 
• So Codde 
277-0734 e Oicker5~
5 & ~ir 1Richar s 11 

NEW HOURS: PERSONALIZED HAIR DESIGNS Monday thru Frida 9_8 .. for me_n and w~_men Saturday 8_/ V1s1! Our Location at 417 DIXleway North m Roseland across from Wendy's 






((A Complete Floral Shop'' 
Show Your Student ID and get 10% off your purchase. 
Where: 409 Dixie Way N. (Across from Wendy's) 

Phone: 272-6363 
Hours: Mon-Fri 9-5:30 Sat 9-5:00 

~~~~g&0 llosel:nd ~~ \(~ Aquatics
\: L._, 
Fresh and Salt Water Fish Live Aquarium Plants Aquariums and Supplies 
10% off Fish and dry goods (excluding feeder goldfish) with ND/SMC Student I.D. 

(Thru November 30th. Must have valid I.D.) 




-½ OFF­
ALL PHOTO-DEVELOPING 
Reg. Student 12-color prints + developing C-126 $4.40 $2.20 24-color prints + developing C-110 $8.12 $4.06 36-color prints+ developing C-135 $12.32 $6.16 
QUALITY PHOTO-TECH DEVELOPING IN MATTE OR GLOSSY FINISH
-
415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 277-4862 

~ "P\Jituw.d St\btU d C--,r.1iliot Puett.. i!1111J1C
~ 
~OSELAND..PHARMACY 
40~ Q,.,, Way H°ortl'l IU S 'l1JRonland 272~060 





SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 124, No. 4, November 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 2 John Gardner: Lover in the Bestiary 
A tribute ... Prof. Eileen T. Bender · 
4 Academic Life Isn't Antisocial 

Dome life ... Bill Cavanaugh 
4 Looking Out to See In 

Comparing Georgetown to N.D. .. Tom Cushing 
8 The Unnatural and Incomplete Act 
The question of premarital sex .. Laurie Giunti 
9 The Catholic Family 

The Pope speaks out ... Janet Drobinske 
11 Alcohol's Place at Notre Dame 
Why do we drink? ... Brian P. Couch 
14 The Dance: A Lost Art 
Raiders of the Lost Art? . . . Kathleen M. Curran 
page 11 

18 Movie Review: The French Lieutenant's Woman 
A screenplay . . . Charles D. Ignacio 
24 The Creation of a Book 
Inside the Juniper Press . . . Evelyn Venables 
26 Avoiding an Education 
Avoiding Arts and Letters? . . . Jim Hennigan 
REGULARS 12 Photo Essay/Flashback 16 Gallery Dan Price 20 Perspective/From Stereotypes to Friendship Theresa Kloska 22 Poetry 25 Books/A Modern day Fairy Tale Pat Pitz 27 Culture Update · 28 Fiction/Dome Air Jeb Cashin 32 The Last Word · Beth Healy 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic arc those of the authors and editors oi Scholastic 
page 14 

and do not necessarily represent the .opinions of the entire st,1ff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazi,;c is represented for national advertising by National Educational Aclvertisi11g Services and CASS StudPnt Advertising. Inc. l'ublislwd · monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic. is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 4655G. Tlw subsrription r,1te is $7.00 a yc.ir and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright <D 1982 Scholastic I ,111 rights reserved / none oi the contents may be repro­
duced without permission. 


NOVEMBER, 1982 

John Gardner: Lover in the Bestiary 
Because he was a gifted mentor, critic, and colleague, those of us who were patrons, students, and readers and who profess to study literature now mourn the passing of John Gardner. In recent years, we have seen him as playful and eccentric, finding ourselves actually as well as figuratively in his path as he roared past on his motorcycle, a leather­jacketed white-maned Viking, a troll of a man. Gardner was a quirky and brilliant writer-in-residence. 
Like the child in us, he loved mon­sters. Given the chance to know Beowulf, he felt obligated to intro­duce us to Grendel and did so with compassionate and serious intent. Throughout his life, he showed a mordant conception of the academic bestiary, but exploited it not as a target of satire but as a realm of possible transcendence and transfor­mation. In one of his later novels, a trendy academician, lionized, towers 9ver the crowding jackals; yet, only pages later, forces mass in the cruel weather to numb and chill him, im­prisoning him in the ramshackle lair of a reclusive ancient historian and his grotesque, gigantic son. The re­sult is the monster-child's brilliantly imagined vision of prehistory, Fred­dy's Book; the erstwhile scholar-hero is marvelously reduced to a lillipu­
tian agent and conveyance. 
Gardner frequently articulated his 
thoughtful and original critical 
views. He read his contemporaries 
with sensitivity and unusual objec­
tivity. If his On Moral Fiction 
seemed anachronistic, it had the vir­
tue of bringing Tolstoy into the 
battle of the books. He produced 
other long critical pieces which make 
delightful reading, whatever their 
other merits. His study of Chaucer's 
life was praised but-also drew charges 
of plagiarism. Disturbed, he coun­
tered with partial refutation. Gard­
ner finally dealt with the accusation 
in the way he knew best, in the "ac­
knowledgments" that preface what 

by Professor Eileen Bender 
was to be his last novel, lvlickelsson's Glwsts. With deadpan wit, he cites every major modern thinker who might conceivably have furnished his own mind with ideas ripe for fiction. It is a romp, and he outdistances his hounds. 
That last novel treats the rich and 
bewildering experi'ence of another academic hero, serving time as a philosopher-king in Gardner's own residence, SUNY-Binghamton. Mick­elsson's Ghosts is a spacious and ammtious novel, much-maligned and perhaps even willfully misread. The hero is not, as Gardner was, a member of the "Anguish" depart­ment, but a teacher of classic phi­losophy, a fitting alter ego for his creator. Yet he is even more ab-· sorbed in reconstructing a home for himself in the Endless Mountains nearby, a place crowded with ghosts from personal history and a com­. munal past. Mickelsson brings down the house almost literally in a pri­mordial struggle with a maddened and fanatic colleague; resilient, he survives whatever life sends him: university and community politics, spectral visitations, and . a rising 
chorus of creditors and claimants. 
The novel is remarkable for its 
classroom scenes, where the life of 
the. mind seems vivid and real. Stu­
dents-ingenuous, disrespectful, pas­
sive, half-baked, arrogant, fragile, 
willing to take all manner of risks­
are the novel's real heroines and he­
roes. Mickelsson's Ghosts, for all of 
its preoccupation with the intellec­
tual and historical past, is a love­
piece for the young. Amazingly, no 
critic has yet remarked about the 
novel's illustrations: a group of su­
perb .and evocative nature photo­
graphs by Gardner's son. 

Interestingly-and, from our van­
tage point, a chilling note-the ec­
centric and careless Mickelsson risks 
his own charmed life in. the winding 
and treacherous roads between the 
SUNY campus and the Endless Moun­
tains. He is given a reprieve by his 
author to salvage his unspent re­
sources as teacher, lover, and father. 
Surviving, John Gardner's agent­
provocateur gives us a way to re­
membee and mourn his gifted vi­
sionary creator, and muse at life's 
uncanny mimicry of art. D 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
1982-1983 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Beth Healy 
GENERAL MANAGER_ 
Pat Pitz 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Sheila Beatty 
News/Sports Editor 
Dan McGrath 
Photo Editor 
Mike Delany 
SI. Mary's Editor 
Tara Jones 
Copy Editors 
Tom Wrobel 
Julie Wodarcyk 
Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 
. Distribution Manager Michael Meeks 
.· Business. Manager 
Jim Dever · 
Layout Editor 
Charles G. van Ravenswaay 
Art Editor 
. Tarii"cra Mams 
Staff 
Mitch -Werner, Denise Blank, -Jane 
Kopp, Amy Spatz, Brendan Miggins, . To111 Sapp, Jim Hennigan, Mara Dun~ _ worth, John. O'Connor· 
Advisor: 
Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. 



CREDITS 
• Ph~to C:redits: 
p: 
4; 10, 11, 29, John Co'stello; p. 5, 8, Steve Xaine; p. 14, 15, 21,tvlike · Leary; p. 4, 24, 32, Mike Delany; 


p. 12; 13, _21, . Scholastic Archives; 

Cover; 


Sd1olastic Notables 

The cover of the October issue. Alas, there are worms in our apple. For the record, the proper spellings for the misspelled names are: Bru­nelleschi, Buddha, Bunyan, Caesar, Cervantes, Cicero, Fra Angelico, Gandhi, Heidegger, Kafka, Pythag­oras, Rubens, Thales, and Vespa­sian. 
Dear Editor: 
The recent issue of the Scholastic (October, 1982) which is devoted to the issue of liberal education dis­plays a striking cover by Marc DeJong which is in the style of the more stylish covers of the New Yorker. The intriguing design of an apple formed by the names of the great men of the civilized world (I don't think there were any women mentioned!) does much to encourage a reader to pick up and examine the magazine. 
However the apple has a few worms in it. Fascinated by the calligraphy of the cover design, I proceeded to work my way through the labyrinth of personalities and noted that many of the names were misspelled. This is an unfortunate mistake for a cover which was intended to promote the liberal arts. I am afraid that the cover itself proves that the liberal education may indeed be falling short. 
Sincerely, 
Robert J. Hohl 
Reference and Instruction 
Librarian 
TO ALL 
FICTION 
WRITERS 
NEW 
ADVISORY 


-BOARD 

Scholastic Magazine is pleased to announce the creation of its new ad­visory. board. The board, consisting of members from faculty and staff positions in the University, will meet once a semester and is designed to provide input to the editorial staff in all aspects of the magazine's pro­duction. 
Scholm;tic views itself not only as a sounding board for students, but also as a journal in which all mem­bers of the Notre Dame academic community can express their ideas and views. Scholm;tic Magazine rec­ognizes that it can provide an op­portunity for increased interaction among faculty and students by pro­moting serious discussion of intel­lectual and social issues. 
The editorial staff hopes that the new advisory board will bring the ideas and experience of our talented faculty outside the classroom and 
NOVEMBER, 1982 
that  the  final  result  be  a  higher  
quality  publication  for  the  Notre  
Dame community.  

The board members for the 1982­83 academic year are: 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman, Ameri­can Studies 
Mr. Michael Garvey, Assistant Di­rector, Information Services 
Prof. Kinsey, Art 

Fr. Mario Pedi, Assistant Director, Student Activities Prof. Robert Schmul, American Studies 

Entries to Scholastic Magazine's 
Premier Fiction Contest are being 
accepted until December 4. This con·­
test is open to all Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students. The Scholastic 
Editorial Board will judge all entries 
and from them select the _three best 
manuscripts. Cash prizes will be 
awarded, and the winning entries 

will be published in the January is­, sue of Scholm;tic. Manuscripts must 
be limited to 2,000 words. ii 
I 
' 

I 
Acadentic Life. Isn't· Antisocial 
by Bill Cavanaugh 


Why are our intellectuals in our closets? Why do we stare suspiciously at any peer who uses hand gestures or the word ''there/ ore'' in conversa­tion beyond the classroom context? 
Woody Allen's short story "The Whore of Mensa" in­volves a lonely young travel­ling salesman of joy buzzers and the satisfaction of his purely intel­lectual cravings by a call-girl service of eminently educated women. For a price, the "hookers'' will come over and discuss any subject -Descartes, Yeats, anthropology. No commit­ments, just quick intellectual grati­fication. Pretty risque stuff. Stich an operation would probably fare quite well here at Notre Dame. It wotild be a welcomed convenience for our closet intel1ectuals who, male or female, may discover that finding other students with whom to share intellectual interests outside the classroom is no mean feat. In­deed, any academic discussion be­tween students which neither asks nor answers the question "Will it be on the test?" is a bit of a rarity. Why are our intellectuals in our closets? Why do we stare sus­piciously at any peer who uses hand gestures or the word "therefore" in conversation beyond the classroom context? Although the above may be some­what of a caricature, the general lack of intellectualism among students and the low level of student-faculty dialogue at Notre Dame point to the disjunction between academics and student life here. As Prof. Walter Nicgorski put it in his statement on student life to the Board of Trustees meeting last spring, "Academic life is a set of weekly challenges for these very bright young people; it is confined to certain times and places. It is not expected that it would in­volve questions and considerations that might begin to pervade life and that would captivate one and begin to order one's life." The lack of a genuine involvement in one's course of study is troubling since it is the very purpose of a university to ignite and enkindle such an interest. 

. Before I address the causes of and possible solutions to the separation of academics and student life at Notre Dame, let me first make clear that I hope to approach the problem with a less than holier-than-thou at­titude. I confess that I have some­times opted to spend a Friday night dripping beer on my shoes rather than squinting at subtitles in the Snite auditorium. I too, take a dim view of discussions in which the objective is to be the first to use the term "Kafkaesque." I must also ad­mit that my interview of Prof. Vaughn McKim for this article was based less on the fact that he is Chairman of the Factilty Senate, and more on the fact that, being my former Core instructor, he is the only professor that I know well. 

Apparently it is easier to recog­nize the prevailing problem than it is to deviate from the established norms of behavior on campus. We 
tend to fall into step with our fel­lows. As Prof. McKim observes, "any campus has an ethos which is really 



Looking Ou1 
1------------------I 
A look at how Georgetown U., considered by many QUr chief Catholic competitor, deals with the logistics of social life. 

intangible but very real. Unless you consciously.resist it you find yourself swept up in it." This situation is ex­acerbated at Notre Dame because the campus is isolated from a big­city environment, insulated from a plurality of ideas or life-styles. 
This ethos, or the so-called Notre Dame mystique, has a significant in­fluence on the type of student we at­tract in the first place. Prospective students have preconceptions of the University's athletic tradition and its somewhat parochial Catholic character. The result is that we at­tract students for reasons not en­tirely academic, and each new class, rightly or wrongly, brings with it preconceived ideas of how to behave. 
Although the type of student we attract is certainly a factor, the fo­cus of the issue .should be on what the University does to reinforce stu­dent attitudes on campus. Prof. Nic­gorski properly points out that every institution has a certain character and a certain accompanying reputa­tion. The responsibility of. a univer­sity is to develop the potential of its students, not complain about the people who come to it. Acknowl­edging. that the students we get are very. bright, Nicgorski admits, "There's an awful lot to work with." 
In what ways, then, does Notre Dame reinforce student attitudes? Both Nicgorski and McKim are im­pressed with the idea that the ar­rangement of physical space on cam­pus has a great deal of influence on the way we interact. Our physical environment seems to draw a distinct line between the academic world and the social world; rather than carry­ing academic values into the social world, we have created two anti­thetical worlds. 
The first problem with space must be the separation of students and faculty. No one comes to the remote 
· faculty offices except on business. There are no lounges for students and faculty to meet regularly; class discussions that go on after the bell rings can be continued only in the hallway in most buildings. It used to be that coffee was set up in the library lounge every afternoon for students and faculty, but the lounge is now needed for meetings. 
"What Notre Dame needs is more settings where the social and aca­demic might more easily mix, where students and faculty ... might meet more easily and naturally and to which they could adjourn for re­freshment, conversation and enter­tainment," suggests Prof. Nicgorski. Perhaps the best model for any such future changes would be Hagger Hall, where currently classrooms, faculty offices, and readily accessible lounges are arranged into one loca­tion. Academic interests from the classroom can spill over into an ad­jacent setting whose atmosphere ac­tually encourages the mixture of the social and the academic. 
Dorm life highlights the second major problem with the allocation of space. As Prof. McKim points out, our system of stay halls, i.e., resi­dences for freshmen through seniors, plays a major role in reinforcing the negative aspects of the prevailing ethos by exposing freshmen immedi­ately to juniors and seniors who have had time to completely internalize this ethos. McKim suggests that we give some serious consideration to a return to freshman dorms and pos­sibly separate dorms for each class. As it stands now, freshmen "don't have that year to try to figure out who they are, or what kind of place this is, or what they want to do without having role models" imposed on them from the day they get to campus. 
My reaction, and the reaction of most of the students with whom I talked, is favorable to a return to freshman . dorms. However, such a transition would require quite a dras­tic change in our thinking about the dorm system and a loss of much of the cohesiveness that the stay hall provides. 
An innovation in the use of dorm space that woul\:l perhaps be easier to implement would involve sections of large seminar courses such as Core meeting evenings in ·the dorm. AU the students in a particular section would be from the dorm where the class is held and would thus know each other socially as well as from class. Prof. McKim notes that suc}:l a system is used at Yale to help 
, break down the barrier between aca­demic and social relations. This kind of innovation would be but the tip of the iceberg in cur­riculum reform. There should be an increased concern for seminars, es­pecially at the freshman and sopho­more levels, in order to allow more 

by Tom Cushing 
I suppose that all of us, hav­ing made that relatively un­informed decision at age seventeen or eighteen to attend Notre pame, spend a good part of the ne:,µ four years critiquing that choice. Af­ter only a month or two· of college life, we are_ much more qualified to weigh the attributes of a school and to recognize what appeals to us, so we put· our own school on trial to judge how well we chose. This scru­tiny is healthy for a university, in­suring that we confront its unsatis­factory elements and, hopefully, that we recognize its positive ones. Fae-
tors comprising the social life and atmosphere garner quite a bit of at­tention in our self-examination of Notre Dame. Since we are all aware of those local issues, we would do well to observe the social life in sim­ilar communities outside of our own to help us gain a new perspective on a timeworn topic. 
I have spent the last three October breaks visiting Georgetown Univer­sity, and making something of a comparison of my own. Georgetown, set in a very fashionable neighbor­hood of Washington, D.C., has a stu­dent body comparable in size to that of Notre Dame, with graduate and undergraduate numbers coming to about 8,000. Georgetown is recog­nized as one of the preeminent Cath­olic universities, an accolade Notre Dame aspires to claim also for itself, and it is my own impression that the students admitted to both schools share roughly the same qualifica-
Tom Cushing is a senior English major from Chicago, lllinois. This is his first contribution to Scho­lastic. 
tions. Georgetown, a private institu­tion run by the Jesuits, is well en­dowed, but not nearly· so well as Notre Dame. Their fund equals about 60% of our own. G.U. seems to be as apt a candidate for comparison to Notre Dame as there is. 
NOVEMBER, 1982 

The most salient contrast between the schools to· any visitor to Wash­ington from Notre Dame is George­town's urban setting. This school stands in the midst of the city's high­rent district. The famous neighbor­hood of narrow streets, lavish town­houses, distinguished residents, and countless boutiques lies immedia•tely outside the front gate of the campus. The most popular shopping and late­night stretch in the city, M Street, is a five-minute walk from the Uni­versity, and The Mall, featuring the Capitol, the Smithsonian museums and the Washington Monument, is a twenty-minute trip by bus. 
A trip to the bars on M Street, while a common venture, rarely is the sole excursion for an evening. It is simply too expensive to hang out and drink there for very long. D.C. is a very expensive city, and this is the most expensive area. Unlike se­cluded Notre Dame, apartment life is the rule rather than the exception at Georgetown, so students are forced to interact economically in the community. Costs for groceries, housing, and eating and drinking out demand that students spend quite a bit. 
Because of Georgetown's location, it has been unable to expand as Notre Dame has to meet increasing hous­ing demands. Only freshmen are to ease the problem. Chances for a group of four or five students to win one of these units in the lottery range yearly from about one in ten to one in fifteen. These apartments cost students approximately $225.00 per month with the cost of utilities. Similar accommodations at the Cam­pus View Apartments % of a mile from the Notre Dame campus cost each resident $130.00 per month. Georgetown also owns numerous townhouses in the neighborhood which they rent as apartment units for roughly $200.00 per month ·per student. Chances of winning one of these are about one in thirty. The 

"In the field 
belabored of social issues here at N.D., I must say that Georgetown has come much further than Notre Dame since our almost simultaneous conversions to 
coeducation. '' 
remaining option for housing is to rent privately in the neighborhood and face higher costs, varying dis­tances from campus, and landlords reluctant to rent to students. 
To combat the high cost of living, many students work. It seems as though very few people go to class, take a nap, eat dinner, study and go to sleep. Students all appear to have something else to do, and going to work is the most prevalent. In fact, some G.U. students estimate that 50­65% work, at least off and on, at some job. Being in the city provides them with easy access to jobs, mostly in shops and restaurants in the M Street area. 
Another opportunity for outside employment is the federal govern­ment and its related agencies and in­terest groups. Positions and intern­ships, often unpaid, in legislators' offices, with lobbyists, with at­torneys, and in various other areas are available to interested· and mo­tivated students. The university even acknowledges some of these jobs for credit. Many people choose. to go to school in D.C. for these opportunities and to make early inroads in pros­pective fields of future endeavor. One economics/pol.sci. student estimates that a full one-fourth of the political science, economics, and Foreign Ser­
Georgetc,;,-m's Healy Administration Building 
vice students participate in some sort of internship before gradu~tion. 
The location of the university de­termines a great part of its char­acter. People pay a lot to live there and they earn it back by working there. Often politically interested people choose Georgetown, and be­ing in the Capital further encour­ages student interest in political is­
sues. On campus, an · ingenious student 
group plays a great role in the qual­ity of student life. This group, known as the Corp, formed in · 1970 for the purpose of suing the university on behalf of •the students in response t.o 


of the most 
the presence of the National Guard on campus· during student 'uprisings. The Corp has since. evolved into a group, run by students. which acts to improve student· life. Its most noteworthy addition to the school was the formation ·of a network of not-for-profit services. The Corp rents space on campus and employs .students to ·run a small food store, a great sub shop, a typing service, a travel agency, a record store, a toi­letries shop, and a storage service. The active daily use of all of these services and shops by students testi­fies to the success of the Corp's ef­forts. It makes sense that members of a community can provide their own services and earn fair wages without profiteering at the expense of the students. Thanks belong solely to the determination of 'fi}J.e students. 
Most of the Carp's activity centers in the basement of the Healy admin­istration building. Healy Basement has undergone extensive renovation in the past ten years and is now the center of .student social activity on campus. It is not a particularly large facility, roughly comparable in size to the first floor of our own ad. building including all the offices. As well as housing the popular sand­wich shop and food store, a TV lounge, a game room, a couple of comfortable and. quiet gathering rooms, and numerous booths for eat­ing or socializing, it is the home of ; guaranteed housing in dorms. After that, only a mere one in five students applying to live in dorms wins that opportunity in the lottery. Two large apartment complexes have been built on campus in the past ten years 

,,___________________________....;.______
The Pub. A small bar serving beer 
SCHOLASTIC 

and pizza, The Pub opens daily for lunch and closes around 2 :00 a.m. This, too, is student managed, al­though not under the auspices of the Corp. It features music with a d.j. nightly and a band one night a week. Serving the cheapest beer around ($3.60 pitchers) and centrally lo­cated, The Pub is a popular spot 'to meet, eat lunch or dinner, dance, drink, or just hang out. The eighteen­year-old drinking age makes such a facility possible as an appealing and ordinary element in student life. 
It is difficult to gauge how much of a focus on drinking and problem drinking exists on the G.U. campus. 
rally. Of course sexual tensions amongst adolescents occur every­where, but at Georgetown they are not institutionally fostered. 
In defense of the social system at Notre Dame, I cite the more relaxed and comfortable life-style prevalent here. For one thing, I do ·not re­member ever seeing a Georgetown student wearing plain gray sweat­pants. This in itself is no great in­dictment, but it illustrates the fact that students there are much more bound by an expected and adhered-to code of dress. It seems that it would be very difficult to look sloppy for a day at Georgetown, even if that is 
''Notre Dame students do possess more of a sense of pride and camaraderie than the members of most, other university communities . . . returning flocks of alums and their dollars attest to that. " 
This October, when I last visited Georgetown, the school was promot­ing an alcohol awareness week. How concerned the administration is about student drinking is difficult to tell, however, as well as how much ems phasis the students themselves place on drinking. By my judgement, though, students at · Georgetown drink as much as those at Notre Dame, although they pay more for it. 
In the field of the most belabored of social issues here at N.D., I must say that Georgetown has come much furthe.r than Notre Dame since our almost simultaneous conversions to coeducation. After just more than a decade since the first admission of females to G.U., there is a daily in­teraction between young· men and women which seems natural and open. This success has come about as a result of parity in numbers of males and females in the commu­nity and of females and males being housed in the same buildings (in dorms and apartment buildings.) The external focus on the issue of both sexes attending the same school does not exist. No quota determines that classes·are likely to include only a handful of women, and no policy determines that · one building is a place for females while another is a place for males. Hence, people are not encouraged to act as if there should be segregating differences be­tween the sexes, and casual acquain­tances and friendships come natu-
NOVEMB.ER, 1982 
how you felt. This phenomenon is an outgrowth of a somewhat more pres­surized atmosphere. Whether the pressure is socially applied by peers, institutionally applied by the school, or practicaily applied by having to go in to work, it certainly is present. There is much less time for relaxa­tion, and you will almost never find a spontaneous quad-ball game. After all, who would want to risk staining a perfectly good oxford over a touch­down catch. 
The notion that students at Notre Dame enjoy a sense of belonging to something special appears to be more than just teary-eyed talk. One of the reasons is that people come to Notre Dame expecting this kind of experience. So many freshmen enter sated with N.D. lore and tradition that they have already judged in fa­vor of the school. And, of course, no one can overlook the effect of having nationally recognized football and basketball teams. Year in and year 
out, athletics provide thrills and memories which help to bring stu­dents together under the force ·of shared experience. Whatever the reasons, Notre Dame students do possess more of a sense of pride and camaraderie than the members of most other university communities. 
Gripes about lacking social facil­ities, a lousy dating atmosphere, and barren South Bend arise each year when a slow week or two afford ag­gravated students a chance to reflect. Coeducation, student input concern­ing party regulations, and functional social space each take their annual turn, along with other issues, being benignly ignored by Notre Dame's administration. Recognizing how other institutions handle these prob­lems can be quite instructive. Most of the improved situations observed at Georgetown have come about as a result of student effort and a con­cerned, progressive administration which is relatively in touch with students' feelings. Elements of this chemistry are obviously lacking at Notre Dame, and many changes wiH be very slow in coming. Most people leave Notre Dame quite happy with their experience, though. Returning flocks of alums and their dollars at­test to that. Maybe just staying at another school for a few days rather than analyzing their policies and fa­cilities can give us more of an insight into what is right at Notre Dame. D 
t~,-,~.::t 


,~s~.,.
,.·•·,~··-. 


The Unnatural and Incomplete Act 
by Laurie Giunti 
C urrent magazine articles on premarital sex are so scarce, that it seems the media no longer consider this conduct a news­worthy issue. Few recent magazines take an interest, let alone a moral stand, on premarital sex. Though re­search can be found on extramarital sex, incest, group sex, homosexuality, and even sex for career advance­ment, articles advocating premarital sex are practically nonexistent. Sta­tistics on premarital sex are avail­able, but it seems that the media so accept the practice of premarital sex that articles are no longer reported on its moral value. The only current publications that take up the ques­tion of the morality of premarital intercourse are Christian Doctrines, especially those published by the Catholic Church. Even these period­icals have very little information ex­plicating the issue of premarital sex specifically, as they tend to encom­pass all of human sexuality. These 'religious doctrines assume that one intuitively knows the moral evil in premarital sex, so they do not spell it out. Neither is morality spelled out in most popular periodicals on sexuality, in which the mechanics rather than the morality of premar­ital sex, is discussed. There is re_. search on the frequency of premar­ital sex, the variations of premarital sex, contraception and premarital sex, yet these articles never explain why one would engage in premarital intercourse in the first place. In Sexual Morality: .A Catholic Perspective, premarital sex is defined as "any [sexual] intercourse before marriage, whether with one's future marriage partner or someone else." The question is -is premarital sex a moral act? Is it right? Is it wrong? Advocates of premarital sex claim that premarital sex should be left en­tirely up to individuals who are in­volved provided that proper contra­ceptive precautiqns are taken so that the moral predicament of abortion can be avoided. What about the moral predicament of the sexual act itself? According to Marriage A11Wng Chrwtians, "Sexual union means per­

sonal union and if a man and woman have not merged their two lives into one, sex does not tell the truth." Sex is to celebrate what marriage means. It is the sign of _total commitment and belonging to another. If the in­dividuals engaging in sex are not married, then their actions are un­true, and hence, immoral. · In the Catholic tradition, sexual intercourse says "I am yours, we are bound to one another without limitation or condition, I love you totally and for­ever; and through this ,Physical 

Sexual union means per­sonal union and if a man_ and woman have not merged their two lives into one, sex does not tell the truth. 
union I speak my complete sur­render.'' Sex oufaide of marriage loses this message. There is . art in­consistency between the action and its meaning. Sexual intercourse is such a personal, intense, intimate act, that to engage in it outside of mar­riage is to desecrate this act. 
The book, Ethics: Theory and Practice, points out three advantages to engaging in sex before marriage. One of .the professed advantages is "the gaining of sexual experience which may often be lacking in so­called lifetime marriage situations." The argument is raised that . sexual ability does not come naturally. I guess ·this book is saying that one should practice sexual techniques be­fore marriage to avoid any postmar­ital fumbling. The act of marriage is as much, if not more, an act of spirit and soul, as it is an act of body. Sex should.be a culmination of love, feelings, devotion, and commitment, not a result of prowess or experience. Learning through intercourse can help a couple to grow together; prior experience is unnecessary. Fr. James 
· Burtchaell says, "Any couple which 
imagines its major frustrations and 
antagonisms come from sexual clum­
siness has a real problem, but it isn't 
pelvic." 
Another presumed advantage to premarital sex is "the discovery by a couple of whether they are sexually compatible or incompatible prior to committing themselves to some kind of marriage contract." This is the theory commonly stated as "I wouldn't buy a car without test-driv­ing it; I always try on clothes before I purchase them, etc.'' A marriage partner is not an object which must . be "tested" before any commitment can be made. Sex is complementary to a marriage; it is a joyful cele­bration of a union. Sexual inter­course is not · supposed to be· a trial run before marriage;; it is the ex­change of love after marriage. Sex is a pledge of love and commitment, not an audition for. marriage . possi­bility. Sex is contingent upon mar­riage, rather than marriage being ·contingent on sex. Also, if a couple shows compatibility· in morals, out­look, goals, . feelings and' desires, as any couple contemplating. marriage should, then compatible sexual inter-

Laurie_ Giunti is a junior Program of Liberal Studies major ·from Man­teno, lllinois. This is her first con­tribution to Scholastic. 

course will follow, because inter­course is much more than an act of the body, It is the love and com­mitment shown in the act that are important, not the techniques and practiced skills. Few people would even date one another if they felt they were incompatible. Therefore, it seems inconceivable to imagine that any couple considering marriage could be so incompatible that they must use sexual intercourse as a gauge for their potential commit­ment. 
The final "advantage" of premar­ital sex presented is "the pleasur­ability of sexual activity." This view of sexual intercourse is especially ap­palling, for there is no necessary commitment or pledge of love, just a desire for sensual pleasure. This is the familiar, self-indulgent· cry of "if it feels good, do it." Because it 
lacks the total pledge of love, which is marriage, sexual intercourse out­side the bond of marriage does not ring true, and is an act of self-in­dulgence. Premarital sex is not the selfless exchange of love that cele­brates the union of two souls be­cause of the lack of commitment. · rnstead, the focus is on one's self, rather than one;s partner, thus re­ducing sex to an act of self-gratifica­tion. Advocates of premarital sex argue that to ignore their desires for sexual intercourse would be un­natural. They point out that they . would nof have these desires if they were not meant to be filled. St. Thomas Aquinas well answers this c1aim when he says that it is un­natural for man to act animalistic because "there is in every man a natural inclination to act according to reason; and this is to act accord­
ing to virtue." He also says "the will does not desire of necessity whatsoever it desires." This quota­tion means that we do not necessar­ily have to have whatever we desire. I do not necessarily need new clothes, but I still desire them. De­sire can lead us astray, rather than being a natural guide, for "it is the will by which we sin." Man's reason­ing and intellect should overcome his physical desires for premarital sex, as sex iri this context is not a true act. It is not necessary for man's happiness, and goes against man's reason as well as his inner eye of goodness. To engage in premarital intercourse is to act against reason, 
·against virtue, and therefore against nature. 
Man's capacity for reason is what places him above the animals. To ignore this reason, to act against 


>l>i)anet Drobinske ..




The C:crlholio F'cxniny
_:-.<}:_:_,-. :_::,_ :· "·\·:":-'::"/;

•·.o ~i~~tt•totrto!9~;~s!'Jtefd~. ii~tt~tJe:::fns~:rrie~oi~\ti:~~;~~~ ·~i~6ot>:a:::. ~~:::, e:;~!ngd!:td~~ 
lectureto the Thomas More among these the. greater amount of additional children. Iii. the more Society' based on a recent apostolic personal freedom spouses grant to affluent areas, it is a desire for per­exhortatioh. ,.The' exhortation· :was each other;>cthe demise of parental . sonal wealth and the coil.sumer men­the result of the work bf a senate of authority; andthe matter of contra-ta.lity that inhibits parents from con­bishops convened to assist Pope Johri ception. The Holy Father indicates 'cel'ving, in addition to a growing con~· Paul ff in the preparation of a fall what he con~idersto be the root of cern for the future world situation. 1981 documenfentitled On the.Fam-:·. the negative p~encmierion, deeming it Thtisflife is not recognized as a gift ily. While .· a seemingly typical or ,blessing, but ra.ther a danger church document in • its density, Fr. '.}t.·t.is.·.. ·.sel~.··ishiz.ess.. .t,hat the,' which should be avoided. 
O'Connornotesthat it is representa-'J • In special sections of the docu­
tive of a new trend in documentation Pope cites as the causefor ment, the Holy Father addresses the 
in that it utilizes the talents and in~ 'the. trend toward di-subjects of divorce, wonien, and con­
formation of the iliternational sen-m.inis,hing'... fiam. i.lY si.ze. ...·u traception. In his treatment of di­
.ate, andjs/onlyfinalized by the Holy vorce, the Pope :reaffirms the. tradi­Fa~her, who gives Wits ultimate is not recqgnized as a gift tional view, ''What therefore God has structure aridtone. Ir{addition, un-or a blessing, but rather as joined together, ,let no man, pu( like previous church documents on a dange·.. ·r•··•.·•.·W.h·,•.c··.·h·.....•.·..should be asunder." Yet what thePope adds to; 
Christian family Hfe, the recent Pope :this' is' cruciaL . He 'introduces the: 
John PaurTI exhortation possesses a avnided . .'" idea .of a "New Heart'' possible'
strongly hopeful and positive quality. --,-----,-c--,--,-,-'-'--"~-,,-"-------.:._ . through marriage, and that it is this: 
The docmr1en.t acknowledges con-"a corruption.of the.idea and experi-new heart which enables couples to tempora:ryJ difficulties in Christian ence of freedom." The pope elabo-fulfill the ideal of eternal, iridissol­living, and. wliile problems are made rates,yet, simply put, he is referring uble love. The Holy Father then evident; scds the readermade aware to the greater. consciousness of self praises those families that have per­of. the . solutions : made possible and one's personal desires ~ the act severed in their. love, .faring, and through a11thentic love. While the bf selfishness. · mercy to overcome the modern prob­Holy Father . does not dismiss the Itis selfishness that the Pope cites lems of family living. The Pope sups world's . difficulties as . negligible, as the cause for the trend toward di-portsthe traditional view of the post­neither· does he give a light treat-minishing family size. This trend., divo:rcecondition of Catholics,·saying ment to the positive\ qualities. o! interestingly/extends from the rich-·those who have broken a sacramental · modern Christian family living; He est of countries to the Third World union: should not enter a new one. notes there has been animprovement nations. WhHethemot.ives differ, the When they agr~e not to, divorced in the situation. pf. the family, in-result is the same ::.::2: ·human .life is Catholics reaffirm the authenticity eluding•·. greater attent.ion to inter~ not respected as the fabulous blessing of fidelity,. a fading quality accord­personal relationships and the recog-it is.,. In, the poorer countries;, the ,ingto the Pope. He'encourages and nition of women.to a broader extent. Pope says, a concern·for the n~cessi-. supports this afp.rmat_ior:i. of faith.. 
NOVEMBER; 1982 


Act . . . (continued from page 9) 

the intellect, and engage in premari­tal sex, especially just for pleasure's sake, is to act animalistic rather than human. Man's humanity is lost when he thinks only "about pleasure; for this is common to animals," says Aristotle. "Self-indulgence would seem to be justly a matter of re­proach, because it attaches to us, not as men but as animals. To delight in such things [ eating, drinking, sexual intercourse] and to love them above all others is brutish." Premarital sex strips one of a good reputation in the eyes of both man and God. If one truly loves another, the good name of that other would far outweigh any, gratification derived from sex. To engage in premarital sex is to love that act of sensual pleasure more than one's partner, and therefore, the act is self-indulgent and unloving. "In most things the error seems to be due to pleasure; for it appears good 
·Family ... 
,(continued from page 9) So, too, does he encourage an in­creasing awareness -of women in the Christian family. The Senate devoted special attention to·women, calling for. equal dignity and responsibility as a part of the reciprocal giving proper to marriage. While the Pope maintains that women should have equal access to pubHc functions, in addition to their role as wife and mother, he warns against a degrada­tion of the recognition of women in . the latter respect. He cites a major . flaw in the contemporary women's movement in that in the magnifica­tion of the image of women outside the home, they have degraded the traditional role of women as. life­givers; it, the act of bearing children, has been belittled.. The Pope wams -against detracting from the value of motherhood in order to make the al-. ternative image .of women more · available and attractive. Since it is, however, often. necessary for finan­cial reasons for both parents to seek. an income, the Pope then addresses · the importance_of the husband's at­titude in this situation. He must re­spect the personal• dignity of women, and not represent a figure compelling his wife to work outside of the home; He urges husbands to promote so­ciety to conceive that a prosperous· and fulfilHng lifestyle may be achieved if women's work within the home is · honored and respected. · Finally, the Pope addresses the subject of contraception, and in this he supl)orts the "Humanae Vitae" of 
10 

when it is not. We therefore choose 
the pleasant as good.'' 

Not only is premarital sex unnat­
ural by being animalistic, it is aiso 
unnatural as it is, in itself, a contra­
diction. Sexual intercourse, by its 
very nature, is generative. One of the 
purposes of intercourse is to produce 
offspring. The act may be one of 
intimacy, and an expression of love, 
but it also has the primary end of 
reproduction. Premarital sex denies 
this purpose, as couples engaging in 
this act do not wish for conception. 
Individuals practicing premarital sex 
feel H is their obligation to provide 
proper contraceptive precautions; 
yet this is contradictory to the natu­
ral end of their actions. It is natural 
to preserve human life and to ward 
off any obstacles preventing it. By 
employing contraceptives, premarital 
sex does not preserve human life, 
and is an obstacle to it. Therefore, 
Pope. Paul VI. Human life must be 
recognized as a gift from God, he 
stresses, a blessing that. symbolizes 
the love of man and woman, an affi.r: 
mation that the love they share is 
open to new life'. .The pope ac­
knowledges that the contemporary 
society has made contraception very 
attractive, and he believes this is due 
to an absence of God's love in peo­
ple's hearts, and the failure to recog­
nize that this love is stronger and 
more capable than the fears they 
possess. 

The Pope -proposes that sexuality 
is only a part of the whole person, a 
part of hurr1anity that cannot be 
made to stand aione.. When sexuality 
is torn away_ from humanity, when 
it is isolated and recognized as a 
single entity, this serves to lessen 
its value. 

A crime against sexuaHty is com­
mitted then, for it is not seen in its 
proper .role, which should be a man­
ner in which to express a complete 
self~giving. This "snatching out'' of 
sexuality from the whole person de­
tracts from conjugal love, The use 
of contraception highlights this con­
centration on merely the sexual as­
pect of love in that it does not allow 
a total. offering of self, in mind and 
body. · 
In addressing the topic of contra­ception, the Pope presents the image of the church as both. teacher and mother. The church serves as teacher 
·in that. through the church,. the norni, the moral law, is proclaimed and explained. In the role of mother, the church is able to understand the pr-oblems people experience in adher­ing _to tI:emoral !aw. The Pope offers premarital sex does not belong to the 
natural law. 
Sex is an· intimate, loving ·act of total commitment. It is the gift of one's·self. To wait untHmarriage for sexual relations shows true love, hon­or, and respect. Sex and marriage are inseparable. Sex is· a s·pecial action proper only within marriage. I love my parents, but definitely not in a sexual context. I love friends, both male and female, yet in a friendly way. Intercourse is a communication between spouses. It is a natural, lov­ing, human way to celebrate mar­riage. It is a personal embodiment of pledged love, and it is the physical· expression of a spiritual, _emotional and total union. Sexual intercourse before marriage is a violation of the meaning behind this action. It is a distortion and a misinterpretation of what should be the ultimate expres­sion of marital love. D 
this analogy to convey that the-· 
church does recognize the diffi.­_culties modern families may face in · reckoning with church doctrines in modern society. 
·The essential qualities of the ex­hortation are its/ contemplation of .· modern problems and the · solutions possible through Jove. Fr. O'Connor repeatedly stressed the positive tone to the. exhortation, stating that the optimistic view is helpful, because families may then attempt to .deal with their difficulties through the blessings that they do possess. On the Family offers ·a refreshing look at the prospects of Cllristian family living, praising the wonder of "life arid love" in. a community of per­sons. D 

Janet Drobinske is a junior Ameri­can Studies/CAPP .. major -from Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.· 
SCHOLASTIC 



Alcohol's Place at Notre Dame 

Alcohol use at Notre Dame. It's a popular topic of late. We're all more than familiar with the drinking hab­its of Notre Dame students and we've. all come to our own conclusions about what the alternatives, causes and consequences of heavy drinking are. The question to be answered, however, is whether or not we see the current alcohol-oriented social climate at Notre Dame as acceptable. 
Social responsibility lies at the heart of any civilization. Yet, I can­not help but wonder how well the spirit of responsibility is fostered at Notre Dame with respect to drinking. Is alcohol necessary for people to so­cialize? If people have to have al­cohol to put them in a sociable dis­position, something is most definitely wrong. Drinking to lose one's inhibi­tions creates a different person. Some people have two different manners, one for the ·weekdays and one for the weekend blitz. The Notre Dame campus has its own Jekyll and Hyde personality. 
With alcohol as a fundamental in­gredient in relationships, instability abounds. Relationships founded in part or in whole upon interacting with the effects of alcohol cannot be as sincere or ,true to form for the individuals as possible. This is simply because alcohol can change people's attitudes, perspectives and judgment. 
Dr. Wayne Pellegrini of the Psy­chological Services Center and his colleagues recently completed a sur­vey case study of Notre Dame stu­dents. and their drinking habits. Al­though it may play a role in a few cases, a lack of social life as a major cause of heavy drinking at Notre Dame is laid to. rest by the survey. The survey reveals the num­ber of freshmen coming to Notre Dame as moderately heavy to heavy drinkers is equivalent to, if not · greater than, the number of people who drink heavily while at Notre Dame. Pellegrini emphasizes the fact that incoming students drink and use drugs just as a cross-section of uni­versity students anywhere do. In fact, experimentation with and use of some harder drugs is higher among Notre Dame students as a whole. 
Alcoholism is a topic most people scoff at. After all, "I can handle my liquor." Notre Dame, however, has a problem with alcoholism. How many of those who drink heavily at Notre Dame have missed class because of a hangover, gotten a lower grade be­cause of drhi.king too much, gotten into a fight after drinking or been criticized by someone they were with because of their drinking? AH of these are possible signs of a drinking problem. Drinking problems are often developed in college and con­tinue throughout a person's life. Drinking with the boys can turn into a few beers to get in the mood for class, a few drinks to forget the day, a bottle of wine to lose the blues or half a six-pack to get rid of a hang­over. A person's emotional otitldok can become dependent on alcohol. 
Alcoholism is present at Notre Dame but alcohol abuse amongst Notre Dame students is just as pres­ent and a more widespread occur­rence. Drinking just to get drunk or needing to drink to have a good time are signs of nqt wanting to face reality. They go along with a failure to grow up. The attitude among many people is "let's have our fun and forget about everyone else." The abuses at some parties on campus would lead students into a great deal of problems with a landlord in the "real world." A prevalent misconcep­
( continued on page 29) 

NOVEMBER, 1982 




Flashback 






NOVEMBER, 1982 

Ii 
1 
1'I I The Dance: A Lost Art?1·'· 
I 
Shall we brush off the velvet gowns
I' 

I and try to fit into Mickey's dinner 
by Kathleen Curran


Ii jacket? 

As I watched men and women get "down .... down ....down" to. the beat of "Rock Lobster!" (the B-52's), I could not help but laugh, wonder­ing what Sr. Madeleva would have thought. As President of St. Mary's College from 1934-61, she would have been amazed at the dramatic changes St. Mary's and Notre Dame dances have met. 
Waltzes and Jack Chapman's Or­chestra are topics of conversation in convalescent hospitals -not in the North Dining Hall. "Long peach transparent velvet gowns, with cir­cular skirts banded at the hem with wide strips of black" are in closets collecting dust (or -in antique stores selling for $235). Men's dinner jack­ets are worn only by stuffed Mickey Mouses. The Huddle is no longer the dance hall-it's the place to get coffee ice cream for a dime less than at Baskin & Robbins. 
Now "iggy-bops" and Bruce Spring­steen rule. Desirous dresses are sleeveless (so arms are able to fly wildly through the air) with slits up the side (so the "iggy~bop" style is not hampered). Men wear sport coats-which are usually discarded 
14 

within a half hour after the start of the dance--and loosened ties. And• dances are held in hall basements or off campus. ("But Giuseppe's floor is so sticky!") 
Yet the memories of the former dances remain. St. Mary's College was known for her Sunday afternoon "Tea Dances." Held in the business wing of LeMans Hall (where stu­dents today pay their fines for put­ting nails in the walls), they were about the only chance for St. Mary's and Notre Dame students to inter­mingle. These informal parties lasted from 2:00 until 4:00 p.m. 
Sr. Bernadette Marie, C.S.C., remi­nisced about them with a twinkle in her eye. "The boys would line up on one side of the room and the girls on the other. It seemed like almost everyone felt like a wallflower. There was a certain timidity-which was even more difficult to overcome in those days than it is now." 
A 1951 Notre Dame graduate, Thomas· Anselman, was most struck by the presence of the chaperones. "With the nuns standing around watching, there wasn't much danc­ing. Conversation was innocuous. It was almost a somber atmosphere-­with dim lights and not much move­ment at all. Yet, this was to be ex­pected during those times;" 
St. Mary's was also known for. its formal dances. The Senior Ball, Ju­nior Promenade, Sophomore Cotil­lion, and Freshman Formal were all integral parts of the students' social life. Orchestra music, long full gowns, and orchid corsages were pre­dominant. 
In this formal atmosphere, the girls were inspected by their resi­dence directors before their. escorts arrived. Sr. Bernadette recalled, "If backs were bare, or necklines too low, the girls were given scarves to wear with their dresses." Upon pass­ing inspection, the girls would intro­duce their dates to Sr. Madeleva. And all students were required to sign in and out. 
Other formal dances were held which were not class sponsored. Mis­sion dances or "Charity Balls" were common, especially before Thanks­giving and Christmas. The Inaugural Ball, the first formal dance of the year, was also held annually. 
Most of the dances followed foot-
SCHOLASTIC 



ball games, thus, they became known 
as "Football Victory Dances." The 
spirit of the game was carried 
through to the dance. Notre Dame 
paraphernalia was used to decorate 
the dance halls. And the dance pro­
grams always carried the Univer­
sity's insignia. 
"Palms, ferns, and an electrical 

Notre Dame sign lent an atmosphere . of suavity to the Palais ballroom on that evening" ('33 Dome). "Big Notre Dame blankets were used to cover the seats in the Turkish room next to the ballroom and gave the appropriate Notre Dame air to the 
dance." 
Unlike today, the Notre Dame 

dance air did not carry the scent of 
alcohol. Drinking before, during, or 
after any dance was absolutely for­
bidden. If a student was found pa­
tronizing any dance hall where beer 
or liquor was sold, he was subject to 
immediate expulsion by the Prefect 
of Discipline. 
Around the midcentury, more 

dances were held on campus. The 
Old Fieldhouse (where art classes 
are.· held now), LaFortune, and the 
Navy Quonset Center (now torn 
down) became the place for Notre 
Dame men to "mix" with the St. 
Mary's women and St. Joseph's Hos­
pital Nursing students. Mr. John Mc­
Namara, a 1961 Notre Dame gradu­
ate, pointed out that these were 
"well-attended because there was 
really nothing else to do. We had to 
be in by midnight." Mr. Bill O'Neill, 
a 1957 graduate, reinforced this. 
"Even married students still went to 
the dances. It was the only thing to 
do." 
Less formal dances included the 

WAA Informal, the Sodality dances, 
and the Winter Carnival. "Eager to 
relinquish the more formal attire of 
dances of the winter months, the 
girls appeared in airy chiffons and 
gay prints'' (1932 SMC YearboQk). 
,-,Dancing. to. jukebox . melodies con­
cluded the evenings." (And the eve­
nings were always concluded prompt­
ly at midnight!) 
The University of Notre Dame also 

sponsored many dances. As apparent 
in the 1922 yearbook, The Dome, 
Notre Dame men saw their Univer­
sity as a citadel for dance. "As we 
possess local orchestras with extraor-
NoVEMBER, 198~ 
dinary musical talent, and dance palaces boasting exceptional facili­ties ... we compare favorably with those of the most socially progressive schools in the country." 
These dances were regulated, too, as they were at St. Mary's. The Fac­ulty Dance Committee approved only a certain number of _dances. (As ·mentioned in The Dome, 1931; "Their. charm lies in their fewness.") Dances could not be held during Lent, Ad­vent, or on Holy Days of Obligation. The dance halls were restricted to the Oliver Hotel, the Tribune Build­ing, or the Palais Royale. Men were not permitted to go to dances "stag." (But as one alumnus remembered, "That still did not eliminate crash­ers!") They began at 9:00 (no couple could enter after 10:00) and ended at 12:00. 
Notre Dame's dance policy re­volved around the idea that academ­ics was most important, and other pursuits such as athletics and. social entertainment would fall into place. As summarized in the 1924 Under­graduate Manual, "Legitimate social activities are, of course, never dis­couraged. But both faculty and stu­dents recognize that social diversions are of secondary importance to the activities of study." (How would the 1924 faculty and student body react tci one of my favorite philosophies, "Never let academics get in the way of a REAL education!") 
Through the 1930s, the Faculty 
Dance Committee permitted only six 
formals: the Senior Ball, the Junior 
Promenade, the Sophomore Cotillion, 
and formals sponsored by the Knights 
of Columbus, the Monogram Club, 
and the Law Club. Ten informal 
dances were sponsored. 
The majority of the men's escorts 
were from nearby colleges-primar­
ily St. Mary's College and St. Jo­
seph's Hospital Nursing School. Yet, 
"Girls from every state ofthe Union 
have been guests on these occasions." 
("Hometown honeys" were even 
around then!) 
· Both he and Mr. McNamara agreed that although regulations had been loosened, there were still many more restrictions than placed upon Notre Dame students today. Being disre­. spectful, disregarding curfews, even parking illegally could all result in being reported to the feared Prefect of Discipline-the notorious "Black Mac" as he was 'known by Notre 
Dame students in the fifties and six­ties. 
Yet, as Mr. McNamara was quick to point out, "We followed the rules. The years of protest took place in the sixties." This attitude was found in the early years of Notre Dame's his­tory, too. Disliked rules were rarely broken. Jokes were made about the censors being removed from the yearbook and "placed upon the young ladies' dresses." 
Today jokes are still being made about St. Mary's and Notre Dame's rigidity. ("Do you mean to tell me St. Mary's-girls are allowed to smoke cigarettes? And Notre Dame boys can wear gold chains around their necks?") Yet, restrictions are less­ened. Unlike fifty years ago, women are wearing pants and they do not have to climb through windows to visit men. Lights are not turned off in Notre Dame's dorms after mid­night. "Black Mac" is not suspending students for antagonizing professors. 
B~ause of the fewer regulations. the 1980's dance atmosphere has dra­matically changed. St. Mary's and now Notre Dame women have no qualms about inviting men to a dance --even if it is only four days before. Priests and nuns are no longer pa­trolling the dance floors, warding off any "public displays of affection." And the number of dances is far from limited; my roommate got asked to four (nearly five) in one weekend. (Times have not changed enough, though, for her to share a 
(continued on page 30) 


Kathleen Curran, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, is from Mishawaka, Indiana. This is her first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 
15 


i! i! 
I,
11• 




Gallery 

EXPRE! 
The beauty in reaching out to so~ unique way has adU periences, emotiot tributing to a persi working with facial pressions seem tc and complexity of basically concernet 

Untitled . Prismacolor and pencil 8½ in. x 12½ in. 1981 
16 

SSIONS 
art seems to lie in ,eone. Each person in a fferent collection of ex• 1s, and thoughts con­onal response. I enjoy ~xpression in that ex­, capture the subtlety emotion· which I am 
:t with in my artwork. 
Dan Price 


Marlene Dietrich Pencil 6 in. x 6 in. i 982 

Untitled Pencil ii½ in. x i 6½ in. i 98i 
NOVEMBER, 1982 
. . 

. ----.. -.-~ -~-------­

Cinema 
The French Lieutenant's Woman 
by Charles D. Ignacio 
A SCREENPLAY: 

WHEN ACTING BECOMES OBSESSION 
The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981). Directed by 
Karel Reisz 
* * * 

1. INT.-QUINN'S OFFICE---AFTERNOON 1. Medium shot of Phil walking into Quinn's office with first draft of review. 
PHIL 

Quinn, you'll have that rewrite done today? 
You know this issue's gotta be out by the 
end of the week and I got tons of other 
stuff I hafta proofread yet. 

2. 
Close-up of Quinn at his typewriter. 2. 

QUINN Yeah, I know. It'll be done by 7:00. 

3. 
Medium shot of Phil, looking over Quinn's 3. shoulder. 


PHIL 

So how's it coming? (Pause.) Wait a minute, 
wasn't the Time article called "When Acting 
Becomes Alchemy"? Yours sounds too much like it. 
4. 
Close-up of Quinn. 4. 

QUINN Think so? Okay, how about "ActingAs Obsessiori"? 

5. 
Close-up of Phil. 5. · 


PHIL 

Yeah. Better. FADE OUT: 
* * * 

ACTING AS OBSESSION The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981) Directed by Karel Reisz 
Ti·me calls its acting "alchemy," Newsweek claims it is "one of the most civilized ar.d provocative movies of the year," Aftf3T Dark places it "high on the list of the year's best motion pictures-outstanding,'' and New York magazine labels it "unforgettable." But does The French Lieutenant's Woman really live up to all these plaudits? Certainly as film it is original and daring in its premise: a Victorian romance interwoven with a modern-day love affair. True, it is directed by inter-. nationally distinguished filmmaker Karel Reisz and based on the popular novel by John Fowles; its screen­play is by renowned British playwright Harold Pinter. But ultimately, the film swallows itself whole in an effort to become "art," the parallel love plots finally col­lide in confusion rather than merge into something co­herent, and the obvious striving for aesthetic perfection in acting and film technique comes across the screen as a strained attempt at cinematic significance. · 
The main culprit for this camouflaged mess is screen­writer Harold Pinter. In keeping with the multileveled novel's discourse on the nature of fiction, Pinter has provided a complex dual plot.that cares to comment on the medium of film. His intentions in his thesis are laudable but the result as a film is a failure. 
* * * 

6. 
Close-up of Carolyn, reading review over Quinn's 6. shoulder as he continues typing. 

CAROLYN What does "laudable" mean? . 

7. 
Medium shot of Carolyn and Quinn. 7. 


QUINN 

It means ..• hey! You're not supposed to be reading 
this yet! It's not ready. 
CAROLYN 

I don't mind. (Pause.) Aren't you done yet? 
You said we'd go out to dinner tonight. 
QUINN 

Carolyn, you know I gotta get this thing done 
today. Look you're not even supposed to be 
here when I'm working. If you want to read it, 
just sit over there and try not to be too loud, 
OK? 

CAROLYN OK. 
* 

We are presented with a film that weaves Fowles' 
story of The French Lieutenant's Woman with a present­
day parallel love affair between the leads in a fictitious 
film being made of the ·original novel. If this sounds 
confusing, so is the film, which breaks the distinction 
between these two separate plots and violently beats 
them together in the equally ambiguous ending. Pinter's 
fabricated contemporary protagonists compete for the . 
viewer's attention with Fowles' leads in the original 
Victorian romance. Pnfortunately, neither wins. While 
the relationship between Pinter's Mike and Anna starts 
out strong and. slowly disintegrates, Fowles' love story 
of Sarah and Charles emerges triumphant in the end. 
This is all well and good, until the fine line between actor 
and character begins to blur and the performances be­
come more important than the performers themselves. 
Cinematographer . Freddie Francis successfully achieves distinction between the two stories by keeping the nineteenth-century sequences in a soft blur while leaving the modern passages in sharp focus. But the camerawork in the Victorian story is too controlled, the costumes, scenery and atmosphere are recreated realis­tically to the very last detail, and ~ overall effect is intricately stylish to the point of coldness -what The New Yorker's Pauline Kael calls "overblown spare­ness" in her review of the film. Even the music by Carl Davis is excessive in its attempt to elicit sympathy for the nineteenth-century couple, sometimes lapsing into .an awful rhythmically wavering score reminiscient ·(sic) of Jerry Goldsmith's work in "Hanover Street" and 
"Somewhere in Time...." 
8. Medium shot of Phil reading copy of Quinn's 8. review as he walks into Quinn's office. 
. PHIL 
. Sounds good so far. Only you spelled "remini­
scent" wrong. It's R-E-M-I-N-I-S~C-E-N-T; no 
"I" after the "C." Oh hi, Carolyn. 
CAROLYN (VOICE OVER) 
18 
SCHOLASTIC 

·-·,. 

Haven't seen you for a while, Phil. Isn't this something? 
PHIL 

I'll save my comments 'til after I'm done read­ing it. You'd better keep away from the door so the big boss won't see you. Oh, Quinn, how .were "Hanover Street" and "Somewhere in Time"? 
9. Close-up of Quinn at typewriter.  9.  
QUINN  
Awful.  
10. Close-up of Phil  10.  
PHIL  
Oh.  
FADE OUT:  
*  

.. reminiscent of Jerry Goldsmith's work in "Hanover Street" and "Somewhere in Time." 
Not even the highly touted performance by Meryl Streep in the dual role of nineteenth-century Sarah and modern-day Anna can save the picture from ... 
* * * 

11.. Medium shot of Carolyn and Quinn. 11. 
QUINN 

(to Carolyn) How does this sound-"overindulgent artistry"? 
CAROLYN Hmmm. I think I like it. Yeah, it's catchy. Why don't you call it "Overindulgent Artistry"? 
QUINN 
What? 

CAROLYN Why don't you change the title to "Overindul-. gent Artistry" instead of "Acting As Obsession"? 
. QUINN Phil already said he liked "Acting As Obsession," but that's a thought. 
. . * * * 

. overindulgent artistry. Actually, Streep's acting itself is a case in point. As Miss Sarah Woodruff, the "French Lieutenant's woman'; of Lyme Regis, Streep plays the·· role to ·perfection: every facial expression suggests Sarah's innermost thoughts, every line is ar­ticulated in precise British rhythm, every pause seems like a calculated silence. Perhaps Streep's performance is a bit too perfect, her technique ·a mite too immaculate. Her meticulous acting ability is certainly commendable but it draws too much attention to itself while one views 'the film. It is as if Streep wants the audience to know that she is playing the actress, Anna, who is in turn playing the enigmatic Sarah in the 1867 romance. It is difficult to ... 
12. Medium shot of Sally·coming into the office 12. with some coffee. · 
13: Long shot of Sally, Quinn, and Carolyn. 13. QUINN··-· Hey, Sal, how do you spell "immerse"? 
SALLY· I-M-M-E~R-S-E. (Smiles.) Here's your coffee. (Proceeds to exit.) · · 
QUINN 

(to Carolyn) Isn't she great? She's my walking dictionary. (to Sally) Oh, Sal, thanks for the coffee. . * * * 
. . . immerse oneself in· the reality of the stories because of the constant reminder that one is watching a per­formance. Fortunately, this is not true of the other actors. Jeremy Irons successfully complements Streep's Sarah/Anna with his · Charles/Mike. His acting never gets as carried away as Streep's until the disastrous Pinter dual ending when he explodes in an overacted fit of anger. Fine performances by Lynsey Baxter, Hil­ton McRae, Leo McKern, and David Warner are also worth mentioning. 
* * * 

14. 
Close-up of Carolyn as she reads the review. 14. 

CAROLYN I don't think they're worth mentioning. 

15. 
Medium shot of both, as Quinn looks over to 15. Carolyn. QUINN What are you talking about? 

CAROLYN These other actors in your review, I don't think they're that important. 

16. 
Close-up of Quinn. 16. QUINN 


(Smiling) Gimme a break, will ya? I get enough crap about my work from Phil. 
CAROLYN (Motioning that she is closing her mouth like a zipper· while crossing her eyes and blushing prettily.) I promise I won't say another word. 
FADE OUT: 
* * 

If we allow Pinter the liberty to exaggerate his ac­tors' performances as a discourse on the ambiguous .line between screen acting and real-life role playing, then he, director Reisz, and actress Meryl Streep have succeeded in cz:eating a most. thought-provoking film. In effect, The French Lieutenant's Woman is an actor's film, a movie;s movie. It is a comment on the perform­er's craft, an examination of the form of filmmaking, and an exercise meant to mix the not-so-separate realms of film illusion and performer reality. However,· if itis indeed an "actor's film," where does this leave the vast majority of the nonacting segment of tlie audi­er..ce? Alas, the film's obsession with the nature of film 
· ends up alienating the averc:J.ge moviegoer. Whatever interest was present in the Victorian romance of Charles and Sarah is gradually eroded whenever the contem­porary love affair between Mike_ and Anna insists ~n interrupting the viewer's involvement in the very film that Mike and Anna are trying to create. Pinter is 
· · playing too ·many mind games with the audience and the mental exercise that it provides leaves the viewer visually and emotionally exhausted: 
* * ·* 

17. Medium shot of Phil and Quinn; 17. 
PHIL (Pointing) What does "it" refer to in this sentence? 
QUINN The film. 
PHIL. 

I think you better put "the film'' instead of 
''it." 

18. 
Close-up of Phil. . · 18. I don't know 'bout this so far, Quinn. All the other critics liked it. 

19. 
Medium shot of both. 19. . QUINN 


Just a different perspective, that's all. I . thought that's what this magazine's all about. 
PHIL 

Right. Just don't expect a lot of letters to 
( cont'd on page 31) 

NOVEMBER, 1982 


Perspective 
From Stereotypes to Friendship 
by Theresa Kloska 

"We're sick of hearing about stere-essential that we get to know one otypes!" exclaims one frustrated stu-another. It is, after all, the ND/SMC dent. "Notre Dame or St. Mary's-Right-to-Life Club and not the ND who really cares?" Classically stere-Right-to-Life Club and the SMC otyped, Diane Domer is dark-haired Right-to-Life Club separately. The chubby, and very very smart. Susie two schools have a single newspaper, SMC is blonde, skinny, and utterly The Observer, in common, and class stupid. Recently, however, efforts credits in some courses, such as have been made to dispel these no-Communications, are interchange­tions once and for all. We are be-able. Even foreign study programs ginning to realize how ridiculous are open to students of both schools. these stereotypes are. St. Mary's students, for example, can 
The purpose of this article is not participate in Notre Dame's Angers, to squeeze any more out from an al-France, program, and Notre Dame ready wrung-out topic. It is not to students can participate in St. Mary's "de-stereotype" the women in our Rome, Italy, program with no prob­college communities. Articles in past lem at all. If we are to be efficient issues of The Observer have already together, we must get to know one done that. Instead, the purpose of another. How can we work well to­
.this article is to suggest that we go gether if we don't like or even know 
one step further than merely dis-· each other? 
pelling stereotypes and tolerating one . Second, it is essential to take time 
another. We should aim to be closer. out to get to know one another sim­
W e should aim to be friends. · ply for the sake of meeting new 
Some of us came to our respective people. In order to grow as individ­
schools already knowing girls from uals, it is important to learn about 
the educational institution across the as many different people as possible. 
street, and the friendships we had That includes getting to know people 
made in high school continued into from the other campus. Logically 
college. On Uie other hand, some· of then, it seems as though friendships 
us never knew any girls from the between women of the two schools 
other school and haven't really gotten would be very desirable, but in real­
to know any of them. Why shouldn't ity, stereotypes exist and this does 
we just be friends with the girls from not seem to be the case. 
our own school? Is there any value What are we so afraid of anyway? 
in bothering to get to know the girls Do we fear that women in our rival 
from across the street? The answer · -school will be more successful than 
is a definite yes. we in college and afterward? 
First, our two schools are tied so There really is no basis for that fear. 
closely together in clubs, literature, Let's face it, the ones who are going 
classes, and other programs that it is to be successes in college and after­
20 
ward are the ones who work hard and apply themselves. A woman's success or failure depends mostly on her individual determination, motiva­tion and application of her talents and abilities, and not so much on the school from which she graduated. St. Mary's and Notre Dame are close enough academically that an em­ployer would probably not place much emphasis on which school a woman attended as long as she was well qualified for the job. 
A woman really should not be competing against other women any­way, whether or not those women are from her own school. She need only be competing against herself. Every good golfer knows that in order to :do well in the game, he must concentrate on beating the course it­self and his own previous scores­not any other golfer's scores. The same principle holds true in an aca­demic situation. Each person must strive to make herself the best she possibly can be without worrying what others do or think. 
There is another rivalry. present among us which is not an academic rivalry. It is a social one. It seems to be a common belief that guys prefer one group of women over another. I'm going to take the liberty to say .that (and guys correct me if I'm wrong) when it comes to friendships, guys don't care if a woman goes to St. Mary's or to Notre Dame. I re­
. peat. Guys don't care. I've never once had a guy tell me, "Well, you're a very nice person Theresa, but I can't be your friend. You see, you go to St. Mary's and St. Mary's girls are dumb." The mere suggestion that anyone would even think to say that seems ridiculous, yet we seem to be­lieve it ourselves. Just as the in­dividual herself determines academic 
· success, so too does the individual herself determine social success. It is silly to say that the school one at­tends solely determines whether an individual is a winner or a loser in either the academic or social field. 
· Given then, that a cultivation of friendships would be desirable, how can this be accomplished? It is ri­diculous to demand that St. Mary's women march over to PE and PW in the name of establishing friend­ships, and to push Notre Dame women toward LeMans and order "Make friends!" No one can force 
SCHOLASTIC 


the friendships. We can, however, al­low ourselves to get to know one an­other so that friendships have the proper environment in which to grow. How then can we provide this environment? 
First, we need to plan more activi­ties between women's dorms. Wom­en's dorms often plan barbecues and picnics with men's dorms, but rarely with other women's dorms. Perhaps we should plan more of these "wom­en only" activities. People can't get to know one another and form friend­ships until they are introduced. 
Second, none of us should over­

look the possibility of interchanging 
one of our classes with a similar one 
offered at the other school. St. Mary's 
women often do not hesitate to en­
roll in a class a:t Notre Dame in 
order to develop friendships with 
guys, but they often don't think of 
the friendships with other women 
that they could be trying to develop 
too. Mary D., a junior at St. Mary's, 
says, "Freshman·year I enrolled in a 
communications class at Notre Dame, 
and thought I'd accomplish two 
things at once: I'd get a core require­
ment out of the way, and also get 
to meet some guys. I never really 
thought about trying to meet some 
of the girls over there. Well, I met 
some really nice girls and, as _it turned out, my best friend today is a girl I met in that class." 
Some may say that it is too ideal­istic to expect that the stereotypes which have existed for years will suddenly disappear, but is this ex­pectation really so unrealistic? Many neat things have happened already. 
"Who really cares about the stere­otypes?" is one opinion that has been reflected in several articles in The Observer recently. This is an indica­tion that the stereotypes are already breaking down. Some Notre Dame­St. Mary's "women only" activities have already been planned in order to allow the women to get to know one another better. Keep these con­tinuing and maybe these stereotypes will soon be forgotten. 
The women of St. Mary's and Notre Dame are talented in different ways but still are very much alike. They study together in many of the same classrooms, and work together in many_ of the same clubs. They cheer together at the same football games, and laugh together at the same· parties. Why ,pretend that they're so different by _refusing to discard old stereotypes? 
We are only in college for a few short years. During those years we have the opportunity to develop strong and lasting friendships. We 
_ 
must not allow a trfvial matter; such as which school we attend, to get in the way of developing those friend­ships. After all, the friendships we make now can go far beyond the four years here at college. They can, if we allow them to, last an entire life­time. D 

Good thru Dec 82 w4c <!tnlnnial Jancake ]f{mn;.c " ~ $1.00OFFT:::hAd~ OUR SPECIALTY Limitl OVEN-BAKED per person APPLE_ PANCAKES U.S. 31 North in Roseland (Across from the HolidayJ_l}Q)_272-7433 Open 7 day~ a ::,:c~k at 6:30 a.m.  

Submarine 
Hours: Mon-Thur 11 AM to 12 PM 
Sandwiches: 

Hain Fri & Sat 11 AM to 3 AM Tuna Sun 12 PM to 8 PM 
THE

Salami 272-4453 
Corned Beef ~YELLOW Asst. Cold Cuts 
~ SUBMARINE Quick Pick-Up Service!
Pizza Roast Beef 

Deluxe Combo All sandwiches served hot or cold and include: cheese, lettuce, Eat In Or Out! tomato, sweet onion, mustard and our special dressing.
Meatball Turkey Porty Specials!
18109 State Rd. #23 (West of Ironwood) 
Plus Many More! 

NOVEMBER, 1982 
-___. ________. _ --­
-
Poetry 


For a Student and Friend, Whose "Journal" Provided Joy, Timeless­ness and Light to her "Master"; with Remembrances of St. Augus­tine and a Discussion of Iconogra­phy. 
Icon of arching fire, Archon of all desire, Centerless, circuit-free .Movement of all degree: 
Moment immolater, Miracle abater Is your destined part. 
Memory misplacer, Effortless effacer Of the restless heart. 

Being, from becoming. Substance, out of shadow. Shiva passes; turns; would come again To undo being, limit light. Save us, Lord... ! 
Lord, save us, iass and master, Lord, hear our simple call: Let Shiva not dance faster, Let him not dance at all, Nor drum to dim reflection VVhat now is bright and clear. 
Where have you come from, lass? Words in a journal pass Slowly the searching eye; Slowly -personify 
(Limitless light) 

Their brief enchanted hours sustain For them, renewed in thee again, Though they seem to lose them. Preserve for them from Shiva's powers Their coiµmon days and private hours, As you come to choose them. 
Lord, all our days you know us ­Our mastered days, our lass-less days ­Our sitting down and our rising up: Beforehand with us against the day-star's rising, Afterward with us through the day's·descending arc. 
When we lose ourselves, you find us. When we forget ourselves, you mind us. When we fall you do maintain us, When we drift, kindly restrain us. 
Lord, let not our intersected times Move unmeasured, nameless, Through Shiva's consuming choreography. Tether, Lord, dance-master Nataraja's five-gestured 
form. Still Shiva's drums, so none who dance dare doubt it: Where stands the cross, there moves his dance about it. 
And we, illusionless, home in thy heart. 
by Professor John Lyon 
Used by permission of Center Journal 
SCHOLASTIC 

' A • -" ' • 

7· 
I 
.1 

,~~,111:1r:::;;r):· 
..... lii{itdratinid(/
. , J;Ii:::fi.qil and; bf'tourse, your raln.
~c<"'i:11~~/;::~-:;·j:~ . . . . ; • 
y;,,garden.. •coulduse.··..''Just 
,• -~· •.:. . 

~-~ti ~,..1/:\·:;j,IJ;-.•_ .--~~--~1-'ft.lg}~pj.;,~>~~::')'~J~·:;;::.-;.:.,~: 
fl'\\'. ~~~it~:¥9-\h\ ' ~::¼?;;:;t;fJ.t-A'e.:'~ti~~2;rp6,~~:Ji. 
NOVEMBER, 1982 

The Creation of a Book 
by Evelyn Venables 
It has arrived, hot off the presses. "It" is The Frozen Maiden of Cal,­purnia by Ralph Mcinerny, the most recent book published by Juniper Press. ·Juniper Press is the student­owned and -operated publishing com­pany at the University of Notre Dame, under the direction of Pro­fessor Elizabeth Christman of the, American Studies department. 

This is the seventh semester that Christman has taught the course since coming to Notre Dame. She comments, "I'd ·been in publishing for twenty years [before going into · teaching], and I wanted to use my real world experience in business to teach students·something about that business." 
.They certainly seem to be learn­ing. The eleven students in this se­mester's class have done all the work of a regular publishing company, though in an elementary form. They carry out all the phases of the pub­lishing process: acquiring a manu­script, contracting for it, editing, de­signing, and producing it, advertis­ing, promoting, and distributing it, accounting for sales, and paying roy­alties. The first order of business put to each of the students was to run for a position in the company. De­pending on their particular interests 
· and experiences, class members ran for the jobs of President, Corporate Secretary, Editor-in-Chief, Copy Edi­tor, Designer, Production Manager and Production Assistant, Sales, Bus­iness, _Advertising, and Publicity Managers. After this was settled, each class member invested $35.00 (seven shares of stock) into the com­pany. With these initial tasks com­pleted, it was time to search for a manuscript to publish. They can­vassed the Notre Dame campus, call­ing on faculty, students, staff, and other interested individuals who might have manuscripts suitable for publication by Juniper Press. Since Juniper Press started off with capital of just over $2,000.00, · · it could publish a book of no more than 100 pages. · Also since the pub­lishing process had to be completed in one semester, the manuscript had to be ready to go, with few changes 
24 

necessary. lt was also important for and radio stations, sent .out press re­the book to appeal to the Notre leases, prepared poster designs, and Dame-South Bend market. Juniper solicited some possible buyers (book­
. Press received several submissions stores and book clubs). and spent many class days deliberat-_ All the class members left for fall 
ing over the various texts until the company decided on Mclnerny's The Frozen Maiden of Cal,purnia. 
Once the contract was made and the editorial department began its work,· the production department be­gan its frenzied job of turning the manuscript into a book. Armed with facts, figures and statistics from var­ious printing houses in the South Bend-Mishawaka area, the produc­tion team worked to get the best contract for the company's limited funds. After reporting back to the entire class with the results, a print­ing compap.y was chosen to do the work. The production staff also ar­ranged to have Tony Penate do the artwork to go_-along with the text. The class members had already de­cided to typeset the book themselves, using the Observer's equipment to save _money, and once the typeset­ting was done (after _a sleepless night in the Observer office) and the artwork was completed, the book was sent. off to press to be printed and bound. 
During this same anxious activity from the production staff, the sales staff_ (sales, advertising, and pub­licity managers) was gearing up for its sales campaign. Many phone calls were made; they contacted television break on October 22 anticipating the completion of the book upon their rE!turn on November 1. Now the book is finished and needs only to be sold. Juniper Press is enthusiastic about its new publication and the company members are urging every­one to buy Mclnerny's "witty, whim­sical, modern-day myth." They are optimistic about sales and believe the book will appeal to young and 
. old readers alike. Says Susan Selner, editor-in-chief, ''It's going to be hard work, but I'm confident that the book will sell well." 
The course has attracted an inter­esting variety of people -they are mostly American Studies majors, but there are also majors in the Program of Liberal Studies, Communication and Theatre, and English. Although everyone in the class may have dif­ferent expectations for the course, all are drawn together in their com­mon goal of producing a book. Selner comments, "The most rewarding as­pect about the class is working with the other people and accomplishing something together that couldn't 
· have been done • alone. I think we work really well together -I'm kind of impressed with us!" It is evident that the group has already pulled together during the 


The 1982 Juniper Press Staff 

A Modern-day Fairy Tale 
by Pat Pitz 

"That Calpurnia, a little alpine kingdom, itself, to the critical eye, frozen in ice, impervious to progress, in the world but not ofit, should now house a ·block ofice containing a young woman for whom time quite literal­ly stood still, was one of those lesser paradoxes with which the universe is replete and without which, both from a scientific and literary point of view, it would be a less interesting place than it is. '' 
Ralph Mclnerny's new 

king can take charge of book, The Frozen Maid­
the matter. Once in Cal­en of Cal-purnia,·is a de­
purnia, King Roy L im­lightful story that com­
mediately preserves the bines fantasy and hu­
block of ice inside the mor. The book .is a type 
town hockey rink where of modern-day fairy tale 
he consequently becomes which explores the clas­
enchanted with the love­sic story of a young king 
ly, mysterious figure in search of a bride to 
encased in the crystal share the royal throne.. 
tomb. · The story is set in the 
Soon the royal his­present yet takes place 
torians uncover the iden­in a small kingdom, high 
tity of the frozen maid-in the Alps, isolated from 
. en. She is Princess Cyn­the rest of t}:le world by 
thia del Spada, who had impassable mount a i _n · 
disappeared on her jour­peaks on all sides. Mcin­
ney to Calpurnia to be-· erny uses .the modern 
come the bride of King setting. to make -fun of 
Roy L's predecessor, many of modern soci~ 
King Roy IV, who had ety's current problems 
ruled over 1000 years and concerns, but as the . 
ago. ·From here, the story. develops, refer­
events of the tale become ences to the present fade 
more complicated, but and we are left with an 
eventually the maiden is amµsing fantasy. 
thawed back to life and 

The plot of The Fro­
becomes the bride of zen Maiden unfolds when King Roy L. the king of Calpurnia, King Roy L, is unable to The book is very well written and could be en­find a satisfactory bride in aU of Calpurnia. Con­joyed• equally by children, college students, and sequently, King Roy must search for · a queen in adults. The book is short -only 75 pages, includ­the surrounding kingdoms. In the meantime, a ing illustrations· -:making it ideal for light, lei­group •of travelers from Calpurnia come across a surely reading. Some of the people and places in very strange and _even -miraculous discovery on their the story may seem rather allegorical at first, but journey. thr_-ough the snow-covered Alps: They find soon we learn there is no· deep, hidden meaning iri a young woman -'-.a very beautiful young-woman the fairy tale and the moral is nothing more than, ~ frozen solid in a huge block of ice. Unable to ·. as Mclnerny puts it; ·"Many are cold, but few are decide what to do with her, they agree to bring the chosen." Mcinerny's fine, descriptive writing, in­frozen young lady back to Calpurnia where ·the jected with humor, 'makes the book an enjoyable 
and suspenseful-war~ of fantasy. D 
first half of the:semester. ·Everyone_ was rriore than willing to put in the extra hours that_ were needed to make the book just perfect for print­ing. Under the guidanc;e of the pro­duction department; the class· mem­bers proofread, typed, pasted, mea­sured, and straightened· until ·all· 
NOVEMBER, 1982 
were satisfied with the end product.. Through all· the long hours, they've generated their own excitement and now they are all eager to promote and sell the book that they've worked so hard on and believe in so strongly. Selner mentions that the focal point of the class is "the book." And that encompasses "hard work, excitement, cooperation; and leai:ning about the publishing busi­ness. It's all so rewarding because it's ours -we did it." 
·Personal involvement seems to be 
(continued on page 30) 
25 


Avoiding an Education 
by Jim Hennigan 
At Notre Dame, there is a Fresh­man Year of Studies program which gives students a chance to carefully select the college of their choice. Some students take a little more time than others. 
Upon entering Notre Dame as a freshman, I enrolled in courses in the Freshman Year program which ful­filled the requirements of the Col­lege of Business Administration. Of course I experimented a little with some courses -just to be sure I should really be an accountant. It wasn't until my • sophomore year, though, that I actually took courses in the business school. 
I chose the School of Business Ad­
ministration for several reasons, 
which seemed very good at the time. 
A degree in Accountancy from Notre 
Dame practically ensures the stu­
dent of a job upon graduation. 
(That's no small consideration with 
the current state of the economy.) I 
also saw that the benefits of a busi­
ness education included practical ap­
plications .in everyday life, apart 
from the obvious .on-the-job applica­
tions. I felt these were logical and 
seemingly sound reasons for choos­
ing a career in accounting. They may 
or may not have had much to do with 
the fact that my father is an account­
ant himself. That I had never 
bounced a check until last semester 
was of minor importance. But, per-other section of the catalogue. Phys­ics and those "higher" forms of mathematics have always been too demanding for me. Those courses have always invoked a sense of fear in me. I couldn't imagine ever mas­tering "Thermo" qr "Fluids," nor did I care to give it a ·shot, knowing that my major awaited me somewhere else inside that Bulletin of Informa­

tion. "Perhaps I could design a bridge without getting so technical," I told myself. A degree in Architecture was therefore next on my list, but not for long. I knew deep down that even­tually I would want to study law, and to a high school graduate, Archi­tecture just didn't. seem like the way to go. Being an architect didn't seem to offer the "flexibility" that other majors did. In other words, if I wanted to change my major, I wanted to be able to do so without having to start college all over again. Be­sides, the Architecture·Building was a long walk from my dorm. 
The College of Science didn't get much consideration from me. I knew something about Science that many freshmen wished they were privy to before registering. I knew about the seven-question quiz every Friday in_ Emil Hofman's Chemistry 115 class. This was one obstacle that was un-· avoidable and I knew things would get tougher down the line. Besides 
-that I had visions of sitting next to He~lett on my left and Packard on my right in Calculus class. "Who wants to compete for grades any­way?" I decided. On top of that, I had .to consider my health. I get shivers every time I have a class in Nieuwland and there's a room across the hall with "Danger-Radioactive Material-Keep Out" posted on the door. 
Arts and Letters was next, but.the foreign language requirement (three 
haps most important in my decision .. semesters) terrified me. I had had was a look at the other colleges in four years of French in high school, the University. . but that meant I would only have to 
Prior to my freshman year, I ex-begin my three-semester obligation amined the Bul'letin of Information · at least on the. intermediate level. 
quite carefully. I first turned to the Engineering section, recalling an old ·desire to design bridges like my Uncle Bob. After perusing the de­gree requirements, I turned to an-Arts and Letters also. implied living in Manhattan's SoHo district for sev­eral years after graduation-unless one opts for the Peace Corps instead. I felt that graduating with a. B.A. de­gree was not compatible with the most remote chance of living in a house in the suburbs with a two-car garage, wife, 2.4 children and a dog. To me, Arts and Letters meant "chickening out," and I'm not one to walk away in the face of ad­versity. 

You might call it process oi elimi­nation or plain old indecisiveness, but 
I. was determined that the College of Business Administration was the right path for me. Freshman Year went without a hitch-for the most part-and that seemed to confirm my choice. But, it wasn't until my sopho­more year that I had a chance to take a course in the College of Busi­ness Administration. Once the sec­ond semester rolled around, I was sure of one thing; business was not as interesting as I had hoped it would be. · · 
I was very distressed that I was halfway through ·my "Notre Dame experience" and I didn't even know what it was. Barring the continua-· tion of an unappealing business edu­cation, Arts and Letters was my .only possible retreat. Such an al­ternative was not all that bad as I had enjoyed my Arts and Letters courses, and a B.A. degree is just as good a background for law school as any other. After a lot of thought and consideration, I opted for the liberal education over the more vo­cational training in the business school, just like Fr. Hesburgh wants. · So, now I'm getting the kind of education that. will both serve its 
· purpose in thi?fµture and keep me content for now. The language re­quirement has caught up with me, as well as .a couple of other unforeseen "obstacles," but after two years, I'm no longer running away from an edu-. cation. Some might say that an Arts and Letters major is avoidin_g 
· an education, but putting one's fu­ture on the line is not an easy thing to do. After all, Rockwell Interna­tional doesn't usually hire philoso­phy majors straight out of college. D 
Jim Hennigan is a junior Arts & Letters student from Livingston, New Jersey. 
SCHOLASTIC 
ART 
. at the Snite Museum of Art · 

Until Dec. 26 -The Golden Age of Dutch Ari: The Dreesmonn Collec­tion -Print, Drawing ond Photography Gallery. 
Until Dec. 19 -Traditional African Art in the Britt Family Collection ­O'Shoughnessy Galleries. 
Until Dec. 12 -William Kremer: One-Mon Exhibition -O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Until Dec. 19 -Hedrich-Blessing: Architectural Photography 1930-1980 O'Shoughnessy Galleries. 
LECTURES 

Nov. 16 -"The Faces of Power: Art, Politics, ond Propagando"-Robert Hughes, Art Critic for Time Mogozine ­
7:30 p.m. -Annenberg Audi­torium. 

Dec. 14 -"Michelangelo Scultore" -Dr. Charles Rosenberg, Asst. Prof. of Art History, UND-12:10 p.m.­Annenberg Auditorium. 
(Gallery hours: T-F, 10 a.111.-4 p.m.; S-S, 1-4 
eulturr Update, 
p.m.; Closed M) 
at Saint Mary's 

Nov.  19-Dec.  13 ­ Dolores  Milmoe,  Recent  
Paintings - Hammes  and  
Little Theatre Galleries.  
Nov.  19-Dec.  13 ­ Betsy  Packard,  Recent  
Sculpture  and  Drawings  
-Moreau Gallery.  

(Gallery hours: M-F, 9:30 a.m.-12 p.m., 
p.m.-3 p.m.; Sun., 1-3 p.m.; Closed Sal.) 
MUSIC 
at Notre Dame 

Dec. 8 -Golden Siring Quartet -8:15 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium -$2.00 GA; Students Free. 
at Saint Mary's 

Nov. 18 -Fall Choral Concert -Raymond Sprague, conductor -Lillie Thea­tre -8 p.m. 
Nov. 20-Indiana Stale Choral Festival ­Raymond Sprague, caardinatar ­
O'Laughlin Auditorium and Little 
Theatre-:-.All day• 

*Dec. 2, 3, 4, 5-Christmas Madrigal Din­ners -Regina North Lounge -7 p.m. 
Dec. 1 2 -Festival of Lessons and Carols ­Raymond Sprague, conductor ­Church of Loretta -8 p.m. 
THEATRE 
at Notre Dame 

*Nov. 12, 13, 18, 19, 20-The Maids by Jean Genet-Di­rected by Lean­ard Powlick ­Washington Hall -8 p.m. 
DANCE 
at Saint Mary's 

*Dec. 3, 4, 5 -The Little Match Girl-Based on the story by Hons Chris­tian Andersen -Directed by Debra Stahl-O'Loughlin Au­ditorium -8 p.m. (Dec. 5 ­2 p.m.) 
I*For Ticket Information and reservations, coll I 219l 284-4626.) 
BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• 
ARMSTRONG CEIUNG TILE • POWER TOOIS 

• 
CABINETS • LUMBER 

• 
PLYWOOD • HARDWARE 


• OLYMPIC STAIN • l'I.UMBING & 
• PANEUNG ELECTRICAL SUPPUES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE ••• 


Academic Life . . . 
(continued frorn page 5) 
personal contact between students and regular faculty members. As Prof. Nicgorski observes, however, "One must not underestimate the tension that can exist between such a concern and that of making the Uni­versity 'world-class' by emphasizing the increased presence of the well­known research scholar." Nicgorski believes the University must make the commitment to close contact be­tween students and faculty despite the potential conflict with the Uni­versity's research aims. 
According to Nicgorski, "A uni­versity is a place where one is to try to put together a meaningful under-' 
NOVEMBER, 1982 
standing of life and the world around us. Literally a university means turn­ing things to one,· interrelating and making sense of things." With this in mind, any course of study offered by Notre Dame should motivate the stu­dent to integrate his academic stud­ies with the larger picture of life outside the classroom. 
Unfortunately, a pervading career­ism runs counter to the interrelating of academics and the direction of one's life. Although the emphasis on career is found throughout Amer­ican society as a whole, some see the administration of Notre Dame as in­directly fostering such an attitude. One senior notes that "the Admin­istration neglects 1the fine arts, the­ater, and music departments, and in­stead pours money into more career­oriented disciplines such as business and engineering." 
Admittedly, the University Admin­istration must be partially respon­sible for some of the problems which reinforce the separation of academics and student life. Sophomore Doug O'Brien suggests that in general the policy of in loco parentis is the cause of much of the problem. "Treating us like children projects an image onto us which can be detrimental to our maturing academically." The other half of the problem, however, must ultimately rest with the student body. Clearly our attitudes to a great extent help to widen the gulf be­tween the social and academic spheres of life at the University. As Prof. McKim reminds us, "There are resources here for a student who's aggressive and intentional about his iife here to create a very good four-year experience." If we are serious about getting a true edu­cation in the great Western and Catholic traditions, we must begin to integrate what we study into all aspects of our lives. If we hope to claim that we are a great university in these traditions, we shall have to begin to act like one. D · 
LAMP SHADES -LAMP REPAIR -LAMP PARTS 
GLASS PARTS -LAMPS -LIGHTING FIXTURES 
VillageLamp 
Shoppe 
Light up someone's life this Christmas 
~~~~ ~~~;~AU QJ='i-'f--5
__-:E::> South Bend, Indiana ~ 
(219) 272-0600 c:;::;,_:.., _.­
__ -~-~ -­
Custom Lamp I .cc.co-.. _ -­Shades ~;.-­
~ --4.·'.___~ 
Check out our Christmas gift ideas. 

tet:l()fl 

Dome Air 

by Jeb Cashin 
The room is plain. The walls are cinder block, decorated by one poster of Kermit the Frog with last year's playmate of the year. "Lucky frog," every guy · always says. "Wonder where Jim Henson's other hand is?" Everyone laughs and everyone asks for another beer. Party party. 
Tonight, though, is Wednesday, the room is fairly quiet with the door shut. The room holds two beds -one made, one unmade--with a desk at the end of each bed. Two mosquitoes hover over the only light. 
(The other lamp has an expired bulb.) In one desk chair .sits a sandy­haired freshman, phone handle cra­dled on his shoulder, hands grinding the sweat from his palms into his jeans. Leaning forward. Listening. On the bed, back to the wall sits Fred, sniffing, with his knees tucked under his chin. He is not breathing well. 
The screw-your-roommate is Sat­urday. 
The dogbooks came out Monday. 
But Blatz did not know about the Monday issue, so he had to wait until Tuesday to fall in love with Melanie -twenty-first page, row three, col­umn two: Dancing, Painting, Play­

"Sure they are," Dan the senior had told him. "Their lip muscles are· always firm-you know, well­developed." It made sense. 
The phone is answered, "Hello." Two syllables to stop the charging heart of man, as he forgets what to say. A voice. Alas, the female voice. 
"Hello?" Blatz remembers, rub­bing off layers of skin. "My name is Fred." Actually Blatz's name is Blatz; Fred is his roommate. Fred sleeps in the made bed he is presently cower­ing on. Fred could not call Melanie for the screw-your-roommate this Saturday, as he tends to hyperventi­late when speaking to girls. 
Thus, Blatz has resorted to calling 
a girl for himself in the name of his 
roommate, Fred.. : 

"Our dorm is having a screw-your­roommate this Saturday," says Blatz, "so I was just wondering if you would go with him-him, my room~ mate. His name is Blatz Cartigan; I think you guys have the same Econ class." 
"I'd love to go!" says Barbara, 
sitting up off her giant, fuzzy, yellow 
Woodstock. 

This room is neat,. for now. The walls are plaster, decorated with oriental paintings from K-Mart, a big calendar of November with the 
ing the flute. Melanie. Melanie. Me--first sixteen days crossed out, two 
~ ~~·~.~~~~~~ 
Blatz listens, still rubbing his Y6rk, and a wall clock; the big hand jeans. The other end rings a third tells the hour and t;helittle hand tells time. He wonders if flautists really the minute. Some obnoxious junior are inherently excellent kissers. from lier Latin class changed them at the last happy hour. Happy happy. 
"Actually," Melanie thinks, look­ing at the clock, "pouring vodka in the goldfish bowl and killing Moby was the obnoxious thing-changing the hands on the clock was sort of cute. So was the junior.» She looks back to Barbara on the phone. 
"Hold on a second," says Barbara into the phone. Covering the mouth­piece she whispers to Melanie, "Car­tigan . . . with a 'C' I guess." Me­
. lanie is already passionately racing through the dogbook which was starred, double starred, and occa­sionally triple starred after hours of heated debate at the section meeting last Monday night. . 
On the. other end, Blatz hisses to Fred, "She says .she would love to go!" Fred starts coughing and gnaw­ing. on his right knee. Blatz has given up thigh-rubbing for phone cord-shaking ,,\ violent phone cord­shaking. Botli' males are elated. Blatz, because he has procured a date; Fred, because Blatz has pro­cured a date. A girl. An actual girL 
Flip. Flip. Flip. "You think he ·might spell Cartigan with a 'K' ?" Melanie whispers. · "I don't know," Barbara whispers 
back "Hurry." "Well you already said yes ! " Suddenly, but subtly and quietly, 
something knocks· at the back of Blatz's celebrating-brain.... 
Tap. Tap. Tap. "Excuse me, old sport," says a sudden realization in Blatz's head, '.'but is this our love, 
(continued on page 30) 
SCHOLASTIC 

Alcohol ... 
(continued from page 11) 
tion among some college students is the belief that they have the spe­cial right to be as obnoxious, loud and abrasive as they like without fearing reaction from others. Being given the right to drink entails tak­ing on the responsibilities of adult­hood. 
How do we go about changing the drinking habits? "Intervention not prevention is effective at the col­lege level" states Dr. Pellegrini. He further claims that, "simply teaching people about alcohol abuse and alco­holism won't change lives. Confron­tation of people with the problem forces them to acknowledge it." Pel­legrini asserts that when a person is told by those around him of their dis­approval he will stop to think and evaluate the situation. Approaching someone in a caring and loving but firm manner will do much more than any classroom lecture or pamphlet will. 
If a situation in which alcohol abuse is persistent comes to atten­tion, it cannot be ignored. Silence. serves as confirmation. Letting a problem continue cannot happen if there is to be hope of responsible drinking. "As long as a person has someone to clean up after him with­out a word to contest his actions, the problem will live on," claims Peggy Cronin, also of the Psychological Services Center. 
Notre Dame will have the problem of alcohol abuse until the students decide not to tolerate campus drunk­enness. • Damage to facilities, in­fringement upon others' rights and the guy down the hall prostrated over the toilet will be the price to pay until students put their foot down. Plain and simple, the people here have to be less tolerant of wanton drunkenness. 
"The outlook needs to be changed from the very beginning" elaborates Cronin. ''.Instead of acclimating freshmen to a climate of alcohol­dominated socializing why not focus on nonalcohol-related events," is one suggestion from Cronin. freshmen come to Notre Dame trying their hardest to fit in. Everyone here plays a part in fashioning their mold, so it• is up to all -of us to take responsi­bility for it. The Freshman Year of Studies, for example, does an admi­. rable job of sponsoring nonalcoholic 
events in the social sphere. We need to decide if we want to show them a life in which alcohol is used as a crutch for social life or an atmo­sphere in which people can enjoy life and control thefr own emotions and relations without foreign-· in: spiration. 
Although a lack of social alterna­tives is not the major cause of al­cohol abuse at Notre Dame, a more diversified social calendar would cer­tainly provide options other than alcohol for those who go along with the crowd because they can find 
· nothing better to do. There exists at Notre Dame a lack of effective plan­ning and foresight in the area of student social life according to stu­dent body president Lloyd Burke. Burke claims, "There is a need for the administration to create a posi­tion or committee in charge of stu­dent social affairs. The administra­tion is currently involved with reac­tionary measures, they're constantly firefighting. What is needed is a for­ward looking plan to create more op­portunities for student social inter­action." Burke believes there simply isn't enough of a concerted effort put forth by the administration to design a program of student events; rather, everything is done piecemeal. 
The lack of action and organiza­tion on the administration's part cited by Burke causes one to wonder, how seriously the administration considers student social life. Granted, we are an academic institution, but the trade-off of healthy social inter­action for academics has to reach some sort of equilibrium. We don't need to be constantly entertained, but providing viable avenues for stu­dents to create their own activities in the social field would be the least they could do. The trouble one en­counters when simply trying to or­ganize a concert on the quad can cause one to wonder if the adminis­tration wouldn't rather have the stu­dents drinking in their rooms. If they're serious about trying to rec­tify the problems with student social life they have to develop an over­all plan of action and follow through with it. 
Students have to and are taking the initiative to bring about social events they desire. The Student Union and Student Government along with countless clubs and or­ganizations provide possible outlets. The administration needs to do its share but the students have to rea­lize Mom's not always going to be around to think up fun and games. 
I am not claiming alcohol has no place at Notre Dame. I am support­ing a climate in which people are given and take responsibility for their actions. A responsibility they cannot handle when inebriated. There is wisdom in moderation. O 


NOVEMBER) 1982 


Jafll'~ CBouttq,ue 60ft v~e c..NatuftaQ Cut 

Open six days a week with. five. operators to serve you. 
Call Corinne, 
Executive Hcdr Designer Shampoo, Cut & Style-$12.00 
Evening appointments, If desired. 

:i'i 
Creation ... 
( continued from page 25) 
the crucial part in the success of the course and the survival of Juniper Press. Professor Christman observes that she has always had a good re­sponse from her publishing students. 
"Most seem to like -it [the course] because it's very different. They en­joy having more to do, more of a chance to affect the way the course comes out." 
It is yet to be seen how the course will turn out and how the book will sell. But it is certain that these stu­dents have learned a lot from their experiences with Juniper Press. They have sure1y become wiser from their mistakes along the way. Christman comments, "You can always learn from your mistakes. I don't consider that the success of the course de­pends on making money." 
But Juniper Press does want to make money, or at least break even. With the camaraderie the ctass mem­bers have developed, they remain optimistic. After all of their hard work, they believe there will be good sales. As Selner says, "I'm sure we'll do well -it's such a high-quality piece of work." D 
Evelyn Venables is a senior Ameri­can Studies major from Winter Park, Florida. This is her first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
30 
Dance .. 
(continued from paqe 15) 

·few dates with her less-fortunate 
roommate!) ' 

Yet, regulations are made. Hghter 
at the expense of tradition. The "In-· 
augural Ball" has been replaced by hundreds· of "Screw Your Room­:mates." (What an enhancing title!) .The electric guitar has taken pre­Idominance over the violin. And the :only keepsake from the dances are ·the salt and pepper shakers from the ;Big-Boy. ShaH we brush the dust off 'the velvet gowns and try to fit into iMickey's dinner jacket? I do not 'need any more salt shakers; I want , a charm bracelet! Let's deamplify ,"Born to Run," relax the arms (but ,please don't turn down the air-condi­
tioner! ) , and reinstitute the 1933 :"appropriate Notre Dame air." 
Dome Air ... 
(continued from page 28) 

Melanie, on the phone? Did we ask 
for her? I don't think we did. This 
could be a roommate or a friend. 
Did we even dial the right number?" . "Wait a second," utters Blatz, his ·hands still over the mouthpiece. "What's wrong?" asks Fred in be­tween gnaws and breaths. 
Blatz panics and hangs up. 
Fred is cured. "Why did you · do 
that?" 
"I forgot to ask for Melanie," says 
Blatz. "What if that wasn't her who 
wanted to go?" 
"But you gave your name." 
· "Yeah but I'm not even in the 
dogbook.' They'll never catch me. I'll 
deny the whole thing." · "I can't find him," says Melanie. 
"He hung up." · 
"He what?" 
''He hung up." 
"Well you kept your hand over the 
phone long enough. He was probably 
insulted." 
"I bet it was just another joke." 
"Sic):{ joke." 
"Stupid boys." 
"Yeah, stupid boys." 
"Women!" 
"Who needs 'em?" says Fred. 
Blatz gazes ahead at the two mos­
quitoes floating over the desk lamp. 
Then he stares past them towards 
the approaching winter, and on past 
towards seven dances, many parties, 
an almost relationship, and a girl for 
one ·night in Florida. Blatz, the 
socialite. Fred is exhausted. He, too, 
stares at the mosquitoes, then on 
past towards only one try, a . dis­
aster, and on past to peace in the 
computer building 


Free Gift Wrap 
Lead Crystal Prisms Cookie Cutters Garfield. Items Mugs with Names Incense Sticks Candles , Music Boxes Christmas Ornaments Stuffed Animals Plus Many More Gifts! 
We will ship your gift purchase via UPS. 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
SCHO~ASTIC 

Barbara hangs up tne phone. the dogbook on her desk. Flip. Flip. Jeb Cashin is a senior English ma­Melanie goes to the calendar on the Flip. Barbara returns to her giant 
jor from Atlanta, Georgia. This .is
wall and crosses out this day in Woodstock and curls up for a long 
his first contribution to Scholastic
November. She then goes back to winter's nap. D 
Movie Review 
(continued from page 19) 
the editor agreeing with you. (Pause) By the way, it's 7:30. QUINN I know, I know.. FADE OUT: 
* l. * 

. and the mental exercise that the ficm provides leaves the viewer visually and emotionally exhausted. 
Newsweek claims that "the film's only drawback is the superlatives that sprinkle its reviews," and pleads, "Don't be put off by the reputation that precedes it, for it will surely live up to it." Alas, if this were only true. The majority of reviews are too concerned with com­paring.Reisz's film with Fowles' novel, and are too busy praising Pinter's brilliance in keeping with the spirit of the book, while neglecting to review the film inde­pendently as a form of art and entertainment account­able to its audience. Perhaps if Pinter had only kept to the original story of Charles and Sarah, then that in itself might have adequately' contrasted the then and now, Victorian and contemporary society, in the view­
er's own mind ...  
20. Medium shot of Carolyn and Quinn.  20.  
CAROLYN  
(Moving around Quinn and sitting on couch)  
I "loved it!  
QUINN  
(Looking up from his typewriter)  
What, the movie?  
CAROLYN  
No, your review. Well, I loved the movie, too.  
I don't agree with you, but it's a really good  
review.  
QUINN  
Thanks.  
21. Close-up of Carolyn  21.  
CAROLYN  
(Getting up)  
Now can we go out to dinner?  
22. Close-up of Quinn.  22.  
QUINN  
(Slow Smile)  

(Pause) Yeah. (Pause) Then let's go see a movie. 
( Un ·their way out, Phil enters the office with his rough copy of review) 
23. Long shot of Carolyn, Phil and Quinn. 23. 
PHIL 

Not bad, Quinn. I'd say this "is one of the better things you've written all year. You done with the rewrite yet? 
QUINN Year. Here. (Hands it to him) Oh, I decided to change the title to ''Overindulgent Artistry." 
24. 
Medium shot of Phil and Quinn. 24. 

PHIL Sorry, Quinn. Just checked with typesetting. No room for a title in this issue. Just the heading, "Movie Review." 

25. 
Close-up of Quinn. 25. 

QUINN Damn. 

26. 
Close-up of Phil. 26. 


PHIL 

But you do get your name at_ the top after the heading instead of at the bottom of the article. Satisfied? 
27. Close-up of Quinn. 27. QUINN 
No.. FADE OUT: 
* * * 

... Hopefully, the future holds a project more worthy of the talents -and reputations of Fowles, Pinter, and Reisz. Unfortunately for the present, their cinematic collaboration has been unsuccessful. For in trying to be profound and thought-provoking, The French Lieu,. tenant's Woman only becomes like Streep's portrayal of Sarah itself strained, elusive, and ultimately unsatisfying. 
-by Quinn Kurtz 
* * * 
THE END 0 

Charles Ignacio is a junior Com­munications major from Richmond, Indiana. This is his first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 
by Mike Quill

Leave It to Gopher 


-Tl1e Last Word------­
You are my friend. I am yours. We are friends. So what? 
In my twenty-one years of making friends I have come into contact with many people, made friends for many reasons. Reminiscing, as we seniors are prone to do, I am struck by the characteristics of friendships which have endured. In that friendship is a contract of love, if is indeed a very special gift. 
When I was young, I remember using a sort of prefabricated measuring stick to choose friends. I liked Tammy Jo down the street because she had two names., (I'd never known anyone with two names before.) The girl next door was a real independent little thing whose parents worked, thus giving us more or less free rein of the house. Others ranked among my friends because they got to stay up past eight o'clock; or they got cookies for afternoon snacks; or they had a cute brother. 
· I now chuckle at the materialistic manner in which I measured my poor "friends." Perhaps that's why they are not my friends today. And while I'd like to say I have grown out of such childish perspectives, I realize that worldly friendship still tempts us to measure by the material, a profit-loss scale, so to speak. 
How often we are drawn to people because they look good, or are successful, or surround themselves with the "in'' crowd. We are all drawn to the oppor­tunistic measures of friendship. Unfortunately, they do not last. 
Aelred of Rievaulx, author of the 12th-century work Spiritual Friendship wrote, "Four elements in particular seem to pertain to friendship; namely, love and affection, security and happiness. Love implies the rendering of services with benevolence, affection, an inward pleasure that manifests itself exteriorly; security, a revelation of all counsels and confidences without fear and suspicion; happiness, a pleasing and friendly sharing of all events which occur, whether joyful or sad, of all thoughts, whether harmful or
,· 
useful, of everything taught or learned." (Pretty pro­
IT i! found for the 12th century!) Such elements of friendship are a far cry from my measuring stick. While we may be tempted to write off true friendship to "another world" where virtue and goodness reign unattested, if we examirie what it is we seek most in our own friends, and our ultimate end of perfect friendship with the Lord, the criteria are not so farfetched. We must measure with the eye, the heart, and the reason, and not merely the advantages to be gained or the price tag. Heien and I have been special friends for the past four years. Next week I shall meet her for the first time. Sound impossible? Well, it's true. Helen and I were supposed to be roommates my freshman year at Notre Dame. When the time came for registration, Helen had decided not to come to N.D. Over the past four years we have written each other, learning bits and pieces of very separate and distinct lives, sharing our experiences and thoughts in a very un­inhibited, unmeasured manner. Independent of the external measuring stick we have built our friendship on the basis of honesty, loyalty, openness, faithfulness­love. 
32 
by Beth Healy 


Next week I shall lay eyes on Helen Kane for the first time. We have talked on the phone only once. In her last letter she wrote a: brief description of her­self. "I'm 5'2½", very light complexion (some people call it pale, but I prefer to think of it as light or fair), dark brown hair to about my shoulders with pretty many twists and turns between the roots and ends, two green eyes; two clear contacts, a nose and a mouth. . .. I have no amazingly distinguishing features -no sca·rs stretching from ear to ear or warts on my nose. So much for descriptions. I look pretty much like every other Irish American girl my age. And, if it's any help, I look just like my father." 
After reading her description I was struck by the fact that I'd never even tried to imagine Helen Kane before. Not that I relish the ldea of faceless friends, but she has been my friend totally independent of all physical measures. What a thrill to think that soon, years of bits and pieces will unite. 
Such friendship, independent of external measures also symbolizes man's relationship with the Lord. In that life on earth represents a period when bits and pieces of the Lord God come together, it is our ultimate end as Christians to see His face, to participate in life with Him. Such is the friendship Christ spoke of when He said, "You must love tµe Lord your God with your whole heart, your whole soul, your whole strength and your whole mind, and your neighbor as yourself." (Lk 10: 27) 
By the same token, God loves man endlessly and without measure. Moreover, as a sign of that perfect love Jesus Christ suffered on the cross and died, calling man back from sin to new life with the Lord God. Such is a love which leads man to perfection whose ulti­mate end is union with God. Only in attaining this per­fected friendship of love and affection, security and happiness, can we hope to look upon the face of the 
Lord. 

How blessed we are that we have the opportunities to practice and develop that friendship with others here on earth. As Christians we have no choice but to welcome such friendship. 
Welcome Helen. D 
SCHOLASTIC 
.:., 
':':! 

IH H .\:\''T 'HI ~l Tl:--,, :,,;pc lRT:,.\\'1:.-\R PU.I T\\'.\Y l',\J,\M.\~:.. RI Jill:~. 11 ( JR.,IIIJ\.1 'i.lH HS 1.\:-..:TZl:S SPt IRTM\'L\R. \II S<,1:-,;(,\\'f .\R I :-,.,rnk\\"L\R .....·... r<JRlS\\'L\R.,\ltR<J\\' '-.!'I HU:-\\'I .w. 1!I LO,, ,1Kl,\\I CH II R\\ I .\R 
Phi 
·ctot 

NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
~-~ 
~\ 277-7536 


810OFFANY 850 PURCHASE 
Of Regular Price Merchandise With Coupon
----------·· -----------------------------­

ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL 




FREE PARKING 
SUPPLIES 
FRONT & REAR • GARDEN SUPPLIES 
• HOUSEW ARES 219 DIXIE WAY • HARDWARE 
NO. IN ROSELAND • SPORTING GOODS 

BOOKSTORE Saint Mary's College l%i NEW FOR CHRISTMAS: Papermate Pen Sets 1983 Calendars Saint Mary's Christmas Ornaments Perfumed Pomanders Gift Books Stuffed Animals and Dolls DECEMBER SPECIALS: 20% Off All Vitamins 50% Off Selected Knitwear  

-. . ­
-~ ~ --~~_____._.--~~ 

\'. 





