Vol. XXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 12, 1889.	No. 6.
The Pictures of a Century.
SKETCHED FROM THE EARLY HISTORY OF MARY-
LAND.
BY O. H.
I.
In Hungary, upon the walls of the national museum at Buda-Pesth, and in the halls of its Parliament houses, frescoes, picturing scenes from the early history of the land of the Magyars, stand out in splendor of color and truthfulness of detail. In Bohemia, at the royal Lustschloss' of Ferdinand on the Headschin, Rubens and his pupils have given a panoramic history of the Greekish nation from the crowning of Boysner, first King of Bohemia in 871, to Leopold IL, receiving the homage of his nobles, after his coronation in 1790.
A few days ago in the Ridgeway library at Philadelphia, while turning the leaves of several ancient tomes and parchment-bound “records,” memories of the historical pictures of the Continent came vividly before us, and curiosity aroused a desire to see if American state history could furnish subjects of as striking interest as are found pictured in other lands. The volumes before us related to the early settlements in Maryland, Lord Baltimore’s Charter, and records of the ports of Annapolis, Oxford, and Patuxent as kept by “Benedict Calvert Esquire: Collector,” etc., etc., from September 1072 to 1857, signed also by Samuel Chamberlaine, “Deputy Collector and Naval Officer.” Mere threads of history they were, but threads which, deftly woven, would furnish tapestries as grand as those which hang on the walls of the imperial Hofburg at Vienna, showing forth the proud
triumphs of Lothringen, Savoy and Hapsburg; and above the time-stained pages floated mirage-like visions of one whose sublime faith in an idea led him westward over unknown seas to seek the Indian Isles. Columbus did more than discover America, he inspired the mariner of the world to emulate the splendid daring of his venture. A Florentine mariner, Giovanni Verazzini, serving in France, sailed due west, and, coasting off the shores of Maryland, crossed the mouth of the Chesapeake in his southward course. Upon the English coast the mariners, favored at the court of the seventh Henry, planned an expedition under the Venetian Gaboto to complete and improve upon the great discovery of Columbus, “a more direct road to the Indies.”
Just as the royal patronage was thoroughly enlisted, Gaboto died; but his son Sebastian, anglicising his name into Cabot, took the ship royalty had granted his father and, joining others fitted out by Bristol merchants, sailed westward, and in 1498 discovered the land in which Lord Baltimore, a hundred and twentyeight years later, was to obtain the royal grant of “Avalon,” and remove with his family from the court of James I. to this new-found land. More than a century passed before any successful attempt was made by the English to colonize Cabot’s discoveries in North America, St.John’s, Newfoundland and the shore of Maryland.
Not to mariners only did Columbus open the wonder-world of wealth, but Spanish soldiery, fresh from valiant victories in Italian lands, and chivalrous conquerors of Grenada, seeking to crown ambition in newer spheres of action, set sail for the golden sands, then, as now, the El Dorado of human desire.- But the records before us told only the story of Lord Baltimore’s claim, so we lost all trace of Spanish legend and ad
’	■ 1
82	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	1
venture in turning the pages that related to the charter. In 1585, Governor Lane, sailed up the Chesapeake Bay, and twenty-two years latei' the James River was explored, and on May 13, 1607, the foundations of Jamestown were laid. Famine, internal dissensions and Indian hostilities caused these pioneers cruel suffering, but the prudence of Captain John Smith proved their safeguard. To Maryland he is only memorable from being the first to explore her rivers and bays, which he did in 1608 with Dr. Russel, accompanied by six gentlemen and seven soldiers. Sailing up Chesapeake Bay they reached the river whose mouth afterwards became the southern point of boundary in the charter of Maryland. To these explorers it was the Wigh-cocomo, but Pocomoke its real and later name. Thirty leagues northward they sailed and passed the Patapsco, calling it the Bolus, thinking that the red and white earth on its bank bole armoni-ack. Reaching Poole’s Island, the illness of his men forced Captain Smith to steer southward, and about the 16th of June we find him sailing thirty miles up the Patawomek and meeting with hostile reception from .Indians. He landed on the Virginia shore near Morning Bay, and then continued up the river, stopping at various points until they had passed the present site of Washington, “having gone as high as they could in their boats.” Other records tell how they were met by friendly Indians in canoes loaded with flesh of deer and bears, of .which they obtained a portion, and then how they returned in safety to Jamestown one month and twenty days from the date of their departure.
It is not necessary to follow a detailed account of these Virginia settlements; the splendor of Queen Elizabeth’s reign, the vanity of her platonic heart, has been too thoroughly and well delineated by historians of her colony to require description here; but all that is connected with Maryland’s charter, all that the king, her successor, did for his Secretary of State, Sir George Calvert, must gather in neutral tints to form sufficiently a shadowy background for these pictures of history.
The London and Plymouth company, which merged itself into the Virginia company becoming dissatisfied with their charter, petitioned King James for a new one, which was granted in the spring of 1609,.and three years afterwards, desiring increase of power, they applied for another charter. In 1612 a new one, confirmatory of the second, was issued; but disputes arose in the company which continued for nearly twelve years, until the crown became wearied of complaints and requests,. and in the fall of 1623
issued a writ of quo.warranto. In May 1624, the ; King’s Bench gave judgment against the com- : pany and declared their charters forfeited; thus j the territory granted to the London company 1 reverted to the crown.	i
Among the nobles of England who had be- I come interested in this London and Virginia 5 company under its second charter in 1609, was | Sir George Calvert, an English gentleman edu- ] cated at Trinity College, Oxford, from whence j he took the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1579.	|
On his return from a tour on the continent, with	’
which the education of young noblemen was,	i
and is, usually finished, he was appointed to an ' office at court under Sir Robert Cecil, knighted by King James in 1617, and made a Clerk of the Privy Council, and two years later, one of the Secretaries of State. This office he made of such value to the king that James gave him a pension of a thousand pounds. The following year, 1620, he represented Yorkshire and the University of Oxford in the House of Commons, where he so thoroughly maintained the rights and protected the interests of the King that, upon the dissolution of the Virginia company, he was appointed royal commissioner by his grateful sovereign, and government of that colony given to him.
Four years later, 1624, Sir George was received into the Catholic Church. As Secretary of State he tendered his resignation at once, informing the king—“he was now become a Roman Catholic, so that he must be wanting to his trust, or violate his conscience in discharging his office.” The king was obliged to accept his resignation; but, pleased with the honest candor of the Secretary, made him a life member of his . Privy Council, and soon after created him Lord Baltimore of Baltimore, a name derived from a seaport in the county of Cork, Ireland.
Such was the spirit of intolerance against Catholics in England, during the reign of James, that Lord Baltimore determined to seek another land where “freedom to worship God” according to the dictates of conscience might be possible. Unlike most converts, he seemed to possess the true spirit of Catholicism—charity towards all—without the intolerance of bigotry, or narrowness of Puritanism. This grand and noble design of founding a land where man could worship God according to the dictates of his own heart in peace and perfect security, where freedom of conscience was vouchsafed to all, pervaded every thought and hallowed every action of Lord Baltimore’s life, and in later years rendered Maryland the truest “ Jand of the Sanctuary” in the .whole world. .	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
83
Having obtained grant of a province under the name of Avalon in Newfoundland, Lord Baltimore, accompanied by his immediate family, left England, and with a few colonists sailed for this Western land. Two years passed on the island were enough to convince him that the climate and soil were unsuited to the needs of a flourishing settlement, so in 1628 he sailed southward to Virginia intending to settle there. The oath of allegiance and supremacy tendered him by the authorities was such that no Catholic could subscribe to it, so he and his followers were forced to refuse settlement in Virginia. They explored the Chesapeake above the settlements, and, pleased with the beauty of the scenery through which.they passed, the grandeur and silence of primeval forests, the luxuriance of vegetation and fertility of soil, Lord Baltimore decided to return to England and obtain, if possible, from Charles I, who had succeeded his father upon the throne, a grant to settle along the Chesapeake.
The king, recalling Calvert’s many services to his father, and strongly influenced by his Catholic queen, Henrietta Maria, who earnestly pleaded for an asylum abroad for the persecuted members of her faith in England, Charles directed a patent—prepared by Lord Baltimore himself—to be issued; but before it was finally executed George Calvert, Lord Baltimore, died, and his son Cecilius succeeded to his titles and estates. His father’s noble designs of colonization and the founding of a home of freedom for all were warmly espoused by the second Lord Baltimore. The grant of a noble territory and the prosperity of a colony secured by liberal charter was issued June 20, 1632, and in honor of Queen Henrietta Maria, the land was called Term Maria, Maryland.* '
? This charter was a solemn grant from the king to Lord Baltimore and his heirs and assigns, of all the territory lying within the limits set forth, with extensive jurisdiction and powers of government over it. The rights of the settlers were fully provided for in this instrument which was one of the most liberal and democratic granted in that age. The power of making laws was jointly vested in the people, or their representatives, and Lord Proprietary—the title conferred upon Lord Baltimore—although an extraordinary power was vested in the latter or his governor, in cases of sudden emergency, when the people or their delegates could not well be assembled. The people of the colony were forever exempted from taxation by the crown, except by their own consent, and many other important privileges were secured to them. The ecclesiastical laws of England, so far as related to the consecration and presentation of churches and chapels, were extended to the colony; but the question of State religion was left untouched, and therefore within the legislative power of the-colonists
Mere gleams of historic light fall over the pages where descriptions of Lord Baltimore’s ’ first settlement in Maryland are given; but they are sufficient to show that the two hundred migrants who desired to fly from the spirit of intolerance which pervaded England were Catholics, and gentlemen of fortune and respectability, and with them two priests, Fathers Andrew White and John Altham.
On the 22d of November, 1633, the two ships-, . the Ark and the Dove, set sail from Cowes in the Isle of Wight. Leonard Calvert, a brother of Lord Baltimore the Lord Proprietary who had been appointed Governor of Maryland, taking command. Safely past the Needles— although breakers threatened to fling their frail crafts upon those sharp rocks, borne by steady breezes out to sea—they were at last joined by a larger ship, a merchantman called the Dragon. Three days later a violent storm separated the little fleet. The Dragon returned to England, the Ark sailed on with rudder lost and shipwreck imminent. Human aid there was none, human endeavor vain. But, as Father White’s manuscript says, “ They had placed their ships under the protection of God, imploring the in-, tercession of the Blessed Virgin, of St. Ignatius, and all the guardian angels of Maryland,” for the success of the enterprise, and when the Ark seemed about to be engulfed in the raging billows, the.pilgrims “ betook themselves to prayer, . and many strove by the Sacrament of Penance to prepare themselves to meet the fate which seemed inevitable.” Before their prayers were ended, the violence of the storm ceased and “the sea became calm, and the remainder of the voyage, which extended through a period of three months, was pleasant and prosperous.”
But nowhere could they discover the Dove; that little pinnace had disappeared in the storm of Nov. 25, and she was given up for lost; blit after they had passed the Madeira Isles, touched at the Canaries, and received most inhospitable reception at the Barbadoes, the Dove met them at the Antillas. Unable to brave the storm, she had altered her course and gone to the Scilly Islands. At last they reached the Island of Montserrat, inhabited by the Catholic Irish who had been driven from Virginia. Here they were kindly received, and hospitably entertained by the governor of the island and some Catholic gentlemen from the French colony at St. Christopher. On the 24th. of February they came
themselves. The king only reserved to himself one-fifth of the gold and silver which might be found in the province and the yearly tribute of two Indian arrows.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in sight of Point Comfort, Virginia, where, court-eously treated by the governor, they remained eight or nine days, then set sail on the third of March for the mouth of the Potomac, to which on their arrival they gave the name of St. Gregory. River and forests and fertile soil, air balmy and sweet from the beautiful land greeted the weary pilgrims as they approached their chosen home, Terra Maria. Demonstrations of hostility on the part of the natives threatened to prevent their landing; but the methods used to convince the Indians that they came as peaceful friends and purchasers proved successful. “They purchased the territory which they required,” says Father White, and “ Maryland was almost the only State whose early settlement was not stained with the blood of the unfortunate natives” is the acknowledgment of later historians.
Sailing fourteen leagues northward they came to Heron Island, and anchoring at a small neigh-7	o	o
boring isle, which they named St. Clement’s, they determined to land, take possession of the territory and build a fort for their protection in case of outbreak.
A stronger light now flashes over the page, and the first picture of Maryland’s history rises before us. On the Feast of the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin, in the year 1634, the colonists disembarked and took solemn possession of their land. After Mass was ended, a procession was formed, led by Governor Leonard Calvert and other officers bearing on their shoul-ders a huge cross, made from a tree upon the island, and reciting the Litany of the Holy Cross, they carried it to the site selected for the fort, and there, in the name of “Our Saviour and for our sovereign lord, King of England,” they erected it, and thus laid the foundation of Maryland—the “land of the Sanctuary.”
(to be continued.)
- Stray Leaves from, a Vacation Diary.
BY M. O’DEA.
III.—Paris.
August 7.—This morning I decided that this should be my last day in Paris, and long before gun-fire (10 a. m.) I went to the Exposition to bid good bye to my old and new friends among the exhibitors. When I had spoken to all I could find I went to the centre of the Champ de Mars for a “long, last look” at the dome, tower and buildings; .then through the great Sculpture Gallery to the main entrance and out on the
Avenue Rapp. I had finished all of the principal places of interest in the city and had all day for a ramble ad lib.
A passing post van reminded me that I had a few words to cable home, and I went up the narrow Rue St. Dominique to a post and telegraph office. There are several cable routes from Paris to the United States; but one company seems to have the preference of the officials as all the blanks offered have a stamped notice making the sender say that he desires his message sent by this favored line. The emphatic manner with which I insisted that mine should go by a direct line made the receiving clerk think that I was in some way interested in the telegraph business and, after a short chat, he invited me inside to see the operating-room and operators. Quiet, sober people, very slow, and two or three assigned the amount of work that one does at home; entirely free from the hurry and quarreling so common in American offices. From the telegraph office I went past the general War Office and saw hundreds of recruits at drill practice in the- court yards. There must be many thousand soldiers in the city, for it seems impossible to go more than a hundred yards on any street without seeing one or more wearers of the red, “baggy breeches” of the regular army. At the concert last Sunday night in the Palais de 1’Industrie fourteen military bands, with a total of 1173 musicians, attacked the programme which started off with the Marseillaise and the Persian national anthem. The President is always accompanied by a score of soldiers and. officers as a body guard. Last Friday evening when the Shah with his suite made their official or State visit to the Exposition it was made a special fete night there in their honoi' and, though the admission fee after five o’clock was ten sous, 215,000 people were present. I stood in the surging crowd at the Porte Rapp to witness the entrance of the Royal and Presidential parties. M. and Mme. Carnot arrived first, and their carriage was surrounded by a squadron of cuirassiers riding before, behind and on each side. Besides these there was a battalion of the^zzrafc republi-caine posted along the avenues Rapp and Bour-donnais to keep the way clear. When the carriage stopped, most of . the shouts were: “ Vive Carnot! ” and “ Vivele Shah! ’ ’ but several swarthy young men near me in the crowd shouted lustily: “Boulanger! Boulanger!” and then moved hastily away. When Carnot was leaving at ten o’clock, a poor fruit woman who had her stand opposite the Porte Rapp screamed: “ Vive leRoi!. A bas la Republique! ” She was promptly arrested
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	85
by the gendarmerie who hurried her fruit cart one way and herself another.
At the end of the Rue St. Dominique I came to the Park or Esplanade des Invalides, enclosed at present to accommodate a large section of the Exposition. Here I met an English family party who asked me if the Hospital and the Tomb of Napoleon were open to visitors to-day. It was on my way and I offered to accompany them. We entered through the court-yard at the Seine front and went along the left arcade of the Cour d'Honneur, past the long series of splendid mural paintings representing the battles, victories, etc., of the founder, Louis XIV. The famous kitchens and refectories were vacant at this hour, and we passed through them, then into the Church of St. Louis. This has long been the depository for the flags captured in battle by the French armies. To prevent an unworthy recapture, the German flags were burned before the fall of Paris, but there are hundreds of others still hanging in the nave. The scene reminds me of the magnificent Chapel of Henry VII in Westminster Abbey where the numerous banners of the Knights of the Order of Bath are suspended above their seats. I spoke of it, and one of the English ladies very complaisantly remarked that there were no English flags in this collection. A guard standing near who under-o	o
stood English heard the remark and, with the O	1
cutting, concealed sneer that so often underlies their politeness, he hastened to assure her that the great English nation was not ignored. He pointed to another portion of the nave and there very plainly hung several riddled Union Jacks. I showed the visitors the corridor that led to the grand and solemn S2,000,000 Crypt of Napoleon and the tombs of his Marshals beneath the great dome, and we parted.
I passed by the tall spires of Ste. Clotilde, and after proceeding a half mile or so on the Rue de Grenelle found myself in the midst of the Marche aux Fleurs, near the Church of St. Sulpice. What a profusion, and how beautiful were the flowers, and how importunate were the girls that I should purchase! One good-natured little tot, probably ten years old, but with a face so careworn that it suggested residence here during the siege and Commune times, was especially persistent. I dallied awhile to hear her talk. Though I pretended not to understand a word, she continued to chatter about their beauty and cheapness; only a few sous for un bouquet magnifique! When I had shown her that I was a rambling stranger and could not carry the flowers about with me she hesitated a moment, then brightened up, looked at me inquir-
i ngly and pointed to the church. I took them, gave her a new franc that I was saving, and entered through the splendid portal of the Church of St. Sulpice. The grandest of the twenty-two chapels in the church is that of Notre Dame behind the main altar; lighted this morning with rich, golden rays from a colored window above. There I left my bouquet, went out through a side door, and up a small street to the Jardin du Luxembourg.
The Luxembourg Palace is closed to visitors, because the French Senate sits there, and other government officials have their offices there pending the completion of the rebuilt Hotel de Ville. The paintings have been removed to the new Luxembourg Gallery where the works of living artists are placed and exhibited until ten years after the artist’s death when, if worthy, they are taken to the Louvre. The gallery was open this morning; but I have seen the “acres of immortal canvas” in the Louvre, and spent several hours in this small gallery last week, so I concluded to pass by and hunt for the statues of the French queens in the Luxembourg Gardens. “Christ before: Pilate” and hundreds of other celebrated modern paintings are exposed all day in the Exposition.
(to be continued.)
Forests.
That forests contribute, more than anything else, to the beauty of Nature will be readily admitted by all; and even if nothing more could be said in favor of Nature’s great gift, this fact would be enough to induce anyone to give his aid to measures tending to save them from destruction. But forests not only add to the beauty of Nature,’ they also assist in making the fields fertile; they draw vapor from the clouds, they shelter the ground, cause rains and hence springs and streams.
It would be useless to attempt to enumerate all the advantages that result from forests. One cannot fully appreciate their value until he has lived where they are scarce, or comparatively unknown. The people living on the great Western prairies, for instance, know what it is to be deprived of them; and those who have been compelled to buy lumber at high prices, or build sodhouses, can realize how much forests contribute to comfort as well as to beauty.
Forests shelter us from the cold of winter and the heat of the summer’s sun. They provide material for building our great steam-ships by means of which the commerce of the world
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
is carried on. They supply us with fuel, shelter and even with food.
Hence it is that the governments of all civil-o
ized nations have enacted laws the object of which is to protect forests from destruction. In our own country Congress has passed measures to promote the cultivation of forests. The “Tree Claim Act,” for instance, entitles any citizen of the United States to one hundred and sixty acres of land on condition that he plant annually a certain number of trees.
Forests also add greatly to the wealth of the country. In some states lumbering is one of the chief industries, and thousands of men are employed in felling trees and preparing the logs for manufacture into lumber. Who does not know that the great wealth amassed by such men as General Alger and ex-Senator Palmer is the result of speculation in pine forests? Perhaps this question is out of place; but in view of the fact that some one has accused the former of having sold some of his pine forests, and of having used the funds in an attempt to secure the Presidential nomination, it may be allowable to remark that forests are sometimes very useful, viewed even from an individual standpoint. These gentlemen are only two of the thousands of others who have become wealthy by speculation in timber.
Had it not been for our forests, would our country have been developed as rapidly? Where would our people have obtained material for building? Would we have as many railroads extending in every direction, in every State and Territory of the Union? Could bridges have been built so economically and quickly?
But we have stronger reasons for appreciating forests. Especially in autumn when the leaves of the trees are beginning to fall, and the long, dreary winter appears before us do we feel that trees contribute to beauty and to happiness. To use the words of a poet:
“ The melancholy days have come, ’
. The saddest of the year;” and it seems as though an indefinite length of time, must pass before the trees again come forth in their new spring dress to gladden the ' hearts of men.	M. Louisell, ’94.
- Books and-Periodicals.
©er gaiuilienfrcunb, Sahjolifdjer SBe.qivcifcr fur bad Saljr 1890. St. Louis, Mo.: Office of tins. Herold des Glaubens. We commend this “annual” to our German readers, and the students of German in the University. Besides the usual, information to be found in all year-books .it is replete with inter
esting and instructive sketches of personages and places and entertaining tales, together with . . a number of pleasing poetical contributions. The illustrations are numerous and excellent, and alone are worth the price of the book.
The Illustrated Catholic Family Annual -for 1890. New York: The Catholic.Publication Society Co. No. 9 Barclay St.
We are pleased to greet thus early this beautiful little annual for the coming year. It has always been a welcome visitor to our sanctum and indeed to many a Catholic fireside. This is its twenty-second year of publication, and it well sustains, and even surpasses, the excellence with whichtheprevious issues have been marked. It has all the information, astronomical and otherwise to be found in animals—together with a calendar appropriate for Catholic readers. The literary portion is made up of contributions from the best Catholic writers on subjects that are at once instructive and interesting—the list being headed by -Maurice Francis Egan who contributes a beautiful poem, entitled “The Friar’s Ruby.” Additional interest is imparted to the Annual by its illustrations which are numerous and well executed.
—The Nineteenth Century contains an article on “Diseases Caught from Butchers’ Meat” by Dr. Behrend M. R. C. P; The writer calls attention to the fact, for a long time questioned, that tubercular disease as found in man is identical with the same-condition in the lower animals,' and that tuberculosis is intercommunicable between man and cattle by way of the digestive system. He believes that tuberculosis in man ■ is frequently caused by the ingestion of meat tainted with tubercle, and he attributes the greater longevity of the Jews as compared with Christian nations, and especially their almost complete imunity against tuberculosis, to their care in selecting meat. This essay makes the writer truly a benefactor of mankind. Every sanitary legislator ought to study the statistics in this essay carefully, and it should be among the sanitary literature of the health department of every municipal government.
—The Century closes its nineteenth year with a number for October which, besides its leading serials on Lincoln and Siberia and the Old Masters, contains several papers of peculiar importance. One of these is a study of “Moliere and Shakspeare,” by the eminent French comedian, M. Coquelin, accompanied with a frontispiece portrait of Moliere as Casar, and a portrait of Coquelin as Mascarille. Another striking paper; “Reminiscences of the Herschels,” is by the celebrated American astronomer, the late Maria Mitchell. With the latter article is a portrait of Miss Mitchell, and a picture of her last observatory at Lynn, Massachusetts. Miss Brackett has an appreciative “Open Letter” on Miss Mitchell in the same number. A group of brief illustrated articles on manual training presents this subject from three different points of view—the articles being by Professor Butler,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of New York College for the Training of Teachers; Professor Thorpe, of the Philadelphia Manual-Training School, and Dr. Felix Adler, founder of the Workingman’s School and Free Kindergarten of New York. There is a great variety in the story element in this number, and a timely illustrated paper on “Base-ball for the Spectator.” The list of poets in this and in other numbers of the Century hardly sustains the charge that “our young poets get no chance in the leading-magazines.”
Science, Literature and Art.
—Miss Harriet Hosmer has been engaged to design the statue of Queen Isabella to be unveiled at. the World’s Fair in 1892.
—The receipts of the Eiffel tower up to July 16 were $380,000. At this rate the structure will be more than paid for before the close of the exhibition which takes place on the 31st of this month.
—Three books of the season which promise to be of much interest are Mr. Swinburn’s “Study of Ben Jonson,” Mr. J. Churton “Collin’s Monograph on Swift,” and Mr.Walter Pater’s “Essays on Style, with Other Studies in Literature.” /XU three volumes will be published this month.
—Mrs. Clara Keefe, the sister of Helen Dauv-ray-Ward, is claiming attention as a sculptor. A statue of a “Newsboy” by her is to be placed near the post-office in New York. The model was made in Rome. The boy is represented as leaning against a hydrant with a bundle of newspapers in his hand.	.
—A huge edition of “General Grant’s Memoirs” will be put on the presses for the fall and winter trade. The publishers (C. L. Webster & Co.) give some figures in connection with this book which are startling. They show that up1 to date 325,000 sets of the books have been printed and sold, making 650,000 volumes. .
—A book that is sure of a sympathetic audience is “Dante Gabriel Rossetti as Designer and Writer,” by his brother, William M. Rossetti, including a prose paraphrase of “The House of Life,” which Cassell & Co. announce. Dante Gabriel Rossetti is dead, but his work still lives, and his many admirers and followers will be thankful for this record of its accomplishment. A portrait of the poet at the age of thirty-five accompanies the book.
—The British museum has come into possession of a vase only three inches high which is considered the finest example of the so-called Corinthian ware in the world. It is pear-shaped, and has for a mouth a lion’s head with distended jaws. The decoration is chiefly black on a warm cream.paste, with red, olive’and purple touches on the black. Notwithstanding their minute size the figures are all said to be drawn with absolute aecuracy and with a genuine dramatic instinct/. ’	!
College Gossip.
—John W. McCoy, of Baltimore, has made Johns Hopkins University the residuary legatee to his estate which is valued at $250,000.
—Lawn tennis may be thought an athletic sport, but it requires a great stretch of the imagination toso consider it. This fashionable pastime should not be compared with our national game or rough-and-tumble football, and we are glad to see that it is losing ground.
—The football championship of Chicago schools and colleges was won by the Lake View High School. The Harvard School, however, did not take part in the struggle, and we suppose that their right to claim the championship of Illinois has not been encroached upon.
—The Ohio State University expects to be able to produce a base-ball club that can win games on their own merits. They have decided that an hour a day shall be given to practice work during fall and spring. This is a sensible idea and should be considered by college “ball tossers.”	-
—There does not seem to be any college in this State that dares to dispute our claim to the football championship of Indiana. Ann Arbor has not as yet made her appearance in the arena; but, no doubt, we shall soon here of the “Champions of the Northwest,” and there is some possibility of a game with them, but not at Notre Dame, it is said. .
—For four years Yale has led the colleges in the number of athletic championships won. Last year by winning the football, base-ball, track athletic and rowing championships Yale again ranked first. Harvard comes next with her Freshman race over Columbia and the tennis championship. The University of Pennsylvania holds third place by winning the Freshman race with Yale and the cricket honors. Princeton is fourth with the Lacrosse championship and Cornell has quite a rowing record.
—A comparison of the customs of various institutions of learning brings into prominence the college yell, college colors, the college poem and the college song. We always find them in those institutions which are marked by the • greatest enthusiasm. These are the language o	00
of college spirit, and, like many symbols, though unmeaning in themselves, are eloquent with associations. They may seem trivial, but they give an impetus to patriotism and a strength to loyalty that make them potent influences in college life. The colors of some of the leading colleges are: Harvard, crimson; . Princeton," orange and black; Amherst, white and purple; Cornell, cornelian and white; Columbia, blue and white; University of Michigan, blue and maize; Vassar, pink and gray; Williams, royal purple; University of Virginia, cardinal and gray; Johns Hopkins University, blue and black; University of Pennsylvania, blue and red.—Ex. Notre Dame’s colors are old gold and sky blue.
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
19ublisl)fl) rbtra Saturtan hurintj Eerm Stmt at K. 19. tSnibrrsttg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, October 12, 1889
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanagh, ’go,	H. P. Brelsford, ’go,
H. A. Holden, ’gi,
Wm. C. Larkin, ’go,	W. P. McPhee, ’go,
J.	B. Sullivan, ’gi,
C. T. Cavanagh, ’gi,	Joseph E. Berry, ’gi.
—The palatial residence of Mr. Clem Studebaker, South Bend, was, through a most unexpected accident, ruined by fire on Tuesday night. The structure was one of the most perfect private dwellings in the United States. It was larger and more modern than any of the famous residences for which America is celebrated. The interior was as luxurious and tasteful as excellent taste and unlimited financial resources could make it. It was intended to be the home of generations; but in a few hours carved oak, stained glass, splendid chandeliers, unique pictures, statues and books were swept away, and Mrs. Studebaker herself nearly perished—for she was almost alone in the house—in a noble attempt to save her grandchild. She succeeded, fortunately for her friends—among whom are many readers of the Scholastic—and she has so far recovered as to be consoled by the tokens of sympathy which have come to her and her husband from all parts of the country. Mr. and Mrs. Studebaker’s loss is felt at Notre Dame by the Community and Faculty as though it were personal to them.
—As a rule, college students do not appreciate the importance of literary societies. There is a general knowledge, a certain fluency of speech and readiness of repartee acquired that .they cannot secure through any course of instruction in the college curriculum. Many a young man spends hours of hard study over abstruse sciences, or dry and uninteresting classics; that will, practically, be of little benefit to him in after-life; yet he can find no time to perform the duties that a literary society would impose. We do not say forswear the sciences or classics
and devote the time to literary societies; but it is unwise to allow one particular branch to monopolize the time to the neglect of some other. A fluent speaker is popular. An orator is ever in demand. Indeed, it is this readiness and fluency in expressing ourselves that earns us our positions. A literary society affords splendid opportunities for such cultivation.
—At Notre Dame, where discipline and environment tend to inculcate studious habits, the question often presents itself: What cause is responsible for the marked difference in scholarship among the students? Each one devotes about the same amount of time to study, and yet there is such a difference in class standing as to preclude the idea that varying natural talent is alone responsible.
We believe that some fail of greater success in class work because they lack system and order in the preparation of class duties. Order is the first law of Heaven, and it should take high rank in terrestrial codes as well.
Too many students half prepare a Greek translation and then throw aside their unfinished work perhaps to take up a text book of science. Such conduct .should be avoided if for no other reason than that it leads to habits of indolence and disorder. Every student would find it to his advantage to formulate and rigidly adhere to a schedule of the time at his disposal in which provision is made proportionally for the preparation of each lesson. And, as an exchange pertinentlyremarks, he should, above all, reserve time in the above-mentioned scheme for proper and needful recreation.
Founder’s Day.
God has granted us at Notre Dame another answer to our prayers. Last year—it seems but yesterday—we asked that another St. Edward’s Day might dawn on the autumn fields of Notre Dame and find its Founder as strong in body and mind and as devout and young in heart as on his Patron’s feast in 1888. Our prayers have been granted, and the client of Our Lady and of St. Edward seems to become younger in all those qualities which make manhood strong, as we .grow older.
And where in all the land has Our Lady such a knight? The age of the truest chivalry remains while he is here. Honors and praise, the acclamations of men and the consciousness
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	80
of what the world calls success are nothing to him. If he can but bear the lily of the Mother Immaculate in his hand above all the earthly turmoil of our time, he is well satisfied; and few men since his own St. Edward died, since St. Louis lived, since Godfrey de Bouillon dedicated himself to her honor, have borne it as he has borne it. His life has been a poem of love for the Divine Jesus and his Blessed Mother. Out of this love—too ideal and deemed too practical by a material generation—has arisen the most practical of works—a college for the training of youth in the truest knowledge. The lily dedicated to Our Lady of the Snows has blossomed: its perfume fills the land; it breathes the sweetness of true science, and the priest who brought it from fair France in the time of snow and sheltered it in his rude log cabin, is honored, as few men are honored, is loved as few men are loved.
In an age when the miracle of the Incarnation is denied on every side,Jie asserts it, not only by words, but by works. The dome in its splendor asserts it; the ceaseless work in all the departments of Notre Dame reasserts it day by day. He is not only the pioneer, but the brightest banneret of Christianity in the great West; and the signet and the symbol of his life glows from the dome of that college which honors him on his Patron’s day with all its heart.
To dream of the great growing establishment he conceived required the genius of a poet; to realize it needed even more than such a genius. Forty years ago it would have seemed as absurd to predict that such a golden dome would arise as to say that the way-worn wanderer who implored the help of Spain would find a New World more glorious than the Old.
Notre Dame is a magnificent symbol of the triumph of Faith—a Faith that never faltered and a Hope that never grew cold. If we seem over-ardent in our expressions towards the venerable pioneer and Founder of Notre Dame, let it be remembered that we, as Catholics, as patriots, as lovers of education, feel that we cannot show him too much honor. And, thank God! he—the meek priest, the august Founder—is still among us.
O -
Th.e Use of Time.
The use we make of time is of the greatest importance to us. How many there are who allow the present time to flee away, while they have their minds wholly absorbed in anticipating pleasures which they hope to enjoy in the
future. The power of looking forward-into futurity, though it is' the distinguishing mark:of reason, if misapplied or misused, serves only to flatter the imagination, mislead the mind into a mazy track of errors, and render distasteful the few comforts allotted to human life.
It is a great misfortune to men, especially, to those of a volatile disposition, that they do not know how to enjoy the present hour. Man is continually inventing new schemes of future happiness—contemplating prospects of felicity which lie in the distance, and of which he flatters himself he is one day to be in possessionwhile he allows the present to vanish. This truly miserable disposition, this fickleness of mind, causes us to live in a continual state of uneasy expectation; for when the thing wished for has been gained we soon tire of the possession, and regard with utter indifference that which so lately was the object of our earnest attention, the sole object of our hopes. We act like children7 longing for a bauble, which is no sooner obtained than it becomes tiresome; they long for another, more pleased with their humors and expectation than they are with the possession. New objects attract our attention. We'imagine they are all that is required to satisfy our longings, and we pursue them with our accustomed ardor. We long for them with the impatience of children, and we possess them with the same dissatisfaction and disappointment.
We might suppose that endeavors so 'many and so fruitless would cure us of the folly of -indulging our minds in the fond expectations -of future happiness; that we would settle down to the enjoyment of the blessings now in our possession, and make the most of the present fleeting hours; yet such is our nature and the infatuation of our minds that, notwithstanding the most convincing proofs of the absurdity of building, upon the future, we persevere in the delusion, and pursue a will-o’-the-wisp that shines in the distance, but always eludes our grasp.
If every one, instead of indulging in vain and uncertain expectations of future happiness, would give his mind to studying in what manner he may best improve the present hour, he would find solid advantages accruing to him from his conduct, and be enabled to view his past life with pleasure and satisfaction.
A certain amount of happiness is in everybody’s power to obtain. It requires neither eminent genius nor talent to render life agreeable, for we frequently see men of mean abilities far more happy than those distinguished for their learning and wit. But it is not because
90
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
these men are possessed of learning that they are unhappy; rather must this state of unhappiness be ascribed to the fickleness of their dispositions and the vigor of their imaginations, which cause them to continually desire novelties, and as frequently find disappointment. What folly is it not in them to continue forming bright expectations only to be dashed to the earth and not to seize on the present opportunities of making' g'ood use of their time! How sweet and consoling, on the other hand, is the reflection of those who have made good use of their time! How happy the prospect of the learned, whose knowledge sheds abroad a love of virtue and piety—of everybody who acts well, and avoids evil! Their satisfaction will be great, for their time and their talents are well employed.
--------------------
Exchanges.
—The Polytechnic'^ one.of the best edited technical journals upon our exchange list.
—The St. Viateurs College Journal has a very, appreciative notice of Prof. Hoynes’ article on “What the Law is.”
—The literary columns of the Northwestern contain an article of unusual merit by W. S. Hall, M. D., upon '.'Physical Education.”
—We welcome for the first time to our exchange table The Spectator, a neat and spicy monthly from Capital University, Columbus, Ohio.
—The Ariel, a monthly journal representing the University of Minnesota, contains an admirable “Introductory Lecture” by Prof. Pattee, though most of the Ariel's reading matter is of o	o
purely local interest.	’
—The October Earlhamite made its appearance this week. It contains a thoughtful essay upon “After America, What?” and an editorial upon the “Right Use of Books,” that was remarkable chiefly for its liberal display of Italics.
—The Washburn Argo is a neat publication, and contains much good literary material, although the words Alma Mater are printed “Alma Matra” twice in half a column. The Argo, like most college papers, lacks exactitude in proof reading.
—The Msgis, a weekly publication in the interest of the students of the University of Wisconsin, is a very welcome visitor. The decidedly business air which surrounds it, and the excellent taste shown in its general make-up, bespeak for it a high degree of success.
—In the last issue of the College Message, published by the students of St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo., the article on the “History of the La Salle Mission” is concluded. This issue also contains an admirable essay entitled “ Philosophical Slaves.”
—From the pathetic appeals for funds in some of our exchanges we are led to believe that even college papers cannot subsist upon glory alone; and that even the “beautiful and accomplished” editors of.the college press are not exempt from the stress of “ pinching penury.’ ’
—One of the most deplorable facts in the development of American thought and action is the lack of individuality; and if Poe had never written his exquisite prose and verse he deserves a warm corner in the heart of Americans for his passionate hatred of literary plagiarism in all its forms. The following, from the Mountain Collegian, is apropos:
“ It is the duty which each one owes himself to preserve his own individuality. Act for yourself, and think for yourself. No matter how much you may admire the gifts of others, do not imitate; be yourself. Your own gifts are sufficient if only you will cultivate them, and they will become you far better than the adopted talents of another, of which at best you can only gain half possession. While you are trying to imitate another, you are neglecting the talents which you possess and of which you will never know the extent or value unless they are used.”
—In the initial number of Vol. HI, the Owl makes its bow to the patrons of another year, and not without reason felicitates itself upon its development during the eighteen months of its existence. The literary columns of the Owl are admirably edited. But the Owl makes a great mistake when it says the Scholastic knows not the delights of vacation. The Scholastic never misses its vacation, and this year formed no exception to the rule. The issue of August 17 was what is usually called the vacation number gotten up by the “stay-at-homes” and intended to serve as the connecting link between the volume just closed and the one that is to appear during the coming year.
Personal.
—J.H. McConlogue of Mason City, Iowa, was among the callers at the University last week.
—We are pleased to learn that Bernard T. Becker (Classical and Law, ’87), has been taken into partnership by one of the leading law firms in Milwaukee—Bloodgood, Bloodgood & Kemper. Bernard possesses ability of a high order, and his connection with so prominent a firm gives promise of his attaining before many years to a foremost position at the Wisconsin Bar.
—Mr. and Mrs. John Bates, of Denver, Colo., passed a few days at the’College duringthe week. Mr. Bates is one of the pioneers of the Queen City and one of its most enterprising citizens. Some years had passed since his last visit to Notre Dame, and he expressed his surprise at all the improvements that have been made. Mr. Bates says that he knows of only one place growing more rapidly than Notre Dame and that is the booming capital of the Centennial State,	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—The Corriere di Roma, of Sept. 22, contained an item which will be read with interest by the numerous friends of Prof. J. F. Edwards of the University Faculty. The following is a translation:
“ Prof. J. F. Edwards of the Faculty of History in the renowned University of Notre Dame, Indiana, North America, is at present in Rome, the guest of our friend, Monsignor Straniero, Canon of the Lateran Archbasilica. The University of Notre Dame was founded fifty years ago by the distinguished Patriarch, Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Fathers of Holy Cross, at a time when the State of Indiana was still inhabited by Indians, and wild beasts roamed through its forests. Now it is one of the most important institutions in America, and its halls are thronged with students from all parts of the country. Professor Edwards has founded there a most interesting historical museum which is at the same time a national monument, consecrated to perpetuate the memory of the Archbishops and Bishops of the United States, from the establishment of its Hierarchy, by Pius VI, one hundred years ago, to the present day. He has discovered in Rome a number of important historical documents, which, together with the many rare treasures he has already obtained, will be of great assistance to him in his historical researches. Prof. Edwards is a devout Catholic, and had the high honor of being received in the Vatican at the audience of last Thursday the 19th, when the Holy Father addressed him in consoling and paternal words. He has also called upon several Cardinals and other ecclesiastical authorities of Rome, and after he has visited the most important monuments of the Eternal City, he will return to America, to assist at the celebration in Baltimore of the first centenary of the foundation of the Catholic Hierarchy, and at the opening of the new University of Washington. The illustrious Professor has our most cordial wishes that he may bear with him many pleasant memories of his first visit to the capital of the Catholic world.”
Prof. Edwards writes from Florence, Italy, that he will sail for home on the 31st inst.
—“What the Law is,” a paper written for the Chicago Law journal, by Col. William Hoynes, Professor of Law in the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, and published in the August number, has been reproduced in the Scholastic. Every person who reads the article will form a broader, grander and nobler conception of the law than he ever before realized or understood. It may be said, without exaggeration, that no essay has been written on the subject since the days of Sir William Blackstone, which gives a better, clearer or more comprehensive definition or knowledge of the fundamentals, of the law than this one does. The Colonel is a man of ripe scholarship, thoroughly versed in the science of the law in all its branches, gifted with the rare ability of knowing what to say, and the power of expressing his ideas in a clear, terse and convincing manner. As a practising lawyer, he was a great success; as an instructor, he has few equals.
Those who know Col. Hoynes best regard him as a man of great intellectual powers, capable of achieving the highest possibilities. He is a man of the keenest perceptions and the most refined sense of honor; steadfast as a friend, honest, upright and straightforward as a man, the course of 'his life is modeled after the highest standard of true manhood.
When but a boy of fourteen he attested his
patriotic devotion to his country, enlisted in the army, mustered in the ranks, rushed to the front, and with that chivalric valor so characteristic of his whole life he sought the conflict where it was thickest. Amidst the glisten of bayonets, and clash of arms, he defended the national flag on many a battlefield, ever foremost where duty called, until struck down by shot and shell from the ranks of the enemy and left for dead among comrades fallen. Surely the acts and achievements of such men may well be recalled, not to revive feelings of sectional hate, but that honor and valor may be emulated by the good, the brave and the true, whether clad in gray or attired in blue.— Chicago Law Journal.
Local Items.
—St. Edward’s Day.
—“Apples” vs. “Bannas.”
—Field day again, welcome!
—Will “Plal” beat his 100 yard record?
—“ On whom did you bet, Minnehaha or Evangeline?”
—That base-ball nine has done nobly again— 17 to 7.
—Messrs. Brannick and Doherty are talking of organizing a 3d nine.
—Captain Jno. Cooke, of the second nine, has gained quite a reputation as a pitcher.
—The Secretaries of societies will confer a favor by using no abbreviations in their reports.
—The ’Varsity nine proudly rears her banner with a percentage of 67, which is an enviable record.
—New York shouldn’t ask for the World’s Fair now that her ball team has won the championship.
—We were pleased to notice that our little remark on the “ College yell ” was taken to heart by some.
—211 is the record of the Juniors up to date, and the hungry boy is anxiously awaiting his invitation to the banquet hall!
—Has that aggregation, known as the Senior base-ball nine, come to the surface yet? Yes; and right nobly do they hold their own again.
—The trees in that “neighboring orchard” present an indeed forlorn and lonesome appearance. For particulars consult our innocent Jun-iors.
—The South Bend Bicycle Club paid the College a rolling visit last Sunday evening; they received a warm welcome from the students as they entered the refectory for supper.
—The author of “The Red-Headed Boy” should visit the Juniors, where we assure him he could secure many valuable suggestions for another article on this most interesting subject.
—The Junior department boasts of having
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in its midst a record-breaker, who runs the 100-yard race in 9% seconds, and that without any extra effort. He has a great future before him.
—The increasing number of students in the Senior department has made a new line of seats in their study-hall a necessity. If the arrivals continue, a new study-hall will be required; but all are welcome.
—One of the ways in which the “princes” honor Very Rev. Father General’s feast, is by deserving by their good conduct and attention to study to have the names of all on the “Roll of Honor” this week.
—Rev. President Walsh commenced to visit the classes in St. Edward’s Hall on Wednesday. He wishes to see their status now, in order to know what he may expect at the end of the session and of the scholastic year.
—A new dormitory for the use of the Juniors is the latest departure in that growing and prosperous department. The favored ones who have the privilege of dreaming there are spared from hearing the regular morning “applause!”
—The Librarian of the University Library requests us to announce that all students desiring to have the use of books must procure a bill from B. Paul in the Office and then deliver the same to the Librarian. None are exempt from this rule.	'
—The filling up of the ranks of the “ princes,” arid with such exceptionally good goods, is a real joy to Very Rev. Father General. Master Willie Walsh, of Chicago, whose father was the first pupil of the Minim department, is one of the latest arrivals in St. Edward’s Hall.
—The University Library is open to students at the following hours: Sundays—9 to 10 a. m., 1 to 2 and 3.30 to 5 p. m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday—9.30 to 12, 1 to 2.30 and 3.30 to 5 p. m. Thursday—10 to 12 and 1 to 5 p. m. Students are requested not to call at any other time.
—A large number of pilgrims from Mishawaka, Elkhart and Goshen paid their annual visit to the beautiful Church of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, last Sunday (Rosary Sunday). High Mass was sung at ten a. m., after which visits to the many shrines of these hallowed precincts occupied the rest of the day.
' —The second nines for the coming session are as follows: Reds—J.Cooke (Captain), Reynolds, McGrath, McDonnell, Cabana, Carroll, Keewol, Dillon, McAlister, Pinn, Delany and W. Healy. Bhies—H. Steiger (Captain), W. Cartier, Bunker, Conway, Krembs, Roberts, E. Hughes, McCarthy, O’Brien, Fisk and Lappin.
—The third regular meeting of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Society was held Saturday, Oct. 5, with President Sullivan in the chair. The feature of the evening was an interesting debate participated in by Messrs. Morrison,’Murphy, B. Hughes, A. Larkin, Berry and F. Chute. Voluntary speeches were made by Messrs. Sullivan and Brelsfofd.
—The students of the Seminary have reorganized their Leonine Literary Society. The following are the officers: President, Rev. J. J. French; Vice-President, W. Houlihan; Recording Secretary, T. A. Crumley; Corresponding Secretary, J. Just; 1st Censor, H. A. Holden; 2d Censor, J. M. Hyland; Critic, H. Santen; Sergeant-at-Arms, J. O’Rourke.
—A solemn anniversary Requiem Mass for the repose of the soul of the late Rev. John Ford was celebrated on Thursday last in St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, assisted by Rev. A. Morrissey and N. J. Stoffel, Rector, as deacon and subdeacon. The memory of Father Ford is still fresh and green in the hearts of many surviving friends at Notre Dame.
—It is rumored that there is to be a radical change made in the lecture system this year. During the past two years some of the entertainments have hardly been of a character commensurate with the dignity of the University. The Scholastic suggests that the price of tickets be advanced sufficiently to make possible the engagement of first-class talent. Let us have better lectures, though we have fewer of them.
—The music by the choir on last Sunday was a treat in the way of sacred chant. The Mass rendered was a mixture of exquisite harmony and becoming sobriety. The young gentlemen who compose the choir, and who are under the training of Prof. Liscombe, show their musical talent to advantage, and Notre Dame has a choir which is creditable to the institution. The duet sung at the Offertory by Prof. Liscombe and Mr. Hyland was particularly fine.
—Imitative Instinct in the Dog.—“ My little dog,’.’ says an eminent South Bend bicyclist, “constantly accompanies me on my excursions. I make such good time, however, that the poor animal finds it difficult to keep up with me. When we rest, I notice that he seems exhausted, lolling out his tongue and catching his breath. This he always does in short pants, proving that he has observed the most striking feature in my uniform, and that he endeavors to imitate it by the only means in his power. Another in-. stance of canine sagacity.” '
—A meeting of the Society of the Sacred Heart was held on Friday at which an election of officers took place with the following result: Honorary Director, Very Rev. Father General Sorin; President, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Spiritual Director, Rev. A. Granger; 1st Vice-President, C. Connor; 2d Vice-President, G. Elkin; Treasurer, F. Roberts; Librarian, R. Powell; Secretary, J.O’Neill; 1st Censor, L. Stone; 2d Censor, W.Hamilton; 3d Censor,W.Walsh; 1st Monitor, G. Mayer; 2d Monitor, J. Barbour; 3d Monitor, J.^Grane; Sergeant-at-Arms, A. Clark; Standard Bearer, J. Pellenz.	-
—Among the visitors to the College during the week were: Nannie Hamilton, Pleasant Hill,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ohio; Mamie Gharkey, Oakley, Mich.; E. F. Osborn, Three Rivers, Mich.; M. C. Clark, Con-vill, Ind.; J. B. Bair, Royal Centre, Ind.; A. D. Berny, Rochester, Ind.; J. N. McCain, Goshen, Ind.; J. N. Carman, Berrun Springs, Ind.; P. S. Lipsey, Columbus, Ind.; L. Pim, St. Louis, Mo.; C. M. Carter, Martha M..Carter, Mitchel, Ind.; Joseph Ward Stone, Richmont, Ind.; F. E. Long, Kansas City, Mo.; Jas. Dougherty, San Jose, Cal.; W. J. Meavison, Chicago, Ill.; L. L. Henson, Louisville, Ky.; W. B. Riley, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. H. Holland, Jamaica, West Indies; Mrs. A. W. Langley, Chicago, Ill.; Z. T. Morrison, Minneapolis, Minn.; W. Carr, Secretary, Franklin College, and Mrs. E. C. Carr, Franklin, Ind.
—Hospitality is one of the main features of Notre Dame University, and never does anyone go there as a guest of the great institution without receiving a most cordial greeting and having the best of everything offered them. Our city cyclists, realizing this fact, twenty-three of them, in response to an invitation, left the city at four o’clock yesterday afternoon and rode out to Notre Dame, where they were kindly received and shown over the grounds and through the buildings of the University. The Church of the Sacred Heart, the big bell, the dormitories, the reading-rooms, and Scientific Hall were visited. After which the party were treated to a splendid supper, speeches being made by Rev. Father Walsh and Mr. Leighton Pine. The occasion will be remembered by the cyclists as one of the most pleasant trips they have yet made.— South Bend Tribune.
—A Musical, Literary and Dramatic Entertainment will be given this (Saturday) afternoon in Washington Hall complimentary to Very Rev. Father General Sorin on the occasion of his Patronal Festival. The following is the
• Programme:
Overture—“ Welcome ”—Catlin —University Orchestra Vocal Quartette—“Welcome”—L. Monarch, F. Schillo C. Schillo, W. Johnson.
Festal Greetings from the Seniors.R. Adelsperger Duett..........................................W,	Lahey, C. Ramsey
Selection—“St. Edward’s Day”.........L. Monarch
Vocal Quartette—“Where would I be?” W. Morrison
F. Long, W. Blackman, J. Fisher.
Festal Greetings from the Juniors.....J. Wright
Interlude....................University Orchestra
Personation—“The Anchor”...............W. Ford
Quartette—“ Concert Waltz ”—E. Mock, W. Hackett, W.
McPhee, W. Lahey.
Festal Greetings from the Minims..Charles Connor James O’Neill and C. McPhee.
Scene from “Richard III.” Duke of Gloucester...................S. Hummer
King Henry.........................L. J. Herman
Closing Remarks...............Very Rev. E. Sorin
Grand March for Retiring........N.	D. U. C. Band
—Law Department:—The morning class will soon begin the lectures on Torts’;—Contracts was taken, up by the afternoon class on Friday. —In the Moot-Court on Saturday last, the case called was Peter Donnelly vs. L. S. & M. S. RR. F. G. Long acted as attorney for plaintiff and John McWilliams for defendant.: The jury re
turned a verdict of $10,000 for the plaintiff. The defendant made a motion for a new trial, and the court set the hearing of the argument for Saturday, Oct. 12.—The cases on the docket for to-night are: Parker vs. Michigan Air Line RR. E. Blessington, attorney for the plaintiff and F. Lane for defendant; Chicago and Grand Trunk Ry. Co. vs. John Nelson; F. Vurpillat acting as attorney for the plaintiff and T. McKeon for the defendant.—The fifth regular meeting of the Debating Society was held on Wednesday, Oct. 9. The question “Resolved that divorce laws are undermining and corrupting society and should be repealed/’ was-argued by Messrs. Herman and Quill on the affirmative, and Messrs. Dickerson and Cassin on the negative. The debate was continued over to the next meeting.
—Prof. Gregori has completed the life-size, full-length oil paintings of Archbishop Carroll, first Bishop of Baltimore, and General George Washington, first President of the United States, which will be placed in the new Catholic University of Washington. The paintings are now on exhibition in the College parlors where they attract hundreds of admiring visitors. They are real masterpieces of art, and executed with all the technical skill and beauty of -coloriiig for which Signor Gregori is distinguished. Bishop Carroll is represented standing in his episcopal dress—red cassock, rochette, surplice and stole, in the act of delivering the well-known “Address of the Catholics to Gen. Washington.” He appears true to life—short in stature—the left hand extended and the right holding the manu-o	o
script of his address, while the expression of the face admirably reveals the intelligence, devotion and patriotism which marked the career of the prelate.; In the companion picture, the “Father of His Country,” is also represented standing, holding in his right hand a scroll with the inscription “ Constitution of the United States, 1789.” Heis in the civilian dress of continental times, and appears as if addressing the people in his official capacity as President, and promising to uphold the Constitution of the newly-formed Republic. In both these paintings the genius and skill of the artist are well displayed in the attention to every detail in dress. and pose, the beauty and variety in coloring, the life-like flesh tints, and the true, natural expression given to the features of the distinguished subjects. In a few days the paintings will be shipped to their destination, where, we have no doubt, they will for many years remain the admiration of all who enter within the walls of the first Catholic University of America.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Adelsperger, Benz, H. Brannick, Barrett, Burger, Blackman, Blodgett, Berry, Brookfield, Bunker, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Burns, Cabanna, Combe, Cassidy, Campbell, G. Cooke, L. Chute, F. Chute/ Clayton, Curtis, T. Coady, P. Coady, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, W. Cartier, Dela Pena, Dillon, Dorsey, Delany,
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dacy, Dennis, Daly, Draper, Davis, Dwyer, Dougherty, Daniels, Darroch, Fitzgibbon, F. Flynn, P. Fleming, Ford, Fehr, Fisher, Fack, Garlias, Guillen, Gibbons, Galen. Houlihan, Herman, Hanrahan, Heard, Hempier, E. Hughes, Hoover, Hayes, Hobletzell, Johnson, Karasyn-ski, Kearns, King, Krembs, J. Kelly, Kohlman, Lesner, Langan, Lair, Lancaster, A. Larkin. W. Larkin, Lane, Lynch. Mock. Mulroney, McGinn, Murphy, H. McCarthy, McWilliams, McKeon, McAlister, G. McDonnell, McPhee, McConlogue, Mackey, J. T. McCarthy, Morrison, Meehan, McNally, McAleenan, O’Brien, O’Shea, Olds, Parker, Powers, Philips, Paradis, Prudhomme, Pyplacz, Portilla, H. Prichard, W. Roberts, C. Roberts, Rothert, J. Sinnot, C. Sanford, N. Sinnot, Steiger, Scherrer, F. J. Vurpillat,* V. J. Vurpillat, Seeberger, Schwarz, O’Neill, Brelsford, Cavanagh, J. Cooke.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Aarons, Anson, Atchison, B. Bachrach, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. T. Brady, T. M. Brady, W. Brady, Burns, Bradley, Bos, Burke, Baltes, Crandall, Cosgrove, Conroy, Case, Crotty, Coll, E. Connors, Clendenin, Campbell, Coilman, E. De Brul, Davis, Delany, Dempsey, Dorsey, Evers, Elder, J. H. Flannigan, C. Fleming, C. Fitzgerald, Field, J. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, Gibbert, Gale, Girsch, Gnewuch, Gough, Galen, Hull, Howard, W. Hasenfuss, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Heller, Hahn, R. Healy, Hagus, Ibold, Johnson, Jacobs, Jewett, King, Kearney, Keough, V. Kehoe, J. Leonard, Lenard, Lee, De Lorimer, Mackey, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, D. Monarch, Mainzer, Merz, Messick, Mitchell, Merkel, Mier, McConnell, J. McCartney, E. McCartney, Jas. McPhillips, Jos. McPhillips, A. McPhil-lips, W. McDonnell, F. McKee, E. McKee, McIvers, McDonald, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, Nester, O’Brien, Otis, O’Mara, Pendelton, Prichard, Putnam, Quinlan, Robinson' Root, Roper, Regan, Riedinger, W. E. Stanton, F. Schillo, Spurgeon, Sloan, Seymore, Seerey, Sokup, Snyder, Sutter, Spalding, Siebert, Sweet, Tetard, Talbot, Thorn, Tivnen, Walsh, Welch, Weitzel, Weise, Ward, Wolff, Werthimer, Youngerman, Zinn, Zimmerman.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayers, Ball, 0. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, T. Burns, J. Burns, Barbour, Browning, Cornell, Crandall, C. Connor, W. Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, A. Crawford. Coquillard, Croke, Clarke, Crane, Durand, Dench, Elkin, Evers, Eckler, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty,“Fischer, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, C. Furthman, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, Funke, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilki-son, Grant, A. Gilkison, J. Griggs, C. Griggs, Hill, Hen-neberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, King, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonns-berry, H. Lamberton, C. Lamberton, Levi, LoonieLoomis, Montague, Matemes, Marr.JMattas, H. Mestling, E. Mest-ling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, McCarthy, Morrison, Mayer, Marre, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, O’Neill, Powell, LJPaul, C. Paul, Pellenz, C. Packard, J. Packard, Pierce, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, Sloan, A. Seidensticker, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer,fStephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Vandercook/Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, "Weber,'G. Zoehrlaut, Ziegler, C. Zoehr-laut.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
F: Mackey, W. Gerlach, H. Hull, W. Rarig, E. Spurgeon, H. Sloan, F. Benz, J. Cunningham, J. Kearney, J. Hack, W. O’Rourke, A. Towne, M. Elkin, F. Evers, M. Adler, J. Seery, G. Hahn, C. Merz, J. Snyder, J. Dempsey, B. Bates, J. Hagus, E. McIvers, L. Sutter, J. Cudahy, C. Gnewuch, P. Jacobs, A. Otis, I. Pendelton, E. Dorsey, P. Kehoe, J. O’Mara,- A. Prichard, G. Elder, W. Rowsey, G. Anson, E. Wolff, D. Youngermann, A. Galen, B. De Lorimer, A. Nester, B. Sweet, N. Coilman, S. Atchison, D. Parker, F. Flynn, C. Flynn, M. Guillen, P. Houlihan, F. Powers, E. Mock, F. Dorsey, P. Pyplatcz, J. Bovett, E. Shaack, E. Conway, R. McCarthy, J. Dwyer, L. .Mithen,
J. Johnson, J. Cooney, P. Coady, G. Brennan, W. Lynch, W. Lahey, M. Gibbons, W. Cartier, F. Kohlman.
List of Excellence.
PR E PA R A TO RY DEPA RTM ENT.
Latin—O. Ibold, G. Weitzel, F. A^urpillat; Greek—P. Hempier; Algebra—D. Casey, W. Lahey, T. Hennesy; Arithmetic—]. Giblin, E. Mock, F. Sinclair, G. Hahn, J. Hack, D. Parker; Grammar—G Tedeus, C. Merz, H. Des Garrennes, H. Sloan: Reading— J. Dempsey, J. Olds, W. Goben, C. Flynn, D. Parker, N. Flynn, J. Hack, J. Neenan, H. Hull, E. Dorsey, T. Whelan, F. McDonnell, B. De Lorimer, N. Deutch, O. Hasenfuss; Orthography— W. Reichbold, J. Hambaugh, C. Flynn, D. Parker, S. Curtis, W. Goben, A. Leonard, J. Hack, H. Hull, W. Hasenfuss, P. Jacobs, D. Zimmermann, H. Des Gar-nesnes, P. Gibert; Geography—J. Beltinck, F. Benz, E. Dorsey, W. Lee, C. Lewis, F. McDonnell; United States History—D. A. Parker, D. Zimmermann, F. Evers, C. Hooten.
-----------------------
Progress of Inventions Since 1845.
In the year 1S45, the present owners of the Scientific American newspaper commenced its publication, and soon after established a bureau for the procuring of patents for inventions at home and in foreign countries. During the year 1845 there were only 502 patents issued from the U. S. Patent Office, and the total issue from the establishment of the Patent Office, up to the end of that year, numbered only 4347.
Up to the first of July this year there have been granted 406,413. Showing that since the commencement of the publication of the Scientific American there have been issued from the LL S. Patent Office 202,166 patents, and about one-third more applications have been made than have been granted, showing the ingenuity of our people to be phenomenal, and much greater than even the enormous number of patents issued indicates. Probably a good many of our readers have had business transacted through the offices of the Scientific American, in New York or Washington, and are familiar with Munn & Co’s mode of doing business, but those who have not will be interested in knowing something about this, the oldest patent soliciting firm in this country, probably in the world.
Persons visiting the offices of the Scientific American, 361 Broadway, N. Y., for the first time, will be surprised on entering the main office, to find such an extensive and elegantly equipped establishment, with its walnut counters, desks, and chairs to correspond, and its enormous safes, and such a large number of draughtsmen, specification writers, and clerks, all busy as bees, reminding one of a large banking or insurance office, with its hundred emyloyees.
In conversation with one of the firm, who had commenced the business of soliciting patents in connection with the publication of the Scientific American, more than forty years ago, I learned that his firm had made application for patents for upward of one hundred thousand inventors in the United States, and several thousands in different foreign countries, and had filed as many cases in the Patent Office in a single month as there were patents issued during the entire-first year of their business career. This gentleman had seen the Patent Office grow from a sapling to a sturdy oak, and he modestly hinted that many thought the Scientific American, with its large circulation, had performed no mean share in stimulating inventions and advancing the interests of the Patent Office. But it is not alone the patent soliciting that occupies the attention of the one hundred persons employed by Munn & Co., but a large number are engaged on the four publications issued weekly and monthly from their office, 361 Broadway, N. Y., viz., The Scientific American, the Scientific American Supplement, the Export Edition of the Scientific American, and the Architects and Builders Edition of the Scientific American. The first two publications are issued every week, and the latter two, the first .of every month.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
St. Mapfs fisademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Julia Butts, always a welcome visitor, spent a few days of last week at St. Mary’s.
—Miss M. English, Columbus, Ohio, is spending a few days at St. Mary’s visiting her sister, Miss Jessie.
—The Third Senior class-room, always bright and pleasant, is doubly so this year, for it is a veritable bower with its plants and vines.
—The 3d Senior Philosophy class held a competition last week; those deserving special mention are the Misses Dennison, Spurgeon and Bogner.
—At the last meeting of St. Agnes’ Literary Society, the Misses Meskill, Reeves and Clifford contributed to the general pleasure by interesting readings, o	o
—During the week, an account of Professor Egan’s lecture was required from all the classes, and, without exception, a clear resume was given, which speaks well for both the attention and appreciation.
—Mrs. Angela Dillon Connor, an esteemed former pupil, has the warmest good wishes of her numerous friends at St. Mary’s in the hope that her new home in Omaha, Neb., may prove a most happy one.
Misses M. Skancke and D. Davis deserve to be especially commended for their efforts to make the meeting of St. Angela’s Society pleasant. “An old world, as seen through young eyes,” at present holds the interest of the members of said society.
—On the first Sunday of each month the Blessed Sacrament is exposed from the beginning of the High Mass until evening. Each 00	o
hour of the day finds worshippers mingling the perfume of their prayers with the sweet odor of flowers and incense; and who can enumerate the many graces that have fallen upon souls in the holy hush of the adoration hour?
—After the distribution of good notes on Sunday last—presided by Very Rev. Father General—Miss Ruth Bero read with fine effect a selection entitled the “ Leper,” and Miss Helen Nacey recited “My Beads,” by Father Ryan, in a most pleasing manner. Rev. Father Zahm then made a few remarks indicative of his interest in all that regards St. Mary’s pupils.
—In addition to the “Roll of Honor,” the Juniors have, as an incentive to the practice of ladylike deportment, a handsome cross which is drawn for each week by those whose conduct has been exemplary in every way. It was given for the first time this year on Monday last. The majority of the Juniors drew for it; the fortunate one who wears it this week is Miss S. Levy.
—Professor M. F. Egan delivered the first o
of his series of lectures on Saturday last. His every word was fraught with interest, and, aside from the fund of knowledge embraced in the lecture, its suggestiveness cannot fail to develop a love for all that pertains to English literature. From the beautiful introduction to the last word was marked attention shown, and the hour sped all too rapidly.
—The devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, commonly called the “nine Fridays,” is one that is everywhere gaining favor, and nowhere is it more zealously practised than at St. Mary’s. It was most edifying to see the number of pupils who began the novena of Communions on the 4th inst., thus, according to the express promise made by our Blessed Lord to Margaret Mary Alacoque, insuring a blessing upon themselves and those dear to them.
—The visitors who registered during the past week were: P. H. Linneen, Mrs. T. Rooney, W. . Smith, J. T. Pope, P. Buckley, W. G. Bowman, Mrs.T.E. Lonergan, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. J.Dempsey, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mrs. F. E. Fenton, Marinette, Wis.; Miss A. Harris, Rochester, N. Y.; Miss J. Bailey, Battle Creek, Mich.; Miss O. Yong, Mishawaka; Mrs. O. H. Cheny, W. R. Shirey, W. S. Williams, Chicago; Mrs. L. Lowell, Elkhart, Ind.; J. Gilfillan, Cleveland, O.; Miss B. Dunne, Chicago; Mrs. C. Griffith, St. Paul, Minn.; Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Bates, Denver, Colo.; Mrs. J. Woolner, Miss M. Woolner, Peoria, Ill.
--------.
Peaceful Conquests.
Milton has left us a sublime picture in his word-painting of the battle between the angelic hosts. All have, in fancy, beheld the conflict as the poet’s' pen describes the scene: The fiery darts flying in every direction, the heavy chariots, the clashing of armor—all combine to make the sight one of almost indescribable terror. The combat closes; the archangel stands with sword unsheathed, and into the awful abyss are hurled Lucifer and his minions. From this scene of conflict let us turn to another.
At the foot of the cross, on which hangs the dying Saviour, kneels Mary Magdalen, a penitent, bathing with tears the bloody tree on which expires her Master who by one look, fraught with the mercy of His Heart, had conquered and saved her soul. What a contrast! The one presenting a scene of justice against rage and clamor; the other a picture of mercy, goodness and love.	.
Ever since the smile of God’s acceptance rested on the sacrifice of Abel with greater pleasure than upon that of Cain, has the eartlr been witness to strife; and the voice of blood has cried to heaven for vengeance from every -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
quarter of the globe. Triumphal cars have passed beneath barbaric arches amid the acclamations of the multitude; but the cost of each victory was the blood of thousands. A St. Francis passes humbly through the portals of death; his trophies, precious souls, and the cost of his victory is love.	.
From the trusting child to the gray-haired sire, every one meets with difficulties to overcome, obstacles to surmount and enemies to conquer; so that all experience teaches the truth that “Life is indeed a warfare.”
In proportion to his strength are the struggles that years bring to youth; but stronger sometimes than his years are the tendencies towards evil, the disposition to trifle, the leaning to weaknesses. Who shall combat these enemies? A character well formed, grounded on probity, is to be the result of the victory, and upon those entrusted with his training does the issue depend. Strife may bend his determination; but will it form his character? Firmness, severity, a rigid course of treatment may force him to do what is right; but Carleton’s poem of the “Convict Boy” tells too pathetic and too true a story of what may result from such a mode of training. The conquest must be peaceful; no stratagies save those of affection, no arms save those of love, need enter the conflict. But when victory is won, it is won forever.
Home is,- above all places, the sanctuary where peace should find a resting-place; where the mother should exercise loving sway over all, and where everyone’s heart should find'room.
In the field of business life, in the arena of politics, in every walk of active duty, are there contentions; but the olive branch of peace should be engraven upon each one’s banner, that the angels’song of the first Christmas tide, “Peace to men of good will,” may find response on earth.
WJar’s devastations are too well known to need words of comment; France is a sad example of its dire effects, and indeed our own beautiful country has tasted the bitterness of strife. Would that rulers felt, “’Tis less to conquer than to make wars cease!” What triumph can make the victor forget the blood that bought his laurels?
Oh! that each one were an angel of peace to all around! how beautiful would our earth become. Then God’s precious gift of holy peace would draw all hearts to the King of peace.
“Oh, first of human blessings and supreme!
Fair peace,how lovely how delightful thou! By whose wide tie the kindred sons of men Live, brothers like, in amity combined And unsuspicious faith.” .
.	Laura Ducey {Class ’89).
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]	•
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ash, Anson, Ansbach, Bates, Balch, Bernhart, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Byrnes, -Beck, Clarke, Cunningham, Collbrann, A. Cooper, Coll, Currier, Curtis, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, N. Davis, Deutsch, Dolan, E. Dennison, S. Dempsey, D. Davi’s, Dorsey, M. De Montcourt, Donahue, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Frost, Green, Ganong, Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hess,Hagus, Hannes, A. Hanson, Hale, Hellmann, Hull, Hutchinson, Hamilton, J. Hushes, L. Hughes, Jungblut, Kasser, Krim-bill, Kimmell, Koopmann, Linneen, Leahey, Lynch, Lea-vick, Lauth, Lewis, McFarland, Moore, N. Morse, Maher, McLoud, K. Morse, Mills, M. McPhee, McCarthy, S. McPhee, Murison, McCune, Mullaney, Miller, Nickel, Norris, Nacey, H. Nester, L. Nester, O’Brien, Otis, Piper, Pyle, Pendleton, Penburthy, Pugsley, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, A. Regan, Roberts, Rinehart, Rose, Rinn, Robinson, Rent-frow, Reilly, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, Shaefer, Skancke, Smith, Schrock, M. Schermerhorn, N. Schermerhorn, Sweet, Saviers, Tormey, Van Mourick, Violette, Woolner, Wickersheim, A. Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burdick, E, Burns, M. Burns, Black, E. Cooper, M. Clifford, M.} Cooper, Culp, Daly, M. Davis, B. Davis, Dreyer, L. Ernest, Evoy, Farwell, M. Fosdick, Hickey, Henry, Holmes, C.jKasper, Levy, Mabbs, Meskill, Mest-ling, Northam, A. O’Brien, O’Mara, Palmer, M. Patier, Patrick, Pellinz, Philion/Quealy, E. Regan, Reeves, Robbins, C. Ruger, M. Scherrer, Shirey, M. Smith. J. Smith, Sweeney, Thirds, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, M. Wagner, Wood, Waldron, N. Wurzburg, Wright, Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.-
Misses L. Adelsperger, Ayer, Crandall, Dennison, M. Egan, Finnerty, Goodwin, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Porteous, S. Scherrer, N. Smyth, L. Scherrer.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Bates, Davis, Dempsey, Flannery, Hammond and Healy.
First Senior Class—Misses Balch, Clarke, Currier, Fitzpatrick, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, Moore, McFarland, Morse, O’Brien, Van Mourick, English.
Second Senior Class—Misses Adelsperger,N. Davis, Deutsch, Linneen. C. Morse, Nacey, Nickel, Otis, Piper, Stapleton, Violette, Quealy, Thirds.
Third Senior Class—Misses Bernhart, Bogner, Cunningham, Dennison, Hanson, Holt, Lynch, Maher,'Mills, Roberts, Robinson, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Tormey.
First Preparatory Class—Misses Ash, E. Burns, M. Burns,- Dempsey, Ernest, Bero, Burdick, Collbran, Hale, Hull, Kimmell, Kelso, Lauth, Lewis, M. McHugh, Murison, Patier, E. Regan, Smith, Rinehart, Fosdick, Schaefer, Skancke, Tormey, McCarthy, Reeves, Wurz-bourg, Pugsley.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses Bovett, Cooke, Cooper, D. Davis, I. DeMontcourt, Dorsey, Green, McCune, Harmes, Farwell, Norris, Rentfrow, Smith, Barry, Schermerhorn, O’Mara, Wickersheim, Clifford, Sopher.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses Hutchinson, Reilly, Rinn.
Junior Preparatory Class—Misses Hanson, S. McPhee, Black, M. Davis, B. Davis, Daly, Dreyer, Evoy, Hildebrand, Patrick, Palmer, Regan, Ruger, Sweeney, Young, L. McHugh.
' First Junior Class—Misses Henry, Mabbs, Shirey, E. Wagner, Pellinz, Waldron, Wood, Wright, Adelsperger, S. Scherrer, M. McHugh, N. Smyth.
Second Junior Class—Misses M. Cooper, Ernest, C. Kasper, Holmes, M. Hamilton, Ayer, Egan, Goodwin L. Scherrer, Dennison. •