i . - h &
Want to step out in comfort? University Men agree

FLOATERS
ARE
THE ANSWER!

Here's the perfect answer for looks, comfort and your shoe budget ... the classic style, deep cushioned sole and modest price make Floaters an outstanding buv for your way of life. Choose from Black or Spanish



Moss in Sherling o for warm winter
'Ji
lined wear
or
unlined styles.
• SHERLING LINED ....$14.95


• UNLINED
$12.95
^GILBERT'S


JUNE
AUGUSTA*^
NO CARRYING CHARGE
ITS AS SIMPLE AS THIS
Come in now, select the apparel you need . . . wear and enjoy it now during your school year . . . pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August of 1964! The Campus Shop way to buy carries absolutely no service or earn ing charge of any kind . . . we think you’ll agree with all the other university men who say it’s simply the finest way to buy! We have already opened YOUR account, why not stop in soon.
ONE OF
AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY
SHOPS
^GILBERT'S

3
{Author of “Rally Round, the Flag, Boys” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek”.)
On Campos Mk Shulman
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Vol. 105 November 22, 1963 No. 9
SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE AND JAZZ LIKE THAT
L am now an elderly gentleman, full of years and aches, but my thoughts keep ever turning to my undergraduate days. This is called “arrested development.”
But I cannot stop the healing tide of nostalgia that washes over me as I recall those golden campus days, those ivy-covered buildings (actually, at my college, there was only ivy: no bricks), those pulse-tingling lectures on John Dryden and Cotton Mather, the many friends I made, the many deans I bit.
I know some of you are already dreading the day when you graduate and lose touch with all your merry classmates. It is my pleasant task today to assure you that it need not be so; all you have to do is join the Alumni Association and even’ year you will receive a bright, newsy, chatty bulletin, chock-full of tidings about your old buddies.
Oh, what a red-letter day it is at my house, the day the Alumni Bulletin arrives 1 I cancel all my engagements, take the phone off the hook, dismiss my resident osteopath, put the cheetah outside, and settle down for an evening of pure pleasure with the Bulletin and (need I add?) a good supply of Marlboro Cigarettes.
Whenever I am having fun, a Marlboro makes the fun even more fun. That filter, that flavor, that yielding soft pack, that firm Flip Top box, never fails to heighten my pleasure whether I am playing Double Canfield or watching the radio or knitting an afghan or enjoying any other diverting pursuit you might name—except, of course, spear fishing. But then, how much spear fishing does one do in Clovis, New Mexico, where I live?
But I digress. Let us return to my Alumni Bulletin and the fascinating news about my old friends and classmates. I quote from the current issue:
“Well, fellow alums, it certainly has
been a wing-dinger of a year for us old grads! Remember Mildred Cheddar and Harry Camembert, those crazy kids who always held hands in Econ II? Well, they’re married now and living in Clovis, New Mexico, where Harry rents spearfishing equipment, and Mildred has just given birth to a lovely 28-pound daughter, her second in four months. Nice going. Mildred and Harry!
“Remember Jethro Brie, the man we voted most likely to succeed? Well, old Jethro is still gathering laurels! Last week he was voted ‘Motorman of the Year’ by his fellow workers in the Duluth streetcar system. ‘I owe it all to my brakeman,’ said Jethro in a characteristically modest acceptance speech. Same old Jethro!
“Probably the most glamorous time had by any of us old alums was had by
Francis Macomber last year. He went on a big game hunting safari all the way to Africa! We received many interesting post cards from Francis until he was, alas, accidentally shot and killed by his wife and white hunter. Tough luck, Francis!
“Wilametta ‘Deadeye’ Macomber, widow of the late beloved Francis Macomber, was married yesterday to Fred ‘Sureshot’ Sigafoos, white hunter, in a simple double-ring ceremony in Nairobi. Many happy returns, Wilametta and Fred!
“Well, alums, that just about wraps it up for this year. Buy bonds 1”
© 1963 Max Shulman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor Mel Noel
. . . news editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor James Devlin
. . . features editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy
Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager Tom Keane
. . . circulation John Souza
. . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett, Jim Callero,
Jim Clare, Al Dudash,
Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, John Twohey, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
John Anton, AI Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag, Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Dave Grophear, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, Bruce	Palka,	John	Phillips,	Jack
Quine,	Jack Rowe,	Gary Sabatto.
Frank	Smith,	Rick	Weirich,	John
Whelan
. . .	staf
Old grads, new grads, undergrads, and non-grads all agree: that good Richmond tobacco recipe, that clean Selectrate filter, have turned all fifty states of the Union into Marlboro Country. Won’t you join the throng?
4
OFFICE OPEN:	,
Sunday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00
Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:06
Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30
Friday, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, no* > open.	i
The Scholas z
EDITORIALS
Guest Lecturers
Many people have noticed that some of the guest lecturers appearing on the Notre Dame campus this year have given talks that have hardly been of the quality one would expect from the lecturers’ reputations and qualifications. It is difficult to justify this observation without citing the names of individual lecturers, which we do not propose to do, if only on the grounds that it would be exceedingly bad manners. Still, the attendance at lectures has lately been decreasing, and conversations with both faculty and students are sufficient to find that the reason for lagging interest is the general disappointment with the lectures so far this year. (We have even witnessed the unusual, but highly expressive phenomenon of groups of nuns walking out in the middle of a lecture.)
We do not intend to imply, of course, that all the lectures this year have been substandard. It seems, however, that the best of this year’s campus lectures
have been given by our own campus personalities — Fr. Hesburgh’s and Dr. Carberry’s of the past two weeks being notable examples. The main purpose of having visiting lecturers here is to gain the benefit of thought and opinion normally unavailable at the University. If we have reached the point where no one outside Notre Dame can make significant contribution to campus thought, then there is no point in having guest lecturers at all. This is obviously not the case; the fault, then, is in the selection of lecturers.
It hardly seems presumptuous of students and faculty to expect a well-prepared and interesting lecture from personages of national or international reputation. In the first place, lecturers from outside the University are often paid to come and speak; they । seemingly have some	kind of obligation to deliver	’
what they were paid	for, that is, not merely the	:
presence of their own famous personages, but an ex-	i
pression of their ideas	that will be of benefit to the	।
University community. Moreover, all visiting guests i receive the hospitality of the University. To return	■
this hospitality with a talk that shows little, if any,	■
preparation or pre-thought is, minimally, bad man- ' ners to the community which welcomed them. If our j visitors regard us as unworthy of their best effort, I then we, for one, would just as soon they hadn’t come j at all.	j
It is difficult to suggest what could be done about this situation, infortunate as it is. Certainly the	'
people who have invited the offending lecturers are	i
able to recognize what has happened. It is to be ex-	!
pected that the same lecturers will not be invited	j
again, and that some steps are being taken to ensure	i
that lecturers who come in the future respect the	;
Notre Dame community enough to prepare a talk	i
that will be provoking of thought on a university	i
level.	I
i
5
i i
J i i
i
November 22, 1963	$
NewYork Week-End coming up?
Enjoy Low College Rates from $12 double at the luxurious new
Lincoln Square Motor Inn at Lincoln Center Broadway and 66th Street
Whether you’re coming for the game, for the concerts, for fun in Manhattan, take advantage of the week-end college rates for students, faculty, alumni at the beautiful new Lincoln Square Motor Inn. Here you are directly across from Philharmonic Hall at Lincoln Center, close to all midtown attractions. Free unlimited drive-in-out parking on the premises! Free rooftop swimming pool, TV and radio. Close to the West Side Highway, easy access to all auto routes and stadiums. All rooms with private bath, decorated by Dorothy Draper.
$3 A DAY PER PERSON in Large Family Rooms Accommodating 4,5,6
Write or telephone for reservations—
Lincoln Square
Motor Inn
Broadway at 66th Street * Tel: 212 SU 7-6800
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame. Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 18 East 50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Tiie special subscription rate for St. Mary’s students and faculty is $3.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts io the SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the propertv of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
COVER
Dave Larsen views New York City, the scene of the student trip next weekend. For further information, consult John Lyons’ article on Gotham on page 18.
Editorial ...................... 5	|	The Visit: Review ........... 26
I
Letters ........................ 7	j	Tradition in Rhythm.......... 28	;
Senate ......................... 9	I	The Debate ................... 30	*
Campus at a Glance............ 11	|	Movies: Women of the World 31	■
On Other Campuses............. 15	i	In Search of a Victory........ 33	'
Feiffer ....................... 15	j	Cross-Country ............... 34
Meeting the ChALLENge .... J6	'	Scoreboard................... 35
The Sorriest Failure.......... 17	Voice in the Crowd............. 35
Wonderful Town ................ 18	Basketball: Justified Optimism 36
Fatty's Coming ................ 20	,	Tyler, Jr.................... 37
The West Baden	Freshman Year.................. 39
Nuclear War Institute......... 24
6
The Scholast :
Letters ...
CAPTAIN’S COMPLIMENTS Editor:
As captain of our football team, I wish at this time to express my thanks and appreciation in behalf of the team to Terry Wolkerstorfer and his staff for their continued backing throughout this season. Their articles serve as a means of support and not increased hostility as in recent years.
The spirit of Notre Dame is not dead and it will not die with continued loyalty as shown by you, the voice of Notre Dame.
Although the burden is great, I know we will not quit. More hard work will bring victories over Iowa and Syracuse.
Bob Lehmann 218 Alumni
A SONNET
Shall I compare you with a winning team?
A losing season appears your fate: Rough opponents do shake your record so does seem,
And the coach’s contract has all too short a date:
Sometime too quickly a winning season appears,
And our hopes soar upward to the sky;
But when the time to win draws near, You falter and the chance goes by;
But our eternal spirit you shall not lose,
Nor can our hopes be dashed by the throes of defeat;
Nor shall we be influenced by harmful views,
When in future times to come you shall not be beat:
So long as we can shout and sing your praise,
So long shall we love you till our dying days.
Robert W. Neirynck 322 Breen-Phillips
MEAL MISERIES Editor:
Certainly, one of the pronounced attractions of the partaking of meals at the North Dining Hall is the attendance of the hired student help. This race of supermen (the impression one receives from watching them in action) pleasantly supervise the daily meals like so many Gradgrinds and Bounderbys, constantly exuding the charm, warmth, and friendliness of a wounded python. Surprising as it may seem, this general attitude detracts much from the already unpleasant task of eating. Why only last Saturday, one overly ambitious bus boy, obviously anxious
November 22, 1963
to return to his studies, or perhaps innocently attempting to display his aptitudes for the position of maitre d’hotel, very rudely removed a morsel of victuals from the hand of a companion, whisked away the trays belonging to myself and my fellow diner and abruptly asked us to leave, claiming that fifteen minutes was sufficient time for anyone’s luncheon. Of course, I should have been gratified that the cup was literally passed from my lips, but I render my plea in defense of those masochists among us who derive pleasure from such obvious pain. Can’t this unfortunate situation be remedied?
A. J. Finelli Tom Murphy Steve Northup Editor:
I am a senior and have been wasting money at this school for three years. I refer to the breakfasts I haven’t gone to since freshman year.
If the University, more so, the Dining Hall, are for the student, why don’t they try and save us some money? The cost of schooling is rising and more and more students are being forced to work their way through school. Now working takes time away from studying and thus defeats our primary purpose of coming here.
I suggest a very simple plan. Not abolishing breakfast, even though yellow-death and the sponges almost abolish us, but giving the student a choice. Let those that want to trod over to breakfast go right ahead. Sell them a card that can be used at all meals. Those that don’t want to go, sell them a card at a lower price that may not be used at the morning feast. I’m sure it would save us at least §100 a year, if not more.
True, those that stay away from breakfast keep the cost of the card down but why should we pay for breakfast? I’m sure if the cost of the card increased it could not be as much as the saving the nongoers would get. If this plan is not feasible then there is something going on at the dining halls that is wasting the students’ money while feeding him food that is horrible, to say the least.
P. J. Shelley 331 Sorin Hall
ME TOO
Editor:
Since I have been at Notre Dame I have read many “pro and con” arguments in the Scholastic and elsewhere concerning the state of affairs on campus. It seems very fashionable (and worthwhile in many cases, I must admit) to state openly whether
you are against such topics as student government, St. Mary’s, the top floor of the library for guests, Jake Kline, Saturday classes, the ban on cars, Who’s Who, the “Religious Bulletin,” coeducation at Notre Dame, the red bam, the DHQ, a no-cut or an unlimited-cut system, the CSC’s, Frank Budka, academic excellence, overenthusiastic card stunt sections, and even Fr. Hesburgh.
While I would never presume to solve any of these dilemmas, still I feel an uncontrollable urge to be a part of it all. So with the first-time courage I openly assert, “Down with the mixing of blue and green lights in the Stepan Center!” I await rebuttal.
Charlie Ross
159 Alumni
ICE SKATES
(Hockey & Figure)
&
SKI CLOTHING
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
BERMUDA
COLLEGE WEEK
MARCH 22 APRIL 11
Everyday packed with action ...new friends...fun!
SUN.-Get acquainted dance. (Wear Bermudas!) MON.— College Day at the beach. Talbot Brothers Calypso. College Queen Contest, barbecue lunch. TUES —Jazz session. Limbo contest, buffet lunch. WED. — Cruise to St. Ceoige, Steel Band entertainment. Gombey dancers, refreshments. TIIUHS.-On your own: swim, shop, sightsee, sports. Fit!.—College Week Revueentertainment. Tennis finals.
All these... and lots more complimentary activities!
See your
Campus Organizer now! > The Bermuda Trade Development Board 620 Fifth Avenue, New York. N.Y 10020
7
This ^^01^ is the shirt you should ...and can ...snap up!
It’s the new Decton oxford Tabber Snap by ARROW... the shirt with the trim good looks of a traditional tab collar without the fuss and fumble of a collar button. ARROW Decton oxford is a blend of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton, it’s a new oxford that has graduated Cum Laude in the class of wash-and-wear. In short sleeves as illustrated $5.95
4' * 5
r£

•DuPont T.M. for its polyester fiber
THE ARROW DECTON oxford with the I Tabber Snap collar is only I one of the many shirts of I this famous brand name | in our collection...see I them soon at I
^GILBERT'S
MCDONALD STUDIO
Complete Portrait Service
CHRISTMAS SPECIAL
One 8 x 10 Black & White
Six Wallet Size
Regular Value S14.50
NOW $9.50
Choose from eight proofs: no extra sitting charge
116 W. Colfax Ave. CE 2-2003
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING ART SUPPLIES COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS •
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana 233-2409
EYES EXAMINED i GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED I BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED( “fast service”
DR. M. MITTERMAYER
Optometrist
228 S. MICHIGAN
8
The Scholastic
u POLICY COMMITTEE
W HO should regulate whom; how and why?” was the question at last Sunday’s Policy Committee meeting, which considered the Transportation Policy, once again without final resolution. Some progress has been made, however, and perhaps a review of the evolution of the Policy will best enable an evaluation of action to date.
The central issue is the Policy’s application to “special” trips, i.e., trips run by individuals or clubs and open to the general student body. All such trips were originally run directly by the Senate. Later, clubs and individuals were allowed to run them, some with all profit going to Student Government, others resulting in a club or individual profit or a profit split.
The intent of the Policy thus far has been to ensure fair prices to the students on such trips, as well as to limit “extreme” profits. There is an obvious relation between the two, if a profit ceiling is the only means to ensure a fair price, and the Policy considered last Sunday proposed a $500 profit restriction for special trips. While a price check is obviously necessary, the Committee questioned both whether the profits should be regulated, and whether they could be regulated in this way.
Steve Walther and John Gearen felt that if the price was fair, resulting profits should go to the agency initiating and executing the trip. O’Connor and Dave Ellis then contended that since the trips are open to all students, they are run as student services and not for profit. Thus the individual or club profit should at least be limited.
The Committee then considered the problems of enforcing a profit ceiling and an hour of discussion resulted in no workable checks. The members then turned to the alternative — reassumption by Student Government itself of such student trips. This would apply to all club-operated special trips, and those run by indi-
November 22, 1963
SENATE
by Al lindash
viduals which include ND students (thus exempting Rick Devlin’s Date Plane). The measure was then tabled to allow some private consideration of the new proposal.
An advantage to placing special trips directly under the Senate would be that any profits would be channeled back to the students as a group. On the other hand, there are advantages in allowing private agencies to handle them, and it is still possible to protect the student. Present means appear adequate lor determining fair prices, if Student Trip and MSU Trip prices were fair. In any event, it would be as difficult for Student Government to set a fair price on its proposed special trips as it is to fix the prices of activities operated by clubs. The problem is thus one of a Senate check on price determination by clubs or individuals. A solution might be a Student Controller (such as is set up by the Dance Policy), who would keep a check on the financial details of a trip and use present means of determining a fair price.
This would be a system as workable as that used at present, or that possible on Senate-run trips. The clubs and individuals would continue to run trips, thereby allowing private initiative to be preserved, instead of a bureaucratic Senate Transportation Commission which might lead to fewer trips.
All profit would not come to Student Government, but a percentage cut might be levied for general student use. In fact, profits would be limited in some degree by the pricefixing, which would still protect the students. This seems preferable to entirely Senate-run trips, but final Committee action is still pending, and the controversy will undoubtedly continue beyond that, when the measure again reaches the Senate.
STUDENT SENATE
A very brief full Senate meeting was held Monday night, Nov. 18. It lasted but an hour, and the bulk of business consisted of the reports and
consequent discussion. The President’s Report told of a meeting to be held this past Tuesday, with Father Mc-Carragher and student leaders discussing University problems such as Christmas vacation, the Honors System, “etc.” A meeting of the Senate and the SMC Student Council was also held yesterday, presumably to foster increased intercampus cooperation. Evidently the calls of various campus groups for more student communication in all areas are being answered.
The Student Affairs Commission headed by George Callahan reported a net loss of about $200 on big-screen TV last weekend, with $180 of the deficit resulting from presentation of the Packer-Bear game. Nick Sordi then reported on a Junior Class activities day set for this weekend for the children of some of the poorer South Bend families. It will include basketball and football games, a tour of the campus and a “general good time for the youngsters.”
The Hall Presidents’ Council Report by Tim Morrison led to a discussion of that group’s purchase of a telephone and mimeo machine through a levy of the Hall Councils. One Hall Council refused to approve the $5 request, whereupon the Rector refused to sign a check for the amount. The Presidents’ Council is “examining” the situation. But why another mimeo machine for a group that has access to the Student Government printing facilities? That dissenting Hall Council appears to have a legitimate gripe.
A bill reorganizing the Freshman Class Council, and a Constitutional amendment necessitated by it, were both passed with little further consideration. Little time was spent on a $3000 loan to Mardi Gras. In fact, the most interesting comment made in this area was the hint that the poor quality of print on motion forms at recent meetings may be due largely to the need for a new Student Government typewriter.
Comedy, however, shouldn’t completely obscure the content of Senate activity. Student Government this year has set out on a broad program of centralization of control. Policy is being codified, which is good; economic controls are being tightened, which is good. But as a result, Student Government is assuming more and more responsibility from the students, and the question is, then, how far may such arrogations go? At the minimum, the students should realize what is happening; it might be a good idea for some to accept Dave Ellis’ open invitation to sit in on Student Government deliberations.
9
THOSE CLEAN WHITE ADLERS
Now you’re getting the swing of it. All you have to do is be "clean white sock” in your Adlers. Suddenly you find yourself doing just as you please, and the whole world beaming unquestioning approval. You’ll like it. Girls love it. And all because of the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock. In white and a covey of colors. $1.
THE ADLER COMPANY* CINCINNATI J4* OHIO* IN CANADA! WINDSOR HOSIERY MILLS* MONTREAL
Featured in Fine Stores
10
The Scholastic
DAY AT THE BAR
Thursday, December 5, will be Law Day at Notre Dame. Its purpose is to acquaint the undergraduate student with law, the legal profession, and law school especially. The program will run from 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., and all juniors and seniors who attend will be given cancelled cuts.
After an introduction by Dean O’Meara, the students attending will go to a contracts class and then to a coffee break where they can chat with the law students and have questions answered informally. They will then learn about the co-curricular activities of the law school (such as the Moot Court); afterwards Attorney Edmund Stephan will lecture on “The Legal Profession and its Opportunities.” In the afternoon, the group will be split into several small sections and will sit in on various classes. There will be another coffee break with the law students, and then an exhibition of the Moot Court (the finalists will give the same arguments they gave in the court finals).
About 250-300 students are expected to take advantage of this opportunity to examine the law school as a possible choice for postgraduate study.
STUDENT KEYNOTER SOUGHT
The 1964 Mock Convention is now accepting applications for the Convention’s student keynote speaker. The student keynoter as well as the professional keynote speaker will address the Convention during one of the opening two sessions. This individual’s function is to present the delegates with the keynotes of the Party platform with regard to the present election and the aims of the Republican Party in general.
Those interested should attend the
meeting Monday evening, November 25, at 7:30 in room 1-B of the Student Center.
BUSINESS EVOLVES PSYCHOLOGY
The second in the series of Cardinal O’Hara Memorial Lectures was delivered by Dr. Mason Haire, professor of psychology at the University of California, last Wednesday afternoon in the Library Auditorium. Entitled “Organization Theory and the Social Philosophy of Business,” Dr. Haire’s lecture dealt with three main changes in the social philosophy of business, and their parallel influences upon organization theory.
Fifteen years ago the function of business was to produce goods for profit. The classic norm “what’s good for General Motors is good for the U.S.” typified the tendency to identify corporate goals with social goals. Capital formation was most important. Next came an emphasis on management thinking. Terms as “group cohesion,” “sensitivity training,” etc., reflected management’s effort to increase their rates of production. Management emphasized a system wherein production became paramount, and responsibility outweighed authority.
At present, Dr. Haire explained, we are nearing the third point, in which concentration on capital formation and high production give way to an emphasis on effective use of personnel in business organization. Dr. Haire ventured a prediction concerning a future fourth phase of social philosophy of business. He maintained that management will soon be concerned primarily with sales, marketing, and distribution of the many goods already produced.
American business has progressed considerably since the days when ef
ficient use of his pair of hands was the only thing demanded from a worker. Now we are experiencing an accent on motivation and ambition to excel on almost every level of the working class. Managerial philosophy has evolved from seeking methods to enhance the position of the individual firm into searching for better ways to integrate the entire organization. In line with this evolvement, Dr. Haire said that there is a tendency for the firm to move away from the community in two ways. First, in an effort to provide product diversification, the firm is forced to seek money markets outside the community. As a result of the firm’s newly found independence and autonomy, the community’s check on it is decreasing. Second, there has been a separation of the company from society in light of the development of a worker’s proprietary interest in his job; the worker no longer feels that he is being hired, but that he is renting out his services. He comes to think that he owns his job.
No one will contend that business must be aware of social changes. Beyond that, as Dr. Haire noted, business management must extrapolate from its probings about the future in order to meet the changes properly.
THANKSGIVING TOUR BY GLEE CLUB
The Glee Club will sing at the victory party after the Thanksgiving Syracuse game. This will probably be all that the students will see of the group, for they have a very busy concert tour scheduled for over the Thanksgiving vacation. They plan to leave Notre Dame by bus early on Wednesday, November 27, and will give a concert that evening in Pittsburgh. Immediately after the Pittsburgh concert they will continue to
November 22, 1963
11
The Glee Club—informally
Steven Hart
New York. Arriving on Thanksgiving morning they will stay at the Riviera Hotel (in case you’re looking for them). That night they will be at the victory party in the Commodore Hotel. The following two evenings, Friday and Saturday, will find them giving concerts at New Monmouth and Clark, New Jersey. Sunday morning they will sing at Mountainside, New Jersey, and leave for a rest back at Notre Dame.
Going into past history — last October 18, the weekend of the UCLA game, Mr. Pedtke was honored at a concert, during half-time and at a reception in commemoration of his 25th anniversary as Glee Club director. The Alumni Association sponsored the commemorative activities; at a reunion party Mr. Pedtke received a distinguished-alumnus award from DePaul University, where he did his undergraduate work. He also received a plaque from the alumni and the current Glee Club gave him an autographed sketch that was four foot squar and pictured the traditional Glee Club caricature.
STUDENTS AWAIT TRIAL
Saturday evening, November 30, the 14th annual Moot Court of the Notre Dame Law School will open session in the engineering auditorium. The Moot Court, intended to give the participants experience in preparation of briefs and presentation of oral arguments, amounts to recognition of the finalists as the best in their class. Besides the cash awards of $150 and $100 to the first two finalists, the court confers a great amount of prestige, and finishing with honor in the court can help pave the way for the graduate, especially if he seeks trial work.
The court begins selecting students in their second year. The top 16 contestants are given four cases to represent during the year before a panel of three judges: a 3rd-year
student, a faculty member, and a local attorney. These arguments are tape-recorded so that they can be analyzed later by the student, helping him improve his work. The presentations are graded when they are given —50% on the brief, and 50% on the oral presentation. The top four men from these cases will compete in the finals during their third (senior) year. Plans are being made to expand this program with competition against other schools on the senior level. This year two seniors are arguing against students from Loyola, and if this proves useful, the program will be expanded next year.
The cases argued in the court are appellate-court cases. They are real cases, and the moot court is run exactly as the actual court. This court will consist of a panel of 3 to 9 judges, which hears no new evidence, but bases its decision on transcript of the original trial and on the lawyers’ briefs. Thus the lawyers have the most important role. The two representing the appellant speak first, are answered by the respondents, and are allowed a brief rebuttal, after which the judges make their decision.
The case to be argued in this year’s Moot Court Final is Hall vs. the Warden, which is now pending before the United States Supreme Court. The case is based on a previous Supreme Court decision, Mapp vs. Ohio (1961), which reversed the precedent and ruled that, under the 14th Amendment, illegally obtained evidence may not be used in a state court criminal trial. Hall was convicted of murder in Maryland in 1959 and has instituted Habeas Corpus proceedings, contending that since illegally obtained evidence was used at his trial, he should be freed.
This is in essence a test case to decide whether the courts should consider the original decision retroactive and open themselves to many cases such as Hall’s. The Moot Court trial
will be judged by two of the three members of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth District, Hon. Elbert Parr Tuttle, and Hon. Richard T. Rives; and a member of the U.S. District Court for the North District, Hon. Jesse E. Eschbach. The case for the appellant will be argued by Michael B. Ryan and James K. Sutherland; that for the appellee (Hall), by Robert E. Frost and Michael J. Stepanek.
MODERNISM AND APATHY
Mr. Steven Hart lectured on “The Bureaucracy of the Believer” at the St. Mary’s Clubhouse on Tuesday, November 12. His talk dealt with the increased interest of college students in the Catholic religion. Two of the reasons he gave for this interest were the concern of students in international affairs, and interest in the Vatican Council, which is now in session.
He talked about the modernist movement, which relates the Church to the modern world and tries to determine its proper place in that world today. He said that in order for a new movement to accomplish anything, it is important that the priest and the laity both do their part, and it is the duty of the laity to criticize, to tell the priests their needs and to make proposals to solve problems that arise.
Mr. Hart suggested that there was a crisis in the Church, but asserted that in any crisis there is always both danger and opportunity. The danger is that now there are more Protestant ministers than priests and Catholic laity are drifting away because they have no direct contact with the Church. The opportunity centers around the fact that more people are interested and willing to listen tc Catholic views. He ended his talk explaining that only 2% of the Notre Dame students were involved in Catholic Action groups and asked the unanswered question, “What is
12
The Scholastic
i
The Juilliard String Quartet
the function of a Catholic college?”
Mr. Hart works with a new magazine for college students, The New Generation, which gives Catholic students’ views on the place of Catholicism in the world.
PEACE CORPS PROGRESS IN CHILE
“The influx of volunteers is still as high as it was at the start of the venture,” according to Professor Walter Langford, director of the Peace Corps’ Chilean I project. He explained in a lecture in the Library auditorium that the Peace Corps volunteers receive an allowance equivalent to what a native worker in the same occupation would receive. When each Corps worker’s term is over, he is given a readjustment allowance amounting to $75 for each month served. Regarding military-draft requirements, the volunteer is deferred from service for the period he is in training or in actual working conditions. His status after this is determined at the discretion of the localdraft board.
Father Hesburgh has played an important role in the Peace Corps undertaking, Mr. Langford said. In fact, when Sargeant Schriver first asked for ideas, Father Hesburgh submitted a plan that was too big for the Peace Corps to handle. He proposed that the isolated central area of Chile, between the Andes and the Pacific, be “blanketed” with various radio broadcasts. The ND president did come up with an alternate plan which fit the scope of the Corps, but even in this plan there was a drawback in that one of the Corps’ very first projects would come from a leading Catholic educator. To remove the possible religious problem, Father Hesburgh contacted officials of other universities and colleges in Indiana, and together they formed a federation which formally adopted plans for the work.
Training for the project began in
July, 1961, at Notre Dame. It consisted of background training, to provide insights into the lives of the people and the problems of the country; medical training, to teach the fundamentals of first-aid; a course in community development (now taught in part by returning corpsmen) ; and language training to develop the necessary fluency.
After this training program was completed, the volunteers left for Chile. Their object was to promote better understanding between the United States and its South American neighbors.
The project, Professor Langford stated, was successful in spite of the numerous obstacles encountered. For one, the members of the expedition who worked with the Institute of Rural Education in Chile, had to adapt themselves to the slower pace of the country people. The prevalence of disease and the scarcity of prepared medical supplies were other problems to be overcome. The only opposition by the communists came through the Red press, which almost daily attacked the group. This harassment was effectively countered, however, and was surmounted by the hard work of these laboring “practitioners of the good example.”
JUILLIARD QUARTET PERFORMS
Despite a time mix-up and a slight automobile accident, the Juilliard String Quartet performed before a filled house November 13. The program began at 9:15, an hour late, because of a confusion of the time difference between Chicago time and South Bend time. Further, on the way from Chicago the group’s automobile skidded on the Toll Road, alighting in an adjoining field.
However, when the quartet arrived, they found the Library Auditorium filled, those few people who left during the delay were replaced from the group of twenty or so who
had been unable to get tickets and were waiting outside the Auditorium. To save time, the quartet remained in their traveling clothes.
The program began with a contemporary piece, Irving Fine’s Quartet No. 1. The piece is pulsating, almost frantic in places, and the exaggerated movements of each musician added a visual dimension to the violent motion of the piece, especially in the second movement. The physical element was more subdued in the second work, Mozart’s Quartet in F major, K. 590. Here the musicians blended into a more united group, moving gracefully with the theme from anxiety to reassurance and elation. The final work, originally scheduled first, was the lyrical Quartet in C sharp minor, Opus 131, by Beethoven. Called back to the stage four times by the audience, the Quartet completed the evening with a Scherzo from the Quartet in C by J. N. Hummel, a pupil of Mozart.
NSA MEETS AT ND
Last weekend, the National Student Association held its Ohio-Indiana Regional Conference at Notre Dame. Such conferences, which have particular educational objectives, are held twice yearly.
Founded in 1947 at the University of Chicago, N.S.A. is a national union of students comprising about three hundred U.S. colleges formed originally to represent American students internationally. The organization is a member of the International Student Conference. Its prime objectives now are to provide an educational organ for college students to solve common problems, and to create an awareness of social issues. They hope to aid communication between students and student government organizations, and provide these governments with helpful publications through their national office in Philadelphia.
November 22, 1963
13
Dr. Shuster Addresses the AAUP
In addition to the representatives from Notre Dame, about thiry delegates from regional colleges such as St. Mary’s, Oberlin, De Pauw, Antioch and others attended. Friday evening the delegates were welcomed by Father McCarragher, who spoke on “The Modem Student in the University.” He said that the modern student is much more inquisitive than the student of old, but that he is too eager to take on what amounts to too much responsibility and that he seeks ideas to the extent that details often suffer. Father McCarragher challenged N.S.A. to reevaluate its alleged dictation to member schools particularly with respect to student responsibility. He said that they should not tell student governmental organizations what to do about their problems; students in attendance at private schools should be willing to accept the regulations of the institution. The delegates, however, disagreed with the function of N.S.A., contending that the organization merely offered suggestions to the member schools and did not attempt to dictate to them.	•
Thomas Broden, Notre Dame law professor, spoke Saturday on “The Role of the Church in Civil Rights.” Its approach, he told the delegates, should be basic and slow. Its main role must be to preach the message of Christian love to all people. In the past, churches have not taken much action, but rather followed the wishes of their parishioners. He cited Dr. King as an example of what a clergyman should do. When Christian law is not followed, nonviolent action should be taken.
Dean Baldinger of the College of Science addressed the group on “Co-curricularity in Education.” He advocated that science students should be versed in the humanities and that art students should have some knowledge of science. He illustrated the importance of liberally educated sci
entists by noting the emphasis medical schools are putting on this in their entrance requirements.
John Gearen, the chairman of the AB Advisory Board, then led a discussion on the problems of student educational advisory councils. Evaluation and planning sessions closed the conference on Sunday.
AAUP CONFERENCE HELD
The American Association of University Professors held its annual state conference at Notre Dame on Saturday, November 16. Dr. George N. Shuster, Assistant to the President of the University of Notre Dame, welcomed the delegates at the Library Auditorium and spoke informally on “Notre Dame: Goals and Development.”
The principal address of the conference was delivered by Dr. Peggy Heim, Associate Secretary and Economic Consultant of the Washington office of the AAUP. Dr. Heim discussed the central concern of the meeting — the financial position of college faculty members — in her presentation, “The Economics of College Teaching.”
The conference closed with a luncheon-business meeting at the Morris Inn. The delegates elected officers for 1963-64 and heard reports on the recent national convention of the AAUP. Dr. D’Antonio of Notre Dame’s Sociology Department was elected Corresponding Secretary of the organization.
PEACE AND POVERTY
The law auditorium was the scene Tuesday night of a lecture by Dorothy Day, editor of the Catholic Worker in the United States, entitled “War and Peace.” Miss Day, an ardent pacifist, confined her lecture for the most part to the problem of poverty in the world. Dedicated to the prin-. ciple that before a journalist can
really write about anything he must actually live it, Miss Day has spent time in jails and on picket lines, and now runs a sort of charity house she calls “The Forum” in New York City. “The Forum” is also the headquarters of the staff of the Catholic Worker.
In her lecture, she hit hard the fact that not enough people realize the existence of poverty in America today. As one example she portrayed the plight of the migrant worker in the western United States who has no social security, no education for his children, no right to organize — in short, very few rights at all. He lives in poverty, and even his children have to work for their clothes. As another, she cited poverty in New York City and its accompanying evils of drunkenness, prostitution, and addictions — there are even “prisons for children.” In fact, she wonders just how much the people can be blamed.
But she doesn’t just decry the poverty of the world. She has a formula for at least its partial alleviation — the formula of the corporal works of mercy. “It is the obligation of the Christian to think of his brothers in need,” she said. She believes there is not enough encouragement of the rich to share their wealth, that there is too much emphasis on charity and not enough on social justice. Therefore she encourages “voluntary poverty” as a help in this problem.
As regards her pacifism, her principal statement was that she cannot see any possibility of a just war today because of the techniques — atomic and germ warfare in particular — which will undoubtedly be used. When asked about the justice of the fight of “freedom against commun ism,” she answered that “There if the possibility of freedom in prison.’ But she believes that it is up to eacl individual to make his own decision “to fight for peace or to fight for war.”
14
The Scholastic
on other eampuses
•	Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service officials are meeting with college and university representatives to work out new guidelines for taxing fellowships and scholarships given to U.S. college students.
The study has been underway since the IRS and Treasury officials were forced into agreeing that students receiving scholarships and fellowships, which included such duties as teaching practical research, did not have to pay income tax on the grants. The decision was forced last summer by two tax court decisions, one in New York and one in Tennessee.
Government officials are not certain of their course of action. “We don’t know whether we’re going to loosen or tighten the code just yet,” a Treasury spokesman said, “but it looks as though we might end up doing both.”
Any new restrictions would not be retroactive, but new benefits would probably affect persons who have paid taxes since 1954.
•	Fordham University students, numbering up to 2000 at times, demonstrated on the Rose Hill campus recently, protesting an increase in parking fees. The demonstrators, organ
ized by Student Government, met at the administration building and marched to the parking lot, chanting, “We won’t pay.”
Returning from the parking lot, 1000 students staged a sit-in on the lawn in front of Loyola Hall, the Jesuit residence. They carried placards saying: “Let the parking lot rot” and “If you come to Fordham, watch your wallet.”
A student boycott of the cafeteria was also in effect. During lunch hours, only twenty students used the cafeteria, which is designed to accommodate the entire campus population.
The new parking policy, effected to allay the cost of the ^-million-dol-lar facility, charges 25 cents each day to park a car. The previous fee was $1 a year.
© The administration of Hunter College has announced that the Park Avenue division will become coeducational, and the girls at Park Avenue have responded characteristically with a protest campaign to “Ban the Boys.”
The protest is based on several points: one, a desire to retain for the girls the sense of freedom and leadership opportunity found in a women’s college; two, reluctance to interrupt the almost 90-year tradition of
Hunter College in Manhattan as one of the finest women’s colleges in the country; and three, indignation against the suddenness with which the decision to become co-ed was announced, and the lack of opportunity for students and faculty to express opinions before the decision was made.
Dorothy Turner, president of the Park Avenue Council, noted that, in a coeducational situation, “a woman must be uncommonly aggressive to compete on the same level with men. Released from the tension of this competition, a woman can develop her leadership potential and participate fully in the campus activities vzhich make college meaningful.”
The girls at Park Avenue seem to speak unanimously in opposition to the change, and “Ban the Boys” buttons adorn innumerable sweaters on campus. The outside world, however, is looking askance at the “girls who don’t want boys.” Even Park Avenue’s co-campus in the Bronx can’t understand why all the furor.
A CBS interview with several members of the Executive Board of Council, which took almost an hour to tape, appeared as a one-minute short of the only two flippant remarks made. The CBS cameraman insisted on getting a shot of the legs of one of the more attractive girls being interviewed, “just so that people won’t get the wrong idea about the type of girls that don’t want boys.” The shot was not used, however.
feiffer
November 22, 1963
MEETING TIIE(nA LLENbli
by Pat Bauer
Scholastic staff member Pat Bauer interviews South Bend’s new Republican mayor in this article. Some of the problems and future trends of Notre Dame-South Bend relations are investigated.
Notre Dame’s common interests with. South Bend are few; the only definite relationship may well be that it was the Catholic LaSalle who first floated around the south bend of the then clear St. Joseph’s River, and let it be known that it was now “discovered” and people could begin to inhabit the region. Notre Dame and South Bend then developed the earlier mentioned common interests by settling in the same geographical area, but eventually evolving into two separate communities.
Lloyd M. Allen is the recently elected Republican mayor of “the other community,” which has a traditionally Democratic populace, winning by the largest plurality ever assessed by a mayoral candidate, 16,000 votes. (One might deduce that he is popular.) What does it take to be popular in South Bend? In Mayor Allen’s case, it was being a veteran, lawyer, family man and a former judge. Thus, it can be seen that it is difficult for, say, a college student, to be popular in South Bend.
However, the significant novelty of a South Bend Republican sweep may quite possibly foreshadow major changes in this area. Allen, who asked for “change” in his campaign, said in an interview that he intends to bring about just that. He feels that the organizational standards of city departments need improvement. This can be done through good personal management.
The South Bend streets are perhaps one of the mutual interests of South Bend residents and Notre Dame students, the interests of the former being that it is becoming increasingly difficult to drive on them and, of the latter, that it is becoming increasingly dangerous to walk on them. South Bend’s new city executive perceives this problem and includes it as a prime target of his administration. “The neglect of this matter in the past was due to an inadequate engineering department,” stated Mr. Allen, citing this as an ex
ample of the need for city department reorganization.
Because of South Bend’s reported attitude toward Notre Dame, it may be interesting to see how the city’s own youth fare. “Do the youth of South Bend have anything to do in this town?” The mayor-elect seemed, when confronted with this question, surprised that there was an element of thought that felt there were such social inadequacies present. He exemplified the situation of his children who “always have plenty to do.” This reporter remarked that a local daily had brought to public attention that there was a car merry-go-round in which local teens drive their cars in and out of drive-ins, and that this seemed to have become an essential in their social life. The mayor-elect replied: “If there is such a problem, it is the responsibility of the family and not the city government.”
Many feel that Studebaker is the heart of South Bend and if it dies, there will be a dual funeral. Mayor Allen lamented this misconception, pointing out that while Studebaker is a vital organ, it isn’t even the largest employer — the Bendix Corporation is. “Studebaker’s traditional influence has been out of proportion to the number of dollars that it has brought in,” the Indiana University law graduate stated.
Allen feels that Notre Dame is a strong economic asset to the community. He said that most of the people don’t appreciate what a large employer the University is and how much money it brings in. In expanding a definition of the existing relationship, he stated that Notre Dame has not felt the necessity of a close association. While most college towns find real pride in having a school nearby, Allen agreed that South Bend lacks that factor. This is probably due to the lack of communication. Allen feels that to effect a change in this attitude would be good for both. The mayor-elect lauded Father Hes-burgh’s Industrial Park as a realistic
South He nd Ttibune Photo
means of improving relations. It needs only to be employed. This involves an exchange of facilities between the Engineering school and local industry.
When asked if South Bend police were “out to get us,” as certain individual members have vocalized in the past, Allen, a former city judge, stated that this is definitely not their policy, that Notre Darners who were guilty of misdemeanors would be dealt with the same as would South Bend’s youth.
Lloyd Allen, noted for his strong reprimands and innovation of new procedures in court when he was city judge (e.g., eight hours of driving instructions for young offenders) has gained a powerful position, for the South Bend mayor is administrator to all city departments, numbering between thirty-five and forty, and to all boards; he has control oveT numerous appointee jobs. Because of this he will be a prime figure in the future of South Bend and its relationship to the University.
16
The Scholastic
The Sorriest Failure
by Pete Clark
Senior Pete Clark has been involved in campus politics as a former Engineering Senator and as a candidate for Student Body President. In this article, he presents a re-evaluation of student government purpose.
npHERE has been considerable crit--*• icism of the present student government recently, stemming from a vague disquiet over its first major action: the year’s budget. However well founded this concern may be, it has not been directed at the more fundamental weaknesses indicated by the budget, but rather at specific proposals. Beneath all the fuss, however, one thing is obvious: something is wrong, and it bothers a lot of people.
Actually, the sorriest failure of student government has been the lack of a credible rationale for its existence and action. But it is hardly fair to criticize present officeholders for what is almost an inherent fault; they would deserve credit if they tried to remedy the situation, but in not trying, they aren’t much different from their predecessors. However, lacking any comprehensive statement of philosophy or policy, it is fair to hold the members of our student government to the generally accepted belief that they are, like any elected official, public servants, that they hold their positions because a majority of the student body delegated to them the administration of those activities within the students’ realm, expecting, in return, efficiency and satisfaction. That is to say, the student body, having a right to provide themselves with certain services, and, consenting to contribute to the support of these services, have entrusted the administration of them to a small group of selected students, primarily because many of these activities are amenable to central administration. On the other hand, there are some activities for which an appropriate administration is established; some of these are selfsupporting, while others depend on the central government for funds. In these cases, the student government still shares the responsibility for their survival, since they remain student activities.
Now then, given a fairly general
November 22, 1963
development of this one aspect of student government, what of the much-vaunted role of the “student leader”? The question is almost answered when one inquires, “To what do you lead us?” Sad to say, the only answer right now is “Not much.” This is not to say that things should be this way; the fact is that student leadership is sorely needed. But student support, student “followers,” are rare indeed: apathy reigns when causes are few. And a leader without followers is a tragic figure. . . .
Putting aside for the moment, then, the possibility of an uncharacteristic upsurge in the demand for dynamic leadership, what is the role of student government here and now at Notre Dame? And why does it deserve the blows that have been rained upon it? I would contend that, having established administration as its only remaining important function, that is what we ask: efficient and intelligent administration that conforms to the general principle of service to the students supporting it. And to the extent that student government does not do its job, it deserves to be criticized.
Specifically, these points should be noted. The fundamental failure of this year’s government is an obsession with the payment of a debt for which no one in the student body, except members of last year’s government, are responsible. Furthermore, granting that the payment of legitimate debts is generally considered admirable, student government’s first responsibility is to the students here and now who have paid their money and expect a return. One can seriously challenge the importance of budgeting a five thousand dollar surplus to cut the debt in half when this virtuous act cripples a large number of worthwhile activities and functions that have no other source of income.
Furthermore, it appears mildly
hypocritical to pursue this economy mania when the very same noble government manages to lose almost a thousand dollars in the first month of school. Barring an act of God, there is no excuse for losing money on a social function at Notre Dame; on the contrary, the phenomenal success of Homecoming, both socially and financially, is ample evidence of what can happen. As a matter of fact, that one function succeeded most painlessly in earning almost as much as was saved in the budget. If the intent was to pay off half the debt, an object with which few can quarrel if done correctly, then there remains no excuse for the devastating treatment of the dependent campus activities, and their budgets should be immediately reviewed and revised upwards.
Regardless of student government’s future success or failure in assuming the role of effective campus leadership, its basic responsibility to provide efficient student service will remain, if only to permit it time to lead. The situation is most crucial now because the present student government does not, and probably cannot, lead in the most stimulating sense; therefore, it must do a good job in its only remaining role if it is to avoid distressing criticism. It should be obvious that the simple expedient of taking prime advantage of the many opportunities for legitimate profit from government-run functions and avoiding losses due to poor judgment is a far more admirable course than the brutal slashing of essentially helpless activities. As a last resort, if a cut must be made, it is best made in the cost of the centrally administered programs for the benefits of these to large numbers of students,' whether organizing or enjoying, cannot compare with those of such activities as the YCS, the College Councils, CILA, or any of the other groups mistreated under the existing budget.
17
WONDERFUL TOWN
by John Lyons
‘‘Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
The ivretched refuse of your teeming shore.
Send these, the homeless, tempest tossed to me;
I lift my lanvp beside the Golden Door.''
The officials of the city of New York had no idea what they were letting themselves in for when they had the above inscribed at the base of the Statue of Liberty. This coming Thursday some twenty-five hundred wild Irish (all yearning to breathe free) will enter New York by various conventional and unconvetional modes of transportation, assemble in “The House That Ruth Built,’’ play spectator at the Notre Dame-Syracuse game, and from there proceed to set old Gotham on its ear.
For many of the “wretched refuse” this will be the first trip to the Big City and to some of these New York may seem like something straight out of a J. Arthur Rank production. To these misguided ones, a little advice ought to be given as to what to do and see in three days in New York. Please consider the following some sort of a college student's guide to the great city that blood, sweat, toil and tears built and Notre Dame intends to destroy.
Of course, upmost in all of our minds is the resolve to have a great deal of good clean fun. Which means wine, women and song. On Thursday night The Blue Circle Society Student Trip Committee will hold a victory dance in the Commodore Hotel (home base for most of our group). To those who do not have dates, “Take heart!” Over fifteen girls’ colleges have been invited to the dance and, unlike the local Midwestern breed, these girls will show up in great numbers and to the surprise of some (whose senses are dulled by the great Notre Dame “lack”) most of these girls will be beautiful. The reason supposedly has something to do with the water New York girls drink. When you have met a young lady and explained to her how you are the greatest football player since Pat O’Brien, you casually invite her to accompany you to some cozy night
spot in the Big Town. She will no doubt accept and you are off — but to where?
With about eight thousand bars in the Metropolitan Area it would seem that choosing a place to go on a date would simply be a matter of heading for the beer emporium nearest to home. A grave error. New York has some of the most beautiful night clubs in the world. You are in the center of New York — take advantage of this. Go out and spend money. Think big! The Latin Quarter on Broadway at 48th Street will have the Kimm Sisters leading their revue. Allan Sherman is at the Copacabana and George White’s “Scandals” can be found at the International. Basin Street East features Della Reese and Shelley Berman. For the rich (four
cars in the family garage and two for the servants) playboy image, these are the places. But if you don’t have the above mentioned assets it would be best to shy away from this line. Minimums, cover charges and $1.35 for a scotch on the rocks are more the rule than the exception in establishments such as these.
Certain night clubs with high priced reputations have loopholes in their enforcement. The Metropole at Seventh Avenue and 48th Street handles some of the best Jazz in New York. Over the Thanksgiving weekend Woody Herman’s rackety-rackety band will provide the sound. At the Metropole, there is no cover or minimum for those sitting at the bar (which are the seats closest to the band); however as soon as you sit
at one of the very small tables, you are slapped with a $3.50 per person minimum. If you go into a night club in New York just to hear music, a bar seat is not really uncomfortable, the service is better and it is usually a good deal less expensive.
A much better role to assume would most probably be the suave, man-of-the-world Notre Dame image. This image lends itself far more readily to creative thinking and is also easier on the pocketbook. This man frequents the smaller or quieter casinos. After the dance, his first stop might be the Towers Suite. Located on the forty-eighth floor of the Time-Life building, the Towers Suite is simply a cocktail lounge — soft music, comfortable chairs and a beautiful panorama of nighttime New York. A
mixed drink is $1.15 but you can nurse that drink for hours without being bothered by waiters. The Crystal Room on 52nd Street near Third Avenue is a small lounge with a piano-bar and some very fine entertainers. The lights are kept low here and there is a dance floor. Peter Duchin plays at the St. Regis and Ethel Merman sings show tunes at the Plaza’s Persian Room. The Living Room at Second Avenue and 49th Street provides love seats and piano music. A perfect cap for an evening on the romantic town is a ride on the Staten Island Ferry — still only five cents for a twenty-five-minute cruise from Battery Park in Lower Manhattan to St. George on Staten Island.
Most of us cannot afford to spend all of our waking time in night clubs.
18
The Scholastic
to
from
tell the bartender that you’re Notre Dame. He’ll understand.
at of or
Central Park and Lyons’ Tavern Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn. All these tourist attractions can more less readily be reached by subway.
This little guide does not begin
and the Jets), the museums, Brooks Brothers, The Radio City Music Hall, Times Square, Greenwich Village,
APPU
Fringe theater, Hayes, musical
is playing at the Golden Mary, Mary at the Helen and Meredith Wilson’s new Here’s Love is at the Shu-


This could lead to liver trouble. New York has thousands of other attractions and a quiet mention of a few might help. The flashing lights of spectacular Broadway must surely hold interest for some. Beyond The
bert. How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying is at the 46th Street Theater, Stop The World — I Want To Get Off is at the Ambassador and Lionel Bart’s great Oliver is at the Imperial Theatre. The Boys From Syracuse and The Fantasticks are two excellent off-Broadway plays. Tickets to most of these shows may be obtained at the theater ticket
agency in the Commodore Hotel. And, for what it’s worth, The Obratsov Russian Puppet Theatre is performing Aladdin And His Wonderful Lamp at the Broadway Theatre.
New York has over three-hundred miles of subway and elevated tracks which rattle the battle-weary tourist between points of interest. For fifteen cents you are able to ride back and forth under the city of New York all weekend if you want. And, if you don’t read the subway maps carefully, you may be riding all weekend anyway. Rockefeller Center is an interesting place to visit as are the United Nations, The New York Stock Exchange, the Empire State Building, The New York Public Library, the Polo Grounds (home of both the Mets
tell of the thousands of things available for amusement and cultural enrichment in Big Bad New York. The “Notre Dame Man” is industrious, resourceful, a leader, a great lover, truly a Man among Men. With even the smallest amount of effort he will be able to have a rewarding time in New York. Surely some of the many entertainments in Gotham will enliven his weekend. And, if all else fails, there are always the eight thousand bars. Simply walk into one and
November 22, 1963
19
FAHY'S COMING
SORRY TO DISAPPOINT you, but this article isn’t about Dave Ellis; it’s about Mardi Gras — the largest, most profitable student fund-raising activity.
Dick McCarthy, general chairman, has outlined the goals of this year’s Mardi Gras committee: “We are trying to raise money for charity and, at the same time, provide what has been described as the largest college weekend in the country.”
The charity aspect of the weekend is most important since the money
of a student-participation fund-raising program is to serve the University and the program should treat other allotments as secondary.
The second aspect of the weekend, the most interesting to each student, is the festive mood of the week. As Mr. McCarthy pointed out, the Mardi Gras Weekend is the third largest in the country, ranking only behind the Dartmouth Winter Carnival and the Army-Navy Weekend. There has been a definite expansion of activities this year which should serve to provide
raised is used for the scholarship fund, the student government charity chest, and student projects. There has been much misunderstanding due to a lack of information regarding the Mardi Gras finances. The money allocated to the scholarship fund is being built up to provide a working fund of $50,000; the interest will provide the funds for a yearly scholarship fund. The charity chest is administered by the student government in response to valid requests from recognized charity organizations or petitioners. Money budgeted for student projects includes upkeep on the student center, etc.
The money has not been allocated this year on any sort of percentage basis as has been done in the past. It was decided that no commitments would be made until the profits from the activity were real and were on hand to work with. This is probably the best way to operate in that there are definite expenses of the allocation that must be met and the scholarship fund should take precedence over charity expenditures; the first duty
even more opportunity for student participation: the kick-off concert, the addition of three days to the carnival itself, and the broadening of the student prize base as a reward for student participation in the fundraising program.
After the abortive attempt to bring Julie London to campus last year for an early concert to publicize Mardi Gras, it was evident that bigname entertainment with a collegecrowd appeal would have to be obtained. The Four Preps meets this requirement. First made famous by their three-million seller, “26 Miles,” the Preps have had other popular hits; they have also shown themselves to have appeal for both college and adult audiences. They’ve broken attendance records at almost every college concert they’ve given, combining musical excellence, quick wit, and an uncanny sense of timing.
“The reason for the kick-off concert,” in the words of Dick McCarthy, “is to renew interest in Mardi Gras before Christmas to draw attention to Mardi Gras and the part the
20
The Scholastic
students can play. We aren’t going to sell any more tickets than we have room for; there will be no standing room sold.” Tickets will be $1.50.
The opening of the carnival on February 5 will begin the week-long activities. The carnival is starting two days earlier than has been customary to provide an activity in the usually dead period of registration and the first days of classes. Another point worthy of consideration is that this will allow everyone to come back to school with his date and start celebrations early. There will be the usual club-sponsored booths and door prizes. In a spirit of cooperation with South Bend, there will be a “South Bend Night” at the carnival, and a proclamation by Mayor Lloyd Allen will announce the Official Mardi Gras Day in South Bend. The drawing for the first five door prizes will be held on Saturday, February 8, at the grand drawing, and the fifth through eleventh prizes will be drawn on February 11 at the close of the carnival.
Si Zentner and his orchestra, who so excited those attending the junior prom last year, will play for the ball. The high light of the weekend will be held in the North Dining Hall from 9:00 to 1:00 on Friday night. The committee is trying to eliminate the usual confusion of entry to the dance by moving the main entrance from the side doors to the main doors in the middle of the building. To provide a more pleasant atmosphere for dancing, the number of couples will be limited to 680 so the uncomfortable conditions of the 1963 Homecoming dance will not be present. To keep dancing space at a maximum, the only floor decorations will be a merry-go-round. Otherwise, the decorations will all be of the ceiling variety in red and white, the color theme of the ball.
Festivities will be resumed at the Champagne Brunch Saturday morning at Robert’s Supper Club. Tickets will cost $5.00 per couple but all the food you can eat will be provided — and champagne too! McCarthy replied to my reaction on hearing this price: “Look at it this way, you can get out of breakfast and lunch by going to the brunch, and get happy at the same time.” A valid point, I’m sure.
One of the top-recording groups in the country will entertain in Morris Civic Auditorium on Saturday afternoon from 2:00 to 4:00. The Chad Mitchell Trio has risen to prominence performing in the Blue Angel, the Palmer House, Carnegie Hall, and many other top spots across the country. They have proven their appeal to college students in appearances at the University of Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Ohio State, Cornell, and the Air Force Academy. Tickets will be $2.00 apiece.
As McCarthy put it, “the Communion Breakfast is a nice way to end the weekend.” This year it will be in the North Dining Hall with one major departure from the usual format: the speaker will not be a priest. The speaker will, more than
likely, be a former Notre Dame football star.
All in all, the weekend promises success. From the kick-off concert on December 6, to the close of the carnival on February 11, the committee will need, though, the support of the entire student body. All concerts and activities are budgeted to pay expenses and little else. Full support will be needed to realize the profit necessary so that the very worthwhile charity aspect (the scholarship fund, etc.) can succeed. The biggest source of income for the Mardi Gras will be the student ticket sales. If this does not provide the needed income, there simply will be a curtailment of the ends of Mardi Gras; it will be student support that determines the outcome.
November 22, 1963
21
Mardi Gras
75 GREAT PRIZES . . .
FIRST PRIZE: A flame-red Corvette enclosing all the power an exciting 1964 Sting Ray can offer! With its 4:1 I rear end, positraction balancing, and four-speed transmission, this "Vette" is truly the sportsman's delight; and it could be yours !!!
SECOND PRIZE: An Admiral Festival Stereo 1 One of the most advanced portable stereo sets produced, this tilt-out set features a “Sing-Along” microphone, 4-speed changer, and a lifetime diamond stylus I ! !
THIRD PRIZE: An Admiral Riviera Stereo! This compact, but luxurious, portable tilt-out stereo embodies the quality of an Admiral 4-speed automatic record changer and a twin-jeweled stylus ! ! !
FOURTH PRIZE: An Admiral Carousel Stereo! An excitingly trim tilt-out portable stereo, featuring a 4-speed changer and twin-jeweled stylus, which is perfect for lending a musical atmosphere to any room ! ! !
(ADVER
kudent Prizes
FIFTH PRIZE: An Admiral All-American Radio! This elegant portable combines drift-free FM with long-distance . AM in a top-quality portable radio ! ! !
SIXTH PRIZE: An Admiral Crest Radio! This compact transistor portable provides FM and AM listening to take with you everywhere ! ! !
2 SEVENTH PRIZES: Two Admiral Starburst Radios! An exciting new transistor portable featuring a happy combination of magnificent styling and superb performance ! ! !
2 EIGHTH PRIZES: Two Admiral V.I.P. Radios! The only shirt-pocket radio with 3-Gang Tuning plus 8 transistors ... up to 3 times more sensitive than any shirt-pocket radio ! ! !
25 NINTH PRIZES: Twenty-five Admiral Comet Radios! Compact in size —big in performance, this shirt-pocket transistor will provide many hours of magnificent listening for you ! ! !
Pen
20 TENTH PRIZES: Twenty luxurious Sheaffer Lifetime
20 ELEVENTH PRIZES: Twenty Sheaffer Mark IH Ball-point Pen and Pencil Sets! With its gold finish, this set looks and writes like a jewel ! I !
and Pencil Sets! This splendid set of writing equipment will add a touch of majesty to each and every assignment and letter ! ! !
TISEMENT)
The West Baden Nuclear War Institute, Part i
by Philip O’Mara and Ralph Martin
ON Friday evening, November 8, in West Baden Springs, a small village in Southern Indiana less than a hundred miles from Owensboro, Louisville, and the Kentucky border, the Nuclear War Institute was convened. All day long the Jesuit community of West Baden College had been meeting participants in the Institute at the Louisville airport as they arrived from Washington, New York, London, New Orleans, Los Angeles, Chicago, and many other cities, and brought them to the resort hotel in nearby French Lick, where lodgings were provided. Both of the major world nuclear powers had sent representatives to the conference. From Russia came Victor Karpov, first secretary of the Russian embassy in Washington. From the U.S. came Alain Enthoven, deputy assistant secretary of defense for systems analysis. The keynote address was to be given by Herman Kahn, director of the Hudson Institute, a nonprofit research organization, attempting to coordinate the problems of national security and international order. On hand to consider the questions of the morality of nuclear warfare were some of the world’s leading ethical thinkers. Paul Ramsey from Princeton, Fr. Kossel from the West Coast, and Christopher Hollis from England, assisted by a number of commentators, were to address themselves to the moral questions, in the light of facts supplied by Kahn, and of the policies, enumerated by Karpov and Enthoven.
The Institute was in preparation for nearly a year. West Baden College is a Jesuit seminary in which approximately 300 Jesuits, students and teachers, are working in either philosophy or theology; it is associated with Loyola University of Chicago. The Institute was the idea of a small group of theology students who were concerned that their work in moral theology and philosophy should be directly confronted by the political, economic and scientific problems of the twentieth century. Since the Jesuit training period is fifteen years, most of the students of theology already have doctorates ranging from ancient languages to astrophysics, and the originators felt that the Jesuit community was both qualified and obligated to come to grips with
the social problems of our age. It was an affirmation that the Christian is committed to the world, the modern world which is poised to destroy itself.
In addition to the Jesuits present there were over 150 invited guests from education, the press, religion, government, science and industry. Meals were taken in common with the Jesuit community over the three-day span and the days and evenings were filled with a number of remarkable conversations as civil defense director talked to pacifist, moral theologian to government official, professor to businessman, scientist to philosopher, and young American students to an only slightly older Russian.
Dr. Alain Enthoven
Herman Kahn
Victor P. Karpov
Other Institutes are planned over the coming years and the young Jesuits made clear that they considered this Institute to point beyond itself, to the larger commitment that they were very conscious of having made; to men, in their cities, sins and sufferings, to the world, with its peoples and problems. Their choice is further underlined by the preparations that are now going on to relocate the community very near to Chicago, and leave their present pastoral setting.
As the conference convened, the chairman made clear why the first Institute would deal with nuclear war: “If we cannot soon arrive at a solution to this problem, we won’t have to worry about solving any of the others. We want in this Institute to face up to the facts of what a nuclear war would mean. . . . ” Three hours later, Herman Kahn returned to his seat, after having provided the Institute with these facts.
When Herman Kahn spoke on the
first evening of the conference, his talk — strictly confined to the facts on which both government policy and moral judgment must necessarily base themselves — was long, rambling, brilliantly informative and full of insight, but quite as important for what it did not say or did not emphasize as for what it did.
Accidental war, of which there is such great popular fear, is now very improbable; a sudden, unprovoked Soviet attack, which is the precise situation most of our current military planning is designed to meet, is even less likely. This does not mean that the dangers of war are slight, or that we have any reasonable hope of avoiding great devastation if war
does start. Changes in the political or technological situation may put one side or the other in a position which makes, or seems to make, starting a war the least dangerous thing it can do. Or, either side may become mistakenly convinced that the other cannot retaliate effectively against some particular form of attack without escalating the conflict to total war, whereas in fact the opponent is really prepared to fight a limited but still very ruinous war on just those terms.
The attack is therefore made, the retaliation accomplished, and the originating side, which has now suffered horrible punishment but continues to exist as an organized society and as a nation, must decide whether to end the war here or escalate to a higher level. Almost certainly, at least one or two escalations, each involving huge loss of life, destruction of natural and cultural resources and productive capacity, would occur before either side called it quits.
24
The Scholastic
It must be repeated and emphasized that this or some similar variant (e.g., the initial conflict may be started by a third nation, like China or France) is, so far as present technical information can forecast, the most likely source of a war and also the eventuality for which we are making the least preparation.
After such a war the governments of the belligerent countries would remain in existence, and the populations would still be represented, though large areas would be almost uninhabited and many of the survivors would be injured and infected with radiation. It is likely enough that under such circumstances the living would envy the dead. Yet this is by no means the worst that can happen in the present state of international relations. While a truly total war, in which each side in a few “spasms” poured all or nearly all of its nuclear arsenal on the enemy’s territory and on that of its allies (thus, perhaps, destroying all human life), remains very unlikely, there are innumerable possibilities that would lead to very large nuclear exchanges. If most of the devices were exploded at or near ground level, even a war involving an exchange of less than the equivalent of 5,000 megatons of TNT could produce terrible fallout problems. A megaton is a million tons, and the figure may seem enormous; it is approximately twice the total tonnage of explosives used in all of World War H. But some thermonuclear weapons are so large that this figure could be reached in only a few hours and with the use of only a few missiles or, more probably, manned bombers. Obviously if the war lasted several days, even employing nuclear weapons of lesser strength, the figure might nevertheless be reached.
Assuming that the attack took place in the winter and that an attacking force of from 1,000 to 4,000 megatons was countered with a response of from 750 to 2,000 megatons, it might prove impossible for either nation or for the world as a whole ever to recover from the effects. Civilization would not end, necessarily. But cultural and scientific progress, economic development, and all political and educational systems without exception would be so severely disrupted that even centuries of peace and stability would hardly suffice to remedy the damage. And, of course, peace and stability would not be obtainable on any terms; after so small an exchange, each side in the war would be able to continue, almost indefinitely, and the terrible losses each had sustained would only provoke them
to consider this. With the dead numbering from 50 to 200 million or more, the survivors, many of whom would be suffering physically and all of whom would be adversely affected by the war’s consequences, would still have to go on living in a world of constant military alert, occasional political crisis, and inescapable nuclear danger. The present badly ordered state of the world, and the very real oppression and tyranny under which so many of the world’s people now suffer, would probably be mild in comparison.
If the war were somewhat worse again, involving up to 6,000 megatons used by one nation and 2,000 or more by the other — and these figures are still much lower than the giant arsenals now assembled by Russia and the U.S.A. — the most serious effect of the war would not be in the loss of life, though that would probably have involved the wiping out of whole regions and perhaps whole nations, but in the ecological results, affecting the very conditions for permanent human survival on this planet. The problem of escalation is therefore not a trifling one.
Curiously enough, most people seem to think that if attacked directly (probably with all of Russia’s strength) our own government would react in a single spasm of fury, unleashing every weapon at our command. The discussion above was not intended to be consoling, but perhaps it will serve to show that this possibility is indeed remote, at the same time as it emphasizes that even much less drastic measures, taken by either side, will do damage that no imagination can encompass and the prospect of which no sane policy can opt for.
Yet this was, until only three years ago or less, the official policy of the U.S. Government, and until even more recently it was on this basis that a surprisingly heavy percentage of our manpower and weapons arsenal was deployed and our defense thinking conducted. Even now we have not entirely phased out all elements of our arms system which were originally designed for such use, nor have we completely adapted them to the more rational plan of warfare which we have so recently adopted.
Military thinking, at every level from field tactics to general staff strategic planning and even ultimate political decision theory on the reasons for resort to war, seldom alters between actual military actions. During peacetime, historically, weapons development has generally been slow or nonexistent, and in most cases new wars began to be fought with weapons and tactics appropriate to the final
stages of the last previous major war. Our own time has seen a total change in this. Military thinking has changed slowly, and is still no doubt far behind technological developments, but it does change in response to changed political aims and changed weapons and delivery systems. The means of waging war have now become so destructive in themselves that the objective of war can never again be total destruction of the enemy: the fulfillment of the objective would be too literal and the side effects, including damage to ourselves, too destructive. There is not just a continuous rapid scientific development, there is a complete technological revolution about every five years. A military planner in 1945, to avoid seeing all his works go out of date, would have had to be able to foresee that by 1951 there would exist: third- or fourth-generation fission bombs, fighter planes to F-94 level, development of the first Nike, aerial refueling, the organization of vast research programs and the Russians possessing the TU-4, MIG-15, and having tested three nuclear weapons.
Of course, even the planners of 1951 had not fully considered all these factors. In fact, in spite of the memory of Pearl Harbor, in spite of our knowledge that the Soviets had acquired a strategic bombing force, we did not then have any plan for, we were not even officially concerned with, and few had even managed to notice our vulnerability to a direct attack. We were in very real danger of having most of our strategic power wiped out on the ground in a few hours, and of being left with no retaliatory power whatever. Fortunately the Soviets, though basically equipped for such an attack, were militarily as unready to make it as we were to sustain it.
But even if our planning in 1951 had been adequate to the technology of the day it would have been hopelessly outdated by the development of thermonuclear fusion bombs. By 1956 — only five years later — these were in their third generation. They make a greater difference to warmaking than even the atom bomb. With the latter the military tactician’s question is still, as it is for all conventional weapons, “How much damage is done?” though he correctly anticipates a far more drastic reply. With multimegaton weapons, even if only a few are used and the war is short, the possibility of national survival becomes a real question. By 1956, therefore, we knew we needed radically new forms of military and defense planning, which could not (Cent's ' on page Jfl)
November 22, 1963
25
THE VISIT
by Jim Clare
'The University Theatre under the direction of Fr. Harvey commenced its season last week with a very successful presentation of M. Maurice Valency’s adaptation of The Visit, by Fredrich Durrenmatt. Well-structured, balanced and engrossing, the production suffered from the same flaw as the play itself. It is uninspired. Proceeding methodically through its ordered action, the play arrives safely at its entirely predictable conclusion. There are no disturbing changes of heart in the decisions of the characters; no transgressions past the well-defined limitations of their social and moral environment. Never once do any of them leave the role. Never once is any action out of its predictable place. The startling fact is that all react in precisely the same way. Posed with essentially the same problem (the resolution of the tension between their greed and their instinctive loyalty to a respected peer), their solution is essentially the same. In terms of the action of the play, the dilemma confronting the townspeople is in deciding whether or not to accept the billion-mark offer
of Clara Zachanassian (Aphrodite Pappas) for which they must kill their future Burgomaster, Anton Schill (David Clennon). Although it takes varying lengths of time and rationales, each member of the community is convinced that the only path of action is to accept the offer on the terms demanded. Factional differences are resolved in this decision to alleviate the economic oppression gripping them all. Individual differences and qualms disappear and all are fused into a unique solidarity. It becomes immediately obvious (what we have suspected all along) that the townspeople do not exist as separate entities but rather as facets of one personality. They are a single character: the town of Giil-len, somewhere in Europe.
What appears now is a three-character play; the two lead roles and the supporting role. In order to create this situation effectively, it is necessary to remove a dimension of the supporting characters’ existence. It need not be the depth that is sacrificed, simply the uniqueness of personality. Unfortunately, in the
26
The Scholastic
University Theatre’s production, this is not effectively handled. Too often do the minor players have a tendency to round out their personality; an unconscious assertion of individuality that distorts the flatness of their perspective. The most obvious example is that of the Burgomaster. Peter Flannery is too much person and not enough Burgomaster. The character is too ill-defined; he does not have “Pompous Burgomaster” written all over him. This is, however, a relatively mild objection, since the role in all other respects was smoothly handled.
This representation of typed characters must be a fluid system of stylized acting. Each actor must mechanically, like a cardboard figurine, rise up, say his piece and flap down again — triggering another into action, echoing and re-echoing, advancing and developing their mutual role. Once this role has been defined, it is possible for the argument of the play to leave the basic thematic level and explore the possibilities of its several planes.
Clara wants the life of Schill to rectify, by revenge, an injustice
which she suffered as a young girl at the hands of the hero and several others. Finding herself seven months with Schill’s child, at the age of seventeen, she was forced to leave Giillen, having lost a paternity suit because of the false testimony submitted by two bribed witnesses. Keeping this ignominy well in mind when she owns “half the world,” Clara stifles the economy of her home town, forcing the townsfolk into a position where she is able to submit her proposal with a measure of confidence. With what foresight and determination has she executed her plan: the two blind soprano musicians she returns to Giillen with are the men who swore falsely that they had slept with her. Tracked to the ends of the globe they were found, then castrated and blinded. The judge at her trial has fallen into her power through some nebulous means and now is her manservant and secretary. The role of the judge is admirably portrayed by Michael Hartford. The grotesque horror of all this is amplified by a con-
(Continued on page 38)
November 22, 1963
27
TRADITION
IN RHYTHM
Without music life would be a mistake
—Nietzsche
by Frank Smith
€4 And now; ladies and gentlemen, the University of Notre Dame proudly presents its famous marching band, the band of the Fighting Irish.” The crowd roars, the band struts onto the field, and days of hard work are culminated for band director Robert O’Brien and the 119 members of the band. At the same time another deposit is made in the bank of Notre Dame tradition, which includes 118 years of shaking “the thunder from the sky.”
The band has been a major part of the Notre Dame tradition since 1846; some say it was organized in 1842. Either date qualifies the ND band as the oldest American university band in continuous existence. In its long history, the band has become connected with another symbol of the Notre Dame tradition—football. When the first Notre Dame football team trotted onto the field in 1887 the band was on hand and has been present at every home football game since. It has not only been present but has helped to inspire football feats which have become legendary in the annals of American football.
This spirit and tradition is evident in this year’s Marching Band; anyone who has heard its music echo from the campus buildings on the way to band practice sessions east of the stadium or who has watched one of the spirited practices on a cold, windy night can readily attest to this spirit.
The band is now in its twelfth year under the direction of Mr. Robert O’Brien. Mr. O’Brien received his training from several well-known colleges and took his master’s degree at the State University of Iowa in 1949. A fine musician in his own right, he has played in concert and dance bands,
28
The Scholastic
navy bands, and civic symphony orchestras. The band’s assistant director is James Fleisher who is presently in his third year in that position. The Drum Major’s duties are performed by George “Dutch” Heil, a fifth-year student from Monroe, Mich. The band itself has 119 members representing 27 states. Only three members of the band are majoring in music. The rest of the bandsmen represent a cross section of all the colleges of the University with the College of Arts and Letters claiming 38, the College of Engineering 35, the College of Science 26, and the College of Business Administration 20. Band auditions are held in the spring and for incoming freshmen in the fall. Everyone is eligible to audition and all members of the band must reaudition to be a member for the following year.
All incoming freshmen receive letters inviting them to audition for the band when they arrive at Notre Dame. These letters usually result in about 80-90 candidates. Of these, about 50% fall by the wayside because of a consideration of studies or they are not willing to do the amount of work required of a band member. Approximately half of those remaining fail to make the grade, thus leaving about 20 freshmen who do eventually become bandsmen. These newcomers work with the experienced upperclassmen to prepare the program for the first game.
The programs which are presented before the football games and during half times represent many hours of intense planning and practice. The band has its own show committee which has the responsibility of presenting ideas which the band can use as its theme for the performance. Sources for the ideas come from within the show committee itself, from student
body organizations such as the Mardi Gras committee, and civic organizations such as the United Fund or the Peace Corps. Once an idea is decided upon the necessary steps are taken to turn it into a polished performance. Mr. O’Brien specializes in choosing the music to carry out the theme while Mr. Fleisher begins work on the formations. The formations and the music are then put together and the show begins to take form. Meanwhile, it is necessary for a script to be written for the stadium announcer, dittos of the music and formations to be made for the bandsmen, props to be painted, schedules to be drawn up, and letters to be written to various publishing companies to obtain permission to use arrangements. Then practice begins with at least ten hours devoted to group practice for each performance. All the bandsmen must also spend additional time in committing all their numbers to memory.
With all this required work and the fact that in recent years our loyal sons’ marches onward to victory are becoming more infrequent, one wonders how the band can maintain such a high pitch of spirit. Director O’Brien explains it in this way: “It is basically a matter of pride. This pride is built upon a feeling of dedication and fruitful hard work and is strengthened by the fact that we are in a very real way representing Notre Dame. We also have a long tradition of which we are proud, which we hope to live up to, and add to. This pride in our school and our tradition keeps our spirit strong.”
Despite its high reputation for spirit among the great majority of the student body, the band has received several complaints from a small but vociferous minority concerning the fact that our band plays the other
schools’ fight songs. These self-styled authorities on spirit think that such actions are akin to high treason. O’Brien explains that this way of welcoming the visiting schools is nothing more than mere courtesy. 'He also questions these self-appointed critics on their claims of being experts on Notre Dame spirit. “During the Pitt game, we played two songs which have been a part of the school’s tradition, ‘When Irish Backs Go Marching By’ and ‘Down the Line,’ and, sure enough, we received complaints for playing the Pitt fight songs.”
The Marching Band is only one of three Notre Dame bands. There is also a Concert Band and a Varsity Band. As with the Marching Band, positions in the other bands are open by audition. The Concert Band has gone on tours since World War II and last year logged more than 4,000 miles. On these tours, the Concert Band’s programs consist of a variety of music, ranging from the classics through semi-classical, Broadway hits, and Dixieland. The band also features several soloists annually. The Varsity Band plays at basketball games, marches in Chicago’s St. Patrick’s Day parade and appears at other university functions when requested.
All the Notre Dame Bands are guided in their efforts by a desire to reach perfection in their art and not by a desire to put on a big and showy pageant. They are concerned with the quality of their music rather than with such things as having the biggest bass drum or the most people In the words of O’Brien, “Cecil B. DeMille and Shakespeare are both directors. One attempts to create an effect by the use of the spectacular and the other by unpretentious perfection. It is the method of Shakespeare that we choose.”
November 22, 1963
29
THE DEBATE
by James Morgan Callero
ON AIR
“Well, good evening, out there in audienceville. Heh, heh. Welcome aboard for another evening of radio fun and listening enjoyment with yours truly, Neil Psalter. Tonight it gives me great pleasure to present to you two widely known campus figures whom you no doubt, uh, know. Widely, heh, heh. I see that Joe, in the control room, got that little joke and is laughing. Heh, heh, uh, thank you, Joe. Many of you out there possibly read the editorial in last week’s issue of THE AGNOSTIC, the one entitled ‘Taters Ellsworth’s Electric Can Opener.’ Well, as you probably know — what’s that, Joe? Er, yes, widely, heh, heh — the editorial has occasioned quite a storm of controversy. And so, in keeping with WPOW’s policy of presenting all the news to all the students, it is indeed with great pride and great pleasure that I present to you these two distinguished, uh, fellas — Taters Ellsworth, our Student Body Pope, and Tom Scooper, editor of THE AGNOSTIC. Gentlemen, you may proceed with the discussion. Tom, would you care to open?”
“Yes. thank you. . . .
“Mistuh Scoopuh, would you-all, Mistuh Scoopuh, show a body the simple cuhtesy of not makin’ no inneruptions? Now, Mistuh Scoopuh, there ain’t no call to get excited and violent, is there, Mistuh Scoopuh ? Ah just wants to get a few basic facks ironed out fo’ all my fans out there. Now don’t you-all innerupt me no mo’, Mistuh Scoopuh. Fust of all, Ah don’t got no electric can openuh. Secon’ of all, Mistuh Scoopuh, it was puhchased last year. All the facks and figguhs bear me out. Ah demands to know. ...”
“Widely. Heh, heh.”
“Ah demands to know where you-all got them phony facks and figguhs which appeared in your editorial, Mustuh Scoopuh.”
“Tom, would you care to say something?”
“Yes. We got them from the financial report published by Student Hierarchy. If the figures were incorrect. . . .”
“Mistuh Scoopuh, would you-all please stop inneruptin’ me? You-all done had yo’ tuhn to speak. Please grant, Mistuh Scoopuh, a body the rudimentary cuhtesy of talkin’ to my fans. Now it looks to me like you-all just ain’t had no course in accounting. Ain’t that so? Thereto’, you-all don’t know nuthin’ ’bout nuthin’. Now ain’t that also the ackshul case? An’ don’t you-all innerupt, neither. It seems to me that you-all been doin’ all the talkin’ roun’ here and not lettin’ a body say the true facks to all my fans listenin’ on the radio. And Ah’m the SBP, not you-all. Don’t innerupt, Mistuh Scoopuh.”
“Tom, would you care to answer?”
“Yes, thank you, Neil. The point which we wished to raise in the editorial really has nothing at all to do with Tater’s electric can opener. It seems to us that Student Hierarchy is being conducted on a very low level this year. Deficit spending has cut justifiable requests for funds by the Sodality, the Knights of Toledo, the Joint Inquisitors Council. ...”
“Mistuh Scoopuh, will you-all PLEASE cease and desist from inneruptin’ my innerupshuns ? Fust of all, Ah just want to say that Ah operates on a very high level. That’s a fack also, too. Everbody, Mistuh Scoopuh, knows this widely. . .
“Heh, heh.”
“Yes siree, Mistuh Scoopuh. Everbody knows Honest Taters Ellsworth. Mention my name in Paducah. . .
“Listen here, Taters. ...”
“No, you-all lissun here, Mistuh Scoopuh. How you-all expeck evun a highly articulate gentleman like my
self to carry on a discussion when you-all keep insistin’ on inneruptin’ me, Mistuh Scoopuh? As Student Body Pope Ah intends to correct all of youi' lyin’ facks and figguhs by passin’ out a Bull under the doors in all the halls so my fans can git the truth. Or else maybe Ah’ll just have my friends who write THE LARYNX, your competition, print the true facks about the issues. Or, Mistuh Scoopuh, maybe Ah’ll just take ovuh your editorial page or else your column, ‘The Last Logos,’ or maybe evun print my side of the facks and figguhs in THE GIGOLO, Mistuh Scoopuh.”
“Gentlemen, I hate to interrupt you, but I have a telephone hook-up with the Student Body Vice Pope. Maybe he can clarify the matter for all our friends out there in audienceville. Come in, Your Eminence. . . .”
“Thank you, Neil. I just want to substantiate what Taters Ellsworth has been saying all evening. Four legs good, two legs bad! Four legs good, two legs bad!- Four. ...”
“Thank you all, gentlemen, in behalf of the whole university community and WPOW and our sponsors, Roscoe’s Campus Shop, for clarifying the issues. I realize it’s getting late, and that Tater’s private plane is waiting outside to take him back to his hall. . . .”
“Ah thank you, Neil suh, fo’ lettin’ me present my fans with the true facks and figguhs. SHUT UP, MISTUH SCOOPUH! DON’T YOU-ALL DARE SHOUT AT ME-ALL. MEN, TAKE MISTUH SCOOPUH OUTSIDE FO’ A MINUTE. Thank you. That’s much bettuh. In closin’, Ah’d just like to remind all my fans to read THE LARYNX, and to tell everbody that Ah’m flunkin’ my English course, so Ah won’t be graduatin’ and Ah’ll be around next year and you-all can vote for me as Student Body Pope again. In Fack Ah intends to puhchase and install new electric votin’ machines. . .
30
The Scholastic
MOVIES
• • Rick Farrell
Women of the World
Once one refuses to let the narrator (Peter Ustinov) interfere with his pictures, Gualtieri Jacopetti’s Women of the World is a very simple and strong film. Its success depends first on the cameras and the actual colors of things, and to a degree on Jacopetti’s use of music. And, as with his earlier Mondo Cane, its faults are mostly faults of narration.
This director is fascinated by social variety, by human diversity. And his cameras are so good at catching hold of it that the viewer almost loses sight of the film’s center. This is very simply the fact that women become mothers. Unlike Mondo Cane, which was held together rather tenuously by an image (that of the dog), this film depends on a fact of female sexuality which is universally given an emotional and even ethical value. Again and again Jacopetti focuses on “normal” scenes of mother and child and so achieves a stability in his documentary wandering.
The approach of his film is again often indirect. Jacopetti likes to make points by suggestion, by satire, by shock. Gradually his camera goes deeper and deeper. For instance, he begins playfully with bright music and quick shots of “pretty people,” then follows with a first sequence loosely and comically military in motif: Italian troops at eyes front straining to ogle buxom cheerers-on, charmingly unmilitary girl soldiers of Israel, the 84 wife-52 children army of a deaf-mute Scot colonel. The film’s first glance at sex is casual, delightful, but in no way full. The second is even less so. Jacopetti’s cameras examine a womanless island where men await symbolic and bestial satisfaction with a sea-cow dragged up on the beach, follow long lines of Italian women caressing and kissing a marble fetish of a young man, zigzag over blase Riviera nudists, and quietly cover Paris’ “gay” spots. Ustinov’s noisy interjection on the transvestites is crude, even stupid, but it clearly underlines what Jacopetti is after: lesbians are pathetic, but the attempt of male homosexuals to dismiss the fact of woman is merely silly. The point again is sex — sex as pathetic if woman has not her due.
This method of Jacopetti’s is simple
enough and soon established. He uses few tricks, achieving nearly all his effects by editing, juxtaposition, and musical commentary. The whole content of his film is a series of versions and perversions of normal femininity; his cameras poke into primitive huts and fashionable salons all over the world. But they always touch base in his respectful and often joyful shots of women and children. He moves either by nation (as in the Swedish episodes) or by association. An instance of the latter manner: the squalid Baptisms of abandoned Africans by two white nuns suggest the
absurd perfuming of fly-covered African heads by two Dior models. The model’s hysterical laughter fades into the screams of a young Borneo girl being tatooed into “beauty” by knife point. This again suggests Europe’s new clinic for the removal of the top layer of facial skin, which practice Bedouin women unknowingly parody by applying their own unique beauty cream, camel dung.
But Jacopetti is perhaps at his best when he is “seeing” what he loves. The Swedish sequence ends with the cameras fondly gliding over young women and children in the state hospital for unwed mothers. Jacopetti is really pleased even if his sensitivity to hypocrisy protests a bit too much (through Ustinov’s sarcasm); and he is thoroughly delighted in Tahiti where women dance, have children, dance again. It does not matter that
a mother does not raise her own children — she will raise the children of the next generation of dancers. And Jacopetti leaves with a shot of four obese Tahitian belles too old to dance in public but young enough to dance together and giggle and “remember.” Again, this unnecessary narration explicates camera work the tone and content of which is clearly and perfectly polished.
Jacopetti loves seriously too. The climax of the film comes with scenes of the birth of a baby. The rhythmic calisthenics of a few women rich enough for a natural childbirth clinic in Switzerland are a prelude to the twisted screams and contortions of one less privileged. Fortunately there is little or nothing the narratorcritic can say here. The single climatic shot of the film is that of the mother, silent now, reaching for the baby held screaming above her. From there Jacopetti has only to take account of the suffering of women after the birth of their children. He does it economically in three episodes: Bedouin women among exploding mortar collecting scrap iron to sell for their children’s food, happy parents of the thalidomide babies, and, finally, Lourdes. The logic of ending here is simple: there is more maternal suffering in this one place than in any other. Jacopetti deliberately underlines the pains of the “White Lady” in bringing forth her son and seeing him die, then says that there is “no Christian resignation in their (the women’s) faces.” They are here only for what “they have a right to.” Mary is typical of maternal suffering, an earthly mother, and Lourdes is not a spiritual shrine but a maternal one.
Despite its defects — the Susanne Vandeput episode is a fabrication, however understandable — Women of the World is a better film than Mondo Cane. Partly because its subject is more specific, hence easier to hold together. In a sense Mondo Cane had logically to come first. It explored what amounts to the “life urge” and realized brutally man’s kinship with the beast. Laughing at the ridiculous, slashing away what was useless, it struggled to an almost paradoxical dignity. Only after much labor could it make any affirmation. But Women of the World, although it goes beyond the value of life to a value of love, makes its affirmation immediately, repeatedly. One is never uncertain of Jacopetti’s feeling. At his worst he is too excited and puts his audience off. At his best the flexibility of his cameras is like the focusing and refocusing of the viewer’s own eyes.
November 22, 1963
31
MICHIGAN
invites you to a
SKI WEEKEND
r

where the boys and girls are
where the snow is
where the accommodations are
Join the migration to Michigan’s snowy slopes and winter sports spots. Skiing and winter fun for all. Come by car, bus, train, or plane—attractive rates.
ECONOMICAL package rates that include everything
One easy price for complete ski weeks or weekends includes all your lodging, meals, lifts, rental equipment and instruction.
For free Michigan Ski Map, fill out coupon and mail to: NAME----------------------------- MICHIGAN TOURIST COUNCIL ADDRESS--------------------------------------------------------- Room 65, Stevens T. Mason Building, Lansing 26, Michigan CITY, ZONE, STATE.
Announcing the 1963 FOOTBALL REVIEW
The 1963 FOOTBALL REVIEW will be published by The Scholastic os a regular issue on December 6. Extra copies will be on sale in the Huddle, Cat., Notre Dame Book
store, and St. Mary's Bookstore. Pick up some extras for your parents, girl, and friends. Mailed copies can be ordered now in the Student Publications Office (in Dome Office). Phone 284-7085.
32
The Scholastic
Duffy Daugherty, prior to Michigan State’s game with Notre Dame last Saturday, was allegedly a very worried man; he feared that Notre Dame would provide a sterner test than his Spartans had faced all season. “The Irish are upset-minded,” he reasoned, “and they have always been most dangerous after losses.”
Of the many people who felt that Daugherty’s fears were groundless, perhaps the most vociferous was Joe Doyle, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. Doyle viewed the coming game this way: “The Irish dangerous after a loss? Don’t be silly, Mr. Daugherty! The only thing Hugh Devore is worried about this week is whether his all-time worst defeat (48-0 by Army in 1945) is secure.”
Mr. Doyle’s opinions to the contrary, that all-time worst defeat was most secure, and Notre Dame was a distinct threat to Michigan State. And to Frank Leahy, the outspoken ex-coach who felt the Irish had lost all spirit and desire, Notre Dame proved that it is still capable of playing a full 60 minutes of hard-nosed football.
The Irish defense played especially well, containing the Spartans throughout the game and holding them to 12 points; it was one great play by one individual — Sherman Lewis — which turned victory into defeat. Bob Lehmann, who now has 86 tackles; Bill Pfeiffer, who now has 92; and Tommy MacDonald, who broke the Notre Dame career interception record with his 14th theft, again led the Notre Dame defenders. In addition, end Tom Goberville — who won this week’s Rockne Award — did an excellent job of turning in MSU’s frequent sweeps, and tackle John Meyer played his finest game on both offense and defense.
The offense executed its plays flawlessly, but two problems were apparent: the continued lack of a competent running-passing quarterback, and a lack of variety in play selection.
Fullback Joe Kantor, the leading ground gainer with 71 yards in 21 carries, could easily have been more effective had there been more variation in play selection. The Woody Hayes-style “three yards and a cloud of dust” offense (which didn’t even work for Ohio State this weekend) was ineffective for Notre Dame throughout much of the second half.
If the Irish are to have a chance in their final two games, they must have a balanced — if not wide-open — offense, which both Iowa and Syracuse have already shown. Fred Riddle and Gary Snook of Iowa and Wally Mahle and Richie King of Syra
November 22, 1963
cuse are all competent running-passing quarterbacks.
Three weeks ago, against Indiana, Riddle connected for five touchdown passes to break the Big Ten record; King, a sophomore starting his first game, threw three scoring strikes in a losing cause against Pittsburgh.
Though both Iowa and Pittsburgh have a tendency to throw frequently, both have solid rushing offenses. Iowa Coach Jerry Burns, in order to rebuild his running attack after the graduation of Larry Ferguson, gave 14 lettermen leave from spring practice so that his staff could “give the sophomore backs more concentrated coaching.” His rebuilding efforts have produced, so far, a 3-3-2 record.
The Syracuse ground attack depends almost entirely on two players: Mahle and bulldozing fullback Jim Nance. Of Nance’s ability as a linesmasher, Syracuse Coach Ben Schwartzwalder has said, “If I needed a bodyguard, I’d take Nance.”
Both Iowa and Syracuse will be out for revenge against the Irish. The Hawkeyes were humiliated in Notre Dame Stadium last season, 35-12, and Syracuse has an even bigger grudge: two years ago, Joe Perkow-ski kicked a field goal after time had run out to give Notre Dame a 17-15
win over the Orangemen. The roughing call on Syracuse end Walt Sweeney, which led to the extra kick, was for weeks hotly disputed by officials of both schools, the game officials, and the NCAA rules committee. Syracuse will be eager come Thanksgiving Day, but with over half of Notre Dame’s student body in the Yankee Stadium stands, it may need more than just Nance as a bodyguard.
—Rex Lardner
In Search of a Victory
Greatness
in the Making
Only a week ago. Notre Dame stood on the brink of cross-country greatness, undefeated and with the season’s three major meets just ahead. Today, Notre Dame has proven itself a great cross-country team. Last Friday, at Chicago’s Washington Park, the Irish were a solid second in the Central Collegiate Conference championships; on Monday, at Van Cort-landt Park in New York, they scored one of the most resounding victories in the history of the IC4A championship meet; and on Monday next, they are odds-on favorites to finish among the top three in the NCAA title race.
The CCC field was the strongest in the meet’s history: over half the competing runners finished the four-mile course in under 20 minutes, Miami of Ohio’s Andy Schram won in a fantastic 19:08, and the first five teams — Notre Dame, Kansas, Western Michigan, Ohio University, and Miami — were almost a toss-up for the title.
Notre Dame’s Bill Clark was second in 19:11 and Captain Frank Carver third in 19:13 — a time with which he won the Notre Dame Invitational handily, breaking Tom O’Hara’s record by nine full seconds. Bill Welch, Ed Dean, and Larry Dirnberger completed Notre Dame’s first five, and sixth-man alike Coffey also finished under 20 minutes. Yet, despite an over-all effort which was their best of the season, the Irish were doomed to second place, for Kansas placed five runners in the top ten, and won with 39 points to Notre Dame’s 59. Ohio, with 72, was followed by Miami and Western Michigan.
In New York, it was a different story. Notre Dame scored 55 points, Brown 133, Michigan State 154, and Villanova 159. All of Notre Dame’s top five finished among the first 20 runners: Clark second, Carver fifth, Coffey thirteenth, Welch fourteenth, Dean twentieth.
“We jogged the course on Sunday to look it over,” said Frank Carver, “although six of us had run it before. Bill Welch, Ed Dean, and Rich Fennelly are all from around New York, and Bill Clark, Mike Coffey, and I are
all from Philadelphia. Larry Dirnberger was the only one who hadn’t run at Van Cortlandt before. It’s one of the toughest courses in the country. The first mile is relatively flat, with good footing, but it’s followed by a mile and a half of winding, hilly, rocky trail, where the footing is very poor; the next mile and a half is flat and open; then at the beginning of the fifth mile is Cemetery Hill — a quarter-mile almost straight up, and a quarter-mile almost straight down; the last half-mile is back on the plains.
“Because there were so many runners — probably 175 — we planned to run the first mile very fast. We needed good positions at the two-mile mark, and because it’s so difficult to pass on the second mile where the trail is narrow and winding, we needed to get out in front on the first mile. The plan called for me to stay with Bill Clark, and for Welch, Coffey, and Dean to stay as close together as pos
sible, and it worked out pretty much that way. We wanted to be near the front after two miles, and then just
hold or improve our position as we could.
“Our whole team was in the top 30 runners at the mile mark, as we had
planned. We worked the hills hard, and as we came out of the woods at two and a half miles, I was in second — Vic Zwolak of Villanova was al
ready out of reach. Clark was right behind me, along with Steve Machooka of Cornell and Dick Sharkey of Michigan State. Going up Cemetery Hill, all three of them passed me, but coming down the hill I passed Sharkey and Clark again and was right behind Machooka with a half mile left. Down on the flats, though, they repassed me. Clark pulled away from Sharkey, and was just a second behind Machooka at the finish.”
The crowd at Van Cortlandt Park was violently partisan to Notre Dame, and Carver remembers that there were “girls and all kinds of people” yelling encouragement around the course — including the families of all Notre Dame’s runners except Dirnberger, whose home is in St. Louis.
Carver, whose outlook is optimistic yet realistic, believes that “we probably won’t win the NCAA championship, but we’ll almost certainly finish in the top three with Kansas and San Jose State.” Even a third-place finish will definitively establish Notre Dame’s greatness in cross-country.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
34
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
SOCCER: Marquette all but eliminated Notre Dame from the NCAA tournament, beating the Irish 4-2. Third period goals by Mariano Gonzalez and Hernan Puentes brought Notre Dame within a single point, but Marquette scored again to put the game out of reach. A late-sea-son slump left the team with a 7-3 mark for the year.
INTERHALL: Dillon dumped previously undefeated Morrissey, 6-0, and now shares the Western Division lead. Off-Campus was a first-time winner, 12-0 over Sorin, and Badin bumped Alumni-Walsh, 12-6.
The Western Division race should be resolved Sunday afternoon, and the champ will play Stanford after Thanksgiving for the campus title.
THE STANDINGS
EAST	W	L	T
Stanford ..... 3	0	2
Keenan _______ 2	0	3
Zahm ......... 2	12
Farley ....... 2	2	1
Breen-Phillips 12 2
Cavanaugh ____ 0	5	0
WEST	W L T
Morrissey ____ 4	10
Dillon ........ 3	0 2
Alumni-Walsh 3 2 0
Badin ........  2	2 1
Sorin ________ 2	4 0
Off-Campus .... 13 1
Howard-St. Ed’s 0 3 2
CROSS-COUNTRY: For the first time in Alex Wilson’s memory, Notre Dame won the team championship of the Central Collegiate Conference freshman cross-country meet. Bob Walsh finished second, and he was followed by teammates Dick Reamer, Harold Spiro, Don Bergan, and Rich Herington.
SCHEDULE
Basketball
December 2, Christian Brothers College at Notre Dame
December 4, Indiana at the Fort Wayne Coliseum
December 10, Bowling Green at Notre Dame
December 12, Valparaiso at Notre Dame
Wrestling
December 7, Indiana State Tournament at Terre Haute
December 10, University of Illinois (Chicago) at Notre Dame
December 12, Western Michigan at Kalamazoo
Swimming
December 6, Notre Dame Invitational Relays
Voice in the Crowd
ast Lansing, Michigan, November 16—Notre Dame’s still-fighting Irish played Michigan State to a virtual standstill here today, only to lose 12-7 on a game-breaking 85-yard run by Sherman Lewis. The Notre Dame defense played its best game of the season, holding the Spartans to 233 yards total offense—none passing—in contrast to State’s 296-yard offensive average; Lewis’ run excepted, MSU gained less than 150 yards from scrimmage. So completely did the Irish contain the Spartans that they ran only two play series in Notre Dame territory— one after a fumble recovery and one after a punt return to the Irish 26.
Notre Dame’s offense, meanwhile, flopped. But not for lack of effort or execution, for the line blocked as effectively and the running backs ran as well as possible under a grave handicap—Michigan State’s stacked defenses.
These stacked defenses were a result of the game plan chosen by Notre Dame’s coaches: grind-it-out, ball-control football. Had the plan succeeded—as it nearly did—it would have been subject to little criticism. Since it failed, however, and though I am fully cognizant that hindsight is much better than foresight, I am compelled to disagree with such a conservative course of action. This is not to say that it was wrong, merely that I am unimpressed by the rationale behind it.
Prior to Michigan State’s encounter with Notre Dame, it had the second-best rushing defense in the nation: its seven opponents has gained a total of only 368 yards on the ground, an average of 66 yards per game. Though the Spartans’ pass defense had not been exactly porous, State’s opponents had gained 795 yards passing, or 114 per game—almost twice as much as MSU’s rushing defense had yielded.
In addition, Michigan State’s strength was depth in the line—one of Notre Dame’s most apparent weaknesses. And for these reasons then, Notre Dame decided to play ball-control football, predicated on wearing down and running against the opponent’s line.
If a team is to concentrate on running and ball control, however, it must get first downs—and Notre Dame got only five today (plus two by penalty); the Spartans, totally unconcerned about the threat of a pass, were able to jam the line against the Irish rushing attack. At one point, in fact, Michigan State played a nine-man line with the two safetymen not more than three yards off the line of scrimmage. Yet Notre Dame never passed to loosen up the defense for the runners, never passed for the first down needed to maintain momentum.
The Irish were able to gain only 122 yards during the entire game, seven of them on one pass; Notre Dame’s total offense for the second half was 38 yards, all of them on the ground.
Not counting the two-play series on which they scored, the Irish had the ball four times inside Michigan State’s 30-yard line, but were unable to move even once against the stacked defenses; yet the only pass attempted was a fourth-down throw to Jim Kelly, surrounded by a swarm of defenders; yet Notre Dame never attempted a field goal.
The Irish are, as I think they proved against Michigan State, capable of beating both Iowa and Syracuse. But they must have, if not a wide-open offense, at least an offense which has the threat of a passing attack.
Notre Dame has practiced what could only be described as a wide-open attack—numerous reverses, the shotgun offense—but it has yet to be employed; Jim Kelly, the best receiver and one of the best ends in Notre Dame history, played less than nine minutes against the Spartans; John Huarte, Jack Snow, Charlie O’Hara, and Paul Costa played nominally if at all; Tom Longo has yet to see action as a quarterback.
This is all a great waste. Notre Dame has the ability to launch an explosive attack; if the available players are given the opportunity to exploit their potential, the Irish can close the season with two victories. If not, this will be a season as unsuccessful as any in Notre Dame history, through no fault of the players.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
November 22, 1963
BASKETBALL:
JUSTIFIED OPTIMISM
In any year when Notre Dame’s football team suffers a disappointing season, the chances of the basketball team naturally are subject to extensive and early consideration. Even a cursory examination of this year’s team and schedule is convincing evidence that the prospects for a successful season are bright, but each further consideration is even more convincing, and one could easily talk oneself into believing that Coach John Jordan ought to be shot if Notre Dame loses five games.
Though such extreme optimism may be unfounded, Jordan does have such a fantastic array of talent that the entire bench is battling for the fifth spot in the starting lineup. He says simply, “This is the greatest basketball team in Notre Dame history.”
With only ten days left before the season’s opener, Jordan feels that he has settled on four starters: 6-9 Walt Sahm at center, 6-8 Larry Jesewitz and 6-5 Ron Reed at the forward posts, and 6-1 Larry Sheffield at guard.	.
Sahm and Sheffield will be the key men in the Irish attack. Sahm — who will play at the top of the key rather than under the basket, so as to be able to pick more effectively for Sheffield — is even better than last year, when he was fifth in the nation in rebounding average and scored 14.3 points per game. Summer practice has improved his shooting eye and touch, he is more accurate on tip-ins, and he has learned to drive from the key. After a year’s experience, he could be the man to pace Notre Dame’s scorers.
Sheffield, though, is the top candidate for scoring honors. In 16 games last season, the flashy guard led the team with 16.1 points per outing. He is also the team’s best ball handler, and a master of the fast break. “Sheffield ranks with Bob Cousy and Oscar Robertson as one of the best fast break men I’ve ever seen. He is the only player I know of who can break successfully against three defensive players in a one-on-three situation,” lauds Jordan.
Ron Reed, an alternate for Jay Miller and John An-dreoli last season, has also earned a starting role by his pre-season play. He has the greatest natural ability of any player on the team, Sheffield excepted, has a variety of moves, and has an excellent fade-away jump shot. Quick to clear the backboards, he averaged 12.3 rebounds per game in 1962-63.
Larry Jesewitz is rated by Jordan as the most improved player on the team. His move from the bench to a starting berth was occasioned by an accurate hook shot, and by more aggressive play under the boards. Jesewitz’ job is not secure, however. If Jay Miller is not hampered by recurring knee trouble, he may take over under the basket; he is a good defensive player, an excellent rebonder, and his great leg-spring makes him ideal under the boards.
The fifth spot in the lineup is, as Jordan states, “up for grabs.” Captain Dick Erlenbaugh, Sam Skarich, Pat Dudgeon, and Bucky McGann have been alternating at the second guard post in practice sessions, so far without conclusive results.
Technically, the Irish open the season on December 2, with a Fieldhouse encounter against Christian Brothers College of Memphis, but for all practical purposes the first game will be played two days later, when Notre Dame meets Indiana at the Fort Wayne Coliseum.
Indiana should prove formidable, and a convincing win could set the pace for the season, while a poor performance could be the precursor of unpleasant things to come. “The time is ripe for an outstanding season,” notes Jordan, “Notre Dame needs one.”
—Joe Ryan
36
The Scholastic
TYLER JR.’S
PICKS OF THE WEEK
1
1 1 I i
I 3 i i
! ILLINOIS AT MICHIGAN STATE:
Illinois has a highly respected rushing game, but State’s rushing defense will prove the ticket needed for the Big Ten title and a trip to Pasadena. The ' Game of the Week.
PURDUE AT INDIANA: The Hoosiers, riddled by injury and ineligibility, will be unable to keep the Boilermakers from snatching the Oaken Bucket.
OKLAHOMA AT NEBRASKA: Sooner
| or later, Bud Wilkinson wins the Big
Eight, and in Saturday’s showdown, Oklahoma will outstrip the Huskers.
PENN STATE AT PITT: Pitt’s pre-med student, Fred Mazurek, will get some practical experience this weekend, cutting the heart from the Lions’ defense with his passing and running.
HARVARD AT YALE: Harvard sports a solid well-schooled team, and with the Ivy League title on the line, should eliminate the Eli.
WASHINGTON AT WASHINGTON STATE: Last week, the Huskies' Rose Bowl sled was halted by UCLA. A hearty “mush” from Coach Jim Owens will get the team back on the trail with a win over the Cougars.
ARMY-NAVY at Philadelphia, Nov. 30: It's been a long war, but Navy seems likely to win its fifth straight battle. The Middies’ armor will blunt Army’s annual fall offensive, and in Roger Staubach, Navy has the season's super-weapon.
OTHER GAMES:
Ohio State over Michigan
Princeton over Dartmouth
Missouri over Kansas
Southern California over UCLA Baylor over SMU Wisconsin over Minnesota
Last week: 9-3-1, 75%.
To date: 63-31-2, 67%.
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
*
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
Longines and Wittnauer Bulova — Elgin Hamilton
★
106 N. Main St.	CE 2-1756
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant
112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA
— 42 Rooms — ★
Phone: JAckson 3-4780
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS' M JU ■ H
FABULOUS 99° SALE
ADDITIONAL
IP's ARRIVING DAILY
FOR THIS
SALE
Any L.P. Album From Our Huge Stock On Sale For 99'
When You Buy One At Regular Manufacturer’s Suggested List Price in Same Price Range
DIAMOND NEEDLES
Regular Price $9.98
At the
Unheard of Price of $3.88
and many, many others including all your favorite artists; LP’s uncondi-
GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE NOW!
★ CHRISTMAS LP’s ★ CLASSICAL
★ INSTRUMENTAL ★ POPULAR
★ JAZZ ★ FOLK ★ COMEDY tionally guaranteed!
Last chance to take advantage of our fabulous sale!
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS
214 South Michigan Street	•	Phone: CE 3-4585
WEEKDAY STORE HOURS: MON., THURS., FRI. — 9:30 to 8:30; TUES., WED., SAT. —9:30 to 5:30
November 22, 1963
37
IV1 EM ’
Here's deodorant protection
YOU CAN TRUST
Old Spice Stick Deodorant.,.fastest, neatest tvay to allday, every day protection! It’s the man’s deodorant preferred hy men...absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily... dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant — most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.
STICK DEODORANT
YES, WE HAVE YOU ST. MARY’S GIRLS IN MIND
This year The Scholastic is privileged to offer St. Mary’s students a special reduced rate for subscriptions. So now for only $3.00, you can receive The Scholastic every week. Send your campus mailing address plus $3.00 (cash or check) to Circulation Manager, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. Please hurry so you can receive the Football Review.
The Visit
3 H U t_T O N
(Continued, from page 21) stant casual understatement. However, the strength of Miss Zachanas-sian suffers somewhat from slight underplaying. Perhaps we could wish for a more seriously vicious Clara.
David Clennon rises well to the challenge of the role of Anton Schill. Moving from the station of former lover delegated to seduce money from Clara, to the affronted object of her love-hate, Anton swells, filling his character. The most disconcerting element is the abrupt change from hysteric fear to stoic resignation. From whence this new font of courage in Act HI? It cannot be mere submission to the concept of revengeful justice, since this is the rationalization of the hypocritical townspeople. It would seem that other solutions are equally unacceptable: the comparison to the Socratic dialogue with the laws has some justification, as do the possibility of the death-wish, the martyr image, etc. Or could it be an example of that situation so often found where important decisions are reached simply arbitrarily, almost gratuitously? Anton Schill has acted like a human being. Reasons can be given for his action but they are imputed to the situation only by later reflection.
The character of the town is seen, of course, through the various elements of its being. The Teacher (Sean Griffin) is perhaps the most powerful of the supporting cast. Surely Mr. Griffin is the only one who looks and acts like an old man. Eager to defend his friend, he becomes disillusioned and very tired when he cannot understand the change in Schill’s attitude. The one element of truth and loyalty, Herr Professor is the last to vote for the condemnation.
The argument has risen now from the theme of greed in the townspeople killing their love, from the tension between Clara and Anton, through the battle between Giillen and Schill, to the inner struggle of the character’s own consciousness. By overcoming his own fear, Anton Schill has risen above the level of the town and in doing so, has wafted Clara Zachanassian to these lofty heights with him. The town, forever guilty, has damned itself again.
The action of the play is brisk and well sustained due in large part to the rapid scene changes in Act H which aid greatly in preserving the unity of a too-long act. Brilliant lighting, simple but striking sets are the product of John Patrick Hart and his crew.
38
The Scholastic
i
Freshman Year
The Office of Academic Affairs will mail the Mid-Semester Deficiency Reports to your home this week. I should like to emphasize one statement that is included on this form.
“Failure to receive a Mid-Term Deficiency Report does not preclude the possibility that the student may still fail the course, nor does it imply that the student will automatically pass the course.”
After analyzing last year’s Freshman Mid-Semester deficiencies, the Freshman Office would like to make this statement. Of the total number of deficiencies reported in November, only 20% of these became actual failures at the end of the first semester. In other words, 80% of the deficiencies were pulled up to the required 75 average by the end of the semester. It seems to me that freshmen receiving deficiencies must avoid panicking and becoming emotional at this stage of the game. Your job is to see your professor, find out the reasons why you’re failing, and then take positive action to remedy past weak performances. I recommend strongly that you come in to see us and talk over your work to date.
To scout a prospective line-up for your own season’s schedule, get into the h.i.s Barrier Coat. Made of heavyweight corduroy, lined with Acrylic pile that's warmer than a drum majorette’s glance. Plenty of pocket-room, too. Colors in a sporting vein ... $29.95. At stores flying the h.i.s label, signals call for a pass? Kal aS barrier coat
The Civil Engineering Open House for all Engineering Intent freshmen will be held on Tuesday evening, November 26th, at 7:30 o’clock in the Engineering Auditorium. After a brief meeting conducted by Dr. Harry C. Saxe, Chairman of the Civil Engineering Department, freshmen will be taken through the Civil Engineering Department and will have an opportunity to meet and question faculty members and to talk informally with outstanding upperclassmen studying in this area of Engineering.
BL.JUST ARRIVED
All students in the Pre-Professional Course will have an opportunity to attend a Pre-Professional Orientation Program on December 9th, in the Nieuwland Science Building. This meeting will be scheduled for 7:30 o’clock and the room will be publicized at a later time.
William M. Burke, Dean Freshman Year of Studies
DELIVERY
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT


Delivered on demand — PIZZA, HOAGGIES, PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
TOO!
^^FASTEST&HOnEST DELIVERY IN TOWN
FRANKIE'S
1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue CE 3-1115
November 22, 1963
39
STUDENTS & FACULTY
Via NEW YORK
CENTRAL to
PURCHASE NOW
Ticket Office, NYC Station, 8:00 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
$24.00 20.85 12.10
7.15
^antegibing
Go November 26-27; Return limit: Dec. 2
Onstmas
titiitiiitimiititMiiMiiiaiiiiiitittHMiiiiiiimiiiitiiiiMiiiiiimitiHtiiiuiimiiimifiiiiiisiiutMiHiiutiii' Go December 13-14-15; Return limit: Jan. 3
New York .......$38.50
Boston .......... 43.90
Albany .........  34.30
Syracuse .......  27.85
AND OTHER
Rochester . Buffalo... Cleveland Toledo ..
DESTINATIONS
HOLIDAY TRAVEL BARGAINS
NEW YORK CENTRAL SYSTEM
REDUCED PRICES!!!
All LP Albums at the following tow prices:
Former:	New:
$3.98	$3.25
4.98	4.25
5.98	5.25
6.98	5.95
ALSO AVAILABLE:
LP ALBUM
University of
Notre Dame
Band & Glee Club
Monaural ........  ...$3.95
Stereo .............  $4.95
THE Notre Dame BOOKSTORE
40
The Scholastic
‘Nuclear War’
(Continued from page 25)
successfully be based on much past experience. The planning, we knew, would require the consideration of many more and more complex
I and obscure factors than any previous ] strategy, would have to anticipate possible changes, and would in any 1 case have to be ready to change, too.
For the first time there exist many ■ groups, in and out of government, seeking to rationalize our research, our current military policy, posture ’	and planning: RAND Corp., Hudson
’	Institute, etc. But today we must
l	think not only of the current tech-
>	nology, although we haven’t fully
i	caught up even with that, but of
i	1965: Minuteman B and Polaris C,
i	second-generation Atlas and Titan,
;	exotic fuels, antiradiation drugs, ex-
perimental climate control, com-!	mercial nuclear explosives, bacterio-
i	logical and chemical warfare, astro-
!	nautics. And of 1969: cheap, simple
j	bombs, missiles, satellites, super cal-
:	culators, doomsday machines, dis-
guised warfare.
i If in 1951 we did not understand ! our vulnerability to all-out attacks, a relatively simple military procedure : which we had already experienced j ten full years before, from what com-■	plex, unprecedented, and potentially
i	devastating weaknesses may we not
I now suffer? What terrible or wonder-■ ful future developments may we have | failed to foresee? Planning can never 1 be perfect; the hope of even adequate ; planning is much reduced by the very ।	newness of our problems: escalation,
j	accelerated weapons sophistication,
• expansion of the nuclear club (in ten j years atom bombs, unless placed un-!	der effective international control,
may be available not only to practi-'	cally every nation but to wealthy
private groups and individuals), etc.
j Under the circumstances, the U.S. :	Government policy is to develop both
; nuclear and non-nuclear readiness to j maximum degrees, to have the great-j est possible flexibility in readiness both for attack and retaliation, and thus to maintain as effective a deterrent as possible. That we have succeeded is shown by our own and the world’s continued survival: only a very strongly provoked or totally irrational enemy would attack us, because we have so great and relatively invulnerable a retaliatory capacity, and because that capacity can theoretically be deployed to respond effectively and more than proportion-i ately to any assault from a single J small missile raid to an attempt, even
November 22, 1963
a successful one, at total devastation of the whole country and all our allies. The Soviet deterrent is nearly as powerful, and the present stalemate is the consequence.
This is better than nothing: until about four years ago most scientists expected nuclear war soon — within
four years. The impasse created by our mutually effective deterrents led to the recent test ban, which is only a very small step toward genuine peace and general arms control, but considering the very heavy fallout from recent Soviet weapons tests it is a real gain for the whole world. It also
during the Thanksgiving holidays plan to visit our comprehensive UNIVERSITY SHOP
You’ll find a wide choice of suits, tweed sport jackets, topcoats and warm outerwear in sizes 35 to 42...all with our distinctive styling and taste. Also furnishings, skiwear and other items.
Our 3-'piece Suits, $75 to $85 Tweed Sport Jackets, $55 Topcoats, $85 • Polo Coats, from $90
Tropical Worsted Tuxedos, $80 Outerwear, from $45
Prices slightly higher West of the Rockies.
ESTABLISHED 1818
SSens furnishings, Hats Shoes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
41
permitted us to decide not to build any gigaton bombs even though Russia now has this insanely destructive and militarily absurd superweapon. Unfortunately, it has not yet persuaded her government to formulate, as ours has, a well-defined and fully detailed plan of controlled response to attack.
Our present tough policy, although psychologically a strain, politically divisive, and very expensive, is effective and at present irreplaceable. It makes a major war fairly unlikely for the next few years; but since technology and world politics are both bound to change greatly and in part unpredictably, it is utterly impossible to say how meaningful these mutual deterrents will still be in ten or more years. Kahn is of the opinion that an even tougher policy of deterrence on our part would have more benefit for us than our present posture, and as we shall see he made his own behavior at the conference an example of his views.
Mr. Enthoven, speaking both as private citizen and government policy maker, affirmed his basic agreement with Kahn’s general position and also the accuracy of Kahn’s outline of the facts. His long and very precise essay made clear the great effort which has gone into formulating our nation’s policy in such a way that the danger of war has receded as much as possible, and that if war breaks out its consequences will be as bearable as possible. Policy decisions inevitably lean chiefly on military and geopolitical considerations, but the moral side of the question is also taken into account.	.
This does not mean that the President has no clearly immoral alternatives left open to him by our defense posture, but that every opportunity to limit wars, and to wage them with something approaching acceptable means, is built into that posture. We retain the option to attack cities but are not committed to it. This involves a very high degree of non-nuclear readiness: we and our NATO allies have not only a well-protected nuclear deterrent and the ability to respond with control and deliberation to any size nuclear attack, but we have also chosen to increase our conventional forces substantially, and the notable progress already made in this field is being further reinforced. Our forces are safer, controls are less subject to human error, and the President will have great freedom of choice as to amount, timing and placing of any retaliatory measures he feels compelled to undertake. This has all been of set purpose and represents a complete shift away from the policy of
42
massive retaliation. Policy planning is extensive and does not have any major decisions under purely military control. Enthoven feels we must even further expand the qualities of safety and rational control and the chances of non-nuclear response in our systems; he admitted that at present a full-scale war of annihilation is still not out of the question.
Enthoven, who unlike Kahn, considers that a single exploded atom bomb is the “fire break” level, after which there are no clear-cut stopping places before all-out war, sees the nuclear escalator as rather like a continuous ramp, a steep slope with no true “levels” at all. Both think a bigger Civil Defense program would add to our deterrent by lessening the vulnerability of our cities’ populations, which at present are virtually Russian hostages. Though he recognizes that grave moral questions persist about several aspects of our policy, he still says:
The potentially catastrophic character of thermonuclear war has forced practical decision-makers, reasoning in a secular context, to adopt a set of criteria very much like those of the traditional Christian doctrine and to apply them to the design of the military posture of the United States.
Victor Karpov’s talk was shorter, more polished, as sobering but less substantive. He praised the recent test-ban treaty, re-emphasized the ruinous power of modern weapons, and spoke feelingly of the present danger of war — which he regards more seriously than the Americans — of the Russian sufferings in WWH, and of the futility, as the Soviets see it, of any effort to control a major war or limit attacks to military targets.
The Soviet government has no theory, strategic or moral, about limitation or just conduct of a war, though its decision to enter one would be based on many carefully thought-out factors and it does not in fact see war as a good way to further its aims.
Specifically, it regards a no-cities policy as “absurd.” Karpov claimed that since it makes no sense to discuss what to do if war breaks out, it is best to think of what may prevent it. As the peace-loving Soviet countries do, all good men are morally obliged to seek disarmament. It should be noted that in this talk, a faithful and unoriginal repetition of current Communist doctrine and policy, Karpov several times departed from his prepared text. Most of these changes
were toward greater belligerence. Twice he strengthened statements of Russian unconcern for the means used to wage war, twice qualified his assurances that their aims are peaceful. He added a brief passage refusing to admit that Russian policy and power constitute dangers to world peace; a story, supposedly illustrating their reliance on scientific data in their belief that peace can be had, but in fact hinting that the data may be unreliable; and one clear statement of total war policy: “This nation (i.e., the USSR) if attacked would have no choice but to attack and annihilate its enemy.”
In the question period that followed his talk Mr. Karpov repeated his country’s insistence on maintaining its secrecy as a basic and unchangeable policy. To this Mr. Kahn, speaking from the floor, offered a very strongly worded reply, which provided one of the conference’s most dramatic moments. He observed that the policy of secrecy is bound to be self-defeating in the long run; no great nation can afford to rely on a policy which a single high-ranking defector, a single accidental slip in the information services, a single clever reporter, can destroy forever. Kahn and his colleagues at the Hudson Institute have devoted time to trying, as an intellectual exercise, to work out policies that would promote Russian ends, and their results indicate that the present Russian insistence on perfect secrecy about the internal disposition of their forces is simply irrational and does them, not to mention the rest of the world, far more harm than good.
Karpov made no reply to this; his answers to the two other questions were so lengthy that the available time was used up and no more could be asked.
With the facts of nuclear warfare and the policy responses of the two great powers before us, we can now ask, with the members of the Institute: what is a moral man’s response to the situation? Does it make sense now to speak of a proportionate response? Do the traditional justifications of just wars hold, when applied to nuclear wars? Can one’s conscience permit allegiance to the American government? Can a young man in the military forces share in the responsibility for waging a nuclear war?
These matters will be considered in the second part of this, article.
Because of the extreme importance of the above article on the West Baden Institute on Nuclear Warfare, The Last Word will not appear this week.
wwdi. । ■ m imin mi,	"tu

KSV
wcaasnra

This could be the start of something... BIG!
If you are completing your BS or MS degree in EE, ME or Physics, AC-Milwaukee's "Career Acceleration Program" is the perfect way to launch an exciting career . . . and keep it moving! You will work on important inertial guidance and navigational system projects for Titan II and 111, the Apollo Navigation-Guidance System, B-52C&D Bombing-Navigation Systems and other guidance and navigation projects for space vehicles, missiles and aircraft.
In AC's "Career Acceleration Program," you will spend one hour daily in formal class work, the remaining seven hours on a specific project. Courses include: ADVANCED THERMODYNAMICS, INERTIAL INSTRUMENTS, DIGITAL COMPUTERS, GUIDANCE EQUATIONS, BASIC ASTRONOMY, TELEMETRY and DATA ANALYSIS, plus mathematics and undergraduate disciplines, as required.
In addition, AC-Milwaukee's Tuition Refund Plan enables you to improve your skills through additional education. You will be reimbursed for all tuition costs on satisfactorily completing collegelevel course of study when undertaken voluntarily. AC also offers an "in-plant” evening educational program for additional technical improvement.
Positions also exist for recent graduates at AC’s two advanced concepts laboratories:
BOSTON—Advanced Concepts Research and Development On-the-Job Training Program—AC’s
Boston Laboratory is engaged in research projects in avionics, space navigation and inertial instrument development. This laboratory works from theory to prototype, advancing the state of the art in navigation and guidance.
LOS ANGELES—Advanced Concepts Research and Development On-the-Job Training Program—AC’s Los Angeles Laboratory is occupied with advanced guidance research for space vehicles and ballistic missiles, plus research and development in special purpose digital computers.
For further information on AC’s “Career Acceleration Program,” contact your placement office or write Mr. G. F. Raasch, Director of Scientific & Professional Employment, Dept. 5753, AC Spark Plug Division, General Motors Corporation, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin.
PhDs, please note: Positions are available in all three AC locations for PhDs, depending on concentration of study and area of interest. You are invited to contact Mr. Raasch for further information.
AC SPARK PLUG
THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS
MILWAUKEE • LOS ANGELES • BOSTON • FLINT An Equal Opportunity Employer
SHOES BY JARMAN
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which 6T&E has built its strength. Today, GT&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America s ever-growing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, 6 T&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS ®
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017 V
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states ■ General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories • General Telephone £ Electronics International • General Telephone Directory 'Co. ■ Automatic Electric ■ Lenkurt Electric ■ Sylvania Electric Products