
$
uiimsiKn
&
The late President Roosevelt receiving his Honorary Doctorate Degree from the hands of the president of the University, Father John F. O'Hara, now Bishop of Buffalo. N. Y., at a special Convocation of the Faculty. December 9, 1935.
“Finally, in commending the noble soul of Franklin D. Roosevelt to God. let us recall his own words, spoken that December day, almost ten years ago, ‘I trust that I may be in your prayers.3 Let us fulfill that trust.”
—Fr. Hugh O’Donnell, at the Memorial Service.



I
Appointed by the U. S. Navy as Official Distributorsi o
DOBBS
Gilbert's


*

&
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
NAVAL OFFICER’S CAP

Exclusive feature for quick changing of covers
GUIDE HOOK
REMOVABLE GROMMET
Easy insertion of grommet
"SELF-STARTER'
centering pin to determine exact point for placing cover

Open Evenings Until 9
THE MODERN
GILBERTS
JI	Ji -l/	••
813-817 S. Michigan Street
3
^he SVotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
FOUNDED 1867
illttlimttllllltlHtttlllttlHttlltltttttllttttMllllttllllllttttlltatUHtllllltllltllimiltlllltlHHIIIMIIIIIttllllttff
MittiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiitiiHiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'ttiiiiaiiiniaiiiitiiHHiHiiiiiiiiiiHiitiiiittiiiuitiiiifiitiiiiiiiiiiitii
THE STAFF
• ROBERT RIORDAN. Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	- Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT -	-	- Managing Editor
JAMES REGAN -	-	-	- Sports Editor
JAMES F. McCARTHY -	_	_ Feature Editor
AL KUENZLI -	-	- Advertising Manager
RALPH HAYMAN -	- Circulation Manager
BOB O'TOOLE -	-	-	- Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER-WALTERS E. F. GILLESPIE ART WAGNER TOM McCAUGHEY
The Green Banner The College Parade - Swabbie's Log Man About Campus
FRANK GUIDO -	-
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C.
Photography
Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JACK FREESE GERARD HEKKER JOHN DEFANT
JOHN FEENEY J. J. TENGE
JOHN MILES
OCTAVE EMOND
DAN DANISZEWICZ ROBERT J. SHAW
TOM RYAN
DAN McGUIRE
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame' Indiana.
4
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
In an appearance at DePauw University, Mrs. Paul Robeson, wife of the noted singer, recently declared that legislation is the best way to solve the race problem.... Sigmund Romberg and orchestra with “music that America loves” appeared last week at the University of Kansas.... The April issue of Country Gentleman has published articles written by Alabama Polytechnic Institute coeds as to why they think home making is an art.... The Northwestern University veteran enrollment has mounted to 494.... Col Bernie Bierman has only a 27 man football squad to work with in spring practice at the University of Minnesota. One bright spot in an otherwise dark picture is the return of Vic Kul-bitski, regular fullback. Vic was an “Irish” regular in 1943 when he was stationed here with the Marines.
ADVICE DEPARTMENT
Here are our weekly words of wisdom to the girls across the Dixie: “Never slap a man in the face when he is chewing tobacco.”
JOKE REACTIONS
When an Englishman is told a joke, he laughs three times; first, to be polite; second, when it’s explained to him; third, when he catches on.
A German laughs twice: first, to be polite; second, when it’s explained to him. He doesn’t catch on.
A Frenchman laughs once; he catches on immediately.
An American doesn’t laugh at all; he has heard the joke before.—The Tatler.
COLLEGE ENROLLMENT
Dr. Raymond Walters, president of the University of Cincinnati, and an authority on college-university statistics, some time ago divulged that college enrollments are now one-third only of that of the 1930 level. Omas W. Clark, assistant administrator of the Veterans Administration, Washington, predicts about 650,000 veterans will return to college under the federally financed programs after the end of the war.
LET'S DINE OUT
Two sophomores were quietly proceeding through the line at the dining hall last Thursday night.
One turned to the other and said, “I saw in the paper tonight that a large percentage of the yearly total of accidents occur in the kitchen.”
His friend looked skeptically at the doubtful material which had been placed on his tray and answered, “Yes, and what’s worse they expect us to eat them here, too.”
And then there’s the one of the senior who had just taken a table at a downtown food shoppe.
A blonde waitress strolled up to the table, and glibly proclaimed in her best local accent, “I’se got stewed kidneys, berled tongue, fried liver, and pig’s feet.”
Frank Kent looked at her and quipped back, “Don’t give me all your troubles, sister. I want a roast beef sandwich.”
A poll at Purdue revealed varying degrees of interest between students and the faculty. Students preferred Bob Hope, Tommy Dorsey, Van Johnson, and Life to the professors choice of “Information, Please,” Guy Lombardo, Gary Cooper, and Time.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
APRIL 20. 1945
NO. 6 ____ •
Notre Dame Mourns Franklin D. Roosevelt
Roosevelt Honored at Memorial Services;
Father O'Donnell and Captain Barry Speak
The University of Notre Dame paid public tribute to the deceased President of the United States during the past week.
All classes at the University were suspended Saturday in respect to Mr. Roosevelt. Sunday, following the 10:00 a.m. Mass, a public service was conducted at the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart church. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, paid a brief tribute to our late president.
Capt. Richard J. Barry, commandant of the Naval Reserve Midshipman’s School at the University, spoke in honor of Mr. Roosevelt as the Commander-in-Chief of the nation’s armed forces. Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion at the University, offered prayers for the repose of Mr. Roosevelt’s soul and for divine guidance for his successor, President Harry S. Truman.
Capt. Richard I. Barry, U.SN.
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
Father O’Donnell spoke for the University. The text of his talk is embodied here in full.
On Dec. 9, 1935, we of Notre Dame were privileged to have President Roosevelt as our guest on the campus. The occasion was auspicious. It was a special convocation attended by high dignitaries of church and state to herald the birth of a new nation, the Commonwealth of the Philippines. In the person of Carlos P. Romulo, distinguished Philippine journalist, educator, and prominent figure in the progress of Island independence, Notre Dame extended her felicitations to President Manuel Quezon and his people.
As the statesman most responsible for the Philippines’ new status, President Roosevelt attended. He spoke. He became an honorary alumnus when Notre Dame (Continued on page 18)
BY GEORGE DESPOT "Scholastic" Managing Editor
“And so let me say as I leave you that I am happy to be here today, that I am proud of the great distinction which you have conferred upon me. And may I tell you that I was more touched than by anything else by that word of the president of Notre Dame when he said I will be in your prayers.”
Those were the words of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in his address delivered on Dec. 9, 1935, at the University of Notre Dame. On that day, the University conferred upon Franklin Roosevelt the highest academic honor it can bestow, the Degree of Doctor of Laws.
As that great day in Notre Dame history is remembered and in particular the words of the President an appropriateness is attached to them which could not have been noted then.
Well remembered are those words, “let me say as I leave you,” and today the added significance with which we can consider them .is realized. “I trust that I may be in your prayers" and in the prayers of all the nation for now our people suffer the greatest calamity to which any nation is subject, the loss by death of its leader.
President Roosevelt was the first president to visit Notre Dame and to be presented with a degree. This feature in University history took place in the gymnasium before an audience of some, 9,000 persons. A throng, estimated at 100,000, the largest crowd ever assembled here in South Bend, lined the procession route from the Union Station to the University.
Carlos Pena Romulo, publisher in Manila, P.I., at the time, but now a high ranking official of the Philippine government, shared with the president, the honor of receiving a degree of doctor of laws. Cardinal Mundelein was also present and introduced the president.
Many incidents might be cited which (Continued on page 19)
5
N. D. Represented at Chicago Conference By Inter-American Officers and La Raza

The second annual meeting of the Commission on Inter-American Action was held this week at St. Xavier’s College, Chicago, Ill. Seventeen colleges and universities in the Chicago area met in observance of Pan-American Day, April 14, 1945.
The University of Notre Dame was represented by two campus clubs at the meeting, the Inter-American Affairs club and La Baza club.
The morning session was opened by Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Director of the Faculty at Notre Dame and Faculty Adviser to the Commission, as he dedicated the opening prayer to the late president Roosevelt.
Joseph Menez, chairman of the commission, opened the meeting by presenting the theme of the conference. Following a series of talks, Mr. Menez delivered the main speech of the morning session, Plan For World Union—The Dumbarton Oaks Proposals. Menez, who has spoken at numerous colleges in the past month on this subject, made an analysis of the mechanism of this plan for world union. He concluded his talk by comparing the Dumbarton Oaks proposals to the Old League of Nations. Following a discussion of his talk, the morning session adjourned.
In the afternoon session, the convention was divided into two sectional meetings. Two University of Notre Dame students featured the talks in these sessions.
In Section “A,” which had for its theme, “Hemispheric Unity in the Americas,” George Despot delivered an enlightening speech on “Spiritual InterAmericanism.”
In Section “B,” Jose Cardenas spoke on a similar topic, although on a wider scale, “Spiritual Inter-Americanism.” At the close of the sectional meetings, the entire group assembled for the final business of the meeting, the election of officers.
George Despot, chairman of the Nominating Committee, presented the groups’ selection of officers for the coming year.
Succeeding Josph Menez, as chairman of the commission, was Robert Hasset -of Loyola University.
Jean Roberts of St. Mary’s College, was selected as vice-chairman; Ethel Dignan of Mundelein College, Chicago, as recording secretary; and Luis Bel-tranelia of the University of Notre - Dame, as corresponding secretary.
The next meeting of the Commission will be held at the University of Notre Dame on Dec. 9-10, in honor of Our Lady of Guadalupe.
Callan Elected to
Head Veterans Club
A Notre Dame Veterans’ Club was organized this week to represent the 123 ex-servicemen on the campus. Philip Callan, of St. Edward’s hall, was elected president.	.
Other officers elected were Thomas Ferriter, of Holyoke, Mass., vice-president; Ralph Hayman, of Philadelphia, secretary; and William Carey, of Boston, treasurer.
The aims of the club were discussed at the meeting. The purpose of the club is to consider and evaluate matters of concern to the veterans of World Wai1 II. The necessity of developing a spirit of mutual helpfulness among the veterans on the campus was also pointed out.
The officers were delegated to write a constitution for the organization. It will be submitted to the members for approval at the next meeting. The members voted to meet every two weeks, but the day best suited for the members was not determined. The next meeting will be held during the week of April 23, the date to be announced later.
Student Council to
Sponsor Dances Again
The Student Council has announced plans for reviving the series of informal dances inaugurated last semester. The first such dance of this term will be held Saturday evening May 12 in the Rockne Memorial.
When originally started, the dances were intended to provide the students of the University with entertainment on Saturday evenings when no other organized entertainment was available. The dances proved a big success and every student attending any of the dances can attest to the enjoyment of the events.
According to the latest reliable reports received at the Alumni Office, and the office of the Prefect of Religion, the following Notre Dame men have been added to the lists of war casualties:
★	208 Pvt. James R. Ankenbruck, ex. ’46, of Fort Wayne, Ind., killed in action in Germany on Dec. 2, 1944.
★	209 Lieut. John P. Lambert, ex. ’46, of Argo, Ill., killed in action on Dec. 6, 1944, at Noenfor Island, Netherlands. East Indies.
★	210 Cpl. Martin T. Callaghan, ex. ’47, of Chicago, HL, killed in action in Germany.
★	211 Cpl. Eugene Michael Zupko, ’44, Perth Amboy, N. J., killed in action on Feb. 26, 1945.
★	212 Pfc. George G. Birmingham, USMCR, ex. ’46, of Sioux City, Iowa, - killed in action on Iwo Jima, March 5, 1945.
★	213 Capt. Joseph R. Schroeder, ’31, of Minneapolis, Minn., killed in action, March 31, 1945.
Lieut. Carroll Arthur Michaels, ’40, of South Bend, Ind., missing in action since March 3, 1945. He was bombardier on a B-24.
The number of those missing totals 36, while 31 men are known to be prisoners of war.
Grimaldi Elected to
Head NFCCS Region
Frank Grimaldi, junior architecture student, was last week elected to the presidency of the Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students of which the University is a member. He succeeds Robert Riordan in the office.
Other officers elected for the region included Miss Virginia Namee, of Nazareth College, vice-president; Mr. Stephen Barry, St. Joseph’s College, recordingsecretary; and Miss Patricia Byrne, St. Mary’s College, corresponding secretary.
The Fort Wayne region of the NFCCS embraces six colleges and universities in northern Indiana and southern Michigan, four of the schools being in Indiana and two in Michigan. The work of the Federation is the coordination of the activities of a similar nature on the Catholic campuses throughout the nation. In this way a much broader range of ideas in any field presents itself and those interested in a certain field may find help from groups working in the same field. •
6
Memory of Father Julius Nieuwland To Be Honored by Fourth Degree Assembly
On April 29, the Fourth Degree Assembly, Knights of Columbus, of the South Bend Area, will pay tribute to the memory of the late Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., distinguished chemist, and renowned inventor of synthetic rubber, by naming its assembly after him. At the same time, a portrait of the late priestscientist will be unveiled in the South Bend clubrooms with fitting ceremonies.
The dedication ceremonies will begin with a Solemn Mass at the Belgian Sacred Heart Church in South Bend. Ministers of the Mass will include Father Phillipe, pastor of Sacred Heart, as celebrant, Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., as deacon, and Rev. Francis Brown, C.S.C., as sub-deacon. Father Charles Carey will be master of ceremonies. The choir of Moreau Seminary will provide music for the mass. The sermon will be delivered by Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C. Members of the Fourth Degree Honor Guard will attend in full regalia. The affair is open to the public no less than to the Knights and their families.
At seven o’clock in the evening, there will be a formal banquet in the Bronzewood room of the LaSalle hotel, at which time the Invocation will be delivered by Rev. John DeGroote, C.S.C., following the “Star Spangled Banner.” Very Rev. John Szabo, dean of the Fort Wayne diocese, will introduce the speaker of the evening, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., pastor of Saint Patrick’s church, of South Bend, will give the Benediction. A string quartet will provide music throughout the banquet.
Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., was born in Hansbeke, Belgium, Feb. 14, 1876, the son of Jean Baptiste and Philomena Nieuwland. He came to America in early boyhood, to Sacred Heart Parish, in South Bend, but was educated at St. Mary’s parochial school, and then enrolled at Notre Dame. Upon graduation, he received further training at Holy Cross College, and the Catholic University of America, in Washington, D.C. He was ordained in 1903, and returned to Notre Dame where he continued to teach chemistry until his death in June, 1936.
Father Nieuwland was a botanist and chemist. His best known work was in connection with acetylene, leading to the invention of synthetic rubber known as Duprene and Neoprene. He came into prominence during the first World War for his valuable contributions to the deadly military Lewisite gas. His botany interest led to his founding and editing
a nature magazine, the Midland Naturalist. He contributed frequently to other similar- periodicals.
Father Nieuwland received many honors during his lifetime. Among the most prominent were the Moorhead Medal (1932), American Institute Medal (1934), Nicholas Medal (1935), and Mendel Medal (1936). He was a member of the American Chemical Society, the London Chemical Society, and other learned groups. He was exceptionally proficient
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
in a number of languages, all of which kept him well informed on current affairs no less than scientific findings. He was of a quiet, retiring disposition, yet was remarkable for his sense of humor, and for his interest in the life about him. His death occurred in Washington, D. C., June 11, 1936.
Philadelphia Club Elects
At a recent meeting the newly organized Philadelphia club met for the purpose of electing officers and discussing proposed activities. John V. Allen, PreMed Senior, was elected to the office of president. The newly elected president then presided over the meeting, and election was held for the offices of vice-president and combined secretary-treasurer. Ralph W. Hayman, Pre-Law Jr., was selected as vice-president, and Patrick Mazza, Pre-Med Senior, was chosen as secretary-treasurer. Following election of officers a short business meeting was held and proposed .by-laws to the constitution were considered.
Student Council to Moke Clothes Drive Thursday
On next Thursday night representatives of the Student Council will canvass the halls on the campus soliciting old clothes for the UNRRA who will ship the clothes to the needy Italians. Every student is urged in the name of charity to contribute to this cause.
Rare Dickens Pamphlet Donated to N.D. Library
Paul R. Martin, well-known Notre Dame alumnus of journalistic fame, recently presented the University library a very rare pamphlet of two articles by Charles Dickens entitled A Curious Dance Round A Curious Tree. It is a first edition, printed in 1860 and conservatively catalogued as “scarce.”
Mr. Mai-tin, now editor of the Cumberland (Md.) Times, is a collector of Dickens’ first editions and rare books on the theatre. Both of these collections will eventually come to Notre Dame. His recent gift is a pamphlet-form reprint of two solicitous articles by Dickens about St. Luke’s Hospital for the Insane. Dickens wrote them in an effort to stimulate interest and contributions to improve the conditions in the hospital, a clear manifestation of his social kindness. The great narrator of the miseries of Oliver Twist turned his talent to appeal for funds for neighbors living in like discomfort. The articles first appeared in Household Words and the London Times.
Donor Martin was a member of the class of 1909 and has since become widely known in Catholic journalistic fields. He has published several books, and in 1917 wrote extensively on the history of Notre Dame at the time of the diamond jubilee obsei-vance of the founding of the University. Another notable historical writing is his story of Archbishop Mundelein in a book, First Cardinal of the West. Possessing a wide background in journalism, Mr. Martin has won acknowledgment of late in the field of editorial writing.—F. V. G.
Band Rehearses for
Major Spring Concert
By OCTAVE EMOND
One of the largest and most powerful units of the Notre Dame Band ever to be assembled is now rehearsing in preparation for a special concert to be presented in the Navy Drill Hall sometime during the month of May.
Although the exact instrumentation of the band has not been announced, it is rumored that this new unit -should have little difficulty in surpassing the achievements of last semester’s band which was regarded by many as one of the University’s best.
This new and promising unit is composed of musicians drawn from the ranks of the civilian student body, the Navy V-12 unit, the Midshipman’s school, and the local Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
7
Prof. Sheehan to Discuss Problems of Labor in World of Today, at Town Meeting, Tuesday
The Notre Dame Town Meeting will present the third in its popular’ series of lectures on current events on Tuesday, April 24, at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
On the platform will be Mr. John H. Sheehan, M.A., head of the Department of Economics. His subject will be Labor. Mr. Sheehan will discuss four timely aspects of this knotty present-day problem: Has Labor co-operated in the war effort? What about strikes and absenteeism? “Handsome wages and paltry profits?” What is Labor really after? He will devote about ten minutes or less to each of these points, to allow ample time for questions, discussion and heckling from the Columbus Circlers in the audience. Student chairman of the meeting will be Bill Tully.
Mr. Sheehan is well equipped noth the necessary background to speak on the subject of labor. A graduate of Notre Dame and of the Graduate School of the University of Wisconsin, he had 18 years of experience in the business world before joining the University faculty in 1938. He is acquainted with both ends of the Capital-Labor see-saw, because his work has included such tasks as the chairman of the Employer-Employee Relations Committee of the Order of Railroad Expressmen and the Brotherhood of Railroad Clerks, director of publicity and magazine advertising of the South Bend Lathe Works, and national advertising manager of the Associated Cath-
Midshipman Ball Tonight at Servicemen's Center
The mid-tenn ball for classes nine and ten of the Notre Dame Naval Reserve midshipman school will be launched at the Servicemen’s Center tonight in downtown South Bend. The gala occasion is the first in a promising series and is open to all middies, officers, and ship’s company of the entire N.D. Naval Station.
Ted Gallagan, popular maestro of local fame, will furnish the musical syncopation from 1700 to 2400. Arrangements have been handled by Lieut. N. Paul Cronin, U.S.N.R., Welfare and Recreation officer of the station. Dance patrons will be: Lieut. Comm, and Mrs. G. M. Bloom; Lieut, and Mrs. C. E. Buzard; Lieut, and Mrs. E. G. Newman.
Lieut. Cronin has announced that three future weekends will be occupied with dances similar to the one being inaugurated tonight. Dates have been set for May 11, June 7, and July 6.
olic Newspapers. He has contributed to America and other periodicals, especially those in business and economic fields.
These every-other-Tuesday discussion sessions of the Notre Dame Town Meeting have been a total success to date, with large and interested crowds taxing the capacity of the Law Auditorium. Lively informal discussion has followed each of the talks, and has contributed greatly to the popularity of the series.
Future speakers at these meetings include Professor Walter Langford speaking on Argentina, and Professor W. H. Downey, who will talk on Post War problems. The Notre Dame Town Meeting is student-sponsored and studentmanaged. Everyone is invited to attend these meetings. So, next Tuesday: Mr. Sheehan on Labor, same time, same place!
Notre Dame's Famous Sign of Spring—the Magnolia Trees—Usher in Warm Weather
BY FRANK
As traditional, but not as publicized as the Golden Dome itself, are the twin magnolia trees flanking the approach to the Notre Dame main building. For generations the surest sign of spring on the campus of Our Lady has been the colorful blossoming of these most noted flowering trees.
Interviews with some of the oldest members of the Holy Cross Congregation on the campus reveal that two flower-studded trees are probably the first step in the long and continuing process of landscaping the Notre Dame University site. According to Brother Angelus, the magnolia trees were planted by Brother Philip Neri, C.S.C., chief landscape gardener at Notre Dame for more than 50 years until his death in the twenties. Brother Philip, who was also a professor of penmanship in the University and an illustrious penman, laid out the original landscaping of the quadrangle spreading out before the Golden Dome building. He planted most of the trees now shading Notre Dame’s campus.
Of the 30 species of magnolia trees catalogued, the famed pink ones of Notre Dame are listed as Magnolia Goulange-ana, a genus of North American, West Indian, Mexican and Asiatic deciduous trees. They are commonly called Japanese magnolias.
In recent years other magnolia trees have been added, filling in the carefully studied and executed landscaping pat-
Cardenas New Editor of Amistad; Appear May 10
Luis Beltranena, president of La Raza club, has recently announced the appointment of Jose Cardenas as editor-in-chief of Amistad, the club’s monthly magazine.
Cardenas succeeds Enrique R. Lulli, who recently resigned as editor. It is expected that Mr. Cardenas will continue the excellent work of Mr. Lulli, who founded the magazine and raised it to the position which it holds today.
The next issue of the magazine is expected to follow the schedule previously outlined and will appear on May 10.
GRIMALDI
tern which has led many to call Notre Dame “the most beautiful campus in the nation.” The newer magnolias are of the same variety as the famed twin pinks, but are of a deeper, more youthful red color. Two of these are to be found in the center of the quadrangle, and are approximately half as large as the older trees.
Brother Maurelius, C.S.C., aged resident of Corby hall, was a personal friend of Brother Philip, whom he described as a botanist of note and author of several booklets on botany. According to Brother Maurelius, the magnolias were planted at about the time of the construction of the main building, which would make them at least 60 years old. To see the magnolias in full and untainted bloom is a rare sight because they are susceptible to frost, and the northern Indiana weather often nips them in the bud. It was a great many years after their original planting that the magnolias blossomed forth with their first crop of huge petaled flowers.
Landscaping is a never-ending job. It’s an art which is typified by its essence, growth. Notre Dame is righteously proud of its landscaping and its beautiful natural location on the twin lakes. More than 100 varieties of shrubs and trees clothe her acres, but none are more closely attached to Our Lady atop the Golden Dome than the spring - blooming pink magnolias at her feet.
8
TOP OF THE WEEK
New front steps for Sorin Hall.
TRICK OF THE WEEK
“Miss Panvini’s brilliant high notes easily reach the four F’s above high C.” Scholastic announcement for Rigoletto.
Could Mn Defant, the Scholastic reporter, be casting aspersons on the student body.
The Four' F’s were seated ten rows behind the midshipmen, two rows in front of Bob McAuliffe, and three miles from “George’s.”
The high C referred to was indubitably within Miss Panvini’s Area.
FLATBUSH WAS NEVER LIKE THIS
We also noticed a little item in the Scholastic about two Alabama Polytechnic students who existed on nothing but buttermilk for one week. John O’Rourke, the “stump that grew in Brooklyn,” president of the “Starving Sons of Sorin Sub,” claims he has that record beaten, for he’s been living on nothing but creamed chicken and bicarbonate at the Notre Dame Hall for eight semesters.
The theme song of the “Starving Sons” is a truly stirring melody patterned after “Rum & Coca Cola:”
Way doivn South at Notre Dame
Cream chicken has a claim to fame We eat it morning, noon and night It sure disturbs our appetite.
MARTYR TO SCIENCE
“Modern design makes the big difference” is the cardinal rule that the Engineers are taught in that massive building that Cushing built. Bob Snyder learned his lessons well and had applied all the principles of F = MA to save himself many steps.
He had pulleys to open his window or close the window, to open the transom or close the transom, to turn on the hot water, to turn on the cold water, to tune the radio, to adjust the window shade and to open the bureau drawers. Bill Sullivan reports authoritively that he had 37 pulleys and 65 yards of string, four strands of copper wire and six discarded egg beaters.
All went well until Father Forrestall entered to check and narrowly escaped
fiatuteA.
. .. By Harry Walters and John Power
strangulation on the transom closing machine. Proud Bob received a severe blow as an edict banning pulleys was immediately issued.
Anyone wishing to buy 37 pulleys and six egg beaters should contact Bob Snyder.
GREEN BANANA OF THE WEEK
Goes to Bill Budd of St. Eds Hall. It seems that he had a blind date for last week’s debacle at Sweet Briar, sent the young lady a corsage and presented himself for an evening of merriment. But misfortune befell our hero, as he was introduced to a totally different girl. And we do mean “Totally Different.” At last report William was still looking for the corsage, or the girl, or the $5.
A NIGHT WITH THE RINGLING SISTERS
The other day we heard a story about an ND frosh who went to a St. Mary’s dance—must have been before any of the upper classmen had had time to give him a little fatherly advice. The story said that this greenhorn was wandering around those hallowed halls and finally drifted up to the punch table. He saw the pink lemonade and what seemed to be a clown serving gave him a short snort of the potent liquid. He then strolled into the dance. Aftei' seeing some of the girls he went back to the punch table and inquired of this thing standing there, “Where can I buy some peanuts to feed the elephants in there?”
We don’t say that this story is true because we doubt that any ND student could ever be so ignorant, but some of the St. Mary’s girls could certainly give a less intelligent person that pachydermatous impression.
VACATION WITH PAY
Our weary minds can take a rest, we won’t have to peak through keyholes, or listen in on conversations. Mid-Semester exams are in the offing and someone got the idea that the Scholastic staff also used text books so they called off next week’s issue. Power spends the week at Tiny’s; Walters spends the week in CHURCH.
TRAGEDY OF THE WEEK
Luppi Loses His Hat!
NROTC Announces Pions
For Graduation Ball
With the date of the eighth annual Naval ROTC ball set for June 8, the members of the unit are eagerly beginning work on this affair which has attained a reputation for gaiety and splendor. Having the added distinction of being a graduation ball for 27 first-classmen, this function already gives indication of being one of the outstanding affairs of the series.
A wealth of experience in the persons of John Caron and Rudy Anderson will be in charge of the dance. Both men were vitally responsible for the great success of the last ball, and they are now putting their full administrative genius to work on improving the coming revelry at the Servicemen’s Center.
Already Joe Lauck and Tom Brownell have amazing plans for the complete
Co-Chainn<m John Caron
renovation of the Servicemen’s Center. They promise to blend the subtle and the magnificent into a realm of extraordinary beauty for the awaited weekend. Rudy Anderson and band chairman George Finn report that final arrangements have not been made for the band but that they were assured of excellent music. Dave Murphy is working on the general arrangements; while Tommy Sparks is handling the ticket committee. Dave Armstrong has the easy task of publicizing the ball which has become a tradition at Notre Dame.
Over 300 couples are expected to participate in the entire lavish week-end of which the ball will be the culmination. The full week-end plans have not yet been revealed, but the committee assures the unit that there will be three days packed with entertainment of the finest sort. They point to past balls and show ample proof.	•
9
K. of C. Picnic Date
Set; Howard Resigns
Shifting out of dual-low gear after the recent rejuvenation, activities in the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus began taking definite steps to liveliness. Meeting Tuesday of this week, the Knights set the date for the ’ big spring picnic for Sunday, June 3, and heard lively reports on the prospects of the affair.
The club’s membership drive gained more ground in the past week, with four applications read and approved at this week’s meeting. Initiations into the First Degree are planned in the near future in South Bend or Mishawaka.
Revival of the corporate communion custom has set Sunday, May 6, as the date of the first in a series of monthly occasions. Father Goodall, C.S.C., council chaplain, will celebrate Mass in Walsh hall chapel at 7:30 a.m.
Again the manpower situation has struck the council. Ernie Howard, financial secretary, is forced to resign his most important post. The K. of C.’s are desirous of securing the services of some mature member to fill the position, which is an every day job of integral importance to the council.—F. V. G.
Bartlett Discusses Russia at Economic Roundtable
Charles Bartlett, Jr., a native of Cuba City, Wis., and a Junior majoring in Economics, addressed the members of the Economic Roundtable last night on the “Russian-Polish Question.”
“Undoubtedly Russia seems to be aiming at complete domination of Poland. In their disregarding the Treaty of Riga, in their backing of the Lublin government, and in forcing a unilateral territorial agreement on Poland with regard to her eastern boundary, the Russians seem to be violating the principles of the United Nations,” Bartlett declared.
“No specific line of demarcation can be drawn in the disputed territory from the cultural, economic, ethical, or religious viewpoint. As the situation stands now, Poland has all territory that is indisputably Polish but Russia has all the disputed territory.
May Devotions Planned
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, has announced plans for the traditional observance of May, the month of Our Lady, patroness of Notre Dame, with singing of hymns every evening at the grotto. The May devotions will he opened formally the evening of May 1 with Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament at the grotto.
Rationing Cut Hits Universty Dining Hall: Changes in Civilian Fare to be Necessary
BY FRANK GRIMALDI
Like many a housewife in many a U.S. home, the Notre Dame dining hall management is carefully counting its points and looking to the future with the unhappy prospect of smaller rations for some of the family. Changes in the menu have been made recently, and more changes will be made before long.
No changes, however, are contemplated in the Navy menu. A glance at the ration allowance for Navy and civilians readily explains why the man in uniform will receive a more attractive meal :
Navy Civilians Sugar—lbs. i>sr parson per day .. 0.22	0.135
Blue points—per person per day .. 14.2	2.4
Red points—per person per day .. 7.4	2.64
Dining hall officials have been advised by the war food administration that the present program will remain in effect for some time. Military and Lend-Lease programs are heavier than ever before and both are demanding more’for the future. The net result is simply less of the scarcer foods for civilians. Government “set aside” orders on food processors are so great (some meats 80%) that there is practically nothing left for
Fr. O'Donnell Talks at
N. D. Club of Chicago
In an address before the Notre Dame club of Chicago, on Tuesday evening, April 17, Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, reviewed briefly the wartime program and then discussed the post-war problems confronting Notre Dame. One by one, he took up the following points, explaining and elaborating on their implications:
1)	Post-war development of the graduate school;
2)	Re-habilitation program for returning veterans;
3)	Technological developments in the colleges of engineering and science;
4)	The program to strengthen the undergraduate school, especially the revitalizing of liberal arts, and the training of men for government service.
Father O’Donnell discussed the expense and the faculty which these programs would entail, and reiterated the need of education in the post-war era according to the Notre Dame standards by presenting curricula “in which the liberal arts are offered with religion as the cornerstone of the program,” no less than sound professional or technical
civilian consumption. Orders such as these will also affect some unrationed foods, e.g., poultry, which is unavailable today for civilians.
The sugar allowance of less than one pound per week includes that used in desserts and pastries. During the next 60 to 90 days sugai- will be “very tight.” The blue point rations includes canned fruits and vegetables. Red points buy all meats, butter, lard, shortenings, salad oil, canned fish and all cheese.
Specifically these changes are made: 1) butter will be served at one meal a day, breakfast; 2) no meat for breakfast at all; 3) more serving of fish and poultry (when poultry can be obtained) ; 4) plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables can be expected.
Civilians should bear in mind that they get more for their points because of large scale consumption and the integration with the navy mess. The Notre Dame dining hall counts its points as carefully as any housewife in the nation, trades motherly care for big-business efficiency and keeps its family fairly well fed.
training, if the university is to educate the whole man in the finest traditions of Christian culture. The Notre Dame tradition, he assured them, would continue to emphasize the nature and the end of man; nor would she—as secularism frequently does—confuse the means with the ends of education.
Father O’Donnell touched upon the newer elements of progress on the campus, namely, the Alumni Vocational Committee, the new personnel bureau, and the placement of graduates. He unfolded a plan for the education of needy boys, and told of the impending building program in the near future, that the proposed intellectual program might find a fitting counterpart in a physical plant adequate to meet the needs required for the proper fulfillment of the University’s plan for the future.
Faculty Hours Posted
Any student wishing to have counsel may obtain the consultation hours of their Deans, heads of departments, or faculty members in the main and departmental libraries or in the offices of the rectors, the Prefect of Religion, or Director of Studies.,.The offices of Lt. Commander Howard and Lt. Bowman will handle all Navy students.
10
MEATBALLS
I think that I shall never see
A meatball that looks good to me.
Down to my stomach’s walls it hies, And there forevermore it lies.
I groan in agony all day,
And lift my quivering arms to pray.
A meatbail may in summer wear, In greasy guise, a chow-girl’s hair.
Product of the chef’s foul brain, A thousand sailors it has slain.
Oh, graves are dug for fools like me;
I ate a meatball, you can see!
—Vosburg
This poem (?) was handed to me with the notation, “Use this, terrific!” and, “With apologies to Eugene Field.” The apologies were probably meant for all poets — including Joyce Kilmer—and as long as we seem to be taking undue advantage of his skill, I may as well add another:
GIRLS
I think that I shall never see
A girl refuse a meal that’s free
A girl whose hungry eyes aren’t fixed Upon a coke that’s being mixed, A girl who doesn’t always wear A bunch of junk to match her hair; But gals are loved by guys like me, ’Cause who would want to kiss a tree?
THE LATEST ORDER
“All V-12 trainees who have not done so, will do so immediately, or be assigned nineteen demerits!”
BY THESE SIGNS YOU SHOULD KNOW THESE SPECIALTIES
Von Pinnon—Demerits with a lecture.
Eggers—Demerits with a smile.
Zuckowsky (Zeke) —Demerits, period; the body on the bicycle.
Durdach (Smiling Johnny)—The pea
coat and his brilliant lectures on “Don’t spit on the deck!”
Wardley (Jack) —His doodling and his duties.
Le Page—Specks and the way he wears his white hat.
Houghton—(One hand on hip) “If you play fail’ and square with me, I’ll play fair and square with you. I’ll go to bat for my boys any time.”
Pomianek—He’s the leader of the band.
Clason—Big tall silent type; pupt . . . ding!
Scharff (Chief)—Father Navy of the Notre Dame V-12; 4.0.
NOW THEY TELL US
Upon returning from liberty several weeks ago the V-12’s were greeted with the following announcement on the duty office bulletin board: “The best meal Notre Dame ever served was served today—steak, French fries, birdseye peas, tomato soup and ice cream!” It seems to us that that was a fine time to pass the good word; implying, “Ha! Too bad you missed it. Why, you’re drooling!”
❖
THE BENGAL PUNCH-PARTY
J. P. Durdach’s swat and slug room is a little less conspicuous for the sparrows and a little more noticeable for the odor of arnica as potential Robinsons, Louises and Beau Jacks work in earnest as the time approaches when they will turn their talents from the heavy and light bags toward each other. Unlike most of the P.T. classes, the Bengal workouts show a lot of know-how and determination instead of distraught rope-jumpers, frantic attempts to get in two successive blows on the elusive light bag, and an inability to dent the heavy bag ■with the best Sunday haymaker. Even though there are no longer* any Marines to conquer, all V-12 entrants are sticking to a strict training routine and, at this sitting, look like potential kingpin material in every class except heavyweights.
The Bengals promise to be one of the really big nights of the semester since
dates will be admitted at prevailing student rate prices. Here we see the opportunity to impress the little queen who is fresh out of Riley when she sees the roommate you can beat consistently at honeymoon bridge as welterweight king for 1945. The time is May 4 and the place is the Old Gym and the characters should be you and a date.
Photo of Early N. D.
Officials Given Library
In the late 1890’s Francis Marion Crawford, famous American novelist, was a visitor on the Notre Dame campus. Last week a photograph showing the famed novelist with University officials , was presented to the University Library by Mrs. Frank E. Hering of South Bend, widow of the first football coach of Notre Dame.
Shown in the rare picture, with the Main Building in the background, are: the Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., then president of the University; Father John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., professor of English who later became the University president; Austin O’Malley, faculty member; James F. Edwards, librarian; and Mr. Hering.
Besides coaching the Fighting Irish before the turn of the century, Frank Hering was an English professor at Notre Dame, having graduated from the University of Chicago.. He later served Notre Dame as a trustee. Mrs. Hering has presented many mementoes of her husband to the University in recent years.—F. V. G.
Ernie Pyle Killed in
South Pacific Action
Word was received this week of the death of Ernie Pyle, homely war correspondent who has won the hearts of all America, both on the war and home fronts. He was reported killed while serving as a correspondent in the Ryu-kyus Islands in the South Pacific theater of action. •
Wranglers Discuss the
Vocaton of Colleges
The Wranglers, an honorary forensic club, at their regular weekly, meeting last week discussed “The College and the Concept of Vocation.” The group outlined the importance of the faculty recognizing its teaching vocation and the students recognizing their vocation as students.	•
Prof. Frank O’Malley, faculty moderator of the club, lead the discussion which was participated in by the follow^ ing members, Dave Armstrong, Norb Geier, Tom Devine, Fred Zeni, Jose Cardenas, Luis Beltranena and Jim Cassidy.
11
I I N4 AI SEMI - FINALS
WEDNESDAY
By JOHN FEENEY
The semi-finals of Notre Dame’s renowned Bengal Bouts, the proceeds of which go to charity, are carded for next Wednesday night with 20 fighters expected to enter the ring. Of these, ten will move on to the May 4 finals to be joined by four others who were given byes to the last round.
Seeing action Wednesday will be four men in each of the 135-, 145-, 165-, and 175-pound classes. Single bouts are on tap in the 155-pound and heavyweight events, while there will be no activity in the 127-pound division.
Boxers Well-Trained
“The boys have been looking good to say the least,” commented Navy Chief Specialist John Durdack, who, with A. J. Buono of the physical education department, has trained most of the pugilists, “and the public can expect to see some real fights. We have fewer men this year than before but the fellows available are working hard and earnestly. Many are inexperienced but have learned a lot in the short time they’ve had to drill. The
Bengal Bouts Semi-Final Pairings
Wednesday Evening, April 25, 1945
J. Hasten {NROTC) J. P. Kitson (NROTC)	135 Pound Class vs. vs.	W. Summerlin (C) R. A. Pasquarella (NROTC)
K. Rousseve (C) J. McGrath (C)	-	145-Pound Class vs. vs.	J. T. Kosnik (NROTC) J. Groves (V-12)
P. Hamill (V-12)	155 Pound Class vs.	J. A. Burke (V-12)
R. Deem (V-12) J. DeVries (NROTC)	165 Pound Class vs. . vs*	G. McDonald (C) W. S. Bevington (V-12)
G. Albert (C) J. Owens (C)	175 Pound Class vs. vs.	C. D. Marks (V-12) J. Wingender (C)
J. Trave	Heavyweight Class vs.	C. R. Coggins (NROTC)
145- and 165-pound battles particularly should be ‘naturals.’ In fact, there won’t be a poor match in the bunch. The fighter who wins a divisional title will have earned it.”
The 127-pound group, with only a pair of battlers—Don White of the V-12 program and civilian Eugene Sterett—will not be represented in the Wednesday program; consequently these two men will vie for their weight division crown in the finals.
The 135-pound group pits Jack Hasten of the NROTC against Bill Summerlin. Hasten is champ of the tune-up novice tourney while Summerlin is a new comer. In the other bout in this division two members of the NROTC will clash when R. A. Pasquarella meets J. P. Kitson.
The 1942 145-pound Bengals champ, Ken Rousseve, returns to compete in his class. Opposing him will be J. T. Kosnik, a talented but unseasoned civilian. Jack McGrath, last year’s 135-pound winner, opposes John Groves of the V-12 pro-(Continued on page 15)
Elmer Layden to be Honorary Ref. of Finals
Elmer Layden, commissioner- of the National Football league will be the honorary referee of the 1945 Bengal Bouts, it was announced this week by Scholastic officials in charge of the program for May 4.
Layden was one of the famous Four Horsemen under Knute Rockne in 192425 and returned to the campus as head coach in 1934, remaining at that post until 1941. One of the most popular foot
Elmer Layden
ball mentors of Notre Dame’s history, Layden was also one of the most successful from a win-loss point of view.
The appearance of Elmer Layden here as honorary referee at the Bengal Bouts this year will continue the long line of distinguished figures of the sports world who have been secured for the distinction. Barney Ross, who was then just out of the Marine Corps after serving on Guadalcanal, was last year’s honorary referee. Others who have appeared include Billy Conn, Packy McFarland, Danno O’Mahoney, and Jack Elder. Mr. Layden will head a distinguished list of honored guests which will include Mayor Pavey of South Bend, Mr. Ernest Morris, a lay trustee of the University, and several prominent business men including Otto Pfaff, E. E. Richards, Carl Hibberd, Captain J. Richard Barry,USN, and J. F. Donahue.
12.
A GRACIOUS GESTURE
Thanks to the thoughtfulness of the Athletic Department, one Lawrence Zimmerman, age 11, Springfield, Mass., sick for several months, is a happy boy. A staunch follower of the "Fighting Irish,” the boy last week received an autographed football. The Scholastic congratulates the Athletic Department on its gracious gesture.
Outdoor Track Season
Opens Here Tomorrow
By JOHN C. THOMAS "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Coach “Doc” Handy’s Notre Dame track squad will open its outdoor season at home tomorrow against the Illinois Tech team. The Techawks, coached by Roy B. McCauley, completed their indoor season last week end with a decisive victory in the North Central Relays in which they more than doubled the score on their nearest rival. This meet marks the entrance of Techawk track into big-time competition.
Coach Handy stated that the encounter with the Illinois Tech squad would serve as a warm-up for the Irish thinlies in preparation for the Drake Relays, April 28. When questioned about the prospects for the coming outdoor season, the congenial Irish mentor ventured, “We won’t be-the best track squad in the nation, but we won’t be the worst, either. Give the boys a little more time to round into shape. It’s too early for predictions.”
The events and the entries for the dual meet are:
Two Mile—Matthews, Prosche; Mile— Tully, White, Diamond, Daniels, Mahoney; 880 yd.—Tully, McCarthy, Feldman, Desloge; 440 yd.—Murphy, Provost, Jones, Zurschmiede, Schirmer; 220 yd.— Murphy, Thompson, La Bonte, Crilley, Mauro, Riordan, Zurschmiede.
100 yd.—Same as 220 yd.; 120 yd High Hurdles—O’Neil, Walsh, Londahl; 220 yd. Low Hurdles—O’Neil, Entrikin, Hos-bein; High Jump—McKeen, Ryan; Broad Jump—Crilley, Thompson; Pole Vault— Struble. Vosburg; Shot Put—Scott, Kelly; Discus—Kelly.
Warning on Tickets
Tickets for the Semi-Finals will be sold at the box office only on the night of the fights. Tickets for the Finals are now on sale in every hall on campus. No student or serviceman's ticket can be sold at reduced rates at the box office. Hence, buy Finals tickets in advance. The 50-cent student and serviceman's ticket will revert to $1.00 on the night of the Finals.
Klinemen Open 1945 Season Tomorrow;
Meet Two Service Teams This Week-end
BY PAUL WEYRAUCH
The opening of Notre Dame’s 53rd year of baseball, delayed one week out of respect to President Roosevelt, will find the Irish ballhawks visiting Camp Atterbury, Ind., where they will meet Camp Atterbury on Saturday and Wakeman General Hospital on Sunday. The doubleheader ■with Indiana, scheduled for last Saturday, will be rescheduled though the date has not as yet been settled.
The Army boys at Camp Atterbury will present lineups resplendent with experienced ball players, many of whom played minor and major- league ball. Camp Atterbury is coached by Capt. Kenneth Gorrell, the post athletic officer. Corporal Bill Rea, former catcher for Minneapolis of the American Association, is the captain of the team. Rea is the only veteran on the Attaboys nine, this being his third season behind the plate. He has all of the hustle and pepper that a backstop needs.
Among the other men likely to see action who have experience under their belts are Private Joe Desantis, centerfielder with Class A experience, Corporal Bill Simonovich, pitcher who played Class A ball in 1940-41, and Private Joe Fragala, former second baseman for the Allentown Red Sox in the Interstate league. All of the other squad members have several years of fast sandlot play behind them.
Sergeant Pete Decking has a good record as a pitcher, 12 wins against three
. Opening .... Delayed a Week .. .."
losses in 1939 being his best. Decking played in the Bucks County league in New Jersey. Saturday’s game with Notre Dame will be the first of the season for Camp Atterbury.
Playing manager Hal Lee will have a gallant array of talent lined up for Notre Dame on Sunday when the Wakeman General Hospital nine takes the field. Lieut. Johnson, former twirler for DePauw University, will probably start on the mound for Wakeman with Bob Mundy behind the plate. Mundy formerly played in the International league. The Cincinnati Reds controlled Wakeman second baseman Jerry Steiner before Uncle Sam got him. Shortstop McGuire played with Wilkes-Barre in the Eastern league.
Coach Jake Kline has named a tentative starting lineup for Notre Dame on Saturday against Atterbury. George Schneider will lead off, playing second base. Billy Hassett, shortstop, Neil Kelly, left field; Frank Gilhooley, centerfield, Tom Martin, third base; Jim McGurk, first base, and Al Wittingham, right field will follow in that order. Either Bill Tracey or Leo Murphy will bat eighth and catch with Jack Stewart or Johnny LeBrou to hurl the opener. Veteran Jack Barrett will probably face the Wakeman club on Sunday. Kline plans to take a squad of 16, five pitchers, two catchers, five infielders, and four outfielders. The squad will leave by bus Saturday morning.
13
Three Home Games on 1945 Grid Schedule
Only three home games are listed among the 10 games which will be played by the Notre Dame football team in 1945, according to the schedule released this week. The site of the annual Notre Dame-Navy game has not yet been selected, but because the game was played last year in Baltimore, it may be played in Cleveland this year, since in the past each city has played host to this game in alternate years.
Feature of the Irish home schedule is the game with Iowa on Oct. 27. Iowa, a team which has never been defeated by Notre Dame on the gridiron, is returned to the N.D. schedule for the first time in several years. Added interest is attached to the game because Clem Crowe, this season’s basketball coach at Notre Dame and football assistant coach, is now head coach of football at Iowa. The other two home games find Illinois appearing in the Stadium on Sept. 29, and Dartmouth is making its initial appearance in this section on Oct. 13.
So great is the demand by radio stations for facilities to broadcast Notre Dame home football games in 1945 that the accommodations in the radio booth section of the Stadium press box are now inadequate to meet the requests. Consequently the addition of two or possibly more new booths is now being considered with only the shortage of materials holding up the actual beginning of construction.
Other traditional opponents to be met by Notre Dame include Pittsburgh, Georgia Tech, Northwestern, and Army. Great Lakes and Tulane will also be hosts to the Irish football squad next fall. The schedule:
Sept. 29—Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. 6—Georgia Tech at Atlanta Oct. 13—Dartmouth at Notre Dame Oct 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct 27—Iowa at Notre Dame Nov. 3—Navy (not determined) Nov. 10—Army at New York Nov. 17—Northwestern at Evanston Nov. 24—Tulane at New Orleans Dec. 1—Great Lakes at Great Lakes
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Glee Club Performs
Before 1500 at Kankakee
At 8:15 p.m. on April 17 the curtain went up for the first concert of the season to be given by the Notre Dame Glee Club to a crowd of 1500 at Kankakee, Ill. After a large succession of changes in transportation facilities and traveling on the glorified streetcar, the South Shore, the club arrived at Kankakee. They were directed to a waiting dinner table then to a special bus which took them to Kankakee high school, where they presented the finest concert of the current -year.
The Glee Club program was received with enthusiastic acclaim and a sincere invitation for a return engagement. The concert was sponsored by the Kankakee Chamber of Commerce. Director Pedtke announced that the next concert will be given on the campus in the near future.
—Lee Chambers
Stork Report
Mr. and Mrs. Al Kuenzli were the parents of a bouncing baby girl, weight eight pounds, 6I/2 ounces born April 12 at St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend. Al is the advertising manager of the Scholastic and served with the Marine Corps in the South Pacific before his discharge and subsequent enrollment at the University.
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW	COOPER
Shirts and Neckwear	Underwear
VAN HEUSEN	BRENTWOOD
Shirts and Sportswear	Sweaters
B. V. D.	MARLBORO
Underwear and Sportswear	Sportswear
McGREGOR	HICKOK
Sportswear	Belts and Braces .
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
You'll find them all at
ROmTSOFS ofSU/t^end
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
Co-Hop in Indiana
Club Tomorrow Night
Tomorrow night will again find the Co-Hop organization presenting a dance in downtown South Bend for the entertainment of Notre Dame students, both civilian and Navy. The dance will be in the Indiana Club from 8 to 11 and will feature the music of Bud Simpson and his orchestra. Admission will as usual be 60 cents per person.
These dances have in the past proved highly successful in offering to N.D. students an enjoyable evening. Their record of success is proof enough of their future success.
Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
BUY WAR BONDS
14
Bengal Tickets on Sale;
Advance Price Reduced
Ticket sales for the University Boxing Championships, high spot of intramural activities, got under way this week as Chairman Tom Bremer, law student from Cleveland, Ohio, put his corps of men to work. Assisting Bremer are representatives in each hall on the campus, headed by Juniors Dick Miller, of Youngstown, Ohio, and John Power, Chicago law student.
“Wise lads will snap up the ducats in advance so as to insure their seeing the bouts at a reduced rate,” Bremer pointed out, “for only during the advance sale will students be able to purchase tickets at a lower price than that demanded of
outsiders on the night of the finals. Last year found a number of students scouring the campus at the eleventh hour in search of the scarce ‘student’ tickets. By enlarging the ticket sales staff this year we hope to avoid that difficulty and the disappointment of the students when they find themselves forced to part with a full dollar on the day of the fights.”
Chairman Bremer has spread tickets throughout downtown South Bend and Mishawaka, supplying a number of spots in the more important areas to insure backing of the fights by the townspeople. The 1944 Bengals were well attended, as boxing shows of high calibre are a rare thing in the South Bend area.
The
is the
Birthstone for April ooo
BENGAL SEMI-FINALS (Continued from page 12) gram, who took first honors last November, in the other bout in this class.
The 155-pound contingent is headed by Peter Hamill, V-12 trainee, who will trade blows with J. A. Burke, also of the Navy. Last month Hamill decisioned Burke by a narrow margin in the novice finals. The victor of this encounter will move against John Caron, an R.O., who was given a bye to the finals. .
The 165-pound interhall champ, Ralph Deem of the Navy, meets good competition in civilian George McDonald, a newcomer. Jack DeVries, another R.O., fights W. S. Bevington of the V-12 group, in the other 165-pound battle.
George Albert and C. D. Marks, both new men in the Bengals, clash in one of the 175-pound tussles with civilian Joe Owens and J. Wingender, another civilian, opposing each other in the second 175-pound event.
Only three heavyweights are entered, with big John Trave and C. R. Coggins of the NROTC meeting in the only semifinal dual in this division. The winner meets Tony Cash in the finals.
Dr. John Scannell, head of the University’s physical education department, is handling the entire program with the cooperation of Lieut. Cary Brewbaker and other officials.
Officials selected for the bouts, this
FLOWERS are the Perfect Gift /or Mother's Day
If you place out-of-town orders early, you save telegraph expenses.
Corsages Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
year, are again the best in the locality. The referees will be George Nate and George Vanderheyden, both ringmen of many years experience. The timer will be Cecil A. Wallace. Judges will be Albert Doyle, William Lubbers, and Elmer H. Tepe. Hugh Burns will look after the training-room preparations for the boxers. Bob O’Toole will do the announcing. F. Maxwell will be the tournament clerk.
Jim Moledor will have charge of the concession stand at both the semi-finals and the finals, proceeds of which will likewise go to charity.
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
NEW POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON
Over 650 heretofore unpublished poems of America's noted poet.
"The Ballad and the Source" "Now That April’s There" "Party Line" "Of Smiling Peace" "The Wide House" "You Can't Stop Living" "Lower Than Angels" "Pipe Night" "At His Side" .
"The Violent Friends" "Rolling Stone" "Yankee From Olympus"
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
NEWS CENTER • CI6AR STORE
127 W. Washington St a
"In the I. M. S. Building"
RU
15
Samson to Captain Tennis Team Again
Tennis Coach Walter Langford announced this week that Cha'rles Samson of Kansas City, Mo., a Navy V-12 student, will captain the Notre Dame ten-
Charles Samson
nis team the forthcoming season. This is the second year that Samson has held that honor, last year leading the Irish squad to a tie for the National Collegiate Athletic Association championship. Samson is the first player to hold the title of captain twice since 1926.
Coach Langford points out that Sam
son’s election shows his teammates’ confidence in him. He is popular with the other members of the team and has a steadying influence over them.
With the opening match against Western Michigan scheduled for April 28, Coach Langford was still undecided as to the starting team. Bill Tully may not be able to play the* opening match, as Doc Handy would like to have him with the^rack squad at the Drake Relays. If Tully cannot play, his place will be taken by George Ratterman.
Besides Samson, Tully, and Griffin, other men playing good games who have a chance to make the first six positions, include Bill .Garrels, V-12; Jack Gailey, V-12; Joe Brown, civilian; Ralph Baioc-chi, civilian; Bill Moore, N.R.O.T.C.; Ralph Witucki, civilian; and Fred Lindahl, civilian.
This week, weather permitting, there will be intra-squad matches to determine the positions for the opening encounter against Western Michigan.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
Est.
1900
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame Scapular Medal $1.95 with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend.
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
While they last!
Although the supply is limited, we have a very attractive line of
Mother's Day Cards
Also you won't want to miss our fine selection of gifts — just the right thing to send home for Mother's Day. Come in today!
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p.m.
Saturdays —8 a. m. till 1:00 p.m.
16
Devore Says Football Prospect not Gloomy
By JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
With slightly more than four weeks of practice already complete, Notre Dame’s prospective 1945 gridmen have found hard work to be the continuous order of the day. Almost to the man the Irish pigskin devotees have responded wholeheartedly to Head Coach Hugh Devore’s plea for spirited activity on Cartier field sod. Practice drills will be continued for some time yet with the possibility, as announced last week, that another official scrimmage with the so-called “Alumni” may terminate the spring session. The “Alumni” handed the budding varsity a 19-6 trimming in an earlier clash.
“The boys have been really going ‘All out’,” asserted Devore, new N.D. master-strategist, “and that’s what counts. Needless to say, we’re short on seasoned talent and already the draft has taken two badly needed men—Felice and Apell. However, the picture isn’t a gloomy one as many of the fellows show real promise. Judging by normal Notre Dame standards, our squad is small, but it makes up in spirit and perseverance what it lacks in numbers.”
Commenting on the practices proper, Devore explained that the backs have been working against the various formations which the N.D. opponents are expected to employ. “By now we’ve done some work against about all of ’em,” related Devore “Fundamentals, always important, are being drilled into the boys, especially the linemen.”
Asked to make a prediction as to the future, the affable Devore declined to venture anything definite, deciding that nothing of even reasonable certainty can be ascertained until fall.
Singled out for special consideration by Devore and his cohorts were a number of the new, and for the most part, inexperienced, players. Among these are numbered Opela, White, Phil O’Connor, Ackerman, and Wightkin at the ends; Potter and Scott at the guards; Ganey, Meiszkowski, and Yakomonis at the
"Tanker out of control on port bow,” the lookout telephones to the officer on the bridge. Ever alert, this merchant seaman and his mates transport mountains of materials to every battle front. In spite of fog, storms and the enemy, they are delivering the tools of Victory.
Until the day of Victory comes, our job at Western Electric is to keep on producing vast quantities of communications and electronic equipment to aid every branch of our wartime services. In this work, many college graduates—both men and women—are serving their country well.
Buy all the War Bonds you can—and keep them!
W Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM. IN WAR ...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
17
FATHER O'DONNELL'S STATEMENT
(Continued from page 5)
conferred upon him her Doctorate of Laws. The citation, written almost ten years ago, is not only succinct, but, in a way, prophetic. The great and genuine qualities it epitomizes had then made him the first citizen of our republic by achievement even more than by official position. In the dark days that were soon to come those same qualities made him a gallant figure to all civilized nations who looked hopefully to the United States. The citation read in part: “A leader- and ruler who, with faith and indomitable courage, took the reins of government at a crisis which threatened with collapse and chaos the centuried civilization and institutions of our country and the rest of the world. . .
His last words to the family of Notre Dame—of which he had just become a . member—were those of a man of faith. He said, “I trust that I may be in your prayers.”
Because of what he believed, this man, in his message to Congress on Dec. 8, 1941, could declare the purposes of World War II in words as simple and clear as these: “We are inspired by a faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter of the Book of Genesis—‘God created man in His own image!’ We on our side are striving to be true-to that divine heritage. We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God.”
No President in the history of the United States, not even the immortal -Lincoln who saved the Union itself, was faced -with more crises or graver ones. And no President faced crises more boldly or acted more resolutely, or with more singleness of purpose. For that, we are deeply and forever in his debt, and history will write large his name upon its pages.
The ideals and aims of Franklin D. Roosevelt and the enthusiasm with which he sought their attainment bespoke his largeness of heart and the quickness of his human sympathies. He had, it was once said, “A fresh and spontaneous interest ... in the troubles and the hardships and the disappointments of little men and humble people.” In that unflagging interest and in what he attempted to do to make it practical and effective, he was truly American. He was, let us say, “a good neighbor.”
And now God has taken him almost on the very eve of victory. To our finite minds it may seem ironic that he should not live to see the fruition of the plans which he in such large measure helped to form, and that he cannot help to shape an enduring peace “with charity and justice,” for which he had been laying
the foundation. But it is not for us to attempt to divine the ways of Providence. Let us rather be grateful to God for the contribution which He permitted Franklin D. Roosevelt to make to our own beloved country and to the world. Let us
take inspiration from the good that he accomplished, and set ourselves, as Americans, to the tasks that still remain, remembering always that this war is a means to an end, and that the end is the preservation of a Christian way of life
chiefly shirts.
So we’ve spent our life making the shirt that doesn’t shrink, the Arrow shirt. It’s Sanforized-labeled, which means fabric shrinkage less than 1%, and its Mitoga figure fit is superb. Arrow’s collar is the world’s finest. Try an Arrow today!
$2.24 up.
For a perfect outfit, get Arrow Ties, too. $1 and $1.50.
POETS always call the violet the shrinking violet. We feel bad about anything that shrinks — but
18
in a country dedicated to the principle that all men are created equal in the sight of God.
Finally, in commending the noble soul of Franklin D. Roosevelt to God, let us recall his own words, spoken that De-
<-----------------—<«
Yes Sir, We’ve Got
ARROWS!
Loads of Arrow Shirts in many.different collar styles to make all necks look handsome. Step in to Gilbert's and we ll pick out the Arrow Shirt with the type collar designed especially for you.
Another neck perker-upper is the Arrow Tie in smart, new patterns.
ARROW SHIRTS #2.24 up
ARROW TIES
#1, #1.50
.You’ll find selection at Gilbert’s—the largest possible stock in popular items of men’s clothing. We think you’ll find what you like here at South Bend’s largest store for men!
THE. MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
»»— - ro* ARROW SHUTS .i —- >
Flowers for Mother's Day ...
8	You'll want to send Howers — just the right gift	>
tfor Mother's Day. Always a wide selection of cut	s
flowers, corsages, and potted plants at	E
। South Retut tyl&ud OotnspaMf
< Phone 3-8227	114 South Michigan Street	South Bend 1
cember day, almost ten years ago, “I trust that I may be in your prayers.” Let us fulfill that trust.
Captain Richard Barry expressed. his sorrow upon the President’s death as he represented the Navy Sunday.
“These few words that I speak here this morning are in behalf of the U. S. Navy, which, along with the other branches_pf the armed forces, lost by the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt on last Thursday afternoon, a true, loyal and outstanding commander-in-chief; the nation lost a far-seeing, great leader; and humanity a great champion. Since the days before World Wai- I, when Mr. Roosevelt was assistant secretary of the Navy, he has always held the Navy close to his heart, and we of the Navy can be thankful for his loyal, energetic leadership, which has resulted in our country having the most powerful sea might in the world today.
.“We all know the great goal which our late commander-in-chief had set for the rebuilding of this torn world. There is now one way in which we can honor his memory to insure that all his efforts, as well as the efforts of every war casualty—of which he was truly one—have not been in vain. We can resolve to do everything humanly possible to bring about a speedy victory, and a lasting peace for the attainment of his great goal—a goal for which Franklin Delano Roosevelt gave the last full measure of devotion—his life.
The Navy, along with the rest of the world, will miss his leadership, and we mourn his loss.”
NOTHE DAME MOURNS (Continued from page 5) occurred upon the president’s visit here and a glowing account of his deeds and merits could be expressed, instead a simple statement suffices — simple because simplicity pays the highest tribute—“We Remember Him Well.”
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, speaking for the entire faculty and student body, said:
“The sudden death of President Roosevelt casts a heavy pall over our beloved
country and the world.
“His indomitable courage and inspired leadership during one of the most critical periods of history had gained for him and the nation universal acclaim. He now belongs to the ages.
“We at Notre Dame were privileged to have him as our guest several years ago, and we shall always treasure his presence among us as a memorable occasion. We revere him as an honorary alumnus.
“In commending his noble soul to God, we shall be ever mindful of his tender solicitude for the suffering and distressed all over the world.
“In union with all Americans, the University extends deepest sympathy to Mrs. Roosevelt and her family in the death of her distinguished husband, whose name and deeds shall forever live in the hearts of liberty-loving peoples.”
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Traditionally ...
The place where Notre Dame men meet
^Or
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
19
tackles; Schmidt Stanczevic, and Schreiber at center; Ratterman and Cadieux at quarterback-; Gompers at right halfback; Marlen, Agnone, Porter, and En-tricken at left halfback; and Flood at fullback.
In addition to the above mentioned men, there are, of course, the few remaining competitors with considerable seasoning. Among these are numbered such standouts as John Mastrangelo, guard; Peter Berezney and Jack Fallon, guards; Bob Skoglund, end; Elmer Angs-man, halfback. A few others, absent for the time being, are expected to return to Notre Dame shortly and thus are counted on for the approaching season.
“Mostly civilian and mostly inexperienced—that’s our squad, but don’t sell us too short,” warned Devore. The very name of Notre Dame stands firmly behind the Irish mentor in his last words. Only time holds the answer.
Bengal Prelims Narrow
Field for Semi-Finals
Four opening round fights of the annual Bengal Bouts were staged Tuesday afternoon in the boxing room of the local fieldhouse with decisions going to J. P. Kitson, J. T. Kosnik, George McDonald, and Bill Bevington. These four, by virtue of their success, advance to the Wednesday semi-final round, where they are joined by 16 other pugilists who were given byes in the preliminary competition.
Kitson, a member of the R.O.T.C., decisioned G. Slattery in the 135-lb. class, while McDonald bested W. A. Swanson by a narrow margin in the 165-lb. division. Bevington, a V-12 trainee, decisioned Tom Burns, a civilian, in another close match for 165-lb. competitors. The fourth victor, Kosnik, another R.O.T.C. boxer, won his semi-finals spot by shading P. Goodman in a tussle that brought forth a split decision. This fight was also in the 165-lb. class.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Elmer Ripley Signed as Basketball Coach
Elmer Ripley of New York City, who is at present on leave from Georgetown University, has been signed to coach the Notre Dame basketball team for next season, it was announced this week by University authorities. Ripley will assume his duties on May 15.
Ripley is a former professional player and was a member of the original Celtics. He has had 16 years coaching experience in intercollegiate circles. He was mentor at Georgetown for seven years, six years at Yale, in addition to coaching at Columbia University for a few seasons.
Ripley succeeds Clem Crowe, who resigned his position at Notre Dame to become head coach of football at Iowa.
W.L. DOUGLAS, SHOE CO.. BROCKTON IS. MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Monday Evenings until 8:30
INVEST IN VICTORY —BUY BONDS
Appropriate GIFTS for MOTHER'S DAY May 13th
20
By JIM REGAN
Parker - Winterrowd
115% N. Main Street (Upstairs)
The Cooper brothers of the St. Louis Cardinals, Morton and Walker, one of the most famous brother combinations in major league baseball history stirred up quite a buzz of activity when they announced their intention to strike unless their salary was raised to $15,000. The feelings of this writer are all with the Coopers, for the St. Louis National League Club is notorious for the poor stipend which they give their players.
If the Cooper brothers maintain their strike, the Cardinals will not be in an enviable position as they try to win their fourth straight National League flag. The Coopers have been two of the mainstays of the three-time winners and without them the Cardinal battery would be considerably weakened.
The strike by the Cooper brothers brought back memories of the Dean brothers when they were in their prime with the Cardinals. The Deans personally pitched the Cards to the pennant in 1934 by virtually pitching every other day for the last two weeks of the season. The Deans, with brother Jerome “Dizzy” leading the way and brother Paul “Daffy” willingly following, created a number of situations for the Cardinal management by their unusual—to say the least—conduct both on and off the field.
* * * *
The Detroit Nezus tells this story about Notre Dame’s backfield coach Gene Eon-zani: Gene was playing for Marquette against Drake. Drake’s punter, standing behind his own goal line, kicked the ball almost straight up in the air. Eonzani caught the pigskin and ran the long distance of five yards for a touchdown. This is probably the shortest return of a punt converted into a touchdown on record.
* * * *
Stationed at Notre Dame at present in the Midshipman’s School is Howard Dall-mar, brilliant eager of Pennsylvania U. during the past season. Dallmer, named to the first string All American team of The Sporting News, was responsible for Penn’s fine record during the past year. It was he who engineered the only basketball defeat Army has suffered for three years. Since the Cadets are a common foe (and being that N. D. still smarts under the terrific beating it took from The Point’s extraordinarily mature gridders last fall) the Irish probably owe
Offers future Officers at Notre Dame the Finest Custom Tailored Uniforms
Within a few days you will be planning your future officer's uniform and accessories wardrobe. It will be our pleasure to have you call and inspect our complete line, all of which are tailored to your measure, whites and greys included. An early visit to our store and shop will be greatly appreciated.
THE COMMODORE CAP
Expressly styled by Parker-Winter-rowd, with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin strip. 10 carat gold and silver device, with two Van Husen white crowns—
Open Saturday Afternoon and Evening, and Sunday Afternoon.
$ 18.50
Souilt liesuik QlAedt OudiMn
21
him a vote of thanks. Unfortunately Middies are not eligible for varsity competition so Dallmer would not be able to compete for N.D. even if he were to be here next winter.
* * * *
Many sports fans enjoy taking sports quizzes when they have the opportunity. For this reason, this columnist intends to conclude the column each week with three sports questions with the answers being given in the column next week.
Here are the three questions for this week: 1. What player has hit the most home runs in the major leagues during his lifetime with bases loaded? 2. Who is the only pitcher to pitch a no-hit, no-run game on opening day? 3. Who is the only woman ever to receive the Sullivan Memorial Trophy, annually awarded to the number one amateur athlete?
* * * *
Tommy Sheehan and Bob Klein, members of last year’s Notre Dame baseball team, who were scheduled to play with Great Lakes this season, have been transferred from that Naval station to the West coast. Sheehan was regarded as the logical choice as the Great Lakes’ number one catcher.
* * * *
Paul Lammers, a pitcher on last
year’s baseball team, is now a member of the Los Angeles Angels in the Pacific Coast League. Paul made an impressive debut in the west coast circuit when he relieved Ed, the Angels’ starting pitcher, and held Seattle scoreless. His team was behind when he entered the game, but when they rallied to win, Lammers received credit for the win. He started his next game but was unable to finish. In his third appearance, he pitched scoreless ball foi’ three innings.
* * * *
Speaking of “Jake” Kline recalls a conversation this department had with the N.D. horsehide mentor recently. “We’ll have a good team this year,” averred Kline, “with a lot hinging on the quality of the pitching. However we could field a much better team if the fellows now practicing football would come out for baseball. It seems to me that if an athlete devotes some time this summer to football and then practices again immediately before the season, that would be sufficient. Meanwhile we could use him. Two boys in particular— George Ratterman and John Le Brou— have baseball talent if only they’d use it.” Kline’s logic seems sound to yours truly. True, football is king of sports at N.D. but it doesn’t have to be entirely exclusive.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
'	X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M. D. M. J. THORNTON, M>D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.o.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.s.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
408-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2874
No place like home... Have a Coke
.. .a swing session at our house
A good way to put Welcome on the mat at your house is to have ice-cold Coca-Cola in the refrigerator. Have a Coke just naturally means Be one cf our gang or You're like one of the family. Whenever . young folks meet for a song fest, chin fest or swing session, ice-cold Coca-Cola is their symbol of companionship.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
22
---------------------------------------M Mm /Idlel Sa.---------------------------------------------------------
----«----------------------------------South Bend’s Qualify Store since 1913------------------------------
Open Saturday Evening and All Day Sunday
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL UNING, $38.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP ■
WHITE DRESS UNIFORMS— $13.50 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP ' Premier Quality with 3 covers M850
fit	££Tye*	£/
ON THE CORNEk... MKNI6MI $ MSMM61M
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
23
co_
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.
JOAN MCCRACKEN
DANCING COMEDIENNE OF “BLOOMER GIRL"
NEW YORK’S MUSICAL HIT

PLUS
FROM EVERY ANGLE REAL MILDNESS AND A COOLER SMOKE
ENJOY ALL CHESTERFIELD’S WORLD’S
THE BENEFITS OF RIGHT COMBINATION
BEST
TOBACCOS
