The Notre Dame Scholastic
325
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Ingenious methods of decoratingrooms have been devised by Notre Dame students. The more notable include that of the freshman in Howard hall who has collected a bevy of cigarette containers of all varieties and has worked them into a remarkable design.
Another master-mind in the interior decorating field is the third floor Morrissey junior who has completely covered his wall space with menus from restaurants all over the country. Another bug in this field has saved match covers from over 100 places of business and recreation, which he displays suspended from the moulding.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1872
EMIL L. TELFEL
Editor-ix-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley
Edward E. Brennan-Austin Boyle
The Week Richard J. O’Donnell
Music and Drama
Frank E. Seward
Managing Editor John E. Bergan
Associate Editors James J. Kearney James Carmody
Make-up Editors Alfred E. Gall Walter V. Beesley
Feature Editor James K. Collins
Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward R, Brennan-Paul J. Hallixan
College Parade
Daniel C. Willia.ms
Campus Clubs W. Leslie Raddatz
Pictures of stage and screen stars, appropriately autographed, are commonly used as decorations. One sophomore has a huge placard that practically covers the entire wall space, which has for its purpose the exploitation of some screen actress.
University bulletins authorizing vacations find a prominent spot in many student quarters.
William Fitzgerald John Conley Myron Crawford John Pick
Netcs Staff .
Lloyd Teske. News Editor William C. Karl, Assistant Ne ns • Anthony R. Schreiner
William Corr
F. Granger Weil
Walter Johnson
Editor
Lawrence Dunda
Sanguinet Williams
Lawrence Prybylski
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely. Ji
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor George Belting James Kearns
James H. RorKe, Local Advertising Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr.
Business Stuff
Frederick Bauer
Merle Baldwin
T. Edward Carey Irving Halper
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr.
Andrew McGuan. Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Raymond J. Naber
John P. Hess
Quite the contrary are some rooms, notably those of upperclassmen, who feature religious posters over their desk. One junior makes a habit of placing the “Novena for‘Exams” placard over the desk of his roommate before each of the quarterly quizzes. Many of the sophomores carry crucifixes over their bed-posts.
JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager of Publications
Vol. LXIV
DECEMBER 12, 1930
TABLE OF CONTENTS
No. 11
Monogrammed high pressure salesmen have added as many decorations to freshmen walls as any other influence, while upperclassmen still bemoaning their weaker moments as yearlings have posted their rooms with pictures and other such nonsense.
Individual pictures of favorite team players, covers of football programs, and current magazines complete the list. College Humor and the Red Book receive the most votes, while the cover of Collier's that featured the football player of some weeks ago is the best appreciated individual work. Joe Lopker’s frontispiece on the last Juggler is suspended from approximately more than three hundred rooms.	N. C. H.
Frontispiece ------------------------------- The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell--------------- Huge Throng Greets Team—William Con--------- 1,200 Fete Team at Banquet—Neil C. Hurley--- A Man About the Campus—Ramon G. Smith------- A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan------------ Glances at the Magazines—Edtuard R. Brennan- Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward------------- The Wink------------------------------------ College Parade—Daniel C. Williams----------- Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz----------------
Editor’s Page_____,__________________________ Fighting Irish Win National Title—T. Edward Carey. Cagers Win Opener—James Kearns_______________ Highlights of Football Season—John A. Kiener_ Interhall Sports__ Splinters From the Press Box—H. B. A_________ Ori Down the Line_
326
327
330
331
332
333
336
337
340
341
342
343
344
344
345
349
359
360
THE SCHOLASTIC is published scripts may be addressed to THE				weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class			matter at	Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at
special	rate	of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.		
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
326
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5
0

The Notre Dame Scholastic
327
♦ THE WEEK ♦
^1' HIS being the last Scholastic to be printed before Christmas, we shall have to extend our holiday greetings and wishes for an enjoyable vacation somewhat previously, but none the less sincerely. To the freshmen returning home for the first time since they registered here, we wish to give a few bits of advice which personal experience and general opinion suggest. First of all, if they are not athletically inclined, they should prepare bountiful excuses for not being on the football team. They may expect to encounter everywhere they turn the question, “What do you play on the team?” The fact that they be only five foot two, and a hundred and twenty-eight with their sheepskins on, will not eliminate the necessity of this precaution. They go to Notre Dame; the Fighting Irish are national champions; ergo, each Notre Dame man is a football player. Also, they may expect to have their muscles examined, their height measured against that of their father and their next oldest brother, and their store of knowledge weighed by the school teacher aunt or any other erudite member of the family. If they do not know every member of hte student body from the senior class president down to the most ignominous freshman manager, their popularity will be very seriously endangered. If they have not all the data on the team of this year, of last year and the year before, as well as the prospects for next year, the advisability of sending them back to school will be questioned. The bull session in Freshman, Howard, Brownson, and Carroll, however, should provide ample material and preparation for the barrage of questions which the returning frosh is about to face. If he has successfully bluffed his way through these he should be able to bluff through the holiday inquisition. For these enthusiastically departing yearlings, we wish a happy holiday season, as well as for the more sedate upperclassmen. May you all return entirely recuperated from the strenuous endeavors of the past year, physically, mentally, and financially.
I F anyone in the world has had the fullest opportunities to study the psychological intricacies involved in the actions of a crowd, it is the priests on the campus who have for years been dealing with problems such as that which confronted them on Wednesday. Student crowds have been known to perpetrate all sorts of deeds which were evidences of the primitive emotions that lurk beneath the suave exterior of the college man, and the college woman as well. If we recall correctly, the old stadium at Northwestern which has been supplanted by the Dyche bowl, was the material for a giant bonfire at that respectable institution of learning several years ago, a celebration of some since forgotten football victory. Many a small town police force has been dissolved as the result of the released exuberance of a student body. Notre Dame itself has in past years witnessed similar episodes which occurred in spite of strict precautions taken by the faculty. Grads still recount with many chuckles the tale of the Hill Street trolley holocaust, and the story of the day of strife when Indiana’s local hundred per-centdrs attempted to display their narrow-minded Americanism by marching down Michigan avenue. It is not much of an exaggeration to say that a snake dance is almdst as dangerous as the reptile it’s named after, and there are some experienced
persons who would rather encounter the snake than be in the way of a howling, dancing file of inhibitionless students.
J DE THORNTON, better known as “The Kid,” has at last come into his own. Mr. Thornton’s acting ability has long since been recognized, but his real, intrinsic talent as a dramatist will shortly be brought before the public. His debut before the footlights will furthermore be enhanced, since the lines he speaks have issued from the pen of another great man of the stage, known as William Shakespeare. Joe is perfectly suited, both in voice and in figure, to the role he assumes in this venture. The rich mellowness that characterizes his Bostonian speech is well fitted to the classic blank verse. His graceful agility and dignified carriage and gait should give him a pleasing stage presence. Mr. Thornton also is fully acquainted with the works of Shakespeare, so that he has a background which should support him in the portrayal of his part. Joe says that he reads his plays and poems as soon as they come off the press. Until we had witnessed one of the rehearsals of the play in which Mr. Thornton is to be starred, we had been rather confused as to its nature. It seems that the name of it is “Twelfth Night,” which for some reason or other blended with a memory of that great opus “Ten Nights in a Bar-room.” Suffering under this illusion, we had expected some realistic acting on the part of “The Kid,” but we were doomed to disappointment. Joe, however, is so versatile as to fit smoothly into any scene, whether it be a Fifth avenue drawing room, a mediaeval castle, or the afore-mentioned bar-room. He confides that he is not a bit nervous about his initial appearance on the boards, but he hopes the tights he wears are suited to his manly form.
According to a recent public announcement, Frank Carideo intends to take up debating as soon as he finishes with the business that occupies an All-American upon the conclusion of the football season. This business includes the autographing of everything from a game program to a dining hall napkin, the indorsing of sweaters, “How to Play Football” guides, hair tonic, etc.; reading fan mail, and speaking at high school banquets. These activities should keep Frank well occupied for a month at least, and then we may prepare to hear of him arguing from the stage at St. Mary’s in the preliminary to the debating season. Frank’s intention is a sort of answer to that generally pondered problem of what a football star does with himself after the hulabaloo of the gridiron season has died down. Most persons can’t imagine a fellow who has had his picture in every paper in the country, whose name has been broadcast round the world, who has been the subject of discussion in conversations in the general store at Pike Center as well as in the lobby of the Ritz. Well, it is hard to imagine him retiring to a quiet winter amid books and scholastic paraphernalia. Now that Carideo has made this dubious announcement of his plans for the winter, some of the other national champions should come forward with an expression of their intentions. Tommy Yarr will probably say that he expects to take up classical dancing, and Dick Donoghue might speak of the opportunity he now has to catch up on his knitting.
328
The Notre Dame Scholastic
N. D. "FOOTBALL REVIEW" WILL APPEAR ON CAMPUS THIS WEEK
“TWELFTH NIGHT” TO BE PRESENTED NEXT WEEK AT TWO PERFORMANCES
Joseph Petritz Edits Annual Gridiron Publication
Cast For Play Definitely Chosen
The Notre Dame Football Revieiv will make its appearance on the campus early next week, according to Joseph Petritz, editor-in-chief of the annual publication. The material is practically complete and it is expected that next Tuesday will mark the opening of sales.
The book will feature the usual AllOpponent team as selected by the editors and the football squad. Several interesting feature stories have been written by prominent writers, the latest of which is that of J. P. McEvoy, who forwarded his manuscript from Los Angeles where he witnessed the Southern California game. Another outstanding feature of this year’s book is the cartoon by Feg Murray, drawn especially for the Review.
Special articles have been written by Bud Boeringer, Frank Carideo, “Butch” Crowley, Jack Cannon and “Clipper” Smith for the 1930 Football Revieiv, which should prove very interesting to tlie readers.
Newspaper men all over the country have contributed articles on the in-
CALUMET CLUB TO HOLD XMAS DANCE DEC. 30
The Calumet club has announced its Christmas Informal to be held Tuesday, December 30, in the Crystal ballroom of the Gary hotel, Gary, Indiana. Arrangements for the dance are under the direction of Thomas Tobin, general chairman, and the following district chairmen: Robert Davis, Gary; Joseph Grodzicki, East Chicago; Emmett Murphy, Indiana Harbor; William Gorman, Whiting; Anthony Schreiner, Hammond; and Arnold Wiener, Michigan City.
Nicholas Lukats and Stephen Banas have been appointed co-chairmen of the committee on decorations. Tickets for the dance may be purchased at 211 Walsh hall at three dollars per couple.
The officers of the Calumet club are: Anthony Schreiner, president; Thomas Coughlan, vice-president; and Austin Boyle, secretary-treasurer.
dividual games, while other reminis-censes of the season have been sketched by campus writers. For each game, the Revieiv picks an outstanding player’as the honorary hero of the day.
The publication this year will be larger than any previously issued. It also boasts of a new cover, which the editors say will be the best ever placed on sale on the campus. Sixteen more pages than the 1929 book will be offered, which brings the total number of pages up to 112.
A very clever frontispiece for this year’s issue has been drawn by Art Kane and lends a very artistic motif to the book.
Working with Editor Petritz is Gus Bondi, business manager, and Dick Donoghue and Tom Kassis, co-pub-lishers. They state that appearances indicate that the publication will be well received in all parts. Special features on the national championship have been added and the editors feel that these alone will make the Revieiv worth the price.
CHESTERTON CARTOONS
IN CHRISTMAS “JUGGLER”
Two caricatures, drawn by Sir Gilbert Keith Chesterton, will feature the Christmas number of the Juggler, which will be placed on sale next Tuesday. According to Editor John Dempsey, the cartoons contain fine ideas and should interest those who like “H’english ’umor.”
Joe Lopker has completed probably his best work in drawing a beautiful pastel of a girl for the cover- of the issue. Student and professional critics at Notre Dame have been enthusiastic in their praise of his effort, which has been called the “best work ever appearing on a Juggler cover.” two features, supplemented by an unusual amount of cartoons and humor, comprise the issue. An added number of Jugglers will be printed in order to take care of the large amount purchased at Christmas time.
Rehearsals for the University’s theatre production of Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly of the department of speech have been in progress during the past week. The play will be presented in Washington hall next Wednesday and Thursday evenings at eight o’clock.
The cast for the production has been definitely chosen from members of the student body, assisted by three young ladies from South Bend, the Misses Irene Pyle, Julia Huff and Charlotte Mourer, who will portray the respective feminine roles of Olivia, Viola, and Maria. Miss Pyle has had experience in the field of dramatics, having studied in New York. Miss Huff was engaged in theatrical work while attending Northwestern university and Miss Mourer was active in the field during her undergraduate days at Indiana university.
Male members of the cast include Roger Beirne, portraying the character of Malvolio. Beirne will be remembered for his performance last year in the University Theatre production of “Journey’s End.” Other members of the cast include Norman Hartzer as the duke; Joseph Thornton playing the part of the inimitable Sir Toby Belch; J. Edward Phelan in the character of Sir Andrew Aguecheek; Harry Merdzinski as the clown; and Austin Boyle in the role of Sebastian, brother to Viola.
Script for the production has been read by Ramon G. Smith. Professor Kelly is in charge of direction. Stage -and lighting effects are to be done by Thomas M. Dolan.
HOYER SPEAKS IN OHIO
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the boy guidance department of the University, addressed a joint meeting of the Knights of Columbus and Daughters of Isabella, Sunday night, December 7, in Celina, Ohio. The meeting included representatives from the surrounding councils in the country as well as a number of non-Catholics. Professor Hoyer’s topic was “Your Boy and Mine,” and the talk included a description of the boy guidance course at Notre Dame.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
329

JOHN COLLINS NAMED CHAIRMAN OF JUNIOR PROM BY VINCENT CAVANAUGH
Other Appointments Made Known—Seventy-Eight Juniors on Committees
John J. Collins, of the class of ’32, has' been chosen by Vincent Cavanaugh, president of the junior class, as general chairman of the Junior Prom of 1931. Collins, who lives in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, is in the College of Arts and Letters, and rooms in Badin hall. He has been active in several different campus organizations, being- at present treasurer of the Cleveland club. Last year he was on the ticket committee of the Sophomore Cotillion. Coincident with this announcement comes President Cavanaugh’s selection of the chairmen and committeemen to undertake the work of supplying music, decorations, programs, and the things necessary to make the Prom a successful one.
The Prom is to be held at the Palais Royale on the evening of February 13, and until that time the committee chairmen and their staffs will be completing the plans formulated by President Cavanaugh and Chairman Collins in an effort to make the Prom successful financially and socially.
Leonard Dunn, of Frankfort, Illinois, will direct the committee which will handle the distribution of tickets. Ten men will help him to canvass the various upper-class halls and to cover the off-campus division in the sale of admissions. Joel Ostrander and Benjamin Mikes, both of Chicago, are chairmen in charge of decoration. They and theii- staff have already formulated an entirely new scheme of decorating the Palais Royale, but there is as yet no announcement as to the nature of the effects and properties.
At the head of the committee that will choose patrons for the affair is Tighe Woods of Chicago, and the program committee is under the direction of Albert Capter, of Paterson, N. J. John Litcher, general chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion of 1929, will head the reception line at the Palais Royale to welcome the guests of the junior class. Philip Dunleavy, of Chicago, will make arrangements for the music for the dance. It is understood that
an orchestra has already been selected, one that is well known in Chicago and the middle west. In charge of
John C. Collins
arrangements will be Theodore Kremer, of Woodsfield, Ohio.
George Higgins and Joseph Lopker are chairmen of the ticket committee. They have under them men on staffs of the school publications, and correspondents of two large daily papers. Gabriel Moran is chairman of the committee which will select the favors, and James Gleason is chairman of the invitation committee.
The complete list of chairmen and committeemen as selected by President Cavanaugh to take charge of all the work incidental to presenting the Prom foi- 1931, is as follows:
TICKETS—Leonard Dunn, chairman ; John Kramer, Raymond Geiger, William Van Rooy, Nicholas Kaimes, Murray Booth, Joseph M. Foley, Leo Schiavone, Thomas McKevitt. John Ryan, Clay Johnson.
DECORATIONS—Joel Ostrander, chairman ; Benjamin Milkes, oo-chairman; Peter Trolio, John Perone, Frank Kelly, Hugh Ball, Florence McCarthy. John Cooper, John Woemer, Edward Melchione, Joseph McKeon, James Ward.
VILLAGERS FORMAL TO
BE HELD DECEMBER 26
Students remaining at Notre Dame for the holidays are cordially invited to attend the third annual Christmas Formal of the Villagers club on Friday evening, December 26 in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend. It is expected that a leading Chicago orchestra, probably Wayne King, who played at the Junior Prom last year, will be engaged.
Those students desiring to attend the dance may reserve a bid by calling John C. Shively, general chairman of the affair, sometime within the next week.
KONOP GIVES TALK
A special convocation of several classes in American government was addressed last Thursday evening, by Dean Thomas F. Konop who spoke on “Practical Procedure in the House.” Mr. Konop occupied a seat in the Wisconsin legislature for several terms and is well acquainted with his subject. Arrangements for these lectures are being made by Mr. Bartholomew for the benefit of his classes in politics, and it is intended that a number of other faculty members will be invited to address the students at these meetings.
PATRONS—Tighe Woods. chairman : Roy Catizone. Clayton Duerr. John Grams, Rollin Baldwin, Paul Murphy.
PROGRAMS—Albert Capter. chairman ; Bud Argus. Jack Geddes. Richard Oelrich. Harry Behrmann, John Jackson.
RECEPTION — John Litcher, chairman: Emmet Murphy. Francis Graham. Timothy Sullivan. Clement Theisen. Maurice Matthews, Benjamin Salvaty.
PUBLICITY—George “Higgins, chairman, Joseph Lopker, co-chairman; Joseph McCabe. Robert Gorman, Neil Hurley. Joseph Petritz. James Carmody. Neil Rau. Paul Hallinan. Myron Crawford.
FAVORS—Gabriel Moran, chairman ; James O'Shaughnessey, Leo Fagan, John Cole, Casimir Dyniewicz, James Simmons.
INVITATIONS—James Gleason, chairman ; James Lewis. John Papera. Joseph Raymond, Brant Little, Frank luen.
MUSIC — Philip Dunleavy, chairman; Edward Fitch, William Weir. Frank Burke. John Norris, Norbert Crowe, Charles Spangenberg.
ARRANGEMENTS — Theodore Kramer, chairman ; Charles Nash, Paul Host, Anthony O'Neill, James J. Collins. Thomas Mahaffey.
330	The Notre Dame Scholastic
HUGE THRONG GREETS TEAM
FR. O'DONNELL DECLARES SQUAD IS AMERICA’S ALL-AMERICAN CHOICE
Rockne Praises Loyalty of Student Body
BY WILLIAM CORR
Amid the cheering of a throng numbering 25,000, Notre Dame’s national champions of 1930 were welcomed back to South Bend Wednesday afternoon. In honor of the occasion all business in South Bend was suspended from noon until 2 p. m. As the train arrived at 12:40, cheers echoed about the Union station where the crowd was gathered to pay homage to what Michael Donoghue, president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni association, called “the supermen.”
Donoghtie and Clemens Speak
Short speeches by Mr. Donoghue and Mr. Clemens of South Bend expressed the appreciation of the local people for the publicity received by the city from the exploits of the team. The tributes paid to the national champions by these representatives of South Bend finally exhausted the superlatives that sports writers have been using all year.
Led by the University band, the team marched up through the streets of South Bend, the students following. The players were in busses and the coaches were in open cars. The march was along South street to Michigan street and north on Michigan to La Salle street. The marchers then proceeded to the University where a still greater reception awaited the team that “Pop” Warner called the greatest he has ever seen.
Walsh and Late Praise Team
Seated in the gallery of the gymnasium, the team faced the eyes of the cameras and the entire student body augmented by many thousands of persons from South Bend. The gymnasium was jammed to its capac
ity by the crowd. Others crashed against the rafters when each player’s name was mentioned. The appearance of Coach Knute Rockne was the signal for another outburst which eclipsed all previous cheering.
When the crowd had assembled, Timothy Benitz, president of the S. A. C., introduced Adam Walsh, captain of the 1924 national championship eleven. Walsh, now line coach at Yale university, said that when the ’24 team played and were called the “Four Horsemen and Seven Mules” they thought they were pretty good. “However,” he continued, “if they were good then this team of 1930 is marvelous, and they are led by a great man in the person of Captain Tom Conley.”
The next speaker was John Law, captain of the 1929 national champions, who said that the team was beyond his power to praise. The superlatives had been exhausted he said, and therefore he could add nothing to the eulogies which had already been paid to the team.
Fr. O'Donnell Gives Welcome
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, then gave the official welcome to the team. He called them "all America’s choice for All-Americans . . . the University is proud and happy in their success.” He went on to say that although the team may receive great praise from other sources they must return home to receive the full measure of appreciation which the student body alone is able to give. Father O’Donnell next turned to Mr. Rockne, whose mother and wife were in the group surrounding the coach, and said that the history of modern football is largely concerned with the one chapter called “Rockne.” He ended his speech by saying “He’s dur ‘Rock*—God bless him.”
Conley Thanks All
Captain Tom Conley then replied to the president on behalf of the team. He thanked all those who treated
(Continued on Page 355)
PARTIAL TEXT OF FATHER O’DONNELL’S SPEECH OF
WELCOME TO THE TEAM
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in his speech of welcome to the team on Wednesday, said in part:
“Probably some weighty utterance is expected on this occasion. But I don’t know what it should be. I feel just like you do: proud of the team, every man of them, and happy in their unprecedented victories, their unique glory. There were heroes before Agamemnon, and there were great Notre Dame teams in other years. By a happy chance, the captains of two of these other national championship teams are with us today, and I dare say no one of us is prouder or happier in the success of this year’s team than Adam Walsh, captain of ’24, and John Law, captain of ’29. Because, taking football for what it is, a game, and the game of games today, these are the men, these men of 1930, who are the nation’s best, all America’s choice of AllAmericans, perhaps the greatest team that has ever played the game, certainly one whose record the future will read with amazement and admiration and may never equal.
“They are our own. They are Notre Dame. They represent your school and mine. No university in the world but would be proud to claim them. They are students, they are gentlemen. They are heroes of modesty. They win not only games, they win the respect of their opponents and of all who come in contact with them. They have won your respect and affection as they have won mine. They have made for themselves millions of friends in this fair-minded, open-hearted America of ours. But they belong to us first and last and always. And there’s no place like home, no place, I know, where they would rather be appreciated, no place that can give them so full a measure of appreciation as we give them out of our united hearts.
“Captain Conley, you have led a great team to national and historic greatness in the world of college sports. I congratulate you, and in you I congratulate all those men, first
(Continued on Page 346)

The Notre Dame Scholastic	331
TEAM LAUDED AT BANQUET
RISSMAN TROPHY PRESENTED TO NOTRE DAME FOR PERMANENT POSESSION
Entire Squad Praised at The St. Joe Alumni Dinner
BY NEIL C. HURLEY
Another Notre Dame football season passed into the gray haze of athletic history last evening at one of the greatest banquets in the history of American football—the annual St. Joseph Valley Alumni club testimonial to Notre Dame’s football prowess.
Twelve hundred persons were collected in the east wing of the Notre Dame dining halls to pay homage to the team of 1930, to acclaim Knute Rockne, and to laud Notre Dame and her football teams. Major John L. Griffith, commissioner of the Big Ten; “Tug” Wilson of Northwestern; and Alonzo Stagg of Chicago were there to assist with the laudatory exercises. There were others, too—all of them wild in then' lavish praise of this juggernaut of football skill, and of Knute Rockne.
Before this assemblage Professor Frank Dickinson, the dynamic, broadshouldered, curely-haired statistician of Illinois university, presented to Notre Dame permanent possession of the Rissman trophy, which is emblematic of a national championship team three times in one decade.
“I sincerely hope,” he said, “that this trophy will hang forever on the walls of Notre Dame as a tribute to a series of great teams, a tribute to a great coach, and a tribute to a great university.”
It was the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, who struck the note of the evening. In a brilliant address against the reformers of the day, especially those who clamor about the evils of football, Father O’Donnell said in part:
“Surely millions of us are not luna
tics, though there are superior persons who tell us that we are. But never mind. Not all the people who are clamoring for sanity are themselves sane, and most reformers badly need to be reformed. There are so many people in this country rushing in to solve our problem that they themselves have become one of the most serious problems the country has to solve.
“I hope they keep their hands off college football at least a little while longer, and I’m not thinking principally of paying for our new stadium. No, I’m thinking of this levy of young men which football raises out of a group of three thousand young men, endows them with some collective personality which still leaves each man himself and yet makes the group a unit, and embodies in it the hopes and aspirations, the courage, the daring, the hearty good fellowship, the fine good humor of the thousands in the school they represent.”
There were othei' great speakers. Coach Alonzo Stagg received a tremendous ovation when he stood before the microphones. The entire crowd, cheering enthusiastically, rose to their feet in tribute to the “Father of American Athletics.”
“I like Rockne,” began the old master. “He was one year old when I began to coach. But my, what a genius. I take my bow to him and congratulate him on the wonderful record that he and Notre Dame have made.
“But may I interpose a suggestion. If Notre Dame is going to supply all the coaches in the country remember that they must feel their responsibility to Notre Dame, to ‘Rock’ and his best teachings. Notre Dame has an unusual responsibility. You must hold up standards. You want people to say ‘that is admirable.’
“I pray to God that this type of men will come out of this institution —men who are true, men who have
(Continued on Page 351)
NOTRE DAME “LAWYER”
MAKES APPEARANCE
ON CAMPUS
The Notre Dame Lawyer, the publication of the University Law school, made its initial appearance of the year on the campus yesterday. Several new features have been added to the magazine. The number of pages has been increased; a new type of print is being used; and two new departments have been introduced.
Gilbert Keith Chesterton, who recently gave a series of lectures at the University, is featured in a humorous and satirical discussion relating to the operation of American legal machinery. Dean William F. Konop is the author of a history of the College of Law, which seems to be the only complete record of the college, prepared after an exhaustive study of the sources apertaining thereto.
An address by Professor Aaron H. Huguenard, member of the faculty of the Law school, on “Should Indiana Call a Constitutional Convention?” is a discussion on the advisability of any attempt to change the fundamental law of the state.
Professor William Hepburn, a member of the faculty of the University of Alabama, has contributed an analytical discussion of governmental liability in an article entitled “The Liability of the Municipal Corporation For the Negligent Acts of the Independent Street Contractor.”
Concerning “Infant Stockholders,” the general principles of law in this matter are set forth in an article of the same name by Mr. Henry Hooley, a Notre Dame alumnus.
In the second section of the Lawyer are columns devoted to notes and comments on recent cases, legislation and law book reviews proposed by students of the College of Law. The recent dedicatory exercises form a part of the editorial section. Pictures of the new college are to be found in the issue.
Much of the Lawyer is concerned with the recent dedicatory exercises as well as a description of the new home of the lawyers.
332
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About The Campus
----------------------»>
College of Law !
As we sat in Al Stepan’s room in Badin, contentedly munching a piece of rum and toffee flavored caramel, it suddenly occurred to us that he was something like the candy. That there was something in it that made it different from other candies—something more than the rum. It came from Halifax street to grace Mr. Stepan’s study desk, (and incidentally, our palate.) There is something in Al that makes him different from the usual jovial, good-natured, hearty, and yet refined fellow that one meets. Yes, Al is just a trifle different.
Someone once told us that Cardinal Newman could talk on any subject in the world for at least three hours. We believe that, if he let himself, Al could talk on any subject in the world for a half hour. As president of the Spectators, he must necessarily have a bit of versatility, but in a period of fifteen minutes, he can take a member of the Scholastic staff from New York to Los Angeles and back to Arizona, across the seas to England, Italy and Germany, and in that time speak of student-governing schools, Navajo rugs, music, architecture, . chemistry and economics. He is, you will agree, above the ordinary.
Al was born in New Yrork and reared in Los Angeles and Chicago. He was educated in the Francis W. Parker school in Chicago, and matriculated at Notre Dame in 1927. In his freshman year he gained his freshman numerals in swimming. He spent three years on the roster of the Glee club. Last year he was elected to the Spectators, and after a year in that organization, was elected president. He is now learning to appreciate what a chemical engineer has to go through, for he is studying a bit of chemistry as an elective.
Six years ago he worked his way to Europe. Last summer he toured the continent and England alone, making his way as inexpensively as possible. He could, we believe, talk for hours on Italy alone. He likes Italy for many reasons, mostly, we suspect, because of its “color.” He also hopes to see England and France again soon.
Al is a senior in the Arts and Letters college and is majoring in economics. He likes Donn Byrne, but
from the great number of volumes in his room, we would say he likes practically all good books. His favorite game is golf, “The only thing, practically, that ever had me permanently licked.” That is possibly his greatest hobby. He has myriads of others: music, architecture, the legitimate
Alfred C. Stepan
stage, books, cigarettes, and London candy included.
If you don’t know Al, get acquainted with him. He is one of the most likeable fellows we ever met. Certainly he is one of the most interesting. Some one once said of him that he had more practical ideas in ten minutes than one man usually figures out in three hours. That may be beside the question, but if ever you want to take a trip to Europe or to meander around the United States, go talk to Al. Your wish will be granted and it won’t cost you a cent. Besides, there may be a piece of rum and toffee caramel lying about.
VACATION RUMOR FALSE
A rumor is circulating about the campus that the day of departure for the Christmas recess will be changed from Friday, December 19 to Thursday, December 18. According to the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, the rumor is without foundation.
The Honorable Philip La Follette, governor-elect of Wisconsin, was the guest of Dean Konop of the Law school, at a luncheon in the Lay Faculty dining room at no.on, Tuesday, December 9. Other guests at the dinner were Honorable Sam Pettengill, congressman-elect. Joe Stephenson, Larry Harwood, D. Shively, Judge Deahl, S. J. Crumpacker, Former Mayor Eli Seebirt, and Gerald Cosgrove, all of South Bend.
The program of courses for the second semester has been announced to the law students. A new lecture course on Labor laws will be offered by Dean Konop who was a member of the State Industrial Commission of Wisconsin for six years.
Honorable Albert S. Osborne of New York, a life-long friend of Dean Emeritus William Hoynes of the College of Law, donated four volumes of his work on Evidence to the Law library.
A meeting of law teachers of the Association of Law schools will be held at the Stevens hotel in Chicago on December 29, 30, and 31. The majority of the faculty of the College of Law of this University will augment this gathering, according to an announcement received this week.
BREEN MEDAL TRYOUT TO BE HELD EARLY
NEXT WEEK
Preliminary tryouts for the Breen Medal contest will be held next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, December 15-17. Finals will take place soon after the Christmas holidays.
The following men are registered as contestants: Edward Ackerman, Daniel Brennan, Paul A. Fregus, Charles Hanna, Chester Kline, John Logan, Frank McGreal, H. P. Rockwell, William J. Shiels, William M. Whelan, James J. Boyle, and Thomas F. O’Meara.
These contestants are requested to meet with Mr. Coyne Monday at 12:30 in room 408, Main building. At that time he will announce the exact place, time, judges, and other details relating to the tryout.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
333
F ______________________________
3 A Man You Know

Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., is one of the several priests who are newcomers here this year. In the strict sense of the term he is not a newcomer, for he was a member of the administration several years ago. For the last seven years, however, he has been stationed at St. Edward’s university in Austin, Texas, and that absence suffices to make him a newcomer so far as the present student body is concerned.
He was born in South Bend in 1881, and because of this he is acclimated to the variable weather of the Hoosier state and does not inveigh against it. In 1895 he entered the seminary at Notre Dame. After seven years in preparatory school and college he was graduated with the degree of bachelor of arts in 1902, and then he spent a year in the novitiate.
In 1903 he went to Washington, where he remained three years. He studied theology at Holy Cross college, and also studied biology at the Catholic university. Besides, he took a special course in medicine at the medical school of Georgetown university—in his spare time, probably. Returning to Notre Dame, he was ordained in August, 1906. For the next two years he was a prefect in Sorin hall and a teacher of the ’ologies—histology, bacteriology, and physiology.
He was sent to Columbia college, Portland, Oregon, in 1908, and remained there for eight years, working as head of the department of biology. He returned here in 1916, and then for a period of seven years he taught chemistry and botany. In 1917 he took the degree of master of science, specializing in botany. For a while after his return he retained his former post as a prefect in Sorin, but he soon became rector of Carroll hall. A few years later he was appointed rectoi- of the newly-constructed Freshman hall, the Cardboard castle. From 1921 till 1923 he did research work in organic chemistry. Working with Father Nieuwland, he discovered a way of making- oxalic acid from acetylene.
In 1923 he went to St. Edward’s university in Austin, Texas, serving as head of the department of biology
there. He returned to Notre Dame this fall and is now teaching biology, bacteriology, and zoology. He is rector- of St. Edward’s hall, “the finest hall on the campus—boys 100% perfect,” a statement which is accepted with reservations.
Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C.
He took part in all the dramatic productions while he was a student here. John Lane O’Connor, who acted with the famous Otis Skinner, was then in charge of dramatics here. The repertory of the student-actors included Shakesperean plays and such Gilbert-Sullivan dramas as “The Mikado” and “The Chimes of Normandy.” He also belonged to Professor Carmody’s dramatic club. He figured in interhall athletics, running in the half-mile race in which Billy Offendell, who latei- made a new world’s record in that race while a student at Marquette, was also a contestant. He was a speaker in the oratorical and elocutionary contests then, and he remembers how Frank Schwab, the nephew of the financier, nosed out John Corley in one contest by a fraction of a point. He contributed many articles to the Scholastic, and in those days, he remarks, the confusion and bustle in the pressroom when the paper went to press made it conform with the popular idea of a pressroom (as if there were no such confusion today).
At present his favorite indoor sport or hobby is trying to beat Louis Gentili, a student in the hall, at billiards. The task appears to be rather difficult, but we hope that before long he will successfully accomplish it.
FOREIGN STUDENTS’ EXAM ANNOUNCED BY EN-
TRANCE BOARD
Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, has received an announcement from the College Entrance Examination Board of the establishment of an examination in English to test the ability of foreign students desirous of attending American universities. The examination is to be held Wednesday and Thursday, April 15 and 16. Last year the examinations were held at various educational cen-eters throughout the world, including Budapest, Vienna, Munich, Rome, Berlin, Paris, Brussels, Athens, and Naples.
The examination is designed to test the ability of the candidate in: (1) reading and understanding written English; (2) understanding spoken English; (3) writing English intelligibly; (4) expressing himself intelligibly in spoken English.
The College Entrance Examination Board announces that it is well aware that excellent courses in English are given at many educational institutions outside of the United States and the British Empire. If students have pursued such courses and have procured certificates of proficiency in English it would be far from the wishes of the Board to discourage the acceptance of these certificates by American colleges.
It is the hope, however, of those who are most interested in this undertaking that in the absence of satisfactory evidence of proficiency in the English language, American colleges will make use of this examination. The papers written at the examination will be graded by the College Entrance Examination Board and transmitted to the colleges the students wish to enter. The colleges will thus have an opportunity to judge for themselves whether or not the applicants have sufficient mastery of English.
[•Jiiittiitiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii uh iiititiin tut m itimitt □
j NOTICE! 1
; For the convenience of stu- = = dents going home for the Christ- = j mas vacation, the barber shop | ; on the campus will be open next | : Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, i : and Thursday nights until 8:30 | | p. m.	=
Q}*tlllllHII1lll>tHlHHlHIIHHIIIHItttttlt1lllt*tltHIHIttllltHHla]
334
The Notre Dame Scholastic
•j.----------------------------------------------------------------------------*
These dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Dec. 12—Scholastic staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Main building. —Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, gymnasium, 8 p. m.
SATURDAY, Dec. 13—Movie, “Song o’ My Heart,” Washington hall, 6:30 p. m. and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Dec. 14—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—K. of C. begins drive for old clothes for charity.
MONDAY, Dec. 15 — Italian club meeting, Room 2, Walsh hall.—Preliminary try-outs for Breen medal. —Educational Confraternity meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.
TUESDAY, Dec. 16—Pharmacy club meeting, 7:45 p. m., Chemistry hall. —Preliminary try-outs for Breen medal. — Connecticut Valley club and Educational Confraternity pictures for Dome, 12:20, gymnasium. Louisiana-Mississippi club banquet, Rose Marie tea room.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 17—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard “rec” room. — Preliminary try-outs for Breen medal.—Engineers’ club and Grand Rapids club Dome pictures, 12:20, gymnasium.
THURSDAY, Dec. 18 — Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.—Pacific Northwest club Dame pictures, 12:20, gymnasium. — Commerce Forum meeting, 7:30 p. m., old Law building.
SPANISH CLUB MEETING
The regular meeting of the Spanish club was held last Tuesday. Mr. Petrillo and Mr. Godoy read papers of interest to the club members.
Mr. Martinez, professor in the language department, and sponsor of the club, gave a talk on the political situation of England at the time of Queen Elizabeth, defending Mary, Queen of Scots. Pamphlets containing the history of many Spanish cities were distributed and the club members will read papers on these pamphlets in future meetings.
FR. MOLONY ANNOUNCES SULLIVAN SCHOLARSHIPS
The Committee on Scholarships and Prizes will award the Roger C. Sullivan scholarship for the current scholastic year, 1930-1931, in January. The young men who make application for the prizes must have been students during the school year 1929-1930, because the semester grades of that year will be used in determining which young man has shown the greatest improvement in his academic work during the year. To be eligible to apply for the prizes, the applicant must have entered the sophomore, junior or senior class of the current year without a condition or failure.
Application for a scholarship must be made in writing before December 19th to the Chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes. The scholarships follow:
(1)	A scholarship of §250.00 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present sophomore class whose grades, in comparison with those of other sophomore applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1929-1930.
(2)	A scholarship of $250.00 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present junior class whose grades, in comparison with those of other junior applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1929-1930.
(3)	A scholarship of $250.00 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present senior class whose grades, in comparison with those of .other senior applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1929-1930.
NEW CLUB ORGANIZED
The Foreign Commerce club, organized recently by Professor Herbert J. Bott, has elected J. F. Sinkule as its president for the year. The purpose of the new club, according to Mr. Bott, is to give the commerce men a knowledge of current events concerning their work, knowledge of which could not be supplied adequately by their texts. The meetings of the club are to be held as seminars with certain men presenting papers at each gathering. Outside speakers will also be invited to address the students.
ANNUAL HOOSIER SALON TO OPEN JAN. 24
The seventh annual Hoosier Salon will open this year as usual in the Marshall Field picture galleries on Saturday, January 24, continuing-through Saturday, February 7, 1931. Prizes worth approximately $4,650 will be distributed. Tentative prizes totaling $500 are under consideration.
In addition to the regular exhibition rooms, there will be a feature room this year consisting of invited entries in oil painted by former prize-winning artists at recent Hoosier Salons. No picture in the entire collection in this room will be priced at more than $200 and many will be priced at less. This feature room is presented this year in answer to a call during previous salons for moderate priced pictures. Every artist will be permitted to send the usual amount of entries but the pictures in this room will be an additional feature.
The Hoosier Salon Patrons association offers a picture worth at least $200 to the city or town in Indiana that furnishes the largest number of patrons who pay $10 annual dues, pro rata with the population. This enables a small town to have an equal opportunity with a large one. The picture will be selected by a committee appointed by the townspeople, usually by the patron membership of that town. If they desire, they may be assisted by an outstanding Chicago artist in making the selection. The picture may be then placed in some school building, library or other pub- • lie place in the town which wins it. Any information in regard to this contest may be obtained at the Hoosier Art Gallery, 211 W. Wacker drive, Chicago, Illinois.
MUSIC NOTES
Quite naturally, the football band was much in evidence at the annual football banquet last night. Its presence did much to insure victory all through the season. The band made two trips: one to Evanston for the Northwestern game, and another to Chicago for the Army game.
Contrary to previous announcements, the full football band will be retained throughout the year; no further cuts will be made. A concert program and other engagements are being considered by Professor Joseph Casasanta for the second semester.
a
/a
The Notre Dame Scholastic
335
EDITOR HALLINAN ANNOUNCES IMPROVEMENTS FOR 1931 "DOME"
---------------------
Engineering Notes
New Ideas to be Introduced Into Feature Sections
Further announcements concerning the 1931 Dome were made yesterday by Paul J. Hallinan, editor of the yearbook. The main points mentioned dealt with new ideas that are being introduced into the various feature sections. The football section, the junior class picture section, the hall histories, and the campus clubs are to recive most of the editor’s attention.
Grid Section Novel
An important part of the success that came to the Dome of 1930 was due to the excellence of the football feature section. Again this year the grid section is to receive much consideration, and already a novel plan for the handling of this material is well under way. The nation-wide attention that has been centered on the Irish will be featured, supplemented by sketches, individual pictures, and action-shots of interest.
The junior picture section of the current Dome will undoubtedly be popular because of the improvements in photography. Panels of clear pictures made by the White studios of New York will catch the reader’s eye as he leisurely thumbs through this section; the names and home-cities of the third-year men will be set along the border of the page. More than 450 names and faces will be included.
According to arrangements made with a committee of the club presidents, the geographical clubs will be taxed a proportionate sum for their

EDITORIAL CLASS HEARS
TRIBUNE WRITER
Gerald Cosgrove, editorial writer of the South Bend Tribune, spoke before the members of Dr. John M. Cooney’s editorial class last Tuesday morning.
Mr. Cosgrove traced the editorial’s growth in the modern newspaper and its importance at the present time as a medium of interest. The speaker also stated that his paper will print any worthy editorials written by members of the class.
space in the Dome. However, a substantial reduction has been made from the rates that were asked last year. On the pages reserved for clubs with a membership of more than twenty, a view of the city represented, or of some scene from the state will appear. The roster of each club, as recorded by the secretary, will also be included on the page.
Photography AU Completed
The men after whom halls were named are being honored in the residence division of the volume. Fathers Sorin and Corby, Judge Howard, Professor Lyons, and others, will identify each hall with the colorful past of the University.
Even at this early date practically all of the juniors and seniors have been photographed. This has been made possible by a new, systemized schedule of sittings that was strictly carried out. Credit should also be given to the White studios for their excellent cooperation. The few seniors who missed the photographer are to have the work done at the McDonald studio in South Bend before the Christmas holidays, as that is the absolute deadline.
Editor Hallinan says that good work by all the members of the Dome staff, together with cooperation from the graduate and faculty management of publications, has simplified the work thus far, and that everything- is pointing- to an interesting Dome.
e	NOTICE!	j
E Tuesday, December 16, is ab- i E solutely the last day to return e = Dome proofs. Those who have f E not returned then- proofs by 1 E that time will not be included j E in the 1931 Dome. All proofs e E should be returned to Thomas = = Monahan, 345 Sorin hall, on any e : afternoon except Monday, Wed- 1 1 nesday, and Friday from 2 p. m. | E to 3 p. m. The K. C. room in i E Walsh hall is no longer open to e E receive proofs.	e
Eleven members of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers made an inspection trip to the Western Electric ' plant in Chicago last Monday. The party left South Bend at six in the morning and arrived at the plant at nine.
After inspecting several of the buildings, luncheon was served at the company restaurant. The remainder of the plant was visited in the afternoon. The numerous labor-saving devices for mass production were seen in the main plant.
The trip was arranged through the courtesy of Mr. G. Kane, an alumnus of the University, who has been responsible for many cost reduction devices now in use at the plant.
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the A.I.E.E. was held last Tuesday evening in Chemistry hall.
Mr. William Brady, of the General Electric Company, spoke on welding. He outlined the various processes and gave the modem aspects of electric arc welding.
Several student papers were also presented at the meeting.
CHICAGO CLUB WILL HOLD CHRISTMAS FORMAL
Plans are rapidly nearing completion for the annual Chicago club formal dance which will be held this year in the Balloon and Gold rooms of the Congress hotel on December 30.
Two of the foremost orchestras of the middle west, Johnny Hamp and his Kentucky Serenaders, who have recently returned from a six months engagement in the Kit Kat club of London, and “Tweet” Hogan and his Melodians, will play the program of dances which will last from 9 till 1 a. m. Stanley Nowatarski is chairman of the affair and is being assisted in the arrangement by President Dick McShane, Walter Kelly, and Edward B. Ryan.
The dance this year is. expected to be one of the most successful affairs in the club’s annals. All men remaining on the campus for the holidays are cordially invited to attend the dance. Invitations may be procured from President Dick McShane in Sorin hall.
336	The Notre Dame Scholastic
RADIO INDUSTRY SEEKS PROMISING ENGINEERS FOR VARIOUS BRANCHES
« Glances at the Magazines »
R. C. A. Victor Company Organizes Personnel Department.
The radio industry, growing and expanding apace, is ever in need of new blood, especially in its engineering branches. With this need in mind, the RCA Victor Company at Camden, N. J., has organized an engineering personnel staff whose sole duty is to keep a constant lookout for promising-students and to train accepted candidates in right methods of thinking and working.
The importance of the engineering department cannot be too strongly stressed, according to Mr. E. E. Shumaker, president of the RCA Victor Company. Mr. Shumaker pointed out the fact that it is from discoveries and improvements made by the engineers that the radio industry draws the breath of its future industrial life. Any company that wishes to forge ahead, to pioneer in new devices and new features, must look for men with new ideas and engineering vision.
A college graduate, on entering the employ of RCA Victor Company, in addition to filling out the usual forms, is listed on an employee rating sheet, which lists the following:
Technical ability, inventive ability and resourcefulness, analytical ability, judgment, initiative, economic viewpoint, industry, accuracy, and neatness, personality, executive ability and leadership.
“This list,” said Mr. Shumaker, “is as coldly impersonal as a surgeon’s knife and has been designed solely to discover variations from the average in the applicant’s ability—thus making it possible to encourage the unusual talent and correct deficiencies in those whose chart rates them below normal.”
Every student entering the RCA Victor Company’s employ is required to spend two months in each of six different sections (including service shops), before he is given a more permanent assignment. During his second yeai’ his time is divided into two six months assignments, both of which may be spent in the same section. At the end of this second year he may indicate a preference for a permanent location in some section where vacancies exist.
Scrip, our literary quarterly, made its initial appearance of the year recently; and while its quality is very high, it has, we think, one serious fault. As the only organ of expression for the campus writers, its content should be much greater than it is. It is a very thin issue; its features are too few. Surely a more substantial Seri]) might be expected here at Notre Dame where the spirit of letters, the literary and cultural influences are so intense, where there is such a splendid course in English, where day after day there are handed in at the various classes themes of unusual merit. Of course the editors are not to blame; they must rely on contributions. And many more contributions should be, and easily could be, sent in. Formerly, when the Scholastic published all literary work of the campus, there appeared each week as much creative writing almost as there is in Scrip, which is issued only each quarter. Certainly we do not advocate quantity at the expense of quality; we merely say that the quality could be maintained, and the quantity increased. Four such issues of Scrip would not leave a very satisfactory record of a year’s literary activity at Notre Dame.
Mr. Heitger’s article on Chesterton, Mr. Brennan’s short story, and the poetry (especially Father Thornton’s) are excellent.
In the Atlantic Monthly Dean Inge is still talking' about the Lambeth conference and birth control. Probably the most sincere rebuttal to the Dean’s concept of morality was made a short time ago by his own wife who openly denounced his popular notions of the moral law.
Lord Eustace Percy, former president of the Brutish Board of Education, explains in his article, “Gentlemen—The British Empire!”, the new British imperialism, changing attitudes evident in England’s policy toward her colonies and dominions, and the decline of the narrow-minded insistence on English superiority that characterized colonial policy in the time of Victoria. The part played by Mr. Ghandi and his troublesome
(because self-respecting) Indians in effecting this change is described.
Another interesting feature in the Atlantic Monthly is to be found in the “Contribtors’ Club” department, and is titled, “A Heathen Goes to Mass.” Here is eloquent tribute to the moving influence of the Church’s ritual—at Christmas Mass especially. The author is “a heathen”; he is not persuaded, but he is impressed. He says, “To begin our holiday fittingly, we have for years gone on Christmas Eve to midnight Mass. To be among hundreds of people of all colors and races, of all walks of life, who are drawn together by a common emotion, a common faith, is to be at once in harmony with the Christmas mood.”
“Hew to the Line, let the quips fall where they may” is the text of Mr. R. H. Little’s daily column in the Chicago Tribune. And thick and fast do the quips fall in “The Linebook,” Mr. Little’s annual anthology of what has appeared in his column. There are a limited number of copies of this popular booklet at Bill Kirby’s news stand in the cafeteria. The gay humor and witty sallies, the satires and burlesques, the light and serious verses of “The Line” are unfailingly amusing.
Thomas H. Dickinson, editor of Chief American Dramatists, says in the December Current History that the modern American theatre may be credited with two great accomplishments: “On the business side it has applied to the fields of amusement the principles of standardized production and systematized distribution ... On the side of art it has adapted the system of the artist guild under which the creative forces of the theatre free themselves from the domination of the box-office by pooling their resources and strength.” The pres-tence in the theatre of so much poor work and of so much obscenity he attributes to the small business men who lack both artistic conscience and standards of enlightened business principles, and cater to what they suppose is popular demand.
« Music And Drama »
The Notre Dame Scholastic	337
CATHOLIC STUDENTS’ CRUSADE SPEAKERS TO BE CHOSEN IN CONTEST

South Bend turned out in full force last week for “The Chinese Bungalow” with Walker Whiteside. The play is hardly worthy of the elaborate production it received, for it is regular old melodrama and not extremely good melodrama at that. Mr. Whiteside was in one of his favorite roles, that of a Chinaman, and played it well. Franc Hale, Yuan Sing’s wife, had her acting overshadowed by her beauty, for which she may thank her lucky stars. Not that she was bad, but not that she was good either. Helen Tucker did very well in a melodramatic role although at times she was a little too theatrical in the delivery of her lines. If she had not used all her tricks all the time they would have been more effective when needed. The settings were beautiful and conveyed the desired effect of the Orient.
The audience that night was the most restless one we have ever sat in, and as for intelligence—well, you may imagine our astonishment when we saw a man step on a woman’s neck in trying to climb over a row of seats in the dark. He had returned late from the intermission, and there were four vacant seats to choose from in the row he first entered. Several ladies behind us kindly explained the intricacies of the plot as the play developed, and on the way out of the theater we overheard one high school teacher remark that “Street Scene” was “so lovely and romantic.” 0 culture, what crimes . . .
Most of you probably know what the Chicago critics said about Philip Barry’s latest play, “Hotel Universe.” You also know that it is a psychological play; that it is presented without intermissions; and that the Goodman theater gave a beautiful performance of it. Anyway, all this is commented on in next week’s Juggler, and you may supplement these few words with that review. (Adv.)
Barry uses Einstein’s theory of relativity to demonstrate and prove his theme. It is generally known and accepted that no more than twelve men can understand Mr. Einstein’s theory, and just as generally accepted that Mr. Barry is not one of those twelve. He uses the theory rather
convincingly, however, as did John Balderston in his “Berkeley Square,” a play on much the same theme as “Hotel Universe” but very differently handled. Barry concerns himself with the significant truth that the most important element in our lives, for good or evil, is some illusion we are cherishing. His characters are an interesting group of people staying at a house in southern France, who have worked themselves into a dangerous mental fuddle because they either over-emphasize or overlook some incident in their past life. Since there is no such thing as Time, they all live ■ over these incidents while under the influence of the house and an old man supposed to be slightly insane. The play is well worked out; the dramatic effect is sharp; and an air of verisimilitude is achieved and sustained.
Barry has written some of his delicious patter for which he is well known into “Hotel Universe,” although the lines of “You and I” and “Holiday” are still supreme for their spontaneity and point. On hearing them one is reminded of Oscar Wilde, whose epigrams and aphorisms are deeper and more clever; in fact, are so deep and clever that they would never in the wide world be said by real, ordinary people in conversation. Not so with Barry; he is as true to life in his own way as is Peter Arno in his, though perhaps not so adroit and certainly not so bitter.
Even if “Hotel Universe” were not worthwhile—and we think it is—it is interesting, and we suspect that it will have an influence on contemporary drama, for it shows the dramatic value to be found in the theory of relativity.
□
NOTICE!
| John R. Blanda, local circula- e 1 tion manager of the Scholas- e : TIC, announces that all those E E who do not receive their Scho- E E lastics on any Friday after- i E noon for any reason should re- e E port the matter to him either at e = the Publications office in the E E Main building, or at 333 Walsh z E hall.	1
Student speakers for the seventh national convention of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade, to be held at Niagara university, June 29 to July 2, will be chosen in a nationwide contest which was launched with an announcement from the national headquarters at the Crusade Castle, today.
Twelve speakers will be chosen for the “divisional meetings” of the convention, four from each of the following groups: seminarists, college students and high school students. Subjects assigned for discussion in each of the groups are the following: (1) The Crusade’s general program of mission education; (2) meeting programs; (3) graduate members; (4) relations of the Crusade with diocesan and national mission agencies.
Speakers chosen in the contest will have their convention fees paid by the national headquarters of the Crusade and trophies will be awarded to the schools which they represent. In addition, the names of the successful contestants will be printed in the official convention program and in a bulletin which will be sent to the entire membership of the Crusade a month before the convention.
The contest will close Holy Saturday (April 4) at noon. Papers of contestants must be sent either to the Crusade castle in Cincinnati or to the local diocesan directors, who will forward them to the national headquarters.
JUNIOR PIN COMMITTEE
HEADED BY DONOGHUE
Vincent Cavanaugh, junior class president, has announced that Leonard Donoghue, of the College of Arts and Letters, has been selected to head the committee which will select the junior class pins. Donoghue and his committee will inspect the offerings of the numerous makers of class insignia, and will make a final selection sometime before February. The following men form the pin committee: Richard Sullivan, Walsh hall; Charles Fogarty, Off-Campus; Paul O’Toole, Morrissey; Frank Reilly, Lyons; George Maywait, Corby; Robert Law, Walsh; John Scanlon, Badin.
338
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
❖-------------------------❖
“From what campus organization, to which you belong, do you derive the greatest benefit, or ivhat organization, if you were a member of it, would benefit you the most?”
James E. Uprichard, Walsh hall, sophomore—“I think I would derive the greatest pleasure and benefit from the glee club because this organization gives one an opportunity to develop natural talent. I would also appreciate the added inducement of visiting the various cities on the glee club itinerary. Another benefit would be derived from the contact both with members of the club and such persons as we would chance to meet.”
Walter R. Ridley, Sorin hall, senior—“Being, as I think, a member in good standing of the Cleveland club, I feel that I derive the greatest benefits from that club. The benefit of which I speak is the fact that I am now a club member, whereas, previous to my joining the Cleveland club, I was just a student-at-large. However, I am more than grateful for the many friendships I have formed among the members of the club.”
William J. Sullivan, Walsh hall, senior—“I believe that a Notre Dame student derives most benefit from the club which represents that city in which he intends to live. The young men of the club form lasting friendships which are of inestimable benefit to them later in business as well as in social life. In my own case this would be the Chicago club.”
Joseph S. Hanratty, Brownson hall, freshman—“The Wranglers, because of the benefits derived from the club in the matter of self-expression. The training you receive from the . club aids you in choosing the proper word at the proper moment. This training proves its usefulness in later life when we face the business world alone, where the art of self-expression is most important.”
Hobart P. Shean, Walsh hall, senior—“In my opinion the greatest benefit would be derived from the S. A. C. Some members of this body are
FLYING HOME FOR XMAS
THE THING THIS YEAR
Lengthening the Christmas vacation period by flying home seems to be the thing this year, according to R. W. Ireland, general traffic manager of National Air Transport, Inc. who reports that numerous inquiries concerning air passenger service east from Chicago have been received from midwestern college and university students. N. A. T. flies passengers and mail between Chicago, Toledo, Cleveland and New York.
An N. A. T. plane leaves the Chicago airport at 9:30 a. m., a six and a half hour flight to New York, with intermediate stops at Toledo and Cleveland. Every afternoon there is a plane scheduled out of Chicago which arrives in Cleveland at 7:30 in the evening. This plane makes connections with fast trains to New York, Boston, Washington and other eastern points. Trains from the west and northwest into Chicago make connections with the N. A. T. morning plane to the east.
New type tri-motored planes with a high-speed of 152 miles an hour and carrying eight passengers and 1,000 pounds of mail are flown on the Chicago-New York line.
WALTON SPEAKS BEFORE PRESS CLUB
Robert W. Walton, city editor of the South Bend Tribune, was the principal speaker at the regular bi-monthly meeting of the Press club held Tuesday evening in the journalism room of the University library.
Mr. Walton spoke informally of his experiences as city editor of the Tribune and gave a few sidelights on some of the leading news incidents in South Bend during the past few months.
Preceding the main speaker John Sheehan, a senior in the College of journalism, gave a dissertation on, “Sensationalism and the .Hearst Newspapers.” John Hartman was chairman of the meeting.
called upon to perform important and worthwhile duties which will undoubtedly be beneficial to them. Others, in the course of their duties, meet important people and make valuable contacts. All the members have to shoulder responsibilities which form a worthwhile training.”
FR. WALSH ADDRESSES
K.OF C.ON FOOTBALL HISTORY HERE
Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., former president of the University, addressed the Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame council 1477, in their council chambers in Walsh hall, December 9. He spoke on past football history at Notre Dame and related an interesting series of incidents about former Notre Dame teams. His talk was appreciated by the seventy-five knights assembled for the meeting.
The business at the meeting for the most part was concerned with the appointment of committees to conduct the annual old clothes drive of the council, and another to discuss the possibility of the council staging a minstrel show or a circus. The members of the latter committee are:. Vernon Knox, chairman, assisted by Joe Deeb, Joe Kennedy, Leonard Donoghue, Frederick Fayett, and William Taylor.
It was decided to present a gift to Grand Knight Louis Buckley in honor of his coming marriage to Miss Pauline Christenson of Mishawaka, Ind. The marriage will take place Dec. 27 in the log chapel.
“DOME” CLUB SECTION RATES REDUCED
At the meeting of the President’s club held last week the question of the club section in the Dome was discussed. For a group picture the Dome officials set the price at $20 for clubs with a large membership and $10 for clubs with a smaller membership. Th's was considered too much, and President Joseph Deeb of the council appointed a committee consisting of the following members: Robert Massey of the New Jersey club, Edward Cunningham of the Metropolitan club, Richard O’Donnell of the Pittsburgh club, and James Griffin of the Physical Education club to take up the matter with the yearbook men. The two groups met and the Dome set new prices of $16 for clubs with a membership over 20 and $9.50 for clubs under this number. The plan is to figure on the number of men in the club by the number in the picture. This idea will keep some from having their photos in the Dome three or four times.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
339
LADIES’ HOME JOURNAL ANNOUNCES PRIZE CONTEST
Announcement has come to the Scholastic from the Ladies’ Home Journal that a prize short story contest sponsored by that magazine is open only to undergraduates in American colleges and universities. This contest has two features: there will be a $l,0C0 prize award for the best short story of from 5,000 to 7,000 words in length, and another prize of $500 for the best short short story of 1,200 to 2,500 words. Students graduating at the end of this first term are considered eligible. The Ladies’ Home Journal reserves the right to buy at its regular rates any story submitted in the contest which does not win the prize but which does deserve to be printed.
All short short stories must be submitted before midnight of February 1, and all short stories before midnight of March 1. The winning short short story will be published in the June issue of the Journal, and the winning short story in the July issue, double-spacing.
There is no limit to the number of stories that may be submitted. However, each story must be mailed in a separate envelope, must be typed on only one side of the paper, with double-spacing.
The judges of the contest will be the editor-in-chief of the Ladies’ Home Journal, Mr. Loring A. Schuler, and two prominent short story writers whose names are not yet announced.
The title of the story submitted should be in the center at the top of the first page, the author’s name, address, college, and class at the left, and the number of words at the right. Manuscripts should be mailed to the Contest Editor, Ladies’ Home Joitrnal, Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
SEMESTER GRADES MAILED
The bulletins of the past semester grades were mailed to the homes of the students last Wednesday, according to the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
NOTICE!	|
= Because of the coming Christ- | f mas vacation, the Scholastic : I will not be published next week, j I The first number after the holi- j = days will be the Jan. 9th issue. =
FR. CAVANAUGH GIVES
THIRD FROSH LECTURE
The third section of nine lectures to the freshmen was delivered last week by the Reverend Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., The topic, as announced in an earlier issue of the Scholastic, was the “Art of Citizenship.” The address centered about the fact that “honesty, obedience, justice and interest are the qualities which tend to make a sensible and law-abiding citizen.”
Father Cavanaugh, as a professor of sociology, was able to give the freshmen a comprehensive view of the laws that bind in conscience, as compared to those which are due the state.
Most people, according to the speaker, observe only those laws which appeal to their most particular taste, and more or less neglect those that do not harmonize with their own ideas. Father Cavanaugh showed the absurdity of this by stating that nearly all laws bind in conscience and people must obey them all.
As a final thought Father Cavanaugh stressed the fact that defects from within threaten civilization and not criticisms from without.
RIORDAN INVITED TO JOIN SCIENCE SOCIETY
Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, has received an invitation to join the American Association for the Advancement of Science and associated societies. All who are interested in any phase of the advancement of knowledge are eligible for enrollment.
Mr. Riordan has also been invited to attend the annual meeting of the association to be held in Cleveland, beginning the week of December 29 and ending January 3, 1931. The meeting this year will be held in conjunction with about forty scientific societies and the sessions will be devoted to practically all the branches of scientific work. There will be an exhibition of scientific apparatus, books on science and products of research.
The association offers the most efficient means whereby individuals, scientific societies, and institutions may unite to hasten the growth of scientific knowledge and increase public appreciation of what people and nation owe to science and wbat may be expected of science in the future.
COLLEGE STUDENTS TO
DISCUSS UNEMPLOYMENT
Students from two-score eastern colleges and universities will gathei-at the Union Theological seminary in New York City, on December- 29 and 30, to consider from various angles the problem of unemployment, its causes and possible cures. The League for Industrial Democracy, 112 East 19th street, will sponsor the conference which will bring together leading authorities in the field of economics and sociology as speakers and discussion leaders.
The first session of the New York conference, to be held at 10:00 a. m., Monday, December 29, will hear Benjamin Marsh, executive director of the People’s lobby, and Clinch Calkins, author of “Some Folks Won’t Work,” discuss the extent and effects of unemployment. Howard Westwood of Columbia will preside. The afternoon session, at 2:00 p. m., will hear A. J. Muste, dean of the faculty of Brookwood Labor college, and Colston E. Warne, of Amherst, on “Types and Causes of Unemployment.”. Charlotte Tuttle of Vassar will be in the chair.
Having canvassed the causes, extent and types of unemployment, on Tuesday the conference will turn its attention to a consideration of “Immediate Remedies for Unemployment.” Charlotte E. Carr, industrial consultant of the Charities Organization society, and Dr. Harry W. Laidler, co-director, with Mr. Thomas, of the League, will be the speakers. At the afternoon session, beginning at 2:00 p. m., Paul Blanshard, writer and executive director of the City Affairs committee, and Mrs. Harriot Stanton Blatch will discuss “A New Society Where Economic Security Is Assured.” Joel Seidman of Johns Hopkins will preside at the morning session, while Martha Stanley of Smith will preside at the afternoon meeting. William Melish, and Riva Stocker of Vassar will lead the discussion at the afternoon session.
□ lltltiiilllltiilliiiiniiitttliiillltliilltllltiilllllilllliillllitllilH
I NOTICE! I
i There will be a meeting of | | the Scholastic staff this Fri- j i day evening at seven o’clock in = i the Publications Office. All i 1 members are required to attend, i
[■IiiitititiiiitttMiiiiitiiiitiiiMtiiiiiiiilHuiiiHiiittiiiittaiimitQJ
340
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Force back a tear For Saul McBevin— On Southern Cal At ten to seven.
National champs . . . Whew! What a relief to settle down to a nice, quiet basketball season . . . Mr. Chesterton’s two drawings for the Juggler's Christmas number1 . . . Don Sullivan, the school’s most obliging hasher, telling that he and G. K. C. contribute to the same publication now ... A junior asked a freshman how his radio was working . . . First-year gent replied, “Great! I can get ‘Three Little Words’ from any station” . . . He’s not getting his money’s worth if he can’t bring in the Polish hour on WSBT ... Or didn’t hear Tom Ashe help Ernie Smith broadcast the Southern Cal game . . . Our prediction—Thornton and Phelan will bring down the house in “Twelfth Night” . . . Here’s hoping all the long stockings stay up . . . Just when we forced a closed season on Army week-end stories, the fellows next door have to come back from the S. C. trip . . . And the Christmas vacation is almost upon us . . . More yarns after it’s over . . . There’s no rest for the weary . . . From the bleary.
METAPHOR-. FOR E--------
Wing-flashes 'gainst a leaden sky . . . .
Recurring thoughts of you
Are flashes on my
Spirit's leaden hue.
........One pigeon, winging high.
—Dook.
Well, the clubs that sent night letters encouraging the fellows on the team last week should feel the rosy glow of deeds well done. Even if, after walking back through the slush from the telegraph office, the club secretaries found postcards from Tucson, reading: “Eighty-six in the shade out here today. We’re walking around town in our shirt-sleeves. Wish you were here.”
THE BLIND MAN AND THE SINNER
High, high up was the chapel-tower, And close upon the even hour When the sun relinquishes its smile, A beggar blind came tapping doivn the aisle And knelt before the Holy Place.
He blessed himself with a furrotved hand, (All his strength the move seemed to demand) And stowly towered his aged face, Then upon the dead hush of the air, Brief and sad came his only prayer:
“Dear God, I ask ... a favor ... of Thee: Please give back . . . my eyes . . . my sight to me.”
Then came a hard, decisive sound, Like a leather heel that strikes the ground;
(And in that sacred place 'twas strange and neiv) A virile youth came striding by each pew And knelt before the altar rail.
He looked forlorn there in the aisle:
His eyes were clear, but held no smile, And his face was oddly pale.
He blessed himself in the queerest way, And his prayer was—Oh! ’tis strange to say: “Dear God, I ask ... a favor ... of Thee: Please give back . . . my eyes . . . my sight to me!”
—Deirdre.
Yea, bo! Now it’s all over, even the shouting and scouting, but the 456 All-American teams, the Football Review, the sale of national championship blankets, pennants, and stickers, the football banquet, and the stories to the folks at home during the holidays about how Marchy Schwartz once said “Hello, fellows” to you and sixteen others who were standing at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle, waiting for a street car.
TO A NEWSBOY
Newsboy! Newsboy! with your dog and your teasing, With your healthy, merry grin, And your noisy, boyish din;
Whose boy? Newsboy! with your rags and your freezing? Newsboy! Newsboy! with your tricks and your capers, With your careless, happy smiles, And your clever, roguish wiles;
Whose boy? Neivsboy! with your pack and your papers?
Following the lead of other such great columnists as Coolidge, Cook, and Brisbane, we have become duly alarmed over prosperity and the depression. A depression on the campus at this time of year would undoubtedly be fatal, even with the weather what it is at the time we write this. We have therefore at great expense and inconvenience wired pep messages to prominent campus personalities for their most optimistic opinions on the situation. The replies, all sent collect because of hard times, follow:
Charles F. (“Good-time Charlie”) Woods: “Good times are coming. The trouble is that people are not spending their money. If anyone who has any money to spend will report to my room in Walsh, good times, or even just one good time, will surely follow.”
Vai Martin, mailman extraordinary: “Prosperity is just around the corner. As soon as I find out which corner I shall reply at more length.”
Paul Frederick Grant: “Times were never better. The country is peaceful, prosperous and contented. I see no cause for complaint. Can you lend me five till Easter?”
—The Beamy Bard.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
341
COLLEGE PARADE
---WE’RE NOT SO BAD OFF---
Our Meals Aren’t So Bad
At Commonwealth college, down in the Ozark mountains of Arkansas, the students raise sixty percent of the food they eat. They do their own cooking and wash their dishes. They have a student laundry in which they wash their own clothes. (I don’t believe there is any dry cleaning done.) They have even built the twenty buildings that comprise the campus.
. . . And Neither Is Our Team
The Villanovan, weekly publication of Villanova college, suggests that the theme song of the University of Pennsylvania is “I still get a chill thinking of Brill.”
. . . And No “Dome” Hieroglyphics
Ka Palapala is the name of the yearbook of the University of Hawaii. The editors assert that their yearbook will be original and different. They have made a great start with that gargling title, but Dome suits us.
And We Aren’t Ga-Ga Yet
At Princeton university the junior class has the rare privilege of being the only class allowed to play marbles. The poor seniors have to be content with their privilege of spinning tops.
. . . And Our “Scrip” Gets Along
The Boston university Beacon, literary magazine of the campus, passed out out of existence last month. Five issues of the magazine were issued, with total sales of 150. The editors considered that such support from a university of 7,000 enrollment did not warrant continuance of a literary magazine. The business editors bemoaned the fact that Boston university did not pay for a university advertisement that appeared in the Beacon.
. . . And So Does’The “Juggler”
Co-eds of the University of Chicago have refused to subscribe to the Chicago Phoenix, the university’s humorous magazine, because of a “co-ed diary,” which appeared in the last issue., And the co-eds weren’t alone in their indignation. The faculty threatened to abolish the Phoenix if it contained “obscene” material in the future.
... Stanford Co-eds Would Be Content Here
The fair ones of Stanford university have protested against the dirty cords worn by the men students. They claim that the chairs in the lecture halls are so dirty aftc.? one sitting of a corduroy, that dry cleaning bills are presenting a real economic problem.
. . . Badin Lake Isn’t The Worst
The recent Southern rains got together with the bad drainage of the Emory university campus last week. Result: the new Emory lake. Emory students are rejoicing that finally their college has a watery expanse to rival Oglethorpe lake, on the campus of their rival college. We haven’t heard any rejoicing here because Badin lake is with us again. Maybe we don’t appreciate the natural beauties of our campus.
. . . “The Wink” Wouldn’t Do This
The Holy Cross Tomahawk,'™ a moment of weakness, published this piece of verse:
“My analyze over the ocean, My analyze over the sea. Oh bring back, bring back, Oh bring back my anatomy!”
Which makes us all the happiei- that our Beamy Bard still has control of his faculties.
. . . Our Police Aren’t So Bad
A new rule at the University of Omaha provides that all students under eighteen years of age will be locked up if found on the streets after nine in the evening. We have not yet found where they will lock up the minors.
. . . And We Can Have Our Butts
Students at the University of Southern California are prohibited from smoking on the campus by their student council. There can be no smoking on the campus at any time or at any place. Besides, the Southern Cal. campus is supposed to be one of the largest in the country. Question No. 1: “Did they smoke at the game last Saturday?” Question No. 2: “How long would the members of our student council live if they passed that rule at N. D.?”
. . . And We Birdie The “Stein Song”
Both Tulane university and Temple university are rejoicing that the sweet boy, Rudy Vallee, will warble their alma maters over- the radio in the near future. There must be a growing dislike for college songs by collegians; or else, why do they allow that melody-murderer to sing them out of existence?
. . . We Have Only A. A. Books, But . . .
At the University of Michigan, students must wear tags to class for identification purposes. They are used for the same purpose as our A. A. pictures: to stop crashing. But the tags at Michigan are intended to stop the crashing of classes, not football games. We hope they have better luck than we did. Added question: “Who ever wanted to crash a class, anyway?”
. . . Even The Blue Circle Has Its Points
Frosh of the University of Colorado who disobey regulations in regard to walking on the grass, smoking on the campus, and not wearing their green lids, are taken in hand by the upperclassmen and tossed into the campus lake. A mere handful of 156 have taken the water treatment this fall.
. . . And We’re At Least Modest
The Tulane Hullabaloo and the Chi Tribune have one attribute in common—modesty. The Trib flaunts its well-known boast: “The World’s Greatest Newspaper,” while the Hullabaloo quietly infonns us that it’s “The Greatest College Weekly.” The shy, modest, assuming Scholastic bows its head, and merely murmurs “Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus.” (Translated by Hallinan as meaning: “Live as if you had died yesterday.”)
342
The Notre Dame Scholastic
< AMI I J CLUDJ
HERE THEY ARE
The big event of the year for nearly every club on the campus is its annual Christmas dance. Below is a ' list of all the clubs that will have dances during the holidays, when and where they will hold them, whose orchestra will play, what time the dance will be held, and how much it will cost.
Akrox Club—January 3, University club, University Revellers, 10 to 2, $5.00.
Anthracite Club—December 26, Century club (Scranton, Pa.), Sid Campbell and his orchestra, 10 to 2, $3.50.
Auburn Club—December 25, Osborne hotel (Pompeian room), Larry Harrington’s orchestra, 10 to 3, $3.50.
Buffalo Club—December 30, Hotel Statler (Terrace room), Shea’s Buffalo theater stage band, 10 to 2, $3.50.
Calumet Club—December 30, Gary hotel (Gary,, Ind.), $3.00.
Chicago Club—December 30, Congress hotel (Balloon and Gold rooms), Tweet Hogan’s and Johnny Hamp’s orchestras, 9:30 to 2:30, $5.00.
Cleveland Club — December 29, Mid-Day club, Jack Chapman’s orchestra, 10 to 3, $5.00.
Connecticut Valley Club—December 29, Hotel Bond (Hartford), Bill Tasillo and his College Inn orchestra, 10 to 2, $5.00.
Detroit Club—December 29, Hotel Statler, Myron Schulz and his Royal Peacocks, 9 to 1, $6.00.
East Penn Club—December 26, Hotel Ferguson (Shenandoah, Pa.), Nick Nichols and his orchestra, 9 to 1, $3.50.
Grand Rapids Club — December 27, Pantland hotel, Dwain Yates and his orchestra, 9 to 2, $1.50.
Indianapolis Club—December 29, Hotel Antler, Charlie Davis and his orchestra, dinner dance, $6.00.
Metropolitan Club—December 29, Hotel Biltmore (Cascade room), Bert Lown’s orchestra, 10 to 3.
Minnesota Club—December 26, Hotel Lowry (St. Paul), Ted Weems’ orchestra, 10 to 2, $5.00. (Date and orchestra tentative.)
New Jersey Club—December 26, Newark Athletic club, Wherlan’s Ambassadors, 9 to 2, $6.00.
Philadelphia Club—December 26, Manufacturers’ club, Jimmy Tyson’s orchestra, 10 to 2, $4.00.
Villagers’ Club—December 26, Palais Royale ballroom, Wayne King and his orchestra, 9 to 1.
Wabash Valley Club—December 25, Elks’ club (Peru, Ind.), 9 to 1, $2.00.
Youngstown Club—December 26, the Chatterbox in the Stambaugh auditorium, Jack Horwitz and his orchestra, 9 to 2, $3.00.
MISTAKE
For the past two weeks this page has announced that the DETROIT club’s Christmas dance would be given on December 30 at Detroit’s Book-Cadillac hotel. In spite of these announcements the dance will be held on December 29 in the main ballroom of the Statler hotel. Instead of Freddy Bergan’s orchestra, Myron Schulz and his Royal Peacocks will play.
PICTURES
During the past week the taking of club group pictures for this year’s Dome has been begun. Work will continue until the beginning of the Christmas vacation. The schedule for next week is this:
Tuesday, December 16—CONNECTICUT VALLEY club, and EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY.
Wednesday, December 17—ENGINEERS’ club, and GRAND RAPIDS club.
Thursday, December 18 —PACIFIC NORTHWEST club.
Club members should report in the gymnasium at 12:20.
TRAIN
The METROPOLITAN club is sponsoring a Notre Dame special train on the New York Central. For reservation, easterners should see Edward Cunningham, .club president, at 315 Badin hall. The train will be made up of through sleepers and day coaches.	.
CAR AND BIDS
Distribution of bids to its Christmas dance and arrangements for a special Connecticut car were the principal things discussed at a meeting of the CONNECTICUT VALLEY club last night. The meeting was held in the old Law building.
REFRESHMENTS, ETC.
As a temptation for its members, the ENGINEERS’ club last Wednesday offered refreshments, entertainment and speakers. Place of the meeting was the north basement of the library; the time, 7:45 p. m.
FOOTBALL AND FOOD
After listening to the Notre Dame-Southern California game on a radio in the Rose Marie tea room, the pleased members of the PHARMACY club repaired to the dining room of the Rose Marie for a banquet. The date, of course, was December 6. Speakers were: Professor Robert L. Greene of the pharmacy department, honorary president of the club; Professsor Daniel Hull of the physics department; and the Messrs. Lawrence Baldinger and Clyde Simmons, both of the pharmacy department. Chairman of the affair was Club Treasurer James Coram. Toastmaster was Thomas Oester.
The next meeting of the PHARMACY club is to be held Tuesday, December 16, at 7:45, in Chemistry hall.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
343
EEITCC*f PACE
THE TEAM—AND FOOTBALL
Not much can be said that has not already been said of the remarkable accomplishments of our recently returned national champions. Nevertheless, the Scholastic wishes to express in print the sentiments which the students as a unit feel toward the men who have so courageously and so successfully upheld the honor and the traditions of Notre Dame on the football field. Articles have appeared in nearly every newspaper in the country, congratulating, with superlatives, the Fighting Irish on their unparalleled achievements. The whole sporting world is at their feet. Records of previous championship teams, even the Four Horsemen eleven, have been forgotten, as the nation marvels at the deeds of Coach Rockne and his band of gridiron warriors.
They must be grateful for the praise that has been heaped upon them, but we feel that there is no appreciation of their efforts, no matter how magnanimous or unanimous, which gladdens them more than that shown here on the campus, because it is more sincere and more lasting than the praise of the general public.
The jubilance here at the University over the winning of the national championship was greatly stimulated by the surprising features of the win over Southern California. The final game on the coast was a dramatic climax to a hectic season. Even the most optimistic supporter of the team lacked the imagination to foresee such a complete slaughter of the hitherto once-beaten Trojans. The overwhelming victory clinched the football championship of the United States. It provided further proof that Rockne is the master mind among coaches. It decided that this year’s Notre Dame team is undoubtedly the greatest of all time.
The excitement, the celebrations, the acclaim which followed upon the heels of the Southern California contest will probably result in a renewal of that old cry against the over-emphasis of football. Colleges with inferior elevens will renew their denunciations with the obvious statement that “after all, it’s only a game.” This surprising and novel idea will not, of course, be doubted on the campus. Football is a game, and the men on the Notre Dame teams, including the inter-hall squads, play it because of the enjoy
ment, the thrills, the physical and mental benefits they derive from it. The pleasure that a youth gets from opposing his brain and brawn to that of an opponent is natural and instinctive. Football supplies a healthy outlet for the primitive in youth. Furthermore, there is the character development involved, with which everyone who has ever read the sayings of the nation’s coaches is acquainted.
The appeal of the sport is more natural and more universal than the appeal of an academic activity. This is undoubtedly unfortunate; nevertheless it is characteristic of human nature. It is futile to-condemn it. But the advertising that football gives a university has an accidental educational value, inasmuch as it helps to swell the student enrollment and to provide funds for scholastic progress.
FROM ANOTHER EDITOR
College demonstrations of glee almost always result in destruction of property. They are attributed to exuberance of youthful spirits, and are therefore minimized. If a few hilarious boys happen to be arrested nothing much is done to them. Nothing more than a few nominal fines which are paid by papas. As for the citizens whose property is destroyed, well, they’re just out of luck.
And the town cops have a terrible time. They really do not wish to hurt the boys, but the boys sometimes insist on getting hurt. Broken scalps give them a kind of prestige among their fellows. And if, by great good fortune, they succeed in stealing a cop’s club or badge it is a never-to-be-forgotten glory.
It is easy enough to say “boys will be boys” and let it go at that. But this is not the way at Notre Dame. If ever a student body had reason to celebrate, that body was the studentry of Notre Dame after the victory over Southern California completed the famous “suicide schedule” without a break. Indeed the boys were prepared to rush a theater, and the cops were ready for a fight. An official of the University appears, remarks that such things are not done at Notre Dame, and the boys quietly disperse. It is truly a notable victory, quite as fine as the cumulative triumph of the football team.	—Cleveland Plain Dealer.
344
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
FIGHTING IRISH WIN NATIONAL TITLE
Rockmen Trim Southern Cal., 27-0; Nineteenth Straight Victory
NOTRE DAME’S Fighting Irish, “the greatest team in the history of football,” closed their second consecutive undefeated season with a 27-0 victory over the Trojans of the University of Southern California. The game was played before 90,000 spectators in the Los Angeles Coliseum, a fitting place, for what could be more like the massacres of ancient Rome than the crushing defeat of the Southern California warriors? Notre Dame’s victory gives them their second successive national championship and permanent possession of the Rissman Intercollegiate trophy, symbolical of three national football championships within a decade.
The Fighting Irish, like the Greeks of old, stormed successfully the walls of Troy; but it took the Greeks ten years to penetrate the Trojan defense, while the Fighting Irish required only ten minutes. Carideo, a Napoleon without a Waterloo, was uncanny in his selection of plays. Notre Dame worked double passes, double laterals, double reverses, double spinners, in fact everything but the -wooden horse trick, in their spectacular and methodical devastation of the Trojans.
Aided by a 25-yard pass, Schwartz to Captain Conley, the Rockets advanced 60 yards from the opening kickoff. They lost the ball on an incompleted pass into the end zone, recovered a Trojan fumble on the next play, and scored on the next. Schwartz flipped a short pass to Carideo, who scampered ten yards to the goal line for the initial score. Carideo place-kicked the extra point.
Was this a football team, or a cyclone that so violently disrespected the mighty Trojans, standard bearers of western football ? The coast team was bewildered; they made a futile effort to retaliate. After a first down
resulting from a penalty, they were stopped. A bad pass from center was responsible for the only noteworthy Trojan play of the game. Duffield, field marshall of the Californians, found himself trapped 23 yards behind the line of scrimmage and got off an incredibly quick punt that rolled over the Notre Dame goal line.
The Fighting Irish took possession of the ball on the 20-yard line and went, to work. One play into the line netted no gain, and then Schwartz tossed a lateral to O’Connor, who went through right tackle, broke into the clear, sidestepped Duffield, Apsit, and Musick who ran him to the sidelines, and galloped to a touchdown.
Southern California was demoralized, the spectators dumbfounded, and the Fighting Irish cool and mercilessly confident. The Westerners were finding that they had underrated this “worn-out” team from the east. They had failed to respect the generalship of Carideo, the master mind; the faultlessness of Brill, the all-time blocking halfback; the elusiveness of Schwartz, the phantom ball carrier. They were amazed when their line was outplayed from end to end by the Fighting Irish forwards, when their power plays through Baker, 215-pound guard, were smeared by the midget Metzger, but what awed them most of all was this wild man, O’Connor, who changed from a second team halfback to a varsity fullback in two days.
Notre Dame sent in an almost entirely new team in the second quarter. They scored once on a 25-yard pass, Carideo to Hanley, but it was nullified by a penalty. The Trojans tried everything in this quarter but failed to chalk up even a first down.
Moon Mullins, Notre Dame’s great fullback, received a big .ovation when he limped on to the gridiron to start the second half. A single minute of play constituted his football swan song.
The Fighting Irish scored their third touchdown in one devastating
(Continued on Base 352)
CAGERS WIN OPENER 2615
Coach geo. e. keogan’s latest edition of his Notre Dame basketball teams pried the lid off the current season Monday night with a 26 to 15 victory over Kalamazoo college. The game itself was a bit ragged in spots but the Blue and Gold five had enough offensive superiority to hold a lead that they gained early in the fray.
A little more than two minutes passed before acting-captain Ray DeCook started the scoring with a free toss on a foul by .Hachadorian. This slim lead was only momentarily held, for Garrison, visiting forward, caged a short field goal on a pass from out of bounds. DeCook came back to tie the score with another charity shot, and followed it a minute later with a short basket from close in. This put the Blue and Gold out in front and they stayed there for the remainder of the game.
Another basket by DeCook and one by Newbold ran the Notre Dame total to eight before the Kazoo outfit scored again. A free throw by Hachadorian boosted them to within five points of the locals before Keogan’s men stepped out. A nice play by Johnson gave him his first counter and started a new flurry of scoring. DeCook added three points in quick succession, Newbold took an under-the-basket pass to score and Johnson converted a free throw to stretch the score to 16 to 3. Hachadorian, Kazoo’s scoring ace, chalked up three markers on a basket and free throw. Johnson matched the basket but Captain Murdoch of the visitors counted another gratis point as the half ended, with Notre Dame holding an 18 to 7 lead.
Opening the second half, Murdoch scored with a middle-distance shot and DeCook countered a short one. Newbold contributed a free throw. At this point .DeCook left the game on fouls, and the Notre Dame defense as well as offense was considerably weak-
(Continued on Page 352)
$ j r
The Notre Dame Scholastic
345
HIGHLIGHTS OF FOOTBALL SEASON
ft
A GREAT TEAM, without a doubt, this 1930 bunch of Fighting Irish, and only the short, terse, meaty sentence from the lips of Chick Meehan: “The team is the greatest in football history”— can fully express the convictions of the football world.
And with all due deference to their great master and teacher may we add : a well-drilled team working to perfection all the while, overcoming handicaps which would ordinarily dim the morale of any normal team, sweeping-on to ten consecutive victories.
Added to the nine straight wins left over from the national championship season of 1929, Mr. Rockne’s charges now have a record of 19 wins in a row, rivaling the 20-game winningstreak which ran from October 4. 1919 until October 10, 1921.
Receiving a total of 25.13 points for their victories of the season, the Fighting Irish received the Jack F.
I	STATISTICS OF	THE	i
=	SEASON	I
1	First Downs:	=
=	Notre Dame, 130.	=
E	Opponents, 75.	E
E	Yds. Gained from Scrimmage:	E
E	Notre Dame, 3109.	:
E	Opponents, 961.	E
E	Forward Passes Completed:	E
3 .	Notre Dame, 24 of	93	for	437	2
1	yards.	E
E	Opponents,	46 of 127 for 599	E
E	yards.	E
1	Penalties:	2
E	Notre Dame, 421 yards.	2
E	Opponents, 200 yards.	E
Plitiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiittttiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiuiuiftutituiitut□
Rissman national Intercollegiate football trophy for the year 1930.' Not only did they receive it for the present season but for all time; three times a winner within the same decade means permanent possession of the trophy.
Washington State received 20.44 points and rated second place according to the manner of ranking under the Dickinson system, which is based on strength of team and opponents rather than percentages. Alabama, champion of the South, ranked third with 20.18 points.
By JOHN A. KIENER
[ajiimtitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiittitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitt
j ALL-OPPOSITION
i	TEAM
5 (As selected from Notre Dame’s E
2 ten opponents by the writer.) E
E LE....Arbelbide (So. California) 2
2 LT..Highberger (Carnegie Tech) E
2 LG.........Baker (So. California) E
2 C............Don Carlos (Drake) E
E RG....Woodworth (Northwest’n) j
E RT................Suarez (Army) 2
2 RE.........Long (Southern Meth.) :
2 QB........Duffield (So. California) E E LH.....Mason (Southern Meth.) E
E RH Pinckert (So. California) 2 = FB Russell (Northwestern) 2
Q iii,>||iiiiiii|i| iiiiiiiiii ■ iiuiiii ■iimiuiiiiiiuiiiioiuioiiiiiiQ
The 27 to 0 win over Southern California marked the 107th win of Rockne’s career as a Notre Dame head coach. In thirteen years the Rockne teams have lost only 12 games with four resulting in ties, three of them scoreless. The all-time record, beginning with the first football game played back in 1887 against Michigan, is now recorded as 254 victories, 48 losses, and 17 ties.
The summary of the ten games this season shows that Notre Dame scored half again as many first downs as did her opponents. In yards gained from scrimmage the Fighting Irish outmarched their opponents three to one.
Although Notre Dame completed only 25% of its passes while the opponents completed 36%, its successful
Pliiiitinuuiiiniuti............mu.....iiiiiiiituiiiiQ I NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 1 I	1929-1930 J
E Notre Dame 20, So. Methodist 14 E 2 Notre Dame 26, Navy	2	2
2 Notre Dame 21, Carnegie Tech 6 2 i Notre Dame 35, Pittsburgh 19 2 E Notre Dame 27, Indiana 0 E E Notre. Dame 60, Pennsylvania 20 E 2 Notre Dame 28, Drake	7	E
E Notre Dame 14, Northwestern 0 = E Notre Dame 7, Army	6	E
E Notre Dame 27, So. California 0 E
E	265	74 |
Pl ■itiiuiiiitiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiittiiiitttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQ
attempts amounted to 42% of the total yardage gained by both via the air route.
Apparently not wishing to be outclassed in any field of play, the Fighting Irish were penalized slightly more than twice the amount of yardage imposed upon their opponents for infractions of the rules.
The most decisive point of the season just concluded was the double victory over the two service teams. This makes the third time in three consecutive seasons that both the Army and Navy have been defeated by Notre Dame on the gridiron.
Southern Methodist’s first touchdown and ensuing conversion was the only time during the entire season which saw Notre Dame on the short end of the score.
Long runs were quite numerous throughout the season but Joe Savol-
f«]iniitiiitniniiiiitiiiiiitii	iiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinitui|^		
1 INDIVIDUAL POINT e 1	SCORING	|			
	TD	PT	Ttl. |
E Schwartz, Ih	9	0	54 E
E Savoldi, fb	8	0	48 |
2 Carideo, qb	2	27	39 1
E Brill, rh	6	0	36 1
E O’Connor, rh,	fb 3	0	18 2
E Mullins, fb	3	0	18 =
E Hanley, fb	2	0	12 I
2 Koken, Ih	2	0	12 I
= Lukats, Ih	1	0	6 E
E Staab, fb	1	0	6 I
E Kosky, le	1	0	6 1
2 Conley, re	1	0	6 I
E Jaskwich, qb	0	3	3 I
E Cronin, qb	0	1	1 2
-	—	—	——•	X
x	39	31	265 I
Q IHIUHIIUHillttllllHttltill	IllltUUIIUtlUtlllUUlUU				■■■□
di’s 90-yard return of a Southern Methodist kickoff was easily the outstanding one. Bucky O’Connor ran into second place by virtue of his 80-yard dash off Southern California’s left tackle last Saturday. Savoldi stepped 48 long . yards in the game with Navy for another touchdown run.
Eyth of Carnegie Tech turned m the best performance for the opposing teams, running 70 yards through the riddled Notre Dame team.
The most “remarkable” run of the season was undoubtedly Marchy Schwartz’s 60-yard ramble on the first
(Continued on Page 35S)
346
The Notre Dame Scholastic
K.C.’S TO BEGIN ANNUAL OLD CLOTHES DRIVE
Old clothes will be the goal of the drive which the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus will conduct in a campaign beginning Sunday night.
Each year the students have been asked to co-operate with the local knights in giving old clothes, hats, shoes and other articles of wearing apparel to the needy. This year, due to the extreme hard times the students are asked to co-operate even more fully.
Frank Noll has been appointed by Grand Knight Louis Buckley to take complete charge of the drive. Under Mr. Noll will be the following men assigned to each hall. Arthur Berg-an, Badin; Harry Hart, Brownson; Edward Streb, Corby; G. E. Murphy, Carroll; F. E. Messina, Freshman; August Von Boecklin, Howard; Leonard Donoghue, Lyons; John Whitliff, Morrissey; Frank De Muhala, Sorin; Raymond Naber, Sophomore; Leo Clark, St. Edward’s; Charles Quigley, Walsh; are the men to assist him.
The campaign will continue through until Wednesday but clothes may be left with the hall rectors any time before Christmas vacation.
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB TO HOLD DANCE
President Habing of the Indianapolis club announced Wednesday evening that the work on the third annual Christmas dinner dance, which is to be held in the Hoosier capital on December 29th at the Hotel Antlers, was progressing very rapidly. Frank J. Noll, general chairman, told the members that indications pointed to a reunion for the students and alumni far surpassing any previous, affair.
Mr. Noll stated that the club was fortunate again in securing the services of Charlie Davis and his Indiana Theatre orchestra of Indianapolis. Mr. Davis, who is a Notre Dame alumnus, has played for the club for the past two years. Pat Mangan, chairman of the music committee, announced that radio station WKBF in Indianapolis has arranged to broadcast the dance.
This year it is expected that the attendance will be considerably increased by the presence of students and alumni who reside outside of Indianapolis and within a radius of sixty miles.
FATHER IRVING SPEAKS
TO ENGINEERS’ CLUB
One hundred members of the Engineers’ club were present at the regular monthly meeting held last Wednesday evening in the library. The Reverend Thomas Irving, C.S.C., superior at Moreau seminary, was the speaker of the evening. Father Irving spoke on the desirable qualities an engineer should possess and the benefits to be derived from an engineering education.
Entertainment for the meeting was furnished by a team of tap-dancers who supplemented their dancing with several vocal numbers. Plans were discussed for the next meeting which will be held shortly after the Christmas vacation.
EDUCATIONAL CLUB TO
MEET MONDAY EVENING
The Educational Confraternity will meet next Monday evening, December 15, at 8:00 p. m., in the journalism room of the library.
Mr. Harold Seymoure of Kimmell, Indiana, will speak on “The Different State Laws Governing Teaching Requirements.” The Confraternity extends an invitation to everyone planning to teach in the fuutre. Teaching requirements in the various states differ considerably, and Mr. Seymoure will give some valuable information on this subject.
Applications for membership in the Confraternity may be made through James B. Gallagher, of Badin hall, secretary of the organization.
A group picture of the members will be taken Tuesday, December 16, at 12:30 in the gymnasium.
WILLIAM WEBSTER IS BUS AGENT
William Webster, 407 Lyons hall, has been appointed campus representative of the Premier Coach line. The line operates busses from coast to coast. Its headquarters in South Bend are at the Clark’s restaurant on Jefferson street.
One of the features of the line is that its schedule is guaranteed. In case any coach arrives at any terminal over 75 minutes late, one dollar of the fare is refunded. Tickets and information regarding schedules and rates may be obtained from Webster.
PRE-LAW CLUB TO ELECT
OFFICERS WEDNESDAY
Election of officers fox* the pre-Law club will be held next Wednesday at a place to be designated by announcements placed about the campus according to Joseph Yoch, president of the Law club. This was decided at a meeting held today at 12:30 between officers of the Law club and the executive committee of the new organization.
On Wednesday the new club will receive its charter. The Law club committee in charge of organization is composed of George Van derVennet, Raymond Donlan, Fred Lensing, and Edward McDonough. These men met with the executive committee of the pre-Law club this noon. Arrangements were completed for the meeting to be held next Wednesday, when all the members are urged to be present.
PARTIAL TEXT OF SPEECH
(Continued from Page 330)
string and last string, Notre Dame’s finest and best, who have played the game under your leadership with such distinction as has never been achieved before. Some of you have played your last game for the school, but this year’s team will always be remembered with special affection, with gratitude and with pride.
“I do not know how to pay adequate tribute to Mr. Rockne and his associates of the coaching staff, on the monumental achievement of this year. Newspaper men, editors as well as sports writers, critics of the game, coaches and experts of all kinds, have acclaimed Mr. Rockne as no man in his position has ever been acclaimed before. Indeed, the history of football in America in our day is largely the shining chapter that must be called Rockne. Now, Mr. Rockne, too, is one of our own and all our own. Sometimes, I think, we do him the unintentional injustice of taking him for granted. We are so accustomed to his genius that we take it as a matter of course. In a way, this attitude itself is a superlative tribute.”
The President then went on to pay the compliments of the University to Mrs. Rockne, who was present, and to Mr. Rockne’s venerable mother who was also in the gallery.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
347
SOLEM HONORS NOTRE DAME PLAYERS
Six Notre Dame players won places on Drake university’s all-opponent team. They are: Captain Conley, Culver, Metzger, Carideo, Schwartz, and Brill. Three men from the University of Oregon and one each from Marquette and Temple complete the team.
In making his selections Coach Ossie Solem, Drake mentor, said: “Conley of Notre Dame is one of the classiest wingmen in the country . . . Metzger, Notre Dame’s pocket-size guard, will compete favorably with anyone in the country . . . Carideo will win the quarterback berth, hands-down, on anybody’s all-star eleven . . . Schwartz and Brill are possibly the smoothest pair of halfbacks that I have ever seen.”
The Bulldog mentor added: “Had Savoldi not have dropped out of school my backfield would probably have been entirely Notre Dame.”
Coach Solem was unlimited in his praise of the Fighting Irish, both after the Drake-Notre Dame game here and in his recent statement. The Bulldogs played a nine game schedule including five intersectional games. No Missouri Valley conference or Big
Six eleven placed any player on the Drake team.
Conley (N. D.).............Left End
Christiansen (Oregon) Left Tackle Colbert (Oregon)........Left Guard
Bultman (Marquette) ....Center Metzger (N. D.)...„.....Right Guard
Culver (N. D.)..........Right Tackle
Bonner (Temple)............Right End
Carideo (N. D.).........Quarterback
Schwartz (N. D.)......Left Halfback Brill (N. D.).........Right Halfback Kitzmiller (Oregon) ..Fullback
SCHWARTZ TO BE FETED AT BANQUET
The Louisiana-Mississippi club will hold a testimonial banquet for March-mont Schwartz, next Tuesday evening at the Rose-Marie Tea room.
John W. Stahr, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune will be the speaker of the evening.
At a meeting Tuesday evening, the club completed arrangements for a private car from Chicago to New Orleans, Friday, December 19.
BUTLER CAGERS PLAY FOR CHARITY FUND
Authorities of Butler university have announced that the proceeds of tonight’s basketball game with the University of Cincinnati five will go to a charity fund to provide clothes for needy school children. This game is the first of the season for the Bulldogs and a large crowd is expected to attend. The boys from southern Ohio are said to have their usual strong team and may be counted on to give the Hinkle squad a good fight. Last season Cincinnati was runner-up in the Buckeye conference.
BEAUX ARTS INSTITUTE AWARDS HONORS TO
N. D. MEN
Honorable mention has been given by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design of New York City to over half the number of 35 designs submitted by students of the department of architecture at the University in a recent competition. In the sophomore competition, the subject of which was a foot bridge, R. P. Bedan, R. H. Heitger, J. A. Malcolm, J. J. Sullivan, and J. C. de la Vergne received half mentions; R. Visceglia, L. R. Chreist, P. Ochsenschlager and I. E. Sandmeier were awarded with full mention.
A monastic chapel was the junior subject. In- this the following received full mention: D. C. Rodgers and C. F. Hyland. Half mention was given to L. J. Blommaert and E. J. Wieczorek. J. J. Brown, L. J. Blommaert, J. T. Golabowski, L. F. Moller, F. R. West, and R. M. Marshall were mentioned in the problem of a medieval drawbridge, restricted to junior and senior competition. John Hanson was given half mention in the design of a monastery, a subject for seniors.
MAYOR WALKER TO BE AT METRO CLUB DANCE
The annual Christmas dance of the Metropolitan club will be held in the Cascade room of the Biltmore hotel in New York on December 29. Bert Lown and his musicians are scheduled to furnish the music.
Among the distinguished guests who will be present are Hugh A. O’Donnell, president of the New York Alumni association; Mayor James J. Walker; and John Law, captain of the 1929 football team. Several of the members of this year’s football team including Frank Carideo, All-American quarterback, will be present.
Comfortable shoes mean a lot. Alfred’s famous tubular ice skates have special form-fitting shoes — assuring the highest degree of comfort. Everything about them is perfect and fine. And they are very moderately priced.
KUKI©
The Choice of Champions
FlL^Inl
A Quality Outfit for Beginners
Made and guaranteed by
AlfredJahnsBn Skate Tampan# 29^6 W North pvo rhicaoa LIS.A
Obtainable at Leading Sporting Qoods, Hardware and Department Stores
DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
On October 1, 1931, carefully selected first and third year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent at any time and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
348
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ZS7 ^rci'//r Street

Suits in the justly famous Mount Rock Worsteds $48.00
Imported English Wool Hose $1 to $4.50
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear
WALK-OVER
A COMFORT GIVING, long-wearing oxford with a suggestion of the popular sport type. Imported Scotch Grain with saddle of smooth, heavy Imported Calf.
GRID
$8.50
4..————----
I
MAGAZINES
nn—t>u—mi^—
I
I
PAPERS |
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
r—’
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Imported Leathers
VALUES that will gladden the hearts of men ... genuine imported leathers from world famous tanneries at new low prices for this quality of footwear. Scotch Grains, in both brown and black for service and satisfaction.

s-H Of S f OR M € N
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
The Notre Dame Scholastic
349
! Interhall Sports )
.j»------------------------------
Now that the moleskins have been packed away and the weather seeks to force us indoors, activities in the line of interhall sports will be shifted to basketball and indoor track. A few coaches have already begun work, but equipment will not be issued until shortly after the holiday season when practice will get under way in all halls.
Schedules for both games and practice sessions have already been prepared by members of the Physical Education department in charge of interhall athletics and will appear in the Scholastic from time to time. Teams from twelve halls and one squad from the Off-Campus department will be entered in the competition for the basketball championship. The fact that there will be thirteen teams means that one team will be idle in each series.
Two leagues, lightweight and heavyweight, will again be the rule. As before, the lightweight limit will be 150 pounds. Two series will be played each week from January 18 to March 1 inclusive. The first is scheduled for Sunday with six games on tap. The second series will be divided, with three games on Wednesday evening and three more on Thursday.
Officials announced that interhall indoor track workouts will begin about the middle of January. Complete equipment will be issued at that time. As in former seasons, halls will be divided into two sections, each section holding- its own championship meet sometime during the month of February. The league championship will then be run off later in the month with only first, second, and third place winners in each event qualifying for the finals.
Interhall basketball schedule for the first week of play:
Sunday, Jan. 18—9:30 a. m., Off-Campus vs. Lyons; 10:30 a. m., St. Edward’s vs. Freshman; 1:30 p. m., Howard vs. Carroll; 2:30 p. m., Badin vs. Brownson; 3:30 p. m., Walsh vs. Sophomore; 4:30 p. m., Morrissey vs. Corby; Sorin, no game.
Wednesday, Jan. 21—7:00 p. m., Off-Campus vs. St. Edward’s; 8:00 p. m., Freshman vs. Carroll; 9:00 p. m., Howard vs. Brownson.
Thursday, Jan. 22 — 7:00 p. m., Badin vs. Morrissey; 8:00 p. m., Walsh vs. Corby; 9:00 p. m., Sophomore vs. Sorin; Lyons, no game.
TRACK SQUAD HAS SEVEN TWO YEAR MEN
Seven men who have made their marks in each of their two years of competition will report to Coach John P. Nicholson at the start of the coming track season. Roy Bailie and Captain Johnny O’Brien, both hurdlers,
ECONOMY!
Save the Price of a Gift!
COLONIAL STAGES
The Busses The Students Bide
TYPICAL LOW FARES One Way. Ro. Trip
New York .....§19.00	§34.20
Pittsburgh .... 9.00	16.20
Cleveland ..... 6.75	12.15
Youngstown .... 7.65	13.75
Buffalo ...... 10.25	18.45
Detroit ....... 3.75	6.75
Toledo......... 3.75	6.75
Reliable Connections
All reclining chairs All Steel Busses Frequent Schedules Busses Everywhere
Tickets and information see
LEO KLETZLY or	Phone 3-5500
1 Morrissey Hall	217 W. JEFFERSON ST.
SAFETY!
attracted attention to themselves in their sophomore year at school when they broke existing track and conference records. Joe Quigley, though hampered a great part of his first year, came through in brilliant style in the outdoor season and was awarded a monogram at the end of the season. Hoffman proved to be second only to Bob Walsh in the shot put on the 1929 squad and Johnson, Fish-leigh and Slattery each earned their spurs soon after graduating from the frosh ranks.
SPEED!
LOW RATES EVERYWHERE One Way. Ro. Trip
Cincinnati ...§	5.95	§10.70
Louisville ..... 6.00	10.80
Nashville ... 10.00	18.00
St. Louis.......6.00	10.80
Chicago .......  2.25	4.05
Columbus....... 7.50	13.50
Dayton ......... 6.00	10.80
COMFORT!
350
The Notre Dame Scholastic
c
E
E
E
E
■
i
We Suggest that
You Suggest to Dad...
an
Extension Telephone for Mother’s Christmas Qift!
That will surely please Mother —and make a real hit with the entire family.
The Economical
Noice of Millions
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
Suite 261 Associates Building South Bend, Indiana
1
E
l

E
E

i
Residence
Phone 3-4041
Office
Phone 2-1067

E
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
E
E
i
।
t
4
1 1930-31 BASKETBALL i
| SCHEDULE I
z	Dec.	8—Notre Dame 26, Kalamazoo 15 =
z	Dec.	12—Northwestern here	=
:	Dec.	15—Purdue there	:
5	Dec.	19—Pennsylvania here	z
=	Dec.	30—Illinois Wesleyan there	z
:	Jan.	3—Northwestern there	z
:	Jan.	6—Ohio State here	=
E	Jan.	9—Wabash there	=
E	Jan.	13—Marquette here	z
E	Jan.	17—Pennsylvania there	z
:	Jan.	24—Pittsburgh here	E
:	Jan.	31—Open	E
z	Feb.	3—Indiana here	E
z	Feb.	7—Pittsburgh there	:
E	Feb.	13—Wabash there	:
E	Feb.	21—Butler here	E
E	Feb.	28—Army there .	E
;	Mar.	2—Syracuse there	E
z	Mar.	6—Marquette there	=
E	Mar.	10—Butler there	E
E	Mar.	14—Iowa there	E
BlIHIIIIIIIIIIUIIlllllUIUIIIIUIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIHUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIinil
Notre Dame, 27	So. California, 0
O’Brien .............LE............. Joslyn
Culver ..............LT............... Hall
Kassis ..............LG............... Baker
Yarr .................C......... Williamson
Metzger .............RG................ Shaw
Kurth ...............RT.............. Smith
Conley ..............RE.......... Arbelbide
Carideo .............QB........... Duffield
Schwartz ............LH.............. Apsit
Brill ...............RH............ Pinckert
O'Connor ............FB............. Musick
Touchdowns: Carideo, O'Connor (2), Lu-	.
kats. Points after touchdowns: Carideo (2), Jaskwich.
Substitutions: Notre Dame — Kosky and Bailie for O’Brien, Hoffman for Culver, Greeney and Harris for Kassis. Rogers for Yarr, Pierce for Metzger, McManmon and Donoghue for Kurth, Mahoney for Conley, Jaskwich for Carideo, Kaplan for Brill, Lu-kats for Schwartz, Hanley, Mullins, and Howard for O’Connor.
Southern California—Paehn and Thompson for Hall, Brown for Smith, Clarke for Arbelbide, Mohler and Beatty for Duffield, Mallory for Apsit, Shaver for Musick.
Referee—Frank Birch (Earlham). Umpire —Horace Gillette (Texas). Head linesman1— Jay Wyatt (Missouri). Field Judge—Norman Barker (Chicago).
ST. EDWARD’S LOSES AT FREMONT, OHIO
The football team of St. Edward’s hall journeyed to Fremont, Ohio, last Friday to meet an independent organization of that city. Ill fate was with the Minims from the start, however, and after a bus accident and subsequent two-hour delay they finally reached their destination only to be handed a 19-0 defeat by a heavier and more experienced team. A muddy field, the result of all-night rains, added to the difficulties of the comparatively light Notre Dame team.
The
TEAM LAUDED AT BANQUET
(Continued from Page 331)
courage, men who are fine, men with character.”
As he finished the assembly once again rose to their feet in one of the greatest ovations a visiting coach has ever received at Notre Dame.
Pat Manion, substituting for Will Rogers, whose supposed attendance at the banquet was much bally-hooed, performed his task as only the glib Mr. Manion can perform such tasks. As toastmaster, he introduced the speakers of the evening. There was “Tug” Wilson, athletic director at Northwestern.
“I think that the best team walked off the field a winner on last November 22,” he remarked. “Notre Dame wins because Notre Dame plays everything they have every minute. There are no soft spots anywhere. A great coach and a great team—that’s Notre Dame. There’s great spirit behind that bunch. All honor to your team this year—and to Rock.”
Notre Dame S c h o 1 a s t
Adam Walsh spoke. So did Johnny Law. Then there was Knute Rockne. He was accorded the greatest reception that any man has ever received in the Notre Dame dining halls. The crowd stood, clapped, cheered, roared, and refused to be seated.
“Stagg has done more constructively for the young men of America than any man I can name,” he began. “And let me add another thing. It’s about the Notre Dame shift. Jesse Harper put on the basis of the Notre Dame shift twenty years ago from a plan he learned from Coach Stagg.
“Our team this year was a unit, a gang of pals, who were inspired by one another and played for one another. I am surprised that they had the ability to play the way they did, but their organization won for them.
“I want to give credit to as fine a coaching staff as I have ever had— Hunk, Ike, and Chev.”
He commented upon each of the players individually. Crashing cheers greeted Carideo, O’Connor, Metzger, and Schwartz when their names were mentioned.
i c .	351
Then with a few appropriate remarks, he closed his talk. He had completed his football task. The Riss-man trophy had been presented. They had won another national championship. “Rock” could relax.
MAHIN COLLABORATES ON TECHNICAL PAPER
Doctor Edward G. Mahin of the chemistry faculty collaborated with Doctor E. J. Wilhelm of the Grasselli Chemical company on a paper entitled “Effect of Physical State of Small Amounts of Copper Upon the Rate of Corrosion of Lead by Sulfuric Acid,” which appeared in the December issue of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry.
Doctor Wilhelm has done three years of research in this field and presented this paper at the meeting of the American Chemical society in Cincinnati last September. The facts found in this research are treated from a metallurgic standpoint.
PREMIER COACH LINE
OFFERS LUXURY WITH
BUS ECONOMY
Lavatories — Running Ice JUater — Fast Schedules Uniformed Porters
EXTRA SERFICE AT REGULAR FARES
For tickets and information
BILL WEBSTER, 407 Lyons Hall
352
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FIGHTING IRISH WIN NATIONAL TITLE
(Continued from Page 344)
sweep, advancing 70 yards in seven plays. Schwartz contributed two runs of 12 and 37 yards, Brill got 5 yards, and O’Connor went 8 yards on a lateral pass from Schwartz to score. Carideo converted.
The remainder of the game was a run away for Notre Dame. Smearing Trojan plays, intercepting passes, advancing on wide open spectacular plays, the Fighting Irish tramped on the ruins of fallen Troy. Schwartz ran wild; a forward pass followed by a lateral, Schwartz to Kosky to Carideo, was good for 40 yards and almost a touchdown. O’Connor went all the way to the 7-yard line. Penalties cost the Irish two touchdowns.
Notre Dame did their final scoring late in the game. Hanley intercepted a Trojan pass on the 21-yard line, carried the ball 7 yards in two plunges, and then Lukats, substitute halfback, went through tackle for the remaining distance. Jaskwich added the extra point.
Notre Dame’s victory gave them undisputed possession of the national
QQllllll.till.lift.Illtllll.  IIHItlllttlQ
1 STATISTICS OF THE
j	GAME	1
b First Downs:	i
E	Notre Dame, 16.	I
=	Southern California,	8.	B
= Yds. Gained From Scrimmage: b E	Notre Dame, 356.	B
E	Southern California,	94.	B
B Forward Passes Completed: b B Notre Dame, 4 of 13 for 77 1 B	yards.	E
= Southern California, 4 of 16 B i	for 46 yards.	1
= Penalties :	B
1 Notre Dame, 35 yards. = B Southern California, 5 yards. =
H uiiiiiiiiifttiuilllliiiniiiiiiliiuimiiiliiiiinilimiiuillliilfQ
championship. This is the third year that the Rockets have won that title, and the fifth season that they have been undefeated since Rockne took charge. They won their first national championship six years ago when the immortal Four Horsemen journeyed to California to conclude an undefeated season by trampling the Stanford university eleven 27-10 in the Rose Bowl. Last year the new Four
Horsemen romped to the title. Just after the end of the War, in 1919 and 1920, “Rock” accomplished his first two undefeated seasons when in his second and third years as head coach.
CAGERS WIN OPENER, 26-15
(Continued from Page 344)
ened. Johnson made good a free throw but Kalamazoo came back fast on long shots by Murdoch and Hacha-dorian. Three of these mid-court shots found their mark and the visitors had reached their final score.
Play speeded up considerably as Notre Dame substitutes entered the game. Free throws by Crowe and Gavin and a basket by Schumaker completed the scoring for the evening.
Despite the marked superiority of the Notre Dame five it was very apparent that they need a good bit of polishing before they swing into their major games. Their offense especially seemed weak, failing to penetrate the Kazoo defense with < any degree of regularity.
Captain Murdoch and Hachadorian, guards, were easily the outstandingperformers for the losers. DeCook was Notre Dame’s leading scorer but received good support from Crowe
&

*
-a—b—■—dm—u—n—u—■—u—n—B—n—n—n—«■
May we suggest .	’
Gifts That Please
BROADCLOTH SHIRTS
In white, blue, green and tan. Pre-shrunk collar attached styles, sizes 14 to 17.
$1.55
HAND-MADE TIES
In an assortment of stripes and figures. All wool lined.
89c
Just a few of the many other items you will find in our Men’s Furnishing Department.
GLOVES SILK PAJAMAS Silk Lounging Robes
SCARFS SILK HOSIERY Rayon Shirts and Shorts
We will be delighted to help you with your Christmas Shopping.
—Basement Store.
The Store With the Christmas Spirit
•Jbb—.n—b—d—on ~B—n—.B—n—B-—H^-B—no—mi—no—bo—tm—no—no—no-a|i j The South Bend Clearing [ I House Banins	j
I Invite Your Patronage | I	i
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	|
I	BANK	|
|	FIRST NATIONAL BANK	I
।	I
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	|
I	E
I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS ! I	BANK	!
i	!
j ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST I |	COMPANY	j
f	I
UNION TRUST COMPANY	j
I	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	I
I	I
I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	|
I	I
4————————— ■ —————
The Notre Dame Scholastic
353
and Newbold at forwards. Johnson and Farris, the newcomers of the Notre Dame line-up, exhibited some good floor-work and with a few weeks’ experience should fit in very well with the Keogan style of play.
The summaries:
Notre Dame (26) fg	ft	pf
Newbold, f_______________2	1	1
Crowe, f_________________0	1	3
DeCook, c (C)____________4	3	4
Johnson, g_______________2	2	1
Farris, g________________0	0	2
Gavin, f_________________0	1	0
Schumaker, f_____________1	0	1
Butorac, c ______________0	0	0
Burns, g_________________0	0	0
Baldwin, J., g___________0	0	0
Schrader, c______________0	0	0
Totals___________________9	8	12
Kalamazoo (15)	fg	ft	pf
Garisson, f______________1	0	0
Schau, R., f_____________0	0	2
Schau, M., c_____________0	0	3
Hachadorian, g___________3	2	2
Murdoch, g (C)___________2	1	1
McVicker, c______________0	0	1
Totals_______________< _._6	3	9
Officials: Referee, Warren. Umpire, Stahr.
NICHOLSON ANNOUNCES
TRACK SCHEDULE
As has been his custom since assuming the position of head track coach at Notre Dame some three or four years ago, Coach John P. Nicholson has arranged a schedule for his tracksters this season which outdoes all schedules in Notre Dame history in its severity. The season opens the last week in January with the annual Varsity-Freshman meet and does not close until June 7, the final day of the National Intercollegiates. A lay-off of about a month separates the indoor and outdoor seasons.
The unofficial schedule follows:
Indoor
Jan. 20—Varsity-Freshman.
Feb. 7—Milrose Games at New York, N. Y.
Feb. 9—Seton Hall Games at Newark, N. J.
Feb. 14—Marquette, here.
Feb. 21—Illinois, at Champaign.
Feb. 28—Indiana, here.
Mar. 6 and 7—Central Intercollegiate Conference Indoor Championships, here.
Mar. 14—Illinois Indoor Relays, at Champaign.
Outdoor
Apr. 19—Kansas Relays, at Lawrence.
Apr. 26—Penn Relays at Philadelphia. Drake Relays at Des Moines.
May 2—Wisconsin or Ohio here (tentative) .
May 9—Navy at Annapolis.
May 16—Indiana State Meet.
May 23—Central Intercollegiate Conference Outdoor Championships, at Milwaukee.
May 30—Open.
June 6 and 7 — National Intercollegiates, at Chicago.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Special Low Round Trip Fares In Effect NOW
You will save money— you will enjoy the trip, finding new interest in every mile — and travel in luxurious comfort if you go home for the Holidays in one of the Greyhound’s big blue and white parlor cars of the highway.
See me for tickets, time-tables and full information.
117 Brownson Hall, ALBERT H. MONACELLL Notre p^jna
354
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
+—•—-—-—-—-—-—-—-—-—•—-—-—■—■—-—-—
| MEN! SMOKE UP
1 At These Low Cut Prices
| 5c Henry George Cigars......................6	for 25c
I Box of 50 for..............................    $1.98
J	All other 5c Cigars same price.
|	7c	Cigars,	4	for	25c—Box	of	50............§2.95
|	10c	Cigars,	3	for	25c—Box	of	50............$3.75
*	13c	Cigars,	5	for	50c—Box	of	50............$4.85
s	15c	Cigars,	4	for	50c—Box	of	50............$5.85
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
I Oui- rapid sale of Cigars and the fact that we keep I them in just right smoking condition assures you । fresh smokes always.
!	40c Tin of 50 Cigarettes, 30c
« Old Gold, Lucky Strike, Camel and Chesterfield
g 15c Packages of 20—2 for......................25c
1	Carton of 200, $1.19
I All 15c Smoking Tobacco, 2 for................25c
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
I Prince Albert, Tuxedo, Velvet, 54, Dill’s Best, । Edgeworth, Half and Half, Old English Curve Cut, I Potpourri, Sir Walter Raleigh and others.
*
Corner Michigan and Colfax
SOUTH BEND’S
RKO THEATRES
WELCOME HOME THE
WORLD’S CHAMPIONS
The team with a spirit brighter than California's sunshine WE’RE PROUD OF YOU!
PALACE
NOW PLAYING
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR. HELEN CHANDLER in
“OUTWARD BOUND”
©CANADA NOW PLAYING ROBERT AMES EVELYN BRENT in
“Madonna of the Streets”
1

The Notre Dame Scholastic
THRONG GREETS TEAM
(Continued from Page 330)
them so well from the time they left the campus to go to California. “However,” he continued, “the best place to be is back on the campus among our friends.” Then, on behalf of the team, Conley thanked Father O’Donnell for his reception.
All the seniors who are to graduate this year were given cheers and responded with speeches. Frank Carid-eo, All-American quarterback, was the first to speak and thanked the throng for their wonderful reception. He said that his greatest friendships “were made right here on the campus.”
Bert Metzger, 154-pound guard and a prominent choice for All-American honors, thanked all who were so kind to the team and all the men with whom he played for their wonderful help.
An unsung hero, left guard on the national champions, spoke next. Tom Kassis regretted having to end his college career so soon, because of the wonderful friends he has made at
Notre Dame. Larry Mullins, whom Benitz calls “the hard luck boy of the year,” expressed his sorrow at having to leave, but said that he hopes to carry on the high ideals he has been taught at Notre Dame, particularly through his association with the team.
Saturday’s hero, Paul O’Connor, was given a rousing cheer by the crowd which had by that time swelled to immense proportions. O’Connor expressed his appreciation and then stated that it was a great honor to have been able to play on the team this year. Dick Donoghue, right tackle, hoped that the teams of future years can carry on the great work done by this team and the teams of the past. Frank Leahy, who was injured early this season, concluded with a tribute to the students when he said that the splendid display of loyalty as shown by them on Wednesday would be an inspiration to any team.
Rockne Replies to Sports Writers
Coach Knute K. Rockne replied to the sports writers who had asked him to compare the national championship teams of 1924, 1929, and this year’s team. He stated that rather than
355
compare them he would call them all great teams in the enduring Notre Dame tradition. Speaking for the members of the team he said that the fellows appreciate the loyalty shown by the students but that they have now come back to study and catch up on some of the time they lost because of the trip to sunny California.
This morning when the team arrived at La Salle street station in Chicago they were met by a huge throng that numbered many thousands. The reception was in charge of William Fitzsimmons of the Notre Dame club of Chicago.
Among the members of previous Notre Dame football teams seen in the gallery on Wednesday were Jack Elder, Joe Nash, Tim Moynihan, now coaching the centers at Notre Dame, Ted Twomey, Bud Gebert, and Manny Vezie of last year’s team. Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher of the famous 1924 team were present, and Parisien of the 1926 team. Many sports writers of Chicago papers and the syndicated news services were also there.
STARTS SA TURD A Y
fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
THRU TUESDAY
The world’s foremost humorist, playing host to scores of beautiful divorcees. Lightnin’ strikes but once, so don’t take a chance on missing—
WILL ROGERS
As Lightnin’ Bill, owner of the famous Calivada Hotel for wives with single ideas. John Golden’s stage success that ran three years on Broadway.
‘LIGHTNIN'
------- ADDED -----
A Fox Movietone Production
ADDED
VITAPHONE
SOUND	VODVIL
ONE OF THE PUBLIX THEATERS
PARAMOUNT
SOUND	NEWS
356
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«
&
»n-— ra—n»^— bo^— bc—nu^— no^— tn^— nn—- nn^— b»^—nu—nn—- nn—nn-^ nn— «a—nn—mi—mi—Bl— nn—/
I BOOKS-
I	.	, ,
i	are always appreciated
j	at Christmas
| Latest Fiction — Biography and Humor I	.
I	Fountain Pens, Desk
I	Gifts and Stationery
I THE BOOK SHOP
I	119 North Michigan Street
for that matter, you aren't ... if you have disappointed someone in love ... or if perchance someone has disappointed you ... if study has impaired your health or if it hasn't... if you've never seen a whale or if a whale has never seen you ... if you’ve never driven through the Bois at dawn ... if you’ve never tamed the lions at Trafalgar Square ... if your feet hurt or if your back aches... or if you’re alive at all... it’s an STCA passage abroad and back you need and incidentally, a stopover in EUROPE . . . about $200 Round Trip... up-to-the-minute accommodations ... careful cuisine ... college orchestras ... lecturers ... the only modem loan libraries ... all maintained entirely for college people and their friends ... more than 5000 college people insisted upon STCA for their crossing last summer . . . now it's your turn . . . don’t be left on the wrong end of the gangplank see...
MATT. I. CULLINAN, 336 Walsh Hall, Or	Notre Dame, Indiana
KEOGANITES MEET N. U.
WILDCATS
A powerful Northwestern squad, minus only three regulars from last year, have come down to play Notre Dame tonight with blood in their eyes. Both teams have played and won but a single game this year, and with their debuts over, the usual amount of class should be forthcoming from this evening’s tussle.
Notre Dame had more or less of an easy time with Kalamazoo Monday night, but the Wildcats, always dangerous against a Notre Dame team, will prove a much more formidable foe. Consequently much greater consistency will have to be shown on the part of the Blue and Gold.
Tonight’s game really inaugurates the toughest schedule a Notre Dame basketball team has ever encountered, and Coach Keogan has been priming his charges all week for this game. His chief worry at present appears to be a lack of centers. DeCook, of course, is going like a house afire. There is, however, such a thing as elimination on personal fouls which was proven last Monday night, and a dependable substitute center is sorely missed.
Dutch Lornborg, North western’s coach, has switched about several of his regulars. Bob Lockhart, who won considerable attention for his speed and general all-around ability both at guard and forward as a sophomore last year, will play guard this season. Paired with him will be Frank Marshall, who has returned to school for his last year of competition.
Keogan, despite the Kalamazoo victory, is none too elated over- the showing of his team and realizes that the boys have to acquire much more skill and finesse if they hope to make a showing comparable with Notre Dame teams of the past. No one, however, takes this very seriously for Coach Keogan has a peculiar knack of putting forth a pretty fair team every year with whatever material he happens to have on hand.
The starting line-up for tonight’s game will probably be the same as last Monday with DeCook at center, Crowe and Newbold, forwards, and Farris teaming with Johnson at the guard positions.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
357
WALSH DRILLS VETERAN
NOTRE DAME GRIDDERS
Adam Walsh, captain of the National Championship 1924 team and present line coach at Yale, drilled a squad of former Notre Dame stars during the past week in preparation for their charity game with the New York
Giants pro team in New York Sunday afternoon. “Rock” called the game off a week and a half ago but at the insistence of Mayor Jimmy Walker gave his permission for the game to be played and placed Walsh in charge until he returned from the Coast.
Practice on Monday consisted chief
ly of signal drill, kicking, passing, and pass defense. A light scrimmage was held Tuesday.
Those present for the drills included Stuhldreher, Layden, Edwards, Elmer Wynne, “Chile” Walsh, Twomey, Moynihan, Law, Elder, Voedisch, Vezie, Carberry, Collins, Nash, Adam Walsh and several others.
Blow
the Whistle

*
Delicious and Refreshing
fort1wPuuse
that refreshes
When you suffer from large and undiluted doses of your fellows. When the milk of human kindness seems to sour. Blow the whistle for a minute’s "time out” on your own account, to pause and refresh yourself.
—*-*-EISTEN IN—»—a-— Grantland Rice *-—*—Famous Sports Champions Coca-Cola Orchestra-*— Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T.—a—a-Coast to Coast NBC Network
In other words, go into a huddle with a glass or bottle of refreshing, delicious Coca-Cola. It will make you captain of your soul again, ready to live—or die— for the dear old alma mater.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
______________________________________________________CW-7
9 MILLION A DAY—it had to be good to get where it is
k f
I
358
The Notre Dame Scholastic


•A Fl RJT | NATIONAL-VITAPHONEi JTAR Selects
PREMNW CREATION^ 1	IN
Hhe latest / ‘Wovef
FINEST WORKED -AND
ZEPHYR YARNS ; employed ; to insure EXCEPTIONAL
PcrfectFitting Sweater
with permaflt- seam

The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
PEP—flavor — health! You get them all in Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes.
You can’t beat the matchless flavor that only these better bran flakes have. The quick energy of their crunchy whole wheat. And the healthfulness of their bran—just enough to be mildly laxative.
Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes be served at your fraternity or campus restaurant.
BRAN FLAKES
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE FOOTBALL SEASON
(Continued from Page 345)
offensive play of the game with Pittsburgh.
Schwartz again gets credit for the most “valuable” run of the year, his 55-yard straight-away through the mud and sloppy turf of Soldier field making up six points of the defeat of Army. Other long runs of Schwartz was a 79-yard one against Indiana and one of 73-yards in the Drake game, Marchy carrying the ball down to the 13-yard line where he was finally stopped.
Fourteen men figured in the scoring, just twice the number which contributed during the 1929 season. Marchy Schwartz led the list 'with nine touchdowns, Joe Savoldi being second with eight. Frank Carideo scored the most points after touchdown, having a grand total of 27 place kicks for the season out of 32 chances; an average of .844.
Attendance for the season was approximately 540,000 whereas the estimated number of 1929 patrons was about 582,000 for nine games, one less than the 1930 schedule.
All-American selections found Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Bert Metzger, Tom Conley, Marty Brill and Al Culver getting the greatest amount of places. Others of the first stringers received mention on one or more national teams.
The greatest tribute to the team and Rockne, perhaps, was that paid by Bill Cunningham, sports editor of the Boston Post, when he chose as his All-American team the whole first string eleven of Notre Dame. In making his choice Cunningham said: "I didn’t have to pick them; Rockne selected them for me at the beginning of the year.” The team included: Kosky, Culver, Kassis, Yarr, Metzger, Kurth, Conley, Carideo, Schwartz, Brill and Mullins.
The New York Sun chose Frank Carideo and Marchy Schwartz for the first team and gave Brill a post on the second team. Of Schwartz the Szm said: “Schwartz is the best improved player in the country and is the reason for the 1930 Notre Dame team being classed better than last year’s.”
The North American Newspaper Alliance’s quartet of noted grid coaches also selected Schwartz and Carideo. Both Metzger and Brill made the second team and Culver the third.
The Associated Press rewarded Metzger, Schwartz, and Carideo with first team places; Conley and Savoldi placing on the second squad.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
359
<
i
Splinters From the Press Box
THE MILLENIUM.
And it just goes on and on for games and games, and years and years. Nineteen consecutive games, two undefeated seasons and still our Ramblers ramble on with seemingly no one able to stop them. The stronger they came, the harder they fell. From the East, the Midwest, the Southwest, and the Far West they came and were conquered. The critics will probably try to convince us now that the powerful “potions” of our “suicide schedule” were in reality only sips of that well known midafternoon beverage of our English friends in disguise.
Of all those customary “between-the-halves” discussions of the first part of last Saturday’s game, the one which struck us as being the best was given by a globe-trotting sports scribe from the Coast who, when introduced by Ernie Smith, said, “I told you so.” Before the game it was a case of his convictions against those of the rest of the ’steen million inhabitants of the land west of the Rockies. Well, revenge is sweet — though it’s sometimes rather dangerous to get it when the game is only half over.
OUR DOPE BUCKET.
And this brings us to the “Splinters’” dope bucket. Early in the season our predecessor formed the risky habit of forecasting the results of coming football games — and, incidentally, did a pretty good season’s work, totaling 103 wins, 39 losses and 15 ties. That’s not so terrible! We are thankful the season is over for we have never been very good at guessing scores, not even our own Ramblers’ scores down at Livingston’s. We will take a chance, however, and pick the Crimson Tide of Alabama to snatch a close one from Washington State in the Rose Bowl on New Year’s —and not just because we’re from the south either. The men of Coach Wade have shown strength and consistency all year and will be playing their last game under the direction of Wade, who transfers his activities to Duke university next fall. This latter fact should bring forth the best 'football the boys can show.
BAG OF TRICKS.
There’s a goodly number of people in this country who are firmly convinced by this time that Notre Dame has a bag of tricks which the quarter
back delves into when necessary. In the Southern Methodist game, four minutes to play, the Blue and Gold took the ball on downs in their own territory. Three plays later Marchy Schwartz had crossed the goal and the score was 20-14. Against the Wildcats of Northwestern when nothing but a scoreless tie seemed possible, the men of Rockne scored twice in the last six or seven minutes of the fourth quarter—once on a play that started some forty-five yards away from the goal line. A week later at Soldier-field, Marchy Schwartz again marched from beyond the midfield white mark with less than five minutes to play. And so our millions of “alumni” (who haven’t the least idea where South Bend happens to be) are thoroughly “sold” on the idea that when it comes to the worst, Frankie just reaches down in the old bag, pulls out a few numbers known as signals, and the scorekeeper marks up the six points.
ALL-AMERICANS.
We believe that Bill Cunningham, of the Boston Post, stands alone as a picker of All-American teams. This ■well-known scribe, himself a former All-American, took a list of the Notre Dame regulars, headed it with “First Team,” and then proceeded to pick his second and third teams from the other stars throughout the country.
For the third time in seven years the Fighting Irish have' walked off with the national championship and are now permanent possessors of the Rissman trophy. This cup, significant of the Nationa champions according to the Dickinson system, becomes the permanent property of any team winning it three times within a space of ten years. The winner of the Erskine trophy, awarded by vote of a large group of sports writers and critics, has not yet been announced but we have a pretty good idea who’ll get it —for the second year in succession. Our guess is Notre Dame first, Alabama second, and Washington State third.
CAGEY INDIANANS.
It is interesting to note that of the fourteen men now comprising the Notre Dame basketball squad (exclusive of football men just reporting) seven received their prep school experience at Indiana high schools. Two hail from Ohio, two from Illinois, and one each from New York, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
What’s YOUR
Most PRINCETON men smoke—
IF you walk along Prospect Street in Princeton you’ll notice how many men load their pipes from the familiar blue Edgeworth tin. At Senior Singing on the steps of Nassau Hall this spring the pipes will glow with Edgeworth.
A pipe and Edgeworth—this is the smoking combination that has won the college man. Yale, Dartmouth, Cornell, Illinois, Stanford ... all agree with Princeton.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their choice: Try Edgeworth yourself. Taste its rich natural savor that is enhanced immeasurably by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your nearest tobacco shop—15d the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready- Rubbed ” and “Plug Slice." All sizes, pocket package to pound humidor tin.
360
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1 8 5 5 • S E V E N T Y - F 1 F T H ANNIVERSARY • 1930
ON DOWN THE LINE
of the energy we use demands VALVES
■ “Eighty-seven per cent of the energy we use in our daily life... heat energy as well as mechanical energy, exclusive of that produced in our own bodies and brains ...is derivedfrom the hydrocarbon chain, coal, oil, and gas. Waterpower yields 4%, firewood 6%, work animals 3%."
George Otis Smith, U. S. Geological Survey
Take away the 87% of energy now extracted from coal, oil, and gas .. . and we would be back in the year 1855... Year Crane Co. was founded. Take valves and fittings away, and we would be deprived not of 87 but of 91%. For from water power as well as from coal, gas, and oil, energy is almost never extracted in the modern world but valves and fittings enter into the process.
It is significant that the history of Crane Co. and the history of modern utilization of natural energy, cover almost exactly the same period. Many years ago, Crane metallurgists and engineers began the development of piping materials for each new need as it appeared. The years since have seen every Crane resource . .. research, engineering, production . . . devoted to supplying materials that would keep the road to progress open.
What Crane has learned and the materials that it has developed will be of vital interest to you after you leave school. Let us send you the story of research in piping metals, “Pioneering in Science.”
Valves
Fittings
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL - STEAM. LIQUIDS. OIL, GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. CHICAGO
NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 W. 44TH STREET
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety-six Cities
. . . RALPH HEWITT, quarterback of Columbia who received a lot of publicity through being in tapes and bandages and consequently on the bench has been elected captain of the 1931 team . . . Mr. HEWITT should make the acquaintance of HANK BRUDER of Northwestern . . . Indoorfootball is now played at the Y. M. C. A. in Atlanta, Georgia . . . the teams are composed of six linemen and two backs . . . tackling below the waist is taboo and the teams are allowed four downs to make a touchdown . . .
... It looks like “WHATAMAN” ARTHUR is going to have a rival this year . . . “DIZZY” DEAN, recruit St. Louis Cardinal pitcher has already made arrangements with photographers for spring training pictures . . . “DIZZY” will have the big leagues to himself, however, for SHIRES has promised to make Milwaukee a pennant winner in the A. A. . . . Miss HELEN MADISON, Seattle girl swimmer, set twelve world records and twenty-seven American records in eight months . . .
. . . One hundred thousand dollars is said to have been the figure at which the New York Yankees purchased FRANK CROSETTI, 20-year old infield sensation, from the San Francisco Seals . . . and CROSETTI does not report to the major league club until 1932 . . . MAX SCHMEL-ING, world’s heavyweight champion, isn’t the big shot in his native Germany . . . ERIC MOELLER, the bicycle rider, has stolen the public eye . . . Wrestling is becoming extremely popular in New York . . . that just goes to show how far people are likely to go when they are out of work'. . .
... The costume of the well-dressed football player weighs 111-2 pounds . . . piece by piece they are: shoes 21-2; helmet 11-2; hip pads 11-2; shoulder pads 21-2; pants 21-4; jersey 1; stockings 1-4 . . .and . . . tanbark padding has been suggested for gridirons as a means of lessening injuries to the players . . . McGEHE MOORE, captain and star back on the Loyola University team, of New Orleans, weighs but 131 pounds . . . the Kentucky Wildcats looked wilder than ever on the day of their big game with Alabama . . . every member of the team had let his whiskers grow for two weeks . . . whiskers or no whiskers, they lost . . .