The Notre Dame Scholastic
579
1	Not so long ago we were travelling
down the Pacific coast, from San Francisco to Los Angeles. The country is particularly beautiful at many places along the way, but a little region called Carmel-by-the-Sea had, for us, a peculiarly strong attraction.
•+■ And in great degree this was due to Point Joe and Point Lobos.
Point Joe. A fist of rocks lying on a blue table, a pile of dead demons, named after a ship that spilled out its life on its granite some years ago, Point Joe lies calm, untroubled, car-- ing nothing for the swoopings of the gulls, the bickering of the sea lions. It is there; and its passionless unchangeableness laughs at hurry and bustle—but even its laughter is frozen i in stone.
*
Point Lobos. Granite giants once arched the ice of then* breath over the world, looked into “the eyes that the eagles die at,” shivered with terror, and crept to the edge of a continent, there to huddle together and <	wait—and are called Point Lobos.
*
These two points stand out in the memory, long after one has left them, like great hooded lamps. And the light, dark though it be, may, none the less, fountain its calm white spray over all the events of daily life, shed over them quiet, levelling beams that reduce them to their proper levels.
*
,	In other words: the memory of
things seen may act as a standard, to which to refer things done. And the things done, though quivering with the heat of action, will, when placed in front of the high, calm towers of memory, assume their propel* shapes.
•' • *
Hamlet could travel over the world though he were bounded in a nutshell; we may travel over the world, and, for- all the benefit involved, be asleep in a nutshell. Hamlet could see all from a spot of earth; we are apt to see nothing from all over the earth.
*
And meanwhile, Point Joe and Point Lobos, on the far Californian coast, think out the world in brains of rock—and laugh at words!
~ Give
No^ re Dame Scholasl? ic
Disee- Quas i - 3emper -Vic'Surus-Vlva-Quasi-Cras-Morilum
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire..........Managing	Editor
Emil L. Telfel.....Assistant	Managing Editor
J. Archer Hurley..................The	Week
Walter Langford.............The College Parade
Joel Egerer.................Music	and Drama
Ramon G. Smith...............-.Campus	Clubs
Paul J.
Hallinan
Editor
Features
James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster
Austin Boyle Russell Scheibler
William J. Magarral Harry A. Sylvester,
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan William Dunda
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
George Allan Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody
F. Granger Weil
Jr.
Henry B. Aswan
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Harrington Chester M.
BUSINESS STAFF
J. Noon....Local Circulation Manager
Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis.....Local Advertising Manager
James L. Rizer.........Foreign Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
i
Vol. LXV
FEBRUARY 21, 1930
No. 19
TABLE OF CONTENTS
a.
The Week—J. Archer Hurley------------- Senior Class Members Present Flag Tomorrow------------ Alumni Number of Juggler Appears----------------------
Law Club Formal Is to Be Gala Affair This Evening—Janies Collins Gilbert Keith Chesterton to Give Courses Here_ Decoration Plans For Prom Now Complete—Ramon G. Smith- Dailey Named Senior Ball Chairman—Joseph Reedy-------- Coming Events_________________________________ Music and Drama_______________________________--------
Campus Clubs------------------------------------------------ College Parade—Walter Langford------------------------------ Editor’s Page----------------------------------------------- The Big Fire, 1879—Austin Boyle----------------------------- The Wink---------------------------------------------------- Notre Dame Beats Illinois For the First Time—John A. Kiener- Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester------------- On Down the Line:-------------------------------------------
580
581
581
582
584
584
585
586
588
589
590
591
592
594
595
605
608
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
IMltNMl
X
i
580
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I^EORGE WASHINGTON has been getting considerable attention of late as an authority on the matter of international relations. Editors grow enthusiastic and patriotic in exposition of "entangling foreign alliances.” Patriotism is largely a matter of the public square and hand-clappings for the flag. Slapping one’s, hands together is a very poor way of expressing anything except our bondage to convention. Entangling foreign alliances are now as necessary as foreign commerce, and much less prosaic. Washington we respect as the man who did the great things of his century. We should not expect him to still dictate foreign policy. Lou.Hasley’s Ode, read at the Washington Day Exercises, is a true attitude towards the paternal Washington. Washington is not a militant, but a solicitous spirit. He was buried with his hatchet.
Oratory has swayed mobs in the Roman Forum, and snobs in the House of Parliament. It is a weapon requiring the skill of a fencing master, yet as stupendous as a tornado. Irishmen have been orators ever since there were Irishmen, and some authorities list Adam as the first wearer of the green. To Frank Corbett, as an Irishman and an orator, the intercollegiate state honors have been given. The Irish are coming into their own . Much of Corbett’s success can be traced to those informal gatherings over round tables where wit and wisdom vie for acknowledgement with lusty shout and song. This training, invaluable as it was inevitable, has been supplemented with the midnight toil and tallow of Mr. William Coyne. His ability is evidenced in his protege.
EVEREND FULTON SHEEN, priest and philosopher,
jollied some of us out of post-winter lethargy with his opinions on “The Divine Sense of Humour.” He proved, more or less entertainingly, that human beings think too much of their beings and not enough of their humanity, and that beer is somewhat important. Shadows of those same truths have softened this page more than once. Considering that Father Sheen’s pearls rolled back to us through five rows of emotional and appreciative femininity, their lustre was remarkably hardy.
I HE FUNNY FELLOW laughs at the alumni this month. A hearty and healthy laugh, and he indulges with the knowledge that he himself will soon be one of the laughing-stocks. Nanovic has made every issue a good issue, as any number of competent auditors will testify. Notre Dame fads and fancies as seen in our “Fashions” will hold- the stage at the next curtain. Corduroys, hobnails, and the absence of neckties will have their place, no doubt, though their popularity has been passing since our own freshman days. The myth that uniformity of attire makes for democracy of a sort has been exploded with the advent of Barton in derby and spats. Prisoners and soldiers all dress alike, and their democracy is limited to the equality of mess portions.
HE LAWYER’S BALL, with Bob Eggeman and Jack
Flanagan as its able managers will go down in many a girl’s memory book as the sort of affair that is exceptional. And as an answer to the soft query of the memory book, there is the weak whine of student’s checkbooks. A checkbook has ever been the “Sesame” to a memory book.
If he had to tramp the roads of Europe till his death, Blondel, the troubador, vowed to find his king and master, Richard the Lion Hearted. And so he went about from hovel to castle, singing a song which was the favorite of King Richard. Under prison windows, in courtrooms, and in tyrant’s halls Blondel sang that Richard might hear and be found. Another Blondel, a cheery and earnest singer, is coming to raise his voice for us—a voice of manhood, rough yet gentle, scathing yet kind. One with whom to enjoy eating and drinking, because every act is a ritual, and nothing so simple that it does not hide a truth. Gilbert Keith Chesterton, the cleverest man defending morality and beer today, is coming to Notre Dame. He comes’ trailing in clouds of glory, romance, poetry, and youth. Chesterton, like Blondel, wandered long before his King was revealed to him. He sang in many moods and to many men. These songs of his we know to be among the best of the best today. Many of us think that he is to be recognized as among the best of all time.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
581
Senior Class Members Present Flag To-Morrow
Thirty-four years ago, the class of 1896 held its Washington Day exercises. About thirty-five seniors were on hand, but the ceremony, never-the-less, was impressive and brought to that small group a realization that the date of graduation was not far distant.
Tomorrow will see the re-enaction of such a scene in magnified proportion. The Class of 1930, the largest Senior Class in the history of the University, will hold its Washington’s Day exercises, even as did they who were here more than thirty years ago. The ceremony has, perhaps, become more elaborate during that span of time, but the same spirit remains.
At 9:30 o’clock, in rooms assigned, the class will assemble at the Administration Building, from whence it will proceed in a body to Washington Hall. The various colleges will be grouped in order of organization at the University. The Arts and Letters School, distinguished by the white tassels on the caps, will come first headed by the Dean, The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C. It will be followed by the College of Science led by The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C. This College may be identified
Alumni Number of “Juggler” Appears on Campus
The Alumni number of the Juggler was placed on sale last Monday night. This issue contains a special Prom Supplement section for the entertainment of the men attending the Prom, and their guests. Perhaps this accounts in some measure for the popularity of the Alumni number among the juniors. The widely heralded Prom Song, written by John Beljon and Zeno Staudt, appears in this issue. Several amusing skits dealing with the Prom and the various phases thereof delight the reader. “How to Enjoy the Prom,” an essay telling us how to act in order to obtain the fullest measure of enjoyment from the Prom, and “My Most Embarass-ing Moment,” which fs conservatively estimated to be the nine-thousandth funny story with that title, are recommended to the readers of the Juggler for their entertainment.
Several alumni have contributed to the Alumni section. Joseph P. McNamara, editor-in-chief of the Juggler last year; George D. O’Brien, the second editor-in-chief of the Jug
by the golden tassel on the mortarboard. Dean Konop will lead the procession of lawyers, whose purple insignia will blend with the orange of the engineers, led by the Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Dean.- The College of Commerce, the last of the colleges to be organized, will be headed by Dean McCarthy, and this group may be recognized by the drab color of the tassel.
The exercises will be opened at 10 a. m. by the Class singing the Star-Spangled Banner to the accompaniment of the University Orchestra. This will be followed by a presentation of selections from Washington’s Farewell Address, by Walter* Stanton, Louis Hasley will deliver the ode as composed by himself, and Raymond Reardon, Senior Class President, will present the flag which is to be received by the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who will officiate in the absence of the president.
The usual flag ceremony will take place as in by-gone years, South of the Law Building, immediately after the termination of the exercises in Washington Hall.
gler, and James Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association, are all represented. Several other former Juggler staff members also have their* contributions in this number of the Juggler. Campus writers have drawn upon their imagination for amusing stories about alumni experiences and actions. The alumni section of this issue is entertaining for both graduates and undergraduates.
Miss Ruth Holden, of “June Moon,” reminds alumni of a June in the past. James J. Walsh writes a laudatory criticism of “June Moon” and “Nina Rosa.”
The next issue of the Juggler will be the Fashion number, and the deadline on material for this number is March 3. As the Funny Fellow’s April issue the Girl number of the Jttggler will be published. A Juggler key will be given to the men who submit the best written material for the Girl number—jokes, paragraphs, or poems; a key will be given for the best art work submitted . Any girl may submit material. The dead-line for this number is March 29.
MONOGRAM ABSURDITIES
TO BE PRESENTED APRIL
3, 4, AND 5
The evening of April 3 will mark the opening performance of the Monogram Absurdities. For over a week now the members of the Monogram Club who are to participate, have been memorizing and rehearsing for the annual production, under the guidance of Joe Abbott, “Ooney” Donovan, and John Quinn.
A chorus consisting of the more comely monogram men is busily at work mastering a difficult routine, while others work on the material for the many skits. Joseph Casasanta has been persuaded to write special numbers for the show, which will be valuable assets to the success of the affair.
In view of the painstaking preparations being made by the three producers, the Absurdities promise to be even more hilarious than preceding ones. The chorus, the sketches, and the songs and music should fill Washington Hall during the three days that the show will be presented.
DEADLINE FOR ALL DOME
PICTURES FEBRUARY
TWENTY-FIFTH
❖-----------------------------«
Robert L.- Pendergast, the editor-in-chief of the Dome, has announced February twentyfifth as the date for the final taking of Club pictures. The Club presidents are urged to see that officers have individual pictures taken, and that they send them to the editor, 339 Badin Hall.
*-----------------------------*
Pictures of the Freshman and Sophomore class groups will be taken on the front steps of the Library, Feb. 28th and March 3rd respectively.
The taking of the various Hall Hall pictures is scheduled to begin March 4th.
Special attention should be drawn to the fact that the deadline for all satire and comic contributions is drawing near. Those, interested should have their work in as soon as possible.
The editor has specifically stated that all photographs of Campus life, —formal, informal, or otherwise— should be sent in immediately.
582
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Mr. John Flanagan
General Chairman
Old Joe Gloom is scheduled to be buried deep in the cold, cold ground tonight, and when he is down the three hundred couples who will attend the fourth annual Law Club Formal at the Palais Royale are going to stomp all over his grave. Old Joe has had things quite a bit his own way since the Christmas vacation, so the Notre Dame Law Club, plaintiff in the trial, in the State of Joy, County of Rhythm, promises to try, convict and execute Joe tonight. The proceedings will commence at 8:30, and the last spade full of dirt will be slapped on Joe’s grave at 12:00 o’clock.
Robert F. Eggeman, president of the Law Club, will lead the assault against Joe. He is assured of success as he will be backed by all those present, including the jury of chairmen, and by Judge Marion Hardy.
Hardy will be one of the attractions of the evening, leading his band of colored musicians to supply the music. Strains of the Old South will float across the ballroom when Hardy’s Alabamians begin to play. These dusky entertainers have grappled with Mr. Gloom before and have yet to lose a decision to him.
Simple decorations will be the effect tonight, Eggeman said. One end of the ballroom will be simply and effectively decorated, while the other-end of the hall will be adorned with the Law Club insignia. .
Girls from many jurisdictions will be on hand tonight to add to the
Law Club Formal Is to Be
beauty of the entire affair. From all parts of the middle west, south and east, girls have answered the summons to be present when the court opens. The girl of the evening will be Miss Florence Blosser of Fort Wayne, Indiana, who will be the guest of Mr. Eggeman. John H. Flanagan, general chairman of the Ball, will be accompanied by Miss Elinor Krumm of Chicago.
Chairman Earle Barry of the ticket committee has reported that the entire quota of tickets has been disposed of after a last-minute rush. The demand has been unusually heavy this year owing to the reputation of past Formals, as well as to the prominence of the orchestra. Many alumni of the Law Club will be mingling with the crowd tonight to pass inspection on the legal aptness of their successors.
Chairman Morton Goodman reported that Hardy and his Alabamians have added a number- of new pieces to their selections. It has been traditional for the Formal to have a colored band, and Hardy’s men compare favorably with any group that has played here before.
John J. Nelson, chairman of the program committee, flatly refused to state the exact nature of the programs which will be used tonight. They have been distributed with the tickets, but Nelson wishes to keep the secret from the guests as long as possible.
Subpoenas, the traditional form of invitations for the Formal, have been issued by Chairman Lawrence O’Connor- to all who purchased tickets. These subpoenas have been sent far and wide, but no farther than the publicity which Chairman Harrington J. Noon has sent out. Chairman Raymond Sanduskey has announced that the final plans have been completed, and all that remains is for Chairman Jack Chevigny and his committee to greet the dancers when they pass his receiving line.
The patrons and patronesses for the Ball are Colonel William J. Hoyries, Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop, Judge and Mrs. Orlo R. Deahl, Professor and Mrs. James F. Kirby, Professor and Mrs. Elton E. Richter, Professor and Mrs. Aaron Hugue-nard, Professor Clarence Manibn, Professor Homer Q. Earle, Mr. and
Mrs. Robert E. Proctor, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Hubbard, Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Wills, Judge and Mrs. G. A. Farabaugh, Mr. and Mrs. William A. Mclnerny, Mr. and Mrs. Dudley M. Shively, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Arnold, and Professor Paul Fenlon.
The guests of the evening will be
Miss Elinor Krumm
Guest of Mr. Flanagan
Murray Hickey Ley, editor of the Scholastic; John L. Nanovic, editor of the higgler; Robert L. Pendergast, editor of the Dome; Archer Hurley, director of public relations; Frank Kersjes, chairman of the Student Activities Council dance committee, and Robert Hellrung, chairman of the Student Activities Council.
It seems as though this will be a busy night for the Judge and Prosecutor. The first case at the bar is • that of the Law Club vs. Marion Hardy et al, an orchestra of note. The defendant is charged with maliciously entering- the city and with malice aforethought, force of arms and deadly weapons to wit: a piano, a clarinet, trumpet, saxaphone and drum, driving the blues away. It is rumored that the Judge will be un-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
583
Gala Affair This Evening
merciful in his decision and will sentence the defendant to hard labor, that of playing the saxaphone, drum and so forth unceasingly from nine till twelve. The dancing jury will judge the merits of The Honorable •Judge’s decision by their appreciation of the convicts’ music.
The programs are of white vellum bearing the gold seal of the Law Club
Miss Florence Blosser Guest of Mr. Eggeman
and the gold and blue cord of the University’s colors. The program will, further, have the usual legal touch, in keeping with the very legal atmosphere of the bids. The verses under each dance are especially interesting to the Lawyers and their Ladies.
So far the decorations to be used at the Ball have been kept a secret but we understand they will not be highly elaborate because court rooms in most instances are very simple. The name, Law Club, in a sign of blue and gold, will stand out prominently from the east wall where it will be illuminated by lights. The defendants stand will be decorated with large drapes of blue giving a bright aspect to his labors during the evening.
The arrangements for the dance were taken care of by Raymond San-duskey, Marshall Kizer, Edward B.
Smith, James Murray, Norman J. Hartzer, Edward J. England and Austin J. Barlow’.
Those who must present tickets to the court tonight may blame Earle D. Barry, Charles Gass, Francis Dailey, William B. Jones, Clarence Donovan, Raymond Reardon and Warren Fogel.
Those who received sub-poenas to be on hand tonight might note that Laurence A. O’Connor, Arnold Levan-doski, James T. Conners, Austin Gildes and Daniel Barton are the gentlemen responsible.
A committee composed of Morton R. Goodman, Robert Grant, Harry A. Busscher, Joseph Robinson and George Kropff discovered Marion Hardy and his musicians, and are responsible for bringing them to court.
The designers of the program, working with John J. Nelson, included Louis Chapeleau, Cyril U. Nolan, Henry Horka, Thomas Purcell, Oliver Fields and J. Thomas Traughber.
The reporters of the proceedings of the court include J. Harrington Noon, William Dore, Russell F. Searer, Joseph R. Yoch and Edward D. Connor.
The men who wrill receive the guests, in the ballroom, are John E. Chevigny, William H. Konop, Francis B. Ready, Leo J. Scanlon, Raymond Young, Manfred Vezie, Robert K.' Brannon, Robert J. Kuhn and John A. Bitter.
It is essential that every one w’ho has been summoned to appear at the Palais Royale court tonight, be there at the opening of court at nine o’clock unless they wish to miss the best part of the program.
Hear ye! Hear ye! Be at the court at nine tonight!
The band is one of the most popular colored orchestras in the country, Hardy received his early training under the tutelage of Fletcher Henderson, foremost colored exponent of rhythm in the United States. He plays five instruments, and also sings. Probably the most widely knowm of his renditions are “The St. Louis Blues,” and the .“Alabama Stomp.” Both of these numbers have been recorded for Columbia and have become famous. In addition there are a number of
Mr. Robert Eggeman
President, the Law Club
very good vocalists in the band and they are expected to entertain with the strains of some of the popular present day numbers.
The ball, this year, is expected to be the best ever, if campus interest may be taken as a criterion. Ducats were in demand for the past two weeks when members of practically all of the classes were waiting for bids. The committees have worked hard and the results of their efforts will be shown this evening."
PROGRAM
Friday Afternoon— Reception of Guests.
Friday Evening—
Informal Dinners—South Bend.
9:00 p. m. — Lawyer’s x Ball.
Sunday Morning—
9:00 a. ni.—Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
t
584
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Gilbert Keith Chesterton to Give Courses Here
Gilbert Keith Chesterton, noted British journalist and author, will give two courses of lectures at Notre Dame, beginning in mid-April and extending until June. Mr. Chesterton recently accepted the invitation tendered by the college officials. The two courses, one in English literature and the other in English history, are to be considered as regular credit courses.
Mr. Chesterton will also deliver the commencement address at the University when an honorary LL.D, degree will be conferred upon him. He will be accompanied to Notre Dame by his wife and secretary, who will reside with him during his stay.
The announcement of the coming to America of this famous figure in the literary world has been received with widespread interest in the literary and educational circles of the nation, for Mr. Chesterton is one of the most discussed and caricatured men of con-
Decoration Plans for Prom Are Now Complete
John J. Kuhn and Timothy Benitz, co-chairmen of the Decorations Committee of the Junior Prom of 1930, aimounce that the plans for decorating the Palais Royale Ballroom for the Junior Prom are practically complete.
The various members of the committee have worked hard, and the result will be a pleasant surprise to the Juniors and their- guests. Although the Committee has been restricted to a somewhat smaller budget than is usually allowed for decoration purposes, the 1930 decorations will be every bit as beautiful as those of other Proms.
The central motif will be a garden for which flowers have been secured from all parts of the country. The East, Florida, and California will contribute their choicest blossoms to enhance the beauty of the scheme.
Disregarding the procedure of former Decoration Committees, the 1930 Committee will not confine the decorations to the ballroom only. The lobby, the foyer and the salon will also be suitably decorated.
The central garden theme will be augmented by appropriate scenery which is already finished and ready to set up. A unique effect has been
temporary literature. He has written many books, and as showing his stature in the world of letters, many articles have been written about him.
Probably Chestei-ton’s best known works are his Father Brown stories, regarded by critics as the best detective and mystery stories of modern times. His chief character in these stories is Father Brown, a Catholic priest with uncanny powers of analysis and deduction. A novel, “The Man Who Was Thursday,” is also popular. It is a powerful satire on radicalism.	'
Perhaps Mr. Chesterton may be said to be the most interesting of all modern writers and thinkers. His series of essays on orthodoxy are generally looked upon as one of the finest defenses of Christianity ever-written.
Mr. Chesterton is the second of his family to lecture at the University. More than twenty years ago his brother Cecil lectured to classes here.
attained in this scenery, which is fantastically designed. Artistically arranged summer houses will further the garden effect. The center of the ballroom will contain a flowerbed representation. On the whole, the most colorful of effects has been produced.
Superb lighting effects have been achieved. Gold and old rose lights will be the chief lighting effect, alternately blended with blue for a moonlit atmosphere, but lights of various other shades will produce a symphony of color. Novel lighting effects have also been arranged for the scenery.
The Orchestra will play from a balcony terrace which will bear out the modernism of the whole design.
On the whole, the decorative theme will be a beautiful combination of gorgeous color softened into subdued harmony by quiet lighting effects. The effect will have to be seen to be properly appreciated.
The Decorations committee has been aided in its work by the co-operation of many South Bend Concerns, among them the Tuttle Corporation and the South Bend Floral Company. Without their help, the success achieved by the Committee would have been practically impossible.
DEAN WILHELM SPEAKS TO PRESS CLUB MEMBERS
“Classified advertising has as much glamour, romance, and honest satisfaction as any other phase of newspaper work,” declared Dean Wilhelm, Classified Advertising Manager of The South Bend News-Times, speaking before the Press Club Tuesday evening in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
Tracing the development of classified advertising from the time of the earliest newspapers to those of the present, Mr. Wilhelm explained the ethics, the technical aspects, and the peculiar conditions surrounding the successful management of classified advertising in the modern newspaper. Constant vigilance in accepting classified advertising matter for publication tends to create public confidence, and together- with the resultant appeal and general convenience makes the classified section, in the opinion of Mr. Wilhelm, the most efficient and effective advertising medium existing, for the use of the newspaper public.
John W. Gibbons, chairman of the Promotion Committee, gave a report of the progress made in establishing closer relations between the Press Club and campus publications, and outlined a program of activities for the near future.
President John E. Motz presided at the meeting which was an informal round table discussion, and urged cooperation of the members in placing the various Press Club projects before the attention of the University.
THREE FOOTBALL MEN RECEIVE DIPLOMAS
Three members of the Notre Dame football team were graduated this February at the conclusion of the first semester. Jack Elder, famous backfield man of the Irish and captain of last year’s track team, will take a position with the Pullman Company in Chicago. He plans to discontinue all activity in the sport world, shortly. “Ted” Aloysius Twomey, tackle, will also end his sport career and settle down in business with his father, in Duluth, Minnesota. Joseph Nash, the third graduate, is leaving the University for his home in Chicago, but at present has no definite plans.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
585
Dailey Named Senior Ball Chairman— Committees Appointed by Class President
The appointment of Francis E. Dailey as general chairman of the Senior Ball was announced this W’eek by Raymond J. Reardon, Senior Class President. Men forming the various committees have also been named and a meeting of the assistant chairmen is to be called within the next week.
Mr. Dailey is a senior in the college of Law and former president of the class in 1926-27. He has also served as representative on the Students Activities Council. This year he has been chosen General Chairman of the committees named to make the class dance of 1930 one of the most elaborate formal affairs ever given by any graduating group of the University.
May 9 has been definitely named as the date for the Ball. As customary, the Palais Royale has been selected as the scene of the dance. Early plans for decorations are being made by the committee in charge, under the guidance of Jerome Parker. Unigue designs “in----------” are be-
ing worked out so as to lend a futuristic effect to the many new features already chosen.
A number of nationally known orchestras are being considered by the dance committees and definite arrangements are expected to be completed by March first. The Ball is to be followed by a tea dance at the Chain-O-Lakes Country Club.
■ With six hundred students eligible for attendance, little difficulty is an-• ticipated in the distribution of tickets which are to be released March 15.
The committees to assist the General Chairman in the various details of the dance are as follows:
Invitations — Thomas Purcell, chairman; Daniel Sullivan, Francis Rause, Jack Siegler, William Sher-isch, Charles Gruening, Leo Love.
Programs — Karl Brennan, chairman; Thomas Frost, Edward England, Charles Lennon, Edward Dan-isch, Charles Gruning, Leo Love.
. Music — Peter- Wacks, chairman; Robert Dinkle, Hugh Gallagher, P. Maroni, Richard Neison, James McDermott, Joseph Guadnola.
Tickets—Thomas Medland, chairman; Walsh, Walter Scholand; Sorin, John Houlihan, Cornelius Carey; Corby, Richard McShane, Alfred Shipicasse; Lyons, Edward Franck; . Off-Campus, James Murray, Edward McCrimon; Badin, Daniel Barton, Gilbert Prendergast.
Publicity—Frank Corbett, chairman; Richard Sullivan, Burl Boykin, Murray Hickey Ley, Joseph Reedy, Hadrian Manski, Chester Ashman, Richard Sloan, Joseph Lordi.
Entertainment — William Miller, chairman; William O’Malley, Charles Schwartz, Raymond Ziliak, John Thomas.
Sunday^ Morning Service—Thomas Keegan, chairman; Paul App, William Knapp, Vincent McCue, James Mulvaney, Frank Mosher, Paul Erwin, Thomas Callahan, Charles Moore.
Decorations — Jerome Parker, chairman. This committee will be' chosen at a later date by the chairman.
FAVORS—T. J. Folks, chairman; James Helligan, Thomas Kerrigan, Joseph Robinson, Edward Mullville, George Lawler, Victor Martzel, Leonard Nalty, Harry Sylvester.
Tea Dance—John Golden and Joseph McCabe, co-chairmen; Warren Fogel, Clarence Donovan, Patrick Goggin, Vernon Slack, Adam Bray, William McCarthy, Raymond Totten, Henry Horka.
Reception—Francis Walker, chairman; Larry Johnston, Jack Cannon, Larry Mullins, George Shay, Anthony Kegowicz.
Hall—Frank McAdams, chairman; John McCarthy, Edward Connors, Thomas Kelly, Thomas Kassis, Richard Donohue, Frank Amato.
Arrangements—Thomas Kenneal-ly, chairman; Daniel Welchons, Robert Weschler, August Bondi, Patrick Hastings, Clarence Kozak, Andrew Aman, Thomas Murphy, William Craddick.
TWENTY-ONE MEN GRADUATED AT MID-YEAR
Twenty-one men were graduated from the University at the conclusion of the first semester, according to an announcement by the Reverend Emiel De Wulf, C.S.C., Directoi- of Studies. Also in the announcement was the fact that the number of failures reached 104, a figure which compares closely with examination failures in past years. According to schools these failures were as follows: College of Arts and Letters, 50; College of Commerce, 24; College of Science, 21; College of Engineering, 6; College of Law, 3.
The graduates from the College of Arts and Letters, who will be awarded an A-B. degree, are: John Joseph Elder, Henry Robert Frey, Walter F. Kolb, Justin J. McCarthy, Joseph A. Parmegiani, Dennis Joseph Swenie, James T. Williamson, and Clayton C. Woodruff.
Those awarded their B. S. degree in the College of Science are the following: Thomas Francis Ferriter, Francis John Hand, Harold Nicholas Simpson.
In the College of Law, John Thomas Griffin, Walter Edmund Parent, and Arthur Leroy. Roule, were graduated.
The degree of Ph. B. was granted to the following commerce students: Maxine L. -Gauthier, John Raymond Marcus, Joseph S. Nash, George B. Pope, Alfred C. Scherer, Ted Aloysius Twomey, and Al J. Welzenbach.
PROM FAVORS TO BE DISTRIBUTED MONDAY
Favors for the Prom are to be distributed Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of next week. The chairman of the Prom states that the Favors Committee is to be commended for its choice, it being original and striking.
The favor is a small, blue suede leather, combination coin purse and memorandum book. Imprinted on the outside, in gold lettering, are the official seal of the University and the words, “Junior Prom 1930.” Inside the purse a program of events for the Prom, the list of patrons, and the names of .the Committee Chair- t men are printed. Sixteen pages for memoranda, addresses and notes are also contained inside the purse. A mirror completes the ensemble.
These favors may be secured with the coupon attached to the Prom ticket. Place of distribution will be announced on bulletin boards.
586
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4------------—----------------—4
Coming Events
4----------------------■—-—.—-4
FRIDAY, Feb. 21—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Movies, “The General,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Lawyer’s Club Ball, Palais Royale, 8:30 to 11:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Feb. 22—Washington’s birthday, no classes.—Procession of the Senior graduating class from Main Building to Washington Hall, 9:30 a. m.—Exercises, Washington Hall, 10:00 a. m.—Movies, Noah Beery in “Old Ironsides,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.— Track, Notre Dame vs. Indiana at Bloomington. — Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Wabash at Crawfordsville.—Rocky Mountain Club meeting, Law Building, 6:45 p. m.
SUNDAY, Feb. 23—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Interhall Basketball, 9:30-11:30 a. m. and l:30-K:30 p. m.—Utica Club meeting, Law Building, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Feb. 24—Last day for securing Prom tickets. Favors given out to Juniors attending the Prom. — Interhall Basketball, Gymnasium, 7:00-9:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Feb. 25 — Scribblers’ meeting, Howard Hall “Rec,” 7:45 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 25—Last day for securing Prom favors.—Interhall Basketball, Gymnasium, 7:00-9:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, Feb. 27 — Spectators’ meeting, Journalism room, Library, 7:45 p. m.—Spanish Club meeting, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.—Cleveland Club meeting, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, Feb. 28—Scholastic Editorial' staff meeting, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—The Prom of 1930, Palais Royale ballroom.
Senior Invitations Are Now Being Ordered
The senior invitations committee has selected the design, and agreed upon the commencement invitations. This has been done in order to allow sufficient time for ordering and distribution.
This year, the invitations will be obtainable in two patterns, one having the blue leather covering, and the other the white semi-flexible cardboard covering. The cover is rather elaborate, the design being raised and the outline of the Dome inlaid with gold finishing.
The first page will contain a picture of the president, with the invitation proper on the second. The succeeding pages will contain an etching of the Sacred Heart Church, a list of the University officials, and board of trustees, a statement of the general program, the list of class officers,
...............................  mtn..............................turn......................
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
4------------------------------4
The regular meeting of the Academy was held on Tuesday evening, February the 18th. Two papers of exceptional merit were presented. The first of these was by Frank Manzione and dealt with Trench Mouth. The etiology and prophylaxis of the dis-• ease gave matter for discussion. The second paper was by George Heil and discussed some difficult problems of medical ethics. A proposed amendment to the constitution limiting the membership and making conditions for membership in the Academy more rigorous, was proposed. The moderator, Father Wenninger, gave the reasons for the introduction of the amendment. In substance, the proposal would limit the right of permanent membership to students in the College of Science who have maintained an average of 85% for three semesters and who have presented at least one paper of merit at a regular meeting of the Academy.
. The next meeting of the Academy will be held on Monday evening, March the 3rd. At this time, Dr. John B. Berteling, an alumnus and a former University physician, at present the secretary of the Board of Health, will address the Academy.
the senior committees and the list of the candidates for degrees.
The cost this year will be $.60 for the leather covered invitation, and $.40 for the white cardboard invitation. No invitations will be obtainable after the deadline set for ordering which is March 20th.
Seniors are urged to place their orders as soon as possible (cash in advance) with any of the following: Sorin Hall—Edward Conley and Bill Dunlevy; Corby—Jim Friel and Al Shipacasse; Badin—Dan McGee; Morrissey and Lyons—Charley Cook; St. Edward’s—Ed. Redmond; Walsh— Tom Galbraith; Off-Campus—Larry Cronin.
Larry Cronin is chairman of the committee, and any further information may be obtained from him, in Walsh Hall.
OFFICIAL N.D. RING TO BE SELECTED BY S. A. C.
For some time, the need for an official school ring has been evident to students and to those connected with the University. In recognition of this fact, the S.A.C. has asked various concerns to submit samples and bids, so that such a ring may become a reality on the campus.
Accordingly, the following concerns have presented several designs, for the approval of the committee: Auld and Co., Columbus, Ohio; Dodge and Ascher, Inc., Chicago, Ill; Josten and Co., Owatonna, Minn; Balfour and Co., Attleboro, Mass; Herff and Jones, Inc., Indianapolis, Ind.
The ring to be selected will be set with a blue sapphire stone, surrounded by intricate die work. It is to cost between §20 and $22 and will be distributed through a student concession, to be announced later.
BROTHER OF FORMER SCIENCE HEAD IS DEAD
The Reverend Joseph Kirsch, C S.C., died Monday, at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. For sixteen years he was engaged in parish work in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio. He was a brother of Alexander Kirsch, C.S.C., one-time head of the ■ Department of Biology, at the University.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
587
.j.
J
1
CORBETT WINS INDIANA ORATORICAL CONTEST
With a well delivered speech, in which he set forth the less glorious aspects of the United States’ legal system, Mr. Frank E. Corbett, of the University of Notre Dame, won first place in the Indiana Intercollegiate Oratorical contest, held in Washington Hall, last Friday evening. As a result of his victory, Mr. Corbett will represent the state of Indiana in a national contest to be held soon. Last year, this national contest was won by Mr. James Roy, also of Notre Dame.
Mr. Corbett’s apponents were as follows: Mr. Tom Millikin, of Earlham; Mr. Charles M. Traylor, of Purdue, who took second place; Mr. Amos Bordlin, of Evansville; Mr. Huber, of Manchester; Mr. Fillenworth, of Butler; and Mr. Robert Goodwin, of Wabash, who took third place.
The Chairman of the occasion was Mr. William P. Sanford, head of the Department of Public Speaking at the University of Illinois, and author of several textbooks on public speaking.

PROM SONG BY BELJON
AND STAUDT IS WELL
RECEIVED
“My Prom Sweetheart,” the 'waltz song which was written for the Junior Prom of this year by John Bel-jon and Zeno Staudt, both seniors in the University, has received wide notice in local musical circles, since first introduced by the writers. It is to be used as a feature song of the Prom by Wayne King and his orchestra.
The management of the Granada and Palace theatres have agreed to feature the song during the next two weeks. Tom Kerrigan, president of the Glee Club, will sing the song at each show during the week of February 23, at the Palace. He will be accompanied by Jack Graham, at the organ. Cyril Matthews will sing the song during the same week at the Granada.
Glenn Stoneburner and his Kilties have been featuring the song during the past week at the South Bend Inn, as well as over WSBT, the South Bend Tribune broadcasting station.
Copies of “My Prom Sweetheart” have been obtained from the publishers, and are available from Beljon or Staudt, as well as from South Bend music houses.
Russian Cossack Chorus Scores Big Success
“Hey oukhnem. Hey oukhnem. Hey oukhnem.” First heard faintly in the distance, then swelling in volume, then fading away. Thus the boatmen of Volga chant their rhythmic dirge, while they pull their barges up and down the famous European river. All the vigor of Russia went into this song, and the other native selections on the concert program presented Wednesday evening in Washington Hall, by the Russian Cossack chorus, with Sergei Socoloff directing.
The singers were smartly dressed in black capes and riding suits, and slick, black boots. A powerful bass, a metallic-voiced soloist, and another rollicking tenor were the oustanding members of the group.
All the lyrics were Russian except the encore numbers at the end of each part, among them “Dixie” and “The Glowworm.” The balance of the pro-
GENERAL ELECTRIC REPRESENTATIVES VISIT
UNIVERSITY
Messrs. M. M. Boring and J. A. Tracey, of Schenectady, N. Y., and W. I. Hackett, of Fort Wayne, Ind., visited the University, last Monday, for the purpose of interviewing the seniors in the College of Engineering, for positions after graduation.
Nine electrical engineers were selected from a class of eighteen, an exceptionally high ratio in proportion to those chosen from other schools; three mechanical engineers were also selected.
That evening the Notre Dame Branch of the A.I.E.E. held a meeting, the principal speaker being Mr. Hackett, whose topic was “The Industrial Relations Work” of the General Electric Co. Other speakers were Mr. Ben South, a senior Electrical Engineer, who discussed “Electric Arcs.” Incidentally Mr. South is one of the forty men chosen from one hundred and twenty-five colleges throughout the country to take the Advanced Engineering Course sponsored by the General Electric Co. Mr. William McCarthy rounded up the meeting with a discussion on “Telephone Transvision.”
NOTICE!
Five o’clock this afternoon is the closing time for distribution of Senior caps and gowns.
gram consisted of the following selections :
Part I.	Serenade. Selection from the Opera “Bandura.” The Sentinel’s Song. Cossack’s Prayer before Battle.
Part II.	The Prisoner’s Escape. The Volga Boatmen Song. A Cossack Party.
Part III.	Legend of Christ. Pot-poui-ri of Popular Russian Songs. Songs of Russia. March (from Slav-ianskaia).
Part IV. Peasant’s Chorus from the opera" “Prince Igor.” Stern Ocean. Snowstorm. The March of the Signals.
Wednesday evening’s concert was the first apeparance of the Russian singers at Notre Dame. The group is entirely composed of members of the colorful Cossack race. Sergei Socoloff, the director, won fame as a ■ military officer before organizing the chorus.
CARR, MCCORMACK SPEAK
BEFORE CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
At the monthly meeting of the American Society for Steel Treating last Monday night, February the 17th, Mr. Carr talked on tungsten-carbide, describing the method of preparation, telling of some of tungsten-carbide’s phenomenal qualities, and introducing a few theories upon the fundamental theory of hardness. At the meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society held in Chemistry Hall, February the 19th, Professor Harold McCormack, head of the department of chemical engineering at the Armour Institute of Technology, in Chicago, spoke on the subject, “Why a Chemical Engineer.” Professor McCormack is a national authority in chemical engineering education.
ATTENTION SENIORS!
A list of Seniors eligible for graduation in Arts and Letters, Law, and Engineering, has been posted on the bulletin board in the basement of the Main Building.
♦-------------------------*
588
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DOCTOR FULTON SHEEN
TURNS TO HUMOR FOR
“REMEDY”
“What is humor? When did humor start? Who possesses humor?”
“Humor is simply the power to look through the existence of the world and see the plan of the Creator. Living and the world are humorous matters, but man interprets them too seriously, for after all, when the. last human being is removed from the earth, all this reality -will be torn down and burned. Before the Incarnation joke books did not exist, for Christ first brought humor into the world. Quickly was His message caught by the simple shepherds and wise men who, only, could see the plan. And today, those of us who, like the poet, see not the mountain just as a mountain, nor the sun just as the sun, but rather see things as Divine Ideas in execution; or those of us who might be modern saints and understand God in His aim, are, alone, to be termed humorous.”
This was the substance of Doctor Fulton Sheen’s message last Monday . night in Washington Hall, implicit in his explanation of the “Divine Sense of Humor,” a lecture luminous in itself for its poetry, and interesting for its vital information and suggestions for a new outlook on life.
Much credit is due the Department of Philosophy and Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C.; the department for its plan in offering a series of such lectures, and its Dean for his success in obtaining such a learned and brilliant speaker as Doctor Fulton Sheen.
WORK ON NEW LAW BUILDING PROGRESSING
In spite of the obstacles offered by snow, cold weather, and now slush . and mud, there has been no delay in the work on the new Law Building. With the blasting of the frozen ground, work was started on the foundations. Already the major part of the cement work has been finished, and with the removal of forms, construction of the building proper will begin.
With the coming of warmer weather, it is expected that the contractors will be able to push the construction work to insure completion before next Fall, and to have the building ready for use with the new school year.
---------------------------------
MUSIC AND DRAMA
---------------------------------..I.
The Armstrong Players are in their eleventh week at the Oliver, and they have gone into it with more encouragement from new auditors.
“The Unkissed Bride” is one of those “marry-to-get-the-money” farces that usually please one if the company is (or be) good. A young man loses in the stock market and needs a hundred thousand to cover his losses as well as his fiance, a girl from a musical show. Of course he has to marry someone else to get the money, but oh, those complications.
Miss Rey, strangely enough, is cast as an eccentric maid, and we like eccentric maids. Then there is Myron Cox, a new juvenile who has just come from a long engagement in Kansas City stock. Aunt Matilda and Uncle Dawley (Miss Fink and Mr. Armstrong) will entertain you with their badly-timed antics and what not.
Among the records there are many to be mentioned and just as many, we hope, to be remembered. Rachmaninoff and Kreisler have done a Beethoven sonata for Victor that is a lovely thing and a masterful performance of two great artists. Tony Kopecky sings a chorus or two with Wayne King in “If I’m Dreaming” and “Sally” (Victor). If you stay at Elbel’s very long ask for Ben Selvin’s “ ’Tain’t No Sin” and King Oliver’s “St. James Infirmary.” Then to make you think you’re feeling good try Waring’s “Alma Mammy” and “Navy Blues.” But if you are feeling rather vague get Waring’s “Cryin’ For the Caroline’s” and “Have a Little Faith 'in Me.”
March Twenty-Fifth Closing Date for N.LO.C.
Although March 25 is the closing date for entries in the Sixth National Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest on the Constitution, 81 colleges and universities from 29 states have already written to P. Caspar Harvey, national director, Liberty, Mo. Northwestern University, Evanston, HL, national winner in 1925, was the first school to enter the 1930 contest.
The competition for the greatest forensic honor open to college stu-
Then we suggest that you tear over to Lang’s and brow-beat them into giving or getting you Isham Jones’ recording of “Feeling That Way.” It would (if you felt at all inclined) force you to leave that lovely Prom Girl somewhere between Ligonier and Kendalville. Then see if they won’t get Ben Bernie’s “What Is This Thing Called Love?” We know it’s been done, because Ben told us so in Cleveland last week-end. Leo Reisman is doing it for Victor and you know what that means; but Ben Bernie’s recording sounds more like Lix Riley than anyone we know!
Last Wednesday and Thursday, Genevieve Hamper, widow of Robert Mantell, performed at the High School Auditorium in South Bend. Her -Macbeth is, possibly, a better thing than her husband’s work in Shakespeare. Lady Macbeth was a powerful, fiery character and Miss Hamper’s leading man was. especially competent in the soliloquies. When things like this come to South Bend we cast our eyes longingly at the Oliver, where many a Chicago company had a try-out; where many a personage performed to the applause of appreciative townspeople and not a few students.
The Russian Cossack Choir was here Wednesday. We vowed last week not to go unless they promised not to sing the “Song of the Volga Boatmen.” Well, you know what happened as well as I. With the coming of Lent the University’s concert list becomes heavy with names, so after March 9 you can give up “shows” for the benefits of Washington Hall.
1
4
- ?
dents in America is bringing together, this year, , the largest group of colleges and universities in any project of the kind in the history of American higher education, according to the anouncement made this week at the national headquarters. A total of 85,000 in prizes will be awarded, and the winner, who will become the national intercollegiate champion orator for 1930, will be awarded a prize of $1500. Second place will give a prize of $1000, scaling down to $400 for seventh place.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
589
Campus Club officers will have an opportunity, this Easter vacation, to co-operate with the alumni in the matter of providing entertainment for Universal Notre Dame Night. That evening this year falls on April 21st, we are -told, during our Easter vacation. A great many clubs at this time are considering the possibilities this opportunity affords. The Alumni are to be congratulated for the part they have played in making Universal Notre Dame Night the success that it is. In the programs they sponsor, there are smokers, stag parties, dances dinners and club meetings. If the Campus Clubs are sufficiently able to hold their standards up to those of the alumni, it will be a splendid opportunity for them to advance the present Notre Dame.
The YOUNGSTOWN CLUB is among the first to seriously consider this question. At a meeting held a few days ago, it was considered by the club members.
The CLEVELAND CLUB held their bowling tournament last Sunday afternoon at the Hotel LaSalle Annex, as was announced in last week’s Scholastic. It was a tremendous success. Dick Mahoney succeeded in absconding with the first prize, Martin Camelia the second, and Al Grisanti the third. Last Tuesday morning Mass was celebrated by the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., for John Venable’s father.
There will be a meeting of this club next Thursday evening at 7:30 in the Law Building for the purpose of reviewing the plans made for the pool tournament. It remains only to set the date for the affair. It is hoped that a discussion of the other tournaments announced will warrant their being held.
The METROPOLITAN CLUB seems to have had a very successful Christmas dance. At a meeting held a few days ago reports were turned in on the affair, and it was found that practically a hundred dollars was realized. This meeting was the first that the club has had since the vacation. Last Tuesday the members of the club arranged for their Dome pictures. At the meeting a discussion arose about resuming the old custom, in the Metropolitan Club, of the Communion breakfast. In a very short time such an affair will be arranged, as well as a banquet. Complete plans will be announced later.
The DETROIT CLUB, at their meeting a week ago yesterday, elected Robert Neydon secretary of the club. At this meeting plans for the banquet held last Wednesday were completed.	'	.
The banquet was held at the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle, but we were unable to find out a great deal about it because of the early date on which this page must go to press. Each of the officers of the club gave short talks
on pertinent subjects. The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Club. Jack Carr, popular vocal artist, sang for the gathering. The banquet was a complete success, due largely to the work of Walter DeBaene, Chairman. It is the intention of the Club to work with the alumni during the coming Easter vacation in the matter of entertainment.
The WEST VIRGINIA CLUB held a very important meeting last Tuesday night in the Law Building. A great deal of work was done in the appointment of committees for the Formal dance to be held during Easter vacation. It is the intention of the Club to hold a banquet during that time. This was the first meeting of the club since Christmas time, and they are to be commended for the ease and speed with which they have entered into events of the season.
The MINNESOTA CLUB is also arranging for an Easter dance. Last Tuesday night in the Law building a lively discussion concerning the affair was held. Arrangements were made for taking Dome Pictures this week.
Next Sunday morning in the Law Building a very important meeting of the UTICA CLUB will be held. It is imperative that as many members as possible be present. The meeting, we have been asked to announce, will be at 10:00 a. m.
The CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB will hold an important meeting next Wednesday evening in the Law building at 7:45. It has been decided that a banquet will be held within the next two or three weeks, and the necessary appointing of committees, and arrangements for the program of events for this semester, must be attended to at once. It is of the utmost importance that all members be present.
The WRANGLERS are as usual, holding their weekly meetings in the Public Speaking room of Walsh Hall each Tuesday evening at 8:00. President James Walsh of the club wishes to call attention to the notable work the WRANGLERS are doing, and to remind all members of the club of the weekly meetings. Discussions of many pertinent questions are always carefully considered by the Club, and their work is to be commended.
The ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB, having been somewhat dormant since the Christmas vacation, is reviving. A meeting of the Club will be held tomorrow evening at 6:45 in the Law Building. A prominent alumnus of Notre Dame whose home was at one time in the Rocky Mountain region, will be visiting the University soon, and an attempt will be made to provide suitable entertainment for him. It is hoped that he may be able to address the club. At the next meeting, cigarettes and an abundance of matches are promised members who attend. Several speakers will address the club.
590
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE IWADE

The announcement concerning our yo-yo champ seems to have stirred up at least two new readers of our page, for no less than that number have cracked at us about the champ. But perhaps these two gentlemen are not neophytes at all, but were merely told about our hero of the yo-yo by the two original readers of our efforts. Be that as it may, we have during the past week unearthed two more items of interest in regard to the yo-yo. We are indebted to the weekly publication of the Indiana State Teachers College for the following historical information: “We are almost ashamed to mention the word ‘yo-yo’ again, but we are simply bursting to tell that research again proves that history repeats itself. During the French Revolution, the yo-yo was called ‘emigrette’; and old prints show that it was made of double disks of ivory wound with a narrow ribbon. In the middle of the nineteenth century, it was known as ‘quiz,’ and old books on toys inform us that no person of fashion was without one. At another time it was known as ‘bandolore.’ In the Philippines, it is a seasonable game much as marbles are here.” And from Washington and Lee University comes this story of an attack upon the noble pastime: “The first sign of an outbreak against the yo-yo appeared in the Danville, Ohio, public schools this week when the school authorities placed that popular plaything on the taboo list. It is reported that this edict has seriously cramped the style of both pupils and teachers.” Meanwhile, our champ continues to reign supreme over all the yo-yo world, so far as is known, and he carelessly avows that he stands ready to step forth and defend his title as soon as a worthy challenger is found.
They have some good ideas down at Butler too. Not long ago they staged a dance that was at least unique. What made it unique was the fact that each young lady was weighed at the entrance and her escort was charged according to her weight. It is reported that on the night of this particular dance all the buxom and over-buxom belles of central Indiana sat disconsolately at home, as did even the pleasingly plump young ladies. Truly, it was a night for the slender and the small, the skinny and the tiny.
—o—
The editors of the 1930 Gopher, Minnesota yearbook, conceived a sure-fire method of selling subscriptions to the men students of the university, only to have that plan frustrated by the dean. The business • managers of the annual secured a group of stage beauties from a downtown musical comedy to appear on the campus and donate a kiss with each Gopher subscription. This idea rather appealed to the male element of the university, and prospects seemed fine for a tremendous number of subscriptions. But at this juncture the dean stepped in and forced the engagement of the pretty girls to be cancelled. In charging the managers of the Gopher with “tampering with the males,” the dean objected to outside agencies being used to promote a campus affair. We wonder if the plan would have been acceptable had the managers
extended their kiss-with-a-subscription offer to the faculty members as well as to the students.
—o—
Loyola University of Chicago has a unique gentleman in the person of Mr. J. Lee (Wiggles) Waldvogel, who was selected as the “It” man of the school and was too modest to be present to receive the prize, which was a solid gold Loyola signet ring. He had previously stated that he knew no definite reason for his success in the contest, and as a result perhaps of that statement, he knew no definite reason why he should be present to receive the award.
It never pays to get a headache in Japan, declares an ex-University of Washington student, in a letter to some of his friends still in chancery. This gentleman is now touring the Orient and explains the headache proposition by saying that all you can hear over there is horns. There is but one traffic rule in Japan, he avers, and that is: “In every emergency, honk your horn!” He continues to say that there are always “two or three horns on taxis, bicycles, rickshaws, and sometimes even on ox carts. A headache acquired in Japan is permanent.”
—o—
Some famous razor manufacturer recently instigated a beard-growing contest, with a first prize of $500. Before the contest closed the principal means of indentification was the finger print method. When the winner was announced dark rumors of fraud went floating around the campus, the charge being that the winner bribed some member of the House of David to represent him before the judges.
—o—
In the deal* dead days when we were all rosy-cheeked app----no, I mean school children, if I’m not mistaken we were taught that Berlin was somewhere in ... . gee, I got myself in a mess. Where is Berlin anyhow? Just a minute, and I’ll look it up. Here it says that Berlin is in Germany.' That’s right. Well anyhow, what I wanted to say before I got into that geographic difficulty was that someone told us the other day that Berlin was in London, writing a new song. Oh, please, mister executioner, don’t show that man any mercy.
—o—
That same fellow that committed that felony concerning Berlin, was asked if he knew what Marawanna meant and if so to use it in a sentence, to prove it. This is what happened: “I entered my horse in a race, but my Marawanna run.” Stop, don’t kill him so fast, mister executioner, make it hard and long.
—o—	"
Statistics at hand furnish us with the information that the number of college publications has increased remarkably in the last few years. There are now more than 400 college weeklies, 32 dailies, about 35 semi-weeklies, and almost 100 bi-weeklies. It is not for us to say how many of all these are also “weaklies,” for we shall judge not lest we be judged.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
591
THE COMING CF CHESTERTON
A news item in this issue details the forthcoming- arrival, at Notre Dame, of Mr. Gilbert Keith Chesterton, of London, England. Mr. Chesterton, a renowned author, poet, lecturer, and apologist, will offer courses in English literature and in English history.
This announcement is, of course, of great importance in its own. right; Mr. Chesterton, by reason of his past performances, commands respect from his most embittered antagonist; his paradoxes, crazy quilts at first sight, often reveal themselves, on unfolding, as subtle and shrewd observations; his poems, caught drippings from casks of word-wine; his stories, fine examples of the art; his defenses of the Church, great fans of light opening over the waste lands of the opposition.
But in his coming we see a deeper significance; it strikes us as another step in a process which, we believe, will eventuate in the recognition of Notre Dame as an international, radiating center of Catholic culture.
This will be twofold in meaning: first, we will see the establishment of a Catholic school of criticism, and second, flowing out of this—for in order to have a truly religious or national literature we must first have a criticism to define aims—Catholic creative thought will blossom and flower in imaginative prose and verse.
We are not blind to the fact that we already have, here at Notre Dame, men who are capable of bringing this about; nor, on the other hand, are we deceiving ourselves by believing that this goal —the fixing of Notre Dame as a center of Catholic culture—is directly around the corner...
But not the least aim of the commentator is to envision objectives; the objective we have described is, we believe, sound in its implications; there remains the attainment; and out of this emerges the challenge!	—M. H. L.
,	ORATORY AND NOTRE FAME
L	-
Not the least of Notre Dame’s tradition is the ability of her orators. The University is proud of them, and justly so. For years the speakers on Notre Dame debating teams have ranked with the e	best in the country. In debates with other teams, and in individual contests, they have made an en-
‘ viable record.	'
Last year James Roy, Breen Medal winner, won the Indiana championship and the national championship. His opponents were the cream of the nation’s collegiate debaters. This year Notre Dame is well on its way to another national forensic championship. Frank Corbett, winner of the Breen Medal for 1929, won the state oratorical contest last Friday in Washington Hall, and will undoubt?	edly make a fine showing in the national contest.
w	Corbett’s victory is due, in no small part, to the intensive training that Notre Dame orators re-
ceive. The coaches have always insisted that the question debated, or the topic spoken on, be seen '	from all angles and from all points of view. At the same time the speaker is trained to present the
*	argument in a forceful and vivid manner. The results obtained have more than justified the existence
of this type of coaching. Corbett’s victory is an example of the efficacy of the system.
it	The SCHOLASTIC congratulates Corbett on his success. Along with the excellent record of former
orators and debating teams, his achievement is a convincing demonstration that Notre Dame is famous for things other than a fine athletic record.	.	—E. l. t.

Page 592—The Notre Dame Scholastic
v k
The Scene—from across the lake.
“On fire, in flames, in ashes! Such is the history of Our Lady’s College for a few short hours, beginning at about 11 o’clock on Wednesday morning, April 23, 1879. The tale of alarm, of hurried help, of almost superhuman but vain labor in extinguishing the raging flames, and finally of having whatever of value that could be snatched from the fire, has all been graphically told by the daily press for the past few days, and we have hardly the heart to go over the dreadful story. But our friends have a right to hear from us through our own little paper, and so they shall, for, thank God, our printing office is one of the precious things spared by the devouring element.”
These lines are from the issue of the Scholastic three days following the fire. Hear from it they did, and the friends of Notre Dame throughout the country responded generously to her pleas for assistance in this hour of need. How effective this response was may be judged by the fact that, true to the promise made by Very Reverend President Corby, C.S.C., a new and better college than the one that had burned that day was ready to receive the students on the first Tuesday of the next September.
No one ever determined the origin of the fire. It was first seen from the Minims’ yard; the flames appeared on the roof, near the east side of the dome. Quoting from an article by Professor Stace, written in 1884, for “Donahoe’s Magazine,” we read: “The second college was a roomy, square-built, factory-Jike structure, with a mansard roof, and it took fire one warm day in April, during the prevalence of a southwest gale, here the most violent of all the sons of Aeolus, coldest of all in winter, hottest of all in summer, and a dry, healthy wind at every season. Urged by the gale,
a column of flame and smoke rose in the air to the height of a thousand feet, where it formed a complete arch, bending over with its freight of light combustibles, and set fire to a forest a mile distant on the northeast, which continued to burn for several days after. Not only the main building was destroyed on this occasion, but also the infirmary, the music hall, and several minor structures to the leeward.”
A little water, might, at first, have saved the building, but before any could be carried to the sixth floor, the roof was blazing. Nevertheless, long lines of men and boys formed on the stairways from story to story up to the roof, and buckets of water were sent up from hand to hand. The tanks on the upper stories were emptied, and water sent up the pipes by steam, but nothing could check the blaze. Even the most hopeful were forced to draw back when the supports of the dome burned away, and the statue fell upon the roof.
The students and others now turned their attention to saving the personal possessions of their prefects and professors. In his Golden Jubilee “History of the University of Notre Dame” Professor Timothy E. Howard said: “Most heroically was this labor of saving performed. A stripling student seemed to
The Picket-fence and the Main Building before the fire.
he
By AUSTIN BOYLE .!
be endowed with the courage of a hero ' ^1* and the strength of a giant.” The Sis- 2 ters displayed remarkable coolness in I saving valuables from the infirmary. - y
Some of the more excitable students, while qualifying as rescuers in courage "■ and strength, did not quite possess the mental poise necessary for action in "" * emergenies. They “saved” such articles as lamps, desks, bookcases, and costly 7 instruments by enthusiastically tossing a them out of third and fourth story windows. It was pointed out to a few, later, that it would have been much wiser to . carry four loads of crockery out in a half hour than to heave out five times that much in two minutes.	“
c
Meantime help was arriving from all - « sides. Neighbors from miles around helped carry water or save some articles. y Telegrams were sent to South Bend asking for help and for the city fire-engine. $ Professor Howard’s history tells us: “As , soon as the firemen could gather from their shops, and put the engine in work- w ing order, it was carried out. . . . The F engine had not been used for two years, had but recently been repaired, and it bi was not known at first whether it would -A work or not. But it performed admirable	n!
seiwice; and could it have been here in	g
the beginning, or even an hour sooner, a:-it would have saved the college. Had it tl ■H in ! sui see'
SU¥ of' goo
I eve as? and the kno froi of J den^ C.S size pati the Pres ing ly I ness
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 593
ere half an hour earlier, it would aved the infirmary building, the mcis Home, and the Music Hall.”
account of the fire deems it Aly fortunate that the wind was
ie southwest, for this kept the fire kenching Sacred Heart Church. |y was warm, and neither the aged -sick suffered from exposure. There
. narrow escapes among the jers, but no one was hurt seriously.
i>:00 o’clock Father Corby called sistants, and they decided that
t of the college year would have
suspended. He then made his inpromise to the students that a new
, finer than the one that burned, await them in September. Decor the interrupted scholastic year onferred within the next few days, he students departed for their
greatest fear of those in charge tor the shock to the venerable ;• Sorin, then sixty-six years old. sA-isiting with friends in Montreal
leaving on a voyage to Europe, jgram was sent asking that the |je kept from him until a messen->uld reach him. This was done, om the messenger he first learned ad news of his beloved school, turned at once. His holy heroism pee of disaster inspired all to rise r to, the affliction which had fallen Ij£m. For a time Father Sorin fo have recovered his youth. With mg activity he directed the work iilding, trusting implicitly in the ss*of God and His Blessed Mother, et' and sympathy were expressed |iere at the loss, and offers of Wie poured in from local residents iends of Notre Dame throughout mtry. The main building, as we ; now, was erected; the school rose s ruins and entered a golden age .iant activity. During the presi->f the Reverend Thomas E. Walsh, 'ihe University grew rapidly in nd cultural attainments. The phal Sorin and his comrades of •lier days still lived and blended ditional past with the advancing ;. Notre Dame had made a bless-her cruel misfortune and heroical-jared herself for greater useful-
days to come.
Minims, too, ivere among the scores tvho battled the blaze for houts. From the windoivs were heaved lamps, valuable books and art treasures as excited* students ‘'saved" them frotn the flames.
PROM PROPHECIES
432 Juniors will go to the Prom.
678 Juniors will not.
432 Juniors will try to borrow Tuxes.
678 Juniors will refuse them.
432 Juniors will gripe about the favors.
678 Juniors will wish they had gone to the Prom.
432 Juniors will be broke.
1110 Juniors will sleep in Saturday morning.
—0—
All those students who are attending the Prom are hereby notified that by “evening clothes” the committee does not mean pajamas.
UNACCLIBATED
Oh, Basidod, sweed Basidod!
Idt fills by heardt with cheer
To thigh of all the days add weegks Tliat I shall still be here.
The barshes all aroudd send zibb A boisture rich and rare
Sayd Bary’s add Sayd Joseph’s lake
.	Add dappness to the air.
By breath doesulot cub as idt should
Sidce first I cabe to tozvd;
I’b tryig to keep from sdeezig
1 bake faces like a clozvd.
Bzzdt if I ever ged a chadce
To fly the bloobig coob
You needd’t be surprised to hear Be gib a joyous “zvhoob.”
—o—
Add thed we hab the wud aboud (oh plague that poem) —well anyhow we have the one about the curly haired Yale boy, who sold his locks. Oh I mister executioner, please be merciful.
FATE, THE MASTER Fate, the master
Wends his unrouted path Through the mills of the zvorld, Oblivious—unrelenting—merciless, Rendering exceedingly small The work of mortal man.
He crooks his finger
And death stalks	‘
Into the ephemeral joy ' Of unsuspecting homes. He smiles and mere man Fazozis azid follows him. .
He frozvns and mezz
Clizig azzd are afraid
Of dire evezzts.
He pazises azzd zve znortals •
Wait, breathless in suspezise,
Foz- him to stzike,
Oz' to smile
As he passes ozz.
—SlRDAH RUMJAHN.
—0—
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
Hearing of the much advertised eighteen day diet, a group of noted scientists decided to investigate and did so by going on the diet themselves. The cameraman caught them on the nineteenth day at the bewitching hour just following lunch. Note the still ravenous countenance on those assembled.
—o—
After deep consideration and a rather profuse meandering through the field of chemistry, we have arrived at the somewhat momentous conclusion that the greatest single achievement which chemistry has thus far realized is blonds.
The Scotch joke of the week goes to the one concerning the brae and bonny Scottish soldier who went insane attempting to shoot a cannon off, a little at a time.
Does the fact that rooster shows a white feather prove that he is chicken.—Bang, bang, bang!—now bleed you dog.
—o—
Someone has suggested that a telegraphic track meet be held between the Fourth of Walsh and Badin Hall. . . . And by the way, The Wink does not come from the sedate towers of Sorin, but rather from the aristocratic columns of Walsh!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
595
Notre Dame Beats Illinois for the First Time
NOTRE DAME DRUBS SPARTANS
Donovan and McCarthy Play Fast Game; Trim Michigan State, 29-17
WHEN a paii- of guards can hold a pair of forwards who scored seventeen points between them the last time the two teams met, down to a mere four points, the team on which these sharpshooters perform cannot be the winner. That’s exactly what happened last Tuesday evening when Notre Dame bucked up against Michigan State in an effort to wipe out a previous 28 to 21 defeat. The Blue and Gold quintet defense, led by the inimitable pair of guards, Donovan and Smith, held the famed Grove brothers to a scant four points, enabling their teammates to walk away with a 29 to 17 win.
So closely-did Ooney and Ed stick with the Grove duo throughout the evening, that the latter pair were able to make only one basket and two fouls between them. At the same time Jack McCarthy was playing a bang-up game at forward, slipping in two field goals and seven free shots, a total of eleven points which were enough to give him the high scoring toga for the evening.
Michigan State started off the scoring with a foul shot by Den-Herder, but was overcome soon after, when DeCook looped in a field goal and Notre Dame was never headed thereafter. The Spartans were unable to send the ball through the net from the floor until sixteen minutes of the first half had elapsed.
Fouls were called frequently and three players were banished during the game, Donovan for Notre Dame, and Scott and Roger Grove for Michigan State. Referee Lane kept the game moving at a rapid rate and
(Continued on Page 601)
CAGERS {SMEAR BUTLER FIVE
Downstaters Are Easy Prey; Captain Donovan Nets Thirteen Points
FOR the third successive year the Fighting Irish invaded the lair of the Butler Bulldog and whipped out a 28-20 win in the first game of their annual home and home series last Friday night.	■
It was Captain “Oonie” Donovan’s “night,” and largely through the unerring sharp-shooting of the Notre Dame leader did the invaders outdistance their opponents in one of the most sought for victories of the year. Donovan has been slow in displaying the brilliant play of which he is capable, but in this game he burst forth in old-time fashion to register almost half his team’s points. His total for the evening was four field goals and five fouls. Ray DeCook, the raftertapping sophomore pivot man, kept up an even pace with his team-mate in field goals but fell short by two free throws of equalling Donovan’s high mark.
The impromptu lineup which Tony Hinkle sent onto the floor of the big fieldhouse could not check Notre Dame’s sparkling offense and equally failed to penetrate the vacuum-like defense of the visitors. At half time the count found Notre Dame in the lead by one point, the score being 9-8. But this was before Donovan and DeCook started to loop them. After this duo began to register two-pointers consistently, the Butler rooters saw their hopes for victory slowly fade in an increasing separation of points during the final period.
An unusually large number of fouls point distinctly to the vigor with which both teams contested every threat of its opponent to score. Though fifteen personal fouls were
(Continued on Page 600)
Trackmen Run Wild To Break 17-Year-Old Jinx Of Illini
THE jinx is broken. After seventeen years of losing, sometimes by seventy-five points and sometimes by but one or two—yet always losing, Notre Dame’s team finally defeated the University of Illinois in a dual meet in the University gymnasium last Saturday night. The score was 63—32, one of the largest totals ever piled up against the Illini thin-lies by an opposing team.
The first places were evenly divided at five each, but Coach John P. Nicholson’s men won the mile relay, and, with one exception, took at least two places in each event. The Blue and Gold runners swept the half-mile run when McConnville, Quigley, and Wilson finished in that order ahead of the Illinois entrants.	■
Two new gym records were made during the course of the meet—both by wearers of the Orange and Blue. Captain Verne McDermott broke the record set last year by Tom Warne, of Northwestern, in the pole vault, with a jump of 13 feet 4 7-8 inches. Sentman, the iron-man of the Illini squad, broad-jumped 22 feet, 1114 inches to break the record set by his former teammate, Simon, last year. Johnny O’Brien tied his own gym record for the high hurdles in the finals of that event, and the Notre Dame mile relay team, composed of Abbott, Bailie, and Wilson, came within three-fifths second of the record for that distance.
Roy Bailie, Joe Quigley, Alex Wilson, and Brant Little gave probably the best exhibitions of the Notre Dame men in the meet. Bailie took second place in both the high hurdles and broad jump besides running the third leg on the victorious relay team. Quigley ran two good races to take seconds in both the mile and the halfmile. Wilson won the 440-yard dash with a great sprint at the finish, took
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A------------------------——
FIVE GYM RECORDS
BROKEN
With only two indoor meets competed in this season five Notre Dame gymnasium records have been cracked. Last week the pole vault and broad jump marks went the way of the vanquished. During the Butler meet, the 60-yard high hurdles, high jump, and 440-yard dash records were smashed. There is every good reason to believe that the time for the one mile relay team will have been lowered before the completion of the present season.
•>---------------------------<« third in the half-mile, and ran anchor on the relay. Little, who left the hospital to run in the meet, won the mile run, and ran the second leg of the relay.
Jim Biggins ran a beautiful race in the two-mile run but lost out in the last ten yards when Makeever, the Illinois star distance man, had too great a “kick” for Jim to stand.
The events which had, perhaps, the greatest amount of local interest, especially to the freshmen, were the Interhall Relays which were added to the varsity program Saturday night and are to be a regular feature of the dual meets from now on. Brownson defeated Carroll in the first race and Freshman easily disposed of Howard in the final. Freshman’s time, 2:29 4-5, was eight seconds better
Elder Cracks World’s Record for Sixty Meters
Jack Elder, running Ins last race of the present season, broke the world’s record for the 60-meter dash last Saturday night at the Crescent A.C. games in New York City. Defeating Jimmy Pappas, Newark A.C., and Frank Hussey, New York A.C., in seven seconds flat, Jack clipped onefifth second from the old mark set by Bob McAllister in 1927. A few minutes before his record-breaking dash the “Colonel” had triumphed over the same two men in a special fifty-yard event.
' In the Meadowbrook Club games in Philadelphia, on February 12, Jack lost a heart-breaking 45-yard dash to Chet Bowman, of Newark A.C. In beating Elder, Bowman was forced to break the world’s record for the distance. The two sprinters raced down
than that made by Brownson in the first race.
The results:
60-Yard Dash—Won by Useman (Ill.); Boagni (ND), second; Cummings (ND), third. Time :06 2/5.
60-Yard High Hurdles—Won by O’Brien (ND); Bailie (ND), second; Rogers (Ill.), third. Time :07 3/5.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Wilson (ND); Hampton (Ill.), second; Abbott (ND), third. Time :53 3/5.
880-Yard Run—Won by McConn-ville (ND); Quigley (ND), second; Wilson (ND), third. Time 2:02 3/5.
Mile Run—Won by Little (ND); Quigley (ND), second; Evans (III.), third. Time 4:35 1/5.
Two Mile Run—Won by Makeever (Ill.); Biggins (ND), second; How-ery (ND), third. Time 9:58 4/5.
Pole Vault—Won by McDermott (Ill.); Johnson (ND), second; Fish-leigh (ND), third. Height, 13 ft., 4% in.
Broad Jump—Won by Sentman (Ill.); Bailie (ND), second; Wanger (Ill.), third. Distance, 22 ft., 11% in.
High Jump—Won by Carr (Ill.); Abernathy (ND) and Darling (ND), tied for second. Height, 6 ft.
Shot Put — Won by Hoffman (ND); Brill (ND), second; Wineland (Ill.), third. Distance, 42 ft., 4% in.
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Abbott, Little, Bailie, Wilson). Time 3:30 2/5.
Interhall Relays — First race, won by Brownson over Carroll; time 2:37 4/5. Second race, won by Freshman over Howard; time 2:29 4/5.
the boards neck and neck the entire distance, and the judges debated for several minutes before they awarded the race to Bowman. Bowman was clocked in 5 seconds flat, 1-5 second better than the former record.
Elder, who has been running unattached since his graduation from Notre Dame at the semester, has hung up an enviable record so far this year, and it is to be regretted that he has decided to end his track career so soon. His record this season now stands at ten victories, two seconds, and one third, in thirteen races. His three defeats were in races of forty-five and fifty yards. Between sixty and seventy-five yards Jack showed that he is champ on the boards as well as on dirt, and he well deserves his All-American rating.
A---------------------$
TOTAL TEAM SCORING
(Including game of Feb. 18, 1930)
	Goals	Fouls	Total
J. McCarthy	29	30	88
DeCook	33	18	84
Newbold	24	16	64
Smith	27	11	65
Donovan	22	12	56
Crowe	21	5	47
Gavin	18	6	42
Heenan	6	3	15
Host	4	5	13
Kizer	5	0	10
O’Connell	1	2	4
Busch	1	2	4
Burns	1	2	4
Duwan	1	2	4
Conley	1	0	2
Carideo	1	0	2
W. McCarthy	0	1	1
Forsee	0	1	1
Totals	195	116	506
Total scoring for opponents, 376 points. $----------------------—--------------------ik
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL RELAY TEAM IN BUFFALO TONIGHT
The Notre Dame football relay team, composed of Frank Carideo, Moon Mullins, Bucky O’Connor, Joe Savoldi, and Clarence Kaplan, left yesterday afternon for Buffalo, N. Y., where they are to run in the Buffalo Relays tonight. The football relay, which is becoming an annual feature at many of the important meets, promises to be an exceptionally good one tonight. Georgetown, N.Y.U., Buffalo, and several other prominent eastern universities have signified their intention of entering a team.
Last year, with Jack Elder, Jack Chevigny, Freddy Collins, and Moon Mullins representing the Blue and Gold, Notre Dame took second place in the Kansas Relays event which Army won by a narrow margin.
Four men will run in the race with the fifth man as an alternate. Each man runs 110 yards, carrying a football instead of the usual baton.
A------------------------------»
WAS IT FATE?
The 63 to 32 score by which Notre Dame defeated Illinois last Saturday evening was almost an exact reversal of the win last year by Illinois. The Orange and Blue defeated Notre Dame 611-2 to 331-2 at that time.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
597
r-
Jack McCarthy Leads Scorers With 88 Points
Jack McCarthy, Notre Dame’s sure-fire forward, has found the net on the basketball backboard so inviting that he now holds first place on the list of scorers. His eleven points Tuesday night gave him a four-point advantage over his closest competitor, Ray DeCook.
McCarthy’s grand total of 88 points consists of 29 field goals and 30 fouls. He increased his total considerably by making seven attempts of nine in the fray with Michigan State.
DeCook rests in the runner-up position with 33 baskets and 18 charity throws for a total of 84 markers.
PI»iiiiiiuiii»»iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiii;iiitiiitiitnmtmmniinniitninniiiiiiiiniiininiiniiiniinimiiiiiiiitiiiititiiitiiiiiiniiiiiiij|g
| INTERHALL ITEMS
s
Sophomore’s Five Horsemen continue to lead a merry pace, bowling ‘	over all who challenge their right to
[	the league leadership in the heavy-
weight division. The top rung in the pony league goes also to Sophomore 1	having seven wins and no losses.
* * * p
Lyon’s Trojans struck a snag in. the L	snappy Sophomore outfit led by Izo,
’	lanky forward, who scored seven of
his team’s thirteen points.
* * *
Badin’s Badgers looked anything 5 but bad in their tilt with Howard. *	Ziliak and O’Malley scored fifteen
j	points between them.
1	* * *
Law of Morrissey, in a game with »	a fighting Carroll quintet, scored
■	sixteen out of thirty-one markers for
,	the Morrisseyites. . It is a cinch that
he will bear watching when the boys from ' Sophomore meet the gold coasters in their struggle for suprem-J acy in the heavyweight group.
* * *
Walsh almost won a game last week but the strain was too great and the day-dogs emerged victorious
by one point after a hectic struggle. Duba of Off-Campus, and Meyers of Walsh, were high scorers in this 15 to 14 win by the Off-Campus heavies.
* * *
The Sorinites gave the boys from Lyons a close run on Sunday. The final score of 15-13 shows how determined the seniors were in their efforts to overcome the attack of the Dolan-Palt-Agnew combination.
* * *
Brownson and Morrissey Lites went through two overtime periods to decide the winner of this exciting fray. The boys from the Main Building finally won out, 14 to 13.
* * *
Walsh in the Heavyweight class and Morrissey in the Lightweight group continue to grace the cellar positions in those divisions respectively. Neither outfit has won a game to date; both lost heartbreaking games last week by the narrow margin of one point.
* * *
The interhall relay men cut quite a figure in their new gay-colored sweat outfits last Saturday evening at the Illinois meet.
Pipes save no midnight oil
r? PIPES made the man, anybody at all could rise in the world just by smoking a few pounds of Edgeworth. But pipes do not make the man.
Men make the pipe—most men do. Somewhat depends on the individual, more on the pipe, and the tobacco is most important of all. Things must be congenial.
Edgeworth is a congenial tobacco, cool, slow-burning, fully flavored. Edgeworth has poise, kindly good nature, real tobacco personality — ‘ Edgeworth welcomes new friends. Many a good man has been pledged to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just ask with the coupon—and the postman will bring your first few pipefuls of the genuine, three years seasoned if it’s a day. Our treat, if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and quit their discontent.
So may if be with you!
EDGEWORTH
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos — selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere — “Ready Rubbed” or “Plug Slice”—15/ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
Laras & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
(Witness my seal)
(and my seat of learning)
(and my postoffice and state) Now let the Edgeworth comet	V
598
The Notre Dame Scholastic
An interhall relay meet would hardly be a relay without one or two redheads burning up the track with their speed. The winning Freshman sextet, with Red McCarthy helping Kelly McBeth, Shricte and Company, set a new mark for the relay teams to aim at in the future.
2$:	ajc sic
Howard with Hoyt, Larkin, and Abbotemarco of freshman varsity caliber, put up a game fight against the old Gold and Blue of Freshman.
The running order of the men on the relay teams Saturday was as follows: Freshman Hall (McBeth, Schrictie, Masterson, McCarthy, Troy, and Kelley) defeated Howard (Larkin, Monohan, Burch, Abbotemarco, Hort, and Garrett). Time-2:29 4-5. Brownson Hall (Jackson, Furlong, Egan, Thompson, Collins, and Dilling) beat Carroll Hall (Schneller, McCauley, Flanagan, Amyette, Ford, and Gough). Time-2:37 4-5.
* * *
The final games on the interhall basketball schedule are due Thursday, March 6. The classic of the season will undoubtedly be the game between Morrissey and Sophomore heavyweight squads. Both teams should experience no difficulty in winning
the remaining games of their schedule.
*
Morrissey must play Howard and Badin, Sophomore •will clash with Badin, Carroll and Sorin, before meeting each other on the court.
* * * . '
The four postponed games in the heavyweight division are as follows: Off-Campus vs. Sophomore; Brownson vs. Morrissey; Badin vs. Corby; and Lyons vs. Morrissey. They will be played off on the first open date. Members of these teams should watch the bulletin boards for special announcements to that effect.
*
Because of a mixup in the compilation of results, an inaccurate list of standings in both leagues was given last week. The one in this issue of the Scholastic is the latest, and is correct as printed.
DISPLAY ERSKINE TROPHY
The Erskine national football trophy, presented to Notre Dame recently by A. R. Erskine, has been the center of attraction during the past week in a display in the window of the Samuel Spiro & Co. clothing store.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDINGS
(Including games played Feb. 16, 1930)
Heavyweight Division
	Games	Won.	Lost	Pct.
Morrissey	6	6	0	1.000
Sophomore	6	6	0	1.000
Lyons	7	6	1	.857
Badin	6	5	1	.833
St. Edward’s	7	4	3	.571
Sorin	7	3	4	.429
Carroll	7	3	4	.429
Off-Campus	7	3	4	.429
Freshman	8	3	5	.375
Brownson	6	2	4	.333
Howard	7	2	5	.286
Corby .	7	1	6	.143
Walsh	7	0	7	.000
Lightweight		Division		
	Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
Sophomore	7	7	0	1.000
St. Edward’s	7	6	1	.857
Lyons	8	6	2	.750
Off-Campus	8	5	3	.625
Brownson	7	4	3	.571
Badin	7	4	3	.571
Freshman	8	4	4	.500
Corby	8	4	4	.500
Carroll	7	3	4	.428
Sorin	6	2	4	.333
Howard	7	1	6	.143
Walsh	7	1	6	.143
Morrissey .	8	0	8	.000
Good Portables a help to good Scholarship
—0—
THE
OFFICE ENGINEERS
126-128 S. Main St.
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
-0—
Citizens Trust and Savings Bank
.	—0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS
OF NOTRE DAME MEN
—o—	. .
JEFFERSON & MICHIGAN
f .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
599
p.r
A
< r
Frosh Runners Trounce Western State Teachers
The Freshman Hall track team swamped the Frosh of Western State Teachers’ College, of Kalamazoo, Michigan, last Friday afternoon in the Notre Dame gym. Taking five of nine first, besides the mile relay, the Notre Dame freshmen piled up 62 points to the Teachers’ 24. Notre Dame’s representatives swept the 60-yard dash, shot put, and the high jump, while the visitors took three places only in the two mile run.
The results:
60-Yard Dash — Won by Dilling (F); Scholl (F), second; Gough (F), third. Time :06 5/10.
60-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Leusky (WS); Ackerman (F), second; Strickley (F), third. Time :09 2/10.
440-Yard Dash — Won by Kelly (F); Schrichte (F), second; Gilfoil (F), third. Time :54 2/10.
880-Yard Run—Won by Macbeth (F); Troy (F), second; Greable (WS), third. Time 2:00 9/10.
Mile Run — Won by Schwartz (WS); Hoyt (F), second; Duke (F), third. Time 4:38 8/10.
Two Mile Run—Won by Mosine (WS); Speegleman (WS), second; Van Etten (WS), third. Time 11:04.
Pole Vault — Won by Ruster (WS); Jaskevich (F) and Lennartz (F), tied for second. Height, 11 ft.
Shot Put — Won by Brantford (F); Beaudine (F), second; Lejeune (F), third. Distance, 41 ft., 8 in.
High Jump—Won by Abbatemarco (F); Kenny (F) and O’Hara (F), tied for second. Height, 5 ft., 814 in.
Mile Relay—Won by Freshman (Gough, Dilling, Kempf, Scholl). Time 3:45.
While Freshman Hall was defeating Kalamazoo Frosh, the Frosh of the University of Illinois held a similar meet at Urbana. The times and distances of each meet were telegraphed to the opponents and the result was a 53-28 triumph for the Ulini yearlings.
The Notre Dame frosh scored firsts in the half-mile, shot put, and broad jump, and seconds in the high jump, pole vault, 440, and shot put. Illinois took all three places in the hurdles and in the mile run.
Abbatemarco was high point man for Notre Dame, with six points as a result of first place in the broad jump, and second place in the high jump.
A dual meet with Froebel High School of Gary is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon in the University gymnasium. Froebel is noted for its excellent track teams and is always among the leaders in the N.I.H.S.C. It is very probable that the Notre Dame frosh tracksters will have their hands full.
MINKOW TO TEACH HERE
Dave Minkow will begin his duties shortly as physical education director in wrestling and	boxing at	Notre
Dame,	to succeed Tommy	Mills.
Minkow is at present coach of the South	Bend	High	School wrestling
team.	He	was	graduated	from
South Bend High School, and went to Wisconsin where he earned his monogram in wrestling. After being graduated from the Badger school, he returned to South Bend to coach the mat team.
Notre Dame has discontinued boxing and wrestling teams, but the physical education course is being given to students who wish to become coaches and athletic directors.
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Meyer’s
Malted
Milks
Try are
Une Better
Glasses
Are prescribed only after a thorough refractive analysis has been made, determining whether the ailment is entirely from an ocular defect.
Consult us about your eyes.
LEMONTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ South Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
A Better Optometric Service.
I
600
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep. '
Books Authors and Literary Events
A page in the Sunday paper of interest to thinkers
Are you reading Prof. Phillip’s Sunday articles?
THE
NEWS - TIMES
THE corn flake flavor championship is won year after year by Kellogg’s. On campuses from coast to coast they sweep the field. Why? Try them!
Pour milk or cream into a brimming bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, crisp and golden. Relish the matchless flavor of the first spoonful. Savor the satisfaction of the last. Then you’ll know why they’re champions!
Particularly good with fruit or honey added. Ask that Kellogg’s, the original Corn Flakes, be served at your fraternity house or favorite campus restaurant.
CAGERS SMEAR BUTLER
(Continued from Page 595)
charged against each team, timely insertion of substitutes saved the players from permanent dismissal from the game. Notre Dame’s high count for misdemeanors was attributed to the close check placed on Christopher, the principal Bulldog threat, who, though garnering five free throws, failed to sink any two-ply thrusts.
The story of Lefty Evans, Butler guard, reads like a “bound to win” excerpt. This clever Bulldog defense man opportunely became eligible to play and filled the vacancy brought by the mid-year graduation of a regular and star guard, Maurice Hosier. Evans proved to be the outstanding player for Butler, making two of the Capital City’s four field goals besides performing spectacularly on defense.
The score:
NOTRE DAME B	(28) F P	BUTLER (20)	
		B	F P
McCarthy, f 0	0 3	Allen, f	0	1 2
Crowe, f	0	2 3	Withrow, f 0	0 1
Busch, f	0	0 0	Reynolds, f 2	3 3
Newbold, f 0	0 2	Chr’topher, f 0	5 3
Gavin, f	1	0 0	Tackett, e 0	0 1
O’Connell, c 0	0 0	Hinchman, g 0	0 0
DeCook, c 4	3 1	Chadd.g	0	1 3
Donovan, g 4	5 3	Evans, g	2	2 2
Smith, g	0	0 3				 	
Totals	9	10 15	Totals	4	12 15
Score at half—Notre Dame, 9; Butler, 8. Referee—Kearns, DePaul. Umpire—Schommer, Chicago.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL RESULTS
Heavyweight League
Wednesday, February 12—
Off-Campus 15, Walsh 14
Freshman 20, Corby. 18
St. Edward’s 21, Sorin 14
Thursday, February 13—
Morrissey 31, Carroll 20
Badin 23, Howard 10
Sophomore 13, Lyons 9
Sunday, February 16—
Carroll 18, St. Edward’s 14
Lyons 15, Sorin 13
Freshman 17, Walsh 13
Howard 12, Corby 10
Lightweight League
Wednesday, February 12—
Off-Campus 26, Walsh 21
Freshman 20, Corby 15
St. Edward’s 18, Sorin 16
Thursday, February 13—
Carroll 10, Morrissey 7
Badin 16, Howard 13
Sophomore 15, Lyons 11
Sunday, February 16—
Carroll 18, St. Edward’s 14
Lyons 15, Sorin 13
Freshman 17, Walsh 13
Howard 12, Corby 10 '
The Notre Dame Scholastic
601
NOTRE. DAME DRUBS SPARTANS
(Continued from Page 595)
many fouls were charged as a result. On numerous occasions unintentional fouls by members of both teams were called by the referee but these were not multitudinous enough for either side to make any just protest. It was a fast, well-refereed, tightly played contest and there was not a minute where play lagged.
Substitutions were frequent during the fray, ten men in all being used by each team. New blood in the game enabled the teams to keep the ball going at a fast clip, and on several occasions the leather reverted from the side of the floor with whirlwind rapidity.
Notre Dame’s foul shooters apparently were better in that department for they sank fifteen out of 22 attempts whereas their opponents from Michigan could garner only nine in 17 chances. McCarthy’s keen eye found the rim seven times in nine tries from the charity stripe, making some sort of a record for him.
Ray DeCook, Blue and Gold lanky pivoter, put in another of his snappy, speedy performances, both on defense and offense. Ray sent three long goals spinning through the net
from the side of the floor and also counted three from the free line, giving him a grand of nine points and the second best effort of the fray.
The victory of Notre Dame over Michigan State gives them a record of 11 games won and five lost, with three more contests on the schedule yet to be played.
MICH. STATE (17) G F P
D. Grove, f 0 1 3 R. Grove, f 1 1 4 Pinneo, f 10 1
Van Zylen, f 0 0 0 DenHerder, c 1 4 3 Boes tool, e 0	2	0
Scott, g	0	14
Schau, g	0	0	0
Haun, g	0	0	0
Haga, g	10	2
Totals 4 9 17
NOTRE DAME (29) G F P
McCarthy, f 2 7 2 Newbold, f 0 0 0 Crowe, f 0 0 2 Gavin, f 0 10 DeCook, c 3 3 1 O’Connell, c 0 0 1 Donovan, g 0 1 4 Conley, g 0 0 0 Smith, g 2 3 1 Kizer, g 0 0 0
Totals 7 15 11
Referee—Lane (Cincinnati). Score at end of half—Notre Dame 18, Michigan State 9.
TRACKMEN TREK SOUTH TO MEET INDIANA
The vanguard of Notre Dame runners, led by Coach John P. Nicholson, left this morning for Bloomington where they will meet the Indiana tracksters in an indoor dual meet to
night. The contest was originally scheduled for tomorrow evening but due to a conflict in the track and basketball cards of the Hoosier school the track meet was changed to tonight.
Notre Dame will experience a great deal of competition from the downstaters, and as Coach Nicholson remarked, “It will be our toughest dual meet of this season.”
CAGE TEAM MEETS WABASH TOMORROW
Coach George E. Keogan leads his Blue and Gold five downstate where they will meet the Wabash quintet in the return game of the home-and-home series. In the previous struggle here at Notre Dame, the Little Giants were trounced in a 26 to 10 rout.
With the scalp of Michigan State Spartans under their belt the Blue and Gold quintet will undoubtedly find no trouble in disposing of the Wabash warriors tomorrow night.
The Little Giants’ only threat, the last time they played on the local floor, was their lanky center, Groves. In this game the Wabash forwards were held to only two field goals due to the superb guarding tactics of Captain Donovan and Smith.
602
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Saturday—Tuesday
f [ I
I
i
i i ■
I
i
i i
। i
I
I
j i i
Talk About Vixens !
Here’s a stoi-y of the worst! Mary Pickford! Marrying a man who mashes custard pies in her curls!
MARY
PICKFORD
II	together with	||
I DOUGLAS |
FAIRBANKS
In an adaptation of Shakespeare’s Glorious Comedy “TIMING of the
SHREW^'
A United Artist
ALL-TALKING LAUGH HIT -- Wednesday—Friday - The Delightful
NORMA
SHEARER
in
‘Their Own Desire’
with
LEWIS STONE ROBT. MONTGOMERY and
Belle Bennett
A Publix Theatre
ca^x
PALACE
BOYS, ANOTHER GREAT SHOW COMING SUNDAY FOR 3 DAYS
5 Excellent Vaudeville Acts
THE NUTTY CLUB
From Radio Station WBBM, Chicago.
A host of clever entertainers in ingenious offering of irresistible comedy, gayety and melody.
RETURN ENGAGEMENT THIS SEASON BY POPULAR DEMAND
Broadus Erle
The Boy Musical Prodigy in an entire . new repertoire of popular numbers.
3 Other Big Acts -----ON THE SCREEN----- A Romance you’ll love, with the screen’s greatest star
Charles Farrell and MARY DUNCAN in
“City Girl”
May Tinee in Chicago Tribune gave it four stars.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
603
Library Books
iiiiiiiiHmiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiitMiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiitittiiitiiufaiiiHuniiimuiil'm
A list of the new books added to the Chemical Library this year for the benefit of those who are studying the various branches of chemistry and who might wish to use them, follows :
The Metallurgy of Aluminum and Aluminum Alloy—Robert J. Anderson.
Pyrometry—William P. Wood and James M. Cork.
Fundamentals of Dairy Science— Associates of Rogers.
An Introduction to Crystal Analysis—Sir William Bragg.
Metal Spraying—T. Henry Turner and N. F. Budgen.
A Survey of American Chemistry —Vol. I—National Research Council.
Impunties in Metals — Colin J. Smithells.
Methods in Non-Ferous Metallurgical Analysis—Robert Keffer.
International Critical Tables — Vol. 5.
A Survey of American Chemistry —Vol. II—National Research Council.
Standard Year Book, 1928—U. S. Department of Commerce.
The Constitution of Sugars—Walter Norman Howorth.
Chemistry in Medicine—The Chemical Foudation, Inc., N. Y. Edited by J. Stieglitz.
Systematic Organic Chemistry— Cummings, Hopper and Wheeler.
The Story of Rayon—The Viscose Company.
Allen’s Commercial Organic Analysis—Vol. VII—Vegetable Alkaloids.
Lehrbuch der Anorganischen Chem-ie—A. F. Holleman.
Bibliography of Metallic Corosion
—^1. H. J. Vernon.
A Textbook of Metallurgy—Gustav Tammann.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Residence Phone 3-4041 Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
NOW SHOWING — THRU NEXT FRIDAY
The Sequel to The Cockeyed World
“HOT FOR PARIS”
with
Victor McLagen — F. L. Brendel — Fifi Dorsay
THE LAUGH PICTURE OF THE YEAR
c’ffiws “Lone Star Ranger”
With George O’Brien and Sue Carol
604
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH'S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
GEORGE L. MILLER 103 No.. Main Street South Bend, Ind.
—o—
New Spring Neckwear
• Distinctive patterns in stripes, small figures and solid colors $1 to $5
‘—o—
Imp. and Dom. Men’s Wear
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
Hot Chili Hot
Tamale
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 327 North Michigan Street
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP
A. M. MYERS, Prop.
♦
)■
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
The Notre Dame Scholastic
605
«---------------------------------4
Splinters from the I Press Box
4-----—---------------------------$
John Law is already making his mark on the outskirts of New York, where little Manhattan College overlooks Van Courtlandt Park, the scene of the intercollegiate cross-country championship every year. John has been making arrangements to start spring practice next week, and continue it for eight weeks, the longest spring practice the Jaspers have ever had scheduled for them. If the wearers of the Green go through their coming season undefeated, they will journey out to the West coast to meet St. Mary’s on Christmas Day.
W. B. Hanna, of the esteemed Herald-Tribune. re-echoes an echo of last football season when he picks the most colorful All-America team. He chooses both Cannon and Twomey and goes on to say that while this might not be the best team, it would undoubtedly produce a lot of action, and that for originality and individuality of play, it would be unequalled. He picks Donchess and Tappaan for his ends, Sleight and Twomey for the tackles, Cannon and Ticknor for -his
guards, Siano for center, Saunders at quarterback, and McEver, Marsters and Booth for the other three backs. This might not be the best all-team picked, but few spectators would not be content to sit down with this club on the field.
The U.S.L.T.A. has finally come out with its annual rankings in men’s and women’s tennis, and for the most part, the rating seems to be as it should be, save in the instance of John Hope Doeg, of California, who is ranked third. The big Westerner had more or less of a streaky season last year, and his ranking over Lott and Van Ryn is questionable.
The week-end was full of out of the ordinary track news. Not only did Ray Conger prove that he was in form by; retiring the famous Hunter Mile trophy out of competition by winning it for the third time, but Phil Edwards met another defeat, this time at the hands of Eddie Blake of the Boston A.A., who ran the dusky Olympian wide as they swung into the back stretch, and beat him to the tape by inches. Jack Elder closed his career, at least for the present, by cracking another record, and last but not least, the long string of
Illinois victories in track was broken by John Nicholson’s men. Which, incidentally, reminds us that possibly Harry Gill will not enjoy his trip around the world quite so much when he hears the news.
It seems that never before has there been such a quantity of polevaulters doing thirteen feet and over. Berlinger, Sturdy, Sutermeister, Cone in the East, and Warne, and McDermott, in the middle West are some of the men who have topped thirteen feet this year.
Leo Stafford, the Boston A.A.’s crack high jumper has only one arm, but this handicap seems to affect him but little. He tied with Leo Sexton last Saturday at six feet two inches in the Boston A.A. games.
Sol Furth, N.Y.U.’s diminutive flash, may be the “iron man” of the eastern track world, but John Nicholson seems to be in a pretty fair way himself as regards the developing of “Iron Men.” Roy Bailie and Alex Wilson turned in performances last Saturday that are not exactly in the ordinary line of duty for most track men.
J
Have you seen the new Semi-British Toe?
WALK - OVER
Shoe Store
111 S. MICHIGAN
J. Laughlin, N. D. Rep.
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
A NEW ESTABLISHMENT WITH SPECIAL SERVICE
TO
STUDENTS
Hats Cleaned _______________$ .50
Shoes Shined________________ .10
Shoes Half-soled and Heeled- 1.75
—Also—
Suits Cleaned and Pressed.
606
The Notre Dame Scholastic
For school supplies
and appropriate reading material patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
To
Chicago
The
South Shore Way
-0—
Make Her Trip Back Home As Pleasant As The Prom Week-end
Parlor Cars On 3 P. M. and 5 P. M. Trains Sunday Afternoon
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND
RAILROAD
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
GIL-BRO’S
' Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Floivers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.
TELEPHONE 3-5149
New Spring Oxfords
TOWERS FISHBRAND SUCKERS Green-Yellow or Black $7.50 values
The Notre Dame Scholastic
607
WILLIAMS SIGNED BECAUSE HE “LOOKED GOOD”
Fred “Cy” Williams, outfielder for the Chicago Cubs from 1912 to 1917, now with the Philadelphia Nationals, and member of the Notre Dame baseball team teams of 1909, 10, and captain of the 1911 squad, was signed by the Windy City team when he was playing his second
collegiate year in the outfield for Notre Dame. In the spring of 1911 Notre Dame held a practice game with the Cubs at the old West Side Park, in Chicago.
Williams didn’t do much hitting that day, but Charles Webb Murphy, Cub, owner, liked his looks and, a while later, sent George Huff to Notre Dame to look the rookie over. Huff presented a contract after the game, but Williams wasn’t ready to sign!
SCHEDULE OF INTERHALL BASKETBALL GAMES
MONDAY, FEB. 24
Varsity	Apparatus
Floor	• Room
TUESDAY, FEB. 25
Corby	7:00 to	8:00	Walsh
Freshman	8:00 to	9:00	Howard
Badin	9:00 to 10:00St. Edward’s		
Sophomore	7:00 to	8:00	Off-Campus
Brownson	8:00 to	9:00	Carroll
Sorin	9:00 to 10:00		Morrissey
S'
DrinK
Delicious and Refreshing
Put the "grin in Grind
MILLION
IT BAB
with Kh „ ____________ the PttUSO
that refreshes
When much study is a weariness to the flesh. When you find yourself getting nowhere— fast. Pipe down! Don’t take any more pun. ishment! Let go everything! Pause for a moment and refresh yourself.
That’s just the time and place when an icecold hottie or glass of Coca-Cola will do you the most good. A regular cheer-leader with its happy sparkle and delicious flavor, while its pure, wholesome refreshment packs a big rest into a little minute and gets you off to a fresh start.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-1
« B T WBEBB IT IS
608
The Notre Dame Scholastic
fortune, the man with the greatest stamina, physical and mental, wins. “The senior most likely to succeed” is .chosen because he has superior strength of brain and body.
Shredded Wheat is the favorite breakfast of many famous captains of industry . —the ideal food for conquerors. It gives in one simple
Q uiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiinutntiiuiuiiiinuiiiiiimiiiiiiuitiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiQ I Patronize Scholastic Advertisers! j
To Succeed”
delectable dish all of the necessary food elements— and gives them in the most easily digested form. Plenty of bran too, for a clear system and an alert mind. Let a bowl of Shredded Wheat with plenty of good rich milk start you on a successful day —every day.
f------------------1
I On Down the Line
. . . VANCE MAREE, strong Georgia Tech tackle, likes plenty of work ... he is out for spring football, basketball and boxing . . . HARRY NEHGONBE, a Pottawatomie Indian runner on the cross-country team at Haskell Institute last fall, never wore shoes in a race . . . says they cause blisters and rob his feet of freedom . . . First basketball shutout appeared t’other night . . . San Jose High blanked Emden, 59 to 0 ... it was an Illinois High School Athletic Association contest . . .
. . . Winnings by the stables of HARRY PAYNE WHITNEY last season brought him the honor of heading the list of money-winning owners on the American turf for the seventh time . . . -The ETON blue and brown silks first led the list in 1913 . . . ROY “Wrong Way” RIEGELS, center and captain on Univ, of California last season will be assistant coach there next season ... He will aid Coach “Nibs” PRICE and his Golden Bears . . . BUCKY HARRIS, at 27, and CONNIE MACK, at 66, were the youngest and oldest major league managers to pilot a pennant-winning club . . .
. . . CONNIE MACK was rewarded t’other day with the $10,000 BOK prize for having done the most good for Philadelphia . . . University of Southern California will appoint its football captain before each game during the 1930 season . . . Afterwards they will elect an honorary captain . . . What is believed to have been the first baseball game at which an admission fee was charged, was played between two nines from New York and Brooklyn in 1858 . . .
—o—
. . . GUS SONNENBERG, demon world’s heavyweight wrestling champ, avows he will retire from the ring permanently as soon as he is defeated . . . that may mean anything the way he has been dumping his opponents lately ... With President E. S. BARNARD as instructor, 12 American league umpires had a two-day schooling course to brush up on the ticklish decisions that will confront them soon . . . JOHN SINGLER, star 40-yard free style swimmer on South Bend Central tank team, is the son of Dr. J. M. SINGLER, popular dentist of Notre Dame students ...
V
The Notre Dame Scholastic
609
610
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I
^ATTY snap-brims in the manner of the season await you here . . . and elegant Homburgs and well-shaped welt-edge Hats. In green, brown and gray... Very smart.
Allll II4IIILA