Viid farttk in the. jyull doll
APPOINTED BY THE U. S. NAVY
as official distributors of
U. S. NAVY UNIFORMS
for commissioned officers
WE carry complete stocks of the new regulation uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices. Prices established by the Navy Department.
Commissioned Officers’ Service Blue $40
Commissioned Officers’ Overcoats $50
Commissioned Officers’ Raincoat - Overcoat (with removable wool lining) $37.50
In South Bend — TAXI FREE to Gilbert's
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
-	813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
Vmt Om Ho&tk in the d-aLL
1
Customized
HICKEY-FREEMAN
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
$60
and up
THERE are no finer made. Tailored to Hickey-
Freeman standards and individualized by the Modern Gilbert’s expert fitting, these uniforms assure naval officers long, hard wear and complete ease and comfort. In buying your uniform here you have the advantage of a fine store’s taste and exacting quality standards.
DOBBS Officers’ Caps
With 3 covers, $18.50
In South Bend — TAXI FREE to Gilbert’s
THE MODERN GILBERT'S One,
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
J
3
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
PINK PILLS DEPT.
The boys at Lehigh University, Bethlehem. Pa., are, like a certain student
body we know quite
JOHN LYNCH
cell, very often subjected to the “pink pill” treatment when illness forces them to the sidelines. But Dr. Carl 0. Keck of Lehigh has other methods also, when the pills won’t work. One of them came out recently in the Brown & White as
part of a feature on the student “Dispensary.” '
“The favorite treatment given by Doc Keck for an upset stomach or a ‘bad weekend’ is ‘the water cure.’ This prescription means drinking luke-warm water, glass after glass, until the patient becomes sick at the stomach. It is reported that one student had to take fourteen twelve-ounce glasses before a ‘climax’ was reached.”
(This is not meant as a suggestion to any Doc of local fame.)
LABOR SHORTAGE DEPT.
More and more gentlemen farmers are
making the news these days, and the latest to reach our attention are from out Kansas way. The University Daily Kansan, from the state university at Lawrence, Kansas, surveyed the student body recently to obtain opinions on student relief for the farm labor shortage. Enthusiasm was rampant:
“I think it would be a noble and patriotic idea for the University to allow class cuts for the students helping the farmers.”
“Help the farmer? If he.has a goodlooking daughter^ lead me to ’im.”
“I don’t know whether I would be very efficient sowing tame oats or not.”
JOKE
A holdup man jumped out of a doorway one cold night and held his revolver against the ribs of a ■ passerby. “Stick, ’em up” was the terse; command.	;
When the victim threw up his. hands, / his overcoat loosened at the neck and the robber noticed that he was a priest.
Apologetically the bandit withdrew his gun and breathed, “Excuse ,me, Father.: I didn’t want to hold up a’priest.” ,	. .
The. priest apologized also. “I’m sorry, too,” he said, “I have no change on me. But here is a cigar.”
“No thanks,” mumbled the thug, “I gave up smoking for Lent.”
CAN’T BE ’
We ran across such things as the following in a Purdue Exponent of recent date, and were ready to send the wagon heading for Lafayette, Ind., and Purdue. What else, we thought.
“Dean A. A. Potter, head of the Engi- -neering School, will demonstrate the art of flagpole sitting. ...”
“Models will wrestle with strong men in new PE course. ...”
“Big Foot Contest ... a double page spread in the September edition of the yearbook will be devoted to the winning shoe sizes. . . .”
“Coed gridders defeat Indiana regulars, 67-0. ...”
“This morning at eight o’clock, the water in the Fieldhouse swimming pool turned a violent red and with a mighty heave and a push was resting on the ceiling. ...”	,
By this time we were suspicious of sabotage on the Purdue campus, but then we realized it was the April 1 edition of the Exponent. For nothing like this
could ever be:
“Free beer party next Monday afternoon at 4:30.”
ANOTHER JOKE
“Doctor, what can you say to a girl who’s so scary she jumps into the nearest man’s arms every time she’s frightened?”
“Boo!” ❖
LOCAL COLOR
Here’s one that was found floating around the campus last week illustrating the “down to earth” policy of the football squad.	.
Ziggy Czarobski, tackle, was asked by .Father. John A. O’Brien if he in his gridiron exploits had ever had the occasion to tackle truth. Never at a loss, Ziggy replied that he had. Somewhat aghast, Father O’Brien asked how he had managed to accomplish such an extraordinary feat. k	\
Said orator Czarobski: “It was easy, .
.. Father; I just pulled it down by the con-' 7 cept.” / I '■ ’ .	.. -	'A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
. FOUNDED 1S67
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of
postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Daniel Downey, Editor
Ted Weber..............Managing	Editor
Bill Boss................Sports	Editor
Dave Condon..............Campus	Editor
Robert Kopf....;.........Admin.	Editor
Phil Keen..........Asst Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan..............Promotion
Al Schaefer........:Staff Photographer
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
War Charities Carnival ______16, 17
Musical Comedy Opens _________  5
The Truth About the Laundry ___ 8
ADMINISTRATION
Ldetare Medalist Named_________10
Medieval Study Published ______11
NAVY PAGE _______________________13
SPORTS
Baseball Game Tomorrow 14 r Interhall Championship 15 - Tennis Schedule Released _______22
FEATURES
College Parade ---:______________4
- The Week	____-__________'6
Man About Campus ____’.____:_____ 9
Condon - Sations _______;--------18
Strictly Instrumental ._,_______27
’ /Ears. Have It_....______________26
. ...'Pressbox Splinters_'.--------30
//Music _______—/----------l.._——29
4.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. •	. - ,
Vol. 78	APRIL 9, 1943	. . ’ No; 9
All Student Musical Show Opens Monday For Four-Night Stand in Washington Hall
“Let’s Get Going,” the title song of the forthcoming student musical comedy, has this week been sending rejuvenating echoes through the ancient University theatre i n Washington Hall. Opening Monday night, April 12, for a four-night stand, the show promises to be one of the best of recent years, and something entirely new in campus productions.
Highlighted by 12 original songs, the work of Edward Cashman, Sorin hall senior from Peoria, Ill., the show will start at 8 o’clock and put Washington Hall back to the days when students authored the University theatre. It is entirely the students’ show. The original scenario was created by Gerry Hogue of New York City, now in the Army. The script was developed and set in final order by John Lynch from Detroit, Mich, and Jack Woelfle of Lynbrook, N.Y. The entire musical score is by Cashman.
John Van Benton, Alumni hall and Indianapolis, the student producer, has enlisted the work of student artists, technicians, and stagehands. Bob Beck, Toledo, Ohio, has designed and painted the sets and drops. Assisting him have been Seniors Floyd Vincent and Jim Newman. Lighting and special effects have been mastered by Dan Tomcik, George Charters and Tom Schreiber.
The costumes are the work of research by Harry Yeates, whose trips have carried him to many accommodating South Bend establishments. Orchestrations have been written by Cashman, Rocco Germano and Wade Parks. Brock Lynch has directed the dance ensembles, -with the assistance of Joe Byrne on specialty numbers. Jim Murphy has served as the faithful piano accompanist during rehearsals.
But this has all been behind the scenes.
On stage the cast of 30 has been running through songs and lines with'a new enthusiasm. It is their show, .and theirs to make a success. Herb Clark, Chicago,
handles the male lead and is ably supported by Noel Digby, Joe Flynn, Bob Gschwend and Bob Reilly. Herb and his boys have been three weeks on stage, with and without props, learning their lines and the songs. They get together first in “Betty Co-Ed Has Gone Out of Her Head.” Behind them are the chorus, who are, as we later see, the rest of the male cast.
Among them are Jim Crowley, Bill Boss, Frank King, Tom Bremer, Jim Paris, Brock Lynch, Evo Fatigati, Jim Sullivan and Frank Gibbons. Others are those students who appear later in the “Wacky Faculty” song: Jack Hawes, Clarence Slyngstad, Gene Slevin, Warren Dana, Jim Murtagh, Elmer Silha, Gerry O’Reilly and John McKeon.
George Bariscillo, Bill Boss, Frank
Familiar faces in "Let's Get Going." Proceeding haphazardly by rows from left to right: Back row, Gerry O'Reilly and Bob Gschwend; third row, Frank Gibbons. Jack Hawes, Bob Reilly and Jim Paris; second row, Frank King, George Bariscillo. ; Barney Slater and Joe Flynn; first row, Jim Murtagh. Noel Digby and Jim'Murphy. .
King, Jim Crowley and Jim Sullivan are, between songs, handlers of five of the lead “character” roles.
On the co-ed side of the roster come a list of 12 girls from South Bend. Kay Landing takes the female lead as a heartstealer from way back, though her sister, Betty Lee Landing, has shown promises of stealing the show, even though she carries a bit part- Others who figure in the principal cast are: Marie Manuszak, Agnes Haney, Marilyn Nelson and Benita Guthrie.
A South Bend dancing school has been the source of a singing and dancing chorus of six. Dressed in current campus clothes, they will open the show with the title song, “Let’s Get Going.” Later they will follow through with other numbers Virginia Scheetz, Rowena Tronnes, Fay Bihary, Shirley Kline, 'Iris Britton and Frances Stromo, precision, glamour-girl dancers. '
With them will dance the male chorus of B. Lynch, Byrne, Fatigati and (Continued on page 31)
5
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Fun on the Midway!
WATCH THE PURDY
BURDIE
In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of having his picture taken. Each Sunday afternoon _ finds a group of kiddies seated sophisti-cally, (that means they’re wearing garters), on the steps of the Rockne Memorial, 01 draped around one °f the posts of the SEMzhKnwOB post office. Ah ha ha jack worlfle ha! Get it? Posts — post office? Ha ha! Guaranteed to be in each group is at least one Kodak Charlie, the kid with the personality. In this case personality is synonymous with such things as a yawning hole in the face, referred to as a mouth, and a composure resembling the St. Vitus dance. His is usually the ugly face which was chosen by the belles of St. Mary’s to hang atop their May pole. He’s the young wit who puts horns on his neighbor’s head with the aid of two fingers. Another guarantee is the lad with all the equipment. Some of those cameras Iiave more parts than a mystery ball. One of the camera fiends went to St. Mary’s recently to take a picture of the average girl and found he had to take three pictures of her. She wouldn’t fit in one. Speaking of the Rock, and we hardly ever do, it is rumored that an artist painted a picture titled “The St. Mary’s Girl.” They hung the picture . ’cause they couldn’t catch the artist.
SAILING SAILING
It sort of looks as if the V-7’s who are not Seniors will eat bananas along with the E.R.Cs come next term. The recent order to the effect that V-7’s will be called to active soon brought a lot of laughs from the Army Enlisted Reserve. So far the E.R.C. hasn’t been notified when they will be called although there is a slight chance (very slight of course) that they will be called to active service come May 15. This is probably a dirty rumor, however. Ahem! Any way, most - of the lads are preparing to leave for, home. Mom’s going to be pretty surprised when she sees that, those 12 shirts are
coming home as four dozen handkerchiefs, and that the green overstuffed arm chair is now.a brownish camp stool. The clothes situation is getting pretty bad, too. No one is buying new clothes so most of us will look more like mystery balls than hot dogs this vacation. Ah well! The girls- won’t mind too much. Remember that inspiring old song?: “A Boy In Khaki And A WAACY In Khaki In Old Nagasaki.” Ah, what a song. Ain’t it inspiring? Nagasaki is a training base for old battleships. No, not the Rock.
WHAT TO DO?
Since most of the students won’t be back next semester, a very interesting question is raised. “What will become of St. Mary’s?” This question is really very easily answered. The girls have a choice of moving their school to the E.R.C. camp or fold up. Remember the old saying: “If Mohammed won’t go to the mountain, the mountain will have to come to Mohammed.” No offense, girls. By the way, this would be a most appropriate time to thank the girls from old Sweetbriar for the lovely scroll which they all signed and sent to The Week. Thanks, girls, but my knife isn’t really' sharp enough for hari-kari.
LA DE DA
One of the most annoying things that could have happened during the A-12 exam one week ago was the fellow who walked around the room peeking over each candidate’s shoulder. Every now and then he’d stop, look at the exam paper, shake his head and say: “tch tch.” Then he’d pull out a tape measure and start measuring for a uniform. Another discouraging thing was having those undertakers come in right in the middle of class and measure the boys. They went around collecting the no. 17 coupons. “Just the same as shoes,” one cheery gentleman explained. . . . One of the nicest voices heard in a long time is that of Marie Manuszak. She’s one of the leads in the forthcoming musical com. edy. ... A blow to the band and glee club for two fine concerts these past two weeks. . . . It is whispered in confidential circles that the hash served in the dining hall these lovely Sunday evenings is pure steak meat, ground up, of course. If you treat it kindly you’ll find that it
makes a nice house pet. . . . One resolution every true blue Notre Dame man should make today is not to stab his meat with any unnecessary cruelty. This is “Be kind to animals” week. . . .
'ROUND AND 'ROUND
These are the balmy evenings when all N.D. men go for strolls around the lake. Says Oswald Abernacker, English major, about his walks: “Oh my goodness, I just wouldn’t miss my walk for* the wor--rid.” To which Larry Hek-gud added: “In other words, guys—It’s da nuts. Nuttin’ like a walk around the superfluous briny deep. You’se can watch da shahks and da hois and the whales. Boy, do I like whales!” Larry-has a girl friend across the road, no doubt. There’s nothing like getting away from it all though. “Back to the woods,” that’s our battle cry. If the good old Potawottomies could do it, we can do it. Do what? Save our bottle caps, of course.
TA TA TA TAAAAA!
“Facts about our allies! Did you know that Big Joe’s mustache is bigger than Adolph’s? You didn’t? Whassa matter, dope? Blind?” •
INFORMATION PLEASE!
Have you noticed all the visitors on the campus lately? It’s rumored that some sightseeing company has started tours to old N.D. which they advertise as the only spot in the country where you can still see men not in uniform. These visitors always make it a point to stop in front of Father Sorin’s statue and read that little Latin passage. One tourist gladly translated the Latin for his companion. He said: “Why it’s simple. It says, ‘1842 — Notre Dame 38, Northwestern 20.’ ” Ah, it must be great to know Latin. The sailors are the guys who drag the good-looking women up here. They have a cute little name for all types of’girls. An extra special model is called a “destroyer.” The average girl is called a “cruiser.” The other day a couple of sailors were on their way back from St. Mary’s and they were discussing the merchant marine. Johnny Borkowski, B.M.O.C. of Alumni is a frequent visitor over at the Rock. When he heard the sailors say this he immediately jumped to the girls’ rescue. He told the gobs in no uncertain terms that if the girls were to be referred to as boats at all, the boats should be P-T’s. Ah yes.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
We can’t think of any, now that April’s here. -
.6
Knights of Columbus Trek to Mishawaka For First Degree Initiation and Joint Social
Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus, causing not a little bit of excitement by their campaign to sell war bonds and stamps and their promotion of the second annual Wai' Charities Carnival, took time out Monday evening to trek over to Mishawaka and hold first degree initiation ceremonies for 30 candidates from Notre Dame, South Bend, and Mishawaka. About 20 of the initiated number were from the Notre Dame campus.
Following the first degree initiation, a joint social meeting was held with the Mishawaka council. The initiation was put on by the Mishawaka degree team. Present at the ceremonies were Fred Hums, Mishawaka, district deputy; Thomas J. Rolfs, grand knight of the Notre Dame council, and Mishawaka Grand Knight August Dolsman.
Scheduled for next Sunday afternoon are the second and third degrees. This initiation will take place in South Bend at St. Joseph hall. The customary banquet, held after each previous initiation, has been discontinued this year due to rationing and the war. The last Knights of Columbus initiation was held in December.
Following is a partial list of the candidates in the recent initiation. Included in the names are those of footballers William “Bucky” O’Connor, Ted Budynkie-wicz, winner of the University heavyweight boxing title at the recent Bengal Bouts, and Charles “Chuck” Sweeney, All-American end from Notre Dame not so many years ago. Others are:
Brother Meinrad, C.S.C., John R. Cleary, Francis Coleman, Anthony M. Aanstoos, Jerome A. Coleman, John E. Demoss, Bernard E. Grainey; George H. Bray, Charles J. Schulze, Francis L. Hanei, Jr., Louis F. Lauth, Charles W. Powers, John W. Fead, George W. Bar-sa, Edward K. Handlan, Thomas L. Dowd, William M. Clemency, Felix A. MacFarland, Francis J. Magnella, Maurice Baddour, and John T. Davis.
This week the Knights also reported that sales of war stamps and bonds on the campus had been continuing along the original schedule and that final hall standings would be announced at the end of the semester. At the same time it was
reported that Knights of Columbus councils throughout the state were aiding in the selling of chances on the $200 war bond, to be raffled as one of the prizes at the War Charities carnival. Each council it was reported, has been given several books of chances. Closer to home it was announced that the South Bend council would again take charge of the carnival bingo booth, so popular at last year’s Knight-sponsored show.
Five Round Table Men
Attend I.R.C. Conference
Notre Dame was represented at the Mid-West International Relations Clubs Conference at MacMurray College by five delegates from the Economic Round Table. They were Joe Rud, president, Bob Nenno, Al Sommer, Charles Pick-hardt, and G. V. Funk.
One hundred and forty delegates from 27 Mid-western colleges and universities met to discuss topics of international interest and to further the activities of these clubs in their respective colleges. The delegates split into four round-tables on “The Future Peace,” “Europe,” “The Far East,” and “What Are We Fighting For.”
Upon the nomination of the Notre Dame delegation, Miss Dorothy Sheets of St. Mary’s was elected vice-president. The other elected officers of corresponding secretary went to Miss Gertrude Leonard of Principia College.
The Conference heard addresses by Dr. Harold S. Quigley, Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, on “Problems of the Far East”; Dr. Edgar J. Fisher, assistant director of the Institute of International Education on “Prelude to Chaos”; and Miss Amy Heminway Jones of the Carnegie Endowment.
California Club Elects
Jack Tobin President
The California club held a re-organization meeting Monday evening, April 6, in the Walsh hall Knights of Columbus* chambers. A large group of the Pacific coast boys attended the meeting to formulate plans for a California booth at the -
War Charities Carnival scheduled for next week.
Jack Tobin, Long Beach, was elected president of the club. Another Long Beach resident, Don Davis was elected vice-president. Jim Carroll, also from Long Beach, won the secretary position. Joe Hickey kept the Long Beach boys from scoring an election sweep as he won out in the balloting for treasurer. Hickey comes from Los Angeles.
At the war charities carnival the club -will have charge of the candy booth and have made special arrangements for decorations. According to reports, the California booth will outdo “even Hollywood.”
Members also decided to hold a special California club dance during the spring vacation. Al Swan and Bill Martin, both of Los Angeles, were appointed to the dance committee and reported that the dance will probably be held at the Bilt— More Bowl or at the Cocoanut Grove. The exact date has not as yet been set.
Five Halls to Hold
1851 More Navy Men
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced Wednesday that he had received official confirmation from the United States Navy department that 1851 men have been assigned to Notre Dame under the new Navy V-12 training program, which will begin on or about July 1. This program is separate from and in addition to the Navy’s midshipmen’s school now operating- on the Notre Dame campus. :
The new V-12 trainees will have, the status of apprentice seamen. They will be taught by the regular faculty of the University under curricula described as basic, engineering, pre-medic and N.R.-O.T.C.
Father O’Donnell added that under the new program five residence halls will be turned over to the V-12 trainees, leaving five residence halls of the University free, for the normal operation of the Notre Dame academic program.
Specific details of the Navy program . wall be announced at a later date as will details of the University’s own program, which will be revised to meet conditions of the new Navy project.
N. D. Laundry Does Lots More Duds With Super Suds; 40o/° Load Placed on System
I. V. WILCOX
When the laundry industry, was called essential, the War Board wasn’t just bureaucrating. Where would we be without St. Michael’s Laundry? In the distance Woelfle mutters, “Well, where are we with it?” Never mind, little cynic, you can sneer later. Now it’s time for the laundry’s tale to be told, and it cries a mighty din in the night.
Before the war, the laundry got your clothes and you got them back. That’s all there was to it; a simple reciprocal process. Alas, no more! Along with everything else, the laundry went to war; and hark to the story thereof.
“When the war came,” says Mr. Hoare, laundry manager for the past 14 years, “we had to cut corners and do away with the trimmings.” Thus are accounted for your erstwhile pointed collars and your lack of superfluous (more than one) buttons. Many operations were cut out, when the laundry went on a streamlined basis. You know the tale—laundry in every two weeks, back “for sure” a week later, and a course on “How to Wear* a Sheet Properly” in the interim. Production is now at an all-time high per operator per hour; one operator can now fade more clothes in an hour than ever before, and
Maybe your missing "T" Shirt is in this bundle.
she never heard of the new improved Rinso!
Despite the slurs beset upon it by those who would malign it, the Notre Dame Laundry carries on in spite of the fact that it has been forced to step its production up from 35 to 40 per cent
without any increase in facilities. It now has to carry the increased burden of the Navy in addition to its regular work.
Over- 4,400 bundles of laundry are handled every week, considering that the two week’s laundry from the students is actually double what it would be were it handed in once a week. Therefore you should get your laundry back from 35 to 40 per cent later, which is only reasonable. To carry it out, just tell your clothes to wait from 35 to 40 per cent longer to get dirty.
In one week the laundry washes over 25,000 pairs of socks, and more than 12,0C0 shirts. How they keep the socks together is a mystery; the only solution
is that they often don’t. Oh well, why let one foot know what the other is wearing?
The entire laundry business is based upon chemistry, most involved chemistry. If it weren’t for chemistry, how could they get lots more suds from Super Suds? There is no basis in the rumor that clothes are treated first in sulphuric acid before being dumped into the latest, improved, Golly-Molly soap.
The laundry has nine washers, two tumblers, and a number of different kinds of ironers. The report of an infernal machine installed by the Sorin Evil Eye Club is being investigated by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Clothes About to be Washed. It is rumored that the machine puts chocolates into the pockets of clothes going into the washers. The Evil Eye Club blames it on Gremlins.
Any way, the Notre Dame Laundry is doing as well as can be expected under the present expansion of work. The largest institutional laundry in the country is serving the University along with the dry-cleaning plant. Next time your laundry comes back late, remember c’est la guerre.
Universal Notre Dame
Night to be on May 2
Universal Notre Dame Night, the annual world, wide celebration in honor of the university by alumni clubs, has been modified in view of the war time conditions. Harry F. Kelly, governor of Michigan and president of the Alumni Association, said that under the new plan the ninety-four Notre Dame clubs will hold communion breakfasts on Sunday morning, May 2.
According to tradition the observance would have been held Monday night, May 3, the Monday after Easter Monday. The theme of the observance this year will be peace and the honoring and remembering of Notre Dame men in the services, already totaling more than a fourth of the alumni.
The communion breakfast will make it possible for all the clubs with training camps or service bases nearby to have the alumni in service present for the program. However, the program recognizes the difficulties of transportation.
The national radio program that in recent years has unified the Night will not mark the May 2 program, but alumni individually will have an opportunity to hear the president of the University, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., on Easter Sunday, when he preaches the sermon for. the Church of the Air on the Columbia' Broadcasting System at 12 noon (CWT).
8
Jim Cunningham
Boxer and newsman.... Robert Lawrence Dunne... of the deep south... complete with accent, smile and sleepy countenance. ... A man of hospitality... “Step in suh! ... Sure you can interview me... Have a chair.... Here’s a Lucky, or how about a cigar.”
Husky Bob didn’t hit Notre Dame until last summer.... But it’s been time enough for him to become a Scholastic editor, an SBT reporter, a noted campus ringman, and a friend of most of the local seniors and juniors.... As well as a Rock operator of no mean merit ... today the Dunne’s desk holds a lone photograph of a St. Mary’s brunette.
Duuring high schol days Bob followed his airfield building Dad around the South . . . attended five schools . . . finally graduating as senior president and football co-captain from Apolachicola, Fla., Public High.... But his real career began before this.
In the seventh grade started a four page mimeograph newspaper... had not learned to type then but he told his dad what to write.... studied journalism at prep schools in Mobile and Panama City .... Worked on their papers.... and contributed to various Southern weeklies... When he ended up at his alma mater he found no paper in existence and soon had one started.
With his lust for the press increasing he helped found a small labor sheet in Bogulusa, La., after high school graduation. ... Not only wrote news and features here, but was in charge of circulation, had to drive to another city every week to get the type set, and made his only pay by selling advertising.
“That was a swell summer, but I needed more education”.... Bob went on to St. Bernard’s in Alabama for two years of junior college.... Edited the weekly, and served as a correspondent for the South’s greatest paper.... Bimningham News-Age Herald.... Then on to N. D. and administrative editorship of Scholastic. ... Last fall he resigned to become full time police reporter for the local Tribune.
Dual-talented Dunne’s boxing life is no less ambitious... Entered novice class of Golden Gloves at 13.___at 14 won novice championship of Gulf States.__ Following year entered Gloves as welter . . . lost in finals. ... At 16 was Gulf Coast welter champ, but lost in finals for the Southern championship.
Started a boxing team in junior college and acted as coach.___Turned out a state champ.... Entered N. D.’s ring twice during the tournament last summer. ... One was no decision, and he won the other______________ His four to midnight reporting kept Bob from the Bengals.
This 5:10, 160 pounder has covered recent scoops including a war “widow” with ten children, the Walgreen fire, and a speech by Mayor Pavey.... Hardest assignment is the monthly county council meeting.
An ERC man he hopes for a public relations spot.... likes pipes, checkered jackets, Bock, and to cover banquets.... Rooms with Dom Boetto on first floor of Alumni.... Majors in journalism.... Is willing to forget boxing.... After war wants feature writing job with big daily.
Scholastic Skips Week;
Scrip to Appear Friday
Scholastic will not appear next week. In its stead will be delivered the University literary quarterly, Scrip, which has previously been described in critical circles as one of the best student literary publications in the nation.
The April 16 issue of Scrip will be the first venture of editor Edward Meagher, a Seattle, Wash., senior who lives in Alumni hall. Meagher, who throughout his college life has been a Scrip contributor, took over the editorial reins from Jack Gilligan, who edited the quarterly for the summer and fall issues and wrote the very well received Who Has Tasted Bread, in the May, 1942, edition of the magazine. Gilligan, who graduated in December, is now in the Navy.
War problems have hit at even the literary quarterly, and for this reason the editors have adopted no important changes in the format of the magazine.
Work to appear in this issue will include that of three students who have since left school. Past editor Gilligan, and Joe Hillebrand, who contributed to Scrip from his freshman days, both have essays in this issue. Like Gilligan, Hillebrand graduated iii December and has entered the armed services. When in school Hillebrand edited the 1942 (spring) Dome. A third Notre Darner now in the service —Kelly Cook—one of the best known of school writers*Jeft behind a short story
to be printed in this1 issue. Kelly, who last scored a success with The- Irish Came Home From the Sea, was inducted into the army air corps in February. He will be best remembered by Notre Dame students for his famous composition— The Spirit of Notre Dame which was premiered at the convention of the National Federation of Catholic College Students in early March, and two weeks ago was broadcast in a special program at Washington hall.
Back again in this coming issue will be the by-line of J. H. Johnston, a Norfolk, Virginian, who first appeared in Scrip with a pleasing sketch on his home town, Norfolk, and has since written stories about Virginia, an essay—Oiler, Third Shift, and others. His six poems were featured in the December Scrip and received .wide acclaim.
Many other past Scrip contributors will return to the scene with short stories, essays, poetry, and book reviews. In addition, Notre Dame’s own Sherer brothers will continue illustrating the magazine.
"Spirit of Notre Dame" Broadcast Over WSBT
In preparation for a national hook-up, the Notre Dame glee club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, presented their new .choral symphony, “The Spirit of Notre Dame/’ over WSBT from 7:30 to 7:45 last night. The club hopes to receive a 15 minute spot on a network pro
gram before the end of the semester.
Last night’s presentation of the Symphony was the most effective yet given. Written originally for a radio broadcast, members of the glee club have been laboring under mechanical limitations in presenting “The Spirit” before concert audiences. The facilities of a radio station allowed the blending of accompaniment and narration which is necessary for a polished presentation.
Kelly Cook, formerly of Alumni Hall and now an air cadet at Hiram College, Hiram, Ohio, wrote the narrative while Mr. Pedtke arranged the musical background and composed the trnasitional music. The symphony is the Glee Club’s contribution to the centennial program.
. As in past performances, the narration was ably done by Dave Curtin, Sorin hall resident from Rochester, N. Y. The musical background was furnished by the entire club. The broadcast originated in the downtown studios of WSBT.

Thomas F. Woodlock, Editor "Wall Street Journal" is 61st Laetare Medalist
Thomas F. Woodlock, distinguished author and editor of the IFall Street Journal, was announced on April 4 as the recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding Catholic layman in the United States.
Kev. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., president of the university, in announcing the selection of the 61st medalist, said:
“Notre Dame honors Mr. Thomas F. Woodlock as one of the most vigorous and effective apologists among the Catholic laity of America over a long period of years. Moreover, this same ability and integrity have characterized his work with the Wall Street Journal and the Interstate Commerce Commission, bringing high principle and excellent example into the heart of the business and economic life of this country. In recent years the facile pen of Mr. Woodlock has broadened its scope and permitted the entire nation to enjoy the fruits of liis fine mind. He has attacked the problems of our day with a clarity and a fortitude which have won for him preeminence as an apostle of truth.”
Thomas Francis Woodlock was born in Ireland on September 1, 1866, the son of Thomas and Emilia Moran Woodlock. After early years of schooling in Ireland, he entered Beaumont College at Windsor,: England, the Catholic “public” school corresponding to Eton and Harrow. He-matriculated at London University in honors, third of 1,100 students. He later attended St. Francis College, New York City from which he received his honorary Master of Arts degree in 1905; he received the Doctor of Laws degree from Fordham University in 1906.	/	. .
Before coming to America in September, 1892, Mr. Woodlock was a member of the London Stock Exchange for several years. When he arrived in New York he joined the late Charles H. Dow and Edward D. Jones in the Dow-Jones News Service, specializing in American railroads. He attracted notice as an economist, and after the death of Mr. Dow in 1902 he became the editor of the Wall Street Journal, which position he held until 1905.	.	.	<	.
After his -resignation from. the editor-10	L "
ial chair of the Wall Street Journal, Mr. Woodlock became a member of the New York Stock Exchange, in partnership with Schuyler N. Warren. After a few years, however, he returned to newspaper work and economic writing, chiefly in connection with railroads. He was for some time a contributor on financial matters to the Sun, conducting the column, “By Way of Comment.”
Thomas F. Woodlock
In the early days of the Catholic News, New York’s official Catholic paper, Mr. Woodlock was a contributor of editorial., articles.	,
In 1918 he joined the American International Corporation, becoming its secretary in time. He resigned this post in 1923, and two years later he was appointed by President Coolidge to the Interstate Commerce Commission,, with which he served until 1930, when he rejoined the Wall Street Journal, as contributing editor. .When he resigned from the Interstate Commerce Commission President Hoover in a public statement regretted the resignation and said that Mr. Woodlock had rendered “very distinguished service to his country.”
Mr. Woodlock is a trustee of Manhat-tanville College of the Sacred Heart, and is a member of the Catholic Club and many other clubs in New York City. He was a pioneer member of the National Catholic Alumni Federation and his brilliant adresses are highlights of many of the proceedings of that organization. Mr. Woodlock- contributed several articles to the Catholic Encyclopedia and was a member of the board of directors of that project. He also pioneered in the retreat movement in this country, at Manresa, Staten. Island, and is a former presidnt and one of the organizers of the Laymen’s League for Retreats and Social Studies. Catholic periodicals have carried many excellent articles in recent years from his able pen.
Among his . published books are The Anatomy of A Railroad Report (1895), Ton Mile Cost (1899), and the book published in 1942 which has been heralded by all Catholic apologists, The Catholic Pattern.	■
The Lastare Medal was established in 1883 at Notre. Dame as an outstanding annual recognition of a Catholic lay man or woman in the United States. The selection of Mr. .Woodlock as.the recipient on the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Medal will add a popular as well as a highly respected name to the long list of Medalists of whom John Gil-mary Shea, historian, was the first. The 1942 Medal was awarded to Helen Constance White, University of Wisconsin professor and president of the American Association of the University women.
Prof. O'Malley Speaks
Prof. Francis J. O’Malley, of the department of English at the University, spoke on the subject “Whither English Literature” in Windsor, Ontario, Canada, last Sunday.
The following are the standings to date for each hall in the sale of War Charities raffle tickets.
Breen-Phillips	Alumni
Zahm	Wa'.sh
Sorin	St. Edwards
Dillon	Brownson
Cavanaugh
Final standings will not be tabulated until the closing day of the Carnival; so get behind your hall today—BUY.
Saidenberg Symphony ii	Performs Monday Eve
i	Before an enthusiastic musical audi-
! ence in Washington Hall the Saidenberg 1 String Symphony, under the direction of Daniel Saidenberg, presented a pro-
J	gram of string music and the songs of
5	Virginia Haskins, coloratura soprano,
f	Monday night.
I	Selections played by the 18-piece sym-
i	phony, which is one of the outstanding
4	small orchestras in the country today,
■	included Bach’s “Preludio in E Major,”
“Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,” by Mozart, a Serenade for Strings in four parts, ■ “Minuet” by Bolzoni, “Hora Staccato,” :	by Dinicu, and Rimsky Korsakoff’s fa-
mous “Flight of the Bumble Bee.” Other ; selections were “Serenade,” by P. I. • Tschaikowsky, “Polka” by the popular Shostakovitch, “Pizzicato” by J. Strauss, and “Dance of The Buffoons” by Rimsky-Korsakoff. As encores, loudly demanded 1 by the audience, the orchestra played the $ .Irish air “Danny Boy” and Granger’s = “Polly on the Shore.”
;	Received well was Miss Virginia Has-
i kins, who sang several light classics, • among which were Gretry’s “La Fau-'	vette” from his “Zemire et Azor,” “Lo!
:	The Gentle Lark” by Bishop, and three
encores.
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell On Annapolis Board
The President of the United States has again named Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., president of the University of Notre Dame, to the board of visitors of the United States Naval Academy.
The seven man board will meet at Annapolis from April 19 to 22. The six other educators are: Dr. Alexander Ruthevew, Michigan University; Dr, Thomas Gates, University of. Pennsylvania; Dr. Lee P. Sieg, University of Washington; Dr. James Conant, Harvard; Dr. J. Rion McKissick, University of South Carolina; Dr. Homer P. Rainey, University of Texas.
Vice-President Henry A. Wallace has . also appointed to the board Senators David I. Walsh, Bennett Champ Clark, Raymond Willis, Francis Maloney and Charles Tobey. The Speaker of. the House of Representatives has appointed Representatives Carl Vinson, John J. Delaney, Lydon Johnson, Lansdale Sas-scer, Karl Lecompte and Gordon Canfield. .
- Rear Admiral J. R. Beardsail, U.S.N., superintendent of the academy, has arranged the program which will tour the physical plant and personnel of the academy.	-
Five Ex-N.D. Students
Now at Maxwell Field
The' following-named aviation cadets, now enrolled in the huge Army Air Forces Pre-Flight School for Pilots at Maxwell Field, located on the outskirts of Montgomery, capital of Alabama, are ex-students of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.
Cadet James Robert Brennan, 1021 St. Vincent Street, South Bend, Ind., '35’40 student and received his B. S. Degree. Member of University Band. Cadet James Edward McIntyre, 307 Walnut Street, Meadville, Penn., ’38’42. B.S. in Foreign Commerce. Cadet James M. Purcell, 15 Monroe Avenue, Larchmont, New York, ’39-’41 student. Cadet John Joseph . Ridley, 709 Church Lane, Philadelphia, Pa., ’38-’39 student. Debating team, Inter Hall Sports. Cadet John Lawrence Sutton, 1565 Central Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee. ’35-*40 student and received his B.A. and M.A. Degrees in 1940.
These cadets began their pre-flight course at Maxwell Field, Alabama, the latter part of February 1943.
Life of St. Bernard
New Mediaeval Book
The sixth and latest publication in mediaeval studies of the University, Saint Bemward of Hildsheim is just off the press. Francis J. Tschan, professor at Pennsylvania State College, is the author of this new work. Prof; Tschan is former president of the American Catholic Historical Society, and for more than forty years has taught at Loyola of Chicago, University of Chicago, Yale, . Carnegie Tech and Catholic University, before moving to Penn State in 1925.
Saint Bernard has special significance in this war era which finds the values of the liberal arts threatened by the emphasis on technology. The saint was an artist in the late tenth and early eleventh century and served as a bishop of . great influence in both ecclesiastical and imperial circles. The revival of art and literature of the era owes much to his talents and his position.
Publications, in Mediaeval Studies at Notre Dame, were begun in 1936 with “The Works of Peter of Poitiers,” by Rev. Philip Moore, C. S. C., Arch.. Pal., who has directed the subsequent publications, collaborating with James . A. Corbett, assistant professor of history, in 1938 on the third volume of the series “Petri Pictaviensis • Allegoriae Super Tabernaculum Moysi.” Father Moore is also collaborating with Marthe Dulong on a volume of the series now in the press, Petri Pictaviensis Sententiarum Libri Quinque.	'
Gopher Hole Proves No
Secret Dining Hall Exit
The early golfers are spreading wild rumors about a new mechanical trap on the golf course. It is asserted that golf balls driven near it disappear, and are never seen again. A brave few have investigated, and they swear. that Die machines crew say that the dining hall chefs must now use old golf ball innards to supplement the steak shortage. Another source claims that the Navy is digging a well to fill the lakes to war capacity.
This monstrosity is located just south of the West Dining Hall. Gophers and students wear equally anxious looks.
The Maintenance Department, however, offers to clear up the mystery. A well is being dug to add to the present water supply. All of the water now used on the campus is being taken out of the lakes. Though the year round average amount needed is approximately 800,000 gallons a day, increased summer demands—warm weather sprinkling on campus and golf course, greater number of showers—require well over a million gallons. In hottest weather the daily need occasionally rises to 1,500,000 gallons.
The level of the lakes is being dangerously lowered by this demand upon them. Thus, the new well and pump which are expected to produce a minimum of 700, 000 a day.
Construction has been going on for about two weeks. It has not been ascertained what depth must be reached.be-fore water will be obtainable. Well over a hundred feet is expected. “We must, hit water soon,” the foreman explained.
The pump is being so located as to furnish the least possible inconvenience to golfer fans. Maintenance promises golfers that steps will be taken, to prevent further loss of the now unobtainable white pellets.—B. M. Apker ’ '
Notre Dame President
Speaks, on CBS Easter
The Columbia Broadcasting System has announced that the Easter Sunday sermon on the Church of the Air program will be preached by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The program will be presented April 25, from 12 to 12:30 pun. (CWT).
An octet from the University glee club, under the direction of Prof. Daniel Ped-tke, will supply a musical background. The program will be short waved by Columbia to men in the overseas service, including many Notre Dame alumni and recent students. Some 2,500 alumni in various camps of this country will hear it.	.	.
Snite Able to Sit Up After Years in "Boiler"
The Associated Press reports from Miami Beach, Florida, that Notre Dame man Fred Snite, Jr., is now able to sit up for as long as six hours using a small chest respirator at his winter home.	■
“I was never happier," exclaimed the “boiler kid," who was first placed in an iron lung in China several years ago. Snite, married and the father of a daughter, was at most of the Irish home football games last fall. He lives in Chicago.
HOLD MEMORIAL SERVICES
Notre Dame honored the memory of the late. Knute K. Eockne, former head foothall coach and director of athletics, and who guided Notre Dame to the top spot in the athletic world, with special anniversary services on the campus Sunday morning, April 4.
Eockne was killed in an airplane crash in Kansas on March 31, 1931, after his •greatest coaching . season. Since then Notre Dame men and fans have paid annual tribute to the Irish mentor.
Services Sunday were opened with a Mass celebrated by Eev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., followed by a communionbreakfast which was held in the University cafeteria. Following the breakfast general memorial services were conducted in the lounge of the Eockne Memorial, which was only recently erected as a memorial to “Bock” and his ideals.
Principal speakers at the services were Tom Hynes of South Bend, and Joe Byrne of New York City. Both were close friends of the football tutor and Hynes is a walking scrapbook filled with many generally unknown Eockne anecdotes. Art Haley presided at the services. .
Those in attendance at the services heard a verse-tribute to Notre Dame’s three immortals—Eockne, Nicholson, and Keogan—as written by Eev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C. FoUowing services in the lounge, the group moved to Highland cemetery to place wreaths on the graves. of the three coaches. .
12
FOR LATE KNUTE ROCKNE
Memorial services were under the direction of the St. Joseph valley Notre Dame club, with the University professor and coach, Walter M. Langford, serving as chairman. The St. Joe Notre Dame club was joined by the University Monogram club, who also participated in the ceremony.
The date of Eockne’s tragic death— March 31—was remembered throughout the nation. Masses were offered in many churches, and radio stations gave much time in paying tribute to the nation’s number one sportsman. For Notre Dame, the memorial for the three deceased coaches had a deeper’ significance than usual, since the memorial services followed only a short time after the sudden death of George E. Keogan, who collapsed suddenly and died in the midst of his greatest season as head of the Irish casaba squad.
In observing the memory of the three coaches, observers pointed out that each had died at the climax of their careers— Eockne after two undefeated seasons and his great 1930 edition of the “Eockne Eamblers”—Nicholson, the track coach, dying after he had molded the nation’s top track man, Greg Eice; and KeogaiT passing away after turning out a squad ” called “Notre Dame’s greatest.” The results of the master’s work show Eockne’s two last teams ranked with the all-time best; Nicholson’s pride, Gregory Eice, winning the title of the nation’s No. 1
trackman, three out of four times; and the 1943 Fighting Irish hoopsters being voted second best in the nation.
-	,,	I	g	* I
School Art Department
To Receive Unusual Gift
A gift will soon be made to the Notre Dame Art Department, which will undoubtedly be of wide-spread interest, for not only is the gift extremely generous, but also it is one of -the most unusual gifts the University has received.
Ten thousand mirrors of varied sizes, ten to fifteen tons of colored glass in sheet form, and all the equipment necessary to transform these sheets of glass into masterful mosaic works or beautiful windows that will be admired for many years to come—all this will be given to the University.
The man responsible for the gift is Thomas A. O’Shaughnessy, who is retiring from his business as producer of some of the finest glass products the country has seen. He is well known as a lecturer on art and Celtic culture, although he is perhaps more widely known for his gifted genius as an artist. Mr. O’Shaughnessy was appointed spokesman by the president of the United States for the delegation of 200 American artists that was sent to the memorable Paris Exposition of the ’20’s.
In addition, he is responsible for the Irish Village which attracted so much attention at the Chicago World’s Fair of 1933. America’s rising interest in art, and Celtic art in particular, is due largely to Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s excellent abilities as a lecturer.
Although Mr. O’Shaughnessy did not attend Notre Dame himself, his two brothers did, one of them being in the class of the Eeverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
.	—John Misz

Prof. Scannell Elected
The Indiana Association for Health, Physical Education and Eecreation named Dr. John A. Scannell, associate professor of physical education at Notre Dame, and head of the Physical Education Department, as president-elect of the organization last Saturday in Indianapolis. Prof. Scannell has been a member of the faculty since 1929.
Dr. Just Lectures
Dr. Theodor K. Just, head of the biology department at the University, discussed political moves behind German aggression and nazi military strategy before the members of the South Bend Exchange club at a luncheon given last Friday in the Hotel Lasalle.
> ^Uia Nami at Nabve. ^bame >
Dry Dock Building Program Under Way;
Costs U. S. Navy Half-Billion Dollars

Since 1940 the U.S. Navy has had under way a tremendous dry dock construction program involving the building of 183 dry docks at a total estimated cost of $511,000,000.
Included in this program are highly mobile types of one-piece and sectional floating dry docks which can be towed or self-propelled at speeds sufficient to allow them to follow the Fleet into active theaters of war. The importance of these mobile dry docks, relative to the quick salvage and repair of vessels damaged in combat, is obvious.
These floating dry docks vary in size from those designed to handle small harbor craft to those capable of servicing the largest battleships or troopships. The cost of the floating dry dock program alone will approximate $300,000,000.
Construction of the larger, or sectional type, of floating dry dock is featured by a series of ship-shaped hulls, the sidewalls of which can be raised or lowered, placed side by side. These sidewall sections lie horizontally on the main deck and can be raised readily to vertical position.
The entire dock is submerged when taking aboard a ship for maintenance or repair work. When the ship is in position, water is pumped out of the dock body, and the dock rises, bringing the ship with it.
Crews bunk entirely within the watertight hulls of the dry dock sections, which also carry machinery to submerge and raise the hull, as well as galleys, showers and other facilities for the crew.
In addition to the new type floating dry dock, the Bureau.of Yards and Docks has developed so-called “pontoon dry docks” consisting of small pontoons which can be assembled and disassembled very quickly. The pontoons will be transported aboard ship and assembled at their destination into complete working dry docks.
Design of graving dry docks has kept pace with improvements in other types of docking facilities, and the Bureau of Yards and Docks has developed several types of reinforced concrete graving dry
docks which have eliminated the use of plate steel needed in other phases of the war effort.
Periodic overhaul docking, permitting the cleaning and painting of bottoms and the overhaul of propellers and underwater fittings, is essential for the maintenance of all naval ships. In addition to these regular overhauls during wartime, facilities must be available for quickly repairing damaged ships making possible their return to action in a. minimum of time. Experience has verified the old statement that' the cheapest and quickest way to build a ship is to repair one already built.
With the adoption of the expansion program for the naval forces afloat it was necessary to review the dry dock studies and to synchronize the construction of dry docks with the construction of
Aat—' "	—- .	- ....
Naval Reserve Announces
New Engineering Plan
College upperclassmen pursuing engineering or related courses are eligible for special officer commissions in the Naval Reserve, according to a new plan announced by the U. S. Navy.
Candidates will be selected from full time juniors and seniors enrolled in college courses leading to an engineering degree, or in courses leading to a Baccalaureate degree with major in Physics, Naval Architecture, Mathematics or Electronics.
Eligible students who pass the physical examination will be enrolled in the special SV-7 group and will remain on inactive duty until they graduate.
For general. service, candidates must meet strict physical requirements. For special service, relaxed eye requirements exist, including modified color perception standards.
Eighteen sound teeth are required with two molars in functional occlusion (closing) and not more than four incisors missing with satisfactory replacement.
Students should apply to the nearest Office of Naval Officers Procurement.
new ships. The Bureau of Yards and Docks has emphasized that the dry dock construction program must not interfere with the shipbuilding program, hence new facilities had to be developed and new manpower had to be trained for the drydock program.
An outstanding feature of the Navy’s current dry dock program is . the speed of construction. The new Pearl Harbor dry dock, for example, was completed in approximately 20 months, one year ahead of schedule, and was ready for service at the time of the Japanese attack, Dec. 7, 1941. This dock is approximately 50 per cent larger than the first dry dock built at Pearl Harbor, which required six years to build.
Two huge dry docks in the New York Navy Yard were completed in 20 months compared with eight years for the building of dry dock No. 4 in that yard, a dock half the size of the two new dry docks.
During the past five years the Navy has completed or begun construction of docking facilities with a capacity greater than the rest of the world’s, including the United States, as of 1937.
Midshipmen Given Liberty
To Attend N. D. Carnival
Midshipmen will be allowed two hours of liberty Friday, April 16, from 2000 to 2200 to attend the University of Notre Dame War Charities Carnival.
Sponsored by the campus Knights of Columbus the Carnival will open a four-day stand in the Notre Dame fieldhouse Wednesday evening.
Barkers, games of chance and skill, and blaring bands will lend an air of the old-time carnival to the affair which will close tomorrow night.
Tickets for the benefit raffle may be obtained from company commanders and battalion officers. Ensign G. A. Hardy, Welfare and Recreation Officer, said that he would have tickets available for station officers.
Chances sell at ten cents apiece or three for 25 cents and include $200 in war bonds, all-wool N.D. blankets and other prizes.
The Midshipmen Jam Band will play Friday at the Carnival as an added attraction.
The Red Cross and local charities will share in the proceeds and one of the principal beneficiaries will be the Service Men’s Center in South Bend.
13.
Klinemen May Open Season With Chicago;
Hai Smullen and Tom Sheehan, Head Battery
DICK GRANT

Coach “Jake” Kline’s baseball team will open its regular streamlined wartime schedule on Tuesday, April 13, meeting the Big Ten co-champions, the University of Michigan Wolverines, here on Cartier Field. There is a possibility that the opener may be moved up to the preceding Saturday the opposition being the Maroons from the University of Chicago. In the event that this should happen spectators are urged to witness this affair as in the past. The Irish have won 15 out of 21 games in a series with Chicago which started in 1897. They are free scoring games and the Irish have taken the last six in a row, including a 17 to 10 decision in ths spring of ’41. The 1939 game went to the Klinemen, 9 to 7, in 12 innings. Other Notre Dame victories were by such staggering totals as 12 to 9, 11 to 3, 19 to 6, 12 to 6 and 16 to 9. Chicago has won by scores of 13 to 1, 14 to 12 and 9 to 2—so there should be plenty of action if these two teams should meet here Saturday.
If the Irish squad opens with the Wolverines they will be facing a tough assignment for although Michigan has virtually a brand new ball club they have the competent pitching staff, that led
A new scientific way of sliding, safe a mile!
them to the co-title which was shared with Iowa, last season. The mound chores will be in the hands of four veterans, Irv Boim, Mickey Fishman, Bill Cain and Dick Savage. Boim and Fishman held the best earned run average and the best won and lost record respectively, in their conference, last year.
Ray Fisher, coach of the Michigan club is relying on underclassmen to add the hitting and power to his team for there are some log range hitters on the squad who could prove to be bothersome for the opposing moundsmen. Fisher plans to start six or seven of the inexperienced yearlings in their conference opener with Iowa today. The lineup for the Iowa game will probably remain intact for the Notre Dame opener and will be composed of: Dick Waiterhouse, freshman first baseman; Bob Stonberg, Chicago junior at second; Bruce Blanchard, third and Howard Kikel, short stop. Bob Wiese, plunging fullback who caused considerable trouble for the Fighting Irish last fall, in left field, Don Lund, another fullback who didn’t get into the Irish game because of Mr. Wiese’s amazing line smashing ability, will be stationed in centerfield, Paul
1 |
1
White covering right, Elmer Swanson behind the bat and either Boim or Fishman toeing the rubber. Capt. Don Robinson, flashy shortstop from last year’s । team and Don Boor, first baseman, have been called to active duty by the Army Air Corps and the E. R. C. as has Cliff Wise pitcher.
It was announced late this week that the proposed opening baseball game with Chicago will definitely be played at Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon. Jim Carlin, third baseman, and Hal Smullen, pitcher, were elected as co-captains of the 1943 diamond squad.
Coach Kline will field a strong nine, capable of hitting- and fielding with the best, and backed by a well balanced mound corps composed of Smullen, Creevey, Manyak, Judy and Trimborn. The starting pitcher will probably be the diminutive fire bailer ‘-'Hal” Smullen, leading hurler of the ’42 squad. Tommy Sheehan, New Haven, Conn., will don the catching equipment, John Hickey, local South Bend boy on first; either Staten Island’s Ed Ghigliotti or Trenton’s Tom Carlin on second; Bob Kline, Buffalo, N. Y., at short stop and Jim Carlin, Trenton, N. J., will cover the hot space. The outfield will be comprised of John Creevey, Clawson, Mich., in left, the “Spring-field Rifler,” Angelo Bertelli, in center, and Steve Pavella, LaCrosse, Wis., in right. Creevey and Bertelli will be out after revenge for last fall’s beating by Wiese and his mates. In recent workouts Coach Kline has been watching Dick Kisgen and Elmer Milliman, the latter being one of the longest hitters on the team, as.has been proven on numerous occasions as he backed the outfielders far out of their territory to snare his fly balls in batting practice.
Following the Michigan- game, the team will, play, the following- schedule: Indiana, (here) on April 16 and 17; at Michigan State, April 20, and over to Western .Michigan the 21st. Then Michigan State comes to Notre Dame on the. 27th of April and the May 1, commencement day. game will - feature Western Michigan at Notre Dame. There is also a possibility, of securing contests with Great Lakes, Camp Grant, Navy Pier- and Michigan City Prison during the three day lapse between the Michigan State game and' the commencement day affair.,	•	, .	;
14
Cavanaugh Net Teams Win Campus Titles: Lights Defeat R.O.T.C.; Heavies Top Alumni
Cavanaugh interhall basketball squads dominated the finals of the league playoffs last week when the lights edged out the ROTC, 28-23, and the heavies drubbed Alumni II, 46-25, in the fieldhouse.
In the evening’s first contest, the Navy boys stepped out to a 5-3 lead over the Cavanaugh stalwarts. Late in the first quarter, the Juniors forged ahead for a 14-9 lead at the end of the first half. Led by Joe Droney, Cavanaugh held on to their margin until midway in the last period when the future officers pulled up to within three points of the leaders. Joe Knickerbocker then took command with a display of all-around floor work that kept the margin safe as Droney dropped in a pair of two-pointers. The winners proceeded to hold the upper hand of the •remainder of the game. Scoring honors went to Joe Droney with 12 points and . Gilligan of the losers with eight markers.
In the heavyweight finals Cavanaugh again came off with the crown via a 4625 win over Alumni II. Father Muckenthaler’s lads, sparked by a quartet of footballers, bombarded the basket with two-pointers after a slow first half in
Veterans to Leave as Army Calls Reserves;
Fall Football Outlook Very Uncertain
DON CISLE
Despite the certain loss of almost half of his squad to the service at the termination of the present semester, Head Coach Frank Leahy is continuing daily workouts for his team and mapping plans for the coming season.
Gone will be many of the veterans who were to be greatly depended upon this fall, but Leahy still sounds an optimistic note and is hoping for the best. This fall’s hopes will undoubtedly fall upon such men as will be retained by the ■ Navy, selected by competitive exams, and freshmen who have not reached military age.
Twenty-one of the members of the spring team will leave in May, narrowing the squad to the smallest on record since spring practice was first originated. Just who will be available for the autumn campaign is a mystery to all, ineluding Leahy. One thing is certain, however, all other colleges in the country will be facing the same situation that confronts the Irish. Of the ten games that have been arranged, two are with service teams who should have more than a wealth of material and who certainly
which the Seniors stuck with them stubbornly. The over-all height advantage of the Cavanaugh team proved too much for the Aliimni-ites in the last period and they rolled up an easy margin of victory. Bucky O’Connor dropped in nine points for the scoring crown with Herb Coleman and Bill Huber marking up eight.
With the finishing of the interhall basketball games, the points have been tallied in search for the high-point man. It has been found that first term scoring kings have been topped. Platt of the lightweight league had a total of 63 points, while Sheehan of the heavyweights had 90 points. In this season, McKay had 115 points and Lujack, 90 points. In the lightweight league, P. Doyle recorded 70 markers.
A vote of thanks should be given to . Bill Amann who has been very successful in his handling of the interhall leagues. Bill began his task as Czar of Interhall last September and has held the job ever since. He has complete charge of the game schedule and the running of the games plus all the headaches that go with the supervising of the leagues.
(Continued on page 23)
will provide the toughest opposition for Notre Dame.
Such outstanding performers as Bob Livingstone, Cornie Clatt, Gerry Cowhig, Creighton Miller, Bob McBride, Herb Coleman, Luke Higgins and others will be called by the Army next month. Nothing definite has as yet been received on the status of the Marine Reserves, but it is probable that they will take selective tests and be placed in schools for special training. Among the players who belong to this group are Angelo Bertelli, Pat Filley, captain-elect of the 1943 eleven. Ziggy Czarobksi, John Yonakor, Bernie Meter, Ed Krupa and Jim King. Paul Limont, Jack Zilly, Dan Hecht and Jim White are enrolled in the Naval Reserves. Of the latter four, only Hecht and Zilly are reasonably sure of being retained. They are members of the N.R.O. T.C. unit here.
Coach Leahy and his assistants have been devoting much time during the past practices toward better acquainting the freshmen with the “T” formation which was introduced last fall. Scrimmages have been held at various times with
John Lujack operating at Bertelli’s former key spot. Although not as fine a passer as Bertelli, Lujack is regarded as a fair kicker and deceptive runner. Other backfield men that have shown well are Bob Kelly, prep star at Leo High in Chicago, Al Cannava, Bob Palladino, Ray Dooney, Dick Arado and Virgil Turner. On the line Limont, Zilly, Gerry Ford,
A tough spot for the fellow on the bottom
Jim Tharp, Joe Signaigo, Gasper Urban, John Adams, John Frampton, Jim Sullivan, Frank Sullivan, Jim Flanagan, Czarobski, Filley, Meter and White have been scrimmaging well, as has Fred Miller, Art Swain, Art Donovan, and Fred Cardinal among others.	.
Phy Ed Men Capture
New League Net Title
The New league has played its elimination contest on the Fieldhouse floor. The games have been fast and rough with the Hoosiei- Hot Shots, a team of physical education men, emerging as the champions. These men will receive medals for their first place win. The Hoosier Hot Shots will also play the Heavyweight Cavanaugh team of the Interhall Basketball league. The runners up to the Hot Shots, the Red Wings, will play the Alumni II team which was defeated by the-Cavanaugh heavies.
In the elimination contest the Zahni Zombies won over the Cavanaugh^gCs| 36-21, but the Zombies were. qgSiwn defeated by the Red Wings, 35-21. Sayers bf the winners tallied 11 points. With the aid of Ankerbruck’s 13 points, the Bat Roosters nabbed a gruelling match from the Phantom quintet by the score of 25-22. The Bat Roosters were then routed in a close game by the Hot Shots, 32-30. Clatt of the winners leading his team with 11 points, while Summers of the losers registered 14 markers. The Red Wings met the Hoosiers in the final game. The Hot Shots were able to eke out a victory over their fighting opponents in the last few minutes of the game. The score was, 30-26.
—Bob Erkins
is y
Notre Dame’s War Charities Ci
The bands will blare and the barkers will shout themselves hoarse for four days starting Wednesday, April 14, when the second annual Notre Dame lJz«r Charities carnival, fathered by the Knights of Columbus, opens in the University fieldhouse.
Fireworks along the star spangled midway—largest fieldhouse midway in the world—will be ignited by a torchlight procession Wednesday evening when the University band — in full strength—parades around the campus in a manner befitting even ths best of football week-ends.
From Wednesday evening until the final spin of a wheel Saturday evening, it will be four days of bright lights, brilliant swinging music, and the best the carnival world can offer.
The Notre Dame Midshipmen school will come to the aid of the land lubbers when the Navy swing’ band provides the swaying for Friday’s entertainment. It will be all-Navy Friday as the midshipmen take charge of the entire entertainment show. Music for the other three evenings will be provided by Notre Dame’s own Cavaliers.
A sad note has been injected for local lovers in view of the fact that St. Mary’s can’t come. This is regretted on the part of all—Notre Dame, the carnivalers, and St. Mary’s. But St. Mary’s participation is impossible because of a previously scheduled triduum for that week-end. The place of the Sweetbriar boarders will be amply filled by their commuters and other organizations.
Preparations for the carnival have been rapidly moving along this week and clubs and organizations sponsoring
Jim Purcell has the Idea: "Shell Out."
booths have been engaged in preparing decorations. The decorations of the midway is under the supervision of Father John J. Burke, prefect of discipline, with architect Chase Black actively in charge.
A feature comedy note of the four-day event will be the “weight guessing” booth, conducted under the very worthy auspices of such campus notables and personalities as the inimitable Ziggy Czarobski, South Chicago’s contribution to the football, political, and entertainment world; Jack Woelfle, the one-and-only Scholastic Week columnist; tailor-made man Dave Curtin, famed for his extemporaneous wit and humor; and another incomparable Jack Russell.
Active work on the carnival promotion was begun several weeks ago and various chairmen have spent many busy days contacting and lunching with bona fide carnival men. The Notre Dame show, it is reported, will be the McCoy, as far as any carnival presentations go.
Youth will have its day, too, when a special carnival matinee is conducted in the fieldhouse Saturday afternoon. There will be special events for the kiddies and South Bend youngsters have promised to flock to the affair.
The Red Cross, one of the benefitting charities, will be on hand for the entirety of the carnival. The Red Cross lassies will sell war bonds and stamps along the midway, and the new Red Cross ambulance, with the latest innovations and improvements in life-saving equipment, will be on display in the fieldhouse. The Red Cross participation comes through the cooperation of Miss Babette Mcln-nerny and Mrs. Paul Hoffman, of the Red Cross Volunteer Aid Corps in South Bend.
An organization benefitting from the carnival will be the Servicemen’s Center in South Bend. This strikes close to home since the South Bend center, under the guidance of Mrs. J. Arthur Haley and Mrs. Frances Riley, is extremely popular with the University midshipmen’s school. Proceeds from the carnival, besides going to the Servicemen’s center, will also be divided among other worthy organizations.
The fieldhouse, scene of many events in University history, will be completely transformed for the carnival nights. Mr. Connolly, of the dining halls, has aided in the decoration scheme by lending large quantities of drapes. And through the kindness of Mr. J. F. Donahue, of the
DAVE oi
South Bend lumber company, the carnival committee has been able to obtain a sufficient quantity of lumber to construct the booths.
This year- the event will be an “all-out” affair. Downtown clubs, Notre Dame students, the midshipmen school, and other organizations, have declared a war emergency and have gone out to make the carnival a success. Father Redding-ton, of the University maintenance department, has aided in the booth construction, and the students in Dujarie hall rallied to the cause and took care of all carnival signpainting.
A party scheduled for the Rockne memorial a la last year’s special closingday dance—has been cancelled for this year due to the fact that the carnival occurs during Lent.
Perhaps one of the biggest features of all will be the raffle of $200 in war bonds. Chances on the war bond have been sold throughout the campus; and the resident : halls are competing against each other j for the top honor and the prize of a f smoker. Carnival participants will also j have their chance at several Notre Dame j
16
irnival Begins Next Wednesday
VE
ONDON
monogram blankets and a large number of nightly door prizes.
Announcing the four-day free entertainment program will be in charge of Dick Murphy, recent Bengal Bout announcer and a Cavanaugh hall junior.
Merchandise for the carnival prizes has been obtained after great difficulty, as many of the articles are no longer manufactured or obtainable.
Booths and carnival features will be in charge of campus organizations and clubs, with the bingo game, scheduled for the basketball floor, under the directorship of the South Bend Knights of Columbus. As far as possible, booth decorations will be regionalistic, typifying the region represented by the sponsoring organization.
Among the clubs and organizations aiding in the promotion are: The Naval R.O.T.C., the South Bend Knights of Columbus, the Red Cross, the Service Mens Center, the Navy Midshipmen School, the Commerce Forum, the Student Council, the Economic Round Table, the Monogram Club, the Cleveland Club, St. Louis Club, Detroit Club, Notre Danie
council of Knights of Columbus, Texas Club, St. Vincent De Paul society, the Scholastic, the Glee Club, the National Federation of Catholic College Students, Kentucky Club, Engineers, Chicago Club, New York Club, the Press Club, and various others.
Campus Personalities
To Assist at Carnival
Each year Notre Dame activities bring out a new group of carnival personalities. Invariably the crowd throngs around the booths, running into such distinguished personages as Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, of South Bend, and Notre Dame’s own Frank Leahy, head football coach.
This year the Who’s Who—or the carnival’s four hundred will number among its elite countless campus characters. The one-man wonder, Red Lonergan, who made his debut in front of the dining halls by selling footballprograms will be there this year. And for the laughs you can have Ziggy Czarobski, who has done as many funny things as any two of the three Marx brothers.
Roaming along the midway, probably with such a character as “War-whoop” Paul Limont, football end, will be grid captain Pat Filley, who has signed up for carnival participation. While you are watching Filley, you are liable to see Tom Rolfs, grand knight of the sponsoring Knights of Columbus, or Jack Terry, head of innumerable student commission promotions.
The far side of the Midway will bring to light Dave Curtin, the one-and-only in Notre Dame dramatic circles, who will have roamed off from the weight-guessing booth to try some new gags on an appreciative audience.
There's Entertainment Every Night. Here the Glee Club Sings
Among the giants you can bet your life that the Tree, John Adams, will be roaming around, head and shoulders above the crowd. And also rearing in the upper stratosphere will be giant freshman basketballer Mike Smith, of New Orleans, prexy of the frosh class.
Purpose of the Carnival
This time, we are concerned with a project dedicated to benefit others—those who have forsaken Cartier Field, the Brownson yard, Badin Bog. and the paths circling the lakes, for the grim and terrifying business of life and death. There is not one of us who is not concerned about the final decision in that struggle. It is significant, therefore, that the campus should express this concern by an all-out effort to do its part in helping those who have already moved up to the front line. The War Chanties Carnival offers an occasion to measure that enthusiasm. It is designed expressly to aid those who most need help at this particular time. Many campus clubs, the Midshipman, and the people of South Bend have worked hard to make it a representative project. It now belongs to you to put it over in that fine and traditional Notre Dame fashion. The Scholastic heartily endorses this splendid effort and urges its readers to a generous participation. Consequently, when your hall captains solicit your support this week, give them your wholehearted cooperation.—The Carnival Committee.
17
INTRODUCING
BILL WADDINGTON
William Robert ... a good first name and middle name if you don’t mind my saving so . . . and the surname, Nicholson .. . well, it’s got plenty of track history behind it . . . born in Sewanee, Tennessee, December 12, 1920 . . . another present of old man winter . . . his dad was coaching at University of the South at. the time. . . . From there to Houston and Bice Institute, Centre college in Kentucky, Amateur Athletic Club in Montreal, and then South Bend and Notre Dame . . . such were the travels of John P. Nicholson . . . and thus his son, W. R. . . .
Went in for grade school athletics in the early years, save track, which wasn’t on the menu at his locale at the time. ... at South Bend Central, he sprang into the sport limelight as a soph . . . high jump, hurdles, pole vault, basketball guard, and an end in football were his extra-curricular muscular activities. . . . while at a boys camp during that summer, he dropped a sailboat on his foot . . . broke his toes . . . put him on crutches for four months and eliminated any thoughts of third year high. . . . athletically speaking. . . . Against Culver Academy he turned in a 14:7 high hurdle race but since it wasn’t in state competition, the Indiana record still remained at 14:9. . . . Also got a 6 ft. 3^in. high jump ... in the state meet, a week later, he fell on the ninth hurdle and with a lead to boot. . . . can’t blame the guy for being disappointed. ... A fellow whom he beat in a Northern Indiana conference meet got the title as a result. . . .
Of course it was Notre Dame, since his dad was the top track mentor for the Blue and Gold . . . didn’t get much chance to run under his dad’s eye because of his unfortunate and untimely death . . . continued to go after the . hurdles and high jump . . . preferably the former since he wanted to retrace * his father’s footsteps . . . “Big Nick” -held world records in them. . . . Was second in state meet as a second year man with a 14:8, tying old record, but Dillon cracked the mark in that heat with 14:6 . . . Michigan State dual meet and a hurdle event ... got another hurdle meet as a soph at the Wisconsin duo . . . topped off season’s performance with a 6ft. 4 in. high jump in the Butler Relays, but it only took. second since
Keith O’Rourke was still around here to do 6ft. 6%in. . . . the junior jinx remained over from prep days and this time it was an appendicitis operation that shelved him and put him on the inactive duty list as he finished three-quarters of his study. ... To date, this season, second in highs and lows against Navy Pier . . . fourth in Central Collegiate highs . . . fifth in the Illinois Tech highs ... he too awaits the call to the Drake Relays. . . .
First meet he won as a soph at Michigan State . . . that’s his memorable occasion . . . established a new meet record too . . . hopes to be a quack. . . whoops! ... I mean doctor after the
Bill Nicholson, Lanky Hurdler
tie is released between him and Uncle Samuel’s navy . . . specifically V-7 . . . presently employed in the role of getting his third monogram. . . . He too possesses instinct for Harry James and Benny Goodman . . . these guys must be gangin’ up on me . . . but likes good music too . . t. professes to be a bull-session hobbiest . . . a good sizzling steak . . . that’s his dish ... called “Nick” by the gang . . . used to be little “Nick” but he’s inherited the major title now, more so with the 6 ft. 2% in.—180 lbs. structure that he totes around. . . . Lives with “Rip” Russell, and John Troup in “the club”—135 Alumni . . . everybody goes in and out when they please. . . .
Has been unfortunately connected with accidents in his athletic ventures . . broke three ribs as a youngster when he rigged up a vault in his back yard . . . one night the pole got wet, next day it didn’t hold up sb well, at least not with
Bill’s weight . . . always wanted to be a man over the high bar but never lifted a vaulting bamboo after that memorable day . . . also before a Central Collegiate meet as a soph he applied himself to the elastic muscle exercisers . . . one end snapped up from his foot, hit him in the face, and that afternoon he was a blinded-bandaged man running the oval . . . for a finale, in the accident department, as a kid he climbed to the top of a vacant school building . . . one of his gang hollered “cops” ... he leaped down, broke both ankles . . . and the worst of it all, “no cops” . . . just like the kid who yelled “wolf” back in kindergarten . . . that’s all for now. . .
Frosh Divoters Qualify
For Golf Championship
The much heralded Freshman Golf Championships will stroke into.the qualifying round on this Saturday afternoon on the Un i v e r s i t y links. Entries, slow in accumulating during last week, have been submerging the tournament committee in paper work.
Executive Tournament Director Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C., has been supervising the warm up play of many of the freshmen golfers and attests that competition will be on an excellent competitive basis. Jack Conway, tournament chairman, is quite confident that there will be more than 100 golfers on hand for the first 18 hole qualifying round on Saturday afternoon.
Mike Smith, Breen-Phillips; Bill Carey, St. Edwards, and J. D. Usina of Brownson, have stimulated much interest in their halls. Through the hard work of these three enthusiasts the three smaller Freshman halls will have a large turn out for the play. More thickly populated Zahm Hall has, at this writing, submitted the most entries. Chuck Ryan, Don Mac-donell, Roger Goodspeed, Rance Haig, Jack McKeon, Jack Cleary, John Vaughan and Frank Pendarvis have been handling the affairs of the tournament in Zahm.
There will be 18 holes of qualifying round play on both Saturday and Sunday of this week, rain or shine. The cup play, . 18 holes on April 17 and 18, will wind up the tournament. The three , expensive trophies procured by the tournament committee will be tendered on a medal . score basis—low scores for the 36 hole grind.
Entries will remain open until 12 noon on Saturday, April 10.
18
Condon-Sa+ions
Dave Condon
DO YOU DIG IT???
Campus jargon, it seems, runs in an entirely different vein than the ordinary English tongue—as witness the PepsiCola ads and a recent Saturday Evening Post article tracing the migration of college slang. The next time you write to your uncle Amos in Sunbake, Libya, spring the following on him and see if he can identify such typical Notre Dame jargon as: mystery balls, (he probably never ate them because we can’t even chew them); The Tree, (he’ll think this is part of the campus); tough apples, (no fair if he asks Otto Graham); green
banana, (he’ll miss that one despite our bumper crop this year); Breezy-P, Zahm-bie, and Gold Coastite, (sounds like something at 20-1 in the fifth race at Saratoga), and for the clincher, see if Uncle Amos can identify Sweetbriar, (that’s the payoff—he’ll probably answer that it is a school for beautiful girls).	.
LONG LIVE THE KING
We believe that at long last we have found an answer for Frank King and his merit badge sash. It couldn’t happen any place but in Manila before the Japs landed, but a 1939 year book sent from a Manila college—San Juan de Letran, lists among its faculty moderators a very distinguished “director of Boy Scouts.” Wonder if King can play “Reveille” on his French horn. And incidentally, don’t believe that nasty rumor that King has
asked the University to accept three copies of Downbeat as his thesis. His column, according to a recent literary survey, ranks just next to a copy of the South Shore timetable. This week he . seeks attention by telling that he called a shot in the corner pocket by predicting . that a certain tune would become popular. That’s a lot of brass, even for Frank, who is still wondering why “Old Black Joe” hasn’t made the Hit Parade. ’
CAF SMOKE	.
The Caf has obviated the problem , of war-time congestion. They handle it simply by having a lot of help wander around when the Caf is deserted; (to give the psychological effect of being. . busy), and then, when the students turn out enmasse, such as any evening after
(Continued on page 22)
Every branch of the Armed Services uses the telephone. One of a series, Submarine.
Five thousand miles from home Bill — Torpedoman — is keeping a date. Weeks of waiting, days of watching, hours of hiding under the sea, all for the moment when he reports over his wartime telephone, ‘'All tubes ready, sir!” There’ll be other dates, Bill—better ones—in the kind of world you’re fighring for.
Western Electric .
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM. I IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. /
★
> /tt AMeb Gg, ■
■South Bend’s Quality Store since 1913-
NAVY OFFICERS
now you can outfit yourself on your $250 allotment without sacrificing quality
THANK THE U. S. NAVY FOR THAT
The U. S. Navy didn’t cut down the quality of these uniforms to fit • your $250 — not for one minute. They went to America’s best woolen mills for die fabric — to America’s best clothes makers for tailoring skill. Quality couldn’t come too fine for the U. S. Navy — and these officers’ uniforms show it — in everything but the price — and you don’t wear that.
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Sponsored Uniforms
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM____$40 — OVERCOAT______$50 OVERCOAT-RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL
LINING___$37.50 — DRESS CAP_____$10.50
STORE IS OPEN
Saturday ’til 9 p. m. All Day Sunday
it	t£Tpan Mr&i/t. it/
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South, Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
20
At Mcm AM&i Co.
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly Tailored and Styled to your Individual Measurements.
Regulation Fabrics . . .
ELASTIQUE —WIDE WHALE SERGE WHIPCORD — GABARDINE
TROPICAL WORSTEDS KHAKIS —WHITES
TERMS TO SUIT YOUR CONVENIENCE
No Interest or Carrying Charge
We guarantee satisfaction and assure you of prompt delivery. If you are not commissioned, your contract with us is cancelled and you are under no obligation to take officer’s uniform equipment.
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER’S CAP
Complete with 3 Covers
$18.50
Premier Quality
/^'D'E,'VT Saturday 'til 9 p VfX	All Day Sunday
flit	£/
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown, bus terminal.
21
CONDON - SATIONS (Continued from page 19)
nine, the help departs—to relieve the congestion, of course. Speaking of the Caf, the Navy tea hour centers around five o’clock. And from Churchill Downs, Louisville, Ky., we have it that radio announcers are plugging the derby by stealing a quickie from Lucky Strike and promising that “the best nags of all wind up in the dining hall.”
HOLY SMOKE—
A strike in the mailing department of the Religious Bulletin has been averted, and you can have it on good authority that Promoter Jack Deegan and his ideas of a “union load for bulletin carriers,” are no longer affiliated with the R. B. As of this date, the bulletin is a closed shop.
TRIUMPHAL RETURN—
The grape vine has it that Gracie Barrie will soon return to South Bend for a single stand. Shades of the Cotillion. Scholastic files of the early 1930’s— around 1932—show that Gracie Barrie was one of the feature attractions in a vaudeville show at our own Palace theatre. In a vicious ten year circle Gracie has advanced from South Bend—to South Bend!! That was before vaudeville went dead. If that isn’t stabbing a dying man in the back!! If vaudeville is dead
now, King is at least responsible for rigor mortis. The musical comedy has more super-do than Super Suds, but King —ugh! That poker faced refugee from a musical powder box has spent the best jeers of his life on the stage.
FIVE STAR FINAL*****
The second annual war charities carnival is going to be, indirectly quoting Sam Goldwyn, “super-stupendous, magnificent, colossal, extraordinary, breathtaking, thrilling, full of romance, etc.” And it is playing for four nights at popular prices.
634 Army, Navy Exams Are Graded at Purdue
Six hundred and thirty-four students - trotted over to the Chemistry and Engineering buildings to take the joint Army, Navy mental examinations. The Army aspirants numbered 499 while 135 took the Navy examination. Both examinations were identical and the applicant was only required to check his desired branch of service.
Examination papers have been sent to H. H. Remers, Regional Director of Service examinations, at Purdue. Students will be notified of the results by mail. When? That, nobody knows.
Eight Meets Scheduled For Seasoned Net Men
Coach Walter Langford released a condensed tennis schedule this week with a definitely optimistic air. Opening on April 16 with Wisconsin, the Irish racketmen have arranged a busy two weeks of action. A double-header, an oddity in Notre Dame history, is scheduled at Bloomington, Ind. De Pauw meets the Irish in the morning and Indiana in the afternoon.
Jim Evert
ATTENTION MIDSHIPMEN!
Due to your response to our past advertisements
Studio-
takes pleasure in announcing:
One 8x 10 Hand Oil Painted Portrait — FREE of Charge
Strictly no obligations — Just tear out this ad and present it at
^beuH Studio
I 19 North Main St.	3C
As fine weather continues, the squad is rapidly shaping into a formidable team. Regular workouts have substantiated earlier rankings. Jim Evert of Chicago is assured of the lead-off spot. He is former national junior indoor champion in singles and doubles as well as outdoor champ in doubles and semifinalist in singles. Jim has nabbed several city titles but a loss in a gruelling match with amateur champion Ted Schroeder in the third round of the Nationals at Forest Hills last fall stands at the top . of the list. Evert was ranked 25th nationally and fourth by the Western Lawn Tennis Association.
Bob Faught, number two, and Artie Hoffman,' number* four, are the only returning lettermen of last year’s undefeated team. Faught was victorious in his nine singles matches and chalked up six wins in seven doubles matches. Hoffman acquired valuable experience in the fifth spot last year and has moved up a position. Southpaw Johnny Troup of Kansas City is in the third notch. Joltin’ John attended Rockburst College for two years before coming here and is ready for his first action against intercollegiate - competition. Lyle Joyce, brother of Jack Joyce who captained the 1941 team, and
22
Ed Caparo, South Bend city champion are a pair of steady men likely to appear in the remaining singles position.
As the line-up stands at present, the netters look very strong in the top half backed up by a capable lower half. With the addition of Evert, the return of Faught and Hoffman, and Troup’s eligibility, this season’s team figures to rank among the best in the mid-west.
1943 Tennis Schedule
April 16—Wisconsin at Notre Dame
17—De Pauw at Bloomington
17—Tndiana at Biocmington
22—Michigan at Ann Arbor
24—Northwestern at Evanston
29—Chicago at Chicago
30—Michigan State at Notre Dame
May 1—Western Michigan at Notre Dame
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from page 15)
Cavanaugh (46) G	F Pts	Alumni II (25) G	F	Pts
Gallagher, fd.	2	0 4	Vignola, fd. 3	1	7
Horning, fd. 	3	0 6	Mahoney, fd. 0	0	0
O’Connor, fd. 	4	1 9	Platt, fd.	2	2	6
O’Brien, fd. 	3	0 6	O’Brien, fd. 0	1	1
Creevey. c		1	1 3	Lardie. c.	2	1	5
Oppenheim, c. -0	0 0	Pilawski, gd. 0	1	1
Coleman, gd	4	0 S	Burke, gd. 	2	0	4
Gormley, gd	1	0 2	Coorlas, gd. 0	1	1
Huber, gd. 	4	0 8			
Otlewski, gd. 	0	0 0			
For Regulation
NAVY SHOES
and
Accessories
DO YOU DIG IT?
Come in to
ROSE & KATZ
Shoe Department
Freeman and Florsheims
FREEMAN
Navy Regulation Shoes
FLORSHEIMS $ 10.50 and up
Rvs« 5 Katz ■ > *O* UtH Mb I 'krtbUNcSt
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
' Pepsi-Cola Company, Long bland City,N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers
NAVAL UNIF(
I
Individually Hand^ to Individual Measures ,y
NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER'S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville . . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, courteous, efficient personnel to serve you.
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailoring that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
4A
EGH [any andj i eas
foci !EM< Bst ; tie f tie < icins
5
I
HOI
9 c ithir
NAVAL OFFICER’S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
J. B. SI Ml
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S WINTER WORKING H OVERCOAT
NAVAL OFFICER’S OVERCOAT 3 (Two-piece half Mt in back)
IN SOUTH BEND - 2
or our Campus location in the “Zero Deci f
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., W> BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS | f " WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HQ ’
24

'ORMS of Character
djut and Tailored
■s ry J. B. Simpson, Inc.
dANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED
| M J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
! rOUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram ! ibel bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, ! very Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date [ nd number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, quick and positive i ientification can always be made.
BODKIN BUTTONS with the attached slide that can’t be lost and which are so easy to remove are a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
EGRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: [any officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty andy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) : I easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
’OCKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK SEMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in ust a minute’s time through the‘little pocket opening in le facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is le case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the icing open.
BOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter 9 or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed ithin regulations, are followed on all personal details.
[PSON, Inc.
TAILORS
MAIL COUPON TODAY-
Z NORTH MAIN STREET
ci f the Dining Hall — opposite your Naval Store
fOR FREE IULUSTMTEP | tuMLummuiainuE ।
with price lift and actual samples of . uniform materials.	I
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 295 N. Main St, Sowth Bend, lad. . Gentlemen:	I
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of Naval Uniforms with priee list and samples of ns-te rials.
IGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, S CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. 9 ON, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
Name ------------------------------------
25
THE EARS HAVE IT
Vail W. Pischke
Mark Boyden, WSBT’s new program director, spoke to the N.D. radio men last night. . . . Mark’s had plenty of ex
VAIL W. PISCHKE
perience behind all the different types of mikes which radio has had to offer since its infancy. . . . Last night’s meeting also took up the matter of the annual Radio banquet, too. Notes from the meeting: “W ate he d the
‘Views a n d Pre-views’ fellas
squince, shake their fists, and plow their brows as they listened to the recordings of their last week’s show.” Unlistenable, wasn’t it, fellas? Only Consolation: There’s always next week, every week.
The 13th Milwaukee Journal Radio Poll came out the other day with some rather startling results: Ralph Edwards, headman of the ebullient “Truth or Consequences,” was the only double, winner of the 1943 poll—he was picked as the favorite master of ceremonies and his program headed the list of favorite quiz shows. . . . Joan Davis took the place awarded to Red Skelton in 1942—that of favorite new star. . . . Fibber McGee and Molly took top honors, for the third successive time, in the favorite-of-all-pro-grams classification. . . . Kay Kyser, for the fifth time, won first in the favorite dance orchestra group and Bing Crosby, in spite of Frankie Sinatra’s close bid, also made his fifth appearance as favorite male popular singer. . . . Ginny Simms took first honors in the ladies’ section. . . . Bob Hope again took first in the comedian division, keeping a slight margin over Fibber and Molly, who were a close second. . . . Harlow Wilcox took top honors as favorite studio announcer. Abie’s Irish Rose was first in the serial division.
One of those radio nightmares: Two minutes before “This Living World” (NBC) was to go on the air, the regular announcer was taken violently ill. Unable to find a substitute on such short notice, director Clinton Johnston (he has an AFRA card, so it’s all right) took over and acted as announcer, narrator, producer, and director—even giving himself cues!
Fax & fig gas: Two especially good shows on CBS tonight: Mickey Rooney will be the guest on the “Camel Caravan” and the “Adventures of the Thin Man” will put.Nick and Nora on a fast transcontinental train, with a midnight murder to keep things from getting dull. . . . Tomorrow night Bill Stern will have Leo (“The Lip”) Durocher as his guest. . . . Nomination for the best 15-minute latest show: Harry James’ nightly show at 6:15. . . .
Ann. Bob Brown is now a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy. . . . New draft troubles for Horace Heidt: The Musical Knight lost 32 men—last week he hired saxophonist Tex Beneke, but Ted was called two days later. . . . Interesting Fact: 10,000 notes go into the arrangement of one average piece of popular music—it plays for 2% minutes on the air. . . . Subtle: Those corrections on CBS’ publicity releases when they say: “Kill Dolores and Her Orchestra; insert Emil Coleman’s Orchestra” . . . sorta cold-blooded, isn’t it?
“Take care of Mom, and don’t spot my Arrow Shirts!”
You can always include Arrow Shirts among a man’s favorite possessions, and why not? The special Mitoga fit, Sanforized label (which guarantees fabric shrinkage less than 1%), anchored buttons and the world-famous collar all contribute to a work of art in tailoring. The clean crisp feeling of a new Arrow shirt on your back is a lesson in morale. See your dealer today! Whites and fancies, $2.24, up.
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS * buy wad bonds and stamps *
Frank English Elected Press Club President
The Notre: Dame Press Club was reorganized last week with the election of the. club officers. The students of the journalism department elected Frank English, of New Rochelle, N. Y., as president; John MacClements, of Charlotte, N. C., as vice-president; Dave Curtin, of Rochester, N. Y., as secretary; and Dick Grant, of Rockford, Ill., as treasurer. All are seniors except the latter, who is a junior. The club’s advisor is Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the journalism department since 1912.
Frank English announced plans for a Press Club banquet towards the end of the semester. This is one of the biggest events that the Press Club produces each year. Every banquet in the past has featured some prominent journalist.
A War Charities Press Club booth is another venture in which the club will participate this year at the University fieldhouse on Wednesday, April 14.
—Jim Daskaloff
26
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank King
Well things are beginning to look up again around here as far as the music
goes. Shep Fields appeared in the Palais
FRANK KING
Royale last Saturday and put on a good show. Fields abandoned the feature of his band, “Rippling Rhythm,” and started a revolutionary movement in music when he attempted to present successful music
without any brass; either trumpets or trombones, and, according to some, did
so.
Charlie Spivak, his trumpet and his orchestra are to appear at the Palace theatre. Spivak has a very fine orchestra and should present a good show. It is a pity that his star had to rise at about the same time that Harry James made his debut as a leader. Although Spivak plays a very tasty trumpet, he is not the technician that James is, and people can stand only so much in the line of trumpet
MB
HOW to CONSERVE
Your Shirts and Ties
Buy ARROW Shirts and Ties. They are made to wear longer, and fit you better!
SHIRTS .... 2.25 upwards
soloists. Consequently Spivak suffered. His tie-up with the same record company that James was connected with was not an advantage either, as James had the right of first choice of recordings.__ Naturally James always chose the better numbers, leaving the not too good ones for El Spivak. However, this was remedied recently when Charlie and his band signed with another company. The Cafe Rouge of the Hotel Pennsylvania has a heap of records that Glenn Miller set, and there were few that thought that any band would break them for a long time, as Miller was a great favorite with the Cafe Rouge patrons. However, Spivak broke about all of the records that Miller had set and then proceeded to set a few more of his own.
A big blow to the Notre Dame “Cavaliers” for their work at the Midshipman’s School Dance. Also a big blow for the big write-up they got for their contribution in the Bengals.
Last November this column went out on a limb and tried to pick a song as a future hit. That song was “Velvet Moon.” Right after that the song dropped out of sight and was never heard of again until last month. Since then the record made by Harry James has been installed in juke-boxes all over the country, which all
NAVAL OFFICERS
ED. V. PRICE & CO. offer you
AN APPROVED
UNIFORM SERVICE
Our Uniforms are hand cut and individually tailored to your own measurements. Entirely in our own shops.
ENSIGN OUTFIT complete from £160.70
We carry a complete stock of Haberdashery and Accessories.
Be sure to visit our
SPECIAL DISPLAY
at Midshipmen School
April 12 - 13 - 14 - 15 - 16
117 West LaSalle Across from Hoffmann Hotel
27
bodes good for the success of the number .... we hope.
Dimwit Dave Condon and his delirious denouncements are quite interesting. It took that intellectual miscarriage from Feb. 26 until April 2 to think of something to say about us, and then the best that poor- lad could do was to copy all the stuff that Jack Woelfle used, viz., “Old King Corn,” “French Horn Frankie,” and “Frank King’s condensation of Doivn-beat.” These were funny when Jack
No matter how far away you are,
FLOWERS
will reach her fresh and fragrant — A MESSAGE FROM
you
Flowers Wired
Williams The Florist West of Oliver Hotel Phone 3-5149
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
28
That s based on a real letter. ‘Gimme a Coca-Cola’ is the watchword for refreshment with every branch of the service. It’s the soldier’s buy-word wherever they gather... and they get together where they can get Coca-Cola. Distinctive, delicious taste. Quality you can count on. Thirst-satisfaction plus refreshment. Any way you look at it,— the only thing like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola, itself.”
Woelfle thought of them, but when corny Condon copied them they seemed to have lost their appeal. And that reference to the picture at the head of this column is really funny. If he of the bulging bi-cuspids and the empty upper story thinks he is any Tyrone Power he is even crazier than anyone thinks.
Donor of Commerce
Building is Honored
U.S.S. Edward N. Hurley, a liberty ship, was recently launched in Baltimore, commemorating the work of Mr. Hurley
"WHAT LUCK. . . COKES! IT'S GOOD FOR THE OLD MORALE."
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
SK HI the south Wine
BOY, THE HEAT ANO WORK DOWN HERE ARE SOMETHIN', AREN'T THEY?
on the U. S. Shipping Board in World War I, and his general interest in world trade.
The late Mr. Hurley is donor of the building of the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the University, which bears his name.
Math. Club Meets
The-Mathematics Club met again Wednesday evening at 7:45 in Science Hall. Prof. Menger discussed non-Euclidean geometry and its application to modern physics and astronomy with reference to the theory of relativity.
MUSIC
J. C. R.
The student musical that will run four days starting Monday in Washington Hall is the first of its kind around Notre
J. C. R. CLARK
Dame in many, many years, almost since the days of the last war, I believe. But the cast including the choruses have been working-hard for the last two weeks, shaping and reshaping the show into a finished
product. John Lynch has been directing the show, with John Van Benton “producing.” The chorus is being directed by Ed Cashman who has also written the dozen songs that will appear in the show. Both the words and the music are Ed’s
creation and we have heard them and are quite sure that they will go over with the student body. Ed is quite original and capable at this sort of thing, and has copyrights on a number of these songs. Out of the 12, there are four that will certainly gain the notice of the students and probably will become popular
on the campus. Possibly the best one we heard is “Betty Coed Has Gone Out Of Her Head.” We wish the show success, quite sure that it will have success.
Monday night, the Saidenberg String Symphony was in Washington Hall and those students present at the show* will agree that it was the best musical entertainment to appear at Notre Dame this year. It is the finest ensemble of comparable size that I have yet heard, and indeed rose above the vastly large number of petty string ensembles and string orchestras. The program was the best balanced that I have heard and Miss Virginia Haskins certainly lived up to expectations in more ways than one.
Sunday, we were in Chicago, and having missed the last performance of the Metropolitan because the only seat left cost seven and a half, decided to see Marion Anderson, who we discovered was to appear at the Civic Opera House in recital Sunday afternoon. Her program was very broad but as usual, German songs by Schubert were well represented. The final group was Negro Spirituals as were her two encores. The house was full for the recital and the audience extremely appreciative, though not loud or vociferous. We believe Miss Anderson is certainly the greatest contralto in the
country today and the best concert singer we have heard. Her control is the finest of any singer and has a refined and. perfected quality that is amazing. Despite this perfection, there is no note of the automatic, of the uninspired. It was brought to my attention that some say she has sacrificed her once “fiery spirit” for the sake of control, but we don’t see it that way, although she isn’t “fiery” but “fire”, isn’t an essential to a contralto, or even pleasing in a contralto.
We missed the Glee Club concert last week, but from all we have heard about it from those who attended, it was a complete success and extremely well done. The specialty this year went over very well, and special comments were made about Rocco Germano and his violin.
Drawing Courses Open
There are still openings for courses in elementary and intermediate engineering drawing for defense workers in the St. Joseph valley under the E.S.M.W.T. program at the University according to the N.D. Administrative Assistant’s office.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
EACH AND EVERY GARMENT TAILORED TO YOUR MEASUREMENTS
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM
ENSIGN SUITS SERGE. 16 OZ. .	.	.	38.00 ELASTIQUE. 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00 WHIPCORD. 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00 WIDE WALE SERGE. 16 OZ. 47.00	WHITE TWILLS AND KHAKI GABARDINES WHITES. TWO FOR 25.00 KHAKI ...	.	17.00 CUSTOM TAILORED TO YOUR MEASUREMENTS	RAINCOATS SERGE .	.	42.00 ELASTIQUE .	42.00 WHIPCORD .	42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES — BOB DAVIES — REGGIE FLYNN
29
f “Jake” is
IT RUNS IN THE FAMILIES
The ability to throw that old cowhide around seems to run in families; we have the Dean’s, Cooper’s, Farrell’s and the Metzgers. The Metzger’s are the one’s we’re interested in, however, for Johnny, who graduated last December, was one of our top pitchers, and with a few breaks he could have been more sensational. This blessed with another
portion of the Metzger family ,with a fine backstopper in Art Metzger. He had experience playing with the American Legion teams in Ohio. . . . Many of us are unaware of the fact that John Creevey is one of Notre Dame’s finest baseball prospects and that he will probably go into professional baseball after graduation, and the culmination of this world-wide disaster. John could be playing various other positions in our backfield if it weren’t that he has less chance of being injured at the quarterback spot.
REAL SUCCESS
That’s what this year’s track team has had, for any team that can go
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, -too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
"RED" LONERGAN
through an entire indoor campaign with not a blemish on its record and still compete with the best cinder teams this area has to offei- has definitely come to this goal. The four mile relay team will rank with the best this nation has seen in many a generation, and the mile relay troupe has been surpassed only by Michigan’s phenomenal quartet. Then Jim Delaney’s heave of some fifty-three feet almost guarantees him the top spot at the National Intercollegiates this summer. The four mile relay team could even make better time if it weren’t for the fact that in practically every meet the competitors have run at least one other gruelling race before competing with the relay team.
MORE HONORS
Bob Rensberger, one of the flashiest offensive guards Notre Dame has ever had on the hardwood, was honored again last week when he was given a berth on the All-Chicago Stadium team. This, we feel, is quite an honor as practically all of the nation’s top-notch teams played at least once in the Stadium. Bob Faught rated second team- which also speaks highly for lanky Robert and this year’s aggregation. ... Again the University and its graduates were honored when these men chose Ray Meyer, an
alumnus and former basketball coach here,-as the Coach of the Year. Ray’s record was nothing short of miraculous when you consider him a first year man. Next in line was Doug Mills, mentor of that great outfit down at Illinois, and third place honors went to our own George Keogan, the late coach of basketball here. . . . Even with Bobby Faught and Artie Hoffman the only returning lettermen Coach Langford expects a tennis team of the same calibre as last years which will more than satisfy us, eh? . . . There will be Jim Invert, who will probably take over the number one spot, and then Faught will hold down the second position. The number three spot will go to John Troup with Hoffman in the four slot. The other spot will be open to a field of some ten seeded men. . . .
NOT ALL EDUCATION
. Many of us think that all professors can do is teach classes and do research work. In many cases, however, we are definitely wrong on this assumption. Many members of the Congregation of Holy Cross are most proficient in one form of athletics, or another. They excel in many forms of sports such as handball, ping-pong, chess, tennis and golf— to mention a few. Take for example— Father Brennan, probably Notre Dame’s most famous athletic-priest. No student has ever beaten him in cribbage, pingpong, bridge or chess. In many of these sports he has never been beaten by anyone. A few years ago when he was a baseball and handball enthusiast he was among the finest on this campus. Then we have the Brothers and seminarian athletic teams which are, almost invariably, standout organizations. So don’t let those classes or glasses fool you, they are only a front. ...
IN THE SERVICE
. Jack Elder, former Notre Dame track and football star, and currently athletic
- director of the Catholic Youth Organization, has been commissioned a naval
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
SOUJHSpORE
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEEHY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
30
HO -nmik Mom WITH HUI, IWMU
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a line line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
FHcum OAid
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner’s News Corner for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
lieutenant (j. g.). He has reported at Dartmouth College for indoctrination instructions. Jack was also the former secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commission........ The Washington Redskins should be more powerful with the return of Wayne Millner to their ranks, as Wayne is now considered the league’s best end since the retirement of “Superman” Hutson, who was both the best lineman and back the league had to offer. . . . This column wishes to congratulate Cavanaugh hall for its fine job this year in Interhall basketball, for it is certainly unusual when all the cage prowess is stored up in one hall. . . . Also, we wish to tell Bill Amann that his job was most appreciated, for all of us thought that this year’s basketball season was handled by him iri a most efficient manner. This is especially true when you consider all the problems that have arisen with this war program here on campus. John Adams is keeping in condition so that some day he may become a stand-in for King Kong, and don’t laugh, there is good money in that. Just to keep in condition John ran through the fence out on the practice field the other day; this is one way to keep his shoulders in good shape. The Army doesn’t know what it’s missing. . .
Academy Hears Paper On Anatomy by Hines
Jim Hines, junior pre-med from Kewanna, Ind., presented a paper at the bimonthly meeting of the Academy of Science, held last Monday evening in the Chemistry building.
But don’t you stop. Come along to Washington Hall on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. It’s a student show. The show is yours.	.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL. SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. ..TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Jt.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
The paper dealt with the history of anatomy from the 4th century B.C. up to the present day. The academy is composed of about 30 pre-med and chemistry majors. Dr. Baldinger is moderator of the club.
MUSICAL COMEDY (Continued from page 5)	•
Hawes. You’ll find yourself in the Oliver Coffee Shop with “A Little Rhumba Numba,” Kay Landing singing, the entire chorus harmonizing in the background. At the Palais Royale you’ll hear the male octet, Paris, Murtagh, Slevin, O’Reilly, Gschwend,. Hawes, Gibbons and Slater, beckon Miss Landing with “Oh Glamorous One” and follow her in the fast-moving “I Don’t Think I’ll Fall in Love Today.”
Miss Manuszak and Digby will be a hit with their “Unromantic You,” an es-. pecial comedy song, on a bench, on a lonely campus.
George Bariscillo, portraying a well-known campus character promises to stop the show with “Stop! Stop!” a song with a real meaning.	:
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
STAMPS
Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
MAKING HOME PORT
The men of the American Merchant
Manne are doing the greatest ocean
transport job in history
where a cigarette counts most
U.S. BONDS
give pleasure where ether pleasures can’t he had.
'I When vour hours are long and you’re working hard you’ll like Chesterfields . . . they’re Milder, Cooler and have the Better Taste that onlv the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos can give vou.

TRy CHESTERFIELDS TODAY - YOU CAN’T BUY A BETTER CIGARETTE