
I .. ~ • • _,. , --------~----------­
: . ~ ' 


is now accepting applications for 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dinin.g g [ Hall for more information. . 

Cover: Election 2000 7 
Student body leaders will be elected on Monday, so catch up on all the candidates' plans before hitting the polls. Be informed or our next president might be a Sith Lord. 
Uncovering a Hidden Obsession 16 
Eating disorders were ignored on campus until recently, when students began to speak openly about their problems. The University Counseling Center offers help to the victims and education to the student body. by Staci Pangle 
Valentine's Day... in Indiana? 18 
Tired of taking that special someone to North Dining Hall? Check out our review of Michiana's best and worst courting grounds. by Carrie Sweeney 
Coming to America 23 
Matt Doherty' s recruiting efforts have brought lwo freshman phenoms from Croatia to play under the Dome. Scholastic talks to Kartelo and Macura to learn how they' re adjusting to college life. by Brendan Barker 

All-Star Lineup 25 
During the next week, the Sophomore Literary Festival will showcase both professional and student lyric talent. 
by Matt Cremer 


Dating Special 26 
This time Scholastic has gone far out of bounds as lwo editors are each set up on eight dates in one week. Enough said. 
by Kara Zuaro and Jared Marx 

Departments 

From the Editor  2  
Editorial  3  
Listening In  4  
ND Notebook  5  
Campus Watch  15  
Sports Editorial  20  
Splinters from the Pressbox  21  
Week in Distortion  30  
Calendar  31  
Final Word  32  






Disappearing Act
In my English seminar last semester, a student told the class about her brother, who graduated from Notre Dame not too long ago. Her brother firmly believes that women should not be allowed at this school. More than 25 years ofcoeducation, and we're still dealing with people like this. This is what I think about when I look at the cover of this magazine. For the upcoming election, we have 20 candidates running for president and vice president of the student body. Of these, one candidate is female. One. And she's running for vice president. As I was growing up, I learned that I could do anything. I learned because that's what people told me, and because that's what I could do. During recess, I ran faster than anybody ("even the boys!" I exultantly told people). In third grade, I got extra credit on my spelling tests and free time for knowing my multiplication tables before everyone else. Eventually, I learned the other side of the stpry. Girls tend to avoid math and science by about fifth grade because they don't want to seem geeky in front of the boys. Working women will make less than 75 percent of what men make for doing the same job. And somewhere in between these things, adolescent girls develop hips and suddenly can't outrun 

Entertainment Kam S.Zuaro, editor the boys anymore. 
In an issue ofScholastic last year, our then-managing editor examined the lack of female student body presidents at Notre Dame. At the time, she and I discussed with disappointment how no woman had ever been elected to that distinguished position. We reassured ourselves, however, by saying that at some point in the near future, we were certain that the boys' club mentality would change. 
What we didn't consider then was that women would simply stop running. A result of frustration, perhaps, with the trend of male dominance? A terrible excuse, and all the more reason to run and try to make an impact. Lackofinterest? I find it highly unlikely that, in a student body with a close ratio of men to women, there would be such a drastic disparity in who's interested in being a candidate. 
I know that many people reading this will dismiss it as some extreme feminist rant-that's precisely why this is such an important concern. When we begin to treat equality issues as extremism, that's a sign that the problem is even worse 
than it seems. 

Somewhere on this campus, no doubt, there is a woman who wanted to run for student body president. She would have had a well-organized, clearly thought-out platform,and she could have been excegent. But she didn't even seriously, 
consider the.possibility ofrunning because she looked at the past and decided that women have no chance of getting elected lfere. And that is a real shame. 
· To whomever gets elected: I urge you·to·put women's issues high on your list ofpriorities, as the lack offemale participation in this election is a huge sign that the situation here is getting worse. 
To those women who would have run but didn't: Things will change, and those who are truly dedicated will be the ones to change it. Don't be intimidated by 
hiStory. Y11/d. . IA Jq ­
,·,~~~ 
1

Editor in Chief . . . cJ 
2Scholastic From the Editor 



Scholastic 
Vol. 1.41, No:9 • f:br~?ry l 0, )000 
.Disce Qi1asf$i11_zpfr Vicfurus .Vive QiiasiJ;rgtiMoriturus 
. -',,.• ....... -,---·, 

Editors in Chief ·· 
Brian Christ Meredith W. Salisbury 
. ­

Associate Editor 
Jared P. Marx, editor 
Staci L. Pangle1assistant 
· Kate L. Jacques, editor TinCIZurcher, editor Gerard J. Meskill, editor Rebecca Frazi~r, assistant' 
·Kathleen M. Corte, assistant Kara S, Zuaro; editor Matthew J. Cremer'; assistant Michael P: Griffin, editor Heather J. Hogan, assi,stant Agatha Noble; assistant Matthew Barr, Margee MacDonell, Cristin Manary 

Photography Michael LMcNary, editor Benjamin.K.W<?jcikiewicz, assistant · Graphic Arts David B. Leeney, editor Copy-Sarah E. Childress/editor .Adam Aroian · · . . 
•Business Michael J. S~kul~, manager Distribution MichaeU. McNary, mcinqger Web Design Michael J. Gonzales 

http://www.nd.edu/...scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame· and 
· printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre. Dame, Ind., '46556. The 
entire contents of Scholastic is copyright @2000. .All· rights reserved. No conteriis of this magazine, eitherin whole or in .. part,maybereproducedinanymannerwithoutwrittenconsent 
9rthe publisf1er; Scholastic dof)s.not·assume liability for './;,J,msolic::ited i:nanuscripts or material;.AII correspondence should ·. be sent to Scholastic, laForiunestudent center;Notrebame, 
IN46556. To be published in thenextissue, letters mustbe 
:~r~c-~iv.e_d by 5:oo p.ni; Monday before theissue. AU lettersmuS! include the writer's narrie, address andphone number . .A.II ·Iette~s must be signed, Names wiHbe withheld upon request in 
• certain instances. Scholastic reserves the righlto edit leUers 
for space. The subscription rate, including the literary special . issue, is $20 per:year. Availableback. issues are $1.50 per . 
copy;pleasespeci(yvolumeandriumber,ori:lat_e:'Advertising . 
.·•· rates available on request.The opinions expressed in Scholastic · arenotnecessarilythoseciftheUriiversiiyofNotreDameorthe 
stud.eritbody.. •. ,· ... ·.· ·. ,..,· .··.····.. • ·.· ·· 
.Cofe~vt;t~~1te~i~r~~ht~~t~tliffin.. 
~ 

EDITORIAL 

level comparable to O'Donoghue and 

VoteO'Donoghue/Norton 
Norton. Many of their ideas are worthy of consideration, and perhaps more immedi­ately appealing to the student body. Unfor­tunately, the pair lacks sufficient student government experience. Shepherd worked with the Cesaro/Selak administration, but freshman Focht has no experience. Though Focht' s academic achievements are impres­sive, they hardly guarantee he can run the Student Senate effectively. 
John Osborn and Mark Donahey's plat­form fills a page without really saying any­thing. They want to "support a diverse popu­lation of backgrounds and ideas," but give no indication of what that means or how they will accomplish it. As members of the Board of Trustees Report Committee, they have substantial experience with one area of the administration. Their overwhelmingly ambiguous platform boasts a few tangible plans, but even these are immense in scope and unlikely to be realized. One solid idea that did emerge from their campaign is creating a program to shuttle students to and from community service sites. 
Doug Pardon . and Ted Higgins offer a campaign that may be the most popular among the student body. They include ideas like lockers at Hes burgh Library, lowering the lost ID charge, reduced football ticket prices, unconditionally approved 15-minute on-campus automobile access and readjust­ing sprinkler heads. With the track record of past student governments, we ask the ques­tion: Is the university they describe, which also includes an equal gay rights policy, a kind of Notre Dame utopia? We think so, primarily because the ticket lacks the expe­rience or professionalism to make good on their promises. Granted, Pardon. has been The Shirt's coordinator for the last two years, giving him exposure to student gov­ernment operations, but not enough to en­sure a successful tenure. 
The remaining five candidates are worth about as much time as the beef turnovers at South Dining· Hal1 .Con:lic reUef. is wel­come, but we all know there can..be too · much ofa good thing. The levee has broken; the steady stream of joke. candidates has swelled. to a deluge of Zahm bilgewater. Can we really take Chris Costigan and Pat McCormick's solid campaign platform se­riously if it is peppered with ideas like a designated keg room in dorms and a fresh­man bar? 
Until we can, we'll take our endorsement seriously: Vote O'Donoghue and Norton. . 
Editorial Scholastic 3 

Ayearago, wefoundourselvesstudy­ing a list of unimpressive candi­dates. No clearly superior student body presidential ticket emerged from the · ballot. Awarding this year's endorsement proved difficult as well, but for different reasons. Whereas last year's ballot featured a host of seemingly indistinguishable tick­ets, this year there are a fistful of attractive tickets from which to choose. This year's candidates sport fresh enthu­siasm, a broad spectrum of ideas and practi­cal approaches to capitalizing on their cam­paign promises. However, in perusing the candidates' platforms and experience, one candidate pair stands above the rest. For the 2000 student body presidential elections, Scholastic endorses junior Brian O'Donoghue and sophomore -Brooke Norton. Two considerations provide the founda­tion for the endorsement. First, O'Donoghue·and Norton boast the most organized, well-developed platform of the 11 candidate pairs, The platform is logis­tically detailed, which is certainly necessary considering its comprehensive scope. The platform's planks are specific, and the plans to pursue them are equally specific. The ticket's platform advertises visionary ideas, such as creating the Rectors' Endowment Fund, but balances itself with practical goals, including plans to reinstate SafeRide and add a Grab 'n' Go station in DeBartolo. The pair's platform is ambitious, but given O'Donoghue's experience, the ticket's sec­ond .strong quality, the pair just might be able to make good on many ofits platform's promises. O'Donoghue's experience in student gov­ernment gives him, the necessary contacts to meet the greatest challenge facing members of student government: negotiating admin­istrative red tape. Indeed, O'Donoghue's qualifications read· like a laundry list of student government organizations on cam­pus. He has served two terms as hall senator and worked on seven Student Senate com­mittees, five Campus Life Council commit­tees, Junior Class Council and the Club Coordination Council. O'Donoghue knows which of his administrative contacts to ap­proach to get things done. 
The O'Donoghue/Norton ticket has its 

drawbacks. Some argue that its ideas do not 
address concerns ofthe whole student body. 
Others point to Norton's experience as a 
pitfall. Norton is the sophomore class vice 
president, but one cannot ignore that she led 
the class in a year when it lost its headline 
event-Sophomore Sibs weekend. Having 
never been a senator herself, Norton will 
have to learn the ins-and-outs ofrunning the 
Student Senate from O'Donoghue. 
In weighing them against the other can­

didates, however, the positives of a vote 
for the O'Donoghue/Norton ticket far out­
weigh the negatives. Their platform con­
sists ofpractical, well-developed ideas on 
how to improve campus life, including 
negotiating discounts with local busi­
nesses, expanding the uses of the student 
ID card, reinstating Sophomore Siblings 
weekend and creating a Women's Issues 
Awareness Week. 
Now let's look at the rival tickets. 
Together, Hunt Hanover and John Micek 

have student government experience com­
parable to O'Donoghue's. Hanover is chief 
of staff for the current administration and 
Micek is the president of the class of 2001. 
Their platform is as comprehensive in scope 
as the O'Donoghue/Norton ticket. How­
ever, the majority of their goals are either 
infeasible or unnecessary. 
For example, the pair suggests a campus 

shuttle that would carry students from one 
side of campus to the other. But most stu­
dents simply don't need the service. Unless 
there is a steady stream of students to the 
new golf course or Carroll residents work­
ing out at Rolfs, the shuttle seems unneces­
sary. In addition, they promise to formulate 
a Student's Academic Bill of Rights, but 
this idea has been repeatedly and decisively 
qua.sl}ed in the past. Even their new propos­
als to the constitution, including extended 
office hours for professors and universal 
tutoring availability, don't redeem the idea. 
They didd10wever, have one of the most 
appealing ideas of the campaign, creating 
"The Shirt" for basketball. 
Joe Shepherd and Jim Focht have a pas­. sionate desire to get things done. They have 
done their homework in researching the 
feasibility of their campaign platforms on a 


-
-

"I enjoy this guy Ricky Martin. I've never seen anyone dance like that before." 
-government professor 
"The guys in Dillon should do a bun run. It would be much better than Alumni's." 
-overheard student 
"A fashion show in South Bend? What are people going to do? Wear flannels?" 
-one response to Asian Allure 
"Disco Ball" 

-· appears on a list of student suggestions for improvements to the Nieuwland cluster 
That's like Stepan Center. Pretty soon they're 
going to have to admit that it was a mistake. 
"A lot of good things came from the '70s ­
II

l"k1 e me. -presidential candidate Brian O'Donoghue 
"Will Jesus participate?" -graduate student inquiring about a university-sponsored retreat 
-overheard senior student 
"Well, so this boy's upset thatthe Pope won't let him have sex?" 
-PLS professor on recent Observer Viewpoint debate 
"Everyone should have the right to own a condom." 
-presidential candidate Mathew Flotow 

4 Scholastic listening In 
GOING THE DISTANCE 




Need a Ride? 
SafeRide should be in operation soon after elections 
Although SafeRide, the university pro­Notre Dame Security, although student gov­gram that offers students rides from ernment would still be in charge. Drivers, as various off-campus locations back to before, would be students, and be paid by campus, is out of operation, it will be com­student government. The program still must ing back soon. Started four years ago, the receive approval from the Financial Man­program was a success for the first year and agement Board. a half. It was run entirely by student volun­Although nothing can be set until after the teers, but became unreliable as worker par­upcoming student body election, student ticipation declined. The program was dis­government is hoping to get the program continued second semester of last year. running as soon as possible. "We hope to This year, an Ad Hoc Transportation Com­kick something off in March, but it will take mittee, chaired by Amy Szeftak, was formed a lot of work," Mamak says. The hours will to resolve the issue. Matt Mamak and Brian most likely be from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday O'Donoghue were also involved in the pro­and Saturday nights. A phone number will cess. be available once the program is set. After "SafeRide was getting a bad reputation that, don't hesitate to call and be safe. with the student body," says Mamak. The -Mark Trandel committee concluded that accountability was the main problem with SafeRide. It suggested a program that would basically be run the same as before, but instead of having a volunteer coordinator, the po­sition would be a paid· · one. The coordina­torwould become an employee of 
Llu.6GMENT c:)xtts ·: k ( < ......•.·.. ··•.·•····...·.· ·. ...
f:Wadswort:6 ·//+,: .........·Stej{oiiebfrepdifind]ihfd,;riidge\:/¼o'.v,· dqes}tnRone fSWps_Q6vyp.'~J·:;~h,aPve.~t~~~IJFE3W~~u&hkrt>-.< > _:> <·.·,· . l
New Very impressive. But what was that word, offense?JC is pretty sure .it was important. -·
/Recruits .va,le11tine;s_ ,·:•.·.: .·.··• •-·•····· ···••fidrhiti,fa··thi~holii~y :,,tNo~~:p:,i;-~Iiheg{vi_@·.:c:·/·.1 
·-•pay·.·.. ··•······· •.··.••··•·••··········•··••'~<··•···• .·flassa,{s,~a-;vcite1·.·t{ci~a~:d~-i,.n~.o{t~~r.~i-,.'..,.·.·_:,•..·..~ · ·.•··.J 
! ·seven Larger than six, yet strangely smaller than eight. 

Q&A 
1Questions with 
z 
0 
~ 
::;; 
a: 
~ 
~ 
CJ) 
ti: 
0 
11. 
CJ) 
u. 
0 >­
CJ) 
w 
ti: 
:::, 0 
C) 
0 
5 
:i:: 
11. 


Coach Doherty

On the Ball 

In one season, Notre Dame's current favorite son has turned a relatively stagnant program into a thrill-a-minute dance-fest that's got Jimmy Dillon throwing down in opponents' faces. After his involvement with highly successful teams in North Carolina ( as a player) and University of Kansas ( as an assistant coach), no one expected any less. After upsetting Ohio State and Connecticut, this man needs no introduction. 
Did you ever visit the World's Largest Hailstone, on display in Coffeyville, Kansas? 
No. 
What would your ideal Bookstore team name be? 
I don't know. (Pause.) (Pause.) Can we come back to this one? 
Did you haze Jordan as a freshman? 
Oh, yeah. He had to carry my bags. 
Are you aware of the sad state of NCAA hoops games for the Playstation? 
I am. I was disappointed because all of my shots rimmed out. 
Who's got the sweetest outfits, us, UNC, or Kansas? 
Us. Especially the gold. 
Where'd you learn to dance like that? 
I didn't realize I was dancing . 
Who do you envision becoming our archrival at basketball? 
Hopefully everybody. Ifeveryone wants to beat you, that means you're pretty good. 
continued on next page-. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 

Q&A 
continued from previous page 
You're not gonna retire and go play minor­league baseball on us, are you? No (laughing). I quit in sixth grade, as soon as·the ball came off the tee. 
Would it be a reasonably satisfactory conclusion to the season to se.e the Irish in the "One Shining Moment" montage at the end of the NCAA tourney? Definitely. 
What would your ideal Bookstore team name be? Coach D: Um ... Hold on. (Calling staff) Stephanie? What would be a good Bookstore team name? You know, with me on it? Stephanie: Huh. I don't know.They're all vulgar. Coach D: I know, I'm trying to come up with a clean one; I'11 ha veto get back to you. 
We 're still waiting, coach. Anyone with any 
suggestions, e-mail tf1em to us here atScho­lastic and we"'ll Jo,ward them to Coach Doherty. Or, much more likely, to one ofhis 
secretaries, who will then make sure that_ 
they are disposed ofaccordingly. 
-Jeremiah Conway 
and Jason Hammontree 


Nearly one hundred years ago, Irish fans were giving creditto another man forresur­recting Irish basketball. After going unde­feated in 1899 (winning the only two games it played), Notre Dame did not field a team again until 1907, when Bertram G. Maris revived the team. He coached for five years and led the team to-a.:78-20 record. 
-Brian Christ 

BORN TO HAND JIVE 




Returnto Rydell High 
Stage version ofGrease offers familiar char­
acters with new twists 
You've seen the movie. You know the songs. You probably even kno·wsome of the motions to the songs. Maybe . your high school was so much like Rydell High, you could have starred in the movie. ­But when Grease the musical comes to Washington Hall, expect something differ­ent. Grease, which will be performed Febru­ary 10, 11 and 12at7:30p.m.,istheproject of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company. The company is exclusively student-run, from directors and designers to actors and choreographers. The group chose Grease for its timeless popularity with audiences. "Grease is one ofthose universally-loved pieces ofAmeri-. can culture," explains director Brian Sea­man. "I mean, every.one has seen the movie and knows half of the songs, an~ t~ey love 
and songs -the cast of the stage show 
performs 16 songs, instead of the seven that are in the movie. 
But for a generation of kids that grew up watching Grease, another difference might be more surprising. "It is not the family show that everyone thinks," warns Checchia. "The original script is far more risque." 
According to Seaman, that risque quality helped make the stage show so successful, 
! 
as he hopes it will be at Notre Dame. "We ' decided thatiri a college situation, this is the best way to present the material," Seaman says. 
The legacy ofthe movie also presented a challenge to choreographer Quincy Starnes. Starnes, who has danced since age seven and began choreographing in high schoool, had to decide what to keep from the movie and what parts to make up on his own. "I 
seeing all tnat on stag°dn front of them/' --·--wanted ittobe original," Stames:says. \'But --: I­
. I r 
:.t
.J. 
The play also presented exciting· pros­pects for the actors. "You get a chance to . play the caricature of high school that ev­eryone always pictures when you think of Grease," says Tiana Checchia, who plays Sandy. 
But for playgoers who have watched the movie hundreds of times, the musical is morethanjustareal-lifeversionofthefilm. The plot is different, for one thing. "Frenchy never ends up with pink hair, there is no car race at Thunder Road, and favorite songs such as 'You' re the One That! Want' do not appear in the show," says Seaman. These missing pieces are filled in by new scenes rknew that when it comes to some of the dances -'Greased Lightin'· iri particular · · -the audience expects to see some of the moves from the movie." 
. The musical may be different from the moviein songs and dances and even iri plot, but the cast promises that the stage version willbejustasmuchfuntowatch. "Wehave heard some people tell our company that Grease is really just fluffy musical com­edy," Seaman says. "Sure, it is all that, but what a fun piece of theater! We just hope that people can come in and lose themselves in the niusic and the dancing and th~ jokes for two hours." _,. Kathleen Corte 
DOMELIGHTS Coach First Year Record Jesse C. ~arper 1913-14 11-5 {.688) 
Charles Dorias 1918-19 2-10 {.167) Walter Halas 1920-21 9-14 {.391) 

Beginner's Luck 
OfNotre Daine' s 14 head basketball coaches before Matt Doherty; 10 
George Keogan 1923-24 15-8 {.652) 
finished above .500 their first season. One even had a perfect record. Clem F. Crowe 1944-45 15-5 {.750)Coach First Year Record Elmer Ripley 1945-46" 17-4 (.810) Frank E. Hering ... 1898 1-2 (.333) .. John Jordan 1951-52 16-10 (.615) 
J. Fred Powers 1899 2~0 {1.000) Johnny Dee 1964-65 15-12 (.556)____ Bertram ·G. ·M,fris "1907-08 12-4 (.750) Digger Phelps 1971-72 6-20 {.231) Bill Nelson 1912-13 13-2 (.867) John Macleod 1991-92 18-15 (.545) 
6_Scholastic Notebook 
Hunt_.1--lanover -. 
Joe Shepherd· ·_ -Jim Focht­
: ...... -· .-'..·· ·. -. . : 

.-..... ·..: .· 
p.14 High Impact, Low Visibilif)! . JJ.32 Second Wind by Micah Murphy 
:.. 
-.-... ··;_:·'. .. 

.•. 1. Thes~ii-tfoi:-b~ketti#,i c: bettercost-per'."game " . ratio'(H~oyer/Mic~kf(:>::;; : . . .... 
2. TCEs oniine-finaUy;inforined decisions and accountability? (various)_.·· .3..Gradua~on afNDStadium-unlimited tj.ckets 
.· ..·.·' for grMti~ie~.(Pardon/Higgins) . .-'.ii:_ i,;o·~k~rii°t~fthe library~liminate laptop. . 'Jiability.(Pdfdon/Higgins) -. 
1 5: Ort'-calllpUS service shuttle-SafeRide for the 
': :., .yiituous(Osbom/Donahey) . . _··_, .. _6.DeBartolo Grab 'n' Go-Stopkiddies1fom 
•·, :/· eating the.clocks (O'D011:oghue/Norton) · ­
. _7-Cable in the dorms-a college.education sans ..•.' : -ESPN? (various) .. ,.,' }i14hourl~br~ry hours-,-or require only5_0 ·r'·• 'creditsJC> graduate (Pardon/Higgins} ...... . 
·• :·,·•§ TheCail-,-marketint{the good stuff, riot r~ve ; :-. -hoe-downs ·co·nonoghue/Norton) •' . 'JO. Homecoming-bring back alumni for 
campus'."wide parties.{Osbom/Donahey) 
_an _Ph.otos by Mike McNary : 
i-·--1:.. 
L,___7 
Ii 
::i
,.
: 
'· 
ele 


Ak Brian O'Donoghue and Brooke Norton how they see student gov­rnment, and their answer is simple: 
"The primary role is service," O'Donoghue says. "We're there as servants to stu­dents to do whatever we can to make their lives easier." 
O'Donoghue and Norton identify the Rectors' Endowment Fund as the most important plank in theirplatform. "One idea in the platform that seems to be visionary but actually is feasible is the Rectors' Endowment Fund," Norton says. The Rectors' Endowment Fund gives a $25,000 endowment to each dorm. Each year, the interest could be used to pay for emergencies within the dorm -for instance, to send a student home to see a sick parent if he or she could not afford it. Although ultimate control of the funds would rest with the vice president for student affairs, each rector could use the fund at his or her own discretion. Both candidates call the Rectors' Endowment Fund the plank nearest to their hearts. "Itdirectly serves the students, it's something that could . carry on from year to year, and it shows 


Name: Brian O'Donoghue Class: Junior Dorm: Keough Hall Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
· hard-working, dedicated, believer Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Father Hesburgh Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: Our Town, by Thornton Wilder His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty 
Name: Brooke Norton Class: Sophomore Dorm: Walsh Hall Adjectives She'd Use to Describe Herself: 
devoted, listener, hard-working Whom She'd Invite to Dinner: Gandhi Book She'd Bring to a Deserted Island: A book of quotations Her Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty 
8Scholastic Election Coverage 

that Notre Dame is a place where we really care and that we are a family," Norton says. 
In keeping with their promise of serving students, O'Donoghue and Norton support the resurrection of SafeRide and envision a number of online academic services avail­able to students. Norton says a compilation of information about private scholarships online could help students find funding, while information from TCEs, course syl­labi and online test files could help students make more informed decisions about classes at DART time. 
Volunteer service and social conscious­ness are important in their platform. O'Donoghue refuses to label Notre Dame students as apathetic. "I believe that they've never been given the opportunity. We need to stand up and say this is something you need to care about." Their"Greatness Grant" program would provide interested students with funding to carry out missionary and social work both locally and abroad. 
On campus, O'Donoghue hopes to raise awareness of important lectures and pro­grams through "The Call," a plan that will highlight one or two events each semester. "There's tons of things to do and the really important things get lost in the shuffle," O'Donoghue says. "The Call would be a designation we would make based on a program we've already reviewed ... some­thing that Notre Dame students should re­ally attend." The Call would use student leaders, media, rectors, RAs and a campus­wide voicemail to inform students of the event and generate interest. 
The O'Donoghue-Norton ticket also promises to focus more attention on issues concerning women and diversity. "The is­sues concerning women on this campus have been ignored and I think the issues concerning diversity on this campus have been ignored," O'Donoghue says. To rem­edy that situation, O'Donoghue and Norton plan to implement presentations on eating disorders during freshman orientation and hope to spearhead a grassroots effort to develop more diversity programming. 
· O'Donoghue and Norton bring a wealth of experience to their campaign. O'Donoghue, a junior, served two terms as Keough Hall Senator and was a member of several Student Senate committees includ­ing university affairs, oversight, multicultural affairs, residence life and eth­ics. O'Donoghue also served two terms on the Campus Life Council, and was a mem­ber of committees addressing community life, bylaws, gender issues and academic affairs. He was the treasurer of the class of 2001 as a freshman. Norton, a sophomore from Walsh Hall, is the vice president ofher class and has worked both in hall govern­ment and with her class council. 
O'Donoghue and Norton have ambitious plans for the university. Proposals, such as aReckers-styleestablishmentinNorthDin­ing Hall and a Grab 'n' Go satellite location in DeBartolo, will require a large amount of time and effort to accomplish. But, as their campaign slogan suggests, O'Donoghue and Norton urge voters to "Believe." 
-Annie Ralph and Jim Pastore 


Hunt Hanover John Micek 
presidential candidate 
Presidential candidate Hunt Hanover promises to take Notre Dame and "leave this campground a little better than we found it." Hanover and running mate John Micek say they don't want to leave unfinished business behind them when their term is over; instead, they'd like to leave some new traditions behind. "All the ideas in our platform have been researched and looked at to make sure they're fea­sible," Micek says. He calls their goals "tangible, day-to-day things that we can accomplish." Their platform has three main planks: student rights, campus unity and transportation improvements. Hanover, a junior from Saint Edward's Hall, and Micek, a junior from Keough Hall, promise to create a Student Academic Bill of Rights. This would guarantee tutor­ing for all students, not just athletes and First Year students. It would also call for increased office hours for professors. "We' re paying a lot of money to go to this school and I think teachers should really be acces­sible to us," Hanover says. The Bill of Rights would also make certain information available to students, including the results ofTCEs and the way the university spends money. "When we put a dollar in, where does it end up?" Micek asks. "Does it end up going to academics, does it end up going to ateacher, does itgo to a club? Students have a right to know that." The ticket's plan to bolster campus unity includes a version of The Shirt for basket­ball season and a closing Mass at the end of each school year, involving the blessing of class rings. They hope to work with Campus Ministry to celebrate Founder's Day during this Jubilee Year and renew the consecra­tion of the university to Mary. Hanover and Micek want to see increased attention paid to worrien' s athletics andmore funding for activities that promote aware­ness of diversity. "Ifthis place were to burn down, we would still have the community, and that starts with acceptance of every­one," Hanover says. They hope to improve gender relations by publicizing the Women's Resource Center, and they plan to work to increase acceptance ofhomosexuals on cam­
vtce-presidential candidate 
pus. "Hunt and I both feel the homosexual community needs to be represented in stu­dent government," Micek says. "We feel that as the Office ofthe President, we should work with the homosexual community and have the homosexual community appoint someone to work directly with Hunt and I so we can better reflect their values, their beliefs and their opinions in our deci­sions." 
Hanover and Micek' s transportation plans include instituting a free campus-wide shuttle. Hanover says the shuttle would fol­low a route and a. schedule. "You can walk out your door and you know that in I 0 minutes you'll be picked up and you can get to the other side of campus," he says. "If you're in Lewis or one of the Mod Quad dorms you can get to the bookstore really quick and not have to lug $300 worth of books back to your dorm." Hanover says he also would work to increase short-term park­ing on campus. He says more cars could be allowed to drive on campus if students were given 15 minute orhalf-hour parking passes. Hanover says he also would try to in­crease the number of parking spaces outside dorms. 
In Hanover's administration, he and Micek will use the Executive Cabinet more than it's being used right now, he says. "I don't think the Executive Cabinet is being uti­lized as it can be," Hanover says. "During the meeting, the Executive Cabinet can be the president's advisory cabinet. Someone from each organization is there. . .. When the president has some issues he or she is dealing with, that's where you should go." 
Both candidates have experience work­ing with university officials and student government. Hanover serves as the assis­tant chief ofstaff for the current administra­tion andwas class president during his sopho­more year. Micek is the current president for the class of200I and was co-president of Keough Hall in 1999. According to Hanover; he hopes the pair's understanding of the administrationwill allow them to work effi­ciently and improve Notre Dame through their three-tiered platform. 
-Annie Ralph 
.. ,... ~·: ·-~:..:;­

~ r~ 
.... :ri''t,


r~ \l~-t~1.'i~·~./~;,;
i'-•<h•...,•• I;/ 
t_-_ • 





ijft; 
Name: Hunt Hanover Class: Junior Dorm: Saint Ed's Hall Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
dedicated, honest, goofy Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Mary or Theodore Roosevelt Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: a ship building book His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty -"he's got the reach" 
Name: John Micek Class: Junior Dorm: Keough Hall Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
headstrong, committed, exciting 

Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Msgr. Oscar Romero from El Salvador 
Book He'd Bring to aDeserted Island: 
Calvin and Hobbes 

His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty 
Election Coverage Scholastic 9 


With some candidates w.anting to disband the Student Senate and others wanting to declare them­selves benevolentdespots, the campaign slogan, "It's not a transition -It's a revolution," can have weighty implica­tions. However, unlike some candidates running this year, presidential candi­date Joe Shepherd and vice presidential candidate Jim Focht intend to imple­ment their revolution in amore feasible manner -from within the bounds of the current student government consti­tution. Joe Shepherd, a junior from Dillon Hall, worked jn Pete Cesaro and Andrea Selak's administration dming his sopho­more year and has observed Micah Murphy's administration. These expeliences Jed him to believe that stu­dent government is "slow-moving and has a lack ofdirection." He is running for president because he believes he can give student government better direc­tion. "Studentgovernment could do pow­

Name: Joe Shepherd 
Class: Junior Dorm: Dillon Hall 
Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
personable, obsessed, fun to be around Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: King Arthur Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: blank j~urnal His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty 
Name: Jim Focht Class: Freshman Dorm: Dillon Hall 
Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
innovative, motivated, prepared Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Sigmund Freud Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: 
The Unconsoled 
by Kazuo lshiguro · His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty 
1 0 Scholastic Election Coverage 


erful things ifthey try," he says. Ifelected, he intends to make sure that "the whole stu­dent government will work differently." 
He and his running mate, Dillon Hall freshman Jim Focht, believe they can use the rejuvenated Office ofthe President to its fullest potential. Their platform includes 11 key issues, grouped into two categories: innovative new ideas and old issues that need to be resolved. 
According to Focht, the most important 

plank in their platform is giving students 
more 24-hour academic and social space. 
Conversations with Joe Schellinger, direc­
tor of academic space management, lead 
them to believe that the university is willing 
to increase 24-hour space, but past mem­bers of student government have failed to take the necessary steps to make it 
happen."Joe Schellingerknows that 24-hour space needs to be increased," Shepherd says, "but he said they weren't going to do any­
thing until somebody came to them anci 
asked them for more space." According to 
Shepherd and Focht, they were the first two 
students to approach Schellinger in his 11 
years with the university. They believe this is "proof that Student Senate and student government haven't been doing the things 
they should have been." 
Another key element of the Shepherd­

Focht platform is "giving students more 
power over their academic freedom." To accomplish this goal, they would add an additional set of questions to the Teacher 
Course Evaluations whose answers would 
be released to the student body so that they 
can have "all of the resources necessary for 
selecting the courses most appropriate for 
them." The plan is based on a similar pro­
gram at Stanford University. They discussed 
their ideas with Associate Provost Jeff 
Kantor, who the candidates said was open to 
their ideas. They also said he mentioned that 
they were the first students ever to visit him 
regarding this topic. 
Shepherd and Focht see the Internet as a valuable tool for the student body. They want to focus on the development of the Planetirish Web site, a two-year-old project to· combine all the Web services a Notre Dame student needs. Also, they would like to start an online site where students could arrange rides with each e>ther, online hous­ing contract submission, a campus-wide listserv and online book sales. Shepherd has some experience with online booksales, hav­ing started a boo.k exchange site as a sopho­more. The site had nearly 150 postings when he had to remove it for lack of resources. 
Though he was twice elected president of 

his high-school student body, Shepherd's 
collegiate political experience is limited. 
He worked in Peter Cesaro's administra­
tion. He is also involved in Big Brothers­
Big Sisters, Web-page development, radio 
news casting and teaching catechism to third grade students at alocal parish. As Focht is a freshman, his experience is also limited. 
Shepherd realizes many people will think 

the goals of his platform are unattainable. 
He says, "You're going to be skeptical, and you're not going to think we can do it." However, he insists that he and Focht have really done their homework. He says, "Even though there are a lot of things that have been brought up in the past, we're the ones 
that are going to get them done." 
-Brian Christ 


John Osborn M2I~,J?,onahey
presidential candidate 
Presidential candidate John Osborn and running mate Mark Donahey hope to ensure that the student government acts as a mediator for the student body, the faculty and the administration. "It seems that a lot of decisions are made on this campus by faculty and administration, pre­sumably in the best interests of the students, but with very little student input," Osborn says. "Our administration would be vocal and active in making sure that the university takes into account the undergraduate per­spective." The team, both juniors, has experience working with the administration of the uni­versity. Osborn, a resident of Zahn:_i Hall, chairs the committee that produces the Board of Trustees report while Donahey, a Sorin College resident, serves as the committee's vice-chair. The pair hopes to foster a healthy and positive relationship with the administra­tion. At the same time, both candidates recognize the importance of student input in government and plan to visit residence hall council meetings in addition to sending out student questionnaires as part of their effort to widen student input at Notre Dame. "Go­ing to hall council meetings is a good way to get in touch with the people who are active on campus and who are interested in what is going on," Donahey says. Regarding the Observer ad crisis, the candidates believe it is important to rally popular support against the administration's censorship of the campus newspaper. "The administration decides what they want to do and they run with it without much regard for what the students want," Osborn says. "I don't think that anyone should be afraid to stand up to the administration just because it is Father Malloy and Notre Dame." Both Osborn and Donahey were disap­pointed with the recent cancellation of Sophomore Siblings Weekend and hope to bring about its revival. "The participation was there and it is a great program that brings Notre Dame further out into the fam­ily," Donahey comments. "One ofthe things we would want to accomplish is bringing it back and resurrecting the program." 
The team is also concerned with the issue 

of Ex corde Ecclesiae and the effects that it 
will have on the academic atmosphere 
of Notre Dame. "What's good about 
Notre Dame is that it remains Catholic 
while promoting free thinking," 
Osborn says. "The goal is education 
and to get a good education is to have 
a wide view and take in opposing view­
points." Osborn is uncomfortable with 
placing restrictions on the way the 
university functions in light ofthe lack .,. 
of student support for such measures. !~-. 
Donahey suggests that a require-l.. ment to hire a certain percentage of Catholic faculty and administrators at ; Notre Dame would detract from his university experience. "We've moved into an era where bringing in outside ideas takes us to another level of aca­demics," Donahey says. "It would be a terrible thing ifwe had to hire people based on their religious affiliation and personal beliefs." 
Osborn and Donahey plan to advo­

cate a more consistent set of rules and pun­
ishments at the university. The pair feels 
that university policies, such as those re­
lated to parietals and alcohol, should be 
uniform across the campus and in residence 
halls. "We need to stress for consistency so 
people know what is not OK in one place is 
not OK everywhere else," says Osborn. 
Concerning student social space, both 

Osborn and Donahey agree that the univer­sity should expand the areas on campus that are available to students on a 24-hour basis. "Ifpeople want to socialize, there needs to be a space for them to do it," says Osborn. Osborn plans to work toward increasing the · hours of Lafortune Student Center and en­visions a 24-hour academic space in the 
basement of Hesburgh Library. 
"It would be nice if there was some 24­

hour space in North Quad or Mod Quad," 
adds Donahey. "There needs to be some 
place to go after midnight on a weekday." 
Ifelected, the team also plans to explore 

new events and programs such as a Home­
coming Weekend, a service shuttle and a 
revitalization of An Tosta!. 
-Lisa Virani 

Name: John Osborn Class: Junior Dorm: Zahm Hall Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
tired, energetic, enthusiastic Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: his grandfather Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: 
The Hunt for Red October, 

by Tom Clancy His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty, in one round 
Name: Mark Donahey Class: Junior Dorm: Sorin College Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
interested, philosophical, vocal Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Thomas· Jefferson Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: 
History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters, 
by Julian Barnes 

· His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty, with a knockout 
Election Coverage Scholastic 11 
ele 




c-·· ;:a:,,-, I 

i. 
.,
" 
Name: Doug Pardon Class: Junior Dorm: Off Campus Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
fun, caring, smart Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Genghis Khan Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: a book of Emerson essays His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty 

·1; Name: Ted Higgins
> Class: Junior Dorm: St. Ed's Adjectives He'd Use to Describe Himself: 
wily, persuasive, sarcastic Whom He'd Invite to Dinner: Arthur Guinness Book He'd Bring to a Deserted Island: The Stranger, by Albert Camus 
His Pick in a Doherty vs. Davie Fistfight: Doherty -"There'd be a lot of kicking [Davie] while he's down." 
12 Scholastic Election Coverage · 
--·----~---­
. 

Presidential candidate Douglas Pardon and his running mate Ted Higgins see themselves as ordinary students who can make a difference. Embracing a general philosophy of "We Care Enough," they are convinced they can improve student life on campus. "We are students that sit down sometimes and think, and think that there are changes that need to be made," says Pardon. Pardon and Higgins recognize their inex­perience in political life but are not con­cerned; Pardon is a junior finance major and is currently the coordinator of the The Shirt · Project. He was also vice president of the Energy Committee for the Notre Dame In­vestment Club. Higgins is also a junior in the College of Business. He is a double Monogram winner for cross country and has volunteered in the Big Brother Program for South Bend youth. Realizing that there is only a 12-month period in which to work, Pardon knows that it will be hard to tackle the more serious, larger issues. Pardon and Higgins both be­lieve that changing the "little things" on . campus will make it more enjoyable; they want to be practical by taking on realistic goals. Higgins says he has never voted in student elections because they did not hold his interest. "1 was not concerned about the .. candy-coated ideas ofprior candidates. Who wants one more dance?" he asks. The Pardon-Higgins campaign platform·. is built upon one general goal: be honest, . open and informative. They dislike the cur­rent administration because they believe that many students are. unaware of Micah Murphy's and Mike Palumbo's goals, ideas and accomplishments. "We will hit the me­dia and become publicized.·We are here for the students,--here to help out everyone," says Higgins. One of the most importantissues on their platform concerns gay rights. They. con­sider the "Spirit of Inclusion" unfair and will strive to earn unequivocal, equal rights for gay students. Embarrassed. by the university's decision concerning gay adver­tisements in the Observer, Pardon and Higgins promote a ''full-say," uncensored 
.. . 

policy."How can my alma matter be so archaic? I don't want to have to look back in a couple of years, like they did in the '60s, and see that we were wrong in our course of 
action," explains Higgins. Pardon and 
Higgins would like to be the movers and shakers on campus whose impact affects the 
university as a whole. They want the stu­
dents to listen and respond to their lead. "It's 
about us," says Pardon. SUB is another·key issue in the Pardon­Higgins campaign. Pardon wants more 
money to be directed toward this organiza­
tion. With more money, SUB will be able to 
have well-attended student events such as 
better concerts. Pardon is tired of having campus activities that only attract six or 
seven participants. He asks, "What do stu­
dents want to do here at Notre Dame? Why 
should students attend an event thatdoesn't 
interest them?" They view student i_nvolve­m~nt as one of the most crucial aspects of university life and want to direct most of their efforts toward sparking student inter­est in campus activities. 
As these candidates' want to -maintain a pragmatic approach in handling university issues, they intend to improve upon some basic aspects of campus life: For instance, they want to eliminate the two-dollar dining hall charge for forgetting an ID. Pardon feels that students are already paying enough for their meals and should not have to worry about any additional costs. He would also like to see a more diversified meal plan ­the ability to pay as you eat as well as more varied Flex options for on-campus students. 
Another issue . that concerns these two candidates is graduation. They feel that the students should .graduate in Notre Dame Stadium and· that an unlimited. amount of student tickets should be made available. Pardon and Higgins would also like to see lockers put in the library, RA grants-in-aid independent of student loan assistance and the .in,.ground ·sprinkler heads readjusted; By accomplishing these practical goals, they hope to improve daily lifefor Notre Dame students. 
-Mark Avitable 


The Rest of the Crowd 
For every student body presidential election since we can remember, Scholastic has interviewed every candidate pair, jokers or not. This means that for every serious interrogation we do, we do another interview that disintegrates into discussions of when Notre Dame should secede from the unionand declare itself an independent, limited monarchy. This year there were five joke candidates, four of the five being the annual slew ofZahm charlatans. Then there were Darth Todd and Darth George, apparently from the ice planet Hoth but rumored to be part-time Knott residents. Admittedly, the joke candidates waste many people's time, but let us hope that the judgment falls not too heavily upon them; In the words of vice presidential hopeful Daniel Saracino, "You can't take things too seriously, like the football team, or the direction ofthe 
school." 
·Andrew Sciallis/ Daniel Saracino 

The Sciallis/Saracino ticket 

. 'recently named '<'Keep your fingers crossed" its slogan for the upcoming · election. The duo, both freshmen from Zahm, will be invoking the 
phrase as they petition 1,upport for their pri­mary platform plank: eliminating ''Fightin"' from the university's nickname and changing the mascot to a green happy face. They will also assign every studentcontrol of one sprin­kler-head on campus. 
Using the profits from an underage speak­easy, Sciallis and Saracino will break ground on a bowling alley underneath South Quad. The bow ling alley will be24-hour social space, but the speakeasy, located in the space for­merly occupied by Keenan/Stanford, will only be open late Thursdays through Saturdays. 
Mathew Flotow/ Adam Dinnell 
"Going global, that's what we're all about. Write that at the top of your books," said presidential hopeful Flatow in an interview 

. last Saturday. "When they make decisions in Israel, they should consult Notre Dame." Flatow failed to identify who ''they" were. 
Flatow's soft-spoken run­ning mate, Dinell, concurred on Fla tow' s promise that the two would be "benevolent despots" who were "puppets of the people." 


Dinell stressed that his platform was a three­year plan and that three adjectives to describe 
. · him were''persistent, non-belligerent arid fruit­ful." Fruitful, of course, beinginreference to his plan to hire monkeys to pluckthe fruits of the new banana tree he'd put in SDH. 
Darth Todd/Darth George 

Darth Todd, seen here in full Darth Maul regalia, balked at the question of whether he would don the cos­tume while performing his daily 
. presidential duties if elected. His mnning mate cleared up the mys­tery, saying it's a matterof"be­ing ready for the potential even­tuality." 


When asked why they were running, Darth Todd answered that there was a discrepancy in media coverage among candidates. Darth Todd also talked a lot about vaporizers, capacitators and orbital mind control lasers, which he claims to be "fully operational." 
Notably, when asked for three adjectives that described him, Darth George answered "evil and short." 
Chris Costigan/ 
Pat McCormick 

When asked why they were running, McCormick said that they were reacting against the "fraternal, old boys club" that . was student government. 


CostaginandMcCorrnickhad some good ideas (no joke), including univer­sal meal plans of $1500 in Flex points. Each meal at the dining hall and purchase around campus would be deducted from the total, and all unused points would be returned to the student as a credit to the student account. 
Costagin cited notable planks in their plat­form such as putting cable in tl1e dorms.and getting Otis Day and the Knights to come to campus. He also argued that if the adminis­tration really wanted to keep the freshman from Boat Club, then they would allow kegs in the dorms, which would "keep drinking controlled." 
Greg Smith/Ryan Clemency 

Declined an interview, saying tl1ey had f1iends at the Observer who were sure to give its endorsement, and therefore they would win.. 
-Zac Kulsrnd 
Top 5 Most Unlikely Ideas 
1. Banana Tree in SDH: "With monkeys working it; to provide fresher fruit ... though sanitation is a concern." (Dinell) 

· 2. Speakeasy on North Quad: "We'd like to level Keenan-Stanford and put an under­age bar there .. : We could use the profits to subsidize tent housing for the dislodged." (Sciallis) 
3. Orbital Mind Control Laser: To go 

along with "the vaporizing laser on top of the library . . . charged by capacitors in Knott." (Darth Todd) , 
4. 
New Green Happy Face Mascot: Either the "fighting Irish" goes or the Hesburgh Peace Studies program. (Sciallis) 

5. 
Barry McGuire halftime show: At bas­ketball games, where "I find the band to be a distraction." (Fla tow) · 


Use susurrus in a sentence. su-sur-rus: a whispering, hissing or rustling sound 
Shepherd/Focht: I'll take some susurrus on my salad. Pardon/Higgins: I'm going to go out and be in a state of complete susurrus. Sciallis/Saracino: The issue is lacking susurrus. Osborn/Donahey: Whatdoessusurrus mean? 
Election Coverage Scholastic 13 




High Impact, low Visibility 


ofHigher Education as the first time a student LAME DUCKS. Micah Murphy and Michael 
and Palumbo have been more than just
Palumbo will finish their term April 1. 

BY JARED MARX ast year at this time, Scholastic ran a picture ofMicah Murphy 
L

and Michael Palumbo on the cover of the magazine with the 
word "Wannabes" appearing at their feet. A yearlater, it seems that perhaps that judgment was a bit premature. Murphy and Palumbo, current student body president and vice-president, won't leave office until spring break, but already they seem to have accomplished quite a bit. 
Some of the pair's most important successes are in areas where we have yet to see actual results. Their summer intern housing network, which will allow students to coordinate summer living arrangements with other Domers in cities across the country, as well as The Guide, a directory of professors with the highest teacher course evaluations, are both out of the planning phase and waiting on OIT implementation. A site that will allow students to sell and trade used books independently of the bookstore is in a similar condition. 
SafeRide is in a likewise situation. Murphy and Palumbo state that there is currently a plan to resurrect the once-popular program, but that they are depending on their successors for implementa­tion. "This is something that we don't want to start nowandhavefallapartrightaway," says Murphy. , . "As soon as the next group of people is elected, i we'll hand them the plan and it's ready to go." I 
This is not to say that the current administra­tion hasn't seen any tangible results. This year, for the first time, the student government ran free student shuttles to and from the South Bend airport at the beginnings and ends of breaks. And the student government co-sponsorship fund has been key in funding multiple events on campus. Another achievement that Murphy and Palumbo are proud of is the Board of Trustees report pro­duced by the student government this year, which received national attention from The Chronicle 
group had addressed the Catholic identity of their school. 
While they have enjoyed considerable success, there have, however, been some problems. One dark spot on the current administration's record is the failure to make good on promises of improving student intellectual life. The "Last Lecture" series, a set ofproposed lectures by professors as if they were their last lecture at Notre Dame, and the "Real Deal" series, a set of lectures by recent Notre Dame grads, both were suggested during the duo's campaign and tpen fell by the wayside. Says Murphy, "We'll take the axe on that one." The hall fellows program, intended to start 
14 Scholastic Election Coverage 

professor-dorm affiliations like those that have become popular at peer institutions like Duke University, has also encountered Ii ttle success. 
On the positive side, Murphy and Palumbo have arranged for National Champion Irish debaters to visit and debate at the univer­sity. In addition, they hope to rejuvenate open faculty-student lunches by moving them from the dining halls to the participating professors' respective home buildings. 
Perhaps more than anything, though, the current administration has been criticized for remaining largely mute on many campus issues. Some cite women's issues (like eating disorders and rape counseling) and homosexual issues as being largely ignored by Murphy and Palumbo. Nonetheless, in response to one of the larger issues of past year, the senate did pass a measure supporting a free advertising policy for the Observer . 
One of the less popular events this year associated with the current administration was the new foot­ball ticket distribution system. While there were arguably many more influ­ential players involved in the discus­sions surrounding the new system, Murphy and Palumbo clearly had a hand in the creation ofthe new system. Though few students seemed overjoyed by the changes, the two can hardly be blamed for not trying. In fact, in response to the negative outcry this past fall, there is 
1 already a new plan to move the ticket distribution again, this time to the Stepan Center. "All of the details aren't ironed out yet," says Murphy, "but we have condensed the process and hope to pro­vide better entertainment." Whether this will solve last year's problems is yet to be seen, but the dedication seems to be there. 
It is probably safe to say that Murphy 

"wannabes." Though not perfect, what some thought might be their weakness -being status-quo student government insiders -may have turned out to be their strength. In the quasi-formal world ofstudent government, Murphy and Palumbo seem to have done a lot of good though less-than-formal avenues. And their administration has helped lay the groundwork for some farther-off goals, including design of the proposed new student center and the addition of dorm room cable. Says Murphy, "It doesn't really feel like we did a lot, but I'm happy now that I see it all in writing. I hope what we have done will have a positive impact on the student body long past our tenure." . 


' 6',1>4v, 

window to explore the situ a-(R~l\t~'\ si,yl:D --·-.
TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
tion when what to her won-~\l:Rort//1.1. 
dering eyes should appear but a •,\_/ middle-aged man relieving his / ;tP.., 
sexual repression at their expense. -1;,of~~-1;,;. i She screams. He moans and ~ ,, " '


(_}>ffiPus 
runs, leaving behind a mirror, 
which he'd been using to get a better 



Has it returned, the snow we viewed together? -Matsuo Basho 

This reminds the Gipp of something a wise man once told him: "The forbidden-fruit complex in 
sans, and let us move forward into the first installment of Campus Watch in the year of the Dragon. 

Late-Night Larcenu 
Shortly before winter break and after a night on the town, a group ofrabble-rousers return to campus in a cab. Unable to make the obligatory two-buck payment, one of these rapscallions darts out of the taxi and sprints to the refuge ofReckers, a safe haven where he can hide among other students. 

cab is still running, and one /---_ adventurous Saint Mary's gal ( ~-'lr~ 1 convinces her Notre Dame \.<l~,~R-_ /. 
_ 

buddy to take shotgun as she~· _\s~;~s't.'1, }boutsw1thotherTAs-andasthe gets behind the wheel. They drive , ~~"\ j--~alcohol takes hold, the grades get away, creating enough of a diversion --0_ more generous. The Gipp now un­
to get the Reckers refugee off the hook. But Bonnie and Clyde only get as far as the 
the ND dating/living scene doesn't help ,,..... __,,-, bookstore parking lot before realizing that matters. How unhealthy is that? Lock ( ;g~~S \they're committing a felony. Because of girls up like they're sports cars we \HOHER/ theirproperupbringing, they scrupulously can't drive after midnight or two on"--.__/ choose to leave the car there and escape weekends ... no wonder guys treat the girls through West Quad. at ND like shit." Incidentally, the Gipp had an interesting 
Well said, brother. cab experience on the way home from the The Gipp's solution: Use candy hearts _____ bars this past weekend. The _ with messages that will free the untold -· ?;, cabbie felt like sharing , 
view of the girls through their half-closed drapes. Fingerprints on the mirror give the bobbies a good lead in an attempt to track down the old wanker and keep our London­ers safe from catching a repeat performance. 

TASeeRS T &A 

One undergrad reports that her philo TA not only asked her to go to grad-student parties with him, but also gave her one ofthe only good grades in the class wheri she wrote about the sex topic he suggested. On top of this, he once told her to hope that hers was one of the last exams he graded. When she asked why, he explained that it's not what you write in the paper -it's where your paper lands in the paper pile. /---'\. He added that some TA paper,( c,O~~ \grading_happens during drinking 
derstandshowhemanagedtopullanAinBrit Lit without reading more than a few pages of Beowulfall semester. 
Prince ofThieves, Terrapin Stule 

The Bonehead Maneuver of the Week award goes to four off-campus seniors in Turtle Creek. No explanation needed here, justscanthefirstparagraphoftheletterthey 
_ founduponreturningfromwinterbreak: ;;· , -, Dear residents, 
desires from the hearts ofthe young. ..--·-c--..__ : ~oO°&,p \ and told the Gipp that i Rf-4tY _} During our program to replace 
In the ~ld c~untry, the Zen(~0'0~/:i /-~~( he'.d_spen~ some time \-4~ smokealarmbatteri~s,furn~cefilters, Master might instruct you to\ <;)O t:,..«.-~ ~---"~~-rn Jail w1 th Ozzy ( u.\ and general property mspectwn, stolen climb to the mountaintop, but in ·:-'<'O · ~( ..J..°o..,_'<''t.~ Osbourne in the state pen. \ -<~11:~~) property was found in your apartment. these flat lands of Indiana, we must r:;;;;.; vo'ilf -Apparently, he and Ozzy ~---· _ Namely a Turtle Creek South street instead take our love to the Boat \ WEREN'T ) smoked a few doobies together, i ~ -sign.
O1 Club. Enjoy the valentines, Domer-\~right there in the jail cell, and Richard ~ ,;:r ) Ah, to be young again ... bravo, Nixon had to come down to get Ozzy out boys!
~ 
of jail. The cab driver explained that they were there on a murder charge, but they got off -they had just been at the wrong place at the wrong time. He offered the Gipp some "green stuff," but the Gipp politely declined. 
The Real World: London 

A group of girls studying abroad were spending some quiet time in their London flat when they heard some groaning out on their balcony. One of the women went to the 
Take care, young stallions, let the sun­beams reaching through the winter sky illu­minate your hearts, and follow the stars to the place where the pitchers cost a penny. And if the weather starts getting you 1/ ___/·--~ 
down, little grasshoppers, heed_ the i1 \'~~~~} words of modern Zen Master, Adam ·,,_~ Duritz, "If it isn't warm where you're sittin', then, Kitten, come on in out of the cold." 0 
Campus Watch Scholastic 15 



• 




ncovenn
.---. 
a Hidden 


Obsession 
UCC tries to raise awareness ofeating disorder problems 
BY STACI L. pANGLEIt started last year when she went for a jog at 2 a.m. in the snow. "I just felt so guilty," Kathleen McCann says. "Ijust had to exercise." But this wasn't the start of her struggle with buliinia. This was the beginning of recovery. McCann, a Notre Dame senior, says that her body had fallen into a binge-overeat­starve cycle and, after awhile, her body began to purge itself. By recognizing this cycle and her overzealous desire to exer­cise, McCann knew it was time to seek help. The type of cycle McCann recognized is characteristic of bulimia. Men and women with this condition will eat a large quantity of food in a relatively short period of time and then use behaviors such as taking laxa­tives or self-induced vomiting to rid them­selves of the calories. Another common disorder is anorexia nervosa, in which the person suffering will attempt to maintain strict control over food intake. He or she may deny hunger, make excuses to avoid eating, hide food they claim to have eaten or use diet pills to control appetite. On the other end of the spectrum is compulsive overeating and binge eating, in which vic­tims typically consume huge ·amounts of food -often junk food -to reduce stress and anxiety. As with bulimia, guilt and depression soon follow. Eating disorders are doubly dangerous because they have the disabling -though not always visible -physical effects, as·


,I, 
well as the harmful psychological elemep.ts !i of a mental disorder. Victims are often 
riddled with insecurities and tend to hold a 
distorted perception of their body image. 
16 Scholastic News 

They often compare themselves to an unre­alistic ideal. McCann says she was obsessed with the issue. "For a while," McCann re­calls, "I would findmyself mentally saying, 'Fatter than me, thinner than me, fatter than me ...' when other girls would walk by." 
Notre Dame -and college it?-~eneral­is an environment conducive to eating dis­orders. Academic, athletic, social and cul­tural pressures can sometime be too much. "An eating problem may only be a symp­tom," says Dr. Rita Donley, the University Counseling Center. assistant director and coordinatorofclinical services. "The Coun­seling Center tries to discover the underly­ing problem, whether it is depression, fam­ily problems or a difficult adjustment to college life." 
So if eating disorders are prevalent on campus, why don't affected past 10 years, the UCC has offered the Eating Disorders Therapy or Support Group, but because no one expressed interest the last four semesters, the sessions were not even offered in the ran·of 1999. 
The UCC is taking aggressive measures to educate and . inform students about the symptoms of the disorders. In conjunction with the "National Eating Disorders Aware­ness Week," February 12-19, the center is coordinating various events across campus. On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday an information fair entitled "Mind-Spirit-Body .:. A Celebration of Every Body" will be held from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Dooley Room ofLaFortune. The Observer will run a series that week discussing eating issues. Beginning March 31, a four-part series will be offered at the UCC on Fridays, giving 

students seek "I wouldfind myselfmentally 
help? 


"The shame· saying, 'Fatter than me, thinner 
factor is enor­
.:than me, fatter than me ... ' 
mous," Donley states. "People 

when other gi.rls would walk by."
simply don't want others to -I(athleen Mc.Cann 
know. Here are high-functioning people-student leaders, athletes, scholars -who feel they have to be 100 percent ... Eating is a way to escape/' 
Mccann agrees. "It is hard to say in each [ counseling session], in front ofother people, that I have a problem," she says. 
Donley believes that some students feel that their problem is not serious enough to warrant help. Whatever the reason, many victims choose to suffer.in silence. For the concerned individuals the opportunity to evaluate their own body image and partici­pate in a question and answer session. 

The UCC will exert its greatest effort, however, trying to determine the number of students who are struggling with eating dis­orders. Next week, all undergraduate Notre Dame men and women will receive the "Eating Concerns Survey 2000" through campus mail.The 20-minute, anonymous questionnaire asks students about their own eating and exercise habits, as well as their experienceofeating with others. One sample question: "When someone you know diets, do you feel you must also?" 


1 
A similar survey was distributed in 1988, but it was only targeted to undergraduate females. Research studies suggest that for 
every 10 women with an eating disorder, l one man struggles with eating as well. Be­cause there are few specific statistics de­scribing the male population, the 2000 sur­vey is seen as groundbreaking. "Culturally, we are absolutely seeing more men con­cerned with body image," remarks Donley. ''For instance, the ROTC program imple­ments weight restrictions, wrestlers are con­stantly trying to 'make weight' ... It is im­portant that people realize that men are vulnerable also." In fact, she says, Saint Edward's Hall is giving the issue its due on campus. The hall requested a UCC presen­tation-to be held on Wednesday, February 16. "It's Not About Making Them Eat: Helping a Friend with an Eating Dis~rder" will be held in.the Saint Edward's common area at 7 p.m. Pasquerilla East sponsored a workshop on wellness on February 9. "It's a totally positive experience," says Rectress Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff. "We've been try­ing to help people think 'I am beautiful because I live." Follow-up programs ad­dressing nutrition and ideal body weight.are being planned, but Mueninghoff stresses that "these are not to start a witch hunt." 
According to Donley, most patients are referred to the UCC by a concerned other, such as a roommate, boyfriend or girlfriend, parent, rector or coach. "Usually, the con­cerned other is worried, but it is important that they don't try to control the person suffering from a disorder," Donley warns. "Someonecandragthemhere, but only [the victim] can tell the truth." 
Once admitted to the counseling center, the student meets with an expert to deter­mine the nature of the problem. The UCC has a physician, nutritionist and psychiatrist available. It is the patient's choice to enroll in private counseling or group sessions. 
"Many patients are fearful of the UCC confidentiality, but we are committed to confidentiality and state laws require it," says Donley. Obviously, the center can't control members of the group sessions to keep information private. Donley adds, "People in the past groups have been incred­ibly respectful, mainly because they don't want to admit problems about themselves. No one will walk to the Huddle and say, 'Guess what I heard?"' 
Not all students diagnosed with an eating disorder turn to the UCC, though. Michelle Visnosky, an ND senior, was successful in combating her eating disorder through the Healthy Options for Problem Eaters pro­gram at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. Although the HOPE program was recently disbanded, services are available at the Madi­son Center, an outpatient therapy facility. "Ithelped that, at any given time, there were six to eight students from Notre Dame in my treatment program," Visnosky says. 
Is the UCC frustrated when students seek help off campus? 
"It thrills me," Donley insists. "Whatever they're more comfortable with is fine, just so they help themselves." 
For now, the major goal is to raise aware­ness on campus and change ignorant attitudes. 
McCann says, "I don't want to say 'I'm a bulimic and proud ofit,' but we must work to get rid of the stigma." D 


nd.edu/~scholast 
J Come see what we' re all about. 

News Scholastic 17 


n ,,., his list should help inspire you to new levels of j · _J / suaveness in South Bend and Mishawaka. .•-1• Next time you need to dazzle that special honey,just 
.••----_-: open your Scholastic.

• i10. Head to Michiana Paintball: Located in 
_IScottsdale Mall in South Bend, this impressive facil­_.·.· .· • I ity is the only indoor course around, which is nice,--~I because it can get slightly chilly here at times. When 
•~, you bring your love bun?y here, ~our choice will /-,j subtly say "I'm a fun, laid-back kid at heart" (Re­
i---~-1 member: You don't actually say this). 
i · 9. Hire Maurice the Singing Moose: Get this char­
. lacter to serenade your sweet pea with a love ballad, 
••. j and watch him or her melt. Call Full Circle Music 
~ (219-257-8660) for bookings, and keep in mind that
~l hearingthePartridgeFamilyhit"IThinkILove You"
Wis 10 times more thrilling when the vocalist has 
t\AI antlers. 

\1-1; 8. Go for a Hot-Air Balloon Ride: It might be a little . ~I too brisk outside to enjoy one of these rides at theiii~! present time, but as soon as the sun re-emerges, go for ~\_J it. As long as your sweetie doesn't have a problem 
I
I// 
18 Scholastic Campus Life 

with heights, a balloon ride can prove to be quite the romantic adventure. Call Michiana Balloon Society (616-683-3036) or Aerostar Upper Wind Balloon Port (800-472-8264) for information on launches from nearby South Bend fields. 
7. Take a Picnic to the Kids' Kingdom: This out­door playground in Potawatomi Park in South Bend boasts its very own long-necked dinosaur, tire swings, mazes and slides, among other major attractions. Bring a picnic and impress your honeybunch with your creativity. 
6. Send a Singing Telegram: CallDittygrams Allen­Rothballer's at219-233-5886 to surprise yoursweetie with a singing banana. With an appeal similar to that ofMaurice the Singing Moose, the banana (or any of the other characters) is a surefire way to capture your cutie's heart. Who doesn't love opening his or her door to find produce dancing in the hallway? 
5. Take in a Theater Performance: You can awe your honey with your cultured, refined tastes by suggesting a date at The Morris Civic Auditorium in South Bend (219-235-9190), which hosts the Broad­

wayTheaterLeague, among otherperformers through­out the year. If plays or musicals trigger your gag reflex, opt for an interactive murder mystery, several of which are performed in the spring. 
4. Grab a Sled and Go to Saint Patrick's Park: 
Located in South Bend, this park is home to one ofthe best hills in the area for winter fun. Make the best of our wintermonths, and get a good excuse to hold your honey-tight as you barrel down this slippery slope. 
3. Stop By the Mega Play Entertainment Center: 
Continuing ourkid-at-heart theme, we suggestbring­ing your sweetheart to the Entertainment Center, located on Miracle Lane in Mishawaka. It offers bumper cars, laser tag, mini golf and other activities that allow you to show off your playful side. 
2. Eat at Lunkers: OK, so this one's not in South Bend or Mishawaka -it's in Edwardsburg. But if you're truly smitten with your sweet pea, you'll deal with the drive. This restaurant proudly advertises burgers "as big as your head." 
1. Even Better, Eat at the Carriage House Dining Room: Probably the classiest place to dine in South Bend, you can'tgo wrong ifyou bring your sugar puff to this fine establishment. Guys, ifyou can find some way to cover the bill, your girl will be thrilled to get dressed up for an evening that doesn't include sway­ing to SYR music in a dorm lounge. Other classy restaurants with romantic ambience include Chateau Fondue (219-255-1526) inMishawaka and the LaSalle Grille (219-288-1155) in South Bend. 
___1 -A nd now, in order to further assure are required to spend a year in South Bend, learning · !~ that our readers are lucky in love in a hands-on environment. .. oh, wait-they go to : this V-Day, we've also compiled a list of Rome. If you are still excited by the thought of
1

-• ! places to__ avoid like_ the plague w__ hile on a taking in all the buildings South Bend has to offer, Idate. Or, as the case may be, if you're refer to number 10 to refresh your memory as to ~: heading :out with ~omeone who doesn't why outdoor dates are somewhat unsound choices 
~l exactly light yourfire, you can subtly sug-in mid-February. 
•~i gest one of the following destinations and 5. Visit the Maple Syrup Festival: Taking place 
i!_e__ffectivelyget-theun-luck ___ ylovero.-utofyour annually in South Bend's Bendix Woods County , life forev_er. . · _ Park in March, this festival sings the praises 
-
110. Go on One of the Northern Indiana of the all-too-tinder-appreciated sap we
IAmish Country Bike Tours: Ifthe idea of commonly call syrup. I guarantee thatN biking 26 Illiles in the midst of our less-your love muffin would be more im­t /\i than-temperate winter mont_Iis excites you, pressed if you brought her to a res tau­~ I, then, by all means, take this tour. But go . rant where she could get some pan­
1_ 

solo -otherwise, your d_ate. will be ques-_ cakes and juice along with her syrup. 
!tioning why his or her fingers are blue (and 4. Sit in on a Practice Session of the ~i why he or she accepted a date with you) Caledonia Kilty Band ofMishawaka: This group ~!be~ore you even get to_ buy h~memade meets weekly in South ·Bend to practice bagpipes. _~· candles and soap at the gift shop. ·· You can call 219-674-9089 for information, but~i9. Drop by Mishawaka City Cemetery: I unless you really like watching members of a band _ts know it's difficult not to want desperately with a weird name play weird instruments while 

••• ue 
to_ see the grave of Edmund Byrkit, one of wearing plaid skirts, there aren't all Mishawaka:s · earliest settlers. But, really. Even . that many reasons to go. though areatourist bpoksdobiag·about_the "no­3. Lori's Riding Stables: Horses smell. table" people residing under the cemetery's lovely So will you after you finish sitting on one.Your date lawn, .this is another place to visit on your own won't like it. But, if you are really .determined to time, not yow:: date's. . . take your cowboy or cowgirl to a stable, call 219­
8. Stopinfor Michiana Astronomical Society's 232-0603. Annual Star Trek Convention: Although Dr. . 2. Michiana Square and Round Dancers Asso­
. . 

Spock's earsdo look rather adofable on him, ciation: This association (219-259-2442) sponsors they probably won't appear quite as appealing ·dances twice a month at the Dilareto Club of on yori~ (Especially if you're also wearing the Mishawaka. We understand that you might want to restofthe costume.) Even ifyour date is a fan of impress your date with your stylin' dance moves, this classic show, I wouldn't advise bringing but this isn't the place to do it, as it's extremely him or her to this meeting, helcl ann_ually in difficult to look hip while square dancing ( or round South Bend's Century Center. Don't you want · dancing, whatever that is). You'd be better off your honey to fall in love with you, not your ' turning up your mp3s and twirling around your Captain Kirk alter-ego? . · dorm room with your sweetie. 
7. Swing by Len;s Gun Shop; Inc.: If the name 1. Take her to the Lipstick Lounge, the Glo ofthis place doesn't strike you as shady 1 then the Worm or the Kitty Kat Lounge: If you can't fact that it boasts 233-GUNS as its phone num­figure out why you shouldn't take your _date there, ber should; While we-understand your inevi.:. then you need more help than a list of the best and table, desire -to take your sweetheart to glimpse worst date places. Len's awe-inspiring collection of rifles, she might not be as sympathetic. Especially if Len 
· ith Valentine's Day quickl.y a.pproach­knows you by name. · -· . ing, it's up to you to actually go up to 
6. Opt for an Architectural Walking Tour of · Cute Cale Girl or Hot Runner Boy and Historic South Bend:-The stunning architectural somehow get him or her to agree to go to one of value of South Bend's buildings is quite often these places with you. We know that's easier said taken for granted. These structures are so great, in than done -but we can offer only advice, not fact, that all third-year architecture majors at ND miracles. 0 
·,J.: .0'• 
;~ h.


l 33% 
owers are 
sol Valentine's Day than on the average day. 
90% 
Flowers bought on Valentine's Day by men. 
1800 
The year that the first commercial valentine appe_ared. 

~000 
Roses traded on the average Valentine's Day. 
' ' 
information compiled from: 
www.flowers.org www.about.com 
Campus Life Scholastic 19 

after conducting a review. The review dis­
COMMENTARY 
covered wrongdoing but did not recognize 
the offenses as serious enough for swift action. As a result, not only was tht? Irish football program disgraced, but the univer­sity itself suffered a black eye. -In light of these events, renewing Wadsworth's con­tract would have been out of the question. 



Judgment Day 
Despite his achievements, Wadsworth stenure 
Accordingly, Malloy launched an explor­atory review of the entire athletic depart­
will be marked by its missteps 

.ment following the · NCAA : decision. last this is forgivable. Here, a losing football December. The result was a mutual agree­record is worse than substandard -it is ment between Malloy and Wadsworth that fter meeting with Father Edward sinful. the athletic director's position · should be Malloy on Monday, Athletic Di-Worse yet, Irish success in the 2000 foot-. assigned to someone else at the conclusion 
ector Michael Wadsworth an-ball campaign is also in danger. Because of of this year. nounced that he will step down after his recruiting blunders, the Irish did not sign a "Mike Wadsworth and I have reached five-year contract expires this year. quarterbackprospectlastyear. Backupquar-this agreement based on a number of fac­
"We have come through the NCAA mat-terbackAmazBattle, the likely candidate to tors," Malloy said. "I stated'in December ter, we are reaching the end of the current replace the graduating Jarious Jackson; has that the university's response to the recent five-year plan in the athletic department, little experience. Notre Dame opens the problems in our football program had in­and my personal five-year commitment to 2000 season against Texas A&M and Ne­cluded a comprehensive external review of the university also is about to end," braska, who finished 23rd and third, respec­our athletic policies and procedures. As a Wadsworth said. "Reflecting on the timing tively, in last season's AP P?ll. Without an result of that review,· I have decided to ofall-these events with the restructuring that · exp·erienced quarterback to lead:the :·Irish institute a substantial restructuring of ad­Father Malloy intends to carry out, I believe offense, it is quite possible that Notre D.ame ministrative responsibilities in athletics: In it's in both the university's and my best will open next season 0-2. Should this hap­light ofthis restructuring, Mike's five-year interests to end my tenure this year." pen, it will be a challenge for the Irish to post commitment and the conclusion ofthe cur-
Wadsworth has made some worthwhile even a winning record next season. rent five-year plan_in athletics, he:and I contributions to the university during his Notre Dame has had back~to-back losing agree that now is the time fora fresh start for tenure. Most notably, Notre Dame joined seasonsonlyonceinthe20thcentury.Even µs both." Stanford as the only two universities to rank the likelihood of such an ominous occur-And yet, one must wonder whether hold­in the top 20 in the U.S. News & World rence is enough to warrant dramatic change ing Wadsworth accountable is sufficient. Report survey for academic achievement in the athletic front office. After all, the athletic department at this and the Sears Director's Cup for overall NotreDamealsosuffereditsfirstNCAA university is no small operation. Is athletic excellence. vi o 1 at i on under Wadsworth the 
In a recent Sporting News evaluation, Wadsworth. The shame Because of his negligence, sole cause of so 
Notre Dame's athletic program was ranked accompanying this vio-Wadsworth allowed a. stain much damage? third in the nation for standards ranging lation far exceeds this Unlikely. Corrup­from the playing field to the classroom. year's football debacle to forever tarnish · Notre tioncanbeginwith 
Under Wadsworth, Notre Dame entered and even the prospect of Dame's integrity. one man, but the Big East competition in all sports except an encore. Notre Dame product ofcorrup­football. The switch resulted in four con-has always prided itselfon its conduct. Prior tion is often the fruit of a larger effort. secutive all-sports trophies for the men's to recent events, all students, athletes, alumni Nevertheless, as the head of the athletic program and-three for the women's. and faculty have maintained an unprec-department,theconductofhisstibordinates 
Finally, the academic standards of Notre edented level of integrity throughout colle-is his responsibility. Dame'sstudent-athleteshavebeenremark-giate America. This violation took away Mike Wadsworth made some positive able. The cumulative average of Notre Notre Dame's innocence -an innocence changes. to Notre Dame's athletic policy. Dame's student-athletes over the last four that had existed for over 100 years. However, what he allowed to transpire both years is virtually identical to that of the The most discouraging aspect ofthis vio-on and off the football field cannot be bal­general student body, while the graduation lation is that it never should. have been anceq by even these achievements. Because rate for student-athletes who complete four allowed to fester to the point where NCAA of his· negligence, Wadsworth allowed a years of eligibility is 99 percent. intervention was required. Had the athletic stain to forever tamishNotre Dame's i11teg­
However, it is Wadsworth's failures, not department taken preventive measures when rity. In doing so, he has wounded the pride his accomplishments, which led him to step illegal conduct was first detected, the inci­of students,. faculty and alumni alike. For down at the year's end. This year, Notre dent would have been little more than a this offense, his accomplishments wm · be Dame completed its worst football season headline. Wadsworth's department instead forgotten, only to be overshadowed by his since 1963, finishing 5-7. At some schools, opted to turn away from the wrongdoings mistakes. . 
20 Scholastic Sports 

This six-foot All-American senior from Sikeston, Missouri, knows what it means to succeed. He was named the Most Outstanding Track Athlete at the 1999 Big East Championships and holds the school record in the long jump. 
I first started running track when I was: A high-school junior. Before that, I played basketball. My favorite event is: the 200-meter sprint, even though it isn't my best event. My most memorable Notre Dame moment offthe track is: .the first 
. 1 time I visited campus and walked around the Basilica. :,-'l My decision to come to Notre Dame was: purely an academic .· ·· C: decision. I knew that I was not going to go professional, so I had to look ., ·d,out for my future. · 
· 1 What I like best about Notre Dame is: the support that you get from 
everyone. · :!lVI The hardest part about track is: it runs year round. Once spring ···Ifseason starts, you're gone most weekends. It takes up so much time. 
· If I could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: basket­ball. 
While growing up,my favor­ite athlete was: Michael Jordan. 
veryone wanted to belikeMik My role model now is: M other, for the strength I see i 
er. -Rebecca Frazier 

Earlier this year, Notre Dame's men's basketball team upset Connecticut at the Hartford Civic Center. On Saturday, the sold-out Joyce Center will give the Irish the necessary spark to upset the Huskies again, 77-69. 
Gemrd Meskill 

Troy Murphy scores 30 points and Matt Carroll scores 16 on Saturday against Connecticut, giving Notre Dame its second consecutive upset over Con­necticut. 
Brion Christ 

Khalid El-amin goes crazy O!)­the Irish Saturday, scoring 27 and charting 12 assists. Recent off-court troubles motivate the Huskies to make a statement versus the Irish, and they do, 
winning 77-70. Zoe Kulsrud 

The year was 1989, and expectations for the men's basketball season were soaring. Every player was returning from a squad 
that had gone 21-9 last year and given heavily favored Georgetown a run for its money in the second round of the 1989 NCAA tourna­ment. The Irish were hungry for a big season. The team created its own motto, "Remember, it's Denver..." in honor of the NCAA Final Four, held that year in Denver. 
However, as Notre Dame lost three of its first four games, includ­ing an embarrassing 80-68 loss to Marquette, many began to realize that the fairytale season they expected might not be guaranteed as previously thought. By the time the Irish rolled into Syracuse in mid­February, they had a record of 13-8 and were rapidly losing their hold 
on an NCAA tournament bid. 
Syracuse, on the other hand, was ranked fourth in the country and had not lost a home game since 1986. A home crowd of 32,747, at that time the second largest in Carrier Dome 


history, was on hand to watch the Orangemen try to secure a win over the struggling Irish squad. 
But the Syracuse crowd quickly discovered that Notre Dame was determined to be more than a show. Both Syracuse and the Irish came out strong and neither team led by more than four points in the first half. A 10-footjumper by Syracuse guard Mike Hopkins gave the Orangemen a 30-29 lead at halftime. The Irish came out of intermis­sion with a new intensity, shocking the crowd by scoring the first 10 points of the half. Syracuse's Derrick Coleman gave the Orangemen its first points in the second half by hitting a 10-foot turnaround with 
16:37 left, but the Irish didn't slow down, building a 47-34 lead with 
less than 12 minutes to go. Syracuse refused to roll over, however, I and scored seven straight points. 
• 1 
Notre Dame's lead fluctuated from three to eight points until the last three minutes of the game, in which the Irish and the Orangemen 
II,: 
were neck-and-neck. With three seconds left, Orange forward Billy Owens drove to the basket and gave Syracuse a 65-63 lead. 
. ~hose last three seconds turned out to be the Irish's saving grace, g1vmg them a chance to get the ball down the court before time ran out. Irish senior Keith Robinson inbounded the ball to LaPhonso Ellis. Ellis received the ball at mid-court and deliberated whether or · not to shoot for a half-second. "I thought about [shooting] until I found out where I was positioned on the floor," Ellis said. "I saw I was close to half court, and I looked for somebody else to take it." 
Ellis passed the ball to sophomore Elmer Bennett, whose feet were ~ositionedjust inches behind the three-point line. "As soon as I got 1t, I took the shot," Bennett said. "I wasn't looking at my feet. I just wanted to get the shot off." Bennett's buzzer-beating three-pointer 
; gave Notre Dame a 66-65 upset over Syracuse, resurrecting Irish 
: ! hopes of an tournament bid. Notre Dame's new 14-8 record put it on the top of the list of borderline tournament teams. "We knew we had en~ugh road games to finally pull it together, and we did it today," said Coach Phelps. As a result of this game and a stunning home victory against third­ranked Missouri, the Irish did earn themselves a spot in the 1990 NCAA tournament, but lost to Virginia in the first round. !he 1989-90 men's basketball season was largely one of disap­pom~ment_. However, the Irish did display flashes· of greatness, causmg Insh fans everywhere to wonder what might have been had the Irish played every game the way they played Syracuse. 
-Jessica Daues 
22 Scholastic Sports 
M~~1s 



Bmk®iijll (14-10)
Key Stat: Since joining the Big East in the 1995-1996 season, Notre Dame is 0-7 against Villanova. Prime Time Performer: Troy Murphy, who was held to 14 points by Villanova, is the country's fourth highest scorer. Next Game: Notre Dame hosts Connecti­cut Saturday at noon. 

I(21-2) 
Key Stat: The Irish have won 15 consecu­tive contests. Prime Time Performer: Junior center Ruth Riley scored 23 points and seven rebounds in Notre Dame's. 7 5-69 victory over Boston College. Next Game: Notre Dame hosts St. John's Saturday at 7:00 p.m. 

cey (13-14-6) 
Key Stat: The _Irish are 4-1-1 in their last six games. Prime Time Performer: Junior LW and CCHA Player of the Week Dan Carlson scored the game-winning overtime goal to defeat Ohio State Saturday. Next Game: Notre Dame hosts Nebraska­Omaha tomorrow at 7:05 p.m. 
:ensI 

Swimming (10-0) 
Key Stat: Notre Dame defeated No. 8 Michi­gan for the first time in school history. Prime Time Performer: Senior Elizabeth Barger earned victories on the 200-meter medly relay and the 100-meter butterfly. Next Game: Notre Dame will compete on Long Island for the Big East Championship on Thursday at 10:00 a.m. 


ING 
Hai'ling from Croatia, Ivan Kartelo and Jere Macura bring young talent to the Notre Dame court 

by Brendan Barker

0 ver the last decade, basketball fans at both the profes­sional and collegiate levels have grown accustomed to the steady influx of talent from eastern European countries such as Croatia and Lithuania. Basketball is developing at a rapid rate abroad, and the NBA and NCAA now showcase these new international talents. Foreign players like the Bulls' Toni Kukoc, the Kings' Vlade Divac and the Trailblazers' Arvydas Sabonis have made the tran­sition from European basketball to American hoops. Recently, the Notre Dame men's basketball team also became involved in the international recruiting scene. Two important components of this year's Irish team are Croatian freshmen Jere Macura and Ivan Kartelo. Each has taken on a significant role in first-year Coach Matt Doherty' s rotation. The adjustment to the United States, both on and off the court, has been difficult for Macura and Kartelo. But as they grow more comfortable with their new surroundings, they are also helping the basketball team make a legitimate bid at its first NCAA tournament appearance since 1990. The recruitment process for Kartelo and Macura began last April. The pair had played together on a few Croatian club teams before Ivan came across the Atlantic to play high-school basketball at a Massachusetts prep school. This is where Doherty, while on a scouting trip last fall as an assistant coach for the University of Kansas, first discovered him. Doherty recalls: "I was evaluating some kids for Kansas, and I saw Ivan's team play and was impressed. But we didn't have 
any scholarships at the time. So when I got the People are friendly here. 
job at Notre Dame, Ivan was one of the first 
Everybody wants to help you.
kids I called." Kartelo' s high-school coach, 
Michael Byrnes, helped Doherty find out more information about Kartelo. While Doherty was pursuing him, he learned of Macura, Kartelo's former teammate back in Croatia. After watch­ing some film footage, Doherty pursued him as well. 
Both eventually signed with Notre Dame, a move contrary to their original intention to attend the University of Rhode Island. This plan fell through when Jim Harrickresigned as head basketball coach, giving Notre Dame an opportunity to sign the pair. After Rhode Island fell out ofthe bidding, Kartelo described Notre Dame as "the best option" among the considerable list of other schools he was contemplating, a list that included the University of Connecti­cut, Boston College and Providence College. The Irish basketball program's fresh start attracted Kartelo and Macura to the univer­


-Jere Macura 
himself back into shape and is now developing well, accord-}f ing to Doherty. Since his re-.·· ·· covery, Kartelo has made im-' portant contributions against /' perennial Big East foes Con-f necticut and St. John's. ' Doherty gives him high marks for his performance ,,,,'. against the Red Storm; )~:t:jl he received "one of · ·..·:=··~~ 
t~! 
sity. They had both heard about the "new coach, new program, new everything" rebuilding campaign, and so Notre Dame seemed like a good fit. 
With Rhode Island out ofcontention, both men were fairly set on Notre Dame. In fact, on account ofa military conflict, Macura could not even visit the campus before making his decision. All commu­nications with Doherty were done via the phone and the Internet. 
Thus far, the adjustment to college basketball has been fairly smooth for the two Croatians, who are adapt­ing under the direction of their coach. 
Doherty is extremely pleased with the progress made by Macura and Kartelo. "Jere's been great," Doherty explains. 
"He's had some big games at Indi­
ana and against Pitts­burgh." Kartelo's progress was slowed ~:g~~~ ·,,.,rf:,:\1'::i~ , 
ning of \
the year because of sprains in his (' knee and ankle. Although these inju-\ ries were a setback, Kartelo worked 

JR/SI( 

4 -~li . /





,.··s
· · . • · · i 

\\£\\t,,' i 
--~ • · · . 
· 

]! 
.i 
't 
Sports Scholast · · · j_ 
La;;~
~-: 
the best defensive grades I've ever seen," remarks Doherty. 

Macura and Kartelo are not intimidated by the competition ofthe Big East and national powerhouses like Arizona, Maryland and Ohio State. 
Kartelo says, "As you grow up, competition is also supposed to grow up. Some games are harder, others are easier, but winning is the only thing." 
· Rejuvenating the Irish basketball program is a challenge that both players welcome. Kartelo is aware of the past success that Notre 
Dame has had on the hard court. "We used to be good," he said. "Now we are becoming good again." j'.' . . . .• They have certainly made somel · ' i headway in reviving interest, 
~ . ,•/:·(·) even spurring the students to _lt;:_;_.~;c_ _::, .· chargethecourtfollowingthe~ic­.--: >-, 1·',){?i,;; •· .: tory over St. John's. "It was mmd­
"l., '""~it;, .1 less " Macura said. · ~ '\ I Ho~ever, they were still slightly disappointed with Notre Dame fans. 
They're supposed to rush out onto the
fl~ 
l~ 

court when the buzzer sounds. We ff hope that's what happens next time. .-_,..-.__ -Ivan Kartelo 
They felt that they should know to rush the court without being sig­naled. "They're supposed to rush out onto the court when the buzzer 
I 
/ sounds," Karteloadds. "Wehopethat's 
what happens next time." ,, Coming to the United States and de­
ciding to play basketball for Notre
I 
!: Dame holds a dual challenge for 
,. 
\ Macura and Kartelo. Not only do 
i.: 
they face the pressures of play­
ing Division I NCAA basket­ball for a prominent school, but they also face the diffi­culties ofattending classes 
at a distinguished university. Each must 
work twice as hard as the average student to under­stand the class material. 
They must first understand the English, and then learn the material itself. Grasping phi­losophy in a foreign language is an intimidating task by itself with­out introducing four hours of prac~ 
tice every day and frequent road trips into the mix. Macura and Kartelo relate 
these difficulties as some of the tougher aspects in their transition. 
Kartelo says, "You need to find time to study," listing it as one of his major concerns involved with the adaptation to college life. Macura also speaks of the dilemma of balancing basketball and learning. "Writing essays is probably the hardest thing to do," states Macura. But Macura and Kartelo welcome this challenge. 
Macura explained that he was "looking forward to come and study here," acknowledging that Notre Dame is known as a "good school." He and Kartelo are both marketing majors. Neither knows what he wants to do after graduation, but each figures that there will be plenty of time to decide. Doherty believes that each will be fine in the meantime, making it a point to mention how well each did in his first semester classes. Doherty added that the structured sched­ule of class, practice and study is of great help to his players. 
Other aspects of American society are also vastly different from Croatian life. 
"Movies. The movies here are much different from the ones in Croatia," observes Macura. But aside from the variances in Croatian and American cinema, Kartelo adds that the attitudes of his peers are much different here. Paying particular attention to the drinking age, he points out he has noticed that the common mindset of most 
other first-year students is that "rules are made to be broken. The difference is that when people go away from parents they go crazy. They don't do that at home be­cause there isn't the law." 
As strenuous as dealing with ad­justment to American life has been, many things about Notre Dame 

have made the transition much easier for both men. 
"People are friendly here. Everybody wants to help you," Macura says. 
Kartelo adds, "They like to talk to you." 
This warm receptiop. has enabled them to worry less about 
becoming accustomed to American life, and to concentrate more on basketball and academics. This is a sentiment that Doherty echoes. ''The Notre Dame community is one that's open to many things," he says. "Just the way that the residence halls are set up creates a very friendly atmosphere. The people here are very welcoming, and they have a way of making you feel comfortable." Macura imme­diately felt this atmosphere, as his roommate greeted him with the message, "Welcome to America." Both Macura and Kartelo's roommates were very helpful with prov~ding whatever the men needed during their first few weeks here; 
Still, there are parts ofhome that they both miss. "Croatia is much more beautiful than here," said Kartelo. 
As exciting as this year has already been with upset victories over ranked teams like Ohio State, Connecticut and St. John's, Macura and Kartelo hope to help the team achieve greater consistency so that the Irish can enjoy success in postseason tournaments as well as regular season games. 
Macura and Kartelo face a substantial challenge in helping this year's ball club qualify for March basketball. They know that it will be a difficult task, but they think that the team is up to the challenge. "We're coming together pretty good right now," Macura notes. So as long as those three-point bombs keep on falling and Kartelo, Macura and the rest of the Irish keep playing with Doherty' s hustle and determination, the results should be promising. With more players like these two, students can expect to be charging the Joyce Center floor on a regular basis. D 

• A -Star 






Pulitzer Prize winner headlines slate ofaward­winning authors at Sophomore Literary Festival 
BY MATT CREMEROver the last few years the Sopho­more Literary Festival has been host to some distinguished writ­ers. This year's gathering looks like it will continue the trend. The festival lasts six days, five of which feature professional writers, leaving one day for student writers to read their work. The most noteworthy is author William J. Kennedy, who appears on Sunday, February 13th,_the festival's sec­ond day. Kennedy, a Pulitzer Prize winner in 1984 for his novel Ironweed, has been praised by critics throughout his literary career. He has also received some criticism. In 1959 an aspiring young journalist named Thompson wrote Kennedy inquiring about writing positions at a San Juan daily news­paper that Kennedy was in charge of. Kennedy replied with a sarcastic rejection letter. Thompson then responded by accus­ing Kennedy of possessing the "cretin-in­tellect responsible for the dry-rot of the American press." This Thompson fellow would turn out to be none other than the Gonzo journalism hero/madman Dr. Hunter S. Thompson. Despite Dr. Thompson's foaming-at-the-mouth style of writing, that letter sparked a friendship and correspon­dence that has lasted presumably to this day. In fact, the two workep together on the daily newspaper the San Juan Star in the early 1960s where Kennedy was managing editor for two years until he quit to pursue fiction writing full time. Though most famously known for his "Albany Cycle," Kennedy has written non­fiction, children's books, plays and screen­plays, and is still going strong. Roscoe, a 
new installment in the Albany Cycle, is planned next. James Atlas of Vogue maga­zine once said, "What James Joyce did for Dublin and Saul Bellow did for Chicago, William has done for Albany, New York." 
On Saturday, February 12, the featured writer is Bharati Mukherjee, an award-winning Asian­
American writer.  
Hl~r  book  The  _________ ____ Sophomore.lite,:myJestiv.al.  
Middleman and Other Stories  . Schedule of events  
won the National Book Critics'  February 1 2 ­17  
Circle Award for  Bharati  
best fiction.  Saturday, Fe_b.  _i 12j  Mukherjee  

Many of her works strongly 

... Sunday,_feb. _
present multi­cultural is t themes. 

__ Monday, Feb. PoetLi-Y oung Lee will appear 
Tuesday, Feb. 
_ 
on February 14. Lee is the author · i 
oftwo poetry col-

Wednesday, Feb.; 16l lections, Rose, published in 1986, and The City in Which I Love You in 


William J. ] 13[ Kennedy* 
i Li-Young 

1 141 1 Is; 

1990. Thepoems focus on love, personal experience and the family. 
Andrew Hudgins will give readings ofhis work on Wednesday. Hudgins has won many awards for his contributions to the world of poetry. Author of Saints and Strangers, After The Lost War: A Narrative, Never­Ending: New Poems and The Glass Ham­mer: A South Childhood, Hudgins has also written short stories and essays that have appeared in publications such as The Ameri­can Scholar and The Washington Post Maga­zine. 


The last guest writer, John Edgar Wideman, has been hailed as "our most powerful and accomplished of the urban 
Lee 

-~-----I
Student writers 

Andrew Hudgins 
John Edgar Wideman 
* Pulitzer Prize winner 
for his novel lronweed. 
black world" by the Los Angeles Times. He will be reading on Thursday. Wideman is the first au­thor to be a two-time win­ner of the PEN/Faulkner award since its founding in 1980. Wideman's lat­est fiction work, The Cattle Killing, was pub­lished in 1997 after a hia­tus of nearly six years. 
Student readers share their work on· Tuesday, February 15. Like the pro­fessional writers, the stu­dent rariks are filled with a wide variety of literary styles. 
This year's group of student writers marks a significant departure from those ofyear's past: "Last year all of the stu­dent readers were gradu­

ate students mostly in the creative writing program," Lisa Edgington, chairperson for student writers, says, "but this year they are all undergrads, which is good, because it is an undergraduate idea." 
All readings take place at 8 p.m. in Wash­ington Hall, with the exception of the Sun­day reading, which takes place in the Li­brary Auditorium. D 
Entertainment Scholastic 25 

Dght Dates aWrek 
By Kara Zuaro &Jared Marx 
With a little help from their friends, Scholastic editors discover they can't buy love, but they have to admit it's getting better 
With Date Week and Valentine's Day on the way, we thought it would be a good time to do an Out of Bounds mission on dating at Notre Dame. Then we realized thatthere really wasn't anything to write about. Sure, some of us on staff could write about random hook-ups, and some of us could write about having serious relationships, but dating? We Scholastic staffers are pretty open about this stuff -if one of the guys gets some play over the weekend, he's sure to tell me in Ed Board. We high five and that's that. You don't ask ifthere's going to be a future in the relationship. But if another editor catches me eating dinner with the same guy on a few consecutive nights at the dining hall and the fellow then calls me at the office, whoever answers the phone will summon me by saying, "Zuaro, it's your betrothed." It's just assumed that something serious is brewing. Where's the middle ground? This Out ofBounds mission is meant to answer that question. News Editor Jared Marx and I set outto go where no Domer (that we know of) has gone before. The staffgot together to set up each ofus on eight blind dates in one week. We hoped to find some hidden truth about that elusive middle ground, that space between making out with a stranger and engagement. Here's how it went: 
guard," says the date. •ALady's Nights Out "Would you mind putting your hands against the wall?" asks the MONDAY -DATE #1 bodyguard. This guy seems to think girls like to get frisked before 
The first boy shows up in neatly creased khakis and hands me a the date. Not quite. The_bodyguard has an earphone in one ear and bouquet. He's a real gentleman-doesn'tlet me open a single door holds every door for my date (but not me) as we walk over to on my own and insists on paying for the screening of Casablanca Greenfield's. I try to involve both boys in the conversation, but my at the Snite, even though the magazine would have covered the date informs me that the bodyguard is just there to watch and follow costs. It's the perfect date movie -you can't help but enjoy the about two feet behind us. The bodyguard only speaks to him. softly glowing, glazey-eyed close-ups of Ingrid Bergman and All rightie. So we get to Greenfield's, the bodyguard takes my laugh at those moments of over-the-top melodrama. date's coat and we get in line to order our food. When we get to the 
We go to Reckers afterward for hot chocolate (he pays, again), cashier, Studley puts his arm around me and shouts to the lady and we talk about dating ..He thinks that people should set their behind the counter, "We're on a date because we like each other." friends up on dates more often-like "SYRdafeif,"ifistead· ofSYR The woman looks at me and says, "Honey, I hope it's a first dances. He walks me home, gives me a hug and tells me to have fun date." on the rest of my dates. Normally I would be very disturbed by this point, but I cons.ale 
It was a nice riight, but overall, it didn't feel all that date-ish. But myself by thinking how great this is going to be for the article. I don't know, maybe I just don't know what a blind date is supposed The bodyguard whispers in the ear of my date that he's got to feel like. another appointment, and once he leaves, things really start to pick 
up. 

TUESDAY -DATE #2 We sit down and start talking, and, as it turns out, we have a lot Studmuffin #2 comes to my door to pick me up for lunch and of unusual things in common. We read the same books when we introduces me to a boy in mirrored sunglasses. "This is my body-were little (like Bunnicula), we like a lot of the same movies (like 






26 Scholastic Out of Bounds 

Buffalo '66), and we even listen to some ofthe same obscure bands (Pavement, Guided by Voices, Built to Spill). I tell him that I love the Apples in Stereo and he says, "On the Elephant 6 label?" Gosh, I'm so impressed. 
After lunch, we go back to his room to play video games until class. He gives me a hug bathroom. One young lady turns on the hand-dryer and then goes flying across the room, as if that tiny gust of hot air sent her sprawling. I'm definitely feeling the effects ofthe wine from dinner and the endless cup of beer, but at least I'm not that drunk. 
No need to get into details, but I keep the Gipp's advice in mind 
as my date walks me home in the new-fallen snow. 
right out in front of DeBartolo. Eek! Day­time PDA! But it's all right. He says that THURSDAY -DATE #5 everyone needs four hugs .a day and this This one wasn't really a blind campus could use some more friendly date because I've met the guy contact. before, but that made it more re­laxed than the other dates. We met WEDNESDAY -DATE #3 at Reckers for coffee and justtalked 
Today is another lunch date -this for a while about music and the time to Cafe Poche in Bond Hall. military and what-have-you. He told Today's date.is an English major so me that he's going to fly planes when we talked about Mark Twain. for a he graduates. Cool. little while. He seemed pretty inter­ested in film, or at least, he seemed FRIDAY -DATE #6 pretty interested in what I had to , Yet another lunch date. Date#6 shows say about film. He told me that his up at my door with neatly combed hair dad's an orthodontist and I told him and the traces ofa Texas accent. I kind of that I had braces for four years. wish he would have dressed in Lone Star 
"You've got great teeth," he said. He really said that. 

WEDNESDAY-DATE.#4 
This date cooks mea spaghetti dinner, complete with homema,d~ sauce and classical music playing from a clock radio on the kitchen counter. It seems a lot more date-ish than the other dates. 
. After dinl).er, we head over to Senior Bar to meet up with some friends: including Zac, !he setter-upper. The great thing about SeniorBaris that lots ofpeoplejust walk around with pitchers, and you tend to run into a lot of people you know. So it's like you've got a bottomless cup. Fun. So Zac and my date start talking about American Pie, how all the characters remind them of real-life people. Dateboy is telling Zac that I remind him of the good girl who likes to sing and wear sweaters while Za:c argues that I'm much more like the wild girl, who wears headphones to the prom. I take this moment to head to the ladies room. 
On the way, I run into the Gipp, toddling along and toting a pitcherofGuinness. "My little Zuaro bird," he says, filling mycup. The Gipp is on some kind of Buddhist kick lately, hence the new nickname. 
I tell him that I'm halfway through my week of dates, and that 

I just got a nice dinner out of the deal. "Did you hookup yet?" asks the Gipp. I sha:ke my head, trying to explain that these dates haven't really 
been date-ish. 
"Hey, if you can get through eight dates without kissing any­body," he says, "then you're really not giving anyone on this campus any incentive to have normal. social lives. What is the sound of one hand clapping?" 
Ileave the Gipp with his Zen meditation and proceed to the girls' 

apparel -like cowboy boots and a 10­gallon hat. That would have been cute, like being on a date with John Wayne. I try to talk slow because sometimes my New York accentcan be hard to follow for those from below the Mason-Dixon line. Yeah, I'mready to play up this whole city-girl-meets-country­boy shtick. 
We get to Allegro and talk about sandwich options while we're in line. Roast beef, turkey, vegetarian ... 
He tells me that he dated a vegetarian once. It didn't work out. 
"Yeah," I say, "ifshe's opposed to making you a steak, you know she's not a keeper." 
He half-laughs and looks at me like I'm crazy. The veggie sub is intriguing, but I opt for the turkey. He's more of a roast beef kind of guy. (Not surprising.) 
He tells me that he grew up in a real big family on a large plot of land, so I ask him ifhe had any animals. He says that he raised some lambs and steers for 4-H and FFA. 
"Oh, Future Farmers of America," I .say, proving that I'm down with the rural lingo. "So, do you consider these animals to be livestock ... or pets?" 
He looks like he's about to start cracking up, but instead he politely explains, "You can't really treat them like pets because you'd get too attached to them." 
"Because you eat 'em, right?" "Well, you don't eat them yourself," he says. "You auction them off." 
I just nod. Whatever you've got to tell yourself, buddy. He's really nice and I really aminterested in learning about livestock and Texas and stuff, but he seems to think that I'm being sarcastic. Oh well. 







Out of Bounds Scholastic 27 


SATURDAY -DATE #7 

Tonight I decide to mix things up and pick up my date, instead of having him come over to get me. It's kind ofscary to walk through a boys' dorm around eight on a Saturday night. They all leave their doors open so they can stare at you while you walk by. Now I'll always appreciate a boy who braves his way through a girls' dorm to get to me. 
This date has a car (big bonus!) so we go off campus to see Magnolia, which is worth seeing for Tom Cruise's role alone. We didn't have much time to chat on this date, but when we ran into my assistant editor and two ofher friends at the show, he offered them a ride back to campus with us -so I didn't need a lot of conversation to know that he was a nice guy. 
SUNDAY -DATE# 8 Wait until the end of the article for this one! 
AGUY AROUND TOWN 
MONDAY -DATE #1 

Not being much of a dating expert and having been somewhat coerced into this spree of outings by my fellow staff members, I prepared nervously for the first date. The plan was to see Casablanca at the Snite and, if all went well, perhaps visit Reckers for a smoothie. Leaving the ence now, but a daytime date is also by nature a bit less stressful. I picked her up and again we chatted on the way to the cafe. We arrived, ordered and sat down to talk. This time, my date was quite interested in our little dating experiment. We discussed problems with dating on campus and what our ideal first dates would be. We ate our food and talked some more, until it was time for her to go to class. Although daytime dates sometimes feel a bit less "date-ish," it was very pleasant and had some definite advantages over the previous evening. Forone, there wasn't the awkwardness ofseeing lots of people that one person knew and the other didn't. For another, by going somewhere out of the way like Greenfield's, there is almost an illusion ofactually getting away from campus for a little while without actually doing so. 
WEDNESDAY -DATES 3 & 4 (THE TWINS) 
Well, you may have wondered just how we were planning to fit eight dates into seven days. Alas, there was but one beautiful answer: twins. And in this case, two tall, thin, blond twins. And not only were they tall and thin and blond, they were also chemical engineering majors who told me their first semester seemed easy. Not too shabby. The rule to be learned here, however, is to plan your dates carefully. The idea was to watch/IPostino in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. Now, a modifica­tion to the rule is in order: never go on a 
dorm, I stole some ofmy roommate's Polo date to the Mongomery Theater in
"And not only were they
cologne and headed for North Quad. The LaFortune. Imagine a theater so small pickup went smoothly and we discovered that most students don't even realize it

tall and thin and blond, 
that we were sharing a government class exists in their already under-sized stu­this semester. Arriving at the Snite, we they were also chemical dent union, and you'd be imagining the found seats in the already-crowded audi­. . . Montgomery Theater. The seats, though torium, which brings up one definite weak­engzneenng ma1ors... raised stadium-style, are so close to the ness of on-campus dating: the extreme seats in front of them.that my very for­likelihood of seeing lots of people you Not too shabby." giving, tall, blond dates could barely fit 
know. For us, of course, it was easy to explain that it was a journalistic assignment. But for the masses of daters who are thoroughly ambiguous about their relationships, this can sometimes pose a problem. Well, the lights dimmed and the movie started. There is indeed a reason that Casablanca is a classic, and the hopeless romantic in me loved it. Of course, my date seemed to be even more hopeless than me, noting as we left the theater that the movie should have ended with Rick going with Ilsa rather than staying in Casablanca. Anyway, we made our way to Reckers and completed a nice evening with a chat over smoothies. All in all, a good start. 
TUESDAY -DATE #2 

This time, the plan was to have a nice lunch date at Greenfield's, one of the lesser-known and higher-quality dining establishments on campus. Walking to pick up my date from her dorm on North Quad (and still smelling ofmy roommate's cologne, despite numer­ous washings between the two dates), I felt a little more at ease than I had the previous night. Not only did I have slightly more experi­
their legs between the rows of seats. Add to that the fact that the average room temperature during the film hovered around 97 degrees and that it turned out everyone else watching the movie was there for Italian class, and you end up with a bad date. Suffice it to say that I was very grateful that these two kind young ladies were generous enough to allow me to walk them straight home after the movie. 
THURSDAY -DATE #5 

Since Tuesday's dfite at Greenfield's had gone so well, I decided to try another lunch date, this time at Cafe Poche in the architecture building. My date, as it turned out, was a philosophy and govern­ment major just like myself, and once we got over the fear of entering a building where people learn skills that are actually applicable in life, we had a good time, Cafe Poche turned out to be nice because, like Greenfield's, it is also somewhat out ofthe way and, as long as you're not an archie, you're safe from seeing too many people you know. Our common interests made conversa­tion pretty easy-she had in.fact written for Scholastic for a week 






28 Scholastic Out of Bounds 

or two before determining that her editor (apparently one of my predecessors) was "not very nice." Clearly things have changed. It turned out that she, too, was in the same class that I shared with my first date-afunny, though pot en ­tially awkward, coincidence. All in all, though, the food was good, the atmosphere pleasant and the lunch date received good marks. 
FRIDAY -DATE #6 
Well, after nearly a week of dates on campus, it was time to try at least one date off campus for comparison purposes. Unfortunately, I don't have a car. My date, however, was a bit luckier. So owing to her kindness and generosity, we went to see Magnolia. Unfor­tunately, this may have not been the greatest of movie choices. First, Tom Cruise's explanations during the movie of"how to fake being nice and caring" and "why to keep a couple of girls as friends for use in jealousy traps" (not to mention a few less-printable suggestions) were not the best things to talk about on a date. Secondly, the movie was very, very long, and there were plenty of other bizarre things in the movie to talk about aside from Tom Cruise. Despite the length, though, this movie date went a bit better than Wednesday's. 
FRIDAY -DATE #7 
So by now it was Saturday, and arriving at the prime date day of the week, what better way to cap it off than with a men's swimming meet? Rest assured, it was not my choice, but indeed, it was probably the most interesting date of the bunch. My date, who claimed to have only ever attended one football game and certainly never any basketball games at Notre Dame, apparently attends both men's and women's swimming meets religiously. On our way to the meet, in fact, we passed one of her favorite women swimmers, whom she told me she suspected may "be the daugh­ter of Poseidon himself." Alas, this was merely the beginning. We arrived 15 minutes early to the meet in order to be sure not to miss the National Anthem. ('Tm American," she said, "not Canadian or anything. And I like to hear the National Anthem.") Among other treats during the meet was an explanation of the prime gift she wishes to receive for graduation this year. Pulling out a "U.S. Cavalry" catalog, she pointed to a large steel sword. "I told my mom," she said, "I want the barbarian sword for graduation. It's just very practical. Imagine you're at the juice machine and there's a big line. Just pull out the barbarian sword, and suddenly, you're the only one left. It's very practical." It was hard to disagree. 
FRIDAY -DATE #8 (BACK TO THE LADY) 
By Sunday, Jared and I have had more than our fair share of dating so when I suggest that he and I go out and get coffee together, he jumps at the offer. It's not like Jared and I are going to become 
some kind ofhot item in a grand finale to this article, but 
· I think it would be fair to say that going on dates with many other people has brought us closer together. And if going 
on lots of dates makes you more appre­ciative of your old buddies, then hey, that's not a bad thing at all. 
But anyway, we take this quality time to try and answer the big question: Can you have a successful blind date here at Notre 
Dame? 
Well, Jared doesn't think that a real date can happen here on campus. Personally, I think that if you're really going to hit it off 
with somebody, it doesn't matter where you end up going -as long as you get to be together and t.alk to each other. Jared, how­
ever, thinks that when you're on campus, you run into too many familiar people and it just isn't romantic. 
Nevertheless, we both agree that you can definitely have an on­campus "transitional date." For example, say you have class with somebody whom you sort of like and say you have made a habit of eating together in the dining hall afterwards -even if that means eating with a group of kids. One day after class, on the way back from DeBartolo, you could ask that special someone ifthey've ever eaten at Greenfield's, and would they like to check it out-your treat. (They take Flex!) It's not really adventurous, but the cuisine is bound to beat the dining hall fare, and it's quiet enough that you tan really talk to each other. This is the sort of thing, we think, that could lead to a "real date." 
So go ask somebody out to lunch. You've got nothing to lose. If they don't want to go, fine! Let them choke on their toad in the hole! 
Really, though, dating does not have to be such a serious thing. Going out on a first date should be like hearing a new song on the radio. At first, you're not sure if you like it, but it's catchy, you know? You start hearing it in your head, like something funny that your blind date said. The lyrics amuse you when you're bored in class. Maybe the song gets old fast when they play it too often on U93, or maybe they never play it enough -so you get the CD. You buy the band's first album. The concert tickets. The bootlegs, the box set, the import singles. And maybe you'll go back to that song when it rains for three days and your chemistry class is killing your soul. Maybe you blast it out your window when the sun finally comes out again. Think ofa first date as a fresh new song. Ifyou like it, you can take it with you. Ifyou don't, you can always just turn down the radio. O 







Out of Bounds Scholastic 29 



Greatest Love Hits 
Creative niasterpieces inspired by Andy Griffith 

BY LARICE N. WOODS

Ispent New Year's Eve locked in my room at my granny's house. Fear of living life in post-apocalypse America addled me so much that I lost my will to carouse. The thought of having to 
learn how a crossbow works or being forced to fight for bubble gum in Thunderdome made me want to celebrate humanity's progress and goodness. So I watched SuperStation TBS's 24-hour Andy Griffith Show Marathon. 
Needless to say, after 10 hours "in Mayberry," sitting in my underwear, eating through an economy-sized box of Cheerios -I became inspired. "The world would end in almost half a day's 
To The One I Adore 
Cute, Clean and Sexy. Always looking fabulous. Why can't you be straight? 
Mating Call 
I am alone now.. 634-5555 Come get me, young boys. 
Let Me Be Your Gatorade Bottle 
Press me to your lips Grip firmly, squeeze me, tongue me. I'll quench any thirst. 
I Have A Price 
.You can buy my love. Cost: one barbarian sword, Or pay off my loqris.. 

time," I thought. Frantic and zealous, I wrote nothing but haikus. Then, I passed out because I had watched all 24 hours of Andy Griffith with only Cheerios to nourish my body. That event yielded the most brilliant collection of haikus ever conceived. 
Back from break, I begged the editors of Scholastic to allow me to showcase my talent in the Literary Issue. They said things like "No, you missed the deadline," and, "Those are not haikus just because they follow the syllable guideline of 5-7-5." So I cried and threw a tantrum. They ignored me. When I camped outside of their office a couple of days in a row, they finally agreed. I had so many haikus, they would not fit on one page; Scholastic decided to print only my love hits. 
From A Stalker (Extended Club Mix) 
Wherever you are, I must be there to love you. Fall into my arms. 
Don't call the police. Waive your restraining order, separate us not. 
"Why don't they love me," I ask the wind. The wind shouts, "Because you're psycho." 
From The Stalked (Extended Album Version) 
Back the **** up, pleas~, I hope you can understand, your presence scares me.. 
Don't make me get ill: I'll commit violence on you. du Lac's rules be damned. 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion 



: •Exhibit: '1Facing Death: Porti:a.tts from Cambodia's Killing Field, '>2:00-4':00 PM,. 
· Snite• .· .· , . ·. l f / / ·\ \ ·.. · ._. •Lecture: ''Soct4c4pital,in ¢risis: Th~ D~mise.. . of African Colle~tiye Actio4," Gora~ ~ydaii; · 
4:15 PM, C0103)Ie~burgh C~nter for'Interna~ ti.onalStudies ·· \ ; ··. '. · / ,/ ·. · 
•The~t~r: 
:G1'eds~/7:30 PM,\Vashington Hali 

•Mickey 
Blue Eyes,' 10:30 PM, DeBartolo 



···THURSDAY 
•·SATUR-DAY 

. l ..., ! //~ -~---···~ ··~ <. 
•Tennis: ND Women vs. ,Illinois, 11:00
' ' : ;,. ' ,. ,. ' ') ,, 
. AM, Ec;k Tennis ;Pavilion __ / / ·..•Valentine Aerobics, 2:00 PM,!.Rolfs, 
•"What's Love G6t To Do With It?"2·:0() PM, 
• Suite . · .. I ! .{ ·\-..:..../ /. 
•Sophomore Literary Fesiival:..WillHim · 
Kennedy, 8:00 PM, Washingto11 Hall 
. . -. . . . . 

SLJNDAv·: 
,-, .••• ~·-. •~ -----,-.----·~--•· 
" 

. . . . .' . :-., .. ·. : 
:' : . '. ' __;____ '' \ :. ·.•·.· .'•··.·. >1 i 
,')•Exhibit: "Fling tjeath:_l'ortraitffrpm , Cambodia's Killiµg ~ielq;" 2:004:00'P.M, .. Sntie·. -. ; : J L J, .?:-~ I, .1 
•Sophomorerner:(ry Festivhl:/Uc;Young '.· l .Le~;· 8:0Q PM,Libr:k, Aiidit<fritirilj 4 . ,J :.,.. fe(!/im,; ·7:00 P~)nitf,;:. ·· · :• ·,t~C· ••· 
,····.-·:· .. ;:;. 
:;·_: . ·:-·._·. 


MON.DAY 1 .· .• 
·•· .• Lecture: "Money Matters: Becomirtg :. Financially Lit!!rate," Liz Lamo'n,.i2:09 PM ' 
• Grace Hall -:...... i ·•. ·' · j ;:"""'--.~·, 
,. •Sophomore Lit?r¥Y F~sti.~iil: ,S~~~nt. ..· Readers, 8:00 P,¥ ,yashmgtpn:Hal! ·\ 
•Exhibit: "Facing Death: Portraits fr.om ' Cambodia's Killing [Field,>?:00-4:0,0 PM, 
· Snite i : · ·.;,_.. · 
, ___ 1 •:,,., •--v,,.~­
• ·NOW SHOWING: ,.<

.f~t,~;~~ci.f>'JI-17\\il~; .. ~iijf~lil'J\&ki~~;:


c·zn~7336/\ ,:· · 
•All Sho,vs 'iri Stereo .r •, ' '' '' 
Toe\VcfrI(f-<>i;.,:_::;:_:;:;. >: · .: ·­
. ' ' .. : ' ·.: . ' ': •·.. ' ;: -' " . -' ' ' ' 
'·isNot~oµgh .:: k.'l:30· 4:oo 6:30 9:10 >••··. 

·;it~ht.fkFM.~ri;:6:;{,".;
.',.<ug,JJ;!m~, _: ov1e : ·::-(

~il!fit'f'?· .•. .·.· •· t\.!' 
The Bachelor· .2:10 .4:40 7}0 9:~i{Ariniarid t~e.i<inf, . > z':oo 5:15 s:30\ .. TjieJ3one ,GollectQ(\:. ..... ' 1:40 4:~0 ):Ot_9:3p:.

if$1ii~{ [~~(tiit~i 
-._:•\=-_;_::·_; :.:,:_:,:.-·:-.. ·-.:.i:·>.·. ·-•,-· -:. ,.:·,.~ ::·-~-·-, 

·ttj{~WP~;t6).f \:· 

-(29:9~6063) /(\ii
:All:ShO\VS in.Stereo .: ' ',, ' ...· t: ><• 

•·... ·•. <·7:oo J:3o r: s:.oo 
.9:1s 9:45 

},;:'./:., •·,·\•. )::)1())(\9Jt;){~'{(\ ..... · 
Calendar Scholastic 31 








Second Wind 
byMicahMu~hy 




Well, my term and career at Notre Dame are coming to a close so I guess I have to figure out what I want to be when I grow 
up. I just realized that I'm going to have to graduate and do something with my life one of these days. .When asked as a kid what! wanted to do when I grew up, I didn't think I would end up at Notre Dame and definitely did not plan on being elected student body president. I guess it just goes to show you that God has a plan for all of us and you find out on His schedule-even ifyou dcin' t have it entered into the PalmPilot™. 
I have been honored and blessed to serve the Notre Dame community this year. I can honestly say that the Murphy-Palumbo administration has worked long and hard to improve services for students and relations with alumni, faculty, administration and peer institutions nationwide. People like Lee Svete, Peggy Hnatusko, Ross Kerr, Matt Mamak, Coach Doherty, Father Poorman, Bill Hoye, Luciana Reali, Dan Peate and, yes, even Bill Kirk have all been great examples of ser­vant leadership and
1 f f f h

Notre Dame is a p ace O un, ait , have been tremendous tradition and academic rigor -but student advocates. Al-­not necessarily in that order. It's bal-th0ugh I have thor­
oughly enjoyed my ancing these four that is often the term and will forever .most difficult part. remember and be 
---------..------------thankful for the lessons I learned and the many 
Senior Micah 

people I met and worked with, the most indelible
Mwphy is the 

experience of these past four years actually came
outgoing student 
during my freshman year. 
body president. 

It was the first day of second semester and I remember sitting in naval history class when Ileaned over to Leslie Davis and I said, "I think my lung collapsed." I felt this gripping pain in my chest and left shoulder, as if it had been put in a vice grip and was being tightened with every breath. Being the dumb freshman I was, after the pain subsided a little, I shuffled across campus to my next two classes before I finally decided to go to the emergency room. After two unsuccessful operations, a case of pneumonia, a month in the hospital and losing 40 pounds, I was transferred to a specialty hospital where they basically ripped my ribs open to try to fix the seemingly irreparable lung. By spring break I was sent home and walking around trying to accli­mate myself to "normal" life. During my time in the hospital and at home second semester, I received countless cards, calls, emails, visits and even had a party thrown in my honor in Keough. I tell you this not to have you feel sorry for me, but to share with you an experience where I felt firsthand the love, caring and support of the Notre Dame family and to illustrate that people are here to help. People look at me strangely when I say that having my lung col­lapse was one of the best things to ever happen to me, but I honestly believe that the trials I went through made me a stronger, better, more empathetic person and helped me to prioritize what is truly important in my life. 
Since getting back to campus my sophomore year, I saw my remaining time at Notre Dame through a different perspective. I began to focus more on relationships and learning outside the classroom, as these were the things I would cherish and remember 40 years from now, not the formula for calculating net present value or my GP A. I hope to remember the Keenan Revues, the Keough Chariot Races, Bookstore Basketball, late night talks with sectionmates, the "riot" of finals week '99, road trips with the boys, working backstage at the Dave Matthews concert, the Navy Balls, NDE, North­South snowball fights, women's soccer success and the first good b_asketball season in nearly a decade. Notre Dame is a place of fun, faith, tradition and academic rigor -but not necessarily in that order. It's balancing these four that is often the most difficult part. 
I realize I probably won't ·go down in history as the best student body president and that I've made more than my fair share of mistakes. To tell you the truth, I never really got used to being introduced or referred to as "President Murphy" without feeling embarrassed or laughing for some reason. I hope that I've represented the student body well as I know the rest of the Student Union clubs and organiza­tions tried their hardest to bring programs and policy initiatives to improve your quality oflife on campus. There are still plenty of issues to be worked on; gender, multicultural, alumni and student-faculty relations are high on the list. I pray that the newly­elected officers will work hard for the students, remember to put God first, set high standards for themselves, have fun and retain a commitment to excellence. D 
32 Scholastic Final Word 



Self bu Michael McNaru 

SUB and U93 vveicome ·. · ·. · f~i_JD-:rr:1J~r2 KJJ fflnJli \!/ifrlti1r:J' rYb'cft ~/L Wednesday, March 1 at Stepan Center Opening Act: Radford Concert Tickets on sale Monday at 9 am at the LaFortune Box Office $14 with ND/SMC/HC student i.d. $16 for. general admission 

Bharati·. Mukherjee February 12* William Kennedy · February 13 Li-Young Lee February 14 Student Readers February 15 Andrew Hudgins February 16 John Edgar Wideman • February 17 
*Bharati Mukherjee will be reading in the Library 
Auditorium at 8:00 pm. All others will read in 
Washington Hall at 8:00 pm. 

,~,.~~~-/_;._/!. i_: 
Steel Drum Band February 12 , Free at Reckers 2-4pm 


www.nd.edu/-sub 

09/01105 Permit No. 2 NOTRE DAME, IN wvfi.nd.edu 
fi\


wvli..nd.edu 
·:.ft iiv:: 








