THE CAMPUS SHOP IS READY WITH YOUR CLOTHING NEEDS FOR A CAREFREE SPRING VACATION . . .
Enjoy a carefree southern vacation this spring with Palm Beach wash ’n wear fashions. They look sharp . . . stay wrinkle-free . . . when they need freshening just wash ’em yourself ... by hand or in an automatic. They’re dry in a jiffy and you’re ready to go again with little or no pressing. Get what you need now and charge it the Campus Shop way: Pay one-third in July . • . one-third in August . . . one-third in September. No carrying charge, of course.
PALM BEACH WASH 'N WEAR SUITS.......... 39.95
PALM BEACH SLACKS, from................ 9.95
PALM BEACH SPORT COATS, from........... 29.95
^GILBERT'S
c^ampusShop
On the Campus—Notre Dame
OP On Campus
V_yr (Author of “I IFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
COLLEGE: THE FOE OF EDUCATION
In your quest for a college degree, are you becoming a narrow specialist, or are you being educated in the broad, classical sense of the word? This question is being asked today by many serious peopleincluding my barber, my podiatrist, and my little dog Spot—and it would be well to seek an answer.
Let us examine our souls. Are we becoming experts only in the confined area of our majors, or does our knowledge range far and wide? Do we, for example, know who fought in the battle of Salamis, or Kant’s epistemology, or Planck’s constant, or the voyage of the Beagle, or Palestrina’s cantatas, or what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintem Abbey?
If we do not, we are turning, alas, into specialists. What, then, can we do to escape this strait jacket, to broaden our vistas, lengthen our horizons, to become, in short, educated?
Well sir, the first thing we must do is throw away our curricula. Tomorrow, instead of going to the same old classes, let us try something new. Let us think of college, not as a rigid discipline, but as a kind of vast smorgasbord, with all kinds of tempting intellectual tidbits to sample and savor.
Let us dive in. Let our pent-up appetites roam and snatch where they will.
We will start the day with
a stimulating seminar in Hittite artifacts. Then we will go over to marine biology and spend a happy hour with the mollusks. Then we will open our pores by drilling with the ROTC for a spell. Then we’ll go over to journalism and scramble a font of Bodoni. Then we’ll go to the medical school and palpate a few spleens. Then we’ll go to home economics and have lunch.
And between classes we’ll smoke Marlboro Cigarettes. This, let me emphasize, is not an added fillip to the broadening of our education; it is an essential. To learn to live richly and well is an important part of education, and Marlboros are an important part of living richly and well. Do you think flavor went out when filters came in? Well, ha-ha, the joke is
* * *
Poets and peasants alike know that if you like mildness but you don’t like filters, you can’t do better than Marlboro’s companion ciyarette—Philip Morris.
on you. Marlboro, with its Selectrate filter, delivers flavor in full measure, flavor without stint or compromise, flavor that wrinkled care derides, flavor holding both its sides. This triumph of the tobacconist’s art comes to you in soft pack or flip-top box and can be lighted with match, lighter, candle, Welsbach mantle, or by rubbing two small Indians together.
When we have embarked on this new regimen—or, more accurately, lack of regimen—we will soon be studded with culture like a ham with cloves. When strangers accost us on the street and say, “What was Wordsworth doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey?” we will no longer slink away in silent abashment. We will reply loud and clear:
“As any truly educated person knows, Wordsworth, Shelley, and Keats used to go to the Widdicombe Fair every year for the poetry-writing contests and threelegged races, both of which they enjoyed wildly. Well sir, imagine their chagrin when they arrived at the Fair in 1776 and
let ui wr
learned that Oliver Cromwell, jittery because Guy Fawkes had just invented the spinning jenny, had canceled all public gatherings, including the Widdicombe Fair and Liverpool. Shelley was so upset that he drowned himself in the Bay of Naples, Keats went to London and became Samuel Johnson, and Wordsworth ran blindly into the forest until he collapsed in a heap ten miles above Tintem Abbey. There he lay for several years, sobbing and kicking his little fat legs. At length, peace returned to him. He composed himself and, noticing for the first time the beauty of the forest around him, he wrote Joyce Kilmer’s immortal Trees ... And that, smartypants, is what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintem Abbey.” © ism mu shuimu
WONG AGAIN
Editor:
In last week’s [issue of March 11] “At the Theaters,” it was stated that “. . .Nevil Shute seems to have gone to extremes.”
However, the apex of “going to extremes” was reached, not by Shute, the author of the novel, but by Stanley 4 Kramer, the director- of the movie.
Leo J. Vetter, Jr.
825 N. Notre Dame Ave. ! . South Bend, Ind.
Editor:
Twice is too much! Tony Wong has v twice flaunted the word “morbid” in the face of his readers. The dictionary says that “morbid” means grisly or gruesome. I assure the readers of this publication that the wake scene of Porgy and Bess is far from gruesome. It is, in fact, one of the most beautiful and moving scenes of the show.	.
Granted that death is far from a } pleasant subject, I still cannot see that the wake scene is handled in any way which would impress anyone abnormally (another meaning of “morbid”). By the same reasoning Tony would have to condemn Hamlet and King Lear as being “morbid.”	„
Further, I assure anyone who appreciates art that he will enjoy Porgy and Bess. Were it not for Lent, I would gladly see it again.
I should add that this is the first com- . plaint that I’ve had against Tony’s en- -joyable column, and I shall continue to read it despite oui- difference of opinion.
Robert M. Carlton
409 Breen-Phillips >
THE TRUTH
Editor:
Contrary to the efforts of the recent female authors from the other side of the tracks to “Repercussions,” the true stature of the Notre Dame man has finally been promulgated by potential im- '' ports from Cleveland who would “be willing to sacrifice Western Reserve University, Case Tech., and John Carroll for Notre Dame and would be glad to change places with SMC.” [See letter in March 11 issue].
Jean Beaudoin
206 Fisher ""
(Continued on page 32)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don . Spencer, College" Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria < Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. AU unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
4
*

£

4'
*
A


y.
k-

The Notre Dame

Vol. 101 No. 21 id
APRIL 1, 1960 I J
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI
Wade Clarke .
Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan William Sweeney William Veeder
sports editor and staff THOMAS ROSE William Cary . J. (JayJ Kilroy
copy editor and staff WALTER RUDGE George Casey Peter Geniesse Thomas Marciniak
i
art editor JERRY FLORENT
photographer
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager and staff ROBERT HORN Thomas Carey Joseph Finnigan
circulation manager
LAWRENCE LEACH
? moderator	•<
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.$.c
news reporters s Philip Larrabee > { ’ John Ohala ■' •' Y'-J: j 1 ThomasSchlereth Uy ''/'S' William Sparks U •_
John Bechtold^Ufs s-,■> s*--—
?>^Uu3G^»!8e Voris Walsh
J


M:
ord Ballot
5 in
A VOTE FOR EQUALITY: Within the past week the following letter has been sent to the student body presidents of 30 Southern schools currently engaged in the civil rights battle.
Dear Student Body President:
The continued suppression of your fellow students and the underlying policies of racial segregation and inequality have caused grave concern at Notre Dame.
Speaking on behalf of a Catholic University irrevocably committed to the principles of justice and equality before law, I offer our full sympathies for the success of your non-violent, yet strong and courageous, actions.
Be assured that during coming days, our thoughts and prayers will be with you as we look toward the inevitable day when you and your people will reach full citizenship. We are with you in spirit; we will be ready to aid you at every opportunity.
Sincerely,
Bruce E. Babbitt
Student Body President
The Scholastic wholeheartedly concurs with this letter and everything it stands for. But we ask the question, is a letter enough? The students and the University must take the next step.
FAREWELL ARTISTS: The concert of Metropolitan Opera star Rosiland Elias ended the Artist Series for the 1960 senes, and most likely, for some time to come. Singing to a slightly less than one-fourth capacity audience, the mezzo-soprano gave a good performance. It is our opinion, however, that such a good performance was not only a demonstration of her marvelous voice, but also of her patience and kindness. It is very doubtful that she will encounter another audience as small as the one she sang before last Friday night. If so, it will only be a result of limited seating capacity. But the small audience was not insult enough. A Blue Circle usher, with literally hundreds of empty seats staring him in the face, escorted some of the several latecomers to their seats in the center of the middle section while the concert was in progress. This was done, of course, with the aid of a red flashlight. While this sideshow was transpiring, Miss Elias patiently waited before starting her next number.
At the present time there is a general feeling that the Artist Series will not be repeated next year due to the general lack of interest and support among students and faculty members for artistic features and concerts. We suggest perhaps another reason for discontinuing the series: Notre Dame doesn’t deserve to hear such fine entertainers. Notre Dame certainly doesn’t have the right to insult them.
NO STUDENT GIFT: Within the past weeks student government has begun work on a project which, if successful, will be one of their biggest achievements in years. This is the reactivation of the now-defunct Student Enrollment Development Committee. The plan of this group is to send qualified Notre Dame students to the finer high schools in the country and have them speak to seniors on the advantages of a Notre Dame education. These students would have the official sanction of the University and would be supplied with literature and information for distribution among prospective freshmen. Such a program would allow high school seniors to see Notre Dame as it is today and not as it was 20 or even ten years ago. The probable result would be an increase in the number of really qualified freshman applicants. Needless to say, the significance of such a trend is tremendous. However, as with all new things at Notre Dame, there is a hitch. Although the plan has already received the approval of Father Hesburgh (at a recent student leaders’ banquet), it is being slowed down considerably by other members of the administration who question its merit. The attitude seems to be, “It didn’t work before so why tiy again?” Our answer: Give us a chance and it will work.
WHO GETS THE VOTE?: The delegates representing the various states in the upcoming Mock Convention can follow one of two paths. They all will have to choose between voicing their own opinions concerning the Convention’s nominee for the Democratic slate and representing as best they can the state in the delegation of which they serve. The alternative is this. The delegate can either vote as he thinks the state will vote in the Convention this summer or he can vote his own preference. Both alternatives have advantages. The delegates must have some sympathy for the states they are representing; otherwise the Mock Convention will be only the voting of 1521 students and not the voting of 50 states. On the othei- hand, the purpose of the Convention is to detennine the man the students of this school feel the best nominee and not to try to predict the result of the real Democratic Convention. The delegates must be cognizant of both of these factors when they cast their votes if their votes are to be simultaneously their own and to some extent representative.
—B. T. & T.
5
a
□EKE EBE
DEEB EEEE EEE
□□EDHEEBE
5BEDE
V H
v
|A|N]V|
□EE El
DQEEDaQSEEEEB
EC EES
j J .
.cSJHi 1OVUN QLMSnoNa KJ7M no*. 3Q3*\.
■aiNivms sWljjiNja AlalxiQloiH aiNlvIaws
iSIOM
DEEB
3 a a
V
H 0 V a
tSMSNVKDM
E),k..........»»>»>»»»»i»n»mnnn»>mm<mmmnnn>>n<<<i>iHi»«..»>»»>i>i>»<»»«»«»nlHi»im»un»Hg
I	Contents	I
|	At the Theaters____________________21	Escape ____________________________ 7	I
|	Back Page--------------------------34	News Briefs _______________________12	I
| . Campus Scene ______________________ 9	Odds and Ends______________________26	I
|	Commentary------------------------- 5	Repercussions______________________ 4	I
j	Critical Horizons__________________15	Sports Picture ____________________27	I
.............................■»»»■■»■■■■■>■■»■■■»■»>■■»»>■»<■>>■■■...
4
KODL KROSSWORD No. 10
ACROSS
1. Fraternal letter
5. Haywire
9.	Crewdrivers
10.	This is poison
11.	Sport for Willie the Penguin (2 words)
13.	Seat-of-the-pants condition
14.	They go with outs
15.	Grand, hand
17. Small accounts
20.	Little organization
21.	Strike out
26. With dames
29.	Hayseedy man’s name
30.	What Harvard men fish for
31.	A little less than many
32.	A kind of Abner
33.	Between you and the mattress
35. Gin alternative
37. Everyone----- Kool’s Menthol Magic
41.	Khan man
42.	“Jemt”
44.	Kind of cent
45.	Libido
46.	Backward idol in Italy
47.	Bess’s curve
48.	An age
49.	N. C. college
3.	Where the nuts come from
4.	Cricketers* craving
5.	This is basic, in basic
6.	Like switching to Kools (3 words)
7.	Upright (2 words)
8.	Necessity for Pop’s car
12. Traveling (2 words)
16.	Curvaceous figure
17.	It’s good in the hole
18.	Modem art, sounds educational (pk)
19.	Classy classes
21.	Kools are_____ favored by discerning smokers
22.	It follows
DOWN
1____de
Boulogne
2. Reaching without the ring
23--------jam
24.	It’s cooling like a Kool
25.	Ointment item
27.	Creme________ creme
28.	Pedal wiggler
33.	Buy a carton of Kools at your favorite_______
34.	Count, for instance
35.	It precedes
30 Across
36.	Unopened
38.	America’s most refreshing cigarette
39.	Prefix meaning “within”
40.	Kind of dive
43. Knowledgeable fellow
11
13
26
29
46
THE
CIGARETTES
01960, BROWN * WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
r ALSO \ AVAILABLE' WITHOUT . FILTER i
10
17
18
20
27
ARE YOU WDL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
22
23
31
32
35
34
38
49
When your throat tells you Ki time for a change^ fl you need	Jp
a real change
YOU NEED
kgdl
A
<


<”K0DL
6
The Scholastic
SicafU
by CHRIS FOLEY
in the spring a young man’s fancy
LIGHTLY turns to thoughts of football, if the young man is on the campus of a university that devotes the , springtime to developing the men who shall sweep the field in the autumn. Spring practice does not of course com-“ mand the attention held by regular season play, but it is well known that winning teams are molded on the practice field, and it is often that a decision made *• during the spring session will reap spec-u tacular results the following season.
Such was the case a few years back, ' 1947 to be exact, when the Irish grid * forces were led by the incomparable Frank Leahy. I was a freshman at the time, but nonetheless held the important I post of number one football manager, * sort of Mr. Leahy’s right hand man.
Spring practice had been very trying that year, and it was with the greatest 4 relief that the other managers and I fin-i ally got the last of the athletes into the dressing room and discarded our bull whips until fall. I immediately reported ( to Mr. Leahy to complete the paper work involved and by the look on his face it was obvious that he was not at * all pleased with the team’s progress.
I*
; THE ONE THAT GOT AWAY
No doubt the thing that weighed heaviest on his mind was a tragedy that had struck on the third day of practice. ” One of the assistant coaches, drilling a u small group of players at the far end ’ of Cartier Field, became careless and ; i foolishly turned his back on his charges, r In a flash he was attacked by a pack of £ interior lineman, incurring severe facial ' cuts and scratches from the spirited be, hemoths. Before help could be sum-j * moned, several prize guards and tackles L had bolted the fence and escaped into I the nearby countryside. We had to get 'i i the hounds out to retrieve them, but by nightfall we had recovered all but one, a pedigreed sophomore tackle. For days we searched for the lad, but to no avail; he was gone, returned to the simple life of nature he loved so well.
, Player after player was tried at the now vacant left tackle spot, but all were x found wanting. A fatal weakness exist' ed in the Irish armor, and Mr. Leahy would not rest until it was corrected.
In those days the football coach’s office was on the third floor of the Student Center, and I accompanied the sad and
April 1, 1960
worried coach there. We hardly noticed the gleeful young students enjoying the Saturday afternoon mixer as we sat down at Mr. Leahy’s desk.
“Somewhere in this country there’s a left tackle,” Mr. Leahy said with determination, “and we have got to get him.” The two of us scanned our memories, desperately trying to call to mind someone who could fill the job.
Coach Leahy called George Halas of the Chicago Bears to see about the possibility of a trade, but George had nothing to spare.
Telegrams were dispatched to every educational, mental, and penal institution in the country, but none could help us. It seemed that nowhere in the land was there a man to plug the gaping hole in the Irish defense.
Then, just when things looked blackest, something outside the door caught Coach Leahy’s eye. His face brightened and his eyes assumed a glasslike luster. I turned around and saw a couple dancing just outside the door. The girl was of the type usually found at Notre Dame mixers. But the boy! It seemed miraculous!
He was easily 6'4" with a ponderous build, his bulging muscles defying his dark sports coat. Light on his feet for all his bulk, the boy was surely an answer to our prayers.
Mr. Leahy just kept staring at the couple, mumbling to himself. “Big enough,” he whispered. “I wonder if. . . look at those arms. . .power!. . . I wonder. . . .”
Instantly I sprung to the file listing the height, weight, and playing experience of every undergraduate. My hopes rose as I read the boy’s qualifications, but then my heart sank to a new low when I saw that our prospect was a senior, graduating in June, and therefore of no use to us. Sadly I turned to break the news to Mr. Leahy. He was still staring out the door, talking to himself. “Would they let me? Why not? What power! What sheer strength!”
“Sorry coach,” I broke in. “He’s a senior. We can’t use him.”
Mr. Leahy never looked up. He just kept staring at the young couple. Just then the young giant planted a tender kiss on the young lady’s head. She, infuriated at this flirtatious act, immediately began countermoves. But our man was quick, and avoided her violent attack for several minutes before she fin
ally cornered him and sent him sailing over the balcony.
“That does it!” Coach Leahy exclaimed. “Come on. Our tackle problem is solved.”
“But coach, I tried to tell you he’s a senior. We can’t use him.”
“Him? Who cares about him? It’s her I’m interested in.” With that he burst out the door and fired a barrage of questions at the startled young lady. Blushing coquettishly, the little damsel answered them all in one sentence. “My name is Grushenka Scagburg, I’m a frosh at SMC, I weigh 214 pounds and I think football is just fabulous.”
Coach Leahy looked up at the heavens and uttered a silent prayer. “Let’s go Grushenka,” he said. “Let’s go over to Cartier Field.”
FOR THE RECORD
Well fans, the rest is history. To my knowledge the only coed in this University’s history, Grushenka stepped into the lineup the following fall and anchored a Notre Dame line which led the team roaring through an undefeated season. Nicknamed “Little Miss Skull Smasher” by her affectionate teammates, Grushenka won nation-wide recognition for her manner of pulverizing enemy ball carriers without losing a bit of her native grace, charm or poise. Overwhelmingly popular among Notre Dame alumni and friends, this little doll from Droop, W. Va., also did much to better relations between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, for every Notre Dame man knew the very real contribution SMC had made to the team’s success.
That’s just about the end of this tale of a coach’s genius in solving personnel problems, but in this case there is an enchanting postscript to add to an already Cinderella story. Near the end of her illustrious career, in the Southern Methodist game of 1949, Grushenka in the heat of battle cracked heads with a Southern Methodist halfback, thus unwittingly igniting a gridiron romance that caught the hearts of pigskin fed-lowers the world over. Now happily married to this lad whom she happened to meet on her own 25-yard line, Grushenka still looks back to the years when she enabled old Notre Dame to win over all.
New Mooks from Notre "Dame
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. The issues of American identity and the world’s image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors’ evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world’s vision of what America stands for. $4.75
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. Diplomacy must play an increasing role in the negotiation of the differences of a changing world. The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world. Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, and Hans Morganthau are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume.	$7.50
FREEDOM AND REFORM IN LATIN AMERICA, edited by Frederick B. Pike. Provides an insight into some of the changes that have shaped Latin America’s recently commenced struggle to erect a society in which the values of individual freedom are safeguarded at the same time that social and economic reforms are achieved. The essays range from a philosophical consideration of the concepts of freedom and reform to an economic study of urbanizing and industrializing Latin America.	$6.00
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940, by Edward N. Tarulis. In 1918 Red troops attacked Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania but were repelled and for more than two decades the Baltic peoples consolidated their statehood. This fascinating book tells how these three nations were finally overpowered and annexed to the Soviet Union; it is a story of broken pledges and broken treaty obligations, diplomatic duplicity, connivance between Communism and Nazism, application of force in international relations, and the most naked and brutal imperialism.	$5.50
ETHICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES, edited by Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Positivistic social science, standing by itself and denuded of ethics, can contribute little to the world’s major problems. Scholars who are authorities in' both ethics and various social sciences discuss the inter-relationship of the two in this symposium.	$3.25
THE IMAGE OF MAN, edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., and Frank O’Malley. A selection of some of the best essays to appear in the Review of Politics during its first 20 years which show why the Review has become one of the world’s most influential journals.	$6.00
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925, edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczes-niak. This comprehensive collection of documentary material is intended to give an understanding of the historical change inflicted on organized religion by the Communist revolution from 1917 to 1925. The introduction is a concise historical survey that points out the complexity of the problem.	$6.75
THEORETICAL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, edited by William T. R. Fox. International relations have to be viewed as a subject which is something more than contemporary history if it is to yield results relevant to the major choices which governments and opinion leaders must make in world politics. This collection of essays grew out of an inter-university seminar at Columbia and is a speculative approach to the study of international relations.	$3.25
INTRODUCTION TO MODERN POLITICS, by Ferdinand A. Hermens. The discussion of various patterns of government, both from the historical and functional viewpoint, is useful and even indispensable. Professor Stephen K. Bailey of Princeton states: “The book brings together in brief compass one of the best statements on the historical and philosophical background of democracy that I have ever seen.”	$3.50
THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798, by Marshall Smelser. The author traces the acrimonious debate in Congress and throughout the young nation that preceded the birth of the navy. He shows how the Algerian piracies, French privateering, and the flouting of neutral rights in an Atlantic war aroused the nation and finally forced Congress to “provide and maintain a navy.”	$5.00
THE EARLY LITURGY, by Josef A. Jungmann, S.J. This is a fascinating outline of the history of the Church’s worship to 600 A.D. by the foremost litur-gist of our day. This period surpasses all others in importance because it is concerned with the formation of the ground-plan of the present Roman Rite. Rev. Gerald Ellard, S.J., himself a renowned liturgist, has this to say: “The climactic last chapter, a brilliant sketch of the Latin Mass at Rome from about 400 to 600, will be conned most carefully by readers. There are many other matters treated with distinction by the Innsbruck scholar.”	$5.75
Coming in April, 1960:
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE, edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. April selection of the Thomas More Book Club. Distinguished Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish authors assume that Roman Catholicism is an accepted part of the life of the nation and discuss the social problems, Church and State relations, and the Americanization of Roman Catholicism which have resulted from this acceptance.	$4.50
Order from the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
8
The Scholastic
THE 1956 MOCK CONVENTION — A PREVIEW OF THE CHAOTIC, ON-THE-SCENES ACTION WHICH STARTS SUNDAY
OPEN DEMO MOCK CONVENTION SUNDAY NIGHT
*
Sen. Church to Speak ■ Before Initial Session
j	by TOM WEISS
'1^ Fiery oratory, smoky-room caucuses 1 and banners garish and reserved boost* ing Stevenson, Johnson, Humphrey, Symington, Kennedy and a veritable lit' * ter of favorite sons will fill the Navy a Drill Hall during the 1960 Mock Demo-। cratic Convention Sunday through Wednesday. On those days delegates from the 50 states and the territories will assemble to select the Democratic Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates for 1960.
A total of 1521 delegates and 761 alternates have been selected from the national enrollments of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
" Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. the convention will be opened by Larry Turner, temporary chairman of the convention. After a pro forma vote, Bill Mapother, nominated for permanent chairman by
the 54 delegation chairmen, will take over the gavel. Mike Kelley has been nominated for permanent secretary, and a sergeant-at-arms will also be chosen.
With the preliminaries having been taken care of, the keynote address will be delivered by U. S. Senator Frank Church of Idaho (details on page 11).
Butler to speak. Also slated to speak before the assemblage on Sunday afternoon is Democratic National Chairman Paul Butler. Chicago Mayor Richard Daley will also attend Sunday and will address the convention either at the afternoon or evening session. Other prominent figures present at the convention will include Indiana State Senator R. Vance Hartke and state Democratic chairman John Brademas. The previously scheduled appearance and address by Governor G. Mennen Williams has been cancelled.
Student keynoter Al Hamilton will speak before the convention Sunday. Hamilton is an A.B. sophomore and is active on the news staff of WSND.
The initial session will be adjourned
at 5 p.m. Sunday and the convention will reconvene at 7 p.m., when the first nominations and demonstrations will open the “blood and guts” phase of the convention. The evening session will be adjourned at 11 p.m.
Monday’s session from 6 to 10 pan. will be highlighted by presidential balloting; because of the semi-spontaneity of the events at the Monday, Tuesday, and possible Wednesday sessions, the schedule for these days is fairly fluid. Balloting for the vice presidential nomination will probably begin at the Tuesday 6 to 10 p.m. session. Another session will be held Wednesday night if necessary.
A mock convention program will be sold at the sessions for 10 cents and will feature several sample ballots and a scorebox, along with the complete schedule of convention activities.
In the early balloting, after the favorite sons have set, it now appears that Senator Kennedy will be able to marshall the strongest support with an
(Continued on page 11)
April 1, 1960
9
Dr. Shuster to Receive 1960 Laetare Award; Alumnus Named Outstanding Catholic Layman
Dr. George N. Shuster, recently retired president of Hunter College in New York City, will receive the 1960 Laetare Medal, Notre Dame’s highest award of honor. The medal has been presented to an outstanding American Catholic layman annually since 1883.
Former managing editor of The Commonweal, a lay-edited Catholic weekly, Shuster at one time was head of Notre Dame’s English department. He is the author of books in the fields of education, religion, English literature and modern German history. On several occasions
DR. SHUSTER Wins Highest Award
Shuster served as an American delegate to international cultural conferences, and during 1950-51 he was State Commissioner for Bavaria in the U.S. Zone of Germany.
Intellectual leader. Father Hesburgh, in announcing the choice of the veteran educator for the Laetare Medal, said Shuster “exemplifies the intellectual leadership that Catholic laymen must assert more effectively in the arts, sciences and professions. It is with particular pleasure and pride that the University of Notre Dame awards to one of its distinguished alumni and former faculty members the Laetare Medal,” added the University president.
During Shuster’s twenty-year tenure as president, the enrollment of Hunter College grew from 11,000 to 17,000. Originally a college for women, the municipal institution accepted its first male students nine years ago. At a recent convention which was held in his honor at the university, Shuster declared, “I do not maintain that as the years have gone by I have learned to understand women, ibut I have learned you should not try to educate a woman as if she were a man, nor to educate her as if she were not. It has taken us a
fearfully long time to see that however great may be the intellectual sacrifice women must bring by reason of her primordial function as the bearer of life, there is no reason at all why her share in the community of scholars and artists should be of a lower order than is that of man.”
Shuster was graduated from Notre Dame in 1915 and earned his master’s degree from the University five years later. One of the first contributors to The Commonweal, he served as its managing editor from 1929 to 1937. Earning his doctorate at Columbia University, he became academic dean and acting president of Hunter College in 1939.
Educator trio. The third representative of the world of education to be so honored since 1940, Shuster will accept the Laetare Medal in a formal ceremony later. Carlton J. H. Hays, the celebrated historian and former U.S. ambassador to Spain, was awarded the medal in 1946, and Helen Constance White, author and veteran professor of English at the University of Wisconsin was the 1942 Laetare Medalist.
Father Walsh Laments Fact That Students Do Not Think
Speaking to a White House Conference on children and youth, Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., pointed out that college students are learning a lot but not thinking enough. Father Walsh heads Notre Dame’s Department of Education.
A Notre Dame graduate with a doctorate from Yale, he lamented that students “tend to be conformists at the very time in their lives when they should be most inquisitive and most daring in their thinking.” Father Walsh made no mention of Notre Dame policy.
“The campus is the place where commonly accepted ideas can be explored and subjected to criticism without fear of social, political or economic reprisals,” he said. “There is a recognized danger in permitting students who do not have the full responsibility for all of the implications and consequences of their thinking to move freely in the world of ideas, but this is a calculated risk. . . essential to the notion of higher education.”
WHAT TO WEAR
Measuring for caps and gowns for seniors will take place on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, April 5, 6 and 7. Optimistic seniors should go to room 2C of the LaFortune Student Center between 2:30 and 5:00 p.m.
Caps and gowns for Bachelors cost $3.30; Masters, $7.05 and Doctors, $8.05. The Master and Doctor charges include a hood.
BRUCE BABBIT
SBP takes Marshall award
SBP Babbitt Winner * Of British Scholarship ’
Student Body President Bruce Bab- 5 bitt was one of 24 American college students recently named recipients of a two-year Marshall Scholarship to a British university, starting next fall.	’
The Scholarships are tenable at any y university in the United Kingdom. A Marshall Scholar receives $1540 a year, tuition fees, allowances for books and transportation between his home in the U.S. and the university he will attend in the U.K.	,
Academic plus. In appointing Marshall Scholars, the selectors look for dis- > tinction of intellect and character as evidenced both by scholastic attainment * and by other activities and achievements. Preference is given to candidates who * combine high academic ability with the capacity to play an active part in the United Kingdom university to which they go.	*
Babbitt, a Dean’s List student, majoring in AB-geoglogy, will attend King’s College, University of Durham. He will be doing graduate work for a M.S. de- J gree in geophysics.	(
Winning scholarships is nothing new to Babbitt, who last year received a < $1100 grant for geological rtudy in the Southwest from the National Science * Foundation and just recently was named a recipient of a Woodrow Wilson Fellow- 4 ship.	i
The Marshall Scholarship scheme was I instituted in 1953, as a symbol of British appreciation for the Program for European Recovery put into effect by Secretary of State Marshall. Until this year ' there were twelve award winners annually. Last December a Parliamentary * bill was passed doubling the number of scholarships and making provision for possible future additions to the 24 by a simple Order in Council.
10
The Scholastic
Select Watters Editor of Literary Publication; Cahdan, Engler Chosen for Associate Posts
L The editor and senior board members ' of the Juggler have announced their selection of Chris Watters as editor of the » campus literary publication for 1960-61.
Watters is a junior biology major from Ironton, Ohio, and an active member of the Bookmen. Jim Yoch, the outgoing * editor, is a senior English major from . St. Louis. Yoch was recently named a 1 recipient of a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship.
* Assisting Watters as associate editors, will be John Cahalan and John Engler. Cahalan, also a member of the Bookmen, is a junior philosophy major from Wyan-J dotte, Mich. He is a member of the Blue Circle and chairman of the Artists Series. Engler, a junior majoring in English from Tenafly, New Jersey, is a * member of the Bookmen and the Wranglers.
Also on next year’s Juggler board will be William Pflaum, Lyn Relph and *• Michael Smith. Pflaum, whose home is in Dayton, Ohio, is a junior English major. He is a member of the Arts and Letters and undergraduate Library advisory committees, and a member of YCS. Relph, a junior majoring in English, is from Huntington Park, Cal., and a member of the Wranglers. Smith, also * a junior English major, hails from L Augusta, Georgia, and is a membei’ of the Bookmen and YCS.
4 Auxiliaries named. Next year’s Auxiliary Board will be headed by Gerald Pluker, a sophomore majoring in Latin American studies from Fitchburg, Mass, k The other newly appointed members of the Auxiliary Board are William Hamilton and Edmund Burke, both sophomores.
In addition to Yoch, the graduating members of this year’s staff are Tom
i
I !
i»
I [ i
EDITOR WATTERS, ASSOCIATE CAHALAN Ascendants to Juggler positions
Banchoff, Dave Christian, Bernie McElroy, Jim Rose and art editor, James Carney.
There are a limited number of positions on the Auxiliary Board open for freshmen. Mainly, the duties will consist of typing, publicity, sales and distribution work, and there will be excellent opportunities for advancement into higher positions in the future. Those interested should write a letter of application to Jim Yoch, 316 Walsh, stating their background, interests and qualifications. Anyone interested in the position of art editor should submit sketches of “The Juggler” to Jim Yoch.
’Satch’ Armstrong- to Appear In Fieldhouse Tomorrow Nite
Louis Armstrong, trying to knock pre-vacation blues out of University students, will present the annual spring concert in the Fieldhouse tomorrow evening at 8:45. And there is not much doubt that Satch will get the job done, for his usual array of cracks, retorts and songs have impressed audiences the world over.
“Ambassador Satch” was at the campus three years ago and filled the Fieldhouse with a capacity crowd. Velma Middleton, whose singing style has made her name a key word in the entertainment business, will be accompanying Armstrong this time as will be the All Stars, his usual background group.
Tickets to the event, which will be sponsored by the student government social commission, have not yet been sold out. The tickets remaining will go on sale before the concert at the Fieldhouse box office.
To Install ’Riders Round-up* As Campus Traveler Bureau
Through the initiative of the Student Senate a “Riders Round-up” board is scheduled to be installed this week end just outside the south entrance to the Huddle.
The board will have about 200 hooks on it. Printed cards, to be filled out by those seeking rides or offering rides, will be supplied and are to be hung on the hooks. Included on the cards will be the name, destination, campus address, date of departure and route for the riders and drivers.
Each rider is to place one card on the board, while drivers will post as many cards as they need riders. Prospective riders should each take one of the cards posted by the driver; drivers can also take the riders’ cards. In this way the board should be self-clearing, and the parties involved will have all the necessary information. It is requested that students not pick up cards unless they are going to be used for one of the above purposes. Tentative plans are to contact as many car-owning off-campus students as possible to promote use of the facility.
Mock Convention
(Continued from page 9)	;
estimated 550 votes backing him up. Senators Symington and Johnson have been running about neck and neck, with Johnson having a good chance of picking up strong support from the Western delegations while Symington’s support will probably come primarily from the South and Midwest. Meanwhile, across the Dixie, sentiment for Stevenson has been very high for the past week. The Northern liberal contingent can be expected to support Senator Humphrey.
Campaigns for each of the candidates have been carried on entirely through the initiative of individual student campaign managers in contact with the candidates’ national campaign staffs. Preconvention rallies were scheduled by some of the campaign managers to build up support for their particular candidate.
Three for four. The quadrennial mock convention, sponsored since 1940 by the Academy of Political Science, has selected the correct nominee three out of four times.
In the spring of 1940 the students nominated Franklin D. Roosevelt; Dwight Eisenhower in 1952 and Adlai Stevenson in 1956 were the most recent student-nominated candidates. The convention’s sole miscue came in 1948 when the late Senator Arthur Vandenburg of Michigan received the Presidential nomination at the affair here. The GOP that year gave Thomas Dewey of New York the top spot on the ticket.
Assisting Turner and Mapother in arranging this year’s convention were Marty Roach, Tom O’Connell, . John Boldin, Leo Gorman, Mike Kelley and Bill Leser. Mr. Paul Bartholomew is the faculty advisor for the event.
April 1, 1960
11
Senator Church to Keynote Mock Convention; Idaho Legislator Considered for Main Show
News Briefs
United States Senator Frank Church, one of the brightest young men in national politics, will deliver the keynote address at the opening session of the mock Democratic national convention. The three days of speeches, demonstrations and balloting will get under way Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. in the University Drill Hall.
Church was born in Boise, Idaho, July 25, 1924, the son of pioneer Idaho parents. While in high school he won the national American Legion Oratorical contest, and a four-year scholarship, with which he helped finance his college
FRANK CHURCH
To deliver keynote speech
'Project Guidance' Rejected By University for Principles
“Project Guidance,” recently referred to University officials for approval, has been turned down. In rejecting the proposal the administration stated that the project “was based on principles which are not accurate and presumptions which are not acceptable.”
The first erroneous principle, according to the officials, was that the rector and prefects in the freshman halls do not have time for freshmen. They stated that “this is not true” and that the present system “is operating quite well.” “Any student who wishes to talk to a priest has the opportunity to do so,” they said.
The second faulty principle involved the qualifications of the senior advisors, whom the officials cited as “not qualified to give advice and counsel or to solve any problem that the freshman may bring to him. . . good counselling must be based on a background of knowledge and experience that is much more extensive than that possessed by seniors.”
education. After his military service, he received an A.B. from Stanford University, studied law at Harvard and Stanford, receiving his LL.B, from the latter school.
He was practicing law at Boise when he was elected to the Senate in 1956, by one of the largest pluralities ever given a candidate for office in the state’s history. At 35, he remains the youngest member of the Senate.
Energy of youth. Three years and four sessions of the Congress have laid to rest the concern about his age. His youthful zeal and energy have served him well; Frank Church not only can take pride in how he has worked for the folks back home, but can take important credit for his role in the passage of such historic national legislation as Civil Rights and Alaskan and Hawaiian Statehood.
Church co-sponsored the Jury Trial Amendment to the Civil Rights measure, and was the author of another which assured Negroes the right to serve on federal juries. Famed for his oratory, Church is being considered as a potential keynote speaker at the Democratic National Convention.
While the Senator’s eloquence has earned him national repute, not so well known was his service on four Senate committees, something of a record for a freshman Senator. Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor- or Management Field, Civil Service and Post Office, Interior and Insular Affairs and Public Works.
Scholarship Gift Sought To Aid African Students
Through combined efforts, the StudentFaculty Committee on Notre Dame in World Affairs and the Hall Presidents’ Council have proposed to collect a scholarship fund to be given to a promising African student. The gift, which would be presented in the name of the student body of the University, will be presented for the coming year.
The importance of aid to African students has been recently pointed out by the fact that Joe Taderara, a premedical student from Southern Rhodesia who is presently studying at the University, will be only the seventh native doctor in his country. Taderara is attending Notre Dame through the efforts of the National Student Association’s Foreign Student Leadership Program and the Student Government.
The proposed fund will be collected by a personal solicitation of the student body on April 10. The effort has been endorsed by Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., President of the University; Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., VicePresident of Student Affairs, and Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
Tomorrow noon is the deadline for ' applications for the following concessions: , student insurance representative, student loan administer, cake concession administer, summer storage manager, assistant manager, work crew foreman, and photography concession. The applications must be in writing and send to Concessions Committee Chairman, 234 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Interested students are urged to apply for the positions which in the past have re- ’* ceived only a small number of applications.
Forty students of Notre Dame, accompanied by Thomas Hallinan, an instructor ” in the University’s department of finance, recently toured the home office of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., Milwaukee, observing the operation of the f largest life insurance company west of the Atlantic seaboard.
The students, members of the Accounting club, learned how life insurance policies ** are handled and also got a close look at the latest in accounting and office equipment, including the Electronic Data Pro- , cessing Center, which houses operations of NML’s “giant” computer.
Professor Frank O’Malley will lecture on “Art and Human Value” in the O’Shaughnessy galleries on Monday, April 4. The U talk, which will take place at 8:30, will be ’ ’ preceded by a playing of the first movement of the eighth symphony by Gustav * Mahler. The program is being presented by the Fine Arts club of Notre Dame.	;
A recent regional meeting of Midwestern Y.C.S. students, meeting at Alverno Col- I lege, strongly condemned racial segregation • and endorsed peaceful resistance.	n
The group, which adapted a resolution ; sympathizing with students “who are being ' I persecuted for attempting to exercise their	i
rights as human beings through protest	’I
marches, lunch-counter sit-ins and picket- 1 ing,” included students from Notre Dame. -
Students at the meeting were from Al-vemo and St. Mary colleges in Milwaukee; ▼ St. Xavier and Mundelein colleges in Chi- V cago; College of St. Teresa, Winona, Minn. ' ’J and Loras in Dubuque, Iowa.	1
Mr. Louis S. Lyon, director of the Sixth U.S. Civil Service Region, recently issued a reminder that the Federal Sendee Entrance Exam will be given only one more time during this school year—on April 9. The examinations will then close and will not be reopened until next fall. Those who plan to take the May 14 test must apply for the exam by March 25.
All college graduates and senior students in any major field of study, as well as those who have college-level experience or a combination of such experience and education, are eligible to compete in the examinations.
Joseph A. Martellaro, a teaching fellow (Continued on page 13)
The Scholastic
12
campus character:
BLACKSTONE TORT
( I
Pride of the law school, Blackstone has never lost a moot trial. But there’s nothing moot about his preferences in dress. He finds that when he’s comfortable, he can trap a witness and sway a jury like Clarence Darrow.
So he always wears Jockey brand briefs while preparing his briefs. Exclusive Jockey tailoring gives him a bonus of comfort he gets in no other underwear. Fine Jockey combed cotton is more ab-
sorbent, smoother fitting, too.
To look your best, feel your best, take a tip from Tort. Always insist on Jockey brand briefs, $1.25. Your campus store has them now! COOPER'S INCORPORATED - KENOSHA, WIS.
A.
tyockeu ® BRAND briefs
News Briefs
(Continued from page 12)
at the University, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship for study in Italy. The announcement was recently made in Washington. Martellaro holds both a bachelor and master of arts degrees in economics from Notre Dame and will use the scholarship to spend an academic year at the University of Naples, Italy, studying the economic growth that resulted from loans made by the World Bank. He is a resident of South Bend.
The program at Washington Hall for “The Most Happy Fella” when it opens there next May 5, will describe the attraction simply as “a musical.” This will accord with the billing of the show throughout its long run of 86 weeks in New York, when the customary descriptions of “musical comedy,” “musical play” or “musicdrama” were avoided.
The reason for this was that no one wanted to admit the “terrible truth” that “The Most Happy Fella” comes as close to being an opera as the rules of Broadway showmanship allow, for the world opera is generally poison at Broadway box-offices. Ironically enough the production achieved an overwhelming popularity, running 86 weeks and winning the New York Drama Critics’ Award as the best musical of the Broadway season. University Theatre officials are, of course, hoping for a similar reaction when the play opens on campus.
Sergeant John E. Gray is retiring in the permanent grade of Lieutenant Colonel, Armor, after forty years’ service in the Federally Recognized National Guard and Army of the United States. His resignation was effective April 1.
Recently an Army ROTC Instructor at the University, Gray enlisted as a trooper in the 104th Cavalry Regiment of the Pennsylvania National Guard in 1920 and was commissioned Second Lieutenant in July of 1932. From 1936 until induction of the regiment into the active military service in 1941, Col. Gray served as Regimental Adjutant in the grade of captain.
FLYING TO PHILLY?
The Lehigh Valley Club still has space available on its Easter flight to Philadelphia. Anyone desirous of reserving a place for the flight should contact Frank Yurasek in 323 Howard or Joe Constantino in 335 Dillon immediately.
Holy Cross Broths TEACHING o l ’ u a 3 ? <
1 a r , n g : I e ' :i * o' < - z -□ / Brothers 3 r a n	-
toda* n ♦ h a 5 a d * z'^ g missions
For information and literature write: BROTHER EYMARD, GS.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
SAVE 20% Use Your Student Discount Card At RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
TRAVEL COSTS
Sheraton Hotels
STUDENT-FACULTY
DISCOUNTS
Here’s money-saving news for students, faculty and all other college personnel. During weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates — even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are provided for athletic teams, dubs, other college organizations.
You get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton Student I.D. Card or Faculty Guest Card when you register. To get your Sheraton card or make reservations, contact:
JAMES NAUGHTON
213 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Phone: CEntral 4-9011
oa contact cdurae wnAnoMs oepantnent
SHSBATON COMP., 470 ATLANTIC AVE.
BOSTON, MASS.
April 1, 1960
13
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS
BOOK SALE
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Tenth Year
Save up to
fl
4
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students •See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
•
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
14
or more on BOOKS & PRINTS
2nd Floor
Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
Sale Begins April 1
*1
X'
The Scholastic
I
In this, the concluding article of our Distinguished Political Commentators series, Senator Thurston B. Morton describes the history and guiding principles of the national Republican Party.
Republicanism for the Record
by Thurston B. Morton, Chairman, Republican National Committee
AS A COLLEGE student, I remember being very much • impressed with a statement by a great Greek historian on the subject of politics. The historian, Pericles, made an obsei-vation about the attitude of his fellow citizens in the City-State of Athens. He said, in part:
“An Athenian citizen does not neglect the state because he takes care of his own household; and even those of us who are engaged in business have a very fair idea of politics. We alone regard a man who takes no interest in public affairs, not as harmless, but as a useless character; and if few of us are originators we are all sound judges of public policy.”
What a difference between that attitude toward government and politics and the attitude of many of our fellow Americans who regard politics as something disdainful, to be shunned and avoided! Fortunately, it appears to me that the general attitude toward politics is changing for the better. In the past nine months, it has been my privilege to visit some 44 states. Most of the meetings I attended were of a political nature but I also talked with a great variety of nonpolitical groups representing business, education and labor.
Everywhere and among all groups I found an intense interest in public affairs, in foreign and domestic problems. Understandably, the overriding interest is in winning and maintaining a just and lasting peace. Without this, in light of the terrible machines of destruction now available to the nations of the world, other issues are academic.
But in the area of domestic policy, as well as foreign policy, I was deeply impressed by the fact that the American people, in all walks of life, are concerned—deeply concerned—as never before. There seems to be a growing awareness that “politics is everybody’s business.”
I would be the first to admit that the “office of the citizen” is a difficult one in our time. The responsibilities of today’s citizens are surely much greater than those of the Athenian of two thousand years ago. Democratic government has grown from a relatively simple, direct operation into a process of almost unbelievable complexity. No single scholar can accumulate enough knowledge, no one person can become wise enough to fully understand all of the aspects of modern democracy.
How then do we manage to make such a vast machine work? Although there are many reasons for the success of the American democratic experiment much credit must be
April 1,1960
given to the operation of our two-party system. Through this two-party system, the voters are given a chance to express themselves for or against a given party, its candidates and/or its platform.
Now, since I am a Republican, I would like to suggest to you the basic philosophy of my party, and to mention some of the accomplishments of the Republican Party in recent years.
Let us start with the thesis that we can make some meaningful distinctions between the Republican and Democratic Parties. Although it is true that there are great differences among individual Republicans, as among individual Democrats, it is also true that through legislative actions, administrative policies and party platforms^ a general image or character of each party is created. What, then, is at the heart of the Republican character?
First of all, Republican conviction has from the birth of the party in 1854, held that people are supreme -—that the individual personality is the center around which all governmental activity turns. As all of you know from your studies of American History and Political Science, the Republican Party first was called into being and came into power to help guarantee to every American citizen equal protection of the laws and equal intellectual, spiritual and economic opportunity.
The Republican party has never forgotten the supremacy of that central concern over the individual personality. It is true in 1960 as it was true in 1854, that we deeply desire to protect and expand a climate for all of our people which will permit intellectual, spiritual and economic fulfillment. The Re- . publican record on civil rights attests to how seriously our leadership feels about these issues.
As a matter of fact, as President
Eisenhower recently said, we Republicans feel very strongly that the personal, political and economic freedoms of the individual are the most precious possessions which our American . heritage gives us at birth. And we fear that if any one of , . these is lost, the others may eventually disappear as well.
In this day and age when people turn to the governments -at Local, State and National levels for an ever-increasing num- > ber of services, we must remember that we should never transfer any of our rights and responsibilities to any government except in those cases where necessity clearly demands. Indeed, our Republican Party feels that the first and most sacred responsibility of government is to help people protect ■
' - . '
their inalienable, individual freedoms.
A second, basic Republican doctrine centers in the belief that a healthy, free society requires a wide diffusion of power and responsibility. Power, in our type of, government, ultimately belongs to all the people, and citizens should never pennit its excessive concentration in any hands — whether those hands be industrial combines, labor groupments, or even government. For as. political philosophers have told us for over two thousand years, concentration of power is dangerous and susceptible to abuse. It courts disaster for the individual.
In terms of these basic values what has been the Republican record during the past century?
The Republican Party was born to give new vitality and expression to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution with its Bill of Rights.
REPUBLICANS AND CIVIL RIGHTS
The Republican Party has consistently fought enslavement of man by man and added the Civil Rights Amendment to the Constitution.
The Republican Party has fought to save the Union that government “of the people, by the people, for the people,” should not perish from the earth.
The Republican Party has fought for sound money against those who would depreciate the value of the individual’s work and savings.
The Republican Party passed the Pendleton Civil Service Act in 1883 when the Jacksonian slogan “to the victor belongs the spoils” was bearing bitter fruit in such Democratic strongholds as Tammany Hall and the Tweed Ring.
During Republican Administrations were passed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act (1890), the Erdman Act prohibiting discharge of railroad employees for union membership (1898), the first Federal Workmen’s Compensation Act (1908), the Weeks Act for conservation of water and forest resources (1911), the anti-child-labor Children’s Bureau Act (1912), the Railway Labor Act of 1926, the Longshoremen’s and Harbor workers Compensation Act of 1927, the Bacon-Davis Act of 1931 and the Norris-LaGuardia Anti-Injunction Act of 1932.
I’m not forgetting the Taft-Hartley Act — but that was passed by a Republican Congress during a Democratic Administration. Bob Taft not only was re-elected in 1950, but this fight for the individual workingman’s rights remains a mon-
16
ument to his devotion to pi-inciple. It was the Democrats, not < organized labor, that fought for a “repeal” plank in their 1956 platform. The AFL-CIO asked only for amendment, some- " thing President Eisenhower has been advocating throughout . his Administration—only to be thwarted by a Democratically-controlled Senate or House. And it was Republican pressure ! that made the 86th Congress do something constructive about regulating corruption among labor bosses and protecting the individual union member.
This historical record of Republicanism is bright indeed. And so is the record of the Eisenhower Administration. Let us look briefly at some of the accomplishments of these past seven years.
All of us know well the importance of providing an effec- ; tive defense in a world divided between two opposing ideologies. The real test, in light of the basic values of the Republican Party is to provide security in a way that effectively , deters aggression and yet does not in itself weaken the values and institutions we seek to defend. This demands the most careful calculation and balance as well as steadiness of purpose. The Republican Party does not believe in sparing effort or expense in the interest of providing a surer defense. But -at the same time our party’s leaders do not support dazzling military schemes oi* untrustworthy programs simply to appeal to the voter.
Because of our insistence upon adequacy and efficiency, this country is today, militarily and economically the strongest power on earth.
Nevertheless, we should not forget that as a government , and as a people our unchanging goal has been the pursuit of h peace — peace based upon negotiation from a position of economic, moral and military strength.
Through the Mutual Security Program, we and our loyal friends are striving to help keep the free world free, and safe and strong. And the Mutual Security Program comprises only part of our over-all effort to help make it possible for new and less industrialized nations to take their rightful place in the community of nations.
These programs designed to strengthen our security and to aid nations less fortunate than ourselves are costly but we believe that a nation with our inherent strength and moral purpose can provide such programs while keeping ourselves economically solvent and fiscally sound.	*
All of us have a great stake in the adequacy of the nation’s } school system. What is the Republican record here?	‘
A LOOK AT EDUCATION
By any objective standard ours is a good and expanding system of education. Any comparisons between the educational system of the United States today and that of ten years ago or of any past period demonstrate beyond question that phenomenal progress has been made. A higher percentage of Americans of school age are in school today than ever before. They are receiving a longer period of schooling than ever before. They are in newer buildings, and smaller- classes * than ever before. They are being taught by teachers who have more education and are being paid higher salaries than ever before. Today we can look back upon a decade of mag- , nificent achievement in the field of education.
It is interesting to note that during the Roosevelt Administration an average of 11,800 public school classrooms were ; built per year; during the Truman Administration the figure J was 23,500. But during the Eisenhower years, that is since ;-1953, an average of 62,725 public school classrooms have been ' built a year — almost three times greater than the annual average under the preceding Democratic Administration. <
Or again we could profitably examine the difference between the Republican and Democratic attitudes toward the distribution of Federal aid to education. In the Democratically-controlled 84th Congress, President Eisenhower urged the fa passage of a generous, well-conceived school construction bill which would have supplemented State efforts with two billion dollars of Federal grants and loans. The Eisenhower proposal 1 would have distributed the two billion dollars according to need. The Democratic Congress failed to pass this bill. In- f. stead, they attempted to pass a bill which would have assigned i. the funds indiscriminately on the basis of population. In ad- |i dition the Democratic proposal would have allowed the States 4
The Scholastic I
to relax their own efforts in proportion to the increased Federal funds.
THE PROFOUND DIFFERENCES
« I am sure you see the profound differences between these two approaches to Federal aid to education. Under the Democratic proposal the whole program might become a farce -with no net gain in school rooms at all — merely a substitution of Federal for State financing. Second, if this process of substituting Federal for State financing ever gained momentum it could happen that States would come to depend more and more on Washington for schools, and our traditional local respon-> sibility for education might well be jeopardized.
The problem of school segregation is also one of great concern to all Americans. Again let us ask, “How do the two , major palsies compare on this issue?” Some people assert . that there is little difference, for example, between the platforms of the two parties on this matter. Let us look at the key platform provisions in the 1956 party platforms with respect to this issue.
The Democratic platform of 1956 spends only two sen-
, fences on the matter. The first is this:
“Recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States relating to segregation in publicly supported schools and elsewhere have brought consequences of vast importance to our nation as a whole and especially to communities directly affected.”
The second sentence reads:
!A “We reject all proposals for the use of force to interfere with the orderly determination of these matters by the courts.”
I am sure you will agree that this kind of flippancy in such a serious area is a great disappointment to all Americans who take seriously the great American dream of freedom and equality for all of our people. Surely such a negative approach is hardly a thrilling or inspiring banner under which to march ’ toward a new and better America.
Now let us look at the key passage on this issue in the Republican platform of 1956.
“The progress must be encouraged and the work of the ' courts supported in EVERY LEGAL MANNER BY ALL BRANCHES of the Federal Government.”
The difference between these two platform statements is but a reflection of the differences between the general attitude of the leaders of the two parties on this vital issue. It is the difference between action and inaction, between support and > no support for the work of the courts in carrying out the all-important Supreme Court decision providing for the desegregation of the schools.
We could go on, field by field, to demonstrate the nature ‘ of our forward-looking individual-centered Republican program and performance but space does not allow. However, I presume you, as young people, would like to know something about the attitude of our party leaders toward young people.
The Republican Party has, for a long time, emphasized the importance of attracting youthful persons to government service. Vice President Nixon, only 39 when first elected to his high office in 1952, exemplified youthful Republicans in top positions. As a matter of fact, many administrative posts have been filled by outstanding young men and women under the Eisenhower Administration. Positions of Republican Party leadership are being filled as well by an ever-increasing number of qualified young people. A good share of our State Chair-men, for example, are under 40 years of age. A number of young Republicans (under 37) occupy first, second, third, and even fourth-term Congressional seats and the number of young Republicans who are members of State Legislatures across the nation is large indeed. And you are probably all aware of the fact that the Republican 83rd Congress attempted to lower the voting age to 18, as proposed by President Eisenhower. Unfortunately, these efforts were defeated by 24 Senate votes — all Democratic. The Democratic 84th and 85th Congress, by way of contrast, failed to even schedule a vote on this proposed amendement.
A party which does not stay young in spirit, which does not look to the future, must relinquish its right to govern. Because of this, the Republican Party has recently taken a long, hard look at the responsibilities of political leadership in the crucial decades ahead. We, at the National Republican Headquarters, are excited with the results. They are available in book stores across the Nation in a paperback book entitled Decisions for A Better America. I heartily commend this report to you for your careful reading. This thoughtful and penetrating study constitutes, in a large measure, the response of current Republican leadership to the vital issues around which your political lives will turn. It is thus in a very real sense directed at you, the future leaders of the Nation.
AN INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT
You will find in Decisions for A Better America an introductory statement which summarizes well the nature of the challenges which lie ahead.
“To earn the faith of the American people in the years ahead, a political party must show a capacity to deal wisely with the great world and national problems that face us, while preserving the principles that have given our life meaning and worth. It must pursue definite goals, safeguard enduring values, yet be flexible and imaginative in welcoming change as the key to all progress.”
I believe that the Republican Party will go forward to meet those challenges. But in order to do so we want and need the help of young people like yourselves. We need your strength and the energy of your youth to help revitalize and re-energize our Party. We need your vision untrammeled by the cynicism and despair of many of your elders. We need your faith that a better world can be built brick by brick on the sure foundation of individualism, freedom and equality of opportunity. ,
The South African Pass Laws by JOE TADERERA
Bloody events are splashing the S. African news columns. Armored police * cars, jet planes and submachine guns mow down black men, women and children who are up against the virulent “Pass Laws” — undoubtedly some of the most oppressive pieces of legislation in the history of governments. Any such risings are long awaited for occasions “to reduce the growing numbers of the - Kaffirs.” The pass laws in the Union of S. Africa are the chief instrumentalities which enable the execution of the apartheid network. They support and give life to the apartheid tree. Without them apartheid policy would remain a theoretical legislative myth difficult to translate into its practical conclusions.
The Pass Laws have a historical
April 1, 1960
background that can be traced as far back as the days of the great trek, when the Native-Boer frontier clashes were the sources of bloodshed and bitterness that has mounted to extreme hatred existent up to the present. Feelings are high and the government is wholly determined to settle any protests from the “Kaffirs” by violent force and force alone since constitutional means are not provided for in the Union government. In those days a pass was a certificate given to natives who were domestic servants or errand boys of European settlers to differentiate them from the frontier native who was an acknowledged enemy. Carrying a pass amounted to protection from the merciless guns of the wild farmers and hunters who were
ever expanding north. Now things are different. The pass has reversed its significance. It is now a certificate legalizing all the injustices and brutal police exercises to the victims of apartheid.
The pass laws stem from two acts, 1) the Group Areas Act, 1950 amended 1952; this measure formalizes the apartheid concept. It provides for three wholly compartmentalized groups. Whites, colored and native are obliged to live in different areas. Persons of one group will not be permitted to own or occupy property in a controlled area of another group. 2) The Population Registration Act, 1950, provides for the classification of the entire population into racial groups, ticketing, photographing and (Continued on page 22)
17
This week Jim Goodwin, a junior in the General Program, explains the function and aim of the University’s new Language Laboratory.
LISTEN
AND
LEARN
by Jim Goodwin
DOWN the long’ corridor on second floor O’Shaughnessy the strangest things go on behind closed doors. Inside room 201 students sit in bright blue booths instead of at maplewood desks, and look at their professor through glass windows. The professor is half-way surrounded by an elaborate system of taperecorders and little black buttons. Both teacher and student wear earphones and mutter, now and then, into long silver stem microphones.
Eight months ago Notre Dame adopted a new language teaching technique costing $16,000. Now classes are being taught not only to read foreign languages but also to speak them fluently. The ineffective classroom method of teaching students to speak languages as they should be spoken has given way to a modern learn-by-doing technique.
Classroom 201 has been converted into what is called the Language Laboratory. In the Language Lab as many as thirty students at one time can listen through earphones to recorded tapes and imitate the voices of those they hear. Dr. William Grupp, head of the Modern Foreign Language Department, remarked that now students need not go abroad to learn how to speak a language but can learn right here at home. The tapes carry the voices of expert linguists which enables students to imitate the very best.'
When the professor at the master control table puts on a recorded tape, each member of the class can pick up the message at his booth, which is equipped with its own tape recorder. When a student begins practicing the tape, which fits into the recorder like a light plug fits into a wall socket, it records his voice along with that of the expert. The small noise kept up under such a procedure disturbs no one because each booth has sound-proof installation.
Replaying the tape is most important because it enables a student to judge his own progress by allowing him to compare and contrast his pronunciation and inflection with that of a master. The professor, meanwhile, can “eavesdrop.” At the flip of a switch he can listen in on or talk individually to anyone in the
class or address the class at the same time.
The students practice a variety of language drills. In one drill, for example, the recorded voice of an expert will ask a question in Spanish and pause time enough for the student to answer in Spanish. The correct answer is then given by the expert. This dialogue, meanwhile, has been recorded on the student’s tape. Replaying it the student can hear the original question, his answer, and the correct answer. The tape allows him to catch his own errors and improve his speech. His ability to acquire speaking skill, therefore, depends to a great extent on his own initiative. One student remarked how difficult it was to remember and to repeat exactly what he heard.
The teacher has to exert greater effort also under this new learn-by-doing method. His role becomes more like that of a tutor. He must be alert at the TalkCall switch to aid individual students encountering difficulties, and also to catch those who avoid getting into difficulties. For example, sometimes students wittingly go only through the motions and mutter guiblyglob into their microphones. Testing is another problem. Finding out what a student knows in a language lab is not like finding it out in the science lab. The student may very well be able to read and understand a sentence but be unable to hear and understand it.
In the long run, however, the teacher can instruct more students more effectively. The time consuming recitations of the old classroom method are eliminated. “Under the old method,” said Dr. Grupp, “active class participation amounted to about five minutes, while forty-five minutes was spent more or less passively.” Language needs to be practiced if it is to be spoken. The language lab allows each student approximately forty-five minutes of active participation. Almost an entire period can be spent learning to speak a language. Mr. Grupp said that “the lab gives a student an opportunity to listen to a spoken language and say something meaningful in return for a whole
Dr. John Fizer of the Department of . | Modern Languages. Filipo Vali, probably in Russia.	i *
period.”
At the present time five foreign languages are offered in the laboratory — Russian, German, Italian, French, and Spanish. Students in elementary courses spend two days a week in the lab and four- in the regular classroom. Evening classes are held for those who wish to do more practice.
In the fall of 1958 when the plans for the language lab were first being considered by the Committee on Modern
18
The Scholastic
Foreign Language Affairs, some teachers opposed its installation. They felt that the machine would take the place of the teacher, making him a technician. It was concluded, however, that teachers of elementary courses were already technicians. The laboratory would take the place of the classroom only insofar as oral homework no longer needed to be done in class.
A CRITIQUE:
Republicanism vs. Democracy


Language laboratories are in operation all over the nation from grammar schools to universities. Saint Mary’s college also has a language laboratory. The popularity of the lab has been increasing rapidly during the last five years. The idea started in this country right after the last world war when the government needed intelligence agents and people to interview prisoners of war. The Army and Navy inaugurated programs for training their men. By 1950 the lab was used to train American personnel in foreign service.
Most recently the “Russian scare” has prompted its wide scale use in schools across the nation. Russia is becoming one of the world’s most articulate nations, with an advantage in the “war foi’ the minds of men.” On the other hand, the United States has been accused of hypocrisy. “Although she favors international cooperation,” some say, “she still stands culturally across the waters.” Since the minds and attitudes of other peoples are reflected in their languages, no real international understanding can be achieved, unless the people of the United States become linguistically informed.
The eight-month-old laboratory at Notre Dame is helping to meet the needs
threats of the future.
and
k j
“Why a Republican? Why a Democrat?,” this was the topic of discussion on last Sunday’s Student Forum. The Democratic position was stated by Mr. Thomas Broden of the Law School. The Republican issues were put forth by Dr. Paul Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science. The spirit that prevailed was one of presenting the respective parties in the most favorable light possible.
Mr. Broden outlined the issues existing today in three general classifications: Unreal political issues, real political issues, and special issues. Under unreal political issues, came such notable scandals as the Sherman Adams-Bernard Goldfine affair. It was Mr. Bro-den’s view that even though such incidents are used with great effect, they don’t differentiate between parties. Other political party tools which come under the title of unreal political issues are such phrases as "Balancing the Budget” and “They’re going soft on Commies.” It is interesting to note even though Mr. Broden made it a point to classify “Balancing the Budget,” as an “unreal political issue,” he did not hesitate to point out that Truman balanced the budget three out of six years, while the present administration has managed to do so in only two out of seven years.
In the real issues arising in political arenas, the outstanding example is that of the respective parties outlook on the role of the law. It was Mr. Broden’s contention that the democrats are more inclined to use the full power of the law where the common good is concerned. The Republicans are more hesitant, preferring to maintain the status quo, thus shying away, so to speak, from using the full power of the law. On the international scene, one of the examples brought to mind concerned the Hungarian revolt. Ike’s hesitation to initiate steps in the UN to provide a UN police force in Hungary at that time was one of the factors leading to the immediate downfall of the Hungarian’s newly founded republic. Although this might very well be, Mr. Bi oden's examples on the domestic scene were far more demonstrative of the point he was trying to make. Here, the outstanding example given concerned the 1954 decision of “Brown vs. Board of Education.” It is Mr. Broden’s view that a greater portion of the difficulties encountered could have been avoided had the- president, from the beginning, suported the Supreme Court’s decision rather than giving the South the impression that the decision was a bad one.
The special issue involved is one that is unique in the history of American politics. It is unique in that the Republicans have a very flexible candidate for
President, Richard Nixon. Although starting his political life as a Conservative Republican, he is generally given credit for the pro labor steel stride settlement. Nixon is presently urging repeal of the United States’s right to decide which of its cases shall be heard by the World Court. Air. Broden’s point here is not the wiseness of such an act, but the radical change in the V.P.’s political character. Finally, when Stevenson advocated cessation of nuclear tests, during his last political campaign, Nixon referred to this as folly. Nixon’s current position is that anyone who opposes cessation of nuclear tests doesn’t know the facts. In summary then, the issues involved, and the respective views taken on them, particularly in the area of “real issues,” differentiates between a Republican and Democrat.
In taking the Republican point of ■view, Dr. Bartholomew believes that the political issues today will be centered around three things: peace, prosperity and personality. Given peace and prosperity, the odds favor the ends. The fact that we are in a state of prosperity is certainly a feather in the Republican hat. In order to demonstrate his point, Dr. Bartholomew referred to a University of Michigan report in which it stated that in 1952, Republicans and Recession were synonymous. In 1960, no such thoughts exist. During the recession, many people clamored, today, the remedies employed for relief bear the Republican trademark. The present administration, Dr. Bartholomew maintains, has operated under a handicap for six out of seven years. This handicap he refers to is a “hostile” congress. As a demonstration of this, it was pointed out that records show that Congress favors high governmental spending. Bills have been passed which, had the president not vetoed them, would have accounted for three hundred and twenty-six billion dollars’ additional spending. What Dr. Bartholomew failed to point out was that in spite of this “hostile” Congress, only one of President Eisenhower’s vetoes have been overridden, that being the “Pork Barrell” Bill concerning our waterways. In summation of Dr. Bartholomew’s first area of issue, that of prosperity, it may be said that welfare activities will contribute to the shrink of the dollar and collapse of American economy.
With regard to peace, the cessation of the Korean War, improved relations with Russia, in spite of the Berlin incident, are all indicative of the Republicans’ capability to maintain peace.
In general, both sides presented clear, accurate and interesting analysis of the basic issues involved.
—Charles Wasaff
THE MINOR CANDIDATES
by MARK THOMPSON and TOM LAUTH
IN PAST weeks the Scholastic has featured profiles of the candidates who will be strong contenders for the presidential nomination at the Notre Dame Mock Convention. In this issue the remaining candidates are covered. Most of them are favorite sons with high hopes of grabbing the vice-presidential nod. Only Adlai Stevenson can be considered a serious threat to the other- presidential aspirants. The votes that all of these candidates control will do much to determine just who will get the nominations, though.
George Docking has the distinction of being the only Democratic governor in the history of Kansas to win re-election. In fact, he is only the sixth member of his party to hold that office in the nearly 100 years since Kansas became a state. Any Democrat who can boast of this record in what is usually a Republican stronghold merits national attention. He enters the convention with 21 votes as Kansas’ favorite son and the reputation of a Democrat who can win in the farm belt.
Docking was a banker for almost all of his adult life before entering politics. He still holds high offices in several banks. His financial experience was a strong selling point when he entered public life in 1954. In his initial try for office Docking was defeated by his Republican opponent in the gubernatorial election. However, he reversed the decision two years later by campaigning on a platform of sound fiscal management foi- the state and revision of its tax structure. The margin of his victory was 115,000 in a state where a 20,000 vote Democratic victory is termed a landslide. Docking won re-election in 1958, piling up an even larger percentage of the votes cast than before.
Docking’s campaign at Notre Dame is being managed by Tom Kurt, a senior pre-med from Pratt, Kansas. Pegging his man as an ideal running mate for any candidate from the East or any urban area, Kurt is gathering support foi- his man from the other farming states. With these votes he feels that the governor- will be in a strong position to gain the vice-presidential nomination.
Another strong Midwestern candidate is Governor Michael DiSalle of Ohio. Although he has pledged Ohio’s 64 votes to Senator Kennedy for the Democratic Convention in Los Angeles this summer, no such commitment has been made for the Mock Convention. On the contrary, his campaign manager, Bob Ferris of Columbus, expects to pick up votes from the other midland states and poll 100 votes on the first ballot. This will automatically make DiSalle a force to be reckoned with when the vice-presidential voting starts.
Governor DiSalle has broad experience in public life. He served as Price Stabilizer for 2 years under President Truman, defying Congressional pressure groups all the while. Before taking this post, he was mayor of Toledo and a member of the House of Representatives. It was during his tenure in the former office that he was awarded an honorary degree from Notre Dame.
DiSalle has a record of strong opposition to capital punishment, but has been unable to persuade the Ohio Legislature to abolish it. He shocked labor leaders by the reform bill he recently proposed, but he gained their support by his opposition to right-to-work legislation.
Catholic DiSalle knows he cannot share a ticket with Senator Kennedy. But campaign manager Ferris feels that the governor would make an excellent running mate for any other candidate^ and he will give his support to one of them. The 20
chairman of the Ohio delegation for this summer’s national convention has encouraged this attitude, as has DiSalle in personal interviews with Ferris. To strengthen his position, Ferris plans to hold his votes after the first ballot to capi- - a-talize on voting trends.
Governor Edmond G. “Pat” Brown is in the enviable position of heading the largest delegation from a currently Democratic state at the national convention. Recently in the head- ■ lines because of the reprieve of Caryl Chessman, Brown has been in the news foi- years in his home state, beginning with his election as District Attorney of San Francisco in 1943.
In 1950 he hit the news by being the only Democrat to win ; a state-wide office in the elections of that year, defeating the Republican incumbent in the race for State Attorney General. Brown won re-election easily when running for two additional terms, receiving support from both parties. In 1958, with the Republican Party in the state deeply split, Brown made his bid for the governorship. He engineered a smashing victory and in so doing enabled the Democrats to take complete control of the state government, one of the few times in Cali- * * forma’s history that they have been able to do this. As governor he has exploited this backing to foster new legislation in many fields. Another- long-time opponent of capital punishment, he seized the opportunity to eliminate it when confront- ; ed by the now-famous Chessman telegram from the State Department. The rejection of his bill to implement this is one of the few times his will has not prevailed since becoming governor.
Brown’s campaign manager here on campus is Gerry Hewitt, a freshman from Sherman Oaks, California. He re- *1 , gards his candidate as only a favorite son, but again a strong contender for the number two nomination. Like DiSalle, • Brown is a Catholic and knows there is no room for him on a Kennedy ticket. At Notre Dame, as at Los Angeles, the * governor will be a Western candidate and can be expected to get considerable support from that area.
NOT even his most adhesive admirers claim that Adlai Stevenson is a great candidate. They insist nevertheless, that he would make a great President. With this remark a prominent Washington correspondent has depicted Adlai Stevenson, presently an undeclared candidate for the 1960 Democratic presidential nomination.
Born a Californian and raised in Illinois, Stevenson received his undergraduate degree from Princeton University. He later studied at Harvard Law School and after a brief stint as a foreign correspondent took his law degree at North-westem University. Mr. Stevenson spent a year with the Agriculture Adjustment Administration, served as special assistant to Secretaries of State Edward R. Stettinius, Jr. and James F. Byrnes. Stevenson also served as chief of the United Nations preparatory commission.
A successful lawyer by profession, Stevenson was elected Governor of Illinois in 1948. His able reform administration in that state drew the focus of national attention. In 1952 he emerged from the Democratic National Convention with the presidential nomination. Four years later, in spite of his 1952 defeat, he was again considered the most electable Democrat available.
The Stevenson movement locally is under the guidance of the capable and astute political practitioner Dennis Shaul.
(Continued on page 23)
The Scholastic
G. P. Scarpia
. Voice in a Democracy
Two programs were available to the campus concertgoer during the past week. Rosalind Elias, one of the lead> ing sopranos of the Metropolitan Opera Company, brilliantly ended a rather dull and ordinary University Artist Series last Friday night in Washington Hall. Tuesday evening in the Drill Hall, the combined glee clubs of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame with an orchestral ensemble taken from the ranks of the South - Bend Symphony presented a program which included the Faure Requiem and two contemporary pieces for string orchestra. The audiences of each were small and served to point up the fact that concerts of a serious vocal nature have a limited appeal.
Miss Elias opened with Cleopatra’s aria from Handel’s “Julius Caesar,” V’adoro pupille. This aria, Mozart’s Non sonpiu cosa son, from the “Marriage of Figaro,” Rachmaninoff’s To the Children and the several Spanish songs in the fourth section made the evening worthwhile for this reviewer. At various times during these numbers Miss Elias • displayed a flexibility and smoothness of vocal line not often found in this generation’s mezzos, save the glorious voice of Giulietta Simionato. Her phrasing, always tasteful and certainly musical, was easily matched by her professional delivery. Throughout the program her interpretations were excellent, and notably so on Cimara’s Fiocca la neve and the Rachmaninoff mentioned above. Sev-- eral concert standards (Mon coeur s’ouvre a, ta voix and the Habanera) and a number of ditties (most of which do not merit mention) filled out the program and were undoubtedly geared to a college audience. Max Walmer, Miss Elias’ accompanist, provided a suitable complement to the singer throughout and ’’ was especially pleasing on the Saint-Saens.
The Drill Hall which lends itself nicely to cattle competition and other bara-yard events is a little less than adequate in performances involving a sizeable ensemble. Whereas one singei* or a small group of instrumentalists can be heard at any point in the hall, the sound issuing from a larger group becomes more and more muffled as the size of the group increases. For the most part this did not matter* in Tuesday night’s concert, but Hindemith must be clear and Zeal Fisher’s performance of Music for Mourning was hampered somewhat by • the effect of the hall on the orchestral accompaniment.
This work and Samuel Barber’s Adagio for Strings preceded the Requiem, which was the main work of the evening. The Adagio, a dark, lyrical piece woven in the smooth contrapuntal ideas of this celebrated American composer, was played elegantly and interpreted with April 1, 1960
AT THE THEATER/
The Avon has finally found an acceptable movie with healthy moneymaking abilities: The Mouse That Roared. This splendid comedy which makes the best use of sly criticism stars Peter Sellers in three big roles (one as an elderly Duchess) and Jean Seaberg as the girl who wins his heart (in his roles as the Grand Duchy of Fenwick’s army commander. The management of the Avon has held the movie over for another week, so if you have yet to see it, by all means don’t miss the first opportunity. .
South Bend, via the management of the Colfax, has prepared splendidly for April 1. Today, The Snow Queen will have its “world premiere” at the Colfax and will run indefinitely, or so some wish. The world premiere name might be well-founded, since apparently tonight at 8:30, live, on stage, will be Sandra Dee and Patty McCormack to introduce the movie to the eager kids. Also, these young ladies will be the stars of a parade tomorrow morning. Probably they’ll parade down Michigan, so if you can get a place in front of Joer’s you’re set. Needless to say, The Snow Queen is a fulllength cartoon of the Cinderella type, with a little bit of music and a lot of dialogue by real people. Misses Dee and McCormack are two of the real people. For all student fathers, this is a good time to introduce your kids to the wonders of the cinema.
Our Man In Havana is Alec Guinness, a struggling vacuum cleaner salesman with a teenage daughter, Jo Morrow. Somehow, he is approached by Noel Coward, a British Secret Service man, and enlisted as agent an Cuba. Burl Ives, as a discontented doctor, is Guinness’ friend; and Ernie Kovacs, a vicious police officer, has his eye on Miss Morrow. Ralph Richardson, the head of the Secret Service, sends Maureen O’Hara to serve as Guinness’ secretary and romance sprouts. This is expertly mixed with intrigue and even murder to produce an exciting and at once funny movie. Based on Graham Greene’s novel, with screenplay by Greene himself, it is directed by Carol Reed, who has some hits to his name. Even if we only consider the caliber of the stars, this is well worth seeing, and therefore it’s the Movie of the Week.
The Big Fisherman is out in the middle of St. Joe’s River without a paddle and can’t go back where he came from, so the State is holding him over for another week. Howard Keel, Susan Kohner, Herbert Lorn, Martha Hyer, and John Saxon participate in a difficult game which juggles at one time religion and perdition.
Next Monday, April 4, on NBC-TV, the annual presentation of the Academy Awards will take place. With Bob Hope reportedly as the only master of ceremonies, it might be a good show to watch. Last year my predictions turned out to be disastrous, since nobody suspected Gigi to walk away with nine awards. But this year my claws have been sharpened by experience (I hope) and maybe I’ll have a better percentage of correct predictions.
Foi* th best motion picture, the Academy has lately leaned toward the spectacular, so it would not be far from true to predict Ben-Hur as the winner. Paul Muni, in The Last Angry Man, certainly deserves to win the best actor award. He has proved that actors don’t deteriorate easily, but get better as time goes by. The portrayal of Parnell McCarthy in Anatomy of a Murder should bring the best supporting actor award to Arthur O’Connell, though he may have some competition from another actor in that film, George C. Scott, who played Claude Dancer.
The award for best actress will be very hard to predict, but I’m backing Elizabeth Taylor in Suddenly, Last Summer, not because of what she has represented in the past, but because in my opinion she really deserves it. Simone Signoret in Room at the Top is strong competition, but my vote of confidence still goes to Laz. As supporting actress, Shelley Winters in Diary of Anne Frank will probably get it, since hei* part was considerably bigger than those of the other nominees and she played it expertly.	.
For the best work as a director, William Wyler deserves the award for fitting to perfection into the screen the rambling Ben-Hur. This not only recognizes much work done, but also work well done. The art direction (in black and white) award can easily go to Sztddenly, Last Summer for very tasteful and interesting meshing of sets, scenes, and characters. Ben-Hur will take the art direction (in color) because of the excellent effect achieved by the sets, especially the chariot race set. Likewise^ Ben-Hur should take the award for cinematography (in color) with no trouble from any other nominee except perhaps Porgy and Bess.
Tony Wong
real feeling by Rocco Germano, of the St. Mary’s music faculty, who conducted the entire program.
Requiem, by Gabriel Faure is undoubtedly one of the most moving and spiritually beautiful religious works in the choral repertory. A piece in which vocal and orchestral line are of primary importance and in which tempos for the most part are well suited to the somber “hymn in honor of the dead,” this work must be dynamically exciting to achieve success. With the resources that were
iniiiiiiiiiuiuiiuiiiiimmHtitiiiiuiiiiuHuiuiiuuiiiitiiiiiuiHiHiim available to Mr. Germano, he did an admirable job.
The tenor section sang consistently flat and quite often was found dragging a half beat behind the rest of the ensemble. The Agnus Dei, in which the tenor section solos, was particularly annoying since it is probably the most beautiful part of the Mass. The In Paradisum, on the other hand, which offers the soprano section the same opportunity, came off well.
(Continued on page 33)
21
6 exceptionally — superior achievement
4 above
_ average achievement
most of us
listen to...............
WSND

wvng
withyour dancing
Don’t let poor dancing steal your popularity. Come to Arthur Murray’s now and let one of his experts bring out your dormant dancing ability. Just a few lessons will give you the latest steps, thanks to Arthur Murray’s “Magic Step” Method. So don’t miss out on good times, come in or phone now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
CE 2-3339
South African Laws
(Continued from page 17) identifying them as white, colored or native, and passes are issued accordingly. The criteria on which the classification is based are so arbitrary that children of the same father and mother may fall under different groups hence carry different passes and stay in different areas!
Whites carry no passes as such, although they are not allowed to enter either colored or native areas without some written permission from the native affairs department. Coloreds on the other hand carry ID’s for all practical purposes. The true sting is borne by the natives. For him there are many different kinds of passes.
The number one pass that is invariably carried by every African from the age of sixteen and above is the Reference Book. It is a more than a hundred page book. So-called Reference Book because it contains all the available information concerning the bearer. This includes the bearer’s photograph, his full name, his parents’ name, tribe, residential address, city of reserve, reference registraiton number and numerous other items of identification. The regulations governing the Reference Book is that the bearer must be in possession of his Reference Book at all times under all circumstances. This regulation is very often applied to absurdity. Hundreds end up ni prison every year because they are caught by the police reading a news
BAD POSTURE
WEAK LEAD
OUTDATED STEPS
1*0
paper seated at the doorsteps of their . own homes with the Reference Book inside the house!	,
After the Reference Book comes the Residential Permit. All Africans working or born in an urban area are re- ' quired to carry the Residential Permit of that particular city or town indicating even the particular area of which one is a resident. A native of one settlement may be commanded out of another African settlementat any time. A native bearing a Johannesburg Residential Permit may not go to Pretoria (36 ’ miles away), either on his own business or for a visit lasting more than a full day without a written mutual permit from the native affairs department of the two cities concerned. At the most such a permit expires after seventy-two hours.
Besides the residential permit, every working native has to cany the Employer’s Certificate. The employer is required to append his signature to both the Employer’s Certificate and the Reference Book before such a certificate may be recognized valid. This bars the native employees from quitting jobs at .; will.	’
Further passes include the Lodger’s Certificate, the Curfew Permit and many others which may be any odd pieces of paper bearing a European signature. A ten-year-old white boy may issue passes to his father’s domestic servants. The curfew tolls every night at nine, there- , after no native may be found in downtown area or white residential area without a special Curfew Permit.
Prior to two years ago these passes applied only to African men. Now they include men and women. The “Pass Laws” complex is so geared that even the most scrupulous law-abiding native cannot but violate one law or the other as long as he is alive.	A
To facilitate the implementation of all these laws, the S. African police are absolute. Police action or arrest may not be questioned by a native on such • grounds as warrant, etc., because no such security devices are known anyway. Violation of any of the “Pass Laws” is always crime enough to result t in one of the following punishments. (1) The offender may face trial in which case he chances acquittal or six months’ imprisonment if convicted. (2) He may be sentenced to three months’ imprisonment without any trial on failure to produce a heavy fine. (3) More often than not the violators just discover j themselves working on forced labor farms government sponsored or on private faiins whose owners pay a fee of 9d a day for the services. This is the < worst of all, for many cases of death are known due to the ill-treatments, excessively hard work, and malnutrition imposed by the cruel Dutch farmer. This device is a fulfillment of the government’s 1948 promise of perpetual supply of cheap labor to all needy fanners whose vote retain the “Nats” government in power.
The “pass” in the Union of S. Africa is one surviving badge of suppression, ■ oppression — indeed slavery itself. ;
The Scholastic
22
The Minor Candidates
(Continued from page 20)
$ Two landslide defeats at the polls should have hurled r j * Adlai Stevenson into political oblivion as far as a third presi-I	dential nomination is concerned. However, Shaul is quick to
I	counter this position by pointing out that it is quite inconceiv-
, able that any Democrat could have stemmed the tide of the 1 Eisenhower deluge in either 1952 or 1956. It is very doubtful that anyone in the party would have fared as well.
The chief obstacle in the path of the local Stevenson camp < is the fact that as yet Mr. Stevenson is an undeclared candi’ date. This absence of a full scale national organization has stifled the campaign somewhat. However, as April 2 draws increasingly nearer Mr. Stevenson appears to be rising above , k the status of a “compromise,” and is quickly becoming a candidate to be reckoned with.
After reiterating the impressive qualifications of the moderate liberal Adlai E. Stevenson, Mr. Shaul asks, as have so _ many others, “Why shouldn’t we put up the best man we’ve r got?”
;	... IN THE LAFOLLETTE TRADITION
»
Another candidate that will be vying for endorsement at the convention is United States Senator Wayne Morse of ( Oregon. Born in Madison, Wisconsin at the turn of the cen' tury, Morse attended the University of Wisconsin. He received his Doctorate in Jurisprudence at Columbia in 1932, while on leave of absence from his position as Dean of the Law school at the University of Oregon. The Senator has also recceived acclaim as a labor arbitrator in West Coast disputes. In 1941 Morse was named chairman of the National Railroad Emergency Board. After the outbreak of World War II he was appointed to the War Labor Board.
* In 1944 Wayne Morse as a Republican was elected to the U. S. Senate from the state of Oregon. In 1952 he broke with the Republican party, ceased campaigning for Mr. Eisenhower । , and turned to support the Democrat nominee Adlai Stevenson. Presently Senator Morse is chairman of the Subcommittee on Latin American Affairs of the Foreign Relations Committee. He has during his fifteen years in the Senate served on nearly every important committee and is thus well versed on many aspects of conducting public policy.
A , Masterminding the Morse campaign on campus is senior I * General Program student Jim Byrne. Byrne, a personal friend I of Morse, attributes his devotion to the Senator’s cause to a J deep conviction in the principles Mr. Morse represents. Byrne A	further holds the Senator’s candidacy as an integral part of
[	this, an important hour in the history of liberalism. The
local Morse camp views the 1960 campaign as a “crisis,” coming as it does on the heels of a conservative administration.
>
. . . DARK HORSE
The name of New Jersey Governor Robert B. Meyner leaps to mind when one thinks of that unpredictable animal, the political “dark horse.” Meyner was born, and spent his early life in a Pennsylvania industrial town. He was graduated from Lafayette College in 1930, obtained his law degree three years later- from Columbia University and was admitted to the New Jersey bar in 1934.
Prior to entering politics, Meyner had established a successful law practice and had seen duty as a LieutenantCommander in the U. S. Navy during World War II. In 1948 Robert Meyner was elected to the New Jersey State Senate, and five years later he was elected Governor of that state.
The Meyner forces on campus have been mobilized by senior Jerry O’Mara. O’Mara a Political Science major from Short Hills, New Jersey, is very well versed on the career of Governor Meyner and promises to be a shrewd bargainer on the convention floor.
The Governor’s manager points with pride to the fact that the Meyner administration has been characterized by a surplus budget in a state where spending annually is over 400 million dollars. More amazing is that the administration has managed this with neither an income tax nor a sales tax.
VIA BANK OF AMERICA TRAVELERS CHEQUES money only you can spend
Play it safe this summer! Carry your travel funds in blue and gold Bank of America Travelers Cheques... backed by the world’s largest bank. Low-cost B of A Cheques are sold by banks everywhere—here and abroad.
April 1, 1960
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
LIFE
Easter Gift Books
Lives of the Saints Butler
The Gospel Story
Knox • The Inner Search Van Zeller
•
This Is Your Tomorrow
& Today Raymond • Idea of Catholicism
Burghardt
Life of Christ
Sheen • The Devils Advocate
West • Msgr. Ronald Knox Waugh •
Historic Reality of Christian Culture
Dawson • Citadel of God
De Wohl	-
•
St. Anthony & His Times
Purcell
•
Schools and the Means of Education
Nutting
•
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
New York City is a magnificent place. Its towers and spires are standing testimony to man’s ability to shelter himself. New York has long been fabled as a place of skyscrapers—the one real American contribution to the artistic science of architecture. Probably the most famous concentration of these buildings is in Rockefeller Center. LIFE this week gives a most unusual view of the heart of Manhatten..
Using a 58-year old camera with a tremendous panoramic lens, LIFE photographer Yale Joel catches a look at the new TIME & LIFE Building. In doing so, however, he doesn’t neglect the rest of the New York skyline and the total of his pictures are reminiscent of Cinerama, Cinemiracle, Cinemascope, Todd AO, and VistaVision all rolled together. And for that matter, even actors appear in the script. Feature
<
none other than Marilyn Monroe and New York’s own Nelson Rockefeller on the scene, building the building. It’s a terrific view of the city of cities.
THE AFRICAN MURDER—A JOKE TURNED TO TRAGEDY
In a series of really unusual photos, LIFE presents the recent slaughter in South Africa. Taken by a Negro, the pictures depict how the murder * looked to those who were on the receiving end. Fleeing at first from what they thought were blank cartridges, the Africans were smiling and laughing but as death struck about them, the joke faded. In the end, the street is i cluttered with bodies as white supremacy is maintained.
The issue over which the demonstration had its start seems to be small enough—just a small pass book which every African is required by law to carry. But the principle is a big one. Caught without the book, a Negro could be put in jail even if he was only standing in his doorway at the time of apprehension. The substance of the book is a code of rules reminding the Black < man that he is inferior by nature and the demonstration was but part of a , unified effort by Africans to rid themselves of this shameful stigma. The rest of the world has taken a dark view of the situation and in the words of some English pickets, “South Africa Stinks.”
THE PENTAGON FIASCO—WASHINGTON AT ITS WORST
In a feature article, LIFE this week takes a look at interservice mess
that is threatening the security of our nation. Not to abolish competition, but to bring it to reason is the plan of LIFE. Under the present system each
Chief of Staff is pledged (or so it seems) of his service at almost any cost. With all of their subordinates backing them up the problem of rivalry travels from the top, through the channels, to the bottom. LIFE would cool the fire by establishing a chief for the chiefs. A good idea?
Marlon Brando is the cover boy this week. His claim to fame is that he can act, direct and produce. Says Marlon, “Acting is a bum’s life.” So in his newest movie, One-Eyed Jacks, Marlon moves out. Now he directs as well.
Elsewhere in LIFE there is an article on South America (part m in a series of VI). For those who don’t agree with the SCHOLASTIC’S own D. Edward Chaplin, the article is a MUST. For Ed and the boys, it is still interesting. And for all spring-hungry Domers, let me say that even the ads in this week’s magazine promise of the future. See, I told you that graduation wasn’t that far away.—Adv.
to uphold the contentions
24
The Scholastic
PidiM
4,000 WILL ATTEND BENGAL FINALS TONIGHT
' Ten Fights Scheduled For Final Night Action 1 r
Tonight at 8 p.m. in the Fieldhouse the hell will sound for the final matches of the 29th annual Bengal Bouts. A crowd k of close to 4,000 is expected and the proceeds are destined for the Bengal Missions in East Pakistan.
Joe Anderson, a former champ and p senior from Fisher Hall and Cortland, N. Y., and Tim Reardon, a southpaw freshman from San Francisco and Cavanaugh Hall, furnished the fireworks for ’ the Monday and Wednesday night action.
On Monday the 177-pound Anderson bolted out of his corner at the opening bell, exchanged a few jabs with his opponent Jim O’Rourke, a freshman from Oavanaugh and Rockhill, Mo., and then decked him with a straight right to the jaw. O’Rourke got up at four but then his knees sagged weakly and referee George Van der Hayden stopped the fight. It all took just 40 seconds.
Reardon rocket. On Wednesday night it was Reardon’s turn.. He had been impressive in a quarter-final win over Tony ‘ Kozole of Morrissey and his sneaky fast left was much in evidence. But Wednesday the 157-pound Californian proved that it was not only fast but very powerful. After a cautious start he suddenly unleashed a straight left that sent Dick > Trujillo of Morrissey Hall sprawling to the canvas. He got up quickly only to be blasted again at 1:09 and this time for good.
V Trujillo, from Phoenix, Ariz., had advanced to the semifinals by winning a
CAUTIOUS FIRST ROUND Two fighters “feel" each other out
split decision over senior Len Hanlock from Sorin Hall and Winfield, Ill. Hanlock made a great comeback in the third round and many of the people at ringside were surprised at the decision.
In the 139-pound division tonight Mike Morrow of Morrissey Hall and Dallas, Texas will go against Brian Richardson of Stanford Hall and Southfield, Mich. Morrow earned his way to the finals by a close but unanimous decision over Arnold Leporati from Dillon Hall and Queens Village, N. Y., on Monday night. Richardson also beat Lepo-
Tonight's Fight Card
139 lbs.
Mike Morrow vs. Brian Richardson
147 lbs.
Sam Haffey vs. Ross Franco
152 lbs.
Len Hanlock vs. Joseph Srholez 157 lbs.
Tim Reardon vs. Bob Fitzsimons
167 lbs.
Pete Rosi vs. Bob Biolchini
172 lbs.
Jim Gmelin vs. Ray DeLuca
177 lbs.
Joe Anderson vs. John Quinn
191 lbs.
Tim Brennan vs. Tom Brennan
Junior Heavyweight
Barry Leone vs. Jack Eatinger
Heavyweight
Tom Gardocki vs. Gene Viola
rati on Wednesday night on a unanimous decision.
The 147-pound fight tonight should be a great one. Former 139-pound champ Ross Franco is pitted against Sam Haffey, a finalist last year. Franco gained his berth by decisively outpointing his much taller adversary, Carl Hogan, an Allentown, Pa., fighter from Cavanaugh Hall. Hogan had beaten Don Tully, a fellow Cavanaugh resident on Monday night. Haffey, a Badin Hall junior from Lyndhurst, Ohio, decisioned Joe Srholez to gain the other spot in the 147-pound final.
Hagood ill. Bob Fitzsimons advanced to the 157-pound finals by default when his semifinal opponent, Pat Hagood, contracted a virus. Fitzsimons is a South Bender and will meet the dangerous, left-handed Reardon in the finals tonight.
In the 167-pound class Pete Rosi, a freshman from Chicago and Keenan Hall, advanced to the finals with wins over- Tom Bowers of Morrissey and Bill Moore, a graduate student well-known to upperclassmen for 1958 and 1959 toe-to-toe slugfests. Rosi’s foe tonight will
ACTION IN THE SECOND Fitzsimons opens up against O’Malley
be an Off-Campus representative, Bob Biolchini from Detroit. Biolchini won a decision over Joe (the Body) Lukitsch in a very bloody fight. Lukitsch is from Sorin Hall and West Falls, N. Y.
A special 172-pound bout between Ray DeLuca and Jim Gmelin is slated for this evening. Both of these fighters lost close fights to the two 177-pound finalists, John Quinn from Vetville and Philadelphia and the aforementioned Anderson. Quinn won a decision over Jack DeMarco of Palm Beach, Fla., on Monday night and then moved on to the finals with an impressive win over DeLuca, the Pueblo, Colo., sophomore who had performed so well last year.
Both finalists in the 191-pound class are named Brennan. Tom is a junior from Houston, Texas and Morrissey Hall and Tim is a freshman from B-P and Freeport, Ill. Tom reached the finals by virtue of his Monday night win over Pangbom’s Pete Crotty,
Viola comeback. Football center Gene Viola from Scranton, Pa., meets Howard Hall’s Tom Gardocki in the heavyweight final. Viola, fighting on both Monday and Wednesday nights, won unanimous verdicts over Barry Leone of Oak Park, Ill., and Jack Eatinger, an Off-Campus student from Dundee, Ill. The Viola-Leone fight was tremendous. Viola got up off the canvas in the first round to come back and put Leone on the mat as the fight ended. Gardocki edged out Bob Pietrzak of Walsh Hall and Hamtramck, Mich., by a split decision. A fast finish in the third round by Gardocki earned him the win. Leone and Eatinger will met in a special junior heavyweight bout tonight.
April 1, 1960
25
ODDS and ENDS
One of the most improved players in college basketball this year was Len Wilkens of Providence College. Wilkens, who played only one year of high school basketball, had not gained much recognition because teammate Jack Egan has been the Friars’ big man for the last two years. However, Wilkens showed his ability in the recent NIT tournament which he led in scoring with 84 points, also winning the Most Valuable Player award. Not satisfied with this, Wilkens decided to play on the East squad in the East-West All-Star game last Saturday. In the last three minutes of this contest, Wilkens was phenomenal as he scored eight points in leading the East to a 67-66 triumph. Quite a show, Len! . . .
Wilt Chamberlain is an honest fella’. In a recent article for Look magazine. Chamberlain stated that he had received more than his share of rough treatment in the pro hardwood game. Wilt emphasized his point by quitting the Philadelphia Warriors after they had lost the Eastern Division playoffs to Boston. The question to ask is whether Wilt is really quitting. If his resignation is only a threat, then Wilt •will probably ask for a much greater salary^ next year. And yet, there really is the chance that Wilt will quit because he is a talented man whose abilities extend into other fields also. Only recently Chamber-lain wanted to prove to his family that he was a competent singer so he made a record. . . .
Carl Yastrzemski, the talented infielder from Notre Dame who has been training with the Boston Red Sox this spring, was recently sent down to the Minneapolis club of the American Association for more fielding experience. Yastrzemski made quite an impression with the Red Sox high brass and they all seem to think that he will be one of the big stars in the game in the next few years. . . .
Yastrzemski isn’t the only highly-touted rookie in the spring camps this year. Frank Howard of the Los Angeles Dodgers has also created quite a fuss. In a recent newspaper article, Howard’s baseball ability was valued at one million dollars. This put him in a category with four other established stars, Willie Mays, Ernie Banks, Mickey Mantle and Hank Aaron. Quite an honor for a young man who has never played major league ball! . . .
Dallas Long, sensational sophomore from Southern California, set a new world shot put record last Saturday when he heaved the iron ball 64 feet, 6}4 inches. This means that the “fighting Irishman” Parry O’Brien will once again come out of retirement and try to regain his record. Each time O’Brien has set the shot put record he has “sort of semi-retired.” But he quickly ends his retirement when his record is broken. No doubt track fans will see Parry in a lot of meets in the next few months. . . .
OK
Dillon Takes 1st Place In Swim Tournament
Dillon Hall’s swim forces captured team honors in the Interhall Swimming Meet held March 24. Victories by both its relay teams provided a good portion of the hall’s 28-point final total.
Jim Bennan of Farley paced the field in the 200-yard freestyle with his 2:23.4 timing. Bill McGiven and Bill Duffy added their second and third place point totals to the Dillon scorecard. Cavanaugh’s Jim Coyle took the diving event, beating out two Dillon competitors, Dan Hagan and Phil Hoch.
After a 24.5 second jaunt of 50 yards in freestyle fashion, Mike Mahaney of Badin was declared the winner in this event. Roger Reynolds of Stanford and Tony Cox of Lyons rounded off the top three.
Next, Farley’s Bennan with a 27.3 second clocking added the 50-yard butterfly crown to his 200-yard freestyle laurels. Clem McDonald, a Morrissey resident, and Bob Kroha, a Dillon resident, wound up in the second and third slots.
The 100-yard freestyle competition saw Morrissey’s Sean Fitzgerald take top honors with a 1:01.2 performance.
Howard’s Ed McAnaney and St. Edward’s Tom Shuff took the 50-yard back-stroke and breaststroke crowns with times of 32.2 and 32.5 seconds, respectively. Bennan of Farley and John Hughes of Morrissey backstroked to second and third places, •while Dillon’s Jerry Pape and Morrissey’s Mike Maher filled the second and third breaststroke berths.
As previously noted, Dillon’s performers splashed home in the lead in both relays. Its foursome of McGiven, Hoch, Duffy and Tom Slenghi won the 200-yard freestyle relay and Dan Griffith, Pape, Kroha and Jim Connolly churned to a 200-yard medley relay triumph.
Gene Jordan, retired swimming star and one-time sandwich seller in Walsh Hall, has this to say: “I’m a man who sinks for himself and thus I feel a desperate need for buoyant Beetle Sandwiches. They definitely help me pool my resources for that final drive. So when you're cheering your candidate at the Mock Convention, remember Beetle Sandwiches. Not only are they milder, much milder! . . . but you can bite either end.’’
19 Lettermen Greet Kuharich For Start of Spring Practice
Tomorrow head coach Joe Kuharich f and his assistants will -welcome over 90 candidates for the official opening of spring practice. After a “picture day” session today, the boys will begin serious ■workouts in preparation for Notre Dame’s 72nd football season. Coach Kuharich plans to hold six or seven practices before the Easter vacation, and then a the remainder of the 20 workouts will be continued when the players return from vacation on April 25. The spring drills will culminate with the annual Old- ’ Timers game on May 14. There is a possibility that this game will be held in Chicago rather than at home because the field is being resodded.
A total of 19 monogram winners ■will be returning this season. Heading this
JOE KUHARICH
Enters 2nd year at ND
group is Myron Pottios who will captain the 1960 squad. Pottios, who will be a senior guard in the fall, is recovering from knee surgery and will have to pass up spring practice. Three other leading monogram winners will be forced to miss practice. They are: Bill “Red” Mack, senior left half; George Sefcik, junior left half; and Gerry Gray, junior fullback.
1959 monogram men returning:
Name	Position	Ht.	JPt.	Class*
Max Burnell, end		6-3	205	Jr-
Les Traver, end 		6-2	190	Jr-
Bob Bill, tackle 		6-2	220	Jr.
Joe Carollo, tackle		6-2	230	Jr.
Bob Pietrzak, tackle 		6-3	215	Sr.
George Williams, tackle 		6-2	220	Jr.
Nick Buoniconti, guard 		5-11	210	Jr.
Myron Pottios, guard 		6-2	215	Sr.
Norb Roy, guard 		5-10	195	Jr.
Tom Hecomovich, center 		6-3	205	Jr.
George Haffner, quarterback 		6-0	180	Jr-
Clay Schulz, quarterback 		6-1	190	Jr.
Angelo Dabiero, halfback 		..5-8	165	Jr.
Bill Mack, halfback		6-0	175	Sr.
Ray Ratkowski, halfback 		6-1	185	Sr.
Bob Scarpitto, halfback 		5-11	180	Sr. .
George Sefcik, halfback 		5-8	160	Jr-
Gerry Gray, fullback 		6-2	190	Jr-
Joe Perkowski, fullback 		6-0	200	Jr-
* Class as of Sept. 1960.

NETMEN OPEN DEFENSE OF NCAA TITLE
Ralph, Heinbecker Back To Lead 1960 Net Team
by JOHN BECHTOLD
For this spring’s defense of the NCAA Co-Championship, Notre Dame tennis coach Tom Fallon will have three monogram men, including two AllAmericans, returning from last year’s undefeated team, plus three fairly experienced seniors, one junior and a promising sophomore competing for the other three berths.
The Irish, who lost three of their top men from last year through graduation, including the great Maxwell Brown, face a longer and more difficult schedule this
season. In addition to meeting eight Big Ten schools, including perennially powerful Michigan, they invade the Ivy League for the first time on a four-day, four-meet trip during the Easter vacation, which includes Yale, Harvard and Princeton among the competition.
Ralph number one. Don Ralph, the number* two man on last year’s team as a sophomore, will lead the Notre Dame netmen in their attempt to lengthen their present 18-meet win streak. Ralph, who comes from Bethesda, Maryland, went unbeaten in regular season singles competition last year and then took two out of three matches in NCAA competition. For his fine play, Ralph was named to the second team of the 1959 College All-American chosen by the National Collegiate Tennis Coaches Association.
Contesting his position will be another junior letterman, Bill Heinbecker, from St. Louis, Mo., who also went undefeated in regular season competition last spring as the number four man on the squad. In NCAA tourney competition he split in two single matches, but teamed up with Irish ace Brown to reach the finals in doubles competition. Heinbeckei* was named to the third team of the college All-American.
Tentatively occupying third position this year will be the only other returning monogram winner, another regular from last year’s squad and captain of this year’s team, Ray Bender, a senior. Bender, who is from Burlington, N. C., was also unbeaten in regular singles competition last year, but did not go to the NCAA tourney.
The next position will probably go to another Heinbecker, Bill’s older brother, Pete. A senior, Pete saw limited action last year and did not win a monogram. Close behind him comes another senior, Dee Stevenson, from Wichita, Kansas.
Battle for 6th spot. The final berth will probably go to either Brian Cam-panara, a senior from Yonkers, N. Y., Jim Whelan, a likely sophomore prospect from Ridgewood, N. J., or Bill McGivern, a junior from Whitefish Bay, Wise. '
Now in his fourth year as Irish tennis mentor, Fallon reached a high point of his collegiate coaching career last June when his squad took the NCAA CoChampionship with Tulane. The NCAA crown was the climax of three years of steady improvement by Fallon-coached
1959 NCAA CHAMPION IRISH SQUAD
From left to right: Coach Fallon, Ron Schoenberg, Max Brown, Don Ralph, Chuck Stephens, Ray Bender, Bill Heinbecker.
teams. In his initial season, the Irish netters won nine and lost four. The following year saw this mark improved to 17-1, and last year’s squad went unbeaten in 14 straight contests. This gives him an enviable three-season mark of 40-5, and a win percentage of .888.
Fallon, a 1942 graduate of Notre Dame, joined the University faculty in 1951. A native of Flushing, N. Y., Fallon served as faculty advisor and coach for the Notre Dame wrestling club from 1951 through 1954. He was appointed wrestling coach in 1955 when the sport was elevated to varsity status, a post he still holds.	'
Last year’s undefeated squad was the fourth in the history of Notre Dame tennis — the others coming in 1942, 1944 and 1947. The 1944 team went on to share the NCAA Co-Championship with Miami (Florida). The all-time Irish tennis record for 37 seasons of competition shows 213 victories, 119 losses, and four ties.
The season gets under way with a match against Kalamazoo College here on April 9. The regular season is as follows:
April 18—Yale, away.
April 19—Harvard, away.
April 20—Merchant Marine Academy, away.
April 22—Princeton, away.
April 29—Marquette, away.
April 30—Wisconsin, away.
May 2—Purdue, away.
May 3—Indiana, away.
May 6-7—Iowa, Northwestern, Ohio State, away.
May 11—Western Michigan, away.
May 12—Toledo, home.
May 14—Michigan State, home.
May 16—Michigan, home.
May 21—Southern Illinois, home.
May 22—Detroit, home.
April 1, 1960
27
SPECIAL
After Graduation
by BOB SCHAEFER
With the coming of spring and the baseball season, several former ND grads and monogram men have made the trek to spring training camps around the nation. Among them are Bud Trapp, Jim Morris and Chuck Symeon from the 1958 Irish NCAA entry, all of whom signed contracts after the tourney in 1958.
Morris, a first baseman, was the leading hitter on that squad with a .394 average which included seven homers and 27 RBI’s. He is currently in the Yankees farm chain with another ND star Frank Carpin. Trapp, who played third base and hit .320, is in spring training with the Detroit Tigers, and Symeon, a 6-3 pitcher in 1958, is in the Baltimore Oriole chain.
Former All-American catcher Elmer Kohorst, captain of 1957’s fourth place
NICK PIETROSANTE
Detroit Lion rookie-of-the-yeor
NCAA finishers, put in three years in the Dodger system before settling down to coaching baseball and teaching physical education at St. John’s University in his native state of Minnesota.
Football stars. With the Old-Timers game coming up May 14, former gridiron stars such as Dick Lynch, Al Ecuyer, Don Lawrence, Bronko Nagurski and Nick Pietrosante will return to the Stadium (or wherever the game is going to be played) to do battle with the present Irish gridders.
Lynch, you will remember, scored the lone TD in Notre Dame’s stunning victory over Oklahoma in 1957 which snapped the Sooners’ record-breaking win skein. He is currently playing defensive halfback for the Eastern division champs of the NFL, the New York Giants.
Pietrosante was named the rookie of the year on the Detroit Lions squad last fall, as he was the number one groundgainer for the Lions. Ecuyer and Nagurski both put in their playing time in Canada last fall, Nagurski with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats and Ecuyer with the Toronto team of the same league. Don Lawrence, who also played with the above three in the 1957 Oklahoma game, was the number one right offensive guard for the Washington Redskins last fall.
Paul Hornung, Notre Dame’s only bright light in the 1956 season when he won the Heisman Trophy as the outstanding college football player of the year, played somewhat the same role for the Green Bay Packers for two years until last fall when the Packers clicked at last. Hornung was the offensive show once again, but this time the Packers won half of their games and Hornung captured the league scoring championship.
Departed fencers. Dick Fagan and Jim Jock, two of the finest fencers Notre Dame has turned out in Coach Walter Langford’s tenure as head coach, each have traveled separate ways since graduation in 1957 and 1958 respectively. Fagan entered the Dehon Seminary in Great Barrington, Mass., after gaining a Master’s Degree in art from Notre Dame. Jock, after graduation, went to work for the J. C. Penny Co. in Indianapolis, Indiana. He is currently finishing up a six-month tour of duty with the Army. After his discharge in April he will return to his former job. Both Fagan and Jock were co-captains in their final year and Irish representatives at the NCAA fencing championships.
Dale Vanderberg, whose half-mile record of 1:51.4 was broken by Ron Gregory during the indoor season, is now a civil engineer for the Michigan Highway department, working out of Grand Rapids.
Joe Foreman, a 440 man, is a law student at the University of Toronto in Toronto, Canada, while teammate Andy Crawford, a distance man, is working for American Airlines in Moline, Illinois.
Still around. Two of last year’s grads are still around the campus taking graduate work and helping out in their respective sports. Dick Katis is the frosh swimming coach, and rather successful if the results of the final home meet of the season mean anything. His frosh charges outdistanced the varsity in nearly every individual event. Steve Dornbach, captain of the 1959 track squads, is also helping out in his old sport, along with competing in open meets such as the Chicago Daily News relays. He was a hurdler and holds most Notre Dame hurdling records.
RON GREGORY
To anchor four relay teams
R. Gregory Leads Trackmen In Texas Relays Competition
Junior distance man Ron Gregory will head an eleven-man delegation from Notre Dame to the annual Texas Relays at Ausitn, Texas, April 1-2, as the Irish open their outdoor schedule.
Gregory, who holds Irish records for 'r the half-mile, one-mile and two-mile | runs, will perform an iron-man feat in | the meet by anchoring all foui- ND re- J lay entries.	1
With Gregory on the two-mile entry will be juniors Dan Rorke and Chris Monahan and sophomore Dennis Johnston. Rorke and Gregory, plus senior Galen Cawley and soph Steve Schwartz, will be on the distance medley relay team; and Schwartz, sprinter Jen-y , Fitzpatrick and Frank Hemphill, both juniors, will team with Gregory in the , sprint medley. A four-mile relay team will be composed of Gregory, Cawley, sophomore Tom Dempsey and co-Captain Dave Cotton. The only other Irish entry will be Co-Captain Tom Reichert in the ‘ pole vault.
NCAA FENCING
Co-Captain Jim Russomano, Ted Debaene and Pete Giaimo, all of whom are seniors, will be Notre Dame’s three representatives in the NCAA fencing championships which are being held today and tomorrow at the University of Illinois in Champaign.
Russomano, from West Caldwell, N. J., will compete in the foil. Russomano had a 33-6 record this year. DeBaene, from Detroit, is entered in the sabre, and he had a season’s record of 30 wins and 11 losses. Giaimo, from Flushing, N. Y., will participate in the epee division. His season record was 27-5.
28
The Scholastic
Top Bridge Team Captures 3 Master Points in Tourney
The final round of the Team-of-Four Bridge Championship was played last Sunday in the Student Center. The championship was won by the team of Paul Donis, Paul Carpenter, Bob Bennett and Dave Joyce. Registering 15 J4 points in the first session, the winning unit followed up with 13)4 points in the second session for a total of 29, good for three Master Points.
The team of Howard Zusman, Kevin Rice, William Edwin and Tom Gray placed second with a total of 28)4, winning 1.50 Master Points.
Engraved trophies, donated by Mr. and Mrs. James Gerity, Jr., of Adrian, Mich., were awarded to each member of the teams finishing first, second and third.
Regular duplicate bridge is played every Sunday in the Student Center at 1:30 p.m. The next Master Point is Sunday, April 10.
FINAL RESULTS
1.	Donis, Carpenter, Bennett, Joyce ..........29
2.	Zusman, Rice, Erwin, Gray _________________ 28%
3.	Wong, Kelly, Kristinik, Houston ___________ 25%
4.	Carpenter, Mack, Arnold, Butler ........... 24
5.	Marriner, Pelletier, Felix, Morris ....... 22%
6.	Bauman, Kirby, Peters, Marchildon ________ 21%
7.	Sacher, Showel, Jones, Kelly ______________ 19
8.	Hanlon, O’Mara, Farley, Clark _____________ 18
9.	Kelleher, Heying, Kfouri, Whelan __________ 16
10.	Donovan, Demetrio, Ucker, Hickey .......... 16
11.	Brady, Mudd, Blanchette, Miller ___________ 14
Sailing Club Presents 4th Annual Film Show
Next Friday, April 8, the Sailing Club is presenting internationally famous producer-photographer John Biddle and his fourth annual sailing film show, “Storm Trysail.” This color film with muscial score features three events of interest to all sailors: the Out-Island Regatta held at Georgetown, Great Exuma Island, Bahamas; the 1959 Chicago-Mackinac Race and the 1959 Star Class World’s Championships.
The Out-Island Regatta is limited to competition between natives of the Bahamas sailing their work boats for money prizes. Between the calypso bands and the unusual craft, this is a very colorful sequence. Anybody going to the Bahamas this Easter vacation should find this a very interesting preview of what they’ll see.
Next, the film moves to the Great Lakes for last year’s Chicago-Mackinac race, 333 miles of fun and competition during the longest fresh water race in the world. The film was shot from a 53-foot boat, and shows just what the crew does (besides drink) during the 72-hour race.
Finally, some of the best small boat sailing in the world is presented during the Star class championships held at Newport Beach, Calif. Mr. Biddle, who personally narrates his film, has raced and cruised for thirty years on all types of sailboats. This is his fourth major
film production and last year the Club presented his “The America Cup’s Defense, 1958” which was very well received.
The show starts at 8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Tickets, <m sale at the door, are $.75 for students* $1.00 for others.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS “JUST BRING IN THE PIECES”
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
M-IUM TURBOW XPPTOMBTRWV 207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel) Phone CE 4-5777
AQUINAS UBUEYari INK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME
PRESS
MILTON
Diplomacy in a Changing World
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination, diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world.
Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, Hans Morganthau, Jacques de Bourbon-Busset, Raymond J. Sontag, and Philip E. Mosely are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume.
$7.50
• • ; On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore ;
:	and all leading booksellers	:
—————————.———-.——.————————J
April 1, 1960	___
on Life Savers:
“Sweet is the breath”
from Paradise Lost, The Beautiful World, Kne 1
Still only 5}
ALBY’S
STEAK HOUSE. INC.
★
Good Food is Our Specialty ★
STEAKS CHICKEN SEA FOODS
We cater to parties, banquets, clubs, etc.
1040 W. WESTERN
AT 8-2575
Plan Summer Counseling, Guidance Institute; Classes Open to Secondary School Advisors
Final plans for a Counseling and Guidance Summer Training Institute here June 20-July 29 are now being completed.
Enrollees will be selected from applicants who are engaged in guidance and counseling of students in secondary schools. The Institute will accommodate 30 enrollees, each of whom will have had a minimum of three semester hours of credit and a maximum of nine hours in guidance and counseling.
Enrollees will be selected on the basis of previous academic training, recommendation of the school authority with respect to the fitness of the applicant as a counselor, and need for counselors in the applicant’s school system. Written intention to pursue further work in this field, and a statement by a school administrator that the enrollee will be assigned guidance duties subsequent to his Institute participation are also required.
The primary purpose of the Notre Dame Institute is to help trainees acquire skill in counseling the talented student and his parents. “The Talented Student in School and at Home” will be the general theme of the program.
The Institute will be comprised of class meetings in which special emphasis will be placed on the psychological foundations of counseling and guidance; tests and measurements in terms of their relationship to the identification and counseling of secondary school students; and supei-vised laboratory experiments. Enrollees will also be informed of the essential features of occupational information as related to the college-bound youth. In addition, enrollees will have an opportunity to participate in seminars conducted by guest lecturers, consultants, or staff members. The entire Institute will be supported by a grant under the National Defense Education Act.
Six semester hours of graduate work are also included in the Institute. These
credits may later be applied to a Master of Arts degree at Notre Dame.
Approximately 3,000 men and women will be enrolled in similar institutes at 84 colleges and universities throughout the country. Under provisions of the National Defense Education Act public school personnel attending will receive stipends of $75 a week plus $15 a week for each dependent. Private school enrollees attend without charge, but receive no stipends.
Dr. Anthony Riccio, assistant professor of education, has been named director of the Notre Dame Institute. Also
Summer Study in New York
I Select your program from the 1.000 courses | conducted for 2. 3, 5. 6. 8 and 12 week terms, । beginning June 7 and ending September 9.
I MORNING, AFTERNOON AND EVENING CLASSES
•	In the Arts
•	In the Sciences
•	In Education
•	In Engineering
•	In Business
•	In Retailing
•	In Public Administration
•	In Law
• In Communication Arts
serving on the Institute staff will be Mr. John Fargen, assistant professor of education and Dr. Martin Stamm, director of pupil personnel for the South Bend city schools.
Twelve guest lecturers and consultants representing high schools, colleges and school systems in Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin and Ohio also will be associated with the Institute.
Additional information and application forms may be obtained for anyone that is interested by writing to Dr. Riccio. Address the letters to Dr. Anthony Riccio, Department of Education, Notre Dame, Indiana.
PROFESSIONAL — UNDERGRADUATE — GRADUATE
College students in good standing at their own schools may enroll. Application should be made in advance. All courses have the same content as in the academic year. Students may take full year courses or a combination of single term courses. Credits are ordinarily transferable to other institutions.
Write to the Dean of Summer Sessions for Undergraduate Bulletin XX and Application Form. For information on Graduate and Professional studies, indicate school of your interest.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK Telephone: SPring 7-2000 Ext. 8097 or 8098
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
*
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	JJ4.S. Bldg.
The Scholastic
McCLAVE
PRINTING CO.
Phone
CE 4-7361
305 NORTH NILES AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND.
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Many toutt include toHvge credit.
Orient 43-65 Days,**, '’•’"$998
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $598 up and n	Around the World $1198 up.
Z7» Tear Alk rour Trov-( Awnf
Europe $47S

ND Students Help Formulate Paper Applauding Negroes
Notre Dame students were instrumental in formulating a resolution applauding the current “sitdown” strike of Negro students in the South during an interracial conference of Catholic college students at the Sheraton Towers in Chicago last Sunday.
Dominated by the Notre Dame influence the conference unanimously approved the following resolution: “Our fellow college students in the South have shown courage and conviction in defense of human dignity and their individual rights by protesting segregation and denial of library and lunch counter facilities. We, as participants in the Midwest College Conference of the Catholic Interracial council, applaud this courageous display of determination and express our condemnation of such segregation and denial of public accommodations and facilities on the basis of race.”
Resolutions were also passed asking for an end to college admission policies that discriminate against admitting Negroes and members of other minority groups.
It was the first time in the seven-year history of the annual conference, attended this year by 125 students, that the students have decided to present resolutions. The voting came at the end of the three-day conference and as the result of meetings held until 2 a.m. Sunday.
WORLD TRAVEL
2557
NOTHING HOLDS Llh£ j SPERRY TOP-SIDERS | For your personal safety afloat and ashore
for non-slip safety highest flexibility greatest comfort
White or Navy Men’s & Women's Juniors’ I'/i-V/i
ON ANY DECK OR COURT
At Shoe, Sports, Marine Dept. Stores. Write for dealer name, style folder
/ nrwr /1	'
IbP-USiVW
Box 338T Naugatuck, Conn.
New TV R©©m Erected For LoFortene Student Center
Workmen have been busy for the past few weeks reclaiming an unused room in the LaFortune Student Center for use as a new television room. The new room, which is directly beneath the amphitheater, and adjacent to the Rathskeller, is being put to use because of the many conflicts in scheduling club meetings in the amphitheater, the present TV room of the Student Center.
The room will be pleasantly laid out with a light-colored tile floor, acoustical ceiling and knotty pine wall. Although the decorating is nearly completed, the room will not be officially opened for several weeks until the chairs are obtained. The amphitheater television will then be removed to its new site and raised from the floor level for easier viewing.
The room will be open to all students in the afternoons and evenings until 10 p.m. On Fridays it will be open until 11 p.m. and Saturday until 11:30 p.m. Unlike the present amphitheater, refreshments will be allowed here.
Expenses for this new room will run in the vicinity of $5,000. This cost will be covered by the LaFortune Student Center Fund, sustained by the Mardi Gras donation.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
WIlDfRNfSS CANOF TRIPS
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
dressed
Hie Prom
He rents
formats
. . . and you’ll know why when you see our complete, modern selection of formals and accessories. Tastefully tailored, correct in the smallest detail—and comfortable! You'll find our service convenient and economical, too.
★
LOUIE’S TUXEDO RENTAL
Phone AT 7-0575
9 Blocks West of Michigan St. Between Washington and Western on Laurel
April 1, 1960
31
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
A GOOD NEIGHBOR
Editor:
Last week’s “Back Page” [issue of March 18] was undoubtedly the best article I’ve ever come across in two years here. The writer shows a keen, perceptive mind in his analysis of the Latin-American situation. I think that I can speak for the majority of the student body in asking that you get more writers of his caliber and that you make more use of his talents. I realize that the writer, like all intelligent well-informed men, will receive unfair criticism from many of the crackpots. But I hope that this will not discourage him.
Andrew Chaplin 423 Lyons
HIP, HIP, HURRAY forthe
GREYHOUND* way to save money!
Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? it’s the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride and complete restroom! You’ll have a ball headin’ home on a Greyhound —it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive!
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
rrs such a comfort TO TAKE THE BUS...AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
Greyhound TonninaL Main & Monroe, AT 7*6541
Editor:
My Latin neighbors, Fuster, Hermida, Ramirez, Silva, and de Haro are hereby tendered an apology for the insults given to their national honor and personal dignity. However, if the Latin American people in general retain their dignidad, then at the same time, it is conspicuously absent in the Latin American politicians and upper classes. Bishop Manuel Larrain, hiding his “ignorance behind cleverness,” made the following “ravaging deprecations” in the June, 1957 issue of Revista Javerianna:	.
We are a continent on the brink of immediate and profound social reforms. Shocking social inequality, the existence of immense proletarian and subproletarian masses living
St. Louis	$ 9.30
New York	23.35
Pittsburgh	12.60
Louisville	8.60
*Tax not included
GREYHOUND
in inhuman conditions, the monopoly of land ownership, the general lack of social awareness on the part of well-to-do Catholics, the prevailing attitude of coolness toward social > a progress. . . the material and social 1 conditions in which the peasants are B living — all this must undergo seri- 15 ous consideration and reform.	■
The naive prelate ends his article by I declaring that: “Latin Americans	must	|
abandon their mistrust of the	United	I
States since it is erroneous, prejudicial 5 > and hardly Christian.”	1
Charity, my Latin American friends, begins at home. My contention is simply this — instead of chastising and * criticizing the United States and their “erratic foreign policy,” you would do well first of all to ponder over the words of Bishop Larrain. The wrong attitudes * of wealthy people, i.e., land monopolization, excessive investment and speculation in real estate, poor planning, poor organization of credit, antiquated agriculture, a weak domestic market (1, 2, or 3 product economies), excessive preoccupation with foreign trade, and a readiness to sacrifice agriculture to the £ dreams of a hurried industrialization—	|
all these I believe to be South America’s | problems primarily, and the United 1 States’ secondarily.	J
D. Edward Chaplin 1 411 Walsh Hall I
REACTION	B
Editor:	*Jg;
Your engaging letter [signed by Joe ■ Bride] which was printed in Notre M Dame’s Scholastic on March 18, 1960, JR is extremely interesting. You must be Is complimented on your satirical criticism, jg not only of Republicans and conserva- £ tives, but also of the University from H which you graduated.	S
Your outstanding devotion to liberal- re ism will no doubt, do much for the advancement of the conservative position, re
Undoubtedly your position is well ■ taken; it must be supported by many re years of studying social problems, di- re gesting the solutions of several centuries || and the general methods that were fol- B lowed, and finally you must have reached 9 the intellectually sound position that all ’’ It the “wisdom” which has gone before you re was and still is wrong!	S
Certainly only a liberal can have faith re in Castro, Khrushchev, Reuther, Hum- re phrey, and Chessman. Only a conserva- H tive would be foolish enough to doubt B that man is fully capable of driving on w through thick political ignorance, or that £ man is now ready to be given the ideal of “liberal freedom.”	®
However, your rejection of Nixon re leaves me confused. Are we to prefer g| that a man’s lethargy be uncalculated II and left to chance; is it better that we re call as a patriot, one whose words are , ® unguarded comments on important issues?	re
If the pinnacle of liberalism is to be H reached in our twenties, does this mean ,re that we grow wiser with age or do you re imply,	kind	sir,	that we become duller	H
as we	gain	experience?	H
Ronald A. Kienlen	9
304 Badin	M
The Scholastic	I
32
CANOE TRIPS
An exciting vacation of fishing and camping in the Queticp-Superior wilderness. For everyone —™ experience required. Only $6.00 per day. Write now for complete information to Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota
LUGGAGE
Trunks and Bags
T A f'TZIO luggage
JACK 5 ~
327 S. MICHIGAN
AT 7-3009 Free Delivery
Scarpia
(Continued from page 21) •
Miss Helene Cicciarelli, the soprano soloist, displayed a warm and lovely voice on the Pie Jesu. In this movement the soprano is pitted against a countermelody in the flutes and violas; due to the color of Miss Cicciarelli’s voice the section was especially beautiful.
The baritone soloist, John Oliver, shows much improvement since the last time he was reviewed in this column. He seemed to be completely at ease and his delivery and interpretation in the Libera Me were most enjoyable. One could wish for a warmer, more colorful voice, but perhaps in time this will be achieved.
A repeat performance of the Requiem will take place on April 11 in O’Laughlin Auditorium with soloists Miss Barbara Piedmo, and Mr. Francis J. Loncar.
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
Contact Lens Sptcielid
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL SEPA1IS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4174
choose the protection of..
AFTER SHAVE
LOTION

Skin protection, that is. Old Spice refreshes and stimulates, guards against the loss of vital skin moisture. Feels great, too. Brisk, bracing, with that tangy Old Spice scent. It does scan to attract female admirers, but what red-blooded
man needs protection against girls? 1.00 ptmtn	S M U L T ON
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

April 1, I960




4
Back Pay*
8

part of the answer
by DANIEL O’NEILL
t
: ;•
3
I

The writer of the “Back Page” for this week is Daniel O’Neill, a senior in communication arts from San Francisco, Calif. He has worked in the University Theater and has written for the Juggler This article marks his first contribution to the Scholastic.
In the current period of world strife it is up to the United States to use bold methods to defeat Communism in its attempts to enslave the uncommitted portions of the world. In this article-. O’Neill presents one part of the answer.
>
5

i
IN A WORLD torn between two warring ideologies, both claiming a kind of peaceful coexistence but neither being quite satisfied with it, it seems inevitable that there will be a climax of one kind or another. Whether this climax will take the form of an out and out, ultra explosive world war or relatively few smaller wars is impossible to predict with any certainty. But it is by no means impossible to predict the necessity of the free world to unite in an extensive, concerted effort to convince the world — in particular the Afro-Asian nations—that its system is not the fearful chimera that Russia has painted it to be.
The most important part of such a program is, of course convincing the world of the dignity and goodness of capitalism — the Western system. But in particular, since the United States is the Western leader as acknowledged by both the West and by Russia, it is imperative that the United States present its true credentials to the world. It must dispel at all costs the image of America propagated by Russia. Displays of missile power are obviously not the complete answer — even Russia knows this. America must, just as Russia is doing, extend the much-needed economic aid which the underdeveloped nations of the
world understand far better than
s
unknown abstracts equality.
such and
BASIC DIFFERENCE
as liberty
this America
will
Of course, to do
need the cooperation of her own people because without their consent nothing can be accomplished. This is, perhaps, a basic difference between America and Russia. Russia merely dictates her will to the people but in the West the people themselves must decide for or against most moves by the government. At the present time, however, the question as to whether the American people are willing to decide in favor of extending the necessary help remains unanswered. In the past they have not failed to unite in helping the world both in peace and in war, but the vastness of the present need and its seeming hopelessness act to discourage Americans.
There is no question about affording a program of economic aid. The American economy could easily accommodate any momentary loss which such a plan might incur. In fact if the economic advancement of these underdeveloped nations does succeed it would serve to bolster the trade of all nations and thus facilitate a quick recovery of any major losses. But there is the added incentive that for the first time the American people will not be working alone in the economic sphere. Since the formation of the Special Economic Committee in Paris the United States has acquired the economic help of prosperous Western Europe. These two combined forces, provided they learn to work in a strict spirit of harmony, could handle the economic conversion of the underdeveloped nations without too noticeable a strain on their economies.
With this extra backing from Western Europe and the good chance — assuming the American system to be for the benefit of mankind — that the underdeveloped nations will gradually adopt democracy, the American people should respond to this need. But this is not to say that American aid should be limited to countries prone to democracy. The motivation behind this help should primarily be one of helping that country regardless of its political practices. It is only after giving this help that America can hope to convince these countries of the goodness of capitalism and at the same time deter them from moving away from the West.
The unfortunate fact is, however, that the American people in their characteristic shortsightedness will be slow to realize the need for extending their help. This seems to be inherent in the psychological make-up of America and of democracy as well as in the history of the American people. There does not seem to be enough time left, as there has been in former crises, for the American people to readjust their vision and their thinking.
Of course, this discussion assumes that once American thought has been oriented to the exigencies of the international situation the underdeveloped countries will accept any Western aid offered them. But in a situation like this America is facing all the misconceptions which Communist propaganda has planted so skillfully in the minds of these nations. The black shadow of imperialism and exploitation still hovers around the Stars and Stripes as well as the Union Jack thanks to the diligent efforts of Communism and the lack of interest of Americans. This obstacle can only be broken by patient, persistent work. An urgent need exists to demonstrate to all the nations of the world, and this unfortunately pertains to some allies as well as nations hostile to America, the good intentions of this country. Unless
America can first break down the psychic barriers against capitalism erected by Communist propaganda there is little hope of conveying America’s unselfish motives.
READY-MADE OPPORTUNITY
One of the most obvious ways in which to start this is to take Walter Lippmann’s suggestion concerning India. Here America has a ready-made opportunity. India is the largest democracy in the world but is sorely in need of industrial and agricultural improvement. Surely India would welcome the help that America can offer and at the same time give America the publicity she needs in dispelling the false image. With this chance America could easily prove to the world that democracy, capitalism and imperialism are not unalterable bedfellows. Merely by helping a country like India take the necessary “giant steps forward” to a self-sustaining economy would begin at least to create the true image of America.
By doing this America should be able to demonstrate her humanitarian motives. This is the beginning of the long range plan which must be used if the world is to be saved from total destruction in a war which may pit blacks against whites or Communism against Democracy. There is no telling which struggle will come first. But the only way to avoid the first alternative is economic revolution in the underdeveloped nations. Both ideologies are working toward this goal although for different reasons. As far as the war between the two ideologies is concerned this is, as has been said, hard to predict. Obviously Communist thinking refuses to recognize the fact that the basic prem
4
1
J
I a
ises of Communism have been disproven j , by America and in particular by her unions. It is the unions which have un- " '* deniably helped do away with the old q concept of exploitation of the laborer j and thereby refuted the major premise 1 of Communism. This is what America p 1 must ultimately show the underdevelop- |: ed nations if she is to swing them to her side. Unfortunately Russia sticks C 4 to the major premise of Communism | ?
without taking a good look at present day capitalism. The best that can be hoped for in view of this is that Russia will also maintain the Communist principle of revolution from within. This will give America time to help the un
i
derdeveloped nations and perhaps, although this seems much too much to g j hope for, the Communists will eventu- | ally realize that the old concept of capi- ’ talism has been overthrown. This, of|w course, is basically what the American j|| system has to offer the underdeveloped |y nations once they have been stabilized® economically.	iff
The Scholastic#
The most beautiful new look in diamonds
your hi-fi doesn't sound good like a hi-fi should^} The trouble nay he - Bint oeedie - Weak Mes
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
ODETTA sings
BALLAD FOR AMERICANS
with Symphony of the Air, DeCormier
Chorale ata Other Aaericaa BalMs with herself on guitar, and Bill Lee, string bass VRS-9066 and VSD-2057*
You have to see it to believe it! Looks like a diamond star floating on her finger. And it makes any diamond look bigger, brighter, more beautiful. Don't even think of any other engagement ring until you see the dazzling "Evening Star"* collection at your Artcarved jeweler's.
And, for real proof of value, ask your jeweler about Art-carved's famous nationwide Permanent Value Plan. It gives you the right to apply your ring’s full current retail price, should you ever desire to, toward a larger Artcarved diamond—any time—at any of the thousands of Artcarved jewelers throughout the country.
IMPORTANT. Every genuine "Evening Star" diamond is guaranteed in writing, for color... cut... clarity.. .and carat weight and only Artcarved stamps the exact diamond weight in the ring. It's a genuine "Evening Star" only when-the name is stamped in the ring.
Beloved by brides formore than one hundred years (1850-1960)
At Carnegie Hall	VRS>9010
On Tour	VRS-9013
At Home VRS-9024 & VSD-2030*
Traveling OnVRS-9043& VSD-2022*
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
J. R. Wood &. Sons, Ina, Dept CP, 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N. Y.
FREE: Send me more facts about diamond rings and “WEDDING GUIDE FOR BRIDE AND GROOM.” Also name of nearest (or home-town) Artcarved Jeweler.
Name__^__^_^—^—^_^^—^—^—_—^—
ArtHrg.c	-
City	Cniinty or 7™*	R+ato
NEWPORT FOLK FESTIVAL1959
Vol. 1—Leon Bibb, Pat Clancy,
Tom Makem, Martha Schlamme, Pete Seeger VRS-9062&VSD-2053*
Vol. 2—Joan Baez, Barbara Dane, Bob Gibson, Brownie McGhee, New Lost City Ramblers, Odetta, Sonny Terry VRS-9063 & VSD-2054*
Vol. 3—Oscar Brand, Cynthia Gooding, Frank Hamilton, Ed McCurdy, John Jacob Niles, Jean Ritchie, Earl Scruggs, Frank Warner
VRS-9064 & VSD-2055*
Other Electives—Meaorable recorMp by Leva Mb, Alfred Deller, Cisco NoastM, Erich Kmz. Pool Robeson, Morita ScbtataN;
Geromee Mortem Moorarel «■<< Stereo*
•"EVENING STAR" DESIGN FAT. APPLIED FOR. RINGS ENLARGED TO SNOW DETAIL. COPR. I960, J. II. WOOD O SONS* INC.
but there will be soon
Youth is no obstacle at IBM for outstanding people. The way up is always open. We've been expanding rapidly . . . and we promote from within.
Whether you’re majoring in engineering, math, science, business administration, or liberal arts, I’d like to tell you about IBM and the field of data processing. More important, you should know about the varied and exciting career opportunities—in direct and indirect marketing, applied science, programming, systems, and others —for ambitious people with good scholastic records.
See your placement officer for more information. If we have already interviewed on this campus, and you did not get to see us, please write or call:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager
International Business Machines Corporation
234 N. Michigan St., South Bend 1, Indiana Telephone: CEntral 2-8251
IBM
DATA PROCESSING DIVISION