NAVAL OFFICERS-Thank the U.S. Navy
for pushing prices down
and quality up
QUALITY AND PRICES ESTABLISHED
BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE
shrink-
THE MODERN
Finely woven, long wearing. $5.40 (full sleeve)
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
With Removable All-Wool Lining FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
990-2% Star and 990-2% LACE
Sterling silver base with 2 per cent gold content.
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SERVICE
UNIFORM
$40
(Extra Trousers $10.00)
FREE!
wool stock, weight, dye age and tensile strength.
Fine Quality, 16-ounce 2-ply, pure worsted serge. Meets all government specifications as to
THAT'S the U. S. Navy for you... everything they've tackled, from officers' gold braid to officers' raincoats, has been stepped up in quality and stepped down in price. We doubt if you can get finer ones at any price.
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
$3S5°
With Lining
NAVY RAINCOAT
Of fine 16-ounce 2-ply, pure Y/orsted serge, Cravenetted and. rain resistant. The "button-in" Warmer is of pure wool flannel, providing excellent insulation against cold.
GILBERT'S
99
OPEN HOUSE
2
Home of HICKEY - FREEMAN Navy Officers* Uniforms
Indiana’s Largest
Naval Officers’Uniform House Is NOT DOWNTOWN!
GILBERT’S Naval Tailors, Indiana’s Largest — is located eight blocks South on Michigan Street in South Bend — NOT DOWN TOWN! Everything you need UNDER ONE ROOF — 88 courteous Gilbertarians to serve you.
The Dobbs
Sea-Master
DOBBS Naval Officer’s Cap—100% lighter to wear — 100% easier to change! Dobbs quality, styling and workmanship, of course.
TAXI FREE!
in South Bend —to Gilbert’s
THE MODERN GILBERT'S Gw, TMi
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street .
OPEN HOUSE
Sat. Afternoon and Evening
—and Sunday
FOR MEN!
3
^he SVoire Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Wire Quasi Cras Moritanis FOUNDED 1867
The College Parade
BY EMMETT HASSETT
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON
Associate Editor, Marines
AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Navy
Some people are asking the question these days: “Shall I go to college now or wait until after the war?”
The Indiana Daily Student answers this with the following; the best sources advise entering college as soon as possible because the country now has enough untrained men and women for its essential work; and postwar demands will be for the trained workers.
In line with this an editorial from the Purdue Exponent asks three questions that are designed to make one think.
Does college life teach one to use all his ingenuity, resourcefulness, and concentration?
How many students today are going to college merely because it is the thing to do?
Why is the college graduate so often depicted as a cap and gown crackpot in contemporary cartoons, and in too much contemporary thought?
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Circulation Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	- Observations
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS -	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	-	The Green Banner
JIM HECK ----- Introducing EMMETT HASSETT -	- The College Parade
BLAIR NATTKEMPER -	- Man About the Campus
PETE BROWN -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LEBIEN ... The Periscope ARNIE SKLARE -	-	- The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY	GEORGE KRAUSER	BILL LESSARD
jack McCarthy	JOHN FEENEY	C. STONEBARGER
JOHN BUTLER	GENE DIAMOND	J. KLOCKENKEMPER
TOM dinges	BILL BYINGTON	ART WAGNER
JIM CAREY	D. NUECHTERLEIN	L. HERGSTEIN
DICK GORMAN	JOE HAMMOND	JIM FOY
JACK CAHILL	S. B. STOCKWELL	BILL OVER
DICK MELLETT	J. S. HAMEL	’	JIM SOMMER
JOHN MORRIS	A. E. FUSS	AL KOHN
TOM McNALLY	R. L. VOSBERG	GUY WILSON
JACK MILES	TOM SHANAHAN	GEORGE NUTIL
JAMES KEENAN	RONALD BYERSMITHROBERT MOLNAR	
	HARRY SEIMONSMA	
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER	CHARLES RENAUD
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -
DON WHITE
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
EXAMINATION BLUES
If your none, is close To the grindstone rough, And you hold it down There long enough, In time you’ll say: There’s no such thing .4s brooks that babble And birds that sing. These three will all Your world compose— ■lust you, the stone, And your darned old nose.
We wish to welcome the Tulane Hullabaloo to our list of exchanges and from them we want to quote to you some rules for the V-12.
1.	Moral will be high. V-12ers who have not been issued moral will borrow or obtain some from the ship’s store.
2.	Smiles will be worn 1J4 inches above the chin with 14 teeth showing in a parallel line. Teeth will be shined with Brillo. Blitz cloth is recommended for gold teeth. It is also excellent for R.O.T.C. buttons.
3.	Mistakes will not be made without the permission of the S. 0. 0. D.
4.	V-12ers will sleep in a prone position IVj inches above the bed so as not to wrinkle the sheets. The nose will be held at a 90 degree angle. Breathing will be done in a cadence of 36 to a minute. If the V-12er cannot breathe to this cadence he is advised to stop breathing.
5.	Snoring will be permitted on Tuesday nights between the hours of 0200 and 0345. The key of E flat only will be used.
6.	All men will answer letters the day received. Those not receiving mail will answer anyway.
7.	Men will violate none of these rules unless having legitimate reasons. No reasons whatsoever will be considered legitimate.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 191". Authorized June 25, 191S.
VOL. 82
AUGUST 25, 1944
NO. 7
University's Graduate School Reorganized
Reorganization of the Graduate School by the appointment of a dean and council, in anticipation of post-war expansion, thus supplanting the existing Committee on Graduate Studies, has been announced by university officials. The reorganization will take effect Sept. 1. In announcing the new plans the following statement was issued from the office of the president of the University, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.:
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.
“After a consideration of a survey made by the Committee on Postwar Problems, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, last Monday, announced the reorganization of the Graduate School. This important administrative change has been made, Father O’Donnell said, because of the rapid development of the Graduate School in pre-war years, and in anticipation of even greater expansion in the postwar period.
“The reorganization which consists of a dean and council supplementing the present Committee on Graduate Study, will become effective September 1. The dean of the graduate school, according - to Father O’Donnell’s announcement,
will be the Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Ph.D., Arch.Pal., who has been secretary of the Committee on Graduate Studies since 1934.
“The council will consist of Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., Ph.D., president of the University from 1922 to 1928; Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., Ph.D., Rev. Louis M. Kelley, C.S.C., Ph. D., Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Ph.D., Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., A. M„ Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Ph.D., Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Ph.D., and Professors Edward G. Ma-hin, Ph.D., Theodor K. Just, Ph.D., Andrew J. Boyle, Ph.D., and Karl Men-ger, Ph.D. During the absence of Father Boland, who is on military service, his place on the council will be taken by Professor- Paul C. Bartholomew, Ph.D.
“The Graduate School of the University was first organized in 1921 as an outgrowth of graduate courses offered to students of the summer sessions beginning with the summer of 1918. The number in the summer sessions gradually increased until in 1941 there were 631 students enrolled, and 160 during the regular academic year. With the adoption of the accelerated school program, the summer sessions were discontinued for the duration.
“At the outset the degree of doctor of philosophy was offered only in the Department of Chemistry. In 1932 the doctor’s degree in biology was announced, and then came metallurgy, philosophy, physics, mathematics, and politics. In addition to the doctoral work in these seven fields, programs of study for the master’s degree—master of arts or master of science—are offered in thirteen departments.
“The war,” said Father O’Donnell, “has naturally caused a great decrease in graduate enrollment at the University. Although it has made necessary a curtailment in the graduate programs, we have held our faculty personnel almost intact as we have gone ahead (Continued on page 11)
Ensign Mordoh Killed
Naval officials at the University of Notre Dame have been advised of the death of Ensign Gilbert Mordoh, killed in an explosion in California. Ensign Mordoh was graduated from the midshipmen’s training school at Notre Dame last January.—James Keenan
N.D. Graduate, Hero
of 35 Missions, Home
Lieut. Robert M. Sweeney of South Bend and a 1941 graduate of the University of Notre Dame is home on leave visiting his wife and parents.
Lieut. Sweeney with 35 missions over occupied Europe admitted that his plane had been “shot up” but it was never shot down. On one occasion the window in front of him was shot out. His crew is credited with downing one Messerschmitt.
The Notre Dame flier has been awarded the Air Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster.
—James Keenan
Wrinkle Removers
To ease the drudgery of Notre Dame’s domestic sailor, the V-12 unit has now acquired a dozen ironing boards, complete with pads and covers. Three of these are to be installed in a convenient place in each of the halls.
The ironing boards will be available for use by trainees at any time during the daylight hours.
NO "SCHOLASTIC" NEXT WEEK
Because of Mid-Semester examinrrHong,
coupled at the same time with the paper shortage, the SCHOLASTIC will not be printed next week. The next issue will be that of Friday, Sept. 8.
The Editor
"Scholastic" Announces Rules for First Photo Contest
Mechanicals and Aeros
Go on Picnic—Safari
Today is the day that the Scholastic’s First Annual Photography contest begins. The purpose of the contest is to foster interest in amateur photography as a hobby, and to give all student photographers an opportunity to test their skill against that of others inclined along the same lines. In order to further this purpose, the rules have been drawn up so that any pictures taken by the entrants are eligible for the contest, no matter where or how long ago they were developed. Thus the contest is assured of the best all-time shots.
Divisions of the contest were also made with an eye to aiding everyone in benefitting in his own individual field. Entries in each division will be judged separately from those in any of the other
1. Eligible for participation in this contest are all civilian. NBOTC, V-12, and Marine students at Notre Dame.
2.	Accompanying each picture must be an entry fee of fifteen cents (15c). As many-pictures as one wishes may be entered. but each must be accompanied by a fifteen-cent entry fee.
3.	Pictures are restricted in no way whatsoever as to locale or time of taking.
4.	Accompanying each picture must be the negative from which it was printed. These, together with the entry fee, must be placed in an envelope. On the back of each picture must be the following information: which division the picture is entered in: a description of the picture so that it can be identified if printed as
divisions. Arranged especially for the students was the campus shots division; for here is a test of their skill which gives them the entire Notre Dame campus as a competing ground, placing a premium on initiative in getting new and different views of the buildings and surrounding scenery. Lkewise, the entry fee was placed well within the reach of everyone on the campus so that no one will be left out on that account.
Judges for the contest will be of two different groups, that both preliminary and final judging may be more objective. Announcement of these names will follow in a future issue of the Scholastic.
The rules of the contest are as follows below:
one of the winning entries; the name of the man entering it, and his room and hall number.
5.	No colored pictures will be accepted in this competition.
6.	There will be three divisions in the contest: "Action" pictures, “Still-life" pictures, and “Notre Dame Campus" pictures.
7.	These entries shall be delivered in the above-described fashion, to the Publications Office on the first floor. East Wing, of the Main Building.
8.	The dates of the contest are from August 25 until Sept. 22, 1944, inclusive.
9.	Cash prizes will be awarded in each division, and the winning picture will be printed in the SCHOLASTIC shortly after the contest closes.
Tomorrow, Saturday, the members of the ASME and the AIAE will lay away their slide rules and form a caravan heading for far off lands. The caravan
will be heavily laden with rare and costly foodstuffs and ancient vintages. In charge of the pack trains will be Buanas, Eikenberry, Kavanaugh, and Brown for the Aeroites; and Egry, Rohrbach and McClellan for the Mechanese. The safari will cross the great plains to Lake Christiana in the wild north country of Michigan neai- Edwardsburg.
Swimming, boating, and baseball will comprise the day’s activities, with the necessary provisions commanding much interest. A game of baseball is planned between the two groups and the rivalry promises to be keen. John Parchem and Jerry Putnam will captain their respective teams. The Indiana weatherman is asked to be merciful, but in either case a good time will be had by all.
Engineering Library Gets Welding Volumes
A set of books on the subject of welding will soon make their appearance on the shelves of the Engineering library as a result of a gift of $100 from the James T. Lincoln Arch Welding Foundation of Cleveland, Ohio. This foundation was established in 1936 for the purpose of encouraging interest in research and education in the development of arch welding through advance in design and practice in the application of arch welding.
The volumes which were purchased for the Notre Dame Engineers Library are now being cataloged and will be available in about two weeks. They were selected from a suggested list prepared by J. R. Stitt, professor of welding engineering at Ohio State University. There are four conditions attached to the gift. The first is that the books be kept together. The second—that the collection will be added to from time to time by the foundation. Third—that a special book plate which has been prepared for the collection be placed in all the volumes; and finally, the Engineering Library will receive a subscription to the Welding Journal, Welding Engineer, and Industry and Welding.
—Greg Halpin.
6
V-12 Ball Plans Mature
By BILL BYINGTON
Each semester for the past four terms, the Notre Dame serviceman has a colorful Military Ball to look forward to. This semester’s ball will soon be here, having been scheduled for 29 September. According to the proposed plans of the ball committee, the affair will herald a weekend of good entertainment, such as was held last May.
The first two V-12 dances were com
paratively mild events, each formally impressive. Eddie Howard and orchestra played for the first; Johnny Long and his outfit played for the second. The third ball featured Jerry Wald and his orchestra. This semester another big name band will arrive for the occasion to make it the highlight of the semester’s social functions.
Lieut. J. J. Collins
The Navy Drill Hall will be the site for the Ball, and will be decked out in an appropriately nautical fashion to suit the occasion. Seaman Boswell, chairman of the ball will direct operations. Refreshments and programs will be handled by separate committees, as will transportation, ticket sales, and housing for the guests of those who plan to attend. Attendance will be limited, so early purchasing of tickets is advisable.
The Ball will start off a week-end of activity for trainees and their best girls. Saturday morning, a regimental review is planned to give the guests a chance to see the unit as a whole passing in review. This event will be carried out much like the monthly reviews held regularly.
For Saturday evening, a mammoth show is planned. This will be under the
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY. USNR
The Commandant of the Ninth Naval District on the Special Duty of every officer and enlisted man in his command:
The following quotations from the Commandant’s district memorandum under date of 19 August 1944 are of special import to all Naval and civilian personnel at Notre Dame.
“1. In recent weeks, because of Allied military successes throughout the world, public opinion in the Ninth Naval District, and probably throughout the entire country, has been seriously affected by what may be called a ‘peace psychosis.’
“2. It is considered that this condition is of a most serious nature, as it may directly affect the all-out prosecution of the war effort at home and might soon reflect itself in the forward areas, by a slowing down in the flow of the vital materials of war required in our evermounting- offensive against the enemy.
“3. This concern is concurred in by the War Manpower Commission, the War Production Board, and other- agencies responsible for the civilian support of the war effort. They indicate alarm at the public reaction, based on favorable news from the fighting areas, and are gravely concerned with methods to combat complacency and optimism and to prevent a general letdown at this crucial period.
“4. The causes of this condition are a combination of many factors in the current war situation, most prominent of which are: (1) Recent cutbacks in Army and Navy building and procurement programs, which have been misinterpreted by the public; (2) An exceedingly optimistic presentation in the press and by
direction of the week-end chairman, Seaman Jack Schneider. The old “Nites and Daze” will be revived, featuring the “V-12 Commanders.”
Sunday will feature no special attraction other than a chance to rest, and show the guests the town and the campus. There may be a possibility of a large outdoor church service, but so far only tentative plans have been made for this.	•
Elaborate decorations will change the interior of the drill hall miraculously. Invitations and programs will be carefully selected and prepared; the unique programs being distributed at the door. Sufficient transportation is being planned by bus and taxi service. Special busses will be running, especially from St.
radio commentators of military and naval operations, both current and future;
(3) A partial forgetfulness on the part of the public that upon the termination of hostilities in Europe, the United States is still engaged in a tough, complex war with the Japanese, which is, at the present time, far from completion.
“5. This situation may well lead to an ultimate prolongation of the war, a needless expenditure of American lives and material, and a lowering of American prestige in the peace and in the post-war world.
“6. The Commandant considers it to be the obligation and duty of every officer and enlisted man in his command, not only to redouble his personal determination and efforts in the complete support of our fighting men, but as members of the Naval Establishment, to allay in every way possible the prevailing dangerous frame of mind of civilians and naval personnel so affected with whom they are in contact.”
The Coming Visit of Naval Aviation Traveling Board: For the purpose of giving the flight physical examination to the V-12 (A) men, a traveling board in charge of Lieut. Frank G. Lasecke, USNR, will be at the Notre Dame V-12 Unit on 28 and 29 August 1944. This screening board will prepare reports on the V-12 (A) men who entered the Program last November and who wish to be candidates for the first quota of 1,250 men to enter Flight Training from all V-12 units on 1 November 1944.
Mary’s. Ticket sales will be handled by a separate committee. In connection with this, trainees should be prepared to purchase tickets as soon as possible after the date of sale has been announced, since none will be reserved, and all will be rationed.
A A ♦%	A	A A A A
❖	LOST: A WATCH	❖
❖ A gold Waltham “Premier" watch ❖ with a leather strap was lost some-❖ where on the campus, last Friday. ❖ ❖ Aug. 18, between II and 12 o'clock. ❖ ❖ Finder please notify Lieut. G. W. # ❖ Petrie, or Lieut. P. T. Sprinz of the ❖ Navy Public Relations Office. A lib- # ❖ eral reward is offered.	❖
7
^or £ove of Country
The latest statistics concerning the casualties to date of Notre Dame men list 126 killed, 16 captured, and 25 missing in action. Some of the recent former students killed are:
Capt. Edward T. Clarke, USMC, ’39, Des Moines, la., was killed in action in the Pacific, presumably in the battle for Saipan Island.
Capt. George R. Dempsey, ’39, Oshkosh, Wis., lost his life on June 28 in the Italian campaign north of Rome, according to word reaching his wife in Oshkosh on July 18. George was awarded the Silver Star for bravery in action in the North African campaign as a member of the First Armored Division.
*116 Sgt. William C. Murphy, ’33, ■ Middletown, Conn., who was one of two Notre Dame men who lost their lives in the crash of a single Flying Fortress over France on August 5, 1943. Word of his death was confirmed only recently although he had been reported missing at an earlier date. The death of Sgt. Romaine Fiffe, ex. ’43, of Salina, Kans., a member of the same crew, was announced last fall.
★117 Capt. Timothy Joseph Stulb, 1 1' USMC, ’39, Augusta, Ga., is believed to have lost his life in the invasion of Saipan Island. He was a veteran of the battle of Tarawa and of many other engagements. Joe was one of the University’s outstanding golfers.
*118 2nd Lt. John E. Walsh, Jr., 1 w ’39, Chicago, missing in action
since April 18 following his fifth mission over the Continent, was reported on June 29 as dead. He was a navigator on board a B-17.
^11A 2nd Lt. William P. O’Brien, * Jr., ’40, River Forest, Ill., a bombardier in the Army Air Forces, was killed on June 15 in a bomber crash in China. He had been in the AAF for two years.
2nd. Lt. Joseph A. Matson, ’42, Bolivar, N. Y., was killed on June 23 in a crash at Greenville, Miss., where he was serving as a flight instructor.
*121 Ensign Norbert J. Ellrott, ex.
’44, Albany, N. Y., died on
May 21 at the naval air station, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as the result of a crash there on May 19 in which he suffered severe burns.
*122
Pvt. Louis F. Curran, Jr., ex. ’46, Dorchester, Mass., was
killed in action in Italy on Feb. 2, 1944. He served in both North Africa and
Italy.
*123
Sgt. Arthur F. Stancati, ex. ’46, Red Bank, N. J., gave his
life in England on D-Day, June 6, just 15 months after he left Notre Dame to
enlist in the AAF. He was a tail gunner on a B-24.
*124
Capt. John M. Hennessy, Jr., ’41, Louisville, Ky., was killed
in Italy on July 14. While at Notre Dame he was very active in basketball and tennis.
*125 Lt. Joseph M. Shields, ’42, Pelham Manor, N. Y., was killed in an airplane crash in Norman, Okla. Joe was in the Marine Corps.
*126 Ensign John Andrew Miller, ex. ’43, South" Bend, Ind., was killed July 15 while serving with the navy air corps aboard an aircraft carrier in the Pacific.
Those missing in action are: Capt. Thomas F. Ruckelhaus, ’28, Indianapolis, Ind., in air operation over India.
Lt. Leo F. Welch, Jr., ’38, Indianapolis, missing in the Central Pacific.
Lt. Edward D. McKin, ’43, Omaha, Neb., missing in the South Pacific.
Also missing are: Ensign John D. O’Malley, Jr., ’43, Terre Haute, Ind., and Lt. John M. Cappinger, ’41, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Prisoners of War are: Lt. John F. Landry, ’41, Stoneham, Mass., and 2nd Lt. William D. Wood, ex. ’43, Lowell, Mass. Both are prisoners of the Germans.
Notre Dame is proud of these and all others of her family who have made the supreme sacrifice for God and country. They may be sure they will long be remembered in prayers.
—Harry Siemonsma
Baton Twirler Excels as Does University Band
Last Wednesday night’s band concert presented something new to its audiences in the person of Miss Betty Jane Deus-ler, drum major from Elkhart, Ind. High school. First the band played the “Star Spangled Banner” and the “Flag of Freedom” march. Then Mr. Hope, emcee, introduced Miss Deusler in a flag swinging act, accompanied by the playing of “Beautiful Heaven.” Miss Deusler did two other acts; a baton twirling to the song “Mother of Democracy,” and as it got darker, a lighted baton twirling to the “Flag March”; her audience enjoyed these very much.
The band’s playing of “In a Monastery Garden,” arranged by Mr. H. Lee Hope, was played by special request from peo-
Tftoughts of a Sailor
’Tis nights like these that make me think That I ivould rather be
Floating along on the murky brink A thousand miles at sea.
The ivind is calm, the night is still, And far off into the night
I can hear the sound of the Bugle’s shrill Call to arms—for the fight.
The stars are twinkling overhead, The moon is full and bright
With a golden hue and spots of red, Adding its thrill to the night.
But be it so I’m shackled here As if by ball and chain,
I know not ivhen I’ll hit the pier And shove off for sea again.
pie who had heard it played by the Notre Dame university band last year. They were justified in asking for it. For their popular number, the band played the ever-faithful “Star Dust,” by Hoagy Carmichael.
Miss Duesler’s ability at baton twirling was to be expected, as she has won medals in the past in two national championships. She has won the Blossom Festival, and has taken top state honors three times in a row.—Dick Gorman
Navy Officers Picnic
On Wednesday evening of this week, Navy officers, their wives, and guests, journeyed to nearby Barron Lake for a picnic dinner. After a pleasant dinner, the evening was spent informally.
The picnic marked another event in a long series of social gatherings sponsored by the officers on the local base. Other outings are contemplated before the return of cool weather.
8
Summer Law Ball Successful as 160 Couples Dance to Lew Diamond's Music in Rockne
With a lovely night, beautiful girls, and danceable music, the Law Club presented last Friday night in the Rockne Memorial, the first Summer Ball ever to be held on the Notre Dame campus. Over 160 couples enjoyed the evening of Lew Diamond's music in the gaily judicious surroundings of the Rockne gym decorated in the traditional blue and gold of Notre Dame with additional atmosphere in the form of a jury box and a ceiling-high figure of a judge.
To co-chairmen Sam Alonzi and Ted Ryan goes much of the credit for making the ball the success it was. Not only were their arrangements for the dance to be commended, but they chose two very lovely young ladies to reign as queens for the evening when they chose Misses Loretta Kowalski and Betty Kyser. Other lawyers who deserve' much of the credit for making the ball the success it was were Chuck Boynton chairman of the tickets, Tom Bremer who selected the band as chairman of the music, and Bill O’Connell as a result of whose efforts the Rockne gym was so beautifully decorated.
Dean Clarence Manion, of the Law college, commented on the ball, “I think the members of the Law club have done themselves proud in presenting this Ball tonight.’ I am proud of them not only for their excellent arrangements, but also in their selection of dates. I don’t remember ever having seen so many
1944 Law Ball Goers Dancing to the Music of Lew Diamond's Band
—Photo by Renaud
beautiful girls at one time before. The 1944 Law Ball, in my opinion, is a success in every way.”
Between dances, the Lawyers and their guests found a delightfully cool sun porch an ideal place to do a bit of star gazing, or enjoy an intermission time smoke.
Asked to comment on the dance, Mr. Robert McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, said, “This was the first big summer dance I ever remember here at Notre Dame, and it is certainly a success. The students did a wonderful job in getting here on time, and the prefect of discipline’s office is very happy when a fine group of young people such as this are well behaved, and as long as they can do that, we will favor more of such affairs.”
According to the committee in charge, the Ball was a success also from a financial point of view despite the limited number attending and the extent of decorations and top quality of the music. It seems that lawyers are good business men in addition to their other good qualities.
As the group left the “Rock,” such comments as “It was super,!” “It was really swell!”, “I never had such a swell time in all my life!” could be heard, which would dispel any possible doubts as to the success of the 1944 Law Ball.
On each of the Marine cartoons in the Scholastic, is the name Shanahan. This ‘ familiar scroll belongs to none other than Thomas Charles Shanahan, Marine V-12er and artist of the Scholastic, from Wilkinsburg, Pa., a suburb of Pittsburgh.
“Tom” was graduated from Wilkinsburg High school where he played two years of varsity football at tackle, ran the mile on the track squad, and presi-dented his senior class. Upon graduation, Tom enlisted in the Marines and was sent here to school in July, ’43.
Tom’s artistic ability seems to come naturally since the only lessons he ever had were at a Saturday afternoon class held each week at Carnegie Tech when he was a freshman in high school. He just started doodling and messing around with a pencil and some paper and has now made so much progress that he has been doing caricatures for some of his fellow Marines.
Although Tom likes art, and spends most of his present spare time drawing, he hopes to be a lawyer someday. Criminal law and a possibility of throwing his hat in the political ring seem to be his main ambitions for the future.
This Marine’s favorite tune is “Star Dust”; his band is either Glen Miller or Tommy Dorsey; when it comes to food, it’s steak and French fries; and in the line of beverages, “Nothing hard!” Tom stands 6' 3", weighs 185, and is 18 years of age. His pet peeves are: “Company commanders that are drunk with power, and the guys rubbing it in about dirty Pittsburgh.” Their favorite remark to Tom’s saying he is from Pittsburgh is “Oh, so you’ve finally seen the light.”
According to “Del” Shaller, Tom’s roommate, “Tom is one good egg but he has one terrific Irish temper.” Our artist also likes his afternoon siestas which usually start about 2 p.m.. Tom’s desk is literally covered with lovely female countenances, in fact five of them (two blondes and three brunettes), however, he does not possess a picture of THE ONE. (Your reporter was greatly assured that it was in the mail and should be here any day now).
Tom agreed with all the puns on Indiana and its weather, “Too humid, too flat, and too much corn.” The interview ended with Tom’s remark of: “I sure do miss those rolling hills of Pennsylvania.”
9
Prof. Mermens' Book
Pleads for Moderation
A powerful plea for moderation is contained in the new book of Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, The Tyrants’ War and the Peoples' Peace, which the University of Chicago Press published on August 21. The author is associate professor of politics at the University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Hermens holding that any peace
Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens
based upon mere force is an illusion, claims that wartime anger demands it, ' but postwar disillusionment will soon undermine it. A Christian and a democratic peace is the only peace that will last, he says, because it is the only peace that we shall be willing to enforce in the long run. To make a democratic peace we must, Dr. Hermens believes, remember that Lincoln said “By giving freedom to the slave we assure freedom to the free.” In the situation now confronting us this means that the sooner we give a green light to the forces opposed to dictatorship in the Axis countries the better it will be. All we need to avoid risks to ourselves is a preponderance of military power augmented by such arrangements as were contained in the Treaty of Locarno, all of which we can easily secure within the framework of a workable system of collective security.
The Christian Churches, including the Jewish communities, the author adds, have developed an admirable program for a real peace. They will have to stand together, watch that it is carried out, and keep on working, if necessary for years after the end of hostilities, until the “peace of the peoples” is attained, which, as General Smuts said in 1919, must follow the peace of the statesmen.
Dr. Hermens, recognized authority in the field of political science, has written four books in German on European electoral systems and another on proportional representation. He received his doctorate from the University of Bonn, Germany, in 1930.	-
10
Saturday Passes Favorably; Inspection. Review and AII--"One Man Out of Step"; Oh Yeah!
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
Dawn broke hesitantly upon Notre Dame on last Saturday morning, not knowing whether it was welcome or not with the V-12 trainees. It was nasty inspection day, with all of its accompanying disadvantages and demerits.
❖ Six women representing the Ser- *1* ❖ vicemen's Center and the Service ❖ ❖ Lounge were part of the reviewing ❖ ❖ party at Saturday's monthly Navy ❖ review on the drill field east of the
❖ Stadium.	❖
♦S’ Included in the party were Mrs. ❖ Woodson Carlisle, Mrs. John Dalton, ❖ Mrs. Jack Studebaker, and Miss Ger-
aldine Toepp, representing the Cen- ❖ ❖ ter; Mrs. I. B. Mishler, representing &
the Lounge; and Mrs. Harry Kohler, ❖ ❖ who had made the guidons and ban- ❖ ’I* ners for the Navy and Marine com- *1* ❖ panies.	’I*
Also in the reviewing party were ❖ Comdr. Walter S. Gabel and the oth- ❖ ❖ er officers of the V-12 unit.	❖
<$• «£•
The night before, the four barracks occupied by the seamen and marines of the unit had been given its monthly cleaning, complete with water and wax. Men set aside their school books to tackle those little bundles of dust which lay in the upper sill or those streaks which had somehow stuck to the windows.
A few lucky trainees, who during the recent days had distinguished themselves in the field of demerits, were approached by the company commander or one of his stooges and granted the privilege of waxing the corridors. This always (be
Reviewing Stand Salutes the Colors as the Notre Dame V-12 Unit Passes in Review
—Photo by Renaud
ginning now) has been a job of honor which all seamen and marines yearn for.
With the top of the cabinet dusted, the chewing gum scraped from the inner side of the bunk, the segar butts removed from the ash trays, and the can of Vienna sausages hidden under the mattress, all was set for the mighty inspection which was scheduled for 1330.
First, the rumors came thick and fast as to who was going to make up the inspection party.
Well, the inspection came and went and whether you got caught with those dirty fingernails or not, it was a relisf to have it out of the way. Seamen put on their boots and the marines slicked up their shoes.
It was a dusty march out to the drill field east of the Stadium, but then, there would bs no one to check your shoeshine when you got there.
The review, an event scheduled for once a month, came off according to plan with the guy ahead of you gettingstepped on as much as usual, with everyone guiding left or right as suited his fancy, with “Eyes right” being given on the wrong foot, etc. No one fainted.
The march back to the barracks was uneventful, except that one man got out of step.
And so the trainees went back to the halls to rid themselves and their uniforms of some of the drill-field grime and get ready for a big night at the Service Men’s Center, the Dillon Hall Barracks Dance, and other South Bend centers of entertainment.
By HARRY LE BIEN
LIBERTY DAY DRAMA IN CO. “L"
Scene: G. H. Murphy, wearing neckerchief and hat, studying at desk. Enter Scraggs Fischer and Fuss.
Fuss: Murph, let’s go ashore.
Murph: Ask me again.
Fischer: Let’s go ashore!
Murph: Twist my arm._______ouch! you talked me into it. Let’s go.
THINGS AND STUFF
The Music (?) Society of Middle Dillon Hall, an unrecognized organization of Co. D, has deposited seven hours of E.P.D. to the account of a certain Mr. Pearson—lusty voices drowned out the 1930 bell and one poor soul, namely Pearson, must suffer the consequences.
Some new men are singing about Phar-mac mates: I’ve got you under my skin.
Did you notice: The great number of officers that have been inspecting the chow hall, and the lack of improvement in the food (?).
Speaking of food (1) those weekly jive sessions have sounded so good, even the chow seems improved. One unfortunate became so fascinated by the music as to eat half a meat ball. Said he afterward: “There’s one thing I won’t have to digest.”
Hear no evil, speak no evil, see no evil. Tyler and Amstutz have instituted a notable movement. If either should pass an unseemly oath between his lips, the other profits—one coke.
Advance info on the coming Ships Service says that it is due to open on, or about Sept. 1. Complete with soda fountain it will certainly fill a sore need on campus.
ODE TO COMPANY "J”
Under Commander Gabel’s watchful eye, There stands “J” next to “I.”
While you guys loll ’neath a shady tree, We must stand taut, or get E.P.D.
MINGLING WITH THE EUTE:
“CB” Phil Moore has proven himself an individualist, sporting slate greys while the rest of us wear the usual whites.
Why doesn’t Eric “Gravel throat” Johnson, our C.O., take lessons in voice culture from our soprano C.P.O. Miller.
Miller’s voice brings back memories of the girls back home.
After four semesters of faithful service Art Statuto has finally been rewarded. He now wears a squad leader brassard, which he proudly displays by standing up at the concerts.
The mystery which had the campus buzzing for four semesters: “What is Palmer Amundsen striking for," has finally been solved with his appointment to Regimental Commander.
Al Krome who was against taking out insurance will vouch for the fact that he was approached (?) on the subject by the executive department. He smiled feebly from his bunk at sick bay and said they have shown him where he was wrong.
ADVICE TO THE FORGOTTEN
Some people will do anything to get mail—Ray “Angel” Kenney has been keeping books from the library overtime, to get the cordial reminder card they send. What’s a few pennies overtime charge compared to some mail?
If you are interested in buying clothing, and aren’t too particular about the size, see Wind Goldsmith—his midnight small stores has been reaping a good harvest from Alumni Hall’s lines. And he will get it for you “wholesale.”
POSTSCRIPT
Just so Arnie won’t have to read this entire page without seeing his name once, we herewith address him by his right title: You Schloomp!
Incidentally, the “Periscope” is continued on the page with that good looking marine on top. I wonder what that dear boy would do for copy if it were not for the “Periscope” to write about?
Thomas Addresses Group
A meeting of the Commerce Forum took place last Monday, under the direction of co-president Tony Bristol. Special guests of the evening were Professors Bender, Chizek, and Eells, members of the commerce faculty of the University. Jim Thomas addressed the Forum on the subject of post-war taxation.
Imperative in the post-war period, Mr. Thomas asserted, is a system of taxation that will stimulate and encourage high levels of production and consumption and yet produce revenues sufficient to balance the post-war budget. This warrants a solution to the problem of double taxation on corporation income.
Mr. Thomas gave a summary of the two foremost plans which attempt to solve this problem: the Twin Cities Plan
which would eliminate the individual tax on dividends received, and the Rumi Plan which would eliminate the corporation tax. Th:se plans were received on their ability to make venture capital available for new enterprise, and are basically different in regard to who should provide this venture capital, the corporation or the individual.
He concluded that the Rumi Plan is more desirable, because, under our present system of progressive taxation, the corporation tax is unfair to the stockholder in the lower income group because he is taxed on his investment, even before it reaches his hands, at the same rate at which an investor in the million dollar bracket would be taxed.
Marine General Writes
Concerning Cut-Back
In announcing withdrawal of the marine unit, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, revealed a letter received from Lt. Gen. A. A. Vandegrift, USMC, stating: “The marine corps appreciates deeply the splendid work that your institution has done in the training of prospective marine officers.’It is hoped that the cordial relations between the University of Notre Dame and the Marine Corps will continue even though it has been found necessary to withdraw the marine detachment from your university.”
Father O’Donnell commenting on the marine cut-back said: “Notre Dame will always cherish the memory of her happy and cordial relationship with the United States Marine Corps during its participation in the V-12 program at the University.
“Captain Finney, Major Jones, and their associate officers, have endeared themselves to all here, as upstanding Christian gentlemen, faithful and true to the best traditions of the Marine Corps.”
GRADUATE SCHOOL REORGANIZED
(Continued from page 5) with research projects especially assigned to us. At the same time, in so far as we can under wartime conditions, we have continued to expand laboratory and library facilities for the graduate student.
“The armistice will undoubtedly bring a resurgence of graduate study. In this anticipation and in preparation for the many problems that future rapid development will raise, Notre Dame at this time takes this step in its reconversion program and reorganizes the Graduate School, making it an autonomous body within the University.”
11
Creighton Miller, John Yonakor, Bill Huber, Corwin Clatt Await Whistle in All-Star Clash
By DAVE CONDON
IK SPC f
EVANSTON, ILL.—August 25—Just how to stop the rampaging Chicago Bears, currently training at Collegeville, Ind., from tearing holes in the College All-Stars line, was one of the chief problems bothering All-Star coach Lynn Waldorf as the Collegians swung into the final strides of practice for their game with the professional champions in Dyche stadium next Wednesday.
Waldorf hasn’t missed any meals on this account, however, because by game time he hopes to have a formidable for-
All-American John Yonakor
ward wall to throw in front of the Bears. Behind that line he has a galaxy of backs that can match the Bears in any department and probably have a little extra left Lor laughs.
Bill Huber, end on the 1942 Notre Dame team, arrived this week and joined with John Yonakor, Notre Dame’s 1943 All-American end, to give the All-Stars two potent receivers for such passes as might be tossed their way by Glenn Dobbs, the All-Star passing ace from Tulsa University. Huber’s brilliant line play, coupled with Dobbs’ spectacular attack, was instrumental in the AllStars 27-7 victory over the Washington Redskins, erstwhile champs of the pro circuit, last year.
Also arriving at the All-Star camp this week was Creighton Miller, Notre Dame’s All-American halfback in 1943, whose status in the classic has advanced itself all the way from the $1 to the $64 question. At first Creighton was going to play; subsequent reports had him not playing, but this week he arrived at Dyche stadium. Either he is going to indulge in the contest or is especially
fond of travel. If he does play, it will be a boost for the All-Stars stock, and give them a back which, coupled with the names of Dobbs, Billy Hillenbrand, and Chuck Jacoby, could frighten the Bears into a bit of extra-curricular practice.
Corwin Clatt, who won the Notre Dame fullback post in 1942 by substituting for Jimmy Mello and Gerry Cowhig and subsequently edging them out of the position, has been slow in rounding into shape with the All-Stars and has yet to show much evidence of the flashing form he displayed when wearing the Notre Dame green aginst Iowa’s Seahawks, the Stanford Indians, and Great Lakes.
The All-Stars lost two stalwart tackles last week when James J. White, the All-American, and Ziggy Czarobski, who played the opposite side of the line from White on last year’s Notre Dame team, were ruled out of the contest by a directive preventing naval personnel from participating in athletic events that would require an absence from their station of more than 48 hours. Both had counted heavily on playing in the game.
Another Notre Dame man lost to the squad was John (The Tree) Adams, another tackle, who was counted on to bolster the All-Stars.
The game was sold out in advance, all
Flankman Bill Huber
tickets being taken by Saturday, August 19, and indications are that the 11th annual contest will provide the greatest yield for charity in All-Star history. The net proceeds of the game will be distributed to Charity through the Chicago Tribune Charities, Inc.
Samson, Tully Win St.« Crown; Squad Travt Is
BY JIN "Scholastic"
CH
3 pc
Under a hot Sunday sun on the Leeper Park courts of South Bend, Charley Samson and Bill Tully displayed the power and skill of the Irish tennis machine by capturing the doubles crown in the St. Joe Valley tournament. This was the second title for the tennis king, Samson, who returned from the tournament wearing the winning smile of the singles champion a week before.
Cavorting with confidence and ease, the two Blue and Gold stalwarts swamped “Hap” Sorinson and Dick Myers from Elkhart in straight sets of 6-3, 6-2, 6-2. The class and experience was so overwhelming that it took all the excitement and competition from the match.
Tomorrow the successful Irish team will journey to Michigan to challenge the Detroit Tennis Club. Although Coach Walter Langford knows little about the Detroit squad he is anticipating a hard fought struggle. The teams will play five singles and two doubles matches to decide the outcome.
s 5 b d
7 s d
S e t: a ii v S' p c
0 ii
S tl E
J o
Jerry Evert, who has a painful case of boils, may put a dent in the Domers lineup. If Jerry can’t make the trip, Coach Langford will find a replacement in either Joe Wood or Bart O’Brien. Charlie Samson, Bill Tully, Jim Griffin and Stan Warshawsky are sure to make the opposition sweat.
Interhall Still Goin?	■
.	i
Jogging along at a steady pace, the : Interhall teams are hurrying to reach the winner’s circle. In the 2nd League, the Faculty and Zahm who are regarded as the teams to beat are deadlocked in the struggle. The first singles matches have been split two and two and the players are anxiously awaiting the doubles go to break the tie.
Coach Langford put theory into practice by walloping Jim Saunders of Zahm 6-0, then after dropping the second set, he returned to end the fracas with a 6-3 decision. “Ron” Bontsema, captain of Zahm, set the pace for his teammates by running over Brother Edmund in two
12
Summer Boxing Show Billed for Mid-Sept.;
Sergeant Joe Santos Again in Charge
«>e Valley Doubles
/< Is to Detroit Tomorrow
UV CAREY
ic" Sports Writer
sets 6-1 and 8-6. Brother Edmund led 5-love in the second set but Bontsema buckled down and finally subdued his determined opponent. By virtue of 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, Louis Hasley, English prof., scored the first major' upset when he disappointed Zahmbie Dave Caplan.
In three close and sparkling sets John Schneider of Zahm ehcountered the stiffest opposition of the day when he knotted the count nosing out Ed Smith, business ad. prof., 8-6, 2-6, and 8-6. It seemed as if Smith would down his youthful adversary when he led 5-love in the third set, but Schneider’s practice and agility proved too much for- the hard driving commerce man.
In the other League the favorite Walsh outfit is running true to form. After taking the first two singles matches from St. Ed’s, they are expected to capture the other conflicts in the same fashion. Bill Moore of the NROTC rolled over Jim Cunningham 6-1 and 9-7. In the other singles match John St. Germain of St. Ed’s bowed to navy man Tom Mulhern, captain of the Walsh Hall aggregation, 4-6, 6-0, and 6-1.
In the Open Event tournament, two Irish teammates Bill Tully and Bart O’Brien vied on the clay courts. Bill walked off with honors by 6-2, 6-2 and he will meet Samson in the semifinals. The tournament has been narrowed to the seeded players Bill Tully, Charley Samson, Jim Griffin, Joe Wood, and Jerry Evert. Stan Warshawsky, a member of the tennis squad is also among the successful six.
*	Volleyball League Standings	*
❖	as of Wed., August 23	❖
❖	----------- ❖
❖	w	l
❖	Marines  5	1	❖
La Raza  5	1	❖
❖	NROTC I  4	2	❖
❖	Phy Eds  2	4	❖
❖	Sorin ________________ 2	4	*i*
❖	NROTC II 2	4	♦
*3*	♦$* &
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Under the expert guidance of Marine Sergeant Joe Santos, former professional boxer, more than sixty Naval trainees and civilian students are preparing for the summer semester boxing championships. The semi-final rounds will be held September 13 with the finals scheduled a week later, Wednesday, September 20. The pre-autumn version is a regularpart of the summer athletic program and the usual interhall awards will be made.
Despite the overbearing presence of a continued warm spell, the men are working diligently to get in shape. Daily workouts include roadwork, bag punching and sparring, as well as instructions in the art itself with the master-glover Santos giving with the gab.
Bengal Fisticuffers Returning
Among the veterans of April’s boxing extravaganza, the “Bengal Bouts” sponsored by “Scholastic”, who will also be making return engagements in the summer show are Red Blair, winner of the 155 lb. crown, and Ernie Rauscher, a finalist in the 127 lb. class. Bob Conoty, Tim Crowe, Lou Kontros, Jim Leahy and Will Seeberg have reentered as well to vie for honors that were denied them in the classic early this year. Many of the other contestants have never before been exposed to the routine of the ring, but neither had Blair before he bowled overall opponents last semester in gaining his diadem.
Entries are still being accepted in all weight classes by both Sgt. Santos and Mr. John Scannell, head of the physical education program, who announced the plans for the event. There is ample time
to get in condition and it is hoped by those conducting the boxing show that more of the boxers who fought in the Bengals will compete again.
Experience for a Teacher
The work of Santos, a welterweight leather-pusher of some note a few years back on the east coast, has been remark-
Action in the "Bengals"
able. After experiencing the needs of the bouts this spring, Santos has mapped out a training bill that will entail all the essentials needed in the forthcoming ring competition.
He has taken newcomers, worked with them a mere month, and presented very creditable performers. From wild swingers, he has made cautious jabbers, capable of standing up and defending themselves while lashing out telling blows.
“Most boys can throw a pretty fast punch,” he says, “but good footwork gives it power and proper direction.” Most of the emphasis in training is placed upon developing this technique.
Always in the Spotlight
Boxing has always been a very popular sport with the Fighting Irish. Anyone who has witnessed the annual “Bengal Bouts” has been impressed not only by the ability of the contestants but also by the spirit that flares up in the student sections. Before the war, it was exemplified in interhall rivalry, but now it has evolved quite naturally into a civilian—Navy—Marine competition. The spirit is still fundamentally the same, though, and still equally infectious.
13
Klinemen With Seven Wins To Credit Face George Williams on Cartier Field Tomorrow
BY JOHN FEENEY—“Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s baseball nine, its record reading seven wins, four losses, and a tie, opposes George Williams College of Chicago tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 on Cartier Field turf. The tilt will probably mark N. D.’s last home appearance of the summer, although there is still the possibility that Coach Jake Kline may arrange an additional game to be played here later. Kline also announced that he will take his club to Benton Harbor, Mich., on Labor Day, Sept. 4, to meet the Twin Cities Independents team of that city.	■
Paul Lammers, with four victories and two defeats, will probably be the starting moundsman against George Williams. Other hurlers available include Jack Barrett, with a one and two record, Gifford Rich and Eldon O’Brien, each with one win and no losses, and Bill Albert.
Notre Dame annexed its seventh win of the current season by defeating the Knights of Pythias of South Bend, 3-1, in a twilight game played Wednesday, August 16, at Cartier Field. The tilt was the play-off of an earlier 3-3 deadlock between the two clubs. Paul Lammers opened on the mound for N.D. and hurled shutout ball for four innings. Jack Barrett took over in the fifth and did almost as well, setting the Knights down without a tally until the ninth when a trio of singles produced their only run.
The Irish got down to business at the very beginning, scoring once in the first frame as Bob Cianchetti reached first when shortstop Dudas bobbled his grounder, advanced on an infield out and crossed home plate behind Jack Mayo’s one bagger. In the third Ken Manarik walked and counted on the impetus of Art Fitzgerald’s single. An inning later Barrett hit safely, advanced on an error, and tallied the final run for the Golden Domers on a passed ball.
Mayo, with two safeties, led the winners’ offensive efforts and Charlie Segar notched four single-base blows for the losers. Defensively Cianchetti sparkled, handling eight chances flawlessly, while George Martz looked good behind the plate.
Bunker Hill Raps Klinemen. 7-1
Connecting for 11 hits, including a triple and a double, the Bunker Hill Naval Air Station proved too strong for the Irish, as Notre Dame succumbed to the sailors, 7-1, Saturday afternoon at Cartier.
For five innings N. D.’s Paul Lammers and Joe Hoover of Bunker Hill locked in a tight pitchers’ duel. as each permitted only two hits. The sixth frame, however, saw the N. A. S. unloose a vol
14
ley of hits which accounted for five runs and drove Lammers from the box. Jack Barrett hurled the rest of the way and quelled the winners until the ninth when the last two runs came across.
Notre Dame averted a shutout by tallying a single time in the last stanza. Frank Ciszczon beat out an infield roller, advanced to the middle station on an overthrow at first, and went to third on Barrett’s scratch hit. From there he scored as Barrett was being forced at second on Jack Mayo’s easy grounder.
Hoosier Beers Trip N.D., 7-1
The Hoosier Beers of South Bend rattled the boards with nine hits—six of them going for extra bases—and played tight defensive ball to jar Notre Dame’s baseball club, 7-1, at Lippincott Park in South Bend Tuesday under the lights.
In the fourth inning a brace of triples, two singles, and a double by Hoosier batsmen ripped the game wide open as four runners registered for the Northern Indiana Industrial League Champs. Earlier the Beers had counted once without a hit and in the ninth frame they further augmented their total by scoring twice more.
The Klinemen confined their offensive efforts to a brief rally in the sixth. After Frank Ciszczon lived on a fielding bobble, Jack Mayo drove him to third with a single. He scored N.D.’s only tally a moment later as Dick Balbierz was being thrown out, short to first.
The losers’ hit total was five, all one base blows, two of which were credited to Mayo. Dlugosz and Demark each had a pair of safeties for the winners.
Both starting pitchers — Barrett for Notre Dame and Strozewski for the Beers—went the route.
Knights of Pythias  000 000 00 1—1 Notre Dame  100 110 00 x—3
Macy and Styberski; Lammers, Barrett (5) and Martz.
Bunker Hill N.A.S. ____ 000 005 00 2—7
Notre Dame ____________ 000 000 00 1—1
Hoover ?nd Baer, Boyd (7) ; Lammers, Barrett (7) and Martz, Laurita (7).
Notre Dame 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0—1 Hoosier Beers _________0 1 0 4 0 0 0 2 x—7
Barrett and Laurita; Strozewski and Dlugosz.
Book Reveals Phomps
Are Not Nocturnal
Contrary to popular belief, phomps are not all nocturnal, according to a recent book entitled The Phomp in America by G. H. Sniker professor of zilongotil-ogy at Backwoods University. “After many years of study of the habits and life of phomps all over America,” Mr. Sniker’s foreword states, “it is my firm conviction that many classes of the Phompus Americanns are not nocturnal.”
Dillon Dances in Rockne
As an experimental venture, a barracks dance was held last Saturday night for Dillon Hall V-12 trainees in the Rockne gym. Promotion of the event was in the hands of the Executive Committee.
Playing for the affair were the “V-12 Commanders” under the direction of Seaman “Dutch” Crask, trumpet-talented attraction of chow hall fame. Brilliant orchestration of this instrumental group was topped only by Leliart’s and Barry’s vocal victories.
Well decorated, the gym was appropriately suited for the event. One-hundred fifty couples proved that the site was aptly chosen. As special attractions, the roof terrace and free cokes went over with impressive popularity.
As a result of the success of the dance, chances are good that similar functions will be held in the future, rotating among the four barracks on thf campus. A big hand to chief Broderick and Seaman Michols for a nice party!
La Raza Club Meets
The last meeting of La Raza club saw Vice President Jose Cardenas read the amendments made to the constitution and by-laws for the approval of the members. All changes were approved unanimously.
The main topic discussed at this last meeting was none less than sports. A volley ball team to represent the club in the forthcoming tournament was chosen and Smith was elected captain. There was also some discussion on the soccer team, a team which will play various other teams in this vicinity, including two teams in Chicago and the Culver Military Academy team. Mik Vila was chosen captain.
Plans were discussed concerning the celebration of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe in December, and the Panel Discussion Group which travels to various nearby colleges every fall was talked about, and planned.
—Ignacio Lozano
Life Insurance Popular
According to an official announcement by Lt. (jg) Bradford Lamson, insurance officer of the V-12 unit, 99.55 percent of the men assigned to the unit are insured under the National Service Life Insurance plan. The average amount of insurance carried by the personnel is $9,630.
Of the 1,372 sailors either in permanent ship’s company or in the officer training program, all but four men are carrying the insurance. Four of the five naval officers have subscribed to the policy.

BOB CIANCHETTI
A little man with a wicked stick is the best way to describe Bob Cianchetti, second baseman for the Klinemen. A product of Brooklyn, New York, Bob attended Lafayette high where he earned three monograms as a basebailer.
Bob’s favorite position is first base, where he played in high school, but he has been switched to the second sack since coming to ND to give more power to the infield. During the spring baseball season, he gained his first Irish monogram.
A civilian, Bob lives in St. Ed’s and is in his third semester of pre-law. Bob, who is only 17, weighs 139 and is five feet six inches tall.
For relaxation he likes the drums and from reports, he is really “solid.” He also likes to play basketball and football and all other types of outdoor sports. His sports idol is the immortal, Lou Gehrig, considered by the people “in the know” as the greatest initial sacker of all-time. Tommy Dorsey and “Fren-esi” by Artie Shaw are tops among his likes, as is an Italian prepared delicacy of macaroni called “lazagna” (not to be confused with Madam Lazonga). His biggest sports thrill came when he swatted .405 in the Brooklyn CYO loop. He wants to be a criminologist so that he can check up on the umpires and see if they are really as crooked as he thinks some of them to be.
In closing let us give a word of advice to opposing moundsmen: his stature may similate that of a pint but has more knockout power than a quart.
FRANK CISZCZON
The “hot corner” on the summer baseball team is being capably held down by Frank Ciszczon. Frank hails from East Chicago, claimed to be the world’s leading refinery town and attended Central Catholic high in Hammond, a sister-city. During his four year’s in high, he earned three monograms in basketball. The school didn’t have a diamond aggregate so Frank played ball in the independent leagues.
A second semester civilian in the College of Arts and Letters, Frank too resides within the portals of St. Ed’s. He is seventeen years old, tipping the scales at 165 and ranges six feet one inch skyward. His brother, who is now (Continued on page 21)
Kansas Boxing Match Changes Life of Knute Rockne; Day's Incident Brings Him to N. D.
“The little town was buzzing with an excitement that was rare on the Kansas prairies in the early 1900’s,” begins an article in the September issue of Coronet magazine. The excitement centered around a slender, sturdy-legged, towhaired youth who strode briskly along the twilight streets with a newspaper wrapped package under his arm. In it were a pair of rubber-soled shoes, a pair of boxing trunks and a sweat shirt.
The young man walked so fast that his heavy-set companion breathlessly begged him to slow down lest he wear himself out before he got to their destination.__ an improvised boxing ring where waited Frankie Brown, a professional boxer... stocky, thick-necked and roundheaded. Outside the ring were the Kansan’s friends,. shouting words of encouragement, urging him to show the skill that had made him the pride of that little town.
The Famous Notre Dame Mentor
The Kansan was lean and rangy and fast. And his excellent footwork was to his advantage. He danced back from Frankie Brown’s stinging left jabs and rolled his body under the powerful righthand punches. He realized early in the match that his only chance to win a clear-cut victory over Brown was to outgeneral him, Coronet relates.
But Frankie Brown was a ring-master too. It was a clean, hard fight. A case of one natural-born fighter pitted against another who fought because he loved it. They were as evenly matched as any two boxers who had ever stepped in the ring. The bout was declared a draw and even the spectators agreed with the judges that this was the only possible decision.
After the match was over, Frankie Brown caught up with the smiling towhead who had wrapped up his paraphernalia and was started home. They began (Continued on page 22)
15
0XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX3
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
Jk<
AUTUMN IN THE OFFING
A sure sign of the coming autumn was the query overheard, this week in Breen-Phillips: “Say, just when will St. Mary’s open?” Then, too, we saw three faculty members looking at the fall hats at a downtown haberdashery.
*
M
AFTER THE BALL
Although we couldn’t get a date for the ball, we had our scouts out to report to us on all the pertinent details. Best authorities reported everything in excellent taste down to the cokes. No mishaps of any sort; everyone was happy and .satisfied and hopeful that another dance will take place soon. All this is very easy on the crowd. But the important thing is that the dance committee cleared expenses (Pardon us, please; but it’s the Commerce attitude in us). And we’re a little disappointed, too in the way things moved along at the dance. Reason: there is absolutely nothing for us to report. Best thing we heard that evening was John Adams description of one of the dates being escorted into the palatial Rockne grand ballroom. “Look there,” said Adams, astride a hobby horse in the light apparatus room. “Look there; she looks like death warmed over!” Adams, you understand, wasn’t at the ball. He just happened to be over in the building working out—you know—getting into condition for his week-end at Sisters Lake. But that is another story which takes Harry Ryan and Dick Murphy to provide the full details.
TURF AUTHORITIES
Walsh Hall is more or less a sportsman’s paradise. In its hallowed halls lives none less than the sports editor of the Scholastic along with several other notorious authorities. We use the word notorious in view of the results of a certain race, last week at Washington Park.
Oh Boy! After the Lawyer's Ball This Guy is a Pushover.
Bill (“Call me Arch”) Waddington, was advised strongly by Currier (another local authority of dubious repute) to pay due attention to Traffic Court. But Waddington, who knows a horse when he sees one, smiled at the innocent and inexperienced Currier, and headed straight for Washington Park and the windows; and breathed the name Harriet Sue with more than a little affection. After the race, we heard Waddington still breathing the name Harriet Sue, minus all affection. However, “Arch” promises us a sure winner, this week. Meantime, we ought to tell you that Traffic Court came in first at 20-1. Is it any wonder that Currier looks down his nose at the local sports authorities? But Waddington is very busy explaining, if you care to listen.
ALL QUIET IN ST. ED'S
For some reason or other, we can never get a whimper out of St. Edward’s Hall. Nothing ever happens over there. Everyone is happy. The rector is tops. The prefects are tops. One’s neighbors are tops. Say—what is really going on over there? Incidentally, what has happened to the St. Ed’s A.C. Or are all the athletes now living in Carroll again? We should never have brought this up, were it not for the fact that campus spirit has always relied largely on St. Ed’s; and with football season in the offing, we are disturbed at the prospects of depending on Sorin Hall to instigate pep rallies and original notions regarding campus festivities.
THE SOCIAL SET IN ACTION
While civilians were cavorting at the “Rock” in one of their rare social ventures, the ever-on-the-move N.R.O.T.C. spread out as usual for a typical weekend. We don’t know everything, but we do know that the invasion of Detroit was no minor skirmish; and that something more than a mere beachhead was established. Daiker and Currier and Bateman and Anderson, to mention only a few of the participants, returned Sunday evening with glowing accounts of the expedition. There was no enemy opposition; the inhabitants were hospitable; and Tony was firmly established in at least one household. And though the campaign was a long one, this tale of how they all arose early Sunday morning and played tennis all day is a little more than we care to believe. Come to think of it, we haven’t heard a peep out of them all week—which may or may not be evidence that the boys were a wee bit behind on their winks.
Then, there was the Long Beach junket—those who, under the capable direction (nay, experienced counsel) of Bill Pfister, moved in from Lake Michigan to greet the movie actress who marries Tom Harmon tomorrow morning. We didn’t mind their meeting Elyse Knox, so much; but the way Gilligan and Slamin and Pfister walked away with the door prizes and the jitterbug contest had us wailing and berating our lumbago. And all the feminine admirers hovering about them was a sight to see and remember!! Oh, it was disgusting, if you ask us who sat there unnoticed by anyone at all save the waiter with the check.
❖
HERE AND THERE
What’s this we hear about the NROTC marching so poorly that navy authorities are now bringing them around to the back door of Walsh hall after the last class in the mornings!!... McCaughey insists on going up into Michigan every week—very, very mysterious. And he is not the only one of whom this can be verified._And now Sorin Hall, through the efforts of one inmate, is attempting to organize a Lonely Hearts Club.____ After last week’s blowout, we understand that you can’t possibly raise $2 cash in St. Edward’s Hall.... Well, off to the Arcadia to see how the apple pie goes.
16
-By PETE BROWN
The Illinois Athletic Commission wanted to have a place under the sun and be just like the New York Boxing Commission. So they claimed they would recognize the winner of the Baksi-Savold fight as heavyweight champion for the duration. Is it that easy to forget that left of Joe Louis. The fight, which took place at Wrigley Field in Chicago, turned out to be a dull affair largely because Savold either couldn’t or wouldn’t fight. Charlie Grimm, who patrols the third base line in that park when it has a third baseline instead of a ringside, was accosted by a friend after' the fight. The man wanted to know if Savold could beat Novikoff. “Only Novikoff could beat Novikoff,” replied Grimm, who ought to know.
Lt. Com. Carl Stockhold, the old six day bike rider, has been relieved of his duties as commanding officer of the Ninth Naval District Shore Patrol. Back in the ‘20’s and ’30’s such men as the
late Knute Rockne, Heartley “Hunk” Anderson and Elmer Layden were wildeyed six day race addicts. Rockne used to commute from South Bend to be at trackside each time the cycling circus came to Chicago.
The All-Star coaching staff for the first time in the game’s existence does not list a head coach or an assistant schooled in the Notre Dame system. Head Coach is Lynn Waldorf of Northwestern and the assistants are “Bo” McMillin of Indiana, Henry Frnka of Tulsa and Jeff Cravath of Southern California. But their pro opponents, the Chicago Bears, have a Notre Dame man in “Hunk” Anderson.
It looks like the railroads are going to get a break this fall with an all-St. Louis World Series on tap. Transporting all the people from one city to another has been a difficult problem for railmen in these past few war years. Now all those “essential” people that make a habit of attending World Series will have only two worries, how to get to and from St. Louis.
War does strange things. Have you noticed that every time a serviceman accomplishes any feat of bravery and has played some kind of sport in college he is called “star,” “ace” or some other fitting title? Just think, a man works hard for three years and builds no reputation
for himself, but when a war comes along he is both a hero and a star. I guess it must give him some satisfaction.
The people of Baltimore who are football fans are very lucky for this coming season. Navy, which is supposed to be the team to beat this year, has scheduled four games in the fair city. These games are with Duke, Notre Dame, Cornell and Purdue.
During his talk to the East All-American boy’s baseball team, Connie Mack was quoted as saying, “Now there will be a couple of umpires in the game. Whatever they say is final.” I think that quotation is a good enough reason why Mr. Mack has become one of the most respected men in organized baseball.
Five years ago at Washington Park in Chicago two very dark dark horses came romping home to pay the astounding figure of §10,722.40 for two measly pieces of folding stuff. Only one man had a ticket on the combination of Joy Bet and Merry Caroline. He must have been able to pay off about seven mortgages. Some people have all the luck.
Reward!!
I will give three (3) gumdrops to anyone bringing me a phomp, dead or alive.
Sheriff.
TAILCKJ	CLCTHIEKS
PARKER-WINTERROWD extend to all Midshipmen an invita-tion to call at our store and shop and inspect our tailor made uniforms before placing your orders for officers’ uniforms. Each and every garment tailored to your measure and garments meas-ured and fitted in our own shop.
PARKER-WINTE R ROW D
115^2-11714 N. Main Street (Upstairs)	North of the Oliver Hotel
Phone 3-6318 for appointments
17
J 50 Voices in Concert
By SEAMAN ART WAGNER
The V-12 Glee club, organized at the direction of Commander Gabel by Chief Specialist C. L. Scharf shortly after the beginning of this semester, is now composed of ninety-five sailor and marine voices. This newly formed organization meets twice a week for rehearsals. It is represented on the V-12 Executive Committee by Seaman John F. Stanfill.
Included in the program of lust Wednesday’s “Happy Hour" was a group of' songs sung by the V-12 Glee club. The Notre Dame Glee club also made an individual contribution, and the two combined their one-hundred-fifty voices in “This Is My Country” and the “Victory March”.
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the University of Notre Dame music department, announced today that plans for the future activities of the V-12 Glee club will probably include—singing on special radio programs over the local station; collaborating with the Notre Dame Glee club and the band in future “Happy Hour” nights; presenting, with the University band, a concert on the campus; and participating in other speci-
ific entertainments to be held later in the semester.
Mr. Pedtke stated that any Navy or Marine V-12 trainees are cordially invited to join the V-12 Glee club, but that second tenors were urgently needed and would be especially welcomed.
"N.D." Attracts Fifth
Army Troops in Italy
A Notre Dame football blanket, hanging from the balcony of a Siena, Italy, house, led Fifth army troops to Mrs. Adolpho Graziani, former Grand Rapids, Mich, resident and sister of Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame.
Father O’Donnell said the blanket was given to Mrs. Graziani by their brother, Dr. Frank J. O’Donnell of Alpena, Mich., who played football at Notre Dame during his undergraduate days.
Friends here said that Mrs. Graziani, in her first letter to her brother in two years, told how she and her husband fled their Genoa home after the nazis demolished the city and took refuge in Siena. The blanket was quickly seen and recognized by Americans entering the city.—James Keerav
(■jllMlllliMIMMMIMIMMIIIIinilMlMMMMtMMIIIIIlMMMilllMIIMIIIlQ i Campus Centenary i i Publications i
1 Notre Dame—100 Years_______________$4.00 i
: Collected Poems of	i
:	Charles L. O'Donnell$2.50 =
. . . at the Bookstore
	
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
1 HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP I
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
FAMOUS
‘DANDY"
4-0
TAILOR MADE BLUES =
OPTOMETRIST
MAILED, INSURED, ALL OVER THE WORLD 3 DAYS AFTER RECEIPT OF ORDER -
TAILOR MADE NECKERCHIEF INCLUDED WITH EVERY UNIFORM
8'ue Block 100% All Wool
Hano embroidered *
Treated not to shrink or fade *
14-15 ox SERGE
16-17ox SERGE OR WHIPCORD
$32.50
35.00
18-19 oi SERGE
37.50
17 oz GABARDINE OR WHIPCORD
42.50
minimum DEPOSIT S5-BALANCE C.O.D.
Paste reaulotions reauire orders shipped to F P C be poic in full Due to recently doubled costs odd SI for mailing
junni-i
WAIST
HIPS
THIGH
KNEE
LEG
LEG
siuye u
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
M LI GMT
ElIII ttl llltlll III I III III I BUI 11( I 111 111 Illi IB I ll< I III 111 I Ml III I lil till I
i	BUY WITH	CONFIDENCE	|
i	at	1
1	South Bend’s	Leading Jeweler	=
FAMOUS "DANDY" , Son(oriltd
WHITES
INCLUDING RATE AND CHOICE OF NECKERCHIEF OR WHITE HAT
Deposit $2—Bal. C.O.D.-Except F. P. O.
If over 34' leg inieom, odd SOc
Add 75c for moiling first suit, 25c for eoch Additional
NECKERCHIEFS. HEAVY o _ RAINCOATS, GABARDINE,	i., __
SATIN. TAILOR MADE $I.Z3 HALF-LINED, WATER REPELLENT $lO.5u,
Mall orders to
DANDY NAVAL TAILORS MANUFACTURERS
39 Sands St., Brooklyn 1, N. Y.
Near Brooklyn Navy Yard MAin 4-0608
I YOUR MONEY BACK GUARANTEE—We occupy 4 buildings—tbe largest organization devoted exclusively to outfitting Sailors See our ads in the Nary magazines. We unconditionally guarantee our uniforms not to shrink or fade and to tit you right or we’ll refund the price.
Dandy Naval Tailors
5	A wide selection of	:
।	Desirable Gifts	i
I	on display.	=
1	Use our lay-away plan.	|
(^}lMlltllllllMllMIIIIIIIIMIIIMIIIMIllltlMllMlllMIMIMIMInilllMIMl|Bj
18
WASHINGTON STREET
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
We also carry a complete line of regulation accessories and furnishings
FIFTH AVENUE • NEW YORK
2 15 W .
WE’RE ONE OF THE FEW. who can
lam ucui meaUile
Having discovered long ago that, in uniforms too, there’s no substitute for fine custom tailoring, we skillfully adapt regulation correctness to your personal proportions. We fashion every detail of your figure, in our own workrooms, to a uniform that’s your clothing double! That’s just one reason why you’ll find Browning King apparel definitely superior although it may not always be the lowest-priced. Our long experience with fabrics and our faithful cutting-to-measure in our own workrooms are the ultimate assurance of your complete satisfaction.
UNIFORMS FROM #40
cal lb	tndividua/nie^u^e
19
Student Council Pions for Civilian Field Day
The Student Council has announced an All Civilian Inter-Hall Field Day to be held Sunday, Sept. 10 at Cartier Field and St. Joseph’s lake. This Field Day is sponsored with the purpose in mind of providing the civilian students at Notre Dame with activities on campus which will bring back some of the pre-war school and hall spirit.
As formulated so far, plans call for track and field events to be held at Cartier Field the earlier part of the afternoon with water events being held in St. Joseph’s lake at the conclusion of the activities at the field. After dinner, at 7:00 in Washington Hall, each hall will present a stunt or skit, the band and glee club will provide music, and to end the day’s festivities, prizes will be awarded to individual winners as well as to the winning hall.
Committees appointed by Harry Berliner, council president, are Richard Ames, chairman of arrangements, Robert Riordan and Earl Pye, in charge of publicity, and the following have been appointed hall captains: Robert O’Toole, Sorin; Joe DeLia, St. Edward’s; Joe Cannavo, Breen-Phillips; and Robert Warrick, Carroll. Each of these hall captains will have two others to assist him.
Events which will probably comprise the track and field events include a bicycle race, 60 yard dash, football throw for distance, high jump, broad jump, tug-o-war, three-legged race, sack race, and other feature events.
At St. Joseph’s lake such water events as dashes of various distances, relays and medley relays, and feature races and events, will provide both the spectators and entrants with many thrills.
In Washington Hall that night, students will be given a chance to display their skill at everything from hog calling to ballet dancing. In the past such nights of entertainment have been the highlights of the semester’s activities, and with much new material on the campus, the old theater goers should be in for a new thrill, and many laughs.
The events of the day will each be given certain point values to be given the winning halls, and a special award will be made to the winning hall.
Field days and Notre Dame date back past 1910 when interhall competition was very strong. Then it was necessary for most of the sports at Notre Dame to be held on campus with student competition, and a great deal of interest and enthusiasm resulted. It is hoped that this 1944 Field Day will be the biggest ever seen on the Notre Dame campus.
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
Sk&p.
Custom Tailored Officers' Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through die decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance
of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored
to your individ- J°Uy
,	.	Tailor
ual proportions
by expert craftsmen in our own work rooms.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Room 148 Morrissey Hall
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
20
Bat Enters Alumni Hall;
Log Book is Useful
By SEAMAN LYLE MEALS
Last week during a late watch (it was after 2300), the members of the Co. G watch in Alumni Hall were awakened by the intrusion of a Myotis Subulatus.
No, it was not an inebriated bovine—it seems a non-belligerent bat had gained entrance to the lower deck without pausing to log in. Since. Lt. (jg) Brewbaker was asleep, the members of the watch broke up their erap game (we’re only kiddin’) to have a bit of amusement with the furry little mystery ball with wings.
Five swabbies armed with clip boards, books, SP brassards, and guard belts lined the passageway taking playful swats at Mr. Bat as he flitted from end to end apparently searching for the head.
After the schloomp had made three trips down the corridor accompanied by 15 unsuccessful lunges (“unsuccessful lunges” is French for “batting the breeze”), the JOOD came to the rescue.
“Just a minute fellows!” he ordered. “I have here a mighty bludgeon for the extermination of bats, rats, lice and dandruff. To the SWO’s amazement he produced one of the chow hall’s prize soup strainers.
However, this fly swatter was of little help. At that moment, Seaman Jim Mar-chelewicz, gracefully leaping two feet into the air, tagged the little meat ball with the Alumni log book and sent him into a “9g” off the east bulkhead.
I GOLF CLUBS
BASEBALL GLOVES
BASEBALL BATS
SOFT BALLS AND BATS TENNIS RACQUETS FISHING TACKLE
Goldsmith and Spaulding Distributors
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
It was a beautiful shot with just the right amount of English. Mr. Bat came to rest near the door of the head (silly resting place). Artificial respiration was immediately given by the messenger, and the SWO finally revived.
The sentries then kicked the intruder and promptly ushered it back to its natural element.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 15) serving overseas, taught Frank a great deal about the stick and pellet game.
Stan Hack of the Cubs is Frank’s idea of the perfect athlete, thinking that he’s the greatest third baseman of all-time. Besides baseball, Frank goes in for all kinds of outdoor competitive spoils. Being elected captain of the high school cage squad in his senior year was his sports topper. He says that Kay Kyser is “aw reet” and he also goes for “I’ll Always Remember.” Chicken is his favorite epicurean delight and he especially goes for the neck—chicken, of course.
Frank, a letterman from the spring nine, propelled an average well over .300. His ambition is to play ball in the majors and if we are any judge, his vim, vigor, and vitality should go a long way toward helping to achieve his goal.
KEN MANARIK
Hailing from Chicago, and at present pastiming at left-field on the Notre Dame summer nine, is Ken Manarik. While attending Austin High, he earned two monograms in baseball, and one each in football and basketball. Ken expects his little brother, who is starting as a freshman in high school this September to be an all around athlete. (Irish scouts take notice). Of course Ken modestly remarked, “I taught him all he knows.”
A 21 year old V-12 trainee, Ken parks his 178 pound, six foot frame in Alumni Hall. A Phy-Ed major in his fourth semester, he hopes to be sent to a “middie” school in November so that he can realize his ambition to be an ensign.
His sports idol is Luke Appling, shortstop for the Chicago White Sox. Ken’s biggest sport thrill came while he was playing with Wisconsin Appleton State, an independent team. He hit a home run against Great Lakes with Freddie Shaffer, formerly of the Louisville Colonels and Boston Red Sox pitching. His favorite food is a thick, juicy, well done steak. (No offense to the cafeteria) In the way of music he likes the “swing and sway” of Sammy Kaye and “Tura-Lura-Lura” from the picture “Going My Way.” His favorite pastimes are dancing and houseparties. (Need we say more).
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
70# VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B^Bo (G)-C-Bg
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minim»v» Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B-”
FOR ADULTS
OR CH1L0REH
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS ^3.50
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4.5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
S2S SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. O.D.s.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST ,	FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
21
AROUND AND AROUND
“Madame Curie thinks she worked hard to isolate radium,
But she never saw the V-12’s trot around the ND stadium!”
Three times a week! How the fellows joyfully anticipate those little runs 1 Will we ever forget those jaunts, those jolly jaunts, around the stadium?—Each of the companies rushes like mad to make the formation, and then, five minutes after the companies are formed, the Battalion Staff comes sauntering out, the Staff composed of Bob “Don’t Tell Me ’Cause I Know” McCarthy, Linus F. Pottebaum, Russ Moon, and Donnie “Field-Music” Dackins. Now, at last, we can shove-off! Prancing like so many horses, we are away in a huff—of dust! “Good-bye Chief, we’ll see you second time around,” shouts Bob Latham, smilingly. Oh! What glory, to be out in the fresh air so early-like! But what’s this? Are those swabjockies hiding behind the trees? Trying to avoid having to go around twice? But, the chief says the Marines are goldbrickers, and so the arms and legs growing out of those trees must belong to Marines (yes! we saw youse!) Panting, but happy, gasping for breath, but happy, aching all over, but happy, the happy crew happily comes home. We maintain that: “A taut ship is a happy ship!”
SERIOUSLY
We jest often about rhe medals which we V-12’s have won in combat, and such joke-making isn’t fair to men like Billy Knepper who really earned the Purple Heart out in the Pacific. Billy is still fighting his recurrent malaria and trying to get through his school work at the same time. He’s a fine Marine and a real trooper.
❖
I SAW
Jerry Remole entertaining his lovely mother who was here for a visit.... Claire V. Hansen really give that soccerball a kick._Bob “Newgie” Newgard cheering at the Democratic Convention in Chi______Phil Winter going through the Marching Manual like a vet.__John Lunsmann looking dapper at the Lawyer’s _BalL in the “Rock”... Corporal
Haag having dinner down-town with his attractive wife.
EYES, RIGHT!
During the review last Saturday, while one of the Marine companies was passing the reviewing stand, the company commander shouted, “Eyes, Right!” Bob Schultz yelled back, “Well, I still think I’m right!” and kept his head straight to the front. (Note to the Superman—We was only kidding!)
ON THE NCO'S
Gunny Sgt. McManus was just married to a South Bend lady, and the Marine Detachment wishes the couple lots of good-luck .
Sgt. Joe Santos is recruiting men for the Boxing Show. He approached one group and said, “I want some volunteers; you, you, and you!”
TO BE OR NOT TO BE
Mrs. Top-Sgt. MacHale, former Lt. (jg) Negus, presented her husband with a baby boy on 20 August. Now the problem is, will the boy become a sailor or a Marine?
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE 4 SO. BEND R.R.
KANSAS BOXING MATCH (Continued from page 15) a conversation and stopped off in a lunchroom to talk over a sandwich and a glass of milk.
Frankie Brown told his opponent how much he had admired his ring style, what a great boxer he’d make. But the other smiled. “I’m going to college and get an education, so I’ll be able to carve out a career to suit my own ideas.
Knute Rockne showing "how"
They talked till nearly midnight, says Coronet, and in the end, it was the views of Frankie Brown that were changed. He decided to give up boxing as a career and enter college, even if it meant work-his way through. He thanked the Kansan for the advice.
“You’re welcome Frankie,” the young Kansan laughingly replied.
At that Brown grinned back. “Forget the Frankie Brown stuff. That’s just my ring name. My real name’s Rockne— Knute Rockne. And say if I should want to write you, how should I spell that last name of yours?”
“E-i-s-e-n-h-o-w-e-r. Dwight Eisenhower,” the lanky Kansan smiled.
SOurosHORE
22
M Mcm Ga.
South Bend's Qualify Store since 1913--------------------,------------------------------
Open Saturday Evening and All Day Sunday
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $38.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
WHITE DRESS UNIFORMS— $13.50 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality
•with 3 covers
’18
50
4/ doesn't fat we won't JLet tfon keep it!
(MSel Gr.
ON THE CORNER... MKHI6RN $ VRSHIN6TDN
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
*-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------*
23
YOU'LL EMOY BING
CROSBY in "GOING MY WAY". . . his latest paramount
PICTURE
on o d friend...and that’s how
I’ve fe t about Chesterfie d ever
Copyright 1944, Liggett & Myeu Tobacco Co.
" There's no friend like
since I first sang for them
several years ago


^^.Millions know Chesterfields
always Satisfy... They re Cooler, Milder and
\ Better-Tasting. More smokers are finding this
out every day... so next time, do justice to
; your taste... ask for Chesterfields RIGHT
COMBINATION WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS