DU PONT SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING GRADUATES MEET THE PUBLIC IN
technical
More and more, industry is on the lookout for technically trained men and science majors who have an interest in and aptitude for selling. A number of departments at Du Pont prefer men with such training for sales positions. A technical understanding of the properties of a substance helps a man do a better selling job—and offers the customer better service.
Because of the diverse applications of Du Pont’s many products, there is a need for sales representatives with widely varying technical backgrounds. There are problems involving chemistry and many types of engineering in such fields as plastics, ceramics, textiles and many others.
Technical men may work in direct sales, sales service, or sales development groups, depending on depart-
Edgar G. Boyce, Ashland State (right), helps a customer improve his method of applying silicate adhesive in the manufacture of corrugated boxboard.
Ivan R. Smith, B.S. in Ch.E., Kansas State University ’40 (right), advises the operator of a galvanizing machine on the efficient use of a Du Pont flux.
mental organization. In some cases technical men handle all phases of selling. In others they deal mainly with customer problems. Some departments also maintain a sales development section that works on technical problems connected with the introduction of a new product or a new application for an established one.
Here are examples of the kind of problems attacked by technical men in Du Pont sales groups:
1.	Find a more economical way to apply sodium silicate used in making corrugated paperboard. Du Pont men, as in many other instances, were able to make substantial savings for the customer.
2.	Introduce fabrics of "Orlon” acrylic fiber for use in dust filtration. This
James A. Newman, B. S. in Ch. E., North Carolina State’’40, discusses study of optimum settings and conditions for carding nylon staple with Prof. J. F. Bogdan of North Carolina State’s Research Division.
involved evaluation and modification of filter fabrics in cooperation with makers of dust-control equipment, and with plant personnel having serious dust-recovery problems.
3.	Reduce the time needed for processing motion-picture film used by race tracks. Technical service men carried the problem to a research group which developed an emulsion that could be processed in about one-third the former time.
Technical men interested in sales work at Du Pont usually acquire needed background in a laboratory or manufacturing plant. Depending on their interest and abilities, they may then move into technical sales service, sales development, or direct sales.
In any of these fields, the man with the right combination of sales ability and technical knowledge will find not only interesting work but exceptional opportunities for growth in the Company.
College graduates with many types of technical training find opportunities at Du Pont. Write for your copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” Address: E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
u x.paZ.Q'K
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
. .. THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative—
See “Cavalcade of Arcerica" on Television
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT
610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET
$1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS
25f with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL
Across from South Shore
Teaches Business Men At Arthur Murray's
Sec Sunday S. B. Trib.
to $1495
Your standing—literally and figuratively—depends upon the right footwear. That is why so many College men wear City Clubs. They're correctly styled, better made, and, of course, the price is as right as the fit.

“Give me one hour of your time,” says Jean Monahan, “and let me prove I can make you a smooth, confident dancer. Try a lesson at Arthur Murray’s today—and see how quickly you can become a popular dance partner.”
ARTHUR MURRAY
Call 2-3339 120 E. Wayne
City Oub
SHOES OF W DISTINCTION FOR MEN	V. Sport •
May 15, 1953
3

Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
ANDERSON TRUCK TERMINAL, Maumee, Ohio.
(Ten miles south of Toledo, Ohio)
Help build a new three* million bushel addition to our present grain elevator—biggest monolithic pour in the state—covers almost an acre —168 feet high—a most interesting type of construction.
About 200 able bodied young men with good backs and normal intelligence. We need welders, truck drivers, carpenters, steelmen, and lots of just good workers. We are contacting about 100 colleges and universities in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana.
1—Organization meeting Sunday, June 14th at 2 P.M.
2—Big pour June 15lh to June 26th or 27th.
3—50 or 60 men will work the balance of the summer.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..................News
FRED C. ECKART __________Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE _________ Features
JOHN F. SAND ....................  Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass't. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY .............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .......... Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
GOOD PAY—$1.50 per hour plus time and one half overtime during 11 or 12 days of big pour—8 hours per day, 7 days per week— $6.00 for meeting Sunday June 14th. Free lunches S 1.41 per hr. plus time and one half for overtime for the balance of the summer—49 hours per week.
GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS—Healthy, outside work with a group of fine young men.
GOOD SUMMER LIVING CONDITIONS—If you can't commute from home, $3.00 per day pays room and board—all you can eat—cots with air mattresses furnished—(you furnish your own bedding)—showers —play areas—75 x 25 swrnmming pool—Athletic Director—evening entertainment—a chance to meet men from colleges all over Ohio, Michigan and Indiana. We suggest that coaches might be interested in lining up a group of boys—a grand opportunity to work out during the summer.
NOTE:—We would like one representative from your school who wants to work at Andersons this summer. We will pay his transportation to and from our plant soon so he can get a thorough understanding of the job. In subsequent ads we will request students to see school representatives when applying. The representative will receive 25c per acceptable application sent in by him. If you are interested, so state when writing us.	t
NEWS STAFF: John Adams, Bill Burnett, Jerry Campbell, Dick Connelly, Pete Connolly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, Gavin King, Fred Krack-lauer, Paul LaFreniere, John Manion, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywinski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVEE: Pictured on our cover this week are j'ust two of the' 700 couples who danced in the enchanting atmosphere of “Shangri-la” last Friday evening. (L. to E.): Bill Eeidy, Peggy Toohey; Al Kohanowich and Pat Eut-ledge. Their expressions, however, tell the whole story—gaiety, breathless amazement, mild disbelief. (See page 11.)	—Photos by Dana Weithers
~4
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Putting Po . . . I mean Fogo . . . on page 16 was a wise move by our editor . . .
Bouquets
Like pretty girls at the library, dances come and go. Sometimes dance committees piddle around until it is too late to get a decent band and have to settle for Benny Strongs and Jimmy Palmers — and then make excuses. Usually these same committees will dispatch a few people to go down to the dancing place with a bucket of paint and a roll of crepe paper “to decorate” a few hours before the dance takes place. After sloping down some appropriate scenes on old mattress cartons and draping the crepe paper from a convenient chandelier, they go home and put on their tuxedos.
Then sometimes it rains on top of it all, and Trueheart wonders why she came all the way from Peoria for the likes of this. These are the things that make for ulcers and run-of-the-mill social affairs. But every once in a while, you come upon the happy combination of heads-up planning and nice weather, and everybody has a wonderful time.
This year’s Senior Ball epitomized the elements that go to make up a successful dance weekend. Bands just don’t come any better than Ray Anthony and his platoon system vocalists. The fuzzy-covered dance programs supplied better-than-Spillane reading for out-of-state girls in transit. The lads agreed that the favors were adequate despite the fact that girls insisted on calling them by (the favors, not the land) such obnoxious terms as “cute,” and “cuddly.”
And we seriously doubt that the vast acreage of the Drill Hall could ever be as attractive again. The mere size of the place is a challenge, but the grandiose effect of a huge, gleaming Buddha, down to the wonderful hundreds of little details, made the thing downright tremendous. We - wonder how anyone could have the heart to tear it all down.
Seymore Senior, who has been absent from this column by popular request, found that his evening was soured by
the fact that so many people wore white tuxedo jackets. Seymore contends that it is a bit early foi’ the dinner jacket season, and besides they cost two bucks more to rent.
Where are my Turns Samples?
Besides serving as a second-rate art gallery (note murals), an arena of political and philosophical discussion, and a paper stand, the Caf also selves meals. Like a lot of other people who live off-campus, we are urged by pure financial necessity or a combination of laziness and proximity to take an occasional meal in the Caf.
As you push your tray down the shiny stainless steel ramp, the ladies in white chatter merrily to one another, occasionally adjusting chopped ice under the salad selection. You cheerfully go down the line, selecting your bread pudding, blue cheese, prune juice, and oleo-margarine (it’s twice as cheap as butter). The whole operation is very pleasant, until you get to the end of the line.
Sitting with terrible complacency behind their cash registers are the parties against whom this blurb is directed. There is simply no use in trying to compute the price of your dinner as you go along, because these girls have a system all their own. They make a pose of tallying each item on the tray and then nonchalantly poking a few buttons on the machine.
If it seems like you have a lot of food on your tray, the price is 92 cents. If it looks pretty scanty, the price is 62 cents. Either 92 cents or 62 cents. If she arrives at a figure somewhere between these .two, .it is out of sheer caprice.
Far be it from us to look down our nose at this unique system of accounting. For all we know, it’s probably better foi’ everyone concerned. But just don’t waste your time trying to choose between the 12 cent and the 15 cent pie. It doesn’t really make any difference.
Sports
It is being said around Badin Bog that the only way to win a game these days is to get “Drini,” Charles
ton’s answer to Mickey Mantle, on your side.
Adieu
In this time of crisis (they are giving finals this year, aren’t they?) the principal source of diversion for most of the troops seems to be the banquets given by every organized group on campus. The policy is to get an after-dinner speaker somewhere, and then bring the gang down to Rosie’s or the Ramble Inn, and then hope that not too many free-loaders have been invited to sit at the speakers table.
For Journalism majors, banquet night means a preview of the movie Shake Doivn The Thunder, which they made all by their little selves. It is a story about the Victory March, a song whose popularity has been somewhat dimmed by Doggie in the Window. The journalists are not planning to make a movie covering this song, however.
The Ghost of Sorin Porch
The open season on prom dates was officially ended last Sunday as seniors packed their girl friends on the South Shore. Sorinites sadly packed away their cheering and jeering guidebooks and dimly looked forward to bleak, somber Sunday morns on the porch.
Cheer up lads, you can always unpack suedes and “tapered trousers” (that’s what intelligent people call peg-ed pants) and stand on the patio of Ford Hopkins. They love it down there too.
Bottom of the Week
. . . to hide it. from Walt Kelly, who might possibly sue.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
BOTH NICE!
Chrysler and Plymouth at
MOULDER MOTOR CO.
215 S. LaFayette
A Suggestion — Whv not drive a new car home for the folks. The purchase price in South Bend is probably much less than at home. See . . .
Jack Moulder,. Class of ’38
May 15, 1953
5
WHY LUG THAT TYPEWRITER HOME . .
When you can store it FREE OF CHARGE at the OFFICE ENGINEERS? Your typewriter is covered by insurance while in storage.
We can put your typewriter in top condition during the slack summer season at the special student repair rates. These special storage and repair rates are offered to the students at Notre Dame.
----------------------OFFICE ENGINEERS------------------
116 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-3118
TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST ----OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces”
----EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	4-5777
^/SPALDING
For Men Women Children
GOLF BALLS ARE
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
LIFETIME WHITE
RESISTS SCUFFING, BRUISING. STAINS
SpALDING does it again! Adds a spectacular new permanent whiteness to the game’s greatest golf balls.
New Lifetime White, exclusive with Spalding, is the brightest, whitest white ... the toughest,
SpaldinG
Sets the Pace in Golf
.highest gloss white of any ball you ever played.
Proven by "torture tests,” Spalding Lifetime White resists scuffing, bruises, stains... won’t yellow or chip_______keeps its sparkling sheen for life.
There’s a Spalding golf hall for every game and pocketbook. See your golf professional or dealer.
Aquinas
Library
and
Book Shop Catholic Shopping Center
BOOKS FOR MARY’S MONTH
■
110 E. LASALLE ST.
hw'syourtennis? SPALDING rackets and balls can improve it.
Prices to fit your college budget.
See: CHUCK GALLAGHER 304 Sorin
or SANDY S TENNIS SHOP 1215 Vassar Ave. 4-7156
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 25
MAY 15, 1953
Dedication Ceremonies Begin Tonight
GORDON CHALMERS
. . . Audience Tonight
GEORGE F. KENNAN
Address Convocation . .
Glee Club to Appear In Philadelphia Festival
On June 12, the Notre Dame Glee Club will have the honor of being the first university choral group ever to appear in the Philadelphia Music Festival. Sponsored by the Philadelphia Inquirer Charities Inc., the Festival annually draws more than 80,000 people to the Municipal Stadium.
On the program this year with .the Glee Club will be Nat “King” Cole and Jeanette MacDonald among others. The club will sing Ave Maria and Director Daniel Pedtke’s arrangement of When Johnny Comes Marching Home plus two* other numbers, one of a more classical strain, the other popular.
The Glee Club was recommended by Ed Sullivan who was master of ceremonies for last year’s Festival. The club annually appears on his TV show, “Toast of the Town.”
Receipts from the spectacle are distributed among various charities in the Philadelphia area.
In addition to their appearance in the TV short Shake Down the Thunder,
a documentary film shot here on campus, the club recently sang the background to a film produced by the United Fund in collaboration with a new drive foi- charity.
The Glee Club will make its traditional Commencement appearance on the eve of graduation Sunday for the graduates and their guests. In past years the concert has filled Washington Hall to capacity.
President-elect Tom Short announced recently that Tony Trigiani and Walt Schneider will succeed Joe Costanzo and Joseph Gores as business manage^- and publicity manager, respectively. The two posts are appointed by the incoming officers.
A traditional closing highlight for the club is the annual banquet, set this year at Alby’s Restaurant. Graduating members are usually presented with Glee Club Keys, but this year’s seniors plan to set a precedent by accepting engraved beer mugs as a token of their four years in the club.
Cardinal Consecrates AB Hall Tomorrow
BY JOHN ADAMS
Amid colorful ceremony and pageantry, Samuel Cardinal Stritch, archbishop of Chicago, will mark a milestone in the history of the University tomorrow by. dedicating the new I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.
A gift of Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, oil executive and philanthropist, the S2,300,000 structure will house the oldest of Notre Dame’s five colleges, the College of Arts and Letters. It is the culmination of two years of work which began in the summer of 19-51.
As a prelude to the actual dedication, an academic convocation will take place in the Drill Hall tonight at 8. Honorary degrees will be conferred- on six noted Americans who have especially distinguished themselves in their chosen field.
Recipients of the honorary doctorates wnll be: Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., president of Holy Cross College; Dr. Gordon K. Chalmers, president of Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio; Hon. George F. Kennan, former Ambassador to Russia; Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College; Jerome G. Kerwin, professor of political science, University of Chicago, and Daniel Sargent, educator and author.
Both Dr. Chalmers and Mr. Kennan will address the assembly which will include the O’Shaughnessy family and personal friends, the presidents or representatives of 200 universities and colleges, the Board of Trustees, the Women’s Advisory Council, local priests and nuns, and other friends of the University.
Dr. .Chalmers graduated from Brown University in the Class of 192-5. He later received academic degrees from Oxford and Harvard before being named President of Rockford College while only 30 years of age. Having
May 15, 1953
H
served in this capacity for three years, he resigned to become the 16th President of Kenyon College at Gambier.
Mr. Kennan is at present engaged in a further study of foreign policy at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N. J. For the 26 years following his graduation from Princeton University, he has served in the American diplomatic corps, having been assigned to such countries as Switzerland, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Portugal, England, and Russia.	.
In 1952 he was appointed United States Ambassador to the U.S.S.R.
A Pontifical High Mass celebrated by . Cardinal Stritch at 9:30 tomorrow morning will open the day’s activities. The sermon for the Mass will be delivered by Father Kenna who graduated from Notre Dame in 1926. The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing the Mass.
Immediately following the Mass, the guests will proceed to the' court between the Engineering and Commerce Buildings while the 1700 men in the ROTC form an honor guard along the entire' route.
The Cardinal will bless the building and then speak briefly to the assembled student body from a platform erected in front of the O’Shaughnessy Hall. Tom Reedy, president of the Student Senate, will thank Mr. O’Shaughnessy on behalf of the students. Music during this part of the ceremony will be' provided by the University Band.
At 1-p.m. the visitors will be guests of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., at the presidential luncheon. Father Hesburgh will address a few remarks to the guests as will Mr. O’Shaughnessy. The University Glee Club and an orchestral group will entertain the guests.
Irish Topple Three National Blood Records As Five-Day Drive Reaches 3,119 Pint Total
A new record of 3,119 pints of blood were donated at the children’s hospital last week during the second annual ND blood drive which established two other national marks.
Sixty-two per cent of the student body gave blood. This percentage set a new Red Cross record. The 702 pints of blood which were' taken from the bleeding Irish on May 7 also set a record as the largest amount of blood ever taken by the Red Cross in one day.
Still another record was shattered when 3,119 pints were taken in one week. That was the largest single week total in Red Cross history.
Ed Gilbert, a freshman and a four-year veteran of the Air Force, donated the 3000th pint of blood at 2:30 p.m. on the last day of the drive, May 8.
The O’Shaughnessy Building will open its doors to the public from 3 to 5 tomorrow afternoon, while visitors are invited to avail themselves of tours to be conducted through the campus.
Styled in Tudor-Gothic architecture, the O’Shaughnessy Hall will put 35 classrooms and numerous offices at the disposal of the students and faculty. Studios for music and art are also provided in addition to five art galleries which will house the University collections. The studios of WNDU will be moved from the fieldhouse to the fifth and sixth floors of the tower at the center of the building.
Gilbert, a resident of Zahm Hall, will be given a complimentary ticket to one of next year’s football games by “Moose” Krause, ND athletic director.
Dr. David N. W. Grant, director of the blood program for the Red Cross, sent a telegram from Washington, D. C., complimenting the fighting Irish on the spirit they displayed in their great contribution to the defense program of the nation. Dr. Grant stated that “Notre Dame can be well satisfied with its accomplishment.”
The commonly accepted axiom that the ND food “leaves something to be desired” was refuted by the fact that out of 3201 prospective donors only 82 were rejected.
Miss Krouch, the chief nurse for blood donor units, covered the entire drive as a liaison officer for- the president of the Red Cross.
The outstanding cooperation of the entire student body was complimented by everyone connected with the recordbreaking operation.
Another factor which contributed to the overwhelming success of the drive was the helpful cooperation of WNDU. The pledge marathon that they conducted in the Huddle' and the spot announcements throughout the drive kept student interest at a peak all during the week.
According to the official observers, the committee of more than 300 student volunteers who organized and conducted the campus end of the blood drive did an outstanding job.
I. A. O’SHAUGHNESSY HALL OF LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS Dedication Tomorrow Climaxes Two Years of Building
The Scholastic
PAT CARRICO Chief . . .
Vetville's Problems Face Delisi as Mayor-Elect
Joseph Delisi has been elected to succeed Steve Hauser as mayor of Vet-ville for the remainder of the school year and the Fall semester. The announcement was made Sunday evening at a Pot Luck Dinner in the Vetville Rec Hall.
Councilmen who were elected are: first ward, Dick Peckham; second ward, Fred Poehler; third ward, Harry Weis-becker; fourth ward, Jack Young; fifth ward, Vic McFadden; and sixth ward, Frank Pattee.
The two major issues facing the new mayor and council are the condition of the roads and the problem of garbage disposal, but they plan “to do the best for the most” in theii- coming term. Preceding the announcement of the results of the election, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, distributed diplomas to the Vetville wives.
The new mayor, who is enrolled in the combination Commerce-Law course, is to receive his undergraduate degree in June, his Law degree the following year. He has served one six-month term on the council and has been active in various other community affairs.
Delisi began his college life at Notre Dame in 1940, but it came to a halt when he was drafted at the end of 1941. After- being released from service, he returned to his home town, Avonmore, Pa., where he served one term on the city council, being the youngest man ever to serve in that capacity. He then returned to Notre Dame to complete his education.
He is the father of one son, Joe, Jr.
Carrico Succeeds Finney as Scholastic Head; Brehl and Noonan Named Associate Editors
While most students are counting the number of days remaining until the long awaited Summer vacation begins, The Scholastic’s newly selected staff will be counting the weeks till next September when the presses will again roll.
Pat Carrico, a junior journalism major from Louisville, Ky., will occupy the battered roll-top desk of the editor, presently occupied by Bob Finney.
Carrico, present news editor, has served two previous years on the Scholastic’s news and editorial staff. He functioned as assistant news editor in his sophomore year following a freshman span as a reporter.
Associate editors Tom Foote and Don
BILL NOONAN
. . . and . . .
Fr. Hesburgh Will Fete Honor Graduates at Dinner Tuesday
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will inaugurate another potential tradition Tuesday evening. This innovation is a presidential dinner for those seniors whose graduating average is 90 or better.
This is a way by which Father Hesburgh will be able “to express my congratulations to those students who have shown outstanding success in their studies during their years at Notre Dame.”
Sixty-three Seniors have been invited to attend this dinner which will begin at 6 in the faculty dining room.
Carbone will be replaced by Bill Noonan, junior journalism majoi- from Irvington, N. J., and Larry Brehl, sophomore A. B. student from Washington, Pa., who will act as managing editor.
Noonan will shift from the sports department to handle the duties of the associate editor. Assistant sports editor during the past year, he will become Carrico’s first assistant on the editorial staff. Brehl, the only sophomore elevated to an executive post, is assistant news editor.	.
Heading the news staff will be Paul Fullmer, a sophomore A. B. student from Elmhurst, Ill.
Occupying the newly-created post of copy editor will be Fred Eckart, a . sophomore commerce student from Tampa, Fla. Assisting him will be John Adams, a freshman A.B. student from Elmhurst, Ill., and Paul LaFren-iere, a freshman commerce student from Marquette, Mich., both advancing from positions as staff writers.
Taking over Bob Haine’s position as feature editor will be John Slavick, A.B. sophomore from Lakewood, Ohio.
Rising to the head of the sports department will be Bob Frolicher, another journalism major from Cincinnati, O.
Circulation will be in charge of Ken Murphy, a junior journalism major from Utica, N.Y. He will replace Bill Kerwin who has held the position for two years.
Jerry Baier, a junior A.B. student who calls Wilmette, HL, his home will replace Tom Murphy as advertising manager.
LARRY BREHL . . . Aides
May 15, 1953
9
Howley Elected Prexy Of '53-'54 Blue Circle
Gene Howley and Mickey Moran have been selected by their Blue Circle colleagues as president and vice-president, respectively, for the 1953-54 year. Joe Madigan will round out the new slate as secretary-treasurer.
The Circle will begin its next year’s activities with a nucleus of 26 veteran members and 19 new members. Preliminary plans for the Freshman orientation program and the football welcoming committees have been initiated, by Dan Kennedy and Ron Mazzoli.
Howley, a member of the Circle since his Freshman year, will be a Senior finance major next year. He worked on the 1952-53 blood drive and the 1953 Mardi Gras Dance of which he was chairman. He is also active in the Knights of Columbus, Commerce Forum, and has served as Junior Prom business manager and chairman of the Blue Circle welcoming committee.
Vice-president Moran has previously acted as co-chairman of the Junior Prom, chairman of the pep rallies, and worked on the recent blood drives.
Joe Madigan, secretary-treasurer, is majoring in accounting and has also served in the Circle since his Freshman year. He has acted as supervisor in charge of booths at the Mardi Gras, worked on the 1952-53 blood drives, and headed the Elections Committee for the 1952 Blue Circle elections.
The annual Blue Circle banquet will be held this Wednesday evening. Retiring president Ernie Buckley will be awarded an inscribed gavel.
Fagan Captures Top Award In Hearst Oratorical Contest
Bill Fagan, junior from Newark, N. J., was the winner of a $250 defense bond, first prize in the recent Hearst Oratorical contest. This contest, which hosted orators from Illinois, Missouri, and Indiana, was conducted by the Chicago Herald American.
.Fagan titled his winning six-minute prepared oration “John Marshall — Righteous Man.”
The Chicago contest won by Fagan is the third step in the Hearst National Tournament of Orators, sponsored by Hearst Syndicate of Newspapers. The next step is the midwest finals to be held in the Loyola University theatre on May 15. A $500 defense bond will be the first prize. The winner will advance to the national finals in Milwaukee, Wis., Tuesday to vie for the first prize—a $1000 defense bond.
Senate Chooses Richards President for '54; Field, Daley, Hicks Complete Executive Slate
At a special Student Senate meeting last Thursday night, Jim Richards, present seceretary of the Senate and president of the Junior Class, was elected .to succeed Tom Reedy as president of the
JIM RICHARDS
Presides Over Student Senate
St. Mary's Sodality Dance Climaxes Socials Tonight
The social season for all the belles from across the Dixie will come to an end tonight when the Sodality of Our Lady holds its annual Spring dance in the Louis XIV Ballroom of LeMans Hall.
All proceeds will be used for purchasing flowers for the St. Mary’s 'May procession which will take place the following Sunday, it has been announced by Pat Doyle, prefect of the Sodality and dance chairman.
The dance will begin this evening at 8:30 and continue until 11:30 in order that Notre Dame men will have ample time to return to their halls.
Some 200 couples will swirl to the strains of the last all-class social function to be held this year. .
Spring flowers of all varieties will highlight the decorations for the informal affair.
Assisting Miss Doyle are: Irene Fay, invitations; Meg Grignon, refreshments; Florence Buckley, arrangements; Betty Sandkaut, orchestra; Rena Bianucci, publicity; Catherine Reynolds, hostess; Hallie Frances Kirkpatrick, decorations; and Sister Marie Rosarie will serve as moderator.
Student Senate for the 1953-1954 year.
Tom Field, newly appointed Stay Senator and past Arts and Letters senator, was designed vice-president of the Senate. He will also act as president of the hall council system, which is composed of the hall representatives who are elected in the Fall.
Other results showed Science Senator Joe Daley assuming Richards’ former post of secretary. Rick Hicks was chosen treasurer to succeed Jim Hutchinson.
In an eleven point program, Richards outlined the following: the opening and operating of the new Student Center; a more equitable program for the distribution of the student activities’ fee; a social program which will include somewhat fewer dances, more concerts and more hall and class parties; a unified and coherent intramural program; a thorough study of the Senate constitution and consequent revision of same; wider use of the four executive commissioners of the Senate; an attempt to limit some of the campaign expenditures in student elections; an intelligent approach to the study facilities at Notre Dame; a program of academic orientation for the freshmen and transfer students; an entirely new off-campus organization which will function as close to campus resident’s activities as possible; and a broader publicity program in behalf of the Student Senate.
Editor Promises 'Dome1 Distribution by Moy 29
The 1953 edition of the DOME will be made available to students on May 29, according to Editor-in-Chief Fran Meaney. This will be the 44th issue of the University annual.
Among other things, this year’s DOME will contain four-color Koda-chromes, with extensive use of color throughout the book. Another innovation will be a modernistic cover, and a new system of division, aimed at providing greater unity and conformity with the theme.
University life will be compared with the thoughts expressed in John Henry Cardinal Newman’s essay, The Idea of a University, and greater stress will be laid on the academic and spiritual aspects of Notre Dame.
“We have had to keep a pretty tight schedule all year long,” said Meaney, “and a few complications developed, but the editors worked hard and we managed to overcome them.”
10
The Scholastic

Hat
RIGHT: The senior and
his date, danc-
S'
having enjoyed real evening in
was
Yet
none could ever recall anything so close to a Paradise.
Hop, Hokey-Pokey, and Mexican Dance all in a row.
The final surprise of the night that it all seemed to end so soon.
ing to the trumpet of Ray Anthony, were the couple of the hour in exotic Shangri-La.
tn an
It didn’t rain. That was the first of many pleasant surprises for the seniors and their dates last Friday.
Another was the awesome decoration scheme for the Senior Ball. The Drill Hall was no more; it had become Shangri-la, an oriental paradise, complete with a pagoda-shaped bridge over goldfish ponds and flower beds, a bubbling fountain, a huge incense pot, and an enormous bronze-colored buddha overlooking the bandstand.
Outside, couples sipped sherbet punch at tables on a patio, with the stars for a roof and all Cartier Field for a yard.
The men were surprised when they too received a program; the girls even more so when the pajama-doll favors were distributed.
Ray Anthony’s fine music came as no surprise—until he played the Bunny
LEFT: The bronze Buddha of Shangri-La sits in his oriental splendor, keeping a calm watch over the Senior Ball. The figure was a reminder of the mystical Never-Never land where one never grows old; and when the evening finally came to a close, the seniors did feel as if “all the fret of existence had ebbed away, leaving a hush as if moments hardly dared to pass.”

unique
monogrammed
remind Mary Jo Doody
Saint,
Marching
ABOVE: Their favor will long
and Don Carbone of the wonderful evening spent in Shangri-La.
BELOW: "The Head In!”
ABOVE: President Kerwin
Fulton offers his
congratulations to the royalty of the
Senior Ball: Betty Ann Sullivan, George Higgins, Lois Hertig, and Jim Pfohl.

J
BELOW: Surprise, delight, and bewilderment were some of the reactions to the Ball.
ABOVE: The ensign and his date sit out a dance beneath the bronze kettle and one of the Chinese dragons of Shangri-La.


tr
TOP—(L. to R.): Bob Rust, Rita Navarra; Jerry Smith, Marilee Cummings; Mary Lou Bullock and Ed O’Connor look over the Pagoda and lily pond.
seem to mind even the concrete floor.
limited, but 700 couples didn’t
ABOVE: Space
was
The Maestro, his music, and his voices.

RIGHT: Afterwards, the Chinese-costumed waiters faced aching feet 'and the thought of cleaning up.
ABOVE: A brief moment of conversation and a bit of refreshment for Mr. and Mrs. Dick Harvey.
ND Sluggers Hit Broncos Tomorrow
Halls End Regular Season; Set Sights on Playoff Rounds
Playoffs for the inter-hall baseball and softball championships began last week after the winners were determined in the league divisions.
As the softball teams entered the final week of regular season play the winning teams in each of the four leagues was just about determined.
Alumni was undefeated in the Blue League (5-0) with only one more game to play and Dillon’s 3-2 win over Badin made them the only unbeaten team in the Gold League.
Detroit ' is leading the City League with a 5-0 record. The city loop was a two team race until Chicago forfeited a crucial game to Detroit.
The Irish Club ran away with honors in the weak Club League with a 4-0 mark. In the baseball division Mr. Szekely is holding a double elimination tournament.
Fred Turner’s Morrissey Squad defeated Tom Moore’s Dillon nine last Moday, 7-1 to cop the winner’s bracket. Dillon will now meet Lyons in the finals of the losers bracket. The winner of that game will play Morrissey for the University championship.
Klinemen to Meet Boilermakers Tuesday: Blast Sailors, Air Station in Batting Barrage
Tomorrow the Notre Dame baseball team faces Western Michigan at Kalamazoo, and then moves down to Lafayette Tuesday, May 19 to take on the Purdue Boilermakers.
In Western Michigan the Irish will meet one of their toughest opponents of the season, even though last year’s graduation dug deep into the Bronco lineup.
Second-baseman Dave Gottschalk, named on the second string All-American nine last season, is the top returning letterman.
Coach Maher’s pitching staff is one of the brightest spots of the team. Four returning lettermen: Bob Urda, Paul Schartman, Juane Emaar, and Gary Graham give the Broncos a well-rounded mound corps.
Two .300 sluggers from last year, along with last season’s top fielding third baseman in the Big Ten form the nucleus of Coach Henry Stram’s Purdue squad.	.
Veteran first-baseman Norman Banas batted .318 in Big Ten play last sea
son, and was followed close behind by teammate and shortstop Phil Mateja who clouted a respectable .302.
After winning four straight, the Irish dropped their fourth game of the season, losing to Michigan State, 8-5. It was Jim Gibbons’ second loss.
Gus Carlson started for the Spartans but Bill Safran relieved him in ND’s big fourth inning. Safran completely handcuffed the Irish, allowing only one hit in the remaining innings.
The Irish nine chalked up victories Nos. 11 and 12 last weekend, downing the Great Lakes Sailors, 13-8, and trouncing Glenview Air Station, 16-8, in two slugging duels.
Notre Dame’s ace hurler Stan Konopka hurled his sixth straight victory. He has yet to taste defeat.
Left-fielder Roger Braun and Third-baseman Len LeRose were- the top sluggers for the Irish. ’
In the other service tilt, a six-run outbreak in the seventh was all the Irish needed to overcome an early Glenview lead.
WINDUP . . .
IRISH ACE, STAN KONOPKA, DISPLAYS WINNING FORM
STRETCH . . .	KICK . . .	DELIVERY . . .
FOLLOW THROUGH
14
The Scholastic

Sailors Finish Second In First Irish Regatta
The Notre Dame Sailing Club finished second in their first annual Invitational Regatta last weekend only five points behind winner Marquette. The Hilltoppers amassed 59 points.
A two-day affair, running last Saturday and Sunday, the Regatta had two eight-race series, the 16%-foot snipe class taking up Saturday’s card.
Sailing before a moderate wind, the Irish were led by skippers Bob Fisher, Paul Miller, Bill Streeter and Club captain Ed Rodgers. Rodgers was responsible for 25 of the Irish points, scoring once and placing twice.
The 1954 Regatta is already in the making with plans for moving it to a bigger lake, a larger starting field, and many other improvements.
This weekend the Notre Dame Sailing team will travel to Columbus, Ohio, to compete in the Midwest Sailing Championships. The two winners from the earlier eliminations held in Michigan were to represent the Midwest in the Columbus meets, but one of the previous qualifiers withdrew, making room for the' third-place Irish.
Notre Dame skippers will be Ed Rodgers, Don Matthew, and Jim Rosen-heimer, while the crews will include Bob Miller, Paul Miller and Bob Swin-deman.
Irish Meet Hilltoppers; Trounce Pitt Trocksters
Fresh from a convincing 73-58 win over Pitt last Saturday, Notre Dame’s cindermen travel to Milwaukee tomorrow to engage tough Marquette in a dual meet. Next Wednesday the Wil-sonmen will meet Michigan Normal at Ypsilanti in another dual meet.
In the field events last Saturday each team took three firsts. Tom Has-senger and Al Kohanowich tied for first in the high jump with 5 ft. 10% inches, while Bill Ruschel of Pitt broad-jumped 21 ft. 5% inches.
As usual the pole vault was all N. D. Jim Harrington and Joe Springer both went 13 ft. 6 inches which was a foot more than the Pitt men could reach. Both Springer and Harrington again failed in their attempts to top 14 feet.
Notre Dame also took first and second in the discus event. Jack Soran-no hit for a distance of 135 ft. 8 inches. John Shay was second. Pitt’s Sam Berry took first in the shot put with a heave of 47 ft. %inch. Jack Cunningham of the Irish was second with 46 feet.
(L. R.) REEVES, FONS, COACH EARLY, BUCKLEY, ROY
Kegler Officers Awarded Bowling Trophies To Leagues Top Pinners
Kampus Keglers Wind Up Bowling Campaign With Annual Banquet; Toledo, Pitt Cop Honors
Notre Dame’s prize bowling organization, the Kampus Keglers, concluded the 1952-53 bowling season recently with its annual banquet at the Mayfair Restaurant in Mishawaka. Highlight of the evening was the presentation of bowling trophies to the team winners
Jack Alexander gave the Irish a good start in the track events as he copped the mile run in 4:23.4. Al Schoenig of Notre Dame closed very fast in the 440, but was unable to overtake Pitt’s Ray Lee who won in :49.1.
Jim Pitcavage, Bob Hanrahan, and Dave Foy fiinshed one-two-three in the 100 yd. dash. The winning time was 10 seconds flat.
Wally Monahan of Pitt tied the meet record in the 120 yd. high-hurdles as he finished in :14.4. ND’s Harvey New-quist and Capt. Ed Powell finished second and third respectively. Jim Her-non ran a smooth 1:56.9 to give ND a first in the 880.
ND’s Jim Pitcavage became a double winner by winning the 220 dash in :21.7. Dave Foy was second. Harry Snyder of Notre Dame finished third in the gruelling two mile ran won by Pitt’s Alan Gunderson in 9:45.7.
Monahan and Chris King of Pitt tied for first in the 220 low hurdles with :24.3. The Irish won the mile relay in 3:22.7 to climax the hot afternoon chores. Norm Feltes, Al Schoenig, Jim Hemon, and Jack Alexander ran in that order.
of each league and the leading individual pinners. As an added attraction, Bill Early, backfield coach of the Irish, provided a fine after-dinner talk.
Under the direction of President Ernie Buckley, the keglers wound up their seventh official season early in April, with the Toledo club winning the Gold League in a walk and Pittsburgh taking Blue League honors. In becoming league champs for the first time Toledo amassed a total of 60 points with 44 victories and seven defeats. Runnerup Cleveland totaled 54 points with 40 wins and 11 setbacks. In the Blue League Pitt’s 41-10 record was followed by St. Louis with 36 and 15.
Outstanding kegler achievements during the past season were dominated by Len (Shorty) Lowe, triple trophy winner of the St. Louis club. Besides copping high single game honors with 254, and high three game series (642),Lowe along with Wally Clarke took first place' in the doubles tournament with a total pinfall of 3122. Lowe’s overall average of 160 though, was only ninth in the league standings, 11 points behind Jack Battel’s pacesetting average of 171. Paul Pfohl and Art Henken followed Battel with 168 and 167 respectively.
Assisting Buckley throughout the season were the three other kegler officers: Vice-President Bill Reeves, Secretary Jerry Fons, and Treasurer John Roy. Fons is the only ocficer returning next year, and is. the likely successor of Buckley.
May 15, 1953
15
By Jack Sand
Calling All Bowlers
Following the completion of their seventh bowling season, Notre Dame’s unheralded Kampus Keglers cast a wary eye on the future mainly because this year’s crop of bowlers will be narrowed down considerably by graduation. Of the top 34 bowlers in both leagues (those with 150 average and above), 15 will depart via the diploma route. Among the 175 remaining pinners whose averages range from 149 all the way down to /1, another
JACK BATTEL (L), ERNIE BUCKLEY Congratulations To Keglers’ Best
large portion of seniors will evacuate. The question worrying Kegler prexy Ernie Buckley' and secretary Jerry Fons is, who’s going to take their place? Actually, what the Kampus Kegler organization needs most to remedy the situation is some good publicity.
Before hanging out the “wanted” sign, a brief outline is in order for all those (especially freshmen) who know little of the Keglers’ activities. It has been the tradition in past seasons that the Keglers are primarily interested in fostering better relations among the students and offering them the opportunity to take part in some kind of Notre Dame sport.
The Kegler organization is based on the stipulation that any member of a particular authorized campus club can get a crack at bowling for his club as long as he is from the state or city which the club represents, providing of course that the club has a bowling team. Next season the Keglers will probably resume play on the middle Sunday of October, thus giving anyone who can roll between 77 and 300 a chance to polish up his delivery and take part in Notre Dame’s favorite Sunday afternoon pastime.
Sweat-Sox vs. No-Sox
The' biggest softball contest of the season will take place next Saturday, May 23, when Notre Dame’s Sweat-Sox, a conglomeration of football and basketball stars take on St. Mary’s No-No-No-Sox in a benefit game for overseas students on St. Mary’s campus. From what little information we have received from across the road we understand that the No-Sox pack plenty of punch. According to publicity agent Tom Parsley, the St. Mary’s lassies possess a 20-girl squad, with such versatile performers as Diane Cross, Rita Herrmann, Joan Nolan, Pat Cutter and ‘Snooks’ Hargrove.
Opposing the No-Sox in this hilarious affair will be' such Sweat-Sox luminaries as Neil Worden, Don Penza, Jack Alessandrini, Ralph Gugli-ehni, Art Hunter, Joe Bertrand, Gerry McCloskey, Tom McHugh, and the funniest sox of them all, Bob Joseph and Lee Getschow.
Tickets for this gala afternoon of entertainment will run at two-bits apiece, and can be had from Mr. Parsley in 254 Alumni. Don’t miss this first intercollegiate softball match ... it should go down in the Hall of Fame.
First One Over
Roger Lemke, freshman second baseman from Utica, N. Y., made history last Monday when he teed off on one of Jim Dalton’s fast ones, and sent it rocketing over Cartier’s left-center field fence 375 feet away. It was the first over-the-felice blast seen by Jake Kline in his 20 years of coaching. Incidentally, the frosh whipped the varsity that day, 6-4, with Lemke’s long homer coming with two men on.
Freshman Nine Tests Varsity in Practices
When freshman baseball coach Joe Pfaff sounded the call for diamond prospects in April, 110 eager freshmen responded. From that group of youthful Di Maggios, Musials, and Fellers, 28 players have been chosen to form the nucleus of the squad.
Competition has been limited to scrimmages with the varsity, but a tentative game has been scheduled with Moreau Seminary.
Pitching has been one of the bright spots on the squad. What is believed to be the finest group of freshman hurlers in Notre Dame history has greeted Coach Pfaff. Leo Linbeck, a righthander from Houston, Texas, has already caught the eye of varsity coach Kline with his clever hurling. Angelo Capozzi, a big lefthander from Syracuse, N.Y., and Tom Trossen, a righthander from Cleveland, Ohio, complete the “Big Three” of the freshman mound corps.
Sharing the responsibility of handling the pitchers are two catchers from Bunkie, La., and Flushing, N.Y., in the persons of Jerry Ryan and Mike Mallardi. Mike Lesso of Jersey City, N.J., is the No. 1 choice at first base, and a pair of Cavanaugh lads, Rog Lemke from Utica, N. Y., and Don Sniegowski from Toledo, Ohio, share the burden at second. Ron Weber, from Mason City, la., and Joe Film, an off-campus student from Alton, Ill., are battling- it out at shortstop, while Al Parillo, of New Haven, Conn., rates . the nod at third base.
Top outfield prospects on the freshman nine include Joe Yaegei- from Stamford, Conn., Bill Teschke from Chicago, Tom Dean of Greenville, S.C., and Larry Kreamer, from Placentia, California.
Linksmen Tackle Wisconsin Tomorrow; Purdue Monday
Boasting a 5-1-1 record, Notre Dame’s crack golf team will take on Wisconsin’s Badgers tomorrow afternoon on the ND course. Purdue will meet the Irish linksmen here on Monday.
The' latest Irish victory was registered over Indiana last Saturday at Bloomington by a 16%-13J^ score.
In Wisconsin, ND will face' a team bolstered by the return of three lettermen. Standout among these is Doug Koepcke who won the individual Big-Ten championship last year. Also returning are Bob Bruce, a senior and Phil Schoenbeck, a junior. The Badgers, who finished third in the Big Ten last season, split with the Irish in ’53,
16
The Scholastic I
ND Netters Lose Two; Battle Western Michigan
Coach Walter Langford’s tennis squad dropped two matches last weekend as they invaded Michigan, losing to the Spartans 8-1, and Michigan 6-3.
For the Spartans, one of the best in the Big Ten, it was theii- third straight of the season, beating both their earlier opponents 9-0. Maurice Reidy salvaged a shut-out by notching the sole Irish win. In the feature match of the day, MSC’s Stan Drobac, rated the Midwest’s finest collegiate netsman, edged Irish ace Wally Clarke 6-3, 6-8, 9-7 in a tight battle.
The Irish netters traveled to Ann Arboi- in an effort to regain their winning form but were thwarted by Michigan’s undefeated net squad adding Notre Dame as their sixth victim of the year. Clarke again was narrowed out in the top match by Al Man 8-6, 6-4. Man’s victory was the deciding factor in Michigan’s win.
Western Michigan faces the Irish on the Notre Dame courts this afternoon as the Langfordmen attempt to add one of the Michigan squads to their win column.
Knights, Chicago, Met, Aesculapian Groups Replace Administrators in Spring Elections
The Chicago Club and Knights of Columbus held separate contests, while the Met and Aesculapian Clubs conducted their balloting in the Dining Hall last Monday.
Underclassmen completed a clean sweep of the seven contested office's in the hotly debated Aesculapian election.
Jim Norton took an easy victory over John Sheedy in the race for the presidency, while' Jerry Haydel bested Pat McDonough for Veep.
Frank Schmidt tallied the largest number of votes in the elections as he rolled to an easy win as secretary. The only freshman, John Goedecke, nudged out George Tomlinson to insure his role as club treasurer for 1953-54.
Jerry Miller rolled up 122 votes in leading the parade in the race for club trustee. Frank Olezabal, and Sam Scharbei* round out the trio of trustees.
At the annual Met Club banquet last Wednesday evening, Ron Mealey emerged the victor by 20 votes over John Bundschuh.
Over 170 club members voted in the Monday Dining Hall elections that gave Ed White the vice-presidency over Tom
Ryder. Donn Duffy and Walt Arnold captured the posts of treasurer and secretary, respectively.
In recent elections, the Chicago Club chose John Andreas as president to succeed this year’s prexy, Joe Pagliari. Other officers elected were Richard Hohman, vice-president; James Ehret, secretary; and Tom McNeill, treasurer.
Members of the advisory council were chosen at the same time. William Reynolds, Robert Krop, John Ryan, Dan Shannon, Steve Rebora, and John Gaffney will fill the six council posts.
Jerry Smith was recently elected Grand Knight of the local chapter of the K of C foi- the 1953-’54 year.
Smith, present chancellor, defeated John Snakard for the top post. Joe Shelley won the Deputy Grand Knight position and Walt Bernard was elected chancellor. Jack Lee, unopposed, will be Warden next year.
Ted Ewing won the advocate slot, while Lou Basso edged out Ed Broderick for treasurer. AI Walters won the recording secretary position. Inside and Outside Guards are Tom Armstrong and Dick Rust.
Sessler Selected Member Of International Art Gallery
Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Department of Art has been elected to membership in the International Institute of Arts and Letters, an exclusive society of world artists with headquarters at Lindau-Bodensee, Germany, it was recently announced. As a fellow of the Institute, Professor Sessler is one of 40 artists recognized for their excellence in painting and sculpture.
Professor Sessler was nominated for this latest honor by Prof. Linus Birch-ler of the Federal Polytechnic Institute of Zurich, Switzerland, and Prof. Herman Leicht of the . University of Innsbruck. The Institute is supported by European scholars and has as its object “international cooperation in the cultivation and promotion of arts and letters.”
In addition to his duties as department head, Professor Sessler teaches advanced painting and drawing here. He has illustrated a number of books and pamphlets and serves as art consultant to the Ave Maria Press. Professor Sessler in an artist member of the Chicago Galleries Association and other national professional art groups, and his paintings have been exhibited in Germany and Italy and in the principal cities of the United States.
Safe Storage
Out-of-Season Clothes
No need to ship or carry your heavy winter and out-ofseason clothes home for the summer. Leave them in our safe-insured STORAGE VAULT.
Your clothes will be protected from moths, fire and theft and the nominal charge doesn’t have to be paid until you pick them up next fall.
Notre Dame men in the years past have found this storage idea to be a good bet. You can also take advantage of it.
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	First Corner across the River
On the Bus Line
May 15, 1953
17
By Paul Zalecki
This financial support is also a tribute to this country’s private school system. It gives testimony to the fact that there are men who believe in the work of a university, men who feel the Catholic educational system is doing good work, men who think that Notre Dame is a Catholic university deserving of financial support.
It usually takes something special to disrupt the day-to-day operation of the school year, and this weekend is one of those times. In honor of the dedication of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, the University certainly has prepared a full program of testimonial gratitude. It even includes a cancellation of classes for next Monday.
For two full weeks now the' bulletin boards around campus have carried the notices of box lunches, weekend regulations, and dedication activities. This evening, for example; the school will be honored by two distinguished guest speakers, Mr. Gordon K. Chalmers, President of Kenyon College, and the Honorable George F. Kennan, former Ambassador to Russia.
Climax of a Long Process
These ceremonies are the climax of what has been a long process in the construction of the Liberal Arts Building. It has been about two full years since the University first announced that it would be built. A sign then appeared on the building’s present site announcing the fact.
It has been about a year since the cornerstone laying ceremonies last Spring. At that time Mr. O’Shaughnessy spoke of the great need for liberally educated meh in all phases of life.
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, who also delivered a talk at those ceremonies, agreed. Somewhat apprehensive' about the apparent decline of a liberal program of education, he stressed its importance as the crux of a university education.
An analogy was made to the location of the building as the geographical pivot of a quadrangle of college buildings: it is flanked on the one side by the Chemistry, Science and Commerce Buildings, and on the other by the Engineering and Law Buildings.
In this respect, the University’s program. of college buildings should be just about complete. As all the preparations for this weekend indicate, the school is quite grateful for this latest, noteworthy addition.
Impressive Physical Capacity
In many respects Notre Dame has been quite fortunate. Today it has an impressive physical capacity. Yet as the students, the faculty, the administration, and the alumni well know, Notre Dame does not have the advantages of the publicly supported state schools. It has to rely upon donations to implement its expansion program.
It is easy enough to see why Notre Dame and other similar institutions are more than receptive' for such donations. Indeed they have to depend upon them for their very existence or at least to improve upon their educational facilities.
What is somewhat remarkable is the large response which such schools as Notre Dame have received. American industries have been quite generous in supplying funds for research and advanced study. True, it is possible to see where these industries in turn might profit from any discoveries made, but it is doubtful that this is the entire story.
In addition to grants from industries, the donations of private individuals, to say the least, have been praiseworthy. Through the years Notre Dame has received considerable aid from numerous persons throughout the country.
COMPARE THE FARE AND YOUU GOBYAW
ON A UNITED
MAINLINED
Here’s the finest service available! You can be
home within hours after your last class. United
serves 77 cities coast-to-coast, and Honolulu.
To many of these cities, the cost is lower than
1st class rail fare plus lower berth.
South Bend: for reservations, call
| 2-1401 or an authorized travel agent.
Importance of a University
Quite obviously, then, a university is an important, integral part of our culture and our society. Admittedly also, Notre Dame' should profit because of this new Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.
It is important, however, not to forget that this favorable support of our university system is not without its obligations. The administration, the faculty, and the students have the responsibility to use their facilities well. If they were to fail in their purposes, the faith which others have placed in them would scarcely be justified.
Amidst all the splendor of this weekend, it is well not to forget that the best and surest way that Notre Dame can show its gratitude is not so much by speaking of the beauty of the campus, but by using these new facilities to full advantage.
It is to be hoped that the rather rapid expansion which the' University has experienced in recent years will result in better graduates, in men who are educated Christian gentlemen, in men. who will be able to prove that Notre Dame is deserving of the support which it has received.
18
The Scholastic
Scholar Probes Depths of Underwear Problem!
"EUREKA!” gasps Fillmore Grind, noted student. "Extensive research has convinced me that underwear is at the bottom of everything! No wonder scholars find the snug comfort of Jockey brand Shorts an aid to cerebration. Use your brains and you, too, will enjoy a comfortable seat!”
yes. college men choose Jockey comfort/
Whether you're a whiz-kid or not, you’ll get a comfort kick out of snug-fitting, tailored-to-fit Jockey brand Underwear, because...
13 separate contoured pieces are carefully crafted into one smooth-fitting garment.
Newly-developed heat resistant rubber in waistband outlasts other leading brands.
Nobelt® strip rubber in leg openings eliminates sag or bind around the legs.
Unique Jockey front opening never gaps.
all underwear gives you coverage but
Jockey T-Shirts
^GILBERT'S
Has the Largest Selection of
COOPERS
JOCKEY
UNDERWEAR
of all styles in South Bend
Shorts.... $1.20 up
T-Shirt....$1.25 Sleeveless
Undershirt = . $1.00
Your best buy in underwear is Coopers from
Albert?
813-817 ,S. Michigan St.
Open Every Evening till 9

«7»TT-
*> SA
Chesterfield is my cigarette-has.beenfor milder Chesterfield is best for me.



£5
t
LIGGETT & MyFRS TOBACCO CO
UGGETT t MYERS TOBACCO CO
First cigarette to offer
PREMIUM QUALITY in both regular
YOU!

KING-SIZE
GARETTE^
and king-size
WHEN you are asked to try a cigarette you want to know, and you ought to know, what that cigarette has meant to people who smoke it all the time.
For a full year now, a medical specialist has given a group of Chesterfield smokers thorough examinations every two months. He reports:
no adverse effects to their nose, throat or sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.
More and more men and women all over the country are finding out every day that Chesterfield is best for them.
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
Try Much Milder Chesterfield with its extraordinarily good taste.
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.