-
CJ 
I 
I ) 
i'· l 
' 
I 
~PP,O
r,•-~c·l ·,,,. ·:::_ i o r : 
; 0 > ; 
2
'.,~ ~J1•·, i~?"·: i
f 3
•'tl)t, ';<-•,,,,-, 
I -.,, •• ,' ;:,, • ,,,: ·::::'
[·~!i ·,:~). ~ 
jl!··!t)~!. ,_,_ ;)· 
iIll 



ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 ,TOPPINGS 
·. ,, ' ?:,·_ f()B$12.00 EVERY DAY t19 ils.·a1 (jtist north'ofca'mpus) ·: 
Oper1 .for carryout, delivery & dine~irf . -­. 11 :00 to 1:30 Lunch --­,, A:oo_jo 1O:QQ,i.$llnday _tc:, -r6ursday ' 
4:00 to 11 :00; Friday and-:Saturday .• 



' <273-389.0
·.. · . ·.. . . . . _.· 

"AifHome,nJde -100% Real Cheese'': ,' •, ', 
WeoJfer FREE DELIVER'(to Notre Dame's and __ -.--j,::·iSaint---~ary's:/campuses. 



·is now hiring for all positions. Details on page 3. 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. · 


ScriOJastic
UNIVER.SITV OF-NOTRe DAMe Fe8RUARY 24, 2QQQ 
Cover: Their Own Odyssey 18 Razing the Ivory Tower: Two Notre Dame professors bring an education too frequently reserved for the elite to the residents of the South Bend Center _for the Homeless. by Zac Kulsrud 
Sophomores Under Wraps 7 
Student leaders knew of the cancellation of Sophomore Sibs Weekend as early as last March, but a gag order from student activities prevented the news from reaching students until finals week last semester. by Jared Marx and Seth.Fabian 

mp3s.free 8 
Will you be the next person Notre Dame asks to take those illegal mp3 files off your computer? by Jared Marx 

A Balancing Act 25 
When it comes to the academics of its student-athletes, Notre Dame takes a few more precautions than the next university. 
byGerardMeskill 

Crocodile ND by Jane E. Pater 10 Survival Guide by Lies/ Marx 11 In The Navy by Katie Caspersen 12 Walking Humbly by Danica Skeoch 14 Crash Course: Parking 101 by Jacklyn Kiefer 16 Smooth as Ice by Brendan Barker 22 Songs of Praise by Kathleen Corte 27 Everything You Want by Kara Zuaro 28 
Departments 
From the Editor  2  
Letters  3  
Listening In  4  
ND Notebook  5  
Campus Watch  17  
Splinters from the ~ressbox  23  
Out of Bounds  29  
Week in Distortion  30  
Calendar  31  
Final Word  32  


Car Trouble 

n a recent Observer column, one editor complained that she fell down the stairs in DeBartolo Hall and no one came to help her. Even though she wasn't really 
hurt, she was upset that hundreds of people walked by her without taking 30 
seconds to see if she needed any help. 

When I discovered that I had a flat tire last Saturday afternoon, I was afraid that 
the same thing would happen to me. God gave me many talents, but fixing cars 
isn't one ofthem. I knew that I would be unable to fix it without help. Fortunately, 
my fellow Darners were more than willing to help out. 
When I wasn't sure ifmy car had a tire iron or not, a friend across the hall simply 
handed over his car keys and told me I was welcome to borrow his. One of my 
roommates woke up two hours early just to help me try to figure out my jack. 
When we couldn't get it to work, an officer from Notre Dame Security gave us a 
jack from his own mini-van because ND Security didn't have any. When that jack 
didn't work, some really nice guys at Transportation Services promised me the 
use oftheir industrial-size jack, and another friend drove me over to pick it up (but 
he made me sit in the trunk with it so it wouldn't chip his paint job). 
All in all, I think it took eight people to get my tire changed. I know that most 
people would be able to get it done a lot faster with less manpower, but the 
important part is that when I needed help, lots ofpeople volunteered even without 
my asking for help. 

Every person has times when he's not self-reliant. Without the help of others, 
we would be unable to get along in the world. Fortunately, Notre Dame offers a 
strong community where we get that help when we needed. I am sure the Observer 
editor was upset when she wasn't picked up lovingly by a passerby, but I bet she 
has been saved by a fellow student on more than one occasion. 
No one is more in need of a helping hand than the homeless. My problems are 
minuscule compared with those of people without homes, steady jobs and often 
suffering from drug and alcohol addictions. Fortunately, two PLS professors have 
championed a program to help give the visitors at the Center for the Homeless 
some of the education they need. Their program involves exposing the residents 
of the Center for the Homeless to Great Books. Zac Kulsrud profiles this program 
in his cover story on page 18. 

Parting Words 

This will be my last editor's note for Scholastic, as the new staff will take over 
after spring break. Somehow, I feel like I am at the Academy Awards. I have lots 
of people to thank, dreams to talk about and memories to share, but I have a very 
small space in which to do it. 

Scholastic will be the dominant memory of my college career. I learned just as 
much working for the magazine as I did in four years of studying electrical . engineering. I will remember the biggest events during my four years -Lou Holtz's retirement, the "riot" and the gay rights struggle -by the way that we reported on them. I have one more year at Notre Dame, and I have no idea how 
I will survive without working for Scholastic. . 
What made Scholastic so special is its people. I am continually amazed by the 
dedication of the members of the Scholastic staff and the quality of ideas they 
come up with. They have made this magazine what it is today. 
When interviewing Hunt Hanover and John Micek during their run for student 
body president, they said that their goal was to "leave this campground a little 
better than we found it." In my four years with Scholastic, I hope that's exactly 
what the staff and I have done. ~ 
Editor in Chief 
2Scholastic From the Editor 
Editors in Chief 
Brian H. Christ Meredith.W. Salisbury· 


Managing Editor Associate· Editor 
Zachary W. Kulsrud JamesJ. Pastore, Jr. 
News Jared P. Marx, editor Staci L. Pangle, assistant .·CampusUfe' Kateil. Jacques,.editor 
>Tina Zurcher, editor Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor · . . • .·• Rebecca Frazier, assistant 
· EntertainmenfKarnS.Zuaro,editor · •· Kathleen·M. Corte, assistdrit Departments , Kara S. Zuaro, editor . Matthew J. Cremer, assistant Layout . Michael P. Griffin, editor 
· HetitherJ. Hogan, dssistarit Agatha Noble, assistant Matthew Barr, Cristin Manary 

Photography Michael J. McNary, editor . Benjamin KWojcikiewicz, assistant · Mark Allen G. Garzon · 
.Graphic Arts David B. Leeney, editor Copy · Sarah E Childress, editor· ·. Adam Aroian Web Design Michael J. Gonzales 

· · ·.· http:/lwww.~d.edu/...scholast. 
Published biweekly at the Univer.sity of _Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre, Dame,Jnd., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in. whole or in · part, maybe reproduced \n any ma_nnerwithoutwritten consent of the publisheL Scholastic does not assume liabilityfor· 
,·unsolicited nianuscripts'ormaterial. AU correspondence should · be seritto Scholastic, LaFortune Student Center.Notre Dame, . , IN ~6556:To be publisheclin the next issue, letters _rriust be 
received by 5:00 p;in; Monday beiore the issue. AU letters m·ust include the writer's name, addressand phone number. 
AIL 
. lettersmust be signed,Names will beWithheld upon request in certain instances,. Scholastic reserves the· right fo. edit letters tor space. The.subscription rate;.including the literary special issue, is $20 per year. Available back _issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Advertising . , rates available on request.The opinions expres_sed in Scholastic .• are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the . 
·-~~~~~ 
' 

Cover photbs by•ZacKulsrud.bnd_·MichaeFGriffin·,•··• ..CoveLart and design by Michael Griffin 



Scholastic 
Vol. 14l, No. l 0 • February 24, 2000 

' '' . 
Disce Quasf$e;11pe,r Victurus . Vive QuaszCr_as.Moriturus 
,, ----·-••"• .. i 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

TA conduct merits investigation 
Last week's Gipper column alleged serious professional mis­.. conduct by an unnamed graduate student in the philosophy · department. I would like to investigate this matter as quickly and as thoroughly as possible, consistent with the university's procedures for dealing with sexual harassment. I hope that anyone with information about the allegations or similar incidents involv­ing the department will get in touch with me by e-mail, telephone or in person. I can be reached at 306 Decio, at 336 O' Shaughnessy or at the home phone number listed in the campus directory. All communications will be treated confidentially. 
I would also like to take this opportunity publicly to express my confidence in our department's graduate students. I take pride in their academic work and in the high quality of instruction they provide. The credit they bring to our department is all the more reason for me to investigate these regrettable allegations. 
Paul Weithman, '81 Director of Graduate Studies Department ofPhilosophy 


is n'ow accepting applications for the 2000-2001 term. Associate editor 
Campus Life: editor and assistant Departments: editor and assistant Entertainment: editor and assistant News: editor and assistant Sports:.. editor and assistan~. _,.. _ 
,.,••.•.•, ....,. 
·,-Copy: ·ed.itor and assistant edJtor 
Business/Advertising: manager Distribution: manager 
Art: editor and assistant Page design: editor and assistant Photography: edit~r and assistant. Web Design: manager 
Application Deadline is March 5~ 2000. 
Applications are available at the Scholastic office; H004 South Dining Hall. Direct .any questions .to Brian Christ or Meredith Salisbury at l~5029. or e-mail scholast@nd.edu. 
·Editorial Scholastic 3 




-
-

"It would make it more scientific if we had a goal, right?" 
-student in class, discussing how.to approach a project 
"It was like verbal diarrhea. I don't even know what came out." 
-student on his ACE interview 
"Everybody has days that they can speak more confidently, and days that they'd better shut up." 
-professor on his inability to speak clearly in class 
"You can't throw a stone over a hedge in Ireland without hitting a poet. There should be population control for them." 
-professor quoting a popular idea in Irish culture 
Toilets broken. Please use sink. 
-sign reportedly at a local bar 
"We just found two mice in Keough. One was a baby, so at least someone is having -sex here." 
-overheard student 
"I've always wanted to teach a computer crime course. I'd assign everyone an F, and they'd get what they ended up with." 
-computer science and engineering professor 
Bad day at the Observer copy desk: 
' 

Renowed_theology professor I 
MEN's· TENNIS 

Notre .Da~e,squeks ; 
. p.ast ·O-hio: State,· 4-3 j 

-front and back page headlines in the February 15, 2000 edition 
4Scholastic Listening In 


FEMALE PERSPECTIVE Q&A 



Lady's Month 
Cavanaugh Hall devotes Februar;y to stud;ying women's issues 
roughout February, Cavanaugh Hall is "I felt empowered to defend myself in case 

ponsoring Women's Concerns Month, ofattack," says sophomore Ann Marie Foster. 
which includes a variety of educational "McCann was an enthusiastic and knowl­and spiritual events open to all students. The edgeable presenter." effort focuses on the issues ofwomen's health, Additional events included a sexual assault safety awareness and nutrition. presentation by Sex Offense Services and the 
Kate Diaz, Cavanaugh's women's con­Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination on the cerns commissioner, coordinated the program. 16th, a women's health forum on February 17 "We wanted to 
provideaseries "We wanted to provide a series of events 
of events and activities to 

educate Notre and activities to educate Notre Dame 
Dame students abouttheimpor­

tant issues for students about the important issues for 
college-age women," Diaz 

says. "We tried college-age women." -Kate Diaz 
to focus on our key topics and combine them and an eating disorder panel that featured a with aspects of fun and spirituality." recovering ND student accompanied by her 
On February 7, the dorm held a relaxation doctor and counselor on the 23rd. Also, Tues­therapy session led by Dr. Wendy Settle, a days at 10:30 p.m. are "Chic Flick" nights. psychologist at the University Counseling It is not too late to participate. On February Center. Cavanaugh junior Katie Torrence re-24th, a "Nuuition at Notre Dame" presenta­marks, "The session was excellent and defi-tion will be given by University Dietician nitely something I can use to relieve everyday Anna Uhran beginning at 7 p.m. in the stress at Notre Dame." Cavanaugh basement. The final "Chic Flick" 
Fran McCann of the physical education night is February 29 and will feature the film department conducted a self-defense seminar Girls Just Want to Have Fun. The month will on February 14 as part of safety awareness. culminate with guest speaker and artist Doris McCann demonstrated defense moves and Klein, CSA, and her presentation on women's suggested strategies for avoiding assault. spirituality through art. -Lisa Virani 
There won't be a1tother Leap Day until theyear2004.JCt wishes it could say the samething abo.ut ta.,v; day. 
10uestions with 

-'-'-"''--"'--~~~-__,.-,~ Rob Razzano . 
Goon 
Anyone who's ever been to a hockey game on campus has seen, or at least heard, this man. Rob is one of the elite hockey fans known as the Goon Squad, those loud rabble­rousers that make life horrible for the other team. Despite his claim that all Goons are created equal, we here at JO Questions believe the Lord of the Goons is the chap pictured right here. 
Was that Hull goal in the finals last year booty or what? 
Hull was in the crease.But triple overtime is fun, and in the crease is boring, so let it stand. And it was the Sabres. Those commies beat the Leafs. 
Do you have a heckling mentor or ap­prentice? 
I don't have any actual apprentices, but I learned from greats such as Jason Goala and some law student that was in the Goon Squad three years ago. 
How come they spell it'Maple Leafs'? Is that Canadian or something? I don't think that's actually Canadian. I think it just looks better. It fits inside the leaf, too. You get the nice angle. (Makes a trapezoid with his hands) 
Were Statler and Waldorf, the two old guys from the Muppet Show, good, fair or poor hecklers? 
They kept it clean for the kids while still being obnoxious and caustic, so I would say they're great hecklers. 
continued on next page -. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 

Is there one team you especially enjoy 
heckling? 

Alaska-Fairbanks, because they had to go back to Alaska-Fairbanks. They had this one goalie, Marvel, that just couldn't stand us and we got him to wave to us once. And Michigan, because Michigan just sucks. 
What is the etymology of the word 'heckle'? 
I have no idea. I remember the two cartoon crows, Heckle and Jeckle, that might be where it comes from. 
Would you heckle us right now? 

(Studying the two interviewers) What's the difference between your mom and the Saint Mary's shuttle? About 10 or 20 pounds. 
What is the pinnacle of hockey· video games? 
As far as control and gameplay, there's no beating NHL '95 for the Sega Genesis, but there's no denying the classics such as 'hit the pads, hit the pads,' from Blades ofSteel, and the fat, skinny and normal guys from Ice Hockey. 
Do you like the North .American versus the World All-Star game? 
because there's nothing like kicking some 
Eastern Bloc ass. . 
What's thethinl Hne of ·o Canada'? 

(Singing first two lines to self) True patriot love in all thy sons command? Is that right? 
-JeremiahConwayandJasonHammontree 
· -Rob··Razzano follows in a-long.tradition,of spectators who pack the rink to watch hockey games. On February 27, 1992, Scholastic cov­ered the increasingly popular hockey team:. Next year the Irish skaters will join the ranks ofthe Central Collegiate Hockey As­sociation (CCHA). The CCHA is arguably the toughest and most respected collegiate .hockey league. Irish hoc.key fans, who make hockey the third ·highest revenue-raising sport atNotre Dame, have been expecting a move into the CCHAfor the past few years. Among those in the stands (though prob­ably not heckling) was the team's assistant captain, who sat out all season due to injury. 
6Scholastic Notebook 


MUSIC DEPARTMENT 

For Our Ears Only 
Undertones croon their way to fame 
The Undertones, a subset. of the Univer­sity ofNotre Dame's Glee Club, re ­cently received national ~ recognition for their second .. album, For Your Ears Only · (June '99). The album, on sale · at the bookstore, at Glee• Club concerts and through the group's website (www.nd.edu/-rmariott), consists of cover songs by artists such as Jackson 5, the Beatles, Bryan McKnight and Sting. the Undertones, commented that these awards are "the equivalent 
of the Grammys for a cappellamusic"becauseboth college and professional groups are involved. The re­sults of the Contemporary A CappellaRecording Awards 

will be decided in March. 
. AtPennStateonFebruary5th, the Under~ tones performed a 15-minute music show at 

The B.~s.t of Collegiate A Cappella con-~·.. . the regional competipon for 
test receives aboutJ50 CDs every year, and of those, only 19songsarechosenfor the B.O.C.A. album. 

Seniors Ryan Mariotti, soloist, and Patrick Quigley; arranger, helped the Undertones earn a place on B.O.C.A. 2000 
for their rendition of "Light In Your Eyes" by Blessid Union of Souls. "Light In Your Eyes" also ~eceived a nomination for best male collegiate song of the year at the Con­temporary A Cappella Recording Awards. Quigley, one of the founding members of among the top 36 college a cappella groups in the country. The Undertones will move into the semi-finals at Indiana University on March 4. Ifthey advance, the finals will be held at Lincoln Centerin NewYork City on March 30th.­
•  the NCCA (National Cham­ 
.  ·  pionship  of  College  A  
• •  ·• Cappella). Theyreceivedfirst  
·  · prize from all three judges;  
now  they have  a  position  

-Larice N, Woods 

I like North America versus the World, 1,~:::::--;--::--=-:--:--=-:-:==-------------------------1 
DOMELIG HTS






c· t 

• • as -avva;\JS . . ..
J . 
These were the dorms with the best and worst voter turnouts in the primarg election for student bodg president and vice president 
The Best. 
90.6% 
89.9% 78.2% 
75.1% 75.0% 


The. wo·rst 

O'Neill •s2~s% •  
·  · ·  ,·  Pasquerilla East  49.3%  
,  .  - ·  .  Stanford 49;1%  
Keenan •38.1°/o  
. ­ -.  ·  Morrissey' 35.4%  Source: JudiciaJ.Council  


A gag order from Student Activities kept the cancellation of Sophomore Sibs from becoming public information 
BY JARED MARX 
nMarch oflastyear, Peter Rossmann, newly­
. elected sophomore class presi-dent, received 
an e-mail from the sophomore class Advi­

sor Tony Perry with the subject line: "Con­gratulations and come see me." That first meeting, says Rossmann, he and his fellow officers were told that the Sophomore Sib~ lings Weekend was canceled and his adminis­tration was asked to come out in support ofthe decision. Though they initially were told that they could not appeal the decision, the class officers met with Bill Kirk, assistant vice · president for residence life, and then Joe . Cassidy, director ofstudent activities and were 
eventually told they could in fact appeal. 
But that April, when the ciass officers and 
Sophomore Life Committee Co-Chairs 
Brendan Harris and Katie Thompson talked 
with Perry about the appeal, Harris says that 
they were told pointblank: if this gets to the 
Observer, Sophomore Siblings Weekend is 
dead. 
"Our goal was to keep this alive long enough 
to save it," says Harris, explaining why those 
present decided to keep the possible impend­
ing cancellation of the weekend under wraps. 
Either way, Harris asserts that the decision 
was made under the strict belief that if the 
sophomore class should choose to publicize 
the matter, it would mean the end of any 
possibility of appeal. 
Perry, who reportedly made the statement, 
declined comment, referring questions on the 
matter back to Cassidy. Cassidy does not deny 
that the statement was made, but suggests that 
it was merely intended to remind the student 
leaders that "the decision isn't going to be 
made by popular vote. The decision is going 
to be made on the facts we collect." And he 
asserts that the idea that the statement was in­
tended to be binding was a "misinterpretation." 
But Thompson doesn't seem to buy that. "I 
I 
felt that it was binding," she says, "especially from what I heard from Tony Perry. I don't think we could have misconstrued what our advisor told us. He was pretty explicit." 
Rossmann says that Cassidy himself never stated that they were precluded from going to the press, but he says that he still felt bound by his discussions with Perry. The reason we didn't go to the media," he says, "was because we knew if we did we'd automatically lose [Sophomore Sibs]." And he doesn't base this strictly on Perry's single comment. "We ini­tially had to ask permission even to tell our Sophomore Life Committee chairs," he re­calls, "and we were under the impression that we couldn't even tell the class council." 
The class council was eventually outcome that Rossmann, Harris and Thomp­son seem upset with. Says Harris, "The pro­cess that was followed seemed riddlt:::d with inaccuracies and was pretty much cloaked in secrecy." 
Rossmann notes that this was his first time dealing with the administration on an issue like this. When they told us: do everything we tell you to do and you'll getitdone, that's what we did," he says. And he states that, in truth, he and many class council members were origi­nally very optimistic about the weekend, ow­ing in large part to Cassidy's helpfulness, which Rossmann seems very appreciative of. 
But when the decision was still pending as Thanksgiving came and passed, their opti­
told, but the Observer apparently 

''The decision isn't going to be made 
was not. That is, not until finals week of this year's fall semester, when the Sophomore Siblings Weekend was 


by popular vote." 
officially canceled. 
But when asked to believe that the appeal decision ultimately was made "based on the facts collected," Harris had some concerns. "We found that our re­search didn't match up with what student activities told us," he says. When he and his fellow committee members talked to 22 ofthe 27 rectors on campus, they found that most were supportive of the weekend. He also notes that despite a seven-week gap between the time that the final appeal proposal was submitted and the ultimate decision concern­ing it was made, only seven rectors saw the proposal. 
Nonetheless, Cassidy asserts that the seven rectors who did see the proposal offered suffi­cient input and ultimately his decision rested on a number of factors, primarily negative feedback about the weekend-long disruption of more than 7,000 people's lives by, on average, only 400 siblings. And in some ways, it seems that it is the process rather than the 


-Joe Cassidy 
mism waned. And when on December 1 they were told that there would be no Sophomore Sibs 2000, they were left only to question what could have been done differently. 
"Looking back," says Harris, "I'm not sure I'd make the same decision [ with regard to the press]." Thompson and Rossmann express similar feelings. 
And some feelings are more personal. "We're being looked on as not standing up to the administration," notes Harris. 
When all is said and done, though, nothing will change the fact that Sophomore Siblings Weekend will nothappenforthis year's sopho­more class. But amid the melee, Cassidy is careful to remind students that their siblings are still encouraged to come to campus. "Just because we're not hosting a Sophomore Sibs weekend," he says, "doesn't mean that stu­dents' siblings are not welcome to visit." 0 
News Scholastic 7 


In August of last year, Jeffrey Gerard Levy, a senior at the University of Or­egon, became the first person convicted under the 1997 No Electronic Theft Act for making various songs, games and movies available on his university-hosted website. According to the Oregon Daily Emerald, Levy, who ultimately faced up to three years in jail and a fine of up to $250,000, though he received only two years of probation and a ban from owning compact disc recording devices. Scott Davis, a Stanford Hall sophomore, had a similar collection ofcopyrighted songs in the form of mp3 files (the most common file type for storing CD-quality audio on computers), on his Notre Dame-hosted website. According to Davis, last semester he was asked by the university to remove these files from his website in response to a lawsuit threat by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Notre Dame's Responsible Use of Infor­mation Technologies policy specifically states that "unauthorized copying or trans­mission of copyright-protected material" using campus resources is strictly forbid­den. It is not the mp3 format used by Davis and countless other students that is illegal, but the copyrighted material often contained within the files. Says Assistant Director of Residence Life Michael Sacco, "You could 
8Scholastic News 
sing into a microphone, make an mp3, and God bless you, but all we're interested in is the copyright violation." 
So, why was Davis in particular asked to stop sharing his mp3 files when one can find Notre Dame's network neighborhood brim­ming with similar copyright violations? In large part, it is due to the way the university has chosen to deal with the problem. 
Dr. Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for information technologies, is certain about the illegality of sharing copyrighted mate­rial over computers. But he says that the university's acceptable use policy is based on trust in the students. "And believe me," he says, "we have better things to do than watch you guys." 
The RIAA, though, which in large part is charged with protecting the copyrights of the many large record companies it repre­sents, is interested in actively searching for violations. Just like Notre Dame protects its trademark, says Assistant Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk, the RIAA is actively interested in protecting their copyrights. And Kirk and Rapagnani both state that the univer­sity attempts to cooperate with the RIAA to the fullest degree possible. 
Thus, one likely reason Davis was asked to remove his files was that his university site was registered with audio galaxy .com, a search site that sends those looking for music to differentmp3-hosting personal sites. And in that r_espect, it was far more visible to groups like the RIAA, which employs ac­tive searchers who, upon discovering the site, contacted the university. 
Kirk agrees that the university's place is not to actively look for copyright violations on campus. ''There are two ways to stop all ofthese violations," he says, "either we shut down the resource or we inappropriately snoop into students files, and that's, not something we do." But when violations are brought to their attention, he says, action must be taken. 
Both Kirk and Rapagnani agree, though, that the university has a duty to keep stu­dents better informed on the issue. Says Kirk, "I think lots of students are ignorant that [sharing copyrighted mp3 files] is illegal." 
Last semester, following fall break, all students, faculty and staff with Internet ac­cess received an e-mail from the Office of Information Technologies with the subject head: "Do not distribute copyrighted mate­rial." This e-mail, which explained the ille­galityofsharing copyrighted files and refer­enced the University ofOregon student who was convicted for doing so, was, according to Rapagnani, "meant to say, 'Look folks, we need to behave in an adult, responsible fashion"' when dealing with legal and ille­gal use of computer resources. 

::\\\.{;/\/·, .'.:, 
,:i;;·(,.·.· 
·· :. :x,\: j·,;-..~ i-~f/' ;-/-.)\~.\~~~ ;_i:~;:) \.~~ ;~i" 
Aside from this e-mail, though, there hasn't been much in the way of proactive education on the matter so far. But both the Office of Student Affairs and the OIT claim there is more to come. One reason that network sharing of mp3 files has not been targeted so far is that the Notre Dame network is essentially insulated from out­side viewing. So if the university isn't looking, neither is anyone else. But Rapagnani doesn't think that will last very long. "I think [the RIAA] is looking ev­erywhere," he says. And informing stu­dents of this reality is something he is con­cerned about. 
Carol Kaesebier serves as the university's General Counsel and is thus privy to the legal end of the copyright issue. She reports that Notre Dame receives three or four no­tices concerning copyright violations from the RIAA each year. Like Kirk and Rapagnani, she also asserts that the univer­sity is concerned primarily with treating. cases of copyright violation when they are broughtto her office's attention. 
But she is also aware that potential liabil­ity is at stake not just for students, but for the university as a whole. "Ifa student is using our network [to share illegal material], there is a good chance that there is liability for the university," she says. "That's why once we are aware of it, we take action." She sug­
. . . . . 
. . . 

.With the emergence of www.napster.com and other sites for illegal mp3 
.. 

· transfer, the Recording 
gests that there is probably a greater likeli­hood that violations found on websites, which are far more visible and easily acces­sible, will be cause for liability than viola­tions strictly on personal computers, but she notes that "in either case they're using our system to share their material." 
One group that the RIAA and universities across the country have already clashed with over copyright issues is a new Internet site called Napster.com. The site allows people to link their computers directly with other computers over the internet to share their respective libraries of mp3 files. The site has been a haven for music lovers, largely because it is searchable and claims to offer anonymity to those who use the site, thus protecting potential copyright viola­tors from civil litigation by the RIAA and similar groups. 
The RIAA currently has a lawsuit pend­ing against Napster, but its resolution could be far off. But according to news.com, sev­eral universities, including Oregon State, Stanford and Northwestern, have already banned students from using the site. In the case of most of the bannings, though, the initial concern was one of bandwidth use (some schools reported that up to 30 percent of their bandwidth was being directed to N apster) rather than copyright infringement. But many of the schools justified blocking students from the site based on acceptable use policies that ban illegal copyright in­fringements, just as Notre Dame's does. 


Rapagnani doesn't seem to think that Notre Dame will be banning specific sites any time soon. He seems more interested in dealing with the copyright issue head on. "Are we going to focus on Napster and leave the barn door open somewhere else?" he asks. "That just doesn't make sense to me." And in all truth, there doesn't seem to be any focus on Napster in the administra­tion. Both Kirk and Kaesebier were barely familiar with the name, and neither cited it as any major concern. 
On the issue as a whole, Kirk seems philosophical: "I think the technology is really ahead of the law right now," he says. "And as a university, we're really right in the middle ofit. Universities primarily have the fast Internet connections that are needed for this and here we are with 10,000 of the most interested consumers of music." 
In general, it seems that Notre Dame has so far taken a trusting stance on the issue. "We have energetic, exploring students here at Notre Dame," says Rapagnani. "We rec­ognize that not everything you do is going to be the right thing to do." Nonetheless, he notes that there is little gray area in this case. "Anytime you're making copyrighted ma­terial available, it is a violation." 
News Scholastic 9 


Notre Dames associate director ofbands composes for Opening Ceremonies ofOlympics in Sydney, Australia 
BY JANEE. PATER 
hen the 2000 Olympic Games 
W 
openinSydney,Australia, this 
September, one of Notre Dame's own will have played an integral role in making it happen. Dr. Kenneth Dye, Notre Dame's associate director ofbands, is currently developing the music that will be 

I' performed at the Opening Ceremonies. He is 
'' 
'' the lone composer for the music for a 2,000­person ensemble that will unite musicians from all over the world. For 90 minutes, the band will perform the music that Dye has worked on since last Christmas. Aside from the initial fanfare and welcome, Dye's music will accompany the Parade of Athletes, during which the band will play a different song to welcome the representatives from each country. To decide which songs to play for each . nation, Dye enlisted the help of the Depart­ment of Music at New York University. Together, they selected pieces that would reflect the unique identity of each culture. 
cording to the expectations of people who have grown up with the songs proved very., challenging. "Making the Australians com­fortable with an American interpreting their music was probably the most difficult part about it," Dye recalls. "Once I gave them the version that they wanted, though, every­thing else was OK." 
With a background that includes compos­ing music for mass bands -bands that include more than 1,000 people -for the last 25 years, Dye's qualifications for this type of work set him apart from others in the field. He acted as the assistant band director for the Opening Ceremonies in Los Angeles in 1984. One ofhis colleagues, familiar with his previous productions, invited him to participate in this year's Olympics. 
Once presented with the opportunity, Dye never thought twice. "It's an honor, a huge honor, to be selected to do something like this," he says. "There's only one per­son who gets to do this. I'm really lucky." To remind him of that honor, two framed pictures hang on his office wall: one of the juggling the rigors of both jobs has been difficult at times. 
In fact, because of Dye's commitment to the marching band, he will not attend the very performance to which he has dedicated so much of his time. While he will have the opportunity to travel to some of the cities in which the musicians live to rehearse with them, he will spend the night of Opening 


"The tough part," he 

says, "was trying to "It's going to be very exciting. It's going to be very different 
make all the different 


from previous ceremonies. It's going to be very Australian." 
kinds of music fit into 
the style of a marching band." 
Unwilling to divulge too many details about the show to maintain the traditional secrecy that surrounds Opening Ceremo­nies, Dye says only, "It's going to be very exciting. It's going to be very different from previous ceremonies. It's going to be very Australian." Where organizers for the Barcelona and Atlanta Games chose to fo­cus on the particular culture of the host city and its region, the Australian organizers favored exhibiting the culture common to all Australians. 
As an outsider, arranging the music ac­
1 0 Scholastic News 
show in Los Angeles and the other of the final design plans for the site of the Sydney Games. 
Along with that opportunity comes a lot of hard work. Dye spends between two and three weeks preparing the music for a typi­cal six-to eight-minute halftime show at a home football game. Considering that the Opening Ceremonies show is more than 90 minutes long, the work that goes into it is unbelievable. While he has been working on the ceremonies, he has continued to work with the Notre Dame band as well, and 


-Dr. Kenneth Dye 
Ceremonies in South Bend. The weekend that the games open, Notre Dame will take the field against Purdue, and Dye will be here, doing the same job that he has done for the university for the past two years. 
As with everything else associated with the Olympic Games, months of preparation for the Opening Ceremonies will culminate in a spectacle that lasts only a couple ofhours. For many people who watch, the impact may be short-lived. For those involved, such as Dr. Ken Dye, that day is something that they can be proud of forever. . 


Survival Guide 
Student government devises new publication based on teacher course evaluations to aid students in selecting professors 
BY LIESL MARX 

t the end of each semester, Notre Dame students are given the task of completing teacher course evalua­tion (TCE) surveys in every class they take. Though some students enjoy praising or criticizing their professors, many feel that because they never see any results from these surveys, they're really just wasting their time. 

But now, student government has /A.® . .nersw.illbeavailableintimeforthe devised a way for students to make ~~ upcoming fall semester. "That use of the information. taken ~-. '0t!.;;.. will definitely happen before from TCEs. The proposed ~~ ()_"':; o._t;,"l.0 DARTing," she adds. publication, called The t~V .7r<J>.~ ~1:1 Peate says that the re-
The Guide will start out being Internet based, Peate says. However, ifitis a success and if money is available, student govern­ment would like to see it published in print and handed out in dorms and in DART books. 
"The Guide project needs some serious restructuring before it can come out in a book format," says Kelly Waldron. In the meantime, short biographies on last year's Kaneb Teaching Award win-

Guide, would feature ~ professors who have ~ earned exceptionally high marks on TCEs and have beennominatedforthe Kaneb Teaching Award. Senior D Peate is in charge of the proje and says the metho·d used in selec ing professors who will be recognize in The Guide is extremely fair. "Profe sors will be featured from all differe areas representing the four colleges. There will be biographies of each professor as well as in-depth information about the courses that they teach," says Peate. Sev­eral years ago, the university included a publication with the DART book that rated professors both high and low. But after several lawsuits, its publication ceased. Last year, theconceptwasreintroducedinMicah Murphy's campaign for office and put into action. Produced entirely by the student government, Peate says the editors of The Guide, Kelly and Casey Waldron, "are do­ing an excellent job." 
Though some students may want to see both high and low rankings, The Guide will only publish positive comments about pro­fessors. "We want to showcase professors who are exceptional," says Peate. "The Guide is supposed to help give students an idea ofwhich professors their peers have rated highly." Peate points out that this is especially useful for first-year students who don't have the benefit of much personal experience with professors. 
~~(I,," ~ "# action of students, M\~~,;/4~ professors and ~~1 administrators has ~~ been very en­
, couraging. ~~ We won't ~~ know until it's 
published, but so far everyone's been very happy with it. I have received 
many positive comments." Admittedly, people with early DART 
· times may fill up some classes sooner if the professor has been recommend, but Peate doesn't think this will be a problem. "We have great professors here across the board and nobody is going to get stuck with a bad professor. There is just no way to write up all of the professors in The Guide -espe­cially if it comes out in print." 
Notre Dame is certainly not the first insti­tution of higher learning to attempt to offer students' reviews of professors. Duke, for instance, has a new website called VOICE (Views and On-line Information about Course Evaluations), says Duke Student Government President Lisa Zeidner. This site, available to Duke students only, is set up to "help students share information with each other about the classes they take." LikeNotreDame, she says they plan to hand out evaluation surveys in classes at the end of each semester and then upload the infor­mation onto the website. 
Likewise, the University of Washington in St. Louis produces a summary report from a scannable questionnaire that is used to evaluate courses, says Dean War­ren Davis. "Each semester a booklet with the results from the previous semester's courses is made available to students." 
Cornell, on the other hand, doesn't publish the results from the TCEs, but it does have a website called "Candid Courses." Unlike Notre Dame, students can respond to several different aspects ofeach class they take. David Yeh serves as the group's advisor for this student­led effort and says, "It is a way for information about courses to be avail­able and is very popular with students." Some of the areas evaluated in Candid Courses are workload intensity, quality ofreadings, competitive atmosphere and instructor. Other information given out is the number of students who rated the course and their reason for taking the class. 
UCLA doesn't currently publish its TCE results, but like Notre Dame, the issue is being addressed. In the '80s UCLA published evaluations of profes­sors, but the professors who were se­lected to be in it were able to choose for themselves what was printed. Accord­ing to UCLA administrators involved with the new publication, t~e old publi­cation was not an accurate representa­tion of professors and wasn't very suc­cessful. However, a new publication is being considered and will probably be ruled on in the fall. 
As for Notre Dame's future, Peate would like to see the actual TCEs pub­lished in a format that the students could use. However, he doesn't believe that this will happen any time soon. "It has been my experience that that would not be very feasible. There are too many legal questions." 
Still, if many of Notre Dame's peer institutions have found solutions, there is still hope for students eager to hear both the good and the bad about poten­tial teachers. Until then, students likely will be thankful for the void of informa­tion that The Guide will help fill. 
News Scholastic 11 

Determination and respect thrive among the few Marines within the Navy ROTC 
Taking the slogan, "The Few, The Proud" to a whole new level, the 14 Marine members (called "op­tions") on campus form a tightly-knit group of intense men and women within the larger Navy ROTC program. Many of these options knew they wanted to be Marines before they arrived at Notre Dame, but about 50 percent start out as Navy option midshipmen. David Bann, a senior Marine option, has wanted to be a Marine his whole life. He says, "The Marines have such a strong sense of pride and togetherness. Theyhave a repu­tation for being the best." If that is the case, then why do the numbers remain so small? Major J;J. Thomas, Marine officer instructor, says, "What the Marine Corps represents ap­peals to only a certain type ofperson. The Marines is definitely not for everys body." Navy ROTC does not limit the number of.Marine options on campus,. but the Marine Corps is extremely physically demanding and choosing to be a Marine option adds additional dimensions and challenges to the Navy's basic program. The general mission of the U.S. Ma­rine Corps is to be prepared to conduct amphibious operations and to seize and defend advanced naval bases. This mis­sion translates to lots ofgrueling training for the Marine options at Notre Dame. Although the Marine options spend the majority of their time with the Navy midshipmen, they have training require­ments above those of the Navy men and . women. In addition to physical training with the midshipmen twice.a week, the Marines conduct their own PT on Mon­day, Wednesday and Friday. One main goal of PT is to ensure that the junior· Marine options are ready for Officer Candidate School, a six-week intensive training program at Quantico, 
12 Scholastic Campus Life 

Va. Thomas affirms that the program is a true challenge. 
"In addition to successfully negotiat­ing through Navy ROTC, they also have this additional screening process, OCS," Thompson explains. "It is basically an extreme environment in which they de­termine whether you have the leadership qualities required to be a Marine of­ficer." 
The Marines may be intense about how they prepare people, but this shared hardship and respect for one another results in a very close group. In addition to the support system of the entire Navy ROTC program, the 14Marinesoncam­pus have every member of their own small group watching to make sure that the team gives its all. These Marines work hard, pushing one another to do their best and to take pride in each other's . accomplishments. 
The closeness and the bond within the team is something that is very special. 
-J.J.Thomas. 

As Thomas describes it, the Marines are "a family within a family in which .. everyone truly feels as ifthey have earned .. a place on the team;" 
Bann realized .this camaraderie and ... wanted to be a part of it, saying, "The closeness and the bond within the team . is something that is very special." 
Evenifa Marine option does not choose · to pursue a lifelong career with the Ma­rines, this esprit de corps lasts well beyond : leaving the group'. Thomas equates the. feeling to that ofthose Darners who never . forget their time at Notre Dame by saying, "Once a Marine, always a Marine." D . 


·... . . .
/ 
/ .· 
/· by Katie. 
/.


·; / Ca;spersen 
! __._Jf 

')> 'L6hg~$~aiiigR¢§erteS tielllafuii' stliPJ~in.bOrfununit;y.. i$il:~1h~~~~~::-:J:1Jz~4i iic~'f=~~t~Jilin~~~~~9!··.·· 
. , ,•·• ··, ·.·• .·:.;based lll)Oll sharedvalues,and ethicsiThe Uni~: :gaining; the ability;t9 lead. people and serving ;my 
:;; .::)L versify qfNotr~J)il.IIleJ~~d.lthe Nav~l R,esy!''l.\:l.~ Qffic:.er,: :country;) w.anUo.do ~prnething.good Mth my lif~,-The ..· .•·.·•:i:···.·:,:}:.:'Jria}~lif~~iA!ttt:;·~;~t!i·rt:t:r;tr~:~1!!::•:.::\~rii~d~ti;!.ci~t::Jt~·g!vesni~··gwn:ts.rife:this·:•=·.: 'to otfrnation. \ .·. . .. . : . . . . , : . , ' Withi11 the Navy :ROTC program, stu4ents· c:hoose {l~l!\tt~i~t?:.·!iJ~::~i1~~;~1!~::::"::·i:::zuc:,:~1~Jlv~:~i!i:~~£!r;p!~0jl£:·.·• ·... /••.·;!: ....·..·•.· -betw~en(the universi~y arid 'the ,111ilitary was '.estab~. ·. inajorhy ·ofthefrtihi~ together artd do'dnll and athlet-·•• ·\J 
. =\1 
·::__ ,~I .>j 
>i-.-j 
. l 
. :• I. 
.:-t·dl
.• ,:.• ii .. i i w,ell'as';co~rs~s specified·by the]~·a~y. Midshipmenare .;-· ·signme~t.s fo ?irc:faft: carrier~,· riucleaj--powe:red 5ub-.·. : T 
t1ji~ft~lit1ir!~fil;~:!IW!i:J1~f!,{ftt'.~!S!t~11::;~tiEeI~iSifji J! 
(,:· ,.\ ,ence/'National: Security,. PoHcy/Am.ericari .. Affairs· pate in: Officer CaildidateSchool folfov.ring theirji.in~ . ji 
•• ,,:,: c. )1{add1tion,to:illese academicrequiremeiits,\ni.d-. itedJtal'y, Qi:eece, Japan, Sirigapore"'and many other · ) 


ctti!ti!!l!F~r~i~~~e;~t.·Ii~iit~~f.r::f~J~~tt•. ·61 
1


\eJ~j@JfiiltJ{iiil1!~}liitES'$~i~fJ~~~~~~• C Fl 
.} < ..•..( :the·,• tllalleng~i,. ~tu~ent!l.: !.\ff motivated·. to joiri·• Nayy ...110TC.· teain and, Jhefr pride in their goals .and. their . . 11 
'ft.'.'t; /M:ttfT~!~~1i'&kit{~cI::it1£t/.~~:~ft\.~~1!~~J~~i'•·· }II
.•, i . /)(means frr atten:d:a'school with:hefty tiiid6n, such ~s . the next gen:er~tiori of Notre Dafue:.Navy ROTC stu-. , 
1

*JicfJ~iliJi!it~i~l!n:~:J;. ;t~ittrJ~n;~~!&"tirtft~~~d::: 
)'.,iiri e~si~Ii)f~he TJ,S, _f;l)ivy fyf~gical C<>i:ps·and a19·~9 · woITI.en, aware of them.any derrian4s the midshipmen 
·c;;':::ir:'f:~i:.~tt~if,ifJ!fs1i~:~::t~t!~~dth~~if~~i~t:i ...::..•:::c:;!tt!I:;:i:a~hih:::ai;i~;~:::tz~.:::·•·:>:: . ,<<jh{{sarne#rrie, Lalso;wanted a>'.typical' :coUege experi~ .. ·.tlie llighestr~spect,sayirig,"This is. a.bti~cl19f great· .. 
t;:i;-~)";}l~::i;r,ri;,~;i:¼~ittiltn~:.ji[J,t!\ti;~:~i~i}l~t·••.'.Z}lp}!riatfr;it~::!::::~~hejl:~:~r~;l•:t;:;:~.•··..:­
a<> ·• .· ·::'JtJs to npt'pe.worfyirig< abou(repaying· student loari~ · ·age1neht ~kills~at ~hey i,~llwalkav.iaywith wjll serve. ~.:, }lOW," L~:9.~ara.says. them for their eridre liye.~):' . . . . . . . . (] -, :· /.:>.< : 
:. · \ J: :iJ:" C.ampti1~{ife Sc~cil~~ti~· 1a' 
~," 


For the many who believe spring break means service, the CSC offers opportunities to help the less fortunate 

or a spring break far different from the traditional college spring-break scene, many students choose to participate in the expe­riential-learning seminars spon­sored by the Center for Social 
Concerns. 
Since the early 1980s, the CSC has pro­
vided opportunities for interested students 
to become involved. The experiential-learn­
ing seminars it conducts during Notre 
Dame's extended breaks in the summer, 
fall, winter and spring further this purpose. 
This March the CSC offers five spring break 
seminars: Appalachia Seminar, Washing­
ton Seminar, L'Arche Seminar, Migrant 
Experiences Seminar and Civil Rights Semi­
nar. 
Regardless of where the seminars take 
place or what topics they cover, the pro­grams aim to create a well-rounded, "whole" individual. According to Jay Brandenberger, the CSC's director of experiential learning and developmental research, the center has a three-part philosophy that guides these programs. Brandenberger says that it first aims to create a situation in which "by the time people graduate they have a disci­plined sensibility to poverty and injustice. Second, we try to live out the mission state­ment of the university and the CSC by linking service and learning. And finally, these programs are a way to be in touch with and to engage with, those in our culture whom we may not encounter on our cam­. pus." All of the seminars are meant to coin­cide with the university's goal, stated in its mission statement and stressed in the CSC' s Vision for the Future, to "create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the com­mon good that will bear fruit as learning 
becomes service to justice." 
Although theprograms last only one week, 
the students from Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's who apply and are accepted commit much more than seven days to their semi­nars. It is a process beginning with a deci­sion to serve others that spurs the applica­tion. Once accepted, the participants attend 
several preparatory meetings. These meet­ings seek to create a unified force out of a group ofindividuals by examining Catholic 
social teachings that pertain to their seminar 
and by listening to the experiences ofothers who have already participated in aseminar. Upon their return from service, the partici­
pants attend follow-up meetings and com­
plete a paper or project that ties in their 
experiences with their spiritual and intellec­tual growth. The oldest and best-known of the CSC experiential learning projects, the Appala­
chia Seminar, began in 1980 when individu­
als wishing to serve the rural poor went to 
Kentucky to work with the Christian Appa­
lachian Project. The program has grown to 
send 100 or more students to nearly 15 . 
different sites in Virginia, West Virginia, Tennessee and Kentucky. Most participants assist in the construction and repair of houses, and some pre-medical students experience · helping to treat patients. The students fur­
ther address social issues through discus­sions and field trips. To them, this seminar 
represents a chance both to improve 
someone's living condition and also to ex­
amine what they can do. 
"This seminar is a rare opportunity, a chance to help a community first-hand and to see results ofmy work," says sophomore Erin O'Keefe of her upcoming Appalachia Seminar. 

• 
Established in the spring of 1981, the Washington D.C. Seminar is the second­oldest of the CSC programs. It is unique ' 
1. 
because the focus ofthe week changes from year to year. Past seminars have discussed such issues as violence, education, welfare and the environment. Each ofthese subjects has been approached from legislative, so­cial and religious aspects. Participants in this year's .Washington Seminar will dis­cuss the theme of Jubilee Justice, which specifically deals with the areas of church and government. Speeches and discussion groups with members of the Notre Dame 
family currently serving in Congress and 
other governmental organizations will be 
supplemented by discussions with mem­
bers ofthe U.S. Catholic Conference. These 
meetings will center around the theme of 
millennial reconciliation, discussing such 
things as the forgiving of debts and differ­
ing ecumenical matters. 
Most of the center's programs deal with poverty, race and social justice, but the L'Arche Seminar handles a different and often neglected group of people: the men­
tally and physically challenged. Through­

. out most of the 1990s, this seminar, begun by Brother Bonaventure Scully, has allowed 
individuals to work in a L'Arche commu­
nity, much like the one in Toronto. Now 
associated with South Bend's Logan Ceo~ 
ter, the L'Arche seminar combines the study 
of the teachings and philosophies of Jean 
Vanier and FatherHenri Nouwen to provide 
a theological approach to the issue ofmental 
health. 
"It was interesting to experience what 
you had read about," Megan Shepherd, as­
sistant rector ofBreen-Phillips, says. Shep­
herd hopes to return to spend more time at 

by Danica Skeoch 
the L' Arche community in the near future, noting that it was a new experience to "serve in smaller ways, day to day" by just listen­ing to the community members or sitting with them in the evenings. 
Of all the seminars, none offers the level of immersion of the Migrant Experiences program. Entering its seventh year, the popu­lar seminar examines the issues of poverty and racial injustice from a very intimate spiritual riches of these materially poor in­dividuals while gaining first-hand experi­ence of the treatment, low pay and discrimi­nation often handed to these people. 
In keeping with the theme of studying discrimination, the CSC' s newest seminar addition, the two-year-old Civil Rights Semi­nar, travels to locations in the Deep South to investigate the institutions and individuals involved in the civil-rights movements of 
simply one-credit courses taken to supple­ment theology or government class loads. They are designed and should be viewed as opportunities for personal and spiritual growth. Discussion groups, prayer times and selected readings are meant to supple­ment the actual field experience and pro­vide a greater understanding of people and their environments. The programs reflect the belief that it is one thing for a student to build a house or harvest a 
field oftomatoes; it is much more fulfilling and benefi­

This seminar is a rare opportunity, a chance to 
cial to all involved if the student understands the is­sues of poverty and culture that cause people to be in 


help a community first-hand and to see results of 
-Erin O'Keefe 
their present situations. 

my work. 
perspective. Participants travel to Florida to live and work with South American immi­grants and relief agencies set up for their benefit such as Habitat for Humanity and soup kitchens. Students spend time doing field work and assisting with the-collection of the spring tomato harvest. Though con­sidered employees, they donate the salary they make to the immigrants andreliefagen­cies. Through prayer and discussion ses­sions, the students learn to appreciate the the 1950s and '60s. Through contact with religious organizations, community leaders and civil-rights activists, students learn about the history of race relations, segregation and discrimination. They also are given the opportunity to discuss how past events and court rulings are manifest in the present state of the South, particularly in Birming­ham, Ala. and Atlanta, Ga. 
These seminars are not merely alterna­tives to spring break vacations, nor are they 
Regardless of whether students choose to build houses in Appa­lachia, spend a week living with mentally and physically handicapped individuals in Toronto, or trace the history of the civil-rights movement in Alabama, they are testifying to the strength and compas­sion of the human spirit. As the mission statement of the CSC states, these indi­viduals are fulfilling "the biblical call 'to act justly, love tenderly and walk humbly with our God."' 0 




Do the groundw-ork now-for a strong future later. 
Write for Scholastic. 

Call 1-7569 and ask for Brian Christ or Meredith Salisbury for details. 
Campus Life Scholastic 15 


Parking tips to help you avoid a run-in with the police 
BY JACKLYN KIEFER

Scholastic. sent a reporter to Campus Security to get the real deal on parking at ND. After finding out what students wanted to know about parking, our reporter asked Phil 
Johnson, assistant director of security and police, to answer their questions. 
Where does all the money go that students spend on those little decals? 
According to Johnson, "The money is used for paving, painting, lighting and patrolling the area, which is surprisingly expensive." He says that the student fee for one year of parking privileges ­
. approximately.$70 -is a bargain-compar@<l to the fees of up to ·-$400 that some schools with city campuses charge. 
What can a student be ticketed for, and how much do tickets actually cost? 

A plethora of offenses, both major and minor, warrants a ticket at ND. Fortunately, every student gets one warning before being fined. The price ofa ticket varies depending upon the of­fense. A minor offense, such as parking on campus past the expi­ration time on one's entry pass, results in a $15 fine, while park­ing in front of a trash dumpster or in a fire lane draws a $30 fine. Major infractions, such as park­ing without a decal or driving on campus without permission, re­ceive $50 fines. One little-known fact: if a fine is paid within 10 days of issuance, it is discounted by 20 percent. The legend that unpaid tickets lie around unnoticed in security computers is a common misconception: in fact, unpaid tickets are charged directly to the offender's account. Johnson warns that if a person accumulates four parking offenses ( or two if the violations occur in handicapped spots), his or her car will be towed. Additional fines could result ip a revocation of parking rights or a referral to Residence Life. 
Can parking tickets be appealed, and are these appeals granted? 
If a student feels that he or she has been wrongfully accused of illegal parking, the ticket can be appealed.Johnson explains that the 
16 Scholastic Campus Life 


appeals court is composed of faculty, staff and students. He says 
that nearly half of all appeals are granted and that students can re­appeal ifdissatisfied with the result. However, many people are not happy with the way the court operates. "They are not satisfied with the 'Yes' or 'No' answer they receive. Unlike actual courts that supply reasoning, this panel relies only upon the laws and will give a simple answer," Johnson says. 
Why does a student have to answer so many questions to get on campus for five minutes? 
Students who drive off campus know the difficulties involved in getting their car on campus. About "turn around, park and walk" situations, Johnson says, "Students must realize that we have a very pedestrian-oriented campus ,~ith very little ceritral~c~mpu~s-park: 
ing. Also~ students who rriove off campus must accept that by moving off campus, they are distancing themselves from health services and the prox­imity to other facilities pro­vided by on-campus living." He adds that a shuttle can give students a ride from the park­ing lot to health services if they are ill or unable to walk the necessary distance. Ulti­mately, according to Johnson, security does its best to ac­commodate students, but stu­dents must not expect the eas­ily accessible parking afforded by their physician's office and other services at home. 

How frequent are break-ins in the parking lot and how frequently do officers patrol the area? 
According to Johnson, 22 break-ins have occurred since the start ofthe fall semester, a number that has dropped steeply due to arrests last fall and the frequency of patrols. Police patrol the campus 24 hours a day, focusing particular attention on .the parking lots because of their peripheral location and the large amount of per­sonal property they contain. The police patrol on bicycle, on foot and in both marked and unmarked cars. Overall, Johnson says that the vehicles are very safe in the parking lots. In addition to patrols, emergency call boxes are located in the parking lots and provide an easy means for students, faculty and staff to report suspicious behavior. D they rented out the Boat Club. (The Gipp's 
TIP THE G I P P . GIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
not sure if they knew about the free shot deal.) 






C~ffiP<ts
_/· . ·'·
4\de ..........•,._,:.....,~ IPa,c" 
No need for an introduction. The Gipp is ready to get down to business. 
Poopiel 
The Gipp thought that the most exciting thing to happen in O'Neill Hall all year was the King of Mardis Gras contest. Wrong again. 
There's a guy in O'Neill Hall who's kind ofanal about having other people in his loft. After some post-finals celebration last se­mester, the roommate of the boy thought it would be funny to take some pictures of kids in the forbidden bed. But it wasn't enough to take pictures of a bunch of giddy drunk boys sitting on the U bed. Instead, the young o men staged a shot of a lad with his face down on the bed and his bare butt addressing the camera. 
year's Mardi Gras King Contest at O'Neill Hall." 


Helping Hands 
The Gipp is always willing to lend a helping hand, especially if it involves free drinks. Every once in a while, the Boat Club will give a free shot to anyone who helps them move their kegs from storage into the bar. 
A couple of enterprising Fisher Hall lads volunteered to help one evening. When they brought the first keg to the bar, no one was really paying attention to them, so they headed into storage and grabbed another. (The Gipp agrees -two free shots are better than one.) However, when I/ they brought the second 
// keg to the bar, manage­ment was still nowhere to be found. 
So the boys did what 

Once the kids all ~~~q Ji,;;.;;;;:;;~~. any self-respecting 
got back from break, the room­mate showed the anal boy the com pro-1 mising pictures. He ~ was not happy. So, ~ one day the roommate came back to the room, only to find human feces in his bed, care of his roommate, who had defecated in a bag and personally m'ade the deposit in revenge for the pictures. 
According to our tipper, "The two have since reconciled and admitted the error of their ways . . . Word is, though, that the owner of the tainted bed shall be costumed as Mr. Hankey [the bedtime poo] at this Domer would do. They flagged a cab and slipped the two kegs quickly into the trunk. Knowing that cabs never have any prob­
lem getting on campus, they knew they'd be able to drive the treasure right to their front door. 
Now the Gipp knows to look behind the giant F when he needs a study break. 
Mom and Dad Do the Boat Club 
This past Saturday, a bunch ofDillon men wanted to host a little after-party for the junior parents to follow the JPW dinnercSo 
Some might think that parents would be turned off by such a place as the Boat Club, but these Dillonites knew better. They heard the voice in the cornfields whispering to them in their sleep, "Ifyou rent it, they will come." 
And, boy, those cornfields had the right idea. The night was loud and wild -these are just some of the highlights ... 
A couple of junior parents, wearing all plaid, were seen country line dancing to that Boat Club favorite, "Back That Ass Up." There was a strange little old man that filled up the cups ofanyone who said hello to him, and after the DJ announced a slow song, the parents filled the dance floor and began jamming the night away to "Sexual Heal­ing." Finally, during that 20 Fingers classic, "Short Dick Man," somebody's mother ex­claimed in horror, "I just don't understand this song!" 
Oipplettes
A Late night at Reckers: Young man V caught poking chicks in the buttocks with a dart. Same young man allegedly seen at Boat Club earlier that evening physically lifting young women offthe floor and shout­ing to their dance partners, "I've got your girl, man!" 
A The Gipp wants to send a special thank V you to the member of the administra­tion who sent a letter to numerous faculty members asking that attendance be taken in all classes and exams be scheduled for Mon­days and Fridays. Apparently this adminis­trator thinks Friday tests will stop binge drink­ing, but the Gipp thinks it willjust mean fewer people make the Dean's List. 
·•One tipper writes in:: "UConn players V shouldn't only be chided for their fer­tility. While playing the Victory March af­ter the game, one of the players punched me in the stomach. I could not identify who it was before he ran into the tunnel. It was not a very strong punch, no black and blue marks, and I am sure he did not wish to injure me. Still, it is the first time I have ever been assaulted by a memberof the opposing team." · ·The Gipp replies: Hang tough, Band Boy. The Gipp applauds you for taking the hit 

...like a man, but get ready for more because this b-ball team is going to send many more angry adversaries off the court. And God bless you, Matt Doherty. 
Campus Watch Scholastic 17 



pon entering the Center, I see a few familiar faces. One of them is Rick, whom I had met last Monday. His face is scruffy, unshaven since the last seminar. He comments that we both need a shave. "Yes," I say, "this 

has been a stressful week." Rick nods casually and beckons me to sit with-him at a corner table in the Center's lobby. 
We sit in silence for a time, listening to the foot­falls ofpeople coming in and out of the Center. Rick stares at a foursome playing euchre at a nearby table. His eyes follow their quick wrists, so I do too, until he springs his head forward with an observation. 
"You know, Ophelia could be played in so many ways," he says. "I've been thinking that she could be a willingly passive character, an unwillingly passive character, or just mad in her own way. I'm still not sure if she was right in drowning herself -do you think she was right?" 
"Me? Well, I don't know. It's impossible to say, really, it depends on how much you think she loved Hamlet-" 
"No, it doesn't!" He laughs. "Itmatters how much you think she loved Hamlet. Haven't you thought about this since last class?" 
I suppose I hadn't, but Rick certainly has. He slides 

back into his chair, silent. 
I look away from Rick and notice the strange looks we're receiving from the card players. Yes, I suppose I too find it odd to be discussing Hamlet at the Cen­ter. 
Tonight is not Rick's first experi­"Tonight will be the

We've lived without 
most we talk in the entire eight weeks." 


everything; we know what it is 
Fallon's prophecy proves true: as the


like on the street. You don't 
class starts, order 


know, professor, and we'll tell slowly breaks down 
as students jump into 


you that Socrates is right. the discussion. While 
some remain re­


-student in seminar 
served, the readings 


ence with the Community Extension World Master­pieces Seminar at the South Bend Center for the Homeless. He has spent 18 months in the Center now, allowing him to participate in two units of the seminar already. He began the first unit late and attended the second inconsistently. But to pass the course and receive the one credit hour from Notre Dame, a student must write an essay, take an exam and regularly attend discussions. Will he get the credit this time? Rick shrugs,.'The third time might be the charm." 
Rick's case is not unusual, but, then again, this is not your usual seminar. The seminar, now in its third year, brings together the homeless and the idea of a liberal arts education. In America, both carry stig­mas that make them seemingly incompatible. In­deed, the seminar begs the question, "Can and should these individuals, whom society has rejected, re­
-' . 

ceive a liberal education, an education that has be­come a luxury for the elite?" 
For Professors Steven M. Fallon and F. Clark Power, the answer has become obvious. Fallon and Power are professors in Notre Dame's Program of Liberal Studies, a three-year program designed around six Great Books Seminars. In the PLS seminar, Notre Dame students move from the ancient to the modern thinkers, studying a daunting number of classics in philosophy, literature and theology. Using this blue­print, Fallon and Power have taken the seminar to the homeless. 
The Great Books idea is the same, but the students certainly are not. Their lives are precarious, and the . scepters of the past are often too present. As I talk to Rick, his reflections jump from the imagery of Shakespeare to his hope of working a construction job again soon. "I'm still resting here, though, getting things straight," he says. 
Rick begins to speak of Hamlet's madness, when he suddenly cuts himself short. "It's five after ­we're already late." 
Rick jumps up and I scramble to catch him as he rushes upstairs. I follow him into the community room. Inside, sitting in a circle of chairs, is a class of more than 20 students. Their bright faces appear focused for this, the first class of the new unit. They fix their attention on Fallon, who explains how the course operates. "In this course Clark and I will not be 
lecturing," he says. 

spark fervent com­ments from a handful of students. Tonight's texts, readings from Genesis, Job and Psalms, are the first on a reading list that heavily engages the theme of God and nature. Next week will be Euripides' Medea, followed by Shakespeare's The Tempest and Montaigne's "Of Cannibals.'' 
But for now the discussion swirls around the two accounts of creation in Genesis. Many questions are on the table: Do the accounts reconcile with one another? Do both accounts please us? And what might be the author's purpose in each account? 
In a lapse in the discussion a hitherto silent young man speaks up, "When I was reading it at first, you know, two stories, I thought God was doing double overtime!" 
After the laughter subsides, another student adds his thoughts. "Idon't know which story is better, or why the author did it. ... In one story we're the first thing God 
Cover Story Scholastic 19 
--~------------­
-------------~-"-----· 


:i] ability to deal with a very complex text," Fallon says, "[along with] ::;.vaving hi$finger.' uhtil _:all -are ilJ,_ interest and openness in approaching it. Here's a text by one of the •.·qtiiet•.·•ajristhave to.say] agree
11 
... , : deadest, the ·w,h_itest;· the·,.malest of writers,, and there was an ::'·with:both ofyou; bt1,t qrily just a : ! 1· . eagem~ss to ~ppJ'.y what Aqajnas y.,as s_aying tp.~$enfgoU!i,~q{.~Jjd_f littJ~:.t:uiYbit.' M ypbin.t being ~--" 
m. :: ·legal:situatiohs."··. . . . . .. · ..:'... . .:. ;t}:.:·. -::;..--:···,:-·: -···::·'--t'f;'Sjieakfiig_iiow·isJos'tpli/wiiois --:~; "' , The tumultuous background of the students often enriches the;::<takin:g :tlie ·seminar· for a second ,:: l class in powerful and unexpected ways, Power ·explains one en-{' time/13efore his experience with Ii! counterwithPlato'sApology: "The story ends with Socrates in ajaii tlle seµtihar,Josephhad ,;only read -,\ i cell, preparing for death and speaking ofthe life ofvirtue. Aild <>~e·.t-:afe:w'.great books'' inhigh school. 
. OUTREACH. "We might have done this as private individuals," Power says. i'But we wanted cess to a good education growing i.Ip in a .· · to do this as representatives of Notre Dame. As a Catholic university we have an obligation· .. dysfunctional fam.ily,.butbe¢ause of this· ·. 
f m.hlces~ and in the other he saves the best forlast_:;, .,. "'' . ' ,. -: .. . Much lies behind comments such as these, and'itis the challenge · of Fallon and Power to bring out their implicfr reasoning. In prior 
I
! interviews with Fallon and Power, each told ofliow misconceptions · of homeless students' abilities evaporate in the seminar, "The :t: students can read these books and do read them with intelligence :II!,__ and penetration," says Fallon. "And the level of discussion can be 
I as high as any we have at the undergraduate level." ;_! ,_'. Fallon describes his first seminar in 1998.as "eye-opening." The 
' unit, centered on the theme of tyranny and justice, began with a:-,I reading from Aquinas' On Law.."In. the class _we ';Vitnessed'. ari \ . . . 
. 

,/!' .Thereis an illusion that the hom_e_.l_e..s..s...· , l 't d t d th t t d· th t· ·th
iri can un ers an . . ese ex s, an . ·. .~'. . e il ·~-. woi=ks:belong to an ivory_ tower. The '. r course shatters these two ideas. 
:!'.I
ill -· Ricky Klee
!J~ ... . . 
l! student speaks up and says, 'I cart be happy without material goods .. , in the end -'they don't make a person, happy ...;We've lived I! I without everything; we know what it is like on the street. You don't Ii I know, professor, and we'll tell you that Socrates is right."' · 

11:l Back.in the cl~ssrooin, the discussion moves to the question of 
original ~in. An argumentbi-e~s between Dorothy; ayoung.;woman · · · · · · · 
n/l . ••• to make the intellectual riches available t.o all.'~ 
WI 
H 
if!
jl 
..· 
ll
r 
q:I 
ii:I;
Ii'"{ 
iF 
F
u1
:;'., 
·1i:~. 
:i:. 
/lf
ti•! . 
jj\'1. 
!J 
:ili:f. 
·20 Scholasfic Cover Story


l~-. 
:!}!Id :· 
we~g sh~~~ on haif o~11er feet, and Scott, an older man who peers at her over his glasses. "You don't inherit sin," says Dorothy. "You choose it and then acknowledge it." "I'm not sure about that," Scott says; leaning forward. ''Don'tyou 
think Adam's sin is our own, and it's that sin we have to acknowl­edge?" · Membersofthe class shake their • 
.· he can bet~er understand wotlcs such as·:.· · Hedda Gabler. '~lread aboutrniscommu.,, . n:ication;" he says. "An irtability to talk : . aboutserious matters likethat-!under-.. · stand:" ••-'The seminar:is more,:however, .than: ... discovering thatthe Great Books have uni~.. versalappeaL "There'is anaesthetic:·expe~­rience here," Powe1:' says, ''One is .put in touch with transcendent' human emotions, which can make a person more whoi~.;-,_ · . 
•· Power, whose interests reach to psycbol-.. 6gy, 'ai&O notes that student~ improve·in confidence, self-esteem and are able to. express themselves better, which are criti~ 
. Gal dev~lopments f9r one's ability .to break butqfhomelessness; TheNotreDaineci:-eciit received upon siiccessf1,1l cpinpletiort Ofthe . course, Power adds, is seen by many stu­dents as a symbol 9f these dev'elopm~nts. 
"But_ I've always loved.to read," he Sf!.YS, "arid so·any opportunitY . ·• like this 'that comes alorig,T want it~l warinotake'it.'' • . . •· ... Like most students, homeless or.not, Joseph finds the books· 
challengi_ng. "When I read Freucf I was like, okay ;_; ?" But in.:•> 
speakirigfoJ:oseph, one learns that :he not only :grasps difficu_lt 
texts;'bu~ that his past plays a critical partin tmd~rstruiding them/ 
·· · · ... · Joseph explains ·that he :didti'thave ac.::· 
:heads sporadi­
cally,:: :, some •
agreeing, others 
deinui.-r_irig. 1 
counttlfreesepa­
rate ·:convei-sa­
tioi1.s ·. .·faking ·. 
place alone~.·.: "Waita minute, waitaniiiiute?a yo4rtgmari.cries, .· 


The seminar was also inspired by the work ofEarl Shorris, author 
ofNewAinericanBlues: A Journey,throughPoverty to Democracy 
(1997). Shorris; educated under the Great Books method at the University ofChicago, began offering humanitarian courses to the poor in Manhattan in 1995. Shorris believed that dispossessed individuals could engagein the activity ofthe community through an education ofthis kind. 
"Shorris' project was one of political empowerment/ Fallon explains. "Butitdoesn't mean political mobilization or a particular political slant. It's more like the Greekidea ofbeing a part of the polis." Fallon explains that a Great Books education is linked in many respects to the democratic ideal, for it gives one a sense of grander goals outside of one's.self and the ability to engage in the politicallife ofa community. 
Fallon and Power have drawn from a number of resources to . bring the s~minar tb \Vhereit is tbday; inclucHrig copies ofN~rton A.11t/iolog10JW()rfd, Masterpieces:donaied by Nortm1 & Company. 
•• The books serve a double ·purppse. _.:.:. they .are resources.fof the . ~curse and incdritive t() stay in it Ifa studentdoesn't complete the course,. he can't keep the book . • · · .· •·. ·· . . • Not least amqng· these resources are PLS students, who help with ··• ev~rything .from babysitting ciass rriembers' children to reading· 
•· books dnto tapes to ci:itiqt1ing students' essays'. . . .· SeniorEdnLHliscoordinated.thevolunteersfortheprojectforits 
.they'll need to get meal plans and buy football tickets, too." 
Lillis explains that the seminar gives a new perspective on the meaning of the Great Books. "It makes the books more real," she says. "Homer has been around forever and you think he epitomizes the human, but you can say that as a 20 year old and not understand it until people connect the Odyssey with their tragic lives." 
Sophomore Ricky Klee, responsible for transporting the students to and from the Center, agrees. "[PLS students] tend to put away personal experience and subjectivity and try to approach the texts very intellectually and objectively," he says. "We look.for how Plato shows up in Augustine rather than putting our lives on the line like they do." . . 
All involved, however, say seeing the enthusiasm ofthe students is perhaps most striking. "It's like having your battery recharged," Fallon says. "The teaching experience at Notre Dame is, .well ­we're busy. You wonder, 'Where am I going to find the time to 
·[prepare for] the. class?' But that's always beforehand -after the ·· class it's always exhilarating;" . Last unit's students even asked ifclass could meet for two hours · instead ofan hour and a half. "How many times does that happen T' . Power says. · •· . . · · . · · . . • . · 
·· Tonight's class looks as ifit, too, might need two. hotir!l every Monday night. The students discu~s Job with the same passion they spoke of Genesis two hours ago, and the insights are no less 
·first year and a half and attendfld seminars, She tel.ls ofhow the.• poignant. . . . . . seminar. used to meet' exclusivelyatthe•Center, but recent classes What was Job guilty of?''I don't know," says one student, "All have been.abletomeetin O'Shaughnessy. ''Enthusiasm definitely· I knowis that ifyou thinkyou're going totell God something else, coJ.Ties from coming to Notre Dame for classes," Lillis says. uThey . when Hewas there before your sperm and egg and the world too_:_ joke with me so'\}letiII1es about being a student; saying pretty soon you're going to say something you wish you never said!"· . 
Cover Story.Scholastic 21 


,:
::·!· 
' 
i 
! 
i 
1 
Irish "Rockettes" skate their way to the U.S. Synchronized Skating Chanipionships 
BY BRENDAN BARKER/?Iany people expect excellence 
from Notre Dame's varsity ath­
letic teams which compete on the national level. Now, some club sports are starting to enjoy the same recognition. 
The Notre Dame figure skating club, al­though just beginning, has already reached the synchronized skating nationals, held March 4 in Plymouth, Mich. The figure skating club was started three years ago, but it became a major organization only last year, when it gained the greater ice time necessary to practice regularly. Club Presi­dent Lindsey Reed explains, "This year we started the synchronized skating team, which is part of the club, and also is the team that is going to be com­peting in nation­technique in which a few skaters spin while the others skate around in a line. 
"You do a lot of footwork," says Reed. "You're always holding onto a person; you're always connected in some shape. You're always skating in some kind of a shape or formation." 
Formations include rotating parallel lines, pinwheels and intricate sequenced footwork. Scoring for synchronized skating is the same as free skating: a panel of nine judges rates the skaters on a scale of6.0 in both technical skill and presentation. The technical score determines how well the maneuvers were performed and whether the program was completed as planned. The choreography is also a part of this score. Presentation, on the other hand, rates the skaters on such things tition, members are a little nervous as well, considering that the U.S. Synchronized Skat­ing Championships will be its first actual competition. "That's the interesting thing," Reed says. "We haven't actually competed against anyone yet." As synchronized skat­ing is a new sport, only 12 teams compete in nationals; Notre Dame received a bye into the championships. "We totally lucked out this year," says Reed. "We got a bye and we can just drive to Michigan, so it all worked out really well for us." 
Without a bye, the Irish would have had to compete in the Midwestern finals to obtain a ticket to the national competition. The teams are divided into three sections: East­ern, Midwestern and Pacific. The top four teams from each division are allowed to compete for the na­tional championship, 

als." but since so few schools 
''/~~~~wel/~kwe,~~,J°«a~
The club's mem­could make the trip this 
bers include those oj,tk~,,now ttat-"we,1e,rn? to~~~~-" year, the Irish were au­
on the synchro­nized skating team, 

-;__~~eed,ctJ,~
and those who sim­ply enjoy skating. The club consists of 15 women, 12 of whom are on the team. Men are welcome, though currently none are on the roster. Ice time is reserved for both team practice and indi­vidual skating. Reed and two other team members with previous synchronized skat­ing experience act as coaches. 
Synchronized skating is performed very much like synchronized swimming. In the collegiate division, anywhere from 12 to 24 people can be on the ice at one time. Reed describes it as "the Rockettes on ice, but with a higherlevel ofdifficulty, since you' re on skates." Synchronized skating is not the same as the more familiar Olympic-style free skating. With a dozen people or more on the ice, the lutzes and axels that Tara Lipinski and Michelle Kwan incorporate into their programs would be a little too complicated. Instead, skaters execute other actions such as highlighting, a spinning 
22 Scholastic Sports 
as their music and costumes. 

Synchronized skating also has caught on at other universities. Several schools have varsity synchronized skating teams. Reed .. explains the interest in this infant sport. "People do figure skating in high school, and when they come to college, it ends there. So with the synchronized skating team it's a way that you can compete as a team on a collegiate level. This is a way that we can represent Notre Dame as a group." 
In fact, skating is growing so much that Reed has received e-mails from prospective students interested in becoming synchro­nized skaters at Notre Dame. She hopes to field a team of about 20 to 24 members within the next couple ofyears, as more men and women become familiar with the sport. 
Though the club is certainly excited about going to nationals in its first year ofcompe­tomatically admitted to 
nationals. 
"Next year, we'll 
probably have to com­pete in Midwesterns before going to nation­als," says Reed, who estimates that there will be approximately 10 teams looking for those top four spots in the Midwest at this time next year. Fortunately, the Irish will have the experience ofcompeting at nation­als to prepare them for next year. 
In addition to Midwesterns, Reed hopes to take part in two other local competitions next year. Even though she is in her senior year, Reed sees good things ahead for this program. "We have a stronger commitment this year," she says. "But I think next year we'll probably have more people, just be­cause of the exposure, now that we' re going to nationals this year. People were really kind of unsure about what synchronized skating was, and they didn't know if they wanted to do it. But now we've been getting a stronger commitment, and we expect that to continue in the next few years." D 


he freshman foilist has extensive international experience, placing third at the 1999 Junior World Cup in Budapest, Hungary, and sixth at the 1999 Junior World Championships. 
My most memorable Notre Dame moment was: when I first saw the beauty of this campus. My greatest individual moment was: finishing third at the World Cup in Budapest. Of all the countries I have visited, my favorite is: Italy, because of the food. My favorite athlete when I was growing up was: Drazen Petrovic I first started fencing in: 1990. I chose foil over epee and sabre because: foil fields the toughest competition. 
Iflcould play a sport at Notre Dame other than fencing, it would be: nothing. I have fenced in: 18 countries. If I could visit anywhere in America, it would be: Hawaii and Alaska. The best class I've taken at Notre Dame is: P.E. golf with Coach O'Sullivan. 
"U 
::c 
~ 
'C') 
0 
C: 
: J]
:rri 
~ 
0 
"Tl 
i en z 
c3 
J]
s: 
:.j

Ozren Debic 
5 
z 
Last time the men's basketball team faced Miami, they were embarrassed at home. Building off of upset victories over Con­necticut and Seton Hall, Notre Dame squeaks past the Hurri­canes, 72-70. 
Gerard Meskill 
The Florida sun is good for the Irish this weekend. They avenge an earlier defeat by beating Miami 75-68, adding to the team's few away victories. 
~rian Christ 
Notre Dame struggles again on the road, this time against Miami. Tenacious Hurricane defense limits Murphy's performance as the Irish fall 80­68. 
Sports Scholastic 23 




Itwas 1978. Up until then, Notre Dame's varsity swim team had been comprised only ofmen.But Notre Dame history was changed that year 
when the first woman joined the varsity swim team. Freshman diver Betsy Shadley broke that sex barrier. Shadley's coaches were estatic to have a woman finally on the team. The following year, Shadley was joined by freshman freestylist Jannie Blatt, and together they made history. Neither woman expected to win very many competitions that year. But Shadley went on to attain two second-place finishes, and Blatt had a first place fin­ish that year as well. Late in the season, both women 
., .. · c_-,.··::c
~~:=:~ "'~ 
~~:~i!:~~~~~~ --~~;":i~tc;;i 
pionships. Notre BREAKING THE BARRIER. Betsy Shadley, on 
Dame was more the far left side of the front row, was the first 
than eager to send woman to join Notre Dame's swim team. 
its first women swimmers to the competition. l Five years later, the initial efforts ofShadley and Blatt had blossomed 
·• 6,into a successful varsity sports team. In 1984, Notre Dame fans did not 
· I have to wait for the Summer Olympics to watch exciting swimming competition. The women's varsity swim team was set to participate in the Northstar Conference Championship meet for the first time. Coming from a meet the previous week where most of the women had set new records, the team headed to Northstar with high hopes. The women gave their best, earning places in several events, although it was not enough to win first place. Their dedication and perseverence soon became a part of the swim team's tradition. Several years later, the team, which was once com-_ prised of two women, now had over 20 members. In 1991, the Notre Dame women's swim team won the National Catholic Swimming and Diving Championship for the second year in a row. At the meet, which was held at Boston College, the Notre Dame women won 14 out of 20 events, including all five relays. The news of the team's second championship delighted Notre Dame fans everywhere. Thatyear,junior Tanya Williams was named Most Valuable Swimmer at the meet for her outstanding performance. Williams, along with her teammates, once again led the women's team to victory. More than 20 years after the first woman joined the Notre Dame swim team, the tradition continues. For the fourth year.in a row, the Notre Dame women's swim team won the Big East Championship this year. Just as in 1991, the women won 14 out of20 events. This past weekend, it was junior Carrie Nixon who was named Big East Swimmer of the Year, following in Williams' footsteps. Nixon, Williams and all the other Notre Dame 'Yomen swimmers who have kept the tradition of winning alive over the years owe it all to the two women who started it: Shadley and Blatt. -Rebecca Frazier 
Key Stat: Last Saturday, the Irish managed 13-of-19 from the foul line. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Troy Murphy scored a career high of 35 points against Seton Hall, earning him his sixth Big East Player-of-the-Week ofthe season. Next Game: Notre Dame plays Miami in Miami at 7 p.m. this Saturday. 
Wo, 1s Bm' e I(24-2)
Key Stat: Notre Dame currently has a 20~ game winning streak, the longest in the country. Prime Time Performer: Freshman Alicia Ratay set a Big East record with 7­of-7 three pointers against Rutgers. Next Game: Notre Dame plays number one Connecticut on the road this Saturday at noon. 

ey (14-15-7) 
Key Stat: Notre Dame holds a two-point advantage over Ferris State for home ice advantage in the first rourid of the CCHA Tournament. Prime Time Performer: Freshman goal­keeper Tony Zasowki recorded some 20 savesinNotreDame's 1-1 tiewithBowling Green Friday. He earned CCHA Defensive Player of the Week honors. Next Game: Notre Dame hosts Michigan State on March 3rd at 7pm at the Joyce Center. 
f ·(4-1) 
Key Stat: Last Saturday, the Irish went 4-1 at the UNLV Softball Classic. Prime Time Performer: Junior pitcher Jennifer Sharron gave a strong performance at the mound, helping lead the Irish to a 2­1 victory over the University of Utah. Next Game: Notre Dame plays Missouri this Friday at the Morning News Invita­tional at 11 a.m. 
24 Scholastic Sports 


W hen people think of Notre Dame athletics, they tend to reflect on the storied history of the Irish football program. When the topic changes to Notre Dame academics, people immedi­ately associate it with America's top univer­sities. What many people fail to realize, or for that matter even think about, is that these two phenomena are not isolated. There is no academic segregation between the athlete and the student, but rather a commitment to ensure that the athlete also strives for out­standing performance in the classroom. This fact is exemplified by the remark­able graduation rates ofNotre Dame student athletes. Since 1962, 99 percent of scholar­ship football and basketball athletes who remain at Notre Dame for four years have graduated. Similar results are found in the rest of Notre Dame's athletic programs. Unlike many universities, Notre Dame vigorously opposes red-shirting whole groups of athletes for the betterment of the athletic program. The university fears that the policy that encourages red-shirting would lead to the deterioration of the academic experience for student athletes. A workload intended for a four-year program would be spread out over five years and dilute the educational process. According to Assistant Athletic Director John Heisler, "Notre Dame emphasizes that the academic experience should be four years. Because of this emphasis, the univer­sity has never been comfortable with large­scale red-shirting." 
However, Notre Dame takes many more academic precautions than limiting red-shirt­ing. For instance, the university has a strict and uniform policy concerning competi­tion-related class absences. For each class, a student-athlete, whether on a club or var­sity team, is permitted to miss only three lectures for travel. There are no exceptions or policy differences between walk-on and scholarship athletes. The university's strict stance on this policy complicates planning for away games, especially those played during the middle of the week. 
"[The road-trip absence policy] was a criteria that the Big East had to understand when we entered the conference a few years ago," explains Heisler. "That's why if you look at past years, you' 11 see situations where we played many road games on weekends." 
"Ideally, [the Big East schedulers] work our schedule with academics in mind," states women's soccer Head Coach Randy Wal drum. "In the soccer office, we spend a lot of time making sure we don't have many midweek games. Our biggest issue with this program lately is that we must also be aware that we will be playing playoff games." 
But even scheduling road games on week­ends makes honoring the academic policy a challenge. In order to adhere to the policy, teams often have to practice in South Bend before taking an evening flight or bus for a Saturday game. Even with the football team, many times the Irish could not leave for a road game until 4:00 p.m. or later on a Friday afternoon. The wear and tear ofa full season coupled with the academic responsi­bilities of attending a school with the repu­tation of Notre Dame is enough to make even the most vigorous Domer weary. When traveling and practice difficulties are added to the equation, the student-athlete's sched­ule becomes even more taxing. 
Unfortunately, merely attending lectures is not enough to ensure academic success at Notre Dame. Student-athletes must contend with homework, papers and exams along with practice, traveling and games. 
"For me, it always required a great amount of discipline," reflects former defensive tackle Eric Glass. "I came out of football with the greatest respect for all athletes. Imagine coming home at 9 or 10 p.m. All your friends are going out, and you still have homework. One thing I learned from walk­ing onto the football team is that there is no off season." 
Without assistance, the full schedule of a student-athlete could quickly become over­whelming. To cope with this challenge, Notre Dame has several programs to help athletes sort through the mess. Each team has its own counselor, who keeps athletes in focus both academically and on the field. These counselors help athletes make class selections, ensure that athletes are faithful to attending classes and remain watchful for any serious academic difficulties that arise for the athletes. 
In addition to individual team counselors, Notre Dame provides assistance through the Academic Services for Student Athletes 
Sports Scholastic 25 

Office. Notre Dame was the first university to have such a large-scale facility for its athletes. This office offers several services for the student-athlete, ranging from extra tutoring to supplementary teaching ofmate­rial missed due to a road trip. 
These services are vital for most athletes. When an athlete is in the midst of a season, it is difficult to find enough time to balance the demands of an average day. Factoring a the program is to provide information, and guidance in preparation for life outside col­lege and places particular emphasis on ca­reer options for student-athletes. Even if a student excels in class, that does not neces­sarily ensure that he or she will be prepared for the job market. The Academic Honors Program exists to prepare Notre Dame's 
Even with these programs, academic de­mands sometimes conflict with practices and games. The most recent example of such conflict concerns Jabari Holloway, who, due to the demanding schedule of an engineering major, frequently missed prac­tice in favor of physics lab. Rumors soon spread that Holloway's absence from prac­tice was costing him playing time. However, Heisler insists that Holloway was not penalized be­

missed class time with the rig­
cause he attended physics lab in­ors ofdaily practice, it is inevi­stead of football practice. table that the material in some "It's not unusual to see athletes classes will become extremely miss practice because ofacademic challenging. The university's demands. Coaches are under­
recognition and appropriate standing of that. After all, if a response to this problem plays coach demands that an athlete go a major factor in the continu­to practice when there may be a ing success ofNotre Dame stu­serious academic issue; the ath­dent athletes. lete won't be very useful to the 
A unique characteristic of team anyway if he is ineligible Notre Dame's academic assis­because his semester GPA falls 
tance for athletes is that it is not restricted to the students who are struggling to meet university requires ments. Inaddition to tutoring and extra help for class material, Notre Dame provides a program for student-athletes who excel in the classroom. Established three years ago, the Academic Honors Program pairs high­achieving student-athletes with faculty members who specialize in the students' areas of academic interest. The purpose of best student-athletes from being caught off guard when graduation arrives. 
"[The Academic Honors Program] defi­nitely lets you see people in your field and what you're going to be doing," explains Academic All-American Jen Streiffer. "It gives you a faculty member that lets you know what teachers are thinking and what to expect in the real world." 
under 2.0." 
All students, including student­athletes, must attain at least a 2.0 GPA each _semester to remain in_good academic stand­ing at the university. 
Nevertheless, examples such as Holloway 
only strengthen the ~gument that abundant . 
academic guidance is necessary for ath­
letes. One need only look at Notre Dame to 
see outstanding athletes can also be out­
standing students. D 


notre Dame has enjoyed a history of having standouts both academically and athletically. In the last few years, Notre Dame's statistics for student-athletes have been particularly impressive. In the 1999 fall semester, 18 ofNotre Dame's 22 varsity teams had a grade point average of 3.0 or better. Fourteen of the 22 teams have an average 3.0 cumulative. 
average or better. Last semester, 235 student-athletes made the Dean's List. 
The Irish have also gained recognition from the ~ig East Conference. Each summer, the conference announces its Academic All-Star team, which consists of students who maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 for the falland: spring semesters. Notre Dame contributed 143 members to last yeai:' s team, making the Irish the most represented school in the Big East. 
Additionally, in the most recent NCAA release of student-athlete graduation rates, Notre Dame placed third with an overall graduation rate of 88 percent over a six-year period. In that same period, Notre Dame female student-athletes had the third­highest graduation rate in the country at 94 percent, while the men finished fourth with a rate of 85 percent. 
26 Scholastic Sports 


BY KATHLEEN CORTE
At 7:00 every Friday evening, they start with.the scales. Trilling up and down, their notes fill 115 Crowley 
Hallandspillintothehallway. Then, warmed up by these scales and their opening prayer, the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir begins to sing. 
At a time when most other Notre Dame students are pumping themselves up for the weekend, the members of Voices of Faith take time out to work on their voices and worship God at the same time. "So many members see.rehearsal as an opportunity to wind down," explains foseph Joy, president and musical co-director of the choir. "It is like therapy for me." 

Consisting of approximately 40 mem" . bers, Voices of Faith combines the best of all worlds -a chance to sing, to be with friends and to praise God. Founded in 1977, the choir includes members from a variety of ethnic backgrounds and re­ligions. Although run by students, Voices of Faith currently enlists the help of Rev­erend Morris Flannigan, a local Baptist minister, as its lead musician. 
Voices of Faith, as Joy describes, is "first andforemostagospelchoir."_Theyperform 

• ·· a combination oftraditionalAfrican-Ameri­can songs and contemporary Cl~ri~ti-an songs: . in addition to original music written by choir members. "We do foot-stomping, hand-clappingfast songs as well as slow, spirit-filled meditation songs," Joy says. 
BiltVoices of Faith is not just another choir specializing in a certain kind of and uplifting," explains Cimarron Gilson, a 
sophomore who joined the choir last year. "ConstantcontactwiththeSouthBendcom­munity and Notre Dame dorms allows us to shareourtalentsandGod'smessageoflove and redemption to many who may have never been touched in a personal way by the Christian community." 
To accomplish this ministry, the choir performs both on and off campus, in venues from dorm Masses to its annual fall concert. Recently, however, the choir has expanded its listening audience with the release of the group's first CD, entitled "Lord, I Thank Thee for These Blessings." The CD has already been re­quested several times on the local gospel station. 
But Voices of Faithlookstotake its ministry even further when it goes on tour. in Texas during ' spring break. With support from the Notre Dame Alumni 

A:ss,O(::iation,. the CELEBRATING THE LORD. 

abfo ·ro. four.· ev­ery year and to share its music all over the country. 'Tm pretty excited about this be­cause it's a chance to perform outside of the Notre Dame-South Bend community," says Rayam. "Other places can see what we have to offer and we will get the oppor­

music. "We really emphasize singing gos-• tunity to worship with others." 
pel music as a form of worship," says new member Helena Rayam, "It's notjust sing­ing notes, but a celebration of God." 
Through their singing, the group focuses on ministering to the student body. "It is a new community of worship that is exciting 
The choir has also received recognition on campus, having been named the 1998-99 Club of the Year. "I think the community responded this way because it has seen that we are genuinely interested in promoting the decent values of our faith and our cul­ture," says Gilson. "We have shared our talents with the community in order to act on this purpose and we have been received wherever we have gone." 
Voices of Faith professes a ministry toward others, but the choir experience affects the members as well. It provides them with an opportunity to learn more about African-American culture and the traditions ofgospel music and culture. Most importantly, it offers a chance for the choir members to worship God. "As a result of being in Voices for almost two years, my faith in Jesus Christ and aware­ness of black culture have been reinforced 
Performing in Washington Hall, The Voices 
<­
O· 
(/) 
m 
-c, 
I <­
0 
-< 

· choir has been of Faith Gospel Choir worship God through song. 
and expanded," Gilson relates. "Choir has become my core group of friends and spiri­tual support.We laugh, sing, play, pray and hang out together." 
After all, this is what the choir is all about -celebrating God and drawing others into that celebration. As Joy states, "Our music is very interactive. I have learned that once you allow yourself to become fully involved in your prayer and praise, in song and dance,. then you open yourself up to countless blessings. And God will touch you in inde­scribable ways." · 
·Entertainment Scholastic 27 

•j " j
VEITICAIHDIIIIN 
BY KARA ZUARO t's a Monday morning and sleepy-eyed 
students are lined up around the perim­
eter ofthe TV room in LaFortune. Tick­ets for the March 1 Vertical Horizon and Stroke 9 concert at Stepan Center will go on sale, well, at the stroke of nine. 
Freshman Tom Smith says, between bites of a bagel, "I saw Stroke 9 at a club at home over break, at the Vanderbilt on Long Is­land. I was very impressed, and that's why I'm here half an hour before my first class starts." 
"They've got a good sound," adds fresh­man Carlos Flores. 
Junior Annie Ralph also gotupextrnearly to buy tickets. "I love Vertical Horizon ­they're one of my favorite groups," Ralph explains. "Atjuniorprom, one ofmy friends brought their CD to the after-party and we all loved it, so now it's the big CD with our friends." 
This double bill, sponsored by the Stu­dent Union Board and U-93, is drawing attendance from old fans and new listeners alike. SUB's concert programmer, senior 
I
28 Scholastic Entertainment 
Dan Puccini, is a new listener himself. Some­
times SUB concert programmers solicit 
bands to play at Notre Dame. "This time," 
Puccini explains, "they came to us. I hap­
pened to hear through an agent that this act 
was out on the road, with these two bands." 
At the time, Stroke 9's "Little Black Back­
pack" was just starting to get some airtime 
on the radio. Puccini got together with se­

nior SUB Manager Ross Kerr and senior' 
Director of Programming Clare Pistey, lis­
tened to the promo CDs of Vertical Hori­
zon, Stroke 9 and openers Radford, and 
decided to book the show. 

"These guys have developed a pretty strong following," Puccini says. Stroke 9 has been together for 10 years. Drummer Eric Stock joined the band two years ago, but Luke Esterkyn, John McDermott and Greg Gueldner formed Stroke 9 in high school, at Marin Academy in San Rafael, Calif. This is also the place where they first read T.S. Eliot's "The Wasteland" -the poem that inspired their band's name. Be-· . fore they signed with Cherry/Universal Records, they self-released two albums and booked their own national tour. Those who 
haven't seen Stroke 9 play live before may have caught their appearance on the big screen -they were the band in EdTV, a major motion picture. 
Vertical Horizon also has a bit of history. The first two members, Keith Kane and Matt Scannell, met as undergrads at a Georgetown party in 1991. They came across drummer Ed Toth in '92. At the time, he was working at Borders Books and Music. Bass guitarist Sean Hurley joined the band in '98. The band cites many influences, ranging from Marvin Gaye to AC/DC, from Peter Gabriel to the Wizard of Oz soundtrack. Their current single, ''Everything You Want," is featured as an Inside Track on VHl and is being played frequently on U­93. 
Ove~ 1,000 tickets have already been sold for the March 1 show. Remaining tickets are available at theLaFortune information desk. The cost is 14 dollars for students and 16 dollars for everyone else. For more infor­mation on Stroke 9 and Vertical Horizon, check out their websites at www.stroke9.com and www.vertical­horizon.com. 
. ONLY ONE DATE THIS WEEK 

Technical Difficulties 
WVFI is a sound salvation 
o if you're listening to us in the dorms, which you probably 
S

are, since that's the only place in the world that you can hear 
us, don't be afraid to just get up and dance, man." 
The voice ofAugusto, or "Goose," Camara blasts from the tiny speakers ofmy laptop. Goose and Jesse Dang host a hip-hop radio show called "Disturban Tones" on WVFI every Saturday from 5 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. As soon as I heard that my old friend Jesse was hosting a radio show, I decided to download Real Player and listen to the Voice of the Fighting Irish for the first time. 
I listened to college radio when I was in high school and, when I first got out here, I wanted to do my own indie pop show on the campus station. But then I found out that the frequency only reached a handful of dorms, and mine wasn't one of them. 
The Real Audio player is easy to download. All you have to do is go to the WVFI website and follow the links. I won't lie and say that the station comes in all the time because I've had my share oftechnical difficulties, but it works for me most ofthe time. And when it works, it's great. 
It's an interactive station because all the listeners are on computers, and the DJs can be contacted on Instant Messenger. I sent an instant message to Jose "The Big Cat" Gonzalez and Danny Goodwin, who host a show called "Salsa-Flavored Folk" on Sundays. They wer_e playing Pavement and Steve Earle while we chatted about WVFI's listening audience, or lack thereof. 
WVFI Radio: see a lot fo the dj's are under the impression that nobody really listens to the shows now that we lost world wide listeners 
OOB: i'm getting the impression that not too many people instant message you ... because i've only written into 4 different shows, and they've all said my name on the air 
WVFI Radio: that's what i'm talking about....low listener audience leads to low self-esteem! 
Now I feel really bad that I didn't start listening sooner. But then, the next show up-from midnight to 1 :45 a.m. -seemed to be having a really good time with their show, regardless ofthe low-listener population. Jeff Gallagher, Frank Nash and Jay Smith, with guest DJs R.J. Hottovy and Tom Considine, host "Happy Hour." They play plenty of Blink 182, Pearl Jam, Led Zeppelin and Limp Bizkit. Listening to their conversation, be­tween Live's "The Dolphin's Cry" and Dovetail Joint's "Level on the Inside," it seems like they'd be hanging out, talking about the same kind of stuff whether they were in a sound booth or a dorm room. They discuss cup tournaments and the dating scene at Notre Dame. "For most guys here, a hookup at the 'Backer is close enough to dating," they explain to me, via Instant Messen­ger. They look longingly at Cavanaugh, which is in view oftheir Lafortune Studio, and beg its inhabitants to flicker their lights or take off their shirts. Please. 
I tried to catch some female DJs, just to get their perspective, but there aren't too many women on the airstaff and my schedule kept me from catching any ofthe women-only shows. I did catch "The Midnight Run," on Wednesday at midnight, hosted by Brendan Kelly and Brian Parsons, who likes to be called­"Johnny Ringo" on the air. They play modern and classic rock -stuff like Sublime, Bruce Springsteen, Phish and the Beatles. 
WVFI represents a variety of shows, so it shouldn't be too hard to find something you like on the air. For more information, consult the schedule at http://wvfi.nd.edu/airstaff.htm. 
Now, as a special treat for all you faithful readers who stay tuned until the very end of the column, I've saved a bit of my Instant Messenger interview with an anonymous WVFI DJ. I was listening to the show as I typed, so I could hear the other guys on the show pestering the fellow who was chatting with me via computer. They asked him if he had gotten my phone number yet. He said, on the air, that he wasn't looking for my phone number. But that was a lie. Here is what went on in the little IM box: 
WVFI Radio: I am looking for your number -but I am not sure I am going to get it 
OOB: Even after reading the dating article, you still want my phone number? I thought I'd seem like used goods after that came out 
WVFI Radio: Sort of -but I want to be# 9 
That's pretty cute for an Instant Messenger pick-up line, don't you think? And since I just wrote that article about how people should be more open-minded about dating, it would be hypo­critical to refuse this offer. So I gave him my number and he called, and by the time you read this, we'll have been on a date already. I promised that I wouldn't write about him in my column, so, my readers, if you feel like hearing about the big date, you're just going to have to turn on WVFI and stay tuned until the mystery DJ comes on. If all goes well, he'll reveal himself and talk about how much fun we had. Even if all goes sour, it's sure to be an entertaining show. So hurry up and get connected -and don't be afraid to interact with the on-air personalities. Maybe you'll even score a elate. 0 




by Kara Zuaro 
Entertainment Scholastic 29 



Battle of the Roommates 
Humidifier Hedonist vs. Neo-NASCAR Fanatic 

BY MATT CREMER

Journal Entry: 1-29-00 "I think I am being replaced. A horrible feeling, really, to sense that you are no longer wanted. And what makes things worse is that I am not being replaced by a person. I am being replaced by furniture. Eve,y day I walk into my room and I find some new place to sit, which is nice, but inordertomovefromplace to place I have to play hot lava ... " I noticed the trend, but I didn't really give it much attention. I was happy that we had new stuff. But then it started to get weird. First it was a humidifier, which was nice. It can get kind ofdry during this time of the year. But then he brought in a water­filled foot massager. Foot mas­sager! What the hell? This is when I first noticed it. I was blinded by one blazing truth. He wants this room to himself. He wants me out. Well, well, well, I thought. I can play this game. I am going to remind him ofmy presence eve,y day. I started to leave used tissues all over the room. Biological war­fare is a great tactic. Hell, if it works for Saddam, it works for me. That lasted for about a week. Then I started to notice that there was always a new smell in the room. Every day he sat next to his hot pot, brooding as the steam rolled over his face. "I just made some cheese brats. Want one?" The greasy musk choked me. For days I couldn't shake the feeling that my whole wardrobe smelled like boiled cheese sausage. And it wasn 'tjust brats either. Each day was a new, strange attack on my sense ofsmell. He would make ramen noodles or even Jell-O shots. Actually, I take back the Jell-O shots thing. Jell-O shots areJunfor all age groups . . So the smell attack went on for about a week, but that too escalated. I started to play the Ramones and Suicide Machines at a high volume. But my adversary showed hints of will rivaling that ofKaiser Soze. He started to play boy bands. It was something that I am sure hurt both of us. But if he could stand it, so could I. Then it got out of control. Vengaboys, Nancy Sinatra, that damn "Blue" song ... And where in hell did he find a Tito Jackson CD? The music battle was brought to a standstill. I consulted those books by Jolin Cleese and even CIA manuals in psychological warfare, looking anywhere I could for ways to get to my roommate. I decided that I could maximize my annoyingness if I took up a fanatical interest in NASCAR. I watched every race I could get on TV, and I even went to the mall and bought one of those racing jackets. I made a point of wearing it and following my roommate around. But then I realized that I was hurting myself more than him. Something had to be done, and he struck first. 
Just when I had forgotten about the foot massager, he came home one evening and fired 'that baby up when I was entertaining a female. He started to make conversation about how great it felt on his feet. "Oh, oh yeah, this thing is real nice. Soothing. And when you're done, you just pour the water out and slide it under the bed." He was an evil genius. I snapped. I Jost all regard for any innocent by­standers. I picked up a jar of peanut butter from his desk arid started to stick my fingers in it. I covered my hands and face, my mouth smacking as I shoved handfuls into my mouth. Then I started to wipe my hands on his couch. "Oh, yes this peanut but­ter is great. Some people don't like the chunky kind, but I sure 
...1

~do.,"I said, chunks of peanuts 
~ ~clinging to my lips and nose. 
"I can see you like it ... Well, 
my boils have soaked long enough." He 
stood up and grabbed my towel. "Wow, I 

didn't expect them to bleed like that." 
"Really," I said as I dug deep for a booger, fingers still covered with peanut butter. "I used your toothbrush yesterday to clean the sink." Untrue, but I was getting desperate. 
"That's OK, as long as those herpes sores are gone." Katie was still in the room, but we didn't care. We had lost touch with everything except our silent rivalry, which was getting more and more un-silent by the minute. 
"Yeah, thanks for that ointment." The gross-out contest contin­
ued;until we realized that Katie had left sometime in the middle of 
it. She never called again. 
It was at this point that we realized how ridiculous.it had become. 
Once innocent people were affected by our brutal behavior, the 
whole thing somehow lost its drive. Ironically, a punk CD was""· 
playing the chorus, "We all need a kick in the ass." We made up in 
a twisted, Saved by the Bell type of way. Well, no wigs fell in the 
punch bowl, but it still felt like Zack and Slater. 
I grabbed two beers out of the fridge, my peanutty, snotty hands 
twisting off the caps .. "Here, man." 
"Thanks. It's good to be back to normal," he said, taking a gulp. 
"Yeah, that was getting pretty insane there for a while. You 
wanna play some Mario Kart?" 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion 


•Lecture: "Faith, Hope and Chadty: The 
. History of Religion and.Health Care in America," Ronald Umbers, 4:00 PM, 116 DeBartolo .· 
•Concert: Sexual CJ1o~olate, 9(00 PM, -Dillon Hall 
•Theater: Al('~ _lff__e:fl_1'!1qiii1id/Well,_ ;'i:30 PM, Washington Hall 
•Three Kings, 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo 
THURSDAY 
,­i•Lecture_: ''Have European Courts Become 1 More Activist than the US Supreme Court? 
The Case of Spain,''lntonio Cllrl<:>_~ X_ereira, 
4:30 PM, Lmv Scho9lCoi.Jrti;6om.._J · 
.-/ . . ... ·. I 


MONDAY 
•O'Neill Kiilg/ofMar~i qras,cq_nt_~st, 7:00 PM, O'NeillHall __ .· / .•_.· -~---_ 
, I _· :,-·_. -'··--\ -.-·. 
•Concert: Indian Classical Music,\ 7:30 PM, 
.. ·. . / . : I·..·.· 
1
Hesburgh Center / J 
. . . . ·. .· / : .. '·. . / . 
•Theater: All's Well'J11at,Ends Well,/7:30 PM,
1 ·'-. ... .
Washingtofllall-:---,:--, ·· -...,_ _..-· . 
•FightClub; 7:00 PM, Snite _ 
•Three Kings, 8:00 & 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo 
-FRIDAY ­
. •Men's T~n:is-vs~-~ur~~e: :;~:00 PM, _Eck · Tennis Pavilion 
1
•Book signing: Children's aut 10r Patricia 1 
. · · k · 
Po acco, 1:30 PM, Boo store _ / 

D I S T R A C T I O N SI • 
•Men's Swimming.~nd Diving,.11:.00 AM, Rolfs •Film:BlackAthena, 7:00 PM;.Hesburgh Center 
•Spanish 
Mass: 1:30 PM, Keenan-Stanford 

•Gospel 
Concert: Voice~ of Faith, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall --· 


SUNDAY 
,,.-··· .....-~.... --., ,..,,, ... ,.....--..,,_
'• .. 
. . l /' ----, -. I ,· :\ • Lecture:iuthor Jar4a Cerv~nka, _3:q·o PM, Hesburgh Librnry Iloiinge _/ _/ 
•Lecture:J~n 
~9C~ui·~, PfPM;''\ . Hesburgh L1brary,Aud1torrnm · ) 

•Citizen 
Kaize, 7:00PM,\qfre '__. 


,_, _____,____ --"":--. •'"' 
•Student Forum: "McCulture: Americanism 
vs. Cross-Culturalism," 4:30PM, McKenna Hall --·-. 
•Internatio~al Film S·;~\ies:Buena Vista Social Club, 7:00 PM, Hesbui'.gli tenter .... / 
TUESDAY 
j;:,0;~,\:,~~~n!~1;ili:;t~~st;;-;30 -~: / i · •Lecture·. ''Wh · ·t c· • :_ -· ·. . I 
/ . . . •. . . at I ath_ohcs Disagree?" !
; S1ste1 Je.nnrne Gramick··ssNn· 6. -.. 
I H -·-.:· . · / , . , .00 PM·
i esburgh Center :-:-·~; \ • · ' · 
;_.. '(fniversity Park West 
r. . . -·. . . . . . : 
! C277°7336 
i -All Sho,Vs: in Stereo·. . · 
· · · (rheWorldisNotEnbugh 1:303:48 4:00 6:18 
l· · · 6':-3_Cr_s:4s:. i1:1s _,.: 
\'.Anna and the King 
f ·• 
k,·_ , 
. ~1 i Pokemon t Deuce Bigelow
;·_, ...,· 
t. 
1' 
[. 
l C. 291-4583 . iAll Sho,vs in Stereo l End ofDays C tDe11ce Biga!OiBone CoHector ··_ 
IAnna and the King · . . ·: .·. tTheWorldis Not Enough 1:004:00 6:50 9:40,
fDouble Jeopardy· 
iAmedcan Beauty (Boiler Room . · l•HangingUp*· · INextFriday ·,: !Pitch Black·•-, [ Reindeer G:imes . [Screarii3 ··· fSnow.Daf ii StuarfLittle i The'13each 
lThe Green Mile i-Thelim:ric:1ne 
fTheTigger,Movie :·..•. iZ:55 2:50 A:45 7:20 tThe\VholeNirteYards,;;. fa:45 3:05 5:307:5510:20 
i:40 4:30 7:30 9:55 .· ·· 
. 1:30 4:157:rn 9:50 
: '2:10 4:457:2510:05,\ . . l:00 3:105:20 7:40 10:00 
9:30 > ·< · · < 
· 2:05 4:30 7:05 9:50 . ·fa!50 3:15·5:35 8:0010:25 2:20 5:00 7:50 9:55)0:25 1:i'o 3:25 5:40'.7:5:)\ 10: 10 
.·· zjo5:00W35/:,' --.. _·_·. 2;604:40 :7:3510J5 
3:45 7:30 /. ..•_· :•. > · 12:45 3:55 7:ooio:10 _·, 
1:15 3:53 4:15 6:53 · -7:15-· 9:53 
T:45 3:34 __ . 
4:30 6:05 _6:50 8:25 . 9)0)0:45 _· 
---· .. , .· J:10 4:10: 7:00 9:50 1:W 4:20 7:20 ·. 9:30 
·--1:50 '4:40 7:10. 10:05 r:3n"4:50 8:00 

• •Zahm WinteiCarnival, 2:00 PM,,North Quad : r-7•:coooritert: ·sfroii:e 9 ;~µ yertical Horizion I 
•Collegiate Jazz Festi;al/ 7:30 PM; Stepan i ._ PM, Stepan Center ; · __ . ' / 
. •Theater:All's Well J.:hatEndSWell,7:~o PM, r •Men's Basketball VS. shdcuse 9_:00__ PM. 1>·__. I · Washington Hall /• : · · • Center . 1 : ' : :.. _ -, . oyce1 
•Fight Club, 7:00 PM; Sp.ite' . _ · •Heathers 7·00 PM i i : ·-· . -.. · _,_. I 
•Three Kings;.8:00-10:30 PM, 10lDeBartolo Lafortune ' ·. · · 1 -' M?ntgomery Theatre,·• / r•\Vopd~r~oys : ,: >Ci:25 \oo 
7:15 9:55/\ .· !>..
i 

( .: ,:._·;\ :\,· .::•-;:'. .. :.: ... );:--: :.. ;__ ', .:>,_.:: ·.,: :·:·-l-:_,-_i: '\•/'._:_'.; .. :: ,•:\·:::·<:.. ;·-' ·:-'.·:·:_·..~>:_-::,,

SATURDAY 
'i k:ta1i1l;i~s~ti11~1~a.i1,a~~ f ' . ·:,~-<VJ 
..J 
Calendar Scholastic 31 




by Lou Nanni 

Where the Heart Is 
As executive director of the Center for the Homeless, it was not uncommon for me to receive anonymous letters from people who 
found themselves homeless and in residence at the Center. One day I received the following letter. 
I left my name out ofthis paper because who I was got lost a long time ago. I hope that maybe someone listening can fit their name, or someone they know, into this idea. The fnspiration behind these thoughts are found in the name ofthe building, The Center for the Homeless. Though in actuality I am homeless, I no longer feel homeless. I always felt, home is where the heart is. I always believed, wherefore a person storeth his treasure, thereto will he find his heart. Though I may have lived with this person or that one, in this building or that car, or even in my own apartment ... my heart, spirit, soul was never at 
__________,___________ home. It was steadily searching.
People who find themselves 
Home means a regular dosage of love, caring,

to be homeless continue to be 
sharing, growth andhap­

nameless, faceless persons piness. My life did not have these traits and my
who do not count, but rather 

Lou Nanni, formerly the executive director for South Bend's Center for the Homeless, now works as an executive assistant to the presi­dent for Notre Dame. 
32 Scholastic Final Word 

spirit needed these things are counted. to survive. Hence, I was spiritually dead and spiritually homeless. However, I was guided here to the Center by God's will and this is how I know that God is with me. I could have continued to eke out a nameless existence or gone somewhere else to start over. But the wisdom ofGod and his angels led me here. Not only was I blessed with a new and clean environment for physical growth, but most impor­tantly my being was left with spiritual rejuvenation. There are programs here for virtually any problem one might have. Where Godblesses, he surely blesses! Now this sounds like a place my soul can call home. But, don't misunderstand, I don 'tfeel that this ismyhouse, so to speak. Nordo I think this is the final frontier.I no longer feel homeless or hopeless. My spirit has found a new home, one where it will grow, prosper and recover the life force I lost a long time ago. And when it matures, it will leave home, as we 
all must do, to start a new life ofits own, with roots deep in recovery and life so strong that it will take more than the average storm to blow this soul off track ofreclaiming what and who I am, and want to be. 
The author's words capture the despondency of homelessness. The complete and total loss ofidentity -I left my name out because who I was got lost a long time ago -is perhaps the most desperate ofall human conditions. Poverty, homelessness and de­spair continue to be for too many of us an idea, an abstraction and a cause. People who find themselves to be homeless continue to be nameless, faceless persons who do not count, but rather are counted. Nothing seems to devastate an individual quite like the loss of identity. 
Homelessness, by definition, means being without a home, or a sense of belonging. It is the breakdown of all support systems, leaving the individual alone against a sea of problems. It is interesting that the social problem is not called "houselessness," whereby housing and a job would simply satisfy for answers. Instead, homelessness is a social ill that cries out for a deeper level of community among us all. 
There is no quick fix to building meaningful com­munity. Indeed, community building is labor-inten­sive and requires time and creativity. Wemust restore a sense of family to people who experience discon­nectedness and isolation in their lives. We must also recognize that no community can be real and joyful if it excludes the neediest among us. Building commu­nity, one that seeks to bring hope and meaning to all citizens, can only.be accomplished one relationship at a time. This is sobering news, perhaps why so many people find social problems of the day, like homelessness, ,intractable. 
The challenge is formidable, but never hopeless. We can make a difference. We need each other. Everyone has something to share, especially the neediest among us who have little vested in our society. Their brokenness leaves them open to be God's special children, and to prophesy to the rest of us. The homeless person who drafted this letter, and others like her or him, have much to teach us. D 
--·--------­
. . . , . . 
Hope bu Meredith Salisburu 




·'.·.: Upcoming events ... 
live coverage . . 2.23.2000 Men•s Basketb~U NDvs. PROVIDENCE. (7:30 PM) 3.1.2000 Men's Basketball ND vs. SYRACUSE (9:00 PM) . also don't missthe 
log on. ., 
tune 1n 
THE VOICE OF THE FIGHTING--IRISH 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT RADIO
check us out 





