

T I 

BACCHUS is a student organization working to prevent alcohol abuse problems BEFORE they sturt. If you'd lil<e to learn more about alcohol or are interested in J0lmn~ other university students in promuti11g res­ponsible drinking decisions, CALL BACCHUS at. .. 
Jane Heisel -2580 Vince Willis-2022 John Sheeny -1721 Laurie Bink -12S4 
t20bl OJI 083 .09-1 .125 156 188 219 250 2St 313 34. 37::0I 140Ibl. 027 .OS. 080 107 13-4 181 188 214 241 268 295 321 I t601bo 023 0-17 070 O!M .\17 141 164 188 211 234 256 281 
180 .,. 021 042 083 083 104 125 146 167 188 208 229 2~.I20011>s o,s 038 056 .015 .09-1 ,,3 ,3, 150 169 ,88 206 22s·I 22011>& .017 OJ.4 051 068 .085 102 119 136 l!>J 170 188 20,: 
2ol01bo. 016 OJI .047 063 ,078 .09-4 109 125 141 l!,6 172 lb&
ITo clolorm,no your Hllmatod Blood IJoo/10I Conl0n1: 1. Counlyo,.6-. 12. Uno11111ho,..,-t,«oldr\nuWllhlhoruw-lO)'O<#..-gt,I. 
3. To dotannlno tho elled ol 11m1 on your Blood lva:!l:'d Conlenl ,_lho 
~cl\Ol1.Aperoonbumo<4>abo.Aono-pe,hour. 
I HOURSOPORINKlNO 11 I2 I3 I4 I5 IG
!=":;,,rum« .030 .1145 075
.015 .000 IY.lO 


Contents 
March 12, 1987 Vol. 128, No. 18

Scholastic 


Instant Replay 

10 For the second year in a row, Notre Dame heads into the NCAA Tournament with a winning streak, a Top­
20 ranking and an "unknown" opponent. By Phil Wolf 

Leading By Example 
16 Irish co-captain and senior Scott Hicks has shown the kind of quiet leadership that's earned the team a tour­
ney berth. By Ed Jordanich 

Cover illustration by Jim Gallagher 
News 
6 Clean Clothes, Hot Meals 

By Mark Dillon Laundry and meal plan options for on­. campus students have ·been proposed, but any changes await more e\lidence. 
8 Peace ROTC 
By Amy Weber 

Hesburgh has ·proposed a non-military equivalent to ROTC but there are still barriers to the program's inception. 

Sports , 

15/ Scoreboard: Irish To Host NCAA Fencing Championships 
Departments 
4/ Week in Distortion: Somebody's Watching You 5/ On Other Campuses: "Dying" For A Cause 19/ Music: Reasons To Be Cheerful 20 / Calendar 24/ Final Word: Especially For You 

Student Life 
22 Part Of The Tradition 
By John Albertini and Jeff Miller 
The small number of Jewish students, faculty and staff find they fit naturally into the Notre Dame community 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papeni, Inc., Milford, IN 46642. The subscription rate i11 $18.76/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are tl\ose of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All un1101icited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS atudent advertising, Inc. O 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permi1111ion ill prohibited. 


Edrronal 

·.f\1· •. i•• it·•~in't l:>ro ke, .• do11'{fix.··it, ,,····s~iITI~.•tobe;ihl.a{illlillISli:atio~•s.·po~ltion···()~ ~~§ ..rn~H~ p..}PP.§·····•..·..·.i ••··. ble.• cha11ges·.·fo theJJniversity's.• fpp<:l :a~clJa.µ11dty ~~rvic~s'.Jhose. servic~~.Pf~~.~i-~l>ffa9g1r:~:> 
; :;\·•.....••...• tha,t•all,s.tudents 'Nh.o liy~ on ~ampus. pt1rchase.. a. 2)71.neal• foodpla.n •.• anct•.• all. in~ti ~Q?.1KY$ itj:\jdorn1s ptiF<.:has~••·a.... $59: lall1:dry_seryic:e.plar1,·· Stu4en~ Se11atoriBria.11 Hols( ~a.~. p.(9B2.~ed that{sttji' 
i.·•· 

.. •:c1~rit.§\liying•·o11<::~.mp1.1s l)e·•.give:11ia meatp,ari pptio~•••·andJM.t .me11}Jyiri~••011.~an1pr~
•· :.. :.; choiceiofwhetlier or not· they .-w,ant.·laimcli;)1 seryic:e; These PJ.'C>pqsals•9:1~tJ~. se iou~ cpri~I 
Scholastic 

Scholastic 
Vol 128 March 12, 1987 No. 18 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Maher Mouasher 
Managing Editor: Keith Harrison 
General Manager: Phil Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Larry Burke Departments: Cathy Coffey News: Frank Lipo News: Kathleen McKernan Student Life: Greg Miller Copy Chief: Aimee Starin Student Life: Bob Winn 
Production 
Production Manager: Matt Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfler Photo Manager: Allan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek 
Administration 
Controller: Pete Cespedes Circulation: Mike Hoban 
Editorial Assistants 
Sports: Ed Jordanich . News: Steffanie Keller Sports: Phil Wolf 
Issue 18 Staff 
Layout: Photography: Sue Serrato Johannes Hacker Teresa Gianoli Greg Alberton Kris Malaker Joe Vitacco Alan Silvidi Tim Dempsey Steve Traubert 
Art: Copy: Jim Gallagher Sara Harty Xavier Wynn Anne Ranaghan Bob White 


Scholastic 
Not re Dame's Student Magazine 

is accepting applications for: 
Production Manager Departments Editor Photography Manager Copy Chief Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Sports Editor Advertising Manager News Editor Controller Student life Editor 
Applications are due by 5 p.m. Friday, March 13. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Contact Kathleen McKernan for information: Scholastic Office, 3rd floor LaFortune, 239-7569. 

CJ 'BONGO' t-shirts! C=:I 'BINKY' sweatshirts! 
$12 (includes postage & handling) $20 (includes postage & handling) 
Send check or money order to: 
LIFE IN HELL P.0. BOX 36E64, 
Los Angeles CA 90036 
March 12, 1987 


Somebody's Watching You 
The dining halls and the library, not the bars, are the prime spots for super scopers to practice their favorite pastime 
By John Coyle 


Scope (skohp) v. (from the Latin scope­scopare-scopavi-scopatus) : to check out a . person of the opposite sex because of feelings of passionate longing and intense desire. That's right, Romans scoped. They used to scope all the time. Nero, in fact, was the father of the scope. The Emperor and his other Ancient Roman buddies quickly realized that they couldn't have a good orgy without scoping out the prospects first. After all, no one wanted to wake up the following morning lying next to an ugly Roman. 
Scoping was brought to the New World by none other than good old Christopher Columbus. History tells us that Columbus was interested in finding a quicker route to the riches of the East Indies. Actu­ally, .old Chris was so fed up with the prudish Euro­pean women of the 15th century that he went in search of some fine East Indian maidens. People have always thought Chris used that telescope to· look for land when in actuality he was on the look out for chicks.. In fact, his first words upon seeing the New World were "chick ho!" as he caught sight of a few bikini-clad natives frolicking on the beach. 
Location is also a very important facet of scoping. The greatest misconception about the sport is the idea that bars are the best place for the activity. Wrong, wrong, wrong. The darkness of the bars com­.bined with a little of that hormonal juice called alcohol and you're headed for trouble. How many times have you spotted what looks to be an attractive person in your favorite watering hole only to see him/her in the light of the sun the next day and real­ize that this person is light years away from winning 
a beauty pageant? Therefore, proper lighting and acute senses are musts for successful scoping. 
The dining halls, specifically the salad bar and beverage center areas, are among the top spots. The beauty of it is ~hat one can be subtle yet noticeable simultaneously. When you see that special someone hovering near the celery, it's time to pounce. Just get up from your table and give it the old, "Oh, golly, I almost forgot to have my daily salad." Then saunter on up to the bar and make your first salad of the year while you check out your dreamboat putting a little French dressing on his/her tomatoes. 
Another good location is the second floor of the library. Let's face it, no one goes to the second floor to study. It's one big singles bar, except the vodka and tonics are traded in for pens and calculus books. When you spot the love of your life head for the Pit, inform your friends that you are just dying for a pack of Skittles and go for the stairs. 
The most important thing to remember is not to go overboard. · The last thing you want to do is have Mr. or Ms. Right laughing in your face as you give him/her your best "come hither" look. Don't be too 



'Dying' For ACause 
Edited by Mike Farnan 
Students at Eastern Illinois University pretend to die in a monthly protest of the nuclear arms race 
A monthly udie in" to protest the 
nuclear arms race is the project of a peace organiza­tion at Eastern Illinois University. When civil defense sirens sound on the first Tuesday of each month, members of the group Eastern Illinois Stu­dents and Community Concerned About Peace fall to the ground and pretend they are dead. Other group members draw chalk marks around the bodies of the "deceased" people to leave reminders of the protest. Approximately 20 members of the group staged one such demonstration last week, reported The Daily Eastern News. Participants admitted that the "die in" might seem funny to some people. "It's analogous to the greater silliness of the nuclear arms race," EISCCAP president Matt Sronkoski said. 
Mount Kilimanjaro's pinnacle now 
proudly displays Valparaiso University's flag. A recent article. in the South Bend Tribune reported that Paul Kapfer, a sophomore at Valparaiso, travelled halfway around the world and climbed 20,000 feet to the summit of the mountain with his family during Christmas break. While at the pinna­cle, h_e planted his school flag in the virgin snow. Kilimanjaro, located in Tanzania, Africa, boasts five different climates -tropical rain forest, grassland, high alpine, desert cold, and glacier -all of which he, his parents, and sister were able to endure. It took the fani.ily five days to go up and back. 

Condoms are free at Central Michigan 
University where officials hope to "disrupt" the spread of AIDS. Although no cases of AIDS have been reported at CMU, officials at the school hope to keep it that way. According to an Associated Press article in the South Bend Tribune, each student who requests the birth control device gets three condoms and instructions for use. Ed Brown, director of health services at the Mount Pleasant campus, said that the decision to distribute condoms was the result of a 1985 task force that studied ways to educate stu­dents about the disease. "Many of the school's 16,000 students are planning trips to Florida during the coming spring break, a time when some catch sexually transmitted diseases that are treated at the school when they return," Brown said. 
Convicts may be living on campuses in 
Texas so as to ease prison overcrowding, reported the College Press Service. Texas State Representative Richard Williamson wants to move "nonviolent" criminals out of the prisons and house them in empty dorm space on campuses throughout the state. Williamson's plan is one of several being debated as a result of a federal judge's order to relieve the overcrowding and improve inmates' living conditions by April 1, 1987. The state could be fined as much as $24 million dollars a day if it does not comply with the federal order. 
A taped female voice making sexual 
"suggestions" was what callers heard when they dialed a phone number advertised as an information line about University of Mississippi football recruits who had signed on national letter-of-intention day, reported the College Press Service. The Daily Missis­sippian of the University of Mississippi and the Jackson Clarion-Ledger both printed the 900 number in an advertisement paid for by Ole Miss's sports information office. The office, which provided the number to the papers, apologized. "All we can do is undergo the ·embarrassment of it," said spokesman Langston Rogers. 
March 12, 1987 



News 


Clean Clothes, Hot Meals 
By Mark Dillon 

Laundry and meal plan options 

for on-campus students have been proposed, but any changes await more evidence 
It's a typical Monday morning at Notre Dame. A bleary-eyed glance at the alarm clock reveals that the time is 9:0 I a.m. Unfortunately~ class begins at 9:05 a.m. In the rush to get to class, you discover every piece of clothing you own is still at the laundry, and for the 50th time this semester, you will have to m_iss breakfast. Although your only con'cern at the time is the location of ~our other shoe, later it occurs to 'you that you have just paid for yet another uneaten meal, and if you had washed your own clothes, you might not be wearing yesterday's dirty jeans. 
Brian Holst, a student senator from Holy Cross Hall, sympathizes with this early morning dilemma. Last November, Holst, who represents District One, submitted two resolutions to the Student Sen­ate. He proposed that an option be given to students as to whether :>r 
6 
not they wanted laundry service from St. Michael's Laundry. Holst also proposed a meal plan option for on-campus undergraduates. 
Both the laundry and the meal plan proposals passed the Student Senate unanimously on November 10 and November 17, respectively. Holst said, "The underlying philo­sophy for both proposals is that people should pay only for the ser­vices they receive." 
A survey of District One, which includes St. Ed's, Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, and Old College halls, was used to identify the students' desire for these options. The;: sur­vey was developed and distributed by Holst's Student Senate Advisory Council, composed of representa­tives from each hall in District One. Of the 1393 students in Dis­trict One, 400 replied to the sur­
vey. 
From, this survey, Holst found 91 percent of students responding agreed that laundry service should be optional. From this statistic Holst proposed, "All students 
should have the option as to whether or not to purchase laun­dry services from St. Michael's Laundry." Holst said, "There are students who do not use the laun­dry and are still required to pay $50." 
Holst's survey of District One also identified a desire for a meal plan option. He found that 93.2 percent of students surveyed agreed that students should have an option in choosing the number of meals they purchase. The sur­vey also discovered that students eat an average of 14.6 meals per 
week. 
Currently, on-campus under­graduates are the only students attending Notre Dame that do not 
Scholastic 


have a meal plan option. Off­campus undergraduates, for exam­ple, have the option of purchasing zero, five, I0, 14 or 21 meals. As a result, Holst proposed, "A meal plan purchasing option for on-. campus undergraduates should be made available." 
Both proposals have been under consideration by the administra­tion. Since November, Holst has been attempting to gather more comprehensive data from on­campus students regarding the interest in meal plan and laundry options. He enlisted the help of the Observer Campus Network which conducted a survey. The OCN sur­vey, however, did not have a suf­ficient number of student responses to be statistically valid. Holst is presently investigating other means to measure student opinion on the proposals. 
Norm Muller, director of St. Michael's Laundry, and Father William Beauchamp, executive assistant to the president, responded to Holst's laundry pro­posal. Muller said, "The laundry is a cost center, not a profit center. We are here to provide a service for the students." Muller explained that since all men are required to take the service and pay $50, the laundry system is structured to meet a known demand with a fixed revenue. 
Muller said, "If an option were 
given, there would have to be a 

I price restructuring, (thus) making 
i prices higher, reducing the quality of service, or both." Muller explained that the last price increase for laundry bundles occurred in 1973. He said, "Shirts done here, for example, cost 23 cents. If you went fo Ziker, you would pay between 75 cents and $1.50." 
Beauchamp . echoed these points. He said, "Room, board and laundry arc figured on a break­even basis with the laundry being a significant fixed cost. If an option were given and it resulted in a lot less use, the loss of reve­nue would have to be picked up elsewhere in order to break even." 
Both men worry that an option would decrease revenue and, therefore, would have an effect on the service provided. Since giving 
:=. 
iltt=\i}[I>;,: 
options would require a price increase in order to break even, Beauchamp said, "The bottom line is: Should students be willing to pay more money for less?" 
In drafting his meal plan pro­posal, Holst said he anticipated a number of administrative con­cerns. He believed that University Food Services would oppose the loss of revenue because it might affect the standard of service. The meal plaff proposal, therefore, would have to be kept revenue neutral, no net change in revenue. 
Holst said this could be accom­plished by offering a 12-meal plan 
option. He chose 12 meals for two reasons. "Those students who do not eat 2I meals per week at the dining halls choose to eat some of their meals at other places when convenient. We anticipate that these students will tend to eat two meals per weekday and only one on Saturdays and Sundays." Second, Holst said, "The 12-meal plan was derived from data· on meal consumption of 14.6 meals per week." 
William Hickey, director of University Food Services, was 
unavailable for comment. James Lyphout, vice president for busi­ness affairs, responded to the pro­posal, though: "Students are pay­ing for what they eat now because we build into the system the missed meal factor." 
Off-campus students currently have a meal-plan option which has been seen by some as unfair to on-campus students who have a mandatory 21-meal plan. Lyphout said that the administration has discussed the possibility of elim­inating the off-campus option. He added, though, the proposal was "dropped because Bill Hickey voiced a concern about off­campus students being unable to make use of the 21-meal plan because of distance." 
Lyphout defended the present service: "The pricing and pro­grams are pretty good. If you look at other schools, we are pretty low." In comparison, the average room and board for 1986-1987 is $4,125. Notre Dame students pay $2,715. 
Holst's proposals are currently in limbo awaiting more informa­tion because, said Beauchamp, "For the Umversity to make a decision, we would need to get a better handle on how many stu­dents would take the options and what the likely costs would be." II 
March 12, 1987 



News 

Peace ROTC 
By Amy Weuer 
Hesburgh has proposed a non-military equivalent to ROTC but there are still barriers to the program's inception 

I.t is 2:30 Thursday afternoon, and the walkways leading to the Memorial Library are 
crowded with Naval ROTC stu­dents. Clad in dark blue uniforms, the midshipmen trek to the audito­rium for their Naval Science course. If University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's peace propo­sal comes about, those same walk­ways soon may be crowded with members of Peace Corps units dressed in safari gear headed to the library for a class in Indian culture. 
Hesburgh first presented his plan to create a non-military equivalent to the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) last September in Washington D.C. , at the 25th anniversary celebration of the Peace Corps. As with ROTC, the proposed pro.gram would provide full four­year college scholarships in return for a four-year Peace Corps service commitment. 
"I am suggesting not a replace­ment for ROTC but a parallel choice, another path less traveled by, but no less important for Amer­ica,"Hesburgh said inhis September speech. "The · Constitution does mention the common defense. It also mentions the common welfare. Both need to be served in America ­and both need preparation. 
"America needs such a strong and steady stream of idealistic volunteers who have learned to serve by serving," Hesburgh added. 

Instead of a course in military science, Peace Corps participants would study the language, culture, history, and the political and economic situations of the area they would be serving. Students would also take American studies courses, for the purpose of enabling them to accurately represerit the United States overseas. The program would stress the study of economic development, agriculture, paramed­ical services · and other specialities needed for future work. 


Peace Corps volunteers would not spend the summer gaining prac­tical experience on ships, airfields or military bases as ROTC students do. Instead, participants would per­form a wide variety of service pro­jects for aiding the poor of· our society. One summer could even be spent overseas in the area of their future work, so students could gain practical experience. 
Upon graduating, · the Peace Corps volunteers would be sworn in for four ye~rs of service, and immediately assigned positions. Peace Corps graduates would earn considerably lower base salaries than those of the ROTC students, but they would receive the same graduate educational benefits at their assignment's completion. Response to Hesburgh's proposal has been positive in most areas, including Notre Dame. 
"Basically, I think it's a good idea," said Father Don McNeil, director of the Center for Social Concerns. "For someone coming to the University who really has the motivation for service, but not the motivation for military service . it provides a positive avenue." 
Navy Captain John Rohrbaugh, Air Force Colonel David Woods and Army Lt. Colonel Douglass Hem­phill initially see good in the idea. "I think its a great idea," said Woods. "Military service is just one of the · professions in the world which commits lives to service.. Peace Corps is a great opportunity for people to serve in a different way." 
Donald Loseff and Laura Warner, former volunteers who now recruit for the Peace Corps, both support the idea, but believe some problems should be solved before it is activated. For one thing, the Peace Corps does not just recruit on college campuses, and the college program might cause problems once 


Ne/vs 
the volunteers reach the field. 
Warner said she f cared that the program might create divisions among the field members of the Peace Corps. "Would that create any barriers or cliques or elitism?" she said. 
Loscff and Warner agreed that parallel programs designed to encourage other types of volunteers should be established to maintain a balance in personnel. Also, making voluntecrism an attractive alterna­tive may lead people to join for selfish reasons. "Will people go into (the Peace Corps) because it's such a good financial deal? You need more to go through a Peace Corps experi­ence," said Warner. 
McNeil said he felt that the four-year post-graduation assign­ment is too tough. He believes stu­dents come into college not knowing what they really want for the future. "They could come in with a lot of altruism and good will, but it wouldn't at all be what they wanted to do for four years after gradua­tion," he said. 

Others believe a major prob­lem lies in funding the program. John Gilligan, director of the Insti­tute for International Peace Studies said, "Father Hesburgh has a good idea, but I'm not overwhelmingly optimistic about the readiness of the government to sponsor such a pro­gram. My guess is that the response of the government will be 'No way."' 
McNeil hopes a solution to the cost problem can be found. "My own intuition would be that they might cut back a bit of the ROTC, and make room for something like this as a means of a creative alterna­tive," he said. Activation of the proposal means more volunteers for McNeil, and more government funds. Summer projects could be performed and funded by the Peace Corps project. 
"(Peace Corps volunteers) could also provide leadership and be catalysts for thinking about other things because they're a part of a more national group," McNeil said. 
Hesburgh also acknowledges the problem of funding the project, but does not see that as a barrier to the program. He believes the proposal can succeed once it gets a sponsor, such as a senator or a presidential candidate, to strongly influence the government and public opinion. He sees his proposal as "an alternative that will make the world something better to defend, a place with a better quality of !ife." 


March 12, 1987 


Sports 


By Phil Wolf 

For the second year in a row, Notre Dame heads into the NCAA Tournament with a winning streak, a Top-20 ranking, and an "unknown" opponent 

I.
..a• 
About a week before
~.••the 
start of the .. • basketball season, Irish head coach 
Digger Phelps sat in 
his office talking 
about the upcoming campaign. He 
knew it was going to be a long 
haul to get through his schedule 
with a young, inexperienced team. 
"Don't expect this team to go 23-5 and be ranked in the top l 0 at the end of the year (as last season's team was)," he said. 

Last Saturday, the Irish wrapped up their 22-7 season with a come-from-behind victory over Dayton and on Sunday were assigned the fifth seed in the East Regional of the NCAA Tourna­ment. Notre Dame will face Mid­dle Tennessee State at 2:37 this afternoon in Charlotte, N.C. 
"For us to finish with 22 wins, well,nobody expected that, includ­ing myself," Phelps said at Day­ton. He ran down his checklist of reasons why Notre Dame should not have won that many games: the graduation of last season's seniors, Tim Kempton, Ken Barlow, Jim Dolan and Joseph Price; the life­threatening injury last summer to junior point guard David Rivers; the ineligibility of freshman Keith Robinson because of NCAA Pro­position 48. 
Indeed, the Irish struggled early, losing 80-63 to Western Kentucky in the opening game of the Coca-Cola NIT Classic and 67-62 to Indiana in -the first regular-season game. But from there, Notre Dame began to build· confidence, Rivers continued his near-miraculous recovery, anq the Irish began to assume the identity 
The Irish are ranked 11th in the nation in rebounding margin thanks to Royal (15) and Voce, · 
Schol~tlc 
Sports 
that Phelps said he was looking 
for. 
"From the beginning of the season we had a goal to eventually, gradually mature as a team and create our identity," senior co­captain Scott Hicks explained. "I feel that by midseason, probably the beginning of February, we 
knew that we can play with jusc 
about anybody." 
By February, the team was ready to take on No. 1 North Carolina, No. 4 DcPaul and No. 15 Duke, defeating each team in the ACC. And in all of the Irish losses this season, except Western Kentucky, Notre Dame had a chance to win the game in the final minutes. It was, in fact, some of the close losses that began to give the Irish confidence. 
"After the defeat to UCLA (63-59 -on January 24), we knew we were a very good ball club," senior co-captain Donald Royal said last week. "We lost a very dif­ficult game, but we did the things we had to do to win. And from there going on and beating North Carolina (60-58 on February I) which we knew was the No. 1 team in the country, we said, 'Where are we?"' 
Where the Irish were then was · on the road to a national ranking 
and a berth in the NCAA Tourna­
ment. The ranking (No. 20 in the 
Associated Press poll and No. 18 in 
the United Press International 
rankings) came the week after 
Notre Dame's 73-62 upset of 
DcPaul on February 25. That con­
.test also was the middle game of 
the nine-game winning streak the 
Irish will take into the tournament. 
"These kids have just been unbelievable," ·Phelps said after the 62-56 win at Dayton. "They finished the season in the top 20; they got 22 wins -eight of those on the road. They've proven what they can be as a team, and I think they have a lot of momentum going into the tournament and a lot of confidence going into the tournament." 
Last season, the Irish had six consecutive wins going into the NCAA playoffs, the best season­ending streak for a Phelps team at Notre Dame until now. But the Irish momentum last year was stopped short as Arkansas-Little Rock surprised Notre Dame with a 90-83 upset in the first round of 

the tournament. Phelps said, was ranked No. 10 in seeded third in Region, were up against a team they knew nothing about. 
This year, things were supposed to be different. "This is the type of team I'd like to see seeded eight to 12 in the NCAA Tournament," Phelps said in November, "because then you know who you're playing against." 
But Monday afternoon, Phelps was pretty nervous about his upcoming game. "There's not too much to say about Middle Tennes­see because we don't have any tapes," he said at a press confer­ence. "I just like preparation and right now we're not prepared because we don't have any tapes. We've got about 400 tapes of peo-
The problem, that the Irish, the nation and the Southeast 
pie and not one of Middle Tennes­see." 
All that Phelps could do was 
review the statistics. "You can 
look at stats and you'll see they've 
got five guys in double figures 
(and as a team they are) averaging 
86 points a game," Phelps pointed 
out. "But that doesn't help me. I 
want to see them play and how · they get the 86 points." 
The Blue Raiders do, indeed, have five players who average 10 or more points per game, and two others are close behind. Andrew Tunstill, a 6-3 senior swingman, leads the team with a 15 points­per-game average. He is followed by 6-7 junior center Dwayne Rai­ney (14:5 ppg., as well as nine rebounds per contpst), 6-9 sopho­more forward Randy Henry (I 3.6 ppg.), 6-7 junior forward Tyrus Baynham (10.5 ppg.) and 6-4 senior guard Duane Washington 
(10.4 ppg.). 
Also helping the 22-6 Raiders to average 86.3 points every time out have been 6-3 sophomore guard Chris Rainey and 6-7 junior forward Kerry Hammonds, who have come off the bench to aver­age 9. 7 and 8.9 points per game, respectively. 
Middle Tennessee won the regular-season portion of the Ohio Valley Conference before losing to Austin Peay in the OVC tourna­ment semifinals. The team's talent, apparent from the stats, was summarized by head coach Bruce Stewart for The Indianapolis Star: "We're a very balanced team," he said. "Also, we're a very physical team which likes to play an up-tempo style." 
Stewart expressed little apprehension at having to face Notre Dame. "I don't think we will be in awe," he told the Star. 
· Continued on page 14 
March 12, 1987 



.......---·'"""""'" 
··_ 
W~st~;~ Ke11tuc~f/S/ · •·· ·• \ \ \ 
>r:siiiiilf( :r5r.-.•---•· ,_// 

i .,,.~,_;;...~--,-----'"'.'i_ :1sici~o}g1i~d#}~ith/Vi\>" r:"'ij 


Sports 
Continued from page 11 

"Instead, I think it will be a motivator for us. We will obvi­ously be the underdog since they are the fifth seed. We've been the favorite in nearly, every game we've played since Christmas. It will probably be a fun role t_o be the underdog." 
The Raiders' biggest win of the season probably was their 85-83 upset of Michigan in December. Another game of interest for the Irish is MTSU's 66-63 victory over Arkansas-Little Rock, a team Notre Dame will not soon forget. 
"It's been very long since we lost in ,the first round to Arkansas-Little Rock," Royal said, "and we feel this year we have something to prove. People don't expect us to do much, and it's always been like that, but we have something to prove to our­selves and not to anyone else. We just want to go out and make things happen." 
Royal knows what it means to make things happen, too. He has led the Irish this season with aver­ages of · 15.6 points and seven rebounds per game. His .562 career field goal percentage and . 778 career free throw percentage rank him fourth-and eighth, respectively, on the all-time Irish lists. 
Royal's classmate and fellow co-captain Hicks has averaged 11.2 points per game and was voted Notre Dame's most inspirational player. Although he sprained his ankle in last week's 65-49 _home finale against Miami, Hicks will be ready to play in the tourna­ment, Phelps said (see page 16). 
Rivers averages 14.7 _points and continues to be the creative force for the Irish offense. In the wan­ing minutes of the contest at Day­ton, Rivers drove against four Dayton players in the lane and hit 
14 


an underhanded layup, then a few plays later hit a three-point shot with eight seconds on the shot clock. "That's David," Phelps said afterward. "When it's money time, he's there. Crunch time, he's there. Time to win it, he's there. Time to live, he was there." 
Sophomore Mark Stevenson has averaged I 0.4 points per game, scoring in double figures in 15 of his last 18 games. Home-crowd favorite junior Gary Voce has averaged 6.5 points iri his last 16 games and 8; I rebounds in his last _19 games, earning him the Most Improved Player award. That award acknowledges Voce as the most improved player on one of the most i~proved teams in the 
NCAA this season. 

The Irish squad has already far exceeded, expectations. With a cou­ple of wins in the NCAATourna­ment, Notre Dame could be in position for another big upset, perhaps a second win over East Regional top seed North Carolina. 
After the Tar Heels lost to the Irish in February, head __ coach Dean Smith predicted that if the Irish "play that well they'll defin'." itcly be in the NCAA Tournament and have a chance to win it. That's what's interesting about . college basketball. That's what makes it fun." If Smith is right, the Irish will be having a lot of fun in New Orleans on March 30.11 
Scholastic 
Scoreboard 

Irish To Host NCAA Championships 
MEN'S FENCING -T~, NCAA Men's Fcnc­

.. ing Championships wily be held in the North Dome of the ACC nelft Monday, March 16 through Wednesday, March 18. 
Notre Dame enters ,the tournament as the defending champion and ,will vie for the title as a favorite, along with Columbia. 
Fencers that will be counted on to lead the Irish charge for the-· championship include All-America foilists CHARLES HIGGS­COULTHARD and . YEHUDA KOYACS .• Sabreman KEVIN,.. STOUTERMIRE is expected to challenge for-the individual championship in his event'. Epceists TIM VAUGHAN and TODD GRIFFEE, and sabreman GEOFF ROSSI will complete the competitors for Notre Dame. 
WOMEN'S FENCING -The ACC also will be the site for the women's title matches as I 986 champion Penn, Temple; and Notre Dame appear-to be the likely contenders for the team fencing crown. 
Notre Dame will be anchored by defend­ing individual champion MOLLY SUL­LIVAN and JANICE. HYNES. Caty Bilo­deaux of Columbia, the 1985 individual champion and loser to Sullivan last year, is the odds-on favorite to fence Sullivan for this year's first place honors. 
"Both . Sullivan and Biloaeaux can be dominating,'' said women's coach YVES AUI<.IOL. "Last year Molly went undefeated at the tournament, and· beat Bilodeaux 8-3 for the title, but Bilodeaux is fencing better this season. 
BASEBALL -Following three close losses to Indiana last weekend, Notre Dame heads to San Antonio, TX for its annual spring break trip. 
Notre Dame will play Schreiner College, St. Edward's, South_west·Texas State, Incar­nate Word, St. Mary's, and Southwest Conference power, · Baylor. The Bears recently gained a spot in the nation's top 20 and St. Mary's has already had an early­season game with Texas, one of the nation's best teams since the inception of the College World Series. 
The Irish losses to Indiana were by scores of 4-3, 4-2, and 3-0. Good pitching was turned in by KEVIN CHENAIL and fresh­man BRIAN PIOTROWICZ. TIM HUTSON 
March 12, 1987 
belted a home run for Notre Dame in the first game of last Sunday's doubleheader . 
LACROSSE -Notre Dame begins its 1987 season next week with a three-game road. trip to Virginia and New York. Irish opponents will include Radford, Washington and Lee, and Villanova. 
Coach RICH O'LEARY will have attack­man JOHN McLACHLAN back on the squad this year after a one-year hiatus. McLachlan was the third-leading scorer for the Irish in 1985. 
GOLF -Spring break will see coach NOEL O'SULLIV AN's Irish ·in Orlando, FL. Notre Dame will join Purdue, Northern Illinois and Eastern Kentucky in the University of Cen­tral Florida Intercollegiate Tournament dur­ing its week in the sun. 
TRACK -Despite qot.qualifying anyone for the NCAA championships, Notre Dame fin­ished in 17th place at the IC4A Indoor Cham­pionships at Cambridge, MA. 
Two freshmen placed for the Irish as GLENN WATSON finished third in the 55­mctcr hurdles and TOM KRAUSE had a sixth-place finish in the shot put. TIM BROWN added points to_. the Irish total, fin­ishing sixth in the 55-meter hurdles. 
Coach JOE PIANE'a squad will begin it& 
outdoor season at the.Willie Williams Invita­
tional in Tucson, AZ on March 21. 
MEN'S TENNIS -Coach TOM FALLON's Irish will travcl to Ca1ifornia next week alter splitting a pair of matches on the road last weekend. 
Notre Dame lost to Wisconsin 5-4 last· Saturday and came back to beat Gustavus Adolphus 7-2 on Sunday. The Irish won five out of their six doubles matches in the two contests, led by the No. I pair of TIM CARR and DA VE REITER. 
Opponents on the. west eoast trip includ6­Cal State-Los Angeles, Pierce, and Whittier. 
HOCKEY -An e!]lotion-packed weekend closed out the· Irish hockey season as Notre Dame played its last two games for head coach LEFTY SMITH. Smith announced his resignation after S:iturday's 6-4 loss . to Michigan-Dearborn _in the finals of the first­ever ACHA tournament. · 
The tournament, hosted by Notre Dame, was a showcase for some of Smith's squad's best play of the season in Friday's 4-1 win over top-seeded Lake Forest. 
Goalie LANCE MADSON, dcfcnscman LANCE PATTEN, and. captain MIKE McNEILL had outstanding games for the Irish,who finished their season I 0-19-1. 
MEN'S SWIMMING -Notre Dame ended its year with the Eastern Collegiate Champion­ships in Cleveland and the Midwest Indepen­dent C!Jampionships in Chicago. 
JOHN KOSELKA, JIM DOWD, CHRIS PETRILLO, and ROGER MIRO set a new University record in the 400-yard freestyle relay (3:07.86). With times of 0:59.12 in the 100-yard breaststroke and 2: I 1.08 in the 200-yard breaststroke, CHARLES NEIDH­OFFER set two more school records. Fresh­man Mll(E MESSAGLIA's time of 16:12.85 in the 1650-yard freestyle also set a record. 
COACH OF THE WEEK 
LEFTY SMITH 
Smith, head coach 
· of· the Notre Dame hockey program for the past J9 seasons, announced he was ending his career as the Irish mentor after last Saturday's ACHA tournament champion-/ ship game. Smith com-1 piled a record of 307­320-31 as the only coach of Irish hockey since it began varsity competition in J968. "I'd like to think that we've established certain parnmeters, philoso­phies :i.nd traditions in the Notre Dame pro­gram," said Smith. "We've formed our own family of sorts, with the parents as well as the players being incorporated into Notre Dame hockey. We also think that, right now, the program is in really good shape and has a bright future after it was dropped down to club level for one year in 1983." All 126 players who have completed their eligibility under Smith have graduated. Smith will take over as director of the new Loftus Indoor Sports Center which is slated to be finished in the late fall. 
15 


,:: 
.£... 
QJ 
< .JJ bC 
QJ
... 
C, 




Scott Hicks has a quotation on the wall of his roo~. He ran across it last year and a friend had it framed for him. The quotation reads, "Success lies in doing not what others consider to be 
great, but what you consider to be right." 
Hicks has done just that at Notre Dame. After a career marked by streaks and slumps, Hicks has put together a senior season in which he has fulfilled the leadership role of co-captain that he believed would be essential to the confidence of the entire team. 
"When I came to Notre Dame, Tom Sluby was the senior captain and he went about it in the way a cap­tain should -by example," Hicks said. "Last year Kenny Barlow was the man we looked to for leader­ship, and he provided it. This year (senior co­captain) Donald Royal and I have tried to follow in the footsteps of Sluby and Barlow. After the way we began the season, we knew this team had· to get an identity. I think the example we've set has something to do with our recent success." 
Irish coach Digger Phelps agrees with his senior's assessment. "Hicks has done an outstanding job as captain," Phelps said. "He and Royal aren't vocal, but the way they've led by example has earned the 
By Example 
. By Ed Jordanich 
Irish co-captain and senior Scott Hicks 
has shown the kind of quiet leadership 
that's earned the team a tourney berth 
respect of their teammates." 
The 6-3 Indianapolis native has always provoked "oohs" and "ahs" with his flashy one-handed rebounds followed by sharp smack of the basketball. But another Hicks trademark has been consistently tough one-on-one defense against some of the nation's premier guards over the last four years. 
Hicks held Indiana's Steve Alford to five points in his sophomore season and has drawn the assignment of covering All-Americans such as Pearl Washington, Kenny Smith and Johnny Dawkins. This year Hicks has turned in fine performances against such stan­douts as Jeff Lebo and Rod Strickland. 
"I watch tapes and try to get a feel for these guys' strengths and weaknesses," Hicks said. "I try to jam the good shooters and make them put the ball on the floor. Good defense starts with denying the man the ball, and since quickness is one of my main strengths, I try to take advantage of it on 'D.' 
"I developed my defense here at Notre Dame. In high school you really don't play defense. You think you do but you don't. Coach Phelps taught me how to take advantage of my athletic ability and give people problems when they have the ball." 
Slowed only by a short midseason dry spell and 
injuries which sidelined him for the games at Utah 
and Dayton, Hicks became the solid outside shooter 
Notre Dame needed in its starting lineup this year. A season-high 19 points in the Duke upset and five jumpers in the first half last week against Miami (including Hicks' only three-pointer of the year) were a couple instances of the potency of the senior's 
weapon. 

Scholastic 
Sports 

"My shooting has improved a lot since my fresh­man year," Hicks said. "This year we ran more ~elec­tively, and, although I think my game is more in the up-tempo style, I've been a consistent shooter. My concentration is another thing that has helped my shooting. It's come a long way since high school, too." 
Hicks graduated from Cathedral High School in Indianapolis and followed Barlow, another Cathedral alumnus, to Notre Dame. Both Barlow and Cathedral (which also has the nickname "Irish") still mean a great deal to Hicks. 
"I've talked to Kenny three or four times this year," Hicks said. "The last time was after the Duke game. (Barlow is playing professional basketball in Milan,· Italy this season . .) He was a big influence in my decision four years ago to come to Notre Dame and now that basketball is almost over here, I'll prob­ably look to him for advice again. His opinion means a lot to me." 
Another big influence on Hicks has been his cousin, John Sherman Williams. Williams played for Indiana State before giving the CBA a try this past year. While at ISU, Williams was the Missouri Conference Valley Player of the Year, beating out Xavier McDaniel for the award. He also finished his junior season third in the nation in scoring. 
"Sherm's a guard-forward type player too," Hicks said .. "He's really helped me out, preparing me for the ups and downs of a possible professional career. He's helped me with my basketball, too." 
· Making an NBA team would be dream-come-true for Hicks, but he isn't putting his entire future on a career in the pros. "If the NBA works out, I'll be very happy," he said. "I want a chance. Maybe Europe is in my future. I can't really tell now." 
Indiana product Isaiah Thomas has been Hicks' idol since the beginning of the Detroit Piston point guard's leap to superstardom. Thomas's athletic grace and unselfishness are the characteristics that Hicks says he admires the most. Hicks himself has been invaluable by virtue of his unselfishness. In the past two years, he has learned the point guard posi­tion in order to spell David Rivers, which has added a dimension to Hicks' game. 
"I think I've become amuch better ball handler in the past two seasons," said the senior. "I feel com­fortable at the wing and the point. The things Isaiah does with the. ball are something. The more things I can do will help a .great deal down the road. What­ever happens, I'll have the four years here, and espe­cially this season, to keep me happy for a while." 
Besides the upsets at home over North Carolina, Duke and DePaul, a couple of things have made the player Phelps calls "Scotty" very satisfied -and hungry -of late. 
"The year we've had and the upsets have been surprising after the way we played at the beginning of the year," Hicks said. "Duke, North Carolina and 

DePaut were my most exciting moments in the four years I've played at Notre Dame. I had never heard the students and the fans get as loud as they were at those three games. Now that the tournament is here I want the momentum and confidence those games gave us to continue. 
March 12, 1987 



Sports 


"Last year we got complacent with Arkansas­Little Rock and they took everything away from us. If we play with the confidence we have had since February, and play each game like it meant the 
E
;:s 
i:: 
" 
~ 

Co-captains Royal (center) and Hicks have given 
Phelps' team the leadership it needed. 
championship, this team can accomplish a lot." 
Regardless of the performance of Notre Dame in the NCAA Tournament, Hicks' career has experi­enced more than the evolution of a great athlete into a basketball player of equal talents. The once shy and reserved guard has developed as a person also. 
"People who knew me in high school probably wouldn't believe me now," said Hicks. "I've opened up a lot more and I've become more aware socially. I'd like to work at a firm in sales or marketing and the interview process has opened my eyes a lot. I've met all different kinds of people and I've seen some of what they say the real world is like. It's made me a different person." 
One of the things Hicks treasures most is his fam­ily, and his mother's appearance at the Miami game was the last of Daisy Hicks' many trips to South Bend to see her son play. Having her and other family members at all the big February wins, as well as his last game at the ACC, meant a great deal to Hicks. 
"Having my family able to come to the games was 
a big reason I chose to come here in the first place," 
he said. "They've seen me grow up as a player in the 
last four years, and that's something that makes me 
very happy." 

Hicks' growth as a player has not gone unnoticed 
by his coach either. Phelps made ilo bones about 
how he felt his co-captain had played during the 
1986-87 campaign after Hicks had said his farewells 
to the student body. 
"Scotty's had a sensational year," Phelps said. "We 
told him we needed more scoring and he's had a free 
reip. all year. He really went after it with a lot of 
confidence and did what he had to do." 
The little things Hicks has done to get the Irish into the NCAA Tournament for the third-straight year have flowed from his belief that they were the things that could prnduce wins and tournament 
berths. Not only has the sweat and sacrifice produced a complete basketball player, _but Hicks' ability to motivate himself and build on the guidance of others has not compromised his personality: 
When Hicks' four years at Notre Dame arc dis­cussed, 30-point games or even 20-point games will not jump quickly to mind. That's okay with Scott Hicks, as long as it's remembered that he did it right.Ill 
Scholastic 

Reasons To Be Cheerful 

A listing of some of the best bands around, from Big Black to the Beastie Boys 

Spring Break's here. Well, almost. But hey, we're all party animals, so who goes to class on Friday anyway? It's time to feel good about ourselves, 'cos to day is going to be like an endless Thursday night on NBC, or something like that. Everything's looking happy. Here are a few things that put a smile on my face. I hope y'all agree. 
I) Shonen Knife -I'd be willing to bet that they make teen flicks in Japan every bit as insipid as the crap U.S. filmmakers churn out. And I can en vision Shonen Knife supplying the soundtrack to one of those movies, thus assuring it of cult status. This all-J emale Japanese trio's most recent album, Pretty Little Baka Guy, takes off like the Ramones on a strict diet of Pez candy and traverses the entire musical world in less than 30 minutes. Their spaceship is a gumdrop, and their message is one of mindless fun. Won't you come along? 
2) Primitons Birmingham, Alabama's finest rockers graduate from Mitch Easter to Tim Lee and wind up none the worse. Terrific pop music that should be a part of any R.E.M./Game Theory fan's record collection, but probably won't because Rolling Stone didn't discover them yet. 
3) Big Black -It was the St. Valentine's Day Massacre all over again as this Chicago trio took the stage February 14 in a tiny club on . the North Side of their hometown. Lead singer Steve Albini ( of Converse-wearing fame) began the whole thing by igniting a roll of a few thousand firecrackers, forcing the packed crowd back a good five feet, then the band launched into the pounding "Fists of Love." Two intense guitarists, a huge (and huge-sounding) bass player and a drum machine named Roland ma,ke up Big Black, and when these boys are at their peak, there are very few bands .that can top 'em in concert. As is fitting for Big Black's no-retreat live 

reputation, the band knocked out the power a total of five times one night. Yeah, part of it was loud­ness, but part of it was, you know, something else. Big Black simply ruled that night. 

4) Squirrel Bait -This quintet has been beating the pants off every lame college band around for the past year-and-a-half, and now they've got a couple more weapons to keep it that way. First off, they've discovered the noble art of production, in all · its crisp glory. Skag Heaven, their new record, gives Ben Daughtrey's drums room to breathe and allows the guitars of David Grubbs and Brian McMahon to flex the full muscle of their range. Second, the band has better songs, ones which rely less on emotional impact and more on style. "Kid Dynamite," "Virgil's Return," "Kick the Kat" and a cover of Phil Och's "Tape from California" will bowl you over with the Bait's typical con­coction of loud guitars and hoarse vocals. 
5) The Beastie Boys -Only one thing makes me feel better than listening to Licensed to Ill, that's watching dozens of drunk students shouting, "You've gotta fight for your right to party!" along with it. This record shut up those who claimed rap was a one-DMC trick, ·and it opened a bunch of people's 
minds  too.  The left-field  hit of  
the season.  
6) Happy  Flowers  -A  two-man  

band from Charlottesville, Vir­ginia. Sample song titles: "Mom, I Gave the Cat Some Acid," "Mom and Dad Like the Baby More than Me," "The Vacuum Ate·Timmy," and "Daddy Melted." Proof that childhood is and always will be hell. Great music, too. II 
19



Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
THURSDAY, MARCH 12 
FILMS: 
"The Hustler" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $1 
MUSIC: 
Laura Klugherz Violin Recital Annenberrg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
Sandi Patti & lat Call Contemporary Gospel ACC 
7:30 p.m. 
Barrick Stees Bassoon SMC Little Theater 8 p.m. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 13 
Spring Break Begins 
MONDAY, MARCH 23 
Classes Resume at 8 a.m. 
FILMS: 
"North by Northwest" Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
"Platinum Blonde" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
9:30 p.m. $1.50 
TUESDAY, MARCH 24 
FILMS: 
"Melvin and Howard" Annenberg Auditorium 7:30 p.m. $1.50 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25 
FILMS: 
"Bonnie and Clyde" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. $1 


Chicago 


20 

Scholastic 


"'I 
Compiled By Charlie Buckley and Ace Corsetto 
THURSDAY, MARCH 26 

FILMS: 
"Harvest of Shame" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7 p.m. $1.50 
"Bonnie and Clyde" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. $1 
FRIDAY, MARCH 27 
FILMS: 

"Purple Rose of Cairo" Annenberg Auditorium 7:30, 9:30 p.m. $1.50 
"American Graffiti" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. $1.50 
Michiana 
SPECIAL EVENTS: 
ND /SMC Senior Class Formal Palmer House in Chicago March 27-29 
SATURDAY,MARCH28 
FILMS: 
"American Graffiti" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. $1.50 
MUSIC: 
REO Speedwagon Concert 
ACC 8 p.m. 
$15.50 
MONDAY, MARCH 30 

FILMS: 
"The Big Sleep" Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
"Dangerous" Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. $1.50 
TUESDAY, MARCH 31 

FILMS: 
"Love and Death" Annenberg Auditorium 7:30 p.m. $1.50 
March 12, 1987 
21 


Student Life 

Part Of The Tradition 
By John Albertini and Jeff Miller 

The small number of Jewish students, faculty and staff find. they fit naturally into the Notre Dame community 
The Notre Dame fencing team has a pre-game tradition which initially caught junior Yehuda Kovacs by surprise. "Before every meet the team says a Hail Mary," he said. "When I first heard it, I felt a little awk­ward. But now it doesn't bother me." This is certainly not a typical Notre Dame response to the Hail Mary, but Kovacs is not a typical Notre Dame student. Kovacs, whose home is in Israel, is Jewish. 

Kovacs is one of just a handful of Jewish undergraduate students at Notre Dame, where 94 percent of the students are Catholic. In fact, Kovacs said he personally knows of only one other Jewish undergraduate, also on the fencing team. According to Kevin Roo­
_ney, director of admissions at Notre Dame, "There are only about five Jewish undergraduate 
! i 
applicants a year." 

I 
I Given such statistics, a Jewish I high school student who decides to 
I 
attend Notre Dame is unique.

! 
Kovacs explained that he came to Notre Dame because of the repu-. tation of the fencing team. He said, "I wanted to go to a school with a good fencing team. By the time I knew Notre Dame was a Catholic university, I was already accepted. At first I hesitated but then a rabbi told me that there was 
22 

no problem for me to study at a Catholic ins ti tu tion." 
Joshua Golub, a senior who is also Jewish, chose to attend Notre Dame for its educational oppor­tunities. He said, "I came here hoping to get a liberal education." Golub said that he never expected ~o feel out of place at Notre Dame. The atmosphere is one of accep­tance and concern which eases the transition of a Jewish student into a Catholic environment. Although he admitted to initial doubts, Golub said, "After three weeks, you couldn't have torn me away from the place. It grew on me so quickly." 
Kovacs, with similar enthusiasm, expressed that he is happy at Notre Dame not iust because of the success of the fencing team. He said, "I don't know if it is because Notre Dame is Catholic, but the people are friendly and respect a different religion. I am impressed . with the attitudes of people here. I love Notre Dame and am extremely happy." 
Kovacs also said that Notre Dame has in no way compromised his religious commitment. He lives off campus with a Jewish family and said that he worships every Saturday at South Bend's Hebrew Orthodox Synagogue. 
The number of Notre Dame's Jewish faculty members is more significant than either undergra­duate or graduate students. There are Jewish faculty members in most every department and in the ad ministration. Jewish faculty members come to Notre Dame for a variety of reasons. Most said that Notre Dame's atmosphere is a strong attraction. Morton Fuchs, a Jewish professor and chairman of the department of biology, said that he appreciated the fact that Notre Dame has a religious iden­tity to distinguish it. Fuchs said, "The whole atmosphere is one of kindness and caring." 
Some Jewish professors, how­ever, expressed initial reservations 
· about coming to Notre Dame. Government professor Peri Arnold's first reaction was one of disorientation. He said he won­dered about the signs of Catholi­cism on campus. "I thought, 'What is going on here?' These are strange symbols to my back­ground. I asked myself, 'Is there a university here?"' Arnold's doubts were quickly put to rest, however. He said that the intellectual and educational opportunities presented set Notre Dame apart from other universi­ties with religious affiliation. 
Fuchs said that Notre Dame is a 
Scholastic 


Student Life 

place where he can grow acade~i­cally, both in the research field and in the classroom. When he began teaching, he said, he was somewhat apprehensive about the 
University's strong Catholic asso­ciations. But he said he has never experienced any religious pressure or prejudice. Said Fuchs, "I would do nothing differently in my teaching format if I were at a sec­ular school." 
Roger Brooks, a Jewish profes­sor in the theology department, cited th~ attractiveness of the job offer as his reason for coming to Notre Dame. He said, "The job best fit what I wanted to do, for example, teaching graduate stu­dents." Brooks added, "South Bend also has a thriving Jewish · community with four synagogues and 2,000 Jews. South Bend is a great place to raise a family. Besides, Notre Dame is a great university." 
Jewish faculty members and staff· said that they are comfort­able in the Catholic environment. University Provost Timothy O'Meara said, "The Jewish faculty are very sympathetic to the Catholic mission of the University and its sense of values, while maintaining their own Jewish her­itage." 
Reciprocally, the administra­tion respects the role of religion in the life of a Jew. Days off are granted for high holy days and other special occasions. Annette Ortenstein, a secretary who has worked at Notre, Dame for 30 years and is now tlie ·secretary of President-Elect Father Edward Malloy, said she has never found it difficult to be a Jewish employee of the University. "Notre Dame has been wonderful to me. I'm very comfortable at Notre Dame and there just isn't a problem." 
Notre Dame's Catholic nature ne_ed not stifle the religious life of 
March 12, 1987 
a Jew at Notre Dame. In fact, it often does the opposite, said Arnold. "Religion is . central at Notre Dame. It leaves non­Catholics to reflect on their own religion." Brooks added, "Judaism and Christianity are mirror images of each other and should be stu­died together. There are so many similarities that we would lose oart 
of our own heritage and not understand who we are if we did not understand the two religions." 
In fact President-Elect Malloy said that 'any religious institution has an obligation to promote awareness and understanding of other religions such as Judaism. He said, "A major university's theology department must neces­sarily educate students in all signi­ficant religions and faiths. There is a definite place for this in the curriculum." Courses in Judaism are available at Notre Dame and are taught by both Catholic and Jewish scholars. 
Other opportunities exist for scholarship in Jewish studies at Notre Dame. The most recent and important contribution to Jewish study has been the creation and installment of Notre Dame's Abrams Chair of Jewish Thought and Culture. 

Celebrated Jewish novelist Chaim Potok inaugurated the Abrams Chair last November with two lectures. These explored the confrontation which occurs when a person who has a strong heritage encounters an environment with an equally strong, different and often opposing heritage. 
The Abrams Chair, endowed by Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Abrams, will be held by visiting scholars for unspecified amounts of time as recommended by a committee. The holder of the chair will be chosen by the significance of his or her contribution to Jewish stu­dies and thought. 
. Despite small numbers and a low profile, Jewish students and faculty members find at Notre Dame not only a healthy and con­cerned environment, but an environment of scholarship in which they play a crucial and natural part. Ill 




Especially For You 
By Patrick Cooke and Laurie Bink 
Working for students and increasing student involvement are two of the goals of the new student body president and vice president 
. or most of you, this is prob­
F

ably the first time you've 
heard from us since the election. So again, we'd like to say "thanks" for all your support dur­ing the campaign and for the sup­port we hope you'll give student goverr"'.llent this year. 
interest you aren't qualified to get involved. As long as you want to help students, there's a place for you in student government. 
· Before you get involved with us, you might want to know why we ran and what we think about• 


This brings us to a point -from our campaign, as a matter of fact. There is so much potential in the student government offices, and a lot of times students who want to get involved don't, for a variety of reasons. Some people simply don't know how to get involved. If you have an interest in helping stu­dents -from any point of view ­please let us know. Drop us a note or call us at home or at the student government offices. But please don't think that because you haven't been involved before or because you don't have a specific 
24 

student government. First of all, we think Mike and Don did a great thing for Notre Dame Stu­dent Government -they brought the fun back. We want to keep student government fun. We want you to look forward to the projects you work on and enjoy the people you work with. We believe that people get things done much better when they enjoy what they're doing. 
For those we didn't reach during our campaign, our overriding goals are to bring stu­dent government back to the stu­dents and to make student life a little easier. Too manv times, as a lot of us have seen, the people in student government get wrapped up in the wrong things. They get so involved in lofty ideas and the politics of the offices that they forget they're students and that their position as members of stu­dent government is one of service 
to their fellow students. 

We see this year as a great opportunity to continue to build on the positive attitude in student government. We feel very positive ourselves and we think students will feel more positive toward us because we want to provide tangi­ble services for them. If many people get involved, we will be able to accomplish all the projects on our platform as well as the ideas you bring to student govern­ment. After all, student govern­ment is students improving student life at Notre Dame. 
This year will go q·Jickly, so if you want to work with student government, don't wait to let us know. We're looking forward to a productive, positive, energetic year; a year when students who were never involved join those who have worked in LaFortune since their first day at Notre Dame; a year when students will come to student government with their ideas; a year when students know student government is for them. And finally, we're looking forward to a year _when all stu­dents, whether directly involved or not, enjoy student government.II 
Scholastic 

Life In Hell 

FiWA A!Miffrf ffilij§j g iA A ?i@ AR
• 


DOM\"1A1'.IT SE.CO"-IDARl1 
HOW TO

DISTIIJGUISHll'J(:, H AlJNT 1"3(:, CREAflVE A£TIS.1"lC. •~PE TRAIT TRAITS l=E.ATllRE5 QUE.STIOt-.l t.\N"'10'1 THE.IV\ 
PE'RSONALrT~ PE.RSOIJALl,Y 
SA'1:
POIVIP0$1T~ 
Nt.RVouS

$(;.LF­
"AM I JUST
iw \T(\-\ l>JG,, 
B<n"HOW?
IRRITABIL-IT':? 
[70 ',OU IIIIAl::-E.

~BSoRPTlo,-J
WlllTER ~ 
BAD 

A HAC~ °? '' 
A LIVh,JC::,'?
WH 1rJ I iJ C:, 
PoSTuRE. 
-
SA-1:
SP~TTE.12.E.!7
DE.L.vS10..iS

SE.L.F'­
"SHOUL-D I
PCi,-YiS,
OF 
rJlSHE.O,
<ft$NO?

PAIN"1'£RMOBSE.SS totJ N\OVE. TO11\JAR.T IC.VL-AieG,RAl\lOEvR. s 11"?
!;XP1.,ANP,Tlo.is 
tJe.w ~oR.i::?" 
-
WE.1~0 t..1PS
PARAtJOIA 

SE.t..F­
''WI-\~ OOc.S 
BE. Ai00Tt-\ER.. 
S...:Jl\J E. 1,..1>.JC::,
BITT£1<tJE.SS 
E: \J E. ~'-j OrJ E.

Pli:j 
POE:. T.
PO£~ ~fw 

AVOID t-1\c °? '' 
POIIE.R.1~
BIL-E. 

''C:,lll€oJ "THE l>l . loJITE 
SA'1:
1/AC:,VE.1.'? PvoJK151-\
Al..lE.-.lA"t"lO,.J 

NVMB6ROC:Tll1.JG5 .!
SE..L.f-
LOOK, 

c;.our..p PO W 1TH M'? I..IC:E,
P£RFoRMA~C£ I IRII.AT 10iJALIT~ 
I 
S"'-'S••~'{
JUST L-1'1:.I: THA"T
O>Jl..'1 W l"Ttt 

WH'? AM I S-rArJ01JJC:,
ARilS1" G· 

IN OUt,Gf:tJC.f: 
OJJc.E. 0 N "T~E.

~,ll.E OrJS"l'A(:,E. ~LAPP,.,(, 
\il~lrJl::Ll:.D S!::1,J 
C:,o..iC. SH.ow.
51-\AMe~SStJ!oSS 

ME.AT 01'1 M.'1 ~EAl7°?" 
-
SA-1: 
S~1...F­
AVRA OF

St.L..F­
"e:>o I HAvE 
Ii 
!70v€.T 
FE.w PourJoS,
ACTOR~ 

ArJ~ TAU:NT7 ••
Oev'oT1oi-:) 
fif'mJ A:h
Ii..l S11.l tE-'2 IT'1 
AI/E...)'T ".JOU? 
-
SLEA7.1~E.SS 
SAL-l-OW 
Tl-IA.OW ~EE.R.
"WHER.5

SELF-
Rou: &ROi,I, 
C.OMPL..EXlOr.J, 
BonLES AT
$L1M1.JE.SS 
AM I '? ,, 
THE.Iii?. Hl:Ae>S
VE....:iERE.AL

COf'v\PlACErJC.~
(:,l1IT~R1s-r 
SMuG,,JE.S5 
DuR.,r-lG (orJc;,R,S.
s·c.ABS
r1 ~ 
s(RAl.,J~ Boe>
c.oMPv~s,orv 
f' UtJ c.~ 't.M

SE.1-F"­
.. 
'' I-IA..\lf: r
"To
·(;)·· 
-rolW 1.eoTA1<0S
STREET,~, 
IN "TH.'i:.

S1>.T1St=AcnorJ
Ml IV\~ 

NO SHAN\t~"
Pe. s.,e.R.. 
1111\PIS!t 
!V\OIJTH. 
BE-.I-IAl/10'1.. 1111~'1 F1.iGE.e.S 
IT IS VrJWISE:

"WILL :r. BE
MAl..lC.lOVS 
FRlVOI..OVS 

D~Aul1,J(:, &ot1t1A"l~E:.\7 
TO Ar,h,JO':'.)
11-l 'l::'1 SH I QTS"
MAUtlOUSrJtSS

CARTOONIST J( FR1VOl-l"'T':'.) 
Q.ASBl""t~ ~Q. Tl{E. 
C.ARTool\ll s-rs.
l,J ~'1 PArJ"TS 

12.E.ST OF ~'1 Lll=E ~" 
Oi~tribut~d by Acm~ Features Syndicate 


~------'-". ~ ~' ,,--"''"~~~--:__;;__•_::---....!..--· ­
1;· '.­

'< 
~ 
_J 


