
:,•; 
GREATER SOUTH 'BEND -MISHAWAKA AREA MAP 

. . BRDDK
~ .
~NIVEJSITY o:;l 
PARK
!I 
o/ 

NOTRC DAMC ~ 
I I _PAY I ROAD

• ~ '.ti~~ 
!iii 
ROAD
EDISON 
r 
·! 
. !!: 

\ 

'·'t 

~ 
a:

~ 
RIDGCDALEOOONMOVlR

0 
a: 

.,c
I ,....... z 
!l 
z 
:r 
:cl 
0 
!
z -
:::; 
~ 
i 
IRJ;LANO 
Rg,\f> -1 ., ·!!: 
C"I

0 
a: 
JACKSON! RD 
JACKS011 
R~

·~ 
l:J 

~I 
JOHNSON 
~ 

\ 

Seholastie 

October 12, 1973 Notre Dame, Indiana Volume 115, No. 3 
__j 

4 growing wise and begirming again betsy dwyer 6 bulla shed: more people than place tom stella,· c.s.c 8 moral values and. the university h. r. carby-samuels 9 the· crooked rook paul bolduc 10 ombudsmen -the houblesho!)ters craig spengel 11 dostoevsky ·on stage .. tom mcandrews 12 thoughts in a courtyard: a poem· pat callahan 
the all-new 1974 south bend 13 downtown pat roacli 15 food· '~ paul colgan 17 scottsdale mall sally stanton 19 100 center alice christopher, jr. 22 parks jorge lopez 24 the historical south bend pat hanifin 26 weekend diversions · greg conti 28 restaurants ·tom birsic 
29. where the r~bble rouses joe runde 
& george sibley 30 coming distractions · rick gering · -32 ND-SMC Theater · kevin mccormack 33 week in distortion t. j. clinton 34 .· iron men in wooden boats fred graver 36 -book review: "the priist" michael melody 38 the last word tom gora 
editor: kerry mcnamara / art· director: jim purvis / production manager: · janet cullen / assistant editors: greg conti, jim gresser, joe runde;" jack wenke / sports editor: tom gora /.business manager:joe meyer / advertising: alice n._ christopher J circulafion: frank zaletel / fac1,1lty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: paul bolduc, paul. colgan, kevin dockrell, betsy dwyer, le9 j. mulcahey, pat roach; casey pocius, mary siegel,-sally stanton, steve shea, gil zachary, pat sheehan, ·jean· mcquillan, maureen o'brien, ·eileen o'grady, mark nishan: john · whalen, tom busic, jack brown,. katy sullivan, sean mclinden, kathy kelly, tara 
The opinions expressed in. the SCHOLASTIC . 

carey, jorge lopez, jack hangel, tom mcandrews, bob griffin, fred graver, pat
are those of the authors and editors of the 

SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the · fanning, pat dillon, kevin mccormick, bill murray, frank coughlin, t. j. clinton, opinions of the University of Notre Dame, , · mark luppino, john m·oore, george ·sibley, craig spegel · / art & photography:
its administration,· faculty or the. student body. 

· mike budd, ed earle, nan smith, tom waldoch, john phelan, pat hanafin, joe Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame,' kuspan, bill [oglia, bob mcmahon. · · Ind. 46556. The magazine ·is represented ·for national advertising by National· Educational· Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New Yo,k, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
illustrations: cover photo, photos on 13, 16 by ed. earle f photos on 15, 16,
during the school year except during · · 

vacation and examination periods, th~ 20, 26; 27,: 29 by jim purvis / photos on 7 by sr. jane piti / photo on 18 SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave M~ria,Press, courtesyof air force rote / photos on 22, 23, 24, 25 courtesy of the south 
Notre Dame, Ind•. 46556. The subscription 

rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are bend tribune / photo on 25 courtesy of the south bend chamber of commerce available from the SCHOLASTIC. . Please address ·. / photos on 30, 32 by mike budd / photo on 35 by fred graver / illustration 
all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre · ·· 

: on 4 by bob mcmahon / back cover illustration by joe kuspan and bill foglia
Dame, Ind. 46556.. All unsolicited material becomes the· property·of the ScHOLASTIC, . :/ photos on 26, 27 by sr. madonna kolbenschlag. 
copyright@ 1973 sch~lastfo / allrights reserved_/ none of the contents may be reproduced without permission 

Roads have a way of forking, _separating what was once one into two roads that can never be one again. So it goes with friends who grow and are shaped by · a shared road for a time. One day they are con­fronted and bewildered that their paths must separate. -"Why?" is the question. The answer takes its time ... "Life·goes on" is one of those facts of life poorly articulated in grammar school but one that definitely 

Growing 
Wise and­
has hit home by the college years. Good-byes bring tears, empty nights, echoing. days and, if one learns to work with the pain, a growth'in personal strength.

B_eginning 
This growth,· in time, can manifest itself in a greater willingness on the victim's part to share himself simply because he is now alone-in need.


Ag~in 
There is a wisdom that comes with loss. Witness the freshman in .the coming months _or. ~he upperclass­man left behind by graduated friends. At one time, old people were said :to be storehouses of wisdom; This was probably because they had decades of experience in saying good-bye and beginning again. 

I must apologize for bringing up the subject of old· people. The elderly are definitely not conversation , items for cocktail parties, the dining hall, one's home or the classroom. After all, being around the elderly tends to have an unsettling effect on one's stomach, at­tention span and patience. There simply isn't time for : their carrying on. Is there any relief for the above symptoms? Of course. America's Alka-Seltzer for the· creepy, anxious, ·nauseous feeling they sometime evoke is the nursing home. Very effective. In. a little while one forgets they are there. . . . . , 
Ignoring my previous apology, I have decided. to be. obnoxious and dwell on the topic of growing old.. I've often wondered_ if there is any other value in a. nursing home. I have conie ·to· believe so, but would• rather discuss that at a later date. More basic to the question, though, I'd like to know if there is any value 
·in aging. There. are few who will tackle this . question and very rarely is it a person of my own generation.. We have no tiniefor people who speak in details rather than ideas. Having been raised on Crest commercials, it is difficult for.us to conceive of life being worthwhile without teeth. With so much technological progress .. and our advanced educations what could they possibly teach us?· What:, if anything, do we have in common with the elderly? 
Earlier I mentioned that loss can bring strength and a greater willingness to share. If at this point in our lives we. are growing weary . of saying. good-bye,. how must it be with one whose years triple our twenty?, With so"much taken away what do they have left to share? It sometimes takes so much time to listen to them, but after all, so much has happened to them! It is important .to them to ·share the details. so that· someone living will be· acquainted with their world. But, it takes so. much time· to listen..-. . . 
Not long ago the young from the Haight-Ashbury district preached theimportance of taking cine's time. They said. things like: "I \Vant to be free from work a day world· boxes, responsibilities and ·punch cards. I want to have time to just sit and listen to people that come to visit me. I want to weave adventure 
· stories about things I have done.· I want t:o take walks". and go slow and watch what's going on around riie. I want people to care about me and show me with a hug. I want th_em to show me some respect and listen to what I haveto say...-." -· . · 
It's funny. Last spring I heard an old woman echo that same hippie dream. She uttered it, not so much with words, as through tear-glistened eyes. Words weren't needed. She simply lived her life this way. Besides, words didn't come easily to this old woman because she, like so many of the people in the home, hadn't had a visitor to. talk to in months. · · · 
Guiltily, that day, I sat and visited with Emily for an hour. As I stood to leave a wild look captured her eyes: She grabbed my hands and pleaded, "Please don't · ignore me. Don't close up. Keep trying ... keep try­ing. : .." Embarrassed and confused, I muttered some­thing about being late for dinner. A chill ran down my spine as_ I dashed out the door. 



''The poor soul just got tired of waiting. For the longest time she's had no one to live for." 
This summer;. working. in another nursing home and missing graduated friends, I thought of Emily arid the number of friends she must have said good-bye to. What made her want to begin again? "Don't close up..." she said. What made her continue to hope that someone would come along who would want to' share 
· · part of her world? I planned to pay her a visit in the fall ·and we would discuss beginnings. I needed her wisdom. . . . . .· . 
. Last week I returned to her nursing home. "Emily? Room 114?" asked the· clerk. "Oh ... she died some­time iii July. Don't feel bad. She:died quietly, sitting 
.in her wheelchair, looking out her window_ that faced the schoolyard. The poor soul just got tired of waiting. For the longest time she's had no one to live for." 
-betsy.dwyer 

more people than·place 




Bulla Shed 
From an office building to a drop-in center in three 
short months. That's what happened to the Bulla 
Shed, formerly the Notre Dame Credit Union building, 
through the hard work of a lot of dedicated students. 
Since its opening last February, it has become many 
things to many people. Just what the Bulla Shed 
means may be best explained by those who frequent 
it._ Lest my own involvement in the place prejudice 
their statements, I'll let them speak for themselves. 
"The community that I've become a part of at 
Bulla Shed has become one of the centers of my life. 
I've been able to share with the people I've met there 
the deepest parts of me. We have opportunities to cele­
brate the liturgy together, eat together and enjoy life 
together. It's been a place that's offered peace to me, 
and anyone who goes there." 

A place of peace and sharing is what Bulla Shed is to Mary Jane Silva, a St.. Mary's sophomore. Who among us does not need that? Those needs are met in . many ways and in many places here, but for some, the classroom, dormitory and dining hall just don't make it. If Bulla Shed can do for a few students what those other places cannot, it was well worth the time and 
effort it took to create it. 
St. Ed's resident Frank Martin is not unlike· most 
students in that he finds himself in need of a place 
to. serve as a substitute for the home he left to come 
here. 
"When I go to Bulla Shed it · feels like I'm going 
home. There's only one door -I don't have to check 
the number. I don't have to knock -I just walk in. 
It's more that than being welcome, it's like I really 
belong there; like I live there. When I bake cookies 
I leave them there so that when my friends come to 
my/their home, there'll always b_e something to eat. 
When I go to .the B.ulla Shed, I hang my coat by the 
door and leave my shoes in . the corner. And before I 
leave, I wash the dishes -and so does everyone else." 
Notre Dame junior Ginna Smith expressed some of 
the same sentiments when I asked her to write about 
what she finds at the Shed. 
"Bulla Shed for me has been a place where I've 
felt very much. at home. Sometimes I feel so com­
fortable alone there just sitting and listening to music, 
reading or writing letters; often just thinking. I have 
found it so good just to be there and get away from 
the constant noise and distraction of the 'brary or the 
dorm: Yet perhaps the biggest reason Bulla Shed is such a home for me is because of the people I've met there and the friendships which have stemmed from 

. that place. It's been just so good to sit and talk with the kids there, to .share with them, to share our com­plaints about school, to laugh and to joke and to cele­brate on Friday afternoons." 
When we leave here, Notre Dame and St. Mary'swill be remembered with joy or sadness depending up­on the people we've met, or perhaps did not meet. It's always the persons rather than the place that make an experience. Mike Arri, an ND junior, reflects this truth in writing the following: · 
"Bulla Shed's primary attraction for me is the op­portunity to know the people, the students who gather there. Although they are all very much individuals, each person has appeared to me as being sincerely friendly. There are some people there who are now very close to me, and there are some whom I have only met once, but I can still say that I am truly glad to know each of the people I have met at the Bulla Shed."­
It may seem to some that the Bulla Shed houses a nice clique -I am happy to say that isn't the case. As close to one another as some of these people have grown, there always. seems to be room for one more. And comfortable as the place and the people are, there is present among' its frequenters the challenge to spread the warmth they experience there. · 
It would be presumptuous to take for granted that most people realize what Bulla is about and what goes on there. Set up primarily as a drop-in center, it func­tions as a place to retreat from the institutional at­mosphere of the campus. Open seven days a week from 6 p.m. to 1 a.m., the house is used by many as a place to study and/or to break from the books. Pop­corn, coffee, cookies, etc., make the latter a more en­joyable experience. · · 
.. The Shed's kitcheri facilities have made it possible for different groups to have meals together, e.g., CILA. Its imaginatively decorated rooms are ideal for meet­ings. A call_ to t_he Campus Ministry Office, 6536, is ·an it takes to· reserve some space. 
The house, a~d the people, are there. for· you. The 5 p.m. Friday Mass and dinner -a regular event at Bulla .,....... is a good time to get a flavor of both. So if your experience of Notre Dame -St. Mary's hasn't left you with happy memories and close friends, or even if it has, I suggest you stop by and meet some . good people. · · 
-tom stellaA c.s.c. 
· THE SCHOLASTIC 


if the success modes in that type of society call for a certain type of conformity, any student who aims at 
· success wHl conform to that perceived mode. In addi­tion, any "professor" (effectively master craftsman) who is training his apprentice and journeyman students 
Moral Values 

so that they can become successful in society as it is organized will, as long as he identifies with that type of society, not emphasize the necessity for raising
and ,the 

, questions about society -the functioning stream. Nor ~ill he_ emphasize the responsibility to monitor and to probe the direction of the flow of,the stream when


u,niversity 

questions of market profit are not at stake. 
Consequently, I am forced to ask whether the suggestions that'Father Burtchaell was raising were ·in respect of the choice of streams, or were directed at 
The following,. is a reply to Father Burtchaell's · asking the teaching faculty to become sensitized to Sermon to the Faculty, which aweared in the 'last whether their efforts are aimed at cultivating (or . rather breeding) fish, or producing floating logs. For
issue of the Scholastic. if streams interconnect to a common lake, live fish have Man has discovered the productive advantages of .. · . the option of their positions in the particular lake or 
. · living in organized groups, and discovered also the · · stream -if certain other physio-or biochemical re­. lationships are also maintained.· And the possibility of · 
many other advantages that accrue to forming various · ·. preparing the fish to protect themselves against con­
types of collectivities. Indeed, that part of academe ditions that are potentially· adverse in their swims in 
that is called the social sciences is rooted in seeking to . do things to, for, or with the collectives that man various streams is ·achallenge. . It is obvious that I personally have a preference to 
forms with his fellows. And, in fact, the term deviant fish as compared to logs. If I respect variety in the_
is not usually regarded as one of endearment when social sci_entists as well . as the other; members.· of· the world, and if I am not about to impose my stream · preference or my preference for direction of swim~
linguistic tradition discuss the behavior or the ming on other potential fish, this makes for a hectic
characteristics of selected parts of the collective that' 'environment of interaction, does it not?. _
forms the particular society of emphasi~. 
And this, gets me to what I fear in Father Burt~

I confess that if I act as an empiricist, I do have · chaell's submission; I grant that an orderly world is 
some difficulty in separating the operative norms of the more easy to manage than an apparently disordered 
social sciences from the operative norms within which organized religion is structured. Thus, when a leading · ··•• o·ne. l gather that the good Father is disturbed at what member of the administration of this university who academe currently appears to be, that is, an orderer of . noninvolvement and programmed choice. But if the ·
is also a member in good standing of a religious order, calls for a moral perspective to and within the offerings good Father is talking about aggregate nian, is he not deploring thechoice of ordering. norms? . And· on the
of this university,· I as a social scientist and as a responsible human being, am at the same time elated other hand,·if he is talking about individualized man, and apprehensive. what' criteria. does he use to select the alternative 
· One of the most important adages that I have heard, .. operative mode? . · · . -.· . · . goes thus: "It takes a live fish to swim upstream. But · -Academe exists to deduce the elements that main, any old log can float downstream." · tain the order thatis perceived inexistence. Perceptions 
In the case a_t harid, the live fish are human par-' of order force the pei:-ceiver to deal with aggregates.. 
ticipants if the stream is organized society. And if the .. As ·soon as one begi_ns to perceive the variety in ex-•·. stream is academe, then the fish or the log -:-as the istence and the variety in the perceivers of that exist-case may be -is .the particular academic institution. . ence, one faces problems of the appropriateness of 
Students at any particular university are contin­forming_· aggregates. ' · · · . 
uing their individual processes of socialization which A disposition to question the validity of aggregates, started at the time of birth; and which is reinforced as well as to deal with aggregates, is the.principal task by s!mple associations as well as by.the exposure that of academe. I support the good Fatherif he is caliing the student has had.to the institutions that form the on the members of this academic communityto culti-· · operating society. The intelligent student will put-the ·vate both dispositions. For on the basis of my past university education in the perspective of the perceived ·· · . experience iri academe, conformityrather than question-· processes of socialization., For the university educa-raising is that which was required of me: That expe-. tion is now primarily the modern equivalent of the . r_ience has not, therefore, led me to have a high personal initiation rites to bourgeois-dominated society. Thus regard for academe, its norms and what it stands for. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

It did not appear that the Father was overtly sug­gesting that this academic community should follow an alternative ideal-type that is based upon the abso­lute truth that resides in a "configured" Christian uni­versity. 
To borrow from Pope JohnXXIII with a little modi-·. fication, however, I hope that a Christian university is one which feels the decided necessity to leave open the multiple windows to truth. And I hope that it will also be one which finds instruments to prick the balloons of all who fail to recognize that living with · imperfect infor~ation is the definitive condition of mortal man. Thusin such circumstances of truth-seek­ing, no· particular member of the community, however highly regarded he may be by his peers, or by others, can affordto forget to retain the necessary reasonable doubts about the science or about the faith-guided op­erative truths that he holds dear. · . : The Christian university lives with the diversity of man; and initiation rites that do not explicitlyface fundamental. questions may_ or may not stifle that diversity. And this may be another question that .the good Father. is posing. And, who knows,. that may be anoptimaLsearch method to some goal that he in his wisdom and in his responsibility conceives. But the word "moral" has a history. My limited capacity as a human, and my acceptance of my high level of igno­rance, make me choose a more immediate even though no less lofty goal. Thus I also have a tendency to ~ee words of wisdom in the quotation: 
"Know then thyself. · · Presume not God to scan. The proper study of mankind Is Man." 

I wonder how Christian and how moral is that proposition? 

Assistant Professor .Department of Eeono11_1ies 

-The ·crooked Rook 

.. White_ mates in two moves 
SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE 
ANSWER.TO LAST PROBLEM 
l; · N...:....K5 threat; 2 · Q-N2 etc. R/(B).....:.Q5; 2..Q-Q5 RxQ; ·. 3. NxP mate R/(Q)-Q5; . 2. Q-K4 RxQ;3. N-Q7 mate 

Ombudsmen 


-.J The Troubleshooters ~ 
Their ever-familiar yellow signs cover nearly every bulletin board on campus, but the Ombudsmen (who number in the dozens) remain a relatively un­known group performing a vital service -making life a little easier and helping beleaguered students deal with.problems and red tape. Bill McLean, the Director of the Ombudsman Service, and his staff are ready and willing to use all their resources and connections (which are plentiful) to help a student out of a jam. They take pride in their work, and almost seem to en­joy knocking themselves out in order to aid someone. Of course, there are very few problems that . arise which .require an unusual amount of action, but no problem is too large or too small to be handled by Bill and his staff. 
In his second year as Director, Bill has built up an experienced staff that can either answer inquiries di­rectly or refer the caller to someone with the knowledge to handle the situation. Anyone desiring to become part of the staff must exude a feeling of trustworthiness and a desire to help others. In addition, an Ombudsman must be mature and stable in his dealing with others. These qualities are essential; for anytime he answers the Ombudsman phone, someone may need help with a serious personal problem. At times like these, the greatest care must be taken to avoid complicating the problem, while at the same time finding a satisfactory solution or referral for the person. 
In Bill's mind, the Ombudsman is, in short, dedi­cated to helping. He realizes that_he and his staff are only human and prone to mistakes. However, the num­ber of big mistakes is amazingly small-6 out of 2800 last year. So far this year, their record is errorless in over 400 cases. This is due to the fact that they per­sist until something satisfactory has been worked out for -the person requesting their service. Occasionally this means working on a big problem for months. 
Another important aspect of the Ombudsman Service is strict confidentiality. No records of personal cases are kept. These cases can range from requests for in­formation on VD clinics to requests for counselling or even psychological help. Once these cases (which make up 5% of the Ombudsman's workload) are referred to the proper people, the Ombudsman's involvement ends. 
Less serious problems such as laundry mix-ups and computer goofs make up 50-60% of the calls received. One such case involved a student· who called shortly before a concert, stuck with a couple of expensive tickets that he couldn't use. Within minutes the Ombuds­man had a buyer who didn't miss a single song. Another case involved an alleged job recruiter who was going from -dorm to dorm soliciting people. After a quick check, it was discovered that a few students had al­ready been ripped off by this company, and furthermore the policies employed were not recognized by the State of Indiana. With a little help from ND Security, this would-be recruiter was removed from the campus. 
It is this type of case that Bill would like to see more of. He sees the service as an. organization dedi­cated to "the gathering and dissemination of informa­tion," and able to "investigate, mediate, and/or protect the Notre Dame community from illegal, illegitimate or unjust goings-on." As it now stands, the role of general information center still takes up to 40-50% of all calls, but this role will tend to diminish with the appearance of the Action Express (in the Observer) which Bill also directs.. This new service is intended to make public bits of important and interesting informa­tion on daily life and problems at ND. 
If one were to ask Bill McLean why he spends so much time helping others, he mutters something about a good f~eling and then answers another phone call. Actu'ally Bill, like anyone else, appreciates it when someone shows that they care about him. For him, as for everyone on the Ombudsman Service, answering those phones is a way of saying that someone cares. 
-craig spengel 


Have you ever dreamed of "watch­ing" a great novel come to life? Next Tuesday, Oct. 23, the National Play­ers will bring one to life as they pre-. sent Dostoevsky's Crime and Punish­ment, 8:00 p.m:'at O'Laughlin Audi­torium (S.M.C.). In Crime and Pun­ishment, Dostoevsky, the renowned 19th-century Russian novelist, re­veals the soul of a tormented .young intellectual who is .driven to murder by the frustrations of poverty ~nd the egotistical delusion .that• he is somehow above the law.. 
Raskolnikov, an impoverished stu­dent who lives in a crowded and . slum-infested section of. St. Peters­burg in 1865, plots and ·executes the brutal killings of a mise'i·h old pawn­broker and her saintly sister. After~ wards, .he wavers between his tor­menting guilt· and triumphant cun­ning. He is pursued relentlessly by a 
-~. 
1 

police inspector and by the love of a · faith-filled prostitute. 
The National Players, the coun­try's longest running touring thea­ter repertory company, originates from Catholic University, Washing­ton, D.C. In its twenty-five years as a repertory touring company/the company has received widespread acclaim from all over the United States and the world. 
The first operation of the touring 
. company began with the idealistic proposal of bringing theater to every possible community in. the country and of giving young actors experi­ence in performing and touring un­der varying conditions. The goals and aims of the National Players, long since realized, remain the same after twenty-five years. 
The presentation of Crime ·and Punishment marks the fourth con-
Dostoevsky On Stage 
secutive season in which the Na­tional Players have delighted .the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. Older members may recall such memorable performances as Shaw's Arms and the Man; Kafka's The Trial; and Walter Kerr's · brilliant adaption of Aristophanes The Birds, presented last year. · 
Crime and Punishment· launches 
. the Cultural Arts Commission's 1973­74 Dance and Drama Series. Other scheduled events for. the series in~ elude: The National Theatre of the Deaf (Nov. 8); The Bella Lewitsky Dance . Company (Dec. 1) ; Marcel Marceau (Feb.19). Other events are being planned. Patron cards, on sale now at the Student Union Ticket Office, entitle the holder to free ad­mission for all events. For further information, call the Cultural Arts Commission: 283-3797. 
-tom me andrews 

11 


Thoughts in a Courtyard 
The textures of our lives · Bronze and nature a~e one flow like the river-to the squirrel's bright eye. is this a message Metal and stone, mass in-gravity worthy of a religious prophet? partaking of light, slick in the rairi, 
cloaked by the sriows, ·larger than life . · No ideas but in things. the bronzes possess infinite patie~ce -:-­"Unto the place where the rivers come the hand raised -in blessing does not fa. Thither they return again." 
You would return her ·man-bending beauty submits. had_ we world enough and time · in a submissive angle of shoulders­(the texture of_ you · -· in proud humility she le_aves -_ flows smooth to the touch) · no doubt that she is a woman. . you may return here. He will still bless and she still bow 
as th·e squirrel sleeps his lastwinter. ·.. no time really passes (This does not disturb the squirrel.)_ as the squirrel's bright eye will attest he patterns his life · · to.the.texture of seasons . lhave seen the squirrel" .._ see him prance across the grass beneath ·the blessing hand ­
drink from the fountain. his br_ight tail flickers Her.bowed-eyes see him:· 
-his eye is bright _doubtless erivy the·beauty-:-_ his little hands handle the nut the glorious red flick of the tail, _ like little· hands~ the· carded-\¥001 garment -ofthe coat. 
. The ~quirrel drinks without athought. In the ~ain,. in the s~~. in the courtyard, in the wind (not in the sn~w · for he is asleep) I think of you in Jhis courtyard ·. he keeps and places things and. think of Siddhartha. and remembers places · I w_atch the squirrel. I see _ 
the. bronzes and marble well · He has accepted the great bron~es .. as a texture, a huge weight, ­he leaps to ,the fountain ' a color, a'catche·r of sun, to drink. He sees their as a gleam in a squirrel's eye. : long shadows -bronze .. I_see long shadows move with the day.. and.shadow share motion-together _ I watch the squirrel. And as he, ­and bronze itself a shadow .· . _I keep>and place t~ings _. ·. cast by an event (the squirrel,., _and remembe_r the 'places; does not know of this.) · .--:-'P<Lt Callahan 9/21!73 
--' . .: ~ . ­

r:.-~-~-~ ~-~~-~ -~ ~----~ ~ ~ ~-~-~-~ ---~ -~, ­J}: Subscript~on: 2 issti~s only $f .qo _ _: 
··m:a~led off campus'and out ~t!own: -: -. dehver_ed on campus. · _. -· : .: ·___ .-" 1 
... ·.-. . . ... . ··.. . ' .. .. . -· 1 


Mcikt(checkpayable to:,.:.,< -_· _.}.
_,::Jtigglef .. ... .-... -. .--.. >I ., ' ·. 
·..·... 1 ··_ 

1 
: Box,·583__ . ,. _·.,--1 , I -·: · Nqtt;e Dame; Ind_.. ' ·.-::.'. ·.· ,··1 -• 

I 
. .. .. . . .. -.. . . ,:·._,.. _,.·,,; __.I 


1. ·: ... ::; : . -, .. · . :/ ..• 
1 ~a~e __ ·_/-o:,~ · ,,,-··.::_:·. ;~.: ;_, _:~/·::·:::/::':,/· -:;,::} _ I A . . . . . --. . ,,. . --... . I 
1_-ddress -----------·_______ .-------------.-. ··________ . _.I
I . .-.. . . .. , . ... ,·--i I 
-:_~~!:e!s~-~ ~ -~:-_.. ~ ~ ·____ .. ~ ..../J\
-. ··, . -.· • THE >SCHOLASTIC
-· . . . .• 





South Berid. · The city· has :never fared weli'cat the hands ot"Notre Dame students. Complaints about every;,· thing from; its weather to its. streets to its girls. have . been repeatedlong enough and often enough to cfreate a pervasive negative image of. the piace. South Berid, the 
. storygoes,·is:the the-sum of its rain, its.chuckholes,_ and itsitownies: The image is hard to shake, _and is often ·carried away like a. diploma ·by graduating Domers~· 
. . · Any stereotype as strong as that invites exploni--: 
__ tion.•In the next pages, the Scholastic' attempts to ,, .. take a look at.the town at the:other end of Notre Dame . Avenue; But don't take our word for what's there. Fol~ · low· us up and check ·us out, arid take a·1ook for your~:­self 'at the town you live in:nine months ·ayear~. You·• !lllght·find it worth the time; .. 


. -There's something -golrig on downtown; At least .. _;.: The::,'controlli~g nucleus of the· downtown-rehewaL 
·_-that • much )s : cleai:. ~ven. ic{ the most transient citizens •. is: the. city's redevelopment: commi~sion, · a.: cooperative · of South Bend, the: students at Notre Dame and St. body of the business, governmental:and citizens' groups Mary's. Fresh. conc~ete strE?~ts and: a . ijew m~ior inn that. have a stake · in rebuilding_ the downtown. The:­have ,appeare.d ..!lin.ce ~ay in the:area along the St. Joe ·executive director of: the".commission is Mr. Charles River;, . Streets that ,_were: one-way last'spring are ,two-.. Lennon,. \Vhose job .k is to coordinate, the . varied In-.. way now; streets that used>to be·two~way are now one-:, . terests: and efforts. of the downtown. renewal'. .. Lennon's . ­way·• in• the,·wrong.· direc~o~.-.. Michigan Street, ·the_ .old background;in··· psychc,logical counseling-is: more _· than·-_' . axis· of orientation .forfreshmen-cin their first trip..into a:.hint at .the special attitude thathe brings to ~is job .. -. ­town,". has.become a-maze,of harricadesTandshattered -ICWe're out to do whatever:it ;takes to _get people to concrete>cvvliat'sihappenirig to old South Bend? _. . . come downtown; -to . create an -environment, in which . : . By the-time May roils around :again, _the answer ·_ people.can feel rela,c:ed ·and ~appy,'·';'he says>•Y~u can. will, be-at least partly.clear:.By-then the chaos where.· have the -inost bea_utiful,0 buildings in_ the world,-·but_ Michigan Streei:··used to, be will have become, a ·new· without that something·to,make them alive;.they're no four~million~dollar pedestrian.• mall: :. a: six~block: stretch . mor~ . than. ·bricks arid . mortar~: And -that special some.:. ­of tree-shaded:: ,walkway in: the very, center of' down-· ··. thing. is people." :. , _ . ;:· -_ -. . .· . -._ tO\_Vn, .· lined' with . shops . and; stores; and _dotted with·-·-This people-orientation of:;' the . downtown . renewal sculpture, fountains, benches, and_ kiosks for-pedestrian •·-·, program is·, the• most : basic ingredient of the .comm.is'.' .. -services. :It wiltbe: the newest-and:most visible im-. : sion's. efforts .. The. rearranging,"of traffic<patterns/to provement to adow~tow~ that has been going through --_: accommoclate the 11,000 people a day who go downtown less spectacular changes for severaf·years,· a physical (expected-to grow.to 24,000 people a·day in the next· fcica1~:poirit for· :the urban renewal ,program that is, ten years);, the construction of parking garages, and ­radically reshaping downtown· S!)uth-Bend into an ; tp.e 0 pedestrian mall to make :.-parking and :shopping-._ organized and .energetic city center. : , ; easie~_; the interest in l_andscapb_1g and. b·eautificatio~: .. 
•. -. :: . . . -_. -.· . . . . . .·...• ·, -~ ·•.. 
. ;\ ..

13 


two levels, and· offices and stores on the lower two will enable. a shopper•-· or businessman -to ·park ·and then descend by elevator to the ground level to shop or do business. The proposed structure will connect two ex­isting, and one plann~ city parking garage, and may be . built in conjunction with a sixteen-to-twenty-five­story National Bank building on the corner of ·Jefferson and Main. It is by far the most ambitioui and imagi­native undertaking of the urban renewal program. 
all show a strong awareness of the people who will use the new facilities. Arid just as people do·not live only eight hours out of the day, the· downtown renewal is designed for more than daytime shopping and.business use. 
The next major project following the completion of the mall is an $11 million civic center to be built along the St. Joseph River, which along with the Morris Civic Auditorium will form a: social complex to be used eighteen to-twenty-four hours a day. The civic .center will consist of acluster of modular structural sections surrounding a central glass-enclosed atrium overlook­ing the whitewater dam on the St. Joseph River. The complex will include a community art center, -a con~ vention center, an industrial museum (with the Stude­baker· collection of antique -cars), and a smaller .five hundred-seat theater to complement· the Morris Civic Auditorium, only two blocks away. A million dollars of the costs will go. for riverfront development and landscaping, to produce a harmonious interrelationship of the civic center and its riverfront site: Ground;. ·. breaking is set for the Fourth· of July, and the center should be finished in_ two years.. -· c. 
·-·S~ill in the planning stages is the most ambitious project· of the redevelopment program: a· private in­vestment of more .than forty million dollars in a so­called "Superblock" complex that will cover four blocks at the north end of the mall. The proposed Associates Complex will be a four-story, sixty-thousand,;. 'square-foot structure, to be built above the mall presently _under construction, .from Colfax to Jefferson streets, and Main to St. Joseph. Parking on the upper 
. ' 

The outlook has not always ~been so optimistic for downtown urban renewal, though. Mr. Fred Helmen, a former president·. of the St. Joseph Bank· and now president of the redevelopment cornmission, . has held a seat on th_e commission since its inception in 1958. At that time, the idea of downtown" redevelopment .had not yet been conceived."We_were concerned then," he said in a .Scholastic interview, "with_ cleaning up ·the. · ghetto areas to the west of-downtown. There was no thought of a downtown project as such." When the idea.. did begin to grow,• in the middle· sixties,:it was met with·· wide opposition. City parking garages, the first govern­mental involvement in downtown improvement were the subject . of "general resentment," Helmen said. · "People thought it should be done privately." But in time the strong opposition of· the City ·council was overcome, and the_ idea of an organized<attempt at downtown .redevelopment gained momentum; In Rel­men's words, it was the work of "a dozen. or so people around town who didn't want to see South Bend dying of dry rot, like so many. other cities." 
.In 1968 the basic resolution ·was passed, to partici­pate in a cooperative urban renewal program with the Department,of Housing and Urban Development. Under the program,• every · dollar of municipal investment in the downtown urban renewal area is matched by two dollars of feder~l money, which in turri has the effect of generating· further investment by private interests. SOfar the $23 million.in city and federal investment has ­generated· $40 _million in private investment in.·-the downtown area, -including the· new American National and St. Joseph Bank buildings, and a new phone com~ 
•pany building,·as well as smaller investments in shops and stores. The proposed Associates Center will add an­other $40 million in private investment. · 


Nowin.1973 the·psychological growing pains of _the first few years of urban renewal are pretty well past. The· uncertainties · of .the acquisition -_ and demolition 
·· stage : of the process -the shrinking tax · rolls as buildings were torn down, and the unavoidable qualms -as to what would replace them -have been. calmed. -New. construction in the downtowri area has already_ raised the area's tax assessment to $9 million above the· pre-1968 level. -Fiscally, the new downtown is taking· shape: as a solid, central tax base for the benefit of the whole city, arid·as a healthy center of business as well. Aesthetically, · the most visible shaping of the new ­downtown is. just beginning. _ Certainly,• there is. something going on downtown, and something more than meets the eye. They're build­ing a new South Bend., --pat roach 
Food: Can man live by bread alone? 

If you live off campus and are looking for a cheap place to buy food, forgetit! Food prices are.high and are going to stay high. Foreigri and-·domestic demand for all food commodities is too great to allow any sig­nificant drop in prices. · · _ _­-_A price survey was taken in four stores in the Notre Dame area: A&P; Kroger, Thrif-T-Mart, and Martin's (on Portage Ave.). An identical list of 22 items was used in · each store..The list contained basic foodstuffs for a six-day supper menu plus items for sandwiches. 
A&P was the least expensive at $15.37; Kroger was next at $15.99 with Martin's close to it at $16.23. Thrift-T-Mart was highest at $16.70. Prices were t'aken from store brands whenever possible and sale · prices were occasionally used. 


. . . . . ·If·you really want to save on vegetaJ:iles, don't buy them canned:. Buy frozen ·vegetables . in large bag~. · : Martin's has. a large. selection.· You .can· portion out : the .vegetables acco.rding_ to' your needs. They last 
• longer and are about 10 to .20% cheaper. . . 
. A good place to go for fresh produce is Farmer's Market on S~uth Eddy Street. near the river. Only
· ' homegrown vegetables and. fruit can'. be sold there; . 
..·•·fa{j.:··. :: ·::::~:~-;~~= !;::.;;~i~:t::n:or;d!~!.t.~;:J!;ht~; 
week so you have to get up early to get there. · . 
They · also sell meat and cheeses that are com­petitively priced. , One thing ·I like about it: there is nothing is packaged. You.can buy whatever amount of meat you .want. They'll cut and wrap it for you. . 
The best. time to· buy food is on a football Saturday. Mom and Dad.may be in ·town and always are con­c.erned.about your health .. Witli some good persuasion you won't have to spend money .on food for several 
days. · · · ·· 
. -1)aul colgan 


I tried to compare meat prices but the variation in costs and packaging made a comparison difficult. Thrift-T-Mart seemed to have the best correlation be­tween quality of meat and price. Thrift-T-Mart and Martin's are the only stores where you can request a cerfain portion of lunch meat; sausage, cheese, etc., to be cut for you. All .stores sold beer and winei with beer the cheapest at A&P.· · · 
A&P· was definitely the dirtiest store.. The aisles .-. were always cluttered and the shelves were rarely neat. It ··was also common.to.find different prices .on the same item. Kroger' and Martin's had more space to move· around in while Thrift:..T-Mart is cramped. 
Canned goods prices varied from· store to store. Thrift-T-Mart and· Martin's· have identical brand se­lections. If you are looking for real cheap canned goods go to Railroad Salvage on Sample St. The pack­aging is roughed up but the product is equivalent in quality. to· any retail store, according to the manager. I had never seen· most of the brand names before; in 
any store I went to~ . . . . . 
-.,.,, -..,.,._. •-."l ..~--•·•' • •:: • , 
. w/•i:::·:'.• ::.::: 

. I 
I 
Scottsdal~ Mall: The All-American goes all Suburban 
Scottsdale Mall, a · veritable cornucopia of shops which recently, opened on the outskirts of South Bend, houses 55 stores in its two-story complex. It expects to gr9w to a total of 102 within a year. With a little -­money and some spare time, you can buy almost any­thing imaginable; or if you're short on funds, it's a marvelous place to browse.­
If you have a car, Scottsdaie is only a fifteen o_r twenty minute ride out Route 31 to Ireland and Miami Roads. Of course, the bus will also get you there. Take it to downtown South· Bend, get a transfer and catch the Miami Jackson bus at the courthouse. This will take you directly to the Mall; to return, simply re­verse the process. 
Once you're there you'll find a multitude of stores to explore -some fairly familiar, · others new. For example, if you smoke a pipe or cigars, The Tinder Box is a very interesting place. It has a ~alk-in~cigar humidor and offers custom-blended tobacco. Go -in even if you don't smoke; the tobacco· smell is nice. The World Bazaar stocks imported handicrafts and art objects, and is great for browsing. If your mother's birthday is coming up, or if you know someone who's having a housewarming, this may be the place to get a really original gift.· They have, among other things, ornamental brass· from India, candles from Hong Kong, hand-chiseled Mexic.an furniture, and carvings from Africa. If you need· a tie for some special occasion, you might try The Tie Rak; and take your pick from 6,000 of them. Chances are you can swing it finan­cially -the price_s range from $1.50 to $3.00. 
. When you're ready for something to eat, there are· plenty places to choose from. If you only_ want some­thing light, try a hot pretzel from Hot Sam'S-:.they're delicious. Or stop by Papa's 1899 Deli for delicatessen sandwiches. If you're in the rriood for an exotic ice cream delight, try Farrell's; Part of a national chain, it resembles an old-fashioned ice cream parlor and is loads of fun. It's open weekdays from 11 a.m. to mid­night, and until 1 a'.m. on Fridays and Saturdays; so if you feel ambitious (and a bit gluttonous) round up ten· people and have· a Zoo Party -8 pounds of ice cream for under $10: They also serve good sand­wiches. If you prefer to prepare your own food, or want to take a cache back to the hall, stop by Hickory Farms. This fascinating place stocks all types of cheeses, teas, breads and soups. . 
If you tire of shopping and still have some pocket change left, look in Carousel USA. Here you'll find a wide variety of coin-op games with which to pass the time. Or if you're not interested in pinball ( or if you're, out of money) try just sitting in the sunken lounge areas in the middle of the first floor. You can watch all. the people walk by --,-all sizes, shapes and ages ­and work up your energy to return to campus. 
Since there are so many stores at the Mall, we could never hope to cover them completely. Hopefully, the following list will help you, should you decide upon an excursion out to Scottsdale. 

\Vomen's Apparel: 
fashionable: Adler's Bagpiper Blake's Gantos Gilbert's Milady Newman's Village Scene 

general: Brooks Fashion Casual Corner. Foxmoor 
inexpensive: Lerner Shops Marianne-
mod: Just Jeans Paul Harris Ups 'N Downs Village Scene 
Women's Specialty. Apparel: 
_Claire's Boutiques (wigs, purses, costume jewelry, belts, etc.) 
Motherhood Maternity Parklane Hosiery _ Tall Girls: (5'8" and over) 

Women's Fashion Shoes:· _ Mary Jane Naturalizer Men's Apparel: 
older set: Adler's Blake's Gilbert's Redwood & Ross Richman's · 
college: Chess King 
J. Riggins Just Jeans Lion's Dens 

Men's Specialty· Apparel: ­Louie's Tux Shop Tie Rak 
Men's Shoes: Florsheim Hardy Regal 
. THE SCHOLASTIC. 

Children's Apparel: 
Buttons & Bows Dels 

Family & Children's Shoes: Kinney Morse Stride-Rite Thom McAn 
Fabrics: 
Jo-Ann Fabric Singer 

Books: 
Family Book Store (specializes in religious books) Printer's Ink (candles and Hallmarks things, too) Walden Books 

Jewelry: 
Gordon Rost Shifrin Williams 

Gifts & Cards: Spencer Gifts World Bazaar 
Variety & Drugs: Osco Drug 
Specialty Shops: 
Animal Empire Carousel USA Cavalier Camera Dutch Mill Candies Fannie May Grinnel Music Grueninger Travel Agency Hans-Rintzsch Luggage Kings Row Fireplace Shop Merle Norman Cosmetics Musicland Olympia Toys and Hobbies Scottsdale Theatre Sound Masters Tinder Box 

Restaurants: 
Bishop Buffet Buffeteria. (Wards) Farrell's Papa's 1899 Deli · Kero's Famous Coney Island Le Petit Gourmet Minute Man (L. S. Ayres) O'Connell's Restaurant · Scotch Mist Lounge Snack Bar (Ayr-Way) 

Specialty Foods: 
Bressler's 33 Flavors (ice cream, that is) Hickory Farms Hot Sain Nature Food Centres Tiffany's Bakery . 

Financial. Services: 
American National Bank 

Department Stores: 
Ayr-Way 
L. S. Ayres 

Wards Good luck and happy ~unting! 
-sally stanton 

OCTOBER 12, 1973 

100 Center: Browsing in the Brewery 
When the twentieth-century American opens his eyes to a civilization filled with a repertoire of enough gadgets to satiate his every need, the art of shopping will finally have come into its. own. Until it does, the 100 Center Complex will be one of the few places where one shops as a pretense for just having a good time. 
About a fifteen-minute drive from campus, Kamm's Brewery is located on Lincolnway West, just past Logan in Mishawaka. The Kamm and Schellinger Brewery was built in 1853 to make "a fine grade of whiskey" (it was sold then for a quarter. per gallon). Until 1951, having survived everything from fire to Prohibition, the business was still in operation. It wasn't until five years ago that several astute and enterprising local businessmen contracted for a renova­tion to accommodate a new concept. Five million dol­iars later, with its charrri only enhanced and its reputation growing, only a visit to one of South Bend's most enchanting little secrets can provide the proof.... 
The old brewery and attached buildings haven't stopped serving beer yet, however. .For tonight and tomorrow an Oktoberfest is planned with free admis­sion and entertainment, German food served from a real chalet, and Lowenbrau on tap for 50 cents a 12~oz. cup. This should be the incentive to get away from the ingrown places on Eddy Street and Notre Dame Avenue, and go to the 100 Center for some reflections on a past era, a look at some of the old and new and a good time. 



KAM,.,'S BREWERY 
Fll.lDJ\Y MA SATUllDAY · 





OCTOBER 12&13 
· TIL MIDNITE·•· 
·The fun place to shop ­
.8 &£,t. FOOO.l\f\u,,c_ 
HANDBAGS GIFTS 
JEWELRY WIGS 


~""' ­
·ADMISSION . .
..isOi;o· 
PAR.K.I N 0-·•
·ENTIR.TAJNMINT . ; . 
Jrls. £ue1s Shop 
. . . 
FASHION SEPARATES & SPORTSWCAR



100 CENIEll .· .~~ 
700 L.W. w. -U.S. JJ llot.CVP 
100 N. •CENTER STREET
MISHAWAKA 
MISHAWAK~, IND. 46S44 PH. 25~-9662 
. . . l -• 

Betore getting your first Lowenbrau, go inside the Brewery and stop at the Candy Barrel. ·There you can grab a bag· and fill it with· all sorts· of goodies with a small exchange of coin that will ·claim your sweet tooth. For the cheese' freaks, the Big Cheese has im­ported cheeses for cooking and· munching. If·you can't decide what you like from the scoresof selections, ask for _a sample or two.. The proprietors are most accom­modating and will also show you their selection of im_. ported beers and wines which are most complete. The Candle Tree has got every color and flavor (including licorice.and chocolate!) of candle that you can imagine. It's worth a stop just for the aroma of the place. You don't have to buy a Model T to get one of those neat old lanterns anymore, if that's what you've always wanted ... The Copper Lantern has . some epic pieces, large and · ::f~=t~~ small, in handcrafted tfnand copper. The largest store ,... in the 100 Center is Pier 1.imports. Among all of the imports from all over the world,· you can find a nice. plant that would add some ·green and iife to a room. Go downstairs to the Stone Cei'lar and pick out a stone or ceramic pot from· the large selection or ask the potter there if you: can watch him make you one to house your leafy friend. For handmade leather boots,' sandals, purses, belts, jackets arid jewelry, take a look at the Leather Banana. •. The quality is excellent arid the · prices are good: $15 for made-to-order sandals and up· to $50 for a pair of boots yoti would call a work of art. Perhaps . you might even go· to see "Ben Hur" some night at theBoilerHouse Flix. 
20· · THE SCHOLASTIC 



Stop in and see Sigi at the Gallery 100. He's a nice Dutchman who will show you graphics, posters, oils, watercolors and prints, some by Buffet, Rockwell and Lautrec and others by local artists. If you are a little tired by now, the chairs are comfortable and the carpet­ing is thick, so sit down and talk with Sigi and enjoy the view. He'll even let you take something home for. a while if you can't decide whether to buy. 
· If you like to knit, crochet, do needlepoint or em­broider, Schoolhow;e Too has everything from supplies• to kits. If you don't know what you're doing, they'll teach you. (Watch out for the stairs leading down there, though: If you walk normally; you'll have no problem. But if you're running around like I was, you might lose a little skin on your left ankle and be helped up by. a lady fifty years your senior, priding herself for not. owning a pair of platform shoes.) · • 
Stop in the Bath ShO'f)'Pe ·and see an of ·the acces­sories for the 'commode these days .. You'll be amazed. Ms. Eve's Boutique has some nice tops and pants, gifts and accessories for co-eds. If·your parents ·are coming for the ·next football game, Ken's Den will restyle your hair any way you want or any way someone else wants, as the case may be. 
Earth Designs is a nice store of Scandinavian furni­ture and all the trimmings. The inside is in two levels, so up or down, you can find a nice chair, table, lamp or even a neat ashtray. They also sell unpainted barrels of various sizes for around $1.50. 

You may be going out to dinner some night and wind up at the Ice How;e Restaurant, and you could do worse. This big old fridge has been recycled into a great eating place. The inside is not too well lighted, but a clean place with good food and drink. The old ice picks for door handles and beer barrels for light fixtures accent the cuisine of steaks, seafood and Greek dishes. It is not expensive, I have found, and a dinner for two with a. drink was less than $12. You might do well to make a reservation. This place is going to be a popular one. For a bite to eat, stop by the Feed Bag for a healthy sandwich and Coke. 
The other stores in the 100 Center Complex are:. The Brewer's Art: beads, pearls and craft supplies Foreign Flair: exotic gifts, jewelry and accents Peddler's Wagon: unique and unusual gifts The Place!: gifts of distinction for discriminatory people Primrose Antiques: furniture, glass, china· and primi­
tives Stable: antique and collectable dealers-weekends only Toy Soldier: creative and educational toys and games 
Five more stores are coming soon, including an old­fashioned ice~cream shop. The. 100. Center Complex has shops that you always thought a town like South Bend should have, but you never thought it would. It is a first-rate place worth seeing any free afternoon or evening. 
-alice o'toole christopher jr. 


Parks: A Breath of Fresh. Air 

Outside Inside 
Have you and your friends ever had a free after­A park not much farther than Leeper is Howard 
noon when you wanted to do--anything but stay on Park. It has fewer trees and more spaces, but this 
campus? The biggest pr9blem to face is a most for­shouldn't matter to hockey devotees who would like to 
midable one-WHERE? It may be hard to believe at _ use Howard's outdoor skating rink.· Rental times are 
first, but the best places to go within a reasonable dis­at night only on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, 
tance from· ND· are in South Bend. South Bend can lay and all day on Tuesdays. The facilities open on Novem­
claim to no fewer than 61 public parks scattered ber 22, and after skating out in the cold you can visit 
throughout the city, with some fine ones _wi_thin easy Barnaby's, across the street from the park, where you 
bike-riding distance. For example, within ten minutes . can warm up and· enjoy beer and pizza. To get 'to How­
on bicycle you could be at LeeJJer Park, which is not ard, turn on Hill Streeffrom Angela and go south until 
exactly the best park you will ever see, but the view ofc you reach Jefferson Blvd. The park will be right in 
the St. Joe River is relaxing, and it has plenty of front of you. 
room for baseball ·and football. It has picnic facilities 

to let you try your hand at barbecuing and see if you If you have a large group and wonder where you really can make better food· than the dining halls, plus can go that would accommodate everyone, a place to go a Garden of Fragrance for people who like flowers. is Potawatomi Park. It has large ovens for big cook­Should you be. in a historical mooci, you can see the outs and a pavilion available for a small rental fee, cabin of Pierre Navarre, the first white man to settle places to play tennis, football, and baseball,-.in addition in South Bend, which may be impressive only because to a swimming pool. If you are a nature lover and like _it has heldtogether since 1820. To get to Leeper Park · to see animals, you can visit the zoo in Potawatomi. It's from Notre Dame go west on Angela Blvd. until you something to do and the animals don't talk back. The . reach US 31, where you turh left and travel until you woods around this area are appealing, and make it one get to the opposite side of the St. Joe River, and the of the best places in South Bend. The disadvantage, park will be to either side of you. though, is that everyone else likes it too, so don't go 
there on holidays and weekends unless you like to be around a lot of people. Go east from Howard Park on Jefferson till you reach Greenlawn, _turn right and you'll see it within a half block on your left. 
Another park for the big group is Rum Village Park, which, although a good distance from the ND campus, has picnic facilities, recreation areas, and a pavilion. It is a pretty place, but like Potawatomi,-it gets crowded on holidays and weekends. To get there from Notre Dame, go south on US 31 until you get to Ewing Avenue, turn right and continue west until you reach Rum Village. 
For those who have seen too much of humanity and want to find a_quiet spot where people:are scarce, there is hope. Just across from the St. Joe River from St. Mary's College is Pinhook Park, which is a popular gathering place during the summer due to its beach: As the days get colder, however, the people tend to stay away, making it ideal for some quiet meditation in a tranquil place near water. Pinhook is off Riverside Drive about a mile and a half north of the intersection of Angela and Riverside. 
The place that has something for everyone is Bendix Woods, a St. Joseph County park about 10 miles west of South Bend on State Road # 2, making it a good place to go on a bike hike. It is 175 acres of land with picnic areas, shelters, youth group tent camping, nature trails, and fishing spots. It has acres of woods so that you can escape the human race for a while. In addition, the St. Joseph's County Parks and Recreation Depart­ment sponsors different activities. For example, during the month of October it will conduct nature hikes every Sunday at 2 p.m. starting from the nature center build­ing. Later on it will have cross-country ski hikes for the ski buffs. The Department has some nice programs ahead, so if you would like further information, call them at 287-9222 and the people there will be most happy to serve you. 
Not to be outdone, the South Bend Recreation Department is offering courses in women's slimnastics, lapidary (gem cutting), archery, baton, basic rifle marksmanship, women's pistol marksmanship, and bad­minton, as well as team sports: men's basketball and women's volleyball. If you want to know more about any of these programs or about the parks, just call them at 284-9328 and ask. They have more facilities_ than can fit in this space, so find out about them. 
If, after deciding what to do for the afternoon, Fate decrees a rainstorm, try Notre Dame; I hear they have some pretty good facilities. 
-jorge wpez 


The Historical South Bend 
Consider a city as a body: the streets full of the flux of people and vehicles as arteries; the telephone, radio and television networks that gather information from throughout the city and beyond as sensitive nerves; the constant import, · use and export of prod­ucts as digestion. The flesh and bone of the body are its buildings, each a cell containing and supporting its people's activities. 
_The cells and materials in a living human body are constantly being rebuilt, replaced. No material in your body was there seven years ago. The building cells. of a living city are also constantly changing. But it is not necessary that nothing las_t longer than seven years. There can be preservation in the ·midst of alteration, the past can have a place in the future. 
South Bend is changing more rapidly than most cities but is holding a place for the past. While a $45 million dollar renewal project is going on many con­cerned citizens, particularly the Southhold Inc. group, are working _to preserve and restore ·to new use many interesting historical sites of the City and surrounding area. A large number of these are open to _tours that will enu'ghten students who think of South Bend as the morgue at the end of Notre Dame Avenue. South Bend is a city with a history that can be seen in its buildings. 
·Some of the more interesting ones: 
La Salle Landing Site: This was the first place where white explorers landed in the area in 1679. An expedition led by Robert de La Salle left a blaze mark on a tree which was found just before the turn of the century. The tree is in amuseum now but -a stone monument marks the spot in Riverview Cemetery, east side of Portage Ave. at Lathrop. 
Northern Indiana Historical Society Museum: The building itself is of historical value, built in 1855 to serve as the ·St. Joseph County Courthouse. The mu­seum contains thousands of historical items, particu­larly of pioneer days, including La Salle's tree. Tours, Tuesday through Saturday, 9:15-11:30 a.m. and 1:30­
4:30 p.m. Located 112 So. Lafayette Blvd. immediately north of, the County-City _Building.· 
Studebaker Historical South Bend Collection: .Until 1963 the. Studebaker Corp. was the primary economic force in South Bend, first manufacturing carriages and then automobiles. When the corporation moved out of 
24 

...: 

Pierre Navarre Cabin 

the city they left behind their collection of past models: The city has restored. and displayed these to form an excellent showcase of development from the carriages of the nineteenth century through the automobiles. of the 1950's. Tours, 1st Sunday of every month, 12:30­
5:30. Located at the corner of Lafayette and Bronson. 
· South Bend Arts Center: ·The Center contains both 
permanent arid periodic displays by local and other 
_artists. Locilted at 121 N. LaFayette Blvd. Tours Tues­
day through Saturday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. and Sunday from · 2 to 5 p.m. 
Pioneer Museum: The museum is_ housed in an old schoolhouse and concentrates on the farming and or-· dinary business of the early nineteenth century.· It con­tains over 5,000 items and displays o~ such facets of pioneer life as harnessmaking, blacksmithing and butcher shops. Located on County Highway 6 one mile east of junction of County 6. and 15. Hours, Mon.-Sat., 
10:00 a.m: to 6:_00 p.m. 
St; Joseph's Catholic Church: Built · in 1893, it houses the oldest . Roman Catholic congregation _in -Mishawaka. Particularly noteworthy .is --the stained glass window of the Last •-Supper. Located· at the corner of 3rd and Mill Sts. in Mishawaka. 


Tippecanoe Place: Mansion built by Clement Stude­baker in the late -1880's as a family home. He intended 
_it to be a showplace of architecture and art and brought in materials from all over the world. -Although it has been used as a school for crippled children since the 1930's it is well preserved and Southhold Inc. is trying to preserve it permanently as a particularly fine ex­ample of the architecture of the period. Tours· during Southhold's periodic "Heritage Tours." Located at 620 
W. Washington Ave. 
. 
Hamilton Methodist Church: The church was es­tablished in 1829 by pioneer preacher Nehemia B. Grif­fith when the town was a stage-coach stop. The build­ing is an excellent example of the Greek Revival style. 
·-The large .American flag is said to have . been used in Lincoln's 1864 campaign. Location, take U.S. 20 ap­proximately eight miles west of South Bend, turn north on Walnut Road approximately two miles; church is at_ the corner of Walnut Road and Chicago Tr. · 
Homes Designed By Frank Lloyd Wright: Wright, one of America's most influential' architects, had a career spanning almost 70 years.. Two houses in the South Bend area illustrate his early and late styles. Avalon Grotto built in 1906 is characteristic of his prairie school style. __ The Mossberg House, built 45 years later at the end of Wright's careeris typicaf of his one-story homes. Location: the Avalon Grotto at 705 West Washington Ave. and the Mossberg House at 1404 _Ridged.ale Rd. Tours: only the exterior may be viewed since both houses are privately owned arid occupied. · 
'[)at hanifin 
25 ­
l 
( 


Getting Away 
Weekend Excursion Diversions 
It seems that the benevolent drafters of the fall Notre Dame calendar have conspired to initiate a new wrinkle this year: the long weekend from Friday, October 19 to Monday, the 22nd. _The perfect· innova­tion -not long enough to drive home, and too long to maintain sanity on campus! 
With this prosp~t in mind the Scholastic has en­deavored to provide some opportunities for diversion during the coming break and, if tinie and fortune per­mit, during some future weekend as well. Shopping at 100 Center, an architectural tour of historic South Bend or an outing in one of the local parks may help kill time on a free afternoon, but it is highly possible that there will be times when staying around Notre Dame and South Bend just won't get it. If you find yourself in this situation, you may want to grab your honey, or your baby, or your kids, or whatever, and take one of the following excursions. 
CASSOPOLIS -JONES -KALAMAZOO 
-1\IARSHAL 
This little sojourn can easily be accomplished in a day, and some zealous devotees of the bicycle may want to make a weekend out of it. Take Route 31 north to Niles, then go east on Route 60 and say good-bye to Michiana. The first town you'll come to will be Cassop~ olis. Cassopolis is a charming little town, perhaps best known as the terminus of the underground railroad in pre-Civil War days. It also boasts one of the better restaurants in the area, the Diamond Harbor Inn. 

From Cassopolis proceed ~ast to Jones, Mich.; and you'll see a present-day reminder of the underground railroad. Jones is one of several Michigan towns that were settled by former slaves. It resembles any other typical midwestern small towns except that the farmers, merchants and townspeople are· nearly all ·black. A rather unusual manifestation of black culture. After a look around Jones -you'll be ready for some lunch, -so your best bet is to head north on Route 131 to Kala­mazoo. ·u has been described as "the -most elegant small town in America." The downtown area has some good shops and an extraordinarily good art museum designed by I. M. Pei. After some welcome sustenance, head east again on Interstate 94 and just south of _Grand Rapids you'll hit the highlight of the trip, Marshall, Michigan. Marshall· was a boom town of the 1830's-50's and -it still maintains most of its 19th­century landmarks. Spend the afternoon browsing around the dozens of delightful homes done in Greek­revival architecture and then top the day off with din­ner at the original Schuler's restaurant. Marshall is only abou_t 60 miles away, so you can make it back in time for a few rounds at the Library, whichever one 
you prefer. 
26 
BRElUEN -NAPPANEE -NEW PARIS -GOSHEN 

Since the "turn on, tune in, drop out" movement of the mid-1960's there has been an increasing interest in the anti-establishment and unconventional life styles, especially_-the rural and religious communes of 19th­century America. Most of these communities exist only in frozen museum form like the settlement at 
-Amana, Iowa, which has long since jumped into com­mercialism with both feet. But one of the few vital remnants of that first commune era is located just a little ways southeast of Studebaker land. 
Like the Michigan trip, this one can also be com­pleted in a day, but the key thing .to remember is to stay off the main• roads. You might want to start on 
·route 331 from Mishawaka to Bremen. On your way you'll pass countless family farms and you'll likely see some buggies on their way to town. After Bremen continue east on Route 6 to Nappanee and then on to New Paris. Imagine what kinds of delusions of gran­deur possessed the namer of this town! New Paris is a good place to have lunch as many of the Amish farmers choose to do· also. After lunch and some putsying around, spend the afternoon-in Goshen. Goshen is by far the largest town on the trip, and it may prove quite an interesting contrast. Goshen College is just north of town on Route 33. · 

COLUMBUS -NASHVILLE -BROWN 
COUNTY STATE PARK 
This journey to south-central Indiana is by far the most interesting and enjoyable one, but you'll need two days and preferably three to do it well. Take Route 31 south to 465 east around Indianapolis and then · continue on Route 64 south to Columbus. If you don't go too fast, you'll make it in about four hours, and it's well worth the drive. 
J. Irwin Miller; chairman of the board of Cummins' Engine and Columbus' answer to. Andrew Mellon, just happened to be the college roommate of Eero Saarinen who went on to become perhaps the. most celebrated 20th-century architect next to Frank Lloyd Wright. When it came time for a new church in Columbus, Miller commissioned Saarinen's father, Eliel, and the result was the beautiful First Christian Church. It is now 30 years old, and since. then Columbus has be­come the home of over 40 fantastic examples of mod-· ern architecture. Most of them are public building, too, like schools and churches and a post office with windows made of one-way mirrors. Some of the architects in addition to the Saarinens: ·Harry Weese, I. M. Pei, Edward Larabee Barns, Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, and Venturi and Rauch. There is also· a sculpture by Henry Moore, his largest work in bronze. To see these and other visual delights, stop in at the visitor's bureau at Fifth and Franklin streets. There you'll receive a 

. map and information from a very helpful group of guides. They also offer a free slide show, and if your feet get tired, a $1.00 bus tour of 35 buildings, Mon.­Fri. at 10:00, and Sat. at 10:00 and 2:00. Ifyou spend Friday in Columbus, you'll have just 16 miles to go to Brown County State Park. Go west on State Road 46. You'll be riding along on the Indiana flatlands, and then on the horizon, just east of Gnaw Bone, you'll see them -mountains. Yeah, that right, mountains in Indiana! Brown County State Park is nestled among these mountains, and it has to be one of the most beau­tiful state parks in America. During F.D.R.'s reign the 
W.P.A. built the Abe Martin Lodge, named after an Indiana comic strip, and dozens of surrounding cabins which serve as more than ~omfortable lodgings at $5.50 a person. If you don't want to spend the money for a :roof, bring a tent and camp out on one of the more than 15,000 acres. The parkhas fishing on two lakes, hiking on eight miles of trails, horseback riding, and picnic areas, as well as a .lot of open land just to groove on. 
~rown County is a center of turn-of-the-century Indiana culture, and Nashville, the county seat, is a good place to see it. Nashville isn't as nice as Colum­bus, mostly because it has become too commercialized, but it's worth a visit. If you're in need of foodstuffs while camping, they can be reasonably purchased. at the Nashville IGA supermarket, just two miles from the park. --,-greg conti 
Baptist Church Harry Weese Columbus, Indiana 


Food, Glorious Food 
· 11A restaurant is only as good as one's experience 

there." Accepting this statement as true, Scholastic 
views no one a more qualified consultant on .the subject of area restaurants than .the 'statement's author, Dr. 
· Emil T. Hofman. 
Dr. Hofman's expertise: on the· subject :has been built -on a lifetime of dining experiences throughout Europe and·in most of the large American cities. . 
His experience in the South Bend area spans a period 

· of twenty-four years, during ·· which ·he has assumed roles ·ranging from a bachelor seeking ·survival to a university official . entertainirig · distinguished guests. These· roles, formal and informal, have _occasioned Dr. Hofman to patronize a vast . majority of the_ area's dining establishments. · Dr. Hofman's familiarity with fine dining does not stem solely from his role as patron, however, as he has been known· to don the apron quite often arid is, therefore, no stranger to the kitchen. 
Based on his deep appreciation and knowledge of fine foods and dining· in the area, ·Scholastic has asked_ Dr. Hofman to make a few recommendations to the student interested in an evening out. 
For· the· student who would enjoy. a romantic eve­

ning with entertainment, Dr. Hofman recommends one of the following:-. ·. " . 
The Wooden Keg: Although large, the Keg has many dining rooms, any one of which may_ offer_ the right atmosphere:. Music is available· and although expensive, 
the food is quite good. · 
The Diamond. Harbor Inn: Situated on Diamond Lake in Michigan, the Inn offers an excellent atmo­
sphere with fine food. The dining room wall is con­.. structed of glass and offers quite a view while dining. The Inn features . an excellerit gourmet table of hors 
. 

d'oeuvres and serves a wide variety of excellent des­serts'. 'Music and ·a: lounge are available. . . Boar's· Head: A ·restaurant offering the standard· 
steak and.lobster.menu, including the different cuts of steak and prime rib of beef; all done in good quality with moderate prices: · · 
.. L&H Inn: Located in Mishawaka, the "L&H _offers . the perfect atmosphere for ·the couple interested in a romantic and entertaining evening .. Music nightly, and -sometimes dancing; '·· · . · · 
Ice House: Located in the 100 Center Complex, the, Ice House has only r~ently been opened. judging from · the reputation of the:management, it promises to'be a:. restaurant of high q~~lity. The verdict's stiU out. . 
·Tinker's Dam: Another attractive. restaurant offer­ing music, a lounge and dancing. Although ithas re~ cently changed. hands, traditionally it has. been afine .. restaurant. 
For the student and his parents, Dr. Hofman recom-. mends a number of;different types of places. Hotel dining rooms carry a standard menu but can differ 
widely in quality. ·of the dining rooms Dr. Hofman. 
recommends: 
The Morri8 Inn: Often overlooked by parents, the 
Morris offers the standard dining. menu with the quality being quite good. For luncheon variety, there is none better in the area. When dining here, Dr. Hof­man recommends the broiled lamb chops. Better lamb chops can't be had anywhere. . 
Common to the Midwest are the steak-house type of restaurants which offer the standard beef menus: 
The Loft_: (112 Colfax Avenue) The Loft· comes 
highly recommended by Dr. Hofman, who has patron­
ized the establishment for 24 years. 
Eddie's: (Ironwood Drive) Eddie's has been the old standard for years. A restaurant one would be.proud to take anyone to. . · 
Of the· restaurants· offering a· gourmet or.contirien~ tal-type menu, Dr. Hofman suggested: .. 
The Lido: (127 N. Main) The.Lido "offers the most 
varied and exciting menu in town. The Lido's manage­
ment is particularly fine. 
The Amish Acres: (Highway 6, Nappanee) Situated 
on an old farm, The Amish Acres captures the Hoosief 
spirit better· than any other· restaurant. A family res­
taurant that serves large portions. The best time to visit is on a Sunday afternoon. . . : · For the student who enjoys ethnic dishes, the South_ 
· Bend area · offers primarily PoHsh and Hungarian places, these. being:_the two largest ethnic populatiops in the area. · _ 
Albert's: (501 Lincoln Way West) Albert's· offers 
the·best Hungarian goulash.in town, plus the.delightful 
conversation of Maryann, Albert's wife and waitress. · Al's Anchor Inn: (Western Avenue) Al's offers a .. Friday night special o~ a :delicious Polish dish· known as pierogi. 
Rocco's: (St. Louis Blvd.) Rocco's offers perhaps 
-··· -the best Italian pizza in the· area. . . . Ha1lJ!Y Ho'IUJe: (Rt._31) The place to go for Chinese food. ' Small and usually crowded, but excellent food. , When there, try the beef tenderloin with pea pods. · For off-campus students, Dr. Hofman has a few suggestions for inexpensive ·yet quality food.. · . Farmer's Market: (lower Eddy. St.) Located on an · . ··. old farm, the Market offers a Saturday_ breakfast that . every student should try. .. . . . . . 
. A-B-Z Cafeteria (Sample St.). A-B-Z offers prime­rib at a cost that one can afford while sdti:maintainirig good quality. i . 
. Home.Cafe:;: (New Carlisle) Just past the airport. Home Cafeteria: offers a buffet at. low cost:_but ·good · . quality. : Bill Knapp's: (222. Dix"iew'ay. N.). A fine quality restaurant that offers good· food at reasonable prices. 
.·. Try the jumbo garden burger and chocolate cake. _.. ~ ·. : . . . Off-campus students]nterested in a fine meal should be on. the lookout for the special·. nights · offered by 
· many of the area churches. . 
.Ctorn birsic 
. THE. SCHOLASTIC 

Where the Rabble Rouses 
9liff's:· Just down the street from Nickie's. and across .from Corby's, this clean, well-lighted place offers quiet respite and good food as . well as escape from the crowds. A grand place to fake a breather on a night of heavy bar-hopping. Seafoods suggested: Frog legs supreme. · . 
The Library: Not to be mistaken for the book house with the holy-card facade/ the most educative thing offered•. here is the Hoagie Sandwich (a semester's project)..· Michelob on tap,-a barroom, a dining area; and soon a dance floor make _the Library an attractive package for the ND-SMC crowd: The orily drawback is that it might not be around too long. Some competitors are using city hall connections to make things difficult for their new rival. . . . . 
Louie's: Once the. hangout for Irish. po<>h-bahs, Louie has since lost that trade and gone on to a quieter, more subdued motif. Much.more, .this-is becoming the place to stop for·a·quiet sandwich between the crowded drinkers' bars. Louie has removed some of the tables and put in a bar as well ~s· a color television. And, wonder of wonders in this day of rising food costs, the famous Italian Beef and.Ham Sandwiches have gone from $1.50 to $1.25. An evening with the old sage him~ 
.. self (Louie) _is welLworth any price though. 

LOUIE'S ·--BAR
. . 

Ne_wly Remodeled . 
FOOD DRINK GAMES 


744 N. NOT~;E DAME AVE. 

:OCTOBER 12, 1973 
Rocco's: ·A place of initiation for many ND-SMC undergraduates. Mama Rocco likes to see her young friends have a good time. Carding is loose, needless to say, and many freshmen forget their Emil T's . here every Friday night. . 
Giuseppe's: Good food and rather loose carding make this place another favorite for the underclassmen. The only-drawback is the location. It's a long walk, or hitchhike, on South Bend's colder or wetter evenings. 
Corby's: The crowded atmosphere and loyal follow­ing as well as the proximity to campus make this the home· of the real hard-core drinkers in the Domic tradition. Busch, the beer that didn't make St. Louis famous· even if it did make Gussie Busch rich, recent­ly made a promo film here. So, stop in and see if you can become a star while chugging a quart of· semi­Budweiser. Also, don't get hooked into· any pool matches with the regulars. They're the sharpest bunch of hustlers· this side of Minnesota Fats. ·· · 
Nickie's: Famous for _the raid. That is the raid. 
·

\
.,,, 
·. 
.....-~ 
~-. ­
,. . . -. 
e 


!ift,-idf '. • 
,,. ·. . 


More careful carding and the lack of a dancing license 
have cut the crowds. The beer and food are_ only aver­
age, and the . beer is sometimes less, being slightly . watered. The kriowledgeable drinker will not spend a whole evening or a whole wallet in this place·. 
Simeri's:·The atmosphere is lacking as is the beer. 

Simeri's is another local establishment known· for 
stretching the stock.a little. On the plus side, however, 
is the· great. Italian salad (quite· spicy) and the very 
spicy meatball ~andwich. Simeri loves the Notre Dame 
crowd and sometimes offers a discount. on the presenta~ 
· tion of N.D. I.D.'s. ·Not to worry about this, though, 
he graciously ignores the date of birth. Sweeney's: The place to spend St. Patrick's· Day: And the only bar besides Corby's -with a popuiar T'." 
shirt following. The jukebox is all Irish (e.g., "My Wild Irish Rose") and the carryout selection is one of . the most complete in the area. · 
-josep11, ·runde di george sibley 




Coming Distractions 
OCTOBER 12 . . . The Chicago_ Symphony Trio performs in the Library Auditorium at 8 :15 p.m . . . . Strauss Vienna Orchestra (Phil Simon International Series) at the Morris Civic . . . ·. Midwest Blues II operis -at Stepan Center (doors open 7:30; performances at 8:00) with Houston Stackhouse, Roosevelt Sykes, and Hound Dog Taylor & the Housebreakers. Tickets $5.00 both nigh_ts, $3.00 one night.. ... ND/SMC Theater presents Richard mat O'Laugh­lin, 8:30. . . . The Trojan Women at IUSB. . . . Oktoberfest: Kamm's Brewery, 100 Center (700 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka); noon till midnight; free admission and parking. German beer, food and music. 
OCTOBER 13 ... Richard III (ND/SMC Theater) continues, 8:30 at O'Laughlin. ... The Trojan Women, IUSB. . . . luidwest Blues II continues with Shirley Griffith, Yank Rachel; J.T. Adams, Son Seals Blues Band, and Mighty Jo_e Young & Koko Taylor-Stepan Center. . . . Cinema 74 presents Shock Corridor (Fuller) in the Engineering Auditorium at 8 and 10 p.m . . . ~ "The American Scene" series continues with "Non­Authoritarian Approaches to Discipline for the Delin­quent," by Robert,L. Powers (Adler Institute of the Univ. of Chicago) at Carroll Hall-(Madeleva), 10:00 a.m. . . . Oktoberfest· continues at Kamm's Brewery, 100 Center, M!shawaka. 
OOTOBER14 
... Shock Corridor (Fuller), Engineering Auditorium, 8and10 p.m . . . •_Elkhart Symphony Orchestra (Elkhart) presents A Viennese' Concert. ­
OOTOBER-15 
. . . The Shakespeare Film series continues with Julius Caesar at the Engineering Auditorium, 7 and 10 p.m. · 
OOTOBER16 
. . . Michiana Friends-of Jazz present Woody Herman at O'Laughlin (SMC). . . 
OCTOBER 17 ... Dave Brubeck Quartet, Elkhart Concert Club, ~lco Theater. ... South Bend Chamber Music Society presents a con­cert at South Bend Public Library Auditorium. . . . "The American Scene" series continues with "Shame aiid Shamelessness in the Age of Pornogra­phy,". by Erich Heller (Northwestern Univ.), 8:00 p.m. in the Little Theater (SMC). 
OCTOBER 18 
... "The Dilemma of the Modern Family," panel dis­cussion, 7 :30 p.m: in Carroll Hall (Madeleva) . 
OOTOBER19 
... Arthur Godfrey at the Goodman Auditorium, Bethel College. · · 
. .. Knights of Columbus presents ,Viva Max . . . . Broadway Theater League of South Bend presents No, No Nanette at the Morris Civic. · 
... The Trojan Women, IUSB. . . . Archibald MacLeish's J.B., Union Auditorium, Goshen College . 
OOTOBER20 . .. LSAT (the ultimate distraction) plays to a -full house in .the Engineering Auditorium . ... Viva Max, second night, Knights of Columbus. ._· .. No, No Nanette (Broadway Theater League of South Bend), continues at the Morris Civic. ... The Trojan Women continues at IUSB. ... J. B. (MacLeish) .at the Union Auditorium, Goshen College. _ . . -. "The American Scene" series continues· with "Non­Authoritarian Approaches to Discipline in the School," by Bernice Grunwald (Adler Institute of the Univ. of 
· Chicago), 10:00 a.m. in Carroll Hall (Madelevak 
OCTOBER 21 .· .. The Trojan Women, IUSB. ... J.B. (MacLeish), Union Auditorium, Goshen College., 
': .. South Bend Symphony Orchestra (Philippe Entre-_ mont, pianist) at the Morris Civic . 
OCTOBER23 ... CAC presents the National Players in Crime and Punishment, O'Laughlin, 8 :00 p.m . 
OCTOBER 24 
... Christopher Parkening, guitarist, Washington Hall, 
8:15 p.m. 
., 
OCTOBER 25 
. . . Goldovsky Grand Opera Co. performs Puccini's Tosca at O'Laughlin. ..·. CAC presents Genesis VI, Erigineering Auditorium, 

8:00 and 10:00 p.m. . . . Academic Commission presents ·Mayor Warren Widener at 8:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. . . . "Women in Economy," by Collette Moser, Ph.D., 7 :30 
p.m. in CarroU:Hall (Madeleva). 
OCTOBER 26 ... Genesis VI, Engineering Auditorium, 8 and 10 p.m. . . . Rick Roberts; free concert (location to be an­nounced). 
OCTOBER 27 ... The Carpenters, ACC. . . . Cinema 74 presents Lola (Demy), in the Engineer-. ing Auditorium, 8 :00 and 10 :00 p.m. 
OCTOBER 28 ... Leonard Woodcock (president of UAW) presented by the Academic Commission at 8 :00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. . . . Cinema 74, Lola (Demy) at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. ... Elkhart Symphony Chaniber Concert, Allen Norris, piano recital, at Memorial High School (Elkhart). 
OCTOBER 29 . ... The Shakespeare Film Series continues with Henry V in the Engineering Auditorium, 7 :00 and 10 p.m., free. · 
OCTOBER 30 ... Academic Commission presents Stan Van der Beek at 8 :00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
OCTOBER 31 ... ·chamber Program: members of ND Music faculty, Library Auditorium, 8 :15 p.m. 

.... Tales of the Crypt, Washington Hall at 8 :00 p.m. 
. NOVEMBERl ; .. CAC presents MASH, 8 :00 and 10 p.m., Engineering Auditorium . 
.: . . "The Abortion .Controversy," panel discussion, Carroll Hall (Madeleva), 7 :30 p.m. 
NOVEMBER2 . . . MASH, 8 :00. and-10 :00 p.m., Engineering Audi­torium (CAC) . . . . Lloyd Orrell Gospel Concert, Morris Civic. 

"New Light," by E. J. Sauter, continues at Isis through Oct. 13. 60 Prints from the 60's continues at O'Shaughnessy Gallery through Oct. 18. Richard Stevens, experimental photography, at O'Shaughnessy through Oct. 18. Don Reitz Ceramics, Art Gallery, Goshen College, 
·through Oct. 28 . Bob Evans' show of new paintings continues at South Bend Art Center through Oct. 28. Paintings by Dr. Susan Chiang, at the YWCA Gallery through Oct. 30 . Art of Old Indiana Masters continues at Radecki Gal­leries through Oct. 31. · Italian Renaissance Work from the Permanent Collec­tion continues on show at O'Shaughnessy through Dec. 31. XIX Century Works from the Permanent Collection, at O'Shaughnessy Gallery through Dec. 31. 
OPENINGS: 
OCTOBER 14 .... Portraits by Martin Stevens, opens at South Bend Art Center, through Nov. 4 . 
OCTOBER 20 . ; .. Juried Art Show (Oct. 20-21), sponsored by Niles Art Assoc., at Niles (Mich.). 
OCTOBER21 . . . New Portfolio of Josef Albers,_ O'Shaughnessy Gallery, through Dec. 31. 
OCTOBER 28 ... Portraits from the Permanent Collection -A Criti­cal Examination of the Forgotten Art of Portraiture featuring works from the Italian Renaissance to the 1950's. At O'Shaughnessy Gallery through Dec. 30. 
NOVEMBER! . . . Art. of the Silhouette Cutter (Examples and His­tory) at Radecki Galleriesthrough Nov. 31. 
For current information and schedule changes, caJ,l 283-3834 (Student Union Information Line), Monday­Friday, 1 :00-5 :00 p.m. 


years the.Drama department would like to interest all students in the performing arts. It is part of a liberal education to appreciate the arts and the department tries to appeal for student support. Therefore it has 
ND-SMC 


Theater 
On October 9, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre launched its 1973-74 season with one of Shakespeare's most renowned histories, Richard ill. Set in England during the War of the Roses, the play revolves around Richard's quest to maintain power in a troubled land. Suspense and intrigue dominate the play. Despite its ­length the intense drama will captivate your attention from start to finish; 
Along with a superb play, the director, Dr. Regi­nald Bain, has assembled an equally impressive cast. _ Chris Ceraso, a senior, has the leading role. The Duke of Buckingham, Richard's right-hand man, is played by senior Mark Swiney. A-very impressive perform­ance is given by Helen Fricker, cast as Queen Eliza­beth, wife of Edward IV. Indeed, the combination of a fine play coupled with superior. acting is an indica­tion of a very enjoyable evening. __ 
The ND-SMC Theatre has been staging fine pro­ductions for the past eight years. Originally the Theatre consisted of two separate drama groups. Be­ginning in -the early 1960's a co-exchange program was instituted between the Drama Department of, Notre Dame and St. Mary's. This was a natural outgrowth of an informal cooperation between the two depart­ments. There was a mutual interest in. each other since male and female parts were ·offered by-both groups. In 1965, the two groups formally_ merged forming the Notre -Dame-St ..Mary's Theatre. Wi_th this merger, the newly formed group received the best of both departments. St. Mary's was producing high­quality plays with extremely good .talent for several years. The Notre Dame Theatre had a vast number of subscribers and expansive facilities. The present ND­SMC Theatre group has varied facilities on both cam-­puses. Notre Dame's unique Washington Hall, for ex­ample, provides a very classical atmosphere for pro­ductions. St. Mary's -offers in contrast the modern -O'Laughlin Auditorium and, for intimate surroundings, 
the Little Theatre. 
. Over. the past few years, the group has produced 
such memorable shows as "You're_ a Good Man, Charlie 
Brown," "Showboat," and a variety of o·thers. Both 
the group and its parent, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
Drama Department, have been trying to present a ,wide 
variety of plays and musicals. Dr. Bai_n, department 
chairman, states· -his -objective: • "Over a four~yeaz: 
period, a student can -be exposed to many · different 
forms of the theatre, including classical, contemporary 
and experimental productions." Since most people de­
velop a taste for the_ theatre during tlieir college . 

been their policy to include musicals in their schedule, since they attract people to the theatre. This year, "The Beggar's Opera," by John Gay is included with "Thieves Carnival" and "The Homecoming." As one can see, it is a varied selection of plays. _ 
All of the productions are primarily staffed by the students. There are nineteen student assistants who work on publicity, box-office affairs and other odd jobs which are needed to stage any show. The tryouts are open to everyone. In -many cases, the students aren't even in· the Drama Department. From· this varied se­lection, surprisingly good talent has been discovered. The program has helpecl to mold successful actors and also serves as_ a hobby for students interested in the theatre. 
The driving force behind this dynamic ·group has been the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Drama Department. As Dr. Bain says: "The theatre provides a drama ma­jor a chance to gain experience and improve his skills while enjoying himself." Along with the traditional theatre, the 100 drama students can experiment in the drama lab, where set design can take on any dimen­sions. Under the careful direction of six full-time fac­ulty members, a student can receive a complete orie~­tation into the theatre. Acting, set design, and many other aspects. of the theatre are available to the stu­dents. The students are able to receive the total pic­ture of a production by working on all aspects of stag­ing a play. All of the effort, along with good direction, is insurance of a successful project. Judging from ''Richard ill" it is evident that the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre is going to have another winning sea­son. 
-kevin mccormack 




Week in Distortion 

Skinny Is Beautiful . 
Tradition Lives! 
Last Thursday's Observer brought 

a sad note to respecters of tradition 
at Notre Dame. It hrought news ·of 
the Knaked Klunker's resignation 
from the post ofNotre Dame Strip­
per Laureate. Citing pooh-bah pres­
sure as the reason for his resigna­
tion, the Klunk knoted that he_· was 
hanging up his shorts.for good, with· 
the exception of private showings; 
T~at's the. bad _news. Now the 

good news:' a promisingjunfor var~ 
sity stripper is being brought up to 
mi" the first~strfng · vacancy. Long 
languishing inthe shadow of strong . senior talent,. the "Knaked Knurd" 
will step forth in what'promises to 
be agood showing at Notre Dame's 
next home football game. . 
The Knurd.stated that he saw his 

stripping as being in the cause ·of 
"skinny awareness." "I want to pro­
mote the concept that· Skinny · is · Beautiful," he . said in an exclusive interview with "Week In Distortion." . 
So, fans : of. artisti~ disrobing; be sure to· turn -to ··section· twenty-nine at the Southern Cal· game to cheer the Knaked Knurd on in his support · of the Notre Dame Tradition. It will probably-have r~d hearts on it. 
They Said·It,.\Ve0Didn't '· 'At a recent SLC meeting sfster ' 
. John Miriam explained that last year's·refusal of permission· for girls to· move off ·campus was' done to in­sure that .there would be no empty 
.. beds in the girls' hall· this year. She 
· OCTOBER 12, 1973 
said she did not consider this· dis­crimination, but· expediency in han­dling the matter; 
· Yea Caiphas ! · 

~lethinks the Man Doth Protest. 
Too Much! 

Didn't H-Man get enough Southern Cal football tickets? Or-were those . friends of his with the black jackets and white ties looking for a "bigger 
-piece of the action"? . 
First In Team Equipment . . 519 N. HI LL ST: SOUTH BEND, INC. 46617. 
A Question 
· .What happened to the partial re­funds promised last year to those who 'voluntarily overcrowded their dorm rooms? 
Profundity of the Week 
The average girl-chasing darner is like a dog chasing a car: He wouldn't know what to do with it if he hap­pened to catch it. · 
t. j. clintcm 

T~SHIRTS 
ANY COLOR 
IMPRINTED WITH 
YOUR TEAM OR 
CLUB NAME. 
.$2.75 
MINIMUM ORDER: 15 SHIRTS . 

T 
~~11•00 Men In Wooden Boats'~ 
My first experience with the Notre Dame crew was through my room­mate, Kevin. I had asked him, rather innocently, just how they go about setting up a boat. Almost as if on cue, he was setting up a diagram on the floor with bottles and glasses, extending his fingers to show how the eight oars are arranged. After he finished his introduction; he re­moved the diagram and began to demonstrate the proper technique for rowing, something that becomes a very special part of every oarsman. ,The entire demonstration was, to say the least, spirited. 
A few days later it hit me that, since Kevin is not always prone to these outbursts of enthusiasm, there must be something to this sport. I set out to find it, with only one ques­tion in mind: Why in the world would anyone go through t_he effort of training and disciplining himself to the utmost extent so that he would be able to propel himself in an outmoded vehicle of transpor­tation over an obscure body of water faster than_ a fellow maniac? 
What I found, to put it simply, is that it takes a certain crossbreed of degeneracy and brilliance to pull this whole stunt off with any semblance of style. 
The present team is an outgrowth of what began in 1965 to raise money for __ charity. Even _in those early years, the crossbreed was form­ing._ Take, for example,. the manner in which the financial barriers · of purchasing _the first shell were sur­mounted .. · -The number of shell manufactur­ers in the world is somewhere in the teens. The Notre Dame crew bought theirs from a firm in Seattle. The policy there is usually half-price down, ~he other half on delivery, but they wai_ved the requirement in re­spect to the name of the Notre Dame ­

Athletic Department. Little did they know that the Athletic Dept. knew nothing of the new club sport, and the full price of the shell would not be paid off for another seven years. 
The first thing you notice when 
you watch a boat on water is the 
coxswain. In the first place, he is 
the only member of the boat facing 
forward. Secondly, he wears a mega­
phone on his face like a horse wears 
a feedbag. Finally, most coxswains, 
when going about their business, 
have the gentle personality of drill 
sergeants. Their mean streak stands 
out. 

"Most coxes are hot dogs," Clete 
Graham, coach of the crew told me. 
He should know. He coxed in high 
school and in his freshman year on 
the Notre Daine team. This experi­
ence has helped him to develop one 
of his many theories ·on_ the sport. 
"You've got this little guy here, and 
the others are so much bigger than 
him. It's a strange relationship. The 
big guy figures' the -cox knows what 
he's doing, and the cox goes in figur­
ing he does. They bluff their way 
from that point. 

"When you're coxing, there's a 
tremendous sense of power yelling 
at these eight monsters in front· of 
you. But, it goes beyond power. 
"There are only two ways a cox­
swain is going to -be able to work _·with his crew. One is if he knows everything, which is really unlikely, and the other is if he can become one of the team. A lot of coxes run with their crew in practice. It helps 
give a sense of solidarity." 
This is not to say that the cox-­
swain is the only member of the boat 
whose position holds a ci'ertain psy­
chology. This is an intensely psycho­
logical sport, and each member 
stands out in his role. 
The stroke sits immediately in 
front. of the cox, taking instruction and setting the pace. He must have the.endurance to rally the boat for a finish after they have -suffered through fifteen hundred difficult me­ters. Behind him sits the seventh man, who must follow the stroke perfectly. For some reason, perhaps the imposed silence on him or the fact that he is just supporting and not leading, the seventh man is usually one of the quieter people on the crew. 
The middle positions on the boat are usually filled by stronger mem­bers of the team. Sometimes they pair off, or else they will work as a unit. Either way, it is in. these four positions that the majority of the power is produced. 
The second man and the bow are preferably two of the lighter mem­bers, so that the front of the boat will ride slightly above the water. They must have soine of the best technique on the boat. 
When they're good, the rowing is smooth, rhythmic, as close to perfect as they'll ever come. When they're not so good, mistakes sp~out and multiply like weeds. 
Every move is calculated, concen­tration is devoted to· the perfect ex: penditure of energy. Without good technique, the most powerful boat will only flaH its oars wildly. The channeling of energy to its utmost is one of the goals of the crew. To paraphrase Buckminster Fuller, less 
can be more.  *  ·  
·ll­ ·X·  

The pronoun "he" is not always ap­plicable when it comes to this year's crew. A totally different experience has arrived. This year marks the initiation of agirls' crew. 
Most of the members of the girls' crew, outside of never having rowed before, have never participated in a team sport involving the discipline and_ physical exertion that this sport docs. There are very few outlets for the female jock in high school. 
As a result, they are a bit more vulnerable to certain elements of the sport than someone who has had previous experience on a team is not so vulnerable to. 
For starters, the girls have a ten­dency to .be less tactful and more frank in their criticisms of each other. As Clete said, "they're bitchier than the guys." 
"But they're also mor_e fun to coach. For one thing, they're more dred meters, both teams feeling that honest when it comes to admitting they were cheated. what they can't do. A guy will give A sober tone began to set in as the you some sort of excuse, but a girl boats were prepared for launching. will just say that she can't take it." On the shore, people began to pick 

The girls also differ in their atti­out the best points from which to tudes toward the sport on the whole. watch the race. Watching them, you can see that As the team began warm-ups on they enjoy what they're doing, the · the water, the mild psyche that they kind of enjoyment that leads to dedi­had felt early in the week spread to cation. The expression on their faces an intoxication felt by everyone. is not the grim determination that is The three crews, our lightweight seen on the men. It is more a look of and heavyweight varsity teams and satisfaction. They enjoy their faults -their varsity team, gathered at the 
as well as their triumphs. starting line. The starter readied himself. Slowly, he prepared himself
* * * 

to perform his duty. Too slowly, itLast Saturday, for the first time turned out, for the current carriedin one and a half years, the Notre the crews back and it was necessaryDame .crew raced on their "home to re-line them. The starter shouted. 
·. turf,"the St. Joseph River. The sky The race began.
was clear, . the air cool and crisp, · Coxswains screaming, arms strain­spirits were unbelievably high, and ing and.legs pulling and_ pushing in you could almost hear Chris. Schen­Swiss-movement ·precision so thatkel . saying, "Ladies· and . gentlemen, the power would be put to the bestthis is the kind of excitement you use, with the strain of the race show­only feel in college athletic competi­ing early on the faces of the oars­tion." 

men, they moved down the river. 
The . entire team running It is a

was rare thing for a member around the launch area like someone of a good crew to rememb'er the had slipped joy juice into their major part of a race. The pain and breakfast. Truly hyper. They were exhaustion cause them to blot out 
. joined in this by friends and family, everything, concentrating only on creating an atmosphere not far from the rhythm, the motion, the cycle of being in Indianapolis on the day of bringing the oar through the water the "500." Most of the races are held and returning to position,· the repeti­far from Notre Dame, making it a tion that cannot vary in quality. 
rare occasion when they can enjoy There is no such thing as runningthe support of their best friends, so away with a race in crew. They re­they were soaking this one for all it fer to a race that was won fairly was worth. 
easily as "walking away with it." Clete moved from group to group, They measure their progress iri . looking like a kid who got every~ terms of seats gained, notlengths or thing he· wanted for Christmas. This some form of time. Nothing is ever was definitely a class bunch,. here. definite till the end of the race. Only 
In a sport that does not include in the most mismatched competition physically beating the opponent to does a team become sure enough of· signify victory, the ·triumphs come 

psychologically. This _is how Notre 
Dame began to set the pace for the _day. 
· The Michigan State coach walKed up to Clete early that _!Ilorning to tell him. that the MSU team was only prepared tq row a thousand meters, not the two thousand that had been agreed on. It w~s time for "show­down at Mishawaka laridirig." Clete. was far from happy. Standing there looking at this guy· wearing a stop­watch like love• beads ·and speaking in one of those phony _Judy Carne English accents, the look in Clete's eyes said one· thing-."no class." They compromised for fifteen-hun­itself to feel they are winning. 
The lightweights crossed the line first, followed a few seconds later by the heavyweights, and then· the Michigan State team. 
They are too far away from the crowd to hear any sort of cheering. They sit there, exhausted, looking at their feet strapped in the supports, or the sunlight reflected· off the water, or maybe at a teammate. Quietly, without-flash or splendor, they row back to the dock. There they are greeted by smiling faces and . mild applause. Unlike many 
. sports, the true victory can only be . appreciated by those in the boats. This is the feeling that one finds in himself when he has become an ex­perienced oarsman. 
When one is not an experienced oarsman, one is a freshman oars­man. The freshmen are hot dogs, in the finest tradition. No class, but a lot of show. Warming up before the race, ·they look like Tom Sawyer straddling the fence, trying desper­ately to impress Becky Thatcher. In the end, they win their race, but show that they have a long time to go before they learn the traditions of the warrior's return. 
For sure, the crew is one . of the more obscure club sports on campus. They've · talked among themselves about "going varsity," but most are reluctant about it, sensing within themselves -that this could· radically change the basic nature of the club. So they continue to row in the early mornings and the late afternoons, quietly dedicating themselves· to what ori the surface appears absurd but on the inside just plain feels right. 
-/red graver 

Book Review 



The Priest 
by Ralph Mcinerney 
In fourth grade, summer days were full of green grass made for us to roll in. The backyard was the 

-world, and it offered unlimited de­lights. Playing Crusades would some­times occupy a whole week since there _was an · unlimited supply of broomsticks and garbage can lids -:-though capturing Jerusalem from the kids across the street was never easy. Of course, the constant favorite was Cowboys and Indians. It was neat to be an Indian, but the cow­boys always won. We would also fight the _world wars. The require­ments for this were more elaborate since we needed dirt bombs for grenades. This caused an element of danger which naturally made this game the favorite._ Slowly passing, warm-mud days coalesce in the min_d to form an image of romping-in-the~­fields childhood. The memories linger and at times produce secret smiles. Vaguely, i remember that we once played Mass. With all the solemnity of fourth-graders, one of us, awk­wardly wrapped in a much-too-large sheet, presided at a feast of cookies: Perhaps what led to this was the deference· with which Sister treated Father whenever he visited the class­room.. His power to save us from the ­tortures of spelling, however briefly, was a taste of the miraculous; it was divirie intervention. To be a priest, to be an image of God among men, this was our secret calling. Yet as eighth grade passed, so did the desire for Holy Orders. The delights· of the bourgeois world created a frenzy in our immature senses. We discov.~ 
ered, among other things, that vive la difjerence referred to a delicious reality. The priest was now a symbol of the Thou Shalt Not. All of us slowly, with only token resistance, entered our atheist phase _:_ a bla­tant rebellion that justified_ the ful­fillment of our new, rampaging de­sires. _The earlier memory was now suppressed. Yet, it tenaciously lin­gered like the warm sun of Indian summer. Thus, . reading The Priest (Ralph Mcinerny, Harper & Row, $8.95) was, in a sense,_ a confronta­tion of dim memories with present realities.. Perhaps, not · entering a minor_ seminary after eighth. grade was a ·calamitous mistake. 
The Priest is a novel about the uneasy-stomach nature of .the mod­ern church. The priest of the title is Father Frank Ascue..After ordina­tion, he is sent to Rome to study for an advanced degree in Moral Theol­ogy. _The unspoken· assumption_ is that upon· his return he would re­place his aging mentor on the local· seminary's faculty: The bishop, an obstinate man of some wisdom, sends 
-him instead to· an old, inner-city parish. The plot of t!Je noval cente~s around Ascue's involvement with his parishioners, fellow priests, nuns and 
_laymen.The novel, given its breadth, attempts to expo~e and grapple with the problems of the post-Vatican II church. Thus, the reader is presented with a groovy, unceHbate priest who, after one short affair, marries a nun; an old-line. pastor stiff in his . ways like a week-old corpse; fanatical lay­men of both traditional and avant-. 
garde beliefs who are really at_tempt­ign to use the church; a politically ambitious auxiliary bishop who has allies and enemies;· a seminarian who happens to impregnate Ascue's niece which leads to Ascue's tolerat­ing an abortion; an ambitious, _right-on-liberal editor of the dioce­san newspaper.... To say the least, Ascue, being inexperienced when he somewhat dejectedly_ arrives at his parish, changes by the end of the novel. He is no -longer the untested Moral Theologian -who is a man of the stiff rules. He has learned that the rules, the general code of Thou Shalt Nots, do not -fit particular cases. Morality is a gut-tightening; personal dilemma and not a matter of a general · code of laws. The _ground of moral decision lies within the seemingly infinite shades of grey. 
There are several problems with the novel. The author, at times, -js much too playful with his charac­ters. For example, the diocese is cen­tered in Fort Elbow which_ sits on the Prune River. Father_ Ascue is obviously Ask-you. A German theo­logian is cynically named Manspricht Deutsch. This serves to create a sense of distance between the novel and the reader, and suggests a curi­ous distance between the author and his work. One senses that the author is toying with his characters. Sadly, as one continues-reading, one discov­ers that the novel really_ has no -, characters; they all lack blood._ Each ''character" is merely a representa­tive type that is found _in the modern 

church. The author (perhaps direc-characters. This reflects the smfirgas­tor is more accurate) is simply , bord aspect of the plot which results manipulating a smorgasbord of ste-from the author's attempt to make reotypes. There is no dialogue or · the novel a microcosm of the modern conversation, only a mouthing or church. Mr. Mcinerny strains in his shouting of positions. Whenever attempt to reach' this goal, but his there is a confrontation that might literary powers fall short of the tar­lead to the tangled, murky depths of get. Given the manifest artistry of motivation and belief, the author the author, the novel is far too am­awkwardly intervenes and indirect-bitious and, sadly, the strain proves · ly addresses a short homily to the too great. reader; The novel, as such, b~omes I know a Priest who intervened an exercise in homiletics. The au-~several years ago to prevent a young thor's position is that of Olympian · . student from flunking out. This stu­Zeus, and ·his interventions are as · dent was mentally disturbed, and the deft as thunderbolts. The book is a Priest, after a long series of events, failure in that ·it pretends to be a suffered in terms of his good name. novel; i~ . is actually a pretentious ·· His act of self-sacrificing love was lecture that merely masquerades as misunderstood; . it was viewed · as a novel. One must wonder if the au-strangely selfish. The Priest contin­
thor. has met only mediocre priests, . ued to love this undergraduate and for all of the clerical characters lack later helped him again, regardless substance.-There is· no sense of the of the consequences. This example of deep-flowing emotions proclaimed, self-sacrificing, Cross-like love is the no celebrated as is the Cross by agony of the Priest; a . mere man 
Father Griffin -among others. I who is doomed in his efforts to re­wonder if he has read In the King-present Christ to all men. Such is dom of the Lonely God or similar the substance the novel ignores, works. . Such is Virtue and the Way. . 
The denouement is as trite as the -michael melody 
The~••,e contribution-great and small. ¦¦ n.uau . Whether the Paulist keeps :ofanOfdeP boys off city streets by restor­may betaken ing and re-planting a city park 
or wins awards for a remark­.in the measure. able TV series-he is responding 
• · · to the needs as he sees them. · 
of it5 Qlen. 

Wherever he serves-in a · . parish or an in[Jer city school In the beginning there was . ~ . a youth center or on .
Isaac Hecker. 

campus . · .. a welfare shelter 
· He founded the o_rde_r in or in a prison ... joinin_g a

-1858 and his aim was to create senior citizens group or in
an order 9f priests who would radio, television or publishing,be able to meet the needs of the Paulist is making his own .

the North American people as contribution, and keeping alive they aros~ in ea~h-era, each Father Hecker's dream. 

age. Modern priests who .After all, there is a lot towould be modern men. 

live up to and an order is onlyPart of the success of th_is .. · as good as its men.
order,he believed,would lie in the fact that each man would 

For more information send be himself, contributing his for THE PAULIST PAPERS-an own individual talents in his exciting new vocation kit of_ own way for the totaLgood. articles, posters and "The individuality.of man;'he · recordings. · said, "cannot be too great 
· Writeto: when he is guided by the father Donald C. Campbell,. spirit of God." _ Room 101 . , And that.is just what the 

Paulist

Paulists are-individualists. We're proud of our.men and Fathers of each and every individual 41S West 59th St,, NewYork, N.Y,10019 
Q.CTOBER 12, 1973 


the job _done. However, it seems everyone's contention that Notre Dame is a community, interested in personal
The Last. Word 

growth and developm-ent. In· this sense, its responsi­bility reaches past simple preventative measures, into 
the realm of the therapeutic measure. I have no al­ternate idea as to what the University might do, and in that sense, this argument is' incomplete. However, I feel. that the University could find measures, perhaps Reflecting on a problem from within, while one is education or peer group responsibility /prevention, that still intimately bound up .in the intricacies of the prob~ would better fill the spirit of the term, in loco parentis. lem, -can b~ dangerous and deceptive. Such is the sit-Finally, in attempting to· legislate one of the. most uation concerning the student manual guidelines . pro-basic needs of man, that is, the desire to convene so-posed by the Student Affairs Department and modified· cially and at the same time to disassociate himself by the· Student Government. The actuaL deliberations from his daily function or "job," the University might are finished, yet the consequences -and ·implications· of · be -overextending its right. I have always been dis­the administration's decision are only beginning to turbed by ,the notion that in agreeing to attend Notre evolve. However, I feel tha~ we must confront certain . Dame, one revokes all of his privileges and falls com­"absolutes,J' existing beyond the details of "how much pletely and without reserve under' the jurisdiction of . ·beer" and "how many people," in order to obtain a .the University. To this point, I have given three defini­serious understanding of the situation. tions of the responsibility of the University, each in a First, ·it appears that the Student Affairs Depart-different context and each somewhat incomplete. The ment is essentially trying to legislate parties. In Us definition above is rather legalistic in that it is the desire to curb alcohol abuse, the administration has least the University· may presuppose in exchange for correctly recognized the party as, by far, ,the largest an education. The commercial definition together with and· most popular medium for drink. In fulfilling its • the juristic definition is negated, or rather eclipsed, responsibility towards the· student body and the South __ by the bro.ader definition of the University as a com_. Bend community, and at ~he same time, in· protecting -·. munity of spiritual and intellectual, physical and so­itself, the University is attempting to control the here-cial guidance. In claiming to be a Christian institution, tofore unchecked source of social drinking. The Uni-_the University must accept every facet of that defini­-versity. cannot consider its responsibility Ughtly; tion all of the time. The job definitely becomes much 
, . . -. ­

financially speaking, -it could face bankruptcy if the more difficult. · right series of circumstances would befall it. Therefore, -The University; then, does have the right ·10 assume there. is no doubt, nor objection, that the University . -unto itself our privileges. and rights, only to use them must control alcohol abuse. . and return them in a mutually generous manner. The 
The easiest · method for the University to -protect -University, like our national government,· must realize itself against alcohol abuse on the campus is to limit that its power is merely borrowed from .the people, parties. _ . . _ . .. -voluntarily surr~ndered, as it were. When the receiver 
Oh this·~ampus, though, parties represent one of the · -institution begins to look upon this power as inherent 
· few social functions that serve as a common denomina-and the property of that institution, the natural result tor to all students. Purpose _is often secondary; the . ·is an attempt to protE:Ct and preserve this power; _hence, mere presence of others and the.absence of academi~ · a tragedy Hke Watergate, _ _ _ _ . pressures is enough to sustain a party.· The Office ·of To have the power to act in a given situation and Student Affairs defines parties as "events ... where _to act responsibly are twQ very different alternatives. 
· the consumption of alcoholic beverages plays a prom-On the other hand, for the large part of the student inent if not dominant role in the theme of the event" · body, there exists no real privilege to be ·given up, as (guidelines sub~itted fo the SLC; Monday, September · those under age are legally barred from using alcohol 17, 1973, by the Office of Student Affairs). Agreeably; . _.in Indiana. It is only by the good will of t_he University liquor plays .. a. prominent role·.. in almost · all campus . : : .that -these particular students -· can use alcohol at all. gatherings. Yet, it cannot'be within the nature of the· _-(H~wever, one ·returns to the fact that a mere ten 
·event for liquor to dominate over the social aspect of r:minutes away, these sanie "nii~ors" regain that privi­a party; one could more easily get drunk for the sake -lege; a paradox in its own·right.) of getting drunk, by himself. -· Ideally, we must come to terms with the real prob­
. Thus, as a result of the attempt -to protect itself lems underlying the particular details, a feat which will from the few, the University is denying and depriving demand a great deal of responsibility and trust that the majority of a privilege which it has rightly earned both sides have heretofore failed. to evidence. The im­and honorably maintained. By the majority, I mean · mediate decision plus its repercussions often carry im­those students who use alcohol as a means rather than plications unknown to the students (or the administra­an ·end, for personalenjoyment rather than for escape tion). Here, ·as in every interaction, both parties must or stimulation. learn to recognize and respect those problems not im-
As to the abuse of·alcohol at parties, those unfo~-mediateiy apparent of imposing. _ . tunate situations will arise despite the strictest rules. Sooner or later, we'll get our parties; it remains to The University, then, is alleviating rather than ful-be seen if we can have them-within a Christian com-filling its responsibility. This is perfectly acceptable munity. if one sees the University as a competitive institution fulfilling its contractual liabilities. The measure gets --'7:tom gora 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

.·"They do not love that do not show their love." 
. ·William Shakespeare: 
Choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee assures a per£ect engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color;,There is no finer· dia~ond ring. 




KeeP.Sak~ 
REGISTERED~IAMOND RINGS
.. 
· T·MReg.A.H.Pondco: 
·-, ... 
....:. "".".':""" 
.,:;.---------~~-,­

' -HOW.. TO PLAN Y()UR.ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I .. I · Send new 20 pg,-booldei, ."Plann}ng Your ,Engagement and W,eddlng" plus I 
I. · fuUcolor folder and 44 pg. Brides B~k gift offer all for only 25¢. ·· F-73 I ·,' .· . . ,.
Name_...;___.;..;.,_______________ 

I 
(Plcucl'liad · · .-I: 
·r

I · Address-;............------~---------,---·1
I 
I City · I 
I I 
I~~-~--I 
·-·. KEEPSAKE ritAMOND';IUNGS/ BOX 90, SYRACUSE, ·
' ', ----------------------~--~~-N. Y. 13201' 1' 
GIUSEPPE'S RESTAURANT 713 E. LA SALLE AVE. ·SOUTH ·. BEND 
featuring 

·ITALIAN AND_AMERICAN FOODS 
also 
PRIVATE PARTY ROOM for 
25 TO 250 PEOPLE · PHONE: 233-0951 


: The: Wboie Earth Catalogue calls it~,-· 
11 ~
· masteroie·ce~ If Y<!U don't think yo~ .haveanyques;. : ·tions a~out your body, you'll probably be surprised. And if you're . ·' looking for a stronger, clearer sense of yourself as a woman, you'll­. be satisfied." ·· .-·.;..Diana Shugart, The Whole Earth Catalogue·. 
· Sat11rday Review says.:. < ··. ·._: • 
·"It's one ofthose rare books that truly> 
· ._.~ .. .. . make a difference. . .· 
One wants to urge, ·cajole and plead with . women -and men; too; most of them equally.Ignorant of the female body -to · . 
read it, study it, discuss it with friends, use · 
it as a reference, and perhaps even lend it· 
to a doctor.".·· · -Genevieve Stuttaford, 
Saturday Review First.prepared ~nd published locally by The . Boston Women's Health Book Collective,•· 
· this great underground bestseller .· -now published for general dis• 
tribution -covers such sub-· jects as anatomy, sexuality,birth control, abortion, nutri,· lion, exercise, childbearing, common medical problemsof women, and much; much 
more-all of it carefully·researched, clearly illus-: trated and presented · 
· from the women's · point of view... 




OUR BODIES fBOOI(




----. --,ev:s~·:..
.OURSELVES ·WQMEN°·• 

·ByThe Boston Women'; Health Book Collective):' . Touchstone paperback $2.95 • Simon and Schuster 
Photo: Robert Pi1rent · ­





