THE SCHOLASTIC
W Campus ^hop Qualitg <Salc..
OUR FINEST SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORT COATS AT SAVINGS OF
Save up to one-third on the finest suits, topcoats, and sport coats available in today’s world markets. You’ll find sizes for all men including hard-to-find sizes for men who are smaller, taller or larger than “average.” Come in soon while selections are good.
GET WHAT YOU NEED NOW .
OnCampue
W Shulman
(Author of “I H'as a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
“LOVE IN REVERSE”
They met. His heart leapt. “I love you,” he cried.
“Me, too, hey,” she cried.
“Tell me,” he cried, “are you a girl of expensive tastes?”
“No, hey,” she cried, “I am a girl of simple tastes.”
“Good,” he cried, “for my cruel father sends me an allowance barely large enough to support life.”
“Money does not matter to me,” she cried. “My tastes are simple, my wants are few. Just take me riding in a long, new, yellow convertible and I am content.”
“Goodbye,” he cried, and ran away as fast as his chubby little legs could carry him, for he had no convertible, nor the
money to buy one, nor the means to get the money, short of picking up his stingy father by the ankles and shaking him till his wallet fell out.
He knew he must forget this girl but, lying on his pallet at the dormitory, whimpering and moaning, he knew he could not.
At last an idea came to him: though he did not have the money to buy a con
vertible, perhaps he had rent one!
Hope reborn, he rushed at once to an automobile rental company and rented a yellow convertible for S10 down plus 10c a mile, and with many a laugh and cheer drove away to pick up the girl.
“Oh, goody,” she said when she saw the car. “This
suits my simple tastes to a
‘T’. Come, let us speed over rolling highways and through bosky dells.”
And away they drove. All that day and night they drove and finally, tired but happy, they parked high on a windswept hill.
“Marlboro?” he said.
“Yum yum,” she said.
They lit up. They puffed with deep
Backward or forward, a fine, new experience in smoking is yours from the makers of Marlboros—the unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris Commander, Welcome aboard!
4

contentment. “You know,” he said, “you are like a Marlboro—mild and fresh and
relaxing.”
“But there is a big difference between Marlboro and me,” she said, “because I do not have a Selectrate filter nor do I come in soft pack or flip-top box.”
They laughed. They kissed. He screamed.
“What is it, my dear,” she cried, alarmed.
“Look at the speedometer,” he said. “We have driven 200 miles and this car costs 10c a mile and I have only S20 left.”
“But that’s exactly enough,” she said.
“Yes,” he said, “but we still have to drive home.”
They fell into a profound gloom. He started the motor and backed out of the parking place.
“Hey, look!” she said. “The speedometer doesn’t move when you’re backing up.”
He looked. It was true. “Eureka!” he cried. “That solves my problem. I will drive home in reverse. Then no more
enough to	miles will register on the speedometer and
I will have enough money to pay!”
“I think that’s a marvelous idea,” she said, and she was right. Because today our hero is in the county jail where food, clothes and lodging are provided free of charge and his allowance is piling up so fast that he will have enough money to take his girl riding again as soon as he is released.
© 1961 Max Shulman
THEY WONDER AGAIN
Editor:
It would be interesting to know just what points Mr. L. Alan Bosch was trying to convey in his letter published in the February 17th issue. I think many other’ students who read the article may be pondering the same question, for it seems Mr. Bosch concealed many lr of his ideas in an overflow of vocabulary. A short explanation of the letter of his letter would be appreciated.
Carl Flecker 323 Breen Phillips.
Editor:
The letter of Mr. L. Alan Bosch that appeared in last week’s issue deserves much thought by all concerned — admin- „ istration, faculty, and student body. The W letter serves as a deep understanding of the need for self-analysis by all in ’ a time of change and development to see if we have attained our ideal. Much more could be written about what type of individual we as a Catholic university actually produce. However, the problem is whether we should be satisfied with what we are now, or should we progress in an atmosphere of self-improvement.
Certainly the letter pointed out very ’• clearly that this is not a time for complacency. Although we are on the brink of being recognized as potentially 1 one of the best universities in the land, £ by our own making and not that of | Harvard’s, there is still need for self- £ improvement — based not on the past, t but on the future needs of our times. | The past traditions will then serve their t rightful purpose as a guide to the future, not the future itself.	■
Also pointed out in the letter- is the < “cynical apathy” along with the erratic j and disgruntling attitude that exists on | campus — an atmosphere of seeming | tranquillity, but potentially one of cha- jj otic expression. Can this be stamped out | forcibly, or can it more easily be re- i moved by self-improvement on a mutual
(Continued on page 25)	|
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weeldy during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes tiie property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
T

Vol. 102 No. 16
MARCH 3, 1961
Founded 1867
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT: Moulded into final form this afternoon is a landmark in the history of responsibilities assumed by Notre Dame Student Government. The Carnegie Endowment has been induced by the hardworking International Commission to underwrite a symposium studying the place of the university in the world community — a problem of great importance to all scholars and students in an era that will see such projects as the Peace Corps become a reality. Attendance at the major* addresses today and tomorrow is open to all students, and we strongly propose them to students concerned with the problems facing a Peace Corps.
The Senate is to be commended for its steps insuring the continuation of similar programs, in view of its approval last week of the $1,400 appropriation for the Academic Commission suggested by John Keegan and his cabinet. The seriousness of the Senate in responding to a great need is to be pridefully contrasted with its escapades in past years — the Bookrtore resolution and the Frankie affair among them.

editor-in-chief •-.--■'7 CHARLES RIECK
associate editor ? ROY RUBEL!
FATHER WALSH: Completing a highly successful term as head of the Education Department, Father Walsh is welcomed into his new position as Notre Dame Foundation Director. The energy and imagination displayed in setting up new programs, M.A. teacher training among them, and the national recognition afforded him after a brilliant address before the White House Conference on Education, portend the continuation of a vital and aggressive Foundation campaign for our 66.6 million.

news editor;
THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
4
3
4
■-’■s':
photographer
WALTER DALY, Jr
moderator \ \ .7(* < 7'c ’7 REV.: GEORGE BERNARD
features editor .7-	<
THOMAS SULLIVAN Thomas Hoobler
sports editor
JAMES KILROY
William Cary , John Bechtold
business manager v JOSEPH FINNIGAN Robert Buckley
circulation manager '77 JAMES HICKEY
copy editor	,
THOMAS MARCINIAK
Philip Larrabee ?: 7 •
art editor ■- ' '’77X-''
THOMAS HANSEN
'J
HP®”®
Robert Chiappinelli Th$mas-'Wa^
Terry\ James
BLUE CIRCLE: The appearance of the Blue Circle Honor Society’s membership drive is an annual occassion for evaluation, criticism, and the expression of opinion on the part of many students concerning the relative merits of the organization. Much of this thinking settles around the prestige associated with the group and its designation as an honor society; for both of these reasons, the Circle is berated by some and sought after by others. We feel that the once-a-year character of this discussion is significant; for the Blue Circle is active throughout the entire school year and, except for the occassional wearing of badge, rarely makes an attempt to call attention either to itself or to its much-discussed title. When considering the prestige that has accrued to the organization, it should be noted that many of its members have or will have distinguished themselves on their own in other areas of student activity. And the Blue Circle as such strives, though imperfectly at times, to perform its tasks, whether important or menial, selflessly and unobtrusively. With the Circle’s membership drive soon coming to a close, we hope that many will be motivated by this side of the group’s character to apply.

OVER OR UNDER? A project now under discussion in student government circles is the building of a foot-bridge across the Dixie. Admittedly, the crossing of this major state highway presents a dangerous situation to students and their dates and especially to the several hundred nuns who attend summer school here but live on the St. Mary’s campus. However, we question the desirability of a foot-bridge. No matter how well it is designed it will be an incongruous piece of architecture at the entrance to St. Mary’s. Secondly, we wonder* if people will even bother to walk up a 15 to 20 feet high structure. Look at how many people would rather jaywalk than cross in a safety zone at a traffic light. And thirdly, there will be the significant cost of yearly maintenance. To overcome these drawbacks we suggest an underground passageway. Not only would it be more attractive and more practical it would also be unaffected by the winter conditions that plague this part of the country. And though initial construction costs might be higher they would soon be overcome by the lower expense of maintenance.
hews '■ staff , :■ ; / Xrt 7
Joseph Caspar 777' * .':'7 Frank' ’-Cuiffo X : LawrenceKavanaugh rtJames":Olive74-77rt
Thomas Scheuring 7- >
77' XSteve'^ Stuecheli' 7777
FOOD POLL: It’s been a long time coming but at last a questionnaire is being distributed to find out student feelings on the dining hall. While one may quibble about certain questions or wording we feel that the over-all “opinionaire” is good and that it will allow some of the major complaints to be registered. Now that the Administration has done its share we ask that students cooperate by conscientiously filling out the form. The task of compiling the results will be difficult and there is no reason to further complicate things with irrelevant cracks and comments. As a final note may we suggest that this survey be repeated in another two or three years. It would not be necessary to cover the entire campus; in fact, a large hall representing each of the four years would probably be more than sufficient.
— R&R
INTERVIEWS
AT NOTRE DAME
Monday, March 6
For further details and to arrange an appointment, consult your placement officer. If you miss us, a letter of inquiry will receive immediate attention if addressed to Mr. H. T. Brooks, Engineering Personnel Administrator, CONVAIR GENERAL OFFICES, San Diego 12, California.
Pull up a chair and talk to the men from Convair (they’ll be on campus soon). Learn about the many other chairs at our four major operating divisions waiting to be filled by young engineers and scientists.
We are the nation’s most diversified aerospace company, producing intercontinental and tactical missiles, electronic systems, commercial jet aircraft, all-weather jet interceptors, and strategic bombers. More advanced programs encompass a wide range of technology . . . from nuclear propulsion to space communication and exploration.
And our continuing policy of purposeful diversification assures stability and challenge for years to come.
Yes, plan to pull up a chair and talk to the men from Convair ... they'll welcome the opportunity to discuss our company with you. Whether you are an undergraduate, graduate, or doctoral candidate, chances are there’s a chair for you at Convair.
ASTRONAUTICS • FORT WORTH • POMONA • SAN DIEGO
CONVAIR B
A DIVISION OF	-
GENERAL DYNAMICS
6
The Scholastic
if engineering is your cup of tea
if you can demonstrate engineering proficiency
in any of these fields...
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING - ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING WITH MECHANICAL INTERESTS • VIBRATION • BALANCE - NOISE CONTROL IN SOUND LEVELS • FLUIDS • POWER TRANSMISSION - CHEMISTRY OF PAPERMAKING • MACHINE DESIGN * CONTROLS * STRUCTURES THERMODYNAMICS - LUBRICATION - STRESS * INSTRUMENTATION
.. . may we suggest that you talk with the people from Beloit!
Beloit Iron Works is where the world’s largest papermaking machines are designed and built. In the papermaking field, there is scarcely a branch in which Beloit hasn’t broken a record or introduced an engineering innovation or refinement.
As for the community itself, Beloit, Wisconsin, is a place of pleasant dwellings and modern shopping facilities. It’s also the home of Beloit College, located in the heart of the Midwest’s lake and recreational region.
We’ll be happy to give you the complete story about Beloit and the opportunities there for your engineering future.
Please consult your College Placement Director for an interview appointment with Beloit representatives here on this campus on
March 8, 9,1961
e BELOIT
PAPER MACHINERY
Ithil ngitHriig—since 1858—hat Mt tfoodardt for paparmalaog around tho woM
Beloit Iron Works, Beloit, Wis.
March J, 1961
BLOCK BROS.
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gift-wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
Classified Advertising
AN UNPAID TESTIMONIAL
SPECIAL OFFER...
ForZHeaded
Pipa Collectors
Genuine imported hand-carved cherry wood pipe... that really smokes!
This unique two-headed pipe is a real conversation piece...a must for your collection! Hand-carved in the Italian Alps and finished in gay colors. Stands alone on its own tiny legs. Ideal for your desk, mantel, or bookshelf ...mighty good smoking, too! This is a wonderful value! Send for your two-headed pipe today!
EARN $135 weekly during summer traveling overseas. MUST BE U.S. CITIZEN. Complete details furnished. Send $1.00 Lansing Information Service, Dept. E-17, Box 74, New York 61, N.Y.
and picture of Sir Walter Raleigh from new
I pouch pack
Only $joo
Richard the Lion-Hearted says:
Clip Coupon..
RALEIGH
Choice Kentucky Burley-Extra Aged!
Smells grand! Packs right! Smokes sweet! Can’t bite!
Sir Walter Raleigh Box 303 Louisville 1, Kentucky
Please send me prepaid ________ 2-headed pipe(s). Enclosed is $1 (no stamps, please) and the picture of Sir Walter Raleigh from the box in which the pouch is packed for each pipe ordered.
Shown Appoximately % Actual Size
1 would never haue surrendered England ...If Fd had
Jockeu
® BRAND K
support
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY.
NOW Sir Walter Raleigh in the new pouch pack keeps tobacco 44% fresher!
C’mon, Dick! You’re rationalizing. Jockey support1 might never have secured you against the Emperor2. But it certainly would have provided snug protection against the physical stresses and strains of your active life. Your armorer never tailored a coat of mail more knowingly than Jockey tailors a brief—from 13 separate, body-conforming pieces.
1.	Other "imitation” briefs (copies of the original Jockey brand) have no more Jockey support than a limp loin cloth.
2.	Richard the Lion-Hearted, 1157-99, surrendered England and a huge ransom to secure his release from Henry VI.
fTt“*
ZONE______STATE.
----------
Mail Today! {
Get the real thing. Look for the name JOCkGtfon the waist band
COLLEGE________________________________________________________________
This offer good only in U.S.A. Not valid in states where prohibited, taxed, or otherwise restricted. Offer expires June 30, 1961. Allow four weeks for delivery.
DECIDE DEBATE CHAMP HERE TOMORROW
Tourney Pits Talent Of 44 National Teams
by STEVE STUECHELI
• LaFortune Student Center is the busy scene of forensic activity as four preliminary rounds of Notre Dame’s Ninth Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament open today. Forty-four of the best debate teams in the country are here to compete for team trophies and individual awards.
Seniors Jay Whitney and Guy Powers will attempt to regain the first place Richard Schiller Trophy which Notre •Dame has won three of the tournament’s eight years, the last win being two years ago.
The winning team will receive permanent possession of the Richard Schiller Trophy, possession for one year of the Stude-l baker-Packard Corporation Traveling Trophy, and ♦will have the name of their school engraved on the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy which remains at Notre Dame.
To the runnersup, a second place trophy is donated by Eddie’s Restau-^•ant, the third place trophy by local businessman George Haller and a fourth place trophy by the Studebaker- Packard Corporation.
First and second place speakers, ^judged on the ba-*is of argumentation and delivery in the preliminary
rounds, will be given a desk set. Third through tenth place speakers will be awarded certificates of excellence.
The topic of this year’s tournament is: Resolved — That the United States should adopt a program of compulsory health insurance for all citizens. The contestants will debate both sides of ^his controversial proposal.
Among the outstanding teams participating are defending National Champion Dartmouth, ’58 and ’59 National Champion Northwestern, Augustana College, West Point, Air Force Academy, Ohio State and the University of Kentucky. Dartmouth, West Point and Augustana are past winners of the Notre Dame tourney; Kentucky took top honors here last year.
a Powers of Forest Hills, N.Y., is vice
THE HALLER, BOLGER, AND EDDIE TROPHIES
president of the debate team and a Dean’s List student in the General Program. He is a member of The Wranglers and is chairman of the AB Advisory Board.
Whitney, of Burbank, Calif., is a Dean’s List student in chemical engineering and debate team president. Listed in Who’s Who, he is also an NROTC company commander.
This year they have won tournaments at South Carolina and Butler and placed second at Northwestern and Purdue.
Preliminary rounds will be completed Saturday morning in the Student Center. A noon team luncheon at the Morris Inn will follow at which Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Joyce and the South Bend city attorney will talk.
Trying for four for nine.
Quarter-finals will be at 1:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium and 118, 123 and 127 Nieuwland. Semi-finals are set for 3 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland and the Engineering Auditorium. The finals, broadcast on WSND, will take place at 4:30 in the Engineering Auditorium with awards immediately following.
Dick Meece, a junior finance major and Dean’s List student is General Chairman of the tournament. He is also secretary of the Junior class and Dome feature editor.
He is assisted by Chris Lane, assistant chairman; Maurice O’Sullivan, banquet; Ray Kelly, printing; Martin Gordon, publicity; Charles Wasaff, registration; Fred Fitzsimmons, tabulations; William Beaver, timekeeper; Ron Vannucki, facilities and consultant Joel Haggard, last year’s chairman.
Announce Rome Alumni Set Headquarters in Eternal City
From Rome, Italy, the Notre Dame University Alumni Club of the Eternal City announces the opening of a permanent Club Headquarters in the ground-level rooms of the Palazzo Bran-caccio, near the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore, in the heart of Rome. The new center is just around the corner from the Scoglio di Frisio Restaurant, for many years the Notre Dame man’s informal “Roman rendezvous.”
At its new headquarters the Rome Club welcomes visitors and hopes to increase the tradition of hospitality toward Notre Dame and St. Mary’s alumni, students and friends during their sojourn in the Eternal City. The address of the club is: Largo Brancaccio 8, Rome, Italy; telephone 730002.
President of the Rome Club is George Gleason, Class of ’36. Chris Cochrane, ’46, is vice-president; Vincent McAloon, ’34, secretary-treasurer and Rev. Edward Heston, C.S.C., ’30, chaplain.
ECUMENICAL ADDRESS
The third in the Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series, sponsored by the Notre Dame YCS, will be delivered Tuesday evening at 8:00 p.m. in room 104 of O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Rev. James Maguire will speak on “The Ecumenical Movement in the U.S.” The address will continue the aim of the series to apply the principles of Pope Leo XIII to questions of present interest. Two more lectures remain before the series is concluded.
To Discuss Lay Mission Works in South America
On Tuesday, March 7, at 8:00 pan. in the Engineering Auditorium, two short talks will be delivered on the subject of Lay Missionaries in Latin America.
The first talk, titled “The Challenge to the Church in the Western Hemisphere,” will be delivered by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Ivan Illich, former Vice Rector of the Catholic University of Puerto Rico, and presently Director of the Center for Inter-Cultural Formation at Fordham University. Msgr. Illich is soon to become the director of an institute for the training of lay missionaries for Latin America, which will be established at Cuernavaca, Mexico.
The second talk will be given by Jim Lamb on the general topic of lay missionaries in the Church today. Lamb is the director of AID — an international program for the training of lay missionaries.
March 3, 1961
9
Carnegie Executive to Address Symposium; Session to Discuss University Responsibility
Today and tomorrow the Carnegie Foundation, the University of Notre Dame and the International Commission of Student Government are sponsoring a symposium entitled “The Responsibility of the American University Toward World Understanding and Cooperation.” This symposium, utilizing morning workshops for participating students, is addressed to all interested parties as an inquiry into the theoretical and practical aspects of the world community. Further, it is an attempt to present an accurate statement of the problems and challenges of our age.
Universitylnaugurates New Residence Policy
Significant changes in the procedure for room selection are in the offing for this spring, according to University officials. Essentially, the new policy consists in allowing those students who express a preference for living off campus to do so, rather than requiring off campus residences to be filled almost solely by those with lowest averages, as has been the policy in the past.
“Presently there are about 4500 beds on campus, whereas there are approximately 5200 students eligible for campus residence,” an official statement said. “There are, however, some students who, for one reason or another, would rather live off campus. Often, such a student is required to live here at the University while his classmate, who would like to be here, is forced to live off campus.”
Hence, approximately two weeks before the dates designated for the selection of rooms, all students will be given an opportunity to indicate whether he wishes to live on campus or not. All except seniors, however, must have parental permission to request off campus residence. As in the past, those desiring campus accommodations will choose rooms in order of academic average within the respective classes.
In the event that the number of students desiring campus rooms is insufficient, vacancies will be filled by students from the list of those requesting off campus residence, beginning with the lewest average and working up rather than taking the highest average first. Vacancies occurring throughout the year will be filled in the same manner.
The choice regarding the living on campus or off campus will be made before the Easter vacation, and the actual choice of rooms will be made after Easter.
It was noted by the University that such changes in procedure are being made on an experimental basis. Should the new system prove unsatisfactory, the former procedures will be reverted to.
Carnegie keynoter. The first address will be delivered at 2 p.m. by James A. Perkins, vice-president of the Carnegie Corporation, on “The University and the World Community: An Analysis and Evaluation of Major Existing Programs.” After the lecture, workshops will be set up to discuss the contents of this talk. Reports will be submitted to the General Assembly by the chairmen of these workshops to coordinate the several view points expressed in the smaller groups. At 7:30 p.m. Friday, March 3, Donald J. Shank, executive vice-president of the Institute of International Education, will lecture on the “Problems of World Community Arising from Group Diversity.”
Saturday’s program duplicates the previous proceedings, with a heavy schedule of workshops and reports occupying the greatest amount of time and effort. “The Application of the Principle of Democracy in the World Community,” will be the topic of George N. Shuster, assistant to the president and professor of English at the University of Notre Dame. That afternoon, the final reports of the student workshops will be given to the General Assembly.
For the worker. The main address is to be delivered at 7:30 p.m. on “The Economic Welfare of the Peoples of the World: Various Systems,” by the president of the United Steel Workers of America, David J. McDonald. A supplementary speech, “A Summary, Evaluations and Conclusions,” will be presented to the public at 8:30 p.m. by Aloysius R. Caponigri, professor of philosophy at this University.
Both faculty and students have been encouraged to attend the workshops and the many lectures.
Rev. Wendel Announces New Senior Loon Fund
Rev. Paul Wendel, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Student Aid Office announced this week the establishment of the John J. Bachner, Jr., Memoi*ial Loan Fund. The fund will be set up with money given the University by Mr. John Bachner of River Forest, Ill., in memory of his son, who died last St. Patrick’s Day in a tragic air crash over Tell City, Ind. John, Jr. was a senior at Notre Dame and a resident of Alumni Hall.	.
Loans of up to $200 will be made to seniors and grad students, with preference being given to residents of Alumni Hall. The money may be used for any purpose. Repayment of the principal plus a service charge of one per cent must be made on the first October fifteenth after the loan is granted. Application may be made at the Student Aid Office.
REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C.
Putting his health on the line.
Fr. Walsh Designated Foundation's Director
It was recently announced by Rev. g Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., that Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., head of the department of education, has been appointed director of the Notre Dame Foundation and assistant to the president.
His predecessor, Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., has relinquished the two posts for reasons of health.
The Notre Dame Foundation, which has a professional staff of eleven lay-;Q men, coordinates the University’s public relations and development activities. It currently is engaged in a three-year, nationwide, $18,000,000 fund-raising program. The largest single objective of the program is the $8,000,000 Notre Dame Memorial Library to be built beginning this year.
A native of Jackson, Nebr., and a former resident of Milwaukee, Father Q Walsh entered Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus in 1940, receiving an undergraduate degree from the University in 1945. After four years of theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., he was ordained to the priesthood on June 8, 1949, in Notre Dame’s Sacred Heart Church by the late Archbishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne.
Father Walsh has been head of Notre Dame’s education department since 1957 • and a member of the faculty since 1953 when he received his doctorate at Yale University. A specialist in the philosophy of education, he addressed the White House Conference on Children and Youth last year. In addition to his teaching and administrative duties, Father Walsh has served as liaison between the University administration and Women’s Advisory Council and the Notre Dame Library Association.
10
The Scholastic
Ford Foundation Offers Grant to University: Stipend to Finance Expanded Soviet Studies
A Ford Foundation grant of $265,000 has been offered the University of Notre Dame to finance its projected Soviet and East European Studies Program for the next ten years. The Uni-•versity’s allottment is part of a $7,965,000 fund set aside “to help make non-Westem and international teaching and research part of their permanent academic programs.” The other- universities participating in this study and thus receiving proportional awards are the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, and the University of Pennsylvania.
Another grant of $3,400 from the | Foundation has been directed to the University of Notre Dame Press “to stimulate the publication of scholarly works in the humanities and social sciences.” These gifts ranging from $2500 to $39,000 are parts of a five-year program begun in 1956 which have been divided among some 35 university publishers.
In 1953 the Soviet and East European Studies was formally organized at । Notre Dame, though courses on Marxism and the Soviet Union have been offered since the 1930’s. In the last eight years the program’s courses have been formed primarily on the U.S.S.R., East
Regents Offer Program For Scandinavian Study
The Scandinavian Seminar, incorpo-_ rated in the Board of Regents of the * University of the State of New York since 1949, is offering a study program in Denmark, Finland, Norway or Sweden. Teachers, college graduates, and undergraduates interested in a junior year abroad are requested to present their applications for the 196162 academic year to the Seminar headquarters at 127B East 73 Street, New York 21, N. Y.
| Conducted in a completely Scandinavian environment in the vernacular of the country, the intensified Seminar begins several months before departure. Language instruction is given the first few weeks, including stays with Scandinavian families from three to four weeks. To complement this, lectures are to be given in history, literature, art, and social and political problems of the country. After this education they are able to study side by side with the na) tives in one of the folkehjskoler adult education centers. Members will live with a Scandinavian roommate, and attend courses in the humanities and social sciences, while carrying out independent study.
Total cost for room and board, language materials, and transportation from New York to Copenhagen is $1480. A limited number of scholarships and loans will be awarded each year.
March 3, 1961
Central Europe, and Communist Ideology. Now they are to be expanded to cover Russian foreign policy and economics in China and Africa. Professor Stephan Kertesz, head of the studies since its inception, has planned special emphasis on the means and methods of Communist growth in Africa, and the transformation of Chinese society under Communist domination. In Prof. Kertesz’ words, “China must be included if the program is to have propel- balance, especially in view of China’s growth in power and the extension of its influence into other areas of the world, particularly Eastern Europe.”
During the 10-year period of expansion, a series of symposia will be conducted and books published on specific problems of Soviet foreign policy, and the like. Though no date has been set, one of these symposia will be entitled, “The Transformation of the Soviet System Under Khrushchev.” In addition to Prof. Kertesz this special faculty will include George A. Brinkley, instructor in political science; A. Robert Capo-nigri, professor of philosophy; John Fizer, assistant professor of modem languages; Vasyl Markus, instructor in modem languages; Gerhart Niemeyer, professor of political science, and Boleslaw Szczesniak, professor of history.
JEC Holds Elections For Spring Semester
At the last business meeting of the fall semester, the Joint Engineering Council held elections for chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer. It’s outcome saw Pete Martin, Ollie Williams, Joe Bette and Doug Drane chosen to head the JEC for the spring semester.
Shortly afterward, Chairman Martin announced his selection of the committee chairmen to aid him: parliamentary and by-laws, Tony Vierling; societies’ activities and awards, Joe Bette; program, Andy Keenan; public relations, John McLaughlin; sports, Jim Ray; Engineering Open House, Jim Kaval, and college evaluation, Joel Haggard.
Recently, under the direction of the JEC, the first phase of the evaluation of the College of Engineering was completed. This phase on the engineering faculty was carried out by the newly formed Tau Beta Pi Chapter on campus. First reports indicate that the response to the distributed questionnaire was excellent.
In the near future, the JEC plans to present a program on the topic of “Preparations for Senior Year.” This program, tentatively scheduled for midMarch, will discuss summer employment, senior interviews, graduate school and permanent employment. Further information on this program will be disseminated at a later date.
Fr. Meloche to Speak At Marriage Institute
“Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex” will be the topic of the Rev. Arthur L. Meloche’s lecture to the seniors attending the third Marriage Institute talk at 7:30 on March 8 in Washington Hall.
Father Meloche, a graduate of the University of Western Ontario in 1937, was ordained in 1941 at St. Peter’s Seminary, London, Ontario. Since then he
BLUE CIRCLE TIME
All applications for membership in the Blue Circle Honor Society must be filed by Sunday, March 5. Those possessing a 3.0 average and a satisfactory discipline record may apply to: Blue Circle Membership chairman, 316 Walsh. Letters should include a photograph of the applicant.
has been Diocesan Director of Lay Retreats, Executive Secretary of the Canadian Lay Retreat Association, and for the past twelve years, Director of the Holy Family Retreat House. In addition to these duties he is professor of Marriage Theology at the University of Detroit, weekly announcer over station CKLW in Windsor, Chaplain of the Windsor Police Association, member of the Research Committee of the Advisory Board of the Family Life Bureau, Washington, D.C., and lecturer at St. Michael’s College Marriage Institute.
Two lectures remain in this series, one by Dr. Louis Leone on March 15 entitled “The Doctor’s Viewpoint,” and another by Dr. and Mrs. Robert Chris-tin on “Success in Marriage” on March 22. Upon completing the series of five Institute talks, a certificate will be presented to satisfy the sometimes required Pre-Cana conference.
REV. A. L MHOCHE On the eternal triangle.
11
Finance Club Sponsors Third Annual Forum; Stock Exchange Proxy to Keynote Gatherings
WILLIAM COLEMAN
One of five on finance.
Sponsored by the Finance Club of Notre Dame, the Third Annual Finance Forum will be conducted Thursday and Friday, March 16 and 17 in the Morris Inn. Keynoting the dinner Thursday evening at 6:30 p.m., Edward T. McCormick, President of the American Stock Exchange, will speak before the club members, their guests and interested faculty.
Articulate quintet. In all, five speakers have been scheduled for the two-day session. Joel Segall, associate professor of finance at the University of Chicago will lecture Thursday afternoon at 2:00 p.m. on “Recent Developments in Corporate Finance.” Friday morning at 10:00 a.m. in the Morris Inn. Clarence Wojcik, District Manager of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, will present his views before the
Coffee House to Present Folk Singing Discovery
Folk singer Sia Thanasauras, a full-time nurses training student and part time amateur performer from Chicago, is scheduled to appear at the Hide and Seek Express© Coffee House on Jefferson Ave., South Bend.
Discovered and sponsored by Jim Adams and Jim Burnette, seniors at Notre Dame, Miss Thanasauras will give two shows, one at 9 p.m. and the other at 11 p.m. on March 4. Her repertoire includes Greek and Irish folk _ songs, calypso and blues.
• In an attempt to raise the entertainment level in the South Bend area, Adams hopes a good reception will draw more fresh talent into the city or onto the campus.
12
Forum. Later in the day Tillford C. Gaines, Vice-President of the First National Bank of Chicago will speak on the “Implementation of Federal Reseive Monetary Policy Through Open-Market Operations.” Concluding the conference in a 3:30 p.m. discussion on the “Opportunities in Modern Business Finance” William Coleman, President of the Twin Coach Company, will present the practical side of finance.
Tickets available. Tickets may be purchased from club members, committee chairman, or in the lobby of the Commerce Building. Chairman of the Finance Forum for 1961 is Jim Lefere, a senior finance major from Jackson, Mich. In charge of publicity are Ned Smith, a finance major from Syracuse, N. Y., and Terry Hutton, another finance major and hailing from Grosse Pointe, Mich.
Juniors Bill Mullaney, Mike Hart and George Mammola, and sophomore Tim Dunigan also serve this committee, and will function as ticket distributors until the forum convenes.
The annual Finance Forum, though a new addition to the College of Commerce’s formal activities, appears to have found acceptance both on campus and elsewhere.
ND Debate Team Gains Maryland Meet Crown
Final results of the Capital Hill Debate Tournament held in Washington, D. C. on Feb. 25 hosted by the University of Maryland gave the first place trophy to the Notre Dame team of Jay Whitney and Guy Powers. The same two debaters also captured the individual speaking awards. Chris Lane and John McGrath, the other Notre Dame team, with a record of four wins and two losses, combined with the Whitney-Powers team total of six wins and no losses to win the first place award for four men.
Thirty-two schools were represented including Northwestern and the service academies. The final round, won from the University of Vermont and held in the United States Caucus rooms, was judged by Senator Kenneth Keating, N. Y., Rep. Chet Holifield, Calif., and Rep. Jack Betts, Ohio.
This victory followed closely upon the Feb. 11 tournament at Northwestern where the Notre Dame varsity debaters won the Owen L. Coon Memorial plaque. At this event the team of Jay Whitney and Jim Murray advanced into the semifinals with a seven wins and one loss record, but lost by one vote to Harvard in this round. In the preliminary rounds Notre Dame tied Augustana for first place in number of debates won and was the only school to advance both teams in the octa-finals.
Rickover Sees Doom]' In Education Trends!
Accepting the Senior class Patriotism : Award, Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rick- / over prophesied impending destruction! through technological deficiency unless new educational trends are initiated. He : further predicted that administrators “whose sole talent is to manipulate menjf money and words will be of little use j to us in the future.”	f
In Rickover’s view the so-called liberal education has little or no place in the present day armament war. “The survival of our own, of everyone’s freedom depends today on power anchored in scientific superiority.” Following this idea to its logical conclusion, Rickover advocated the closer union and interdependence of non-scientific executives^.; and their subordinate technical experts.*^ Citing the utter lack of a “truly scientific spirit” in the typical high school and college graduate, he professed a complete trust in the “intricate mysteries of complex scientific and engineering projects.”
Despite his alarming forecast of America’s future, and his even more dis- £ concerting view of the non-technical | education, Rickover did devote time toj the ever-increasing problem of stimu-5.
lating the bright student. Condemning ; the “peculiar sense of logic which per- | mits us to award the athlete all sorts of f honors, thereby motivating him to prac- t tice hard and continuously; while to do | the same for children of superior in- I telligence and scholastic achievement is supposed to be ‘undemocratic.’ ”	|
On the growing dilemma of the rapid rate of obsolescence found in all mili-tary projects, he observed the lead time£., necessary for these items in the United | States has increased from two and a f half years to ten years since World War r; II. In contrast Russia has reduced the r; time from drawing board to operation p to but five years. As usual Rickover’s g, solution advocates a breaking away p from the traditional red tape, and a new Ei reliance on a more scientific system in | Washington.	f-
_______________ If..
Gethsemani Invites Students | To Attend Retreats in Spring [■
Two closed retreats at the Trappist | Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani, Louis-ville, Ky. have been set aside for Notre I" Dame students during Easter and May. & For a nominal fee, transportation to | and from the abbey, plus room and board will be provided.	»
The first retreat will extend from-;-, Wednesday, March 29 till Friday night, March 31. This early arrival and departure date will enable all participants to be home for Easter. This spring there will be a May retreat during the mid-week preceding graduation, Sunday, June 4. Although reserved especially for the departing seniors, all students are welcome.
Reservations are available in the Catholic Action Office.
The Scholastic
i AB College Advisory Council Widens Activity; Colleton Reveals Expanded Spring Program
/Id Q'toham
Tom Colleton, AB senator, announced an expanded new program of activities, this week, sponsored by the Arts and Letters Advisory Council. Among these ^are lectures, discussions and informal meetings, all of them tailored toward more appropriate social situations than those usually found at Notre Dame.
The lecture series is divided into three parts: The general lecture series, discussions of current topics and music and fine arts discussions. The first of these, the general lecture series started last Friday with a lecture by Professor Ei-ic Heller, author of The Disinherited • Mind. Professor Heller spoke on the £ subject “Faust — Salvation or Damnation?” In commenting on this event Colleton said “Professor Heller is one of the great teachers of our time and we can consider ourselves very fortunate to have been able to have him at Notre Dame for this lecture.” Later this semester Father John Quinlan, formerly of the faculty of Theology of Notre Dame, will lecture here.
Figures Show Saving Of Taxpayers Money
Fresh ammunition for the partisans of federal aid to Catholic schools was provided recently by Rev. John A. O’Brien, C.S.C., who claims that the U.S. Catholic school system is saving the nation’s j unbelieving public at least §2,735,162,500 each year.
Father O’Brien, research professor of theology here, said that the saving results from “the staggering double burden shouldered by Catholics who support the public school system through their taxes, and also bear the cost of educating 5.1 million elementary and secondary school students plus over -g 302,000 college students in Catholic " schools.
The figure of §2.7 billion was based on authoritative figures provided by the federal government. According to the U.S. Office of Education, Father O’Brien observes, the annual average cost for the education of a pupil in elementary and high schools is §448.62, while the average for a college or university student is §1414.05. “Because Catholic families bear a double burden, the educational taxes of each non-Catholic 9 family in the United States are reduced §76.66 each year.”
Author of Equal Rights for All Children and many other books and pamphlets, Father O’Brien has made a special study of the methods of financing various types of school systems in different countries. The United States is “unique,” he reported, “in that it allows no share of the taxes paid by parents to be used in the support of their own Church-related schools.”
March 3, 1961
Of art and the man. The culture and music series will sponsor a number of lectures and discussions the first of which will feature Ou Mie Shu, well-known campus artist, giving his views on the nature of art and the artist.
Under the discussions of current topics, Chairman Mike Iribarne, is planning a discussion of a collection of material which he gathered during the recent demonstrations against the House Un-American Activities Committee in San Francisco. These materials include a live recording of the demonstrations against HUAC in May, 1960 and are entitled “Student Demonstrations and the Red Scare: 1961.”
Under the general heading of Advisory Programs are the forthcoming Freshmen Advisory Program and an improved “Meet Youi- Major” program. The freshmen in liberal arts will receive letters in the next few weeks, inviting them to participate in a series of discussions with upperclassmen centered around the problems of liberal education and the Notre Dame life. “These meetings will be small and informal, and the personal element of problems will be stressed as far as this is possible,” said Colleton.
The Meet Your Major Program this year will incorporate some new ideas into its procedure. Sophomores will be allowed to sit in on some “model classes” and some attempt will be made to have smaller meetings with the distinguished professors in each respective program.
Training Institute Offers Program for Counselors
Positions for 30 men and women presently engaged in, or planning to enter, the field of guidance and counseling have been made available through the Summer Counseling and Guidance Training Institute of the University of Notre Dame. Anthony Riccio, Institute director, will open the six week program on June 19, with the aid of J. Jerome Fargen and Martin Stamm, director of pupil personnel and guidance for the City of South Bend.
Underwritten by a grant of §31,070 from the U.S. Office of Education, the institute aims to improve the counseling administered to the talented student and his parents. Instructional costs of all enrollees, and a basic stipend of §75 per week, and an allowance of §15 per week for each dependent will be provided.
Primarily the program will consist of courses in the psychological foundations of testing. It will also conduct a laboratory in testing, integrative seminars and a counseling practicum. Additional lectures in philosophy, sociology, psychology and the history of education are also on the agenda.
THE INCURABLE ROMANTICS
If men in student government have a great weakness, it is their tendency to write letters on behalf of the student body and the administration. Last year marked one such ill considered action and recently the Senate was witness to another unfortunate incident.
The Senator was not wrong in writing the letter. What was unfortunate was bis
choice of words and his expression of the concern of the student body and the administration. Few know precisely what was written and judgments range from condemnation to mild disapproval. At any rate, the original criticism of the Senator seems to have been somewhat harsh.
After the ’ previous Monday’s deadly serious session, the Senate hit an opposite extreme last • Monday. Quips abounded, especially from Keegan and Haggard.	-
Doug Canfield proposed a motion to buy a §125 die in order to make lapel pins for the senators. Defending his motion Canfield called himself an “incurable romantic.”
Haggard suggested that “incurable romantics might buy lapel pins for their girls in the Bookstore.” Keegan said, “I don’t think I’d give it to my girl.” Haggard replied, “I don’t think she’d take it.”
The motion was passed with few voting against it. Since the die can be used for years, §125 does not seem extravagant.
Allocations of §38 and §65 were made to the Sophomore Class and to the Knights of Columbus. Proposed amendments to the Photo Concession Policy were distributed to the senators for study. Amendments on Off Campus Policy were also proposed.
It was suggested that there was no point in having an Off Campus Policy since the off campus students were disorganized. Joel Haggard said that the Off Campus Policy might stimulate some organization. The policy passed unanimously.
These considerations of policy are part of a plan to have a complete codification of all Senate policy by the end of the year.
Father Bernard attended the meeting and outlined to the senators the new administration policy on off campus students. This and the dining hall opinionnaire, soon to be circulated, are indicative of an increasing cooperation between the administration and student government.
13
r-rrnM Hi 1
Here’s deodorant protection
BEST BUYS IN BOOKS
MAC MILLAN
•	DIALOGUE WITH DEATH Arthur Koestler
IMAGE
•	WE HAVE BEEN FRIENDS TOGETHER
Raissa Maritain
•	STAGE OF FOOLS
Charles Brady
•	CASE OF CORNELIA CONNELLY
Juliana Wadham
•	UNDERSTANDING EUROPE
Christopher Dawson
CAPRICORN BOOKS
•	POETRY OF BORIS PASTERNAK
YOU CAN TRUST
Old Spice Stick Deodorant.,.fastest, neatest way to allday, every day protection! It’s the active deodorant for active men... absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily...dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant —most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.

STICK DEODORANT
S H U I—T O N
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) • Special Price $5.85
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
0
I
i
i
I
14
The Scholastic
0
the responsibility of awareness
As members of a university community, what are we able to contribute to the understanding and co-operation between the many different peoples in this ^world of ours?
In an attempt to answer this question, if only partially, the Carnegie Foundation, the University, and the International Commission of Student Government are presenting a symposium this Friday and Saturday to the Midwestern college student. The theme—“The Responsibility of the American University toward World Understanding and Co-operation.”
The symposium, constructed around ^two different, yet related, activities — the lecture and the workshop — will be opened at 2:00 p.m. Friday with an address by Mr. James A. Perkins, the VicePresident of the Carnegie Corporation, entitled, “The University and the World Community: an analysis and evaluation of major existing programs.” This will be followed by the first of several workshops; a workshop being a seminar-type discussion in which small groups of stu-A dents will try to come to a clearer w understanding of the issues both presented and suggested by the addresses. The second address, to be given at 7:30 Friday evening, and to be presented by Mr. Donald J. Shank, the Executive Vice-President of the Institute of International Education, will concern itself with the “Problem of World Community Arising from Group Diversity.” Father Theodore Hesburgh, President of the • University of Notre Dame, will give the third address at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, dealing with “The Application of the Principle of Democracy in the World Community.” That evening, at 7:30, Mr. David J. McDonald, the President of the United Steel Workers of America, will give an address on “The Economic Welfare of the Peoples of the World: Various Systems.” This will be followed with a summary, evaluation and conclusion, to be given by Professor • A. R. Caponigri of the Notre Dame Philosophy Department.
The major task of this symposium will be to awaken in the college student an awareness to the problems of the World Community. To pretend that there is no such thing as the World Community, and thus making it unimportant whether or not we have a knowledge of the problems of our fellow man — this attitude is completely un-_ realistic, and arises from the shallowest
of minds. Yet, if we were to look around, would we not continuously be bumping into people who are quite stuck in the mire of their own mud-holes, their little provincial selves! And don’t we, unknowingly, or rather unadmittedly, tumble into that same pit, rationalizing the whole matter by saying we just aren’t ‘interested’!
Why should this be an unrealistic attitude? because we really do live in a World Community. No longer is it the case that any nation, whatever its size in land, wealth, or population, no longer can it remain ‘uninterested’ in what is going on in its neighbor’s back yard. It cannot remain ‘uninterested’ because what is happening over there could very well turn out to be the motivating factor in a complete change of life over here. In this day of atom bombs and nuclear warheads, each nation is becoming more and more dependent on its neighbor; and because we live in an age in which communication is both fast and efficient, what nation can call any other nation ‘not’ a neighbor?
An example of this dependency of nation upon nation is given quite plainly by the present crisis in Africa, and also by the recent addition of many African states to the United Nations.
But it is not only for the sake of preservation from self-destruction that we consider ourselves members of a .World Community, but also because of the desire to make better the way of life for the many peoples of the world, not only economically, but also intellectually and morally. It is a better and higher life that we strive so untiringly for in this World Community, in the hopes that all members might one day reap the benefits of a more orderly and more God-like existence.
But are we striving untiringly for this higher life in the World Community? Are we aware in the least of the interdependency of nation upon nation? Are we cognizant of the necessity of the combined effort needed for the continuance of the very existence of the human race? Are we aware of the interlocking of the interests of our nation and of our sister nations?
I hardly think so.
And even if such was not the case, we would still have an awful long way to go before we would even come within sight of the ‘promised land.’ For it is
not allowed that we should stop at factual knowledge; we must of necessity proceed to find out the why that is behind the actions of our neighbors. This process entails the coming to know, to really know, as brother knows brother, our neighbor; we must become aware of his problem, why such a thing is a problem, and with what amount of importance he looks upon this particular problem.
To say the least, this process, this coming to know our neighbor, is no easy thing, especially if our neighbor be of an entirely different background and culture. And which of our neighbors, to some extent, does not fall into this class? Yet to know our neighbor is of the utmost importance if we are to love him; for it is through knowledge that one comes to love. And in loving our neighbor, we shall of necessity labor on his behalf: and likewise, our neighbor, in knowing and loving us, will labor on our behalf. And, if every nation be our neighbor, it takes but simple logic to see that we will not only have our World Community, but also an Ideal Community, a very Christ-like Community.
It is to this ideal, this model, that we must turn our eyes; to the attainment of this state we must lend all of our actions. And such will not be easy, as history so well proves.
As members of this University community, what will we be able to contribute to the understanding and co-operation between the many different peoples in this world? What must we contribute? Awareness.
But first we must break from the sterile comfort of our provincial selves; we must shatter the facade that we have so diligently constructed around ourselves, that our existence is separate and distinct from the existence of all other peoples. We must ‘learn’ to know our fellow man; and knowing him, we must ‘learn’ to love him.
A last question: Do we dare do it?
These problems and questions will be taken up this week end by all those participating in the symposium. This symposium is sponsored by: The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, which Foundation is this year celebrating its fiftieth anniversary; in association with the International Commission of Student Government, and the University of Notre Dame.
M. D. Bird -
15
March 3, 1961
“Morning Carol. How’s my sweet this fine day?”
“Just fine, dear. Did you finish your story last night? You were up quite late last night; four o’clock. You know what the doctor said about late hours?”
“Yes dear. But remember he said ‘Get to bed early,’ and four o’clock IS early isn’t it? Wait ’till I tell ya about the story I wrote last night. It’s really Aa good one. The best I’ve ever written, I think.
“There’s this guy working as a night
•How’s That Again?
by DAVID COPPERSMITH
•watchman in a small office building in downtown ’Frisco. He’s on the third floor when he smells this smoke, ya see. Well, it’s sort of acrid smelling; it hurts him to inhale it. Well, this guy isn’t so saintly when he’s not working and all; a few years in jail for robbery and stuff, but when he’s working, he’s trustworthy as all-get-out. Well, he goes all over the place to find out where the smoke is coming from, but ... no luck;
& nothing. Finally, after about ten minutes of sniffing and looking around, he decides to check the floor below him.
“He runs down a flight of stairs, three steps at a time, until he gets to the basement. Ya see, he thinks he might have left a cigarette burning when he’d had a bite ta eat a few hours earlier. When he gets there, he don’t find no fire, see? So he looks all over
S the basement anyhow; still ...”
“Dear, excuse me, but do you want cream in your coffee this morning?”
“Ya. Am I boring ya? I can stop if ya want me ta.”
“No, please go on.”
“Ok. Well, anyhow, when he don’t find anything wrong downstairs, he goes up to the first floor and looks around. He can smell a little smoke, but it ain’t 9 very strong. He don’t want ta take any chances, so he opens all the doors and goes inta all the rooms. Still there’s no fire ta be seen.”
“Pass the butter’ please.”
“Watch the knife,” he cried as he handed her the butter dish. “From there he goes up ta the second floor and does the same thing; opens all the doors and looks inta all the rooms.”
“Sorry to bothei’ you again, but would
March 3, 1961
you PLEASE be careful with that cigarette? It’s almost ready to fall onto my new tablecloth. I just bought it yesterday at Philip’s.”
“Ya, don’t worry about it. Nothing’s going ta happen ta the lousy tablecloth! At any rate, this guy decides that the smoke must be coming from someplace on the third floor.”
“So he runs up the stairs to the third floor’ and looks in every room like he did on the first and second floors?” interjected Carol somewhat unkindly.
“Not quite! That’d make the story too easy. Ya have ta make the character overcome some sort of obstacle. Look! Will ya let ME tell it? I think I’m going ta make a lot of money on this thing, and ya don’t seem ta be very interested in where your bread and butter come from. Ya’ve yet ta read one of my latest stories. Ya ...”
Cutting him off rudely, Carol said, “Yes dear, go on. I’ll read this one as soon as it’s published, Ok?”
“All right. Now please be quiet! I want ta tell ya about this. I think I’ve got something real good this time. This guy’s just about ready ta go upstairs ta the third floor when he hears a telephone ringing in one of the rooms he’d just been in. So, he goes back and opens up the room and answers the phone. There’s nobody on the other end and this gets him mad, so he rips the phone out of the wall and throws it in the wastebasket.
“NOW he can go upstairs. I’ve made him waste a little time and he’s had an obstacle placed before him. Pass the coffee will ya?”
“Sure. Don’t drink too much, you know what the doctor said about your heart?”
“Stop nagging! My heart’s perfectly all right,” he said angrily. “So, he runs up the stairs ta the third floor and starts opening all the rooms. Finally he gets them all opened, but he didn’t see no fire anywhere. He can still smell the smoke, though; he can even see it floating on the ceiling by the lights. Funny part about it all is that it seemed ta be coming from out of nowhere. This smoke, it’s sort of a yellow sulfurous smoke, ya know, like when ya light a match? Well, he’s starting ta wonder if he could’a missed it when
he was downstairs. So, just as he’s turning around ta go back down the stairs, he sees this door that’s open and smoke coming out of the top of it. Well, the guy goes a little closer and says ta himself, ‘What’s burning in there?’ When he gets in front of the room and looks in, what’s he see? ...”
“Ok, just what DOES he see?” she said, somewhat bored with the whole affair.
“There, in the middle of the room is a devil sitting on a chair in the center of a circle of sulphur smoke coming out of the floor,” he said with much careless gesticulating over the top of the kitchen table. “The whole room is lit-up kind’a red-like, with shadows of devils dancing on the walls. Well, this devil is looking right at the guy, and this, of course, scares the guy and he wants ta take-off down the hall. Now get this, this is the best part. He CAN’T move; he’s stuck ta the floor. All’s he- can do is say, ‘Oh God, NO!’”
“Why must you always swear in your stories? Every time you tell me about the stuff you write you always have swearing in them. Why?”
“That ain’t swearing! For another thing, my stories ain’t ‘STUFF’! Now shut up and listen ta me!”
“Ok, so I’m listening! You don’t have to be so nasty about it,” she said with tears in her- voice.
“I’m sorry. All’a time ya nag. Just let me write the way I want ta. My publisher don’t seem ta mind. Well, anyway, there’s the devil sitting there, and the guy too scared ta move. Then, all of a sudden they both disappear. All’s that’s left is a cloud of sulphur smoke drifting up ta the ceiling. How about that for a story. Huh?”
“I don’t like it. It’s too crazy. People don’t like to read that kind of stuff any more.”
Slamming his fists down on the table and upsetting his coffee, he screamed, “They do too! I’ll bet it wouldn’t take me more than two hours ta find ten kids that’ll be glad ta pay a dime ta read my story. Ya used ta say ya couldn’t wait ’till my next one came out. After we got married ya stopped readin’ ’em. What were ya after* • anyway, my money?” After grabbing his newly written manuscript he stomped out of the kitchen. A few seconds later she heard the front door slam shut.
While picking up a thin booklet from behind her she said disgustedly, “Poor kids. They go into a drugstore and what do they see? All kinds of murder mysteries and junk like this.” After throwing it against the wall across the room she said, “Lousy, stinking comic books. That’s all he can write for; “Skarey Stories.” Why can’t he write for something better than that?” she said as she slouched comfortably in her chair and picked up the latest edition of “Teen Killers.”
17
18
-A-N avid and devoted fan of Scholas-® , Tic may remember a feature on the ; Christian Culture program in a 1959	'
issue and question, quite seriously, the purpose of another article on this same subject. Knowing Notre Dame students, I am inclined to doubt the existence of	i
such an avid and devoted fan, but in	3
the case of this being so, the following j article studies the Christian Culture program from a different angle; its distinction from Notre Dame’s General^ Program of Liberal Education.	* '
The Christian Culture Program is one that is often misunderstood by those who are not familiar with it. It is not a theology course; it is a history course which studies the rise and decline of a Christian culture on the basis of the recommendations of Christopher Dawson, the English scholar who is now Chauncey Stillman Professor of Catholic Theological Studies at Harvard £ University. Dawson believes “that the* study of Christian culture is the missing link which ... is essential ... if the tradition of Western education and Western culture is to sui-vive, for it is only through this study that we can understand how Western culture came to exist and what are the essential values for which it stands.” Professor Dawson believes that the educated Catholic “cannot play his full part inmodern life unless he has a clear sensed of the nature and achievements of Christian culture; how Western civili- . zation became Christian and how far I it is Christian today and in what ways | it has ceased to be Christian; in short, g a knowledge of our Christian roots and | of the abiding Christian elements in I Western culture.” Dawson does not say I that the Christian religion is the only | factor in the development of Western© ' civilization but that it has been a very dominant force in this development and has come to be de-emphasized or ignored ’ in the current stress on the economic ; forces in history. No longer is there a common basis, a common bond or unity | among men, particularly in contempo- j rary education and Mr. Dawson suggests a study of Western culture with i religion as the vital formative element as a solution to this problem.
In line with his ideas, Sister’ M. Ma-$) deleva, the President of Saint Mary’s College and Dr. Bruno P. Schlesinger inaugurated the Christian Culture Program at Saint Mary’s in the fall of 1956. The program and its chairman, Dr. Schlesinger, were enthusiastically received by students and have been since.
The Christian Culture Program itself, is a two-year course, with seven hours offered each semester. History is the
The Scholastic^
' core of the program, beginning in the first semester of junior year with The Making of Europe based on Dawson’s book of the same name, in which is i studied the formation of Chi-istian cul-3 ture in both East and West and ex-j pansion of Latin Christian culture down to the eleventh century. It would ] : naturally be ideal if the course could begin with the pre-Christian era but a 1 thorough study of the earlier civilizations is impossible in the amount of time • allotted for the program. Students are expected to receive a general understanding of the Greek and Roman civilizations in their freshman and sophomore years and this study is usually considered sufficient.
The second semester core course, Medieval Christendom, examines the maturity of Christendom in the age of £ Saint Thomas and Dante and the growth of Gothic Culture to the fifteenth century. In senior year we study the expansion and disintegration of Christendom to the eighteenth century; Humanism, Baroque culture and the Enlightenment in The Age of Religious Division. Finally, in The Age of Revolutions and World Wars, we study world ascendancy of secularized Western culture; internal and external forces of disintegration; Nationalism, Commun-Iism and the Totalitarian State. Along with each history course, we have a g weekly colloquium in which we examine j the literature, art, philosophical ideas I or spiritual writings of the same period I with which we are concerned in the I history course. This not only gives us i a better understanding of the trends | and ideas in the historical development, i _ but by reading literature in its proper ™ historical setting, we can more properly appreciate it. Good examples of this ,	lie in our reading the autobiography of
I	St. Teresa when we are studying six!	teenth century Spain and Pascal’s
I	Pensees when studying seventeenth cen!	tury France.
In the “core” course of Christian Cul-I	ture we do not study history as it is
'	usually done; as Mr. John P. Gleason
says,
0	.... the Saint Mary’s program fol-
lows a historical-sociological approach. It stresses the genetic study of institutions and trends of thought, with close examination of certain crucial periods, rather than attempting to make the student master all the factual details of Western development since the birth of Christ. -
Since its purpose is to explore the complex interaction of the Christian religion and the evolution of Western
March 3, 1961	•
culture, the program emphasizes the common elements and unity of that culture rather than tracing the particularities of the national development.
Dr. Schlesinger achieves this concentration on trends and ideas by a careful selection of our reading assignments from a large variety of books, including Dawson’s The Making of Europe, Religion and the Rise of Western Culture, Medieval Essays, Understanding Europe; Southern’s Making of the Middle Ages, Hughes’ History of the Catholic Church, Huizinga’s The Waning of the Middle Ages and Gilmore’s World of Humanism. (The use of books such as these is, of course, a much more refreshing approach than that of the traditional textbook.) Dr. Schlesinger teaches the history course but is also present at our colloquia, which are usually chaired by a person specializing in the topic we discuss. For example, the head of Saint Mary’s speech and drama department led the discussion on Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral, the head of our Art department led the discussion on Renaissance Art and the head of the music department led the colloquium on Renaissance and Baroque music. Dr. Schlesinger’s presence assures the necessary unity to the course and prevents the stagnation which often results in any college course when the teacher uses the same notes year afteryear, by revising the assignments, the books we read and even the Colloquium from one year to the next.
In addition to the history course and the colloquia, we have an additional two hours course which more deeply explores some particular aspect of Western development. In the first semester junior year we have Early Christian Writers, which aids in a broader understanding of the beginnings of the Christian culture. In second semester we study the History of Christian Philosophy which gives us a better understanding of how a Christian philosophy developed and of the ideas of the Middle Ages. Then, when we are studying The Age of Religious Division we have a course called Church, State and Society. This course examines the impact of Christianity upon such social institutions as the family, slavery, property, the state, and an introduction to the enduring problems raised by the claims of Church and State. Church, State and Society has proved particularly interesting in the past couple of months because of the many discussions regarding the possibility of a Catholic president.
the great books and Christian culture
by Susan FitzGerald
19
In the fourth semester of senior year the supplementary course is Christianity and American Culture, a study of the roots of American culture in Christianity and in the Enlightenment from colonial times to the present, with special emphasis upon the age of Jefferson and the age of Emerson.
The program is an interdepartmental major, drawing from the theology, political science, English and Philosophy departments as well as the history. It is not a program geared only for women nor would it be considered merely a good preparation for a girl contemplating marriage. Being a part of Western culture really necessitates a basic understanding of this culture and the Christian Culture program has well accomplished this understanding for its students.
Depending on what course the student decides to choose as a minor, or as an additional major, the Christian Culture major can teach, do graduate study, or do any of the thousand and one jobs a liberal arts graduate would choose. The most popular combination of courses with Christian Culture has been English, Sociology, History or Education with a concentration on history or English for a teaching field, but Art, Political Science and Theology fit in quite nicely too.
From this explanation one can see that Christian Culture and Notre Dame’s General Program have far less in common than one supposes. Christian Culture has history as its unifying course and the General Program depends on the student himself to do the unifying. GP, then, appears to be more challenging but not as well connected in regard to subject matter. GP is a three-year program and encompasses far more subject matter than Christian Culture. It is a program specifically “designed to meet the demand for a truly general and liberal education based on the basic kinds of knowing and the standard of the best that has been thought and said.” Christian Culture is a twentyeight-hour major and aims for this “truly general and liberal education” as the whole of Saint Mary’s College does, by relying on the regular philosophy, theology and other courses required in the lower level and by enriching the aspects of a liberal arts education with its own courses. The Art, History and Biology Departments also have liberal arts as their final goal; each departs ment just supplements the basic liberal arts courses with its own approach. The General Program accusation of “not enough philosophy” can thus be answered with the explanation that we have philosophy before and during the time we are taking Christian Culture courses. The accusation of too much specialization when majoring and minoring is not valid at all because of the large variety of courses required in our lower division work.
I have never taken or observed a course in the General Program so I do not consider myself a qualified critic of the program. I do think, however,
20
that it is fairly obvious to anyone interested enough to investigate that the Christian Culture and the General Programs are so different that they have little common ground by which to compare them. The misconception undoubtedly arose from the non-textbook approach of both programs. But I hope that this clarification has helped the small few who have been concerned.
In 1957 Saint Mary’s received a grant from the Lilly Endowment of Indianapolis in recognition of the superiority of the Christian Culture Program. This year Saint Mary’s received a renewal of the grant, being the only one of the six Indiana colleges originally awarded the grant in 1957 to have it renewed. This grant has enabled the program to expand in new directions, in particular, to sponsor lectures concerned with Christianity ancient and modem. Their purpose is to demonstrate the vitality of the Christian tradition and to illustrate its significance for man in the past and the present. We have already had four of these lectures for the year 1960-1961; “East and West: A Dialogue” by Joseph M. Kitagawa from the University of Chicago, “Morals in Politics” by Thomas Gilby, O.P. who is a visiting professor at Notre Dame and originally from the Blackfriars, Cambridge, England, “The Church Fathers and The Transmission of the Christian Message” by Ernest L. Fortin, A.A. of Assumption College and “Christian Conscience in the Spanish Conquest of America: The Contribution of Bartolo
THE
DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET featuring PAUL DESMOND
SATURDAY, MARCH 11. 1961	8:00 P. M.
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM, SO. BEND, IND.
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM RODIN'S RECORD SHOP
ADMISSIONS:	$4.60 ORCHESTRA
Tax Included	$3.50 MAIN FLOOR, MEZZ., 1st BAL.
$2.40 2nd & 3rd BALCONY
STUDENT DISCOUNT OF $.50 PER TICKET AVAILABLE AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM UNTIL SATURDAY. MARCH 4
me de las Casas” by Lewis Hanke from the University of Texas. On February 27, Philip Sharper, an editor of Sheed and Ward spoke on “The American Experiment and the Catholic Expei-ience” and on April 17, G. DeBertier from , L’Institut Catholique, Paris and a visit- , ing professor at Notre Dame will speak on “Religion in France during the Restoration.” The Lilly Endowment Lectures for 1960-1961 will close with Louis । » L. Martz, chairman of the department " of English at Yale University, who will . speak about “Henry Vaughan and the Augustinian Meditation.”
Another direction toward which the Christian Culture Program will expand with the aid of the Lilly Endowment grant is a study of selected aspects of the great Oriental cultures. Over the next three years, a group of specialists । will examine topics from the tradi-^ tions of Islam, Confucianism, Hinduism, " Buddhism and the civilizations informed by these world religions. Saint Mary’s began this year with two seminars on Islamic Civilization conducted by Professor Marshall Hodgson from the University of Chicago.
A more detailed understanding of the philosophy behind the Christian Culture Program or the program itself, may be found in Dawson’s Understanding * Europe, chapter one, and the articles by John P. Gleason in the April, 1959, issue of The Educational Record and the July-August, 1960 issue of Religious Education.
The Scholastic
Notre Dame
Debate
Intercollegiate debating has a long and proud tradition at Notre Dame. For a university which is presently most concerned with certain aspects of its tradition, however, there is a significant lack of awareness of the scope and value of intercollegiate debate.
Debating began at Notre Dame in 1899 a when a team met Butler University in •Indianapolis. Our first intercollegiate debates were meets and not tournaments — only two schools were involved. One team of three men would travel to another school to uphold one side of a resolution in a single debate. Such intercollegiate debates were only a part of the team’s activities in these early days. Instead of one campus debate team, each hall — Sorin, Brownson, Corby, and Holy _ Cross — had its own team. These teams ('•would compete in interhall tournaments to see who would represent the Univer-g sity on the intercollegiate level. Inter* hall debates drew audiences that filled |	Washington Hall on a number of occa-
J	sions.
I Notre Dame won that first debate with ] Butler and continued on until by 1912 M they had won 19 such matches and lost H one. This was a rather formidable I ^record for a small school in the Midwest in competition with schools such as Iowa, ; Ohio State, and Georgetown.
i Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., di! rected the activity in these early years, f He served as debate coach from 1910 I until 1928. Under his direction, the interhall teams were molded into the । first university-wide debate team.
I In 1927, Notre Dame debated the University of Sydney, Australia, in Wash— ington Hall for our first international ® exhibition. The following year Father Bolger was succeeded as director of forensics by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., a former outstanding debater and professor of economics. Father Boland served as coach until 1933.
After Father Boland and until the interruption of debate by World War II, Professor William J. Coyne led the team. As an undergraduate, Professor Coyne had been the first winner of the Dome
i • March 3, 1961
award, and was also the first student president of the Wranglers.
With the end of the war the control of the debate team came into the hands of Professor Leonard F. Sommer, who has directed the team for the last 16 years. Under his management debate at Notre Dame has undergone a tremendous expansion. From 1899 until 1912 Notre Dame participated in only 20 meets. Today, Professor Sommer’s teams compete in that many tournaments in one year. Recognized by the University for its contribution to Notre Dame’s academic reputation, the Notre Dame Debate Team travels more than any other undergraduate representatives of the University. Its success in this mission is attested to by its consistently fine record in intercollegiate tournaments.
Since last year at this time, the team has participated in 17 such tournaments, in which they have won three first places, two second places, three third places, and several individual speaker awards. Most recently the team has placed third in tournaments held by the University of Miami and Northwestern University. Notre Dame novices won the Butler University Tournament and placed second in the Novice Division at the tournament held at the University of South Carolina.
Such intercollegiate tournaments constitute the most important aspect of the team’s activities. They begin in early October and continue until well into May. At each tournament the teams must ibe prepared to debate both sides of the national question in several successive rounds. As many as 80 colleges and universities are sometimes represented at these tournaments. Notre Dame’s own National Invitational Debate Tournament hosts more than 40 of the best teams in the nation each year.
Besides intercollegiate debating, the Debate Team also engages in other activities. It sponsors an interhall debate tournament on the campus and holds the William P. Breen Oratory Contest each year. For the past several years Notre Dame has debated the University of Pittsburgh in a series of exhibition
debates before high school and civic audiences in the Pittsburgh area. This year the team has inaugurated an exhibition series before high school students in the Chicago area. It continually presents exhibition debates and discussions before business and civic groups in South Bend, and plans to start a program with the City High Schools within the year.
In spite of its excellent record and reputation, debate has not progressed without opposition. There are those who question the value of an activity that requires a student to defend two sides of a question. Some wonder if it is worth the time that the debater must spend away from his other studies. Both of these objections are at least partially answered when one realizes what debate is. No debater attempts to answer the resolution he debates. He merely defends a consistent line of analysis, existent on both sides of any question, using the various forensic skills that he has developed. Such training in analysis is why debate is one of the few “extra-curriculars” which are truly co-curricu-lar. Debate has inherent academic value for any student.
There is no “sophistry” in debating both sides of a question when debate is viewed as a defense of consistent analysis. Intelligent opinion is found on both sides of debate questions and the debater approaches the topic to learn what these opinions are and why they are defended. He learns to analyze them and defend them consistently. This skill can best be perfected through competition demanding excellence on the part of the individual. Intercollegiate debate is this competition.
Since the skills developed by debate are of inherent academic valuer time devoted to debate is not lost academically. No one urges the creation of a professional debater who devotes all of his time to the activity, but the student with talents in this field has an obligation to develop them. Intercollegiate debate-just happens to be the best—and quickest—way to accomplish this development.	.
(Continued on page 25)
21
J
RELIGION IN ALL THE SCHOOLS by Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Fides: $3.50
One critic has likened Father Ward to the old hero who threw himself into the enemy’s advancing line of spears, drew as many of them into his own breast as possible, and thus opened a hole in the enemy’s line of attack through which his followers and comrades advanced to victory. There can be little doubt that many persons within and without the field of education will fill the air with vilifications of Father Ward’s advocating bringing religion into the schools, public and private alike. The point made by Father Ward is that each child has a right to religious literacy, and that this literacy should be gotten through all the schools, as well as through other agencies. This view is certain to rouse the ire of each conscientious member of Protestants and Other Americans United, and other such organizations.
The author somehow manages to spend almost the entire book backing his claims concerning this religious literacy — a hacking which includes proofs and demonstrations that religious literacy in the schools is not only for the common good, but absolutely constitutional. In attempting to show that religious literacy is a right, Father Ward has taken upon himself a Herculean task which may ■prove impossible. In advocating that the schools be the agency for bringing about this literacy, he alienates the proponents of the educational sacred cow, the separation principle.
The author spends considerable time showing that fear and the lack of free-•dom in education and educators have caused the separation “wall” to be blown •out of proportion. In respect to this point, he stands on solid ground. In this regard Father makes one of his best, and we think, accurate, points: that religion is kept out of the public schools not because such a situation is the will -of a majority of citizens, but because it is the will and aim of a relatively small, ■though exceedingly eloquent, minority. Ward also shows that the principle of
122
religion in all schools is not so much a problem as the presentation and content of the religious material. The author correctly states that it will take some solid, constructive thinking and planning to prevent the teaching of religion in such a manner as to benefit some single church or sect. Yet the author seems to think that the teaching of one religion would hinder the process of acquiring a religious literacy — a grounding in the donations of, and the forming quality of, religion in respect to our Western Heritage and culture.
Ward also brings up the arguments against bringing religion into the public schools. The general reader will find the going rather difficult in certain sections, for he will lack the background in educational history, philosophy, and practices necessary to judge the arguments, proposals, and theories of the author. This will be true for the layman in education as well as the general reader. To some extent Ward overcomes this difficulty by presenting a well-documented work. We find this a valuable asset of the work, though we agree with John Whitney Evans that it would have been even better had there been added a complete bibliography. We find that the book serves as a fine introduction to educational problems, and the views of many leading educational thinkers (some self-styled). The author is unexpectedly forthright in his presentation. Most appropriate is the author’s own remarks to the effect that the book has just a few central things to say. From our own experience in the field of education (an academic and limited experience, to be sure), we would urge the reading of Religion in All the Schools in much the same manner as we would urge the reading of The Catholic Viewpoint on Education by Neil McCluskey, S.J. Both offer the interested reader a complete introduction to the problems which present themselves when one examines the association between the Church and State in the field of education.
One point which helps the general reader is this: important points in this book need not be located by a careful
search; they jump from the page and assault him. This quality of readability is considerably helpful, for the general reader here at school will not have the time or energy to read an intricate presentation of educational theory, practices, and problems. The reader may be disappointed, however, to find that certain aspects of the religioneducation association have been mentioned, but not explored. Most notable of these aspects is the relationship of Church and State with regard to education which exists in other nations. The reader gets a smattering of factual in-
BOOKS RECEIVED
■9 HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY:
A Middle Class Education, Wilfrid Sheed, fiction, 425 pp., $4.75.
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY PRESS:
The Frontier Wage, Bernard W.
Dempsey, S. J., with the author’s translation of the second part of The Isolated State by Johann Heinrich von Thunen, analysis and con-elusions on von Thunen’s theory of wages, 390 pp., $6.00.
PANTHEON PRESS:
Darkness Visible, Norman Lewis, fiction, 256 pp., $3.50.
Journey into the Blue, Gusztav Rab, fiction, 381 pp., $4.95.
The World of Venice, James Moriis, study of modern Venetian culture, 337 pp. plus maps and 32 pp. of illustrations, $5.00.	£
SCRIBNER’S:
Time of Hope, C. P. Snow, fiction, 408 pp., $4.95.
The Heritage of Man, Goldwin Smith, history of the world, 896 pp., 41 maps, 125 illustrations, $12.50.
Listing in the Books Received section does not preclude the possibility of a later review.
The Scholastic
formation which serves merely to whet-! ten his appetite for food which never J is served. A more complete coverage ' of this topic would have been valuable and interesting. We feel that the Canadian method of handling the religioneducation question would have proved interesting to both the general reader and the educational layman.
Over-all, we would consider this book, ^though plagued with certain shortcomings, a welcome addition to the growing amount of material concerning the place of religion in education. We do not think, however, that this is the best material for the general reader and the educationally uninitiated. Lack of background presents a major hindrance and handicap. Unless seriously interested in the field of education, and/or the problems which beset education with ^regard to the place of religion in the Schools, we would advise the general reader to avoid Religion in All the Schools. For the educationally initiated, however, we say this: place the work in your educational library, right alongside McCluskey. The two go together like Pavlov and his dog.
R. E. McGowan
CHAUCER CRITICISM: THE CANTERBURY TALES (Ed. Richard Schoeck S and Jerome Taylor; pub. Univ. Notre
Dame Press)
This is a mildly expensive paperbound collection of sixteen essays on topics standard to any critical discussion of the Canterbury Tales. Devotees of the Tales will recognize the almost classical relevance of such subjects as the relationship between the poet, the fictional narrator, and the dramatic narrator; the ^problem of unity and the position of the ^fragments; the structure of the “marriage group”; the special origins and import of the Pardoner’s tale; the relationship of the poet to the Lollards. More particular topics involve interpretation of individual tales, historical background of particular tales, and interpretation of particular characters from the Prologue in the light of the tales _and the dramatic links between the tales. 9 Many or most of the essays are very well known to present-day Chaucer scholarship; the most callow students of the field will be certain to recognize Kittredge’s “Chaucer’s Discussion of Marriage,” Baldwin’s “The Unity of the Canterbury Tales,” Donaldson’s “Chaucer the Pilgrim,” Sedgewick’s “The Progress of Chaucer’s Pardoner, 1880-1940,” Muscatine’s “The Canon Yeoman’s Tale,” and the names, if not the articles, of Tatlock and Loomis.
9 Unfortunately, if the fame of these has made them old hat, the less well-known selections will provide no startling conclusions either, albeit for different reasons than their companions. The book is a good brief introduction to Chaucer criticism, but the previously initiated will find little to stay him — unless he be the kind of man who is moved to go through life with his Kittredge close at hand.
Michael Cummings
March 3, 1961
At the Theaters
For a moment there I thought I wasn’t going to make it this week. But that’s the story of my life.
Trying to do Isle of Levant and Tonka one better, the Colfax is holding Ben-Hur over for a seventh week. By this time, even Jack Paai- wouldn’t find anything to say about that. The end for it, dimly in sight, is supposed to come on March 10.
At the Granada, it’s pot luck. The management has been playing a new game called “Keep the Customers Guessing.” It consists of keeping posters of coming movies in the lobby until they fade into nothingness, while they slip in other movies as fillers for the entertainment sandwich. Now the trouble is this: if they don’t hold The World of Suzie Wong over for a third week, they might be able to spirit Where the Boys Are onto the screen. Yes, they were showing previews of The Grass is Greener these past two weeks, but apparently this has no meaning to the Granada people. It’s not that we don’t want to see the Lauderdale Caper, but this is carrying things to extremes. These two movies have been promised for over a month now. Let’s hope they bring them before summer school starts.
A summary of the movies would be good, no matter what the show may be. The World of Suzie Wong: William Holden, Nancy Kwan, Michael Wilding, Sylvia Syms, and Jacqui Chan. Where the Boys Are: Dolores Hart, George Hamilton, Yvette Mimieux, Barbara Nichols, Paula Prentiss, and Connie Francis. The Grass is Greener: Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Robert Mitchum, and Jean Simmons. Enough?
Ho, ho, ho, and A Bucket of Blood. This little bit of nothing, now showing at- the State, is billed as a comedy-terror movie. For what that’s worth. Among other absolute unknowns, it features a Mr. Anthony Carbone, whom I have the disgrace of knowing personally. He is as emotive onscreen as off and brings to his role a lack of warmth and reality that is unprecedented in the history of the cinema. Not much more can be said for the others.
What could possibly be featured with this gem? Why, The Attack of the Giant Leeches. The title, as you can see, is extremely descriptive, but there are some things it doesn’t point out. For example, these pseudo-leeches have nothing in common physically with the ordinary, household leeches (or kid brothers). First of all, they are made of rubber, a fact which explains itself as soon as you glimpse them. Not satisfied with this self-evident fakery, the movie goes on to become so gory it surpasses the stage of complete disgust. There are entirely too many of these movies around, so capturing the imagination that something’s bound to appear on Loch St. Mary one of these days.
Oh, for the good old days of good movies! Now, even though there are maybe as many as 20 good movies a year, you have to realize that the other 580 put out by the studios in 365 days far outweigh the decent. When you add to that the many obscure or just plain bad imported movies, the situation gets hopeless. I must be getting bitter in my old age.
Tony Wong
23
RCA
offers careers in
ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING
ANNOUNCING A SPECIALIZED TRAINING PROGRAM FOR CAREER POSITIONS IN
■ Sales ■ Methods & Programming ■ Product Planning
FOR GRADUATES AND CANDIDATES FOR DEGREES IN
■ Mathematics ■ Industrial Management ■ Physics ■ Liberal Arts ■ Engineering ■ Business Administration ■ Accounting ■ Marketing ■ Statistics ■ Finance ■ Economics
INTERVIEWS ON CAMPUS March 9, 1961
Through a comprehensive EDP training program, you can prepare yourself for a rewarding career in RCA’s growing Electronic Data Processing Division. Due to the wide acceptance of its advanced systems, RCA is rapidly expanding its sales offices and facilities ... providing unexcelled opportunities for qualified graduates in Sales, Methods and Programming, and Product Planning.
New scientific advances—such as RCA has introduced in its EDP systems for scientific applica
tions, industrial process control, and business data processing—promise ever-broadening opportunities in this dynamic field.
If you are interested in learning more about a career in EDP with RCA, see your Placement Officer now. Arrange a specific time for your interview. And get your copies of the brochures that fill you in on RCA and the RCA EDP picture. If you’re tied up when RCA’s representative is here, send a resume to:
College Relations Radio Corporation of America Camden 2, New Jersey
The Most Trusted Name in Electronics
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
Debate
(Continued from page 21)
Ninth Annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament—Official Invitational List: (Partial.)
American University, Washington, D.C.; Augustana College, Rock Island, Ill.; Bellarmine College, Louisville, Ky.;
■ Bradley University, Peoria, Ill.; Brig-w ham Young University, Provo, Utah; Butler University, Indianapolis, Ind.; Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio; Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.; Duke University, Durham, N. C.; Georgetown University, Washington, : D. C.
Howard College, Birmingham, Ala.;
I Illinois State, Normal, Ill.; John Carroll University, Cleveland, Ohio; The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.; a King’s College, Wilkes-Barre, Penn.; ™ Loyola University, Chicago, Ill.; Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.; Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich.; Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.; Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio; Ohio University, Athens, Ohio; Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.
St. John’s University, Jamaica, N. Y.; St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn.; Southern Illinois University, Car-9 bondale, Ill; United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo.; United States Military Academy, West Point, N. Y.; University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.; University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan.; University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky.; University of Maryland, College Park, Md.
University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla.; University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb.; University of Pittsburgh, Pitts-19 burgh, Penn.; University of South Carolina, Columbia, S.C.; University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah; University of Vermont, Burlington, Va.; Wake Forest College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Wayne State University, Detroit, Mich.; West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.
J. A. Whitney
Letters
(Continued from page 4) basis?
The letter also stated that we “may be inadequately prepared for the assumption of responsibility. . In short, to alleviate this situation we must be encouraged in “autonomous action.” I wholeheartedly agree. This does not imply a complete deletion of the regula-£ tions. It implies rather that we make room for “autonomous action” in our present system. Where else is there a better place in which to practice it than while we are here, while there is a chance for correction by experienced men before we go out on our own. It is said that practice before a game makes one prepared to play it.
In short, the letter accurately hit upon the point that should not only be the concern of the students alone, but also 9
March 3, 1961
that of the administration and the faculty. Ways must be sought in which a system of self-discipline and autonomous action can be made to coincide. In return I am sure that the student body will bring “the spirit of Notre Dame” out of its retirement, to have with them not only while they are here, but also when they are a part of the alumni.
Anthony E. Coppola Off-Campus
THANK YOU
Dear Father Hesburgh:
Thanks to you and my Aunt Elizabeth I have had a week I shall remember all my life. My aunt purchased the raffle ticket and you drew it out from all the chances to make me the winner of the Cadillac.
My parents have decided not to keep it, as I am only thirteen years old. Another aunt and uncle have bought it and the car will no doubt be back to the scene of the raffle many times as their two sons attend Notre Dame — John Motier, a sophomore, and Tom Motier, a freshman.
Although I shall never be able to attend your University, my college days will be assured because of Notre Dame. My parents are putting the money away for my education.
Once again, Father, thank you for drawing my ticket and for giving me something many grown-ups spend a lifetime dreaming of owning. Now I’ll never have to long for a Cadillac. I’ve had one!
God bless you.
Bernadette Wolf
(We thank Father Hesburgh for forwarding the above letter to us.)
NEW ORLEANS: A DEFENSE Editor:
Since the day I first arrived at Notre Dame, I have seen newspaper after newspaper, magazine after magazine, all condemning New Orleans for its backward, uncivilized approach to the race problem. Now if all one did was to read these newspapers and magazines, he would certainly be led to think that New Orleans is controlled by nothing but a mob of hoodlums and fanatics. But so many facts about New Orleans have been twisted out of context or simply deleted from the articles of these newspapers and magazines, that the stories that have appeared in print have presented nothing even remotely close to the picture of New Orleans as it actually is.
For example, has any publicity been given to the fact that Loyola, Tulane, and Louisiana State Universities have all been accepting Negro students for years now? Has any publicity been given to the petition that was signed by hundreds of New Orleans parents complimenting the school board on its efforts to equalize the school situation between Negroes and Whites? Has anyone mentioned that the so-called “riots” in New Orleans were actually taken part in by only a few hundred people (out of a total popula
tion of almost a million), and that the whole disturbance was limited to an area of the city that is noted for causing a lot of trouble anyway? Or that the two grammar schools involved in the integration proceedings represented less than 1% of the entire New Orleans grade school enrollment?
There is one story about New Orleans that I’d like to mention briefly, because I’m sure you’ll never read about it in the papers. Three years ago, the New Orleans bus lines were ordered integrated. The situation that had existed previously was that of a sign put up in the back of all the buses, marking off that section “for colored patrons only.” The change allowed Negroes to sit anywhere. Now this was supposed to be as crucial a test of integration as any, and I’d like to point out that from that day three years ago until today, not one single incident between Whites and Negroes has occurred.
May I point out, in reference to your article on New Orleans, that perhaps Notre Dame should look at itself before -criticizing someone else. Can you honestly say that Notre Dame is an integrated university? The ratio of Negro and White students here is somewhere in the neighborhood of one to five hundred; and the few Negroes that are here are either international students or athletes. I would think that this is even less than “token integration.” There are more Negroes than that at LSU.
Larry Kavanagh, 203 Farley
(Ed. Note: There is also, in the Notre Dame situation: a) a higher tuition, and b) smaller Negro population in the areas represented by its student body, i.e., the nation. Also we might note that color and race are not requested on admission forms).
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. BEchigan	AT 7-5477
NAMCHT
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria
FREE PARKING


CYNIC You can tell him by his favorite food—sour grapes. According to the cynic, there’s an opportunist in every public office, an Elmer Gantry in every pulpit, a racketeer in every union local. No worthy cause can possibly succeed, he believes, because the world is full of schemers. A master of the negative, a veteran wet blanket, he dampens dedication, chills initiative. And while the cynic sits and grumbles, doctors answer midnight calls ... artists create works with more concern for art than applause... school teachers help their students, not their bank accounts, grow. Where would America be today if the cynic’s view had always prevailed? Human advancement proves that people can, and usually do, work together for the common good. In this nuclear age, is there any other choice?
CUFCGF hunting? The amazing growth of nationwide is clear testimony to the power of new ideas. Founded in 1926, nationwide today is the world’s second largest mutual auto insurer in cars insured-and one of America’s leading underwriters offire, life and general insurance. Our representatives also have the opportunity to sell mutual funds. If you’d like to work for this dynamic company, nationwide is hiring sales representatives now. Earn while you learn-with advancement opportunities. Write Dean W. Jeffers, V.P.-Sales, Nationwide, Columbus 16, Ohio.
Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co./Nationwide Mutual Fire Ins. Co./Nationwide Life Ins. Co /Home Office: Columbus. 0.
26
The Scholastic
BILL CROSBY
1960-61: The Season
TRIBUTE TO 4 LEADER
by JOHN BECHTOLD
“The best since Hawkins!”
“A no-talent spoiled brat!”
® When Irish fans discuss the merits of Captain Bill Crosby, these two analyses are invariably brought up. A merely superficial glance at the record book would tend to substantiate the latter opinion. For Crosby has been only an average scorer in three years at Notre Dame, and has fouled out of numerous games.
However, the reason his supporters compare Crosby with Hawkins requires ®a more detailed analysis, measured in more than cold statistics. Crosby possesses talents never written of in the tally sheets of any game. The passion with which he plays the game, his fiery leadership, and his constant hustle and guts have made Bill Crosby one of the most valuable of modem Irish courtmen. His innumerable spectacular passes, brilliant defensive hawking, and ^unselfish playmaking are attributes never obvious on a scoreboard, but felt nonetheless.
Crosby’s critics argue that he is “just another ‘dirty’ player.” His style admittedly is calculated to win games, not friends: “Many fans who haven’t played highly competitive basketball just don’t realize how much a body contact sport it is. If you shy away from the rough stuff you just can’t be a good ballplayer.”
® That “Cros” is a good ball player is evidenced in his spectacular passing, one of the few highlights of the season for the Irish. Although he was the third highest scorer in New Jersey high school history, Crosby has not been a “gunner” at Notre Dame, but has instead set up most Irish scoring plays with a pass or screen. Said Crosby: “I’ll never pass up a good shot unless someone else has a better one. It’s easier to get a bucket (Continued on page 32)
by JAY KILROY
Notre Dame’s basketball team completed the 1960-61 season in a convincing manner last Wednesday night in the Fieldhouse. For the Irish basketballers the season wasn’t sensational; rather, one might describe it as satisfying.’ Six seniors dressed in Notre Dame uniforms for the final game of their career. Captain Bill Crosby, John Tully, Bill Noonan, Dennis Walljasper, Ray Vales and Jim Sullivan all deserve credit for the effoi-t and desire which featured their play for the past three seasons.
AN UNUSUAL SEASON
Coach John Jordan’s team compiled a 12-14 season mark. Certainly, this indicates only a mediocre year but it is deceiving when one realizes that, included in those twelve victories, are conquests of such national powers as St. John’s, Detroit and DePaul. But then again, the Irish fell to such unremarkable squads as Canisius and Northwestern.
The trend for the season was recognizable early. Although victorious in their first two encounters, Notre Dame revealed some definite weaknesses that were to plague them for the remainder of the schedule. The first problem noticed by all was the team’s poor free throw shooting; this hampered the Irish offense intermittently until the Bradley game. The second weakness became obvious in the third game, against Kentucky. There, Coach Jordan discovered that he didn’t really have a steady fifth man for the first unit. Finally, the Notre Dame record away from home must be considered. On only two occasions were the Irish victorious on the road. However this is balanced by Notre Dame’s home sweep except for the Michigan State and St. Louis games. If only there had been more home games. . . .
DEFINITE IMPROVEMENT
Notre Dame’s progress was hardly noticeable for the first ten games of the schedule. In fact, the Irish could boast only a poor 4-6 record, including sound thrashings at the hands of USC and UCLA on a West Coast trip. January 4 indicated a change however; on that night, Notre Dame trounced Butler in Indianapolis, 72-56. The Green reached the pinnacle of their transition on January 7 when they played championship basketball before falling to highly-rated North Carolina, 73-71. For the next three games, the potent Irish could do no wrong, eliminating St. Francis, Detroit and DePaul in rapid order. And two games later, it was a sensational upset of St. John’s.
The conquest of St. John’s was accomplished amidst great enthusiasm and noise;
(Continued on page 32)
LEFT TO RIGHT, FRONT ROW: Mike Reilly, Eddie Schnurr, John Matthews, John Andreoli. MIDDLE ROW: John Ryan, John Tully, Ray Vales, Captain Bill Crosby, Bill Noonan, Dennis Wall jasper. Assistant Coach Jim Gibbons. BACK ROW: Ed Malloy, Ted Romanowski, Jim Sullivan, Karl Roesler, Bill Kurz, John Dearie, Armand Reo, Head Coach John Jordan.
March 3,. 1961
27
1

Coaching Guidance
1960-1961 marked the tenth season at the helms for the much-respected Coach of the Fighting Irish, Johnny Jordan. This has been a lean year for Jordan, who has had five of his last nine teams entered in the NCAA tourney and has won 165 games, while losing 92 in his ten-year regime here.
Jordan’s teams are noted for their deliberate offense and outstanding defense. The veteran Irish mentor believes that more games are won by alert defensive work than racehorse “pointcrazy” offense. His controlled offense has brought jeers from many fans who prefer the racehorse game. However, Jordan’s arguments are based on the winning teams he has turned out here at Notre Dame.
Jordan was captain of the 1934-35 Irish cage squad and a three-year' monogram winner. After graduation, he became one of the nation’s top prep coaches at Mount Carmel in Chicago. Except for a three-year hitch as a Lieutenant in the Navy during World War II, Jordan coached the Mount Carmel eagers from 1935 to 1949, guiding them to numerous Catholic and City League titles.
He broke into the college ranks in 1950 when he took over the reigns at Loyola University in Chicago. He was released from his contract at the end of his first season so that he could return to coach his Alma Mater, Notre Dame.
Taking over the reins from Athletic Director Ed (Moose) Krause, Jordan in his first four years at the helm won 71 and lost only 28.
Four of Jordan’s squads have reached the quarterfinals of the NCAA tourney. The 1956-57 squad also came in second in the annual Holiday Festival tournament in New York and the 1957-58 team won the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis.
SULLIVAN WALUASPER
TULLY
NOONAN	VALES
Notre Dame Seniors
With the Creighton game now history, six seniors have played their last game for Notre Dame. Headed by departing captain Bill Crosby, they include Bill Noonan, John Tully, Jim Sullivan, Ray Vales and Denny Wall jasper.
Crosby was a regular for two years and won plaudits for his playmaking and defensive ability.
Tully, the 6-7 pivot ace from Regis High and Palisades Park, N. J., won three monograms during his varsity career. His top performance this season was in the 74-69 win over Butler when he scored 29 points while taking down 24 rebounds. John was very effective with soft hooks and jump shots.
Noonan, although never a regular, saw enough action to win a monogram each year. He attended St. Ambrose Academy, the same school which produced Gene Duffy. Bill’s outstanding attribute was a long jump shot.
Walljasper did not see too much action until his senioi- year. He was a valuable replacement in the front line and helped out considerably with his rebounding.
Vales and Sullivan were squad members for three years. Ray and Jim added valuable bench strength.
First Year Men
Each year at the completion of the regular basketball campaign, many ques- i tions arise anticipating the team of the ! following season. One of the most frequent concerns is the Freshman Team and the possibilities of future contribution to the varsity.
Foi' the third year in succession, the J- ' freshman coaching chores have been handled by Jim Gibbons, affable assistant to Coach John Jordan. Gibbons’ interests are not limited to basketball; last summer, he managed the Kingsport Pirates, a baseball team in the rookie Appalachian League.
This year’s Freshman Team has twelve players including four on scholarship. During the season, the frosh had practice ; sessions in the afternoon. The scholar- , g ship candidates frequently practiced with % the varsity.	!
The freshmen were led by Dick Erlen-baugh, a 6-3 forward prospect from I Villa Park, Ill. Erlenbaugh demonstrat- I ed fine all-around ability and should be I a prime candidate for the varsity next | season.	I
Another freshman with great possi- | bilities is Tom Finnegan of Louisville, | Ky. Finnegan is a 6-0 guard who covers - % the area of the court with speed. An ' ; added feature to Finnegan’s skill was a	'
deadly jump shot; this shot was a fre-	,
quent nuisance to opponents in practice.	‘
Playing the high or low post in Notre Dame’s 1-3-1 offense for the Freshman p Team was Dick Orsagh, a 6-6 hustler from Cleveland, 0. Orsagh had an ri effective hook shot which combined with | his rebounding ability.	j;
The fourth scholarship performer for f I the 1960-61 Freshman Team was Sam । Skarich from Keewatin, Minn. Skarich | is a 6-3 forward competitor who features q a dangerous jump shot from either | corner.	B
Rounding out the first five for Fresh- g man Team was a non-scholarship hustler, | guard Jack Koltes from Wausau, Wis- I consin. Koltes is a fine ball-handler and | has good all-around ability.	!
Bob Early is another freshman fre- . quently considered in the starting five. Early, from Glen Ellyn, Ill., played pivot with Orsagh and was an outstanding offensive rebounder.
Dick Gonski, a baseball player from Chicago, Ill. was another surprise for the first-year men. Gonski filled the forward position with finesse and speed.
Dick Wolfe and Dick Panther were two other guard prospects for the freshmen. Wolfe is from Lost Notion, la. ♦ while Panther hails from Kansas City, Kans.
Jim Condon, from Rye, N. Y., performed well in the pivot. Jon Spoelstra of Birmingham, Mich., and Lou Velloni of Parma, O. were other freshmen players who participated in the practice sessions throughout the winter.
Some played more than others, but for all it was a new experience, an initiation | into the Notre Dame basketball system. ।
The Scholastic
o March 3, 1961
Calisthenics for the fighters
Accent on Character
by BILL CARY
In 1931 an event was held here at Notre Dame which, since that time, has become an annual tiling. The idea was to raise money for the missions in India. With this noble purpose, the Bengal Bouts began at Notre Dame.
During the last 30 years the Bengals have grown in popularity and proficiency. They serve as one of the highlights of the pre-Easter period, affording the boxing fans three nights of fun and excitement, during which time a group of determined young lads go all-out hoping to win one of the coveted championships.
In the Bengal Bouts, fighters are matched with other fighters of equal ability. Every attempt is made by Dominick Napolitano and his assistants to insure the safety of the individual contestant. To do this each fighter must be in top physical condition before he is allowed to enter the ring. If there is the slightest chance that he is not physically able, he is not allowed to fight on that given evening.
FIGHTER’S WELFARE
Thus the welfare of the fighter is always utmost in the mind of Bengal officials. This along with the quality of the fights helps to make the Bengal Bouts the unique attraction which they have come to he through the years.
Matching up boys of similar ability ■ helps to make for a more enjoyable program. There is, as a result, more interest on the part of the fans when
30
they are assured beforehand that the competition will be on a somewhat equal basis. They know that each bout will feature two boys, each with an equal chance of winning.
The accent in all athletic endeavors, as in life itself, is on winning. Many people live by the slogan, “Winning isn’t everything, it’s the only thing.” However, in the Bengals this isn’t true. Granted that everyone likes to win and that nobody likes to lose, the Bengals contain greater awards for the contestant than the honor and glory of victory.
BUILD CHARACTER
The Bengal Bouts build character in the some way that football does. In fighting in the Bengals a boy learns how to stand on his own two feet and defend himself. He learns something of the give and take of everyday life. He learns how to fight back when he is discouraged. In short, while still a young man he learns many things which someday will make him a better man, and more important, a better citizen.
A few years ago Sports Illustrated sent a representative to the campus to observe the Bengal Bouts. In his article for this national magazine, the reporter referred to the Bengal Bouts as “amateur boxing in its purest form.” This indeed is high praise. This also is the reason why the Bengals are such an outstanding attraction.
Victorious Irish Track Team Travels to Western Michigan
The Notre Dame thinclads picked up 18 points in the hurdles and ten in the : shot-put to win a decisive 76%-65% victory over Western Michigan, and gain ' the Central Collegiate Conference indoor track championship for the first time in four years. John Mulrooney led ; Jim Sheeler home in the 60-yard highf-J hurdles with a time of :07.6, and Sheeler ’ came back to turn the tables on Mulrooney with a :07.1 clocking in the lows. Carl Ludecke, Mike Giacinto, and Pete Kirk finished one-three-four in the shot, with Ludecke’s first throw of 50'11%" the best of the day.
Only Western Michigan had a chance against the powerful Irish, but team depth and balance were the difference ( for the Green as they ended the Broncos’^ •' ( three-year domination. Other team^-^v" scores: Drake, 32%; Marquette, 28; Loyola, 8; Detroit, 6; Bradley, 3%; and Wayne State, 2.
Tomorrow the track team visits Western Michigan for the annual Western Michigan Relays. Other remaining indoor meets include the Chicago Daily News Relays, the Milwaukee Journal Relays, and the IC4A Meet in New York; all are the week end of March 10-11. The Cleveland K of C Relays follow on-the next week end.
Individual CCC scorers for the Irish include:
Jerry Fitzpatrick, second in 300-yd. dash, first in 60-yd. dash, and 4th in broad jump; Ron Gregory, second in the mile and 880; Dennis Johnston, fifth in the mile; Steve Schwartz, second in the 440; Dick Monjeau, tie for fourth in the high jump; Dan Rorke, fourth in the 1000; Wayne Javurek, fourth in the 60; Terry Jones, third in the 600; Dick Musial, fourth in the 300; Tom Dempsey and Bill Yaley, second and fourth in the two-mile; and Mike Terry and Frank Froelke, third and tie for fourth in the^l I pole vault.	I
Enthusiastic Participants I Await Intramural Finals I
Having completed its regular sched- I ule, Notre Dame’s Interhall and Inter- | club Basketball League will soon swing into a tournament to decide the campus champ. The campus champion is deter- 7 mined by a game matching the top teams from each league.
Eight teams, each the leader of its respective division, will vie for the Interhall crown. The eight participants are Cavanaugh Red, Farley White, Keenan Green, Stanford Gold, Dillon Gray, Sorin Yellow, Dillon Black and Keenan Blue.
The Interclub title will be fought for by St. Louis Blue, Detroit Black, Buffalo Gold, Florida Yellow, Chicago Red,^ Army ROTC White, Walsh Black, and the Ski Club Red.	1
In games played during the past week,	|
the mighty Army ROTC club faced Dil- 1 Ion Gray; the unbeaten St. Louis Blues tangled with Dillon Black; the topseeded squad, the Ski Club Red, played Keenan’s Blue; Detroit Black battled Farley White; Sorin Yellow played the ; unbeaten Buffalo Golds; and Florida j Yellow faced Stanford Gold.
“ 1 *
The Scholastic i
Mermen Beat North Central; Meet Bowling Green and Pitt
With its most impressive victory of the season not yet a week old, Notre Dame’s spirited swimming team travels East today and tomorrow for its final two encounters of the season. First stop is Bowling Green, Ohio where ^Dennis Stark’s squad meets the Bowl-ving Green Falcons, then on to the University of Pittsburgh.
The Irish are hoping to mark up their first win against Bowling Green in three years of competition, but expect trouble in the person of Gary Laprise, 1959-60 All-American in the 50 and 100-yard freestyle events. Laprise is pitted against Notre Dame’s Bill Vasu and Bob Lieb in each of the
! races.
Also posing a threat to the Irish are ' Co-Captains Hank Reest (freestyle distances) and Paul Vogel (Mid-American Conference Champion last year in the 200-yard breastroke). The Falcon’s freestyle relay team, also conference champion, will be out to defeat ND’s fine quartet of John MacLeod, Bill Cronin, Frank Dinger and Gene Witchger.
“Much tougher than last year” are the words Stark uses in describing Pitt’s ^tankmen. The Irish defeated the ^Panthers last year in the only meeting between the two schools.
Last Saturday, in the Rockne Memorial Pool, the Irish pulled out a brilliant 51-44 victory over star-studded North Central College, but not before the Cardinals had set three pool records while Notre Dame also recorded one. The Green captured only four of eleven first places and recorded a new 4:04.2 —clocking in the 400-yard medley relay. ®North Central’s Olympic Gold Medalist Dick Blick erased two old records in the 200-yard individual medley and the 440-yard freestyle.
TIME OUT
ND Skiers Take Fourth In NCAA Midwest Meet
9 In their first try at intercollegiate competition, the Notre Dame Ski Team captured fourth place in the NCAA
1 Midwest Trials. This assured them of an invitation to the NCAA National Ski Meet, which will be held at Middle-buiy, Vt. later this month.
[ The team, chosen from many who tried out, includes: Captain Jim McCabe, Co-captain John Turner, Jim Sechser, Joe Reynolds and Wake Mack.
। The team travelled to Mt. Ripley at I ^Houghton, Mich., a distance of almost i 600 miles, paid their own expenses and s competed, without the aid of a coach, | against twelve varsity teams from throughout the Midwest. Jim Sechser won top honors in jumping.
The Ski Team is a result of the efforts of the Ski Club which has been in
■' existence for only four years. The club . has grown from 37 members to more ] than 600 and is the largest Collegiate । Ski Club in the country.
3, 1961
Tonight, at seven o’clock in the Fieldhouse, Notre Dame’s wrestling team participates in its final dual match of the season. The opponent: a strong Marquette team which recently finished second in the Wheaton Invitational Tournament. The visiting Warriors will not be pei-mitted to use several of their brilliant freshmen; still, the match should turn out to be the most interesting of this or any season.
Acceptance of wrestling as a varsity sport here at Notre Dame has been a slow and tedious process. Tom Fallon, the present coach, instigated the movement that led to intercollegiate matches beginning in 1955. Since that time, the wrestlers have compiled a commendable 26-23 record and turned out such fine grapplers as Jerry Sachsel and Bucky O’Connor. This year’s team is just as talented. A recent addition is footballer Ed Rutkowski who has been outstanding thus far. Dick Martin, a fiery 123-pounder from Pittsburgh, and Dave Ames, a Dixon, Ill. native who competes in the 167-pound class, are two sophomores undefeated in dual competition thus far. Captain Jim Kane recently recovered from a rib injury; his presence will be invaluable in the 177-pound division.
NO ANSWER AVAILABLE
But why hasn’t wrestling gained the interest of the students here on campus? Certainly, it is not dull. Wrestling is a sport demanding precision, speed, strength and mental alertness; the participants maneuver scientifically and there is continuous action. These are the necessary qualifications for spectator interest; perhaps the sport just needs more time here.
The work required of a wrestler is no fun. There are strict rules, demanding the most perfect self-discipline; rigorous workouts are necessary; the development of a positive mental attitude is essential. Wrestlers, undoubtedly, must be devoted to the sport; they deserve the student interest.
To stimulate such interest on campus, an Interhall Wrestling Tournament was begun this year. The first turnout was highly encouraging, including more than 70 wrestlers, ranging in weight from 123 to 245 pounds. In the first matches held last Wednesday, 26 men survived the exhausting com- ‘ petition to enter the finals. These “do-or-die” battles will be held in Hie Fieldhouse today in conjunction with the Notre Dame-Marquette varsity match.
Several of the wrestlers demonstrated outstanding promise in the matches last Wednesday. Jack Moran of Keenan Hall displayed quick moves as he pinned his opponent in 35 seconds of the first round. John Gibbons of Breen-Phillips and Vince Schirf of Stanford battled to a tie in the 190-pound class and a second overtime foi- the enthusiastic participants had to be held on Thursday.
KEGLER LEADERSHIP
Bowling is another sport on campus that recently began intercollegiate competition. The Notre Dame Bowling Team quickly justified their new-found status; presently, they lead the Midwest Conference. Their next opponent is Loyola, the chief contender for the Irish position in the Conference. Leading the Notre Dame bowlers this season have been Bill Lieber with a 192 average and Captain Dan Halloran, carrying a 188 average. Other members of the potent alleymen include Tom Schroeder, Ted Nekic, Chuck LeRose, Mike Bentley and Dan Dvorak.
MAN OF PREDICTION
Although frowning on any vanity, the sports staff wishes to congratulate (while slapping itself on the back) Bill Cary, the author of the weekly “Cary Calls ’Em” column. Bill has proven himself the dean of the prognosticators and certainly deserves high recommendation for such work in the future. During the football season, our “man of pi’ediction” was correct on 75 per cent of his choices; this included his many true picks in the “upset of the week” category. Now that the basketball season is drawing to a close, Bill has an even more impressive record to his credit. Maybe fortune telling’s the career, Bill.
Ii	— J.K.
CART CALLS 'EM Tomorrow
Auburn over Alabama NYU over Boston University Niagara over Buffalo Cincinnati over Marshall St. Bonaventure over Canisius DePaul over Dayton Detroit over Marquette Duquesne over Fordham Florida over Georgia Providence over Holy Cross Houston over Tulsa Purdue over Illinois Kentucky over Tennessee Villanova over LaSalle Loyola over John Carroll St. John’s over Manhattan Mississippi State over Mississippi Wisconsin over Northwestern Wichita over North Texas State Michigan over Minnesota Colorado over Oklahoma State Ohio State over Michigan State Princeton over Harvard Utah over Wyoming
Game of the Week
Bradley over St. Louis
Upset of the Week
Indiana over Iowa
Last Week’s Results
20 right, four wrong; 83.3 per cent Totals To Date
118 right, 31 wrong, 79.2 per cent
Tribute to a Leader (Continued from page 27) from three feet than thirty.”
Most fans concede that Crosby is one of the best Notre Dame defensive play-■ers ever, but maintain that in this era it is the high-scoring offense which wins. Crosby and Coach Johnny Jordan disagree: “Defense-minded teams have won the NCAA title three of the last five years.” With “Cros” defense is a matter of honor: “Defense is a personal thing, a real challenge. You can’t be lazy and play good defensive ball. My greatest thrill as an athlete was holding Tony Jackson to eight points in the St. John’s game.” Those eight points were the lifetime low scored by the All-American Jackson.
Players and captains will come and go at Notre Dame, but few if any will have the color or value to the team of Bill Crosby.
1960-61: The Season
(Continued from page 27)
obviously, Jordan’s team was primed for its peak effort of the season; Notre Dame’s excess energy triumphed finally as the deluged visitors left the court one point - losers, 64-63. Certainly, it was a great Irish victory.
The fall of the Irish was as prominent as the rise. Defeated in their next four encounters, the tired courtmen demonstrated their sporadic brilliance only once more; this was against Bradley as Notre Dame battled fiercely until falling, 84-81. Another victory, another defeat — from thereon, this was the general pattern until the season’s conclusion.
ALL GAVE EFFORT
It is difficult to single out any one player as the star of the 1960-61 team. Certainly however, Armand Reo must be praised for his play throughout the year. A reserve last season, Reo won a first-string berth before the season opener and then became Notre Dame’s leading scorer and rebounder for the year. Guards Eddie Schnurr and Crosby were also leaders for this Irish team; Schnurr was the club’s finest shooter and always a dependable performer, Crosby, the play-maker and defensive wizard. Tully, John Dearie, Karl Roesler, John Matthews and John Andreoli also starred in different games for Notre Dame.
Surely, it is a tribute to Coach John Jordan, Assistant Jim Gibbons and the team^ itself that there never was a let-down, no matter how dark the moment. All gave® one hundred per cent effort and desire; all deserve to be commended. Definitely, this year’s aggregation, coaches and players alike, was an outstanding asset as a diplomat for the University.
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser. There’s never a telltale erasure
mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION 5 PITTSFIELD, MASS.
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
32
The Scholastic
Government Underwrites Education Institute; Programs Expected to Attract 380 Teachers
Government sponsored summer institutes for high school teachers of chemistry, mathematics, French and Spanish, will be inaugurated June 19. To educate approximately 380 men and women in Wie newest secondary school teaching techniques, these institutes will provide, for the most part, tuition, a stipend for living expenses, allowances for dependents and travel expenses. Under the summer plan the chemistry and mathematics programs are underwritten by ' National Science Foundation grants of • $71,400 and $107,000 respectively. $57,000 has been awarded the language : institute by the U.S. Office of Education.
The chemistry program will include
Physicists to Sponsor Science Open House for Late March
As in previous years the Physics Club is sponsoring the 1961 University of Notre Dame Science Open House soon. The event is scheduled for Saturday, March 25 and Sunday, March 26 ^rom 1 to 8 p.m. and 1 to 6 p.m. respectively. Exhibits will be displayed in Nieuwland Science Hall, Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Hall and the Geology Building.
The fair will consist of experiments and displays by Notre Dame students
as well as many industrial displays and films. The Notre Dame High School Science Fair will present the Dean Froning Memorial Award consisting of £ cash prize of $500.00 and an engraved plaque for the outstanding high school exhibit.
* NOTRE
• DAME * STUDENTS
Eat At
EDDIE'S DINING ROOM
★
1345 Ironwood Drive ★
10% Student Discount
arch 3, 1961
two one-hour lectures daily on topics ranging from atomic theories to studies of chemical reactions. In addition the students will be engaged in two four-hour laboratory periods each week, and a three-hour problem session regularly during the seven-week course. Naturally seminars, symposia, films and tours of University and industrial research laboratories will be provided to stimulate interest and broaden the scope of this concentrated study.
About 180 teachers are expected to enroll in the seven-week math program under the direction of Professor Arnold Ross, head of the University’s mathematics department. As an added feature, the curriculum will include several lectures on video tape over a closed circuit TV system.
Seven fields, speaking, reading, listening, writing, linguistic analysis, culture, civilization and professional preparation, will come under the scrutiny of the language institute. Fifty high school teachers of French and Spanish, directed by Professor Walter Langford, will utilize the new language laboratories to further develop their proficiency. They will be housed in Notre Dame’s residence halls during the session and expected to speak in either one of the foreign tongues exclusively.
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN'S
SHAMPOO
Danforth Foundation Awards Grants to Two English Profs
Two instructors in the English Department here have been awarded Danforth Foundation Teacher-Study Grants for the 1961-62 school year.
They are Robert Brannan and Edward Vasta. Brannan, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1958, has specialized in English literature; Vasta joined the faculty the same year and is a specialist in mediaeval literature.
The Danforth grants will enable the two men to complete work for their doctorates during the coming year. Brannan will be doing research for his doctoral dissertation at Cornell, while Vasta will complete his Ph.D. thesis at Stanford.
Danforth Teacher-Study Grants provide a stipend ranging from $2400 to $4800.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
• EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. Keep your hair and scalp really dean, dandruff-free!

conservative youth,
In Sharon, Connecticut on September 9-11, 1960, over 100 delegates, representing 44 colleges and universities and 24 states, met to seek ways and means of mobilizing the growing conservative sentiment among America’s youth toward political education and action. Out of this conference came an organization and a statement of principle. The organization is “Young Americans For Freedom” (YAF); the statement is known as the Sharon Statement and reads as follows:
“In this time of moral and political crisis, it is the responsibility of the youth of America to affirm certain eternal truths.
“We, as young conservatives, believe:
'“That foremost among the transcendent values is the individual’s use of his God-given free will, whence derives his right to be free from the restrictions of arbitrary force;
NOT A CREED, BUT . . .
“That liberty is indivisible, and that political freedom cannot long exist without economic freedom;
“That the purposes of government are to protect these freedoms through the preservation of internal order, the provision of national defense, and the administration of justice;
“That when government ventures beyond these rightful functions, it accumulates power which tends to diminish order and liberty;
“That the Constitution of the United States is the best arrangement yet devised for empowering government to fulfill its proper role, while restraining it from the concentration and abuse of power;
“That the genius of the Constitution — the division of powers — is summed up in the clause which reserves primacy to the several states, or to the people, in those spheres not specifically delegated to the Federal Government;
“That the market economy, allocating resources by the free play of supply and demand, is the single economic system compatible with the requirements of personal freedom and constitutional government, and that it is at the same time the most productive supplier of human needs;
“That when government interferes with the work of the market economy, it tends to reduce the moral and physi
34
cal strength of the nation; that when it takes from one man to bestow on another, it diminishes the incentive of the first, the integrity of the second, and the moral autonomy of both;
“That we will be free so long as the national sovereignty of the United States is secure; that history shows periods of freedom are rare, and can exist only when free citizens concertedly defend their rights against all enemies;
“That the forces of international Communism are, at present, the greatest single threat to these liberties; that the United States should stress victory over, rather than coexistence with, this menace; and
“That American foreign policy must be judged by this criticism: does it serve the just interests of the United States?”
The Sharon Statement which is a basic statement of the conservative position was to be the rallying point to draw together Conservative youth for more effective, concerted action in the political realm. In the group which met at Sharon, Connecticut, were represented various conservative movements such as the “Youth for Goldwater” organization, a smaller short-range group and the “Intercollegiate Society of Individualists” a nation-wide organization with the primary purpose of providing college students with information on the conservative movement, articles by conservatives in the academic world, and a speakers sei-vice.
The Statement is not a creed, it is not an Article of Faith, but is a statement of general consensus. Nor is it a statement which pretends to cover the whole range of the maladies of the present day — it is confined basically to political philosophy which is just one area of the complex which makes up society. Difference of emphasis might exist between separate members of YAF but the underlying philosophy binds the membership together for effective action.
In its first five months this organization of conservatives between the ages of 16 and 35 has grown rapidly and made its presence felt in the political world. Some 67 Conservative clubs — some chartered chapters of YAF, others that work closely with YAF but maintain individual autonomy to meet their specific university requirements, and still others that are made up of young
men and women recently out of college > or school — have been organized with the direct cooperation of YAF.
The most widely publicized action of^ YAF thus far was the demonstration ® in Washington, D. C. on January 2, in j favor of the House Un-American Activi- I ties Committee (HUAC). This action j came about when an anti-HUAC group | of leftists picketed the White House | protesting the existence of the com- | mittee. YAF had pickets on hand to | picket the anti-committee pickets. Com- | bined with other groups picketing for | the existence of the committee including | Hungarian Freedom Fighters, the Cath-@f olic Freedom Foundation, and the i Movement for the Recovery of the j (Cuban) Revolution, they outnumbered | the anti-committee pickets. It is re- i ported a policeman remarked that “this g is the first time we’ve seen anything E like this — where the anti-communists ft are in the majority.”	B
Young Americans for Freedom now g publishes a bi-monthly public affairs K Newsletter which is sent to all its mem-@&
bers. The Newsletter is supplemented by reprints, articles, editorials, pamphlets, etc. Here in Indiana YAF is organized and operating. On March 17 and 18 at Wabash College a convention will be held for all those in and interested in YAF The principal speaker will be William Rusher, publisher of the Na

tional Review and the aim of the con- & vention will be to set down a formal/^ organization for the state and bring to- | gether young conservatives to exchange | ideas for the future.	E
RIGHT AND LEFT
In Indiana as in other states, the goal of YAF is to organize demonstrations of conservative student opinion. This will include sponsoring a magazine’s publica
II
11 R
tion, promoting campus debates and conferences on real political issues of this^ | era, and urging reports to state and na- |
tional officials from Hoosiei* college people regarding how they stand on important legislation, especially that which . is close to their proximate interests. (
Considering the short period of time 1 Young Americans For Freedom has been i in existence, it has already accomplished | much. It is fast becoming a group the { members of the Established Left will be I forced to reckon with.	I
The Scholastic
9
SYSTEMS
ENGINEERING
CAN START HERL. OR HERL. OR HERL.. OR HERL. OR HERL.. OR HERE
If you are completing studies in engineering, economics, math, science or business, have maintained high averages and are interested in a rewarding professional career leading to management, IBM Systems Engineering may be just the career for you.
What does an IBM Systems Engineer do? He studies problems in industry, science, business and government, and then organizes the most modern electronic data processing techniques and machine systems to solve them. He works at the source and with top executives in the organizations concerned. The problems are fascinating and exciting—and include automation of: process control and manufacturing operations, inventory control document preparation, satellite tracking,
I
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company
highway planning, weather forecasting, and complete business control systems for utilities, transportation, banking and insurance, to name but a few. New techniques of automatic data processing are making headline news almost daily.
Your present training, combined with one of the most comprehensive training programs conducted by any company, may put you in a position to join this fast-growing new profession with virtually an unlimited future. Openings will exist in all principal U.S. cities. See your Placement Director for additional information about IBM and to arrange for an interview. Or feel free to write or call me:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager, IBM Corporation, 618-620 North Michigan St., South Bend 1, Ind., CE 2-8251
IBM
DATA PROCESSING DIVISION
A