Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists .
222% So. Mich. St	102 W. Wash. St
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
MAGAZINES	' PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Hello Men!
Smith fs Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry  
Men s $8 to $10 Oxfords
Formerly Selling J $8 to $10 A
Crawford— Osteo-Patik others we cannot advertise
$4-85
Practically all sizes and widths in lot. You’ll probably buy 2 or 3 pairs. For the young man as well as the older man.
All sizes in others at $1.85, $2.95 and $3.85.
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
May 27, 1932
One
Correction—
Last week our efficient copywriter invented a new style in footwear---the famous “white and gray” line. We believe he was so entranced by the marvelous foot comfort of our BLACK and GRAY Sport Oxfords that he was wearing at the time.
If enough of you insist -— we’ll make White and Gray oxfords. In the meantime, try our standards BLACK and GRAY sport shoes at $5.00
« « «c
GILBERT SHOES at $5, $6, and $7.
GENUINE FLORSHEIM’S at $8, and $9.
« « «
One Ulam/ (Xmothev!
813-815 S. Michigan St.
Be Notre Dame Minded — Ask for Bill Cerri
Two
The Scholastic
May 27, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the Univers- I ity of Notre Dame. Manu- | |
I	I I	B	E nt er ed as second-class
Notre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to	a	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, October s, 1917. cations Office, Main Building.	authorized June 25, 1918.
FOUNDED 1865
Neil C. Hurley________________:____:___Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. Asman_______________________Managing Editor
WILLIAM W. Corr__________________Departmental Editor
Associate Editors GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHELL TACKLEY, Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS PAUL FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors JAMES CARMODY................The	Week
JOHN PICK................College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY...............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN..............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER................Staff Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS...........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, Jr.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
MAY 27, 1932
Number 27.
S UMMARY
NEWS
Stephan, McCabe, Sandusky, and Sheedy become edi-
tors of undergraduate publications------------- 5
Scrip makes last appearance under McCabe_________ 6
Academy of Science celebrates 75th anniversary last evening _________________________________________ 6
Impressive ceremonies mark observance of Corpus Christi on campus__________________________1----- 7
Washington Hall stage set for presentation of “Abraham Lincoln”_____________________________________ 9
FEATURES
Joe Toussaint is Man About________________________12
Karl continues articles on German student life____16
Symphony orchestra’s first year is real success___17
SPORTS
“Concede nothing . . says Coach John P. Nicholson, as his Irish track team faces Army here tomorrow . in the only home meet of the year-----------------20
Louis Chreist and Dick Kelly lead tennis team to win over Detroit and Indiana Teachers; lose to Michigan State____________________________________20, 21
Notre Dame and Iowa divide twin baseball bill, Irish winning first, 7-5, then losing 5-4_______________21
Captain Bill Redmond wins a championship, golf team loses one as Purdue finishes first in state meet--21
Mike Moore downs Dick McMonagle oh 35th green in final of The Scholastic handicap golf tournament__22
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY,May 27—SCHOLASTIC Staff meeting: editorial board, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staff, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Concert Orchestra Practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Meeting of all Football Men, Law Building, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 28—Track, Notre Dame vs. West Point, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, at Evanston—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Notre Dame Courts, 3:00 p. m.—Movie, Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 29—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, May 30—Memorial Day, no morning classes— Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Semester Examinations begin at 1:15 p. ro. —Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Western State Normal, at Kalamazoo.
TUESDAY, May 31—Semester Examinations.
WEDNESDAY, June 1—Semester Examinations.
THURSDAY, June 2—Semester Examinations.
FRIDAY, June 3—First Friday—Track, Central Conference Meet at Milwaukee.
SATURDAY, June 4—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
Masquerading under the name of the Dome, the yearbook came out this week, and it was very satisfactory, embodying a number of good features. The football section showed the athletes for the first time with their hair combed, the Dumb Dome was quite dumb, and it was made plain that the editor of the book was Leslie Raddatz. In fact, someone said that the annual should have been named the Rad-datz-Becvarian, but that is carrying things a bit too far. After all, Leslie and Art did all the work themselves, and they’re entitled to have people know it if they wish. Anyone who says they aren’t is jealous, and probably was one of those seniors who had a mere blank next his name and picture; or perhaps he doesn’t wear flannel slacks and his long hair. That would be his own fault, and he certainly has no legitimate complaint. -----------------------------
F OR the first time this year the inmates of Sorin became generally enthusiastic and turned out with almost freshmanic vigor to help Father Farley mark his twenty-fifth year in the priesthood. There was a banquet at which no one was at all bored, chiefly, we suppose, because it was attended just by the hall gang. Father Tom Burke was the only outsider, but he was one of the family when he refused to do anything but tell some jokes, good ones, too. The “King” was surprised, pleased, and as red as Frank O’Neill during the whole proceeding; he was as young as any of the guys there; and he’s the sort of man that you really enjoy banqueting. Paul Host puts it nicely /“Long live the King!”
If you want to see the greatest number of persons ever to appear on the stage of Washington Hall at one time, you should be there for Frank Kelly’s latest, “Abraham Lincoln,” in which no less than fifty-four collegians will take you back to Civil War Days, and one man will say, with horror in his voice under his fake beard: “Grant drinks whiskey!” That line will be more of a laugh now than it was then, since everyone knows that you can’t get any real whiskey. And if, while you’re at the performance, there is a pause, it’s Frank Stroud searching for a cue.
-----------
I HIS is, thanks to the calendar, the last series of this tripe that we shall have to turn out. In spite of the fact that we weren’t received any too enthusiastically by the engineers and lawyers, and were rejected without even the grace of a sneer by the great number of those who don’t like this stuff, we are satisfied that we got our name at the head of it all in bold type. That’s what counts, after all. And if we weren’t able to write stuff which, as Tighe says, goes over the heads of nine-tenths of the assembled heads, we at least used the English language and a varied sentence structure in the best tradition. If we have been a bit personal, that is, in the end, the privilege of this column; we worked a while before we got the opportunity to have our few words and the chance to take a few cracks at the guys we don’t like. Ave atque vale!

May 27, 1932
Five
CAREY ELECTED README PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL
STEPHAN, M’CABE, SHEEDY, SANDUSKY, ARE APPOINTED NEW 1932 ’33 EDITORS
Lauds Hitzelberger Reign; Cooperation With S.A.C. Urged.
EDITOR
BANQUET ON WEDNESDAY
Cleve W. Carey, of Lakewood, Ohio, was elected president of the Presidents’ Council at the annual elections held last Sunday morning in Walsh Hall. The new head of the presidents’ organization is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Carey, the president of the Cleveland Club, won by a comfortable margin over his opponents. There was no announced result, but little doubt as to the outcome of the elections was expressed prior to the voting.
In his speech of acceptance Carey lauded the present administration and stressed the necessity of co-operation between the Presidents’ Council and the S. A. C.
Carey succeeded Charles Hitzelberger, of Utica, New York, as president of the presidents.
Sorinites Pay Tribute to Father Farley On Occasion of Twenty-Fifth Jubilee
By Neil C. Hurley
(Picture on Page 14)
Sorin Castle turned loose its most uproarious celebration of the year last Monday, when the inmates joined together in a magnificent tribute to the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., their rector.
Reason for the unprecedented festivities was the occasion of Father Farley's Silver Jubilee.
Early in the morning the activities commenced. Students tumbled out of bed at 6 a. m., flocked to the hall chapel and packed the pews, the aisles, and the surrounding corridors.
Later at the distribution of the mail, over 100 Seniors solemnly sang “Many Happy Returns of the Day,” as Father Farley, his face rivalling the countenance of Frank O’Neill in color, stood on the foot-worn, traditional old steps of Sorin.
But the earlier mixture of buffoonery and solemnity was eclipsed by the later activities of the day. At 6:30 in the evening Sorinites packed into the Lay Faculty dining hall, where were gathered the Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., the Reverend
Edmund A. Stephan, tvho succeeds Neil Hrtrley as editor-in-chief of The Scholastic.
Charles Doremus, C.S.C., the Reverend Peter Hebert, C.S.C., and Professors Paul Fenlon and Charles Phillips.
There amid the glare of Kleig lights and the snapping of cameras, the Senior paid their tribute to Sorin’s blusing, likeable, and beloved rector.
There were spontaneous, gutteral roars of “Long live the King.” There was wit that sparkled from the quick tongue of Father Burke. There was sincerity from Father Doremus and Father Hebert. There was pathos and common feeling in the great tributes of Professor Charles Phillips.
It was something a bit new and different for Sorin men. The levity and the light prattle of the porch philosophers broke loose at times, but often it was closeted by an emotional display, as the assemblage listened to the plaudits and praise heaped upon the sun-burned head of the guest of honor.
Paul Host, captain-elect of the
(Continued on Page 29)
Reverend L, Broughal, C.S.C., Chairman of Board, Makes Announcements.
By Neil C. Hurley
Editors-in-chief of the four major undergraduate publications were appointed by the Faculty Board of Publications at the annual banquet for that purpose, held Wednesday evening in the Lay Faculty dining hall. Reverend Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the board, made the announcements.
McCabe Hands Over “Scrip”
Edmund A. Stephan, resident of New York City and a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was named editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, succeeding Neil C. Hurley. Stephan has been the news editor of the publication since September, and has shown a fine journalistic acumen since he received that office.
Joseph McCabe, of Attleboro, Massachusetts, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, became editor-in-chief of the Juggler, supplanting Robert Gorman. McCabe is the well known retiring editor of Scrip, has snown an all-around literary ability in his work and has been a frequent contributor, to the Juggler’s pages.
Guests of Honor Present
Arthur A. Sandusky, of Sheridan, Wyoming, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, will be the editor-in-chief of next year’s Dome. He has been one of present Editor Raddatz’s most capable assistants and is thoroughly acquainted with the annual’s technical side.
Appointed editor-in-chief of Scrip was Charles Sheedy, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, who has had considerable material printed in the quarterly this year. As mentioned before, Sheedy takes the places of new Juggler editor McCabe.
Guests of honor at the banquet, in addition to the Reverend Leo Ward, C.S.C., and the Reverend James Mc-
(Continued on Page 10)
Six
The Scholastic
Scrip Makes Third and Last Appearance Under McCabe
ORGAN RECITAL GIVEN BY EDWARD J. WALDER
Raymond Doyle Assists With Four Vocal Selections.
OUT NEXT WEEK
“Sophomore,” “Release,” and . “Instead of Flying” Are Feature Stories.
Scrip; quarterly literary publication of the campus, will make its final appearance next week when Editor Joseph McCabe will take his curtain call. The issue is of high calibre, and is a fitting climax to a series of exceptionally fine issues.
Editor McCabe is the author of a cutting character sketch called "Sophomore” in which he gives a clean cut picturization of a certain type of pseudo sophisticated college student.
“Release” Ranks High
“Release,” a story by Frank Nulty rates high among the contributions in the issue. It is a characterization of a “loafer,” giving clearly his reactions to life, his mode of existence, and his change in feelings.
Bernard Cousino writes an interesting story “Instead of Flying” in which the lingering existence of an old man stricken with paralysis is told in narrative style. The story is written in qiuet diction and is most effective in maintaining the author’s desired mood.
Laskowski Contributes
A fantasy, exceptionally well done, entitled “Beautiful Silver Lady” is written by Cornelius Laskowski, C.S. C., “Open Champion,” an analytic sports study is the contribution of Charles Sheedy, new editor in chief.
In another section of the Scrip will be found the sketches. Dan J. Rolfs presents his “I Like Him For That” and Lloyd Teske writes “A Penny Earned.” Robert Fulton also contributes to this section.
In the department of poetry, Frank Nulty is the author of a sonnet, “Faust,” and John Pick, “Hyper-borea.” Professor Charles Phillips writes the review for “Devils Ditties”; Tighe Woods gives a good review of “Good Earth”; and Paul Hallinan, a review of Huxley’s latest-novel.
Keys Are Given To Members Of Science Academy
At the seventy-fifth, or diamond jubilee, meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science last night the key
Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C.
Father Burns honored his proteges.
of the Academy was presented to thirteen members.
President John F. Werner opened the proceedings with a short speech, reviewing the activities of the organization during the past year.
Myron F. Crawford then delivered a paper on “Robert Koch, Discoverer of the Tubercular Bacillus,” in which he paid high tribute to this country . doctor, who did so much for mankind.
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator, gave a brief address calling attention to some of the achievements and important developments made in the College of Science this year. He introduced the members-who were to receive the keys to the Reverend James A. Bums, C. S. C., provincial of the Congregation
(Continued on Page 31)
Edward J. Walder, a junior in the Department of Music, presented an organ recital last Monday evening in Sacred Heart church.
The program, which was very well received by the audience, embraced selections from composers of several periods, including several contemporaries.
Assisting in the presentation was Raymond J. Doyle, baritone, also a junior in music.
The program follows:
1. Suite for the Organ...Homer N. Barteltt
I.	Chorale
II.	Andante III. Finale
2.	Humoresque—L’organo primitive
Pietro .4. Yon
3.	To An American Soldier (Elegy)
Vow Denman Thompson
4.	(a) Quia Fecit Mihi Magna (from the Magnificat).....................J. S. Bach
(b) Saviour Breathe an Evening
Blessing ..............Oley Speaks
Raymond Doyle, baritone
5.	Fugue in G Minor (The Little)
John Sebastian Bach
6.	Kamennoi Ostrow “Reve Angelique”
Anton Rubenstein
7.	Soeur Monique.........Francois	Couperin
8.	Orientale .....................Cesar Cui
9.	(a) Lord God of Abraham (from the Oratorio “Elijah”) .............Mendelssohn
(b) God of the Nations. .Gena Branscombc Raymond Doyle, baritone
10.	rofessional Grand March._H. B. Whitney
Hoover Ahead In Straw Vote
By Intercollegiate Press.
Williamstown, Mass., May 24.—In a presidential pool conducted by the Williams Record, student publication at Williams College here, President Hoover won an overwhelming victory over Newton D. Baker, second highest in the poll.
In the same poll thes tudents voted in favor of cancellation of the war debts and entrance into the League of Nations and the World Court. By a big majority the students favored a change in the prohibition amendment, and by just as big a majority voted against federal ownership of public utilities. Lowering of the tariff and unemployment insurance also won the students’ support.
May 27, 1932
Seven
MORRIS HULL, SENIOR, IS AUTHOR OF NOVEL
Corpus Christi Ceremonies Celebrated Here Thursday
“Career” Is Probable Title Of Story By Corby Resident.
STUDENTS ASSIST
Morris P. Hull, a resident of Corby “sub” and a senior in the Department of Journalism ,is loose about the campus again after having stuck
Morris P. Hull
Is loose about the campus again.
to his room long enough to write a full length novel, which will probably be called “Career.”
Hull has not much to say about the book, but The Scholastic reporter gathers that his major character is a young woman, a shoemaker’s daughter, whose fight to attain her goal in an indifferent world is strongly and humorously worked out to a convincing climax.
“There is a lot of work to be done yet,” he said. “Professor Frederick, the editor of the Midland Magazine, originally got me started on it, and has guided me all the way through.”
Hull was formerly fro mOak Park, Illinois, but says “the tribe has just moved to Salem, Ohio. They have time to move again before graduation!”
He has lived in no one state longer than seven years. He came to Notre Dame as a freshman in 1925, and then spent three years working on the Herald and Examiner, at the Pullman car works, and in the Packard plant at Detroit. Having returned to Notre Dame in the fall of ’28 he is now ready to graduate.
(Continued on Page 11)
Priest Solves 3000-Year-Old
Math, Problem
By Intercollegiate Press.
San Francisco, Calif., May 26.—Solution of the 3,000-year-old-problem of how to trisect an angle has been claimed by the Reverend Julius J. Gliebe, former instructor at St. Anthony’s college, Santa Barbara, Calif.
Asserting that his method was an absolute one for trisecting any given angle, Father Gliebe attacked the claims of Reverend J. J. Callahan, president of Duquesne university, Pitsburgh, who several months ago announced he had solved the same problem.
“The Reverend Father Callahan started at the wrong end of the thing, and ended where he ought to have begun — that is, with a given angle, said Father Gliebe.
The proof advanced by Father Gliebe for solution of the trisection problem was very complicated, especially in the case of an obtus„angle. His figures involves twelve lines and includes trapezoids, rhombuses, parallelepipeds, lines, points, angles and other geometrical figures.
His formula involves English, Latin, and Greek in its statements.
Archeologists investigating the mysterious heart of. Mexico’s greatest pyramid at Cholulu have had difficulty in assuring the Indians of the district that they were not planning to dynamite the Christian church which stands on top of the pyramid, where in prehistoric times an Indian temple stood.
NOTICE!
The barber shop will be open next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday nights until 8 o’clock. We wish a happy vacation for all.
Traditional Rites Are Opened With Solemn “Coram Episcopo” Mass.
Starting with a solemn Mass “Coram Episcopo” at 8:00 o’clock yesterday morning, celebrated by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.-C., the traditional Notre Dame Corpus Christi ceremonies began.
Assisting Father O’Donnell in the Mass were Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., who acted as Deacon, and Reverend L. R. Ward, C.S.C., Sub-Deacon. Reverend F. J. Wenninger, C.S.C., acted as Master of Ceremonies while the Most Reverend John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, assisted from the throne. The honorary Deacons were Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C. and Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C..
Mass In Sacred Heart Church
The opening Mass, which was celebrated in Sacred Heart church at 8 o’clock, was attended by this year’s seniors, while the underclassmen heard Mass in their hall chapels at 8:15.	.
Immediately following the solemn Mass, the Blessed Sacrament was carried in procession by the Most Reverend John F. Noll, attended by the entire student body.
Benediction At Three Spots
Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given by the Bishop at three points during the procession. The first Benediction was given from the porch of Walsh hall, the second from Science hall, and the third was given from the porch of the Main building. The procession ended with the last Benediction given in Sacred Heart church.
Eugene T. Connelly, F. J. McCarthy, T. A. Burns, and 0. P. Powers, the officers of the Senior class acted as canopy bearers during the procession.
The music of the Mass, as well as the processional hymns, was sung by the Moreau Seminary choir.
Eight
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY GLEE CLUB ELECTS SCANLON HEAD
Band Leaders Are Also Picked; Stewart Is President.
Maurice Scanlon, a junior in the College of Commerce, was elected president of the Notre Dame Glee Club for the year 1932-33. Philip C. Geoghegan was elected vice-president.
Frederick A. McLaughlin, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, was elected to the business managership of the club. He will succeed James K. Collins, who has held that office during the past year. Robert M. Cahill will serve as publicity manager.
Officers for the band of -1932-33 were also chosen at a recent meeting of the organization. William Albert Stewart, who has been director of the Jugglers for the past year, has been elected to the seat of president. He succeeds Vigillius A. Phillips.
George Bryan will fulfill the vicepresidency and will act in the office held by John O. Weibler at the present time. James Morrison is the new officer and will succeed Robert Fillson.
Drum major for next year’s band has not as yet been chosen. The selection will come in the fall after the first meeting of the organization.
K. C. Frolic At Indian Lake
More than one hundred members of Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, attended the annual picnic of the council held Sunday at Indian Lake.
Ball games, golf, and contests of various kinds were the order of the day. Lunch was served at noon and the annual banquet which follows the picnic was held in the evening.
Charles Hitzelberger was toastmaster of the banquet and short speeches were given by the officers of the council and Reverend John Reynolds, C. S. C., chaplain.
Father Reynolds and Grand Knight James Collins were presented with gifts by the members of the council.
Some time this month the Treasury of the United States plans to place in circulation an issue of new quarter dollars, bearing the head of Washington in place of the one with the eagle on one side and a woman’s figure on the other. It was found that the old design did not wear properly.
P R E X Y
Robert Flint, who was recently elected president of the Patricians* Club.
“S. T. M. A.,” Song Written By Casasanta For Academy
“S. T. M. A.” is the name of a new song, the music of which was written by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music, as the alma mater for St. Thomas Military Academy, in St. Paul, Minn.
Professor Casasanta was asked by the school officials to write music appropriate for a school song. The selection is written in march time with a true military air.
The Reverend Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., of St. Thomas Military Academy, wrote the words for the piece. It has been officially adopted by that institute.
Professor Casasanta has written the music for many other campus songs both for Notre Dame and other schools. His latest composition for the University is “Notre Dame, Our Mother.” He has just completed composing a song for St. Mary’s College which was played for the first time at a recent concert given there by the University band.
Fear is being felt for the safety of St. Paul’s Cathedral in- London following the discovery that the formerly moist base on which it was built has been dried up by the erection of other buildings in the vicinity which have drained the earth beneath the structure, making shifting sand of the base.
JOHN CLANCY WINNER IN ORATORICAL CONTEST
Unanimous Decision Given By Judges To Freshman.
Displaying a fine conversational style of oratory John D. Clancy of Green Bay, Wis., was awarded first place in the Freshman oratorical contest by a unanimous decision of the judges. Joseph Crowley was judged second best of the six finalists.
Clancy chose as his subject “Disarmament and World Peace.” The treatment gave evidence of a remarkable insight as to world affairs, but his distinguishing merit, and that upon which the decision was mostly based, was his forceful wording and his judicious use of gesture.
Second choice was the more difficult decision, for the remaining finalists seemed to be equally effective in their style.
Crowley spoke on “Catholic Action.” The other men who reached the final trials were: John Cramer, Charles Hackbruch, Joseph Becek, and John Cummings.
The finals were held last Friday afternoon, after a field of twenty had dwindled, through previous trials, to the six best.
James Boyle, president of the Wranglers and Ronald Cox, Edwin Quinn, and William Coyne, of the Speech department, were the judges of the contest.
Student Accounts Must
Be Settled By June 30
Students were reminded this week by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, that, according to the University academic regulation fifteen, page sixty-four of the general Bulletin, “no report of grades is sent at the end of the school year for the student whose financial account with the University has not been settled in full.”
Those who fail to receive a prompt report of grades in the latter part of June may check upon this matter as a possible reason. ,
The University of Pavia, Italy; was. founded' by Lothaire, grandson of Charlemagne; in 825 and celebrated its eleventh century in 1925. Its renaissance began in 1361.
May 27, 1932
Nine
PLAN CELEBRATION FOR MEMORIAL DAY AT NJ).
Traditional Services To Mark May 30 At University.
Memorial Day will be observed at Notre Dame with the traditional services. The day’s program will include the Military Field Mass, an address by Reverend J. A. Heiser, C.S.C., a parade to the Community cemetery, the ceremony at the graves, and the returning of the colors.
The complete program follows:
9:00 A. M.—Central Standard Time—(10:00 A. M. Daylight Saving Time).
Military Field Mass at War Memorial (East Entrance Sacred Heart Church) — Celebrant, Rev. Frederick McKeon, C.S.C., Chaplain U. S. A., World War.
9:30 A. M.—Address, Rev. Joseph A. Heiser, C.S.C., Chaplain 327th Field Ai-tillery.
9:45 A. M.—Parade to Community Cemetery.
Marshall—Colonel William Hoynes, K. S. G., Dean Emeritus. College of Law; 20th Wisconsin Infantry and 2nd Wisconsin Cavalry, Civil War.
Aides—Major Benjamin DuBois, A. G. D.: Major Walter Clements, 327th Field Artillery.
Chaplains.
Notre Dame Band—Director, Joseph J. Cas-asanta.
Military Detail—Captain Robert B. Riordan, 327th Field Artillery; Color Guard from Co. “D,” 152nd Infantry (South Bend) ; Firing Squad from Co. “I,” 152nd Infantry (South Bend).
Visiting Veterans.
Notre Dame Council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, Professor John Cahill, Grand Knight.
Students and Visitors.
10:15 A.M.—Ceremony at Graves of Deceased Members of the Notre Dame G.A.R. Post.
Decoration of Graves.
Prayer for Nation’s Dead—Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University ; Chaplain, 332nd Infantry and 117th Engineers, A. E. F.
Salute—Firing Squad.
“Taps”—Bugler.
10:45 A.M.—Returning the Colors (Administration Building Plaza).
“Star Spangled Banner”—Notre Dame Band.
When a band of Argentine bandits recently sent a carrier pigeon to a banker, demanding under pain of death that he fasten a 1,000-peso bill to its leg and turn it loose, police followed the bird by airplane to the bandit lair, and captured the entire gang.
EDITOR
Charles Sheedy, of Pittsburgh, Pa., who was appointed editor-in-chief of “Scrip" at the annual Publications banquet last Wednesday evening.
Wiele Elected Peoria Head At Serious Meet
Ernest Hechinger solemnly called to order last Monday night a stern, serious looking group of undergraduates. The Peoria club was about to hold elections for 1932-33.
Following the singing of the club anthem, “I Wish I Was In Peoria,” the nominations were thrown open.
Art Wiele was chosen president on the first ballot, to succeed Hechinger. John Sloan won the vice-presidency, and on straight ballots William Mott-sett and Jack Greiser were pushed to victory in the race for treasurer and secretary, respectively.
“Its’ been a great year,” commented retiring President Hechinger. It’s been a year of pathos, victory, defeat, and glory.”
Then, Hechinger turned the gavel of office over to Wiele, and plans for the Christmas dance were discussed.
Father Carroll On Vacation
The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., professor of English, left Wednesday to spend the summer in Ireland.
Father Carroll, a native of Ireland, expects to visit his birthplace after attending the International Eucharistic Congress in Dublin. He will report upon the latter for the Ave Maria when he returns, to the University in the Fall.
WASHINGTON STAGE SET FOR ‘ABRAHAM LINCOLN’
Saturday and Sunday Evenings Set Aside' For Students.
Washington Hall will open her-doors tomorrow evening for the first presentation of the Commencement play and incidentally, the climax of the activities of the University Theater. “Abraham Lincoln,” by John Drinkwater, will be given at 8:15 in the evening.
With the nucleus of the campus actors taking part in this mighty historical drama, the student body can rest assured that the product will be a flawless interpretation.
In this immortal play depicting the greatest moments in the life of Lin-coln, will be found an accurate historical dramatization of six incidents happening .about the time of the Civil War.
Senior Make Last Appearance
Several seniors will make their last appearance on the Washington Auditorium stage in this play. Among those are Joseph McCabe, John Ryan, George Higgins, and Frank Denney.
Professor Albert L. Doyle, of the Speech department, will portray the difficult role of Lincoln; Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, of St. Mary’s college will appear as Mrs. Lincoln.
Frank Canale has the part of Robert E. Lee, Miss Virginia Byers, South Bend, plays the part of Mrs. Goliath Blow. Mrs. Katherine Basler, and Miss Margaret Burroughs, South Bend, also appear in the cast.
A second performance will be given in Washington Hall Sunday evening. Both Saturday’s and Sunday’s shows are given for the entertainment of the student body and South Bend people. Next Friday evening, June 3, the show will be given as a part of the commencement exercises, the attendance of which will be limited.
The colors of academic doctors’ hoods are as follows: arts and letters, white; theology, scarlet; law, purple; philosophy, blue; science, golden yellow; fine arts, brown; medicine, green; music, pink; commerce, drab; physical education, sage green; public health, salmon pink; engineering, orange; pharmacy, olive green; dentistry, lilac; veterinary science, gray; forestry, russett; library .science, lemon; pedagogy, light blue; oratory, silver gray; humanities, crimson.
Ten
The Scholastic
CHICAGO RADIO STATION TO HAVE N.D. PROGRAM
WIBO To Give Half Hour Tribute To Campus, June 3.
Radio Station WIBO in Chicago will broadcast a program in salute to Notre Dame, Friday, June 3, from 8:00 to 8:30 o’clock in the evening, it was learned this week by Joseph S. Petritz, director of sports publicity, who will cooperate with WIBO in arranging the broadcast.
By coincidence, the program coincides with the beginning of Notre Dame’s commencement week-end activities. Similar programs will be offered each Friday at the same hour starting tonight with Wisconsin, and continuing until all of the Big Ten schools and Notre Dame have been recognized.
Further details of the program will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
Doctor Analyzes Child’s Imitation of Animals
By Intercollegiate Press.
Washington, D. C., May 24.—That the child who gets down on all fours and barks like a dog or mews like a cat may be reverting to type rather than just imitating animals, is the belief of Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, curator of the Smithsonian Institution.
The investigation carried on by Dr. Hrdlicka so far has brought him to the tentative conclusion, he says, that the intensity with which some children enter into “playing animal” indicates that it may be a manifestation of philogenetic inheritances from far removed, pre-human ancestors.
Once instance reported to Dr. Hrdlicka was that of a samll boy who was found wallowing in the mud with a pig, grunting with the pig and apparently perfectly understanding the animal.
That boy, Dr. Hrdlicka was told, is now an honor student in an Eastern college, proving that the child who acts like an animal in his youth is not inferior in mentality.
Lonely children are most likely to imitate animals, he has found,
A $100,000 fire last week destroyed a dormitory at Georgian Court college for women at Lakewood, N. J., while the students were at chapel services.
EDITOR
Joseph McCabe, retiring editor of “Scrip,” who teas appointed editor-in-chief of the “Juggled for 1932-33, last Wednesday evening. Joe was also awarded the Mitchell prize for play-wnting this week.
Nobody Dreamed of Death
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cambridge, Mass., May 23.—When the Lindbergh baby was first kidnapped, Professor Henry A. Murray, director of the Harvard psychological clinic, invited all persons who had dreams about the abduction to send in the details of the dreams.
Last week Dr. Murray announced that of more than 1,300 persons who reported then* dreams, not one approximated the facts. In only a few of the dreams, hes aid, the baby appeared dead, and the true circumstances of the finding of the body appeared in none of the dreams.
ANNOUNCE NEW EDITORS
(Continued from Page 5)
Donald, C.S.C. The guests included the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria; Edward Massa, editor of the Lawyer; Joseph Toussaint, editor of the Catalyzer; James Armstrong, alumni secretary and editor of the Alumnus, and John Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications.
Avoid conceit, was the advice given 227 seniors at Barnard college in a talk last week by Dean' Virginia C. Gildersleeve.
MOST SPACE GIVEN TO SPORTS IN COLLEGE NEWS
College Scandal Stories Are Slurred By Newspapers.
By Intercollegiate Presss
NEW YORK, May 25.—Thirty-nine per cent of all space given by 100 leading newspapers in the United States to college news is about college sports, according to A. C. Marts, president of Marts & Lundy, Inc., counsellors in college finance and . publicity, writing in the May bulletin of the Association of American Colleges.
Pictures Second
College pictures, he found, were second, occupying 24.2 per cent of the space as compared with the 39 per cent given over to college sports.
Other kinds of college news appearing in the 100 newspapers were found as follows:
General news (including student . self-help stories)—11.75 per cent.
News of scholastic awards, etc.— 5.4 per cent.
Alumni news—4.75 per cent.
Scientific, research, etc.—2.75 per cent.
Campus social activities—2.60 per cent.
College scandals—24.2 per cent.
Obituaries—2.2 per cent.
Fraternity News—2 per cent.
Editorial comment—1 per cent.
Campus romance—8 per cent.
Musical events—.75 per cent.
Financial campaigns and gifts—.4 per cent.
Play Down Scandal	;
According to Marts, there seemed , to be an inclination on the part of > the newspapers to play down, rather j than up, the college scandals, con- | trary to popular belief that news- | papers are constantly seeking scandal	I
on the college campus.	|
What scandal stories were found, | he said, appeared in the local news- | papers, and did not gain very wide- | spread publicity.	|
Good hard work in digging up t news, rather than “smart”	publicity	j
stunts are what get the colleges	in	1
the newspapers, he said.	ft
A pair of primitive gold ear-rings dug up recently in Palestine have been identified as originating in Ireland.
May 27, 1932
Eleven
WMLktt, N.D. GRAD, IS AUTHOR OF NEV NOVE
“That’s My Boy” Is Title Of Latest Football Story.
Francis Wallace, author of “Huddle” and “Stadium” which was made into the movie, “Touchdown,” has just sold another football story, “That’s My Boy” to Columbia pictures producers of “Huddle,” according to word received here Thursday by Joseph S. Petritz, director of sports publicity.
Wallace, a Notre Dame graduate and former campus sports writer received word Tuesday that Columbia had bought his latest book. The story has to do with football from the woman’s angle. Wallace is a staff member of the New York Daily News.
Two Strikes and You’re Out!
By Intercollegiate Press.
State College, Pa., May 25.—An innovation designed to speed up college baseball was tried out here in a game between Penn State and Dickinson College. The batters were called out after two strikes and took their bases after three balls.
Hugo Bezdek, director of physical education at Penn State, suggested the plan, and pleasure at the results was expressed by both Joe Bedenk, Penn State baseball coach, and Joseph McCormick, Dickinson coach.
The game, which lasted an hour and twenty-five minutes, was won by Penn State, 5 to 3.
SENIOR WRITES NOVEL
(Continued from Page 7)
When asked for his hobbies, Hull sheepishly confessed that outside of photography his main interest is sailing and light-craft seamanship.
He has been a member of the American Canot association and has cruised on the Potomac, in Canada, and northern Minnesota, and wound up last summer with a two hundred and sixty mile sailing cruise on Lake Michigan.
After graduation he will settle down at Salem to finish up his novel so that he can start another. He was a steady contributor to the Juggler during the first semester, and received favorable comment on a ballad of the sea, “Typhoon,” which appeared in Scrip last year.
EDITOR
Arthur Sandusky, who supplants Leslie Raddatz as the editor of the Notre Dame “Dome”.
La Razza Club Elects Officers For New Year
Eduardo Roxas, a native of Spain, was unanimously elected president of the “La Raza club” for the coming year. Roxas succeeds Lucio Muniain, a junior in the College of Engineering, in the presidency of the club.
The other officers elected were: Fausto Gamboa of Havana, Cuba, vice-president; Ernesto Gil of Morelia, Mexico, treasurer; and George Arce of Argentina, secretary.
Honorary president, Mr. Pedro de Landero closed the meeting, congratulating the officers upon their election, and expressing his sentiments of satisfaction in view of the fact that four countries were thus represented. He remarked that such an international representation of officers had been desired for a long time, but up to the present had not been realized.
Pittsburgh Club Elects
At a recent meeting of the Pittsburgh Club the officers for next year were elected. Don Martin, the 1933 manager of baseball, was chosen to fill the president’s chair; Harry McGowan, vice-president; Hugo lacovetti was the clubs’ choice for the secretaryship, and Ed O’Brien will act as treasurer.
INFORMATION BOOTH TO AID GRADUATION GUESTS
Alumni To Be Registered In Former Off-Campus Office.
“Have you seen Jen-y Shordy? Wonder if he’s here for the reunion.” Such queries are bound to prevail during the commencement week-end. For that reason an information booth is to be located in the former off-campus office.
On record at the booth will be a list of the returning alumni. An inquiring alumnus will not only be able to find if an old buddy is present, but he will also find the room number of the said buddy.
Assignment of rooms will begin for the alumni Friday, June 3. Alumni and Dillon halls have been chosen for this purpose. Members of classes before 1920 will be assigned to Alumni; members of the class of 1920, and the classes following, will be located in Dillon.
Speaking of the reunion, James Armstrong, Alumni secretary, said: “Indications point to a normal attendance of alumni at the activities. Judging from the list already on file, it looks as if the class of ’27 will break the record for men in attendance at a five-year reunion.”
Urges Keeping of Budgets
By Intercollegiate Press.
Washington, D. C.,— May 24.— Teaching students to keep budgets would be the best way to educate the American public in both private and public budget keeping, according to Congressman Edith Nourse Rogers, of Massachusetts, who has urged President Hoover to propose some such plan for public schools.
“Members of Congress are receiving letters from all parts of the country which indicate that the voters have little or no understanding of what a budget really means,” she said. “As a nation it is evident we are economically illiterate, and our national liabilities, due to this form of ignorance, are increasing at an alarming rate.
“Every student graduate of our educational institutions who enters upon a life career without a definite knowledge of how to control personal finances is set adrift in a sea of difficulties and dangers.”
Twelve
The Scholastic
Man About the Campus
ABRAHAM AND F1SS GET EXECUTIVE POSTS IN K.C.
By Lawrence Dunda
One of busiest men about the Notre Dame campus is Joseph A. Toussaint, known familiarly to everyone as “Joe.”
A graduate of Assumption Academy in Utica, New York, his home town, Joe came to Notre Dame in
Joseph Toussaint
Won a Sullivan scholarship.
1928 and was a resident of Carroll hall in his freshamn year. Hank Donalty and Charles Hitzelberger of this year’s senior class are also graduates of Assumption.
Francis Treiweiler was roommate with Joe in Sophomore hall during their second year here, and they also are living Off-Campus this year. Vance Uhlmeyer and Joe were roommates in Corby “sub” last year.
The degree which Toussaint will receive with magna cum laude honors at the commencement exercises June 5, is that of Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering. In 1930, during his sophomore year, he was the winner of the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarship, which is awarded annually to each of three applicants from the senior, the junior, and the sophomore class, respectively, who have shown the greatest improvement in scholarship during the year.
Joe has been editor this year of the Catalyzer, the publication of the Department of Chemistry edited by the-Chemists’ club. He has also been president of the Chemists’ club and vice-president of the Utica club for 1931-32. He was chairman this year
of the first annual foraml dance of the Engineers’ club and a member of the Presidents’ Council and of the Notre Dame Group of the American Society for Steel Treating. He has been in instructor in freshman chemistry laboratory, and a waiter in the cafeteria and dining halls.
It is interesting to note that there has been one of Joe’s family attend--ing Notre Dame each year since 1924. A brother, Norbert, is now enrolled as a freshman in chemical engineering.
Exam Schedule Announced
According to an announcement from the office of the Director of Studies the examination schedule will be as follows:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday will be examined at 8:00 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 9:00 on Monday will be taught at 1:15 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 10:00 on Monday will be taught at 10:00 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 11:00 on Monday will be examined at 3:15 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 1:15 on Monday will be examined at 1:15 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 2:15 on Monday will be examined at 3:15 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 3:15 on Monday wlil be examined at 1:15 on Tuesday.
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 8:00 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 9:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 8:00 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 10:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 10:00 on Tuesday.
Classes taught at 11:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 10:00 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 1:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 1:15 on Monday.
Classes taught at 2:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 3:15 on Monday.
Classes taught at 3:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 3:15 on Tuesday.
Classes taught any day at 4:15 will be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Monday. Classes taught any evening at 7:00 p. m. will be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Tuesday.
The time of the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed by the teacher of the course. The period for each of the semester examinations will be one hour and fifty minutes. Any examination taken outside these four days assigned will not be valid.
Too much excellence makes a misfortune.—Hearn.
Former Retained As Financial Secretary; Fiss Is Lecturer.
According to a recent announcement from Knights of Columbus headquarters, Eli Abraham, financial secretary of the local organization, has been reappointed to his position for the 1932-33 school term.
Grand knight elect John Cahill also revealed the fact that Charles Fiss, of Oshkosh, Wisconsin, who has been chairman of the K. C. old clothes drive, will act in the capacity of lecturer next year, succeeding John Wit-liff.
Blames Colleges For Times
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cleveland, Ohio, May 26.—Nothing short of “root and branch” questioning of the whole college and university structure in this country can make institutions of higher learning a real force for good in modern life, Dr. A. Caswell Ellis, director of Cleveland college, said recently.
“College educated .heads of industry have led us into the most inexcusable era of dire hunger, misery and depression ever recorded,” he said, “and at a time when millions of idle men and thousands of factories and farms are able and eager to produce more than the world can consume.
What did we college professors teach our college-bred leaders that made them act this way? Or what did we fail to teach? I confessed I am ashamed of this part of our record. I am ashamed that the industrial leaders we turned out have lacked either the nitelligence or the character to foresee or prevent the incredible stupid chaos that now grips the world.
“Are we college teachers going to sit smugly by now and continue the easy traditional course that has brought up to this pass, or are we going to investigate thoroughly and seriously the foundations of our educational structure?
“If we look about us and think at all we must see that we cannot meet the problems and opportunities of this era by making merely a few grudging modifications of the traditional curriculum and methods brought down from the horse-and-buggy era.”
May 27, 1932
Thirteen
DOME DINNER HELD AT UNIVERSITY CLUB
Raddatz Throws Bouquet At Becvar, Who Tosses It Back.
Ninety Physical Education Men
Back From Camp
IRISHMEN ORGANIZE
SOCIETY ON CAMPUS
Danehy Temporary Chairman; Membership To Be Limited.
About forty members of the Dome staff of 1932 attended a banquet at the Indiana club last Monday eve-
Editor Leslie Raddatz “It was not a one-man book.”
ning. Copies of the year book were distributed before dinner.
John F. Stoeckley,- acting as toastmaster, introduced Editor Leslie Raddatz who comemnded the staff for its work and singled out Arthur Becvar, art editor, as beng particularly deserving of praise for his splendid drawings. Raddatz emphatically denied the charge that the Dome was a one-man book.
Other men to give short talks were Art Becvar, who insisted that Raddatz did all the work, Ed Stephan, sports editor, John Pick, dramatics editor, Jim Clark, managing editor, Jackson Gandour, advertising manager, Ed Carey, Art Sandusky, George Belting and John Conley.
Maryland College Elects
By Intercollegiate Press.
Westminster, Md., May 23. — The youthful Rev. Dr. Frederick G. Holloway of Newark, N. J., has been chosen the new president of Western Maryland college, a Methodist institution here.
Dr. Holloway, who has filled the chair of Greek for five years at the college, was graduated from Western Maryland in 1918 and from'Drew Theological Seminary in 1921. For three years he was pastor of the Wilton Heights Methodist Protestant church in Baltimore.
A sun-tanned group of ninety freshmen and sophomores in the Department of Physical Education returned last Sunday from a ten-day stay at Camp Eberhart on Lake Corey, Michigan.
Under the direction of Professors John A. Scannell and George A. Cooper, resident director, classes in archery-tackle construction, leather working, pipe-stone carving, rifleshooting and trap-shooting were conducted . These courses were of a practical nature and were intended to prepare the student of Physical Education to take his place as a leader in the organized summer camps for boys, now being conducted throughout the country.
When asked by The Scholastic correspondent as to how the group liked the trip Mr. Scannell said: “They seemed to like it. Unquestionably this year’s group is the best we have ever had. They were the best workers, and the highest spirited group that has ever attended the camp.”
Camp Eberhart was started about four years ago by Father Vincent Mooney, C.S.C. It is situated in Michigan, near the town of Three Rivers, about fifty miles from South Bend.
Green Fee Is Abolished For Summer Season
The usual green fee of ten cents charged by the Burke Memorial Golf Course will be suspended during the summer beginning Commencement Sunday, June 5, it was announced yesterday by the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
This charge is applicable only during the regular sessions and will not be resumed until the opening of school in Sepetmber.
Pharmacy Club Elections
The Pharmacy club elected the following officers for the year 1932-33 at a meeting held Monday evening, May 16, in Chemistry hall: President, William Kenney; vice-president, J. R. Oldham; secretary, Edward Brown; treasurer, Feliks Wiatrowski.
At a meeting held in the Law building last Sunday, the preliminary organization of an Irish Club was effected.
James P. Danehy was elected temporary chairman and plans for a constitution were outlined. It was tentatively decided to limit the membership to twenty and to hold meetings every two weeks at which papers upon various phases of Irish literature, history, language and culture will be delivered and discussed.
A committee to draw up a constitution in finished form was appointed consisting of Danehy, Robert Flint, and Patrick Corcoran.
The name of the club has not yet been decided upon although it is thought it will be one in the Gaelic language.
The members hope that enough interest in things Irish will be booked in the near future to make possible a regular university course in the Gaelic language.
Cleveland Club Announces Plans For Summer Dance
About fifty members of the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame attended a banquet held last Tuesday evening at the Indiana University Club. Mike Crawford, the retiring president, was toastmaster and introduced the seniors who each gave a short talk.
The new officers were formerly introduced and President Cleve Carey announced the plans for the coming year. The first summer dance is to be held June 19 at Pineridge Country Club. The committee in charge consists of Jim Uprichard, chairman, Joe Hanratty and Roy Scholz.
We scrawl experience on our brain and, although we wash its memory in fresh adventure, the ink has sunk indelibly to mark our character forever.—Charles S. Brooks.
I believe we ought not to speak of the weaknesses of truly great men when it can be avoided.—Lafcadio Hearn.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
“Long Live The King!”—100 Sorinites
PRESS FORUM HOLDS FINAL MEET OF YEAR
Scene at the Sorin Hall testimonial banquet Monday evening, given in honor of the Reverend John Farley’s twenty-fifth anniversary. Paul Host, football captain-elect, who acted as toastmaster is on Father Farley’s left. .
Impressive Ceremonies Mark Consecration Of Alumni and Dillon Hall Chapels Tuesday
Impressive ceremonies marked the consecration of the seven new altars in Dillon and Alumni Halls early Monday morning. The Most Reverend Bishop John F. Noll, of Fort Wayne, was present at the services.
Consecration ceremonies were performed by Bishop Noll, the Monsignori John Osadnik of South Bend, J. F. Delaney, and H. F. J. Kroll, of Fort Wayne. The Very Reverend James W. Donahue, superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Very Reverend James S. Burns, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation in the United States, and Reverend Thomas Irving, C.S.C., assistant to the superior general, consecrated to other altars.
' Bishop Noll Officiates
Bishop Noll officiated at the consecration of the main altar in Dillon Hall which is dedicated to St. Patrick, the patron saint of the Reverend Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., after whom the hall is named.
Monsignor Osadnik consecrated the side altar in Dillon Hall, which is dedicated to St. John Baptiste Viarn-ney. The Very Reverend Burns con
secrated the Shrine of St. Olaf (patron saint of Norway), the' altar which is dedicated to Coach Knute K. Rockne. The memorial shrine was erected by the Rockne family, the students of 1931, and the local council of the Knights of Columbus.
Dedicate Altars
The main altar of Alumni Hall, dedicated to St. Charles Boromeo, patron saint of the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., was consecrated by Monsignor Kroll. The Very Reverend Donahue officiated at the consecration of the side altar in Alumni dedicated to the Immaculate Conception.
The altar dedicated to St. Joseph in Alumni Hall was consecrated by Monsignor Delaney. The Very Reverend Thomas Irving, C.S.C., officiated at the consecration of the altar of St. Thomas Acquinas.
The altars are constructed of Carrara marble imported from Italy especially for Notre. Dame. They' were installed in the halls early this spring but their consecration was postponed until the present time.
Hurley Talks on “The Ethics Of Press Agentry.”
The Press Forum of the University held its final meeting of the current year last Monday evening. Edward Kosky presided over the group of fifty who attended the meeting.
Several guest speakers were present, each of whom gave short talks and answered questions relative to the subject at hand. Professor Mehan, of the Department of Journalism; Frank O’Hearri, city editor of the Nezvs-Times, and Dr. John Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, were heard.
Neil Hurley, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, read an interesting thesis entitled “The Ethics of Press Agentry.” Hurley began his speech by stating “The news column of the general section, piled high in columns with the product of press agentry, are virgin territory as compared to the specialized sections. The theatre, financial, sporting, and similar departments tabulate easily as high as eighty percent publicity material.” After making this statement he showed by numerous examples taken from his own and the experience of others why this statement was true.
Directories Are Available
Seniors are notified that student directories are still available at the office of the Registrar for the sum of twenty-five cents.
Since Charles Darwin died, his work on the theory of evolution “has become more firmly grounded than ever before every year,” Prof. Julian Huxley said in London on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of Darwin’s death.
We live ’ surrounded by mysteries and imagine that by inventing names we explain them.—W. B. Seabrook.
NOTICE!
A Scholastic staff meeting will be held in the Publications office at 7:00 o’clock tonight. Refreshments will be on hand.
May 27, 1932
Fifteen
CATALYZER MAKES FINAL APPEARANCE OF YEAR
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra
Feature Article By Dr. Boyle Offers Advice To Seniors.
The Catalyzer, published by the Department of Chemistry and edited by the Chemists’ Club, made its final appearance of the present school year when the May issue came out over the week-end.
The foreword on the opening page of this number is entitled “A Suggestion,” and was written by Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, of the Departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. It offers some helpful suggestions and advice to the graduates of the Department concerning the obtaining of employment in their chosen fields and for which they are trained.
Individual pictures of the six chemical engineers and four chemists who are graduating this year are presented. There is also a group picture of the members of the Chemists’ club.
News Department A Feature
Scene of the personnel of the Notre Dame symphony orchestra tvhich will make its final appearance at the University Theatre’s production of “Abraham Lincoln.” Professor Richard Seidel, director of the group, is pictured on the extreme left.
A column of “Department News,” written by Dr. H. D. Hinton of the Department of Chemistry, is an interesting feature of this issue.
Another article tells of the state student meeting of junior and senior chemistry and chemical engineering students of the various colleges and universities of Indiana, which was held at Indianapolis, April 8 and 9. This was the sixth biennial student meeting sponsored by the Indiana Section of the American Chemical Society. Notre Dame was represented by thirty-six students at the meeting. The activities of the two-day convention are described in this article.
Acknowledgments Made
In an article entitled “Final Accounting,” acknowledgement and thanks are offered to all those who were instrumental in attaining the success enjoyed by the Catalyzer during the year. The editors of next year’s publication are made known in this editorial. Another editorial, entitled “Live Your Own Life,” gives a parting word of counsel to this year’s graduates.
The column called “Ramblin’ Round Chemistry Hall” has a final word for the seniors. The regular page of “Personals” is presented in this issue.
McCabe Wins Mitchell Playwriting Award With His “Semi-Pro"; Brennan Is Second
Joseph McCabe, editor of this year’s Scrip, and a senior in the Arts and Letters school, has been awarded the Mitchell Award for playwriting, it was announced this week. McCabe’s winning play is a modern drama of professional athletics called “Semi-Pro.”
“Cruel Possessions,” the work of Louis Brennan last year’s Scrip editor, was adjudged second place in the contest.
The board of judges this year was composed of Professors Stephen Ronay, Rufus W. Rauch and Paul Fenlon, all members of the University English department.
Phillips Praises Play
Professor Charles Phillips, also of the English department, characterizes McCabe’s production as, “A first class production, teeming with lively action and excellent dialogue.”
The William Mitchell Award was established in the March of 1928 by a gift from Mr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Mitchell of New York City, in honor of their deceased son, Wililam
Mitchell. The income from the gift fund, fifty dollars, is awarded annually to the best student play of the year.
“Contest Is Stimulant”
“The contest,” according to Professor Charles Phillips, “has been an effective stimulant to the production of student. plays at Notre Dame. Many of those whose plays were submitted are continuing their work with the drama. James G. Jay, and Richard Sullivan, winners in other years, are both writing plays for the radio. Basil Rauch had a play produced at Yale last year. Lester Grady in New York has a play ready for production. In time Notre Dame will give successful men to the American Theater.”
If the American people rally to the defense of their institutions, it would mean the beginning of a new era in this country and a step upward in the progress of civilization, Dr. John Grier Hibben, retiring president of Princeton university, declared in an interview on his 71st birthday.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Karl Continues Stories
On German College Life
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
BERLIN, May 10.—The first student societies in Germany were actually composed of both students and professors; this was about 500 years ago, however, when student and pedagogue still managed to agree. That they had some power- is shown by the fact that among other things they elected the president of the university.
After a time the universities were divided into faculties, and the students formed “verbaende” (societies) according to the section of the country one came from. From these evolved the student society in its present form. They were called “Landsmannschaften,” “Landsmann” meaning countryman. Then followed the other forms as we know them today.
Clubs Named According To Aim
Unlike the Greek-letter fraternities which are practically the only form of fraternity in American colleges today, the German student societies are classified according to Landsmannschaften, Burschenshaften Corps, Tur-nerschaften, Wehrschaften, Turnver-ein, Saengerschaften, Akademische Gesang Verein, Akademische Wis-sentschaftliche Verein, Christlichen Verein Konfessionellen. Sporttreiben-den Verein. The strain on a freshman trying to decide what sort of a society he wants to join is said to be considerable. As the name more or less indicate, each group has a different aim or purpose.
Dueling Permitted In Some Clubs
The verbaende may be divided according to their stand regarding duelling as follows: 1) Those that give absolute satisfaction (60 percent of all fraternities are in this class) ; 2) Those who do not take a definite stand on the question; 3) Those who forbid mensurs (duels). These groups may again be divided into “color-wearing” or “non-color wearing,” the total being about equally divided. Another subdivision is that of “weapon-carriers” or non-weapon carriers.”
By “absolute satisfaction” is meant this: Should a man who is a member of this type of fraternity be challenged to a duel because he has given offence, he is bound to accept the challenge. Should he, however, belong to one of the other two types, he need not accept the challenge, but
must make amends in some other way that the council of fraternities name. How the mensur differs from
William Kael
“Should .a member be challenged to a duel . . .”
our conception of the word “duel” will be explained in a later article.
The “color-wearers” are those who wear a colored cap, and in addition, a narrow colored sash underneath the coat, only the part across the chest being visible. Under the heading “weapon-carrying” fraternities come those who carry on duelling as a sport and whose members are obliged to engage in a certain number of duels per semester, which are arranged between the various fraternities who comeu nder this classification.
Chapters Have Latin Names
Similar to our system in America, each individual fraternity is member of a national fraternity with chapters throughout Germany, they differ, however, in that a verband (national fraternity may have any number of chapters at one university, some at Berlin having as high as fourteen. The officers (chargierten) of these chapters meet at regular intervals to discuss the problems of the fraternity and to lay out a general program for the group at that particular university. Each chapter has a latin name such as Allemania, Borussia, Saxonia, in addition to which it also has the name of the national fra-eternity of which it is a member, such as “Die Deutsche Burschenschaft” or “der hohe Koesener Senioren-Ver-band.”
(Continued on Page 29)
FL CAVANAUGH SPEAKER AT FINAL K. OF C. MEET
Former N. D. President Talks On “The Catholic Mind.”
Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, was the principal speaker at the final meeting of the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, held Monday evening in Walsh hall. The subject of Father Cavanaugh’s talk was “The Catholic Mind.”
During the course of his speech Father Cavanaugh mentioned Admiral Benson, Orsetes Augustin Brownson, and Chief Justice Roger Taney, as examples of great Catholic minds. Admiral Benson, he said, was the greatest Catholic layman he had ever come in contact with.
The civilization of a country depends on the character of its women, Father Cavanaugh said, and their character on that of the men; all of which, he said, showed the responsibility of students, especially of those leaving this university.
At the conclusion of Father Cavanaugh’s speech, enteratinment was given by a quartet composed of Jerome Roach, Thomas Meade, Thomas Roach, and Thomas O’Neil.
An announcement was made that Martin Carmody, Supreme Knight of the K. of C., would be present at the graduation exercises and that an honorary degree of Doctor of Law would be conferred upon him. A luncheon will be given in his honor in the Faculty Dining hall at noon, Sunday, June 5. Reservation may be obtained from Eli Abraham, financial secretary of the Notre Dame council.
Patricians Elect Flint
Robert Flint, a native of Grove City, Pennylvania, and a junior in the Arts and Letters school, was chosen at a recent election to succeed Francis O’Malley as president of the Patricians’ Club.	'
Raymond Waters, a sophomore from Perth Amboy, New Jersey, was awarded the secretaryship, the only other elective officer of the Patricians. Water is successor to John Pick who ; acted as secretary his year.	j
There are 81 national fraternities and 34 national sororities in the United States — in the colleges and universities. '
May 27, 1932
Seventeen
FATHER HOEVER ADDED TO PHILOSOPHY STAFF
Cistercian Priest Engaged To Teach In A.B. Department.
Announcement of the engagement of the Reverend Hugo Hoever as instructor in the departments of Religion and Philosophy for the coming scholastic year was made this week by Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C. S. C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
Dr. Hoever is a member of the Cistercian Order and ag raduate of Freiburg university in Germany. His doctoral dissertation embodies a study of original and, until that time, unedited texts of the Communia Natura-lium, of Roger Bacon.
Father Hoever is expected to arrive at the University in August and will begin his lectures with the opening of the next school year in September.
Band Concert Friday Makes Hit With Student Body
Playing from the front veranda of the Administration building, the Notre Dame concert band presented an enjoyable half hour program of music last Friday evening. The lawn in front of the building was thronged with students.
Under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, the sixty-five musicians comprising the band played selections of varied type. Schubert’s “Ave Maria” was presented and the applause that followed its playing-showed that the students well appreciated the effort expended in the rehearsals necessary for such a selection.
Many other numbers were offered by the bandsters. The evening’s program was climaxed by the playing of the new alma mater, “Notre Dame, Oui* Mother.” This was followed by “Hike, Notre Dame,” and the “Victory March.”
This fifth estate (the truly educated) is composed of those having the simplicity to wonder, the ability to question, the power to generalize, the capacity to apply.—Anonymous.
As far as the battle for learning goes, we were pacifists—conscientious objectors.—Christopher Morley.
First Season of Symphony Orchestra Is Real Success
(Picture on Page 15)
“Orchestra Wins Favor of Student Body” was the headline of an article in The Scholastic for May 20. Going no further the reader might inquire, “What orchestra ? Did the Jugglers play at Washington hall? Or was there some outside orchestra giving a concert?”
The article answered these questions. It was the University Symphony Orchestra that had given its second concert not only for this year, but the second concert since the orchestra has been in existence. Little more could be gleaned from the article as to the origin, growth and destiny of this evidently new musical organization. Only an inquisitive student could find these matters, and then only after searching every nook and cranny of the campus.
A Bashful Youngster
The orchestra has been a bashful youngster, desiring acknowledgment and praise only for its efforts and not for its accomplishments. It could expect little more in the first year of its existence. Last fall at the beginning of the school year those students who had belonged to the violin ensemble the year before, met and started practicing. They felt little satisfaction in this since they thought much more would be expected of them, and they saw no way in which they could fulfill these expectations.
Some one suggested that a few horns and a piano be asked to join, so that there would be some semblance of improvement. Posters were made and put up in very conspicuous places about the campus to let the students know there really was an orchestra on the campus. The response was greater than had been anticipated. Within several weeks a twenty-five piece orchestra was practicing every Tuesday and Friday evening under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel.
An Ambitious Lot
Because of the variety and excellence of the pieces chosen by Director Seidel great interest was taken, and the little organization began to become ambitious, and desired to show itself in a concert. The opportunity came sooner than the members expected, but with several extra prac
tices, they succeeded in pleasing at least themselves in a concert in January. Moreover they were pleased with the response given by the student body and faculty, and started practicing new pieces for another concert. This second concert was the one given on Thursday evening, May 19.
To Play at “Abraham Lincoln”
With a repertoire including the Mozart G Minor Symphony, Beethoven’s First Concerto, Lacome’s Ballet Suite, The Merry Wives of Windsor by Nicolai, Mendelssohn’s Concerto, and- a Mozart suite, this young musical organization is well on its way in fulfilling the hopes of Professor Seidel, and the members who optimistically called it the Notre Dame Symphony. Now that the students know the orchestra is on its way to success undoubtedly ag reat amount of new material will be added next fall. It is fortunate that only a - small percentage of the present organization is being graduated, so that Mr. Seidel will have a nucleus around which to build next year.
The orchestra will be heard for the last time this year at the three performances of “Abraham Lincoln” on May 28, 29, and June 3.
Leaves Stage To Dodge Law
By Intercollegiate Press.
Lockport, N. Y., May 20. — Mrs. Floyd Smith, possessor of a college education and several years teaching experience, has left the State of New York because she was refused the right here to teach her own children rather than send them to school.
Mrs. Smith was brought into court here and charged with violation of the compulsory education law.
When she said she would move out of the state rather than submit to the law, the court withheld final action. Mrs. Smith carried out the threat, packed up her belongings and headed for the South, hoping to find a state where she could be her childrens’ own instructor,
“I like my home here,” she said before leaving, “but I was bom and brought up in South Carolina, and I’m going back there where I think I can rear my children as I think best.”
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARAGE
TEN Q
A senior at Tennessee Tech suggests that the words “presence requested” on commencement announcements should be changed to “presents requested.”
SO WHAT?
The first football game to be played in the United States was between Rutgers and. Princeton 62 years ago. Each team had 25 men.
BUT TRY?
In England there is a college which maintains a staff of forty professors although the student enrollment is never more than eighteen. Bet those fellows never get away with anything.
LOCAL COLOR
Donald B. MacMillan has been engaged by Bowdoin as a visiting professor. He will conduct a course on History of Arctic Exploration and Ethnology of the North.
PUN MY WOW
A columnist in the Loyola News thinks that all this trouble about the United States recognizing Russia could be cleared up if Russia would shave.
ITS AN IDEA
Students at the University of Florida petitioned for the right to sleep in classes if they so desired.
WASHINGTON’S GIFT TO WOMEN
A group of college students at Washington university, who call themselves “The Society of Female Aid,” rent their fraternity pins to unadorned and unsought co-eds.
DO YOU INHALE?
A co-ed at the University of Washington claims that she puffs o nthe average of 200 cigarettes a day.
AND AGAIN, SO WHAT?
Did you know that in all the college and university libraries of America there are 40,498,291 volumes?
IN CASE ANYONE CARES
At Columbia university there are 148 Smiths, 91 Millers, 68 Cohens, 60 Browns, and 49 Joneses. Evidently the Joneses are having a hard time keeping up with the Smiths.
ADD PIPE COURSE
A professor at the University of North Carolina has given only two “A’s” in his course, “Logic and Civilization,” in his 42 years of teaching.
TIME TELLS
“A dollar says I can write between 50,000 and 57,000 words in less than an hour,” said a freshman to a senior at the University of North Carolina. The senior skeptically took the bet and the race between time and the freshman started. Faster and faster he wrote. Just as the hour drew to a close, the freshman finished and fainted from exhaustion. When he came to, he offered to write nine raised to the ninth power in less than five years. Thereupon the senior fainted, and the freshman, we are inclined to think, was transferred immediately to an institution other than for higher learning.
RED STARS AND BIBLES
At the A. and M. college at Monticello, Ark., the chemistry professor gives free movie tickets to inspire students to do better work. It is claimed he is getting good results.
OUR NATIONAL PASTIME
The University of Wyoming has been forced to give up any plans it had for a winning baseball team this year. After all the plans had been made for the sport, not enough candidates could be summoned for a successful practice season.	,	.
EVOLUTION
There is a course at the University of Kansas in “How to administer a parental rebuke.” The whole thing started when a professor asked his class what they would say to a little girl who had told a lie.
May 27, 1932
Nineteen
EEITOI’E PAGE
NINE PROFOUND BOWS; HAIL, FAREWELL, GODSPEED!
This editorial, appropriately enough is written in a dimly lighted Publications office, immediately after the banquet last Wednesday evening.
And the editor, nearing the completion of his collegiate journalistic career, takes his entire page this week to review the activities of the year and to pay a last, if feeble, tribute to The Staff of 1931-32.
The staff this year rigidly adhered to its policy, set new and stronger ideals, and blazed forth in both its news and editorial columns to previous Scholastic unprecedented heights.
This achievement is due solely and exclusively to the spelndid character of The Staff, to their strict and conscientious alertness and to their honest, firm desire to concern themselves vitally with goings-on about the campus.
Hues and cries were raised often. The Scholastic office was many times stormed and threatened. Yet through it all The Scholastic Staff strictly adhered to its policy, believing that it was rightly the only way to avoid stark hypocrisy.
For the reason that The Staff refused to be daunted, nor tepid, nor mediocre, The editors who are going on take this opportunity to pay their tribute.	,
First of all sincere thanks are proffered to Henry B. Asman, personal friend of the editor, and the most sincere and consistent of all publications men.
Then sincerely to Eddie Stephan, whose appointment to the editorship was announced this week. His predecessor wishes him God-speed, urges him to continue in his idealism, and hopes that he has a sturdy sense of humor.
James Kearns, who among other positions handled the sporting department, will go down in the editor’s memory as one of the big reasons for the paper’s success this year.
Then to Granger Weil, for his faithfulness, which has almost become a Scholastic tradition; to Walter Johnson as the first conscientious features editor ever to work on the staff; and to
John Pick for a different and a widely read College Parade.	.
It is the opinion of the present editors that The Scholastic never carried a better column than James Carmody’s excellent Week. For genuine wit and readableness it is second to none. It was individual, as individual as Jim himself, and was one of the consistent bright spots of the year. .
The desk editors were big factors in the success of the paper, and The Scholastic is indebted sincerely to them. Don Sullivan, William Flynn, and George Duquette were especially praiseworthy. We want to thank John Ryan for some excellent theatrical criticisms; Tighe Woods and Paul Host for a corking series of articles; and John Conley and Larry Dunda for all-around reportorial excellence.
Patrick Corcoran and Mitchell Tackley were great aids in the news gathering department. Joe Degnan carved a deep niche for himself in Scholastic history by writing a great series of “Man About The Campus” interviews. Irving Halper handled the interhall sport situation expertly and capably.
The personal thanks of the editor go unstint-ingly to Roy Sholz, Edward O’Brien, Louis Hruby, Stephen Hawxhurst, and William Kennedy, all members of Walt Johnson’s feature staff.
To Newsmen Bernard Cousino, John McElli-gott, Walter Kennedy, Paul Foley, Ray Waters, Michael Weidl, William Dreux, Robert Dillon, and Lloyd Teske—to all these The Scholastic is grateful.
From the sports staff, deserving of special mention are Joe Morper, T. Edward Carey, James Pick, Edward Van Huisseling, and Joe Kurth.
Thanks go to the unusual cooperation received from the business staff — to likeable Freddie Bauer, to Bob Fitzsimmons, to Andy McGuan, to Ray Nabor—all working under the leadership of Graduate Manager John Stoeckley.
Thanks, indeed, to all those who ever wrote a line for any of the issues or who gave a good word to a much maligned publications.
Hail and Farewell I
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SjPCCTS ♦
Track Team Battles Army Here
Cadet Thinlies Make First Invasion Of Cartier Field With Unbeaten Team
KELLY, CHRE1ST LEAD NET SQUAD TO 3RD WIN
Visitors Rule Slight Favorites On Basis of Past Showing; Wilson To Run Three.
By James W. Pick
Tomorrow afternoon Notre Dame track fans will be given their only opportunity to witness the 1932 contingent of Irish tracksters in action on Cartier field. The Notre Dame thinlies will meet the onslaught of the powerful aggregation from the U. S. Military Academy in what points out to be a nip and tuck affair. This meet will be the first in which an Army outdoor team has travelled to meet the Irish on their home grounds.
Army Unbeaten
The Army has presented an array of consecutive victories this season, having met Boston College, Holy Cross, Ursinus, and Pennsylvania State. If comparison of scores can mean anything the Gold and Blue runners will have to hustle when the gun cracks tomorrow. Last week Notre Dame defeated Pittsburgh 73-53, and previously Penn State trounced the Panthers by a slightly larger margin. Last Saturday the West Point cadets bowled over Penn 87-39.
Notre Dame will find it necessary to swing its full power into action in order to frustrate the attack of the Army. Coach Nicholson concedes the weight events to the cadets on paper, but not in spirit.
“•Concede Nothing” '
“In actuality, we don’t concede anything in track. We’ll fight it out tomorrow.” That is Nick’s way of putting it.
The Army has a number of excellent shot putters and discus throw
ers. One of them hurled the lead ball over 47 feet in a recent meet. The discus event also seems to be in the Army’s hands. Finkel and Groves will heave for Notre Dame.
Darling Favored
To offset the advantage the Army has in the weight events Notre Dame expects to come through in some of the other field events. Rohrbach, Behrman, and Slattery are all good for 12 feet in the pole vault, and should place well for the Irish. Bob Darling has been consistent enough to merit a first place, rating in the high jump. His average leap has been 6 feet 2 inches.
The javelin is a doubtful event. The Army has a few excellent hurlers, but Notre Dame may surprise them if Norb Christman, Ed Krause, and Finkel come through with good throws. The broad jump is an open event. Ed Gough will endeavor to cop a win for Notre Dame.
King, an Army sprint ace, will find difficulty in winning if Joe Egan, new Notre Dame century and furlong dash, has recuperated from a recent illness. Ralph Huller and Alex Wilson will assist in the sprints.
Wilson In Quarter
Wilson will have a hard day. He will run the 220-and 440-yard events, and probably the half mile. The cadets will have no one to cope with Wilson’s ability in the quarter mile. Rudy Obergfall and Regis Kuhn are also entered in this event. Notre a Daem will bank much upon these men to take a clean sweep in the run.
Jack Scanlon, who ran sensational quarter miles at the Drake Relays and against Michigan State, will be unable to compete because his leg injury of about two weeks ago has not as yet disappeared. Louis Vettel (Continued on Page 28)
Indiana Teachers Beaten, 4-3, On Local Courts Tuesday.
A postponed tennis match with Indiana State of Terre Haute was played off on the University courts Tuesday. The final count showed the Irish on top, 4 to 3.
With six matches completed and the last just getting under way, the score read 3-all. The outcome of the final match was the difference between victory and defeat.
Kelly-Chreist Win
The final scramble featured the Irish midget team of Chreist and Kelly pitted against Hutchens and Quimby of State; the latter being the 1931 intercollegiate state champion. The Rambler team put the skids under the boys from down state in the first set and won easily, 6-3. With the second set well under way, Hutchens and Quimby were out in front making their bid for victory with a lead of four games to two. It was getting late and the local stars wanted to end things in a hurry so they promptly displayed a caliber of tennis which is only dreamed of and banged along until they had won four consecutive games to cop the final set and the meet for the Irish.
* Chreist Beats Champ
Moore and McAlpine had taken the other doubles match from Staley and Meade with little trouble, 6-1, 7-5.
Louis Chreist, Scholastic champion, reached his peak when he swamped the state champion, Quimby, in straight sets, 6-3, 6-1. The visiting ace became so disgusted with himself in the final set that he resorted to throwing his racquet about and taking many wild sweeps at the pill in an effort to comfort himself, (Continued no Page 29)
May 27, 1932
Twenty-one
TENNIS TEAM BREAKS EVEN ON ROAD TRIP
Irish Whip Iowa 7-5—Then
Lose Second Contest 5-4
Beats Detroit, 4-3; Loses To Michigan State, 7-2.
By Edward Van Huisseling
STATE CHAMP
NEW LINE-UP USED
Led by the unbeatable combination of Chreist and Kelly, who rang up their first of three doubles victories in a week, Notre Dame’s net squad handed Detroit U. another beating last Friday at Detroit. The final count was 4 to 3.
This combination of Louis Chreist, Scholastic champion, and Dick Kelly, a semi-finalist in the fall tournament, played brilliantly to upset Ruysser and Leon, 8-6, 2-6, 6-4.
George and Singelyn paired to salvage one of the three Detroit wins. They were opposed by the Irish team of Power and Meade. Thirty-two games were necessary before the Blue and Gold duet was defeated in straight sets in a match which anyone would have been glad to see. The final count gave George and Singelyn the edge, 10-8, 11-9.
Kelly, O’Hanlon, and Staley chalked up the remaining Rambler wins by going through the opposition to win their singles matches.
Staley came to the front with the (Continued on Page 25)
State Meet: Redmond Wins Title, Team Loses One
By T. Edward Carey
Captain Bill Redmond of the Notre Dame golf team won the Indiana intercollegiate golf championship at the Greencastle Country club, Greencastle, Ind., last Saturday with a medal score of 148 for the two rounds.
Redmond defeated entrants from six Indiana coleges and universities to recapture the tite which he won for the first time in 1930, and which he ost to a teammate, Larry Moller, in 1931. Lyons of DePauw finished one stroke behind Redmond to take second honors, and Vince Fehlig landed in third place with a score of 151, three strokes behind the winner.
Purdue took the team honors with a grand total of 633 strokes; Indiana and DePauw tied for second with 636, and Notre Dame, despite some very bad golf, wound up in fourth with a total of 639. Gostisha and Monte-donico were both badly off their game
Bill Redmond
Who took back the Indiana Intercollegiate golf title after a one-year lapse. After four trips around the nine-hole course his card totalled 148.
and carded 166 each for the two rounds.
Had Fehlig competed in the team competition the title would have been a cinch for the Irish, but he lost his position on the team in the weekly placement competition just two days before the state tourney.
Captain Redmond burned up the course in his morning round and turned in a par 72 card, tying with Nath of Valparaiso for the lead. Harrell of Indiana was also in the fight at the end of the first round, trailing the leaders by three strokes. Lyons of DePauw and Dinka of Purdue were around in 76 each and still threatened. Fehlig, with 77, seemed more or less out of the fight.
In the afternoon Redmond was a little off his irons, but wound up with a 76, which proved to be sufiiciently low. Lyons of DePauw staged a great rally in the afternoon and his 73 (Continued on Page 24)
Lagger’s Pitching, Mates’ Bats Bring Victory; Home Runs Upset Palt Saturday.
By Joseph A. Morper
There was no baseball week scheduled for this year, but the University of Iowa made up for that event by splitting a two-game series with the varsity ball-tossers last week-end. Notre Dame won the Friday game, 7-5, and the Hawkeyes the Saturday contest by a 5-4 margin.
Shortly before play started Friday, Coach George Keogan jumbled the Irish lineup and replaced Bill Lomasney, Al Russo, and Denny O’Keefe, with Hugh Devore, Billy Powell, and Arnie Seidel. The change proved a wise move as the three men totalled seven hits between them.
McGrath Scores
McGrath scored the first Irish run in the first frame. He was given a walk and was shoved across on singles by Devore and Seidel. Devore counted again for Notre Dame in the third. It was George Kozak’s man-sized triple which scored Hugh, after he had singled.
Iowa scored two runs in the seventh and a like number in the eighth to stay in the contest. They scored the pair in the seventh on three hits while in the eighth the markers were the result of two Rambler errors and two singles.
Big Ed Lagger pitched the route for Notre Dame and incidentally won his third straight victory. He held the opposition to seven scattered blows, fanned eight, and issued but one pass. At the same time his mates pounded two Iowa hurlers for a total of 16 base hits.
Home Run Barrage
The Saturday half of the series was a bit different from a Notre Dame standpoint. Captain Charlie Palt was the victim of a home-run assault which netted the lowans three runs.
Iowa jumped into the lead in the third frame. Schulte touched Palt for a single to right. Kenny then hit a rousing smash to right center, good (Continued on Page 28)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Moore Wins ‘Scholastic’ Tourney

Defeats Dick McMonagle 2 and 1 In 36-Hole Final of Handicap Golf Meet
MONTEDONICO ELECTED
1933 GOLF CAPTAIN
STAGES COMEBACK
Winner, One Down After First Eighteen, Rallies To Finish Match on 35th Green.
By Henry B- Asman
Mike Moore, a junior, won The Scholastic Handicap Golf tournament Wednesday afternoon when he defeated Dick McMonagle, of Badin, 2 and 1 in thirty-six holes over the Burke Memorial course. This was the first handicap tourney ever held at the University and was part of The Scholastic’s minor sports program.
One Down At 18
One down at the end of eighteen holes, Moore came back strong on the second day of play to end the match on the thirty-fifth green. Neither of the players were up to the form they exhibited in earning their final berths and as a result scores were high. Moore had a gross medal of 166, while his opponent recorded 172.
McMonagle earned the right to meet Moore in the finals when he vanquished Corcoran 1 up in thirty-six holes. This match, one of the hardest fought of the whole tourney, was decided on the thirty-sixth green when McMonagle registered a birdie to his opponent’s par 5.
Consolati Loses
Moore went into the semifinals on a default from LaLonde and justified the gift by pulling a mild surprise in defeating Al Consolati 3 and 2 in the other thirty-six hole semifinal match. In this match Moore took a three hole lead at the start and was never headed.
The Scholastic trophy, a beauti-
CAPTAIN-ELECT
John Montedonico
They’ve added authority to his ‘Fore!’
ful silved humidor with the figure of a golfer on the top, was presented to Moore on Thursday afternoon by Henry B. Asman, Managing Editor of The Scholastic. McMonagle received a dozen golf balls as runner-up to Moore.
The cards for the finals:
Moore:	out 456 554 544—42
445. 654 455—42 in 654 554 745—45—87 644 454 64 —37—79
McMonagle: out 545 645 555—44 * 556 545 555—45 in 543 555 647—44—88 655 563 54 ^-39—84
Chosen At Squad Banquet Held On Thursday Evening.
John Montedonico, a sophomore from Memphis, Tenn., was elected captain of next year’s golf team at a banquet held for the squad last night in the lay faculty dining hall.
In First Four
The captain-elect has been rated in the first four all this year and during his freshman year he ranked at No. 1 on the yearling squad. His play, especially during his first year, was marked by deadly accuracy with his irons and a fine competitive temperament.
The Reverend R. M. Murch, C.S.C., acted as toastmaster at the banquet which was attended by the members of the varsity and freshman squads and golf manager Frank Buhl. In . the opening talk of the program, Father Murch traced the development of golf as an intercollegiate sport at Notre Dame.
Captain Bill Redmond and John Gostisha, the lone seniors on the squad, made brief addresses, as did Captain-elect Montedonico. The new leader will have a fine nucleus for his 1933 team with Vince Fehlig, Bill Veeneman, and himself, all sophomores, slated to return.
« Fehlig’s Average Low
Winding up the year with a defeat at the state meet, the team was ranked with Veeneman, No. 1; Redmond, No. 2; Montedonico, No. 3; Gostisha, No. 4; and Fehlig, No. 5. In the statistics compiled for the year, Fehlig, playing all but one round played by the team, had the low average score of the squad. Captain Redmond was second-in the average round compilation.
As the city of Wooster, Ohio, celebrated its 125th anniversary, Wooster college last week bestowed upon Mrs.' Herbert Hoover the honorary degree of humanities. Mrs. Hoover’s great-grandfather, William Henry, helped to found Wooster.
May 27, 1932
Twenty-three
GOLFERS ADVANCE IN UNIVERSITY TOURNEY
Three Varsity Members Default In First Round Matches.
In spite of cloudbursts, senior examinations, bad weather, and other handicaps, the field of golfers in quest of the university championship and the Livingston Cup moved steadily along toward the finals during the past week. Three men had gone into the semi-finals up to Thursday night.
Defaults did mar the play a bit, however, as Bill Redmond, John Gos-tisha, and Bill Veeneman withdrew from the meet. “Exams,” said most of the passive losers. Dan Henry, member of the freshman squad, also defaulted.
First Round Results
In the first round matches that were settled on the course, A. J. O’Brien downed A. R. Martin, 4 and 2. Vince Fehlig had a 76 to beat Tom O’Melia, 4 and 4. Johnny Montedonico topped John Clarke, 3 and 1, and Billy Cole dropped Jim Gleason, 2 and 1.
Moving into the second round play, O’Brien was scheduled to meet Jack Jordan who had advanced on Veene-man’s default. The match was to be played today. Fehlig brushed Bob Morrissey aside, 8 and 7, Wednesday afternoon. Morrissey had reached the second round on Gostisha’s default.
In the lower bracket, Montedonico splashed his way through Thursday’s downpour to beat Bill Slader, 1 up. The pair putted out on the 18th in a drenching rain, and the half gained on the hole gave Montedonico a passport to the semi-final round.
Cole Beats Albert
The other second round match saw Billy Cole, ace member of the fresh squad, lacing his fellow freshman, Bob Albert, 6 and 5. Albert had passed the first round when Bill Redmond withdrew.
Pairings for the semi-finals pitted Fehlig against the Jordan-O’Brien winner, and Montedonico against Cole. The matches will be played tomorrow with the first round scheduled for the morning. The winners of the 36-hole battles will meet Sunday in a 36-hole go for the championship.
A dish for active people
KELLOGG’S PEP Bran Flakes are a treat you like and need. Because they’re just the kind of food that helps to build and nourish you.
Whole wheat is a natural food for active bodies. It contains iron and other minerals, vitamins, and proteins. Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes—the better bran flakes — are whole wheat — plus the healthful bulk of bran—plus the matchless flavor of Pep.
They’re good to eat and good for you. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. Quality guaranteed.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee that lets you sleep.
^9^ PEP
BRAN FLAKES
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
TENNIS TEAM FACES SPARTANS TOMORROW
By Irving B. Halper
Pitcher Shinkowitz, St. Edward’s ace, won his own ball game and with it the championship of 1932 for his hall, when he doubled in the first of the seventh and brought Ed Alberts home with the winning run, last Sunday. The score was 2 to 1, with Howard the victims.
The game was a pitchers’ duel from the start, Schinkowitz allowing but four hits while Tobin, Howard hurler, was nicked for eight. Schinkowitz also had the better of it in regards to strike-outs, fanning an even halfdozen while only three “Minims” sluggers whiffed on Tobin’s slants.
Howard Scores
Howard was the first to score; Laurie, star Howard shortstop, scoring in the second inning from second, after he had doubled, on Bowes’ sacrifice. The play was close at the plate with Laurie sliding in under Alberts’ feet.
St. Edward’s tied the score in the fourth chapter when Ed Krause doubled over Laurie’s head and scored on Larry Licalzi’s sharp single to left. This play was a hit and run play, Krause with his long stride being close to third when Licalzi’s bat met the ball.
After Krause and Licalzi had both made outs in the seventh, Alberts cracked out as ingle over John Pe-note’s head. Link, the next batter, poled out a Texas leaguer to left, Alberts stopping at second. Then Schinkowitz stepped into the picture. With the count two and two he smacked a long hit between Barnett and Matou-sek, sending Alberts across with what proved to be the winning run. Ma-tousek made a valiant effort to make a shoe-string catch but he was a bit too late.
Good Fielding
The game was marked with the brilliant fielding on the parts of both teams. Leo Crowe, St. Edward’s shortstop, making the only error of the day. Especially good in fielding were right-shortstop Carroll and left fielder Licalzi of the winners, and Jack Laurie and Matousek of Howard. Prexy Addonizio, who subbed for La-Borne for Howard, made what was undoubtedly hte best stop of the day
when he ran far to his right and stopped a hot grounder of Krause’s and threw him out in the seventh inning.
Box score:
Howard	ab	r	h
Schefter, c ............2	0	1
Penote, rs .............3	0	1
Tobin, p ...............3	0	1
Marek, lb ..............3	0	0
Laurie, ss .............3	1	1
Bowes, If ..............2	0	0
Casarett, 3b ...........2	0	0
Barnett, cf ............2	0	0
Matousek, rf............2	0	0
LaBorne, 2b ............2	0	0
Addonizio, 2b...........0	0	0
P	A
5	0
2	1
2	0
1	0
6	6
1	0
1	0
0	0
2	0
2	0
0	1
Total ..................24	1	4	21	8
St. Edward’s	ab	r	ii
Carroll, rs .............3	0	1
Buckley, 3b..............3	0	0
Krause, lb ..............3	1	1
Licalzi, If .............3	0	1
Alberts, c ..............3	1	2
Link, 2b.................3	0	1
Schinkowitz, p...........3	0	1
Crowe, ss................3	0	1
Manard, cf ..............2	0	0
Rapine, rf...............2	0	' 0
P A 6 0 0 2 3 0 0 0 6 0 1 0 0 6 2 0 0 0 3 0
Total
.................28	2	8 21	8
Score by innings: Howard ...................0 1 0 0 0 0 0—1
St. Edward’s .............0 0 0 1 0 0 1—2
Errors: Crowe. Runs batted in: Licalzi, Schinkowitz, Bowes. Two-base hits: Krause, Schinkowitz, Laurie. Base on balls: off Schinkowitz, 2; off Tobin, 1. Strike-outs: by Schinkowitz, 6; by Tobin, 3. Scorer: Ed Fisher.
REDMOND REGAINS GOLF CROWN AS TEAM LOSES
(Continued from Page 21)
round fell just one stroke short of a tie for the title. Fehlig also opened up in the second round and his 74 placed him in third place.
Purdue took a commanding lead in the first round and managed to coast in despite strong rallies by De Pauw and Notre Dame. The average strokes per player was: Purdue 79%, Indiana and DePauw 79%, and Notre Dame 79%.	.
It is blessed to give and always will be, but it is more blessed to use intelligence in reducing the necessity of giving.—Charles A. Beard.
Michigan State Plays Here In Season’s Finale.
Captain Carl Meyer will lead the Irish tennis team onto the University courts here tomorrow to act as hosts to Michigan State in a match that will mark the close of the season.
The Ramblers are not planning to be very hospitable as hosts but are set on evening a little score with the Lansingites. State met and defeated the Irish squad at Lansing last Saturday, 7 to 2.
Seek Revenge
The local players believe that the match they played against Detroit on the day before the Michigan State match sapped most of their strength and left them in a hopeless condition for last Saturday’s encounter. With this in mind and fond memories of the whipping they handed Detroit and Indiana State this week, the Blue and Gold net team is planning on a victory.
If tomorrow’s affair goes into the books as a win for the Ramblers then-totals for the year will show five wins against four defeats.
Louis Chreist, Captain Meyer, and Dick Kelly, who have shown the way throughout the spring, will be counted on for wins in the singles. In the doubles, Chreist and Kelly as a team will try to make it four consecutive wins.
Lose Only One
This remarkable pair has been defeated only once this year in the doubles play; Stagg and Davidson of Chicago being their superiors. The latter latter pair were semi-finalists in the Big Ten tournament held last week and led Chicago to a Big Ten championship in 1931. Among the outstanding players who doubled up before this combination are Quimby, 1931 Indiana, intercollegiate state champion, and Reis, one of the aces of the Northwestern squad.
In nine college baseball games played so far this spring, Notre Dame has scored 35 runs to 43 for her opponents. The Irish have won three games, lost five, and tied one.

May 27, 1932
Tzventy-five
TENNIS TEAM BREAKS EVEN ON ROAD TRIP
(Continued from Page 21)
best individual performance of the afternoon when he defeated Ryan in such a decisive manner that his victim had to be content with exactly two love sets chalked up against his record. It was the first straight set, love victory in any match the Irish have played in this spring.
Dick Kelly came back strong after losing the first set, to drub Ruysser, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. Kelly’s consistent, accurate drives via the back-hand route were a big factor in bringing him out on top.
O’Hanlon was also forced to go three sts before earning the decision from Singelyn.
Neither Chreist or Meyer were able to surpass Leon and George in their singles play and both local stars lost close decisions. Summaries:
SINGLES — Leon (D) defeated Chreist (ND), 6-2, 6-4 ; Kelly (ND) defeated Ruysser (D), 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 ; George (D) defeated Meyer (ND), 5-7, 6-2, 6-0 ; O’Hanlon (ND) defeated Singelyn (D), 2-6, 6-3, 6-3; Staley (ND) defeated Ryan (D), 6-0, 6-0.
DOUBLES—George and Singelyn (D) defeated Power' and Meade (ND), 10-8, 11-9; Chreist and Kelly (ND) defeated Ruysser and Leon (D), 8-6, 2-6, 6-4.
MICHIGAN STATE 7, IRISH 2
In a long contest at Lansing, Michigan, last Saturday, the Irish tennis troup felt the strain of the Detroit battle of the preceding day and folded up before State, 7 to 2.
Power garnered the lone victory for the Blue and Gold in the singles play when he administered a straight set beating to his opponent, Pinio, 6-2, 6-4.
The other Irish win was accomplished by Chreist and Kelly in the doubles play after three sets of fast tennis. Olson and Link joined the ranks of the many victims of this pair.
Five of the six singles matches were won by the Lansing aggregation. Weitz, Morriss, Link, Loose, and Olson sailed through everything the local singlists had to offer and in only one match was a State player forced to the limit. Staley made this possible when he took the second set from Olson before giving away in the final set, 6-1.
Loose and Stonebreaker combined their talents to win handily from Power and Staley, 6-2, 6-2.
Captain Carl Meyer of the Irish
paired with Tom Meade to force Weitz and Morriss of State to the limit before going down. Summaries:
SINGLES — Weitz (MS) defeated Chreist (ND), 6-2, 6-0; Morriss (MS) defeated Kelly (ND), 6-1, 6-0; Link (MS) defeated O’Hanlon (ND), 6-2, 6-1; Loose (MS) defeated Meyer (ND), 6-1, 6-1; Olson (MS) defeated Staley (ND), 6-1, 4-6, 6-1; Power (ND) defeated Pinio (MS), 6-2, 6-4.
Chreist and Kelly (ND) defeated Olson and Link (MS), 6-1, 4-6, 6-4. Weitz and Morriss (MS) defeated Meyer and Meade (ND), 6-3, 2-6, 6-2. Loose and Stonebreaker (MS) defeated Power and Staley (ND), 6-2, 6-2.
"The Greeks Had a Word For Them77 XZESPIO (born with wings)
EXHIBIT A. MERCURY — EXHIBIT B. PEGASUS
In the best families (or any others for the matter) that doesn’t happen nowadays. Hence the United States Air Corps offers some attractive inducements to you college students for whom it has built a §10,000,000 institution at San Antonio, Texas, where they teach you to fly and while you are learning:	.
Pay you a salary of §75.00 per month. Pay your living expenses.
Supply you (free, of course) with snappy, tailor-made, sky blue uniforms.
Grant you the social and military privileges of potential officers.
Pay your traveling expenses from your home to the new field at San Antonio.
700 men are taken in each year. The course requires a year to complete and includes over 200 hours of solo flying. Those who stay the full year are commissioned as Lieutenants in the Air Corps Reserve.
If you don’t like the training you may resign at any time. For example:
Should you stay three months and then resign you will receive $225.00 cash, your round trip expenses from youi- home to San Antonio, and about 50 hours of solo flying.
The service and associations of the Air Corps gives its members a very real distinction and a very noticeable breadth and poise.
If you have applied and are ready to go, we have compiled information and tips giving you inside angles and dope that will be invaluable when you arrive at the field. If you haven’t applied yet then by all means get our information. We tell you the entrance procedure and certain twists that make your getting in easier and quicker. The information, written by men who have been through the school, covers all points from beginning to end that you are interested in knowing. This information cannot be obtained elsewhere; it is complete. Nothing else to buy. The price is $1.00, or sent C. O. D. if you desire.
NATIONAL AVIATION SERVICE
742 S. Hill St., Los Angeles, Calif.
Buffalo Club Elects Doyle
At a recent meeting of the Buffalo Club the following men were elected to office: James Doyle, Saint Catherine’s, Ontario, president; Cyril Rickard, Buffalo, vice-president; John Hawkes, Lockport, New York, secretary; Thomas Brobson, Buffalo, treasurer.
The outgoing officers: are Bill Hull, president; Jack Rudd, vice-president; Jim Doyle, secretary, and Carlo Frank, treasurer.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Wisconsin Scores Second Win Over Notre Dame, 5-4
IRISH ATHLETES FACE CLOSE OF SCHEDULE
ERRORS COSTLY
Irish Misplays Aid Badgers To Big Second Fame; Lagger Gives Only Four Hits.
By Joseph A. Morper
Chalk up another loss for the Notre Dame baseball team, but don’t forget to say that it was a hard luck defeat. Somehow the team hasn’t been getting the breaks, and that accounts for the 5-4 trimming they took at the hands of Wisconsin last Tuesday.
Big Ed Lagger was in form again that day gunning for his fourth straight victory. He did his part, allowing the hard-hitting Badger only four singles and a like number of walks.
Four In Second
Four of the five runs made by Wisconsin came in the second frame. With one out, Smilgoff walked. Schneider reached first on Kane’s error, Smilgoff taking second. Cuis-ner then ried a single to left, Smilgoff counting.
Both runners then were advanced on Schendel’s infield tap. Nordston shot a single to right and when George Kozak let go a wild peg, Nordston went all the way to third and Schneider and Cuisner came in with runs number two and three. Nordston registered on the next pitched ball when Sheeketski let one of Lagger’s pitches get away from him for a passed ball.
Irish Score
A walk and a hit were manufactured into another run for Wisconsin in their half of the third. This ended their scoring for the day. Two runs in the third was Notre Dame’s first scoring gesture. Kane walked with one down. Powell was safe on a fielder’s choice when Schende threw wildly to second in an attempt to catch Kane.
Then Catcher Griswold added a wild peg to the proceedings trying to nail Powell going down to second.
Both runners scored while the center fielder was retrieving the ball.
The Irish followed this by getting another marker in the fifth. McGrath and Lagger singled. Kane advanced them on a sacrifice, and after Powell’s long fly McGrath counted.
Notre Dame kept plugging along and their next run was shoved across in the eighth. Seidl singled after one down. Kozak fanned. Del Prete batted for Sheeketski and drew a pass. Hugh Devore singled Seidl across for the tally.
It looked as if things might right themselves in the ninth. McGrath, first man up singled, and stole second before Carlson, the fourth hurler of the Cardinals, could get his bearings. Because Lagger had been pitching such good ball, Coach George Keogan let him bat, but the swarhty pitcher grounded out. Kane went down the same way. Powell, however, came through with a single which brought McGrath home for the last run of the game.
Box-score:
Wisconsin (5)	ab	r	h
Griswold, c .......................4	0	0
Plankey, 2b .......................2	1	0
Olson, If .........................3	0	0
Smilgoff, rf.......................3	1	1
Schneider, lb .....................3	1	0
Cuisner, 3b .......................3	1	1
Schende], ss ......................3	0	0
Nordston, cf ......................3	1	1
Sonunerfield, p ...................1	0	0
Pacetti, p ........................1	0	0
Winger, p .........................1	0	0
Carson, p .........................0	0	0
Ross, 2b ..........................2	0	1
Totals ...........................29	5	4
Notre Dame (4)	ab	r	h
Kane, ss ..........................3	1	1
Powell, 3b ........................5	0	1
Seidl, 2b .........................5	1	2
Kozak, rf .........................4	0	0
Sheeketski, c .........'...........3	0	0
Devore, If ........................4	0	1
Cummings, lb ......................4	0	1
McGrath, cf .......................4	2	2
Lagger, p .........................4	0	1
Totals ...........................36	4	9
Errors—Schendel, Griswold, Plankey, Kane, Kozak. Struck out—by Sonunerfield, 5; by Pacetti, 2; by Winger, 2: by Lagger, 4. Walked—by Sommerfield, 1; by Winger, 1; by Lagger, 4. Time of game—1:50. Umpire— Kakuske.
Baseball, Track Teams To Wind-up Next Week.
With the close of school just a week away, all Notre Dame spring sports are preparing to wind up the year’s activities within the next few days. The baseball squad has three games ahead of it, the track team a pair of important meets and the national col-legiates, the golf squad a possible appearance at the national intercollegiate tourney at Hot Springs, Va., late in June.
Meet Wildcats
Coach Keogan’s varsity nine will meet Northwestern tomorrow afternoon in Evanston in the second of a home and home series. In the first game of the series, the picthing of Ed Lagger and the hitting of Joe Sheeketski and George Kozak brought the Irish a 5 to 3 triumph in the rain.
The second of the ball games will take the Notre Dame squad to Kalamazoo next Tuesday, where they will clash with the powerful aggregation from Western State Teachers’ college. The tutors hold a 4-1 decision over the Irish in an earlier tilt.
The final game will be played next Saturday as part of the commencement week-end and will bring the Spartans of Michigan State to Cartier field for a return engagement. In the gamep layed at East Lansing a week back, the State team squeezed out a narrow 5-4 victory.
C. I. C. Meet
After tomorrow’s meet .with the Army team here, Coach Nicholson’s track team will begin their final drive for another C. I. C. crown. The annual conference meet will be held at Milwaukee next Friday. The entrance of Wisconsin into the field and the possible entry of Iowa will make the already difficult job of winning even more of an improbability for the Irish.
The track season will be wound up in Chicago at the annual National Intercollegiate, June 10 and 11. Alex Wilson, who placed second to Dale Letts in last year’s 880, is- expected to lead the' Blue and Gold entrants.
May 27, 1932
Tzuenty-seven
STARS OF ALL SPORTS APPEAR WITH CADETS
Football, Basketball Luminaries Hold Places On Track Team.
With a party of forty Army trackmen, coaches, handlers, and athletic officials due to arrive at ten o’clock tomorrow morning, Notre Dame track fans today were looking forward to one of the most colorful dual meets ever to be staged on Cartier field. The first event in the Cadet-Irish clash will get under way at one o’clock, standard time.
The most versatile athletes in the Military Academy are included in the group that will present the first outdoor invasion of Notre Dame by an Army organization. Cadet Ray Stecker who scored one touchdown in the downfall of the Irish at Yankee stadium last fall and ten markers in the vain attempt of the Pointers to check the Notre Dame basketball winning streak, will be here to run the sprints.
Rating as even a better dash man than Stecker is Dick King, end on the cadet grid team last fall and named on the Irish all-opponent eleven at the end of the year. King has been a consistent point winner in the string of victories amassed by the kaydets this spring.
Norman Lankenau, a javelin thrower of no mean ability, is captain of the invaders. Lankenau is not a stranger to Notre Dame competition as he was manager of the football team from the Point last fall. Harv Jablonsky, husky lineman, is another converted gridder. Jablonsky specializes in the weight events.
Teaming with Jablonsky as a weight thrower is Jack Price. Price was captain of the football team, and
Phoae	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist
702 3. M. S. Buhoinc Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
with Stecker and Lankenau makes a trio of cadet athletic captains who will appear in the meet tomorrow.
Besides these luminaries, there is a lad named Eppler who gets over hurdles fast enough to throw cinders in the eyes of a lot of aspirants.
The gridiron rivalry will be increased by the probable presence of big Ed Krause on the Blue and Gold squad. Opening his sensational sophomore year as a member of the grid
With the mercury on the up and up—get mercury-footed yourself. Wings are what you want on your toes. Walk-Over wing tip oxfords for Spring. A swift-moving style that is lighter in detail and lighter in weight. How about this smartly tailored NEWPORT? $ Made in brown calf. And the price is only 6
WAL K- O V E R ft One - One - One - South Michigan
team, Krause turned in one of his best games of the Eall against the Army on the ice-coated turf in New York.
Facing Stecker for the second time in the Army-Irish basketball clash here last winter, Krause piled up 19 points to lead in the Notre Dame victory. Now, with the year’s account at one victory apiece, the husky sophomore is expected to take a hand in the field events tomorrow, concentrating on the javelin throw.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
~~ "	■ ■	1
IRISH WIN. 7-5, THEN
LOSE, 5-4, TO IOWA
(Continued from Page 21)
for four bases, Schulte scoring ahead of him.
Joe Sheeketski made the first Notre Dame home-run of the season in the last of the fourth, when he caught one of pitcher Rieke’s twisters, but unfortunately nobody was on.
Two more enemy runs came in the sixth. Schulte got his second single and moved to second on Kenny’s sacrifice. Christensen was safe on Powell’s misplay, Shulte holding second. Prange then caught a good one for a triple past Sheeketski in center, shoving Shulte and Chistensen across.
Rieke Wins Game
With two out in the seventh pitcher Bill Rieke lammed a home run into deep center, which later proved to be the deciding run.
The Irish made a belated rally in the ninth which netted three runs, just ones hort of a tie. Kozak flied to left, but Joe Sheeketski was safe on Prange’s error. Powell singled, sending Sheeketski to third. McGrath singled Sheeketski home and advanced Powell to third.
Bill Lomasney grounded to Prange at third, but the Iowan unleashed a wild throw, his second error of the. inning. Both Powell and McGrath scored on the misplay. Russo then batted for Palt and forced Lomasney at second. Kane ended the game by bouncing to Shulte at second.
The box scores:
. FRIDAY’S GAME
Iowa	b	r	h
Schulte, 2b ....................3	0	1
Kenny, ss ......................4	0	1
Christensen, If.................4	1	1
Laws, cf .......................4	1	1
Prange, 3b .....................4	1	1
Schmidt, c......................4	1	1
Riegert, rf ....................4	0	1
Baker, lb.......................3	0	0
Stempel, p......................1	1	0
Rieke ..........................1	0	0
Ingram, p ......................1	0	0
Totals ............................33	5
Notre Dame	b
McGrath, cf,	lb................4
Devore, If, cf..................5
Seidel, 2b .. ^.................4
Kozac, rf.......................5
Sheeketski, c	.-..............  5
Gummings, lb ..............-....3
Powell, 3b .....................4
Kane, ss .......................3
Lagger, p ......................2
Russo, cf.......................1
Lomasney, If	.................1
R	H
2	1
2	3
0	2
0	1
1	3
0	1
1	2-
1	2
0	0
0	0
0	1
Totals .......................... 37	7	16
Score by innings: Iowa .................001	000	220—5	7	2
Notre Dame............101	002	21x—7	16	3
Errors—McGrath, Cummings, Powell, Kenny, Schulte. Two-base hits—Schulte, Devore, Kane, Sheeketski. Three-base hits—Kozac, Schmidt. Sacrifice hits—Kenny, Seidel. Struck out—by Lagger, 8 : by Stempel, 3 ; by Ingram, 1. Bases on balls—off Lagger, 1; off Stempel, 5. Hits —off Stempel. 11 in 6 innings; off Ingram, 5 in 2 innings. Double plays — Kenny to Schulte. Stolen base—Lagger. Umpires—Elliott and Cleary.
SATURDAY’S GAME
Iowa	b	r	h
Schulte, 2b .....................4	2	2
Kenny, ss .......................3	1	2
Christianson, If ................4	1	0
Laws, cf ........................4	0	0
Prange, 3b ......................4	0	1
Schmidt, c ......................4	0	0
Riegert, rf......................4	0	0
Baker, lb........................4	0	1
Rieke, p ........................4	1	1
Totals .........................35	5	7
Notre Dame
b r h
Kane, ss..........................5	0
Devore, cf, If....................4	0
Seidel, 2b .......................4	0
Kozac, rf.........................3	0
Sheeketski, c, cf.................4	2
Powell, 3b .......................4	1
Cummings, lb .....................2	0
O’Neil, c ........................2	0
Palt, p ..........................2	0
Murphy ...........................1	0
Lomasney, If .....................2	0
1 0 0 0
1
2 0 0
1 1
0
McGrath, lb ...................1	1	1
Russo .........................1	0	0
Totals ............................35	4	7
Murphy batted for Cummings in seventh.
Lomasney batted for O’Neil in seventh. Russo batted for Palt ni ninth.
Score by innings:
Iowa ................002 002 100—5 7 4
Notre Dame...........000 100 003—4 7 4
Errors—Sheeketski, Powell, Cummings, McGrath, Prange 2, Schulte, Kenny. Three-base hit—Prange. Home runs—Kenny, Sheeketski, Rieke. Sacrifice hits—Palt, Kenny. Struck out—Palt 7, Rieke. Base on balls—off Rieke, 1. Double plays—Kenny to Schulte to Baker. Umpires—Cleary and Elliott.
ARMY TRACK TEAM
HERE TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 20)
will not be on the track tomorrow either, due to an injury.	.
The West Pointers have the edge in the high hurdles, but will find rigid competition in the lows with MacBeth and Poredon stepping for the Irish. Poredon ' has shown great proimse in the low hurdles lately and . r in the highs will run with his Sophomore . team-mate, Jim Fagan. The Army has two capable hurdlers also.
Clyde Roberts, Brant Little, and
Troy should place well in the half mile. In order to cop the meet Notre Dame will find it necessary to blank the Army in this event. The Army has a group of ocnsistent two-minute men.
Eddie King and Joe Young will handle the one mile assignment for Notre Dame. This race should prove to be the sensation of the meet. Two weeks ago a trio of West Pointers strode in hand-in-hand to tie for first place in 4:29. If King runs one of his spirited races, the Notre Dame sophomore ace may win, but it will be a hard fight.
The two mile run will find the Blue and Gold veterans Gene Howery, Ed Ewing, and Jake Bowers pitted against a strong contingent from West Point.
ADVICE TO CO-EDS
FROM THE FIFTIES
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Brunswick, N. J., May 25.— Young ladies of college age were advised to study music, avoid young men and keep away from novels in a “Young Ladies Annual,” published in 1853 and recently dug up by a reporter for the Campus News, undergraduate newspaper of the New Jersey State College for Women here.
The author exhorts young ladies to study and cultivate music “in order to make home more attractive and to make herself useful.”
The young ladies are told to secure the benefits of mental culture, but not by novel reading. Novels are classified as habit forming and detrimental to spiritual progress. A warning is added that those who habitually read novels and magazines are bound to be dissatisfied, since they find it hard to descend from the romantic atmosphere of books to the prosaic realm of everyday life. Reading is not quite banned for young ladies, however, for they are reminded that classics and poetry are uplifting literature.
An admonition to parents is contained in the yellowing pages of the Annual. “AU attentions from young men should be discouraged until the young lady has arrived at the age of twenty.”
One chapter deals with friends and the qualities which they should possess. To get the most out of friendship, says the chapter, “when you meet, discuss not vain but useful and entertaining topics.”
May 27, 1932
Tiventy-nine
KELLY AND CHREIST LEAD NET TEAM TO WIN
(Continued from Page 20)
all of which aided Chreist in making the defeat more decisive.
Captain Karl Meyer led the way with a brilliant victory over McAlpine of State. Dick Kellly found difficulty in hitting his stride in the first set and lost it. However, he came back strong and played steadily to win the next two sets and cinch his victory. The final game of this match was dueced six times before Kelly put Baugh away.
Hutchens and Moore salvaged the two State wins in the singles. O’Hanlon won the first set from Hutchens but folded up later to lose. Moore had little trouble in taking Power into camp, 6-4, 8-6.
Summaries:
SINGLES—Chreist (ND) defeated Quimhy (IS), 6-3, 6-1; Hutchens (IS) defeated O’Hanlon (ND), 4-6, 6-1, 6-4 ; Moore (IS) defeated Power (ND), 6-4. 8-6; Meyer (ND) defeated McAlpine (IS), 6-2, 6-4 ; Kelly (ND) defeated Baugh (IS), 1-6, 6-4, 6-4.
DOUBLES—Moore and McAlpine (IS) defeated Staley and Meade (ND), 6-1, 7-5 ; Kelly and Chreist (ND) defeated Hutchens and Quimhy (IS), 6-3, 6-4.
KARL CONTINUES SERIES ON GERMAN SCHOOL LIFE
. II.
Some of the fraternities are of a political nature, while others concentrate on sport or perhaps have as a main interest some branch of knowledge, as engineering, philosophy, etc.
The aforegoing cryptic mass of facts is but a small part of what might be said. To have attempted to go into detail would have required nothing short of a book, what with the particular difficulty of giving the intended meaning to translated words and phrases.
In the same way that it is so difficult to give a German student phrase its full value in English, is it hard for an American to at first understand the spirit behind these societies. It frankly pains one at first to see some of the things they do. And as far as scars are concerned, the American thinks that anyone who craves such facial adornment must be a nt. Maybe they are nuts, but as in all else, it is not what one is looking at, rather from which angle the looking is being done, and I’m sure that the German’s first rating of American student life would not be all plus. After having
been to several meetings and mingled with the brothers one really begins to see of what worth such a society can be in a student’s life. The university gives him only scientific knowledge; the fraternity aims to teach him whatever else is necessary for the making of well balanced cultural being. The final results depends upon himself.
SORINITES HONOR FATHER FARLEY ON ANNIVERSARY
(Continued from Page 5)
football team, was toastmaster. It was he who sounded the key-note of the evening. He said:
“You have built, Father, a parish that stretches across the nation. There beats in the hearts of thousands of men the ideals and the inspirations that you have taught in your twenty-five* years as a priest. These men, your old students, would like to be here tonight, to join in our songs and celebration, to run across you on the campus and nonchalantly wave their. hand and shout, “Hi, Boy!”
Father Farley will not forget that banquet. Neither will Sorin Hallers.
O. A. Clark’s RESTAURANT 104-106 N. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
Catering to	.
NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
WE HAVE NO KEY
Grand Opening
Saturday, May 28 Playland Dance - Ride -- Swim FIREWORKS
Decoration Day

Thirty
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
Fly Away Home
By James S. Kearns
HOW’LL THEY BE?
It is almost time for the back-home barrage of “how’ll the team be next fall” queries. Aside from the fact that the entire home town inevitably knows more of the “inside” dope than you ever dreamed of, you’re always supposed to know who’ll get the all-American positions, how many games the basketball team will win, and who’ll replace Wilson on the track squad.
Looking over the past year and ahead to the coming one, there is plenty of room for speculation. The football team will be starting from scratch, and will be suffering from the loss of seven big leaguers. Tom Yarr, 'March Schwartz, Nordy Hoffmann, Al Culver, Carl Cronin, Bernie Leahy, and George Kozak have •wound up their grid careers. There is no question but that they will be missed.
However, with all due respect to traditions demanding pre-season gloominess, it seems reasonably safe to feel confident that next year’s eleven will be a mighty tough assignment for any of the nine teams on the schedule.
For justification of that confidence we need only look to the squad that will be returning. Tackles: Kurth and Krause. Guards: Harriss, Green-ey, Wunsch, Pierce, Pivamik. Ends: Kosky, Devore, Capt. Host. That group, under the direction of Hunk Anderson, who has no superior at line coaching, should form the nucleus for one of the greatest lines in the country.
In the backfield there is no lack of material. Jaskwhich, Murphy, and Vejar, first three quarterbacks last season, will all be back. In addition to that a couple of promising freshmen have cropped up and should give the squad plenty of talent at the pivot’s post.
Fullback, apparently, is a wide open race. To us the leaders shape up as Melonkovich, Leonard, and Banas: you can make your own selections. Right halfback should find Ray Brancheau and Joe Sheeketski again well in the front. A redheaded terror named Johnny Tobin
looked more than impressive during spring drill, and will give the two veterans plenty of competition.
Replacing Marchy Schwartz is a job that no one would crave. Admitting the difficulty of it, there is still cause for this confidence that we have, in the men who will be available for the job. Mike Koken, brilliant understudy to Schwartz, is undoubtedly in the van. Nick Lukats, back after a full season out of the game because of injury, seems to have lost none of his punch, and looms as a dangerous ball toter. Frank LaBome, slippery and elusive, has given every indication of being in the thick . of the race. Finally there is this Al McGuff fellow who popped up with some great demonstrations during spring training.
“How’ll the team be next fall?” “Good! Mighty good.”
MORE FORESIGHT
Without attempting to evaluate their chances or porspects, we can’t help looking forward to the opening of the basketball season here next winter. The cage team has an unfinished run of 16 victories to pick up and, even more than our anxiety to see the new rules in operation, will be our interest in seeing how far they will stretch that win streak.
Twenty-one seems to be the “go no farther” sign for all Notre Dame teams. Two football teams and a golf squad have reached that milepost on the victory road only to stumble or fall entirely. It will be worth watching the Keoganites’ efforts to get by the mark.
We’ll confess total ignorance as to the probable track situation next year with the exception of one fact. Three of the most consistent point winners on Nick’s squads for the past three years will be missing from the lineup.
Alex Wilson, Gene Howery, and Bob Darling, who have amassed an astounding total of points, all get their sheepskins in June. It has been a long time since a runner of Wilson’s calibre has worn spikes for Notre Dame, and the prospects of replacing him are less than dim.
Instead of a long, hot train trip* to start your vacation, fly home in a swift, cool airliner. Measure your travel time in minutes, not hours— hours, not days. Start planning now to travel with
Hransamerican Airlines Corp.
Plane fares are little higher —and in some cases lower— than train plus pullman. Here is a partial schedule out of South Bend Municipal Airport :
45 Minutes to CHICAGO
Lv. 10:45 A.M.
2:15 P.M.
4:55 P.M.* 6:30 P.M.
105 Minutes to
DETROIT
Lv. 9:45 A.M.
1:15 P.M.
3:45 P.M.*
5:15 P.M.
* Daily except Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays and holidays.
The Chicago planes make excellent connections with other airlines for all points in the northwest, west, southwest and south.
There are additional schedules to Indiana and Michigan points. Call the T. A. C. office, South Bend Municipal Airport.
3-8151
for additional information, rates and reservations.
FLY ON THE GOVERNMENT MAIL LINES
May 27, 1932
Thirty-one
Campus Opinions
KEYS TO SCIENCE GROUP
(Continued from Page 6)
Question: “What are you going to do after graduation?” (Asked of five seniors.)
Frank Miller, Jr., Walsh hall, senior: “I am trying to find a job with an accounting firm in Chicago. It is hard, as all the graduating seniors have found out, hut the only chance we have is to keep looking, if we are not fortunate enough to continue our education.”
of Holy Cross in the United States, who presented the keys.
Father Burns, a former professor of chemistry in the University, next addressed the body and described the Academy as a “very distinct credit to the University.” He traced the development of the College of Science from its founding by Father Sorin up to the present and declared that
“Notre Dame is proud of the achievements of the professors and students in science.”
Those who received keys were Henry B. Asman, Rollin F. Bunch, Roy J. Catizone, Myron F. Crawford, James P. Danehy, Anthony Grasso, Charles O. Kroncke, James F. Sec-careccio, George Seelinger, Edward G. Siegfried, Arthur Tutela, Casimir Vaikasas, and Fred Weniger. These men have all belonged to the Academy for three consecutive semesters.
Paul L. O’Toole, Sorin hall, senior: “To ask a man what he intends to do immediately after graduation is rather a personal question. It seems to be the opinion of most seniors to take a trip into the well-known Canadian regions for varied and diverse reasons. At present, the real estate business seems to be very inviting, and it is probably best to enter immediately, because there’s a great deal to learn. Immediate entrance is an absolute necessity. The trip to Canada is off.”
Peter J. Trolio, Corby hall, senior: “After leaving Notre Dame, I intend to secure a position in an architectural firm. Then after a number of years I plan to become a registered architect and to have my own office. I intend to major in residence work.”
E. G. Britz, Sorin hall, senior: “After one graduates, one usually looks for a comfortable position with a promising firm—that is, in normal times. With conditions as pleasant as they are now, I believe that rather than face the disappointment of being turned down repeatedly, one should either create some new enterprise or take themselves off to a foreign country like Africa where only the sun can take the skin off one’s back.”
Thomas J. Magee, Corby hall, senior: “Drop around, boys. You’ll find me at the Glen-Mills Reform School for Boys, located near Philadelphia. I will be working there as a parole agent. My aim in the future is to be a prison warden. Don’t come unless you are hungry and sleepy.”
A Program That*s "Different"
The Texaco Fire Chief
ED WYNN
America’s Favorite Comedian
With
Don Voorhees
and his 35-Piece Fire Chief Band, The Fire Chief Double Quartette, and Graham McNamee announcing.
Tuesday nights—N. B. C. hookup.
Fill up with the new, powerful
Texaco Fire Chief Gas
at
Clarence's Service Station
Notre Dame*s nearest station.
Corner South Bend, Eddy and Corby Streets
t
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
ALLERTON HOTEL.
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in. Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
On Down the Line
___^__^_With Joe Morper ________
IRVING SEELY, Freshman at the University of Illinois, vaulted 13 feet 9^ inches in a recent meet . . . VERNE McDERMOTT holds the Big Ten record of 13 feet 10% inches . . . Duck hunters shot so much lead into several Minnesota lakes, that ducks frequenting these waters got lead poisoning . . . VICTOR LISKE of Lafayette College is captain-elect of the swimming team, although he has only one leg . . . The University of Florida was undefeated in dual track meets in 1928, ’29, ’30, and ’31. . . .
V
J. A. REYYNOLDS, Slaton, Texas, golfer, made a birdie 3 on a 369 yard hole, without having the ball touch the tee, fairway, or green . . . Three sets of brothers are members of the University of California track and field squad .. . BILLY SUNDAY, the Evangelist, faced the pitcher 3 times in one inning for an all-time record, in a game between the Chicago Sox and Detroit, way back in 1883 . . . MAC SMITH will resume his 22 year-old quest for the British Open golf crown this summer. . . .
V
EDSEL FORD will drive the pace car that starts the 500-mile Indianapolis speed classic Memorial Day . . . He will cross the starting line at ninety miles an hour . . . GAR WOOD, world’s champion speedboat pilot, will be the official starter of the race . . . PRINCETON is represented in football, baseball, basketball, track, tennis, golf, crew, lacrosse, polo, and rugby ... In the spring often as many as eight different Varsity games are played within the course of one afternoon. . . .
V
CARL NELSON, Clinton (Iowa) High track star, last Saturday won the Iowa state interscholastic track meet singlehanded ... He won the 100 in 9.9, the 220 in 21.8, placed second in the broad jump, and anchored the winning relay team, to score all of his team’s points . . . JACK ELDER, who came to Notre Dame as a baseball player, starred in football and track, equalled the world record in the 60 yard dash, but failed to play a game of baseball . . . NOTRE DAME’S all-time football record reads . . . 256 won, 50 lost, and 20 tied....
Here’s One Smoke for MEN
IET the little girls toy with their long, slim holders—let them park scented cigarettes with their powder compacts. That’s the time for you to go in for a REAL MAN’S smoke.
And what can that be but a PIPE!
There’s something about a time-proven, companionable pipe that does satisfy a man’s smoking instincts. You become attached to it—like
She won’t borrow the way it clears your pipe! y0Ur stirs yOur imagination, puts a keen edge on your thinking.
And you know the heights of true
smoking satisfaction when you keep your pipe filled with Edgeworth. It’s
the finest blend burleys. And its rich aroma have made Edgeworth the favorite among pipe tobaccos in 42 out of 54 leading American colleges and universities.
Edgeworth? You can buy Edgeworth wherever good
of choice, selected mellow flavor and
The smoke you can call your own
tobacco is sold. Or, if you wish to try before you buy, send for special free packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, xj^pocket package to $1.50 pound humidor tin.
You ve Seen The DOMEI
Would You Like to Have An Extra Copy?
AGAIN WE WARN YOU TO ORDER THAT ADDITIONAL VOLUME NOW. THE DEMAND FOR THE 1932 “DOME” HAS BEEN UNPRECEDENTED. ONLY A LIMITED NUMBER OF EXTRA COPIES REMAIN AVAILABLE.
A SMALL DEPOSIT WILL RESERVE THAT COPY FOR YOU. GET IN TOUCH WITH THE PUBLICATIONS OFFICE NOW!
» » » » ,
Board of Publications
AT THE UNIVERSITY	NOTRE DAME, IND.
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMMONISR LIBRASY-
iVOTRE DAME, LOCAL
mellow tobaccos
from the Sunny South
aromatic tobaccos
from Smyrna, Xanthi
Samsoun, Cavallo
taste better
—that’s why they
WED. & SAT.
RUTH
ETTING
K*p.m.ED.T.

Chesterfield Radio Program
MON. & THUR. Boswell Sisters n30p.m.ED.T
. TUES. *FRI. Alex Gray Xk30p.ffl.tDT.
SHILKRETS ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday NORMAN BROKENSHIRE. Announcer
COLUMBIA NETWORK
Q1932. LiGcm * Myebs Tobacco Co.