MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
College men prefer ARROWS, if for no other reason than downright good looks. Arrow Shirts cost no more. Come in tomorrow for your Arrow selections.
Ifs Adler's for Arrows!
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER*	M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d. d.s.
Cyril F. rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623*629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
Sport Shirts for Athletes
(Armchair and Otherwise)
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone	residence
3-2805	4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-ray Examination hours by	609 J. M.S. Bldg.
APPOINTMENT	SOUTH BEND, IND.
yOUR old friend Arrow makes sport shirts good looking and comfortable, fine for lounging as well as for active sports. They haven’t any doodads or flossy color scheme to distract you or others.
The models include the in-or-outer type, short or long sleeves, button-front or pull-over. And believe it or not, you can get Arrow sport shirts in your exact collar size! Buy some today and get ready for the great outdoors.
Cut and mwr sport shirts $2 up; knitted shirts $1 up.
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8969	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
ARROW SHIRTS
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
SOS SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE S-12S4	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
I	■ RAYMOND J. KELLY — ■
Compensation
Those bromides about the ill-wind and the silver lining were called to mind when we saw a note in the Marquette Tribune that enlisted Navy men who will graduate from Marquette next month will have to pay no graduation fee. They will not wear caps and gowns but will receive their diplomas in uniform.
Grim humor *
One of our faculty members, probably the leading “All-out” man in these parts, described his disappointment in the Charley Chaplin slap at Adolf and his bootblack: “Two years ago the dictators were funny; they aren’t now.”
At Colgate, during the course of the senior class beer party, one of the class leaders facetiously suggested that the class devote part of its funds to the erection, at a suitable time, of a fitting memorial to the first member of the class to be killed in the war. He started a great controversy with the proposal, for to his amazement, the idea was taken seriously. Someone proposed that the memorial be erected to the first conscientious objector in the class to be thrown in jail. Some wanted to restrict the memorial to the first member of the class . killed in action or to the first to be killed in this hemisphere. A few felt that the money should be set aside in a fund and named for the first casualty. But it all adds up to that peculiar brand of fatalism that grips every campus this beautiful Spring of the ninth year of the regime of Roosevelt II.
♦
Sorority news
Those whose memories go back far enough into the dim past of childhood to the time when Mother Goose was all the rage will recall one ditty that began: “Monday’s child is full of grace. Tuesday’s child is fair of face.” They alone can appreciate the subtle mind that would title a column in a college paper “Saturday’s child.” Whether the title is appropriate, can be left to your discretion, dear reader. Read this following bit taken from the Minnesota Daily and determine for yourself whether Tom Heggen, Saturday’s Child, really works hard for a living.
“I think I shall begin by giving a
short history of Chi Omega. Chi Omega was founded in 1868 at Mount Olympus by three girls named Juno, Minerva, and Venus. They did not give their last names. That chapter is known as the Mt. Olympus Alpha and even today is one of the strongest chapters. From those humble beginnings the new sorority grew by leaps and bounds and by 1912 had a total of 9 members scattered throughout the world. The second chapter was established at Notre Dame University in 1916 and the third at Dunwoody Institute in 1924. A charter for Kemper Military academy is about to be granted.
“The sorority is, of course, most famous for its part in the World War, where it was known as the 187th division or ‘the fighting 187th.’ Also known as the Rainbow division. There are now 500,837,000 Chi Omegas extant. They multiply by simple fission and are hereditary.”
Requirements for membership are very strict. Applicants must have completed at least 2 years of ROTC, must make a score of 240 or better on the Binet-Simon character test, must have an intelligence quotient of 37 or better, must pass a rigid physical examination, . be over 12 years of age, and must look reasonably like Mona Lisa.
Upon graduation, all Chi Omegas are given commissions as second lieutenants in the Angels Reserve Corps.
♦
He-men to arms
While Editor Gene Kennedy was
One man’s meat. . .
away, attending the Confraternity meeting at St. Mary’s, the'girls at De Paul took charge of his paper, the De Panlia, and put out a co-ed issue. Subjects of feminine interest were treated extensively. The rugged De Paulia style was sweetened and, believe it or not, the paper was perfumed! Aghast at this degeneration of their publication which had a reputation, built by generations of hard-boiled editors, of being virile and distinctly tough, the men of De Paul plan to put out a “He-man” issue. Plans are hazy as yet but we hope that they don’t go overboard and put out a paper, printed on old T-shirts, that will use up all the asterisks in the print-shop.
♦
Crowd noises
In the Walsh hall penthouse. . . . “What does he mean -calling us ‘nighthawks?’ Me and roomie ain’t had a midnight the last two days.” ... In a Dublin pub. .. . “Ireland’s going to stay neutral if she has to fight everyone in Europe to do it.”	.	'
Spring fun
Life at Notre Dame swept along this year, coming to a crashing crescendo the week of the Senior Ball; life at Princeton, an educational institution for boys, located in New Jersey, somewhere . south of Weehawken, reached its climax during the annual house party weekend. Glamour girls were rooted out of the Stork Club for the occasion; Smith women combed the bird nests out of their hair and hitch-hiked south. It evidently was a great thing, including Bunny Berrigan’s band. The Daily Princetonian ran a special issue for the occasion. Best feature was an ad, offering Haig and Haig at $3.18.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
■ ■	■	■ By GEORGE MILES -■	■■	-----
No matter how cold it is these days, and no matter how cold it may become, you can rest assured that summer is nigh. We were beginning to have doubts about the authenticity of various weather reports ourselves, but we know now that all claims were valid. We came upon Brother Boathouse the other day as he sat near the diving platform, and we noticed that he was in full uniform, whistle included. What more need be said	.
*
A friend of ours was disturbed recently by the nocturnal barking of that current canine visitor who is called “No Smut.” Unable to endure the noise outside his window, this fellow made a lariat of his belt and lassoed the dog. Then he dragged him into the room, and forced him to spend the night on the first floor of the Gold Coast. A’ course, podners, the fella is a Texun, and a mean hand, a mighty mean hand with a lasso.
*
The fellow who collects cliches and old song hits continues to maintain his place as the foremost composer of fictitious committees in this age of committee composing. His latest is the “Let Lindy Alone League.” He has written a poem for the thing already, and he plans a formal statement which will come crashing to a close with this line: “And we are one with ‘WE’ in this case.” (Incidental slogan: “Jogging along with Johnson.”)
*
It took us until this time to discover that there were such things as “dots.” They are the higher education version of the black marks that boys and girls acquire in the grade schools, and they are doled out against the students of the college to the northwest. Whenever there is dust on the floor, ar wrinkles in the rug a dot is dotted in a little black book, and when there are enough dots to form a good, solid line, some kind of punishment is assigned like the writing of the old line “I must not be careless,” 99 times. We are not in a position to comment on the justice of the dot system, but we can see great possibilities for punishment by design. With a little effort those dots could be transformed into parabolas, parallelograms and projected transversals. Without effort they can very easily lapse into an ordinary old polka dot arrangement. Punishment, of course, would be made to fit the design.
*
This is a story for students inclined to intrigue. When he was a sophomore a certain student, thinking that his way might be made smoother, told his Apologetics instructor that he was a convert. At the end of the year, however, the instructor told him that he was being failed because as a convert he needed another year of instruction. Now the fellow is a senior and he is still taking Apologetics and he is in danger of failing again and he is in danger of missing graduation. Moral: never trust an Apologetics instructor.
*
It has been remarked, and rightfully, that one can eat in the cafeteria at any hour, and still not escape a broom handle under the chin and dust in the nostrils. Unless we are mistaken, the bus-boys sweep just for the sake of sweeping, and the floor managers throw rubbish around just for the purpose of keeping the bus-boys happy. Cleanliness is an admirable virtue, and we would be the last one to deny its value. But it can progress to the point of annihilation. We suggest that the cafe people inaugurate a dull and dingy week; it’s much better for the appetite.
*
‘ If there was not a single other argument against the 11:15 curfew, this one would appear sufficient to bring about its cancellation. It compels a young man of the University to hail and seek a ride from a strange motorist, who, willing to he helpful, drives the young man to the campus, where, either because he is ignorant of the campus geometry, or defective in vision, he does unwittingly operate his vehicle so that it moves not in a semi-circle, but in a straight line and into the tulip bed which is the terminus of the straight highway. It compelled one young man, anyway.
NEW DEAL IN NEWS By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Philadelphia, Pa., May 13 — When asked today what he considered the most serious problem facing American youth upon graduation from college this year, Phineus T. Bumwinkle, world famous educator said, “There is no doubt about it; the problem is, what happened to the varsity in Saturday’s game with the Old Timers?”
Notre Dame Dining Hall, May 15— After looking over the advance copies of this year’s Dome exhibited at the publications banquet here tonight, former editor Tom Carty disclosed, “The record established by me last year still stands. Last year’s edition averaged three mistakes to the page and this one doesn’t even come close to that.”
Notre Dame Golf Course, May 13— Unshaven and weakened from hunger, John Patterson, Notre Dame senior, was found today in a sandtrap on the seventeenth hole, by his partner, Jack Keegan, and opponents Ray Clarke and Lou MacKensie, who had reported him missing two days ago. After blasting the ball out in twenty-seven strokes Patterson found that he had dug himself in so deeply that he was forced to wait for help to get out. The ball was found on the green.
Sugar Grove, Ohio, May 14—(Special from Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy Eye, Minn., correspondent of the London Times.)—I have spent the entire week in a fruitless search for Joe Glumpf, the wealthy Park Ave. sandwich man who disappeared two weeks ago. I have investigated several clues in different parts of the country during the past week and am forced to admit that I am no nearer the solution. One of the most promising clues is the one that I am investigating now. A W.P.A. worker was seen eating a toasted Spanish cheese sandwich, one of Joe’s specialties, on Main Street here yesterday.
Notre Dame, Ind., May 13—Samuel Neild, captain of the Notre Dame golf team, using a four iron, drove a tractor 327 yards today.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	-
Volume 74
MAY 16, 1941
Number 25
THE LAST MILE
Monsignor Fulton Sheen Will Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon at Graduation
Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy is Commencement Speaker
Robed in traditional black cap and gown, 619 seniors of the Class of ’41 will inarch in solemn procession to the University field house at 3 o’clock on the afternoon of Sunday, June 1, there to receive Bachelor degrees in their chosen colleges. Presenting the diplomas before the eyes of proud parents, relatives and friends of the seniors will be the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; addressing them in the capacity of commencement speaker will be the Honorable Joseph P. Kennedy, ex-ambassador from the United States to Great Britain. Approximately 30 graduate students will receive degrees that afternoon, as will 33 seniors of the College of Law.
The awarding of degrees will climax the week-end program of Notre Dame’s 97th annual commencement exercises, a program which will formally begin with
the observance of Memorial Day by returning alumni and graduating seniors on Friday, May 30. The official program of Saturday, May 31, will include a 9:30 a.m. “last visit” by the Class of ’41 to Sacred Heart Church, the Class Day exercises and awarding of honors in Washington hall at 10:00 a.m., and numerous social and athletic events about the campus.
The Right Reverend Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, of Catholic University of America, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the solemn pontifical mass to be celebrated Sunday morning in the field house. The Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, diocese, will be celebrant of the mass. Following a tradition of many years’ standing, the flag presented by the senior class to the University on Washington’s birthday will be blessed after the baccalaureate mass, then raised on the flag pole at the main quadrangle.
Commencement-at Notre Dame always means homecoming for alumni, the University inviting as guests graduates of
five-years classes starting with 1936 and including members of the classes of ’31, ’26, ’21, etc. For these returning sons of Notre Dame, the administration has provided a banquet on Saturday night, a softball game between the classes of ’36 and ’31, and glee club concerts, and two presentations of Gilbert and Sullivan’s light opera, The Gondoliers, by the Notre Dame Savoyards. A new feature of this year’s program will be two forums open to participation by alumni and presided over by University professors, one on current political problems, the other on economic problems of 1941. Both forums will be held in the auditorium of the Cushing hall of engineering, the general public is invited to attend. The first, on politics, will be held at 1:00 pan., Friday, the other, on economic topics, will be at 3:30 pan. on Saturday.
The Class of 1941 is composed numerically as follows according to the various Colleges conferring degrees: Arts and Letters, 212; Science, 54; Engineering, 79; Law, 33; Commerce, 241.
—John Casey
New Editors Announced
At Publications Dinner
Twenty-six editors and assistant editors of next year’s Dome, Scrip, and Scholastic staffs and 33 recipients of Dome and Scholastic keys proudly walked out of the dining hall last night after the annual publications banquet.
The Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty advisor, announced next year’s staff of the Scholastic. They are: Editor-in-Chief, John A. Reilly whose home is in Dorchester, Mass.; managing editor, Thomas V. Powers from Enid, Okla., faculty newseditor, Mark G. McGrath of Ancon, Panama Canal Zone; campus news-editor,
SCHOLASTIC MEETING TONIGHT
A meeting of the SCHOLASTIC staff will be held in the editorial rooms tonight at 7:30 o’clock. All students who are interested in writing for the SCHOLASTIC next year are especially urged to attend.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Jack Sprague from Sunnyside, Wash.; Promotion, William Scanlan of LaCrosse, Wis., who will also write “Splinters from the Pressbox”; sports editor, John F. Dinges from Downers Grove, Ill.; literary editor, Donald T. Heltzel from Warren, Ohio; photo editor, Edward V. Drinkard of Lynchburg, Va.; advertising manager, Elmer D. Silha, from Chicago, Ill.; art editor, William C. Baader of Chillicothe, Ohio, and associate sports editor, John B. Powers from Enid, Okla. “The Week” will be written by James P. O’Laughlin whose home town is Washington, D. C. Robert Le-Mense of Iron Mountain, Mich, will write the “College Parade.”
Those who received Scholastic keys in recognition of their work on the magazine are: William C. McGowan, John W. Patterson, Jr., George Miles, William Scanlan, John Dinges, William Baader, James G. Newland, Thomas F. Carty, John W. Larson, Raymond Kelly, John Casey, Albert Del Zoppo, Joseph Stephen, Felix Pogliano, Jr., Robert LeMense, Daniel Broderick, Jr., Vernon Witkowski, Robert J. Fitzpatrick, Donald Heltzel, and Francis Wemhoff.
Those who will guide the publication of the 1942 Dome as announced by the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor of the Dome, are: Editor-in-Chief, Joseph R. Hillebrand of Toledo, Ohio; associate editor of copy, John J. Gilligan from Cincinnati, Ohio; associate editor of art, Clement A. Hooley of Larchmont, N. Y.; portrait editor, Thomas L. Atkins of West Branch, Mich.; club editor, Joseph A. Mannion from Richmond Hill, N. Y.; sports editor, Cornelius J. Quinn from Brooklyn, N. Y.; campus editor, John H. Doerr of-Buffalo, N. Y.; photographer, Edgar C. Steeb from Buffalo, N. Y.
Father Carey also presented engraved keys for distinguished work done on this year’s Dome to: Neil McCarty, Jack Garvey, Matt Byrne, Jim Burke, Sam Boyle, John Bermingham, Albert Muench, Jack Hynes, Earl Donegan, Thomas Cooney, Bernard McKay, Harvey Brown, and Ray Wilmer.
The Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., faculty advisor of Scrip, announced that the 1941-42 literary quarterly would be headed by Editor - in - Chief Charles J. Kirby, from Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.; and assistant editors Charles Kearney of Dixon, Ill.; Donald D. Connors of Queens Village, N. Y.; Philip L. Richards from Alpena, Mich.; and James E. O’Donohoe from Grand Rapids, Mich. AU of next year’s Scrip staff are seniors-to-be and all have been contributors to the magazine.
—Jack Sprague
Burke, Carty, Doody and Kelly
Named 1941 "Dome" Award Winners
During the.annual publication banquet in the University dining hall last night, Tom Carty, Ray Kelly, Jack Burke, and Frank Doody were named winners of the 1941 Dome awards. Twenty-two juniors, representing all phases of extracurricular activity at Notre Dame, cooperated in these selections. Some weeks ago they held a nomination meeting out of which came the names of 20 senior candidates. After committees investigated scholastic, disciplinary, and extracurricular records of each nominee two ballots were required to determine the winners.
The committee of 22 prominent juniors who chose the Dome award winners, were Jack Bermingham, Sam Boyle, Jim Burke, Matty Byrne, Bob Coleman, Jack Garvey, Steve Graliker, Bob Hargrave, Gerard Rabbet, Jerry Killigrew, Paul Lillis, Stan Litizzetti, Neil McCarty, Don McNalley, Bob Mullaney, Jim O’Brien, Jim O’Neal, Ed Reidy, Ray Roy, Bill Scanlan, Gene Schumacher, and Dan Shouvlin.
Tom Carty’s activities add up to double figures. Besides being editor-in-chief of the 1940 Dome, Academy of Politics president, editor of Santa Maria, and recorder of Knights of Columbus, Tom was
Burke, Carty, Doody and Kelly Step Forward
a Scholastic staffman and a member of the Radio club, the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, the Junior Prom committee, and the Wranglers. With all this, he has an important voice in Caf conversations. Tom lives in the rocks of Alumni and comes from Yonkers, N. Y.
Detroit’s Raymond J. Kelly is one of the pillars on Sorin’s porch. Since the return of the sun Ray’s living-speed has dwindled into lazy strolls and dancing with Michigan’s gift to St. Mary’s, but it wasn’t always so. He has been, among other things, Detroit club president, associate of the 1940 Dome, Knights of Columbus chancellor, and Radio club president in ’39 and ’40. Ray is the first person you meet in the Scholastic. Ray is also the white-haired lad who stood on the Library steps one fall evening and shouted red into his face for the cause of the younger presidential candidate. Last September Ray wrapped his bones in a football uniform and gave a thousand puffs and grunts for old Sorin. Now he is seen most often with golf clubs.
Jack Burke, who comes from Sioux Falls, S. Dak., is the quiet, capable president of the Student Council. Anyone who was afraid words would clog in Jack’s throat at the football rallies just 'wasted worries for Jack was a member of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
the Varsity debating team, the Wranglers, and the Schoolmen. He also belongs to the Academy of Politics and served on the staff of the 1940 Dome. He lives in half of a cushioned “double” in Walsh hall from which he speeds nearly every morning to walk the mail to the boys in Howard. The other day, Jack brought everlasting fame to the Student Council by making a wonderful catch of a batted softball that was threatening to destroy Badin hall. At this time, his opinions on war and international politics are explosive and isolationist.
Frank Doody, who is president of the Engineers club, is known for his achievement of holding a slide rule in one hand and a football in the other, and doing well with both. In season, he has played varsity football and taken a full swing at interhall sports. Frank comes from Oak Park, Ill., and belongs to the A.S.M.E. In his junior year he was class vice-president. All these positions of honor make little mark on Frank; while attending Fenwick High School he was captain of the swimming team, president of the senior class, and president of the honor society.—George Kelly
WHICH IS JACK? WHICH IS BILL?
The Sherer Twins, Jack and Bill, Look as Alike as Two Peas in a Pod
George S. Stratigos Heads Villagers Club
George S. Stratigos, commerce junior-from South Bend, was elected president of the Notre Dame Villagers club for the 1941-42 school year at a meeting of the club last week. He succeeds Warren A. Deahl, graduating senior.
Pledging a closer fraternity of Villagers and a more active club in campus affairs, in intramural sports, and in association with the alumni, Stratigos announced the other officers elected as: Thomas E. Hoyer, vice-president; John W. Schindler, secretary; William H. Strycker, treasurer; William R. Turner, sergeant-at-arms; and Gerald F. Feeney, student council representative.
In addition to the officers Mr. Stratigos has appointed the following as directors: Vail Pischke, club activities; William J. Minges, public relations; Robert Russell, social activities; and Robert C. Uhl, publicity. Mr. Hoyer will be in charge of athletic activities of the club.
The Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., will continue as club chaplain, and Robert H. McAuliffe, director of off-campus students, will remain club adviser.
Following Mass and Communion in Dillon hall chapel last Sunday, members of the club heard Ed McKeever, backfield coach, at breakfast in the lay faculty dining hall.—Robert Uhl
Jack and Bill Sherer are another pair of nature’s optical illusions. Having been born twins they naturally look somewhat alike, but when one gets to know them, they are as different as black and white. After passing an uneventful childhood in almost every state east of the Mississippi, the twins now hail from West Hartford, Conn., where both “prepped” at Kings-wood School. The painting shown in the photograph, by Mr. Francis J. Hanley of the University art department, is evidence of the twins’ striking resemblance.
Enrolled at Notre Dame in the College of Architecture, Jack has amazed the Beaux Arts critics no little. Bill is at somewhat of a disadvantage here having “adopted” architecture after giving only a year to engineering. But those who know him realize that it won’t be long before he’ll be contending with his brother for the title of “The Norman Bel Geddes of Notre Dame.” Both lads have an extraordinary sense of proportion and color values. ‘De Profundis,’ the frontispiece of the latest issue of Scrip will give you some idea of the twins talent as artists and designers.
The fourth floor of Lyons is in a continual up-roar with the “kids” quarreling, but it is always in a good healthy manner and as soon as it’s over one of them is boosting the other as the best. “Jack, don’t be an idiot,” resounds frequently as Bill comes steaming down the hall under his traditional artist’s haircut to reprimand his younger brother, (ten
minutes younger), for some breach of Sherer etiquette. Jack, who can’t be convinced that Hedy Lamarr is mortal, continually lives in a medieval world of noble knights, white horses and beautiful maidens; all much to the despair of Bill.
Despising even the thought of dressing alike, the twins seldom use their likeness to anyone’s disadvantage. However, there is a certain young miss. at the “Rock” who will vouch for Bill as a quick-change artist any day in the week. On the subject of dress, Jack is a walking example of the conservative “Finchley” tradition at all times with Bill upholding casual campus dress, always without necktie. Jack is somewhat of an authority on heraldry and is continually kidding Bill for his interest in modern metaphor.
The ambitions of the twins run somewhat in the same vein. Idolizing Darwin Teague, Jack has chosen architectural design as his future while Bill expects to supplement his architectural training with an additional course at the Yale School of Fine Arts in order that he may challenge Jose Sert as well as Bel Geddes.
Keep your eyes open for these talented twins, because if they aren’t taken in the draft in the near future, Messrs. Cedric Gibbons and Michelangelo are most likely to have embarrassing competition.
—Edward Lee Holland and Richard Powers
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By James J. Meaney
AEchael P. Grace, of Walsh hall and the steamboat company, can be heard wherever he is, arguing against the Interventionists, the Communists, the C.I.O., and anyone else who will argue. And Mike is almost everywhere on the campus; mainly he is in the Caf, in the Law building, in Church, in Alumni hall, or asleep in
Mike Grace Walsh. Or going from one of these to the other, on a run. Because when Mike isn’t talking, or in Church, or asleep, he’s running.
Before transferring to Notre Dame, Mike spent three years at Harvard; most of the three years he spent arguing at communists’ meetings, or socialist professors’ meetings, or hurrying between the two. He had a private “braintrust” who helped him to pass a majority of his courses. At Harvard, he tried out his theories on sleep. One theory was that he needed only four hours’ sleep a night. After a semester or so he had to give it up. It made him “punchy,” he admits. Now he believes in nine and a half hours per night; a three-hour mid-day nap supplies the extra hours. Because before six he’s up thumping at doors, waking men for Fr. Mathis’ Recitative Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Mike’s first move in the direction of Notre Dame was when he volunteered and became Bishop John F. O’Hara’s secretary on his trip with Catholic educators to Venezuela. Here at Notre Dame he is involved in a Foreign Commerce course, an Arts and Letters course, and Law.
Back home, Mike is notorious for his driving. He drives like mad, in and out of New York traffic. He broke into the New Yorker a while back with a souped-up car, reputed to do 90 in second. (And which, incidentally, his father has taken into protective custody.) ’
Rumor has it that he made an all-time record for the number of girls invited to the Ball. Some say 20, others say 30; for a while he was receiving telegrams faster than he could open them.
Mike, as might be expected, is one of the active in Catholic Action Students; he is also president of Fr. Mathis’ group.
When Mike first arrived on campus last year, he was noticed most for his long, shaggy hair and his fast, stuttering chatter. His enthusiasms and his energies are enormous, constant, and unpredictable. His brother, Peter, who works in the boat company office, is said to be as unpredictable and as energetic. When they get together, the arguments are often terrific; once they argued all night and late into the morning.
Mike’s friends are as many and as far-flung as his interests. One, for instance, is a German baron. The baron is a suave sort of fellow, very likeable. When he left New York, he went to Holland. Shortly after, it fell.
Mike’s future? Yes, he’ll be in the army in July.
Father Cavanaugh Speaks at Servers' Banquet
The Servers’ Club climaxed a season of social activity by holding its seventh annual banquet on May 8. The program was opened by the out-going president, Frank McDonough, who thanked the members for their cooperation during the past year and who introduced the toastmaster of the evening, the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Father Burke commended the servers for their sacrifices in serving Mass each morning, and told them how their good spirit now would produce leadership later. And he proved this by naming many former members of the club who are now important in many fields.
Father Burke then introduced Brother Boniface, C.S.C., Servers’ Club advisor; the Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C.; the Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer, C.S.C.; Dan Hanley; and the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who was the principal speaker.
Father Cavanaugh praised the servers for their sacrifices and told them how they are reaping graces through their clean living. By sacrificing an hour of sleep each morning, they are training themselves for overcoming greater obstacles in the future. He said: “A man who lives well, will know how to die well.” .
Officers for next year are: Don Peterson, president; Bill Herzog, vice-president; and Bob McAuliffe, secretary.
—Jack Shine
"It Never Rains" Opens Tonight at Central High
While Rudolph Hess’s 20th century hegira incidently revivified universal Anglo-phile enthusiasm, it was probably intended to boost the gate receipts at Producer Jack White’s South Bend musical comedy, “It Never Rains,” the proceeds of which will go to British hospital funds. The show makes its gala opening this evening at 7:15 o’clock, Notre Dame time, in the South Bend Central High School theatrical auditorium, and hopes are high for three full houses, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
After two months of concentrated effort the combined talents of several Notre Dame students: Jack White, producer, Vern Witkowski, director, and Bob Saggau, Bill Mulvey, John Kelley and Mike Kinnare, singers and actors, and a youthful group of South Bend enthusiasts who have filled out both a singing and dancing chorus and a female cast of 30, John Coppinger’s script and John Kelley’s songs have been molded into an exceptional college production. However, it will probably be little ten-year-old Joan Brine who will steal the eyes and ears of M.G.M. and other talent scouts. Tickets for the show may be obtained from hall salesmen now advertising.—Mark G. McGrath.
Frosh Dance Tomorrow
Night at Progress Club
Come on freshmen, les’ dance! Tomor-dow evening, from 7:30 to 11:00 o’clock, Notre Dame time, Jack Malloy and his 12-piece campus orchestra will swing it out in the Progress Club. Groups of 15 students may charter buses to take them and their St. Mary’s dates to and from the dance at 50 cents a couple.
Tickets for the dance, selling at $1.00 per couple, and information on chartering buses may be obtained from: Jack Berres and Joe Schaefer in Zahm hall, Jack Segerson and George Wendt in Cavanaugh hall, Paul Lally and Tom Schexnayder in Breen-Phillips hall, and, for Carroll and Brownson, Barret Guthrie, John Morrison and Jack Thornton. Students attending the dance must return to the campus by 11:30 Notre Dame time. Freshman class officers hope to garner proceeds from the dance for charity and hall smokers.
Mark G. McGrath
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Notre Dame Decent Literature Group
Joins Catholic College Federation
OUR DAILY BREAD
For years, there have been hundreds of separate national or even parish, Catholic organizations in this country, all pulling in the proper direction, but each pulling separately, deprived of the strength and assistance that unity of action might bring them. Several years ago, the National Catholic Welfare Conference was set up to remedy this situation. Departments were charted and manned and as a Catholic organization proved itself, it was incorporated into the proper department of N.C.W.C. Slowly, individual organizations began to mold into a coordinated unit and although sundry social organizations remained aloof, the movement was taking form.
In 1917, the National Federation of Catholic College Students was organized at Manhattanville College, in New York City. A group of students agreed on the need for Catholic student collaboration and drew up a tentative constitution. Most Catholic colleges and universities in and around New York joined, and soon the New York region of the N.F.C.C.S. was established. The Federation applied for recognition to the N.C.W.C. The project was approved and authorization for the development of the Federation was granted. It was understood that the N.F.C.C.S. would function as a constituent unit of the college and university section of the Catholic Youth Council, main division of the Youth department of the N.C.W.C. Slowly the Federation has grown. Five regional units have been organized and the four more necessary to complete national organization will soon be admitted.
Various Catholic college movements in particular fields have been designated as chairmen groups of commissions of the N.F.C.C.S. Notre Dame’s decent literature (No Smut) organization has been incorporated and designated as the chairman group of the National Commission for the Distribution of Catholic Literature. Walter Brennan, national chairman and Alumni hall pre-med student, and his two major henchmen, Tom Carty of Alumni, Lou Kurtz of Lyons, and also Mark McGrath of Zahm, recently attended the bi-annual Congress of the N.F.C.C.S. at Washington, with delegates from affiliated institutions. There they outlined their work at Notre Dame to brother delegates and learned of the work of other commission leaders;
they heard speeches and participated in open forum discussions on the N.F.C.C.S. movement and particularly on the appointed subject of the entire session, the two great social justice encyclicals of the Popes, Rerum Novarum and Quadra-gesimo Anno. Finally, as the convention closed, next years’ N.F.C.C.S. officers were elected.
The N.F.C.C.S. has its seat in the N.C.W.C. building at 1312 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C., and works with affiliated universities and colleges through their student councils or similar representative bodies. Its job is to coordinate and promote national Catholic college activity. It maintains affiliation with Catholic student federations of other countries, through the medium of the Catholic World Secretariate of National Federations of Catholic College Students, known as Pax Romana. Pax Romana services and coordinates these federations as each does for its member universities. A trip by 25 North American Catholic college students to student conventions in South America next summer is being planned through the joint action of Pax Romana and the Department of Education of the N.C.W.C., and similar organizations in South America.
Mark G. McGrath
Tocco Process Explained to Metallurgists Here
The May meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals was climaxed here Wednesday evening, with an address by Dr. H. B. Osborn, Jr., research and development engineer for the Tocco Division of the Ohio Crankshaft Company of Cleveland, Ohio. Dr. Osborn, a graduate of Lehigh University and former instructor there, addressed the local chapter at the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering upon the subject: “The Tocco Process and Inherent Characteristics of Induction Hardening.” The Tocco process is a practical application of heating by induction for surface hardening. The lecture was illustrated.
The. address followed a business meeting in the lecture room of the department of metallurgy and a dinner in the University dining hall. John H. Monaghan, a senior in the department of Metallurgy, from Penn Yan, N. Y., was announced as the new junior member of the society.—Tom Potvers
LITURGY
“Have a heart!” ... Frequent use fails to exhaust the depths of this popular plea. . . . The heart is the seat of the emotions. . . . The well-balanced man is he who keeps the emotions under the control of reason. . . • Cold reason needs the warmth of the emotions. ... St. Thomas wrote the Sttmma but he also wrote the Mass and Office of the Blessed Sacrament.
The gentler emotions fill the closing days of the school term, especially the end of the school life. . . . Only perforce does the intellectual get any attention. .. . Pride of accomplishment merges into the pleasures of anticipation. . . . Hope surmounts fear. .. . Confidence in the secure foundation of faith makes present joys a lasting promise.
The Liturgy of the week, as always, accords with the mood of the time. . . . Ascension Day for the disciples was not unlike the ending of school life.... Their intimate converse with the risen Christ had calmed their fears, removed their doubts, filled them with confidence in the promises of the Saviour. . . . Their sadness would be turned into joy and their joy no man could take from them.
They looked in wonder upon the ascending Saviour, and long after upon the cloud that enveloped Him. . . . Then someone made a practical suggestion.... “He will come again as He told us, but now let us hence to Jerusalem.” . . . There they were to await the consummation of His work, the descent of the Holy Ghost.
The Mass for this fifth Sunday opens on a song of praise and rejoicing (In-troit). . . . The Epistle puts a challenge squarely before every Christian. . . . “Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only.” . . . The Gospel is eloquent of the possibility and power of prayer. Everyone can pray a little, somehow. ... To have Christ’s assurance that the Father will answer our prayer in some way or another is all we need to keep at it.
The Rogation Days, Monday through Wednesday, are part of this imperium of prayer. . . . The processions, the Litanies and the Mass that follows, beg God to make the earth fruitful for man’s material well-being. . . . They ask too, for freedom from sin and growth in grace, the well-being of the soul.
(Mass Calendar on page 19)
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Wallace Beery Flashes On Washington Screen
California-bound in search of adventure Wallace Beery, platonic bandit of the post-civil war days, finds it aplenty in “Wyoming.” This M.G.M. film will'be presented in Washington hall tomorrow night. A March of Time will accompany the feature.
Students and Faculty Hear Senor Alcayaga
Gathered in a third-floor room of the University library last Wednesday evening, a group of 20 students and faculty members listened to and later discussed a paper read by Senor Eduardo Alcayaga, Chilean professor studying at Notre Dame and residing in Alumni Hall. As this evening preceded the 50th anniversary of Rerum Novarum and the 10th of Quadragesimo Anno, Professor Alcayaga chose as his theme the interpretation of international economic problems in the light of the two great encyclicals.
The group gathered to assimilate Mr. Alcayaga’s speech, had its first session one week before when they heard and discussed a paper delivered by the Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., professor of economics, on International Economies. So enthusiastically was this session received that the second was arranged for the following week. Father Keller has agreed to begin planning for a similar study and discussion group of students and faculty, to meet at regular intervals next year and to discuss topics closely allied to universal Catholic problems.—-Mark G. McGrath
Senor Eduardo Alcayaga
BRAND NEW CLASS PRESIDENTS FAUGHT, COSTELLO AND O’NEAL
O'Neal. Costello. Faught Elected
Presidents of '42. '43, '44 Classes
Last week the class of ’42 put their heads and their votes together' and came up with a new president in the person of James Joseph O’Neal. Jim is venerable old St. Ed’s contribution to this year’s campaigning, and his home town is St. Louis, Mo.
Paul Patten of Howard hall carried off the vice-president honors in a very close race with Bernie Crimmins. Pete Moulder and Walt McCourt, Dillon’s representatives, whipped into the offices of secretary and treasurer respectively.
These four went through the primaries on the same ticket, triumphing over 24 other candidates, and drove on to their victory in the finals. Their campaign was capably managed by Lawrence J. Kelly, of Dillon hall, who will be the general chairman of the Senior Ball next year.
The class of ’43 pushed Bill Costello, the pride of Morrissey hall, into their presidency. Ollie Hunter of Lyons won the vice-presidency, Jim Purcell the office of secretary, and Bill McCaughey became the new treasurer.
The members of the class of ’44 rallied to the polls and elected Bob Faught president. Bob’s campus address is Breen-Phillips hall but his vacation tickets are made out to Cleveland Heights, Ohio, his home-town. Bill McNamara,
Carroll hall politician, from Baldwin, N. Y., won the vice-presidency, Dick Doermer of Zahm hall, became the class secretary, and Larry Stahl, Brownson hall edged out his opponents in the race for the office of secretary.
. —Jack Sprague
1941 "Dome" Dedicated
To Father O'Donnell
The 1941 issue of the Dome is dedicated to the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, who has been an active Notre Dame man since he came to the campus in 1912. As an undergraduate, Father O’Donnell won his monogram at center on two outstanding Irish football teams. He was graduated in 1916 with a Bachelor of Literature degree. In 1922, Father O’Donnell received his Doctor’s degree from Catholic University. In 1924 he became Prefect of Discipline and remained in that position until 1931. That year, he went to Austin, Texas, as President of St. Edward’s University there. After three years at St. Edward’s, he was called back to Notre Dame, to become vice-president of the University. In January of 1940, Father O’Donnell assumed the duties of acting-president and in the summer of that year was named President.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Senior Exam Schedule
The semester examinations for seniors and graduate students who are due for graduation in the June or the August of this year are to be held on the days between the Monday of May 19 and the Saturday of May 24, inclusive, in accordance with this schedule:
CLASSES	AKE TO BE
TAUGHT	EXAMINED
AT	ON	AT	ON	MAY
8:00	Monday	4:10	Monday	19
9:00	Monday	7:30	Monday	19
10:00	Monday	4:10	Wednesday	21
11:00	Monday	7:30	Wednesday	21
1:15	Monday	8:00	Friday	23
2:15	Monday	10:00	Thursday	22
3:15	Monday	4:10	Thursday	22
8:00	Tuesday	4:10	Tuesday	20
9:00	Tuesday	8:00	Saturday	24
10:00	Tuesday	7:30	Tuesday	20
11:00	Tuesday	10:00	Saturday	24
1:15	Tuesday	10:00	Friday	23
2:15	Tuesday	7:30	Thursday	22
3:15	Tuesday	2:15	Friday	23
N.	B.: Monday in the		first column of	
the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday. The period for each of the examinations is one hour and fifty minutes.—The examinations for the graduates on Friday and Saturday, as listed above, are on the regular University schedule, and so are to be taken along with the other students in the various classes.
These early examinations, given before Friday, May 23, are only for those who are due for graduation this year. All other students are to have their examinations according to regular schedule, beginning on the Friday of May 23.
The students who are eligible for the early examinations are not required to attend any class‘after the noon of Saturday, May 17.—Director of Studies.
Present Laetare Medal
In New York Next Tuesday
Formal presentation of the University of Notre Dame’s 1941 Laetare Medal to Dr. William T. Walsh, professor of English at Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in New York City, will be made on May 20.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will bestow the medal at a private ceremony at Manhattanville College in the presence of ecclesiastical, dignitaries, educators, and personal friends of Dr. Walsh.
The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., military delegate and former Notre Dame president, will preside at the ceremony. The Rev. John J. Hartigan, professor of religion at Manhattan-■ ville, is general chairman of the occasion.
Dr. Walsh will be the 59th recipient of the medal, which has been given annually by Notre Dame since 1883.
Clashmcre Mike, Gift
To Layden, Remains Here
During Elmer Layden’s first days as athletic director and head coach of football at Notre Dame, William J. Butler, dog fancier and breeder, of Chicago, presented him with a registered Irish terrier who was to become known from coast to coast as Clashmore Mike, the mascot of the Fighting Irish.
But Mike, as he is more familiarly known to the students, was not the first Irish terrier to wear the Monogram blanket of the gold and the blue as the mascot of the University. A predecessor,
Mike takes one in high
Sohn Lou, who was never the indefatigable performer that Mike has been, ran away when Notre Dame lost five out of nine games. Prior to these two terriers there had been no official mascot for many years, but Father Matthew Walsh recalls that once long ago there was a bulldog who filled that position.
Mike, who is now over seven years old, thrives under expert and loving care of genial Dan Hanley, the caretaker in the old gym. Mike’s life is well-ordered and regulated; each day he receives a portion of dog ration. On fine mornings, invariably he can be seen leaping the hurdles on the south side of the gym under the watchful eye of Dan. In addition to this exercise he scampers about the campus, the tinkling of the little bell about his neck informing everyone of his whereabouts. When he is chained outside his green and white doghouse there are few that pass who do not speak to him but these greetings are received with a nonchalant air indeed unless there is
candy in the offing. Incidentally, Mike will condescend to enter the doghouse when it rains.
Whether it be for the spirit of adventure or for the mere deviltry of the thing, Mike insists upon running away whenever the opportunity presents itself. On the day of the Navy game in ’37 frantic searches did not reveal his whereabouts until 1 p.m. when he was found in the game warden’s cabin on St. Joseph’s lake. Another adventure proved nearly disastrous when he was found after three days in the vicinity of Roseland. Bedraggled and hungry, Mike’s aristocratic blood had not permitted him to partake of any comforts that a tramp dog would have found. At least once a year he takes a trip to St. Mary’s College.	-
Mike’s adventures as mascot have been many and sundry. There was the time that he pulled the tail from the Pittsburgh Panthers’ mascot and rushed furiously about the field with it. And then there was the Navy game in ’39 when he obstinately refused to run the hurdles, but headed for the Navy dugout instead so that he might challenge the goat. To the Army’s mule Mike remains completely indifferent, in fact it seems to bore him. But it is not so with the bulldog of Drake, to him Mike showed only bristled hair and drawn fangs. Perhaps the most ironical of all his adventures occurred last fall when a large alley cat attacked him on his way to the Northwestern game. Mike escaped with a badly bleeding nose.
The esteem which the football men hold for Mike was well exemplified two years ago in New York. When the players were told upon their entrance into a prominent restaurant in downtown Manhattan that dogs were not permitted to enter they promptly turned to leave. It is almost redundant to say that the restaurant rapidly made an exception to its rule; Mike, like all good Irishmen, was not to be trodden upon.—Ed Drake
John Patterson Named
*41 Class Secretary
John Patterson, managing editor of the 1940-41 Scholastic, this week was named permanent class secretary of the Class of 1941 by James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, and William Dooley, managing editor of the Alumnus.
As secretary of the class, Patterson will handle a column of news for the monthly publication, the Alumnus. He invites members of the class to help fill the column by addressing material to him at 5530 Darlington Road, Pittsburgh, Pa.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN. Editor-In-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON. Jr.. Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND. Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN. News Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distrtnuiur of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Class of *41 Memorial Fund
There is a high school in Pittsburgh with trees strewn all over the front lawn and statues lodged in every corner of the halls. Sooner or later there will be more trees than students; there will be more statues than teachers.
Graduating classes, both in high school and in college, love to leave trees and statues behind them as class gifts. Whether a frustrated zoological ambition or a sculptural inclination induces graduates to give such gifts is of no import here. Of great importance is the fact that Notre Dame seniors are discussing a more tangible gift.
At the Senior Class Banquet a little more than a week ago, Class President Charles Dillon announced that a committee had been appointed to discuss a scholarship fund to be donated to the University by the Class of 1941. In making this announcement President Dillon intended that there would be aroused some discussion among members of the class. Discussion was aroused. And, happily enough, most of the seniors to whom committee members talked agreed that the plan was a good one. Difference of opinion came mostly in deciding the amount of the fund.
The committee by this time has reached a definite decision and has even started operation. It is hoped that before graduation the Class of 1941 will have contributed $1000 toward a scholarship fund. From that beginning a permanent fund is to be originated.
At Notre Dame such a step by a graduating class is a pioneer venture. Never before has a group of seniors done anything like it. That very fact
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER. Art Editor
THOMAS F. CARTY Photo Editor
should be an incentive toward making the plan a success.
After all, there are statistics to show that part of the expenses of every man at Notre Dame is paid from a general scholarship fund. In contributing to that fund as a class, the seniors are helping students of the future just as they themselves have been aided, some unknowingly, in their four years at Notre Dame.
The story of the Cushing Hall of Engineering shows pointedly how appreciative a man can be of the help given him by Notre Dame.
John F. Cushing’s father died just as Cushing finished his third year. Father Morrissey, then president of the University, arranged for Cushing to finish his senior year on a scholarship basis. The Engineering Building, donated by Cushing, is the result.
This year’s senior class has clearly shown that it is capable of supporting any worthwhile effort. Under a most capable president, the class has revived the senior party, other festivities, and, more important, an excellent all-around spirit of kinship.
Seeing that the Class of 1941 can successfully achieve what it wants to achieve, the scholarship committee has great faith that the Class of 1941 Memorial Fund will become a reality rather than a possibility.
Not only to create a fund but also to set a precedent for graduates of the future are the purposes of this plan. Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and closer to home, Northwestern, have done it. There is no reason why Notre Dame cannot.
On the success of this plan, a first attempt, hinges the outcome of future graduating classes’ attempts to emulate
it. In fact, failure this year can bury the idea once and for all.
The Class of 1941 can take as models the graduates of Harvard and Northwestern. In future years the graduates of Notre Dame will be able to use as an example the Notre Dame Class of 1941.
There is in this venture, not the “do or die” spirit shown up by J. P. Marquand in his satire on a twenty-fifth reunion, H. M. Pulham, Esq. There is, however, a practical solution to the question of what the class gift should be, what the Class of 1941 should do to show Notre Dame tangible evidence of its appreciation.—John Patterson.
Our Catholic Ideology
Everyone and every group has an ideology these days, a statement of principles, a criticism, and a statement of aims. The labor groups have their ideology, the manufacturers’ associations have theirs, the New Deal has one, as well as the Isolationists, the Interventionists, the Coughlinites, the Communists, and the Nazis. Each is working hard and loudly to put theirs in operation. We Catholics have one, too, a very sound social ideology, with the wisdom of ages behind it; the Papal Encyclicals. But we tend only to talk about our ideology.
Pope Leo XIII shocked his time with his Rerum Novarum; amid the easy Liberalism of the 1890’s he hurled the moral authority of the Catholic Church against the low utilitarianism of a Bentham and the drear, smug laws of Malthus, against the Marxists and the believers in Laissez faire. Equally unbiased in pointing out the errors of the radical reformers as in condemning the selfish conservatives, he was ahead of his time in social thought.
But we, to whom he spoke? We are fast falling behind our time in putting the Catholic ideology into practice. All around us are ardent workers for this and that ideology. Hitler is storming Europe with his ideology. Communists are busy at work all over the world; no one can deny it. While we hesitate to make even a beginning in the actual work of putting an ideology into practice. We are still in the talking stage. It is true that there is a Corporate State in Portugal running along the Pope’s plan. And there are cooperatives, such as in Nova Scotia. But these are only examples; good examples, to be sure. But the work of putting our Catholic Ideology into effect everywhere remains to be done. It remains for us to do it. No one else will. Everyone else has his own ideology. And these ideologies are getting the jump on ours. We must do something about it.—James Meaney
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Orestes A. Brownson, Philosopher and Patriot, Is Buried at Notre Dame
By Donald Heltzel
One sultry summer day four years ago a rough gang of boys sauntered through Riverside Park in New York City. Sweat stood out in beads on their foreheads, and their shirts were plastered to their backs. The oppressive heat baited them; their eyes roved, their fingers twitched in anticipation of excitement. Before them they saw an old bronze bust, musing in lonely exile above the Hudson River. Without thinking they pushed the time-blackened figure off its pedestal. Down the greensward rolled the head. Pedestrians stopped, watched it roll and bent over it when it finally came to rest. They looked at the bearded, tight-lipped gentleman, at the name below his bronze chin and wondered who “Brownson, Publicist, Philosopher, Patriot” was.
About the same time here at Notre Dame people were coming and going in the basement chapel of Sacred Heart Church. Their feet moved across a white stone slab that lay in the middle aisle and they passed out scarcely noticing they had walked upon the grave of Orestes A. Brownson — “publicist, philosopher, patriot.”
Orestes Brownson was one of America’s most famous men in the middle of the 19th century. A defeated presidential candidate accused him of being the principal cause of his political downfall; some Europeans were better acquainted with him than with his contemporaries, Emerson and Thoreau. He was a colossus for a while, one of the leaders of American thought; but in his passionate search for truth he was worn away by the unpredictable contradictions of truth; his stature sagged as early ideals fell, and he died a half-blind, forgotten, embittered old man.
The tall figure of Brownson strode out of Vermont early in the 19th century. He cocked a wary eye at capital and labor, decided the latter needed a champion. Joining with two other famous reformers, Francis Wright and Robert Dale Owen, he organized a secret society whose purpose it was to deChristianize the United States and work for the destruction of the priesthood. The short-lived Workingmen’s Party was
formed and three Utopians stood together and shouted: “The Revolution will come!” But Brownson paused in the middle of his hectic activity, peered * deeper into his extreme radicalism, decided he had been wrong.
Bostonians heaved a collective sigh of relief as Brownson broke with Wright and Owen. But their complacency was short-lived. In rapid succession the stormy petrel left the Presbyterian Church, became a Unitarian minister, established his own church among the laboring classes of Boston. Then one day his Boston Reformer hit the newsstands and Brownson was barking at the rich again.
One day in 1838 the conservatives woke up, trimmed their beards, had their tea, and then strolled to the corner bookstore. As they reached for the staid Christian Examiner or the North American Review their eyes lit on a new magazine. They shuddered slightly, looked at each other sadly. Brownson again! The Boston Quarterly Review, with such contributors as Ripley, Bancroft, Alcott, Parker, Channing and Arthur Brisbane, soon became a leading magazine.
Thoreau congratulated him. Ripley congratulated him. The Review thrived lashing out against abolutionists and Whigs. Then one hot day in July his essay, ‘The Laboring Classes,” appeared, crammed with revolutionary appeals. Brownson was a leading Democrat at the time and the Whigs took advantage of the opportunity presented them and displayed the essay as evidence of the socialistic tendencies of the Democratic party. His own party sought to disown him, his enemies took up the attack. “Free love! Political Anarchy! American Robespierre!” they shouted. And the Whig Harrison defeated the Democrat Van Buren for the presidency. A little while later Van Buren remarked bitterly that the essay had been the principal cause of his defeat.
The Quarterly became too much labor for him so he combined it with the Democratic Review and became a contributor, along with Hawthorne, Poe, Bryant, Whittier, Whitman. When
Brownson appeared, subscribers began to leave. They couldn’t understand his writings. As his contributions continued, subscribers became infuriated; Brownson came near, wrecking the Re-vieiv. Finally the embarrassed editor asked him to quit. He did, set up a rival magazine, called it Brownson’s Quarterly Review.
At about this same time he turned to philosophy. He had long championed the work of the Frenchman, Cousin, had introduced American readers to French philosophers. Cousin later said Brownson was “One of the most remarkable persons of the age ... his labors will redound to the advance of science throughout the globe.” When the Tran-scendentalists organized Brook Farm, Brownson approved of it. But Brook Farm did not approve of Brownson. The quiet men who gathered there could not stand his gloomy, logical tirades. In debate he stood over them and waved his arms, shouted, thumped the table. Ripley declared he had a nightmare of the man. After a few visits Brownson left the mystic utopia.
Then one day he became a Catholic. The conversion shook the New England countryside like a small earthquake. His friends began to leave him. Subscriptions to the Review dropped off. His enemies “ha-ha’d” up their sleeves, shouted derisively, thought there might yet be a Yankee Pope: “Does not Orestes I sound as high and as probable as Gregory VII or Gregory XVI?”
As soon as Brownson got within the Church’s fold, things began to pop again. He differed with Archbishop Hughes of the New York diocese, scrapped with Newman, the English convert, cried loudly for a vigorous Catholic press. And his voice was heard. Soon the mailing lists of the Quarterly were swelling again, this time with Catholic subscribers. As the Civil War approached, Brownson was riding high on a wave of popularity — so high, in fact, that Newman forgot old scraps, extended his first invitation for a professorship at the proposed Dublin University to Brownson.
(Continued on page 23)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
V .................. /
Netters Set to Cop Midwestern Title
By Beating Northwestern Tomorrow
Team Boasts Best Record in Tennis History
Barring an upset at the hands of Northwestern tomorrow, the mythical tennis supremacy of the Midwest will be Notre Dame’s by virtue of a 6 to 3 win over the highly touted netters of the University of Michigan last Wednesday. Other qualifyin note — a “looked for” victory over Michigan State last night. But regardless of the outcome of the rest of the season, the win over Michigan gave much satisfaction to Coach Walter Langford and the squad members. Michigan, tops in Big Ten tennis, had not lost a conference game and was beaten only by North Carolina. The Irish “big three” — Canale, Captain Joyce, and Parks — came through with victories in the singles and doubles. Final standing was 6-3; the Irish winning four singles and two doubles.
Team Rallies to Beat Maroons
“The team proved itself as good a one as I had praised it as being,” said Tennis Coach Langford with a smile, “they had what it took to come back from the absolute brink of defeat.” “Brink of defeat” was the correct phrase, for in the Chicago match to which Mr. Langford referred, the Irish netters came back after losing four out of six singles matches to sweep through the three doubles matches without losing a set. This win over the University of Chicago was the first Irish victory in their near-a-decade rivalry.
In the Chicago meet aggressive, smooth playing No. 1 man, Dan Canale, bowed in defeat after a Evo hour struggle with Chicago’s polished Calvin Sawyier. This defeat was Canale’s first. Canale’s opponents sometimes swear that he has the power of bilocation for he seems to be all over the court at once. He is beaten only when forced to the defensive — as in the Chicago match.
Captain Jack Joyce is the possessor of an exceptional backhand stroke. He is
smooth, not flashy — and his red hair is not deceptive, he plays all the harder when pressed.
Big man of the squad is Olin Parks of Mishawaka. Called “most graceful” by his many opponents. Parks manages to transport his 217 pounds to the vari-
Capt. Joyce — Leads Best Team Ever
ous extremities of the court with a speed that amazes his opponents. And while they are amazed “Ollie” blasts them into defeat with power shots — his weight serving him in good stead.
—Robert LeMense
Mahoney Sees Close Win at Milwaukee Tomorrow
Coach Bill Mahoney, who coached the Irish to an unofficial Drake relays championship in this, his first year as successor to the late John P. Nicholson, believes his Milwaukee-bound track squad will win a close meet from Marquette tomorrow.
Hilltopper strength is notably prevalent in the field events. Don Bertsch, Ralph Gelhar, and Harvey Baerwald, all capable of doing 13 feet in the pole vault,
Emmet Welch and Frank Gralts in the i high jump, and Erv Rick in the shot put ; can be held responsible for this.
Meet Badgers	1
Following tomorrow’s meet at Milwau- ; kee, the Blue and Gold cindermen will i travel to Madison to engage the Wiscon-	J
sin team in dual competition next Fri-	'
day.
In the process of smashing Michigan , State, 90% to 40%, last Saturday, Notre Dame set three new field and two meet records at East Lansing.
O’Rourke Doubles in Javelin
In expressing his enthusiasm over the smashing victory, Coach Mahoney remarked, “Improvement in the field events is gratifying. Bob Vicars and Keith J O’Rourke have come a long way in the javelin throw. O’Rourke capturing first place with 184 feet, Vicars a third against the Spartans. Likewise Frank Sheets, Bob Garvey and Bill Johnson displayed marked improvement in the broad jump: Frank Sheets deserves special commendation for his sterling performance Saturday when he garnered 14% points with firsts in the 220 and broad jump, and a second in the 100 and mile relay.”
—Frank L. Kunkel
Golf Team Beats Minnesota and Michigan State
Notre Dame’s golf squad, exhibiting its usual fine play, added two victories to its near-perfect record last weekend. Minnesota was swamped by the Irish 18%-8%, as the teams played over the University of Minnesota golf course under ideal weather conditions. Both Fisher and Schreiber of Notre Dame carded 71’s, par score for the course. The outstanding shot of the game came when • George Schreiber, playing the 18th a	J
par five hole, landed on the green in two,	R
just missing an eagle by four inches. I
On Friday the Irish linksters, playing on their home course under cold and rainy weather conditions, defeated Michigan State, 16%-10%. Bill Fisher came through with a 70, one under par, for : the best medal score of the day. Four of our boys carded 71’s, par for the	.
course. Korval and Zylstra of Michigan	।
State held 73’s, the best cards for the ; opposition.—John J. Fallon	. t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Sam and Betty Neild
An Unbeatable Couple
On Thursday morning, May 1, Samuel J. Neild, Jr. and Miss Elizabeth O’Brien stood outside the Log Chapel on the Notre Dame campus. One half hour after entering the Chapel together Sam and Betty walked out as Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Neild, Jr.
On Monday afternoon, May 5, Sam Neild, Notre Dame golf captain, was three down to Barr of Michigan with four holes to play. Sam came from behind, won the last four holes and the match.
The significance is obvious. Sam was, by the time Mr. Barr arrived here, a married man with a future to think of. So Sam won—elementary.
Small, fussy Sam Neild, known as “The Chin,” to intimates, came to Notre Dame from the enterprising town of
Old Man Sam — ex-bachelor
Central Falls, Rhode Island. Before switching to Notre Dame he spent a year at Manhattan College.
Almost as famous as many of Notre Dame’s landmarks is Sam’s “loop.” The “loop” was a hitch in his backswing which worried the golf captain almost to distraction last year. Competent authorities say the “loop” is gone now. Whether it is or not, Sam’s tee shots invariably soar much farther and straighter than most of his larger, heavier opponents.
To climax a spectacular career as golfer and man about the campus, Sam hopes to slap par silly in the National Intercollegiate at Columbus this year. But like many of the seniors, he is in A-l shape and may be wearing khaki before the Nationals begin.
Splinters From the Press Box .....JIM NEWLAND —
The performance, last week, of the Old Timers against Coach Frank Leahy’s varsity football team, proved several things. It proved Notre Dame is losing one of her really great ball carriers in Milton “Moose” Piepul. Big Milt, who will be more than a kitten for the Detroit Lions next fall, has lost none of his effectiveness both in playing and in leadership. Sure ’twould gladden the hearts of the present coaching administration if Moose were here for another year.
❖
Last week’s show, we think, proved that Notre Dame of last season could have used just a little more of Bill Mc-Gannon. The former Evansville Memorial high school star, who performed most creditably during spring and early fall practice, but who saw only a minimum of action in last season’s campaign, put on a real show for the 6,000 fans in the stadium. Coach Leahy in particular was impressed with the performance of Mc-Gannon.
❖
The superb exhibition of Bob Osterman in backing up the Oldtimers’ line speaks for itself. Detroit’s gift to last year’s Notre Dame eleven will be missed, and missed plenty next year, judging from his performance last Saturday. His ability to check opposing maneuvers was definitely a high light of the game. Osterman has registered for selective service, and it is understood he will leave for training come July 1.
♦
Taking into consideration the fact that the Oldtimers had only a few days’ practice, blocking and tackling on their part throughout a good portion of the game was good. Many of the long runs executed by the “old men” made the better-conditioned varsity players look anything but sensational, and there is little doubt but that were it not for the bad passes from center which resulted in touchdowns for the varsity, Coach Leahy’s boys would have closed spring training on the short end of the score.
❖
One cannot and should not draw too many hasty, ill-founded conclusions from last Saturday’s contest. Coach Leahy’s statement that “There is plenty of room for improvement on the part of the varsity,” was definitely a statement of fact. At the same time, however, Rome was
not built in a day. Let us remember, it takes time to build a football machine and it certainly cannot be done in six weeks. Offensive tactics employed by the varsity were not startling. More likely than not, Coach Leahy got more pertinent information about things that should be known, than any other person in the stadium.
❖
Among former Notre Dame notables present for last Saturday’s game were: Joe Boland, assistant coach at Purdue, Chet Grant, Moose Krause, Andy Pu-plis, Wally Fromhart of Chicago, Andy Pilney, Chuck Sweeney, Don Elser, Bill Shakespeare, and Bill Fox, Jr., of the Indianapolis Neus. Wilfred Smith of the Chicago Tribune, and Ford Pearson of the National Broadcasting Company, also covered the game.
❖
Coach Bill Mahoney’s tracksters opened the throttle against Michigan State last week at East Lansing and wrapped up a 90 ^2 to 40 ^2 victory over the Spartans. Big Jim Delaney continues to lead the Irish parade. Last week he hoisted the shot 51 feet 31s inches to break a seven - year record between the two schools. Keith O’Rourke and George Schiewe were also instrumental in the Irish victory last week. O’Rourke threw the javelin more than 180 feet, while the other throws averaged between 140 and 150 feet.
❖
Track Coach Mahoney turned author during the past week. An article by William P. Mahoney, dealing with a training program for distance running, appeared in the Athletic Journal, the official monthly publication of the nation’s coaching fraternity. The Notre Dame coach summarizes a day-by-day program for distance runners stressing the importance of pace, speed and endurance.
♦
Historically speaking, Benny Sheridan, former Notre Dame ball-carrying bombshell, is doing all right in the Army — so far. He has been assigned, appropriately enough, to the cavalry division at Fort Riley, Kansas. ... Wilbur Riordan, miler on the local track team and also a candidate for the Irish football forces, will not see action until next fall. . . . He suffered a broken collar bone recently trying to tackle Bernie Crimmins.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
—■ By AL DEL ZOPPO —' —■
Charles Crimmins came to college for an education. But when he left Watertown, N. in the fall of 1937 and headed for Notre Dame, he had also another ambition — to earn an N.D. monogram. When Chuck graduates next month he will have realized both aspirations — an A.B. degree, and an N.D. letter. And he is frank in telling you that the latter has been the more difficult to earn.
Crimmins was a three-sport athlete at Watertown, playing varsity football, basketball and baseball for three straight years. As a senior, Chuck was the blocking back on Watertown’s High’s championship football team which received an invitation to play at Clearwater, Fla., and which administered a 27 to 6 beating to the southern eleven.
Watertown’s basketball team was not good enough to win any titles in the Central New York conference. but Chuck Crimmins’ fine work at a forward position was good enough to win for him a berth on the All-League team. Despite his successes on the gridiron and on the hardwood floor, Chuck was always putting more effort in his baseball play while in high school, motivated perhaps by the ambition to some day
graduate into professional baseball. In his last year at Watertown High, Crimmins led his team in hitting with a better than
.400 batting average.
Chuck experienced his first taste of collegiate ball last year when Jake Kline called on him to play third-base in the Purdue game in place of Captain Sullivan who was out with a minor injury. When Sullivan returned to the lineup Jake used the central New Yorker as a pinch-hitter for the rest of the season. After Notre Dame completed its baseball schedule last June, Chuck started to prepare for a regular berth on this year’s varsity squad by playing with the South Bend Studebakers.
This spring, Coach Kline, in seeking
a good infield combination, played Crimmins at shortstop, and the latter’s exhibition was so impressive that Coach Kline decided to let him play Ray Pi-nelli’s old position and shift Pinelli to third. But with new men at key positions — shortstop and second — the team faltered in some of its early games, and Kline recognized the necessity of sending Pinelli back to shortstop. So Crimmins is now sharing the third-base
MB fflMMIN/
	Ml
post with Sophomore Joe Campagna.
“Scoop,” as Chuck is known to some of his friends because of his uncanniness in unearthing news about campus activities, tells us that he intends to get into the insurance game when he completes his army apprenticeship, but his friends keep telling him that he is missing his vocation by not becoming a news reporter. Chuck’s greatest joy in life outside of his own participation in sports is following the progress of athletes with whom he has played. Right now he’s pulling hard for “Bruiser” Canale, a former teammate at Watertown, to have
a great football season at Syracuse U.; and, of course, for Ray Pinelli to jump into organized ball after graduation.
Varsity Beats Valiant
Old-Timers in Close Game
Last Saturday 6,000 expectant football fans crowded into Notre Dame Stadium for a preview of Frank Leahy’s 1941 grid machine. Six thousand somewhat disappointed fans left the stadium after the Varsity, playing under the same Rockne System as before, had been given a 24-12 victory by the Old Timers, who also used the same Rockne System. It seems that Frank Leahy was a little smarter than the Monday morning quarterbacks gave him credit for being — his quarter-backs called nothing but several straight running plays seasoned with only a few passing maneuvers. Mr. Leahy is not one to hand out his team’s plays to rival coaches until he meets them on the gridiron. Had the Varsity “opened up” they would have been giving their plays away on a silver platter.
Varsity Score Called Back
The only real difference between the two teams was the line shift of the Varsity. The Old Timers led by Captain “Moose” Peipul gave the Varsity a real fight, proving that they weren’t so old after all. The game itself, except for the five touchdown second quarter, was hardly worth watching. The fans were thrilled once at the end of the first quarter as Notre Dame’s one and only “Moose” charged again — a 65 yard runback on one of Evans’ punts. The biggest thrill offered by the Varsity was nullified by a clipping penalty. ‘Dip” Evans shot a 20 yard pass to Bob Dove who broke into the open and scampered 50 yards to paydirt only to have the officials call the play back.
’ The excellent defensive play of Captain Peipul and Bob Osterman, the passing of Billy McGannon, and the running of Thad Cassidy highlighted the play of the losers. While for the Varsity, as Coach Leahy remarked, several men looked good as individuals but as a team they had no coordination. Varsity players who showed occasional flashes of playing good football were: “Dip” Evans, Dick Creevy, Bill Early, Bob Dove, Bob Hargrave, Roy Cestary, Walt Ziemba, Jim Brutz, Tom Brock, George Murphy, Captain-elect Paul Lillis, Harry Wright, Bob Neff, and two freshmen, Angelo Bertelli and Matt Bolger. Mike Hines didn’t get the chance he needed to show his prowess; the Kewanna, Ind., outdoorsman had given two blood trasfu-sions a day or two before the game. This did not leave him in his best play
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
THE
ing condition — but he was ready and willing.
Neff Scores on Veterans’ Fumbles
The heads up playing of right tackle Bob Neff, in the second quarter, proved that linemen aren’t so dumb after all. A lack of coordination between center varsity “lend-lease” men Jim Ford and halfback Don Hogan, loaned to the Old Timers, twice left the pigskin bounding freely jn their own end zone; each time Neff covered for Varsity scores. Right end Pohn Kovatch scored the third Varsity touchdown after three Old Timers collaborated to knock a pass intended for Kovatch right into his hands. The last of the Varsity scores came on Fullback Harry Wright’s plunge from the two yard line in the third quarter. Half back Nick Pepelinjak, a loan from the Varsity, skirted the Varsity right end for 14 yards and the initial Old Timer score in the second period. Peipul started the Old Timers on their way to their second touchdown with a 26 yard punt return. Jack Hayes made the score on a pass from McGannon.
No Points After Touchdowns
As a team, the Varsity was not impressive. Very noticeably lacking were: blocking, sustained drive and coordination. Another not so small item noticeably missing was the point after touchdown. Neither team was able to convert any of its extra points. The game concluded almost two months of hard spring drills which saw several players change positions and saw the whole squad learn another variation of the Knute Rockne system.
Officiating the game were Old Timers: Wally Fromhart, Don Elser and 1937 All-American end Chuck Sweeney.
Coach Leahy did not have much to say about the game. Perhaps he was disappointed in the showing of his boys and perhaps not. Anyway he’s still got a lot of tricks up his sleeve. Leahy’s first comment on the game Saturday was: “After seeeing the Old Timers in action, I wish a few of them were coming back. Osterman, Gallagher, McGannon, in fact, all of them looked good.” Mentioning the fact that the Varsity lacked synchronization Mr. Leahy said: “We need to get in a lot of work before September 27.” His closing words were, “we enjoyed working with the boys throughout the drills.”
The winning team of an intra-squad game played May 3 was given a banquet Monday night in the Blue Room of the Oliver hotel.—Bill Reynolds
Strong Middy Team Here Tomorrow, Michigan Tuesday
Navy’s high-riding basebailers, boasting a seven game winning streak, invade the Irish lair tomorrow afternoon when the two teams meet on Cartier Field in the featured game of the Notre Dame home season. Play will begin at two o’clock (CST).
Coach Max Bishop, for many years a star second baseman for Connie Mack’s Philadelphia Athletics, heads one of the most powerful Navy aggregations in the history of the Naval Academy. The 1941 Middy squad, battling some of the outstanding teams in the East, enters the Middle-West with a record of 11 wins in 14 starts. Among their victims the sailors boast of trimming Dartmouth, Harvard, Penn, North Carolina, Lafayette, Duke and Penn State. The only teams which have sunk the Navy this spring are Cornell, Syracuse and Michigan. Michigan has already lost one game to the Irish.
Many familiar names will appear in the Navy lineup Saturday as the squad is star-studded with men who were members of the potent Navy football team which lost a thrilling 13-7 game last fall in Baltimore. Third baseman Wes Gebert scored Navy’s touchdown that put the host school abhead, 7-6 with seven minutes left. Other members of the football squad who have taken to the diamond include Sherwood Werner, first sacker and cleanup hitter, who played halfback; Harold Harwood, left fielder, who was the No. 2 center; Phil Hurt, pitcher, another halfback; and Joe Donahoe, Jr., 220-pound tackle, who is another prominent member of the pitching staff.	t
Michigan Squad Here for Revenge
Michigan’s Big-Ten leaders, who lost to the Irish 6 to 2 in Ann Arbor a few weeks ago, play the finals of the two-game series when they attempt to gain revenge on Cartier Field Tuesday afternoon. Since Notre Dame handed the Wolverines their first defeat Michigan has lost a conference game to Illinois and a one-run decision to undefeated Western State. Earlier in the season the Irish lost a two game series to the Western State tnine.
A noticeable lack of power at the plate along with the ineffective pitching of Subby Nowicki and Fisher proved too much for Notre Dame at East Lansing last Saturday and they bowed to Michigan State, 10-2.
For Farrell—First Concussion, Then Appendicitis
A serious blow was dealt the baseballers last Saturday when, on the way
home from the Michigan State game, first baseman Chuck Farrell was stricken with appendicitis and rushed to the hospital, where an emergency operation was performed. His condition now is described as getting along “very welL” Farrell had just recovered from a concussion of the brain, received in the game with Western State. Jack Tallet • second string first sacker, recently pulled a tendon in his leg and will probably be out for the remainder of the season.
Hengel, who has patrolled the gardens most of the season for the Klinemen, hit a home run Tuesday afternoon to give the Irish their only run in a game with the Michigan City State Prison. The inmates won the game, 3-1. Coach Kline relates an amusing incident which happened during batting practice at the annual affair. He was pitching to the Notre Dame team during batting practice and one of the players shouted out to ask if they should take another time around. Coach Kline replied that he didn’t think they had enough time. One of the inmates shouted down from the stands, “Boss, that’s one thing we have plenty of around here — time.”
—Ray Donovan
Undergrad Exams
The semester examinations in all the
colleges of the University will be held on the Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of May 23, 24, 26, 27, and 28, in accordance with the following schedule:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday 10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday 1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday 9:00 on Tuesday
10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on 'Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday
Will be examined at 8:00 on Monday 8:00 on Wednesday 10:00 on Monday 10:00 on Wednesday
8:00 on Friday 2:15 on Monday 2:15 on Wednesday
Will be examined at 8:00 on Tuesday 8:00 on Saturday 10:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Saturday 10:00 on Friday
2:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Friday
Any class taught on any day between 4:00 and 6:00 p.m. is to be examined at 7:30 p.m. on Friday, May 23. Any class taught any evening after 6:00 is to be examined at 7:30 pan. on Monday, May 26.
Any examination held at a time other than that scheduled for it will not be valid for credit.— The period for each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes.—Monday in the left column of the schedule above means Manday, Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday.—Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.—Director of' Studies.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THEORY WILL BE PUT INTO PRACTICE HERE
NEW HEAT - POWER LABS TO BE READY BY FALL
One of the best organized heatpower laboratories in this part of the country will be opened to Notre Dame students for the first semester of the next school year. This laboratory, located just north of the new Ave Maria Building, will give to mechanical engineering students, the opportunity to see theory in practice and to relate the principles of the class room with the work of associated equipment.
There has long been a need for such a laboratory. Previous practical information had to be gained at industrial plants in South Bend. Because of the help the new laboratory will give to students, officials hope that the school will soon be accredited with the Engineering Council for Production Development. This council largely determines whether or not a student with a degree in engineering is worthy of it when outside of his own school.
The laboratory building was erected under a building commission comprised of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C., the Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., Dean Dugald C. Jackson, Carl C. Wilcox, associate professor of mechanical engineering, and Frank Newton Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering. The architects were McGinnis and Walsh of Boston.
Eighty-two by one hundred and forty-two feet deep, the factory-type building is two stories high and fronts on the highway. The first floor is divided into separate rooms, and the upper floor will
remain unpartitioned. Classrooms are on the first floor and will be for aeronautical as well as mechanical engineers working in the laboratory. The former will have their internal combustion engines and other equipment housed in the new building. Research labs, calculating rooms, service rooms, and various equipment will complete the first floor.
The second floor will contain a steam engine, steam turbines, air conditioning apparatus, air compressors, the aeronautical equipment, a tool room for maintenance, and two offices.
A boiler room, the only two story room in the building, occupies the southeast corner and will house a high-pressure boiler, feed pumps, water heaters, an air pre-heater, an induced draft fan, and an economizer.—John A. Lynch
Sullivan and Carty Will Attend K. of C. Meet
Thomas F. Carty, past recorder, wras elected last Tuesday night as delegate to the state convention of the Knights of Columbus in Indianapolis. Besides Carty, two alternates were elected, Eli M. Abraham and Ralph Gerra.
Robert E. Sullivan will also be a delegate to the convention by virtue of his office; he is Grand Knight of the local council. The convention will be held on May 25 and 26. It is expected that more than 500 knights from all over the state will attend this meeting. The Notre Dame delegation will present a resolu
tion calling for a waiver of the state per capita tax on those members who are inducted into the armed forces of the country as a result of the present national emergency.
At the meeting last Tuesday night Notre Dame Council voted to waive the associate dues of those members of the local council who become soldiers in the present crisis.
Last Sunday the council held its annual picnic at Christiana Lake, Mich.; Richard Walter of Sorin hall was chairman of the event.
Membership Chairman Joseph Callahan announced that the third degree of the order will be exemplified to a class of over 75 candidates next Sunday in the St. Joseph school hall in South Bend.
Wranglers Choose Meier as 1941-42 President
William E. Meier, junior from Faulkton, S. Dak., was elected president of the Wranglers, Notre Dame’s honorary forensic society. Meier is a varsity debater and a member of the Economic Round Table. He succeeds John O’Dea, graduating senior.
At the same meeting which saw the election of Meier, five new members were accepted from a group of applicants, numbering 22 names. The new men are: Harold Haley, John Ryan, Roger Young, Robert Galvin and Mark Lies. All of the new members were guests of the club at the annual induction banquet which was held in the Hotel LaSalle on Tuesday evening.
The Wrangler season just completed has been one of the most successful in the history of the organization. Meetings have been marked by thoughtful, well-qualified discussion; and outside activities, such as the interhall debate contest and the Mid-West Catholic High School Oratorical contest were considered well worth the efforts expended.
Neil McCarty, retiring editor of the Dome, was elected secretary of the Wranglers for the coming year.
Detroit Club Elects Kilbane
Monday evening in Carroll Hall recreation room the Detroit Club held its annual election for next year’s officers. John Kilbane of St. Edward’s Hall nosed out John Armitage of Dillon, 25 to 18 votes, for the presidency. Joe Dimond of Dillon beat John Krajniak, also of Dillon, by the same number of votes for the vice-presidency. The office of secretary went to Ed Hickey of Lyons over Jim Danaher of Zahm, 28 to 15. Jerry Currier of Morrissey was elected treasurer for his second term over Ed Schmid of Breen-Phillips, 26 to 17.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Molloy's Band Aims at Va. Beach Summer Job
The swing producers for “The Song of the Free,” the Glee Club’s history of American song, are now angling for a summer engagement at Virginia Beach, Va.
Jack Molloy’s orchestra, one of the new campus dance-bands, accompanied the Glee Club on its Easter tour of the East and was well received. Members of the band are Jim Walsh, Bill Binet, Jack Solon, Tom Horak, Floyd Richards, Dick Brydges, John Redmond, Tom Richards, Bill Capello, Bill Frye, John Dooling, and Jack Molloy.
Mass Calendar: May 18-24
Sunday, 18—Fifth after Easter. 2d prayer, St. Venantius, Martyr, 3d, for Peace.
Note: Monday, Tziesday and Wednesday, alternate Mass, of the Rogations, in proper of the missal after the Fifth Sunday. (Purple Vestments.) The second prayer will be of the feast, the 3d & 4th as indicated. Wednesday, last Gospel, of the Vigil.
Monday, 19 — Rogation Day. The Lesser Litanies. St. Peter Celestine, Pope, Confessor. Mass: Protexisti (in Common) Prayer proper. 2d, Rogations. 3d, St. Pudentiana, Virgin, 4th, for Peace.
Tuesday, 20—Rogation Day. Lesser Litanies. St. Bernadine of Siena, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common). Prayer proper, 2d Rogations, 3d, the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 4th for Peace.
Wednesday, 21—Rogation Day. Lesser Litanies. Vigil of the Ascension. 2nd prayer, Rogations, 3d, the Blessed Virgin (Concede) 4th, for Peace.
Thursday, 22—The Ascension of Our Lord Jesus Christ. (Holy day of Obligation) Mass proper. Credo. (Preface and prayer Communicantes in the Canon the prayer Communicantes in the Canon proper during octave).
Friday, 23—Day within the octave. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin (Cocede) 3d, the Church. Credo.
Saturday, 24—Day within the octave. Everything as yesterday.
In Requiem
The SCHOLASTIC offers its sincere condolences to the parents of James McMichael, freshman, of Port Arthur, Texas, who died in St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend on May 12. A Mass will be said by the Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty advisor for the SCHOLASTIC, for the repose of his soul.
For Graduation and Spring parties —dress up in clothes of quality and distinction.
Shetlands, Flannels, Tweeds ____.____________$35.00
Sport Coats __________________________$16.50 and up
Made to your own measure — or custom tailored.
Rentals—Tuxedo or Tails (complete)$5.00 and $6.00
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115i/2 N. Main Street (upstairs)
JOHN SIEVERT	JACK RYAN	MILT PIEPUL
234 Alumni	337 Walsh	337 Walsh
Some Speed TO THE NEW
For smooth comfort, for streamlined style and smartness, select a pair of the new W. L. Douglas sport shoes. They come in a wide variety of styles, and each is a superlative value. And remember, all Douglas Shoes are built Down-To-Tbe-Wood—Up-To-Tbe-Arcb.
Shoes
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
Smart New Spring Styles in Lady Douglas, $3.85 and $4.95
AMERICA'S BEST KNOWN SHOES
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
200 Complete Defense Training Course Here
Last Monday and Wednesday evenings more than 200 men taking the Defense Training Courses offered by the University, completed their work. Certificates of completion were given to those who had attended the classes regularly and entered into the discussions. The men who have completed the courses will receive credit on their employment records, as an aid to securing jobs.
The program, a part of the University’s contribution to the national defense effort, included classes in tool and die design, production engineering, physical metallurgy, chemical measurements, and chemical analysis of metallurgical materials.
At the meeting last Monday night two films concerning industrial relations •were shown to the group. The first, "The Busy Foreman,” was sent by Mr. A. H. Mogensen, time and motion expert who addressed the group last week; and the second, “Your Town,” was donated by the American Management Association.
Another group of classes will begin soon and last through the summer. They will include the same courses presented this spring.—Bob McFarland
A complete selection of the famous
KIRSTEN PIPES
A sensational advancement in pipe enjoyment and beauty scientifically proportioned to fit the smoking' habits of the smoker. The bowls are made of finest imported briar, the shank is genuine Duralumin.
Now Priced
$5 to $10
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LA SALLE
Marines, Army, Navy
Here For Enlistments
During the week of May 19 to May 25 inclusive, the examining board of the United States Army Flying Cadets will receive applications of all candidates in the Rockne Memorial. See bulletin boards for requirements. Representatives of both the U.S. Navy and the Marine Corps
SB
si

Tastes good...costs little and swell fun to chew— that's DOUBLEMINT GUM Yes, chewing delicious DOUBLEMINT GUM is always swell fun ... at sports events, between classes, while you're studying. DOUBLEMINTS real-mint flavor refreshes your taste and helps sweeten your breath. And enjoying smooth chewing daily helps brighten your teeth, too. Kind to your budget. Great to enjoy every day. So drop in and buy several packages of DOUBLEMINT GUM today.
have recently made similar visits to the campus in search of enlistments.
Those who took the oath for the U. S. Marine Corps in a recent ceremony in the Rockne Memorial include: John Richards, James Lauerman, Fred Fowler, Leo Hillebrand, David Powers, Roger Foley, Roland Belladonna, Patrick Fitzgerald, John Morris, William Scully, Edward McKim and James Tracey.



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
'Architectural Concrete'
F. R. McComb, architectural cement expert of the Portland Cement Association, Indianapolis, Ind., spoke on “Architectural Concrete” at the University yesterday afternoon. Engineering and architecture students and South Bend architects and engineers attended.
LOST: Gold Eversharp lead pencil. Return to 410 Morrissey hall. Reward.
GOING HOME TO California Washington Texas
Any point in the U. S. A. or Canada
See the South Shore agent. He can help you plan your complete itinerary to and from home.
Ask about routing, fares, stopovers, travel time . . . Arrange every detail in an unhurried conversation.
Get all the facts. No obligation, of course. Inquire of
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
Model Plane Club Meets
Weekly Near Stadium
For many weeks an unusual number of cars have been seen lining the field east of the Notre Dame Stadium. Upon investigation it was discovered that this field has become the flying field for the Three C’s Arrow Club of Mishawaka, which is concerned exclusively with model airplanes.
Last Sunday afternoon all kinds of . models were paraded before a crowd of spectators that swelled to over 500 in mid-afternoon. Little nickel gliders propelled by sling-shots took their place alongside of impressive class C combat models with a ten-foot wing spread.
Many models were grounded by their owners last Sunday because of a strong wind. Ideal weather conditions, one pilot explained, call for little or no wind and a warm sun. Under such conditions a glider, or even a model, when picked up by a thermal (warm air current) can travel five or ten miles. Just two weeks ago one model was followed for four miles before being recovered.
Contests are held to stimulate interest and prizes are given every Sunday to the contestants who can keep their planes up longest. The Three C’s club is three months old. Its president is Norman Melser who operates the Corner Candy Counter at Mishawaka Ave. and 27th Street. This is the club’s headquarters where meetings are held every Friday night, and where the members purchase the equipment with which they build their models. The club numbers over 39 members ranging from 14 to 35 years of age, and its membership as well as its audience seems to be increasing steadily.—John MacCaidey
Charles Kearney New
Bookmen Club Head
Next Thursday night, at the annual banquet of the Bookmen, an organization of students interested in contemporary literature, Charles Kearney, English major of Dillon Hall and Dixon, III., will be inducted into office as its new president. Also to be inducted into office are Secretary Emmett Griffin, of Dillon Hall and Pittsburgh, and Librarian Bob Coleman, of Howard Hall and Cleveland.
Professor John Frederick will be principal speaker, presenting some phase of contemporary American literature. With Professor T. Bowyer Campbell as moderator, a discussion of Mr. Frederick’s talk will follow.
Newly-elected members of the Bookmen are Dick Kilmer, off-campus, John Utz, of Cavanaugh Hall, and Santo Belli of Dillon Hall.
Retiring officers are Milt Williams, president; Neil McCarty, secretary, and Joe Huber, librarian.—John E. Lewis
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
SPALDING
Tennis Racquets from $1.95 up at
GOLF BALLS ALSO
Sonneborn's Sport Shop
121 W. Colfax Ave.
A Variety of Pipes^-A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ____________$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular______1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial_____1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ----3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor____4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran—5.00
Hollyclourt ____________3.50
Sasieni_________________5.00
Comoy ------------------5.00
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“The MEN’S Corner”
Charles Robert Houser
Wins in Essay Contest
Fattening their pocketbooks with cash and their minds with historic lore, three students marched off with the awards in the historical essay contest last week.
The committee on awards announced that Charles Robert Houser, C.S.C., Moreau Seminary, who lives in Youngstown, Ohio, won the Charles Phillips prize of $25; John L. Considine, Jr., of Morrissey hall and Sharon, Pa., won the Charles L. O’Donnell prize of $25; and Robert Stuart Pelton, Lyons hall, who lives in Evanston, Ill., won the Msgr. O’Brien prize of $35.
Jerseyites Elect Monahan
Election of officers of the New Jersey Club for 1941-42 were held this week. Edward J. Monahan of Dillon hall and Jersey City was elected president succeeding Sal LaPilusa of Walsh hall. Another Jersey City boy, Gil Gillooly of Brownson hall, gained the vice-presidency; Badin hall’s magician, Jack Whelan, is the new secretary; and Ed Doyle of Morrissey hall was elected treasurer. The new administration plans to hold a farewell party for the members, especially the draftees, at the West End Casino near Long Branch, N. J., sometime in June.
GET SET FOR THE SUN!
Gabardine
SLACKS
$595
lour
with » neW

Sleeveless
SWEATERS
$^95
The UNIVERSITY $5.00
Freeman
SPORT SHOES
Not only a new color but a new band and a new edge. Khaki is the color—with a felt bind* ingofcontrastingcolor.
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat... $3.50.
"Scholastic," "Dome" Move To New Upstairs Office:
“Surprise,” is a dramatic understate ment of the feelings of the Scholastic Dome staffs when they came to work ; few weeks ago. Since they had visitei their offices in the old Ave Maria build ing a few days before the partitions an< the floor boards had been ripped out am now, opening the door, they stared un easily into the dismantled rooms tha had been their offices. Investigation pro duced a tiny yellow notice from the Mr T. J. Barry, business manager of publi cations, advising that their equipmen and temporary offices had been movec to the rooms directly above the ok quarters.
Amazement prevailed, however, unti the following morning when the Rev John Reddington, C.S.C., director oi maintenance, explained: The Universitj paint and tin shops will be moved froir the south end of the old site of the University kitchen to the Scholastic and Dome offices and recently vacated Ave Maria printing plant, respectively. The old Ave Maria printing plant space will
LOST: one pair of brown pigskin gloves dropped at the cab-entrance to St Mary’s. Please return to 351 Dillon Hall. Reward.
lliLkK L
Rra k Katz
I >	hen and I t£yc>ungm£H
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REO. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
be used primarily for general storage with some space given to general maintenance shops. The basement and first floor of the building will be completely overhauled and fireproofed with cement and steel. The south end of the building, now being vacated, will be tom down completely, not, however, before the end of the schoolyear — Main Building classes would find house-wrecking a bit noisy. The work of overhauling the building interior should be finished within one week.
IT’S A WHITE
PHU BEACH
BROWNSON BURIED AT N. D.
(Continued from page 13)
When the Civil War broke out old enmities were forgotten in the common cause. Brownson joined northern patriots, turned his loud, rasping voice to the multitude, cried: “Maintain the Union.” His stiff old hand jerked out words that spelled emancipation of the slaves, and with this message he called on Lincoln. The President was not yet ready to emancipate the slaves, and as Brownson limped down the White House steps he said bitterly of Lincoln: “He is thick-headed; he is ignorant . . . and obstinate as a mule.”
Brownson was now a sick man. And as the war years thundered along he became more sick, more lonely. Two sons died. His sight was leaving him. His hands were twisting up with rheumatism. He had no money. As the war came to a close his friends provided him with an annuity of $1,000 a year. Father Sorin had invited Brownson to spend the rest of his years at Notre Dame. Brownson did not accept the offer; said he might, later on. Later on he died.
Although he had never visited Notre Dame he had often expressed a desire to be buried here. Ten years after his death he was brought to Sacred Heart Church. Mourned the Scholastic: “And so sleeps the great Dr. Brownson amid the peaceful shades of Notre Dame. . . .”
It’s a white Palm Beach Suit for all
the warmer moments in a college man’s life. Cool, light, washable— with fullhack’s shoulders and pole-
vaulter’s waist. At your clothier
—today. Pastels and deep tones.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
Palm Beach Evening Formats (white jacket and black trousers), $20. Palm Beach Slacks, $5.50. And by the same summer wear specialists—the new Goodall Tropic Weight—top value in lightweight worsted suits, $25.
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a life
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI
_ □ a e o a ’ □ □ □ z a - -^Palrn Ti^tLch
s a □ « -ME 0 £	Z . 3 ' N
$3250 Prize Contest. See your clothier for details.
Its Chesterfield
Smokers everywhere like their COOLER, MILDER, BETTER TASTE
With outdoor lovers the country over,
there’s nothing like Chesterfield for a com
pletely satisfying cigarette...they’re always Cooler-Smoking, Definitely Milder and far Better-Tasting.
Chesterfield’s right combination of the
world’s best cigarette tobaccos is the big
Copyright 1941, Liccett & Myers Tobacco Co.