-
APRIL 14, . 1972. 
-~ ~ , -' -•' ~, 
<::::._-~.! ~..,_­
' , ,,·-,. 
. :;, 
-~ ~:,: =~· ,, --­
·-:-,' -:>,;... 
:\ ~ ~-"'-..:~-:
<':.&lie necooe;·......... 
--~ 
,gnclthe FalJPCltNdtre:bame (1)
•,... . --• ~ .,.~ • 
' ., ; 
\ 
'""--­
·, 
' '..­
__ -; 
., 
'. ,­
Joe, Mary Ellen, Jim, Mike, Rick ahd Tom, members of the old staff, join us in our thanks to Mr. Sanna, Gene, George, Esther, Mr. Single­ton, Cindy, Jim, and the rest of the_ people at Ave Maria Press for their cooperation and patience through­out the past year. 
APRIL 14, 1972 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


scholastic 


4  letters  
6 7  ANALYSES the g.o.p. moves against farmworkers a glimpse at n.d.'s power structure  pat mccracken jack wenke and jane thornton  

8 a proposal for the redress of academic grievances IO freshman eligibility and notre dam~ 
• 13 in the wake of the faculty letters, the· scholastic examines administrative (and faculty) "style" · 
18 and-a symposium offaculty opinion 
•24 the sophomore ·literary festival comes to . 
notre dame with: diane wakowski  
26  william h. glass ­ willie master's lonesome wife  
.27  jay neugeboren  

PERSPECTIVES 28 personal reflections on "free schools" 32 r.o.t.c., r.o.t.c., and more r.o.t.c.. 
KULCHUR 33 some thoughts on the ~rts and the university 35 a review of "el topo" 36 prospectus on traditional folk music 38 coming distractions 42 the last word 
rieil rosini pete weber 
jim fanto 
e~leen dugan bob muniz joseph mesure 
steve brion steven alan bennett 
dan o'donnell casey poc1us 
dick tarrier kevin cassidy greg stidham 
VOLUME 113, NO. 11 

The opinions cxpr~sscd in the SCHOIJ\STIC arc those of the authors and editors'of the' SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, _faculty or the student body._ 
Second-class postage.paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by' National Educationa"i Advertising Services, 360 L!!-xington Avenue, 
· New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly. during the school year except during vacation and c.xamination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Afaria Pr,ess, Notre Dame; Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers arc, , · available· from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to the ScuOI.ASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unmlicited material becomes the property of the·SCHOLASTIC. 
editor: greg stidham / art director: michael lonier / managing editor: jim munsch / assistant editors: george block, dan o'donnell, jim fanto, pat mccracken, joe runde / business manager: joe meyer / circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: ed bower, kevin cassidy, 
t. j. clinton, buz craven, bob elliott, john flannigan, mike givler, bruce hooper, dave jories; jerry koshinski, martin linskey, fred monsour, john moore, · john moran, jim pearce, casey pocius, john ring, bob rizzuti, neil rosini, jane thornton, pete weber, mark wenig, jack wenke, , mimi wheeler, jeff wyszkowski. 
illustrations: c~ver photo-lithograph, photographs with sabbatier effect on 19, 20, 22, _23,· photographs on 32, ,33, lithographic on 40 by michael lonier / photographs on 6, 7 from_ "la causa".·by paul fusco / lithograph, 
· "ascending ·and descending," ·on 13 by m. c. escher / photograph on 25 _by tom· victor / photograph on 26 from knopf publishing co. / photograph ori 27 by elliott landy / photographs on 29, 30 by steve brion / photograph on_3 L by joe, raymond .j pc,s~er.graphic on 34 for alexandro jodorowsky / 
. photograph on 36 by fleming brown / inside back cover photograph by richard stevens. · 
letters 

Of Vampires and Men 
Editor: 
The profound understanding and deep sympathy displayed this year. by the Scholastic in its treatment of dope ad­dicts, _-criminals, and abortionists has been most heartening to all civilized. 

-readers. -The compassionate considera­tion shown to homosexuals_ in your ~eb. 25 issue f)ot only maintains this -splendid_ tradition but sets a. new standard. Who would have supposed that you woul_d ­
· favor us even to the extent of including . a glossary of terms relating to -homo~ sexuality! 
Thus it is against this background of glittering _achievement that, with heavy· heart but gnawing conscience, I remind you that all the good work is ·not yet done. There -are. still other minorities, misunderstood, shunned, reviled, help-· less victims of _their environmen't like you and I; whose causes· deserve to be cham­pioned by your distinguished iournal. I_ refer t~-th·e -werewolves, _·vampires, -and ­cannibals of ·this world. · Everywhere, in the past and-eyen ·now in our supposedly enlightened age, these · lonely and un-: happy peop-le have been . the victim·s of ' 
-prejudice, discrimination and persecution,_ sometimes inflicted even in the name of the Savior of us all. And what have been · 
-. . . 
their crimes? A desire to break the stifling bonds of middle class conformity, to pursue their own colorful life styles, to discover their identities, to assert their right, common to all us imperfect hu.:. mans, to the mastery of their own des­tinies. 
We _need the cannibals, werewolves and .vampires far more than they need us. While we merely talk about the hideous problem of overpopulation they make a positive, albeit modest, contribution to its solution. More fundamentally, we live in a pluralistic society. As your writers have pointed out on many occasions, the proportion of N.D. students drawn from the ranks of the contemptible bourgeoisie is much higher than it ought to be. We 

need far greater diversity in. the student body for true· education derives _more from exposure .to a multiplicity of human types than to immersion in the· dead lore spewed forth by academic pedants. We must cast away this detestable pre­judice which separates us from our brothers, the. cannibals, vampires and 
· werewolves;· and embrace them in tlie fullest spirit -of Christian love.-~ Special scholarships should be established to·at-­tract them to N.D., not only in belated justice to· them but that our: own_ human an_d spiritual horizons may be broade~ed. ·We Jook to you for leadership. _ ­_Sincerely, · Bernard Norling, History Dept. 
-

Letters should be addressed to the Editor,, The Scholastic, Lafortune Student -Ce~t~r, Not;e Dame, Indiana .. _· ·. 
.ASTROLOGY 
Receive-your SOLAR CH~RT plus a. ··9~~qge personality study -of YOU frolTl -the Southern California Astro­-log_iccil Society for only $8.00. 
Send check _along ·. with-· your riame, .· address, -birthdat~.----'day, month, year, time (ifknown),_and birth.place to:__ 
· Southern California Astrological · Society, P:o.-Box-10338 Glendale, California 92109 


Hurry!---for a limited time only. 

· 
-

MEET-THE ORDER THAT IS 113 YEARS YOUNG. 
Paulists are often called the "moderri" order but it isn't just because we are only a little over a century old. It's because of 
what we stand for. --· The Paulists were founded by, 
Isaac Hecker, one ofthe earliest ecumenical spokesmen..Father Hecker, who was a convert to Catholicism and a century-ahead of his time, conceived and di-­
-rected the first missionary soci­ety of priests established_in, and for.North America. ­
Father Reeker's vision was a community that would "meet the needs of the Church in each age 
-as. they arise/' For this reason he wanted the Paulists to be flex­ible, -not _·wedded · to specific works. A special project might be suitable. for a particular time . 
_and a given .need, but changing times would require different ­-techniqucs··and approaches that might differ from age to age. That's why .the Paulists _are so flexible; Whether a man is in a 
-parish; University Apostolate·or_ mission .:'-. whether he is involved in a narcotic panel or the Paulist press,·-ra'dio; films or television, he has -tlie-0freedoin io use his own· talents :in -his .own way_ to ·achieve· his objectives: --'. . · · . Paulisfs ·are not custodians of _the.past, ,but. explorers ·of _the 
future._· : ---·_ _ -_ -·-·Now-'you know why we are called "modern." -For more information about 
. the Paulist priesthood write to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, _,C.S.P., Vocation Director, F~ Room No. 100. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y.10019 
' ' 
~:~ :; ;' ;--~-.. 
----' ­
.. 




When you know it's for keeps 

Your love will be symbolized forever by a beautiful Keepsake solitaire. See our out­standing selection . . . all perfect gems of the finest cut and color. 
SANTA ROSA $250 ALSO TO 2800 
VERONA $350 ALSO 150 TO 1650 

GOTHAM $400 ALSO TO 1900 REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS 
--~psak:e® 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. 
Genuine · Registere~ KEEPSAKE diamond nngs .· . 

Downtown' 233-4200. ·.. ·. 2_18 ·· S.: Micl).iga_n St. 
LAVIER $500 



: ~ ·----~ 
_,. --..,. ~L~--:­



cides] in the wrong amounts in the wrong places in reckless disregard of the health

analysis of their. workers in · order to maximize profits." 
Alone; a farm worker is defenseless . 
. He is completely dependent on the grower and_ -the. labor contractor, who often employ a corrupt system of pocket­
· ing money and cheating · the farmer. SystematicaUy excluded from labor laws he has -no · unemployment · benefits or workmen's _compensation. If a worker is hurt in the fields, he will most likely be fired as an unfit· laborer. Allowed no kind of grievance ·procedure, any com­plaints would also lead to dismissal. 
Until recently there has been little pos­sibility for an effective strike by the farm· workers; since for every one that _was willing to strike there were many more poor and hungry enough to fill in the vacancies.· Under the leadership of Cesar Chavez, however, a powerful, non­violent attempt for justice has become







La Causa 

effective--the Delano Grape Strike. The . success of this secondary boycott (e.g., The use of non-violent means to ac­The cycle of poverty perpetuates it-. on products} gave rise to others, all de­quire desired ends is highly acclaimed sert, too, for many children must be taken signed to force growers to the bargain­today in a world weary of senseless out of school by age 10 in order to help ing table ..yhere contracts can be worked violence and death. Yet, it seems that support their families-it is · impossible out which would give workers their just when non-violent measures are at­for them to get the education which rights. These include: 1) Wages that tempted, the struggle is a useless one. could help them out of their servitude to average· $2 an hour minimum; 2) com­
Such a struggle is that of the United the land. In addition to this, the children plete bah on harmful pesticides; 3) cool, Farm Workers for dignity and justice in (and other workers) are often forced to _potable drinking water, sanitary facilities, the fields. Unknown to many Americans, • labor in fields freshly sprayed with poi-· and proper protective clothing; 4) Robert the farm workers have, for 37 years, been sonous pesticides. Testifying before the F. Ke.nnedy Medical Plan; 5) establish­systematically excluded from labor pro­House of Representatives on Oct. 3, 1969, merit of a grievance procedure; 6) No tection laws. The National Labor Re­UFWOC's leader Cesar Chavez said:·• discrimination on the basis of race, sex, lations (or Wagner} Act, passed by '.'The health and safety of farm worke·rs·. re_ligion or language; and, 7) 25 cents an Congress in 1935, declared the public in California and throughout the U.S: is hour overtime extra after 9 hours. policy of the U.S. "to eliminate . the the single most important issue facing th_e Now that the _farm workers are making causes of certain substantial obstructions United Farm Workers Organizing Com-progress in building a union, however, to the free flow of commerce · and to mittee. In California the agricultural in-·:··the _Republican ·party seems to be making mitigate and eliminate these obstructions dustry experiences the highest occupa-an effort to destroy it. The only beneficial when they have occurred by encouraging tional disease rate. . . Growers con-aspect in being excluded from the NLRA the practice and procedure of collective -sistently use the wrong kinds of [pesti-·,. was the· fact that farm workers could not bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom. of association, self-organization, and designation -of representatives of their own choosing for the purpose of -negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection.'.' This act works as a two-pronged fork, for labor protection and also .fo~ labor sanctions, in that it forbids · the -use. of secondary strikes by laborers. Agricultural workers, however, were e>ccluded from the Act. 
In_ being excluded from the Act, farm workers ·have become subject to the 
.worst. possible working conditions. As individual human beings, they are forced to work from sunrise to sunset with no _extra overtime wages, and an average an­nual income of $2700. for a family of four. Women work in :the fields, some­times up to· thei~ eighth . month in pregnancy. . The sanitary· ·facilities are outrageous, and even a : cup of . water costs the w_orker 5¢. · · 


THE SCHOLASTIC 

legally be kept from initiating secondary boycotts. In the summer of 1971, Pres­ident Nixon appointed Peter Nash Gen­eral Counsel. On March 8th Nash decided to issue a complaint against the increasingly successful UFWOC, and on March 9th he went to court to take away the boycott. The injustice of this action was propounded in a-letter written by Chavez: "The Republicans have decided that the punitive provisions of the NLRA (e.g., the ban on secondary boycotts) should apply to the farm worker's union even though the protections of the NLRA do not apply to farm workers. This posi­tion is so unfair that it is hard to imagine how reasonable men. could take such a course. But the Republican party has apparently decided to make a direct political attack on the farm workers' movement. Farm workers cannot take this lying down. The boycott is breath and life for our union. We must fight back." 
The boycott has been the only effective non-violent weapon available to farmers. Therefore, if they are forbidden to strike, they will lose the bargaining power needed to negotiate with growers and labor contractors. It is somehow ironic that the U.S. government allows itself to play games with these workers, who are among the most depressed, exploited and deprived in the nation. There is no conceivable reason why they should not enjoy the rights afforded· to laborers since 1935. If they are to be subjected to the labor sanctions, they should also be offered the protection and benefits of the American labor system, thus being given the one thing they are fighting so desper­ately for-an opportunity to get to the bargaining table and hammer out their problems in contracts equally just for contractors and union members. 
-pat inccracken 


Avenues of Appeal 

Institutions lacking efficient structural means for enacting progressive change risk bureaucratic paralysis. Members of the ·faculty are now holding divergent opinions on the future direction of Notre Dame. Although tempered by good-will and tolerance, the two opinions, by na­ture of their extreme opposition of view.:. point, pose the definite threat of harm­ful polarization. What then, is the forum through which these opinions can be meaningfully exchanged, thus effecting compromise? 
An equally uncertain situation exists for students. In the recent elections, a majority of the student body has de facto expressed a feeling _of futility concerning the possibility of serious involvement with the existing means of student repre­sentation. The non-merger debacle of December and the subsequent negotia­tions have also raised· questions about the efficacy of closed cliscussions. 
Thus the signs are many that faith in various decision and policy-making bodies is beginning to wane. Any institu­tion that lacks the faith and active in­terest of. its members has little to hope for beyond a muddled present and a nebulous future. At this time, an exami­nation of some of the means which we, the students and faculty; have of con­trolling our destiny may offer a new per­spective on real participation and con­structive dissent as tools integral to the future of Notre Dame as a progressive academic community. 
The Academic Council is chaired by Father Hesburgh; The principal function of this body is to determine general aca­demic policies and regulations of the University. The Council is composed of twenty-eight administrators with a number of elected faculty members and an equal number who serve ex officio. In the Fall of 1970, students were permitted to serve on the Council. There are seven students seated on the Academic Council. 
The Steering Committee of the Aca­demic Council decides the agenda and what forms specific bills will take. The Steering Committee is composed of Pro­vost Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Associate Provost Rev. Ferdinand Brown, and eight elected members. 
The Academic Council is responsible for determining the calendar. The change in the calendar which was recently ef­fected was viewed as a "milestone" by Fred Giuffrida, student representative to the Conucil. Although the change in policy was a deviation from normal pro­cedure, the administration power bloc was not really affected because the cal­endar issue was, basically, an emotional one. Opposition was so widespread that the Academic Council was virtually forced to respond. 
One of the complaints lodged against the Academic Council is that it is too large. There are approximately sixty-five people now seated on the Council. Fred Giuffrida sees a reduction in the number of members as facilitating greater free­dom of discussion. For example, a body of twenty-five members would be more centralized and therefore would be able to make decisions more rapidly and without recourse to higher authority .. 
Students have an opportunity to initiate change by petitioning the Council directly or by acting through an Academic Coun­cil representative. In addition, a student interested in becoming involved with the Academic Council can · apply for membership on the Council itself or he can work in the Academic Commission of Student Government. 
The function of the Faculty Senate, an­other tool of change, is to gather in­formation that affects the faculty as a whole and also to act as an intermediary, consultative body between administration and faculty. The members of the Senate are elected for three-year terms. One­third of these positions fall vacant each year; this system is similar to the pro­cedure used by the U.S. Senate.· The approximate ratio of representation is one delegate for every ten faculty mem­bers. The various colleges have a quota of representatives they are permitted to seat each year. 
A nominating committee from each college presents a list of candidates. Ballots are sent to all faculty members and then the results are tabulated. The candidates with the · most votes from each college are selected to· fill the available positions in the Senate which 

APRIL 14, 1972 
fall vacant each term. Within the nomi­nation process, there is latitude insofar as a faculty member can be nominated ·directly by another faculty member. However, a certain number of signatures are required in order for the faculty member nominated in this way to get 
on the ballot. 
One of the problems concerning the 

current debate over tenure, promotions, 
and direction is related to what the ac­
tual faculty involvement should be in the 
decision-making process. This situation 
is couched in uncertainty since there is 
no actual stipulation regarding limits on 
the power of the ·Provost. The Faculty 
Manual lacks any mention of this be­
cause, at the time it was issued (Feb­
ruary, 1967}, the position of Provost did 
not exist at Notre Dame. Who decides 
policy and what are the constitutional 
limits of that authority? This is the crux 
of the problem. At this time, a com­
mittee appointed by the President of the 
Senate is working on revising and up­
dating the Faculty Manual. 
On academic issues which. are not 

university-wide, the various College Coun­
cils offer prospective avenues for im­
plementing change for the students and 
faculty. For example, in the College of 
Arts and Letters, along with five students 
on the College Council itself, there exists 
an eleven-man Arts and Letters Student 
Advisory Council. The Advisory Council 
members have met among themselves 
and with Dean Crosson several times 
this year, and according to Dan Moore, 
President of the Advisory Council and 
one of the five student members of the 
College Council, "Our experiences have 
been very good-very fruitful. I think 
the Dean has shown great willingness 
to listen, candor in keeping us informed 
and willingness to act on our behalf." 
Some of the issues being considered are 
the value of the Collegiate Seminar pro­
gram and the possibility of pass-fail 
amendments, such as allowing students 
to receive a letter grade for a course 
previously designated pass-fail, provided 
he did so within two weeks before finals. 
The College Councils are quite func­

tional because they are a direct means 
through which student opinion can be 
transmitted. This facilitates communica­
tion among administration, faculty, and 
students on questions which, although 
not of deep concern to students in all 
disciplines, are nonetheless important. 
Like all living things, Notre Dame has 

the future to consider. Perhaps the most 
meaningful avenue leading toward pro­
gress is the path of understanding and 
compromise. A university, by its very 
nature, is the sum of many parts. Thus, 
the structural means for enacting in­
stitutional changes can be no more than 
mere skeletons unless the people who 
are the institution wish to work together. 
-Jack Wenke and Jane Thornton 


And Their 

Student input into the decision-making apparatus of Notre Dame enters the system at a number of levels. There are five students on the University Aca-
The need for an established prob­lems procedure for students wronged or unduly disappointed by a teacher, department, course, or educational program of the College of Arts and Letters has been neglected. 
Students from any college who found their grades in Arts and Letters courses significantly below their just expectations; who found courses or programs of disappointing value; or who found themselves burdened with any just grievance concerning an academic matter, formerly had to personally meet a teacher, department chairman, and finally the Dean, in an often unsatisfactory and time consum­ing effort to resolve it. Professors were often reluctant to reconsider their decisions, department chairmen tended to remain loyal to their pro­fessors, and the Dean was forced to make a final decision without suffi­cient time available to fully investigate the case. 
The Arts and Letters Student Advi­sory Council has formulated a process by which students can air these griev­ances and have them investigated by fellow students, with results forwarded 
to  the  Dean:  
Though  the  Dean's  and  not  the  
council's  decision  will  be final,  the  

council's recommendation will be a deciding factor in the final determina­tion of the case. 
demic Council, which concerns itself with University-wide affairs; there are five students on the College Council of Business Administration and that of Arts 
The student will present his griev­ance according to the following pro­cedure: 
A. The student must always con­sult with the teacher involved as the first step. 
B. If a satisfactory agreement is not reached, the student should pre­sent his grievance to the department chairman under departmental proce­dures where they exist. 
C. If the student is not satisfied with the response of the department chairman, he should prepare a de­tailed written account of the parti­culars of his grievance and the res­ponse of the professor and the de­partment chairman. This should be mailed to: 
The Grievance Committee Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council Room 137 O'Shaughnessey Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
A member of the council will consider the student's claim and act upon it on the basis of the following criteria: 
1) the claim must appear legitimate, and 2) the claim must involve a dis­crepancy of sufficient magnitude to warrant investigation (i.e., the council cannot hope to determine whether a student deserved an A-instead of a B, for example). If the above criteria are not met, the student will be so in-

Directions 
and Letters, which concern themselves with the affairs within each college and their relations to otber colleges. How­ever, despite the efforts of Student Gov-
formed. If they are met, the student will be asked to appear before a panel of three members of the council and possibly a faculty participant as well. 
D. If the panel in consultation with the student, determines that the claim 
is just, the council will make a thorough investigation, including a meeting with the professor and de­partment chairman involved. 
E. At the end of this investigation, the council will again meet with the student before making its final re­commendation. 
F. The council makes its recom­mendation to the Dean. 
G. The Dean makes final determina­tion of the case. 
The council wishes to emphasize that a grievance need not be based upon a specific grade or course, but may concern the quality and opera­tion of academic programs within the college (for example, cheating, lack of rigor, general lack of academic achievement, etc.). 
It is the role of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council to contri­bute to the excellence of the college through consultation with the Dean. For this reason, it is of special im­portance that these more general grievances be brought to the attention of the council, and subsequently, the Dean. 
ernment, the rest of the undergraduates at N. D. have discovered from time to time that established procedures for direct action upon their ideas, com­plaints, contributions, and problems con­cerning the running of the University, the individual colleges, and their own courses, are lacking. For anyone taking courses in the College of Arts and Letters (and that includes everybody), that lack has now been reduced. 
The Student Advisory Council of the College of Arts and Letters-a body of
c;:. 
eleven students with the function of ad­vising the Dean on any matter concern­ing the College--has formulated a pro­cedure to allow anyone interested to have their ideas heard and acted upon. 
Five members of the Advisory Council are voting members on the Arts and Letters College Council-a SO-member body including all department heads, elected faculty representatives, and the college deans. The students have intro­duced several proposals to the College Council since the beginning of the year (when students were seated for the first time) and all have been acted upon favorably. For one, on March 15, the College Council passed a "problems pro­cedure"-to be mediated by the Student Advisory Council with faculty participa­tion-that allows student input to the Arts and Letters College to come from anyone. 
Such "problems" might include any­thing as personal as a student's dislike for the way a professor runs his course to a "problem" as universal as an idea for changing the pass/fail options cur­rently being offered. Perhaps a student feels his courses are not demanding enough-or perhaps too demanding when compared to the credit rewarded. Per­haps a student sees too much cheating in his classes and would like to do some­thing about it. 
Of course, student representatives at all levels of input have been concerning themselves with matters such as these, but their losing touch with what most students really find wrong with their ed­ucation is not uncommon. The "problems procedure" is designed to avoid that problem within the Arts and Letters College. 
The procedure is also intended to al­low a student who feels he received an undeserved grade to do something a·fter regular appeals channels within a de­partment have been exhausted. Some Arts and Letters departments have grievance procedures of their own, but others don't, and students have found themselves with nowhere to turn after seeing the professor and department chairman. involved. The "problem pro­cedure" allows for a final appeal, a thorough investigation if warranted, and the weight of the opinion of other stu­dents and faculty members-people the Dean will listen to-when a student has truly been aggrieved. 
The procedure is a bit intricate and lengthy but, that is the price of through­ness. (Of course simple suggestions on any matter can be forwarded directly to the Student Advisory Council address listed below without any further pro­cedure at all.) This is the proposal as it was passed last month by the Arts and Letters College Council. 
-Neil Rosini 

APRIL 14, 1972 
a highly competitive search for new talent · every year. In this search each school is looking for an edge, something that rriakes · Us· offer look more attractive. Thus, when one major school or con­
. ·ference jumped ·at the chance to offer its prospects four years of competition instead of three, the others had to follow
Freshman: 
suit-:-it would be suicidal for them not 
· to have ·done· so. · As Notre Dame. Ath­letic· Director Edward w. Krause ·re­
marked,' "Why would a boy want to come t~ Notre Dame if-he can play only three years when he can go to Michigan where he can play four?" 
· It is ironic that the original aim of this 


To Play 

or Not to Play 
new measure-to cut spending on ath­letics-is not being served, at least not 

David has once again triumphed over the case of independents, such as Notre at the major schools.. In the place of a Goliath. Or perhaps it would be more Dame) or· to the conferences to decide. freshman program, these schools will precise to say that David . has Goliath whether or not they would allow freshman establish junior varsity squa,ds for the outnumbered. In any case, the giant has competition in their programs. The freshmen who cannot. make the varsity · fallen one more time. choice with whicti the schools and con-and those fringe players on the varsity 
In January of this year, the National ferences were faced was similar fo that squads who see little actio_n. Collegiate Athletic Association · polled its of ·an election in which . only· one · can-. The economic factor does not really approximately 2500 member schools. The didate is on the ballot. · enter into the picture, at least in terms matter in question-should freshman The Goliaths were not enthused '~bout · · of · the · Athletic Board's reluctance to athletes be permitted to compete at the the p_roposal. At many of these schools, · accept the proposal. "Everybody on the varsity level in both football and basket­the athletic programs are at least break-. Athletic Board was against it because of ball? ing even, if not showing a small profit. the academic difficulty involved in the 
Freshmen have competed in the other Their teams play b.efore packed house~ ··jump from ~igh school to · college," sports at the varsity level .for some-time. in mammoth arenas. Most of~ them re-Krause . stated.. '_'We are proud of our With the exception of hockey (and .golf ceive large contributions from their . record over the last· 15-20 years. •Ninety­and . baseball at the various "warm.:· -friends and alumni groups to aid· the · nine per c:ent of our:athletes have grad­weather" schools), the "other'.' sports are financing of the programs. These schools uated, which is largely due to our not so demanding of time as are football can afford to provide the freshman · cotinselin~ program, headed by Professor and basketball. The collegiate new­athletes with their own program involv-· DeCicc·o." ~ comer in most· instances has· been able ing only a. relatively "low-pressure", sche-It goes without saying that this record to adapt to his . new :environment. and dule to allow the student more time to could ,very well be threatened with fresh-turn in acceptable performances in.these ·adjust to•the rigors of his new academic inen eligible for football and basketball. sports. . atmosphere. The jump from high school More important than the maintenance of 
The · result of the NCAA's vote could to college.is difficult enough. The· added any reco.rd, however, some freshmen drastically alter this situation. Starting . weight of ·participating in varsity sports simply may not be able to ·cope with the next faH, ·fres!"Jmen will be permitted to ·at the major-college level and the time pressure. One· would hope that each of compete· on varsity football. and basket­which must be devoted to them can only .. the freshmen will be monitored just as ball teams. How was ·this rulec-change. complicate the situation and could pos-closely, if not · more so, as in the past effected? _sibly lead to the academic death• o( the here at. Notre Dame, and that he will be 
Of· the NCAA's member schools, there athlete. assigned to ·the junior· varsity squad are probably no more than ten per cent In the minutes.of the February 15 meet-should tie give evidence of experienc­that play what is termed a "major­ing of Notre Dame's Faculty Board in ing the slightest amount of difficulty. college" schedule in either football _or Control of Athletics, "It was noted that . Freshrnan eligibility brings u·p an im­basketball. These schools have gone on Fr; Joyce would like to have· the rule portant issue. Why should the smaller record as being against. the new ruling. :ultimately reversed and will work toward schools have the power to dictate policy The 2200 small schools had advocated . that end. In th_e_interim we probably have to the larger ones? In other words, .why this measure as a means of cutting dow·n no real choice. Coach Phelps_ is definitely doesn't the NCAA create divisions of its on the mounting expenses invo!ved in opposed . . ...Coach Parseghian is not member schools, grouping them accord­maintaining an intercollegiate sports really in favor of .it·... If we accept, it ing to size, thereby allowing schools in program. By deleting freshman programs, should be clearly noted however that we similar situations to govern themselves, the small-school administrators hope to do-so reluctantly.',., Why did Notre Dame rather than maintaining the present rid their athletic budgets of a sizable . and the other major colleges and uni-structure?_ A proposal along those lines burden. It should be added that because versities succumb? was submitted at the association's last of the size of these colleges, their pool of · There is no doubt that athletics at convention, but it was not acted upon. available athletes is proportionately . · these. institutions are run on a basis Perhaps the problems which might result 
. smaller, and that by giving their coaching similar to big business. However, big from freshman · eligibility · will force this staffs one "extra" class with which to business is not faced with the problems proposal to the forefront (and into law) work, their product will improve. Through of recruiting, at least not to . the same before· something even more potentially the sheer power of numbers, these in.:. extent as the schools. What would Ge_n-dangerous to the intercollegiate athlete stitutions received what they wanted. eral Motors do if it faced a complete is enacted. We are at the point where David won. turnover in personnel every .three years one can no longer term a victory by After this legislation was handed. dovm · as ·the colleges do?" The· .athh~tic de-David an upset-much less a. fair one. it was left up to the individual schools (in · partments of .the schools are· involved in ~pete weber 


THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED AS A PUBLIC SERVICE BY THE PUBLISHER 
APRIL 14, 1972 

the SCHOLASTIC is looking for a .. dynamic, energetic and patient madman to fill the position of Circulation Manager. 
Salary negotiable. _Contact Greg. Sti1dham at 7~69 or 1807. 
:/-.:_:. _.:JL··._ ­
--. 
~ 

· . Full range of undergraduate_and ·graduate courses, special institutes and workshops. Residence halls· · 
_,,, ~-' , "t. , 

available. . : . ·. 
2 sessions: June 26-July 29 and July 31-Sept. 2 (day and evening). Phone (516) 299-2431 or mail cc>Upon.· 

And next time you pass _C. W. Post ... don't. . Come in. " =· 
You'll see one of Ameri~a•s· -·-. . _ /. 
2
1

m~st beautiful campuses.· _. :. .:-: ____:>:: -• 
• 


' '::-,.­
___, ~ -·-----------------~--..::._. -­
~ --.. ,, . . -­, --; :-;::'-_ ._ ~}.-: :· ­
Summer Session Office · . . · C. W. Post Center ·. ' :Greenvale, L. I., N:v. 11548 

Nam 
'Address· 


• 1 
. ?~· J.J 
--. J /; 
-'.'t1
JtJ 
_f 
'I 
~-..f:' 
. . 
< ] 
'/ 
7qI ,f
fp
# 
• ·'! 
t/ 
·'!J!
,;;-_'
~~,? 
.,i/ 
(, 
' 
/
! ! 
I 

The Decline and Fall of Notre Dame (?) 
-4PRIL:-14,-19?:2 _. 
..econ·omic pressures are present 
IN 1843, a_s the. legend: goes, a harinon1ous accord. · 
existed between.the administration and ,the faculty of our fledgling ·university. ·. Student tuition .and board· per quarter was $18.00 a head~ and Notre Daine was . poor. Trying .to cut· down excess expenditures;·Father. Sorin, president of the University, and Father Cointet, :an instructor iri Greek, _shared. between• themselves one . hat and a pair of boots~ Thus, students knew that Fr. Cointet was sitting barefoot and hatless in the single college building whenever. they saw Fr. Sorin walking. around campus. :Faculty and administration relations seem to have reversed since -that idyllic time when Notre Dame was. little .more· than an Indian mission. 
. . . 

With the appearance ·of,the March 14 "Future of Notre. 
Dame". statement, we wonder if a significant number: 
of the faculty have reservations as-to .adm:inistrative.. 
goals. _ .. 
The questions concerning faculty and administration . 
relations and their importance for Notre Dame's future 
have grown complex during the past weeks. A second 
letter appearing in the Observer labeled "false" several ·. 
statements found in the "Future" essay. The perplexed 
student is further astonished by the shadow of "re­
J)risals'' on dissenting faculty which has arisen in the 
discussion. If he asks professors about this issue he 
may receive a reply that these "reprisals" are the crea­
tions of an hysterical mind. Another professor may 
allude to actual cases of administrative sanctions on a 
faculty member, but no names, dates, or information 
are given. All evidence remains behind the closed doors· 
of the··university Club and the adminitrative ·offices: 
~ -.; . ~ 
-"".. -:_~ ,~~ : • • -~ ._ '\\. ·;-J 1 ­

P~rhaps, we ca:rf understand the faculty discussions through information that is publicly available. The 
. basis for the recent letter ·writing campaign centers . around administ.rative. documents by the Provost which appeared in Notre Dame Reports two and eleven. The first ·document.described the "ruorics" that the univer­sity looks for· in a faculty member, especially in deci­sions regarding tenure: 
What one seeks in a faculty member can roughly be characterized under thr.ee rubrics: teaching ability, excellence in scholarship (as displayed in 
_published and unpublished research), and educative contributions to the ND corririmnity and to the pub­lic interest. 
"Teaching ability" was recognized as the main fa­culty qualification, and the computerized course evalua­
. tions importance in evidencing this ability was . citeq. 
. The document also set a rough limit on the number-of tenured faculty in a department-between 1/2 and 2/3 of the professors. Fr. Burtchaell emphasized ,the flexi­bility inherent in his plan, and was open to alternate designs submitted by department chairmen. 
THE second Report appeared on February 8. Reiter­ating the tenure policies of the prior _document, this seven-page essay also dealt with economics. A brief history of faculty compensation and pay as well · as. the recent cutbacks of financial support for ND were described. The document .concluded with-measures, 
-..:s. 

. -:· 
-· ·:.=-:· 
and on the rise 
both long and short range, that would counteract the present economic hardships. At this point faculty dis­cussions were ignited, for the short-range measures were aimed directly at professors. 
Professors were to spend· 12 hours. in class per week subject to three-to six-hour reductions if the .faculty. member was engaged in research or . adminis­trative duties. Faculty expansion would be curtailed, and a more even. distribution of faculty among depart­ments would . be implemented. This would naturally involve a stasis in the hiring of faculty for departments which,_would be termed "overloaded" with professors. 
Most faculty and administrators do not doubt· that ec011omic pressures are present and on the rise. We students also feel the pinch every year as the tuition is raised. The Notre Dame Report 11 cites myriads· of evidence-government grants are declining, insurance a.nd fuel costs are increasing. As the supporters of the .second.faculty letter note, ND is experiencing a com­mon problem among all institutions of higher learning ,-"the e:qd of an era of academic expansion." The au­thors of·the,"~ture" essay were not ignorant of this 
· ~conomic reality: 
Everyone knows we need to economize; everyone is willing to·work constructively towards,that end. 
Then,.why 1:he debate at all? Some faculty members< fear that it will now be difficult to. attain tenure.· The new qualifications for a faculty member insure that the tenure candidate will be examined much more· closely: than in the past. sbme professors will b~ requ~red_.to teach more than they have before the. appearance of the document. As. o~e professor wrote in a letter he 
.submitted anonymously to th~ Scholastic: 
Nobody likes to be told that henceforth he ought ~ to do more work·for the same pay, whether the re-. quest is in itself reasonable or no.t. · · 
Criticism of the.measures taken to counteract the economic pressures as enumerated ·in the "Future" essay·. is valid. Junior. faculty members in "over­
. loaded" departments are in uncomfortable positions due to· the quota.: In· some cases, their possibility for ad­vancement may look hopeless. A young professor may find himself in· a "pressure .cooker," when he is re­quired to teach, research, and perform nebulously de­fined "community service" duties. As Assistant Pro­fessor James Doubleday notes, an imaginative and con­scientious approach to a course involves much work for a professor: 
But this judgment does not take into account the time spent outside class, in preparing, correcting papers, talking to students, arranging for record players and film projectors, and all the 1001 other things that may be needed in connection with the class. 
As· anyone knows who has read both faculty letters, 
.the • feasibility of the measures taken by the Provost are subject to continual debate. For example, many faculty members do not always see course evaluations as leading to disturbances in teaching techniques. How­ever, these issues seem to be secondary to the real point 
.the first faculty letter raised-the style in_ which ,the Office of the Provost is being conducted. 
AT this point, we again enter the dark alleys. ge~­erated by the faculty. discussion. Has Notre Dame be­come · an "administrative adventure"? . Prof. Ronald Weber states that the administration ignores the fac-· ulty on matters thought to be too grave for general 
APRIL· ·14,< 1972 .. 
a·dministrative leadership is .not a defined concept 
discussion. The supporters of the second· faculty letter 
write that the Provost's polides :are not inflexible.: Yet, 
discussion about the administration's recent· actions· 
stems from the haziness of the ·taculty-administration 
relationship. 

The draft report of the Subcommittee· cin ·Faculty Ethics -gives some glimpse of the faculty's relation­ship to the administration. To quote the text, the fac-. ulty member is.an activ.e _participant In the ~otal edu­cational program:· · 
He is not only a witness, he is an active-partici­. pant in the 'total educational program, both aca-. . demic and extracurricular. · · · · · 
Administrators, on the other harid,-·are _"servants of -the community."· 0·They are ·:to be::"acceptable: to, ·and ac-.· coun'table, :fo'!-::the .:faculty: and -students, who. receive . their se~vices;: 'The:Provo~t's .own".statements support 
·thls:declaration·of-a·faculty:-administra:tion_relationship, . as· documented ·in a: speecfr·. J-ie· ;gave shortly after·: as­
suming-his Qffice: ·~ _ -·_ .· · · · · 
·. : . . . ~s,,Provost or the'University I .~shall ·expect ··1:o .... ·: l~arn:and'defim{inyitasks·mostly through ·collabora-. 
. tion and ·~eg;o_tiation,::with you, Il?Y colleagues.  ...  
_-.  --_  ,..:  -=,-'~---_': ...­ ~':.,  .:  -~  
•·. Tfie .'faculty: has. iseveral  main  orga~iza tions,  the.  

Faculty Senate and. the· Academic Council, and· innu­merable committees for .their participation in the total educatiorial effort. However, the effectiveness of these organizations in giving the faculty its "say" in Univer­sity affairs has been called into question. Until the cause of this ineffectiveness can be elucidated,. many of the problems presented py the past month's· discussion will remain unsolved. 
Criticism of these organizations has implied that· both their structure ~nd the attitude of their members may lead to a failure to initiate·any new policies. The Provost . stated · in his-speech ·that :the . "deliberative bodies" are l':S? ai;>t to··propose.'new ideas-than to im­prove upon them. T:hus, .he· sees .the administrator's role as one of.· presenting prop.osals for committee or senate deliberation.' Prof. Johri:Houck has noticed that the Faculty Seriate::is. reluctant:to .consider important policy. issues· ori-its ow~.: J:ominitt:eeme·n arta.· senators may have failed .to give their, full energies for. the good­of, the· entire •priiversity.-or -cannot perform within the present organizationaf_: structure~ This. ·faHure or in­ability may, have placed .the-·Administfatfon· into its 
presen(position of·pqlicy·iriitiattir, ·.:· .·· · · ,. · . , · .. ."· _On the 'other· hand, the:leadership by the·· adminis­tra~ion _and the· Provo.st is·not a~ clearly defined concept. 
·.No step-b'yistep .guide is··available f9r .a·1eader to fol~ '.low; andthe Pres_ident of the Uni~ersity and the Provost . are· lead~rs.' Styl.e .thus assumes .' great ~ importance. Nuances tfansmitted by ,a certain '.style can cau~e,pblicy proposals~ for. delioeratfon to·. appear: as edicts. -The present style o(the.Pro~vos(and its •effects.mi' memb~rs of the faculty··are:·,·perhcips, .th~. mah~ criticism of ·the 
· "Future'.' essay·:. . -:"· ·, · : .·., -·.' ·"· .:. . . . . . . 
. . . . ; .in., rp/ own .' Colleg~·. arid .rriy' .ow~...Department ·1 
·-· :· have latelfwitnesseci the 'filtering~·downwardi of.the new· style. Such a lining up'·of.-subordinates is in-· evitable; the style at the top·becorries the ambience. 
.in ·whkh subordinates work.·.. . . 
THE blaming of ~aculty-organizatio~s -~r th~· Prov~st,. . ·. alone as being responsibie for the ·confusion in..faculty­admi~istration relation.s is ·myopic. The complexity of · 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

the situation is astounding. One must take into· consid­eration the present economy and its effects on our entire society as. well as the past history of faculty­administration ties.· One reason ·the recent dis·cussions 
· have been so vague and abstract is the faculty and ad­ministrator's refusal to discuss openly particular cir­cumstances -occasions when proposals have been ignored or when organizational channels were not functioning. One doesn't want to resurrect a Virginia Woolf in an individual or faculty member's life, or state that ethics which respect privacy aren't laudable. However, too much is floating beneath the surface of ND. The. supporters of the "Future"· essay can add these_.words at the end of their line: "we ·are:_moving rapidly .toward a future in w:hich ·nobody listens, no-' body sees," and nobo.a'y. speaks . . 
The silence was-partially broken by the recent letters. Xet, it still exists like a blanket covering the entire community/ from which come occasional rumors and· anonymous letters. These messages. speak of a fear to express oneself on today's campus because of re­prisals ·or jeopardy to orie'.s position:" The rumors are promulgated and ·reach ears receptive to this form of communication. Their persistence is an obvious symp­tom of a community where descriptions and words are kept as vague as possible. . 
Anonymous letters are unapproachable. Their form dempnstrates a fear while simultaneously making it impossible for the circumstances which generated the fear to be identified, and ~ubsequently corrected . 
. One can. only read of individuals, many of whom have been__ personally hurt by recent events .and manipula­tions. These hurts will never be aired before. the entire
. . . 
commu;iity. , . . 
. If:silence-is based on a_.genuine. fear, then. commu­nity-members lack faith in. their fellows' -interest ·and sensitivity to others' problems ... 1'.his /'lack. of ,faith" is a Un_iversity-wide characte~isti.c., .Mr., Meagher of Theology stated in a small symp~si1:1m that the adminis­tration· is una,ble t~ work-with• people beyond the con­tractual-level. All the· faculty. member's duties are . enumerated and finalized. i~ a contract; he is a Univer­sity_"hireling.". For ~xample, at Notre Dame one needs ~n administr~tive..rule requidng faculty to spend 12 hours in ~las_s.:-A general plea to the _faculty to volun­. teer,_their, time because of the increasing economic: pres­
~ , .J r a _ 
sures ·. coµld_n't be made. No '.'act. of faith"-was pre­sented by.the administration, but had. previous ."acts" _.:Illetwith a negative response? , . 
: '.A COI].tractual type of faculty-student-administ:i;ator ·. r~atiopship might well be so entrenched _in Notre Dame that these discussions of "faith" and "fear" are fruitless. 
. . 

·However,_. certain statements by faculty and adminis­
• frators suggest that sparks that would ignite a. more oper ND• are hidden beneath the silence. Professor Goerner speaks of an almost undefinable "spirit,'.' be­
. _sides the old Notre Dame camaraderie, on the campus 
.. that attracts and holds faculty here. Fr. Bu:rtchaell ­recognized in his Oct. 1 letter that many seniqr faculty are attuned to the "special gifts" ND offers the student. Perhaps, the common awareness and demonstration.of this: hidden feature of ND might make the ·spirit of · sh:aring boots and. a hat a current reality. 

Point/Counterpoint: 
Last Friday the SCHOLASTIC arranged a gathering of six members of the Notre Dame faculty for the pur­pose of discussing the future of the University. Ronald Weber is Chairman of the Department of American Studies; Leslie Martin is an assistant professor in the Department of English and has headed the Committee on Academic Progress; John Houck is a professor in the College of Business; Robert Meagher is an instruc­tor in the Department of Theology; James Carberry is a professor of Chemical Engineering; Edward Goerner is a prof~sor in the Department of Government. 
Goerner: I'm not sure that the load investigating and student course evaluation business in the first letter of the thirty-one, are the .foci of any kind of dispute. The problem is that they seem to have been simply as­serted. The argument, if my memory serves me, the thrust of the letter was not that there ought to be a nine-hour load or a twelve-hour load or a hundred-hour load. The problem is really that the place is obviously confronted with some serious personnel and financial problems that can't be ignored. And they're being dealt with without public consultation and debate. That really seems to me to be the thrust of the letter. The problem is that policy was re-enunciated in a series of specific steps that were required of department chair­men, without any public discussion, without people real­ly knowing what the point of that reassertion of the 
The Future of Notre Dame 
policy was, that is to say without our being clear why we're going where we're going. One of the problems is that we don't know where we are going or why we're going the way we are. That's why I'm not sure:that it would be profitable to discuss the twelve-hour thing or the course evaluation thing. 
Weber: It seems that there is an assumption in­volved in the way the new policies were publicized to us, that these matters are somehow so grave or touchy that public discussion with faculty would only obscure the issue and prevent snappy, decisive action; that to draw the faculty into discussion would simply render this difficult or impossible. This seems to me to be an extremely doubtful and curious position and assumes that the situation is so desperate that these actions must be taken by fiat, without any sort of public discussion. This may be true. But again it seems to me that we are asked to make a very large act of faith with very little evidence. 
Houck: I think the sign of a good collegiate leader is that he articulate the communal problems, so that the people who are members of that community, who are people of good will, can come forth with proposals for remedying the problems. Very likely there is a possibility here of consensus on how we can deal with it. And certainly I find it difficult to believe that many of my colleagues would gag at the thought of teaching twelve hours if that is what the community needs, and would certainly look at the problem of tenure and how many people we can carry over the long run. One could speculate a long financial crisis. But I think that you have to articulate problems, share them and give the community a chance to work on a solution. I think that was what the first letter was trying to state. 
Martin: In the letter that I wrote to Fr. Hesburgh in explanation and elucidation of my signature on the first document, I remarked that where nothing is ever freely asked, nothing can ever be freely given. Two years ago in a casual social conversation with a high officer of this University, I suggested the idea of volun­tarily teaching more units for no money or very little more money· as a possible solution to some of the Uni­versity's problems and inquired as to whether or not this might be useful. The answer was, in fact, that it would be useful. I suggested at that time that some effort be made to simply lay it open as a voluntary issue to see if anyone would undertake it. That was thought at the time a very good idea; it was returned to us in the form of Notre Dame Reports No. 11 in which we are mandated to do it. I certainly have a sufficiently high opinion of my colleagues to think that a very important preponderance of them would respond affirmatively to that kind of request and act on it, and their cooperation, I hypothesize, would constitute a sort of moral suasion on less obliging individuals. 
Goerner: You can't run the University as a servile place, or only servile people will stay on. The point is that people are beginning to say that the only way you can stay here is to be servile. And those are the conditions under which you can stay and there are grave crises confronting the place and you are not to try to worry about them yourself; you are supposed to trust in someone of whose prudence one has not yet been convinced. If I were a father, and I am, I would not want to send my son to a servile place. 
Houck: I would like to make a couple of points. In the last paragraph of the statement by the Thirty-One there was an implication of fear of losing one's position if one stated one's name in the drafting of.the docu­ment. That is certainly alien to this place, and I don't think it fairly re.fleets what happens or what would happen here. I surely hope and pray that it wouldn't. I think that last paragraph was a "cheap shot," as ath­letes will say. 
Goerner: I didn't think so either when I signed the letter, but I think so now. I just attended a meeting­one that is on public record-where a man made a proposal, and the response of a responsible official of the Administration was that that proposal. will cost you one-twelfth of your salary. The proposal was withdrawn on that basis. I had never heard that kind of thing said before. 
Martin: There was the matter, too, of the treatment that Professor Joseph Scott received in which a public statement was issued to the entire University ~ommu­nity, scarcely designed to compliment Professor Scott or to further dialogue about the issues he raised. 

-..• ..:_·> ·.·, .. _\ :i: 
• -~ ~ :---.._..7..,,~ " ­
.:';'~:?~~}:~. . . . 
. . ._ -~:;, 
·:~ 
---·.-......."'. 
--~-, . 
....... _,;..._,_.,.,, ··. 
,-~"· /----··--~·:_y:::J:~~::~: ·.-·rr .-~: ~ 
"-,·~·::Y,¥'i,.·.~:.:..,_. .. {',. ...•. 
.~,: ·.:-· '·.J-(t}·•tia,:;-,, .: 
the faculty senate is a farm of masturbation 
Carberry: I considered the latter part of the cele­brated letter of the Thirty-One to be perhaps the Mount Etna of hysteria in a letter which was rather rich in hysteria. I would ask the following four ques­tions: 1) \iYas it ascertained that the grievances that ,vere implied were directly the consequences of the Provost's manifestations of power? 2) If indeed it was the firm conviction of those who signed the letter that the Provost was responsible for this condition, was there an attempt made at a personal confrontation with the Provost? 3) If the second avenue was explored and the Provost proved unreceptive to the apprehen­sions of the committee, why was the issue then not brought to the attention of the faculty senate? 4) If the Provost was not confronted, then why the letter at all? I thought it was a rather cheap shot to put a letter in the Observer in the first place. We, in fact, have more mechanisms whereby the faculty can inform and influence the decision of the Administra­tion than do some of the most prestigious institutions in the country. Why are they not being used? You referred earlier to certain decisions "falling out of the sky." ·Where are our chairmen, where are our deans? What in the name of hell are they doing? \iVhat is the faculty senate doing, except what, to my mind, in recent years has been nothing but a form of academic mas­turbation. They do nothing. We have all sorts of mechanisms and they are not being utilized. Essen­Ually, I want to know why, if certain members of the University were apprehensive about the "atmosphere," this mechanism was not utilized. 
Martin: I think you implied part of the answer when you referred to a certain manipulative process leading to self-gratification. I certainly wouldn't want to impugn the potential of the faculty senate. I think that potential is emphatically there among the members who are presently seated. But it is my impression­and I wish to dissociate my view from those of the thirty other signers of the statement-that many forms of representations have been made to the Provost, de­partmental, individual, collegiate, from a multiplicity of colleges, and that they have not fared very well. 1 think that the faculty senate, and 1 am a member of 1hat senate, has sent forward statements to the admin­istration which were not very seriously received, were not answered with any promise of amendment of pro­cedure. With regard to the statement of the Thirty-One, it was thought appropriate at this juncture that we make an act of faith in the student body. 
Goerner: One thing that was accomplished by the letter was that faculty members found, in discussing it with one another, that lots of people had done lots of things to be heard through the departments, through the other organs of the University; many had per­sonally spoken to a variety of people in the Adminis­tration, including the Provost. And what they discov­ered in the course of their conversations was Ihat many of their initiatives had been met with rebuff. 
Carberry: Then for the benefit of the student body and those of us who are not privy to such communica­tions, this should have been stated in the letter. 
Jlouck: Isn't this really a sign of our institutional 
APRIL 14, 1972 
sicr'..ness that we sit around and discuss the style of a pankul.ar officeholder instead of the problems facing the community. 
Carberry: Shouldn't we consider, though, that one J-i2s to grow in one's particular office, \i;·hether it be a deanship, a department chajrmanship, or even an as­sist?...Jit professorship? One might be allo,•:ed some de­gn::e of error and pr::rhaps a lack of judgment in spe­cific c,H;es. At the P.~~l:-P meeting of several weeks ago at which Father Burtchaell appeared, he in fact con­cluded his remarlr.s by saying that if someone had an alternative position how to handle this very delicate problem of tenure, he would be the first to embrace it. 
Goerner: It v:ouldn't be bad if \Ve used the faculty senate to talk about the serious problems we face: the tenure quota system, the relationship of the religious order to the University, and even the relationship of 
. ' 
'": :.:;; 
·,),}. 
-, ~,,., ::, -,:~ ... 
~ .;r • 
..-• N ;,: ... 
[~,N,; "';~.:
;:;Jt 
~:­
the University to Christianity and to society. It wouldn't be bad if we used the faculty senate and the academic commission to talk about those kinds of things. But when they have tried to raise these issues they really haven't received any sort of satisfactory reply, at least not in any of the bodies I have belonged to. They have encountered the response that "these are such grave and delicate matters that \Ve really can't tell you what's really at stake, they have to be decided by somebody else." I can envisage entrusting myself to somebody to solve such matters, but I have to have some reason to suppose that matters are as grave as they are. And before I entrust myself to someone I have to have reason to suppose that the chap in whom I place my trust for our common house is worthy of that trust; that he is responsible enough for that trust. "\Ve just haven't had that kind of evidence. vVe have been 
we are to make an act of faith in an office when it is 
asked to make an act of faith in an office when, in point of fact, it turns out to be an act of faith in a man. I may make acts of faith in a, man but I just haven't been given any kind of evidence that we ought to make it yet. In the meantime, it is our common house that will go down or will stand, as the case might be. 
Houck: It strikes me that one of the most crucial questions we should confront is that of the relationship of the University to society. Is society on the right track? Are we to be the gatekeepers of society? Are we to assert that this young person has a certain com­petence which allows him to get a good position in the society? Or should we say the society is possibly not on the right track, and we are no longer going to prepare people to fit into a misguided society? 
Meagher: Several years ago, wfien Grace and Flan­ner were as yet incomplete, those who were to Hve on 
an act of faith in a man 
the uncompleted floors were asked to live for a time with students in other halls; some had to sleep on floors. There was a claim. made that those students should be refunded all or a portion of their room fees. At that time Father Hesburgh made a statement that this was really a disappointment, that there was a time when the University burned down twice, and the students and faculty worked together, giving up their summer, to reconstruct the Administration building. They baked bricks and rebuilt the building. That is the history of the place, that was the kind of place it was. Father Hesburgh at that time said that he was shocked at this sort of calculation. And it is not now precisely the Administration which is inculcating in its faculty, and through its faculty in its students, this sort of cal­culation. They claim everything should be defined con­tractually, which is to say that it is inappropriate to leave claims and demands inexplicit. The minute you leave such claims inexplicit you enter a moral dimen­sion which calls for greatness in the leader and de­mands at least a responsive character or greatness from the faculty. It is precisely that sort of reaction which is being denied both of the Administration and in response by the faculty. That dimension is dropping out. I think that appropriate leadership belongs to the ones who first re-enter that dimension and revive its presence here. 
APRIL 14, 1972 
SLF//Mustaches and motorcycles 
Diane "\i\Takoski is a woman of many loves and there­fore many dyings. In her most recent book The Motor­cycle Be"trayal Poems the dedication reads: 
the book is dedicated to all those men who betrayed me at one time or another, in hope they will fall off their motorcycles and break their necks 
In the book she images guns and motorcycles, anger and revenge. The book concerns more than this sheer imagery; it is about the strength that comes from weathering these betrayals, the realization that men and women. need each other in order to survive. Here Wakoski dissects a motorcycle completely to reveal the color of silver and shows the reader not only a new view of his life, but also a reminder of his death. 
Wakoski feels that 

poetry is the completely personal expression of someone about his feelings and reactions to the world . . . it is only interesting in proportion to how interesting the person who writes it is 
For the poet the poem is not the measure of his love. It is the measure of all he's lost or never seen or what has no life unless he gives it life with words 

A strong impulse toward confession and auto­biography moves through her poems. One might say that it is obsession and automatic writing published, 
but in her vehicle one makes many unheralded detours 
into superb imagery and thought. 
Wakoski's energy cannot be denied. She has pub­-lished six large collections and over 35 pamphlets from 
smaller presses. Her poetry speaks only for herself 
and yet one can identify with that self. Her relating 
what it is like to be a woman today is worth more than 
a thousand women's· lib hypotheses of what it should 
be like to be a woman tomorrow. 
To better enjoy and understand Wakoski's art one 
should be aware of three of her repeating images: 
George \i\Tashington, Beethoven, and mustaches. Wash­
ington represents her fantasy father. She adopted him 
to replace her phantom sailor father. Beethoven's 
anger at the world was transformed into powerful art. 
His deafness made his music more original and beau­
tiful. He is her symbol for the theme of living with 
pain, ugliness, and misery, and turning it into some­
thing beautiful. The mustache Wakoski feels is a badge 
of the exciting male. 
Diane Wakoski requires scholasticism to enjoy her 
poems completely. It is a rare poetry reader who 
knows that in Beethoven's 32nd year he was employed 
as a day laborer in the construction business and that it 
was a brick falling on his head that made him deaf; or 
that a certain color of overalls is prescribed in specific 
trade jobs, so that one can tell electricians from brick­
layers, etc. 
Wakoski's poetry· is alive. Being a personal poet 
she is the arch of her poetry. She seeks more com­
munication between poets and people who like poetry. 
Her own words best express the effect she has upon 
readers: 
Naked I am a tree gypsy: you can't shake me out of 
your branches 
-eileen dugan 
',' 
~ 
f,· 
-~-'~..,,.,~: ­-. ~:-.~'.. ..'.. \"t,; ' 

APRIL 14, 1972 
SLF / / Fictive Reality 
The realm of the imagination is one of hazy, dreamy interludes, played again and again, in and through the world of the arts. The artist deals with Abstracts and Ideals and Languages and Color and all sorts of Ideas. And one of the biggest problems an artist faces is ex­actly what all of this means. For a writer such as Gass the problems of the arts and their value to man is defi­nitely not something easily accommodated to literary discussions in college classrooms. 
In Fiction and the Figures of Life, a series of essays on fiction and its relation to the ordinary "life" of man, William Gass tells us that the "aesthetic aim of any fiction is the creation of a verbal world, or a significant part of such a world, alive through every order of its Being." The creation of such a world is implicit in every work of fiction and the value of art depends upon it. How does it work, you say? What does it mean? 
As if anticipating those questions, Gass has written us a novel that goes a long way towards being a de­finitive answer. Willie Master's Lonesonie Wife is unlike any book you've ever read. Don't be discouraged by the split phrase, sentences, and paragraphs; the change in type; the changing voices; the thread of at least three separate and distinct plots; and the nar­rator (or Gass) stepping in to taunt and deride you. No -that's all part of the plan to let you experience the meaning of that word "imagination." The reader becomes a very real part of the book from the begin­ning. Gass even tries very clever tricks to let the reader know what it might be like to write his novel: we have coffee stains on some of the pages, and him talking to us about the book we're reading. It is very clever, although we never do forget where we are: that is, in the hereandnow. Even Gass must admit that this is so. He tells us that ". . . this book is many removes from anything I've set pen, hand, or cup to." We are many miles, in time and distance, from that original manuscript. 
T~· • 
i'.;\: -• 
., 
:· 
Now we can begin to say, " I see, I see." How many novels, how many poems, how many fictions will it take us to reach reality? That is a tough question, but this book ought to at least make you feel that there are so many realities that we have a chance, at any rate, to hold onto one. This book deals in the imagination, and it must use language to do it, of course. Don't overlook the language in this book -it's well worthwhile. This book drifts so close to poetry so often that it almost becomes a prose poem. Even Gass laments: "Dear me. Scraps of old poems. They keep wandering around like ghosts, hoping to get use someday." 
But finally, the most important thing about this book is that it deals with the imagination in an im­aginative way-"imagination imaging itself imagine.'' The power of Willie Master's Lonesome Wife ­in the characters, the language, the plots -is due to its place as a living Being, alive and well. It is a crea­tion. An entity. It's real_, the most realistic of fictions. This is no untruth. Gass says that "the man of imagi­nation dares to make things for no better reason than they please him -because he lives." There's your reason for the book. Ther_e's your reason for art. 
This book is art. . This book is worth reading, no matter who you are. This book should be read slowly and pleasurably. This book is art. The end of the art, of the aesthetic experience, is the return to life. When you return from this book it should be with a feeling of excitement and energy. 
-bob muniz 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

SLF//On the sidewalks of New York 
Today's world of literature has been flooded with many biting commentaries about the grim subculture of the urban ghetto. The vast majority of them are little more than soap boxes from which the author laments over the oppression caused by big city politics. Emerging from the clot of writers produced in the sixties, however, i~ a young literary artist who sur­passes all others employing a very orthodox manner. 
Jay Neugeboren was born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1938. He received his B.A. from Columbia in 1959, his M.A. from Indiana in 1963, and has taught at both universities as well at at Stanford. He is currently writer-in-residence at the University of Massachusetts. 
His first major work in literature came with the publication of the sports-oriented Big Man in 1966. This novel possesses a driving energy on the subject of a basketball scandal in the 1950's and generates such an expressive vigor in its description of the game and one of its stars that the illuminating conclusion hits hard and profoundly on the reader. One reviewer of Big Man called it "one of the finest novels written about an athlete." Neugeboren followed his first novel with Listen Ruben Fontanez (1968), an equally im­pressive work, and later added an autobiography, Parentheses (1970), to his list of books. 
Through the sixties Neugeboren was also busy writing a series of short stories that appeared in vari­
ous magazines, and later were reprinted in a collected 
edition, Gorky's Brother (1969). It is in these twelve 
short stories and one novella, (the title story, 1.vhich 
won The Transatlantic Review Novella Award in 1967) 
that his technique and style of communicating become 
most apparent. The subject matter of the thirteen 
works ranges from racial hostilities in a factory to the 
narrative of a young southern boy about his unyield­
ing father, and, in six instances, the adventures of a 
group of youngsters in the streets of Brooklyn. These 
"Brooklyn" stories are by far the best pieces of litera­
ture to date to deal with the subculture of the big city 
ghetto. 
Narrated by an adolescent, Howie, these stories bring back me!nories of the good ol' neighborhood gang. In the youth of the average boy there is always the presence and influence of the local assemblage of tall, short, and goofy-looking friends. The adventures of one such group is recaptured by Neugeboren in these stories from the Brooklyn streets. Izzie, Corky and Louie (the one who brought an old Victrola to the neighborhood baseball games so the "Star-Spangled Banner" could be played) are Howie's best friends, and the various stories find them all in very ordinary situa­tions ranging from buying uniforms for the neighbor­hood team to playing hookey and watching the Dodgers play in Ebbets field. 
The familiarity these stories evoke is Neugeboren's most potent weapon. For within the confines of what appear to be Bill Cosby-like childhood tales are deep implications that all is not well. On one level, the tales are innocent recollections of growing up with pals and all the little worries involved, but going beyond that is Neugeboren's attempt to acquaint the reader and get him to understand the ills of lower-class living. He never preaches, but only implies, and allows us to make up our own minds. For instance, there are no con­demnations in "Ebbetts Field" when Eddie, a friend of Howie and a promising young basketeball player, loses an opportunity to become a college star due to the pressures of lower-class life. Instead, the reader is left with the task of discerning who or what is to blame for such a tragedy. The combination of humorous and interesting recollections told in an easygoing style, and the deceptively simple plots with an unspoken moral going through them has been manipulated by Neugeboren to the point where his stories have the precise subtlety desired. Neugeboren's writing led one critic to remark, "It is not at all premature to predict that when the writers of the 1970's are accorded praise by the literary judges of the 1980's, Jay Neugeboren's name will be on most of those critics' lists." 
-jose-ph meS'llre 

perspectives 
ONLY THE CHILD: Alternative Schools & the Growth of a New Order/PART ONE. 
20 October, 1971 Already, autumn 1noves to winter here, and the building I have entered is cold because the furnace no longer works. Milly, in three layers of sweaters, is playing songs on a guitar, getting kids to move, to get their blood circulating, shouting and singing and quickly getting them to forget the chill and sing with her. The sclwol has been going since Septe1nber, with little nwney and lots of gusto and kids carrying water in buckets to flush the toilets in this abandoned church. I have come to it today, 1ny first day, and already feel som,ewhat at lwme. The wall is filled with pictures: everywhere, the Beatles' yellow submarine with all its 11iagic. I have met Julie, who is four and doing New Math. I know nothing of the how or why of this school; I am only struck, now, by the imme11se joy and by the children's openness -which is at a level unique in my experience. There is little fear here. 
THE first recognition is simple: that there is too much to say and too much of it is unsayable. The specifics are more complex: how, despite that difficulty, to share with you an accurate picture of this com­munity, called Marmalade Hill School. How to speak and not ossify the_whirl of events and movements · and growths that is its day. How to share the intensity of this free-school experience without melodrama or rhetoric, but simply and clearly. 
I have thought that I might speak about the people here. The children: Glyn, Brook, Cory, Lea, Michael, Julie, Peg, Eric, Tyrone, Val, Joey,. Terra, Andrea, · Bill, Mike, Pat, Greg, Sherri, Heather, Peter, Micha.el, Jamie, Paul, Eugene, Issa, Danny, Bouchie, .. · · Peepers, _Thad, Dana, Tiffanie, and Angelina who at two and one half years is the freest of us all. And the adults: Milly, Bob, Lynne, Paul (whose capacity for '\Vonder is unmatched by anyone heref, Ron, Marci; Dale, Lois, Everett, Mike, me. I might speak each · of their stories, as I know them, and how each 
of them has changed my story. If I could do this, I 
might have a good beginning-·because in the particu­
lars of time, place, and person are the roots of our 
community and of its application to other such 
communities. If I could speak each of these stories 
I might give some sense of the world it comprehends, 
almost boundless in its particularity-as when lying 
on your back on the ground you look up into the 
filigree of a tree's branches and understand from 
that its size. 
But the stories are less than the persons, and I want to give some. sense of the whole-of the process, of what we have come to understand about the dynamics of learning in (and fanning) a community this close and intense. I want also to give some indication of how all this begins to be accomplished­to help those of you in the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community who might want to begin, or begin thinking about, similar experiments in learning and living together, in developing alternate environments for both: And because I have come to believe that a frontier of education is at the youngest levels-where the proc(!Ss of _learning is clearest,.best studied and best nurtured; where the patterns that direct future learning are established, and: where the infinite poten­tial for human growth at ~ny age is incarnate: These are, for me, the root concerns of education at all levels (i.e., the development to wholeness of the persons i_n­volved), though they are quickly_ forgotten. 
' . . 

pERHAPS it· is. be;i -~o ~~gin ~i~h-;h~ beliefs;. the common understandi_ngs in which·Hie school day roots itself. These ar~ not ·educatfonal _tffeories or dogma but rather·are ope~:-ended posi~ions come to after a variety 
Perspectives is a re~lar· c·olumn space open to a~y meniber of the University community. Manuscripts submitted for consideration should be mailed to the Scholastic, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame. 
of experiences in other learning/teaching situations: 
a series of feelings and attitudes that have now located 
themselves in the deepest parts of those involved, 
not simply in their heads. The beliefs are given im­
petus from a simple fact: that most public and private 
places of education are not at all places of light or 
growth or love or even learning. They are not even 
neutral institutions, because such things do not exist. 
Rather, schools have become places of constriction and 
pain, they have replaced the silence of wonder with 
the silence of "discipline." They have made of both 
the learning and growth processes things compart­
mentalized, removed from the person of the child, and 
inappropriate to the mystical and natural rhythms of a 
child's day. This has been accomplished by reversing 
in form and spirit the first and possibly best techniques 
for learning -i.e., the relationship between parent 
and infant that is, possible though frequently not actual, 
in a home. Schools and the desire for mass education 
stifle the freedom that allows a small child to appro­
priate the immensely. difficult challenges incarnated 
by a language and the motor coordination needed 
to walk -both normally accomplished very early in 
life. They have altered the radical freedom given a 
child to follow (when it is physically safe) wherever 
his curiosity leads, and according to its proper, indi­
vidual schedule. The things learned in those earliest ·years -the pattern _of learning established then ­
make later growth possible. (Such freedom is un­
common in most families in this society at this time; but it is nonexistent in most schools. We are not say­ing, "Work only with healthy families -and build ·on that" -sixteen of our kids are from one-parent or no-parent homes. What we are saying is that the learning environment made available by the love of a parent is a model to be worked toward in schools.) 
The difference between what is learned in early childhood and in school has something to do with schedules, lines, enforced silences, name tags, adult­centered classrooms and the whole complex of forces represented by mass education. For example, Tolstoy's discovery in his peasant school a century ago remains absurdly obvious and unpracticed: that the proper time for stories and reading is not the daytime but the hours after supper, when a child's energy level is more attuned to those kinds of activities. 
20 January, 1972 Milly and I have been reading 'With Michael Van Dam) who is six. His sense of phonics is well-developed and he learns new words easily. What awes me is the kinetics of his learning: each new word is accom­panied by some movement -ft.imping or hand­clapping or any one of several other possibilities. The excitement of discovery has located itself inside his body and the movements are crucial to the learning. How did I ever learn seated in a classroom? I think now of how Milly taught handicapped children the alphabet by having them f orrn the letters ivith their bodies; or how early in the fall she let Michael jump from word-card to word-card, ~pread out across the floor. She understands how children learn: not through the head but through the person. 
APRIL 14, 1972 
we are undoing fears and insecurities and mistrusts 
IN place of the schedules and roles we are trying to create a new environment -more proper to the in­tegrity and growth processes of each child, one capable of nurturing a relationship of trust between adults and children, an environment that will take into account the whole of a child instead of simply his head. We seek a place where the roles of "student" and "teacher" have been transformed into a community where people learn together and from each other ­sharing the concerns that are important and insistent for them. 
'Trust between persons is the first step: from it, · all kinds of growth -emotional and academic -are possible; without it there is only the anarchy of rote memorization and "learning'' that is not retained or ever made a part of a life. That trust makes possible, and is nurtured by, an open environment in which children and adults can move freely, in which hostil­ities and loves are openly expressed and dealt with, in which the imagination and wonder inside each per­son are given the room and time and protection they demand. And so the school _becomes, first, a place where people can be themselves, a place of freedom, responsibility, and caring: these words take on an immediacy and concreteness only in the particulari­ties of the place and people. The responsibility is to offer freedom and trust and not the moral and physical vacuum which "progressive" schools often· substitute for the hierarchy of educational institutions. · That responsibility is perhaps the heaviest and most con­sistent for all concerned: the old roles must be replaced with better (not just different) :relationships. Neill titles one of his books, Freedom,, Not License. George Dennison in The Lives of Children speaks of the neces­sity to .not simply throw kids into a vacuum of ·illusory "freedom." And Herb_Snitzer, Director of the Lewis-Wadhams School in New York, says,. 
There a!."e very valid functions for adults here. One of them is to function in a way that lets the kids know this is a safe place . . . a stable place . . . that they can act out whatever they need to act out, and they will not be brutalized for it or smacked down physically for what they do. If they do something intrusive they will be called on it. But they will'not be hurt, either physically or verbally. There's none of the moralizing that adults 
. are so great at'with kids to the point of making them fe~l pretty ·guilty..In many ways, an adult has to perform this function of security, of being a secure element, a stable element. So they have an importarit job fo do -not as teachers but as human beings. · · · · 
Once there was a spider . .It was a boy spider. The 
spider liked to rnake peopl_e run. arid he .liked to 
·make other spiders have fun.· He told jokes and played games. One day_ he was in his house getting dinner ready and sonieone broke his lwuse down .. He was m,ad. So Mark, that was the ·spider's name, went out of his house and bit the kid..The kid smashed Mark. The End. Greg Cunningluim, who is 8. 
IN a very large way we have come to see ourselves 
as doing remedial work -undoing fears and in­
securities and mistrusts, so that we can begin anew. 
(Milly talks about her work with emotionally handi­
capped kids as giving them the skills to reach a "point 
zero"; this is not so very different from working with 
many 12-year-olds.) This perception directs much of 
the day's activities. For example, central to the day 
from the start, has been what we call "movement 
class." It is a time when people come together as a 
group to explore themselves and each other through 
the medium of their bodies and its language, through 
physical movement -whether dance or mime or sense­
relaxation or jump-rope or building pyramids in the 
sunshine. Things discovered here are immense, and 
twofold. First, they speak the existence of a world 
inside each person: the world as body, the body as 
world..Second, they offer a whole new way of com­
municating -completely nonverbal, it opens· a 
level of "speaking" and relating and that is different 
from the ways we normally restrict ourselves to. This 
nonverbal communication has become a central and 
seminal quality in our school; it is present now in all 
of us, to one degree or another, and we are happy 
with it. 
The images of this are particular, and always 
present in me. Pat and Greg transforming themselves 
into field mice during an animal chase for one hour 
concentrating ;ill their energies on being field mice: 
building homes, gathering food, running in f.ear from 
hawks and owls, and never speaking. Michael Edwards 
opening his body to the touches and strengths of big 
and little people moving about a yard or room. Bill 
Desmond (who when they began in September spent 
his· first day breaking a window, stealing cigarettes 
and successfully alienating himself from every other 
kid there, pushed by whatever mixture of fear and 
machismo and insecurity is present in a twelve-year­
old) giggling loudly and self-consciously, then quieter, 
then in silence letting himself be touched and pressed 
and carried. The trust and concentration levels at 
these times move me beyond words. Because though 
each of them are small things, they take on relevance 
when I remember myself at 6 or 8 or 12, and the 
insecurities that went for so long unhealed. 
It became clear very early that much work needed 
to be done to get the other kids (from eight on up; I. 
suppose) back to the sensual awareness that. is so 
much a part of.early childhood -the oneness .with 
every thing in their environment, the gift of giving to 
all things life. Ned O'Gorman, in The Storefront, 
writes, ."Of all the things a child craves, the most 
tangible, to anyone who will look, is sensual delight . 
. . . . A child is a mystic because he sees whatever is 
arourid. him as if he were it. He is a mystic because 
he· loves with all his heart everything' he m'oves to­.ward; everything. he moves toward seems to receive him: with a corresponding love -rocks, dirt, paper, 
blocks,·snow... _,,-And Joseph Evans, who knows .this 
gift iri children, once walked into a "Basic Concepts of. 
Political Philosophy" class, went to the window and 
said, ''Good · morning, tree." _ 
· Much of that vision has been cru~hed out of a child 
APRIL 14, 1972 
even in the earliest levels of schooling: taught to sit quietly, play only at recess, remain reticent about the 
_differences between "him" and "her," not to say hello to trees or pencils or daydream during reading. If that alienation from self gives birth to an aliena­tion· from others and the world (and to a domination­oriented relation to them both), then the process can only begin to be reversed at its roots. I think of the difference between the smaller children, say Julie or Issa or Angelina, and the teachers even here -of how much more at home they are in their bodies and in their world. I think now of how Glyn who is thirteen had to (and quickly did) re-teach me to celebrate the mystery of my body's movements, its constant dance. 
13 March, 1972 Today I read this in M. C. Richards' book, Centering. "Another picture from which I draw inspiration: Robert Turner, sitting at the potter's wheel in ou,r studio at Black Mountain College, giving a demonstra­tion. He was centering the clay [on trie wheel], and then he was opening it and P'lllling up the walls of the cylinder. He was not looking at the clay. He had his ear to it. He was listening. 'It is breathing,' he said; and then he filled it with air." I remember that Glyn wrote last fall, "A printing press is like a beaver because he can carve letters on tree bark!'; and Perry said, "Which is heavier, a mountain or an ocean?" And Peter only yesterday wrote a story that began, "In the car 80 ft away, And a big storm hawened." I arn alive with their perceptions. 

Steven Brion, last year's editor of the Scholastic, a Danforth Fellowship winner and a very nice person, is at present living in Salt Lake City and spending most of his time teaching at Marmalade Hill School. 
31 


woolies while some obscure colonel speaks of "The Parameters and Extent of National Defense." 
It Starts 
At Home 

THE war is winding down; Vietnamization is successfully working for the Re-election of Richard Milhous Nixon, and all of our Catholic, privileged, American sons attend the University of Notre Dame and live booze-infested, fun-filled times among the beautiful lakes and trees. The guy down the hall or upstairs or next door gets his hair cut, dons his G.I. outfit and receives his credit hour for learning the science of the military. 
In the backwoods of Vietnam, a child, a mother, a lover a brother dies of phosphorus burns from an incen'diary bomb dropped from a Phantom F4. It is piloted by a crew-cut Air Force Captain or Navy Commander or Marine aviator who pressed a button and hit the after-burner with thoughts of R & R in Hawaii or Guam or the Philippines. The man at the controls of that beautiful piece of tin is born and bred right here in America; right here at the University of Notre Dame that pilot or others like him are given . the disposition· to press a button and extinguish the life of the faceless enemy below. Right-here in the peaceful surrounding of lakes_clild trees, men of the . Catholic elite are trained to think "deterrence," "defense," "democracy." 
With the tacit approval of that pillar of civil. rights, · Theodore M. Hesburgh, with_the unseen nod from James T. Burtchaell, with a ·siient pat on the back from you and me, members of this University: com-· munity learn the ways of defense _anq protection that are founded in the mechanics of M-16 rifles, jet air­craft and· Claymore mines. With the silent workings of the universe -sunrise, sunset, sunrise, sunset ·-_ the men of the Catholic ivy-league learn day-:to-:day the ways to make the world safe for democracy. Guns, explosives, warplanes, warships. 
Reserve Officer Training goes virtually unseen on this campus while men from that very system kill the "inferiors" of the world that threaten the economic and physical well-being of lily-white America. I often ask how that staid, functional building beyond the Rock can be passed every day without thought, without reflection, without a quest for an answer why by people who partake in the Body of Christ. I ask even more often how young men can enter that building and sit calmly and quietly in their clean-pressed NOTRE DAMEJ Our M~ther, allied to all that is 
right! God, Country, Notre Dam~! It becomes so easy 
to look down on the roofs of thatched huts and press ­
a button:-It becomes so easy to think tradition and 
squeeze a trigger. "Wasting" another human being 
makes more sense when everyone is nodding -the 
president, the generals, the university -some wou!d 
have us believe that Christ himself casts an approvmg 
eye. Where does one turn? Who is right? What is 
right? I do not intend to preach answers to anyone, 
but it would seem that answers must somewhere exist. 
I am asking how this University can permit, let 
alone sanction, the open training of Catholic men in 
the skills and expertise of making war. Killing and 
destruction, even while masquerading under the guise 
of national defense and deterrence, are still killing and 
destruction. How many clean-cut American men will 
march down the bloodstained path to war? As long 
as this University continues to permit her sons to be 
trained as murderers by the military complex, as long 
as the war machine is fed by Notre Dame men, as long 
as everyone not directly involved plays deaf, dumb, 
and blind, we all must share the burden of responsibil­
ity. Until the members of this community awaken to 
the fact that war starts in one's own heart,_ it seems 
unlikely that we will see the end of Vietnam or · conflicts like it. 
It is too. easy to let operations go on like nothing 
is wrong. Emphatically, something is dangerously 
amiss -something that must be corrected if we are 
to maintain our humanity. There exist a number of 
structures and people tha_t will attempt to chop down 
movements aimed at the correction and/or elimina­
tion of barbarians like one sees on this campus and 
elsewhere. It seems apparent, however, that we must 
awaken anq act swiftly, lest our.silence itself act as 
approval. The call to·.action can be taken up (and 
must) if we are ever to see the end of military ceme­
teries, V.A. hospitals and sole-surviving-son clauses. 

Steven Alan Bennett is a freshman from Rock Is­land, Illinois. He resides at present in Fisher Hall. 
kulchur 

Who Needs It? 
The place and purpose of the student arts at Notre Dame-and how that role has changed in the past three or four years, the successes and failures-pro­vides a rather unique and elusive subject for discussion. All avenues of investiga­tion seem to intersect at two points re­sulting in two questions that fairly de­mand answers if we are ever to get to the heart of this issue. The first is one of priorities, the second of popularity. 
First, are we dealing with . student­artists or artist-students? At first glance, the distinction may seem precious and the difference wholly one of semantics. The arts, after all, as Cardinal Newman has reminded us, are broadly humanistic artes liberales and thus very much the concern of any university which purports to graduate "gentlemen." One need but consider the plight of those practicing artists of the good Cardinal's own time to "smell the rat," as they say. 
Granted, the "starving artist" motif is often exaggerated-and not uncommonly by unknown artists who just happen to have "revolutionary new novels to end all novels" bulging uncomfortably from their back pockets. There may even, perhaps, be a bit of the juvenile in much "artist talk"-"nobody understands me" etc., etc. Eliot, you may remember, was an oftentimes vicious literary infighter, and Proust an incomparable whiner. I suspect that if the majority of our artists were to lose the conviction of their own unlimited potential, of the possibility for their becoming a "great," we should 
· soon find ourselves with little art. And what would remain would probably be second-rate. Given such temperaments, the fact is, as anyone who has had even peripheral involvement with the student arts knows, that school and art must often exist in a not-too-creative opposi­tion. For the more fortunate artist-stu­dents the problem is one of give-and­take. In rare cases the commitment to the practicing arts finally negates any ·fidelity to structured academic pursuits. 
.· Those English professors who include options for creative efforts within the context of course work, and the art de­: partment, with its program of independent 
APRIL 14, 1972 
study, provide good examples of one type of "give." Rather than launching into a lugubrious sermon about the "few bad apples" who may spoil it for the majority, let it suffice to note that this policy may not be academically. kosher. But, since the degree of democracy achieved at Notre Dame seems to be a rather hot subject these days, let it be longer in vogue, even if the tangible results of its demise are as yet few and far between. 
The separation that exists for the stu­dent-artist has social analogues. The charges of "elitism" from those un­sympathetic to student-artists are matched by the more insistent, if less vocal, accusations of mass insensitivity 


further noted that a democracy is dis­tinguished by its willingness to take intelligent risks. 
It is tolerably clear that there is a valu­able distinction to be made between, say, studying Shakespeare and acting in Judas Christ. Each has its own integrity. But when this distinction is reflected on the individual level as the choice between reading Othello and attending a dress rehearsal the answer becomes more dif­ficult, remarkably so. The distinction exists, at least theoretically, but it is by no means clear to what extent the Uni­versity must provide for practicing stu­dent artists, formally and financially. In the past, the University's attitude toward these artists was frequently one of con­descension. The dominant tone was one of having made "concessions"-as if these activities were necessary forms of advanced sandbox calculated to pacify the natives. Happily, this attitude is no 
and philistinism made by the artists themselves. At times, indeed, both groups seem to be actively pursuing their own isolation. It would be reassuring, though I fear facile, to pen self-reminders to the effect that we are all students at the same University, etc., etc. The gap between artist and audience has been widening since the latter half of the 19th century, and even the relatively in­significant instances of it at Notre Dame are not without their aesthetic and po­litical overtones. 
All of which points toward a consider­ation of our second question-namely that of audience. Though Notre Dame's location may have its cultural disad­vantages in terms of "big name" art exhibits, early runs on commercial films, poetry workshops etc., the situation pre­sents distinct advantages to the student artist, almost by default. One inclined to be skeptical might call this "lack of 

competition"-l'd prefer to think of it as 
a breaking down of our relationship to 
art as being purely "consumer-product." 
Indeed, Michael Lanier, a photograhper­
student friend, has chided me that 
"Picasso is the death of art," and when 
one considers the awesome energies 
poured into Picasso criticism, one feels 
inclined to admit a measure of truth to 
th is statement. 
For years student art at Notre Dame 

was confined to dingy dormitories and 
secret societies. The masculinity cult 
still exists. But beginning in the late S0's 
this art began to exert an influence on 
a reasonably large student audience. To 
the best of my knowledge, this audience 
peaked around 1969, and professors, 
CAC records, and student artists them­
selves would seem to indicate that this 
audience is dwindling at an alarming 
rate. 
What has happened might best be 

called a stabilization of taste. Such re­trenchings are as common in the history of art forms as they are in that of politics. In fact, changes in taste often correspond to political changes. The San Francisco Mime Troupe for example, drew an audience of over 500 in 1969 precisely because their brand of theatre cor­responded to a political reality. That reality has since passed away. How does one make popular theatre of inertia? The other side of this argument would contend that such enthusiasm was in­sincere from the start and that the . smaller audience for dance groups and stu9ent poetry readings, though lamen­table, represents a normal shift in taste away from the fledgling and the innovator and back toward the more established 
artists. 
The situation is further aggravated by 

the University's hesitance to make solid 
financial commitments to the arts-stu­
dent or otherwise. In terms of dollars 
and cents they are still expendable 
luxuries. But, in one respect the student 
arts are no different from any other arts: 
facilities-and facilities, of course, implies 
finances. Washington Hall and the Old 
Fieldhouse have been much improved, 
thanks not to the administration (which 
merely tolerates the latter) but to the 
efforts of the drama and art departments, 
respectively. 
And so there you have it-at least 

from the perspective of a student who 
sometimes writes poems. An academic 
training seeks to inform our response to 
the arts. But, paradoxically, this same 
training tends to overlook the effect that 
an audience has on the practicing artist 
and thus, at its worst, to preclude the 
possibility of a vital arts program. Audi­
ence, a broadly responsive rather than 
critically sophisticated audience, be­
comes the crucial difference between 
committee and community art. 
-dan o'donne/1 


.., 
.., . 
,, ~ ; 1r..,.,.
-:..~ 

:::. '> '-'·,J., ~ . , 
t ,i:_:,:::-;,, . 
. -~:--~ 
; x:-~ 
;:·~;.J"~.. '!, 
~ . ..,, _.,, ~,;i'.p 
~.... \,.!...... . 
. .: '\,fl\."". " 
""r·,~ ~--·.a :t ",' .. 
..--: '·?:· ,,. ·::-. 
. -~~·~­
.. .

.«\., ~~-. ...,f" -~~-~ ~'-~ . 
,11.. ·•,v"\~ 
~ .b ~·;. .,' ! .... ) 
' 
,--: ·~ 
.. 
~
.)'.-• . 
"El Topo" 
Alexander Todorowsky 
the solution to the problem is predicated to a knowledge of its outermost param­eters, its most intimate bounds. how far between the horizon and any star? how close the shore to the edge of the world? this is no attempt at explanation; none of this will cover what already is unknown. to do otherwise would be meaningless, calculated, crude. only in this way can one absorb the obvious . 
II el topo the mole chases his shadow across a desert sun seeing no right angles he hesitates stops refuses to move then cautious at first creeps along and at any the very beginnings sign threatening to his (celluloid} image bur­rows deep into mother the earth to rise again in a different time and place 
Ill 
there are four great masters of the desert. you must seek them out, talk to them, kill them. you shoot the first one and he drops out of sight, the ground opening to receive him. the second falls quickly backward into a pool of blood; you must bathe in it, drink of ft, relish its being. number three is quite difficult: you are wounded, defeated, rearranged. run. wait. shoot him in the back. the fourth master kills you dead. now it is your turn. look around you. get it right. 
IV 
let me watch as the blood gushes from a hole in the back of your head, a gash between the thighs. the bees will eat you slowly. you will suffer much, then lie there, a thousand miles from anything, your teddybear and picture of momma broken and buried in the sand. must i go further? all of this is cognizant in one form or another. black, forked spi­ders layer the web with more of the same. what did you expect? salvation, damnation? instead, chained wooden indians, synthetic fire, some colored plastic, a bare wall. 
V 
a. 
philosophy being the end of Art 

b. 
art being the goal of Philosophy 

c. 
none of the. above this is all there is. 


~casey pocius 
35

APRIL 14, 1972 
The Sounds 

of Tradition 
Mention of the term "folk music" usually brings forth names like Tom Rush, Judy Collins, James Taylor, and so on. These people, though, represent only a very, very small portion of folk music. These are the people who have achieved com­mercial success, they've "made it." True folk music, though, rests largely on the concept that you can't "make it" in the usual sense. Folk singers primarily sing for the pure enjoyment of it, and only a few are able to (or try to), make a living at it. Certain qualities which are necessary to the commercial scene are diametrically opposed to what folk music is all about. The commercial performer is concerned with presenting his material, and his particular talents. The idea is to show that you are somehow more orig­inal, or just plain better than the other guy. (If you don't feel this is the case, just get hold of a copy of Billboard.) I'm not necessarily criticizing this com­petitive spirit, I'm just saying that it ain't folk music. 
Folk music (and folk singers) are primarily concerned with presenting the material rather than themselves. The idea behind this is simply that the songs and tales which have been passed down through tradition are good enough to stand on their own, that you don't have to dress them up and arrange them. Be­sides being the most honest means of presenting the songs, it's also the best way of preserving the songs, of keeping the tradition alive. 
So what is traditional music? Basi­cally it's that music which comes from and is passed on by oral tradition. It's the music of the people rather than of Tin Pan Alley; it comes from the com­mon experience of a particular sub­culture rather than the experiences of one person. 
The songs tell stories, stories of train 
wrecks, cattle drives, unrequited (and 
requited) love-simply songs about life. 
"Wreck of the 97," "Streets of Laredo," 
"This Land," and "Shenandoah" are a 
few of the more widely known traditional 
songs. 

The purpose of this article, though, is not really to discuss traditional music, but to get you to come to the Folk Festival this weekend. The emphasis here will be on traditional music, and there are few (if any) better examples of this music than Mike Cooney. He's been around the folk music scene for about ten years, and has consistently shied away from commercial success. He just isn't interested in "making it." He's performed in every major folk festival in the country, the list of coffeehouses and other concerts he's given fills five pages, he's been on "Sesame Street" a few times, and is really the country's "best-known unknown." In concert he plays the 6-& 12-string guitar, banjo, fretless banjo, and concertina. The material ranges from ragtime guitar to banjo tunes, sea chanties, unaccom­panied ballads-in short, his "field" is the whole of American folk music. The most important thing about Cooney rs not what he does, but the rapport he achieves with his audience. There's no performer/audience separation, it's just an enjoyable evening. 
Joining Cooney in the workshops Sunday afternoon, and appearing in con­cert Sunday nite, will be the Armstrong family-George and Gerry (Mr. and Mrs.), their daughters Becky and Jenny, along with Chuck Heymann and Melissa Trier. They draw their material largely from the Anglo-American tradition, and the best way to describe them would be to quote Fiddler and Evelynne Beers, who run the 
Fox Hollow Folk Festival: "The songs of 
George and Gerry Armstrong are the 
essence of our musical heritage, honest 
since they represent a real latter-day 
family tradition that belongs to Amer­
ica." 
The aspect of a folk festival that really sets it apart from the other types of music festivals, though, is not the concerts, but the workshops, which will be held Sunday afternoon. The first one, which will begin around 1 :30, will have Cooney and Dan Gellert playing and discussing Old-time American dance music. Gellert is presently living in Elkhart, and plays excellent guitar and fiddle, in addition to being one of the finest clawhammer banjo players in the country. 
The workshop following this will begin around 3:30 and will have the Armstrongs and Cooney discussing folk music in general, with particular emphasis on ballads. 
That's basically the line-up for this weekend. The cost for the Saturday and Sunday concerts is $1.50, and $1.G0, respectively, or $2.00 for both. The work­shops Sunday afternoon are free and, if possible, will be held outside. Sponsors for the events are WSND, Cultural Arts Commission, Music Department, and American Studies. 
There's really not a lot one can or should say in attempting to promote this type of festival. Pop style "hype," pro­motion, and rave previews are simply not compatible with what this music is all about 
Just come. As one reviewer put it, "Cooney is capable of giving an audience more pure enjoyment than the sophis­tications of most contemporary music allow." 
-dick tarrier 

APRIL 14, 1972 
Coming Distractions 
LECTURES 
A faculty symposium on change in Al!leri­ca, sets sail for an Around-Cultt.iral­America-ln-Two-Days trip, April 14. Its mission_:.._to answer the question, Old Culture or New? ,Four stops will tie made along the way. At 0930, the first day, the committee goes ashore to ex­plore Politics, Economics, · and Social Organization in America. Just before the next stop, Columbia Professor Zbigniew Brzezinski, at 1400, spyglasses America with A Coldly Optimistic Perspective from the bridge in the CCf: Auditorium. Then, it's full-steam ahead for Philosophy, Science, and Technology at 1600. Ori the second day, at 0930, the cr~w zooms. in on Religion. Finally, they map Arts and the Media at 1400. Interested parties may board at any time along the way. Be. at dock No. 202 in the CCE. 
Karl Marx lives again April 14. Profes­sor, Sheldon Wolin unearths Marx: A Theory in the Age· of Revolution in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 3:30 p.m. Scott McLeod cleans up any doubts on the United Nations 1972 Conference on the Human Environment, April 19, in the· Architecture Auditorium at 2:30 p.m. 
Black Studies spotlights the. Socio-Poli­tical and Liberation Movements of. Chi­canos on April 20. The lights 'go up on Dr. Jose Gutierrez at 7:30 P:m. in room 217 of O'Shaughnessy· Hall. 
Under the premise that Providence isn't only. in Rhode Island, a history pro­fessor gives a Geography lesson in the Architecture Auditorium. Professor Mat­thew Fitzsimons -maps out the Role of Providence in History April 23 at 8:00 p.m. 
Do the ends justify the means? Hanna Gray's . Machievel/i and the Humanist Tradition justifies your April 26 attend­ance in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The 'ends' begins at 8:00 p.m. 
Black Studies sheds light on the Socio­Political ·and Liberation Movements of Afro-Americans April 27. With power sup-. plied by the American Minorities Lecture Series, Dr. Bart Landry flicks the switch in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 
· 7:30 p.m. 
'PLAYS 

Brigadoon : drifts in Beth.el· , Coll,ege's Goodman Auditorium. Don't·. look 'now. Look April 28 at 8:00 p.m.. 
Showboat. docks in · O'.Laughlin ·Audi~ torium April 28, 29; and May 4, 5,.·and 6. The ND-SMC thespians cast their lines at 8·:oo p.m.. Take hold of this K~rn-Ham­
. merstein musical. 
CONCERTS 

Jethro. Tull breathes deep into his golden aqualungs, April 18, and lets it aH out in· the ACC, at 8:00 p.m.. 
The South Bend Symphonic Choir ren­ders Dun.ifle's Requiem. The Morris Civic · Auditorium, April 23, and 8:00 p.m. pro­vide the background. 
Hear Liberace play his theme scm·g, "It is better to light just one· little Candela­bra," April 28, in the ACC at 8:00 p.m. 
FILMS 
Go ahead. Open The Wrong Box, April 
14. Last Grasp promises three times, 3:30, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., that it won't be a mistake. 
· Travel with the Lions Club to France's Fabulous Normandy April 14. No plane ticket . needed. Just take a seat in 
· O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. and you're o_n your way. 
Last Grasp's The Ov_ercoat comes in three ·sizes-3½', 7, · and 9. Try it ori with . a friend April 21.' Co-ed dressing room­Carroll Hall. 
Cinema '72 turns back the · clocks in Washington· Hall· to Movie Tim.e. On April 22 and 23, the Weekend starts at 2:00 and-8:00 p.m. 
Be a Member of the Wedding. You have three chances to say 'I will' -3:30, 7:00, and 9:00 p.m. The festivities take !)lace in Carroll Hall on April 28. 
EXHIBITS. 
. 18th Century ·france lives · 011 in ·the O'Shaughnessy'_ Art Gallery until May 15. Open the doors, to, the past and A Study of .Art and Civilization. · 
Sculptures, painUngs, and photographs, by guess who, interiorly decorate the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery April 16, · 
. Manesier didn't sign them. Neither did Baer, Roualt, nor Leader. Rather, the 1972 Art graduates. Be surprised until May 21. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


SPORTS 
It's nine -on nine as ND and Miami of Ohio go bat and ball against each other here,, April 21 and 22. 
The Irish netters court the Ball State and Bowling Green racket men· on the ND turf April 22. 
Who loves whom more: Western Michigan 
0

or Notre Dame?· Tlie· answer lies in the ND ·nets_ April 26. 
If the . '72 season . ever gets· underway, the ·Chicago Cubs will host the Cincinnati Reds' o_n Saturday, April 29. If you care to be a witness to this historic occasion for the paltry sum of $10, contact Bob Cummingham at 1876. The price of the excursion, sponsored by Knight of Col­umbus Council 1477, include~ transport­ation to and from Wrigley Field as well as all you can eat and drink and drink and drink... 
SPECIALS 
The British are coming! and so can you to the Public Debate April 14 at 7:30 p.m. 
" Aidan McDermott, Information Officer British Consulate, Chicago, will be in town to moderate the topic: "Resolved . that the British Government has done all that is reasonable to bring peace and justice to Northern Ireland." The one lantern of the Committee for Ulster Jus­Uce and International Law Society signals the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The Harlem Globetrotters razzle-dazzle -their basketball ways into the ACC, April 14 at 8:00 p.rn. 

The BSA trustworthily, loyally, court­eously, kindly, cheerfully, and cleanly present their Scout-A-Rama, April 16, in the ACC fieldhouse, from 2:00-8:00 p.m. 
April 16-21. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival 

April 16 3:30 p.m. ChaNes Newman's Keynote Address in the Library Audi­torium 
8:30 p.m. Jerzy Kosinski in Washington Hall 

April 17 3:30 p.m. Diane Wakoski in the Library Auditorium 
8:30 p.m. Robert Coover in the Library Auditorium 

April 18 3:30 p.m. Charles Newman, reading from his work, in the Library Auditorium 
6:30 p.m. William H. Gass, reading from his fic­tion, in the Library Auditorium 

April 19 3:30 p.m. William H. Gass with a talk on metap­hor and measurement in Carroll Hall 
8:30 p.m. Robert Duncan in the Library Auditorium 

April 20 3:30 p.m. Poetry Symposium in the Library Audi­torium 
8:30 p.m. John A. Williams in the Library Audi­torium 

April 21 3:30 p.m. Jay Neugeboren in the Library Audi­torium 
8:30 p.m. Allen Ginsberg in Washington Hall 

Spring is here and so is An Tosta/, April 20, 21, and 22. 
Flower Fantasy blooms in the ACC Mono­gram Room April 22. Roses are red, violets are blue/the ND Ladies have a spring dance for you. Blossom forth from 9:00-12:00 p.m. The Eddie Knight Orchestra will coax any wall flower into the green light. Plant your seeds at 233­1016. 
Hear the gavels pound and see the ban­ners wave, April 24-27, at the Mock 

Democratic National Convention. Lawr­ence O'Brien, chairman of the National Democratic Committee, is for real in his April 25 convention address. 
Catsup 
-Kevin Cassidy 
THE SCHOLASTIC 




APRIL 14, 1972 
the last word 
I sit tonight, thinking; it is late. The last three days have been terribly hectic -listening to faculty members, some of those whom I respect most, speak of their fears for Notre Dame; reading their letters, some of them anonymous because they were afraid; talking to administrators. I sit tonight thinking, thinking with renewed alarm. 
When my parents visited several weeks ago, they asked me if I had any regrets about coming to Notre Dame. _I told them, honestly, that I wouldn't trade the four years I will have spent here for four years at any other school. But in the same breath I had to tell them of my serious reservations about advising my brother to come here. They found it_ difficult to understand. I wasn't sure I understood myself-; and I am no less con­fused now. 
What prompted those remarks, at a time weeks be­fore the release of the faculty statement on "The Future of Notre Dame," were convers_ations with sev­eral of my own professors. Professors-friends-men whom I have come to respect most in three years at Notre Dame, the very men who lead me to say that I have no regrets, that I would not trade my years at Notre Dame. One cannot help a sense of alarm at hear­ing that two of those men are seeking positions else­where (one tenured, the other with ·assurance of. at least two more years at Notre Dame), and a third who remarked that he knew of not one faculty: ~cquaintance. who would not immediately accept any c;omparable offer from a comparable university. _ 
Then there was the statement of -the Thirty-One. ­And letters sent to every faculty member inviting their response. The cc:iunterstatement of the second T_hirty-One. Telephone calls and letters from faculty, inter­views with members of the Administration. And now I am all but overwhelmed at the horrible:· complexity of the problems-I am tempted to say "problem~'-fac:. 
until rather recently-is a· corresponding decrease in 
the concern for the University as a whole and an in­
crease in departmentalized, personal concern. 
· Undoubtedly, much of this shift in foc~s of concern 
is directly -attributable to ·the downward spiral of the 
national economy. Salaries are plummeting, promotions 
are infrequent, jobs -( especially teaching jobs) are 
scarce, and competition· is keener than it has been for 
many .years..Compounding these difficulties are the 
problems -inherent in the tenure policy set up by the 
American Association of University Professors. As pro­
fessors must necessarily be more concerned for their 
families, a more communal concern for the University 
requires more and more effort. 
Some of the decisions of the Administration seem, if fact, to be necessary. But the way the decisions have been_ implemented appears hardly excusable. Even in spite of the mistrust which preva1ls among many fa­culty, one cannot escape a sense of awe at the genero­sity they continue ·to· express. Many have remarked that they -would be willing to assume voluntary pay cuts, a11d voluntarily to take on greater teaching loads if the University were fo _such -dire financial straits. Some might be skeptical; but after talking with them I cannot question their sincerity. This sincerity would make ·the authoritarian ·inanrier. in which admittedly necessary decisions have_ been-made overbearingly of­fensive. The faculty are not mere hirelings, and they -cannot be de~lt with · as one might be tempted to deal 
with children in a classroom. 
Where does all of this leave us? I wish I had the 
vision to say. The problems facing the University 
seem, first of all, to call for a greater openness-not 
the narrowness which seems to have been produced. 
The Provost must be willing to meet with faculty to 
discuss problems before decisions are made, not merely 
to attempt to present rationales. Alternatively, the 
ing Notre Da~e at a cru~ial turning point i1{her .hi_s--·._faculty must be willing to expend the effort necess_ary 
tory. · 
_lam,_ though,. left with one dominant impression. It strikes me that the specific complaints being currently discussed-teaching loads, maximum tenure quotas, etc.-_a~e not really the crucial questions. There seems, on ~e contrary, to be an undercurrent responsible for these ~urface ripples. -An air of mistrust has settled over the entire University community, a ·cancerous ­attitude that seems to have _infested faculty, admin­istration and students alike. In some cases the mis~ trust seems not to. have been unwarranted. :~ccom-­panying that mistrust-something I had not sensed 
to devise viable alternatives to objectionable policies. The faculty senate must attempt to overcome the state of lethargic inertia into which it appears to have set­tled. And students must become aware of the diffi­culties to which they seem, at present, to be oblivious.· · Notre Dame is in the middle of a time which de­_Illa~ds greater unity than ~as ever been demanded in . recent years. Further div}sion will kill her. At this 
· point,. I_ guess there is little left but to plead that .faculty and Administration .begin to talk together; each ha_s much ·to_ !~~rn· from the other. --. -_ . __ · · -·greg stidham _­
' 
i i 
I ' 
' 
I' 
I 
I I 
i 
E 
! 
! 
!
.' 
I I 
l 
i 
~ 
1 
f 
I ~ 
i 
•} ' 
••'I: 
1
, 
J
I 
t 
1 
i 
j
•
!•
~ i ~ 
I ~ 
I £ 
! 
•~ 
I I i ~ 
I 
I
1
I i 

72 Conglomerate 72 Senior Art Majors' Exhibit Opening April 16, 2:00 p.m. Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall 
RED CROSS  RED  CROSS  RED C  
C3.0SS  RED C  ~CfOS.l-._~OSS  
~~~~­ S~D  
ED  CROSS CROSS  RED RED  caos~ RED CROSS RED C'..loss RED ,c~oss ~ CROSS caos5 ~R\1..cJ,'J;t'a,ss m> CRoss  
.,ED '..l.ED  RED s REO  CROSS RED CROSS caosssRED CRJss  :IBO <IBD  CROSS RED CROSS RED CROSS cRolam--&s" RED c3.0ss  RED CROSS RED caoss  
RED 3.ED  S RSD s RED  CROSS RED CRoss RED  CROSS caoss  RW CR053 RSD CROSS RED CROSS RED CROSS AiR.\~catm'lcfoss R..-1> caoss  
1ED  s  RED  CROSS  RED  CROSS  RED  CROSS  RED CROSS  RED CROSS RED  c~oss  
RED  RED  CROSS  RED  CROSS~ cJO~aoss RED  CROSS  RED CROSS  
RED  CROSS  RED  CROSS  RED  CROSS  RED  CROSS RED CROSS  RED CR  
CROSS ~URHAhlG~.  

'!i 
Would you share malt liquor with a friend? 
Sure. NO\v there's no question about it. Because now malt liquor has a good name. BUD\VEISER. BUD\VEISER Malt Liquor is I00%-malt, malt liquor (no other grains are added). This makes BUDWEISER the first malt liquor that really is ... malt liquor. 
. ,..,.. .,,J\~~-.. 
..,..,.-:-· 
.----~.
_•..r::· 
:-:... 
:,>Y' . -:. ·.;.. < •,; •:\~~-;~_.·.,. .w-_·.-;•\..~":" 
/ 
; <"•" 'f. . .....=;; 
' 
... . . ..•: ·. 
_.... . -:._ . 
. . ·.,.....• .<.:... ·~;--' . 

.. 
The first ma"it····1· ·..,h" =.= = 1quor 
good enough to be called BUDWEISER~ • 






