This book is not to bo taken from the Library

Th e Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
FEBRUARY 23 Nineteen Thirty-four
nothing
but I reaches
into the secret pocket of my weskit, and before you could say ‘Lollapalooza,’ I flashes an OLD GOLD under her dainty schnozzle.
“A dame ups to me the other day and asks me what cigarette I like best. I don’t say
The one and only Jimmy Duraxte, star of MGM’s forthcoming musical picture, “Hollywood Party

“ ‘Take a sniff,’ I says to her, ‘and you’ll know there ain’t no artificial flavoring in O LD GOLD. That O. G. tobacco
don’t need no touchin’ up. That’s why they smoke so smooth; in fact, they’re Old Smoothies! I oughta know, ’cause my schnozzle is an old-time inhaler-inner!’ ”
The Connoisseur,
JIMMY “Schnozzle" DURANTE
No better tobacco grows than is
used in old golds. And they are PURE. (No artificial flavoring)
AMERICA’S	CIGARETTE
Tune in on Ted Fio-Rito’s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every 'Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 tunes during- the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized Jnne 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
News Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN___________________JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD...............MICHAEL	F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH_________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK..............   College	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL........... Staff Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.................Graduate	Manager
THOMAS G. PROCTOR 1	„
JOSEPH A. BUCCI J........................hd,tors
ROY O. SCHOLZ____________ROBERT F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY..................JOHN	W. WALKER
GEORGE P. LEYES----------------------LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE.------------/	r
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING____ $ ..........Sports Editors
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR.------------HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
February 23, 1934
No. 16
THE SENIOR CLASS FLAG
For the thirty-eighth consecutive year, a Notre Dame senior class yesterday officially observed the birthday of George Washington. That observation, and the traditional method of it, are significant of a very definite aspect of Notre Dame education. For thirty-eight years, each senior class of Notre Dame men has presented an American flag to the University on Washington’s birthday. And on Commencement Sunday of each year—in a ceremony that will again be performed this June—the flag is blessed at Mass. Later it is raised for the first time, and becomes the official University flag for the ensuing year.
In that procedure is a clear acknowledgement of the two-fold aspect of Catholic education: it trains men to be better Catholics, and to be better Americans. The two results come from a single development; in fact, they may well be considered as one result, for the first, being a better Catholic, necessarily includes the second, being a better citizen. They cannot well be separated, for good citizenship rests upon respect for authority and observance of law. And good Catholicism is not attained unless that respect and that observance are marks of the individual.
CHOOSE YOUR MAJOR!
On page five of today’s Scholastic appears an article by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. The article is the first of what is planned to be a regular weekly series of outlines intended to aid sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters in the selection of their major subject, a selection that must be made this semester. The several outlines are to be written by the heads of the various departments in the College.
This series, which has been started at the suggestion of Father Miltner, supplies a very definite need that has long been apparent. Annually a long line of sophomores stands in front of the A.B. window at pre-registration
February 23, 19 3 4
time in the spring, intent on naming their majors. Yet one after another, a surprisingly large proportion of the group have no idea what their majors are to be. They wait until the final day of pre-registration before they make any effort to discover what the problem of selecting a course is all about. They choose, finally, major subjects because they think they may be easy, or because their roommate happens to be taking that course. Such an indictment is not all-inclusive, of course, but it does characterize a large number of the type Sophomore.
It is sincerely to be hoped that the members of the present sophomore class will avail themselves of the information that will be presented to them each week. It can make their choice much less difficult and much more worthwhile. It gives them a more obvious source of information than was formerly available. By reading these conspectuses they should be able to make a more sensible and a more serious choice of a major subject: a choice that is important to each of them.
THE BENGAL BOUTS
The Scholastic today announces plans for its third annual boxing show. As in the past, the bouts will be staged for the benefit of the Bengal Mission fund.
In the winter of 1931-32, The Scholastic assumed the sponsorship of the campus boxing tournament in order to save the event from oblivion, as the interest of the campus was apparently on a rapid decline. In the two years since that time, the shows have been well attended, have been athletic and financial successes.
The present sponsors are asking here for a continuation of the support given to the persons in charge of the shows the last two years. There is little question but that the boxing will be at least the equal of any ever seen in a campus tournament. The success of the project, however, depends largely on the student body. Twenty-five cents is not an unreasonable sum. And it’s for boxing as well as for Bengal.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Home-Comforts
Well, for the first time this year we went over to call on the Chief Engineer at the Power House the other day. We figured that the recent cold weather might have occasioned some crises in the heating system that you ought to know about, or that maybe the water pipes had frozen.
But as a matter of fact, we found, the cold snap hadn’t been any sort of test at all for the Power Plant. All you have to do, the very pleasant fireman explained, is to keep the routine going. The plant is so large and fine it needs no imaginative genius to stop leaks and fill up breaches. We walked around, impressed by the simplicity and order of the establishment.
“There are four boilers,” said the fireman. “We never use more than two.” “They why four?” said we. “Oh, you can’t run one for more than two thousand hours,” replied the F. “The lining would burn out.”
“Oh. H’m. What’s your biggest day?” we wanted to know.
“Ninety-nine tons,” said the fireman. There was no pride in his voice. “That was one day last year. Biggest day this year so far has been 87 tons. We averaged about 60 to 65 tons a day—chusred coal.”
“Ah, yes.” We walked around again. They filter 100,000 gallons of water a day. Think of it. And when the hot water leaves the power house it is tempered at 187 degrees F. To be sure. But isn’t there anything human about this place? Didn’t anybody ever fall in the furnace, so that now you are careful about the way you carry out the ashes?”
“We have a mechanical conveyor to remove the ashes,” said the F. “And the steam pressure is--------” “Never mind,” we told him. We had found a mirror suspended outside one of the windows, face up. This had possibilities! We looked into it, and saw that it reflected the chimney-top. “Well?” we queried.
“That’s to see if there’s any black smoke coming out of the chimney,” F. said. “If there is it means that there is imperfect combustion, ’ as there is carbon in black smoke.”
All perfectly scientific. Like a hospital, we thought. While we were examining a thermometer outside, illuminated nights, there burst in a kid on skates, dripping wet. “O. K.” said the F. “Dry ’em out. And there’s a shower downstairs.” The kid disrobed in haste.
To us, “Every time they fall through the ice on the lake they come in here to dry off.”
Caps, Gowns and Men
By the grace of E. R. Moore and Company, who, as their letterhead proudly flaunts, are engaged in the cultural pursuit of “manufacturing academic gowns and hoods; gymnasium apparel and Moore togs for girls” we are able to let you in on Who’s Who among senior chests and statures. Ready with that tape measure, Winterbottom ?
John P. Gorman and Edward W. Hallduer will sport the largest of the caps that will nod in unison with the Washington Day oration. They use a size 7%. Frank LaBorne and Adolph Panella tote the smallest, a 6%. Among the chests Brother Hallduer secures his second first place, with a circumference of 53 inches. Tom Roach, with his measly 46 inches, is a sick second.
Tallest is John Alonzo Masterson, the Bali-Bali maestro, who is 6 feet 6 inches and still growing. Charlie Schwartzel and Russ Stemper are runners-up at 6 feet 4 inches apiece. James Fesler is shortest at 5 feet 3 inches. The Messrs. Moore neglected to say who are next shortest, supposing, I presume, everybody to know they are Vince Reishman and Joe Young.
Ankle measurements and intelligence test results not available.
Alligator
The wave of guppy-culture, so popular during the past few days, has been succeeded in at least one instance by the adoption of an alligator for a pet. The beast resides in Dillon Hall, and is the pride and joy of the third floor south. We have always considered full-size alligators the ugliest living things ni the universe, and believe you us the baby ones are no exceptions. But the boys in Dillon remove him from his cage and fondle him: ugh!
Alligator habits are no model. This one eats only about once every week or two. For the occasion he must be removed from the cage and put in the wash-basin, since they feed only in water. His diet is raw hamburger, procured from the cafeteria; and the owner is griped because the cafeteria will hawk hamburger only in ten-cent portions, of which the alligator consumes but a small part. Since he does not eat again for two weeks, the remainder of the hamburger is useless.
Heaven knows what ichthyological specimen the boys will turn up with next. We shouldn’t be at al surprised to see the Loch Ness monster in Sorin sub any time now.
Paulist Choir To
Sing Here Tuesday
Led by Father Eugene O’Malley, the Paulist Choristers of Chicago, the most celebrated organization of its kind in America, will appear in a concert next Tuesday evening, Feb. 27, at 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall.
This famous choir of 75 men and boys was organized by Father Finn in 1904 in Chicago and remained under his direction for 14 years. Since its foundation, the choir has been heard in every important musical center of this continent. During the World War, in 1918, the Paulist Choristers of Chicago toured the United States and Canada, singing 238 concerts in 113 cities. The proceeds from these concerts helped to rehabilitate the devastated regions of France.
Father Eugene O’Malley, served for many years as a chorister in the choir he now directs. It was during this period of choristership that Father O’Malley decided to devote his life to ecclesiastical and musical studies.
After a period of study in this country, Father O’Malley went to Europe in 1925 to complete his studies with great masters of England and the Continent. On his return in 1928, Father O’Malley was appointed conductor of the Paulist Choristers of Chicago.
Quoting Dr. Glenn Dillard Gunn, of the Chicago Herald and Examiner: “For the multitude that could not have actual contact with this superlative art, it may be recorded that the Paulist Choristers still achieve that unearthly beauty of tone from the boys’ voices, have greatly augmented the sonority of basses and tenors, and again proved their complete mastery of all ecclesiastical idioms from Palestrina, Vittoria and Farrant to Tschai-kowsky and Gretchaninoff.”
Following is the program:
1.	Emitte Spiritual Tuum_______Schuetky
2.	a. Ave Regina Coelorum........Peter Philips
(16th Cent.) b. Sacerdotes Domini--Byrd (16th Cent.) c, Sanctus------------Palestrina	(16th Cent.)
3.	a. Lullaby...........J. Lewis Browne
George Lane, Soloist
b. The Birds...............Protheroe
(Written for Fr. O’Malley’s Choristers)
4.	a. O Gloriosa Virginum.....Borowski
(Written for Fr. O’Malley's Choristers)
b. Praise Ye the Lord...Rachmaninoff
c. Cherubic Hymn........Rachmaninoff
5.	All Breathing Life....................Bach
Intermission
1.	Down St. Peter’s Road....Russian Folk Song Billy Callahan, Walter Curran, Soloists
2.	a. The Nightingale of France......Catalonian Folk Song
b. Brunette................French	Folk Song
3.	Cradle Song.........................Brahms
BiUy Callahan, Soloist
4.	a. Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes___Old Frank Dunford Soloist English
b. The Gypsy.—.................Zolotarief
5.	Kolyada-----------------Rimsky - Korsakoff
Robert Sheehan at the piano
T IV O
The Scholas tc
Calendar
Moscow Presents Flag For Senior Class At Washington Day Exercise
Friday, February 23
Meeting, Catholic Action Club, 7:45 p.m., Main Building; Engineers’ Club Meeting, 8:00 p.m., Engineering Auditorium; Scholastic staff meetings, Ave Maria Building, 6:30 and 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, February 2k
Track, Notre Dame vs. Illinois, Notre Dame gymnasium, 2:00 p.m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, Butler Field House, Indianapolis; Movie, “Kennel Murder Case” with William Powell, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, February 25
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m., Interhall basketball, gymnasium, 1:30 p.m.; Wranglers Banquet, RoseMarie Tea-Room, 6:30 p.m.
Monday, February 26
French Club meeting, Carroll Rectory, 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 27
Wrangler Meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.; Paulist choir concert, Washington Hall, 8:30 p.m.
Wednesday, February 28
Lenten Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 p.m. for upperclassmen, 7:45 p.m. for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Edward’s halls; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:50 p.m.
Thursday, March 1
International Relations Club, Library, 6:30 p.m., Dome Snapshot contest ends.
Paper Read, Speech Given At N. D. A. S. M. E. Meeting
The Notre Dame branch of the A. S. M. E. held an important meeting Tuesday evening in the Engineering Building. Walter J. Fransioli, senior, read a paper on “Fundamentals of Scientific Acoustical Construction.” Joseph Hayes presided at the meeting.
Mr. J. R. Hughes, chief body designer for Studebaker, spoke on “Automobile Body Design.” His speech was given in the question-answer method.
The A. S. M. E. sponsored a trip to Niles, Michigan, yesterday to inspect the new stream-lined train of the Union Pacific Railroad. The train was stopped specially for Notre Dame students.
February 2 3, 19 3k
Freshmen---
The S. A. C. announced this week that the Freshman elections will take place Feb. 27 and March 2.
The nominations for class officers will be held Tuesday, Feb. 27 at 12:30 in the gym. The offices to be filled are those of president, vicepresident, secretary, and treasurer. Freshmen are requested to attend the primary as only the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for each office will enter the finals. Likewise it should be noted that any candidate receiving a two-thirds majority in the primary is elected without further vote. -
The finals will be held Friday, March 2, in the Carroll Rec Hall and -will last all day. The elections will be supervised throughout bv the S. A. C.	’
To be eligible foi' a class office, the candidate must have a good disciplinary record and a good scholastic standing. This means that even one scholastic deficiency is sufficient to bar a candidate from running for office.
Further information regarding the elections may be obtained by calling at 103 Alumni, or at 225 Walsh.
Bartholomew Announces Annual Washington Trip
Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor in the Politics Department, announces this week that the annual Washington, D.C. trip of the Politics classes and all students who have taken courses in politics, will be from April 7, to April 11. Students interested in making this instructive trip should save all their cuts, points out Mr. Bartholomew, since the Director of Studies, has granted only that the work missed may be made up and not that cuts will be excused.
CONTENTS
Editorials ...................   1
“The Week” ..................... 2
Flag Presentation .............. 3
Marquette Trip ................. 4
Bengal Boxing Shoiv ............ 5
“Choosing Your Major” ........   5
K. of C. News .................. 6
“News of the Week”.............. 7
“Man About the Campus”......... 8
Illinois Track Meet ........... 11
Michigan State Game............ 12
Marquette Track Meet .......... 13
“Introducing” ................. 14
“Splinters front the Press Box” .... 15
“On Dozen the Line”............ 16
IS 38TH OBSERVANCE
The texts of the addresses made yesterday by James V. Moscow and the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., ivill be found on pages k and 5.
Down the steps of the Administration Building and across the walk of the quadrangle to Washington Hall filed 500 members of the Senior class at 10 a. m. yesterday to commemorate the 202nd anniversary of the birth of George Washington in the 89th annual observance of this event by the graduating class of Notre Dame. Following the tradition established in 1897 when the Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., was president of the University, James V. Moscow, Commerce senior, as president of his class, presented the flag to the University. The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., in the absence of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., accepted the flag for the University. Hugh F. Fitzgerald, Arts and Letters senior, delivered a eulogy of the first President in his address titled, “Washington —Eternal Inspiration.”
Seniors In Caps And Gowns
The seniors, in caps and gowns, were grouped according to their respective schools, each school maintaining its historical order: first, the school of Arts and Letters, followed by those of Science, Engineering, Law, and finally, Commerce.
The program was opened by the rendition of “The Star Spangled Banner” by the University Symphony Orchestra after which Fitzgerald praised the character of Washington for the desirable twin virtues of courage and faith. In conclusion he said, “If we steadfastly hold tight to our courage and faith we can face the future undaunted, confident in the knowledge that we possess the magic talisman of Washington himself!”
President James' V. Moscow, explaining the purpose of the ceremony, “to express a two-fold devotion . . . to country and to University” presented the Flag, “as a token to signify the blended allegiance we acknowledge to Notre Dame and to the United States.” He expressed the hope that Notre Dame, whose ideals and principles were inspired by character-like Washington’s might give to the nation the type of men “who may . not prove unworthy of her principles.”
In accepting the flag for the Uni-(Continued on Paste 4)
Three
Special Rate of $5.50 Secured For Student Trip to Marquette
RESERVATIONS LIMITED
With the receipt of seventy-five reservations for the Notre Dame-Marquette game, the prospect of a • trip to Milwaukee is assured to the basketball fans of Notre Dame.
The trip will be made by buses, which will leave the campus Saturday noon, March 10. Buses were secured for the trip to avoid the necessity of changing trains in Chicago. The entourage will arrive in Milwaukee Saturday evening in plenty of time for the game. The return trip will be made Sunday afternoon. For those students living in Chicago who wish to go home over Saturday night after the game, the buses will stop at a certain time Sunday afternoon at a place to be arranged.
The usual stipulations covering week-end .permissions will apply to the trip. A letter from home to the hall rector giving permission, and the permission of the hall rector are necessary.
Since a limited number of tickets are available, they will be sold only to those who intend to make the trip via bus. The charge for the trip, which will include round trip transportation and game ticket will be $5.50.
If enough students wish to return to Chicago Saturday night one busload will go there and stop over until Sunday evening. If only a few desire tins, they will have to go from Milwaukee to Chicago on their own expense and will be picked up in Chicago by the bus Sunday evening.
The busses will leave the campus from the post-office at 12:30 Saturday, March 10.
Prof. Du Bois Speaks At French Club Meet
Professor B. J. DuBois addressed the members of the French Club at their weekly meeting last Monday evening in Carroll Rec. Following this lecture on the language and customs of the French Canadians, Salvatore T. Ferrari, Science senior, spoke on the “Chansons de Geste.”
George Martinet, in whose charge the entertainment for the meeting had been placed, had further arranged for the distribution of printed copies of several French songs, among which were the familiar “Au Claire de la lune,” “Quand Madelon” and “Apres de ma Blonde.” Singing was led by Prof. Langwell and George Menard.
Four
Presentation —
Following is the text of the flag presentation address delivered yesterday by James V. Moscoiv, president of the senior class, at the 38 annual exercise in commemoration of Washington’s Birthday:
We are assembled here this morning to carry on, in our turn, a tradition that has long been reverenced at Notre Dame. Ever since the 22nd of February in the year 1845, when the first presentation of the flag was made to Father Sorin, the senior class has convened on Washington’s Birthday to express a two-fold devotion—their devotion to their country and to their University.
For four years we seniors have given our devotion and loyalty to our school. Today we give public expression of our loyalty to both the University and the Nation, realizing that in affirming our sincere acceptance of the principles for which Notre Dame stands, we are, at the same time, affirming principles which will make us more worthy citizens of our country. We present this flag as a token, to signify the blended allegiance which we acknowledge to Notre Dame and to the United States.
No more fitting date could have been chosen for such an expression of ideals. It was Washington who led the unshakeable foundations upon which our Nation is built. It was a character like Washington’s that inspired the ideals and principles upon which this University was built. Washington, we believe, would have loved Notre Dame. He would have recognized in Notre Dame an institution which is in many ways like the nation he helped to found; an institi-tion which teaches principles which are necessary for the continuation of the nation’s life, if it is to remain the kind of nation that Washington conceived.
We admire not only Washington, the general and statesman, but Washington the man. His character is one we would all do well in striving to emulate. Washington gave to his country all he had to give. He contributed his position, his personal services, his property and resources —all a man can give. He stood to lose everything and gain nothing— for himself. He had in mind, though, not personal prosperity but the good of the many. He had the courage of
(Continued on Page 17)
Four Contests Keep Debate Squad Busy
William Kirby and Hugh T. Fitzgerald, representing Notre Dame on the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved: that the powers of the president should be substantially increased as a settled policy,” outpointed two speakers from New York University, Saturday, February 10. This debate, held at 8 o’clock in the Engineering Auditorium, was judged by Professor John Doesburg of Northwestern University.
Arnold Levin and Jack Rapoport comprised the visiting team, coached by W. D. Bryant. Dr. D. C. O’Grady, Ph.D., acted as chairman of the con-_test. ....
Coach W. J. Coyne says that returns from the Radio debate with Kent College of Law a few weeks ago give the two negative speakers from Notre Dame a winning decision. John Locher and John O’Connor spoke in this air contest.
Coach Coyne also states that he will definitely take four men, not as yet chosen, to Iowa City for a debate tournament held there March 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th. Many mid-western and western colleges and universities will be represented in this tournament. The question will be that of increase in presidential powers.
FLAG PRESENTATION
(Continued fiom Page 3)
versity, Father O’Hara outlined the problem which will confront these young men when they go out into the world to find that America, “has grown in body much faster than it his grown in soul”; that “its philosophy has not kept pace with its material growth.” Father O’Hara left this thought in conclusion, “let this flag be your reminder that Notre Dame men never quit!” '
The first formal presentation of the flag by the senioi’ class took place in 1897. Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., aftei* whom Morrissey Hall is named, was President of the University.
The custom originated through the efforts of Reverend Martin Regan, C.S.C., who was Prefect of Discipline for more than twenty-five years. In 1896 he had obtained the gift of a flag pole from Sam Murdock of the class of 1886. The pole was erected south of the post office. It was subsequently destroyed in a gale and the new one was erected at the present location.
At Father Regan’s suggestion, the senior class of ’97, much smaller in size than classes of present times, launched the Washington day tradition by purchasing and presenting to the University a large American flag.
The Sc ho lastc
Conspectus For A.B.
, Majors: Philosophy
The following conspectus for the Department of Philosophy written by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is an article on philosophy meant to be an aid to sophomores in selecting their major for next year.
Subsequent articles, to be written by the heads of the 11 departments of the College of Arts and Letters will appear weekly in The Scho-lastic.
I.
PHILOSOPHY*
By Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Science may give to man a grip on experience, and theology a grip on the Supernatural, but it is left to philosophy to teach man how to get a grip on totality. It therefore has a twofold function: the function of reducing to organic unity the multitudinous facts unearthed by the physical sciences, and thus of revealing their ultimate meaning through their relation to the whole; and the function of providing an approach to and a rational defense of the Truths of Revelation. Hence, though distinct from both, science—as that term is commonly understood — and from Revelation, philosophy renders valuable service to both.
It has been said that while “science has increased our facilities for living, philosophy must now increase our capacity for life.” This it does by clearly defining the goal and purpose of life, and by determining the means indispensable to the achievements of that purpose. For, as in any other enterprise, so here success depends upon clear conceptions of aims and objectives, and upon the artistic ability to realize those conceptions by keeping the objectives constantly in view.
When William James said that “a man with no philosophy in him is the most inauspicious and unprofitable of all possible social mates,” he spoke of a purely hypothetical person. For, since philosophy is nothing by a man’s view of the universe, his conception of the irreducible meaning of things, no man can be without a philosophy. The real truth contained in James’ assertion is that a man with a false philosophy, that is, a distorted view of reality and of life, . will necessarily be anti-social, and therefore a man untrustworthy of judgment and unprofitable of speech. He will be a disturbing element, an obstacle to social progress, lacking in true culture and incapable of ap-
(Continued on Page 16)
* A partial reprint from the Scholastic of' March -1, 1927.
“Scholastic” To Sponsor Annual Bengal Boxing Show March 23rd
Acceptance---
Following is the text of the address given by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, in acceptance of the flag presented by the Senior Class, at the Washington’s Birthday exercises yesterday :
The ceremony in which we are participating this morning is, to my
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. “. . ivaves your challenge to the world.
mind, one of the most beautiful facets in the many-sided life of Notre Dame. It is beautiful, of course, in -what it symbolizes. The flag is a symbol of patriotism, that virile virtue which makes a man proud enough of his country to fight for it; our own starry flag is a symbol of a new kind of liberty that was born on this earth when rugged pioneers hewed cabins in the American wilderness and took up muskets to defend them: it is also a symbol of a new kind of charity that was born when thirteen sovereign states beyond any previously known treaties of offense and defense and surrendered to a higher ideal, for the common good, a share of their sovereignty. Your presentation of a flag is a symbol of the offerings of your hearts to your country for the common good—not only for war, which God avert, but for the complicated and pressing problems of peace. And the presentation of an American flag by a senior class at Notre Dame symbolizes the offering of young Catholic hearts and Catholic minds, trained in Catholic principles of justice and rights, to the unselfish service of America for the supreme motive of (Continued on Page 19)
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS
By Howard T. Waldron
The third annual Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic for the benefit of the Bengal Mission fund ■will be held on Friday evening, March 23. Besides the aid it affords the Mission fund, this show decides the University champions in the various weights and classes.
Last year some fifty young boxers entered the competition for the championship titles and the sweaters that were given as emblems of victory. Freshmen as well as upper-classmen fought for these prizes and several were won by the first year men.
It is hoped that the entry list for this year’s show will surpass even that of last year and that the competition will be just as keen. The Scholastic will award sweaters to. the winners and runers-up in each division and these sweaters will again have the gloved emblem with an “N. D.” woven onto it.
Experience Not Necessary
As already stated, this show is open to any student of the University whether he be freshman or upperclassman and, experience is not a requisite to entrance. The only thing required is the desire to fight or learn something about boxing. Many lads who never fought before won awards last year and many others came close to the coveted titles.
The weight divisions will be made as close to the accepted divisions as possible but entries in certain classes may necessitate a slight shift in the standard of weight. But no man, except in the heavy-weight division, will be forced to tackle an opponent who outweighs him more than five pounds.
Some may fear that their inexperience would lead to injury, but such is not the case. Inexperienced men will not be matched with men who are too seasoned, unless they- should reach the final round. Then, too, the practice bouts and preliminary- eliminations, if any are necessary-, will be fought with fifteen ounce pillow gloves.
A few men have been working out intermittently for the past few weeks, but all will start from scratch next Monday- afternoon. With a little more than three weeks to get into condition, every- man will have an equal chance to prepare for this show.
Workouts will start regularly on Monday afternoon at 3 o’clock and will continue every afternoon at that
(Continued on Page 14)
February
2 3, 1934
Five
Chicago Engineer Is Guest Of A. I. E. E.
At a meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Room 22 of the Engineering Building on last Monday, February 19, Mr. L. Hausmann, district engineer of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company of Chicago delivered a lecture entitled “Steam Turbines.”
Mr. Hausmann, who has had over twenty years experience with turbines of all types and kinds, opened his talk with a general description of the construction and operation of the steam turbine, using motion pictures to aid in the explanations. He went on to discuss the many wide applications of steam turbines in modern industrial practice, pointing out that the turbine has a much higher comparative efficiency than the steam engine and is therefore extensively used on large, heavy installations. The steam turbine stands alone in the field of high-speed apparatus, the speaker said, speeds of 30,000 and 40,000 revolutions per minute being common.
Other speakers on the program included Clyde Roberts, and Cyrus Foote, seniors. Roberts presented a paper on vacuum tubes, and Foote delivered a review of the most interesting developments in the electrical engineering world during the past month.
Announcement was made by the chairman that the month of May has been selected by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers as the occasion for the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Institute. The Notre Dame Branch, said the chairman, is making plans to bring an outstanding electrical demonstration to Notre Dame at that time as part of its celebration.
Dr. Baldinger Speaks To Chemistry Society Branch
The St. Joseph Branch of the American Chemical Society held its 102nd monthly meeting last Tuesday evening, February 20, in Room 213, Chemistry Hall.
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Head of the Department of Pharmacy at the- University, was the speaker of the evening. His subject was “Legal Standards for Drugs and Medicines.” Dr. Baldinger spoke of the medicolegal standards in action today, and of the various authorities who exercise some control in the setting of standards for drugs and medicines. His talk was illustrated with slides.
The meeting was an open one, and a large audience of chemistry and pharmacy students attended.
Six
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
It should be interesting and encouraging to those who have bowled every Thursday to know that the entry fee for Notre Dame Council has been mailed to the National Secretary. Remember that there are only three, possibly only two, more meetings to decide the team which will be sent. Everyone should get downtown on bowling nights to assure himself of a place on that team.
Aids Catholic Hour
Speaking of disbursements recalls that Notre Dame Council sent ten dollars to the support of the Catholic Hour on the radio. This contribution was sent by the council as an affiliate of the National Council of Catholic Men. A recent campus request for contributions to the support of the Catholic Hour should elicit other aid from Notre Dame.
Your attention is called to the last issue of Columbia. The details of Knights of Columubus scholarships and Catholic University scholarships are outlined here. Seniors, especially those interested in boy guidance work, who may wish to take advantage of these scholarships should read Columbia, which they can obtain from any knight.
“Santa Maria” Mailed
Our enterprising Financial Secretary and our much-travelled Grand Knight went to Chicago Sunday, February 18, to participate in the exemplification of the fourth degree. This most formal of fraternal degrees was held at the Palmer House. Larry and Eli are going at the invitation of former Grand Knight James Collins, Grand Knights of Notre Dame Council in 1931-1932.
The Santa Maria was mailed out this week to 2,500 councils of the order throughout the country. This magazine has perhaps the largest circulation of any magazine in the country exclusively edited and written by college men.
“Dome” Snapshot Contest
The Snapshot Contest Editor of the 1934 Dome announces that there are only a few days remaining to turn in snapshots and be eligible for the three prizes offered. The contest closes March 1.
All snapshots should be turned in to William G. Burkhardt, managing editor of the Dome, at 156 Alumni before that time. A photo which portrays anything that deals with student life is eligible. The name and address of contestant, description of photo (names of subjects desired, but not necessary) must be written on the back of each photo with a soft pencil.
Garland Reads Paper To Economics Group
“The Federal Securities Act of July 26, 1933 has met with a great deal of opposition and complaint because of the strictness of its provisions and its tendency to conflict with the theory of state rights,” said Maurice Garland, Arts and Letters Senior in a paper read at the weekly meeting of the Economics Seminar Tuesday evening.
To give a complete understanding of the recent legislation in control of securities, Garland outlined the provisions of the Federal Securities Act, and also those of the proposed National Securities Exchange Act • which is being considered by the present session of Congress.
“The penalty of $5,000 and not more than five years imprisonment to a dealer in false securities has been the chief source of disapproval toward the Act of last July, but it is hoped that in view of the report of the Committee investigating the results of the act, the President will be influenced to suggest to Congress a moderation of the penalties,” explained the speaker.
Lists Three Links In Act
“With the advent of the act,” said Garland, “the question arose concerning its antagonism toward the theory of state rights, since the majority of states have ‘blue-sky’ laws in regard to securities.” It was shown that this problem was disappearing with the growing favorability of the public toward more federal power.
“The second link in the chain of which the first link is the Federal Securities Act,” he continued, “is the proposed National Securities Exchange Act..” This is an attempt to regulate the Stock Exchange by prohibiting “short sales,” “wash sales,” and selling “on margin,” it was explained.
A third link to this chain has not as yet been mentioned to Congress. “It is an act empowering a Federal Commission to control wheat and other farm commodity markets, and will be, in function, similar to the act proposed for the regulation of the Stock Market. It is evident • therefore, that the federal government is planning to protect its citizens from any further catastrophe in the field of speculation. In this purpose it expects to go ‘all the way’ in order to re-establish securities companies on a firm, honest, and reliable basis,” Mr. Garland concluded.
Catholic Action Club
The regular meeting of the Catholic Action Club will be held Friday eve-' ning, Feb. 23, at 7:45 in the Main Building.
The Sc ho la s tc
A. B. Faculty Hears Talk on Constitution
At the monthly meeting of the Arts and Letters Faculty held in the Knights of Columbus Hall Monday evening, February 12, Professor William Roemer presented the subject entitled “The Fundamental Philosophy Underlying the Federal Constitution.”
In discussing the various philosophical aspects of this historical document, Professor Roemer stressed the original conception of the framers, who were convinced that all men had certain national rights which the gov-emment should protect, thereby limiting the sovereignty of the national government.
Contrasts Two Theories
He contrasted the British theory of private rights, derived only from the consent of the Crown, with the American theory that authority first resides with the people, who, by their own initiative, delegate certain powers to the government for its proper functioning. This American theory is related to the principle that authority originates primarily from God and secondly, from the consent of the people.
Following Professor Roemer’s speech, the subject being open for discussion, the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the A. B. College, advanced the subject by citing the rights of the Church to own property.
Movie Hours Are Changed By Prefect of Discipline
The Prefect of Discipline, Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., announces that the time of the Saturday night movies in Washington Hall has been changed to 6:45 and 8:30. It is hoped that this change will do away with running across the lawns from the dining halls . immediately after supper.
Father Dolan also reminds students of another regulation concerning’ movies, which is that the first movie is for upperclassmen and the second one for the two freshman halls and the students in Brownson and Carroll.
Boy Guidance Meeting
Stephen M. Murray, field secretary of the Knights of Columbus Supreme Council Boy Life Bureau, addressed the boy guidance students Monday on the work of his organization. Mr. Murray devoted a part of his visit to renewing old acquaintances among the faculty. He received his master’s degree at Notre Dame in 1929, having followed the program in boy guidance on a K. of C. scholarship.
February 2 3, 19 3 4
News of the Week
By George Leyes
A dramatic episode climaxed Austria’s hectic week of civil war and riot when Chancellor Dollfuss in an international broadcast Sunday morning presented to the people of the world the official government interpretation of the Austrian situation. He claimed the casualty reports were grossly exaggerated, that women and children were warned to stay in the background, that the Socialists were a small misguided minority, that he had taken over guardianship of all orphans caused by the riots, and that Austria is now ready to proceed in its cause of social and economic se-habilitation.
The use of radio in creating good will and calming world apprehension has not been overlooked by that crafty, 42 year old politico, Engelbert Dollfuss.
Italy, France, and England have signed a manifesto warning Germany that Austria’s independence must be respected according to the Versailles Treaty. Just how much weight this will have in curbing Nazi designs is a mattei* of conjecture. Dollfuss,, a fervent Catholic, is determined to crush the “Anti-Christ” menace of the Socialists, but it appears that he will have to yield ultimately to either Naziism oi' Fascism.
In this period of European unrest, with hardly a country that does not have people at a fever pitch to pick up and do battle, a marked contrast is seen in our government, which, except for a few minor radical outbursts, has accomplished almost revolutionary changes through regular legal procedure, without resorting to violence and bloodshed—to communists and socialists a source of discouragement.
A significant trend in relieving city congestion along with the back to farm movement is shown in the government’s survey to study the possibility and advisability of setting up a government organization to form local housing corporations which would construct low cost apartments and houses along mass production lines. The government hopes to facilitate and direct the expenditure of from 30 to 40 billion dollars of private capital to revive one of the largest industries, and to solve a housing shortage, which would be remedied if funds were made available.
N.D. Authors Named By Father Cavanaugh
Last Monday the Bookmen were fortunate in securing Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. After an introduction of the club to the speaker instead of the customary opposite procedure, Father Cavanaugh began his address on people associated with Notre Dame whom he considers “pioneer Bookmen.” He pointed out the long list of celebrities who have contributed to the school’s literary history.
The speaker considers Father Zahm as the most intellectual man who has ever walked on the Notre Dame campus. “He is the nearest approach to pure intellect I have ever met in a life full of singularly distinguished acquaintance of such a type,” was his tribute to this famous man. Other authors mentioned by Father Cavanaugh were Maurice Francis Egan, Orestes Brownson, Simon Pokagon (an Indian chief), and Charles Warren Stoddard. All of these men were affiliated with Notre Dame through some connection or another.
Old Photos Shown
Father Cavanaugh brought several pictures and volumes with him for purposes of inspection. Most of the photographs were old ones which had an- added interest to the students because they were of familiar figures around the campus. Mr. McCole, of the Department of English, the club moderator, attended the meeting. After the talk President Murphy adjourned the meeting.
The Bookmen also held a meeting February 12, at which Roy Scholz read a paper on the similarities between Edgar Allan Poe and Eugene O’Neill as found in their respective works. A general discussion and the choosing of three more books for the club library brought the meeting to a close.
Prom Committee Gives
$57.00 to Bengal Fund
Profits for the 1934 Junior Prom amounted to §57.00 according to an announcement made this week by Prom Chairman William Miller. The receipts were turned over to the Bengal Mission Fund.
The prom committee reported an attendance of 321 couples. The net profits for the prom proper were §54.80. The dinner dance which followed the prom netted a profit of §2.20.
The custom of turning over the profits of a class dance to Bengal was innovated last year by the prom officials.
Seven
L
W. Newberry Wins
Beaux Arts Award
The jury in the competition for the Warren Prize conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design has awarded the first prize to William Newberry of Notre Dame.
The Warren Prize is one of the most important competitions of the year in the Beaux Arts Institute and is awarded to the best rendered esquisse in advanced group planning completed in three days. This year the subject of the design program was “A World’s Trades Mart.” This group is intended for the exhibition and sale of manufactured products fro mall parts of the world, to be erected in a large coast city.
Second place in the competition was given to a student at New York University and mentions were awarded to two other students at the same school and to one at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The jury for the third analytique problem: “An Entrance to a Public Building” awarded the following to Notre Dame students: Mentions to Albert Van Namee and half mentions to Beltimacchi, Bernbrock, Campbell, Hertel, Hickey, Hufnagel, McAuliffe, McNeill, Ott, and Palmer.
Chicago Physician Speaks To Academy of Science
Dr. William L. Porterfield, associate clinical professor of medicine at Loyola University and attending physician at St. Bernard’s hospital, Chicago, was the speaker at the open meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science held Monday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building.
Speaking on the subject of “Allergy and Allergic Diseases,” Dr. Porterfield said, “Allergy is relatively a new science. Not many years ago, only highly trained specialists knew anything at all of this subject. It was considered no more necessary for a general physician to understand the principles of allergic reactions in order to treat hay fever or asthma than it was for him to know the chemical analyses and formulae of the salicylates in order to prescribe asperin.
Dr. Porterfield illustrated some of the various allergic diseases with accounts of clinical cases in which the patients were afflicted with typical allergic reactions, the most common of which are asthma and hay fever.
In conclusion the speaker pointed out the importance of the immunologist in the study and treatment of disorders of this sort. “The future of this science,” he stated, “lies in the field of the immunologist, as well as that of the physician.”
The Motsetts of Peoria have been rather well represented at Notre Dame. First there was Bourke, man-tager of the track team in 1931, and then came brother Billy in that same year to live the somewhat unsettled existence enjoyed by all Carroll Hallers. He soon settled down and his life, it seems, has been one blessed with serenity.
He is made fairly miserable at times, it is true, by Bibbers Moscow, Leonard and Schwartzel who take delight in provoking him to anything but quiet eloquence. These somewhat hypocritical gentlemen twit him about the Ladies of Sweetbriar, the trend of his wearing apparel toward Finchley-ism, and his status as a capitalist. He has developed a charming blush of late, but, fortunately enough, he can outshout the boys with a remarkable ease.
Among Bill’s varied interests, basketball is foremost. He’ll usually be found perched at not too great a distance from the press table at all basketball games. The choice seats in this vicinity can be had only if you’re willing to arrive at least an hour before game time, in case you’ve never tried to get one. As a player, Bill has had quite a bit of experience. He started at Spalding Prep and has since worn the interhall colors for Carroll, Morrissey, Alumni, and now Walsh.
Other sports have interested him as well as basketball. There were the four years he worked for interhall football teams and seemed to have a lot of fun. He putters around the golf course in the spring with some of the other unskilled golfers on the campus. Last fall he came back with the tennis bug after a summer spent in getting himself beyond the raw rookie stage of the game.
The social side of his Notre Dame life has been pleasant, although a bit hectic at times. The dances Bill has missed were the ones which were not open to him. The less said about last year’s Prom, the better Bill will like it. So skip it. He knows several leagues and rates well in all of them. But he never forgets Teed—the girl who needs no introduction to any of Motsett’s friends.
Girls Get Break In Next N.D. ‘Juggler’
The annual girl’s number of the Juggler is now in the minor stages of development. This custom presents the fair sex with an opportunity to retaliate for all the remarks, injuries, and rebuffs doled out to them during the course of a year of publication. However, it does not provide them with a medium of expressing the last word for there are Jugglers yet to come.
As a whole the material is better than that received in past year. Contributions have been sent to the editor from a representative group of schools and colleges throughout the country, and the authors are all desirous of breaking into print. Of course there are not enough keys to go around, but the present allotment will doubtlessly prove sufficient.
The form of the articles range from satirical sonnets to that product of the warped intellect, the pun. A particular young lady, who evidently has at one time attended a local social function, treats the topic in a most understanding manner as seen from the guest’s point of view. Another interesting article is a collection of famous quotations dealing with woman, her whims, her wiles, and her fancies.
Miss Bee Cannon of St. Mary’s, who is a talented and young artist, has designed and drawn an appropriate cover for the issue.
Supplementing the work of the jeunes femmes will be the wit and satire of such staff members as Rocheleau, Sharpe, Healey, Craine and McNichols. Prezbel contributes with some fitting drawings while Vince (I’ll Haunt Ya) Beischman conducts a questionnaire.
Joseph Petritz, Director of Publicity, Marries
The marriage'of Joseph Petritz and Miss Marguerite Daele took place in Sacred Heart Church Feb. 10. The Bev. Charles McAllister, C.S.C., performed the ceremony.
Mr. Petritz, a graduate of ’32, is publicity director of the University and has been active in the publicity department since his undergraduate days. Mrs. Petritz, a resident of Notre Dame, Ind., was formerly employed in the Athletic office.
Bill has a wide circle of friends; for he’s the likeable type having the knack of attracting friends and hold- v ing them. Perhaps this is because of his generosity, his good sportsmanship, or his willingness to get into things. But what we’re trying to say, is that Bill Motsett is one swell guy, a lad worth knowing.
■ The Scholastic
Eight
Chemist Club Names Toussaint President
At its regular meeting, Wednesday evening, February 7, the Chemist’s club elected officers for the coming semester. Norbert Toussaint, junior in Chemical Engineering was elected president, Frank Joyce, sophomore in Chemical Engineering, vice-president; and Joseph John, junior in Chemical Engineering, secretarytreasurer. George Foss, junior in Chemical Engineering, was elected member-at-large; Mr. Sowa of the Chemistry Faculty was unanimously elected honorary president.
After the business meeting, Bruce Graham, senior, gave a paper on “Transportation of Gasoline by Pipe Lines.” Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Department of Chemistry, concluded the program with a demonstration in Electrometric Titration.
St. Vincent De Paul Society Holds Meeting This Week
In the basement of Walsh Hall Tuesday evening, the St. Vincent De-i	Paul Society assembled for its weekly
,	meeting.
After talking over their encounters on field work accompanied by Father George O’Connor, C.S.C., some of the !	members were assigned regular cases
t	which they will work on individually.
I —Every week they will visit the same L "'..family, encouraging them in what J	ever respect they are needy. All the
l	workers of the club will soon be as- -
(	signed to these particular cases which
i	they alone will handle.
I	For the purpose of purchasing
j	childrens’ shoes, $10 was given to
[	Father O’Connor, C.S.C. This amount
[	was subtracted from the receipts of
'	the Linnet show. Only because the
I	material needed for the indigent was
not available on the campus was this money spent.
>	Mr. Arthur Gregory, a junior in
|	Arts and Letters, was appointed sec-
|	retary, taking the position formerly
|	occupied by Gerard Mergardt who left
I	school at the semester.
j	The collection of discarded clothes
I	and magazines will continue as in the
past. Many of the magazines, being too old for distribution, are sold to
(	junk dealers. The proceeds from this
sale, being rather small, aid in swelling the Social Workers reserve fund.
Prof. Hoyer to Speak
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department, will address a father and son banquet under the auspices of the Men’s Club of the Church of the Little Flower, Indianapolis, on Washington’s birthday. Mr. Hoyer will take as his topic: “Playing the Game Together.”
February 23, 1 9 3 i
Voice of the Campus
A NEW DEAL
Dear Editor:
We asked Roosevelt for a New Deal and he gave what we asked. He has an NRA, a PWA, a CCC for this purpose and he uses them.
I think that I am voicing the “voice of the campus” when I ask for a New Deal in regard to the Saturday night shows in Washington Hall. I’m asking this of Notre Dame and all she has to offer in the way of power to give it. I am presently conscious that Notre Dame has an S.A.C. To quote the official Bulletin of the University, “The purpose of this organization (the S.A.C.) is to exercise a supervisory control over all student organizations and activities.”
Of course I’m referring to the “catcall” element during the show. “Little Women” was a picture chock full of that healthy kind of sentiment which is woven through all our own inner lives; even the most hard shelled of us. But “Little Women” just couldn’t take it. Some detached patrons had to make fun of it. . . out loud.
I suggested the “Cradle Song” to Father Maloney. I Wonder! Will it survive the ordeal? .... Well, I’m telling you it will if proper persons step in and turn off the show once or twice and close up house there and then. A couple of these “shut-downs” and we who go over to enjoy a picture will make it quite plain to the intruders that they are all out of order. I’m banking that there are a good 2,000 men on my side. Sufficient, I should think to impress “the high school kid” and make him deliver the proper article.
V. A. M.
Movie Schedule
The movie schedule as announced by the Rev. William Molony, C.S.C., is as follow:
Feb. 24—“Kennel Murder Case,” with William Powell.
March 10—“Bureau of Missing Persons,” with Pat O’Brien.
March 17—“I Loved A Woman,” with Edward G. Robinson.
March 24—“One Man’s Journey,” with Lionel Barrymore.
si "V.VA ~7 V ?■- "	•
Engineers’ Meet Tonight
The Engineers Club of Notre Dame will hold a meeting in the Auditorium of the Engineering Building tonight, at 8:00 p. m. Mr. W. S. Moore, city engineer, will talk to the Club on “Changes in Conditions in .Engineering.”
Refreshments will be served. All members are requested to bring their membership cards.
‘Scrip’ Pays Tribute To Late Mr. Phillips
By William Kennedy
The second number of Scrip, the Charles Phillips Memorial issue, published last week, is dedicated to Prof-fessor Phillips, and contains several fine tributes to his memory, given by his associates and acquaintances on and off the campus. These testimonials are liberally interspersed with selections from the poetry of the late professor.
Among the noted contributors are Margaret Anglin, Laetare Medalist; Sigismund Stojowski, to whom Prof. Phillips’ recent biography of Paderewski is dedicated; Margaret Ayer Barnes, novelist; Maurice T. Andrews writer and teacher; James Louis Small, editor; Brother Leo, Dean of St. Mary’s College, Oakland, and others.
Margaret Anglin’s contribution is reminiscent, in keeping with the spirit of the issue. Miss Anglin- describes her first meeting with Phillips, and its subsequent effect upon her life.
There is a letter from Margaret Ayer Barnes, prominent novelist and Pulitzer Prize winner, of whose Within This Present Professor Phillips said: “It makes a better Catholic of me!”
Sigismund Stojowski says: “Be it said to Phillips’ everlasting glory that his intellect radiated both light and warmth.” This is the tribute he pays to a man whom he had seen for less than two days.
Editor Paul F. McManus, has written the students’ viewpoint of Charles Phillips the Professor, in his “A New Dawn’s Vision—Notre Dame, ’23-’34.”
Maurice T. Andrews provides a vivid account of war days as an associate of Phillips in the Red Cross Service in Poland.
James Louis Small pays tribute to his friend and Knights of Columbus ally in Paris. Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., reviews his life. Professor Stephen Ronay tells of his European trip with his co-worker at the University. Brother Leo narrates his experiences with Phillips when the latter was editor of The Monitor in San Francisco. G. Albert Lawton records the literary life of the man, and numerous other testimonials are given.
In addition to the poetry of Charles Phillips, there are included two other poems. “Hushed,” written by Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., is a reprint from the Ave Maria. “Transmutation,” a poem by. Norbert Engels, professor in the English Department, is a significant vale to a fellowworker.
Serving as a frontispiece is a portrait drawing of Professor Phillips done by William Dusch, student in the Art Department.
Ni n e
Sermon List Given For Second Semester
The sermon list and directory of student masses for the second semester has been announced by the Prefect of Religion. The entire series follows the theme of the soul — its end and activities. The list is as follows:
Feb. 25, subject, “Immortal Life”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. McAvoy; 7:00-:00, Fr. L. Heiser; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Haggerty. March 4, “Supernatural Life”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. L. R. Ward; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Stack; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Wenninger. March 11, “The Soul’s Death”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. L. L. Ward; 7:00-9:00, Fr. T. Burke; celebrant, 9:00, Th*. Muckenthaler.
March 18, Passion Sunday, no sermon; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. T. Kelly. March 25, Palm Sunday, no sermon; celebrant, 9:00, to be appointed. April 1, Easter Sunday, no sermon; celebrant, 9:00, to be appointed. April 8, “The Soul’s Resurrection”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. Johnson; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Carey; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. C. McAllister.
April 15, “The Soul’s Distemper”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. Norris; 7:00-9:00, Fr. J. Burke; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Molony. April 22, “Remedies for the Soul’s His”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. Brannigan; 7:00-900, Fr. J. Ryan; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. McAvoy. April 29, “Christ, Head of the Church”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. T. Kelly; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Cunningham; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Fogarty.
May 6, “The Church, the Infallible Teacher”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. DeGrace; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Bolger; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Norris. May 10, Ascension Day, no sermon; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. O’Hara, Fr. Connerton, deacon, Fr. McNamara, sub-deacon. May 13, “The Church, the Legislator”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. J. Fogarty; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Murray; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Moore.
May 20, “The Blessed Sacrament”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. J. McDonald; 7:00-9:00, Fr. J. Heiser; celebrant, 9:00, Fr. Carey. May 27, “Frequent Communion”; preacher, 6:00-8:00, Fr. Muckenthaler; 7:00-9:00, Fr. Carroll; celebrant, 9:00 Fr. Murray.
Masses on March 11, April 15, and May 20 are Masses of exposition. The sermons at the 9:00 o’clock Mass are limited to fifteen minutes; at the earlier Masses to ten minutes. The celebrant at the 6:00 o’clock Mass will be the preacher at the 6:00 and 8:00 o’clock Masses; the celebrant at the 7:00 o’clock Mass will be the preacher at the 7:00 and 9:00 o’clock Masses.
Holman And Hochreiter
Address Wranglers
Discussions led by Edwin Holman, senior, and Franklyn Hochreiter, junior, have taken up the time of the Wranglers at their Tuesday night meetings during the past two weeks. Last Tuesday Holman presented as his topic, “Hobbies,” discussing the thesis that “leisure time should be employed in something creative rather than as a means of escape.”
Tuesday, February 13th, Hochreiter spoke to the club on “Sterilization.” The speaker dealt with the scientific aspects at hand and related the Catholic viewpoint on the matter.
It has been definitely decided to hold the annual banquet for the two finalist teams in the Interhall debate league Sunday evening, February 25th, at 6:30 in the Rose-Marie Tea-Room. Guests include John Hess, John Locher, John O’Connor, Cliff Brown, Tom Hines, and Gene Malloy.
“The Life of Mussolini”
Topic At Club Meet
Charles A. DiMatteo’s review of the life of Mussolini up to the time of his ascendency to power in Italy was the feature of the last meeting of the International Relations club, Thursday, February 15.
A summary of present conditions in Austria, along with a brief review of the causes of the recent shortlived civil war there, was presented by Professor William E. Farrell, of the Department of History.
Discuss Foreign Events
Nine members volunteered to give brief resumes of the current happenings in nine foreign countries at the next meeting of the club. The members and their topics are as follows: Russia, John Ruppel; Germany, Frank Linton; France, Sidney Steinberg; Austria, Ralph Huller; Poland, Harry Black; Spain, Richard Ferncase; England, John Birch; South America, John O’Connor; United States, Charles DiMatteo.
The next meeting of the club will be on Thursday, March 1.
Prof. Manion Honored
M. Harry Miller of Cleveland, Ohio, national president of the Alumni Association of Notre Dame, has announced the appointment of Clarence E. (Pat) Manion and John Murphy as chairmen of the two committees for the election of National officers.
Those appointed on the committees include Byron V. Kanaly, Frank E. Hering, John Neeson, and Hugh O’Donnell. The candidates for the national offices must be named before March 1, and the election will take place through the mail. The result will be announced at the commencement exercises in June.
Glee Club Personnel Cut To 40 Members
Following a semester of hard work and keen competition, the personnel of the University Glee Club has been reduced to 42 members. Forty men of this group, headed by Director Joseph J. Casasanta, will comprise the traveling unit when the Gleesters set out on their concert tour of the Eastern states during the Easter holidays. The intinerary of the trip will be announced at a later date.
The Glee Club will also present their first campus concert of the year in Washington Hall on Palm Sunday evening, March 25.
The personnel at present is as follows :
FIRST TENORI—Adamson. Schleuter. E. Butler, Casazza, Fromm. Feferman, Corrigan. Gervasio, Vogt, Cassidy, Carey, Bolerjack. Ffrench.
SECOND TENORI—John Ryan, Gill, Devine. Lynch, Henry, Hart, Jahr, Egan, Wenz. Stemper, O’Brien.
FIRST BASSI—Quinn, Brett, Tompkins. D. Ryan, R. Butler, Menard. Ott, Finocchiaro, Schenkel, Cahill.
SECOND BASSI—Ayres, Marohn, Scholz, Flynn. Cordaro, Kirsch, Miller, Austin.
Father Bolger Talks At Commerce Forum
The Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., of the department of economics, addressed the Commerce Forum at the regular meeting in the Commerce Building Monday evening.
In his discussion entitled “The Abolition of Class Conflict,” the speaker stated that the most important significant class struggle today is that between workers and capitalists.
Speaking on the plight of labor, he said “Wages cannot be pushed up by the government fiat indefinitely. Only by increasing the spread between cost of production and selling price can wages be increased to any marked extent. What we need now in industry is to get the men on the job and the management to zvant to cut down the cost of production.
Spanish Club Elects Rensberger President
Robert Rensberger, senior in the College of Commerce, was elected president of the Spanish Club for the coming semester at a meeting held by that group Monday evening, February 19, in Carroll Rec. Rensberger succeeded Ed Holman.
There was no change in the remaining club offices. Those who continue are: Robert Hanley, vice-president, Charles Litty, secretary, and Leo Brias, treasurer.
Ten
The Scholastc
ATHLETICS
Keoganites To Play Butler Five Saturday
Irish Trackmen Meet Illini Here Tomorrow; Nick Sees Even Battle
■ Still growling from one of the worst beatings in Butler basketball history, the tenacious Bulldogs of Coach Tony Hinkle will be out for blood tomorrow night when they meet Notre Dame, the team that gave them a crushing 37-17 trouncing earlier in the season, on their home court.
Butler was unfortunate enough to be playing the Irish when they were at the peak of their form and the Bulldogs fell the twenty-second victim of the Irish victory string that set a new Notre Dame record. But Pittsburgh, a victim of the Butler attack, proved that the Irish were capable of being beaten in the very next contest. In fact, the Panthers went so far as to prove that it was possible to down this Irish team not once but even twice.
Hinkle Sees Pitt Game
Since this blow earlier in the season, the Butler men have played steady basketball and now stand at the top of the Missouri Valley Conference. Their latest win was a 3826 victory over the Oklahoma Aggies and they feel that every thing will be set for a victory over the Irish tomorrow night.
Perhaps, on home territory they will lose some of the self-consciousness that marked their defeat by the then unconquerable Notre Dame team. Coach Tony Hinkle carefully watched the Pitt team break through the once impenetrable Irish defense and saw them stop the offensive attack of Coaoh Keogan’s men by using two men on the pivot player. Butler may use a similar strategy tomorrow and the path to victory may not be as easy as it was for- the Notre Dame team earlier in the season.
Five lettermen and three capable reserves from the outfit that split even with Notre Dame last year form the present veteran Butler quintet. But Bertie Davis, a speedy forward, has been lost to them since the first encounter. In his place, Coach Hinkle is using Roscoe Batts, a sophomore, who has shown excellent form in the past few games.
Since this rivalry began away back in the early days of the century, the Irish and Butler have played twenty-one games and Notre Dame holds a single game edge in the series. If Notre Dame plays the championship ball that it has shown in previous (Continued on Pafre 14)
Fencing----
Although still in its infancy at Notre Dame, fencing stepped to the fore last Friday night when the Irish defeated an experienced Ohio State team, 72 to 65. This was the first victory for the home team since the introduction of the sport here.
Notre Dame excelled at the foils, taking the event seven to two, with Caresio and Kehoe starring by winning all their matches. The Irish were not so fortunate in the epee but managed to hold their own with a two to two score. The sabre wielders of Ohio State were a little too experienced for the local men and succeeded in coming out on the heavy end of the score, three to one.
Real sportsmanship was displayed by the Ohio State men in keeping their engagement, even though they were forced to pay their own expenses.
The participants: N.D., 72—Grosso, Caresio, Kehoe, Ryan (c), Marter-seck, DeLandero, May.
Ohio State, 65—D’amore (c), Boye, Kaufer.	.
Battery Candidates Will Loosen Up Arms In Gym
Despite the fact that the ground is covered with a blanket of snow and the mercury is hovering around the freezing point, Notre Dame’s battery candidates have already started to train for the coming baseball season. Coach George Keogan issued an order for all prospective pitchers and catchers to report to the gym that they might loosen up the creaking joints caused by the winter layoff.
Led by Captain Larry O’Neill, a half-dozen receivers are receiving the easy, loosening up slants of Charlie “Bull” Huisking and Jim Leonard, varsity mainstays from last year, and several promising twirlers from the reserve and freshmen ranks. The men are going through easy, careful paces at this time that they may suffer no injury to their arm muscles.
This indoor practice will continue for the next few weeks until the general call for candidates is announced. At that time, the men should be ready to pitch in batting practice.
N. D. SEEKS 3RD WIN
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Notre Dame track partisans will be treated to a cat and dog fight tomorrow afternoon when Illinois appears here in the nineteenth renewal of the extensive series between the Irish and the Illini.
The local spikemen will be gunning for their third victory over the visitors; the Illini having been victorious on 16 previous occasions. The first Notre Dame victory over the state team occurred in 1930 and the second in 1932. Last year the Nickmen succumbed, 5512 to 39%.
Seeley Outstanding Performer
Reports from the state team are rather gloomy on account of ineligibilities and poor early season performances. Sixteen men were effected by the recent mid term examinations. Nick figures the Illini to be 12 points better than his men, but the fact that the local runners will be performing on their own track should practically wipe out that advantage.
The Illini, fresh from an overwhelming victory over Butler, are exceedingly strong in the field events. Dave Cook, co-captain with Chin . Hamm who will not compete because of basketball, is a consistent shot putter. His best heave this year has been 44 feet. He has not reached his best form, however, due to the recurrence of a football injury.
Irv Seeley is probably the outstanding performer on the squad. After qualifying in the Olympics as a Freshman he suffered a hand injury last year; but not until he had vaulted 13 feet, six inches against Notre Dame. He has not competed in this event during the past two weeks because the hand has been troubling him. It is probable, however, that he will be seen in action here tomorrow.
Fagan Not To Run
In the broad jump Illinois depends upon an excellent leaper, Adams, while in the high jump John Boroff is their best bet but capable of little more than five feet, ten inches.
On the track the invaders will be far from weak. In the 60 Crain Portman is the bright light. He is capable
(Continued on Page 12)
F e br u a ry 2 3, 19 3 4
Eleven
I
Sophomores Feature Play as Irish Cagers Again Bow to Cagers Whip Michigan State 28-19 Pitt Q,1!ltet’ 2117
KEOGANITES PLAY FAST
By Cy Stroker
Notre Dame, playing in much better form than during the close contest at Lansing several weeks ago, won an easy victory over the Michigan State basketball five Wednesday night on the Notre Dame floor. A bewildering passing attack gave the Irish a 29-19 score and held the Spartans to two field goals.
Keogan’s men, playing a faster game than the Spartans evidently expected, broke through the Michigan State defense again and again for numerous tallies, while an impenetrable man to man defense kept Van Alstyne’s men well out of Notre Dame territory.
The game started with O’Kane scoring two beautiful shots from side court. Crowe and Ford soon followed with two .baskets apiece. A series of personals on the part of the Irish brought the Spartan score up to six points. Hard and rough floor playing followed for some time with neither team scoring. Vanderoest, after several vain attempts, dribbled into Irish territory to sink a short field goal. Krause soon retaliated with two bucket plays which ended the half, Notre Dame leading by 178.
Within a few minutes of play after the second half started, Crowe found the opposing basket for two more points. Peters, who replaced Krause, was successful in breaking up any Michigan saillies that came his way, and O’Kane following his man around the court frequently retrieved the ball for Notre. Van Fassen, the rangy Spartan forward, sank a long shot from mid-floor, but Peters came back with two for the Irish.
The last minute of play found an entire sophomore team on the floor out-playing a tiring Michigan squad. Although Van Alstyne’s men checked the Irish offense, Newbold tallied another basket at the close of the game. The final score showed Notre Dame well in the lead with 28-19.
The line-up and summary:
Notre Dame (2S)	FG	FT FTA PF	Pts.
Peters, c 		.... 2	113	5
Krause, c 		.... 2	0	3	2	4
Crowe, rg 		o	0	2	2	6
Ireland, 1g 		._ 0	0	0	2	0
O’Kane, If		.... 2	13	2	0
Ford, rf 			0	2	3	6
Newbold, 1g 		.... 1	0	0	2	2
Allen, rg 		.„ 0	0	0	0	0
Mettler, rf 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Hopkins, If			.... 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 	A		-.13	2	11	16	28
ILLINOIS MEET
(Continued from Page 11)
of covering the short distance in :06.3. Marsh Miller, holder of the Illinois outdoor record in the quarter mile, will be a real threat. He is the former national scholastic champion at this distance. He hold the stadium track record at Urbana, covering the 440 yards in :48.8. This feat he accomplished as a member of the Main Township High School track squad of Des Plaines, Illinois.
Other outstanding Illini men include Joe Schoeninger and Jimmie Pierce, hurdlers; Red Baughman, half miler; Bill Knight, miler; and Jacques Dufresne, two miler.
This year Illinois appears under a new coach, Don C. Staten, an Illinois graduate and former track coach at Senn High School in Chicago. He is in charge during the one year leave of absence of the famous Harry Gill.
The Irish runners are in condition to face the invaders tomorrow with the exception of Jimmie Fagan who is still nursing a pulled tendon which will keep him on the sidelines for some time. Tomorrow’s affair will probably mark the first appearance of Eddie King, veteran Irish middle distance star, who has been rounding into shape very slowly.
Skating Club Will Hold Ice Meet Tomorrow
A large attendance is expected at the ice-skating meet to be held tomorrow afternoon at 2 o’clock on St. Mary’s lake. The meet, sponsored by the Notre Dame skating club, will feature a speed skating exhibition by Eddie Murphy and O’Neill Farrell.
The meet will also include several races by Notre Dame men, and prizes will be awarded to those who place in each event. The races are: 220 open; 440 novice; 880 novice; and one mile open. A one mile relay race for interhall teams will also be featured.	-
If the weather is unfavorable the meet will be postponed until Sunday afternoon at the same time.
Mich. State (18)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Van Fassen, If 			 1	4	6	2	6
Patchett, rf 			 0	1	1	0	1
Buysse, c 			 0	1	3	4	1
Herrick, 1g 			 0	3	4	2	3
Rouse, rg 			 0	3	4	1	3
Vanderoest, rf 				 1	1'	2	1	3
Reck, rg 				 0	0	0	0	0
Decker, c 				 0	2	2	0	2
Totals ______________ 2	15	22	10	19
Referee: Lane; Umpire: Travenseck.
- By John D. Carbine
The Pittsburgh Panthers, Notre Dame’s pet athletic nemesis, once again turned the tables on the Irish when they defeated the Notre Dame cagers, 21-17 in the local field house last Saturday night. By gaining their second victory of the year over Notre Dame, Pittsburgh shattered any claim which the Irish might have been able to forward for the national basketball title.
Saturday night’s game offered little as far as good basketball was concerned. The players of both teams were nervous, tense and, as the inevitable result, rough. Notre Dame, too anxious to avenge a previous defeat by Pittsburgh, nervously bobbled easy passes, heaved simple shots over the backboard, passed to the wrong men and made wretched mechanical errors. Pittsburgh, with not so much at stake, played better, cooler, headier basketball and for that reason won the ball game. Play was exceedingly rough throughout and at one stage the game got entirely out of the hands of the incompetent officials who were forced to call time out in self-defense.
Cribbs Stops Krause
Crafty Doc Carlson, the Panthers’ veteran coach, used two stratagems to stop the Irish attack. The score shows how well he succeeded. The Keoganites made but five field goals. Carlson had two men guarding Moose Krause and had Claire Cribbs, his giant center, constantly under the Irish basket to prevent Moose from capturing rebounds and flipping them in for points. Cribbs, playing the finest type of a defensive game, held Krause to a solitary field goal. Other centers in attempting to stop Krause have soon fouled their way out of the game. Cribbs did not foul Moose once. His method was not to stop the Irish center from shooting but to prevent him from getting his hands upon the ball. With Krause bottled up, Pittsburgh adopted a semi manto-man defense which completely stopped the Keoganites set offense. In vain did the Irish attempt a fast breaking attack but the panicky dribbling drives of Crowe, Voegele, and Peters were easily broken up by clever Pitt forwards.
The Keoganites stopped Pitts-sburgh’s set offense easily enough but they were unable to cope with the Panthers’ long passing, quick shooting type of play which accounted for most of their points.
Pittsburgh jumped into a lead which the Irish never overcame at the very start of the game on two
(Continued on Page 14)
Twelve
The Scholastc
Voegele Leads Irish To Win Over Temple
The Notre Dame basketeers, sweeping a Temple University team off its feet in the second half of a fast game, ran up a 42-33 score against the Owls on the Philadelphia court, Feb. 12. Temple’s rapid-fire passing and quick aim helped them to score a 20-17 advantage against the Irish in the first half. The point making combination of Krause-Peters-Voegele in the last period, however, left the Philadelphia men helpless to the Irish onslaught that turned defeat into victory.
The Temple five, which was defeated by C.C.N.Y. by only four points, rushed into action at the first whistle with Rosan the center dropping in baskets at frequent intervals. The Owls’ long passes and expert dribbling put Notre Dame on the defense and it was only the marksmanship of Crowe and Krause that enabled the Irish to score 17 points in the first half.
The tables were completely turned in the second period. Krause either sank the ball or passed it to Voegele to score. The combination soon left the puzzled Temple men far behind. The Irish defense, clicking perfectly, held the Philadelphia team to 13 points. Messikomer, Temple’s high scorer, was unable to find the basket for a single field goal. The game ended with Notre Dame on the long end of a 42-33 score.
Voegele and Peters were high scorers for the Keoganites while Rosan
with six baskets to his credit led the Temple pointmaking. The lineup:					
Notre Dame (42)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele. rf 			 1	4	7	2	12
Jordan, If 			 0	0	2	2	0
Krause, c (C) 		..... 4	1	2	3	9
Ireland, rg 			 1	2	2	1	4
Crowe, 1g			 3	1	2	4	7
Ford, rf 		..... 0	0	0	1	0
O’Kane, If			 0	0	0	1	0
Peters, c 		..... 5	0	0		10
Newbold, 1g 			 0	0	0	0	0
	——-	—	—	——	
Totals 				17	8	15	17	42
Temple (33)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Brown, rf 			 1	1	1	1	3
Fox, If 			 0	3	5	4	3
Rosan, c 			 6	4	6	4	16
Freiberg, rg 			 3	2	2	3	S
Messikomer, 1g 			..... 0	3	4	3	3
Casper, rf 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Wise, c 			 0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 			10	13	18	15	33
N. D. Lawyer Sworn In
Luther M. Swygert,.of Hammond, Ind., a graduate of the Notre Dame Law School in 1927, has been sworn in by Federal Judge Thomas W. Slick as. an assistant U. S. district attorney. He will be stationed in the South Bend division under Francis K. Bowser, first assistant, for the time being.
Irish Trackmen Win Eight Events In 57-38 Victory Over Marquette
Interhall
By Nick Connor
During the past interhall football season it was once said that St. Edward’s athletic teams had fizzled out, but if one were to notice the standings of the present basketball league, they would become aware that St. Edward’s led both the junior and senior leagues in Group I.
In Group II of the heavyweight division there is a two way tie for first honors between the Off-Campus and Walsh netmen. In the lightweight division of the same group there is another tie for the first place between teams from Howard and Carroll.
In Group I on Sunday, Feb. 11, Tom Dunn and Joe Nigro led the Morrissey heavies to a 15 to 11 victory over the first year men from Dillon. Lynch of the Frosh hall was the high scorer of the game with seven points. St. Edward’s won a rather easy game from Sorin, thanks to Matt Themes and his 11 points. The two bright lights for the senior hall were Paskwitch and LaBome. The sophs from Lyons found little opposition from Corby as they rolled them back 19 to 8.
The freshmen staged a thriller, but once again old tradition won out as Brownson captured a 30 to 22 decision from Freshman hall, after the teams had been deadlocked at the half way mark 12 to 12. Joyce and Burnett of Brownson were the high scorer with ten points apiece. The frosh won another game this time Carroll turned the tables on Alumni and won 33 to 29. Howard forfeited to Off-Campus to complete days’ play for the heavyweight.
Hilly Wertz and Sherb Herrick each with five points led Morrissey lights to a 12 to 11 win over Dillon after the freshmen had held a 7 to 6 advantage at the half. Sorin won another 12 to 11 game this time it was from St. Ed’s. The sophomores had the upper hand at the half 7 to 2, but Paul Kane found the range of the basket in the second half and garnered eight points. Although Lyons led Corby 12 to 5 at the half they were barely able to eke out a 16 to 15 victory. Carroll captured eight points for the seniors in the last quarter.
Vicars and Freshman hall found little trouble in disposing with Brownson 28 to 15. Vicars earned 12 points for himself and his team during his (Continued on Page 21)
ELSER BREAKS RECORD
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Notre Dame turned on the power on February 10 to win its first track meet of the season at the expense of Marquette, 57 to 38. The Irish captured seven firsts and the mile relay in accomplishing their decisive victory.
Two sophomores provided the high spots of the meet. Don Elser of the fidgety feet established a new Notre Dame Indoor Track Record when he heaved the shot 46 feet, two inches, to better the old mark of 46 feet established by Chile Walsh here in 1929 in the C.I.C. meet of that year. Mike Layden won high scoring honors for the afternoon with ten points, a first in the high and low hurdles.
With Elser leading the way, Joe Sullivan and Charlie Finkel did a bit of fancy shot putting to win second and third places respectively and score the only slam of the day.
Edwards Equals Own Record
Ralph Metcalfe did the expected when he captured the 60 yard dash. The Jesuit speedster breezed across the finish line in his trial heat far in front, but in the finals his.teammate, Paul Phillips, forced him to the limit to win at :06.3. O’Neil and Beckett scored the only other firsts for the Hilltoppers. Young and Moran finished two, three to O’Neil in the mile and Roberts and Shields wound up in that order behind Beckett in the half mile run.
Jack Edwards equaled his own rec-ord of 12 feet, six inches to garner a first place in the pole vault with Roark and Legrand tying for second at 12 feet.
The high jump was easy for Vince Murphy but not for the other contestants as can be attested by the fact that “Murph” won the event at approximately five feet, 11 inches.
Leo McFarlane, cross-country sensation, turned in a remarkable early season performance to defeat Bill Geissman in the two mile jaunt. Instead of wearing his opponent down, as instructed, Leo went on to win after relinquishing the lead which he held from the opening stride until the thirteenth lap.
The one mile relay quartet composed of McGrath, Bowdren, Bernard, and Rubly, kept intact a ten yard lead handed to them by the lead-off man, McGrath, and won handily in 2:32.5.
The summary:
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards (ND) : (Continued on Page 15)
February 2 3, 1 9 3 J
Thirteen
Peters Paces Cagers As St. Xavier Falls
George Keogan’s Irish netmen defeated Xavier University 25-15 in a gaem played at Cincinnati on February 10. Xavier’s Musketeers, coached by Clem Crowe, led 10-6 at half time, but the Keoganites, paced by Marty Peters who collected ten points, came back in the final session to snatch away the verdict.
At the beginning of the second half, Coach Keogan sent Peters into the game for Jordan. Peters’ five points in his first two minutes of play tied the score at 11-all. Here the Keoganites began to click properly and during the' remainder of the game, they collected 14 points while holding the Musketeers to four.
Weithe, Xavier forward, was the individual star of the game. His guarding held Krause to two field goals and his seven points constituted almost half of Xavier’s total. Peters stood out for the Irish. The defeat was the first of the year for Clem Crowe’s team.
Lineup and summary:					
Notre Dame (25)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele, f 				 1	2	3	o	4
Ford, f 			 0	0	0	o	0
Krause c (C) 		2	1	2	o	
O’Kane, g —			 0	0	0	1	0
Crowe, g 						 0	2	4		2
Jordan, f				1	0	1	0	2
Peters, f 			 4	2	4	0	10
Hopkins, f 			 0	0	0	0	0
Ireland, g	z			 1	0	2	0	2
Allen, g 			 0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 				 9	7	16	11	25
St. Xavier (15)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Weithe, f 			2		5	4	7
McCreary, f 			 0	0	1	1	0
Jordan, c					1	1		0	3
Sweeney, g				 0	0	1	4	0
McKenna, g 			 0	0	1	0	0
Sack, f		— 1	0	0	2	2
Pennington, g 			1	1	2	1	o
	—-	—	—	—	—•
Totals 			 5	5	12	13	15
Referee—Bacon	(Wabash) :		umpire—Miller.		
(Wabash).
BOXING SHOW (Continued from Page 5)
time until the tournament elimination bouts start. Candidates should report every day to the boxing room of the gymnasium, under the basketball stands, where gloves and punching bags will be provided for their usage.
All prospective candidates will please bring their entries to 115 Sorin Hall between now and Sunday night and have an outfit with which to begin training on Monday. Remember, this competition is open to all students regardless of class, and ’ previous boxing experience is not a necessary factor as candidates can obtain plenty of instruction from the more experienced boxers, who are only too glad to lend any such aid.
Introducing.,.
By John D. Carbine
Jim Newbold is a member of the Newbold family of Rushville, Indiana which combines with the Lafayette, Indiana Crowes in sending their able bodied sons to Notre Dame to
Jim Newbold
He, too, sells peanuts.
play basketball and sell peanuts. Jim and Leo, the present representatives of these two families, room together in Sorin sub, have played basketball together on Doctor George Keogan’s Irish hoopsters for three years and struggled side by side to give Saint Edward’s hall an interhall football championship in 1931.
Jim’s biggest court moment came in the second Butler game last year. Tony Hinkle’s Bulldogs had won their first tussle with the Irish in a hard fought contest. The second game was even harder fought. Ed Krause’s basket from a prostrate position had tied up the score at the end of the regulatory 40 minutes and had sent the game into an overtime period. Butler gained an advantage at the very outset of the overtime, and with but ten seconds to play held a one point lead. It was here that Newbold came through with a basket to shove the Irish out in front and give the Keoganites a 41 to 40 verdict over Tony Hinkle’s men.
Jim came to Notre Dame in 1930 and lost but little time in winning his freshman numerals on the frosh hoop squad. Next fall he reported for varsity basketball and became a member of the Irish court squad. Last year Jim served as a valuable reserve guard on George Keogan’s cagers. This is Newbold’s final year of competition. The Ohio State game next Saturday night will be his final appearance on the Notre Dame court.
Newbold prepped at Rushville High School of Rushville, Indiana where he played three years of basketball, football, and track.
PITT GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
baskets by Cribbs. Through the efforts of Joe Voegele and Johnny Jordan, who scored five points before he was removed from the game, the Keoganites finally drew up to an eight-all tie. Baskets by Ochenshirt and McCamant gave the Panthers a 12-8 lead at the half.
Notre Dame tried desperately to come back in the second half and succeeded in cutting down Pittsburgh’s six point lead to a two point advantage with but six minutes of play remaining. The Panthers, however, went into a beautiful passing stall which the Irish defense was unable to break up. The Keoganites finally gained possession of the ball when Waino double dribbled only to have Voegele miss an easy step shot-after the best Irish passwork of the game. Two free throws by Bill Hughes ended the scoring.
A crowd of 6,000 jammed the Irish field house. At least a thousand more fans were refused admittance because of insufficient room. The defeat was the second defeat in thirty games and the first home defeat in seventeen starts for the Keoganites.
The score:
Pittsburgh (21) Roderick, f 		FG .. 1	FT FTA PF			Pts. 2
		0	0	1	
McCamant, 		.. 1	2	4	3	4
Cribbs, c 		2	2	3	4	6
W. Hughes g 		.. 1	5	6	0	7
Wainio, g 		.. 0	0	1	1	0
Ochsenhirt, g 		.. 1	0	1 1	1	2
	—	—	—	—	—-
Totals 			.... 6	9	15	10	21
Notre Dame (17)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Jordan, f 		2	1	2	2	5
Peters, f		.. 0	1	1	2	1
Voegele, f 		2	4	8	1	8
Ford, f				. 0	0	0	1	0
O’Kane, f 		. 0	0	0	0	0
Krause, c		. 1	0	0	0	2
Crowe, g 		. 0	0	1	2	0
Ireland, g 			0	0	2	0
Allen, g 				. 0	1	1	2	1
	—	——	—	—	—
Totals 			7	13	12	17
Officials: Referee,	Reese	(Dennison) :			um-
pire, Kobs (Michigan	State).				
BUTLER GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
games this season, they should emerge with a victory. But Butler will no longer be awed by an impressive winning streak and the score should be far lower than in that previous contest.
With their home crowd, a big floor that they know, and a renewed confidence, this game should be a mighty close one. The Butler tradition seems to be an even split with the Irish during a season, and they will be out to even up the score and appease the wound of that previous loss on the Butler escutcheon that rates among others the National Champions of the 1928-29 season.
Fourteen
'The Scholas tc
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
HANDBALL
Now that the winter handball season is at its height, all of the regular abuses connected' with the business of accommodating several hundred players on two courts are again in evidence. ’
With players constantly in waiting for turns on the courts, some rule should be enacted as to the length of time any group may remain in possession of a court. “Scrapiron” Young took a big step in the right direction earlier this year when he had the players sign up for turns to play, thus insuring regular order, eliminating chiseling of turns by players who refused to stay in line.
There was, however, in the system, one weakness that was soon brought out by individuals who refused to cooperate. Each group was permitted to play three games before they had to surrender the court to the next in line. With the matter of scoring left strictly to the players, three games could be made to last for the better part of an afternoon, and frequently they were.
The only solution, apparently, is to assign a definite period of time to each group as it signs up. That system has been used with success on public tennis courts in many localities and should apply equally well here. Probably an hour would be the fairest amount of time to allot to each group, but the matter of amount I gladly leave up to someone better versed in the speed and time requirements of handball than I. Such a system as the one suggested would assume a regular order of succession and would eliminate the danger of having three games last for two hours and a half.
In this connection it might also be noted that possession of a monogram or membership in the faculty in no way implies a license to assume preference on the courts, or to' stay longer than the accepted rules permit.
•
PITT GAME NOTES
From 6:10 till 9:20 on a bleacher seat . . . oooh . . . Elmer Layden and Jack Chevigny singing together on the pre-game "Victory March” . . . wonder if they’ll have that much harmony next October when the Irish grid team meets Texas . . . Justice: the applause outweighed the booing when Cribbs, Pitt’s great center, left the game . . • the most un-Notre Dame act of the year—the throwing of ice cream bars onto the floor . . . and they came from the student section . . . the difference between Wil
lie Hughes’ reaction and that of Ed Mullen, of Marquette, to the same situation.
Things we could do without: attempts to dribble straight through an opponent . . . incompetency and inconsistency in officials . . . fumbling of passes . . . such extreme radicalism as was shown by Saturday’s crowd ... all booing of opposing players . . . especially when they’re smooth anl clever and smart . . . the selfappointed clowns in the crowd . . . the fellows two or three rows behind the press table who shouted “MOOSE!” at some pal for half an hour before the game . . . the band’s mile-a-minute pace on. the Hike Song and the Victory March . . . the people who have seized on each of Notre Dame’s last three defeats (in 31 starts) as a basis for “Eastern basketball is better ...”
MARQUETTE MEET
(Continued from Page 13)
Roark and Legrand (M), tied for second. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (ND) ; Sullivan (ND), second; Finkel (ND), third. Distance, 46 feet, 2 inches. (New Notre Dame Indoor record.)
60 YARD DASH—Won by Metcalfe (M) : Phillips (M), second; Gioe (ND). third. Time, :6.3.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by O’Neil (M) : Young (ND), second; Moran (ND), third. Time, 4:39.
60 YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Layden (ND) ; Link (ND), second; C. Trost (M), third. Time, :07.7.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Bernard (ND) : Jessel (M), second; Rubly (ND), third. Time, :51.5.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) : Mierzwa (M), second: Lindgren (M), third. Height, 5 feet, 11% inches.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by McFarlane (ND) ; Geissman (M), second ; O’Neil (M). third. Time, 9:51.
8S0 YARD RUN—Won by Beckett (M) ; Roberts (ND), second; Shields (ND) . third. Time, 2:02.
65 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Layden (ND) ; Bellinghausen (M), second; C. Trost (M), third. Time. :07.4.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (McGrath, Bowdren, Bernard. Rubly). Time, 2:32.5.
C.C.N.Y. Plans Abandoned
Plans for the post season game between Notre Dame and City College of New York, tentatively scheduled for March 20 in Madison Square Garden, have been abandoned.
The reason advanced by Professor Williamson, athletic director of City College, was that City College did not want to keep its athletes in training for three weeks for only one game. City College finishes its season on March 3 when it clashes with New York University.
There is a possibility that the Irish will play New York University, unbeaten up to now, if the Violets defeat City College.
Father Sigmar Announces Change in Diving Hours
Reverend Julian P.-Sigmar wishes to call the attention of students interested in diving to a change in the practice hours. Instruction classes are to be held every Monday evening at 7:30, and Thursday, afternoons at 3:30, in the South Bend Natatorium. Those who are willing to attend regularly should report at once to Father Sigmar, Room. 210 Main Building, or to Edward J. Butler, Sorin Hall.
Softens the beard at its very base!
Lavender
Shaving Cream
& 21c
This smooth, quick - lathering shaving cream is scientifically blended to soften the beard thoroughly and rapidly. And its high percentage of fine vegetable oils leaves your face smooth and soft . . . protected against wintry winds. Get some today I
Micromatic
Gem Razor t 49c
The new Gem Michromatic Razor and 5 double edge blades.
•	I
Walgreen
DRUG STORE
208 N. MICHIGAN ST. ! L. Newman, Mgr.
February 2 3, 19 34
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
The fascination of those kleig lights seems to have taken toll of two more good football players. GIL BERRY has been taking tests at M. G. M. This is the studio that plans to film HARRY STUHLDRE-HER’S football story, “The Gravy Game,” with the high hopes of using COTTON WARBURTON in a main role . . . CHARLEY BERRY, the Philadelphia A’s catcher, was an all-American end from Lafayette, on Walter Camp’s last all-American team ... On their recent barnstorming tour BILL TILDEN and ELLSWORTH VINES collected more than $109,000 . . . JOE SAVOLDI claims that five minutes of wrestling is equivalent to sixty minutes of football . . . The boxer reputed to have the best educated “mitts” in the world is EDDIE EAGAN. He attended Denver U., Yale, Harvard, and Oxford—winning intercollegiate, national, and international amateur heavyweight titles along the way . . .
Fourteen years ago the SPITBALL was ruled • out of the big leagues----only pitchers registered as spit-ballers could use the moist delivery until the end of their big league days. Today, BURLEIGH GRIMES and RED FABER, are the only two that remain. And both are apt to wind up their careers this year . . . When GENE TUNNEY vacated his throne he left a much better record than most people suspected. He was in 68 professional fights; won 35 of that number by knockouts, 17 by decision, 14 no decisions, one no contest, and lost but one decision ... A new menace to the country’s top notch speedsters came to the front during the recent SETON HALL games. He is EDDIE SEIGEL of the New York A. C-; he equalled the world indoor record of 6.2 seconds in the 60 yard dash . . . The lowest basketball score on record was recently turned in by CASSOPOLIS, MICH., high school; they won a game 3 to 0, and all of the points were made on free throws.
The UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA has 21 baseball games on its spring schedule, which will take the team into five states . . . Three U of Chicago assistant football coaches are budding young lawyers. They are MARCHY SCHWARTZ of Notre Dame, JULIAN LOPEZ of Loyola of the South, and SAM HORWITZ, exMaroon star . . . Cathedral high school of Indianapolis, winner of last year’s national Catholic interscholas
tic basketball tournament, have accepted the invitation to participate in the 1934 meet -which will be held at Loyola U., March 21-25 . . . CHARLEY HARVEY, noted fight promoter, recently gave his rating of the present crop of heavyweights. 1. Tommy Laughran, 2. Max Baer, 3. Primo Camera, 4. Steve Hamas, 5. Max Schmeling, 6. King Levinsky ... A new record was established in the SOUTHWESTERN CONFERENCE last fall when 9 kickoffs were run back for touchdowns in 22 conference games. . . .
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA has been included nine out of ten years in the list of the nation’s leading football teams compiled according to the FRANK G. DICKINSON system. Notre Dame has rated seven times . . . JACK MOYNIHAN, father of Tim Moynihan, is one of the big favorites in the Central A. A. U. HANDBALL TOURNEY that is being held in Chicago . . . PING PONG seems to have taken the country by storm. About all one needs is a little patience, a paddle, a bit of netting and a dining room table. It seems to be one of the winter’s choicest indoor sports . . . Ten former high school basketball captains reported this year on the KANSAS STATE court squad . . . TED TWOMEY, Notre Dame’s great lineman of 1930, will coach the line at KENTUCKY U. next fall . . . RUDOLPH HOKANSON, Milwaukee civic leader, heads the list of Brewer City business men who recently purchased the A. A. baseball team of that city from the estate of the late PHIL BALL, of St. Louis for more than $100,000 . . . Joe Savoldi maintains that FRANK CARIDEO and himself were once offered $500 a week for 32 weeks in vaudeville for a skit that they put on in the Monogram Show. Who knows, Joe might have been another Clark Gable had he gone on the stage instead of the ring?
Dave Powers, ’33 Speaks At J. V. Mitchell Home
Dave Powers, who graduated from Notre Dame last June, winner of the William Mitchell Award for playwriting, last week addressed a meeting of 40 ladies at the J. V. Mitchell home, Hempstead, L. I.
Mr. Mitchell writes, “They were greatly impressed with the play itself and were astonished when they met Mr. Powers because of his extreme youth and they were lavish in their praises of a University that could turn out such an excellent product.” The meeting was held for the benefit of Mercy Hospital, a Catholic Hospital located at Hempstead, L. I.
PHILOSOPHY
(Continued from Page 5)
preciating the restrictions upon personal liberty, which are the price that must be paid for the advantages of civilization. Understanding rightly neither himself nor the extent of his powers, nor the essential relations obtaining between himself and his Maker and the physical and social worlds in which he lives, nor the logical unity of thought, nor the moral unity of mankind, he will labor under the delusion of being an “Individualist,” and thus place upon himself the blue goggles of pessimism and upon his fellowmen the insufferable boredom of his ceaseless complaints. For such a man life is a continual bewilderment; to him, nothing that is right.
Being irrational himself, he will soon come to look upon the universe as irrational also. Having no insight, he will have no foresight. A sound philosophy will give him an insight into the basic unity and goodness, truth and beauty of the Universe of thought and of things and of man. Let him then join to this the illumination of Divine Faith, and he will see life rightly because he will see it -whole. The value of philosophy is based on the fact that it is at least equally as important to know how to live as to know how* to earn a living. The latter is relatively easy; the former is the fruit only of the deepest thought of which the human mind is capable.
Catholic Action Club Discusses Sterilization
Human sterilization was the discussion topic at the second meeting of the Catholic Action club in the Main Building, Friday night, February 16.
The four groups which had been given particular phases of the question of sterilization for investigation made their reports in a discussion led by the Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Economics.
The subject was considered from the ethical viewpoint, the biological angle, and the legal side. Discussion was of the open forum type rather than a formal presentation of material.
Formed with the end in view of affording the Notre Dame man an opportunity of learning the Church’s attitude on the many pressing moral, economic, and social problems of today, and of learning to present those views in logical, convincing manner, the Catholic Action club meets each Friday night at 7:45, third floor of the Main Building.
Tonight’s meeting will be held in the regular place, at 7:45.
Sixteen
The S c h ol a s t c
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
THE MARC H lAqubiL
THE BRILLIANT NEW
MAGAZINE FOR MEN
ARTICLES
MAURICE MAETERLINCK BERTRAND RUSSELL JOHN DOS PASSOS EMIL LUDWIG ROARK BRADFORD PAUL WHITEMAN
AND 79 OTHER BIG
FEATURES —40 IN COLOR
• Two months ago they were speaking of it as “that new magazine for men.” Now they’recallingit“themostciv-ilized magazine in America."
ON SALE NOW
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! Y6u may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
PRESENTATION
(Continued from Page 4)
his own convictions in attaining his end, because he knew his cause wras right. Consequently, no obstacle was too great for him, no personal labor was too difficult. He succeeded. Religion also was not lacking in his character. We know of his faith in God as we read of his kneeling in prayer at Valley Forge, asking God to alleviate the sufferings of his soldiers. He would, we think, recognize at Notre Dame a faith that would lead him to have confidence in the future of the country he loved.
We hope to do him the honor of bringing to his Nation and ours, the kind of men he himself led, men who are strong and just, who place their faith in God. It is our hope that Notre Dame may, in giving us to the nation, give the type of men she desires to. give — men who may not prove unworthy of her principles and of the two allegiances we today pledge.
Father O’Hara, we of the Senior Class ask you to accept this flag. When we leave Notre Dame we wish this flag to remain as a symbol and guarantee of our faith in our country and school. We wish it to remind men that we recognized and prized our life here as genuinely American. And finally, we offer with it a silent prayer that the future may hold the undying union between the United States and the school of Our Lady.
Journalists Hear Talk
John M. Montague, ’27, head of the automotive advertising department of the Chicago Tribune, gave a short talk to the class in Newspaper Business Management on the organization of a modem newspaper advertising department, the problems met in the advertising field, and the forms of investigation and research used today, on Friday, Feb. 9.
ANY WAY YOU FIGURE
Up-TO-THE-NECK in studies . . . or head-over-heels in prom-time! Any time is PEP time. Toasted flakes of wheat. Ready to eat. Easy to digest. Quick to release energy. Just pour on milk or cream . . . and dive in!
PEP has enough extra bran to be mildly laxative. Helps keep the body fit and regular. A swell bite at night too. Satisfying—not heavy. Won’t interfere with sound sleep.
Get PEP at the campus lunch or canteen. Always fresh in the individual packages. Made by Kellogg mra in Battle Creek.
February 2 3, 1 9 3 4
Seventeen
NO LOOSE EN
Every Lucky J the finest tob center leaves. . because those — not ripe. Tin smoke. Not th। cause those art They grow cl and are tough, sandy. The c< mildest leaves, are paid highei center leaves Luckies the ft — so round, s loose ends. 1 draw easily, remember —“ throat protectii
Direc Metropolis
Saturday atl:‘15P. I over Red and Blue Strike presents the A of New York in th hauser."
the Finest TobaccoX the Center
.	Copyright. 1934. The American Tobacco Company.	Iz
NOT the top let
The Creai “The mildest, s
NOT the botto quality—co
^DS
ACCEPTANCE ADDRESS
(Continued from Page 5)
tobacco
1 not spillout
Lucky Strike is made from inest tobacco and only the r leaves. Not the top leaves — sc those are under-developed ripe. They would give a harsh
Not the bottom leaves — bethose are inferior in quality, grow close to the ground, re tough, coarse and always . The center leaves are the st leaves, for which farmers lid higher prices. Only these r leaves are used in making les the fully packed cigarette round, so firm — free from ends. That’s why Luckies easily, burn evenly. And mber—ccIt’s toasted”—for : protection — for finer taste.
Direct from the etropolitan Opera House
y atl:‘15P. M., Eastern Standard Time, ed and Blue Networks of NBC, Lucky iresents the Metropolitan Opera Company ■ York in the complete Opera, “Tann-
the top leaves—they’re under-developed
—they are harsh!
p Cream of the Crop mildest, smoothest tobacco”
the bottom leaves—they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy!
the love of God. With you, young men of Notre Dame, the Cross and the Flag must ever go together.
It may be years before you realize all this means—for you cannot fully understand a problem until you have lived in the midst of it. But there is a problem. America, this land we love, this land of destiny, has grown in body much faster than it has grown in soul. As nations go, it is a child in years. Its sixteen decades of existence are as the sixteen years of an overgrown boy. Its sinews have bulged; its material advancement has far outdistanced anything that history records of the nations; but its philosophy has not kept pace with its material growth.
That is why there is a problem. George Washington was great, not only in holding together for seven years a ragged army of militiamen whose terms of enlistment averaged only three months, but in bringing about the surrender, of the common good, of certain rights held by thirteen sovereign states, whose bond of union was little stronger than that which holds the League of Nations together at Geneva. Washington was great at Valley Forge and at Trenton; if anything, he was greater at Philadelphia and in the capital city created to bear his name. He found the problems of peace as great as the problems of war.
And it is your patriotic duty to face the problems of peace just as fearlessly, just as unselfishly, as you will give your life, if necessary, in the defense of your country against unjust aggression. You will find, when you go out into the world, that there is unjust and insidious and unpatriotic aggression today against the family, against Christian marriage, against the chastity that strengthens the arm of good citizenship. Your Catholic training tells you that you must oppose the unpatriotic and un-Christian propaganda for race suicide with every ounce of energy God gives you. If you leave this field of battle, like a craven coward, you are not fit for the Kingdom of Heaven. Others have a right to look to. you, as graduates of a Catholic University, for leadership, and Notre Dame will ever be ashamed of you if you throw down the standard she hands you and give up the fight.
You will find, when you go out into the world, that there is a far-flung line of battle against the rights of workingmen—a battle that has gone on since factories came into existence and the modern industrial world was born. The enslavement of the negro
in the south was matched by the enslavement of the wage-earner in the north—and, indeed, in the early days of our republic, the condition of the negro on the better plantation of the south was enviable when compared with the condition of the average wage-earner in the north; for the southern negro had age-old and unemployment insurance and at least that care of health essential to the efficiency of a chattel, while the wage-earners in the north, often women and children who worked fourteen hours a day for a pittance, had none of these things supplied by their masters. Conditions for the wage-earner have shown vast improvement since those early days, but there is still lacking in our national philosophy a full grasp of the rights of laboi- as outlined in the Catholic teachings of Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius XI. You have been shown what these rights are:-it will be your duty to strengthen the arm of government in the application of the principles of social justice.
In every field of life, in education, in social relations, in the employment of leisure time, in law and in medicine, in the conduct of business, you will find confusion of mind on ethical principles which it will be your duty to dissipate so far as lies in your power. And if you do not build a sphere of influence in your own community that will enable you to enunciate and practice these Catholic principles, then you will have failed.
I accept this flag, then, in the name of the University, with a prayer to God that His grace will supply what is lacking in human nature to the full accomplishment of the patriotic pledge symbolized by this presentation. It wall be blessed on the morning of your graduation, and for twelve succeeding months it will wave to the world your challenge. Those will be trying months for most of you, for these are difficult times. But if your spirit slackens and you have a thought to yield to discouragement, I adjure you to bring to your mind’s eye a picture of your Notre Dame—of the Golden Lady on the Dome, of the spire that reaches to the sky, and of the flag, your flag, that waves your challenge to the world. Let this flag summon thoughts of Valley Forge, of Gettysburg, of Chateau Thierry and of Belleau Wood; let it remind you of the dogged persistence of Washington; let it recall that the blood of Notre Dame has been freely shed in every way in which oui- country has been engaged since this old school was founded; let this flag be your reminder that Notre Dame men never quit.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 13)
brief stay in the game. Alumni led Carroll 12 to 6 at the half, but the freshmen came back with a strong finish to drop the juniors 19 to 14. A basket by Quinn in the closing minutes of the game gave Howard a 22 to 20 win over the netmen representing Off-Campus.
In the first division of Sunday Feb. 18, play Stew Osborne and Dick Kelly were instrumental in giving the Sorin heavies their 15 to 13 victory over
"WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND”
KEPT FACTORY FRESH
CELLOPHANE
O P. Lorillird Co., Inc.
When you’re handed the raspberry before your honey . . . puff away your grouch with genial BRIGGS. Its savory prime tobaccos are tempered and seasoned for years in the wood, ’til they’re mellow and mild and minus all bite . . . The truly biteless blend ... the friend a feller needs.
Corby. Osborne and Kelly together garnered 13 of their team’s total points. In the second game of the first division St. Ed’s gave a marvelous display of offensive and defensive tactics as they turned back Morrissey 20 to 5. The sophs from the Gold Coast were lucky to get the one field goal that they did.
The freshman from Carroll were the other team that kept their opponents from scoring a single point during the second half after Walsh had led 14 to 11 at the halfway mark. Carroll kept at the top of their di
vision by winning 24 to 14. Due to Joe Bucci and Van Ettan, Howard was able to humble Freshman 14 to 11. The basketeers from Alumni kept in the running by swamping Brownson in the last game 23 to 10. Murphy and Pinella Alumni’s main factors in turning in the victory.
The complete round of play in both divisions for the heavyweight and lightweights on Sunday Feb. 25, are as follows:
Group II: 8:30, Howard vs. Alumni; 9:30, Brownson vs. Carroll; 10:30, Off-Campus vs. Walsh; Freshman, bye.
Group I: 1:30, Lyons vs. Dillon; 2:30, Morrissey vs. Corby; 3:30, Badin vs. Sorin; St. Ed’s, bye.
INTERHALL STANDINGS Heavyweights Group I.	W	L T	Pct.
St. Edwards ......... 3	0	0	1.000
Lyons ................ 2	10	.666
Badin ...................... 110	.500
Dillon ..................  110	.500
Morrissey ........... 1	2	0	.333
Sorin'............... 1	2	0	.333
Corby ............... 0	2	0	.000
Group II.	W	L T	Pct.
Off-Campus .......... 2	0	0	1.000
Walsh ...............- 1	0	0	1.000
Brownson ......-..... 2	10	.666
Carroll .............. 2	10	.666
Freshman .............  1	2	0	.333
Howard ............... 0	2	0	.000
Alumni --------------- 0	2	0	.000
Lightweights Group I.	W	L	T	Pct.
St. Edward’s ________ 2	10	.666
Lyons _______________ 2	10	.666
Badin ______________________ 110	.500
Dillon --------------------  110	.500
Corby ............... 110	.500
Morrissey  1	2	0	.333
Sorin ............... 1 2 0	.333
Group II.	W	L	T	Pct.
Howard .............. 3	0	0	1.000
Carroll  3	0	0	1.000
Off-Campus __________ 110	.500
Alumni ------------------ 110	.500
Freshman ............ 1	2	0	.333
Walsh ............... 0	2	0	.000
Brownson ------------ 0	3	0	.000
Burke’s Eye Service
Assures you properly FITTED GLASSES EYES EXAMINED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists & Manufacturing Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
.Twenty
The Scholastc
Phone-Office 4-6661 Residence 3-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend Indiana
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222^£ South Michigan Street
South Bend, Indiana
• •
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly preScribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
• PERSONAL SERVICE
A bowl of Kellogg’s Rice Krispies with milk or cream restores the energy that studies take out of you. You’ll sleep better and feel better in the morning.
So delicious and so easy to digest. No other rice cereal is like Kellogg’s Rice Krispies in flavor or nourishment. And only Rice Krispies snap and crackle in milk or cream.
Try Kellogg’s Rice Krispies tonight. A grand dish after a party or date. Ask for them at your campus restaurant or eating club at breakfast or
lunch. Extra delicious with fruits or honey added. Rice Krispies are served everywhere. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
*ice krispies
Listen!
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
gdluuifUf
vs»~fAinr oianKt9
UffiURT, NOIRE DANE, IND.

. . and there’s something too in the way tobaccos are balanced that makes a cigarette milder and makes it taste better.
I keep coming back to that statement on the back of the Chesterfield package—
©ESTERFIELD-
-(Tgarettes
ARE A BALANCED BLEND OF THE FINEST AROMATIC TURKISH TOBACCO AND . THE CHOICEST OF SEVERAL AMERICAN VARIETIES BLENDED IN THE CORRECT PROPORTION TO BRING OUT THE FINER QUALITIES OF EACH TOBACCO.
REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
We believe you’ll enjoy Chesterfields and we
ask you to try them.
Cyhcstcrficlcl
the cigarette that’s MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BETTER