
.. • T • R • 0 ~ 0 •:P • ·The DancB Clul, of NotrB Preaente Dame and St.Mary'e NO"f:R.E. • DP.ME The Troop ND Campus-llllide TALE ¦TSHOW Friday, March 18, 1994 7:30pm · at Washington Hall FEATURING: • Voices of Faith Gospel Choir • • The Campus Bands Pulse & Sabor Latino • . • The singing of Torya Tynes & Jeremy Sample • • The Comedy of Owen Smith & Men on the Dome• • The Dance Collective and of course...Troop ND with much more• • Plus Dorm Talent Competition with Celebrity Judges and Special Guest Raghib 11 Rocket11 Ismail• Tickets available at Dining Halls during lunch and dinner .,_  

J 
CONTENTS 

-NOTRE D ME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


4 The More the Merrier 5 A Silent Killer 

7 Anorexia Hits Home 8 Around the World 

.r.
.. 
:, 
0 
14 Team First 
C 
0 
u 
C 16 Boxing for the Poor 
:I 
C 
.! 
m 

' 18 Out of Bounds 19 A New Twist 20 Campus Bands · 
FROM THE EDITOR 
If you look around, you see many who you assume to be perfectly nonnal, healthy people. Yet statistics show that one person out of 10 has an eating disorder, oneof the most prevalent problems plaguing college students across the country. Unfortunately you cannotjustknow that the person next to you has an eating disorder. You need to know the signs, as well as how to react if you think someone close to you has a problem. 
When I was a freshman, there was a young woman in my donn who was obsessed with her weight Everyone wrote her complaints off as a ploy to get attention. But with each passing month, her condition became worse, even though no one really realized it at the time. But, as the saying goes, hindsight is always 20/20, and I realize now that my friend's constant preoccupation with calories, fat content and her weight was not an attempt to get attention; she really was sick, and she needed help. 
Junior year, she only got worse, especially because people were starting to notice how much weight she was losing, how much she was exercising and how little she was eating. While she tried to deny that she had a problem, often over her meager meals of a small salad and maybe some potatoes or a roll, those close to her became increasingly aware of and frightened by a situation that was seemingly out of everyone's control. 
To this day, I don't know what sparked my friend into action. But I am thankful that she finally admitted she had a problem and needed help -and got it She's not cured; she never will be. But she is getting better. She eats a little more sensibly and isn't as obsessive, at least outwardly, about the calories and fat content of what she does eat. One of my happier memories from this year was when I heard her tell her roommate that for the first time in years, she didn't look in the mirror an perceive herself as fat. 
But my friend, like anyone else, has her ups and downs. Just this week she asked me if I thought she had gained weight, signifying a definite low point in her struggle to overcome this disease, something that even she now recognizes. It's been a difficult couple of years for her, but she's not giving up. 
For more infonnation on eating disorders, turn to our cover package, an educational news piece, letting you know just what these diseases are and how to recognize the signs. On a more personal side, a Notre Dame student brings the disease close to home as she relates her own personal battle with an eating disorder. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... As the admissions departmeQ.t is making its decisions about the members of the class of 1998, News Editor Mark Mitchell lets us know how Rudy Reuttiger, everybody's favorite football walk on, has affected application figures. In sports, read up on one ofthe more unique club sports on campus, the annual Bengal Bouts. And in entertainment, writer David Robinson previews A Raisin in the Sun, playing this week at Washington Hall. And, as always, check out Campus Watch, Week in Distortion, On Other Campuses, and the Final Word. Enjoy the issue. -Margaret S. Kenny 
S.:lwlAstu: b p,,blisludwetkly throughout tluschoolye111u:cept 
Lttun to S.:lwlAstic"'""tbttyp,dIUld l1<clwlt tluwrittr's 11amt, durbtg u:ami1<aticm IUld t1aaitio1< ptriDds at tlu U1<it1trsity of 
Rddnu IUld phcmt ,amrb,r, lbi/r,trsity ,ludtntl should il<Clwlt Noln Damt, Noln Dame, IN, 46556 ""4 prbtttd at Tiu P"l'trs, tluir yt11rm school 111<d coUtgt, Faculty mtmbtr1 should il<Clwlt l1<c. Milford, IN46542, Tiu subscript/cm ratt ii $25.DOlytar 111<d 
tluir dtp11rtn<111t. AU lttttn "'""t bt rig,ctd, Na,,.,, will &t back islutS llrt RT1Ri1Rblt Rt $1.25 /copy, Tiu opbtiol<S ,xpn11td 
withluld r,po11 nq,ust i11 ctrlailt ilt1tR1<ct1. flt S.:lwlRltu: 111t thou oft1u IUlllwn IUld tditon IUld do 1<0t S.:lwlAstu: ,..,,.,,. tlu right to rtjtct lttttrl that 111t libtknu or 1<tCU1Rrilyrtprt1tl<t tlu opbtiouoftlu t1<tln editorial boardof 
o&sct1<t&ytlu lllw,oftlu U1<lttdStRtt1, 5<:howtu:alsow/Utdit5<:howtu: or of tlu 11,<ir,ersity ofNotre Dan<,, Its Rdn<utlstra-. 
frn' copyfittil<g, gr""'""'ticRI or •p<Uutg trron IUld Scltolutic tio11, faculty or sludt1<tl, E.ditorlRls 1ig,r.,d 5<:holRStu: rep;,.,,.t , 
,tylt. BtC11UStofspRCt,S.:lwwtu:ca1<1<otprll<t11llltlunrtctir,td,
tlu oputiott of tlu lfllljority of tlu a,cutir,1 tditorlRI bo11rif.  
Mauscrlpt, arewtlctmu, A.II 1111sollcltied n<attrials beeon<t tlu p,operty ofS.:lwlRltic,  A.ddn" 11U comspcmdt1<ct to :  Tiu Editor  
s.:lwwtu:  
Copyright 1993 S.:lwwtu:Magawu, AUrights rt1trt1td, Rtpro­ u,Fort,,,.. C,,.tt,  
ductio11 flt wlwlt ori1< p,,rtwitlwutwrlttt1< ptrmissio11 isprohib­lttd.  Noln D""", IN 46556  


LETTER 
Dear Editor: 
Michelle Crouch's article, "Teaching the Nintendo Generation" (February 3, 1994), inaccurately claims that Professor Wolf intro­duced "the first interactive computer program for teaching to a Notre Dame classroom." The Freshman Writing Program introduced the Daedalus InterChange function in August, 1992. 
Another point of refinement the classroom Professor Wolf uses, much to his dissatisfaction, was designed for writing classes and serves the purposes for which it was intended very well. 
Sincerely yours, Edward A. Kline Francis J. O'Malley Director Freshman Writing Program 

J,t!,t)?f' ''mm\llc ;, 
NEWS 

The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions is overflowing with applications for the class of1998 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 
They are coming in record numbers. New applicants, that is. The numberof applications for the approximately 1,800 positions in the 1994-1995 freshman class, the office of undergraduate admissions has received roughly 9,300 applications. As with every year, the applicants come from every state in the union, as well as an increas­ing number of foreign countries. "We have more of everything and everybody this year," said Kevin Rooney, dean of admis­sions. "Our numbers are up across the boards, and our academic quality remains high." The number of applicants this year ap­proaches the all-time high of9,931 received for the 1989-1990 school year. For as long as authors and rating ser­
"And we can't forget our good friend Rudy -notonly was that a lot of positive publicity, but it made people think about Notre Dame, and because of the nature of the movie, they had a good reac­tion." 
,;,_ Kevin Rooney, 
dean of admissions 
to three factors which have helped boost our numbers this year," said Rooney. "First the economy is stronger, and as a private school with a pretty hefty tuition, consumer confi­dence and a better economy make people more willing to consider the investment ofa private education. Our applications are al­ways better when the economy is strong, and they are worse when we are in recession." 
Economics can effect every university, but Rooney also noted several factors which are unique to Notre Dame. "Second, and I hate to admit this, but whenever U.S. News and World Report deigns to put us in their top 25, we do better." But while U.S. News does generate a certain level of publicity for Notre Dame, the vast majority of Notre Dame recognition this past year has come from the National Broad­casting Company and Tristar Pictures. ''The positive emotional reaction to the football team's success and the coverage that the 
football program received 

this year brought many who 
vices have measured how 
difficult it is to attain ac­
were thinking of applying 
ceptance to colleges and 
to actually send in their ap­
universities, Notre Dame 
plication. And we can 'tfor­
has been ranked in the 
get our goodfriendRudy­
"most highly selective" 
not only was that a lot of 
category. However, with 
positive publicity, but it 
the number of applicants 
made people think about 
up 20 percent from last 
Notre Dame and because of 
year, becoming a member 
the nature of the movie, 
of the Notre Dame class of 
they had a good reaction," 
1998 is even more diffi­
Rooney said. ''They may 
cult. 
not be the best reasons, but 
"The reasons for yearly 
they have all helped us in­
increases or decreases in 
crease the number of stu­
our applicant pool are hard 
dents we can accept." . 
to pin down, but! can point 
NEWS 


i ent er 

byOanh Vo 
The pressures ofcollege life often result in eating disorders that go unnoticed and unrecognized until it is too late for the victim 
If you don't look good, we don't look good," said Vidal Sasoon. In a college setting where dating and appearance are emphasized, students are at a higher risk to develop an eating disorder. According to university counseling services, eating disor­ders exist when a person's use of food and rituals and practices surrounding the use of food cause increasingly serious problems in major areas of the person's life. The University Counseling Center con­ducted a survey in the spring of1988 to study the prevalence of eating disorders on the Notre Dame campus. The survey deter­mined that 66 percentofthe sample popula­tion had either an eating disorder or had symptoms associated with an eating disor­der. Compared with other studies ofcollege women, Notre Dame has a slightly higher incidence of bulimia while other results are consistent with national numbers. "I definitely think eating disorders are a problem at Notre Dame just like they are across the country," said Dr. Rita Donley of the the University Counseling Center. "Do I think it's more severe at Notre Dame then at other places? I wouldn't necessarily say that our research shows that was true." However, according to Donley, it cer­tainly shows that Notre Dame attracts the kinds of students that would be more in­clined to have eating problems. "Many Notre Dame students are high achievers and 'the stars' in many ways. Outwardly these students are doing well, but their emotional state may not be entirely healthy for any of a number of reasons, ranging from social problems to family difficulties. In these instances, Notre Dame may not be an envi­ronment that makes it easy to admit having a problem," said Donley. Usually students will start to diet, which is something very acceptable in today's society. But at some point that dieting becomes problematic. "For some people it is not a choice anymore, itbecomes an obsession, and it is something from which they cannot escape." "There's a lot of pressure here to be the same," said Donley. "Th.ere is pressure to think the same, to have the same values, to have the same outlook, and so when students feels like they don't fit in in soine way, that sortofpressure will lead to other problems." The study showed that most women ex­hibited symptoms of eating disorders prior 

to entering college, but the pressures of college life may contribute to more serious symptoms developing during collegiate life. 
According to the survey, relatively few of these women have sought help for their eating problems. Of the students surveyed, those with family problems and those who have experienced forced sexual assault were more vulnerable to having eating problems. The behavior seen most in women with an eating disorder was an obsessive preoccupa­tion with food. 
There are two main eating disorders, anorexia nervosa and bulimia. These disorders are defined as complex psychiatric disorders thought to be caused by "a combi­nation of factors, including individual psycho-dynamics, family relationships, cul­tural values and genetic· predispositions 
ii 
which manifest themselves in physical
i[ 
it symptoms," according to Donley. In :! anorexics, the most noticeable symptoms include disruptions in normal eating habits, 
ii 
an all-consuming fear ofbecoming "fat," an_ 
f 
:f intense preoccupation with food and body j[ size and compulsive exercising. 
,, 
I 
"Normally there is a steady progression of symptoms. Early symptoms include low
I self-esteem, feelings of lack of control in 
Ii life, distorted body image and anxiety," said 
.Ii Donley. "As this disorder worsens, 
:i :11 anorexics may exhibit perfectionistic be­
i.'I ,:i.:1 havior, eat alone more often, have frequent '1 mood swings and sleep disturbances, be sensitive to colds and deny they have a problem." Unlike anorexics who are normally un­derweight, individuals with bulimia are of­ten of normal weight or even overweight Bulimia is a cycle of "uncontrolled binge eating followed by purging through vomit­ing or the use of laxatives," according to 

"We know that there are many more people ... who may be having a problem, but are choosing not to seek help." 
Dr. Rita Donley 
tohandle their problems. 
Eating disorders are treatable and people do recover. Recovery takes time and de­pends on the motivation and commitment the individual has as well as the support they receive from others. Help is available on campus if students feel they have an eating disorder. 
"There'sawhole continuum ofbehaviors. I don't think that there are probably too many women that don't at some time either dislike their body or feel self-conscious of the way that they look. They may engage in some behaviors which are unhealthy once in a while to the point you could actually diag­nose them with a diagnosable eating disor­der," said Donley. 
In addition, there is an increasing trend in eating disorders exhibited by men. While eating disorders are unusually associated with women, and more women are strug­gling with them, an increasing number of men, especially _students in ROTC and var­sity athletics are suffering from eating disor­ders. 
"In terms of who we actually see at the counseling center, we know that there are many more people that are walking around out there who may be having a problem, but are choosing fo[ whatever reason not to seek help at that time." 0 
/ --_--:-:Th~:. N"tim_b~~-s-_-b·~-~h,in_(j_.th·~·-.slo~y--_,_: ·:·:~ 
• '··~·-:'·~;',," •• •• .._,· ;_,•• > .•·.-~ ,,.,•,,·.~-, ~--~ _. ", ",:. 
The ratio of women to men with eating disorders is 9 to 1. 
1 percent of all American women are anorexic. 
5 percent of all American women are bulimic. 
30 percent ofwomen in college and graduate school show symp­toms of an eating disorder. 
The typical anorexic comes from a middle or upper class family. 
The anorexic is often a perfection­ist and a high achiever. 
More women in the United States fear becoming fat more than they feared dying. 
Statistics compiled 'by Michelle Stacey for Mademoiselle Magazine 
6 
CAMPUS LIFE 
ANOREXIA HITS HOME 
An anonymous Notre Dame student describes her personal experience with anorexia. 
Iam nots.ure that I am ready to write about my three year struggle with anorexia, but Ihave agreed to come forward with my story because too few people appreciate the im­pact an eating disorder can have on a young person's life .. Anorexia is seen by many as a fashion­able illness, a glamorous disease that strikes · movie stars, athletes and spoiled children of the upper middle class. Even when near death, anorexics are admired for their in­credible self-control, and the horror with w~ich others look upon them is often tinged with envy. In our society one can never be too rich or too thin. Actually, anyone who has ever suffered from an eating disorder will challenge that creed. After e"}ergency hospitalization and months of counseling, I can finally appreci­ate that at 5'5" and 85 pounds I was defi­nitely too thin, although at the time I still felt 
fat. . Unless you know me really well, you probably wouldn't guess that I am the one in 10 females who develops an eating disorder at some time during her life. I wish I had the courage to sign my name to this article, but the truth is that I don' L The thrill of seeing my name in print is eclipsed by the shame I would feel if anyone other than my closest friends were to find out my terrible secret; I suffered from anorexia during my sopho­more,junior and senior years of high school.' Looking back, I realize that those three years were the worst years of my life. Like · most anorexics, my life revolved around food: how to avoid it, how much of it to eat and how-much exercise would be required to burn it off. At first I enjoyed a variety of healthy foods in moderation, but as my dis­ease progressed, my diet became more and more restrictive. During the worst stage of my illness I lived exclusively on fruits and vegetables for several months, eating a small salad and apple for dinner. 
At this time I .also exercised with a ven-. 
geance, hoping to burn every calorie I con­
sumed and eliminate every ounce of fat from 
my body. In addition to competing in sev­
eral varsity sports, I created my own rigid 
exercise routine that I forced myself to per­
form daily. Only after I completed each 
day's grueling work-out to my satisfaction 
did I allow myself something to eat. 
During my senior year of high school, I 
lost a lot of weight quickly, but it was never 
--------------­
"The truth was that I a'double life began to catch up with me, and I saw the looks of horror and concern in the was slowly butsurely faces of those who cared about me most. I agreed to enter treatment, not for myself, but killing myself, and because I realized how much I was hurting
nobody could help me myfamilyand_friends. Ispentsixweeksat 
· the best hospital my parents could find,because I was not yet learning how to take care of myself, to manage my illness and to put my life back ready to help myself." together again. 
While denial protected me from the hor­rible truth about myself, my family, friends and teachers were not as easily fooled, and I invested an enormous amount ofenergy in convincing everyone that I was fine. For the sake of appearances I became the quintes­sential All-American teenager, throwing myself into school, athletics and extra-cur­ricular activities. I became a social butter­fly, made straight A's each semester and won numerous academic awards. When I received my acceptance letter from Notre Dame in April, I took it as confirmation that i was fine. After all, I reasoned, if I had been really sick, Notre Dame would never have accepted me. 
The truth was that I was slowly but surely killing myself, and nobody could help me because I was not yet ready to help myself. When my family forced me to enter treat­ment, I became controlling and deceitful, manipulating the doctors and psychologists I visited. 
After a while though, the strain ofleading 
quite enough, and I always f~ll a little short of my own impossible standards. Every morning, afternoon and evening when I stepped on the scale, I berated myself for failing to reach that magical number that would make all my problems disappear. ·It. didn't matter to me that I was always cold, weak and exhausted, had troubleconcentrat-: ing and remembering things, and hadn't gotten my period in two years; my ability to see myself accurately had been compro­mised by starvation, but I still felt fat. 
I can't remember the point at which I realized I had a full-blown eating disorder. For a while I sensed that something was very wrong with me, but denial kept me from facing my demon. I had read that anorexics are the last ones to recognize their own condition, and so in my mind I could not have an eating disorder if I thought that I 
might. . 
My body hasn't fully recovered from the effects ofstarvation. While my memory and concentration have improved, the damage I have done to my liver and kidneys may be permanent, and I am scared that I might not be able to have children. I wish I could say with confidence that my eating disorder is behind me, but I know that I will be fighting this battle for the rest of my life. 
Many people are unsure of how to react to a friend or roommate whom they suspect might be struggling with an eating disorder. Ifyou find yourself in this situation, I would suggest that you bring up your concerns directly with the person involved, in a non­threatening or judgmental way. It's impor­tant, however, not to expect the person to change, because the truth is that she or he can't The nicest thing you can do is to let them know that you are care and are willing to help them in any way that you can. The rest is up to them. 

I I 
'I 
'.I 
CAMPUS LIFE 
"Those students who stood against all odds to protest political oppression were truly free in their minds, hearts and spirits," said Notre Dame junior Emily Malcoun. "The power of such freedom could be felt just sitting there in the square." 

In Tiananmen Square, the students had their first taste of communism as well­placed surveillance cameras and armed guards observed their every move. "It's like you're always being watched," said sopho­more Doug McKenria. ''There's a strong sense that the government still controls ev­erything." 
Malcoun noted the stark contrast between these signs of communist control and the billboards which proclaimed "AMore Open China Awaits 2000." · In addition, students commented that the Chinese government planned their tours, chose their tour guides and even decided which restaurants they visited. 
The experience ofcommunism had a pro­found impact on Malcoun, who said, ''That J night [after visiting Tiananmen Square], I became aware that I had never felt so free in my life as I did right then and there in Calcutta before settling in Madras, India, to communist China. [It was] the freedom of by Michelle Crouch study for two months. After that, they liad pondering differences that another system, 
the option to travel independently in Europe. another world, has to offer." While most Notre Dame and Saint One ofthe first places the students visited The group also visited the Great Wall of 
Mary's students were going to foot­was China. There, they toured Tiananmen China. The day of tl,le tour, McKenna and ball games last semester, Doug McKenna Square, where more than a million Chinese the other members of his band, George and was performing a concert on top ofthe Great students expressed their discontent with the the Freaks, decided~to bring their instru­Wall ofChina, Shannon Dunn was meeting government in a mass protest in 1989. ments and play on the wall. Before they Mother Theresa, and 
knew it, their jam session Emily Malcoun was giv­had turned into a concert ing her "autograph" to for about 60 Chinese curious Indian children. spectators. These students are only In India, the three of the 28 students students were able to

li 
who participated in Saint meet and talk with
ll 
I: Mary's Semester Around Mother Theresa, another 
I I 
the World program. moving experience. for 
Organized by Saint many of them. Because Mary's history professor Mother TQeresa had re­Dr. C. K. Pullapilly, this cently had heart surgery, program combines inten­the students did not ex­
sive study with far-reach­pect to meet her. ing travel in the Orient. In "You'dneverknowshe'd their first two weeks just had heart surgery," abroad,. the students vis­said Notre Dame junior ited Japan, China, Hong Shannon Dunn. "She was· Kong, Singapore and __ just like a grandmother." 
Kevin Baumert 
Thailand. Then they "She seemed toured Nepal and A group of students on top of the Great Wall of China. 
so real to me," said 
8 SCHOLASTIC 
• • • ' --_ ~( .,r, -• ~ , '' I 
1
' ~ , , , · 1 -,..,. , l • , ' '-, 

Doug McKenna 
Curious Indian children asked the students for their autographs. Some of them had never seen Caucasians before. 
Malcoun. "Almosttoo real. I couldn't even 
take her picture because to do so seemed to 
me to be a violation ofthe beautiful reality of 
her humanity." 
Together, Mother Theresa and the stu­dents celebrated the evening prayer, the lit­urgy ofthe hours and the benediction. Many students talked to her after the ceremony. "I only talked to her briefly," said McKenna, "and in that exchange she challenged my faith and reaffirmed it at the same time." 
A particularly memorable experience for Dunn was the holy Ganges River in Varanasi, India, the most sacred place for Hindus. The Am'erican students, who were onaboat, described the throngs on people at the river performing rituals, ceremonies and crematoriums. "I didn't even want to take pictures or stare," said Dunn. "It was so sacred that I felt I was invading something." 
After their travels, the students stayed in Madras for two months, studying about the Indian culture through classes as well as real life experiences. Many students said this . time_was the highlight of the trip. Because they stayed in India for a longer time; they became submerged· in the culture of the country. 
From the brightly colored turbans of the fruit vendors to the heat, grime and sweat, this was an alien world to the students. They described the rancid odor of excrement that permeated the city, and the dogs, cats, cam­els, cows and rats that roamed the streets. In small Indian villages, beggars, lepers and street vendors followed the students and gawked at their white skin. For many of the students, this was the -first time they had experienced being a minority. 
The most shocking experience for McKenna was the awful living conditions of many Indians. 
<'Nothing you can read or see in books can convey how poor these people are and the living conditions they survive in," said McKenna. 
Once the students passed the initial shock of poverty and filth; however, they found beauty in these foreign peoples. 
"Although people in India don't have many material possessions, they are so rich in other ways, in their faith and in their pride," explained Dunn. 
Malcoun agreed: "To our American eyes, it seemed the families had so little, but I've never had anyone give me so much. learned of the joy of selflessness and giv­ing." 
The classes, which lasted from the end of September to the end ofNovember, contrib­uted to these students' international experi­ence. All of the classes they took, from history to economics to religion, were taught from the Indian perspective. 
"Ilearned an incredible amount just in the classroom that applied to everything else I did in the country and almost everything else in my life," said McKenna. 
He pointed out his religion class in par­ticular, which was taught bya Hindu woman who believed strongly in her faith. "It was the first time another religion wasn't put second to Chrisitianity," he said. "It was wonderful and frightening, and it made me think and question a lot But it ended up affirming my faith." 
Now that they are back, these students are experiencing another culture shock. Once again, they must narrow their educational perspective to South Bend, Indiana. They have been around the world, and the result according to Mc Kenna is "afearlessness and a confidence in my faith and in myself." As Malcoun said, "I feel like I've seen it all, from shocking to disgusting to heartbreak­ing·to inspiringly beautiful." . 



NEWS COMMENTARY 
Catnpus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER

VourdearUncleGipper has taken a lot of 
.l flak over the last week from certain subjects in the Campus Watch eye. So this week the Gipp is toning down his attacks and heading under the lakes on the quad for a look at the secrets below the surface. 
SPELUNKING WITH THE GIPPER 
The Gipper knows what all his little Watchers are thinking: "Stearn tunnels! Oh boy!" The unfortunate truth about the tun­nels is that they are poorly lit, dusty and hot The most entertaining part about them is the stenciled sign on the wall saying, "Danger! This passage is secured at the other ends. [Which, of course, was wrong.] In order to enhance the security of all buildings no students are allowed to enter. Students found in violation will be subject to disci­plinary action." The note was signed by some pastadministrator. Given the number of administrators wandering the steam tun­nels, the Gipp was left trembling .. 
More curious was something one of the Gipper's Campus Watchers discovered while wandering aimlessly around Nieuwland, which science people are wont to do. In the basement, behind two glass security doors, and past a "Computer Room" sign, there is an antiseptic room filled with absolutely no computers. The room has lots of shelving, lots of empty nooks and a mysterious red light hanging from the ceiling. 
Were the computers abducted? The Gipp appeals to his Junior Campus Watchers to explain this room. 
THE GIPP REFLECTS ON JPW 
The Gipp was lucky enough to.work the meals this pastJunior Parents Weekend, that special time in one's college career when parents and children pretend-to like one another for 72 hours. Even though the event took place almost a week ago, three items are worth noting anyway. 
FILL THE GIPP'S BOXt Now with six easy-to-use formats! 
mail: 303 Lafortune phone:219/631-7569 fax: 219/631-9648 Eudora: Gipper.l@nd.edu Internet: gipper@darwin.cc.nd.edu Mosaic: in the "Toy Box"
GOSSIP, INNUENDO & INVESTIGATION 
tween his legs, walked across the court and dunked the basketball. This stunt made the Notre Dame rah-rahs look as energetic as a slime mold. 
THE ALLEGRO MYSTERY 
The Gipp likes nothing more than a hot cup of coffee to keep himself awake. The Gipp also likes to drink coffee when he's listening to the folks play at Acoustic Cafe (it gives him that beatnik feeling so common here at Notre Dame). He doubts that these are unfamiliar times for one to drinkcoffee. This is why the Gipp is baffled at the hours that Allegro keeps. What other coffee shop closes at IOp.m.on weekdays? Ten o'clock is just when college students are getting started with their work. Maybe the folks in the Dome think that caffeine after 10 p.m. encourages students to stay awake pastpari­etals, when all sin occurs. 
HOW TO HOOKUP WITH THE GIPP 
The Gipp apologizes for writing about computers tw.o weeks in a row, but he is quite excited about a new way to connect with him. Taking his cue from the student body president and vice president elect, he has decided to go worldwide (more or less) with his column with thehelpoftheScholas­tic systems manager. 
Next time you've need to kill a couple hours, look for the Gipper On-Line on Mo­saic under the Notre Dame Home Page, under "Links, Links, Links" under "Just Plain Cool Stuff" under "The Orange Room" under "The Toy Box." The Gipp is thankful for this easy-to-find location. 
Keep the suggestions flowing, my little 
. campus eyeballs. Next week the Gipp will be back with all his maliciousness when he teaches a new trick to try in the 'Brare. Until then,chatwithyourrector,drinknectarwith a specter, don't be a defector, then drop one in the Gipp's sector. . 
To Patricia O'Hara: just because no one claps doesn't necessarily mean you're un­popular on campus, but it might 
To University Food Services: chicken with plum sauce for dinner, chicken crepes for breakfast. UFS is not fooling anyone with this or the Cheez-E sauce on top of it 
To the sophomores: tum your checks in early. Three families sit at each JPW table. The tables are numbered from one (right in front of the table of honored guests) to 425,569 (right behind the compost pile). As the checks to pay for the event arrive, they are numbered. The table with the lowest average goes first, and the highest goes on top of the ice rink (the Gipp is not kidding.) 
THE LEADERS OF THE FUTURE 
In case any ofyou Junior Campus Watch­ers were wondering why there were business majors kneeling in front of the ATM in LaFortune last Thursday, your eye from the sky has the answer. Ernst & Young hired a frrm from California to host an ice-breaker/ scavenger hunt for our budding number­crunchers. To help out these business ma­jors with the reading and telephone opera­tion required for the event, an E&Y accoun­tant joined each group. 
The Gipp heard that a lot of the groups were disqualified for not following direc­tions. The Gipp hopes these Darners will be working as surgeons and nuclear power plants technicians in the future. 
WORDS TO REMEMBER 
"We ain't getting punked by no one." 
-DePaul's Tom Kleinschmidt 
Excuse the Gipp for nitpicking, but the 
Gipp isn't certain what it means to be, "punked." He'd be happier knowing that he isn't getting punked by anyone either. 
As a side note, the Gipp really enjoyed watching DePaul's cheerleaders. Two of their male cheerleaders, one holding the other upside-down with a basketball be­
:,·
,, 10 SCHOLASTIC 
:·l 
''I 
Voices of the Fighting Irish 
Monday 9-llam Steven Sostak "Dog Whistle P.C." 

very animal is a living thing, and every rson is an animal, therefore every person s a living thing. 
onday 6-7pm Joe Cannon and Kelly augerdas "Swing Big Band" 
oin us for the wonderful sounds of the 40's · nd 50's. Big Bands God's: Benny oodman, Duke Elington, Django einhardt, Count Basie, and many, many 
ther favorites. Relive the era in which you eren't alive. Big Band tunes. 
onday 3~5pm Chris Seidensticker "Governor Clinton's\ Love Life" 
ncle Tupelo and FIREHOSE and Afghan 
igs and assorted fun facts about Bill's overs. You'llenjoy. Ifnot,grabyerdog,let im listen and listen to him howl. It might ound better. Sorry, no Pearl Jam or Spin 
tors. 
uesday 7-9am Ryan Duncan 'Nicotene for Breakfast with Johnny Smokey" 
lung-blackening cancer causing mix of utting-edge tock to get you up and cough­ing in the morning. 
Wednesday 9-llpm Joe Cannon "Leaning on the Doorbell" 
There's very little chance that this will work around here. A retrospective "Can Jimmy come out to play" or leaning on the little button for twenty minutes while those inside laugh and eat stir-fry without you. It will probably be loud. 
Thursday 7-9am Peter McGarty "Coffeehouse Jams" 
Hey, quit.hittin' that damn snooze button. Wake-up and smell the coffee... Well, actually the scintilating sound ofsome great new music will have to do cause I can't exactly convey the aroma of the java over the air. 
Thursday 9-llam Sarah Davis "Hey Nineteen!" 
Rise and Shine! I'm awake so you should have to suffer with me. I'm young and innocent and ready to take on the revotionary, new world of rock n' roll-its really all so exciting! Swing Heil. 
Thursday 5-7pm Colette Shaw "Classic Cheese -Music from the 70's and Early 80's" 
Hey Generation X! Quit whining and cheer up to the funky sounds ofthe 70's. How can you be cynical with the Bee Gees as yo 
friends? 
Saturday lOam-lpm Jim McName ''The Random Occurrence Show" 
Jim is a boy. Red hair makes him neat H has a record machime. Jim plays the music Itgoes "Yah Woo Yah." Suzy and Tim h the music. They just get down all out crazy You can listen, too. Then, you will be"right on!" "A crackerjack ofa show ... filled wi gut tightening tension ... a winner!" -S Antonio Express News 
Saturday 5-7pm Jennifer Fail "Susie Chapstick" 
I play lots oflove rock, chic bands, as man 7" as possible and lots of rotation. 
Sunday l-3pm Tracy Crinio "Friday Night is Killing Me" 
For all the time you've spent reflecting in beer or two on a Friday night, this show is fo you. Old stuff, new stuff, dance or be mel low: I play requests! When I graduate i May, you'll be sorry you didn'y make re quests while you could have! You'll wis you had! You'll wish you had! 
Sunday 7-9pm Dan Guinn ''Metal Specialty" 
MET AL twisted so just listen. 
This is a paid advertisment. 
BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
1111Q Q IB1I 
Bruno's North Bruno's South 
Open for carry out and delivery only. Accepting reservations on weekends. Order any regular size pizza and receive Available for private partie_s and banquets. two liters of Coke or Diet Coke FREE! On Thursday March 3, 
Prices do not include tax. All you can eat pizza for $4.99. 
115 N. 31 (just North of campus) 2610 Prairie Avenue 
273-3890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer free delivery of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 


Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate~ Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 
Thursday 24 
Movie: "North by Northwest," 7:30 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, Lafortune, $1. AcousUc Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., Lafortune. · Swimming: MCC Champiomhips, Finals, 6:30 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 
7:30 p.m., JACC. Play: "A Raisin in the Sun," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7. Play: "Quilters,'' 8:00 p.m., Little Theatre, SMC, $3. 
Friday 25 
Swimming: MCC Championships, 10 a.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. Diving: MCC Championships, 1:00 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center., Movie: "The 'Three Musketeers," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Ciubhouse, SMC. Play: "A Raisin in the Sun, " 8: 10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7. Opening Ceremony and Display: -"The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt," 4:00 -9:00 p.m., Stepan Center. Swimming: MCC Championships;·· 
6:30 p.m., Finals, Rolfs Aquatic · 
Center. Film: "Just Anothet" Girl on the I.R.T.," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Faculty Recital: "Notre Dame String 
Saturday 26 
Indoor Track: Notre Dame vs. Drake, 
12:00 p.m., Loftus. Film: "Just Another Girl on the I.R.T," 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "The 'Three Musketeers," 7:30 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Play: "A Raisin in the Sun," 8: 10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7. Swimming: MCC Championships, 10:00 
a.m. & 6:30 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Centc:t. Diving: MCC Championships, 1:00p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
· Play: "Quilters," 8:00 p.m., Little 
Theatre, SMC, $3. . Basketball: Notre Dame men vs. Louisville, 3:30 p.m., JACC. Display: "The N:AMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt,'' 10:00 a.m. -9:00 p.m., 
· 
t 
L I 
~ 
S 
C 
~ 
P P 
~ 
C F P F 
1 







Touch Four x 1031 for local weather · 
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6736 for national weather 
x 6050 for news headlines x 6123 ·for movie reviews 
x 6052 for world news x 9463 for thought for the day 
' x 6121 for top pop albums x 6238 for TV sports events 
l 
-x 6571 for prime time TV x 6230 for national sports report x.6129 for video releases x 6263 for college basketball 
TOUCH
,unday 27 
Monday 28 
Film: "Ali: Fear Eats the Soul," 7:00 p.m., 
FOUR
.acrosse: Notre Dame vs. Penn State, 'Toe Killer," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 
2:00 p.m., Krause Stadium. lecltal: Paul Sperry, Tenor, 2:00 p.m., ,nite. 
Wednesday 2
)!splay: "The NAMES Project AIDS ~emorial Quilt," 10:00 a.m. -9:00 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­.m., Stepan Center. 
Keenan Chapel. 'lay: "A Raisin in the Sun,'' 2:30 p.m., 
Tuesday 1
'lashington Hall, $7. 
Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin 
:losing Ceremony: "The NAMES Conference Room.
'roject AIDS Memorial Quilt," 3:00 . Film: "Tampopo," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 
1.m., Stepan Center~ 'lay: "Quilters," 2:~ p.m., Little .beatre, SMC, $3. 
A Raisin In the Sun Is running this weekend at Washington Hall. 
SPORTS 

Team First 
Despite impressive ·indiviudal talent, the Irish women's basketball team has found success through unselfish play 
Tootle Jones, a senior forward, provides leadership for the lrlsh as one of five seniors on the squad. 
month, aggressive play and team unity have the squad has undergone a complete trans­by Peg Ward helped the Irish _top the standings of the formation in both attitude and performance. Midwestern Collegiate Conference. . Afterplaying21 games this season, the Irish She is averaging close to 17 record stood at 16-5, compared to an 11-10
Last season, the Irish finished with a 15­· points per game and currently leads the 12 record and suffered an early first-round record at thesamepointlastyear. Given that Notre.Dame women's basketball team in loss in the MCC Tournament But this year the Irish lost only two letter winners, what scoring. She is second in scoring in can account for this complete turnaround? overall league play. She has been the · "They are more than just my team­high scorer for the Irish in more than mates -they're my family. It's a big · half her games this season. And she is difference from ·tast year/ said senior 
only a freshman. If she continues to Tootie Jones. rack up the points, Beth Morgan, a 6'0'' This c~ge in attitude may ulti­
freshman guard from Bloomington, In­matelystem from the leadership of diana, should be the frrst freshman since the five seniors on the squad: Andrea 1982 to lead the Irish in scoring. Alexander, Tootie Jones, Kristin But while it is true that the Irish have Knapp, KaraLeary and Sherri Orlosky. benefitted ·from several stellar indi­·Together they have seen both the best vidual perf~mnances, players insist the .and worst of the past four years, begin­fundamental reason for their success ning with a national ranking in 1991, an lies in their ability to play as a team. NCAA tournament bid the following. 
"No player wants to be bigger than year and a disappointing 15-12 record the team," said senior point guard Kara last season. It seems that their careers Leary. have come full circle this year. 
This attitude has not always been After vowing to maintain a posi­prevalent among Fighting Irish basket­tive attitude and to focus on team per­ball teams. Lack ofon-court chemistry formance, the squad is once again on a has left many players disappointed with path _toward earning a place in the NCAA tournament .
past.team performances and· hungrier 
for greater success in the future. · ''The seniors have really stepped With the Notre Dame women's up and taken a leadership role," said . basketball team heading into its rebound. Against Evansville she was 4-4 Sherri Orlosky. "We_'ve really tried to last leg of regular season play this on three point attempts, scored 19 points help the freshman learn the system." 

and grabbed eight rebounds. 
14 
.SCHOLASTIC 
-
As a result, the team is able to playwith the knowledge thatif"someoneis having an off­night, somebody else will step up." It was Odosky's turn to "step up" during 
a recent game against Evansville, where the 5' 10" guard was a perfect 4-4 in three point attempts, netted 19 points and grabbed eight rebounds in the 89-62 win. 
Over the course of the past four years, 
· Andrea Alexander and Tootle Jones have emerged as the anchors of the Irish front­line. While Coach McGraw marvels at "the great lift" Alexander gives to the team and her ability to "get people fired up" through her own attitude. and play, McGraw is equally proud of the many intangibles that Jones provides to the team. "Tootleisone of the biggest reasons why we are playing' as well as we are. She has a great work ethic and attitude and has become a key force inside. Most importantly, she has really taken the pressure qff of Letitia." 
Junior.forward Letitia Bowen has been an established presence in the paint ever since she donned the Fighting Irish uniform three years ago. While McGraw has described her as "the cornerstone of our defense," she also has the abilityto put the ball in the basket at crucial moments during the game. Nowhere was this better. exemplified than in the team's February 10 win over Butler. The Irish were looking to avenge an earlier loss to the Lady Bulldogs. But hopes ofa victory faded as the Irish went into the locker-room at half time with a 15 point deficit. 
At that point, said McGraw, "We talked about char~cter, pride and overcoming adver­sity. It was our mental · test, and it was time to see what we were made of. 
The entire team ·re­sponded' to McGraw's challenge, but it was Bowen in particular who answered the call. She scored 16 of her game­high 23·points in the sec­ond half, and put in a missed shot with one 
season. 
second left to send the Irish onto vic­tory.Several talented underclassmen have played a major role in Notre Dame's success this season. Sophomore and Aca­demic All-American nominee Carey Poor currently leads the Itish in career free­throw percentage and in field goal per­centage. The 6'0" forward's shooting skills are comple­mented by her con­sistent rebounding efforts. Junior Susie Atchinson and sophomore Jenny Layden join under­

classmen Poor and Bowen as other contributors to the team. 
Perhaps the biggest surprise ofthe season has been the contribution of the freshman class; In addition to the talent of Beth Morgan;· Jeannine Augustin, Katryna Gaither and Rosanne Bohman round out the 

freshmen class. All three have seen signifi­
cant playing time, and each has been able to 
make a unique contribution to the team. 
Augustin plays defense with aggressive te­
nacity and as a result currently ranks in the 
top ten for steals in the league. Gaither 
ranks in the top ten in blocked shots, and 
Bohman is shooting 100 percent from the 
free-throw line. 
Because of.this talent, both McGraw and 
her players are determined to come out of 
the MCC Tournament with a conference 
championship and an NCAA bid. 
"From then on," Coach McGraw stated, "it's a whole new season. I believe that we have the talent to compete with anyone." · But for now McGraw is savoring her 
team's .success and is still looking to improve throughout the course of what she has described as her "most personally en­joyable" season. 
When post-season arrives, McGraw hopes that the defensively oriented Irish will be "able to roll over teams by their ·offensive execution." Ultimately, McGraw sees the key to success as the attitude of "Team -First, Self -Second." 
·"Our greatest stren~ is our chemistry," said McGraw. "Sure, we've got talent, but talent without chemistry is useless." Q 
SPORTS 
Boxin for the Poor 
l 
r I 
After 64 years, the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts continue to raise money for the Holy Cross Bengal Missions 
by Warren Junium 
He is the oldest rookie in the Bengal Bouts this year. But Notre Dame law student Dave Morken is not intimidated by the younger fighters. Despite being five years older than most participants, he wants to fight "Every red-blooded American man should box," said Morken. For decades Notre Dame students have sacrificed their bodies toraisemoney for the Holy Cross Bengal Missions. The man responsible for bringing the Bouts to life in 1931 is the late Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano. To him the Bouts were the closest thing to pure competition that ex­The Bengal Bouts, founded by Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano, 
have raised more than $400,000 In the 64 year history of the event. 
isted at Notre Dame. The fighters who carry on Nappy's 
· legacy take special pride in the cause. "This is another way ofgiving blood, it may be a "Strong bodies fight so that weak bodies "There just hasn't been that draw for the little more violent though," said Morken. may be nourished," Napolitano, Bengal · heavyweights that there once was," said "The cause is one of the main reasons that I Bouts founder, is quoted as saying. Gerber. "The heavyweight division used to decided ·to participate in the Bouts this Jeff Gerber, the current president of the be the spotlight of the Bouts, but in recent year." More than $400,000 has been do­Bengal Bouts club, believes that the Bouts history the lower weight classes have been nated to the missions in the history of the will be as exciting as past years. ''This is the very exciting and have provided the crowd event, with an average of $10,000 raised bestgroupofnewfighterswehavehadin the with some great fights." each year. four years that I have been here," said MostNotre Dame students were relax 
. with the all training, Bengal Bouts· Gerber. ''Theyhavehadsomeexperiencein · -ing their first day back of spring 
. fighters step into the ring prepared the novice tournament and showed paten-semester, but 100 students made their way to fight They provide the audience with a ~ to~~to~~h~~~ spectacle that is not quickly forgotten. The The-B.outs have 11 different weight .::.Near the hockey m:ena there is a room with Bengal Bouts are a way for the Notre Danie classes for about 75 fighters, starting at 135 a sign on the door that says, "Boxing." For . community to continue its mission to pro­pounds and increasing in five pound mere-most ofthe year the Varsity Shop uses this vide service to the community, but at the ments to 180pounds. Therealsoisaheavy-area to sell me1ehandise, but after Christ­same time to provide a dose of entertain­weightdivision that includes only three par-· mas it is the Bengal Bouts training ground ment. · ticipants this year. ''These guys come in six days a week for: 

about two and a halfhours to train for the Bouts," said Gerber. The practices are strenuous and tiring. "I am a rookie, and I did not know what to expect," said Andy Gas­ser, a Sorin resident. "The train­ing is very tough, but I am used to arough workout since I am in the Marines [ROTC]. I think that it · will definitely prepare me for the 
fights."
Practice begins for a Bouter a 
little before fourp.m. Many 
fighters arrive early and warm up 
before the main practice begins. 
The officers of the club and some 
South Bend residents lead the 
daily practice. 
To start, the fighters go through 
about 20 minutes of rigorous cal­
isthenics which includes many sit-ups and push ups. 
"We mainly work on exercises for endur­ance," said Morken. "It is an aerobic work­out" 
Within the first few weeks of training, the fighters move on to glove drills, which teach them the mechanics of punches and blocks These exercises are intended to increase the fighter's stamina and protect the fighter from se­rious injuries. 
"We are the only school in the nation with a program like this," said Gerber. "The par­ticipants really learn how to box. Some of the weight classes are highly competitive and are only a step down from the talent seen on the amateur level."Many schools have "Fight 
Nights," but other schools do not prepare fighters like• the Notre Dame program. 
Fighters train six days a week for two and a half hours 
The fighter steps into the ring

In preparation for the Bengal Bouts. 
with practice hitting the punching bags.But as the Bouts near, the fighters actu ally get into the ring and practice spar­ring with fellow fighters. During the course ofthe practice, the coaches frequently bring the fighters back together and go through the calisthenics again. "It keeps our heart rate up," said Morken. 
and wails away at his opponent 
"No one takes the time to do it like Notre Dame does, forcing those in­volved to train and commit to this extent," said pastBoutorganizerWaltRogers. ''This program prepares by ability. You just don't get that anywhere else." . 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 


Wendy Crabtree: Crabtree, a sophomore from Concord, MA, 
Ryan Hoover: Hoover, a sophomore from Roscoe, Il, scored 17 was undefeated this past weekend for the woman's tennis team. pointsinthemen'sbasketballgameagainstDePaulthispastweekend. Crabtree defeated Michelle Fry from Miami (Fla.), 6-3, 6-1, Sue Hoover was three for five from the three point line, and was six for Bartl from Kentucky 6-3, 6-3, and Elissa Kim from Northwestern seven from the free throw line in the Irish's 73-63 loss. 6-3,6-4. 
REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 
Limbaugh's Lawsuit Rush Limbaugh has gone too far, at least according to Ms. Sherrol Miller who has filed a lawsuit for "unspecified damages." In his·recently published book, See, I Told You, RushLimbaugh ''ruined her reputation by calling her a 'transsexual lesbian.'" Limbaugh got. the idea for the section from aWall StreetJournal article entitled" A Tmnssexual Lesbian Finds Herself Much in Demand on 'Geraldo' and the Like." Sherrol Miller was not mentioned in the article for appearing on .the show, but for another reason. The self-identified "trans­sexual lesbian~• was Kate Bornstein of San Fmnciso. Limbaugh bungled the two when writing the book passage. Recent attempts for comments from the usually vociferous 
-Limbaugh were unsuccessful. Yeah, I guess itdoes little for the image to accuse a happilyI m~ed _nurse and mother of being a 
transexual lesbian.·
!\ 
Ii Kerrigan's Million Dollar Deal As theOlympicsprogress, it is interesting
'! 
i to see whatpromotional offers came to light 
i 
fortheathletes.NaricyKerriganseemstobe the big winner overall as Newsweek maga­zine quoted sources· as saying Nancy Kerrigan has cut a $1 million deal with Disney. According to Newsweek, the deal includes a made-for.,.television movie to air in May, a televised skating special, Disney' theme .park appeamnces and -just maybe -a Nllllcy Kerrigan doll. 
· Tonya Harding is another story. She said in November that she was going to the Olympics, not wit4 gold in her eyes, but dollar Signs. She must be bitter now. After all, the only offer she has received is $250,000 from Playboy for what they deli­cately call, a ''pictorial." 
"PC" Cookies . 
The level of political correctness spread­ing around the world is really reaching new and extreme levels. A British supennarket chain recently had to step in and defend traditional "gingerbread men" from em­
· ployees who renamed them "'gingerbread persons" in the most recent row over politi­cal correctness. , British newspapers said that a number of staff at Gateway, thefifth largest supermar­
·' 
the wedding was not anything anyone would expect. Jerry must have read about the Gregorian Monks also; because the theme music was a 12th-century Gregorian piece. 
The New Spoof _Ace Ventura: Pet Detective opened last weekend to dominate the box-office and make $12.3 million in its first weekend of showing. This movie invloves a ''bizarre sequence of events" starting with the kid­nappingoftheMiamiDolphin'smascotand quarterback, Dan ·Marino. The concerned Miami officials contact the special service abilities of Ace.-Jim Carrey, In Living Color's Firemarshall Bill, is the lead char­acter Ace Ventura and_ presents. a hilarious 
ket chain in England, decided to relabel the . perfonnance. Ace spends the movie comb­
cookies "in an attack against sexism and to 
avoid causing offense." Gateway steppedin 
'and saved the recently neutered men with instructions that "gingerbread men must be gingerbread men."· I agree, otherwise what's next ... insteadofladyfmgers, people fingers? 
Third Time's a Charm Possibly one of the oldest and most fa­mous on again, off again bachelors has wed once more, this time on Valentine's Day.· Jerry Garcia, lead guitarist for the Grateful Dead, said his vows for the third time in his lifetomarryforty-yeai'-oldDeborahKoons in Sausalito, California. Koons and Garcia . · met in the 70's, drifted apart and them met . again, renewing interest in one another. The wedding was small -only about 70 guests_:_ and f'shrouded in secrecy to avoid public;ity'' and the mpre zealous Deadheads from flocking. Surprisingly, the music for 
ingthestreetsandrelying_onhiscunningwit torescue the group. In the tradition ofPolice AcademyandAirplane,thismovieshouldbe 
very entertaining. 
Up&Coming 
This weekend the Notre Dame theater department production of A Raisin in the Sun will be showing in Washington Hall. It shouldbe interesting sincea guest directoris in charge of this production ... Great new movies are coming· to theaters everyday. One which looks promising·is the action­adventure The Getaway, aremake of a 1972 version, now stars Kim ~asinger and Alec Baldwin ... Also, on St Patrick's Day, for anyone who does not want to stay around here, Pearl Jam willbe perfonning in West Lafayette by Purdue. Other than that, keep watching the Olympics before the final stretch of Midterms. Good luck! 
ENTERTAINMENT 
A New Twist Arrives to the Notre Dame Stage 
A guest artist and predominantly African-American cast present Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Sun 
by David Robinson 
What happens to _a dream defe"ed? Does it dry up Like a raisin in the swi? 
"']"ileselines from Langston Hughes' poem,
.l Harlem, provided the foundation as well as thetitle forLorraineHansberry's provocative and critical view of the American Dream. InA Raisin 
·In the Sum, Hansberry presents an . African American family at the dawn of the civil rights move­ment, strugglingwith the question of whether it is possible for them to secure a place for themselves in the American Dream. 
The Notre Dame Communica­tion and Theatre Department is presenting A Raisin in_ the Swi in celebration ofboth Black History Month and the 35th anniversary of the play. This play is unique in that itis the first production by the theaterdepartmentwithapredomi­nantly African-American cast. Bruce Auerbach; director of the­ater, sees th~ production as a chance to draw_ into the theater 
Auerbach also sees the production as a chance to raise some important social issues. ''We are approaching this play as aglimpse of a recurring theme in American life," he said. Guest artist Kym Moore is the director of the play. She was invited to Notre Damefrom her current position as an assistant professor of 

ment in the south side of Chicago. The death 
ofWalter Lee,patriarch of the family, brings 
his widow a $10,000 check and a crisis that 
upsets the family structure. Each member of 
the family has a dream that could be realized 
-with the money, but it is not enough for all of the Younger' s to get their wishes realized. Younger's son Walter is a man ready to explode. Stephen Pope plays this young man who hates his job and dreams of im­provinghisstationinlifebyopen­ing up a liquor store. Walter's mother, played by Stephanie Dunn, feels that a liquor store is against the religious beliefs that ~ve held her family together, and herdream is to own her own home with agardenanda "whole lottasunlight" SunniCummings plays Walter's sister Ruth, who dreams ofescaping themiseryof the ghetto and going to medical school. Through these charac­ters, Hansberry reminds the au­dience that respect for others is one of the most important things in life . A Raisin in the Sun is apow-
experience those who may have The emotions revealed In A Raisin In the Sun communl-erful and emotional play, with 
felt that it was not open to them cate the powerful Issues It addresses. 
previously. "Although we have had a policy in place for a long time not to cast according tomce,wehavebeenfacedwithpreconceived notions about casting which has kept some students away." 
He said that they "consider this play as an invitation to draw students into the program, while at the same time, alerting theMichiana community to the opportunities that exist at Notre Daine." 
theatre at Indiana State University. She said she is pleased to be a part of this landmark theatre project and is approaching it as an exploration of black life in America. Moore feels that Hansberry's play forces the audi­ence to re-evaluate the American Dream and to decide whether the sacrifices wemake in its pursuit are worth the material gain. 
A Raisin in the Sun is the story of the Youngers, afamily living in a cramped apart-
strong characters and aprovoca­tive message. Notre Dame's Theatre Depart­ment has done an extraordinary job ofbring­ing to light some questions about our society that every American has a duty to think about Theperfonnancesrunfrom Wednesday.Feb­ruary 23 at 8:10 p.m. to Sunday, February 27, at 2:30 p.m.. They are not to be missed. . 

ENTERTAINMENT 

by Scott Johnson 
Arid the best band on campus is, who cares? I spent the last couple ofweeks tracking down architects, business majors, engineers; just a few ofthe individuals who play in campus bands. Their sounds can be heard anywhere from Saint Mary's coffehouse, to the Loft, to Club 23, even at house parties. Since no one wants to hear this tone deaf writer's opinion on music, I decided to let the members of a few of the bands speak for themselves. I went to the Acoustic Cafe to get the low down on who to interview. There I met Robert Johnagan, the guy who runs the show. At Acoustic Cafe (Thursdays from 9 p.m. to 12 am.) perfonners.range from a &'poetanci a one man band" to a full band and string ensemble. Johnagan was rolling cords, setting up amps and testing mies when I shyly approached him with my pen and pad of paper. Johnagan and his roomate Chad, who created the band TrueNorth, told me what I needed to know outside over a cigarette. Offl went to meetJoe Cannon. Joeplayed with the renowned band Mr. Head the past · three years, andput together emiLy last year. A:·The band consists of Cannon, a senior, who sings and plays guitar, sophomores Doug McEachem and Mike Lannoyeaux, on drums and bass respectively. Q: Where did the name emiLy come from?· A: "We were walking throughLaFortune one day, looking for a name, and asked a friend to give us the first word that came to his mind. He passed a girl he knew and said, 'Hi Emily."' 
Q: "Why the major?" (Cannon is a psychology and philosophy major, Larmoyeaux an English major, and McEachem is the band's token Engineer.) 
A: "Music, theology. psychology and philosophy -there isn't much of a differ­ence. All are expressions of deeper self. I know that may sound corny." 
Q: "Who are your musical influences?". 
A: "Jawbreaker-Mike likes Rush. We call him Progboy (progressive)." 
Q: "What is your opinion on cover bands versus originals?" 
A: "Playingcoversis just a jukebox ..;.....not amusician-butjustplayingan instrument I just don't like covers of bad songs played badly." · 
Q: "How do you feel about the decisions you've made -to play punk music and originals?t' 
A: "We like playing our kind ofmusic. We wish. more people would give us a chance. We write andplay music thataffects us, inno ways music has affected us before." 
Q: "What other campus band do you 
enjoy listening to the most?" . A: (Larmoy~ux) "July. Wow." 
Q: "Are most of your song lyrics politi­cally radical?'' · 
A: "Ifldidn'thavesoapboxestostand on, I'd go insane!" .The next person· I talked to was Rob 
. Corley, who sings and plays rhythm guitar for Road Apples. Toebandconsists of Corely, a sophomore pre-med major, Gene Worziecha, an electrical engineer who plays lead guitar, Eric Hintz, the drummer and an aerospace engineer, and freshman architect majorJoe Cruz on bass. Corely, Woniecha and Hintz have been playing together since last year. 
Q: "What kind of music do you play?" 
A: "Weplaysongswelike. Wedon'tplay just stuff people want to hear. A lot of our covers aren't well known, bands like Too Much Joy, Social Distortion and Hoodoo G_uru's. If we like a popular song, like 
· 'Today' by Smashing Pumpkins, we'll play . that too. We are trying to phase out the covers with originals." 
Q. "How do you feel about being desig­nated a cover band?"· 
A. "It's annoying. We don't like to criticize anyone. Unless you label_ us alter­native. I hate PearlJam." 
Q: "Why did yo~ guys put the. band together?" .. 
A: "We do it for fun. Music is what we love. more than everything. The coolest thing in the world is to see people dancing to something you· play. It's just· the coolest thing." 
· Q: _-"What is·coming up next for your band?" 
A: "We're headlining Acoustic Cafe pretty soon. We hang out with VRS (Victoria's Real Secret). We'll be playing with them too."In my pursuit to solve the question, "To 
coverornot to cover" I spoke with Betsy 
Smith from Candy Flip. Sniith, a vocal 
performance and design major, has been in 
.::various bands with. her brother.Patrick over the last four years. Joining them in the band is guitarist/backup singer Corey Weber (for­merly of Remedies fame), drumm_er Hugh 
20 
Mundy and b~ss player Clint Johnson. 
Q: "What kind of music does Candy Flip play?" 
A: "College rock and roll -Jimi Hendrix, Stevie Ray Vaughn, Four Non­Blondes, Blind Melon, Stone Temple Pi­lots." 
Q: "Why do you choose that type of music?" 
A: :•we play so people can dance. The 
· scene is so small, so minimal, [we] have to play for audience. Some people think we are selling out." 
Q: "Do you mind not being able to play originals?" 
A: "Ienjoy watching the crowd; watching people move.·I like to hear people say, 'God, I remember that song.' We are a cover band. We play older songs too, like this song 'Brandy'." 
Q: "The song that goes, 'My love and my lady is the sea ...?' 
A: "Yeah!" 
Q: "What is your favorite campus band?" 
A: ''Bughaus. I like their style. I like to watch them; they play songs people want to hear." 
Q: "What do you hope to get out of your music?" 
A: ''I sing opera at Notre Dame and travel with a blues band during the summer and hope to write some more music. Music is expressive, an art form. It doesn't matter what kind of music. You are up there, naked, saying, 'This is what I have to give.' Music is an outlet. You hope people will get a taste of what you are offering." Idiscovered a few things through all of the 
interviews. Some musicians love to talk, others. are like Doug McEachern, emiLy's drummer, who wants the music to speak for itself. Throughout the article, I kept on trying to call it the Notre Dame "music scene." It is not. It is a collection of very genuine, talented, honest people who re­spect each other and love their work. They love music. 
Some of the musicians take it more seri­ously than others. Some like to play in bars, others at a friend's house. It is not about the Golden Rule (the one with the gold makes the rules). It's about searching to define your own style, to create smiles, to make people think about what you are playing or singing. 
Candy Flip will be playing Friday at Corby's. emiLy will be playing Saturday night at the Saint Mary's Calloway's Coff ehouse. Go listen, and soak in their music for a while. . 

-SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 



ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Bizarrefrom the Nation's Universities 
Finding a Use for Dining Hall Food 
A student at Northland College in Wisconsin has struck environmental gold through a rather odd vein -food scraps from the school cafeteria. According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education, the senior has persuaded campus administra­tors to allow him to create a compost heap from the scraps. The student, a biology major, is using half ofa storage shed on the edge ofcampus to shelter his compost heap, which will be composed of about 40 percent of the college's food waste. Some of the rich soil produced from the compost will be used to fertilize the campus. Already 10 cubic yards of waste have been accumulated. This sounds like a choice from one of those "Icky Alternatives" games: Would you rather create a stinking bacteria-filled compost heap from piles of shepherd's pie and meatless baked ziti or would you rather eat it when it's served in the dining hall? 
rt~~~~-~~~!::.~A~~n~!!~~!!:!~~!::aUOn,ili~
AAtJP oF" ~N ri.u-\16\\1 Y  ;<; '{,/ ·· ·· ·· ·  . > "'  1s exactly what one student from Geneva College m Pennsylvania set out to do. The senior electrical engineering major had complained for months about a faulty  
\JtJ\'1eR5 !TY g.  alarm system in his dormitory that frequently interrupteq his sleep. The student  
A~\NIS~ l!/'Jtsar./  ~"·"·•··"•·""'·'''··  eventually took the law into his own hands and programmed his computer to dial  
the home telephones of several campus administrators every morning before  
dawn. After several weeks ofcalls, the origin ofthe calls was discovered, and the  
student was suspended. Meanwhile, the faulty alarm has been repaired Some­ 
times you really have to light a fire under people to get them to respond. Now don't  
get any ideas, you angelic little Domers.  

/?1/:;, Hey, Are You Gonna Eat That Wrapper? 
If you're the type of person who would devour the very plate you eat off of if 
~ someone did not snatch it from your hands, a researcher at the University of Vermont has created just the thing for you. An assistant professor of food engineering has designed a thin, flexible covering, a sort of plastic wrap, from a byproduct of cheese making. Once perfected, it is hoped that the product can be sprayed on fruits and vegetables to keep them fresher longer without altering their taste. The product is not only edible, but environmentally friendly, beneficial in extending the shelf life of food and J:ielpful to dairy famiers. 'The product also promotes time efficiency -it will prohibit wasting those precious moments required to unwrap your sandwich. 

edited by Jenny Tate 
22 
WEEK IN DISTORTION 
Consumerism at its Best 
One student's attempt to resist the lures of Hulk Hogan and Old Spice 
by Dave Robinson 
Okay, so I'm sitting in my shoe-box/ cubby-hole/dorm room early on a Sat­urday morning watching TV and trying to ignore that nagging prejudice that just be­cause I'm a college student, I ought to be doing homework. I'm watching the NBA, CBS, Pepsi-cola "Stay in School Jam.'' Have you seen this thing? It's where super­starbasketball players walk out into an arena full of screaming fourth graders, asking them to "give it up" for their school. And, believe you me, give it up they do. Just what I need on a groggy Saturday morn­ing, right? These players come out and tell all ofthe kids that they'll never get anywhere in life ifthey don-'t stay in school-and buy more shoes. On this particular episode, I see one of the famed heroes of my childhood, Wilt Chamberlain, talking about how the first 1,200 girls he ever met were school­·girls. So now he's my role model. Anyway, right smack in the middle of a variety of commercials that are specifically targeted for the audience of athletically minded sports fans-most of them dealing with snack foods that are chock full of fats, sugars and more preservatives than King Tut -right smack in the middle, I find a huge surprise. It's a kind of an up-close-and­personal type deal with another one of my childhood heroes, Hulk Hogan. In this particular spot, the camera crew has caught Hulk in one of his more peaceful moments. He is sitting by a lovely beach, passing time with one of his favorite yet lesser known hobbies: landscape painting. The beautiful playing-card sized painting he has done in oil on canvas is set upon an easel, and while he merrily paints away, Mr. Hogan chats about the merits of inspiration in the face of perspiration. 
So now I'm thinking tack to the previous morning when I had reminded myself to buy more deodorant, because I was at the point where I had been scraping up and down my underarms with barren plastic, trying to get the last flakes of white stuff out of. the container. 
However, being a typical, sharp-minded, 
''While it's not inconceivable that the right deodorant will get women flocking to your armpits, will it really bring the Spanish Armada right to your bathroom sink." 
critically thinking American consumer (this is the same guy who once bought one of those rubber-handled toothbrushes that is guaranteed not to go flying out of your hands and down your throat), I take a moment to think to myself, "Why should I let Hulk Hogan tell me what deodorant to buy?" He mustknow a thing or two, or else why would he bean TV? After all, he's not only the star of the hit movie Suburban Commando, he was once the champion of the WWF. 
Turning it over a few times, I decide that if, throughout all of the sweat and gore and conflict of a wrestling match, Right Guard helps the Hulkster to maintain his artistic integrity, I guess it's worth a try. 
Of course, nothing is easy. Standing in front of the rack full of aroma disguises in the personal care section of the book store, my eye is caught by the bold crimson pack­age ofan Old Spice product They have both deodorant and antiperspirant, just to make my life easier. The ornate writing and beau­tiful decorations on the front rekindle memories of those 60 second masterpieces of cinematography that they use to advertise this terrific product of personal hygiene. 
. Great, three-masted ships crashing through waves, surging through the mist ... beautiful, bright eyed women, also surging through the mist ... Old Spice does promise you a lot, doesn't it? Frankly, I have my doubts. While it's not inconceivable that the right deodorant will get women flocking to your armpits, will it really bring the Spanish Armada right to your bathroom sink? You have to draw the line somewhere. 
So it amounts to this: Who would I rather smell like? A greasy, pile-driving wrestler or an old, salty sea dog? After a few minutes of pondering and a few discreet whiffs of all the available brand names, I decide to go with Speed Stick. The name says it all. It's a stick, it goes on fast ... just the thing for people in a hurry. 
I must say, I'm pretty proud of my con­sumer skills. If more Americans shopped the way I did, we wouldn't be known to the European community today as "those pet rock crazed fools," nor to the Japanese mer­chandisers as "the only country we sold Honda Scooters to." Let me tell you, I now feel dry and confident ... and no more of those embarrassing moments in the super­market reaching for my favorite Ball Park Hot Dogs. You know, the ones that Michael Jordan loves so much? O 
l: .:._ 
FINAL WORD 

A Cotnference for Students, by Students j by Frani McLaughlin 

· Frani McLaughlin is a junior philosophy major with a concen­tration in peace studies. She is a member ofthe committee organizing this year's conference. 
Tied-dyed shirts and daises, I don't think so. The wild sixties? Let's move on. "Make Love not War," well... Peace, Love, Dope -at Notre Dame? C'mon.! IfPeace Studies ever reflected these stereo­types, then Notre Dame's second annual Student Peace Conference will exemplify the complex intel­lectual nature of ours approach to international peace issues. Thiscommunalandintellectualrallyforpeace will be held this Saturday at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The success oflast year's conference paved the way for this second student conference,Building Peace. The conference centers around students presenting their work in the peace studies field in informal groups, followed by ques­tions and discussion. The panels are divided into particular areas, allow­ing for a range of perspectives on· different issues. Some of-the panels at this year's conference are: Women in Peacemaking, Israeli/PLO Peace Accord, Peace Education, Human Rights, U.S. Civil Rights Movement, Conflict in Northern Ireland, The Role of the UnitedNations,Alternatives to Militarized Deter­rence, Telecommunication Toward Social Action, Environmental Ethics and Its Practical Applications, and many more. The diversity of these interesting and relevant areas illustrates the wide range of peace issues that your peers in the Notre Dame community are working to understandandacton and they ask you to come and be an active part of their important study. Unfortunately, intellectual interaction between graduate and undergraduate students is generally minimal in the Notre Dame community. The Student Peace Conference offers a unique opportunity for undergraduate and graduate students to come to­getherand share their work in the peacefield. Among its many rewarding aspects; the conference allows for comfortable, stimulating discussion between the two studentcommunities. Promoting interaction between students the conference is a testament to the intellec­tual prowess and awareness of undergraduates. Un­fortunately, undergraduate academic work is often not taken seriously. Building Peace combats this . assumption with its insightful and thought-provoking undergraduate as well as its graduate presentations. The work of undergraduates is immeasurably impor­tant in that it is through their initial study that exten­sive peace work begins to take place. Likewise, student attendance is essential. Interaction between listeners and speakers is a core step in raising aware­ness of issues that touch all our Iives. Along with the invitation to students to attend this student confer­ence, faculty and administrators are invited to come and take part in this intellectual dynamic based on 
· peace. Besides, its free. Free coffee, doughnuts and lunch at Greenfields are all provided by the Peace Institute. We plan to satisfy your appetite with a break from dining hall food while simultaneously stimulat­ing your intellect and awareness of international affairs. 
The conference starts at 9:00 a.m. and ends at 3:30 
p:m. The keynote address, "Beyond the Cold War: 
U.S. Role in Global Peacekeeping" will be given by Professor Bob Johansen, Director of the Graduate Peace Institute. After his address, we will break into panels arranged by issues. At this time participants can listen to the work being done by their peers in respective areas and take part in discussion. After the first session, lunch will be provided and then there will be an afternoon session of presenter and discus­sant panels. 
While the conference is based on students present­ing their papers, this intellectual work will be en­hanced by student artwork that will be displayed at the conference. Keeping with the pervasive and inter­connected aspect of international affairs, our Notre Dame community will be enriched by the participa­tion of students. from surrounding areas such as Earlham and Manchester Colleges who are traveling to Notre Dame to share their perspectives and efforts in Building Peace. The conference is not just for graduateand undergraduate students of peace studies. The overwhelming support of a varie.ty of campus sponsors such as the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Center for Social Concerns, Graduate Student Intellectual Life Committee, Hall President's Council, Notre Dame ROTC and Campus Ministry reflect our community's strong support for peace in all its forms. 
The members of the Notre Dame Student Peace Studies Association invite all who are interested to att~nd this purposeful and worthwhile conference. For more information call 631-6970. We hope to see you there. . 
24 
Grist For The Mill 
YO( THl5 15 YCO'P_ GCX')l) FRIEND 
BRE.W! A5 11-IE. 01-:lL'/ G0050HH. "f'R.Oi)(Jc.T l}.) 1}11.5_ STRlf, 1'.VE &E/-J ASl'.:E.D m f-\0.S. A 5rff..lAL 5E.6HE/0T C.ALLED 
''Stuff \ ) ' 
Aclvertise~s r( . 
D.o". \Pt_ 
./\1 j • 
fl"R.Sf O"P, A NE/)) TECHN/Q()f. n-U-T HAS TAl'.Et--\ 
A1)VE.t.TLSl"-lb "BY 5-rol?..1--1! rr'.5 
''~ r,vfA::iITNvr n-11/..Jb.S.11 
HEllO P&lrl~f lZ>i)Ai,1 lu£'L.L LCOt. Jtl"" MOtE. ·".5 TUFF At)VE1Q"l5E.~S J)0.11 1HIS 
/JExr" EX'At-(PLE. IS hS FAT-i/L/A'2.. 

·A!> ,r 1:, 
Ul---l"El:LIE.VAi?:l.E {
!( -. /Al THE. W.51~, 
_WE. OrLL IT 
11 Q'R.G>~Mll. 
FOOD ,, 
Rick Grey 
"I ll.5ED TD HA\JE. TO ~IV£ A '' ~ I. Sl>EN°D t..>HltT kl,t.S 
1-\EA"IT· t,Jl'!~/Ji/J...)6/
L0/06 llJ/t'r TO lX)<,u/sTVlu/J W 
O~C-E.. 1:>--e,1v1~ Tl/..1£ ~ 
Q-lO,t:£5 YA l:tb'JT IJP/
t,JhTOj Sl~li'f'EE'.'> ,1-!Sl) i'l.J\\I 
M~E. /HP01.TAI-JT -n-l11J6S! 11 

IS rr ~y (,)01')~ THI.S TE-0-t/JIQl.lE. 15 SO 
'TUCX.·A-~U<.t::' ••• " 

E.FFEC.TIVE ! 
( 
~ ••• llN"f/L Bl)!lTIES om:iE.I> 1' ~T TElt r;i\U'J', ~O~'J'/ 11 Tl-l~lt_ >JE.11..l C.LU'e, JU~T O<JT3(1)£. "Tf-\Mlts, DAl>DY/-G;3_,1.,_-,, MV S!fB~t!.Akl E/-.lGL,\VE." 

TOO BAb THEl?E /SIJ'r, . n/OV6H, C,/OSc. ,flPLJl-ll> .!JfRf,, TrllS COLX-Z, 'e>E. 115 U.05e. ,f-.S SOME. 0r \'Do wolX.t> Eva 

~Tc.H CX.ie TALEAlTED Ac.Tot ABOVE. HE. /1.J/JOCE.lvT/...',' SAr-AP1..ES A 5/../VER.. · OF" POTATO, 1)E£P-FRIED IAJ OIL ,t/.JD HEAVILY .SALTE'D, A/JD ~/IJD.5 VP IJE.e.D/106 A-CIGAP.ETTc
:;, I1\-N"D ux,1..sJ;tR.11Jb 1r: 1r wi+s Goct> r:o"R me CHIP/ 't!!fi HEY i3A-BY, AIAJT Nf.JTHIN1 l,.).IAT Tf'ISTE5 THAT &:o'I>I 
~ 
. 


., ·, .. ( -.._,... ' . ·,, . : :·, -, 

?Hevzd .,9 e~ ~'dod 111~~aa ........·.. 
$7 Students $10 General 


These events are gratefully 
Crazy
-fJ,--11--# ••• 
brought to ~~ 
:=-:::=~ stuff and 
_you by ... . " .,.... ,.~;• , 
"'"'"'""'"'"°"'0 '""' 
us PosrAGf 
PND 
norret><,,-,,o ,rv ' Pt,,r,,lfk) 1(1 


