•The Notre Dame
CORDUROY Sport Coats Trousers
SPORT COATS $2^95 Value
•	4 PATCH POCKETS $14.95	IKOUSKKb
Colors: Grey, Brown, Blue,	Colors: Tan, Wine, Grey, Brown,
Green, Wine Tan	Green, Blue, Natural
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street	.
• Oct. 21, 1949
Chow Hall Menu
Editor:
Our bulletin boards are full of notices —some important and others not so. I don’t see why the “authorities” can’t post a weekly menu of what we are going to have in the dining hall. Maybe such a procedure would get us all away from that question we hear ten times a day: “What have they (those wonderful chow hall people) got?”
I realize that posting a menu will not improve the food, but if I don’t see them posted soon I’ll just figure they have no actual names for what they serve.
Bucky Bernier 1S1 Morrissey
Irish Boxing Team
Editor:
I was very pleased to note that sports editor Ralph Wright has voiced in open print last week what scores of ND students have voiced on campus for years;
namely, why hasn’t Notre Dame a varsity boxing team.
Surely something is lacking when a major university does not sponsor such a team in intercollegiate competition. The purpose of this letter is to add some little emphasis to Ralph’s suggestion that the lack is not one of varsity material or one of coaching, and perhaps thereby, to encourage the administration to do some further thinking on the subject. I have been on numerous service boxing teams and on several golden gloves teams which have come in competition with intercollegiate stars from other universities and when I say that Vic Roblez is worthy to lead a team of very good ND boxers which would compare favorably with any varsity team in the country I am guilty only of understatement. And not only could we compare such, but could Dominic Napolitano, who deservedly rates the reputation as one of the finest builders of men and boxers in the country.
Besides, what would an intercollegiate boxing team cost the University? Eight men, with no substitutes, would be taken on any away-from-home trip with the guarantee from the home team more than covering the expenses. And the profits to be realized by the University on a home bout, judging from the record-
breaking packed-houses greeting Bengal participants? Practically unlimited.
The usual argument extended to these statements goes thuswise: “But boxing is such a brutal ‘sport’ ”. But is it? In the 17 years of Bengal competition has there ever been but a minor injury? Do the well-padded gloves, the rigid physical exams, the closely officiated bouts, the well-trained and conditioned participants allow more than minor injuries in intercollegiate bouts? In a word, no. The injuries receivable in boxing can’t, to resurrect an old phrase, hold a glove to those incident to football.
Bengal Bouters for years have boxed with the hope predominant that maybe next year for their efforts they will be awarded the chance to shine the light of Notre Dame in another and highly respected field of varsity competition and thereby win the coveted monogram. Can this be that year?
Bill Roemer
Off-Campus
Heh, Heh!
The Philip Morris ad is getting just plain dirty. Please strike it out of future issues.	Robert T. Stock
229 Walsh

Mcm AMefi Sa.
FINE-WALE CORDUROY SPORT COATS
with 4 Patch Pockets ... 14.95
Herd’s the biggest buy we’ve made in years on smartly tailored fine-wale corduroy sport coats. Choice of colors . . . with 4-patch pockets . . . open vent back ... in sizes for all men. Get yours tomorrow.
This Week’s Browser Winner:
John J. McCormick, Jr., 224 Breen-Phillips
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick -
painful research comparison of writing styles, checking with usually reliable sources, and even more Sam Spade-like methods, the WEEK believes the author of this monstrosity to be Dave Gallup, Tribune sportswriter. This Bearskin has not been in Arizona for the past ten years, rather he wrote high school sports during the late Jim Costin era. He has
Top of the Week
The Green Wave was all wet.
Could Be Verse
After last week’s game, Henry Frnka, Tulane coach, was asked for a statement by the Associated Press. Said Coach Frnka: “I’d like to say something clever, but what can you say after you’ve been run over like that?” However, later, in an exclusive interview with one of the WEEK’S reporters, the coach summed up the game with this little two-line ditty:
T for us, and T for they;
We had Price, but not Coutre.
He then went on to deny that some of the Tulane players had been heard singing “I Wish I Was in Dixie,” during the first quarter.
Coach Leahy of Notre Dame joyfully commented on the 46-7 victory by telling newspapermen that “. . . we’ll have an off-day mighty soon, I’m afraid.” Amazing enough the Irish coach expressed no fears about this coming Saturday, even though the team faces Open Date, an outfit that hasn’t been scored on all season!
Fhash
(A fhash is composed of left-over flashes, chopped up and fried with onions.)
(Is that what we smell?—Ed. note)
Jo Stafford, singing star of stage, screen, and radio, who has appeared on many Scholastic back covers in the past years, finally appeared on the campus in person last week. . . . Her picture appeared in Sunday’s Tribune, lighting a cigarette. . . . The question is . . . was it a Chesterfield? . . . While we’re on the subject of cigarettes, we might mention that the Philip Morris ad that appeared on page 30 of last week’s issue was posed for down by the lake by Johnnie, the Philip Morris trade mark, as the boy, and Red Prendergast of Sorin, cleverly upholstered as the girl. ... At one point in last week’s game, Eddy Price, Tulane’s star halfback, took the ball and started on one of his long rans behind the line of scrimmage, from one side of the field to the other. . . . Commented one student wit in Section 28: “He’s trying to get out of the stadium.” . . . And while we’re on the subject of Section 28,
the WEEK pauses to wonder why Row 33 in that section is so popular. . . . There are 17 seats in Row 33, and there are at least 25 students in them at every home game. . . . As a result, the poor guys in seats 16 and 17, (namely, Ray Watson and Jack McGoldrick) usually end up sitting in the aisle about mid-way through the first play of the game. . . . Jim Carberry, engineering student from Brooklyn, has demonstrated his versatility by writing a novel. . . . The book took three years to complete, and was written in the Emerald Room of the Oliver. . . . It is a saga of Notre Dame life which may well surpass in popularity Waltei-D. Edmond’s Drums Along the Mohawk. . . . The title is Bums Along the St. Joe. . . . Today’s issue of Life magazine carried pix of last week’s football week-end. . . . The caf’s quota of Lifes was gone by 9:30 this morning.
Baring Bearskin
Much controversy has been raised as to the identity of the South Bend Tribune’s anonymous Bearskin. After much
no official connection with Notre Dame. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan. If no libel suits or denials are forthcoming, WEEK readers can be reasonably certain that Bearskin is not Paul Neville, Chet Grant, Joe Doyle or Ed Snyder . . . but Dave Gallup.
Bottom of the Week
No more home games for over a month.
15 PHOTOS $1°°
•for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2)4 x 3)6
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL §1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROcopy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
STOP
PASSING VP GOOD TIMES
Alice and George Davis
SPECIAL Low Rate for Notre Dame Students.
Phone 38229
106 W. MONROE AT MICHIGAN
GET THE BEST FOR LESS ... It’s Fun... the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
•	Incomparable Low Rates
•	Private Studios and Main Ballroom
•	Friendly, Congenial Atmosphere
•	Personally Trained Staff
Congenial Dance Fiesta every Thursday Nite 9-11 pun. for pupils and guests. Meet new friends and have fun.
NORTHERN INDIANA'S LARGEST STUDIO
[ iXsCfc Stllios )
STUDIO HOURS 10 ajn.-10 pm.
• Oct. 21, 1949
Entertainment
OCTOBER 21
COLFAX (through Oct. 26)—Cy Howard’s panicky blonde finally hits the screen. With Marie Wilson in the title role, M?/ Friend Irma (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) adds up to moderate fun. Jerry Lewis is the main reason for seeing the picture.
PALACE (through Oct. 22)—Madame Bovary (A-2) is a sprawling story of an avaricious woman by Flaubert. Jennifer Jones is convincing as the shrew. Van Heflin, Louis Jourdan and James Mason support. House Across the Street (A-2) is the co-feature.
STATE (through Oct. 22)—Moon and Sixpence and So Ends Our Night. Two better-than-average reissues.
AVON (through Oct. 25)—Easy Living (A-2) is a fine behind the scenes flicker of professional football. Charles Schnee wrote the sharp scenario with cryptic dialogue. Victor Mature, Lucille Ball and Lizabeth Scott are starred. The Los Angeles Rams are in it too.
OCTOBER 22
DRILL HALL—Seniors set to toss a real old-fashioned hoe-down. Put j’our bonnet on Mamie, Papie’s goinna skip to his lu.
WASHINGTON HALL—A grade A thriller finally hits the creaky boards. It’s They Walk By Night starring Richard Basehart as a psychopathic killer and is as good as anything currently downtown.
OCTOBER 23
TIMES (through Oct. 25)—Look For the Silver Lining (A-l) is a technicolored musical gem; the fictionalized biography of Marilyn Miller. June Haver is good in the leading role but it’s Ray Bolger who really steals the show. What a performer!
PALACE (through Oct. 26)—Scene of the Crime (A-2). Here’s a modest mystery with Los Angeles authentically used as the background. Van Johnson forgets his cute mannerisms to turn in an admirable performance as a detective. Beauteous Arlene Dahl appears as his wife.
OCTOBER 26
PALACE (through Oct. 29)—Jennifer Jones, for the third time in a week, is starred again; this time in Robert Nathan’s fantasy Portrait of Jennie. (A-2) Selznick with his desire to impress fails disastrously to capture the ethereal charm of Nathan’s book.
OCTOBER 27
AVON (through Nov. 1)—The well-known story of the Hatfields and the McCoys is brought to the screen in Rose-anna McCoy (B). Even though it doesn’t create credible characters it does have several recommending points. The production, especially the scenery, is handsome. Joan Evans and Farley Granger are the star-crossed lovers. Charles Bickford, Arline MacMahon and Richard Basehart, in particular, are stand-outs in bit parts.
COLFAX (through Nov. 1)—Jimmy Cagney is back to his old standards in White Heat (B). The film is a bitter piece of entertainment but highly entertaining in a ghoulish sort of way. Virginia Mayo, Edmond O’Brien and Margaret Wycherly are all excellent.
RIVER-PARK (through Nov. 2)—J. Arthur Rank’s technicolor production The Red Shoes (B). is a must-see feature for the discerning film fan. A special reduction for ND students has been made and admittance will be by reservation only. (There is a lengthy review of this movie on Page 31.)
FISH, STEAKS, CHOPS and
CHICKEN
Let us continue to serve you the best in food . . . and at prices you will appreciate . .. For your convenience we have orders to take out.
Now Open on Sundays
JOE NABICHT'S Chicken in the Rough 213 N. Main St.
Phone 3-1215
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
NEED A CHEST. BOOKCASE. OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED — SAVE MORE THAN i/2
This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture.
One Block North of Gilbert’s Williams Paint Co.
755 South Michigan Ph. 6-7346 FREE DELIVERY
$
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 October 21. 1949 No. 5
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
College Men Prefer
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O’G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS_________________News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA_____________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY___________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN__________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY_______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE_______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
a Ronson
5.00 up
for your desk Table Lighters...
11.00 up
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
Z/Z/T
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during, the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Scholastic goes to LIFE! This week’s cover was taken (as one H. Wismer is prone to repeat and repeat) high above the Stadium. While gathering material for the large spread scheduled for yesterday’s issue, Sports Editor Gene Farmer and Photographer Frank Scherschel hiked up to the roof of the Press Box. One Freshman was reported to have spotted this duo from LIFE’S staff before the opening whistle and to have remained transfixed the entire afternoon hopefully offering an Ipana smile to the journalistic gods.
A reliable source said that the LIFE invaders were 'expecting an upset and were hoping for an on the spot scoop. The rugged Irish gridders, however, shattered their dreams—to LIFE’S disappointment and to Scholastic’s unlimited satisfaction.
Oct. 21, 1949
KENTUCKY CLUB
"LOOK FOR THE BLUB TIN WITH THE RED RIDER”
Ererybody cheers for the fragrant, cool-smoking friendliness of Kentucky Club. It’s a grand blend of real White Burley —always mild and smooth in taste, gentle on the tongue. Enjoy Kentucky Club—“Treat Yourself to the Best!”
Listtn 'o 'HE 'ISHING and HUNTING CLUB - M/.J
LAST CHANCE
to save 10 to 20% on Arthur Murray’s dance lessons

CAUTION
HOW TO SELECT A DANCING SCHOOL
Anyone can operate a dance studio. No examination, no license is required. Even a person who knows nothing about dancing — or teaching — can hang out his shingle and profess to teach dancing “a new way.” So be careful — ask these questions:
J Who is the actual owner of the school? What experience does he have in teaching dancing?
2 Will you learn simple steps that you can do on a crowded floor?
J Will you learn the fundamentals of good dancing—or waste your money learning novelty routines?
Arthur Murray’s teaching methods are those developed through his 33 years’ experience. Only socially correct steps are taught. Your dancing will look expert and smooth wherever you go.
You're sure of yourself—when you're sure of your dancing!
You’re at ease with any partner at the smartest places — even on the most crowded dance floor! Yes, your dancing has style and finish after only a few hours with one of Arthur Murray’s talented, thoroughly trained teachers.
Come in today or phone 2-3339. Only two days left to save 10-20%! What fun you’ll have, what compliments you’ll get at your next party.
Arthur Murray
120 E. WAYNE STREET Above Copp Music Shop
The Scholastic
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 5	OCTOBER 21, 1949
Juniors Plan Picnic At Potawatami Park
Rugged outdoorsmen among the juniors will want to take advantage of the Junior class picnic, to be held on Saturday afternoon, Oct. 29, at Potawatami Park, from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. For the sum of $1.50 per junior and date, free transportation, refreshments, and such activities as softball, volleyball, potato races and sack races will be provided. Prizes for the winners will be awarded in some of these contests.
Juniors hope to plan the afternoon so that there will be a maximum of fun and a minimum of confusion. Bernie Lavins, who along with co-chairman Hank Madden is in charge of the picnic, said, “Games will be so organized as to enable everyone to participate without unnecessary waste of time.”
For those who spend Saturday afternoon with their ears glued to the radio for the latest Grid results, arrangements are being made to broadcast the ND-Navy game. After the game popular music in the form of records will be played. Refreshments will include hot A dogs, baked beans, ice cream, cake, coffee, W cokes, etc. Entertainment will be provided for the picknickers while they eat.
Seven committees are handling this project. The reason given for the large number of committees is that the work will be lightened for each person. Also, in this way a larger number of men will be directly involved in class activities. All juniors are invited to attend. Tickets are being sold by hall representatives.
—Dave Driscoll
DOME PHOTOS
Seniors graduating in January, June, or August of 1950, who have not made a photo appointment with the DOME, are asked to do so Monday through Friday of next week, between the hours of 1:45 and 5:45 in the afternoon.
St. Mary's Crossing Light To Be Manually Operated
Becoming effective before the end of this week, the stop lights at the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame crossing on Homicide Highway wall henceforth be manually operated. Rev. Joseph E. Kehoe, c.s.c., announced earlier this week that Mr. M. C. Pohlkotte of the Indiana State Highway Department was here to give instructions on the use of the light.
A group, appointed by the Student Council, will decide at what time an attendant "will -be on duty. They will also be in charge of -operating the light. A key is necessary to open the control box. To operate the stop light a lever must first be pushed up. The flashing amber light on the Highway will turn green while the flashing red light on St. Mary’s road turns solid red. After a few seconds the green light will turn a cautionary amber and then finally red. The light is set to last 60 seconds. Once across, the lever in the St. Mary’s control box must be returned to its normal position to insure an unchecked flow of traffic on the highway.
(In behalf of the student body, Scholastic would like to commend the State Highway Department for the erection of this light and for the permission to operate it manually. The danger that was once so prevalent is, we hope, a thing of the past.—Ed.)
Noted Irishman to Speak
Seumas MacManus, noted Irish humor ist and story teller, will speak to the Irish Club members of the University next Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Law auditorium.
Irish club members will be admitted free to the talk, while an admission of 50 cents will be charged for others wishing to attend.
Mr. MacManus was born in Ireland and received an honorary doctorate of law from Notre Dame in 1917. He is the author of numerous books and plays such as Top O’ the Morning (1920) and Donegal Fairy Stories (1898).
Polio Claims Vetville Student John Bellis
John Bellis
Indiana’s polio rate, still on the upgrade this week, has claimed the life of one Notre Dame Vetvillager and stricken two others. John W. Bellis, of Apartment 19-B, Vetville, succumbed to the disease Oct. 12 after having been hospitalized five days. Another student’s wife, Mrs. Paul Gustafson, became the sec
ond last week. On Monday Harry B. Williams, of Apartment 21-B became Vetville’s third polio case in two weeks.
Bellis, a 28-year-old graduate student from Oradell, N. J., had just completed his candidacy exams for a doctorate in chemistry when he was taken ill on Oct. 7. He was admitted to St. Joseph Hospital where he remained in an iron lung until his death. His was the third polio fatality in St. Joseph County for 1949.
Mrs. Gustafson, the mother of a three-year-old daughter, was admitted to Memorial Hospital Oct. 13, where her condition is reported to be good. Manorial now has 31 cases of infantile paralysis listed, ten of them in isolation.
Harry Williams,. 23, was admitted to Memorial hospital Monday, where he is reported to be in good condition. With his case St. Joseph County recorded its 71st polio victim of the year.
After earning his AB degree at Wesleyan University in 1941, John Bellis -enlisted in the Army. He served overseas in the South Pacific, including the battle of Okinawa. When he was discharged, he entered Emory University at Atlanta, Ga., where he received his MA degree. Last year he entered Notre Dame as a Sinclair research fellow.
A member of the Dutch Reformed Church, Bellis is survived by his wife, Doris, their 20-month-old son, John, Jr, his father, mother and two brothers.
—Vic D orr .
£ Oct. 21, 1949
9
Jack Noonan Elected K. of C. Grand Knight; Varied Hans for Year Outlined and Organized
Under their four by-words of charity, unity, fraternity, and patriotism the Notre Dame Order of the Knights of Columbus is organizing its plans for the year. Jack Noonan, grand knight, has outlined a plan of varied social and charitable functions covering the Catholic, council, fraternal, membership, and publicity activities of the organization.
An election of officers was held recently. Jack Noonan is again grand knight. The other officers include: Jim Slattery, deputy grand knight; Tom Feeney, treasurer; Bill Soos, financial secretary; Bill Bradley, lecturer; Dan Norander, chancellor; Dick Cullen, warden; Bob Savage, recording secretary; Don Grieve, advocate; Don Buseck, inside guard; Ron Saniford, outside guard. The Trustees are Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., and Professo^ Robert Sullivan of the Department of Law.
The Catholic Activity Committee, chairmanned by Arnold Lane, plans such charitable measures as financial aid to the nearby Gibault School for Boys, Vet-ville’s Maternity Fund, and the Mishawaka Orphanage, two clothing drives, and the Bengal Bouts. Two connnunion breakfasts, one each semester, and the
WND to Air Local Program
Student talent for new "live" radio show "Rehearsal in Studio B" practices in the studios of WND. The informal variety show will be broadcast every Wednesday night.
undertaking of the Lenten Adorations are also under Lane’s direction.
Dick Soisson, head of the Council Activity Committee, is planning lectures, movies, refreshments, and entertainment at the bi-weekly Tuesday night meetings. The K.C. also has bowling, basketball, softball, and handball teams. Dick has in mind two activity ideas for non-mem-bers. For the student body at large a general social get-together some time around Christmas time and for the bridge addicts on campus, the Duplicate Bridge Tournament.
This year Jim Siebold is handling the monthly publication of the K.C. News, girt ng members the current K.C. news and list of impending activities. At the end of the yeai* he will also take over the publication of the Knights’ Yearbook, The Santa Maria.
The activities of the Knights are many and varied. The only qualifications for membership are that you be eighteen and a practical Catholic. At present Jack Noonan and Dan Norander, the chairmen on membership, are recruiting 250 new members. If you’re interested in joining, drop over to the basement of Walsh at the Knights of Columbus Council Office.
Freshman Enrollment	,
Figures Total 1406	:
The huge total of 1406 freshmen high-	?,
lights the statistics on student enroll-	'
ment for the current semester released this week. The College of Commerce retains its claim as the largest, with an , enrollment of 1314 students, while the total enrollment in the University is ~ . 4968.	i
New freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters swell the enrollment by	449.	■
Sophomores total 334, juniors 206, and r 224 seniors anticipate graduation	this	:
year. There are 1213 AB men enrolled.
Engineers total 1052 with the freshman class leading with 371. Next largest class are the sophomores with 264. There _ are 181’juniors and 237 seniors.
The College of Science boasts a fresh- • man class of 212 and the sophomores fol- i low with 142. Seventy-five juniors and ; 74 seniors bring the total to 505.	-J
Three hundred and nineteen new stu- s dents entered the College of Commerce £ this September but the sophomores still ; lead with 410. The juniors and seniors ’ bring up the rear with 281 and 304 students respectively. The four classes total 1314.
Enrollment in the Department of Physical Education stands at 162 for the | semester. Fifty-five of these are freshmen, 47 are sophomores, 26 juniors, and the seniors follow with 34.
Aspiring lawyers total 300 for this semester and the Graduate School has enrolled 421 students to work for higher degrees.
Two Nicaraguan Students Here on Exchange Program
Two Nicaraguan graduate students are enrolled at the University of Notre Dame under a United States government fellowship program. They are Jose Luis Monteil, civil engineering major, and Alejandro Bendana, major in education.
The program is administered by the Office of Education of the Federal Security Agency, in cooperation with the Institute of International Education and the State department.
The graduate exchange program with Latin-American countries has been in effect since 1941. There are approximately 75 Latin-American graduate students enrolled in colleges and universities under the program this year.
The Scholastic
10
VETVILLE BABY SITTEBS
Icebox Raids and ((uu>t Studying Make dob Easier
By Jim Kingsley
We baby-sitters are an odd lot, say Vetville moms and pops. Blit, they hastily add, they like us anyway.
It- seems we do all kinds of curious things in the course of minding kids — things that even the best books on baby care don’t mention. Of course, Vet families know the psychology courses over here are rife with new theories on everything. Maybe, they speculate, we have finally got around #to operatio sequitur babies.
But whatever we do, it’s beyond the ken of most Vetville folks. Where, they ask, do Comnjerce students—who never heard of psychology anyway—get such radical ideas on Buster’s milk formula? One Saturday night, for instance—
Starchy Diet for Buster
A couple in 4-d went over to Washington Hall, leaving a Marketing major to watch the kids. Sebastian looked dependable enough, they said, but now they’re kind of wondering.
“When we got back he said everything was O.K., there was nothing to worry about, he’d just fed Buster. He left right away.	■
“We were going to bed when my wife saw the jar of milk on the kitchen table. It was full, just as we’d left it. I didn’t see anything to get upset
Junior Masters Ed Conroy
Oct. 21, 1949
about, but my wife started wailing. She pointed at an empty bottle on the sink. ‘My plastic starch mixture!’ was all she could say.
“We checked Buster, but he was quiet and still breathing, so we went to bed. Probably Sebastian knew what he was doing, but we didn’t sleep much that night.”
Sitters Reluctant to Eat
If the Vet families don’t savvy our ideas on feeding baby, they’re even more puzzled by how we feed us. The student stomach, they’ve decided, is a strange one indeed.
It’s said that one Friday night last Spring, two bony giants volunteered to sit during a dance in the Vet Rec Hall. They were given a verbal deed to the ice box, but they protested they weren’t at all hungry. Mrs. B. looked hurt; she said they mustn’t be bashful. They said no, really, we’re quite full.
After the dance, Mrs. B. and her husband hurried back to confront the pair: “Did you help yourselves?”
“Oh, a little bit.”
But they looked so uncomfortable that Mrs. B. rushed to the ice box, intending to stuff them whether they liked it or not. “We’ll have a party,” she said.
There wasn’t any party. Gone from the shelves were a cantaloupe, three-fourths of a cherry pie, a tray of ice cream, and four quarts of milk. That family still wonders what we are like when we’re hungry.
Vet families don’t want us to get the wrong idea, though. They’re tops in hospitality for us Baby-Sitters. And they’ll stand on their heads to prove it. About the ice box, wives usually say: “Fill up. Seeing that you don’t get paid, I’d feel terrible if you didn’t eat.”
Marx Good for Something
Sometimes, they claim, we really earn our board and keep. We cope with domestic problems nicely, for one thing. Parents think we have a weird ingenuity, but they admit we can really handle yowling infants.
One couple remembers the night they walked in late to find their baby girl
on the sofa. The tears had dried from her wide eyes. She sat there transfixed, her small head tilted back solemnly.
Adelbert, a Journalism major, was sitting next to her. He was reading Das Kapital aloud. When her head began to sink he lowered his voice. By the third page she was asleep. Adelbert put her tenderly to bed.
At least two people in the world think Adelbert is a living saint.
Less subtle were the tactics of Oswald, a Phy Ed man (these names aren’t real). Oswald brought along two muscular friends to guard the hearth one evening.
At about eleven baby doused his diapers and screamed, but the young ape-men were faked out for only a minute. When his parents returned, baby was hanging by one leg from the hairy hand of Oswald. Another gorilla, was doing him up in a dish towel. A third held the pins. The parents were horrified, but baby grinned and chuckled. When Oswald dumped him into his crib and rasped “shut ’up, ya brat,” he was still gurgling gaily.
These Vetville wives and husbands may ponder on us, our methods, and our stomachs. But they seldom ask questions or criticize, for fear they’ll lose us. Odd as we are, they like us baby-sitters plenty.
Ed Conroy Masters Junior
II
Zuckowsky Elected Mayor of Vetville
The citizens of Vetville sent Leo ‘Zeke’ Zuckowsky back into office as mayor last week, after the only candidate nominated against him declined in his favor. ‘Zeke’ had taken over as acting mayor last June when his predecessor graduated. He had expected to fill only the unexpired term.
The Vetville Council had previously planned an election date after the nomination of candidates, but the procedure was altered after the ward nominations were made. Under the existing Vetville laws, the villag'e is divided into six wards. Each ward is represented on the council by one councilman. For the mayoralty election, each ward was to submit a nominee for that post.
Zuckowsky Only Nominee
When the nominations were made, however, it was found that Zuckowsky was the only nominee. His election was then made official by a subscription letter, circulated by the council throughout the village.
Wards one, three, five and six had nominated Zeke; ward two did not enter
Students Celebrate Tulane Rout
Although every student celebrated last week's victory in some manner, these cele-braters are part of a large crowd that attended the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall.
a nomination. John Hyland was nominated in ward four, but declined in favor of Zuckowsky.
The Vetville Council is operating under a system newly set up this term. Besides his position as a member of the governing body, each councilman will be the chairman of a standing committee. The council hopes that the new system will promote greater efficiency in carrying out its functions throughout the coming years.
Appointments Announced
Mayor Zuckowsky announced the following appointments for his new term: Jim Kenton of ward one was named Chairman of the Equipment Committee; Dick Gorman, ward two, Chairman of the Entertainment Committee; Bill Broderick, ward three, Chainnan of Highway Control; Paul Gustafson, ward five, was appointed Secretary-Treasurer; and Bruce Bishop, ward six, Chairman of Sanitation.
These men will organize committees to carry out the functions of their departments. The councilmen are elected by their respective wards to provide for a suitable community government for the married veterans and their families who live in the community set up on the edge of the campus.
Council Has Proposal	।
For Infirmary Visits	I
In a rather uneventful meeting Mon-	r
day night, the Student Council decided	j
that:	‘
1.	The Council’s social committee . would delve into the possibilities of set- „ ting aside a visiting period at the student infirmary.	I
£
2.	Hall council elections would be car-	*
ried out as planned.	:
3.	A date book would be purchased i by the Council to avoid conflicting dates ; of student activities.
4.	Five or six motions and proposals would be referred to the Vice-President , in Charge of Student Affairs before fur- _ ther action.	5 .
Ed Farrell, Chairman of the Blue Cir-	3
cle, who proposed the motion to instigate	i
infirmary visiting periods, noted that at	I
present confined students may have no	!
visitors. “It would be very nice,” he said,	J
“if a visiting period, no matter how	;]
short, could be set up. Everybody likes	2
visitors when they’re sick in bed.”	5
Cleveland Club Has Mass
A Communion breakfast is slated for members of the Cleveland club this Sunday at the Hoffmann hotel. Mass will be said at 9 a.m. in the Dillon hall chapel. Chairman Leonard Shepherd has made the arrangements for the event, assisted by Vin DeCrane.
POLITICAL SCIENCE ANNALS
One way by which students of public questions may keep informed about national and world affairs is by reading THE ANNALS of The American Academy of Political and Social Science. Of the 14,000 members of The Academy, more than a thousand are students who have all the privileges of membership for only three dollars ($3.00) per year, instead of the regular five dollars ($5.00).
A student may join by remitting the $3.00 fee to The American Academy at 3817 Spruce Street, Philadelphia 4, Pa.; the only special requirement being the inclusion of the name of the institution at which he is registered. THE ANNALS appears six times per year. It is to . be found in most libraries and those lz,not familiar with it may easily examine copies.
*
12
The Scholastic
Baffled Reporter Gets Inside Glimpse As Players Rehearse 'Whistling in the Dark'
By FRANK HAENDLER
Washington Hall was dark and quiet. The front doors were locked. But a little light, showing from under the side door, revealed activity inside. Practice sessions for the University Theater production Whistling in the Dark were in full swing.
The stage was Spartan; old type barroom chairs, rounded back and all (if you dent’ think they’re Spartan, come over and try mine!), a table, a wooden rocker and a piano bench. A yellow table-cloth was the only bright spot in the place. Faded houses painted on Washington Hall’s bricks, and switches, wires and plugs formed a background. What realism!
Play in the Making
A play was in the making. The director, Mr. Frank Hanley, explained this was blocking practice. A few minutes later I got the idea.
“I’m not supposed to be here! How did you get over here?”
“Who me? I’m sorry. I belong over there. Where’s he going?”
Blocking must be a solution of an Alphonse-Gaston gag. Mr. Hanley paced around getting effects. “Jack, speak up. I can’t hear you. . . . Swifter. . . . Move over.” (That’s blocking!)
The informality and easiness made the whole thing friendly. Like a get-togeth-sa er. The hero, reading a serious line; from the book, smiled broadly. Waiting for his cue the thug rocks back and forth in the rocker. Two characters (the kind in plays) talk over the whole thing back stage. This is a play in the shell; the very first stage.
Thing Is Intriguing
“Cut out the sofa; take the scene over from‘courage my pet.’” (My gosh! I’m here on business and I forgot to take notes. This thing is intriguing.)
“Keep a static position unless you speak. Remember that.” The action was moving faster. The plot was thickening.
“Make a lot out of that line.” The hero and the heroine embrace, carefully looking over each other’s shoulder tenderly, so as not to lose the place in the book.
Just as I was to learn who done it and ® Oct. 21, 1949
let all of you in on it, a cruel announcement crashed down. “That’s enough for now. We’ll block Act III at the next practice. Besides, it’s cold in here.”
Can anyone lend me a script?
ASME Meeting to Feature Film, Atomic Warfare Talk
“Bikini and the Human Side” will be the subject of a talk by Mr. Forest Nag-ler, vice-president of the Allis-Chalmers Corp, to the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at their next meeting, Nov. 9. According to Roger White, program chairman, a supplementary film entitled “Navy Crossroads” will follow Mr. Nagler’s talk on atomic warfare.
On Nov. 30, the eighty-five member Campus Chapter will feature a competitive speaking contest for its own members on any problem in engineering. Three representatives from the South Bend branch of ASME will serve as judges and the winners of the Notre Dame tournament will then go to the regional at Milwaukee, Wis.
ASME is also holding a contest for the best scientific paper for the “Charles T. Main Award.” The topic chosen by the engineers is: “The Need for Conversion to a Five Year Course in Engineering.” The award consists of one hundred and fifty dollars with an engraved certificate signed by the national president of ASME. The papers must be submitted to the Notre Dame Chapter, and are then sent on to ASME headquarters in New York.
At the inaugural meeting of the year, Ted Dwyer was elected Chairman of the Notre Dame group; Bill Pierson, vicechairman; Phil Hannon, secretary and Marino Giuffre, treasurer. Plans were made for the society’s annual banquet to be held Dec. 15. The activities of the club so far have included a trip through the Studebaker plant in South Bend.
Accounting Club Holds Talk
The Notre Dame Accounting club was co-sponsor with the South Bend Chaptei- of the National Association of Cost Accounting for the second in a series of eight discussions on the topic “Internal Reports.” The meeting was held in the Law Auditorium.
Cotillion Bid Sales Open for Sophomores
On Tuesday, Cotillion bids will go on sale in Morrissey Lounge for sophomores only. A week later juniors and seniors may purchase tickets in the Dining Hall. Football tickets for the Iowa game and tuxedos may be taken care of at the same time. The price, tentatively set at $5.50, will include favors.
The dance will feature Griff Williams, the creator of America’s most danceable
Griff Williams
music, and his orchestra. Williams holds attendance records at two of America’s most discerning dance spots — New York’s Waldorf-Astoria, and the Palmer House in Chicago.
Jim Garvin, co-chairman of the dance and Sophomore class president, announced that late permissions and car permissions will be settled by next week.
AROTC Designates Four Distinguished Students
Four Air ROTC cadets have been des-’ ignated as distinguished military ^students by Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer, professor of air science, with the concurrence of the University officials.
The four men, all seniors, are William F. Tormey, Kenneth J. Bayly, Robert E^ Millspaugh, and Ralph W. Dixon. All of the men are veterans of World War IE As a result of the nominations, they are' eligible to apply for regular Air Force -commissions.	-	.
The-nominations were based on miH- . tary and academic proficiency, aptitude.
" for the service, and outstanding qualities of leadership.	■ ;
■	13
Your Future
2: As a Doctor. . .
By BILL WEIR
“Thera’s plenty of room in medicine now,” says Dr. Maurice J. Thornton. “We have so few doctors that when you open your practice the other doctors will welcome you because they want someone to help take the burden. It isn’t like some professions, law for instance, where you’ll have a lot of competition.
“The only place where you’ll have much competition is in the schools. The medical schools are overcrowded, but we expect them to be back to normal in a few years. We have a very large number of college students now, and the medical schools aren’t equipped to handle them all. What’s more, they have no method of knowing which men are best. I know one fellow who is working as a teacher until things gets a little less crowded.
“A new man should go into general practice right after he gets out. I know a lot of people will disagree with me in this age of specialization, but there are good reasons for not specializing at first. First of all, you need about four or five years of general practice to give you
Dr. Maurice J. Thornton
enough background. I was in general practice for ten years until I got into X-ray. Now when I see a broken bone I understand more about it than I can see in the picture. I can call up other doctors and consult -with them.
“Another reason is that it takes money to specialize. It costs plenty to buy the necessary equipment, and if you start off with only the minimum of equipment, it will be a long time before you make much money. It’s especially hard if you happen to be married. You’ll have to give up almost all luxuries. The best thing to do is stay in general practice until you make enough money to start off right, then you can specialize comfortably. It doesn’t cost too much to start in general practice, probably somewhere between five hundred and two thousand dollars. It cost even less when I started in. It costs thousands to start to specialize.”
Doctor Thornton does advise prospective doctors to specialize after they have completed the minimum foui- or five years of general practice. “As I said,
this is an age of specialization. Obviously a specialist can do more for people in his particular field than a general practitioner can. He can coneentrate all his time and effort on one type of work. Everybody is specializing these days, so the more specialists of all types we have the better. Then again a specialist has a better life, provided he starts off right. The work is easier, since he’s always -dealing with the kind of case he knows W best, and his time is more or less his own —which it isn’t in the case of the general practitioner. Then too, his income is almost always higher than the general practitioner’s.
“As in general practice, there is plenty of room for- more men in the specialties. Right now surgery is the big thing.
Dr. Maurice J. Thornton attended high school at Notre Dame and graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1920. He graduated from the University of Illinois medical school in 1923 and interned at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. Practicing in South Bend for ten years, he is now affiliated with the South Bend X-Ray Laboratory.
That’s the branch of medicine that gets the most publicity in the movies, radio and fiction. Most new doctors want to £ specialize in surgery and perform brilliant operations, so surgery is relatively overcrowded. That doesn’t mean we still don’t need a lot of good doctors there, but there are other fields that need good men more and are easier to break into. Pediatrics is a good field for those who aren’t mechanically inclined, as surgeons must be. You have to pick your town when you go into pediatrics though. Some towns already have all they can use, others have almost none. Believe it or not, there aren’t enough obstetricians. We need a lot of them. There are always plenty of cases; it’s good steady work. There’s also plenty of work in my own field, X-ray. It’s a relatively new field, and we’re still developing it. The only difficulty is that it takes a lot of money to specialize in X-ray.
“But there are many opportunities in all branches of medicine. We need good doctors everywhere, and if you’re good you won’t starve — no matter what branch you get into.”
Pitt Club Selects Officers
In Pittsburgh club elections for officers during the fall semester, Lee Kirby was chosen as president. Jim McLaughlin was elected to the post of vice-president, Jim Mullaney elected treasurer, and the pub-licty director chosen was Tom Kirby.
The Scholastic
Audio Visual to Resume Educational Film Shows
The Department of Audio Visual Aids has announced the resumption of last year’s student showings. With the approach of the cooler weather, the department feels that many of the students would again enjoy the noon-day presentation of educational films. These films are some of the finest available in all fields of education.
The pictures will be shown every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday promptly at 12:30 and will last for approximately half an hour. The films will be shown in the Audio Visual room located on the second floor of the Main Building and no admission will be charged. Following is the schedule for the next two weeks:
S Monday, October 24. WINGS TO IRELAND. A technicolor film showing the many points of beauty and interest of Old Erin.
Wednesday, October 26, THE TELEPHONE HOUR. 1) The picturization of the popular radio program with the Telephone Hour symphony orchestra and Josef Hofmann, pianist as guest. 2) BOUNDARY LINES. A forceful plea for racial tolerance. In beautiful color.
FRIDAY, October 28. DESERT VENTURE. This color film was produced by the Arabian American Oil Company, and shows graphically the production and refining of crude oil. Includes a picturization of the customs of the Saudi Arabs.
Monday, October 31. WASHINGTON STATE—APPLE LAND (45 minutes) A film in full color describing the beauties of the apple industry of the state of Washington.
Wednesday, November 2. TELEPHONE COURTESY.
Friday, November • 4. CHICKEN OF THE SEA. 1) A color film dealing with the catching, packing and canning of tuna fish.
2) COAXIAL. A ten minute film showing the construction and uses of the new widely acclaimed coaxial cable.
o -
B & K Magnate Gives $2000
The Balaban and Katz Corporation of New York City heads this week’s list of contributors to the University with an unrestricted gift of $2000. Mr. Barney Balaban, president of the corporation, which controls a chain of theaters in New York and Chicago, submitted the gift. The full amount will be added to the new Science Building'Fund.
® Oct. 21, 1949
Survey of Students Reveals Varied Ideas About Intangible Spirit of Notre Dame
When the Scholastic ran its poll a fortnight ago on what students liked best at Notre Dame, over half the answers concerned school spirit. This week, ye editors decided to find out just what Notre Dame men thought this spirit was. The question: “What in your opinion comprises the Notre Dame spirit?”
The replies were many and varied, but they did show a common belief, that friendliness, the Golden Dome and religion have quite a bit to do with spirit at Notre Dame.
Jack Powell of Badin Hall thought that it consisted of “The feeling of camaraderie, influenced by religious fervor, which we as students are not always willing to admit.” Jack O’Brien of Walsh thought of it as “common life under the Golden Dome.”
5000 in One Block
An Adrian, Mich., man, Bill Dougherty of Alumni commented that “The graduates say you don’t get the spirit until you get out”. Another Alumni man, George Keough, of Trenton, Mich., “felt it was . . . the family spirit: instead of a family of five in one house, it’s a family of 5000 in one block.”
The freshmen polled seemed impressed with the friendliness with which they were greeted. Said Alan Pando of Buenos Aires, Argentina: “The feeling that everyone on the campus is a friend.” Emory Dakeske of Detroit added that: “From the first day I arrived, I couldn’t get over the fine feeling of all upperclassmen towards the freshmen.”
Lou Nitti of Newark, N. J., thinks that Notre Dame spirit is “. . . the religious spirit that comes from religious practice.” His Cavanaugh Hall neighbor, Roger" Fitzsimmons, thinks it’s “The effect of the radiance of the Golden Dome.”
John Brady of Mobile, Ala., summed up Notre Dame spirit as “Goodwill, understanding, cooperation.” A Portland Maine, man, Ray Earles, has almost the same opinion as his Southern brother. Stated Ray: “Goodwill, friendliness, and cooperation of the students working together towards the ideal of Christian brotherhood.”
Bob Anderson of Merrill, Wis., feels that the spirit of Notre Dame is “The friendliness derived from living next to one another.” J. Paul Schlicta of San Diego, Calif., thinks the spirit is the democratic friendliness and spiritual life on campus.
A Dillon resident from Highland Park, Ill., Dick Dolan, decided that the Notre Dame spirit was “The friendly, relationship between Freshman and Senior and between professor and student.” Another Dillonite, Bill Puetz, answered “The spirit of good fellowship.”
Devotion to Our Lady
Ed Mahoney, of Morrissey and Cedar Rapids, Neb., considers ND spirit the “Intermingling of the students, no class supremacy; everyone for one thing— Notre Dame.” Dick Cody thinks it’s devotion to Our Lady and Christian ideals.
In addition to devotion, Jerry Costello of Morrissey feels that ND spirit is sincere unity in purpose. Wisconsinite; Fred Esser added “It’s religious spirit more than anything.”
“Notre Dame spirit is undefinable,” said Joe Perrozi, of Chicago Heights, Ill. “To actually know what it is you must ba a part of it. Mostly, it’s the cooperation and friendly attitude of the students.”
Don Mulvihil of St. Edward’s declared “Notre Dame spirit is a common feeling of pride in each and every student in the University, that our school, based upon traditions of more than 107 years, is one of the best in the country.”
Said Bob Blight of Newburgh, N. Y., “Father Barry summed up Notre Dame spirit at the Tulane pep rally—praying, working, thinking, fighting.”
Fiddlers Ready for Senior Square Dance in Drill Hall
A genuine, com-edged invitation is extended to all students for tomorrow night’s senior square dance. The affair will be held at the Drill Hall and will begin at 8:30 p.m. and end at 11:30 pan.
Informal clothes will be the scheme of attire with levis and clodhoppers for the men and sweaters; skirts, and bobbysox for the girls. All this backed by Bill Pritchett’s ‘Happy Ranch Boy’s* fiddlin’ ought to make for a fine evening of entertainment.
But that’s not all, for the committee headed by Bob Schlosser and Bill Kennedy has made provision for doughnuts and real, unhardened cider to be served on-the-house.
Busses on the ND-St. Mary’s route will be run on the regular Victory Dance schedule, with the exception that they will leave St. Mary’s at 8:15 instead of 8:30 p.m.
15
Vojta Benes to Talk Before Slavonic Club
“The Struggle for Democracy” is the subject of a lecture by Vojta Benes, former member of the Czechoslavakian
Vojta Benes
parliament and brother of the late president of Czechoslovakia, Edward Benes, to be delivered next Tuesday at 8 p. m. in Room 102 of the Law Building. The lecture is sponsored by the Slavonic Club.
Mr. Benes, now the oldest displaced person in the U. S., was active in the movement for Czechoslovakian democracy in both the World Wars and has addressed numerous audiences in the United States on his lecture tours.
A question period will follow the lecture and the public is welcome to attend. There will be no admission charge.
Group of Senior Engineers Takes Plant Inspection Tour
Thirty-three senior chemical engineers, along with professors Ernest J. Wilhelm and Allen S. Smith, spent last Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday on a plantinspection tour of the Calumet area.
The inspection trip began Tuesday with a tour of the Standard Oil Company, Whiting, Ind., and the General American Transportation Company, East Chicago, Ind. On Wednesday the ND group visited Armour & Company, Chemical Div., Chicago, Ill., and the Corn Products Refining Company, Argo, Ill.
The Sherwin-Williams Company, Chicago, Ill., and the E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, East Chicago, Ind., were seen on Thursday to complete the inspection tour.
Ex-King's Counsel to Speak At Natural Law Institute
The Honorable Richard O’Sullivan, of London, England, former King’s Counsel of Great Britain, has accepted an invitation to address the third annual Natural Law Institute to be held here Dec. 9 and 10 at the College of Law.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, announced today that Mr. O’Sullivan will deliver the opening address at the Institute. His subject will be “The Natural Law and the Common Law.”
Aims of the Notre Dame Natural Law Institute include a better and more general public understanding, appreciation and observance of the natural law, and acceptance of natural law by the nations of the world as the fundamental principle underlying international justice and amity.
Sociology Teachers To Talk at Institute
The “Sociological Aspects of Marriage” will be the topic under discussion at the second meeting of the Christian Marriage Institute in the Law Auditorium next Wednesday night at 8:00.
Father Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will discuss “Modern Family Tensions.”
Another member of the Sociology Department, Mr. John Kane, will talk on “The Family as the Basis of Social Living.”
This, the second of eight such meetings during the Fall term, is open to
INS Seis Up Temporary Telephoto Service 4
The International News Service, as well as other publications, took special care Saturday. Photo above shows telephoto transmitter set up in University Darkroom.
CO-HOP DANCE
The Co-Hop organization will sponsor a dance tomorrow night from 8 to 11 o’clock at the Progress Club in South Bend. Bud Simpson’s orchestra will provide the music and the tickets are 75 cents per person.
graduate students, January graduates and married students. Admission to all the meetings of the Institute is fifty cents.
Photo Credits
Jim McLaughlin, Senior photographer from Pittsburgh, Pa., took most of the pictures on this week’s center spread concerning the coverage of Life magazine. Jim was assigned to show the Life photographers around the campus, and while doing so he was able to get the shots of the visitors in action.
The photographers for each page: picture on page 10 by Murphy; 11, Gorman; 12, Brickson; 14, McLaughlin; 16, Ferstel (bottom); 17, Ferstel; 18—top left by Brickson, center by McLaughlin and bottom by Munger; 19, all by McLaughlin except lower right (by Munger) ; 21, Murphy; 22, Brickson; 23, McLaughlin; 24, Ferstel and Brickson (lower right).
Villagers Plan Big Program
Spurred on by the largest turnout in years at their opening mixer, the Villagers club has announced plans for a greatly accelerated program this year. Included in the plans are the formation jf a bowling team and a basketball team.
16
The Scholastic
Sophomore Saxaphonist
Gene Hull Molds Top Campus Orchestra
By JIM CARROLL
Gene Hull, twenty-year-old leader, organizer and father confessor of the official ND dance band, is a very modest fellow. “The story shouldn’t be about me,” he insisted. “It’s the band that counts.”
But not even Gene can deny that without him there’d be no band. He arrived as a Freshman last year; and was putting up audition notices before he got his trunk unpacked. Two weeks later, while most of his classmates were still searching for the Laundry, Gene had a thirteen-piece outfit ready to play.
Gene says he got the idea from his brother, Duane, who graduated last January, and who was, like Gene, a music major. That’s typical, because music is a Hull family tradition.
Back in Bridgeport, Conn., Gene’s mother runs a music studio. And she used to have a band of her own which was very popular in the East. But marriage and the kids put a stop to her band leading. She dropped her baton and began to raise musicians.
Began Lessons at Nine
Gene was playing his first clarinet at the ripe old age of nine. He studied, or as he puts it, “took lessons,” in New York. He developed fast, too.
He led his own band for two years ™ in high school in Bridgeport. And in 1946 he played in a band led by Roddy
Shull who now plays with Duke University’s famed “Cavaliers.”
Roddy’s band was entered in the National Amateur Swingband Contest, sponsored by Look Magazine. After winning their local contests the band went to New York. There for a week they went through eliminations at Carnegie Hall. The result? Well, the name-band leaders who did the judging named Roddy’s band second-best in the nation. That, Gene says, was his biggest musical thrill.
But, he’ll tell you, it’s a big thrill every time his band plays for a Victory Dance. The outfit has fifteen pieces this year and Gene thinks the boys are better than ever.
The student musicians range in age from seventeen to twenty-five, and in class rating from freshmen to grad student. Three of the boys are Music majors. They meet at least once a week for a three-hour rehearsal.
Students Do Arrangements
Quite a few of the band’s arrangements are done by experience-seeking ND students. Gene gives a lot of ciedit to these unpaid, but very professional, arrangers.
“While these Notre Dame audiences are really swell,” Gene says, “it’s hard to tell what they want. Last year they loved anything Latin; this year they’d rather sit than samba.”
Gene Hull
The band plays about half of its numbers to please the people and the other half to please itself. Gene thinks people really love Bop, “. . . if nobody tells them that’s what it is!”
But Gene is less interested in bop than in providing good danceable music. He and his manager, the energetic Brian Duff, think good music is the key to good jobs.
Besides working the Victory Dances the Hullmen have lined up some St. Mary’s engagements. They’re always on the lookout for more work, too. Manager Duff hopes to sign the boys up for dances at Barat, Mundelein and Rosary Colleges.
And what does Gene want to do after he gets his degree? You guessed it, .he wants to lead a band. He thinks he can make a go of it, and those who’ve heard him agree. Gene Hull is one campus kid who’s definitely on the way up.
Fourteen Musicians Led by Gene Hull Beat Out a Fast Number at a Victory Dance.
A
Oct. 21, 1949
17
Pleases
Hart's Gentle
Crowd and
Humor
Father Barry; Martin Waits to Go On. Assistant Editor Richard Johnston (left) a^
-ft 4?
&
fg
Farmer and Scherschel
Press
Confab.
at
2

SCHOLASTIC Covers a
Turnabout is fair play, they say, so Scholastic, following up Life Magazine’s big picture coverage of the Tulane weekend herewith presents a somewhat smaller coverage of Life staffers at work getting the story.
Scheduled only a short week before publication, the Life feature on the “Game of the Week” set up something of a problem, at least as far as speed was concerned. The many pictures had to be processed and engraved; the captions had to be written, and the entire story had to be completed on shortest notice to be included in the magazine appearing yesterday on the newsstands.
Life came well-prepared. For this particular story they moved an editorial staff from New York and set up offices in Chicago. In Chi also, they hired a temporary darkroom staff on a 24-h^r basis. They had two specially-charte*d airplanes to fly their film to Chicago at halftime and after the game Saturday.
In addition, they had a staff of nine— editors, researchers, and some of their best photographers—scurrying all over campus covering everything that might figure in the story. Among them were Richard W. Johnston, assistant editor, Alfred Eisenstaedt and Frank Scherschel, photographers, Gene Farmer, spi^s editor, and Dora Jane Hamblin, (who
Leading Sportshawks Peer at Leahy Surprise.
Jo Stafford, Paul Weston and South B end
Friends See Oraclco Boot an Extra Point.
* ircl^ Dora Jane Hamblin Check
IFE Photo Assignment
LIFE Catches Coach Rank Leahy Chatting.

Early Proofs. Helwig, Begley, Flynn and Wallner Munch Brunch Before Lensman Alfred Eisenstaedt.
one of the photogs called “the best woman reporter in the world”).
In all, more than 300 photographs were taken by Life lensmen during the x^kend. Proofs were ready Sunday night, and shortly thereafter, the big feature was finished and locked in the presses.	-
Life began shooting Friday. First on the list was Goach Frank Leahy’s customary conference with members of the working press in the Rockne Memorial. The same night several other photogs recorded pep rally action, burdened with a fancy array of lighting devices, tri> and flashbulbs. They jammed into a crowded, steaming Fieldhouse with
thousands of other visitors and students to see what the Notre Dame spirit amounted to. Saturday morning still other cameramen got a first-hand glimpse of it. They snapped the Fighting Irish at their traditional Mass-before-the-game.
Saturday afternoon in the Stadium the story was completed. Alfred Eisenstaedt was in the stands lapping up color from the crowd of 58,196. Two others were on the field taking action shots of the game. Another was atop of the press box (Cover). When the final gun sounded, they hurried their last shots to the waiting plane and hustled them off to Chicago.
The I first complete story
THE
Notre Dame Story
By FRANCIS WALLACE
President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association
HERE is the fabulous history behind the football facade of the University of Notre Dame ... its traditions and fighting spirit which make you proud of one of the country’s most remarkable colleges. A personal memento which will be cherished by every admirer, alumnus, and football fan.
At all bookstores	$2.75
RINEHART & COMPANY
232 Madison Ave., New York 16, N. Y.
HEADQUARTERS
for Your
ATHLETIC APPAREL
HAND BALLS
HAND BALL GLOVES
SWEAT SHIRTS
SWEAT PANTS
GYM CLOTHING
BASKETBALL SHOES
Canvas or Leather
N. D. JACKETS
N. D. TEE SHIRTS
N. D. SWEAT SHIRTS
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. COLFAX AVE.
South Bend	Phone 3-3702
OUTSTANDING IN QUALITY, STYLE AND VALUE
Clothes of Refinement
SUITS and COATS — $55 upwards
READY TO WEAR OR TAILORED TO YOUR MEASURE
Parker-Winterrowd Clothes of Refinement “Suits” are masterpieces of the tailoring craft because of the superlative quality of fabrics, the deft handling of cover and pattern, and the exacting fit as well as flattering fashion. Select from our abundant array of popular models.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc. 1151/2 - II71/9 North Main St. Second Floor— Upstairs
“SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS”
20
The Scholastic
9
Scholastic Sports
Rugged Games Mark Interhall Gridiron Openers
A Morrissey Hall Back Bucks the Dillon Line as Interhall Gridders Open Play.
• Irish Offense Explodes in First Quarter To Down Dixieland's Vaunted Green Wave
By FRANK RONNENBERG
A first quarter offensive, the like of which may never again be seen at this school, exploded in the faces of the Tulane football team last Saturday and transformed the great Green Wave into the cliched “little green ripple.” In addition it answered any and all questions that had been raised as to the caliber of the Notre Dame team. Tulane was the team that would surely snap Notre Dame’s 32-game, non-losing streak and yet from the moment they chose to kick off they were never in the game.
Larry Coutre and Sitko and a roughing penalty brought Notre Dame their first score before three minutes had elapsed in the first period. Coutre went over and then, before the 57,000 fans had got themselves seated again, Coutre was off for the second time. He took a lateral from Bob Williams, turned his own left end and then bolted through a pocket of would-be tacklers and was gone — 81 yards to the second Irish tally. The stadium clock read 6 minutes gone in the game. Just before the clock reached the nine-minute mark, Williams hit Bill Wightkin with a 43-yard pass that car
ried to the Greenies’ two-yard line. Coutre took it over for his third score and Tulane was through. But the Irish weren’t through, at least not yet. Williams threw a 34-yard touchdown pass to Spaniel and at the end of the first period the score read: Notre Dame 27, The Pride of the South 0. Leahy’s boys relaxed in the second period and only rang up one touchdown, a 16-yard pass from Williams to Hart.
The start of the second half witnessed Tulane’s only offensive move. Quarterback Bonar threw a long pass to halfback George Kinek who slipped behind the Irish secondary and carried the ball 74 yards to a score. The Irish snapped back to tally on a 14-yard dash by Frank Spaniel and then, in the fourth period, Bill Barrett split the middle of the Green Wave line and romped 59 yards to make the final count read 46-7.
The defense thrown up by the Blue and Gold was vicious, so devastating in fact that the Green Wave’s two heralded backs, Eddie Price and Bill Svoboda, were practically non-existent. All told, Tulane had a minus 23 yards rushing.
Large Crowds See Four T-Style Games
Four hard-fought games, colorful new uniforms and a T-formation emphasis marked the opening of another interhall football season last week on the dusty fields south of the tennis courts.
Large crowds lined the fields for the opening battles played Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning. Many of the spectators were surprised to see the shiny new jersies as the gridders appeared in new gear. They were also surprised to see the abandonment of the old. single wing; all four elevens used the T-formation.
Last week’s games:
Champion Dillon Falls Before Morrissey
Following the upset trend prevalent over the’ past two weeks, Morrissey Hall opened its fight for the interhall football championship by defeating a favored Dillon eleven, 6-0.
The lone score came as the result of a break early in the first quarter. A bad pass from center on fourth down allowed a fast charging Morrissey line to bring down the Dillon kicker before he could get the ball away giving Morrissey possession on the Dillon 27. Six plays later, Bob Back went over from four yards out, and as far as scoring was concerned, that was the ball game.
After this, it became a kicking game with neither team threatening until early in the fourth period. Then, Mattingly of Morrissey intercepted a pass on the Dillon 30 and carried to the 23* Dillon held, however, taking possession on downs on their own 15-yard line. The Dillonites then put on the longest sustained drive of the afternoon, moving 70 yards to the Morrissey 15 before they were stopped by a fumble. Red Brewer recovered a fumble to give Morrissey possession for the few minutes remaining in the game.—Jim Brislin
Lyons, Alumni Trade Fumbles; No Score
When “an irresistible force meets an-immovable object” on the gridiron, the result is a 0-0 tie. Such was the case in the Alumni-Lyons tilt which saw both front walls battle each other on even terms throughout the game.
Oct. 21, 1949
21
Blue-jerseyed Lyons lads spent a Lutile first half failing to capitalize on Alumni’s penalties deep in their territory. The second half reversed the procedure, as the Alumni crew fumbled away its opportunities to hit pay dirt.
Both backfields functioned well considering the woeful offensive blocking displayed by the linemen.
On the statistics side, Lyons grabbed the lion’s share of first downs, racking up three to Alumni’s one, while the whistle-tooters penalized Alumni 60 yards and Lyons 10.—Jack- Keane
St. Ed’s and Cav in 0-0 Tie
There were fumbles, interceptions, and penalties, but no scores as Cavanaugh Hall fought St. Ed’s to a standstill in a Founder’s Day battle.
Cavanaugh received the kick-off, and, when forced to punt, recovered on the St. Ed’s 28. A first down brought the ball to the 16, but there the Saints braced and averted a score.
St. Edward’s threatened next as they ground out four first downs. But this thrust was retarded by penalties and halted finally by an interception as the half ended.
The quarter play centered around the St. Ed’s 40. Cavanaugh’s passing attack brought them short gains but no sustained drive since downfield blocking was at a minimum.
The final period saw the ball change hands seven times. The play was all inside the Saints’ 30-yard line, but Cavanaugh never got past the 11. The game ended with two interceptions as each quarterback flung desperation passes.
Both teams used the T exclusively. Cavanaugh featured a superior passing attack, while St. Ed’s showed a stronger line and a fine runner in Joe David.
—Mike Cuddihy
B-P Downs Zahm, 12-0
In a battle of freshmen elevens, the men from Breen-Phillips downed their fellow classmates from Zahm Hall by a 12-0 score on Founder’s Day.
Both teams were sluggish during most of the first half but near the end of the second period, blue-shirted B-P squad pushed down to the Zahmites 30 yard marker. After a couple of running plays gained little yardage, quarterback O’Brien flipped a flat pass to Hynes who shook off one tackler and outsped two more in his touchdown scamper down the sidelines. The try for point after was low.
Shortly after the start of the second half, B-P struck again. After receiving the kickoff, Zahm fumbled deep in its own territory with B-P pouncing on the loose pigskin. A few plays later, Heisen-kamp cracked over from the four to
22
make it 12-0. Again the extra point try failed.
Zahm tried to stay in the ball game but their attack just couldn’t get started. B-P was stymied for the most part, too, but cashed in on the breaks to cart away the spoils.—Jack Meaney.
Handymen to Meet lowans Tomorrow
Tomorrow morning in Ames, Iowa, the Notre Dame cross country team will try to take vengeance on a University of Iowa harrier squad for the drubbing its Big Ten brethren, Wisconsin, handed the Irish last week.
Whether the Handymen will get the vengeance or not is a debatable point since last year’s Irish squad just squeaked by the lowans, 27-28.
Kittel and Gehrman
Last Saturday the Notre Dame course record took a terrific beating when Wisconsin’s Don Gehrman and his Badger buddies gave the locals the same type of treatment the Irish gridders gave Tulane later that afternoon. The Badgers were able to “eke out” a one-sided 18-42 score even though each of Coach Handy’s boys ran the fastest four miles of his life.
Gehrman’s 19:59 clocking shattered the 20:08 course record set by Jim Murphy, the midget racer of last year’s Notre Dame team, in the Central Collegiate Meet.
Jim Kittel, in fourth spot with an excellent 20:35 clocking, was the first ND man to finish in last week’s meet. Ben Almaguer took sixth spot just seven seconds behind Kittell. Con Tetrault, George Gross, and Bob Fieler finished the scoring for the Irishmen.
—Ted Prahinski
Irish Opponents Split In 6 Weekend Games
By BOB RUBERY
Last Saturday while Coutre, Williams, and company were turning the Green Wave of Tulane into a mediocre ripple, future Notre Dame opponents gained an even break in six games.
Navy, whom the Irish meet next, was the victim of an unmerciful drubbing by Wisconsin, 48-13. The amazing Badgers sent the Middies down to their second defeat against two victories. Bob Zastrow, great soph passer who had sparked Navy to its win over Duke last week, found only Badgers with his aerials this week and set up five interceptions which led to three TDs.
Led by All-American candidate Lynn Chandnois, the Spartans of Michigan State trounced William and Mary, 42-13, in a prep for their Nov. 5 clash with the Irish. Chandnois looked especially spectacular as he drove for three touchdowns to lead the East Lansing lads to their third straight win.
Charley “Choo-Choo” Justice led his North Carolina teammates to a convincing 28-14 win over the Deacons of Wake Forest. Justice lived up to his publicity notices as he scored three of the four Tar Heel touchdowns. The Deacons led early in the first period, but Justice turned the game into a rout.
Iowa, Notre Dame’s Nov. 19 guest, scored a decisive 35-9 victory over* Indiana. Leaving the field with a 9-7 halftime deficit, Iowa came to life in a savage second-half onslaught which saw four Hawkeyes cross the Hoosier goal. Four pass interceptions and two recovered Hoosier fumbles set up the Hawkeye win. The victory gave the Hawkeyes a 2-2 season record.
Out in Berkeley, Calif., the Trojans of Southern California were dumped in a thrilling upset by the California Bears, 16-10. A fourth quarter 102-yard run by California halfback Frank Brynk on a Trojan kickoff was the decisive factor in the first Southern Cal defeat. USC’s great fullback, Bill Martin scored the only Trojan TD. Frank Gifford hit for a three-pointer that looked for a while like a victory margin.
Upset laurels of the week went to the Rice Owls who steamrollered the previously undefeated Southwestern Conference champion, Southern Methodist, 4127, in a free-scoring fray at Dallas.
Only one future opponent remains undefeated — Yankee Stadium opponent North Carolina. Only Iowa and Navy have been defeated more than once.
The Scholastic
j
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by Kalpk Wright
Irish Were “Up” Too
Many of the now-humbled Tulane rooters wagered their money on the Green Wave last Saturday because their boys were supposed to be “up” for the game with Notre Dame. According to reports from below the Mason-Dixon line, the Wave would be “up” because: Coach Leahy had snubbed Coach Frnka by missing the 1947 game between the two schools, Notre Dame had poured it on in the last game (59-6), and people were saying nasty things about the caliber of southern football.
Nearly everyone forgot that ND could be “up” too. Irish players didn’t like anybody accusing Coach Leahy of snubbing anyone and they knew that they could have scored 80 points in 1947 if they wanted to. They also didn’t like the uncomplimentary remarks of southern football writers. The locker room in the “ Stadium was plastered with press clippings and letters from the South—all derogatory, of course. One anonymous character (he signed his letter “Son of the South”) wrote to Leon Hart. He told Leon that he and Emil Sitko were the only Irish players worth much and indicated that the rest of the boys were bums.
As usual, when two teams that were “up” met, the better team won. Tulane’s " desire to gain vicious revenge departed after- a few hard blocks and tackles.
. . . and Still Champions
Now that even that notorious Williamson man (he rates football teams on some crazy point system) has recognized Notre Dame, we can feel justified in claiming that the current Irish team belongs at the top in the national rankings. Notre Dame’s claim to the top spot will be strongly opposed by followers of w Army, Minnesota and Oklahoma. In 1946, Army and Notre Dame engaged in verbal battles. In 1947 and 1948, it was Michigan and Notre Dame. Now it’s Army and a couple of new ones who doubt ND’s superiority. Followers of these elevens unconsciously praise Notre Dame; their first boast is that “we’re better than Notre Dame is.” It’s the boast of a contender to a champion. Until someone beats the Irish on the foot-
9 Oct. 21, 1949

ball field, they’re the best. If athletic directors from Army, Minnesota or Oklahoma care to make a reservation on the ND schedule, we have a hunch that Moose Krause would accommodate them.
John Petitbon, Supercharged Soph
In Chapter Three of our manuscript entitled “Unsung Notre Dame Football Players,” we’ll feature John Petitbon.
No sophomore came to the local campus more highly advertised than Petitbon, and, among the really topflight sophs this season, no one gets less press acclaim. The reason, of course, is that John wound up with the defensive unir in the current platoon setup. Nevertheless, he plays a tremendous game at the safety position and his exceptional speed is good insurance against long runs. John’s chances on offense have been few, but he came through with a humdinger last Saturday. On Bill Barrett’s long touchdown run, Petitbon blasted the last Tulane defender out of the way with a perfect block. When some of the surplus offensive talent departs, he’ll have opportunities to shine offensively too.
Battle of Unbeaten in New York?
Our student trip may yet turn out to be the big game of the year. North Carolina is the only Irish opponent still unbeaten. Before meeting the Leahymen, the Tar Heels must play Louisiana State, Tennessee and William and Mary. They should win all three of these, but not too easily.
It will be interesting to see how ND copes with Charlie Justice, a lad who never fails to star for the Carolinians. This year, more than ever, North Carolina goes as Justice goes. Bet Charlie will be tougher to stop than Eddie Price was.
The other day we heard that no Notre Dame man can earn a monogram by competing in cross-country alone; he has to garner a few points for the track team too. It’s pretty tough on a fellow who specializes only in the real long races. As our newly-acquired friend, Mel Allen, would say, “How about that?”
Prediction of the Week
For the only Saturday this football season, Notre Dame won’t win a football game.
Fencing Team Points To Big 13th Season
Notre Dame fencing will inaugurate its thirteenth season this week as 50 members of the team begin training for what is expected to be one of the best seasons in Irish history.
With four returning lettermen in epee, three in sabre and two in foil and 14 returning freshmen numeral men, Coach Herb Melton is very contented. His optimism is based on the fact that he lost only four of last year’s regulars; Mike DiCicco, Lou Burns, Ralph Witucki and Jerry Lubin. He has Captain Boh Schlosser, Bob Dixon, Mike Scalera, Bob Bos-ler, John Vincent, Dan Parisi, Jerry Dobyns, Tom Roney and Jim Jansen returning. Melton also believes that last year’s freshmen were the best in the history of the sport here at Notre Dame.
Fencing, which has become the largest growing intercollegiate sport here, is expected to attract more attention this year than ever before. With the enlargement of the fencing room for the increased squad and the new electrical epees, last year’s high in attendance -(750 at the Northwestern match) is expected to be surpassed. The new electrical epee scoring and timing machine will eliminate the stopping of bouts to look for points because when a valid point is scored, a light automatically lights up. This new device can judge simultaneous touches within one one-thousandth of a second.
Assisting Melton for the third year will be Lou Peck. Peck, a monogram winner in ’41 and ’42, is a junior in the College of Law. He will coach the new freshman squad which will be called out in about a month.—Jack Varley
Larry Coutre — Back of the Week
23
Bill Barrett (37) tears away from a Green Wave tackler. The speedy Chicagoan tallied ND's last touchdown on a 59-yard gallop.
Freshman Ray Smith Tops Tom Overholser To Cop 22nd Annual Tennis Tournament

Displaying unusually steady defensive ability, freshman Ray Smith of Zahm Hall outlasted Tom Overholser 6-2, 0-6, 6-3, 6-4 to cop the twenty-second annual interhall fall tennis tournament. Semifinalists were Matt Tuite, the defending champ, who lost to Smith in straight sets 6-3, 6-2, 6-3, and Terry Kiely, who was trounced by Overholser 6-0, 6-2, 6-3.
The unseeded Smith, although he looked impressive during the early eliminations, was given little chance of withstanding the devastating volleys and the hard-charging oifensive style of the topseeded ex-champ, Tuite. Cooly and methodically, however, Ray forced the veteran to altei- his power game to the control game at which the underdog excelled. The match soon turned into a contest of stamina and accuracy, and Smith, clearly displaying that he was the master at this type of play, won without being pushed.
On Thursday, Oct. 13, Smith entered the finals to prove that his earlier triumphs were no flukes. Overholser employed much the same style of powerplay that Tuite used unsuccessfully in
Stepping Stone to Varsity
Tulane Tries to Stop Country's Best Fullback — Emil Sitko. Scooter Coutre Streaks 81 Yards in Big Play of the Game.
the semi-finals. Attempting to dominate play from the outset, the South Bend boy volleyed viciously, charged the net and used all the other driving devices of play. Smith, playing in the easy style of Bobby Riggs, constantly returned the powerful volleys. Realizing that any attempt on his part to match Overholser’s driving style of play would be futile, Smith contented himself with a defensive game. A ccuracy again looked like the margin of victory as Smith copped the first set.
In the second set, Overholser’s booming serves forced Smith fifteen feet behind the baselines, and temporarily turned the tide. Smith came back in a poised third set to take set, match and tournament.
The tourney has been held intermittently since the 'early ’20’s, and is open to all students except Monogram winners in tennis. In the past it had often been a stepping-stone to the varsity. There is a peculiar jinx attached to the tournament: not since pre-war days has a top-favoi-ite won the tourney. And for
three years running, the winner has been a freshman.
Ninety-four aspirants turned out for tournament competition this year. Play started on Sept. 19, but bad weather forced the tournament into a month-long affair.
To the winner of the tournament, a Chicago junior star, goes a gold medal. The runnerups receive consolation prizes.
To Swell Hall Sports List
Volleyball has been added to the evergrowing interhall fall sports program according to Mr. Frank Maxwell of the Department of Physical Education. Mr. Maxwell is conducting a tournament that wall run into the first week of November, weather permitting.
Ten teams, including both campus clubs and independent squads, wall compete in the tourney, which will be concluded with a round-robin. The volleyball champs will receive gold medals and the runner-ups silver ones.
Elsewhere on the interhall scene, activities have been hampered by the weather. It now appears doubtful that the baseball league will be able to com- ‘ ‘ plete its schedule, and touch football hasn’t got into high gear either.
24
The Scholastic
1949 Individual Statistics
(Four Games)
		s =	§ o					r3		
				c		-a				
Player	o H	gs	£		c	HO •	zo		<o	
McKillip 				 0	0	0		0	1	11		11.0	
Coutre 			 5	0	0		30	36	321		8.9	
J Hart 				 3	0	0		18	5	39		7.8	
Spaniel 			 2	0	0		12	23	178		7.7	
Sitko 			 6	0	0		36	39	283		7.3	
Bush 			 0	0	0		0	2	11		5.5	
Barrett 			 2	0	0		12	29	139		4.8	
Swistowicz ....		 1	0	0		6	11	53		4.8	
Cotter 				 0	0	0		0	15	59		3.9	
Landry 			 1	0	0		6	25	96		3.8	
Gay 			 2	0	0		12	10	27		2.7	
Williams 			 0	0	0		0	8	18		2.3	
Smith, G			 0	0	0		0	3	3		1.0	
Zalejski 	 G Wightkin 					0	0	0		0	6	3		.5	
		 1	0	0		6	1	-2		-2.0	
Petitbon 			 0	0	0		0	3	-9		-3.0	
Mazur 					 0	0	0		0	1	-3		-3.0	
Oracko 			 0	17	0		17	0	0		0.0	
TOTALS:	23	17	0	157*		218	1227		5.6	
* Includes safety	scored against	Indiana.								
	e.	g“S. 5 H	oJ3 -O-w u				-a	> §	J 3	Ji u
• f		£3 sS4	£			V S3 zo	2 S ^'5 fj j	j rt =-at ZO		S'	. u	•	
Williams 		41	23	1	4		.561	369	0	0	0	0
Mazur 		2	1 1	1		.500	17	0	0	0	0
Wightkin 								5	123	0	0
Coutre 								5	79	0	0
Gay 								4	48	1	61
Spaniel 								3	55	0	0
Hart 								3	52	0	0
Barrett 								2	8	0	0
Mutscheller ...	....						1	14	0	0
Flynn 									1	7	0	0
A Helwig 								0	' 0	1	41
Petitbon 								0	0	1	7
Cotter 								0	0	1	3
Hamby 								0	0	1	2
TOTALS:	43	24	2	‘5		.558	386	24	386	5	114
						•Ji			c	
Player	No. of Punts	— UI o S				No. Pm Returni		21 z«	tz £	
Barrett 				 3	135		45.0		0	0	1	8	
0 Williams 					15	637		42.5		0	0	0	0	
Mazur 						 1	28		28.0		0	0	0	0	
Gay 							7	142	1	24	
Sitko 							1	23	3	62	
Spaniel 							1	5	1-	11	
Petitbon 							1	0	0	0	
Swistowicz 							0	0	1	55	
Hart 	,							0 .	,0	1	8	
Coutre 				•				0	0	1	4'	
TOTALS:	19	800		42.1		10	170	9	172	
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED: Flynn 2, Groom 1, Helwig 1, Petitbon 1, Toneff 1, Hart 1.
Oct. 21, 1949
End Runs & Field Goals
by BARESKIN
Well, I suppose everybody on campus is batting the breeze about what a great football team ND is. Bareskin’s not so sure. I took in Saturday’s game with Tulane from a very advantageous spot (cutting oranges for Hughie Burns), and the club didn’t look so hot to me.
There were times when the ends looked quite sluggish going down for passes and under punts. Bill Wightkin was the chief offender. On Williams’ first punt, a long, booming affair, Wightkin actually let the safety man catch the ball before he smeared the Green-shirted lad. A cleverer and speedier man would have been down there away ahead of the 50-yard boot.
And I didn’t like the way Wightkin kidded around on the second long pass he snared from Williams. He and a Tulane defender played beanbag with the ball for about five yards before Wightkin called a halt and rudely took the ball for himself. Childhood games are fun, Willy, but don’t tease the opposition like that. Someone’s liable to get hurt—namely, the opposition.
Bareskin noted a tremendous improvement in the Tulane squad of this year as compared to the one ND beat 59-6 in 1947. The Irish scored ‘32 points in the first quarter that year and only 27 last Saturday. Notre Dame had better nor schedule the Green Wave in 1961. If Tulane improves five points every two years (as they did Saturday), the Irish will be held scoreless, or worse, in the first period of the 1961 game. Bareskin, always a shrewd statistician looking into the fu-
(Continued on Page 33)
Irish Gain More Yardage Than Statisticians Say
While local fans were praising the offensive display of Notre.Dame’s varsity after Saturday’s game, the Department of Sports Information was busy re-checking the statistics. And they found that the ND margin in rushing yardage was even greater than first recorded.
Tulane’s net rushing total originally was listed as 23 yards; actually, the Green Wave net was a minus 23. In the Irish totals, one big advance was left out—Bill Barrett’s long touchdown gallop. That made for an addition of 59 yards to the figures given in all the Sunday newspapers.
25
Van Britt
give yourself plenty of spread with wide-spread
Esquire started it and Van Hensen makes the wide-spread collar a truly college affair with its Van Britt collar. Comes in oxford, broadcloth and handsome new colors . .. $3.65 and $3.95. Plus, of course, old Professor Van Heusen’s magic sewmanship.
0 Van Heusen* i..
"the world’s smartest” uXJ.lx Lv
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
ND Football Prognosticators Have Chance to Win Smokes
Football prognosticators at Notre Dame now have a chance to prove their skill and win free smokes besides in Philip Morris’ football scorecast contest. Open only to college students, the contest is absolutely free.
By predicting the exact scores of one, two or three games listed for each week, a contestant can win 100, 200, or 1,000 cigarettes. Each ballot must be entered on a Philip Morris wrapper. There is no limit to the number of entries which may be made weekly.
Larry Donovan, senior and student representative for Philip Morris who is supervising the affair here, remarked, “There is no element of gambling in the contest. It is more or less up to an individual to guess the correct score.”
Successfully forecasting one correct score was Bill O’Connell, senior from Oak Park, Ill., who won 100 smokes during the first week of the contest.
Ballots, Larry emphasized, must be entered on the back of Philip Morris wrappers. The ballot box is located in the Washington Hall pool room. Further details of the contest may be found there, in the Huddle, or on hall bulletin boards.
Week of October 22nd Ohio State v. Wisconsin; Illinois v. Purdue; Michigan State v. Penn State.
Week of October 29th Notre Dame v. Navy; Indiana v. Wisconsin; Minnesota v. Purdue.
Week of November 5th Notre Dame v. Michigan State; Missouri v. Nebraska; Illinois v. Indiana.
Week of November 12th Notre Dame v. North Carolina; Michigan State v. Oregon State; Northwestern v. Colgate.
Week of November 19th Notre Dame v. Iowa; Western Reserve v. West Virginia; Minnesota v. Wisconsin.
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
The P L A C E to go for names you know
IT'S GILBERTS
for
VAN HEUSEN
^GILBERTS
813-817 S. Michigan St.
The Scholastic
26
Names Make Neats
Professor WESLEY C. BENDER, head of the Department of Marketing, and Professor C. BROOKS SMEETON, associate professor of marketing and advertising, are judging South Bend Merchants’ window displays, in a contest
CLARENCE E. MANION, dean of the College of Law, attended the induction ceremony of Sherman Minton as justice of the United States Supreme Court last week. Dean Manion was one of a committee of Indiana attorneys representing the Indiana Bar Association at the induction. . . .
PAUL BARTHOLOMEW, professor of Political Science here, has been elected president of the new St. Joseph County Republican Mens Association.
•
DICK NOLAN, 1948 football manager, was elected to the post of secretarytreasurer of the national Monogram club recently, but had to resign. He was unable to maintain his office because of a sudden decision to enter the priesthood. He joined the Franciscan order. . . .
Speaker at a dinner- meeting of the Council of Community Service last week was HUGH P. O’BRIEN, associate professor of Sociology and director of curriculum in correctional administration at Notre Dame. His subject was “Case Work in an Authoritative Setting.” O’Brien is chairman of the South Bend citizens’ committee on juvenile delinquency. . . .
ROBERT J. McBRIDE, Irish grid-m ders’ line coach, spoke at a luncheon ® meeting of the Kiwanis club last week in the Hotel LaSalle. Coach McBride spoke on the subject, “Notre Dame Football, 1949.” ...
Two groups of Commerce students participated in tours last week of plants in South Bend. Professor BROOKS SMEETON took his class in advanced advertising to the South Bend Tribune plant to study various types of newspaper research. J. D. ALEXANDER, instructor in Business Administration, and 40 February seniors visited the Bendix Products division plants. . . .
JIM LEONARD, ’34, was named Coach of the Week, following the 27-6 victory of his Villanova eleven over favorite Penn State on September 24. . . .
In a recent Associated Press feature, Tom Ward said that FRANK LEAHY,
Oct. 21, 1949
Irish football coach, has led a movement to make football players articulate. Ward quotes Northwestern’s Athletic Director, Ted Payseur, as saying of JOHN LUJACK, Irish great, “Lujack is the finest speaker in football today— player or coach.” ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI and GEORGE CONNOR are named as other outstanding speakers in the football world. . . .
PHILIP SHEA, of Manhassett, L. I., has joined the editorial staff of the Boise, Idaho Daily Statesman. He received a bachelor of arts degree in journalism at the University of Notre Dame last June.
JAMES F. ANDERSON of the Department of Philosophy has completed a book on metaphysics entitled, The Bond of Being, An Essay on Analogy and Existence. It will be published soon by the Herder Publishing Company of St. Louis.
Mr. EDMUND A. SMITH, assistant dean of the College of Commerce, and Mr. JOSEPH J. MILLER, assistant professor of business administration, attended the sixteenth annual Midwest Conference on Industrial Relations held at the University of Chicago on Friday, October 4.
MASSES FOR THE WEEK OF OCTOBER 22 TO 28
Saturday, Oct. 22—Simple—White—Mass of Blessed Virgin for Saturday; Gloria, 2nd Coll. Holy Spirit, 3rd Against Persecutors of the Church, Preface of Blessed Virgin.
Sunday, Oct. 23 — Semidouble — Green — XX Sunday after Pentecost; Gloria, 2nd Coll. “Defend Us,” 3rd Choice of Celebrant, 4th Propagation of the Faith, Creed, Preface of Trinity.
Monday, Oct. 24 — Greater Double — White — St. Raphael, Archangel; Gloria, Creed, Common Preface.
Tuesday, Oct. 25—Simple—Red—SS. Chrysanthus and Daria, Martyrs; Gloria, 2nd Coll. “Defend Us,” 3rd Choice of Celebrant, Common Preface.
Wednesday, Oct. 26 — Simple — Red — St. Evaristus, Pope and Martyr;
Gloria, 2nd Coll. “Defend Us,” 3rd Choice of Celebrant, Preface of Apostles.
Thursday, Oct. 27—Simple—Violet—Vigil of SS. Simon and Jude, Apostles; 2nd Coll. “Concede” (BVM), 3rd Against the Persecutors of the Church, Common Preface.
Friday, Oct. 28—Double of II class—Red—SS. Simon and Jude, Apostles; Gloria, Creed, Preface of Apostles.
conducted by the South Bend Community Chest.
(Advertisement)
ARTHUR MURRAY Expert Knows Shortcut to Popularity
Yes, it’s true. You now can become a sought-after partner faster and easier than ever. One hour is all attractive, Arthur Murray teacher, Irene Trexler needs to show you the way to good times.
ARTHUR MURRAY, 120 E. Wayne St. Call 2-3339 Above Copp Music Shop
By JIM BRETT
Vic Damone, whose waxing of You’re Breaking My Heart is still a top seller, has turned out a recording of the beautiful Jerome Kern-Oscar Hammerstein show tune Why Was I Born, which seems destined to be another smash hit for the young star of Mercury records. Songstress Evelyn Knight, who has been absent recently from the vocal spotlight, is currently giving forth her brand of mood making in the ballad, If I Ever Fall in Love Again. This number on Decca record 24771 is much on the same line as I’ll Never Smile Again. And speaking of music being on the same line, the new Whiting-Wakely combo that dished up the cowboy-type hit Slipping Again has dashed off a sequel called I'll Never Slip Around Again. On this number Maggie and Jimmy use the same music they did on the original, but they toss off a new set of lyrics. The flipover features the pair singing Six Times a Week and Twice on Sunday.
As long as I was just talking about a western number, I’d like to say a few words about a certain Texan. Everyone at one time or another has been irritated by the incessant chatter of platter- spinners, and everyone also knows that Texas is noted for her size and her tight-lipped men. Well, at last someone has come up with a solution in the form of a noiseless disk jockey from Texas. On the program
Come on in, Bill. I want you to meet my roommate.
“Silent Sam the Disk Jockey Man,” Roy Steele of Station KYLN, Amarillo, Texas, speaks only to give the time, the temperature, and the title of the next record.
A Dreamers’ Holiday, which has already been issued by Perry Como, is one of the last etchings done by the late Buddy Clark before his death in an airplane crash, and it is done in his finest style. For all those who will miss Clark’s voice, a memorial album, Buddy Clark Encores, featuring eight of his top numbers, is being planned for immediate release. It is expected to include Linda, I’ll Dance at Your Wedding, All by Myself, and other old favorites.
Of late Notre Dame and vicinity has been quite a music center with Jo Stafford and Christopher Lynch both making appearances, but they aren’t the only attractions. The Notre Dame marching band may have had a great show last Saturday, but the booming band that played in the corridors of some of our halls at 5:30 Saturday morning also stirred up quite a bit of comment—mostly of an ominous nature. It has also come to my attention that the fourth floor of Breen-Phillips with the aid of an accordionist is developing a barn dance group of about sixteen corn-cobblers. According to all reports, they meet in the fourth floor corridor, and all guests are invited to attend.
On Wednesday evening, Oct. 12, the University Drill Hall was crowded for
the concert of the well-known Irish tenor, “ Christopher Lynch. Mr. Lynch, the star of the Voice of Firestone radio program, has a fine range and a well-developed tenor quality. His voice is tender and sweet, although he does lack much of the brilliance and emotional depth of the late John McConnack and other famous Irish tenors. He was especially fine in the lullaby Ninna Nanna by Gargiulo — and the Aria Pourquoi me reveiUer by _ Massenet from the opera Werther. The audience enjoyed his Irish folk songs and were pleased by Sing A Song of Sixpence and Blow Me Eyes, both of which he did in a comedy style. For his encore Mr. Lynch sang Mother Machree and the beautiful Panis Angelicas by Franck in his fine, tender fashion.
German Club to Meet -
Plans for reviving the German Club at Notre Dame will be discussed Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Audio-Visual Center, on the second floor of the Main Building. All student interested in the language, customs and traditions of Germany are invited to attend.
Films, native speakers, records and lectures will foi-m the general program of the club’s meetings; although a German glee club and band are also under consideration. Monday’s organizational meeting will include a special feature called “Picturesque Germany.”
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
Monday
Symphony No.	5.....Beethoven
Symphony on	French Mountain
Air ..................D’lndy
Tuesday
Symphony No.	8.....Beethoven
Symphony No. 47 (Jupiter)......
.................... Mozart
Aria: Sempre Libre from La Tra-viata ...................Verdi
Wednesday
Piana Concerto No. 5 (Emperor) .................... Beethoven
Piano Concerto in A Minor....Grieg
Thursday
Roumanian Rhapsodies (Nos. 1 &
2) ..............._...Enesco
Violin Concerto in D Major ....
..................... Brahms
Friday
Mad Scene from Lucia di Lammer-moor ................Donizetti
Under the Spreading Chestnut
Tree .............Weinberger
Organ Music ............Franck
28
The Scholastic
World Relations Group To Hold Luncheon Tomorrow
The Institute on International Relations will meet tomorrow at an orientation luncheon to be given at the Indiana Club at 12:15. The Institute is sponsored jointly by the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Confederation of Christians and Jews an<j the South Bend International Relations Council, in cooperation with forty community organizations in the South Bend area.
Principal speaker at the luncheon will be Owen Lattimore, Jr., who is presently on the faculty of the Johns Hopkins Uni
versity, Baltimore, Md. Mr. Lattimore, author, writer, and lecturer, is also an authority on Far Eastern affairs. He will speak on the crucial China problem.
The luncheon will be followed by a session at the Central High School auditorium at 3 p.m. There will be two lectures, one by Miss Mabel Head, official observer for the United Council of Church Women at the United Nations, and Dr. Vernon Nash, vice president of the Unitea World Federalists. Miss Head will speak on the United Nations’ approach to world peace, and Dr. Nash on the World Federalists’ approach to world peace. From 4 to 5 p.m. there will be a panel discussion with representatives from the Department of Government of several
universities and colleges in Indiana. The University of Notre Dame will be represented.
The evening session will start at 8 p.m. in the John F. Neuner School audi-trium, South Bend. Members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will present a half-hour concert. At 8:30 the Honorable Francis B. Sayre, Chairman of the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations, will give an address. There will be no charge for the evening lecture.
Admission to the luncheon, afternoon and evening lectures is $1.75 inclusive. A 25 cent registration fee for the lectures alone may be obtained. All faculty members and students are cordially invited.
‘Tamed’ lightning helps to write its brother’s story...
LIGHTNING—when you consider jit in microseconds—is not nearly so impetuous as summer storms might indicate. Before loosing its charge, it sends down advance ‘streamers’ to plot out the easiest path and makes sure the earth sends up other streamers to meet it. In its downward course it may hesitate 40 times and more. . .
Some strokes are exceedingly slow, building up and releasing their charge in a tenth of a second rather than a millionth. They produce no thunder...
More than 95% of our lightning comes from negatively charged clouds..
Facts like these are part of the working knowledge of engineers in the G-E
w can
High Voltage Engineering Laboratory in Pittsfield, Mass. It’s their job to develop lower-cost equipment that will better withstand lightning and that will better protect electric service.
To aid these specialists, General Electric recently built a new laboratory, the world’s largest lightning center. The main tool: the most powerful man-made lightning ever produced.
By emphasizing research and creative thinking, by encouraging fertile minds to follow their own imaginative bent, and by implementing their work with the best available facilities. General Electric stays in the forefront of scientific and engineering development.

GENERAL® ELECTRIC
noWgarette
PROVE
TO YOURSELF
HANGOVER
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS $
up a
Quite a
just a few seconds you can prove
PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking!

MORRIS
2... light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing —DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
THEN, iust take a puff—DON'T INHALE — and s-I-o-w-l-y let Hie smoke come through your nose. And NOW . . .
YOU SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS!
NOW YOU KNOW WHY
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
s PHIUP MORRIS
The Scholastic
•oVER THE BALCONY RAIL ■ ■ ■
'The Red Shoes,1 a Film of Pictorial Beauty, On Must List for Discerning Movie-Goers
By KEN THOREN
1 J. Arthur Rank’s production The Red Shoes is a brilliant commentary on the ballet theater. The technicolor film will open at the River Park theater next Thursday and run for a week at a special two-a-day showing. Notre Dame students will be admitted at the reduced price of $1. All seats are reserved.
This is a rare picture and is a must-see for discerning movie goers. The production is superlative. The plot is based on the Hans Christian Andersen story and is presented with masterful artistry. The sets, costumes, music, and the ballet sequences, especially, are superb. The cowriters, producer-directors, Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger have done an excellent job in bringing the story to the screen. It is rich in every production respect. The sets are lavish, but not gaudy, the costumes are eye-filling and the background scenes are memorable.
The casting is a stroke of genius. Anton Walbrook, as a cruel impresario, is unforgettable. Moira Shearer, as the fragile heroine, is a startling beauty, a truly great danseuse, and a refreshing addition to the screen. Marius Goring essays the composer’s role capably. Robert Helpmann, Leonide Massine, Albert Basserman and a host of others contribute gems of characterization as members of the colorful and temperamental ballet G company.
The story, itself, is no world shaker. It is the way it is handled that raises it to heights of perfection. A martinet ballet impresario discovers two young artists; one a dancer, the other a composer. He nurtures them during their early artistic careers with knowing care. After they become established successes they learn that there is more to love than the theater. They marry and are forced Ato leave their ballet company. The im-w presario looks upon this form of dramatic expression as a religion. He won’t tolerate sentimental substitutes. Like the heroine in Andersen’s tale, the young girl finds she must go on dancing. The tyrant comes between the two lovers. The girl is torn between her love for her husband and her love for ballet. Tragic suicide is her solution to the problem. (For this reason, the Legion of Decency rates the picture B.)
9 Oct. 21, 1949
There’s really not much to that synopsis, but the sensitive manner in which the story is handled is a thing of rare
Moira Shearer
pictorial beauty. The ballet sequences are the highpoints of the film. Not being a balletomane, we were a bit wary of our appreciation of these interludes. Their unmatched perfection dispelled such fears. The Red Shoes ballet, filmed in its entirety, was emotionally stirring.
We’d like to recommend this film wholeheartedly. But we know many would find it disappointing fare. It is lengthy and does drag in spots. There are other minor flaws in it, too. There have been better pictures but none concerning this particular branch of the theater. For the serious film fan, however, this is a picture that shouldn’t be missed. A more rewarding piece won’t come along for years. Of that we are certain.
Rural Club Holds Elections
At its annual organizational meeting last week, the Rural Life club elected officers for the coming year. Robert Brzezinski was elected president, Paul Davis, vice-president, and Jack Corcoran, secretary-treasurer.
Plans for the coming year were also discussed, including a tentative tour of St. Joseph county farms.
Rochesterians Reunite
At a meeting held last week, the Rochester Club formulated plans for the coming year. President Vic Yawman announced that a communion breakfast will be held Sunday to start the year’s activities.
Also discussed was the possibility of more frequent social meetings to promote closer relationship between fellow Rochesterians.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
SHUTTERBUGS
•"■luulun i ArruKu akimy ncAM FOR THE STUDIO/-
Let us show you how to supply a studio of your own at low cost . . . complete.
1 - Special —
NOTRE DAME
SCHOOL ALBUM
in Blue and Gold
$3.25
AULTCAMERASHOP (Inc.) 122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
31

HIGH STANDING
IN EVERY STADIUM
^4

a
GORDON
OXFORDS
Arrow oxford shirts are something to stand up and cheer about.
They boast the can^-be-copied Arrow collar in buttondown, regular and widespread styles, are Mitoga
a.
Know Your Council Officers $
Do you know your student representatives? The following is a list of the members of the student council and their offices and committees for this school year.
The President is Bill Kirchner. Dave Matthews holds down the vice-president job while Bill Anhut, secretary, and Russ _ Skall, treasurer, complete the “big-four” of the council.
The Blue Circle Chairman is Ed Farrell. The Seniors are represented by Pres. John Thornton and vice-president Vernon Kelley. Junior class president Ray Yanics and vice-president Mike Jacobs represent the third-year men. Serving the Sophomores are president Jim Garvin and vice-president Dick Clancy.
The two senior representatives are Richard Cullen and Russ Skall. Norman Kopec is the Law School representative and Dan Brennan represents the off-campus students. The Stay Councilman is Frank Regan.
The Student Council Committees are as follows: Service, Mike Jacobs and Ed Farrell; Social, Vernon Kelley, Ray Yanics, and Dan Brennan; Audit, Russ Skall and John Thornton; Publicity, Dick Cullen and Norm Kopec; Religious, Social, and Educational, Frank Regan and Dick Clancy.
tailored to fit and their anchored buttons and pre-tested. Sanforized fabric will give you long, satisfactory wear.
Arrow oxfords come in white and solid colors. See them today. $3.95.
ARROW SHIRTS
J TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
V.W.V.W.W.W.W.V-W.W.SW.W-W'.W.WAV-’X
It’s IDLER'S for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
CORRECTION
It was erroneously reported in the “Names Make News” column of last week’s SCHOLASTIC that the Rev. Peter O. Reilly, S.J., and the Rev. Asztrik L. Gabriel, O.Praem., were students in the Mediaeval Institute. In reality both priests are fellows in the Institute.
The P L A C E to go for names you know
IT'S GILBERT'S
for
ARROW
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
32
The Scholastic^
Bareskin
(Continued from Page 25) ture, says that figures don’t lie. Figures like 46-7, for example.
Speaking of figures, word from Charlie Callahan’s den of statistical trivia is that Emil Sitko has now run a mile on college gridirons, usually with enemy W linemen chasing him. Some naive souls might interpret Sitko’s maneuvers as just an all-out amateur effort for dear old Notre Dame, but Bareskin sees an ulterior motive. What better testimonial could the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. have than this: “Emil ‘Red’ Sitko, star ND back, would run a mile for a touchdown or a Camel.” Red would stand to make a nice bundle of cash, but only if he mns no more this season. Bareskin’s predic-9 tion of the week is, therefore, watch for laziness on the part of Red Sitko in the football games yet to be played this autumn.
There seemed to be a tremendous lack of hospitality on the ND squad last Saturday. Clippings from New Orleans way called Tulane’s Eddie Price a 10-secona man. Yet no Notre Dame man was sporting enough, to let Price stay on his feet for ten seconds so the 59,000 fans could „ see for themselves. Not very chivalrous W lads.
Bareskin had an after-the-game chat with Harry Whisker, and the famed football announcer admitted that Notre Dame looked fair against Tulane. But through a complicated set of figures compiled by comparing scores, Whiskers, a football authority who has been “high above many stadia,” revealed that ND is 4 points worse than Michigan. Whisker quite naturally intends to put Michigan first and ND 47th in the next AP ranking. What system could be fairer?
Well, there’s no ball game tomorrow, but Bareskin would advise the boys not to remain idle. Get a game going out in the Bog (Sorin has a good club), or else hustle down to the Avon Theatre and see Vic Mature in action. He’s a line-jarring fullback in the movie there, and Sitko— you’re a nice guy, but you do have an awful lot to learn.
P.S.—Question of the week: What has happened to the scoring punch of Al Zmijewski? Ugly rumors of petty jealousy between Al and quarterback Bob Williams lead Bareskin to believe that Williams will no longer call for Zmijew-ski’s pet lateral interception play. Keep the grievances off the field, Bob. Inside the enemy 20, Zmijewski is dynamite, so use him!
© Oct. 21, 1949
ONE WEEK ONLY
Starting Thursday, October 27 thru Wednesday, Nov. 2
Matinees — 2:30 Evenings — 8:30
Extra Matinee Sat. & Sun. at 5:30
Students and Faculty §1.00 at all times
z-> SPALDING
Spalding ©
35
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... absorb juices .. . reduce tongue bite .. . give you the utmost in smoking pleasure.
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY RNE QUALITY) Specially selected imported briar Pipes.
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L Also Frank Medico “Standard"...
America’s Outstanding Dollar (il) Pipe
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders J] & $2
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Xkoren

A Close One?
We hope we’re not treading on sports ed Buzz Wright’s feet, but we can’t let last Saturday’s game go by without a few words of comment. Not enough could ever be said in praise of the team. That first quarter had everyone bewildered. Was this the game we were going 'to be lucky to squeeze through? Was this the highly-touted Green Wave? What a shellacking! Every playei- on that 54-man squad deserves huzzahs of praise. If they play like they did last Saturday in the remaining six 'encounters, not even Bill Stern can deny us the title of National Champs.
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
S. M. Frank & Co.,_lnc. • fifth Avenue, New York 2z
Subscribe to the 1949-50 "JUGGLER"
Three Issues — 75c
USE COUPON BELOW
Board of Publications, 118 Main Building Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send me all three issues of the 1949-50 Juggler. I enclose 75c.
Name............................................................
Street.................................................
City..-----------------------------State...............
Comics Galore
Although we’ve had only two pep rallies so far this year we thought last Friday’s beat the first one thumbs down. The Blue Circle does a smooth job in running those programs. It seems to us, however, that they’re going to be ruined before long if some of the comedians don’t pipe down. The heckling has gotten out of hand. About four remarks that were thrown to the balcony were funny. About 200 were not. It’s one thing to chide a fellow ND’er, such as a football player, but it’s a different story entirely when the crowd starts to heckle a guest. It got to the point of being downright rude during Mel Allen’s wonderful contribution.
If you think you’ve got a belly laugh, why not tell your buddy next to you? The endless stream of laughless puns lengthens the rally, thwarts the speaker, embarrasses many and keeps people from hearing.
Another fault, minor though it was, that we found with the rally was in regard to the freshman band. They do a great job from the time they leave Washington Hall until they shove their way into the old gym. It’s right at the end of the program that they fall down on the job. Like Friday’s rally: the MC announced the Victory March. The entire student body was keyed-up and were ready to bellow. The band started the intro, which few know, and then marched out—leaving the singers silent for want of accompaniment. It caused the rally to fall flat on its face. How about staying
at least until you’ve run through one chorus?
Chow Line
Here we go again: couldn’t the Student Council or Blue Circle help alleviate those endless lines of waiting outside the . caf on game afternoons? We’d wager that half, if not more, of that crowd were after nothing more than a cup of coffee and a sandwich. We happened to go into the caf, during the mob scene, for a pa-^ per. Next to the newstand was a subsidiary line for just a quick snack. How many people were on it? Three.
All of these people couldn’t have been after a full-course dinner. It was evident that few of them knew about the auxiliary set-up in the caf. Last year the Drill Hall was used for coffee and sandwich seekers. For all we know it might not . have been financially successful. But with a crowd like last Saturday’s we^. ; don’t see how it could fail.
Our suggestion would be that a group from either of the aforementioned organizations pass along the line telling the standees about these alternatives. The	j
people waiting in line were either par-	:
ents, friends or Tulane rooters. Friends or foes, we shouldn’t have allowed them to wait like that. We might not have such a crowd again this year. But just^ ; in case: can’t a group be ready to help * out?
Success
Tom Murray informed us the other day that a bus will be chartered to go to the Michigan State game on Nov. 5. If you’re interested, go to 251 Sorin for the full details.	:
Sights of the Week
That impromptu banner which the spirited juniors of Badin raised. ... A . bus load of revelers, pulling into the alley alongside the police station . . . the I driver complaining that they were making too much noise . . . stuffed into the NIT bus, they couldn’t help but make noise, if only to let their buddies know they were still alive . . . that final score, 46-7.	M
1
The Scholastic^'
34
Chapel Filled for October Adoration
Of the twenty-odd chapels in Sacred Heart Church, one is receiving particular attention this month. Throughout October perpetual devotion to the Blessed Sacrament by the student body is taking place in the Adoration Chapel directly behind the main altar in the rear of the church.
Those who visit the Blessed Sacrament are awed by the beauty of this chapel and particularly the altar. The colorful fresco adorning the ceiling of the chapel is the “Exaltation of the Cross” by Luigi Gregori, who painted the Stations of the Cross and most of the frescoes in the church. Sixty years ago during Gregori’s lifetime, this particular painting, a gift from the artist in honor of Father Sorin, was valued at $15,000.
As sunlight filters through the hand-painted windows, striking splashes of rich colors alight upon the pews and walls, and upon the monstrance, candelabra, and other fixtures of the altar, adding to its brilliance. On the gospel side these windows depict six historic instances of devotion to the Sacred Heart; on the windows to the right or the altar are scenes from the life ol Christ.
This magnificent altar was carved three centuries ago by Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini, an Italian sculptor, architect, and painter. Purchased in Rome by Father Sorin, it is believed to be the only example of the artist’s work in this country. A carved pelican decorates the base of the altar; the tabernacle is made of malachite, a greenish metal similar to copper; and the relief on the tabernacle door represents the Resurrection. Above the tabernacle golden cherubs, the masterpieces of the altar, support the crucifix. The figure on the cross is carved from olive wood. Included in the altar is a fragment of the wooden table used as a portable altar by Saint Peter.
In a recess in the wall above the altar stands an exquisite statue of Notre Dame. Upon Our Lady’s head at one time rested a solid gold crown, set with precious stones and pearls, given to the University in 1888 by Empress Eugenie, wife of Napoleon III. To safeguard the valuable crown, however, it has since been placed on display in the sacristy.
At the rear of the chapel is a huge guest-book, one of several such volumes, signed by visitors from every part of the country and from many foreign lands. It is a testimonial to the attractiveness of the beautiful chapel.
—Don Carbone
Edgar Allan Poe Centennial To Be Celebrated by Talks
Two lectures in commemoration of the centennial of Edgar Allan Poe will be held next week, Oct. 24 and 25, at 4:15 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. They will be open to faculty, graduate students and all English major undergraduate students.
Dean James Southall Wilson, of the Department of Graduate Studies, University of Virginia, and a well-known Poe authority, will deliver the first lecture, entitled “Poe After a Hundred Years.” The second lecture, entitled
From the makers of the tooth powder exclusively NAMED in Reader’s Digest—
Now! Amurol in Tooth Paste!
ONLY AMUROL DOES ALL SIXI
1. Stops growth of acid forming bacteria.
2. Neutralize: and prevents formation of tooth destroying acids.
3. Helps dissolve gluey film on teeth.
4. Strengthens nature's immunity to tooth decay.
5. Adheres longer to tooth surfaces for better therapeutic action.
6. New patented base releases ammonia at maximum strength.
“Your Dentist Knows”
AMMONIATED
DENTIFRICES
“Poe’s Longer Prose Works, Eureka and The Narratives,” will be offered by Professor John T. Frederick, University of Notre Dame.
Nine Freshman Debaters to Talk in Purdue Tourney
Nine freshman debaters will represent Notre Dame at the regional Tau Kappa Alpha debate tourney to be held at Purdue next Thursday and Friday.
Coach Leonard Sommers has named John Houck, Dave Hogan, Don Berry, Walter Murphy, Hugh Braun, Clarence Favret, Joe Bellon, George Pearse, and Pete Ninneman to the nine-man squad.
The Paste with the Goad Taste
A murol Tooth Powder For those who prefer an ammoniated powder Large economy size, only 49t
Oct. 21, 1949
35