Attention:
Student Clubs and Organizations
Scholastic is again sending out a special summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen
If you are interested in advertising in this issue please contact Dave Chmiel, advertising manager, at 239-7569 or 283-1661.
All ads for this special issue are due Friday, May 10.
Let those freshmen know you are out there — advertise in Scholastic!
SCHOLASTIC
IQ
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE ■
COVER
9
SUFR Status Report
Students United for Respect have spent a semester demanding action from the administration on a range of minority issues
15 Protection From Harrassment vs. Free Speech
The debate over the Discriminatory Harrassment Policy involves some big issues
Cover artwork by Jeanne Naylor
ENTERTAINMENT 7
Ending the Year on an Industrial Note
Xymox and Rain Tree Crow: New Releases
MAY 2,1991
8
fIREHOSE
Flyin’ the Flannel like any other
CAMPUS LIFE
18
A History of Excellence The Notre Dame family prepares to applaud its sesquicentennial class as the University plans a yearlong celebration
SPORTS
21
Male Athlete of the Year For three years, All-American Raghib Ismail thrilled Irish football fans
22
Female Athlete of the Year All-American swimmer Tanya Williams makes waves at the Rolfs Aquatic Center
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor’s Notes
3
Editorial
4
On Other Campuses
5
Behavior Modification
6
Week In Distortion
24
Final Word
2
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
COPY EDITOR Margaret Kenny
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange
ADVERTISING MANAGER David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
ENTERTAINMENT ASSISTANT
Dave Holsinger
SYSTEMS MANAGER
Kevin Hardman
LAYOUT MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR Paul Webb
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
■IBlllM
Vol. 132, No. 23
May 2, 1991
Founded 1867
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Not re Dame, IN,46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00[year and back issues are available al $1.25 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions ofthe entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. Allrightsreserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
In this Issue
The emergence of SUFR this semester has stirred mixed reactions from both campus leaders and students. News writer Denise Marion-Landais explores SUFR’s recent activities, development of dialogue between the group and the administration and asks several SUFR members whether this progress is enough. Bridget Zappa and Mike Somerville report on related stories concerning ethnic groups not involved with SUFR and the possibility of converting Theodore’s into a multicultural gathering space, one of SUFR’s main demands. Ian Mitchell details the revised discriminatory harrassment policy just passed by the university’s Academic Council and the debate for and against it.
In Campus Life, Bridget Zappa informs us on the activities in store for the new school year as Notre Dame celebrates its sesquicen-tennial anniversary. Yearlong festivities are planned in appreciation of the 150 years of school history.
Sports Editor Jon Paul Potts and writer Amanda Clinton recognize Scholastic's annual male and female athletes of the year. Raghib Ismail and Tanya Williams share this year’s honors. Reading the highlights of their achievements, you’ll know why.
Entertainment writers Jeff Jotz and Jason Winslade again enlighten us with reviews of the new compact discs by fIREHOSE, Xymox and Rain Tree Crow. Music for the masses — maybe not — but lend them an ear. The usual departments columns can still be found: Kim Cenedella remembers the agony of room picks in Distortion while Mr. Manners is not so politely “manhandled.”
This may seem like the end ...
As we wrap up this last issue and this semster we’re still looking ahead to the coming school year. Many of the issues addressed here will need to be dealt with come August. Keep giving us your input. We will welcome new staffers and new ideas. Tell those little sib’s enrolling next year to get involved.
Institutionalised
Yes, it’s that time of year again; the time we all dread (final exams and the release into the “real world”) and yet look forward to (summer and the release into the “real world”). Packing up, for a new year and a new life, and the anxiety of exams are leaving us all “stressed.” For a little release, take the time to actually enjoy spring at ND— it doesn’t stay this way for long! And get in those last joys with your graduating friends. You’ll miss them soon enough, despite the dreaded return of plaid pants.
Bonne chance with finals, enjoy the issue and revel in the spring.
Mari Okuda
Managing Editor
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer *s name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. Allletlersmustbesigned. Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to rqed letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitling, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print al! Idlers received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
a
EDITORIAL
Straight Talk
On SUFR
If Scholastic were to pick a “news issue of the year” it would have to be Students United For Respect (SUFR). Through sit-in protests and chalk messages, the group has kept the focus of campus debate on the concerns of minorities.
If SUFR wants respect and responses from the adminstration, however, it must act in a respectful and rational manner. SUFR’s demands should be discussed with university officials and other students to achieve some consensus. SUFR must also realize that due to university bureaucracy, changes on campus will not happen overnight. Furthermore, SUFR is calling for changes that, even if the university agrees to them, will still require much discussion and planning to bring them about.
One may agree that there is racism at Notre Dame, but may not approve of the Discriminatory Harassment Policy. One may ac-knowlege that there is a lack of cultural understanding at the university, but still believe that a multicultural center is not the solution. Students may need awareness of ethnic concerns, but perhaps a required course is not the answer. These are all points on which persons of good will can, and will, disagree.
SUFR must work with the university if it wants to instigate changes. SUFR must also gain the adminstration’s and other student’s respect if they want changes made. An unfortunate reality must be recognized: No policy or requirement can force cultural awareness and sensidvity on the unwilling.
In our last editorial on SUFR (“Time to Talk,” Feb. 14), we called for frank discussion among all parties: SUFR members and nonmembers; students, faculty and administration. Now, three months later, this discussion may finally be happening.
Last week’s “open forums” held by SUFR in Flanner and Lyons, were important steps in the right direction. If members of SUFR feel that they have been misrepresented in the media, taking their case directly to the students is the solution.
Another promising sign is Fr. Malloy’s April 29 open letter on cultural diversity. It is important that this letter was published and directed to the entire university community, for the issues it deals with affect us all. It is a promising change from letters sent only to the office of minority affairs, or quiet meetings with small groups of students about issues that affect everyone.
SUFR deserves recognition for forcing the administration to finally deal with minority concerns. Now it’s time to look at ways of dealing with those concerns. Almost everyone agrees that Notre Dame’s treatmentof minorities needs work, but not everyone agrees on how to achieve that goal. Members of SUFR shouldn’t be so quick to brand the views of others “racist” or “ignorant,” and those who disagree with SUFR should try to keep an open mind on new approaches to a very real problem.
The chalk writing may be gone, but SUFR, and more importantly, the concerns it represents, will not just wash away with the next rainstorm.
— Scholastic
aflhilOhffldstfi
■ ..:- ■ ■■tai:?: ■ ■/ '	<■ ■ ■
- i \f •' ■ ::	■->:. : -X .S’.\.. "i ; - --
>r-. ,   : v .■ ‘ •' "vr : ■, • .. /. ..... \ ... ..
of the 1990-91 oidderhic yiar
a: :j.a^ ': ;" a-:' /■ < aa ■ ■■ i: :' j	; i.: ’ 7 j « 'f £■, U ; : : .
<777
on fihalildnd
■ ,:-?v >■ ;:z:
look for us
$2595
SINGLE
52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
MAY 2, 1991
3

Social Cows and One Last Heap of Noodle Kugel
You Thought We Were Boring
So you thought the An Tostal camels were a little bizarre (and the high point of the week)? Well, at least we’re not out making friends with members of the bovinian persuasion (No rude thoughts now). In a recent article in The University of New Hampshire’s Main Street Magazine, students expressed their feelings for the local cows. Striped cows known as “Belties” are among the favorites. Patrick, a senior, stated, “They’re soothing. I ride my bike by them in the summer and they’re all lying out there under the tree in the shade. They moo back at me when I moo at,them.” Does Main Street need better stories worse than Pat needs a date?
UConn U Stink
The cutthroat competition to find a job after graduating from the University of Connecticut is reaching dangerous levels according to the National On-Campus Report. Some seniors have been arriving at their job interviews only to be informed that another student cancelled it for them. Don’t imitate the Ivy League, UConn. Jobs in insurance selling can’t be that few and far between.
Noodle Kugel... On the Road ’91
University of Houston officials were forced to indefinitely close a campus cafeteria serving 800 students due to illnesses reports the College Press Service. Sixty students developed diarrhea, stomach cramps, nausea, or vomitting. “The symptoms suggest something food-borne,” said a member of the city’s Department of Health and Human Services. (Really?!) Reports were unclear as to whether everyone’s favorite Norweigian/Collegiate any-time-of-the-day-snack, Noodle Kugel, was on the menu. (O.K., I needed one yearend slam on the big N-K. Besides, I love using the Umlaut symbol.)
BYU Goes Liberal
Brigham Young University’s trustees recently voted to allow a change in the school’s dress code according to the College Press Service. BYU, Amercia’s most, no make that second most, conservative university now allows its students to go sockless and where knee-length shorts on campus. (These are Latter-Day saints, not Jesuits, folks.)
Skull and Bones Attempts to Go Co-ed
Senior members of Yale University’s most prestigious secret society, Skull and Bones, unanimously voted to allow women to enter, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. However, alumni members of the secret society (whose ranks include El Presidente George Bush) changed the locks on the tomb where they meet. Apparently, the alumni were not angered by the fact that the academically superior female students were going to participate. Alumni were, however, dismayed by the proposal to redo the tomb with pastel wallpaper, love seats and exquisite throw pillows. □
Edited by Michael Owen
4
SCHOLASTIC

Grace Hall
Needs Serious Counselling
Dear Mr. Manners,
How utterly rude and inconsistent you are! We write a simple letter asking a simple question, and get thoroughly maligned for signing our nickname to it. I suppose “Molly McSm ickley” and “Sinead Nair” were the real names of those published in your last column- at least they weren’t unfairly insulted for using them. And who the hell are you? Are you afraid to reveal your true identity? Look, we’re willing to do our part. In response to your last letter, you said,“... if you must insult me, I wish you would do it properly and let me know who you are.” We assume that we are now free to debase you without inhibition, in which case we would like to let you know that you are a knave, a rascal, an eater of broken meats; a base, proud, shallow, beggarly, three-suited, hundred-pound, filthy worsted-stocking knave; a lily-livered, action-taking, whoreson, glass-glazing, super-servicable, finical rogue; one-trunk-inheiriting slave; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of good service, and art nothing but the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar, and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch; and one whom we will beat into a clamorous whining if thou deniest the least syllable of thy addition.
Most sincerely, Mark Engel, T.C. Fleming, Todd Herman, Dave Kisch, Matt Lamberti, Dave Platt, Javier Porras, and Eric Staub
The Trolls, Freshmen, Grace
Dear Trolls,
First, I am not inconsistent. No, Mr. Manners has not gone through violent mood swings nor do I prefer to dump on the Trolls more than Molly McSmickley (her real name). I must admit to you that this Mr. Manners is not the same one who maligned you. We don’t last too long in this hotseat. Our last behavior modifier was assassinated by a disgruntled grandmother. However, I am hardly going to apologize for him. If I remember correctly, you insulted him so he had every right to make fun of your name. Besides, I am the one wielding power here so you can reveal your names if you want, I don’t care. I must caution you about this practice. You may
MAY 2,1991
receive endless abuse and scoff from my legions of fans who agree with me.
One rule that I will enforce violently is whining. When I took over I said that I don’t need letters with whiny twangs to them. I get enough of live human whiners on campus. I don’t need more in the mail. Shall I call you Doug and Wendy from now on? Lighten up and obtain a sense of humor.
Finally, your trite King Lear spiel won’t cut it. Yes, readers, the Trolls quote Shakespeare. That and a token will get you on the subway. Whoreson? I’m not going to think about how many jokes I could make about your mothers! Also, nice citing of your reference. Has freshman seminar taught you nothing about PLAGIARISM? I might as well turn this over to student affairs. But, since I have a heart and you are low-life freshmen, we’ll let this one goby. American education is truly sinking into the abyss. No more letters, Trolls!
Dear Mr. Manners,
My roommates and I have been pondering a mystery at the prompting of one of us, Shaun, who came up with this question late one night. We have been experimenting and questioning others, but have yet, to find a definite answer. Can you help us? The issues involve manners, as well. The question is: When one flatulates, does one always hold one’s breath ...
Some curious seniors in Grace
Dear Readers: This question was terminated because it just degenerates into something a fifth-grader woultbask at the dinner table. Why don’t each of you ask this at your first orientation meeting of your jobs in the real world? That is, if you are moving on to the real world. I always hate that term “real world.” What the hell are we living in now? Catholic Disneyland?
Anyway, you and your Troll buddies are building a label for mighty Grace Hall. Can this be true that instead of going out you people sit in your rooms and think of dumb questions to ask me? I betit was truly aNotre Dame Moment when Shaun came up with that one. Your experimenting on others only intensifies my image of Grace boys. Ladies of the ND/SMC community, take note.
Now, I don’t want to label one of the Towers of Babel as irreparably lame. Many cool people live in Grace, I’m betting, and I don’t think they appreciate you representing their dorm in such a manner. Defend yourselves from such representation!
As always, write me at 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail. □
5

 WEEK IN DISTORTION
Why Are Room Picks So Darn Picky?
An investigation ofjust one of Notre Dame’s plethora of confusing, needlessly complicated, money-making rituals
t ;
by Kim Cenedella
pringtime at Notre Dame has such po-tential. Shorts weather has finally arrived, outdoor basketball games abound, and the lakes look beautiful. But if there’s one thing which can ruin this season (disregarding finals), it’s room picks. I’ve never witnessed such a complex process for so simple a concept (besides DARI), nor a more friendship-threatening one.
First of all, let me explain the ceremony we adhere to in my dorm. Room picks cannot occur until the exact second they are originally scheduled. At that moment, the area where rooms are chosen must completely clear except for the first three picks. Excess pickers create a fire hazard, I guess. When your turn arrives, you are escorted into a dim, secludedroom by an R. A. Before you can even think about selecting a room, you must pay the mysterious hall tax, and sign various forms with themes ranging from “I Will Not Damage My Room Intentionally” to “I Will Not Return Next Semester Before the Dining Halls Open.” Then, you must present your I.D. as well as those of your future roommates, plus two additional photo identifications and a letter from your mom. After establishing your credibility that you are who you say you are, you are allowed to pick your room.
The process which leads to the final step, however, is even more time-consuming. Deciding who to live with is usually tough, except for freshmen. They seem to know,
after living with a stranger for a year, that they could either do it again or prefer to live in the library. On theother hand, upperclassmen who have lived with the same person for two years or more cannot possibly say, “I couldn’t possibly reside in the same state with you much less the same room,” because they actually wanted to live with this person originally and weren’t thrown together like freshmen. Anyway, this decision can either
“Deciding whotolivewith
men. They seem to after living wi to a s^ ::: for a yean, that they could eitoerdoitagainorp^ to liyeiito^
make or break a friendship and usually does so with a tear shed or a punch thrown.
After deciding who to room with, each roommate makes a special trip to the Grotto to pray for that number one pick. This spot is most frequently decided by a random lottery system which sometimes isn’t so random. Because I know of a student who was dead last two years in a row. (Maybe those three trips to room 315 in the Admini
stration Building turned the lottery against him.) Some dorms, however, opt for other systems than the lottery, such as a GPA scale. I’m so thankful my dorm doesn’t practice this technique, or I’d be sleeping in our study lounge. At any rate, the person with the first pick assumes an elevated status for a while and can usually be bribed. I know of oneguy who accepted an undisclosed sum of money plus unlimited beer to pick an incredible room for three guys he barely knew. We’ll find out next year if this high priority he placed on friendship panned out for him.
When room picks occur, a variety of things can happen. A random who has lived in a single for three years can snatch a six-man from under your nose by pulling up five freshmen. Your dream quad can be closed for incoming freshmen. Or your only options could be spacious singles on the fourth floor. But something is bound to happen which ruins your springtime frolicking. I truly hope you make it through this difficult process without too much hassle. But heck, why am I complaining? My roommate has the number one pick. Maybe I should take her out to lunch ...
Kim Cenedella, former goddess of Howard Hole, was dumped by her roommates and will be living under the Howard Arch. Just don't trip over her sweater collection on your way through.
SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
Ending the. Year on an Industrial Note
Xymox and Rain Tree Crow: New Releases
Phoenix, Xymox's new release, progresses toward dance club stardom
by Jason L. Winslade Xymox-Phoenix
Yet another synthesizer band has paid homage to the great god of the dance club as Xymox’s latest release, Phoenix, offers its first single, “Phoenix of My Heart.” The track mostly uses a generic beat, with uninteresting lyrics and Eastern voice samples, and it ends with a version of “Wild Thing.”. Okay, so the song is kinda fun, but the Norwegian trio of Ronny Moorings, Anka Wolbert and Pieter Nooten have produced better music, especially in their days as the Clan of Xymox on the 4AD label. While “Wonderland” and “Written in the Stars” are similarly enjoyable dance sellouts, the band occasionally reverts to its former Gothic style with the somber instrumental “Crossing the Water” and the Native American-inspired “The Shore Down Under.” Other highlights include “Mark the Days,” the slower pieces, “Believe Me Sometimes” and “Smile Like
Heaven,” and the Patti Smith cover, “Dancing Barefoot”
Overall, the band has lost some of its originality. Since the group’s second mellow masterpiece Medusa, the sound of Xymox is becoming increasingly watered down. However, the band still retains plenty of ethereal qualities. Even the strictly dance tune, “Wonderland” includes lyrics which deal with youthful optimism for the future. Phoenix is definitely a continuation of Xymox’s progression towards American dance chart stardom, but one wonders where they can go after that.
Rain Tree Crow continues Japan's saga with their selftitled release
Rain Tree Crow
This self-titled album cannot really be considered a debut These guys have played together before in Japan, a late-seventies band which reached its peak and eventual break-up in the early eighties. Japan’s last album, Tin Drum, was hailed as
one of the bestoriginal sounds to come out of Britain. Since then, Mick Kam has played with musicians as diverse as Gary Numan, new age trumpeter/key-boardist Mark Isham, jazz group Cloud About Mercury and Peter Murphy in a post-Bauhaus project known as Dali’s Car. David Sylvian has done several solo albums encroaching the new age genre with Gone to Earth and 1987’s Secrets of the Beehive. He has also recorded several instrumental works, collaborating with artists such as Jon Hassel, Virginia Astley, Holger Czukay, Mark Isham, Robert Fripp and Japanese soundtrack artist Ryuichi Sakamoto {The Last Emperor, Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence), as well as former Japan members.
All these years of experience and diversity haveculminated in the projectRain Tree Crow. The former Japan members create a unique landscape of color, sound and image, producing a work that cannot simply be classified as environmental music. Alternative instruments abound from the John Cage-inspired treated piano to Indian drum, pipes, water wheel (?), to guitar treatments and shortwave radio sounds reminiscent of Sylvian’s solo instrumental work. Although Kam does not use his characteristic fretless, his bass definitely shows his experience with new age and jazz as well as his years in the New Wave
scene. Jansen, Sylvian’s brother, still uses eclectic and non-traditional drum parts, with never a snare to be heard, while Sylvian’s voice has developed into a soothing, low emotion emitted in between thoughts.
“Big Wheels in Shanty Town,” the album’s opening track, sounds the most like Japan, with strange percussion, Eastern backing vocals and a treated brass section. Many of the tracks are instrumentals, ranging from the floating, environmental sound of “Red Earth (as summertime ends)” and “Scratchings on the Bible Belt” to the minimal sounds of “New Moon at Red Deer Wallow” and “A Reassuringly Dull Sunday.” Other tracks are short, mostly vocal pieces such as the45-sec-ond “Boat’s for Burning” and the title track “Rain Tree Crow," in which themes of the spirituality of nature are established for the album. Other highlights of this mostly slow work include single material “Pocket Full of Change” and “Blackwater,” the upbeat “Blackcrow Hits Shoe Shine City” and the mellow, race-oriented guitar piece “Every Colour You Are.”
□
Jason L. Winslade is a regular music contributor to Scholastic as well as lead singer for Dexter, Sinister and Smear. He just loves The Jericho Sessions.
MAY 2, 1991
gwKsTC
fIREHOSE
Flyin' the Flannel like any
other Domer
Flyin’the Flannel Is fIREHOSE's new release.
by Jeffrey J. Jotz
In the chaotic and ever-changing world of rock and roll, some bands define a sound. The Feelies and Yo La Tengo symbolize the quirky, jangly “Hoboken Sound.” Soundgarden, Nirvana, and Mudhoney embody the grungy, dirtbag “Seattle Sound,” and The Chameleons, Happy Mondays and The Railway Children characterize the light, poppy “Manchester Sound.”
While some musical styles are tagged with the nameof their home city, other bands may start their own musical movement, spawning other bands of similar music and attitudes. The Seattleites listed above, plus tons of other bands are taking part in the glut of “grunge rock” bands invading college radio. Ministry, Skinny Puppy, KMFDM and other bands have combined the nihilism of Jate-seventies punk with the techno-beats of early-eighties new wave and disco to create what is known to my fellow music writers as “industrial.”
However, a'band that has just released
their fourth LP, fIREHOSE, does not fit in any of the above categories. Itborderson the undefinable. It takes snippets from so many musical styles and movements that the average music reviewer might find himself or herself facing a loss for words to describe it.
Following the release of 1989’s fRO-MOHIO, the trio composed of Mike Watt (bass/vocals), George Hurley (drums) and Ed Crawford (guitar/vocals) apparently went into a deep hibernation. They would awake from time to time to do a show or two . out East, various spots in California and maybe even a show at the Cabaret Metro in Chicago (as they did last May). The thundering peals from San Pedro were awfully quiet. On April 27, like an unexpected California tremor, they popped back into the music world with their new release, Flyin' the Flannel.
Flyin' the Flannel, referring to the characteristic rugged outerwear worn by fIREHOSE frontman Mike Watt, is a comfortable, enjoyable ride through the unique and mysterious universeof this imaginative rock and roll trio. The band takes new musical directions that don’t turn off any critics who accuse bands of stagnating into the groove of complacency. Thankfully, the band still retains that uncanny blend of oddball lyrics, jazz, folk, punk, funk and whatever else falls into their minds, making it welcome to the listener who’s been following fIREHOSE since their days in the late seventies as the Minutemen.
Flyin' the Flannel jumps out at you with
“Down With the Bass,” a rolling, flowing song that is kept in control by Watt’s powerful bass line. “Can’t Believe,” a freewheeling, pop-a-la-flREHOSE style, exhibits a definite radio potential. “Epoxy For Example,” is a light, bouncy tune that relies in Crawford’s jangling yet piercing guitar, slightly reminiscent of the Five O’Clock Shadows’ “Bee Slippers.” “Toolin’” is just what the name says — a loose, jumpy, quirky piece, showing off the fine vocals of Mr. Crawford while peppering itself with the typical shimmering of Hurley’s drums. “Towin’ the Line,” al first listen, bursts forth likea lost track off R.E.M.’s Chronic Town. As the song progresses, the R.E.M. guitar style remains, but the mood is definitely a fIREHOSE one as the three from San Pedro (actually, Crawford is “fROMOHIO”) leave their distinct mark.
Flyin’ the Flannel is fIREHOSE’s first releaseon a major label (Columbia), and it is their longest album to date (featuring 16 big songs). It is produced by veteran Paul Q. Kolderie (Big Dipper), and really is a fine, fine record. Before you pack them bags for home, be sure to wear your flannel... Mike Watt would be proud.	□
Jeff Jotz is Music Director at WVF1 and will be returningfor his senior year to battle the evil forces of musical complacency. He thanks SUB for the Guess Who, and hopes that "Geritol rockers" Foghat and Three Dog Night play at An Tostal 1992.
SCHOLASTIC
SUFR Status Report
Students United, for Respect have spent a semester demanding action from the administration on a range of minority issues
by Denisse Marion-Landais
Q Z^Xur University’s alumni, faculty, staff, and students pride themselves on being members of the ‘Notre Dame Family.’ However, the vast majority of Notre Dame’s traditionally under-represented Ethnic Americans have been alienated and made to feel like step-children in this family known as Notre Dame.”
So begins an open letter to the Notre Dame/South Bend community written by Students United For Respect (SUFR) at Notre Dame. For SUFR members, this letter —releasedin mid-February 1991 — is part of the group’s continuing struggle to become a full part of the Notre Dame community. SUFR's calls for action from the university have intensified in response to what members of the group view as inaction on the part of the administration..
Included in this open letter were elaborations and explanations on the nine demands which SUFR presented to Patricia O’Hara, vicepresidentofstudentaffairs, on January 21. Each demand was given a specific deadline, the last of which passed March 19,1991.
If these demands were not addressed by March 19, SUFR members said they would “consider (themselves) disrespected by the University of Notre Dame and will act accordingly.” At that time, SUFR did not specify what further actions they would take. However, the recent chalk writings on sidewalks, the NA ACP protest on March 22 and the sit-in at the registrar’s office on April 17 have all represented SUFR’s attempts to get the administration to address their demands.
Prior to the April 17 sit-in, SUFR members were frustrated by what they saw as the university’s failure to respond to their
demands. “I don’t feel any progress has been made... we were granted the Foster Room... [but it is] not that big a thing to ask for. The administration has stalled. They’ve done nothing,” said SUFR member Corey Collins.
“The only thing done [was] temporary space (the Foster Room),” said Beatriz Cruz, another SUFR member.
SUFR has recently taken more active measures in their attempts to realize their demands. “SUFR wants to first of all be heard, to be taken seriously by the administration... the university has tended to down play the seriousness of the issues raised by SUFR,” said Collins.
SUFR members say that they have repeatedly stressed the need for communication. “Direct negotiations are the
best way... the person we want to deal with
18 letter, “over the last several weeks I have
Paul Webb
The 150 students who took part in the April 17 sit-in at the registrar's office were faced with a choice of leaving the building by 7 p.m. or being suspended.
is Malloy,” said Manuel Espino, a member of SUFR.
Other members agreed. SUFR member Keith McCoy said, Fr. Malloy made the commitment to cultural diversity, and if he knew that the students he actively recruited are frustrated, he would try to do something to alleviate that frustration.
“He said he would not take a stance on anything ... he was asked ‘you are the president of the University, you see that these issues are pressing, you see that this has gone on to national media, yet you refuse to address us’,” said Cruz.
Spurred by a twelve-hour sit-in at the registrar’s office, it appears that communication is beginning. Fr. Edward A. Malloy, president of the university, said in an April
MAY 2, 1991
9
■ met with small groups of interested students to discuss these issues ... formal discussion i of issues relating to cultural diversity at Notre Dame will continue.”
The sit-in itself lasted from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Thursday, April 17. More than 150 f	demonstrators crowded into the registrar’s
i!;	office with pillows, blankets, books, music
i	andfood.“Itwasverytense,yetit...[had]an
i	air of unity,” said McCoy. Although SUFR
11	members were prepared for a lengthy stay,
after leaders met with Malloy, the demonstrators complied with an administration deadline and left the ri	administration building shortly after 7 p.m..
i SUFR members were told “that there i would be no disciplinary reprisals if the Registrar’s Office was cleared by 7 p.m.,” I said Malloy’s April 18 letter. “In fact, no [i disciplinary actions have been taken,” it f	added.
; A framework for future dialogue and p -	progress was proposed by Malloy in an
■ ;	April 23 letter issued through the
department of public relations. “Recognition of SUFR as an official student organization will be granted on the same day 1 on which the group presents an appropriate :	request for recognition,” said Malloy’s
1	letter.
■ This letter also stated that Malloy “will ;	issue a substantive letter to the University
i	community analyzing the University’s
; present situation with respect to issues of i	cultural diversity, including both programs
li	in place and areas where further efforts and
I	actions are essential.” In it Fr. Malloy
f guaranteed SUFR members participation in j|	the ensuing talks that would “flow from (his)
letter.”
1 According to members, SUFR responded to President Malloy’s statement “after consultation with Michael Nelson, the NAACP College and Youth Coordinator, § and the entire SUFR membership.” In a ! public statement made April 22, SUFR ; announced that it had accepted “the Four J i Point Proposal” and it had delivered a letter to Malloy. The letter revealed SUFR’s intentions for“theestablishmentofSUFRas ! a recognized student organization by the University of Notre Dame.”
SUFR also asked for “a substantiative document published for circulation throughout the Notre Dame community ! reaffirming President Malloy’s I- ’ 10
commitment to cultural diversity.” SUFR stated that they would take part in dialogues concerning this document, and that “both the administration and SUFR would participate in the decision making process of the committee members.”
SUFR’s letter to Fr. Malloy sought further reassurance “that there will be no academic or other reprisals suffered by students as a result of their participation in the sit-in.” It then asked that there be a public response to SUFR’s letter.
SUFR asked for “the university’s acceptance of assistance by an impartial third party who would function as an active participant in the resulting dialogue.” As Scholastic went to press there had been no official university comment about the use of such an arbitrator.
“I am pleased and encouraged by your decision to accept the framework I
Paul Webb
Robert Price, a SUFR spokesperson and Notre Dame alumnus, takes part in February dicussions with Patricia O'Hara, vice president of student affairs. As a result of this discussion O'Hara agreed to help arrange meetings between SUFR and the university offlcals who could best address SUFR's demands.
offered,” said Malloy in his written response to SUFR’s move toward becoming a university-recognized organization. “It is my intention to issue a letter to the University community on issues related to cultural diversity at Notre Dame within a matter of days,” he said.
On April 29 Malloy issued that open letter. In it he said, “I want personally to thank the students who in recent months have held the University accountable for what they perceive to be a lack of progress with regard to cultural diversity.”
In the letter Malloy drew attention to five areas of the present campus situation which concern him: the notion that minority students are here under “false pretenses," the difficulties in forming “deep and lasting friendships across ethnic lines,” the different acceptances “accorded to student-athletes from ethnic minority backgrounds versus
SCHOLASTIC
that accorded their ethnic peers," the frequent demands being placed on minority faculty and staff because they are so few and the fact that ethnic minority students and faculty often come from non-Catholic religious backgrounds.
Malloy’s April 29 letter also said that a task force on cultural diversity has been established and will be co-chaired by Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president, and Fr. Richard Warner, counselor to the president.
“The task force will be assigned to review present efforts at promoting cultural diversity and to make recommendations for future action. The task force will have
University-wide purview, but it should not interfere with the work of any other committees established to explore similar issues within various units of the University,” the letter said.
The task force will begin its official work in September 1991, submitan interim report to Malloy by January 15 and complete its final report by the end of the 1991-92 academic year. Both the interim and final reports will be made available to the university community.
One topic likely to be discussed at future meetings is the discriminatory harassment policy. The new policy was approved by the faculty senate on April 9 and finally passed
by the academic council on April 16. SUFR members are not satisfied with the policy that was passed, however.
“That is a serious undermining of what we specifically stated, saying that that was a racial harassment policy that we would not accept... because it was extremely vague... they restructured it ... they made it even vaguer than it was to begin with,” said Cruz.
“The discriminatory policy [is]... just an insult,” said Espino, it “was not very appropriate for a discriminatory policy. [It]lost a lot of procedural specifics.”
The newly-approved policy discusses intentional harassment, but SUFR members said that the discrimination that occurs at
' 7yri?	byBridget Zappa	. .'riX'"-- 1 ■■ 71 ri'‘'ri?'ri•. h ri'ri/ri~ri:bri'/riri7
■ ssit-insancrdtherprcHesLs-gain	;ri’ri ’’ri'?"?'"
camptis-wide attentionforthelargerririhavclhNp^^
coalition of minority students .representeddd^ byStudentsUnit«lfbrResp^ti>some-w^
smallerminority groups bn campushave?inadequate spaces ph campus. Ralph said association has met with expensive outside?; falienontothe;peripheryofevents.?:?;: ri
Severalmembcrsofthcseriminorityririm^	i: b ri
groups; have definite opinions ohiSUFR’s??;-. well, rird;; '??? ri’ ri	b -d^hriri?'? ?ob repeatedly saidthat the;university ?
demands and thc effaits ' thcseridemandsriri B wouldhave-ontheirorgahizationsriwhichdsm
However, they refused tohave their names' cshideritsri arid ri fabulty.	Association’s ri reservin g a place such as Washington Hall b
or the names' of their organizalionsrelmedri;^	frorri becbmingforCultiiral events or to host visiting la lent;
becausetheyhaveeithernptbcencontactedririinvolvedri^ hy?SUroorOtheirorgamzatibnisari^
social: one Which sfeuld nbt jbecomermassociStidh focuseston the? personal	SUFRbui dcclinedto ;-
b fejph,,a'memtef of Aibjija^panhQt&b-'hei^^
r-- which alone,did notmind having its? : riAltfibugh he ppi»^ namementionedinilsresponsetoSUHt^riripqlitics.Bpbdidagr^ VtewsSlW wiiirsoihp skeptibiSmi Whis-ri bui^
organization has yet to be contacted by. w beneficiak^^^	was^pffered;^ couldj^^^
SUFR. ri!	riv WUjwMS	association ??O^	;ph:pampuslfin|ri
; Ralph said to&$^iAhsAsA^?$jAc®iSeiAlsihessbutlA^
a Nati ve American^.rabe, yet they have not^ ^ ?A b^nri^llyinidude^withinrio^
ri;M^i'Alanis A^ldngetpritfiec&wAii^riri^iy^iljri^^
MAY 2,1991
11
Theodore's Planning Committee Recommends Against Multicultural Center
by Mike Somerville
Wf hen Theodore’s opened after the » ▼ 1986 renovation of LaFortune, it was billed as a “viable social alternative on the weekends.” It offered students who did not want to—or could not — participate in other on or off-campus gatherings a place to socialize with music, dancing and nonalcoholic beverages.
There was to be more to Theodore’s than DJs, music, dancing and sodas, however. Charles Francis, assistant director of student activities, said that Theodore’s was also “a reservable space” intended for such purposes as art shows, lectures and live entertainment.
Despite low attendance on many nights, Francis is not convinced that Theodore’s is failing at its intentions — even as a dance club. “Some nights there is nobody. Other times we can have two hundred people,” he said.
Because Theodore’s attendance is relatively low on a consistent basis and most students prefer to find their entertainment elsewhere, a committee was set up earlier this year to evaluate the current use of Theodore’s. This committee will eventually make recommendations for the future use of
Theodore’s and how it can more effectively serve the student body.
According to statements Joe Cassidy, director of student activities, made in late January 1991, the idea of such a committee had been under consideration for some time. He said that it had become apparent that “Theodore’s was not working and that changes would need to be made.”
Cassidy considers the committee set up to evaluate the use of Theodore’s as part of a wider re-examination of space usage in LaFortune. On April 22, Cassidy sent out a memo to the heads of all student groups desiring space in LaFortune next year.
“Because of increasing demands for space, we are going to be making an extensive review of past, current and future space allocations in LaFortune. This review will include not only student office, storage, and lounge space, but also space allocated for administrative offices, lounges, and meeting rooms,” the letter said. It then asked student groups to justify their space needs without reference to keeping the space they currently have and to “keep in mind that many student centers at other universities often allocated the same space to more than
one group.
The formation of the committee need not be seen as a reflection of failure, said Francis. He said that it is, rather, an effort to get “as much useof the facility as possible— for a wide variety of events.”
At his Februaiy 12 meeting with Patricia O’Hara, vice-president of student affairs, and members of SUFR, Cassidy took the names of individuals interested in serving on the committee. At that time, Cassidy also said that the committee would be composed of students, rectors and a representative from student activities.
There were no systematic requirements for committee membership, said Francis. Although Francis would not release the names of members, he said that the committee is presently composed of representatives from the Student Union Board, the office of minority affairs, student government and other campus organizations. (Scholastic has learned that the student members of the committee include Yolanda Knight, Joe Blanco and JoeMcCarthy.)
Several SUFR members have suggested that Theodore’s, which has low attendance
Notre Dame is not as overt as that discussed in the policy. Collins added that the case scenarios given as examples do not deal with the type of harassment that exists, said Collins. (For more information on the policy, see story on page 15.)
SUFR members feel that their other demands have met with a similar lack of response, and cite the Foster Room — a temporary meeting place given to SUFR at a February 12 meeting with Patricia O’Hara and Joe Cassidy, director of student activities—as an example. SUFR’s original demand for space called for the “current Club (Coordination Council) Room... as our temporary multicultural center.”
Another of the original demands cal led for
12
a more permanent meeting space and required the “commitment to build a multicultural center that will provide office space, an auditorium, congregational space (a party room), library space, lounge space and study rooms.” Theodore’s was suggested as a temporary option.
“A committee that was formed to search out innovative ideas of how to use, of how to utilize Theodore’s and I’m somewhat disappointed because even the idea ... of a multicultural center was shot down... we’re basically going into another year of an unutilized Theodore’s that could probably be used to temper some of the frustrations which are being surfaced on this campus,” said McCoy. (For more information on the
future of Theodore's, see story above.)
Increased financial aid for ethnic Americans is another of SUFR’s demands that members feel has been inadequately addressed by the university. “A lot of the other universities will give a student scholarships and grants before they give them Ioans and work-study. Here the University automatically gives you loans and work-study ... [this is] not good for the student in the long run. The student can’t afford to be here but is as academically as capable as any other student on this campus,” said Collins.
“A representative from the financial aid office will come and tell the students, ‘we’re going to try to meet your financial needs,
SCHOLASTIC
and few activities on most nights, would gain visitors by serving as a temporary multicultural center.
SUFR members have said that Theodore’s is currently poorly attended and could be put to better use. They believe having their multicultural center there would draw people to a basically unused place.
Azikiwe Chandler advocated SUFR’s use of Theodore’s at the February 12 meeting. “Theodore’s is big enough to accommodate a multicultural center. I would advise you to look into that for next semester... what I am saying is the space is needed. The multicultural center, when it comes, will be several years down the road. Theodore’s is the only space of suitable size,” he said.
SUFR member Pedro Villegas said of this plan, “Our feeling is that Theodore’s is a good size for us. It has the two wings. We don’t have the access to Theodore’s that we would like to have... We’re not try ing to take anything away. What we’re trying to do is add something; basically there is nothing there.”
Corey Collins said that the group would use the “wings” at Theodore’s as a “mini library” where artworks and exhibits from all ethnic groups could be displayed. He would like to make all these works available to “better inform the student of the different cultures on campus.” He also said that the “main room” would be used for special purposes, such as guest speakers.
Thus far, SUFR’s proposal has met with a
“frustrating lack of response from the committee,” Collins said.
At the February 12 meeting with O’Hara and SUFR, Cassidy said that SUFR’s use of Theodore’s could be addressed by the
committee as one of the possible options for Theodore’s future. At that meeting, O’Hara also said that the committee could consider turning Theodore’s into a multicultural space.
On April 29, however, Student Body President Joe Blanco told Scholastic that the committee had recommended to student activities that Theodore's be used as a space for clubs and events, not dedicated for use as a multicultural center. As Scholastic went to press, the office of student activities had yet to pass judgement on that recommendation.
Theodore’s use has already been changed by proposals made by SUFR. At the February 12 meeting SUFR members got O’Hara and Cassidy to agree that student groups could charge admission for events they held at Theodore’s. They also got a verbal agreement that students could use Theodore's with their own DJs and food provisions.
It is Theodore’s present lack of popularity that has caused the indecision about its future. Until student activities has evaluated the committee's recommendations, this future seems likely to remain uncertain.
The year-end LaFortune space evalutaion process could mean that some campus groups currently alloted space could be put into a time-sharing arrangement or denied space altogether. If Theodore’s is not to be used as the temporary multicultral center, SUFR may gain multicultural space in LaFortune at the expense of some other campus group.	□
don ’ t worry about it; come to us and we’ 11 do everything we can for you,’ then once you get here—the first year students—have to meet outside obligations, and either you meet them or you ’re out there on your own,” said McCoy.
“The attrition rate is ridiculous when it comes to minority students. The university brags about how they can keep people here, but minority students are disproportionate — the amount of people who leave because of financial reasons,” said Cruz.
Malloy addressed these concerns in his April 29 open letter, mentioning increased scholarship funds and restating the university’s commitment to double the amount of scholarship assistance by the
MAY 2, 1991
year 2000.
SUFR says its demands concerning education havealso not been acted upon. Their original demands numbers six and seven, dealing with an enlargement and enrichment of the current ethnic programs and the recruitment of more Ethnic American faculty respectively have yet to find resolutions, members say.
A passage from SUFR’s February open letter re-emphasizes the need for more ethnic' faculty. “... this small, real percentage of the Notre Dame faculty is insufficient to service the cultural education of the ethnic American component of the Notre Dame students (10 percent of all enrolled students) as wellas thestudentbody in general. In light
of the university administration’s repealed pledges to promote cultural diversity atNotre Dame and its goal to compete with other reputable universities, it is important that the administration make unmistakable efforts to recruit true ethnic American faculty.”
Malloy also devoted part of his open letter to these concerns. He wrote that "In 1987 the Office of the Provost announced a series of affirmative action goals relative to the hiring of minority faculty. Special funds were made available to each College for this purpose. The results so far have been mixed, but the effort continues and this past year suggest some upturn in our hiring success.”
Another one of SUFR’s demands concerns a required ethnic studies course.
13
Paul Webb
The use of Theodore's as a temporary multicultural center has been suggested by some members of SUFR. Theodoe's lack of popularity has prompted Joe Cassidy, director of student activities, to set up a committee to make recommendations for Theodore's future use.
“It’s very necessary to have an ethnic American course here,” said Collins. “In envisioning this course, I’m envisioning something that is going to take up the whole year. I could definitely see it working as something that in the Freshman Year of Studies, or — if not there — work in somewhere... something mandatory as well. There are already so many requirements now, one more won’t hurt. In fact, this one more will help tremendously."
Other SUFR members see the course requirement differently. In an April 25 open forum at Flanner Hall, members suggested that a course in, for example, African-American history could be used to satisfy requirements for both ethnic studies and history. Such an arrangement would not involve an additional course.
A recent development related to SUFR’s demand for a required course in ethnic and ethnic American studies was the approval of a resolution by the 1991-92 student senate which supported the creation of a similar, mandatory course. As of presstime, the
resolution was awaiting a decision on it by the Academic Council, meeting for an extra-ordinary third time this semester.
SUFR members perceive the student body’s response to SUFR’s activities and demands as primarily negative, not positive. “In general, the student body’s reaction is overall still one of ignorance,” said Collins.
The recent sit-in and its subsequent publicity may have awakened more students to SUFR’s cause, members said. Yet, “a lot of people who are sympathetic toward ethnic Americans may or may not agree with SUFR’s tactics,” said Espino.
“They (the majority of the student body) don’t care less about these issues because they don ’ t pertain to them. They don ’ t have to deal with these issues because they’re not minorities,” said McCoy. Most students are “very misinformed, very judgmental. They’re very quick to judge,” said Cruz.
“Il’s up to the students, if you’re really concerned about human decency, if you’re truly concerned about civil rights and
equality, then you would take it upon yourself to get involved. Because we’re all adults, and nb one should have to be led by the hand to do something that is human decency,” said McCoy.
SUFR members said their demands have been carefully researched and warrant more careful consideration by the student body and the university administration. “Fr. Malloy said of all the demands ... he tried to trivialize it by saying all the demands and all the stuff we did on them was gotten out of personal anecdotes, that we did not research,” said Cruz.
“He knows very well that that’s wrong. He knows that we went to the director of financial aid. He knows all the stuff that went into it,” she added.
Further, SUFR members said that public opinion has often been misinformed. “People say we are not at liberty to complain. Well, we’ve done a lot of research,”
said Espino.
SUFR members said that the university has also done research on similar issues, but has failed to release its findings. “Monk Malloy set up a task force in 1987 to investigate a lot of these issues. He designated the academic year of 1988-89 the Year of Cultural Diversity ... he appointed minority committees to investigate all these issues... he has all this research there and has done nothing with it,” said Collins.
Other SUFR members agreed with Collins. “The university has a lot of the research. It’s their next step to do something about it. Hopefully Malloy will live up to his promises of commitment to cultural diversity,” said Espino.
SUFR members were unwilling to comment upon what further actions they might be planning, and the future of the group is far from certain. For the past semester, though, the group has proved its staying power and made its agenda the issues the administration has had to deal with.	□
SCHOLASTIC
__________________NE WS I________________
Protection From Harassment vs. Free Speech
The debate over the Discriminatory Harassment Policy involves some big issues
by Ian Mitchell
ol leges across the nation are passing policies banning so-called “fighting words.” Traditional bastions of free speech,
universities are struggling to combat racism on campus. Harassment of minorities is a nationwide concern which is now an issue at Notre Dame.
On January 21, Students United for Respect (SUFR) presented a list of demands to the administration which included adoption of a university Discriminatory Harassment Policy. A policy was adopted April 16, but in a substantially altered form that leaves SUFR members dissatisfied.
The controversy at Notre Dame began in fall 1989, when Rev. George Wiskirchen was accused of making racist comments in class. Wiskirchen said in his Introduction to Jazz course that African music was “dirty” and that African-Americans were well-treated by their masters. One of Wiskirchen’s students, Steve Bynum, took offense at the remarks. “There are many incidents where people may not necessarily mean any harm, and I understand that, and that is sometimes based on ignorance, I understand that also, but in this case he had been told time and time again that certain students of color found those comments offensive,” Bynum said.
Wiskirchen declined to be interviewed for this article. On Oct. 6,1989, he apologized for the comments in a letter published in The Observer, but the concerns raised by the event remained, as students were angered by the lack of a formal grievance procedure.
“The most shocking thing of all is to find out that when things like that, or more overt things happen, there is no, absolutely no process in order to receive any justice or in order to rectify the problem, none whatsoever,” said Bynum. “And that’s whatstarted
MAY 2,1991
all of this, not necessarily the incident itself, but of the fact that there is no process to deal with these type of things; that professors with tenure can do or say whatever the hell they want to, whenever they want to, however they want to, and they will tell you: ‘I’m tenured, sue me. Do something.’”
Student groups did something: They protested and called for the creation of a racial
: “The university prohibits rac-; ist or discriminatory cbm epithets or other expressive behavior directed at an individual or bn separate occasions at dif-ferent individuals, dr physical conduct, if such comments, epi-thets,otherexpressivebehavior of physical Conduct intent^ ally:
< ^‘1. Demean the racejsex, reli-gion, colors Creed, disability, sex-ual orientatibn, national origin; ancestry or age of the individual or individuals; aiitTHW;^^
“2. Cr^le
hostile or demeaning;;environ-ment for. eduction, related work or other university-'^thorizedpciiyi^
—From the Kolmancommittee discriminatoryharassmentpol-
harassment policy. The provost responded by appointing a committee, chaired by Dr. Eileen Kolman. The committee was made up of faculty representatives, a member of
student affairs and two minority students.
As the committee met, it widened its focus from racial harassment to any form of “discriminatory harassment” The original policy, officially presented to the provost on June 20, 1990, was taken largely from the policy adopted by the University of Wisconsin, which is now being challenged in federal court.
“We tried to frame a policy that would affirm the rights of a group of individuals while preserving First Amendment rights and academic freedom,” Kolman said. The scrutiny of this delicate balance did not end with the provost’s committee. Although Robert Price, one of the student members of the committee, has said that he was under the impression that the committee’s policy was going to be placed in du Lac during summer 1990, Kolman said that her group’s power never extended that far.
“When we originally started the committee, the committee didn’t start on a mandate to write a policy, although policy was certainly a possibility, but rather that there was this issue that need to be addressed,” said Kolman. “This was a committee appointed by the provost, and it was my sense, and the sense of the committee, that our job was to report back to the provost.”
After discussing the report with Kolman, Provost Timothy O’Meara sent the report to other groups for their comments. “On such important and sensitive issues, it was felt that since this was a university, we had to have input from all quarters before finally arriving at a final policy,” said O’Meara. “In particular, as I recall it, I asked the senate to do it at the request of Father Malloy... and at the same time input was sought from student affairs.”
The unusual procedure of circulating the
15

policy to so many different campus groups before deciding to adopt or reject it may be a reflection of the challenges such policies have faced at other schools. In the faculty senate the policy was sent to the Administrative Affairs Committee chaired by Dr. Frank Connolly.
Connolly said that his committee was especially sensitive to the freedom of speech issue. “The more we looked at it, the more we edged away from it,” Connolly said. “It was really the issue of academic freedom that made us nervous, and the possible threat to people speaking their mind freely. If any institution in American life is supposed to defend that, a university is supposed to defend that. That’s why we were cautious.”
The committee reported out its altered version of the Discriminatory Harassment Policy to the full senate on April 5. The senate’s version of the document eliminates the clauses quoted earlier. The heart of the senate policy is the definition section:
The senate’s revised policy passed the faculty senate 22-4, with one abstention. The policy was then sent to the Academic Council, a body composed of the college deans, selected administrators, elected faculty members and four appointed student members. In academic matters, the council is Notre Dame’s highest policy-making body.
Under the senate’s revised policy, “Nothing is prohibited, really, that wasn’t prohibited before,” Connolly said. “This (the
senate version) only prohibits a certain spe- ample the obvious one of not being able to cies of harassment. Harassment, at least for yell fire when there is no fire, or endangerstudents, was already prohibited in du Lac.” ment,” he said. “I think that endangerment goes beyond just physical endangerment, it’s psychological, it’s mental, and in some cases it’s spiritual.... I think that you should take the spirit of the law in the way it was intended saying, ‘Yes, you have the right to vocalize and speak your opinion,’ meaning that you shouldn’t be stifled, butat the same time you do not have the right to do injury to another person.”
Pratt argues that if the policy is invoked, it will stifle opinions, because people will begin to monitor what they say. “First, if it’s never enforced, it’s not going to have any chilling effect,” said Pratt. “If no one is ever, in a sense,
Mari Okuda
Melissa Smith, 1990-91 academic commissioner, Is a member of Academic Council.
Connolly’s committee reported the policy to the full senate with only a single dissenting vote.
Law Professor Jack Pratt was that lone dissenter. While Pratt said that because Notre Dame is a private university, the First Amendment might not apply, an argument could be made on the grounds that the university’s charter from the state of Indiana “says that the governing body of the university can make bylaws and take other actions that are consistent with the constitution of the United States. If we really wanted to make up a cute or a nifty argument—and by that I mean one that’s intellectually appealing but may not have any merits at all—you could try to weasel through that argument,” he said.
Despite his doubts about whether the guarantees of the Bill of Rights could be applied to Notre Dame, Pratt said: “My real concern is of the sort of a First Amendment value anyway. It’s the fact that a policy that will have any impact at all will deter people from making statements that they might otherwise make, and it will make them more cautious in the statements that they make, more hesitant to make statements, and in doing so it will have a chilling effect on the openness and the vigor of the debate at a university. And I think a university above all should be a place where there is free and open debate.”
Bynum believes that the right of free speech is not absolute: “There are exceptions in the free speech argument, for ex-
‘brought up,’ under this policy, then it will disappear and it won’t have a chill-
Scholastic Fite Photo
Dean Kolman chaired the provost's ad hoc committee which developed the first harassment policy.
ing effect.... But if it is used, and I think it will be, because I think people who are concerned are going to look to this policy, and they’re going to try to get a response to their concerns ... then I fear that it will have a chilling effect.”
Connolly responds that his committee’s policy does not punish any type of speech that is not already forbidden in du Lac as harassment: “How can it be that a policy on discriminatory harassment is going to have a chilling effect when no one is objecting to a policy on harassment, which outlaws similar things?” he asked. “No one is saying that a policy on harassment is going to have a chilling effect on speech, so it seems inconsistent.”
Ironically, the case which touched off the campus concern would not have been affected by the new policy. Connolly, Pratt, Kolman and O’Meara were in agreement that, as formulated by the faculty senate and the Academic Council, the harassment policy would riot apply to cases such as Wiskirchen’s, where an individual expresses an opinion.
The provost fel t that the policy will not be used often against professors. “My guess is ... on the faculty side it will probably not be used very frequently,” O’Meara said. “That doesn’t mean that it shouldn’t be there, because it’s of symbolic significance.” O’Meara believed that the policy would be applied to students more than teachers.
Bynum said that controversy over the subject should not stop Notre Dame from passing the policy. “I could understand the university saying ‘Well, there are other har
16
SCHOLASTIC
assment policies that are in court, and it’s a very touchy issue,’” said Bynum. “I don’t see that as an excuse not to go through with this, and to consult with the people who will be affected by this. This campus as a whole will be affected, and yet it seems to be that the very people who traditionally are at the brunt of this type of discrimination aren’t really consulted, they’re not really asked just basic questions: ‘What do you consider harassment? What do you consider offensive?’ I think those [are] just basic considerations that the university has overlooked.”
Connolly hoped that SUFR students would be pleased by the senate’s version of the policy. “My rhetoric to them [SUFR students] is that they’ve been given the substance of what they asked — far more than half a loaf,” said Connolly. “I hope they appreciate how difficult it is to do something like this in these times.”
The senate’s policy was revised again in the university’s Academic Council. The council passed an altered version April 16 and, with Fr. Malloy’s approval, it is now official university policy.
Melissa Smith, the academic commissioner of student government, is one of four student members on the Academic Council. The other appointed student members of the council are Frank Carnevale, Mary Bernard and Daniel Conklin. Of the four student members, only Smith and Carnevale were present at the April 16 meeting.
Smith said that she was surprised that the policy was voted on so quickly. “It was a very quick turnaround time, and not a lot of lime to get in touch with a broad base of students,” she said. Smith first saw the senate’s version of the policy four days before meeting.
Smith and Carnevale attempted to have the policy tabled until the next council meeting, but they were defeated by a voice vote. “There was some concern, I believe, on the part of the members of the Academic Council that we needed to get something passed because it was such a timely issue,” , said Smith. “To table it‘till the main meeting, the perception was that that would be seen by the community as putting it off once again.”
Student body President Joseph Blanco said that Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O’Hara had asked for student input to the policy, and that some of the changes in the policy, such as the ombudsperson se
lected by the university president, were student-supported. Smith said she did not support some of the other changes.
The policy which was eventually approved by the council deleted wording specifying that discriminatory harassment would be treated as a more serious offense than harassment alone. Connolly was very
/-“a.' Harassment Harassment is any physical conduct intentionallyinflicting
person or property of another, or /any intentional th^
conduct, or any hostile, intentional, and persistent badgering, addressed directly at another, or small group Of others, which is in tended to intirnidate i ts yictim(s) fromany campusactiv-ity,: or any verbal attack, intended to provoke the victim to immediate physical retaliation.
“b. Discriminatory Harassment. Conduct as described in a., above, constitute discrimih tory harassment, if, in addition, it is accompanied by intention-allydemeaningexjpressiohscon-cerhing the race, religion, sexual orientation, ornational origin of liieAifetim^	>:/
---Fromthe final version of the DiscriminatoryHarassmentlPol-icy.as adpoted by the Academic :Councfl^A
displeased by this change, because he said that his committee’s senate policy did not expand prohibitions, but increased penalties. “I don’t think they (the council) grasped the fact that [they were] taking out the only sentence that caused the policy to change anything legally,” he said.
Smith said that this change in the document’s wording was debated at length. Shesaid thatO’Hara explained to her the the change was being made so that sexual harassment would not be considered less of an offense than discriminatory harassment.
A second change made in the council was to add the word “intentionally” to the defini
tion of discriminatory harassment. Additional changes made in the council clarify that the policy does not modify any existing rules and regulations. This clause means that the definition of “harassment” used in the policy does not necessarily limit the scope of “harassment” as used in du lac, which offers no definition of the term.
While both student members — Smith and Carnevale — abstained in the final vote, on the policy, Smith said that she did not leave the meeting disappointed.”It was the best that we could do to get a compromise amongst all parties and for that reason, I think that it’s a good policy that everyone can feel that they at least have protection under it.,” she said. “Now, it may be that students wanted more, it may be that faculty members ... wanted to have less, but that’s where compromise comes in.”
SUFR members have expressed their disappointment in the policy passed by Academic Council. Bynum, speaking before the Academic Council adopted the policy, said that the discriminatory harassment policy could at least be a step in the right direction.. “The greatness of this gesture can only to me be seen in the context of what happens down the line,” he said. “If this leads to something bigger and better and greater and more comprehensive and more useful and more practical then this will be seen in retrospect as a great step, a great gesture, this will be seen as the spark that lead to change. If, after this, everything sort of dies out and really it serves no purpose and incidents occur and the policy just has no meat, no substance, then it will be seen as nothing more than hattipping.” Bynum said he hoped that the policy could be changed even after its adoption.
The conflict between freedom of speech and the prevention of harassment is a delicate balancing act with ardent supporters on both sides.
“I guess as I read all the material that’s come out, it just gets clearer to me that people of good will can really be divided on this,” Kolman said. “This is not motherhood and apple pie... a person could certainly be against harassment and not be a bigot, not be a racist, and still not want us to have a policy.”
After months of work, Notre Dame now has a Discriminatory Harassment Policy. It will be months more before the effects of the policy become clear.	□
MAY 2,1991
17
A History of
:L
Excellence
r

The Notre Dame family prepares to applaud its sesqui-centennial class as the University plans a yearlong celebration
by Bridget Zappa
Back in January 1990, a handful of diehards began the preparations for one of Notre Dame’s most publicized celebrations. But this celebration is no ordinary one - it commemorates 150 years of academic excellence and tradition. As the Class of 1991 nears their departure, the Class of 1992 prepares to take over the helm, and to make Notre Dame’s 150th graduating class one to remember.
Katie Pamenter and Jen Salmon, members of the Class of 1992 and 1991 respectively, are diligently preparing for the Sesquicentennial Celebration. This year-long celebration has been headed by these two women. .With all of the elabo-
rate preparations to be made, their committee began work over a year ago.
Along with many already-scheduled campus events including concerts, lectures and parties, homecoming lias been scheduled in conjunction with parents’ weekend.
weekly to discuss problems etc.” Pamenter clarified that her group was in charge of student activities only. She has hesitated to publicize any definite plans before this because she wants the excitement to build over the summer so that when the students return in the fall, the intensity will be piqued.
“Homecoming is set and definite, along with some definite events in March,” said Pamenter.
Sesquicentennial Homecoming Weekend is scheduled for October 31 through November 2,1991'. It will be a jam-packed weekend of activities and special events for parents, students
“We began working the first thing this year,”Pamenter said. “Ourinitial meetings were brainstorming sessions. After we decided on the activities that we wanted to take place, we assigned a sub-committee in charge of each event. We now meet bi
and alumni alike.
Notre Dame has not had a homecoming for close to twenty years. This is primarily because so many alumni return to campus for the football games and for parents weekend - almost every weekend in. the fall is a
18
SCHOLASTIC
Paul Webb
Katie Pamenter, chairman of the sesquicentennial committee, explains plans for the upcoming year at a meeting. The committee meets biweekly to discuss its projects.
organization of all athletes in Notre Dame history that have been awarded with two varsity letters) have been invited back for this game. Afterward, the Alumni Association will host a reception and luncheon, at which time autograph tables will be set up so everyone can get the “John Hancock” of their favorite players.
The theme of homecoming weekend is “Spirits,” and justly so. The ghosts of the past, forever preserved in the hearts and minds of the alumni, will be coupled with the splendor of 150 years of prestige and the promise of a splendid future.
The celebration is not confined to the weekend. An entire week has been set aside in honor of the
sesquicentennial. Sesquicentennial Week is scheduled for March
homecoming. Next year, however, a renewed tradition in honor of the sesquicentennial will provide a weekend full of memories and nostalgia.
The weekend will begin with a Halloween Dance in Stepan Center, complete with a DJ, costume contests and Halloween games for the whole campus. In the planning stages is a Senior Halloween Party at Senior Bar. So, for those students who like to kick up their heels for a night on the town, there will be plenty of music and action to tire a person out.
November 1 features a campus-wide parade led by the Notre Dame Band, cheerleaders, pom pons and prominent Notre Dame administrators and community leaders. The festivities will not end there. Also, dorms and student organizations will sponsor floats which will pass in the parade.
The float contest will be run much like the Fisher Regatta. Each dorm will be given funds from HPC and also from the hall itself. Pamenter’s committee also hopes to attract corporate sponsors interested in advertising in the parade. Although there will be a theme, the dorms will be given every oppor-lunity to exercise their creativity.
At the Pep Rally to follow, float winners will be announced as will the Homecoming King and Queen. Each dorm and student organization will be able to nominate candidates for this illustrious honor, as well as
campaign for their crowning. The actual voting for the king and queen will take place campus-wide. The king and queen will be the focus of
16-21, 1992. The week will feature many commemorative activities including lectures from several prominent government
articles in campus publications and will be special guests at various campus activities.
Following the Pep Rally will be an event for parents and students alike to try their luck at Casino Night. Black Jack, roulette wheels, and slot machines will provide an evening of Las Ve-gas-style entertainment.
Saturday, game day, will feature a football game, but not just any football game. The active members of the Monogram Club (an
PautWebb
Stephanie Ferry, the Homecoming chairperson of the sesqui-centennial committee sits in on a planning meeting.
MAY 2, 1991
19
officials that will be running in the 1992 elections.
As if these events were not enough, for the first time in two years, students will be on-campus for St Patrick’s Day. Although the events for this day are still in the planning stages, Saint Pat’s Day at the home of the Fightin’ Irish promises to be an event to remember.
March 19 will feature the annual Nazz competition of campus bands, which will be accompanied by many food booths to add to the evening.
The Committee is hoping to have a comedian on campus one night, and a nationally known band or singer the other night to help complete an exciting week of celebration.
Finally, the Sesquicentennial Committee will work with the Alumni Association on two charity events. The first will be in September to benefit the Potowatomi Zoo and its new playground; the second will be in
April along with Notre Dame’s Humanitarian Week. Special money raising events are scheduled to help these causes.
Along with the student committee, the administration has organized their own group headed by Dr. Roger Schmitz, Vice President and Associate Provost. Schmitz began work himself as chairperson for the entire Sesquicentennial year in September, 1989 and the University Center on History began its preparations four or five years ago
•Oj)
□
20
SCHOLASTIC
Paul Webb
The Sesquicentennial Committee is in the throes of planning a year of celebration for the 150th graduating class.
for the historical mark of 150 years.
“The entire year is about celebrating the past, where we are and looking to the future,” Schmitz said.
According to Schmitz, the official beginning of the year is September 13-14, 1991 and the official end is October 11-13,1992. As the official opening of the year of celebration, there will be a symposium, the. dedication of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies and a mass. Dr. Schmitz
emphasized that all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, family and alumni are welcome. Along with this, there will be exhibits around campus in various buildings surrounding the history and tradition of Notre Dame.
Melanie Steckbauer, a member of the Class of 1992 from Howard, looks forward to next year’s celebration because “it will be a Notre Dame moment that will last the whole year, and one that all classes can participate in.”
Jennifer Wilmoth shares in Steckbauer’s anticipation. “Its an exciting way to end an already memorable four years at Notre Dame,” she said. Mike Stanis added, “I’ve had three great years here at Notre Dame, however, the next year will surely be the best.”
The Class of 1992 is looking forward to the year, especially Commencement Katie Pamenter, however, said she “can’t discuss anything about Commencement.” As the mystery adds to the excitement and the sesquicentennial year is upon us, electricity pervades thecampus. Thepromiseofayear-long celebration filled with memories and “spirits,” including ghosts of thepastand the energy of the future will only reaffirm that the last 150 years of Irish-Catholic tradition have established Notre Dame as one of the most important universities in the nation.

Athlete of
the Yeor
For three years, All-American Raghib Ismail thrilled Irish football fans
By Jon Paul Potts
What more can be written about this guy?
In just three years, he accomplished more than could ever have been expected of the shy freshman who came to Notre Dame back in the fall of 1988.
His list of achievements in 1990 alone could make for a stellarresume for any other college football player:
-Walter Camp Foundation Player of the Year
-The Sporting News Player of the Year
-All-American selection by the Associated Press, Walter Camp Foundation, Football Writers, Association of America, American Football Coaches Association, Kodak and Football News
-Runner-up for the Heisman Trophy
-Notre Dame Monogram Club team MVP (as voted by players)
-etc...
Raghib “Rocket” Ismail.
Some images of Ismail’s magic on the field will forever be etched into the memories of anyone lucky enough .to have seen him play for Notre Dame.
Notre Dame-Michigan, 1989: On a wet, miserable day in Ann Arbor, Ismail singlehandedly carries the Irish to victory with two kickoff returns for touchdowns.
The two touchdowns make him the first player in NCAA history to return two kickoffs for touchdowns in two different games (the other time vs. Rice in 1988).
Notre Dame-Miami, 1990: Ismail takes a kickoff al a crucial point in the finale of this great series and returns it 94 yards for a touchdown. On the day, he racks up 268 allpurpose yards as the Irish shut the ‘Canes up forever with a 29-20 victory.
Notre Dame-Colorado, January 1,1991: In one of the greatest individual clutch performances ever, Ismail takes a punt in the waning moments and returns it for a touchdown -only to have a phantom clipping call on Greg Davis negate it. For a moment, Ismail had waved his wand and pulled Notre Dame from the precipice - before that one flag pushed the Irish back over. That one flag, though, will never erase the memory of his runback.
Ismail’s achievements were not limited to the football field. He decided to try his hand at track in 1991 and quickly became a marquee name among the ranks of collegiate sprinters. His time of 6.07 seconds in the 55-meter dash stands as the 11th fastest time ever in that event, making him the tenth fastest man in NCAA history.
In the end, however, the pressures of being
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Department
the “Rocket” and the lure of millions in the professional ranks caused him to opt for a career in pro football one year earlier than
expected. On April 21, he signed the richest contract in pro football history when he inked a contract with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. How he performs in the Great White North remains to be seen, but he will forever run through the lore of Notre Dame football alongside Paul Hornung, Tim Brown and the Gipper.
Mike Lupica, writing for the sports daily The National, summed up all that was great about Ismail when he wrote on the Heisman Trophy race in the fall of 1990.
“And then there is Ismail, who shoots those wonderful colors into the whole pageant of Saturday’s America. He does it the way Rodgers did it for Nebraska, only Ismail is faster and better,” mused Lupica. “The other candidates, they are all about numbers. Ismail is about possibilities... “
Hewasaboutpossibilities-possibilitieshe fulfilled almost every time he touched the ball.
Thanks for the memories Raghib. We’ll miss ya’ next year.
And best of luck.	□
MAY 2, 1991
21
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Department
By Amanda Clinton
Freshman.
The word brings images of a bumbling, naive and inexperienced newcomer, a beginner to the new environment of college life. Last year, swimmer Tanya Williams proved this to be a falsehood. She plunged ' into the waters of collegiate competition by setting eight university records and becoming the first swimmer in Notre Dame history to not only qualify for the NCAAs, but to j 2	score points for the Irish as well. She showed
|: - that she was hardly a beginner.
j2 - In the 1989-90 season, Williams, a fresh-j2;	man at the time, broke six university records,
j -: She qualified for the NCAA in two events, J;2 the 200-yard butterfly and the 400-yard i; 2 individual medley. She placed 27th and ii <	11th in these,respectively. TheBocaRaton,
: - FL, native set a meet record in the 200-yard h' - butterfly and the 400-yard individual med-|; ley at the National Catholic meet. These are J -2 great accomplishments for any competitor, । < but for a freshman it was especially impres-sive.
r 2 - For the 1990-91 season, Williams lost only ;l 1; two of the 36 individual races she partici-L r: pated in at her home pool in the Rolfs
Aquatic Center. With these incredible successes came seven University records in the' 100-yard backstroke, 200-yard backstroke, 100-yard butterfly, 200-yard butterfly, 200-yard individual medley,400-yard individual medley and the 1,000-yard freestyle. She repeated her record-setting performance at the National Catholic meet by setting a meet record in the 200-yard IM and 400-yard IM. She also established meet records in the same events at the Eastern Intercollegiate Conference Competition.
Williams once again qualified for the NCAAs, making her the first swimmer in Notre Dame history to qualify two years in a row. This year she again qualified for the 200-yard butterfly and the 400-yard individual medley and in contrast to last year, qualified for an additional event, the 200-yard IM. She produced noteworthy times in the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 2:02.46 and the 200-yard IM in 2:05.06.
“It felt good to make it to the finals at the NCAAs,” said Williams. “I was swimming faster this year and it made things a lot more fun.”
Despite all of these impressive times and
records, perhaps the most notable accomplishment of her season is her spectacular performance at the NCAAs in the 400-yard IM. With a time of 4:19.88, she placed eighth, achieved a personal best, broke another University record and achieved All-American honors. This marks the first time in Irish swimming history for an individual to be recognized as All-American.
“I haven’t thought about next season yet because I have a whole summer of competing ahead of me. I try to take things season by season,” said Williams. “But generally for next year, I hope to keep improving. And it would make me happy to place higher at the NCAAs.”
For the past two seasons, Williams has led the Irish to a new.level of performance. She has set the pace for herself and her teammates for seasons to come. Any thoughts of Williams being an inexperienced swimmer were dispelled the moment she dove into her freshman campaign and began her attack on the record books. With two more years still left, Tanya Williams will undoubtedly continue to make a wake in the collegiate waters.	□
SCHOLASTIC
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Mike Sullivan: Sullivan, a junior from Farmington, Mich., led the Irish with three goals and four assists in a big 11-7 victory over the Buckeyes of Ohio State. This win pushed Notre Dame closer to an NCAA tournament berth. A victory over Michigan State on Saturday ensures the Irish one of the 12 NCAA spots.
Staci Alford: Alford, a sophomore from Baton Rouge, La., hurled a two-hit shutout against MCC foe Butler last week. In striking out two and walking none, Alford upped her season mark to a sharp 10-4. The softball team held a 27-19 record and was riding an eight-game winning streak prior to an April 29 doubleheader against the University of Illinois-Chicago.
Scholastic
salutes graduating staffers:
Jim Fitzgerald Andy Hilger Brian McMahon Vivienne Padilla Tony Porcelli
Dave Raedy Traci Taghon Mike Wieber Derik Weldon
Congratulations to all members of the Class of 1991!
MAY 2, 1991	23

The End
Senior Andy Hilger reflects on his past four years at Notre Dame
(tit ouldyou tell me, please, which way W I ought to go from here?"
"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to," said the cat.
"I don't care much where-” said Alice.
"Then it doesri t matter which way you go,” said the cat.
"... so long as you get somewhere,” Alice added as an explanation.
2. < "Oh, you' re sure to do that,” said the cat, "if ■ ? you only walk long enough."	—Lewis
Carroll
Yesterday, it seems, a friendly R.A. carried my bag to 312 Holy Cross Hall during a warm, summer day in 1987. Tomorrow, it seems, I will carry my own bag away from South Bend on a sad, spring day in 1991.
Soon, seniors will join Holy Cross Hall as mere memories on the Notre Dame campus.
-: But for us, this end begins an exciting and ■ 2 intriguing change in our lives. Finally, we’re ready to integrate into the “real world” and attempt to make an impact upon it.
I’m a jumble of emotions. Thepatemalis-. - . tic, greedy facet of the “Notre Dame family” : -: disgusts me. The future intrigues me. Why - < then, don’t I want to leave? Perhaps the j : ’ prospect of leaving so much behind saddens - 2; me. Perhaps because I don’t know “which ; I; way I ought to go from here?”.
' < I have never let schooling interfere with my 2 2 education. —Mark Twain
2 - After four years, I’ve learned to study. It’s [ 2; frustrating. I tell myself I could have done : 2; well all along. After four years I’ve also
-: realized doing well is not what college is .;: about.
2; 2 Someone once described education as - 2 what you know after you’ve forgotten what 2: you’ve learned. Here, the emphasis is so 2; strongly upon learning for the short term
< 24
reward of an A.
Grades are a ridiculous motivator. We need to learn for learning’s sake. Higher education should be a humanizing experience —one which makes us more conscious and critical of ourselves and the world around us.
You can't have everything. Where would you put it? —Steven Wright
Notre Dame needs to become more conscious of itself. Here, bigger symbolizes better. Last year, I walked behind a young couple and their son on their way to Washington Hall. The little boy looked at the dome and said, “Why don’t they turn the gold off and feed a million people?” Theboy might as well have said, “Isn’t it contradictory to pump seven million dollars into the renovation of a church?”
Notre Dame is so image and money conscious. Last Spring, my roommates and I were charged $200 for “mess left” No one stayed there during senior week. One month later, they levelled the building.
But the last tuition bill is payed, so now the greed ends. Wrong. Even after graduation, they’ll try to suck money from us. To enter the alumni lottery for football tickets, one must make a donation. If the donation is large enough, (gasp) they’ll name a building after you. Don ’ t expect Hilger Hall any time in the future. More importantly, underclassmen, you had better save me a Tennessee ticket because I have a strong suspicion I won’t be in the lottery.
Minds are like parachutes— they need to be open to work.— Sy Longfellow
Intelligence and open-mindedness are often interchangeable. The situation of race relations at Notre Dame demands to be
addressed. Contrary to popular opinion, । SUFR is not the cause of racial tensions on this campus. They are a symptom of existing problems. I don’t condone or condemn their actions. I do call for open minds. People are different. We all need to recognize and appreciate these differences. Only then will barriers be eliminated.
Don'tfor get your history or your destiny: In the abundance of water, the fool is thirsty.
—Bob Marley
I am disenchanted with much of the Notre Dame experience. But total disenchantment would create indifference. Notre Dame has so much to offer. I am not apathetic because I want others to experience what the university can and should be.
The paternalistic attitude of the administration has worn upon me. The university’s impersonal greed is abhorrent So much of theNotreDame experience has been a disappointment. Still, I would recommend it to my 16 year old sister. If she wants to learn, if she looks past the greed, if she has an open mind, Notre Dame can be a wonderful place. It can be a place I don’t want to leave.
According to recognized aeronautical tests, the bumble bee cannot fly due to the shape and weight of his body in relation to his total wing area. He does not know this so he goes ahead and flies anyway.
The last four years seem a fantastic blur. I’ll miss the friends I’ve made and the times we’ve had. They ’ll always be a part of me. It’s hard to believe, but it’s time for the class of 1991 to fly. Best of luck.	□
Graduating senior Andy Hilger was a resident of Holy Cross Hall andwas the 1989-90 Editor in Chief of Scholastic magazine.
SCHOLASTIC
HELP WANTED
FORMERLY IMPORTANT POLITICAL PARTY IN PRESTIGIOUS WESTERN "SUPERPOWER" SEEKS ARTICULATE, ATTRACTIVE, INTELLIGENT, POPULAR, WEALTHY, CHARISMATIC WHITE MALE SENIOR CITIZEN, PREFERABLY WITH IVY LEAGUE CREDENTIALS, CORPORATE CONTACTS AND GOVERNMENT EXPERIENCE FOR AN EXCITING POSITION AS
, * * * PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE * * *
APPLICANTS ARE REQUESTEP ID AVOID ISSUES AND ACCEPT ALL Basic, statements made by incumbent/republican opponent. Past presidential candidates have gone on td tremendous
TERM OF EMPLOYMENT-- ONE YEAR SALARY: NONE
BENEFITS: TRIFLE BYPASS; CHARACTER
SUCCESS IN SUCH FIELDS AS BAN&UPTcy, FBlLURe, ALCOHOLISM AND HOPELESS ANONYMITY (	CHPtSENP^c
•	Deal with your past I p”=”l”wZ” .n- f n I	■	H30$o^abH;iSf-,£E.
•	Dispose ot your Mure I	|	W.tNlnjt», &C .-RodoJ
' Candidacy makes a Amt	| □ YES!	™ «« STARTER KITl
Conversation nierel J !	RftOY 7® CPVSWtF TWJ OP FfoCD
conversation peai	।
•Just complete this Form |q m i'mbustvmkma.r eaoweuo 2nd fend TODAY II(I a friend: omr.cvomod6™eb•.
__
(^DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE «
CJ6 Hfivc Ho IHTuesT /N
anti unpefi me u.m. ^li4Tiohs, IjJ& NO MIHoplTf 7?. po fWA6 T-MN 106
I IPICL NoT LET	' IT'S NTA? IF TH6 HAN& Oil.
coho HAve
19
Bhz Student Union ‘Board
n
STUDENT UNION BOARD