Vo XXVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 24, 1894. No. 12.
Premieres Amours.
aREMIERES A MO URS, though love be cold, That love so passionate of old,
_ What need we also to forget?
Does never Agnes half regret That parting with our loves half told ?
. Is then my ling’ring fancy bold To muse on Lucy’s head of gold?
Has Kate forgotten how we met, Premieres amours?
Men say for wealth her hand was sold;
I deemed her of a better mold
Before she saw the baronet.
But true or false your fair forms yet Fondly the cells of memory hold, Premieres amours!
Eustace Cullinan.
Beatrice and Dante.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, '95.
Since God, in the Garden of Eden, took Eve from the side of Adam, love has been a prime mover in the affairs of man. Man glories in his superior physical and mental powers, in his ability to lead armies, to decide the important questions of state, to solve the abstruse problems of science; but, still, he cannot deny that woman rules the world. She remains, it is true, in the background; nevertheless, she makes her influence felt in every phase of life—in society, in literature and in politics. From the toddling steps of infancy to the slow and weary ones of age, man’s opinions areTswerved and swayed, perhaps imperceptibly and insensibly,
but not the less truly, by the judgments which he thinks woman will render on them. She forms the mind- of childhood and directs its first youthful aspirations; the mother lays the foundation of her son’s character, and upon her own depends the strength of his. Upon its morals hinge a nation’s destinies, and woman * creates and fixes the tone of a country’s society. A noble, pure and womanly woman is the greatest work of God.	..
The pride of wealth and' station, ambition and the pursuit of earthly honors, the desire to amass a fortune and obtain a position in society—all the passions to which man is most addicted, melt away and are forgotten under the influence of woman’s love. For ten years the armies and fleets of Greece surrounded Troy that the false Helen might be returned to Menelaus. On account of her, the heroes of two nations performed the most renowned deeds of arms the world has ever seen; and the insult offered to the Grecian nation through her, was only avenged by a city sacked and burned, its inhabitants slaughtered, a nation disrupted, with the remnant of it scattered upon the seas, and followed by the wrath of the gods. The sunshine of Cleopatra’s smiles . was fatal to the life and fortune of Marc Antony. Dallying by her side he brought ruin and destruction upon himself.
With a quizzical smile, the woman-hater points to these two instances, and would draw the conclusion that all women are such; and that such is the effect of all love. They do not distinguish between merely human passion and true love itself. They fail to consider how1 / many men have been ennobled and raised from the depths of degradation by woman; how? , many have been kept from the devious paths of crime and have been elevated above their own
i78
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
true selves by her; how many, clinging to the slender thread of woman’s love, have been led from the misty labyrinth of despair into the bright sunshine of a happy life. One man and one woman going through life together, remaining always true to and sustaining each other in all earthly trials, each happy in the other’s happiness,—this is, indeed, an edifying spectacle.
But there is something even beyond this human love—this love which renders man happy only when he possesses the object of his heart. There is a love of a higher order, which makes a man happy when contemplating the object of his devotion, when viewing her at a distance and beholding her happiness. It causes man to idealize woman, to endow her with all perfections, to behold in her the image of our Blessed Mother herself. It is true that the natures of all men do not admit of such a love. It is only in the highly spiritual and poetic temperament that it is possible. Such was the love which Durante Alighieri held for Beatrice Portinari.
Among people of culture, the question of the relation between Dante and Beatrice has probably raised more discussion than any other literary subject of our day. Now, when Dante clubs and societies are springing up all over the country, and when the study of the divine poet has become one of our most pronounced fads, everyone' must, of necessity, have some opinion in regard to how Dante viewed Beatrice. It seems to me that a very superficial study of the character of Dante himself and of the time in which he lived will throw all the light that is necessary upon the subject.
Beatrice was the daughter of Falco Portinari, a wealthy and influential resident of Florence. Boccaccio tells us how Dante first happened to meet her. The Florentines were in the habit of holding May festivals to which they invited their friends for the purpose of having a.season of. merry-making. In accordance with this custom,.onia May-day, Falco Portinari filled, his ..home with guests, among, them being Dante’s father and the boy himself, who .had come with him .thither. From all the children present,LDante chose Beatrice as his favorite, and. immediately attached himself to .her. In his "Vita Nuova,” he thus relates the incident:	.	-
“She was about entering her ninth year, arid mine was drawing to a close. Her dress on that day was of a most noble. color, a subdued and comely red, girdled and adorned in such ar
sort as best suited with her tender age. From that time forth, I say, that love held sovereign empire over, my soul, which had so readily been betrothed unto him; and through the influence lent him by my imagination, he at once assumed such imperious sway and master-dom over me that I could not choose but do his pleasure in all things. Oftentimes he enjoined me to strive, if so I might behold this youngest of the angels; .wherefore did I, during my boyish years, frequently go in search of her; and so praiseworthy was she, and so noble in her bearing, that of her might with truth be spoken that saying of the poet Homer:
‘ She of a god seemed born and not of mortal man.’ ”
Nine years after this, he again met Beatrice on the street. She was clothed in a whke garment and saluted him as she passed, and thereupon he wrote his first sonnet. It is a description of a vision which appeared to him when love bore to him his lady sleeping in a folded garment, he sent it to all the noted poets of his time asking for an interpretation of it. Soon after this Beatrice was married to .Simon de Bardi; but this does not in the least seem to have disturbed Dante’s love and devotion for her. He continued to sing her praises in numerous sonnets which he composed about this time. In 1290, she died at the early age of twenty-four.
The fact that Dante’s love for Beatrice was continued after her marriage with De Bardi and his own with Gemma Donati has appeared to be very peculiar to many people, who claim that thereby Dante was not true to his own wife. But this is fully explained by the usages and customs of the time. To understand fully and well the significance of the “ Divina Com-media,” the time in which it was produced as well as the circumstances which tended to form its author’s character, must be studied. Dante is but the mirror of his time. He lived the same life and dreamed the same dreams as those about him. .He followed the manner of his age as well as, other men; His early education and training in no way:differed from that of the rest of, the Florentine boys, and in manhood he had to face the same difficulties and dangers as they. We could not expect him to. be different from the rest of the world, and. neither was he; he was simply a man of his time.	• . -	:	.
The age of Dante;was a wholly Catholic age.. All ihen had-the same faith and practised the ? same religion. In their excesses and sins,, although they for a time lost sight of God, they
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
never forgot that a day of reckoning would surely come. The troubadours of Provence had introduced the practices of chivalry into Italy, and they found apt and willing pupils. The Church raised woman from her pagan slavery to an equality with man, and the Italian children of the Church were eager to battle for distressed women wherever they might be found. Chivalry was now at .its height. Knights went forth in search of adventure to protect and defend the poor and oppressed. Each swore fealty to the lady of his heart, and on her behalf he fought for the widow and the orphan. He probably wore the colors of a lady whom he had seen but once; it mattered not to him whether he saw her again, as her faithful knight he was always a champion of the right. He was taught to venerate and love the holy Mother of God, and through her he idealized all womanhood.
Such was the' age of Dante. ’Considering this, and the poetic and richly developed nature of Dante himself, it is nothing wonderful that Beatrice should make such a marked impression upon him, while still a boy of nine years. His love for her was wholly ideal. He looked upon her as a sort of superior being, an angel dwelling on earth for a short time. She was far above him, and he was content to adore her at a distance. The thought of obtaining Beatrice as his wife probably never entered the mind of Dante. In his “Vita Nuova,” he declares how great was his love for her, and still it appears that he never addressed a word of love to her. Although he praised her in many sonnets which he sent to his friends, he never sent one of them to her.
Dante’s affection for Beatrice had nothing of the human about it; it had no relation to matrimonial ties. It was a pure and noble love, a spiritual flame which required nothing material to feed it. His happiness did not depend upon the possession of Beatrice as his wife, but of the high ideal which he had formed of her. He communed with her in spirit in a world far removed from ours; and it mattered little to him that the real Beatrice was the wife of another, or that death had claimed her for its own. Indeed, the death -of Beatrice only seemed to him to seal the compact of their heavenly love.
Beatrice was the guiding star of his life. The thought of her always impelled him to what was noble and lofty. She raised him from the slough of sin, and taught him the sweet joys of a virtuous life.
179
“ Of slave	’
Thou hast to freedom brought me: and no means, For my. deliverance apt, has left untried.”
Through Beatrice he praised God, and she was to him the symbol of the Divine Wisdom and Love which led him to the throne of (?od.
In Dante’s poetry there is no trace of lighthearted gallantry; there is a dignified earnest-^ ness which had its birth in something above a : purely human love. Petrarch’s love for Laura was human; Dante’s love for Beatrice was-something purer and nobler. Dante was not a composer of mere love-songs; he sings of a . spiritual devotion that could only be found in the heart of the world’s greatest poet. Beatrice watches over him, aids him in his difficulties; her vision soothes him in his distress, and at last leads him into Heaven. She was for him just what her name suggests—she who renders happy or blessed. ,
The “Vita Nuova” is the account of the new life which his meeting with Beatrice, and his love for her, awakened in him, and he thus ends his record:
“ Soon after this a wonderful vision appeared to me, in which I saw things which made me purpose to speak ■ no more of this blessed one until I could more worthily treat her. And to attain to this, I study to the utmost of my power, as she truly knoweth, so that if it please Him, through Whom all things live, that my life be prolonged for some years, I hope to speak of her as was never spoken of any woman.”
He indeed spoke “ of her as was never spoken of any woman”; for as long as the name of woman is respected, Beatrice will be loved and looked up to by all mankind.
“ One of My Favorite Books.”
JOSEPH V. SULLIVAN.
The poverty of Catholic fiction is everywhere acknowledged. On all sides are heard lamentations on account of the fewness of Catholic authors of repute. Nor are these complaints groundless. Indeed, the writers of acceptable Catholic fiction may be counted on the fingers of one hand. There are some, however, who are worthy of being classed with the best authors in literature, and one of these is Christian Reid. She has made many notable ; L contributions to Catholic literature, and they should-be better known. One of these, “ Philip’s-Restitution,” I have selected as the subject of this essay. It is a story of every-day people of
i8o
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the present time. It depicts the life of a rich family in a small, aristocratic town. The story is of the triumph of justice by the restitution of money unjustly acquired. It is, however, an illustration of the triumph of religion.
The narrative opens with a description of the home of James Thornton, a millionaire of Riverport. He was a Catholic by education, but had married a Protestant and had become indifferent to his religion. Years before he had been a merchant. He had associated with himself, in his business, a certain Mr. Percival. The ■ latter made an imprudent speculation, and was obliged to give up all his property to make good the loss. It was afterwards reported that Mr. Thornton knew that his partner was about to make the speculation, and he was aware that it would result disastrously. However, he did not warn Mr. Percival and, afterwards, when stocks suddenly and unexpectedly “went up,” he made no amends to his partner. About a year after this occurrence Mr. Percival died, leaving his wife and daughter in poverty.
Years go by. and the rich man adopts his nephew, Philip Thornton. Philip has been educated in a Catholic college and, while he is somewhat indifferent, he attends faithfully to his religious duties. During a choir rehearsal, at the church which he attends, he is introduced to Miss Percival, the daughter of the man whom his uncle had defrauded. He soon falls in love with her. Through a common friend, Philip learns of the injustice done by his uncle. His sense of righteousness revolts at such a proceeding, when he reflects how his own luxurious life has been supported by the ill-gotten money of another. He recognizes in it an insuperable barrier to his future happiness. He goes to his uncle and exhorts him to repair the wrong. During one of these talks, the elder Mr. Thornton, becoming angry, orders him to leave the house. He obeys, and goes forth into the world to struggle for a living.
Months pass, and the Percivals, hearing of Philip’s heroic efforts to restore the money, conceive a high respect for him, and invite him frequently to their house. After that, he is a regular visitor and his love for Miss Percival increases. By a trifling incident, he discovers that she is also much interested in him. One morning, he receives a telegram from his dying uncles summoning him to his bedside. He obeys, and on-liis arrival is surpfised and grieved to see how worn and haggard his uncle has become. The olckman welcomes him heartily; for, despite his former harshness,-he still has a
great love for his nephew. Philip begs him to see a priest and restore’the money to the Percivals. He finally consents, on the condition that Philip will marry his cousin, Constance Thornton. This is for Philip a crushing blow; for he had intended to make Miss Percival his wife, and he knew that Constance was a Protestant. However, for the sake of the spiritual welfare of his relative, he consents. His uncle then signs his will in favor of Philip and leaves a proper amount for the Percivals.
Soon after the death of his uncle, Philip is greatly relieved by learning that it is impossible for him to marry Constance, since she has already been secretly wedded. He allows her a generous portion of his inheritance, and then goes to Miss Percival and makes known his love for her. All goes well and, after a short time, Philip and Miss Percival become man and wife.
This simple narrative, interesting as the plot undoubtedly is, derives its principal charm from the admirable art with which the story is told. The style is simple and easy; not at all barren, but blossoming, here and there, into beautiful flowers of imagination. The moral of the story is only insinuated, not openly expressed. It is only another example of the misery occasioned by the possession of ill-gotten wealth. It is to be regretted that Christian Reid’s stories are not better known and more thoroughly appreciated. No English novelist, with the exception of the great masters, has treated the complex problems of life with greater power than she; and yet how small is her audience compared with what it should be! People who complain of the scarcity of Catholic novelists may lament in vain until they conclude to support the writers who already work for them.	"
The Trial Scene in “The Merchant of Venice.”
PETER WHITE.
Ever true to life, Shakspere endows his characters with a striking reality, while his power in exciting the emotions of his readers is unequalled. Bassanio, in his “Merchant of Venice,” represents a person familiar to us all, and the graceful Portia calls-to our mind the lovely woman of our own day, and stirs the heart as only she can stir it.
The beauties of that famous trial scene, in
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	181
which the charming maid of Belmont, with true womanly ardor, entreats the Jew to be merciful, are too well known to require description here. If examined from a purely legal point of view, 'however, many of the rulings given in this scene will be found to be contrary to the principles of modern law, and though we may be loath to admit it, the fact is, nevertheless, indisputable. Without attempting to explain the poet’s intention in the matter, and without assuming to criticise his position, it shall be the purpose of this article to point out and discuss some of these erroneous rulings.
The first thing to be considerd is the contract for the forfeiture of a pound of the Christian’s flesh, should he fail to repay the loan. Antonio, desirous of his friend’s advancement, and proudly confident of his own ability to succeed, readily consents to its conditions. By treating this as a valid agreement, the court was plainly in.error from the beginning of the suit. Our law upon this subject is very pronounced; it explicitly declares void all contracts which endanger life. Were this not the case, no power.in Venice could deny the Jew his pound of flesh. In assuming the contract Antonio took upon himself all its.burdens, and the inconvenience necessary to its fufil-ment would have to be borne by him. The shedding of the Christian’s blood would have been merely incidental to its enforcement. '
In declaring the lands and goods of Shylock forfeited by the laws of Venice, if, in the cutting of the pound of flesh, he shed a drop of the Christian’s blood,the judge was again guilty of error; for Antonio had, by his own act, deprived himself of the law’s protection, and he who does this is without remedy.
In her treatment of the questions which arose during the further progress of the trial, Portia showed a delicacy and precision scarcely reconcilable with her position in regard to earlier points. Her reply to Bassanio, in answer to his urgent request for a decision favorable to his friend, even though it be subversive of the law, is worthy of admiration. With the firmness of an incorruptible advocate, she answers:
“It must not be; there is no power in Venice '	Can alter a decree established.”
As the trial progresses, Portia makes an almost irresistible petition in the prisoner’s behalf, but the Jew remains obstinate. Not even those sublimely potent words—	.
“ The quality of mercy is not strain’d;
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath ”— ’ ‘
can move him from his purpose. Portia’s position in this, case might, I think, quite naturally appeal to a judge; for as the Christian stood ready to -repay the loan, and as the pound of flesh would not be of the least benefit to the Jew, reason and justice demanded that he accept the money and release the bond. It is clearly the duty of every court to temper justice with mercy.
Stung by the insults which had been heaped upon him and all his race, Shylock, thirsting for revenge, still clamors for the enforcement of the law. Here the conduct of the young pleader stands out in striking contrast to her former bearing. Having failed to excite mercy in the aged Jew, she appears to have become suddenly forgetful of that noble quality herself. By requiring the court to declare Shylock’s property confiscated because of his attempt to take the life of a Christian, she deprives him of that which is most dear to him, his gold.
To the people of our land, who.glory in the blessing of freedom of conscience, the order of the court remitting the fine only on condition that the Jew should profess the Christian religion seems, indeed, cruel. In defense of the order, it may be urged that Church and State being united, their perpetuity necessitated such a course. That being the case, the interests of the individual would naturally have to yield to those of the sovereign. The decree makes the humiliation of Shylock complete, and, foiled in his attempt to be revenged on . Antonio, forsaken by his daughter and compelled to bequeath his property to her Christian husband, he quits the scene of this, his greatest degradation, ambition-wrecked and weary of the world.	..
Taken altogether, the scene is one of deep interest. There is that generosity about Antonio which makes us wish to forget his cruelty to Shylock in our admiration of his love for Bassanio; while the miseries of the Jew vividly portray the fate of the man who puts all his hopes in the things of earth.
Fortune is usually the greatest misfortune to children. By taking away the stimulus to effort, and, especially, by taking away the restraints from indulgence, it takes the muscles out of the limbs, the brains out of the head and virtue out of the heart.—Mann. -	.
“No matter what may be the fortunes or the expectations of a young man, he has ho right to live a life of idleness.”	J
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Varsity Verse.
BENEATH THE SNOW.
Beneath the snow the grass is green, ■ The withered leaves can scarce be seen;
The oak tree bears a burden light,
The dark pine’s limbs are bending white, Where once the robin’s nest had been.
The flakes fall o’er the fields, between • Bare hedges, wind-swept as a screen;
All Nature seems to hide from sight Beneath the snow.
November’s north winds, sharp and keen, Sweep desolately o’er the scene;
And through the churchyard moan at night, Where, after life’s long cares and flight, Forgotten forms repose, serene, Beneath the snow.
_ W. P. B.
SILENT SMILES.
How like the cold, clear, chastened light Of stars—reflections of the sun’s bright rays— Are silent smiles which tinge the night
Of sorrow with the joy of other days!
T. A. H.
IN MEASURED TIME.
In measured time man moves along
The young, the old, the weak, the strong— All march in column to the grave, The faint arrive before the brave;
To all the rights of way belong.
They move and move, this surging throng, And funeral bells ring ding-a-dong
As on they surge, a mighty wave— In measured time.
The modern poet chaunts a song
Of love or hate, of right or wrong;
In fact, on any theme he’ll rave
If he’d get pay or praise. O slave
To rhyme, beat now a Chinese gong In measured time!
.	N. E. C.
Is Football a Help or a Hindrance to a Student?
A SYMPOSIUM BY THE CRITICISM CLASS.
. To assert that football is a hindrance to the true collegiate student would be to bring upon oneself the criticism of thousands who admire this popular sport. And yet I feel safe in saying that there are few sincere football players who would claim that they are aided in the slightest degree by their devotion to the game.
Articles on this subject have been published far and wide, and many pages of our popular
magazines have been given up to the sole purpose of proving that football has greatly increased the intellectuality of our college men. Such, at least, seems to be the stand taken by most writers on the subject. After making broad assertions that athletics and intellectuality always go hand in hand, they place before us an ideal student whom the unsuspecting public looks up to and admires. Mens sana in corpore sano ’concludes, the idealistic theme on our hero; but I have yet to find him, who can, from experience, claim that football has disclosed to him the secret of applying his time well, and has urged him on to pursue his studies with greater attention and zeal. If I should assert that the student and athlete combined is not a man to be admired, assuredly would I deserve the severest criticism.' There have been, and are now, men in our own college who take the keenest delight in aiding the cause of football by indulging in the sport; and these men, moreover, have proven themselves to be students in the truest sense of the word; but does this contradict my statement? Not in the least. Such a man is a student in spite of football. He was a student before he ever played football. He must realize that he is making a great sacrifice by playing; and if he does it from purely uninterested motives, he is to be looked upon as the. ideal we are all struggling to attain;—a manly man. He is unselfish in giving others pleasure; but that he does it to his own detriment, no one can deny.
Richard S. Slevin.
-
* *
All sorts of athletic sports tend to develop the physical man, but none more so than football. It brings into action every muscle of the body; and for the student who is shut up in close rooms the greater part of the day, there is no exercise so beneficial to his general good health. Those who are opposed to the game say it is brutal, and that it should not be supported by people of good taste and refinement. They compare it to the bull-fighting of the Spanish countries. They always point to the few serious accidents that have occurred on the gridiron, and hold these up as the inevitable and only effects of football. If, however, they consider the large number of men who play football, and think how few are seriously injured, their arguments would come to naught. We should not give up football for the reasons they assert any more than we should avoid the railroads because so many have met their deaths in railway disasters. They say, too,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that collegiate football is. bad because the progress of the student is interfered with by his devotion to the game. Of. course, when carried to excess, football has its ’evil effects .on the advancement of the student. But if the student does not devote to it more time than is necessary, football not only :gives him the physical exercise he needs, but also the-recrea-tion that is so essential to his progress in the class-room. The student who is the best in his classes is generally the one who is foremost among his fellows in all. athletic sports.
• Football, too, requires much brain work, and the man who is quick to see when and how to play is the one who_makes the gains. It does not depend, as many think, on the brute force that is brought to bear on the opponent, but, to a great extent, on the scientific way in which this force is applied. Football, then, is an aid rather than a hindrance to the student. It makes him strong, physically, and tends to make him quick and clear-headed. It unites . pleasure with exercise,'and gives him the recreation needed. It is true that the players are often sore and stiff after a hard game; but when they have been properly trained beforehand the stiffness soon vanishes, and they are stronger and more active than before.
James A. Murray.
To become one of the eleven that represent his university on the gridiron, a student must put heart and soul into the practice games. If the successful candidate, for the “ Varsity ” should show a lack of interest for even a few days, there are ten ready to displace him. Besides, a player is liable, at any time, to receive injuries, which will put a stop to further progress in his classes for months to come. . Such accidents happen every autumn, but they are kept from the newspapers as much as possible.	.
. The imaginative mind of a young fellow, . aspiring to a position on his “ varsity team,” -is continually depicting games in which he is the hero. In such day-dreams, he saves his . team from defeat by a beautiful tackle, or goes around his opponents’ end for a long run and a touch-down, while the thousands that crowd the benches are shouting his name to the skies. He sees himself standing there the admiration , of even the opposing team, and he thinks with, pride of the wonderful influence his name will bear ever after.
All this has the effect of making study seem . sordid . and tiresome, to be -forgotten for the
impetuous rushes and gallant stands the team makes against the foe. Of course, this sort of thing lasts only during the fall months. A football player may settle down to study, when there are no more games to be played; but while he wears canvas, it is almost impossible for him to occupy his mind with anything but football.'	W. P. Burns.
# *
Football, if not carried to extremes, is not a hindrance to the student. It affords plenty of healthful, exercise during the recreation hours, and prevents him from lounging about in the smoking-rooms while he should be out in the open air. The game is very interesting, and it breaks the monotony of college life. It also teaches the players to use their judgment and to observe closely the actions of their opponents. Although the game is somewhat rough, yet we seldom hear of any one being seriously injured. The laws of football have been altered so that the game is not nearly so dangerous as it was in former years.	.
Certainly, if a student were to put most of his time on football, it would hinder him in his studies; but as long as he plays during recreation hours only, it is a help to him. He must take plenty of outdoor exercise to keep himself in good health and to develop his muscles. And football does all this for him, and more, too. By some young men,football is carried to excess, and they forget their studies; but the game should not be condemned because it is a temp-' tation to these few to neglect the work of the class-room for the more absorbing labor of the football field. .	'
George F. Pulskamp. - _ * * , .
I am not, by any means, opposed to manly sport, or to any kind of recreation that tends to physical development. On the contrary, I consider them absolutely necessary to the college man. To some, football may seem brutal; to me it appears to be the manliest of all our games. If there still survives within us something of the bl^ Roman spirit, it surely is not so terrible, so animal, as the critics of football would have us believe. When it is an intellectual struggle, let us use the weapons of the mind, and not disgrace the contest by bringing in brute force. But if it is to be a battle for physical supremacy, then let muscle and sinew play the important parts, never forgetting, however, that the mind, the nobler half of man, is to .direct and govern every movement. The only serious argument that can be urged against the college
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
game is that it distracts the attention of the student from his class-work, and makes his daily practice more important than the studyhour. The student who wishes to make a good showing in a great match game—and he would do better to doff his canvas if he does not—must give valuable time to practice and training. If this were all, the disadvantages of football might be overlooked; but for weeks after the season closes—unless he has been particularly fortunate—the football player is unable to do good, serious work, because he is physically and mentally exhausted; and it will take many days for him to recuperate.
Frank Eyanson.
We all know the evil effects brought about by not engaging in athletic sports. Some students seem to look only to the development of the mental part of man, and neglect the physical altogether. At all times, since colleges came into existence, some one sport has been the most popular during a certain season of the year. In most American colleges of to-day, football has gained the ascendency over other games, and is almost the national game. It is a game which, if properly played, cannot be other than a benefit to the student. His faculties are trained to observe the slightest weakness in his adversary’s defense; and he is taught to act quickly and at the right moment. The rules of the game have been made so rigid that nearly all the brutality has been eliminated, and it has become more scientific and interesting than it was some years ago.
At the present time, it seems to be the object of some schools to excel in athletics more than in mental culture. With that end in view, they offer inducements to those who are experts in* any line. This is probably the greatest objection that can be made to the introduction of football into modern colleges.. But at those schools where sports are not put above studies, we may safely say that they are beneficial to the students in general.
There-is very little danger to the contestants in football. The spectator will hardly agree.to this; and it is to him that we owe the opinion which is commonly held of the sport. It is generally the coward who is injured during a game; in fact, we seldom hear of a courageous player getting hurt. The greater number of students prefer to look at the game rather than to engage in it themselves; but even in this case the game is a help to them. If is a source of amusement to them; it stimulates
their love for their college, and it affords a vent for the superabundant energy that every undergraduate seems to possess.
’	J. W. Lantry.
I think that football is an advantage to the student. The player is undoubtedly benefited in general health. All the faculties of his mind and body are brought into action; his brain must plan and his body execute, if he would compass the defeat of his opponent; so that his mind becomes more active, more competent, to deal with the problems of life. I do not think his attention is so taken up by football that he neglects his studies; for, like all things physical, the training and practice soon become habitual; they lose their novelty. So much for the individual player; who doubts that intercollegiate games are beneficial? They foster the student’s love for his college and give him something tangible, to grow enthusiastic over; and even if his college loses he has been strengthened in his peculiar patriotism. I will not treat of the advantages arising from patriotism. Everyone knows that without a motive we do nothing. With the appreciation of her greatness, the student esteems his Alma Mater the more, and this alone would give an excuse for football—if this king of sports needed one.	John Shannon. -
***-
In my opinion, football is neither a help nor a hindrance to study. I have found, from personal observation, that it neither makes the industrious student less earnest nor the slothful one less lazy. It depends entirely upon the individual ’ character of the player; and from this varying standard we can draw no general conclusion. Since it helps us to a realization of the old ideal, mens sana in corpore sano, I think football helps study; but it distracts the attention of the player from class work and hinders progress. The ancient Greeks made athletic training the main feature in the education of their young men; and I think they were right. For of what use is a good education if health and vigor must be sacrificed to acquire it?’
. Arthur W.’ Stace.
* * .
Athletics in general tend to ennoble the man. His ani mal instincts are curbed by sports, and the effects, as a whole, are very good. Considering the many sorts of athletic exercises and the greatness of each, I think that there can be no question but that football is king of
F
HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	185
them all. But I am to treat it not as a scientific pastime, but as a college game, with a word or two on its influence on the student.
Football has existed in the United States for a number of years, and gradually it has risen from a mere college event to a universal subject of interest. This is especially the case with the important Eastern matches. The manner of playing the game last season, however, was thought to be so brutal that a revision of the rules was necessary.
The “ mass-plays ” were altogether eliminated, and the game we have to-day is more open and less dangerous. Few men, throughout the country have sustained permanent injuries thus far, thanks to the new rules.
That there is very little physical danger to the player who is in good condition, all must admit. But the question arises, can a student play football and study at the same time? In a great majority of cases I would undoubtedly reply in the affirmative, the exceptions being in the case of “big” games, like those of. Yale and Harvard. The thought of appearing before forty or fifty thousand people and playing against men coached and trained to the utmost is enough to unbalance any man’s mind. I repeat, though, that this is the case only at the great Eastern colleges; for Western schools are far in the rear in comparison with the old colleges of New England, and the crowds which attend the games are not nearly so great.
Hence, if a man is not injured in the game, oi' if his attention is not drawn from his work at college, the objection to the game seems unfounded and untrue. The college world and the public are separated by a wide gulf; the former irritates the latter by the coolness and conservatism of its inhabitants to such an extent that the public, like the small boy, tells bad stories about collegians and college matters in general. But, thinking only of the pettiness of such men, college men can afford to lay their plans without taking them into consideration at all.
Thomas T. Cavanagh.
Music is said to be the speech of angels; in fact, nothing among the utterances allowed to man is felt to be so divine. It brings us near to the Infinite; we look for moments across the cloudy elements, into the eternal sea of Light, when song leads and inspires us.—Carlyle.
Book Reviews.
—It is- too soon at this day to form a true, estimate of the work which the American Catholic Historical Society of Philadelphia is accomplishing in publishing its “Records;” the obligation of doing that will devolve on the coming ages. It is not too soon, however, to emphasize with strong words the present value of such work and the future promise that . it holds. These chronicles are a mine of information for contemporary annalists, and will render the writing of the next great History of the Church in America an easy and a sure matter. In the current issue of the “ Records,” John M. Campbell" draws a graphic sketch of the brilliant career of his father, the Hon. James Campbell, Postmaster General of the United States during the Pierce administration. Many new facts touching the Know-Nothing riots are brought to light in this paper, and the relation of a few striking incidents that happened in the stirring times that went before: the war brings that interesting period very near to readers of the present day. “The Catholic Church at Lancaster, Pa.” and “ Pew Registers of St. Mary’s Church, Philadelphia,” take one back a hundred years, and give an insight into the workings of Church administration at that early date. The most noteworthy feature of the “ Records” is the wonderful care and attention to minute details that is manifest on every page—an excellent thing in a historical paper.
—The fall number, of the American Catholic Quarterly Review contains much that is calculated to excite the interest of the student, as well as to engage the attention of the more mature and serious mind. St. George Mivart discusses the current evolutionary theory of heredity in an article entitled “The Newest Darwinism.” The author of the theory, Prof. Weismann, of Freiburg, was lately invited.to deliver the third Romanes lecture at Oxford, was listened to by a crowded audience, and was honored by the Doctorate of the University. Prof. Mivart discusses the theory by the light of biological facts, and it is needless to say that his presentment of the case is of the strongest and most interesting character. The learned Father Hewit contributes a very important paper entitled “Testimony of the Greek Church to Roman Supremacy,” and Cardinal Gibbons makes some remarks introductory to : the Pope’s Encyclical. Other interesting con- . tributions: are “Who is My Mother?” “The. -Supernatural and its Limitations,” and the “Scientific Chronicle.” The Book Notices are, as usual, many and various. Among them we note a very appreciative critique of Father ' Zahm’s “Bible Science and Faith.” :
186	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wmwscHW
Notre Dame, November 24, 1S94.
Lutheranism. Mr. Cullinan does well to smile at Ibsen’s claims to realism. Mrs. Alving and Nora are mere types of certain virtues or vices; they are not human beings. Little ought to be said about the retrogressive tendencies of Catholic colleges when they produce students of English capable of such work as this.”
IJublisijrti cbcrn 5 aturhan during Ccnn Eime at X. 3. Sntbcrsitn.
En tered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dam e, In’d,
Terms, $i.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: ' EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff.
JAMES A. M’KEE, ’93 J DANIEL V. CASEY, ’95;
DANIEL P. MURPHY, ’95;
EUSTACE CULLINAN, ’95; SAMUEL A. WALKER, '95;
MICHAEL A. RYAN, '95;
FRANCIS W. DAVIS, ’95; ARTHUR P. HUDSON, 95;
HUGH C. MITCHELL, ’95;
NICHOLAS S. DINKEL, ’95; JOSEPH A. MARMON, ’96;
MICHAEL J. NEY, ’97.
—A telegram received by the Reverend President during the past week announces that . the Very Reverend Gilbert Fran^ais, SuperiorGeneral of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will arrive at Notre Dame to-day. This will be the Reverend Father’s first official visit to the University since his election to the-Superior-Generalship. He will be accompanied by Very Rev. Father Corby, present • Provincial of the American Province of the Order, and by Father Zahm. The Scholastic extends to the distinguished visitor and his companions a thrice hearty welcome.
—Perhaps none of the deceased Presidents of Princeton has done more towards her present greatness than the' late Dr. McCosh. Seldom in life is it given to a man to accomplish as much as he did. He found Princeton a college and left it a university. During his presidency, the standard of scholarship was raised; a dozen fellowships founded; the number of professors and buildings trebled; and three millions added to the university fund. This is, indeed, a marvellous record.
A glance at the picture of Dr. McCosh, however, lessens one’s surprise at the amount of good done. The lofty forehead, furrowed by thought, the kindly eye with its humorous twinkle, the determined mouth, opened but for gentlest and most helpful utterance—these tell the secret of his success. Not Princeton alone was the sphere of the kindly influence of this good man. It was felt wherever his works were read. “Method of Divine Government, Physical and Moral,” “Realistic Philosophy,” .“An Examination of Mill’s Philosophy,” “ Christianity and Positivism,’’ “ The Scottish Philosophy, Biographical, Expository and Critical,” “ Psychology,” “ The Cognitive Powers; from Hutcheson to Hamilton,” were the fruits of his leisure.
We tender the University bur heartfelt condolence in her sad bereavement.
—So many and so laudatory are the tributes . paid by our exchanges to the literary excellence of the Scholastic that we shall, we hope, be pardoned the vanity of copying the following from The Catholic Columbian:
. “The Notre Dame Scholastic is, we are glad to see, modern.in its manner of treating literature., English as taught at Notre Dame is a living language evidently. Mr. Eustace Cullinan’s paper on Tbsen,— plainly the result of careful study of the reigning literary favorite,—shows sound Catholic training and robust literary taste. Mr. Cullinan makes a good point when he notes that Ibsen’s iconoclasm is. the result of what a writer in the current number of The . Critic calls the. ‘New England conscience,’which is merelya worship of respectability. Ibsen classes all religion under the head of hypocrisy, because he knows no religion, but
“Tenure and Toil.”
We are pleased to notice that Judge Gibbons’ meritorious and instructive work,entitled “Tenure and Toil; or, Land, Labor and Capital,” has reached its second edition. When the work was first published, we referred to it as clear . and able in its presentation of the issues involved in the labor question, logical and ingenuous in its deductions from the theories and principles proclaimed by leading thinkers touching the ownership of property, and original and convincing in the solution it suggests of the perplexing controversies and irritating differences between capital and labor. That characterization of its merits may be repeated; for it
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	187
has found sanction and confirmation in the expressed appreciation and approval of thousands of thoughtful men and women who have since perused it and reflected upon the serious problems with which it deals. In writing of the work to Judge Gibbons, the late Professor Swing made use of this language: “Had Gladstone written your volume it would have sold all over America;” And, indeed, it would not suffer by comparison with anything ever written by Gladstone on the subjects with which it deals.
The book-begins with a forcible and timely introductory chapter relating to the disturbances witnessed and the dangers menaced in connection with the labor agitation and riots of last summer. It states plainly the alarming significance of the lesson they teach, and, as a remedy, it suggests a system oLarbitration for settling subjects of difference between the employer and his work men in respect to wages, hours of labor, etc. In reading these introductory pages one cannot fail to notice that we have already witnessed in indubitable reality what was stated in the first edition relative to the anomalous nature and deteriorating vassalage of the Pullman community system, and also to the fact that possibly some Federal judge, with proclivities favoring corporate power, might some day apply the Inter-State Commerce law along lines of railroads thousands of riiiles in length, to the serious curtailment of the liberties of workmen and the rights of labor.
In view of the Judge’s criticism of the feudal characteristics of the Pullman town system, the attorneys representing the Pullman Company recently made and argued a motion for a change of venue from Judge Gibbons in a quo warranto suit instituted last summer. He granted the motion on the ground that there should not be room even for a suspicion of unconscious bias in the mind of a judge passing upon the respective claims and contentions of litigants/' Did - they but know the integrity arid’ strength of the Judge’s character they could hardly have doubted that his decision would be in strict conformity with the law* and the evidence, irrespective of any opinions he might entertain or express as a citizen.
The chief captions of the subjects into which the work is divided are: “The Right of Property and the History of Tenures;” “.The. Origin, Growth and Decadence of Feudal Tenures;” “ The Right of Property and the Stability of Tenures; ” “ Labor—Its Wrongs and their Rem
edies; ” “Limitation of Ownership and Prohibition of Trusts; ” “ Distribution of Population and Division of Property;” “Convict Labor and Proposed Legislation.” The subdivisions of the work deal in a manner luminous and spirited with almost every phase of the disturbed conditions existing in respect to land, capital and labor, and courageously* point out such remedies as offer promise of being effective and beneficial to the public at large.
Judge Gibbons was a student at the University in the 6o’s, and has since been in close touch with his Alma Mater. Through merit and ability he has risen to the conspicuous place on the bench and in public esteem, which he now occupies. With a generous heart and broadly sympathetic nature, he enters naturally and earnestly into the consideration of problems affectingthe welfare of the toiling masses. With a patriotic zeal, founded upon devotion to the law and love of country, he advocates a just balancing and harmony of relations between capital and labor, to the end that peace and prosperity may obtain throughout the land. With a sense of justice drawing inspiration not only from the laws of the land, but also from the laws of Nature, he exposes the hollowness and absurdity of Henry George-ism. And all the bats of anarchy vanish before the light he turns on the social state..
The Judge has given years of study and thought to the land question and the relations between capital and labor in past ages, and in the light of his researches he suggests what he regards as a just solution of the difficulties and problems that environ and press upon us in . this transition age of unlimited expansion in machinery and industrial agitation and disturb- -ance. Unless these problems be solved upon a just basis, the fury of the whirlwinds may be unleashed and the palaces of greed tumbled in the unreasoning tumult of infuriated mobs and insurrectionary agitation.
Judge Gibbons is admittedly one of the leading lawyers and thinkers in the country, and we may well pause and reflect on the patriotic suggestions he makes in the interest of upholding the law, maintaining right, doing justice, and averting evils to which the fury of: the whirlwind and the tumult of the elements might seem comparatively trivial and harmless.
What is the use of one’s eyes, if the owner \ does not keep them open to the things about him?'-	\	.
188
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Triumphant Again.
Notre Dame,i8; Rush Medical, 6.
Once again has the Gold and Blue waved over a glorious victory on the gridiron field. Once more have our sturdy players upheld the supremacy of their college in what has now come to be the great American game. And again have they left the scene of the struggle tired but happy, and with the inspiring cries which betoken victory ringing in their ears.
Even though one is not a knight of the leather, it is not hard to imagine, in a degree, what must be their feelings when, flushed with the excitement and fervor of the contest, and conscious of their hard and earnest efforts, they hear the words of congratulation and feel the touch of sympathetic hands. That should be sufficient reward, if no other were forthcoming.
Never before has the enthusiasm of the sport reached such an intensity as was displayed in Thursday’s game- Every student, not to mention others who witnessed the game, was thoroughly in touch with the spirit of the occasion. They felt with the players; and not one was there whose blood did not flow more quickly when our men rushed through their opponents and swept on to success. And how they cheered! When Casey scored the first touch-down the air was black with hats, canes made dangerous sweeps in every direction, and the shouts were deafening.
The weather man must certainly have become a good Christian, for he no longer fumes in wet and windy , gloom on football days as was his wont of yore. The weather was certainly everything that could be desired, and, in consequence, an encouraging number of visitors were in attendance and the finance account came nearer to being balanced than on any previous occasion. Old Sol smiled sympathetically on the men; but to which side his encouraging glances were directed was, for a time, the allabsorbing question.
Football is not generally considered a very aesthetic sport from the artist’s point of view; but the players in their unwieldy costumes, the irregular crowds of spectators with flying college colors, and the carriages, containing gaily dressed ladies, went to make a rather strikingly picturesque scene. Then. Professor Preston, with his usual sympathy in all that
interests the students, added harmony to the occasion by the music which the band discoursed from the windows of the gymnasium.
When the time was finally called, and the excitement was at its height, the band appeared on the grounds and escorted the players to the dressing room.. The strains of the march, however, were with difficulty heard above the shouts of the crowd. The men from Rush were the first to come on the field, and a redoubtable lot they were. They were well balanced in size, and weighed, all through, much more than Notre Dame’s men. They were no mean foe, most of them being far from novices at the game. McNary, the left end, has played football for seven years, while Jewett, the right-half, was one of Ann Arbor’s best men last year. How the opinion became prevalent is a mystery; but the idea that the latter was what is termed a “dirty player” had been circulated. It is only justice to say that he played a perfectly gentlemanly game. Loud applause announced the appearance of Notre Dame’s men, who took the west goal.
The line-up was the same as with Wabash, with the exception that Dinkel replaced Brennan as quarter-back. Morrison, although ill, went to his old place at tackle. He played with the spirit that he always does, but owing to injuries which he received was forced to retire after the first half. When the game commenced and the men came together it was easily seen that hard work was before our players. Rush’s tackling and interference for the runner were excellent, while their line was anything but weak on the defensive. Sager, their captain and full-back, is more than an ordinarily good player. He was a hard man to stop, especially when assisted so well by his men.	.
Notre Dame resumed her old tactics of bucking the centre, and how effectively was shown by the first touch-down being made five minutes after the kick-off. After this, the ends were tried more frequently and not always with as much success. One notable deficiency was the slowness of the rushes at the centre. With the exception of Casey, the men who were called back from the line did not start quickly enough, and, in consequence, the opponents had time to prepare for the,onslaught. Rush’s weight and size were hard obstacles to overcome. They played a hard and pushing game which, of course, was greatly aided by their heavy line; But the snap and dash which
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i89
Notre Dame displayed were more than a match for them, and when our men warmed to their work in the second half, the confidence of their supporters was restored. •
The result of our coach’s able efforts were clearly seen in the increased finish with which the team played; but perfection can never.be reached, and more practise in the use of signals would do no harm. The best and most effective way to improve is to profit by the errors made and not let them occur again, which the men realize and will put in practice.
Every player deserves warm praise for his good work and hard efforts. Corby and Zeitler at ends were equal to their positions. Zeitler, in particular, made some fine tackles. Schillo played hard and well, as did Morrison who never misses an opportunity. Casey’s rushes and Dinkel’s interference were the strong points of the game. The former’s work was effective and telling as usual. The applause he received, when he went through and ran for thirty-five yards to the first touch-down, was well deserved. Dinkel was invaluable in every way.' His fifty yard run with Casey was fine work. Anson made good holes in the other’s line and was not backward in holding his own, while Chidester was, as usual, a stone wall at centre. Captain Keough not only played well, but showed good judgment, directing the team’s movements. Dempsey is an example of what a man can do when given a chance. Besides being good for a run at the line, he never fails when kicking. He is a good kicker in every respect. . Corry was never asleep, as his work showed. He is quick, and his ability to wriggle through the arms of a tackle always counts.
Although the struggle was a hard one, Rush far out-classing Wabash, the game with Albion on Thanksgiving will be harder. They will leave no means untried to win, and the team cannot afford to rest on its laurels yet. However, the gods and the weather being propitious, we shall close the season in a blaze of glory or something. Above all, we . must not let our enthusiasm die out; for it is not the least important factor in a game to know that the result is a matter of moment to all. A few more with the warmth and devotion to sport that Rosenthal shows would be very acceptable.
An annoying feature of every game, and one which is becoming unbearable, is the constant tendency of two or three certain irrepressible individuals to rush on the field with their opin
ions and advice on every possible pretext. These men interrogate and annoy players of the visiting team, as well as other strangers, and make themselves thoroughly ridiculous. It leaves a* bad impression on visitors; and such remarks as were made in a Crawfordsville (Wabash) paper are hardly to be wondered at.
THE LINE up:
Notre Dame	Rush Medical
Corby and Brennan	Left End	McNary
Morrison and Corby	Left Tackle	Fullenweider
Anson	Left Guard	Barrett
Chidester	Centre	Johnston
Casey	Right Guard	Smalt	.
Schillo	Right Tackle	Coe	'
Zeitler	Right End.	Jackson	■
Dinkel	Quarter-Back	Loomis	-
Keough (Capt.) •	L. Half-Back	Libbey
Corry	R. Half-Back	Jewett
Dempsey	Full-Back	Sager (Capt.)
Touch-downs, Sager (1), Casey (i), Dempsey (1), Anson	
(1). Goal-kicks, Dempsey - (3), Jewett (1). Umpire, Pal-	
meter, Rush Medical; Referee, J.P. Barrett, Notre Dame.	•	
The following	is a brief resume of the prin-
cipal points:	
	FIRST HALF.	’ •
Notre Dame took the ball and Dempsey kicked off forty yards into . Rush’s territory. Rush made two small gains when the runner was tackled and thrown back 5 yards by Corby. They then advanced 1 and 5 yards. Sager took the ball and gained a good start, but Schillo broke through the interference and tackled him. Jewett fumbled the ball and quick as lightning Morrison seized it. With the ball in Notre Dame’s hands Keough went to the right end for 10 yards. Dinkel went 15 yards, but was called back for not properly passing the ball, three players not having touched it. Then Casey went back for a rush, and going through the centre ran for 35 yards unassisted, and made the first touch-down. Jewett, the crack half-back, reached, but could not stop him. Dempsey kicked, and within five minutes of the kick-off a touch-down and goal had been scored—6 to 0.
Jewett kicked 40 yards to Dempsey who . returned 5 before he was stopped. Keough advanced 5, Schillo and Casey 3 yards each, when the ball went back to Rush. With hard work they advanced 20 yards in several downs. Dinkel by fearless plays often stopped the rush. Sager succeeded in making 10 and 6 yards, when the ball was at our 4 yard line; He then went over for a touch-down. Jewett kicked goal and the score was 6 to 6.	.
Rush advanced 5 yards from the kick-off, the ; the ball being stopped by Schillo. Rush was < : working desperately. Gains made principally; -
190
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by Sager and McNary of 15, 4, 5, 8 yards and several smaller ones followed, when Notre Dame held them down and secured the leather. They kept the ball for the remainder of the half, advancing by small but steady gains in which Keough, Anson, Casey, Corby, Schillo, Morrison and Dempsey took the ball. Time was called for the end of the first half on Rush’s 40 yard line.	.
SECOND HALF.
Morrison, owing to injuries, retired, but stayed at the line and encouraged the men. Corby was sent to his place at left tackle and Brennan took Corby’s left end. The remainder of the game was interrupted by long disputes, Rush’s umpire not seeming to know his own mind. The line-up for play was slower . than it should have been, and must be improved for the Albion game. The Rush players were exasperatingly slow in piling off when the whistle blew. Jewett kicked lightly and to the side in order to give Rush an opportunity to secure the ball; but they were not quick enough, and Schillo got it. Jewett, however, obtained it on a fumble.
Rush made 10 yards in two downs. McNary followed with 10, and Sager added 6 more to their credit. The ball then went to Notre Dame. Through the centre Keough advanced 7, Corry 7, Anson 6, and Dempsey 5 yards. The right end was then tried by Keough, Dempsey and Anson for 4 yards each. Rush on a fumble had the ball, but could make no material gains. Notre Dame then steadily and rapidly rushed it to their opponents’ 5 yard line, during which time Casey had the ball for 5 yards, Anson 2, Casey 5 more, Keough 15, Corry 10, Anson 6, Casey 6, and Anson 10 yards. Corry then brought it three yards from the line, and Dempsey went over with Dinkel, Keough and Corry. Dempsey kicked goal. Score, 12 to 6.
Jewett tried his old dodge of kicking to the side, but Casey secured the leather. Schillo gained 8 yards. Then Casey went around the left end, and, with Dinkel interfering, the two rushed off down the field and past Rush’s backs for a magnificent run of 48 yards to their 10-yard line.	..
After some delay the ball was advanced. slightly, when Anson took it and went over the line with Casey, Corryand Dinkel for the third touch-down. Dempsey, with his usual sureness; kicked i 'goaK and; time was called with the score standing; Notre Dame, . 18; Rush, 6.	,	/	~	.
Exchanges.
Many of our exchanges have published essays on the Labor Question; but one "more thoughtfully written than that .in the current number of Tke College World has still to come to our notice. In treating the subject from the point of view of morals, the writer'at the very outset saves himself from the mistake common to inexperienced essayists, who usually write without any point of view at all. The question is ably discussed, and our readers will, we are sure, cheerfully grant the conclusion arrived at. “ The difficulty being a moral one the remedy must be moral. So far as purely economic principles enter the question, profits must remain in the hands of the employee. ■ The moral issues of the heart must influence industrial relations from a sense of honor and justice. Politicaland economic measures must fail as, they do not touch man’s moral nature. The trouble is subjection, and the cure must be wrought from within by the restraints of moral culture. .. . : ■
Education does not of necessity make a man honest or virtuous, but may make him more dangerous. Psychologically, the mere development of intellect tends to change the form of ' immorality more than to extinguish it. Even intelligenceisnotalwaysthe result of education. Anarchy has its men of brains. Culture without character is repugnant. The polluted stream must be purified at the fountain head. Reconciliation, then, must be in the moral, uplift of employer and employee.”
In other words-, .moral culture and mental training must go hand in hand, if we would . reach a happy issue in the present labor troubles. An education, which, unmindful of the former, gives the latter, must, in the.event prove a failure.
•
- . . * * _ _
Our most recent'exchange^is The'"Literary' Bulletin, published . under the auspices of. the University Extension Centre of South Bend. In its list of:associate editors ;we -notice .with pleasure the name of our attending physician, Dr. Berteling. We need but recall the numerous volumes of the late Dr. Holmes, in evidence that the hand wielding the scalpel may. with equal vigor use the pen. That Dr. Berter ling may be as successful with the latter as he -has been, with the former is the wish of all his « friends at Notre Dame!	. .
a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	191
Personals.
—Hon. John J. Ney (LL. B. ’79) has moved his family from Independence to Iowa City that he may more conveniently combine his extensive law practice with his duties as Judge of the District Court and Lecturer at the Iowa State University.	.
—The Reverend Hugh Maguire, Rector of St. James’ Church, Chicago, was among the many visitors at the University last week. Father Maguire is in charge of one of the best parishes in the city. We hope the Rev. gentleman will call soon again.
—Hon. P. T. Barry, of the Chicago Newspaper Union, made a brief visit last week to his children and friends at Notre Dame. Mr. Barry is widely known and highly esteemed throughout the country, and his- many friends here are always delighted to see him.
—Reverend Dennis A. Tighe, ’62, Rector of the Holy Angels’ Church, Chicago, paid a visit to his many friends at Notre Dame during the past week. Father Tighe is as genial and entertaining as ever, and his pleasing manner wins for him friends wherever he goes.
—The Rev. E. S. Keough, D. D., a brother of Mr. F. Keough (C. E. ’94), now a Law student, paid us a visit during the past week. The Rev. Doctor graduated with honors from the Propaganda last year in Rome. And as he is stationed in Chicago, it is to be hoped that he will find opportunities of giving us a frequent call.
—John Cullen, of Minneapolis, who played end on the football team last year, is now pursuing the practice of law in his native city. John devoted himself to law for three years at the University. During that time he was a diligent worker, and displayed more than usual facility for his favorite study. This fact in itself is an earnest of his success in the legal profession.
Local Items.
—Our game Thursday was a success in every way, financially and in the result.
—Prof. Preston taught the French Classes during the absence of Father Klein. ;
—Competitions are on the programme for next week. The Botany Competition is already over.
—Who is getting his name in the papers for giving our stalwart linesman leave to shirk lessons for a month?
—One of the Shining Lights wishes to know which,way to look for the Septentrion when standing on the North Pole.
—Our Varsity quarter-back is an ardent lover of fine art, and the ex-dynamiter’S handiwork
is much admired. Those are the kind of plct- ;	'
ures that Count.	•	- . .
—When navigation opens next spring a ;	.
large fleet will grace the bosom of St. Joseph’s : Lake. Several new boats are building, and the	.
members of'the Varsity Boat Club anticipate a : long season of pleasure on the bounding wave.
—The subjects for the Graduation Essays in the English Course are: “The Morality of Modern Poems,” “The Prologue to Chaucer’s .	•
Canterbury Tales,” “ 0 Fons - Baudusia in Modern Dress,” “Newman on Catholic Literature,” “Shakspere on the Modern Stage,” ‘ “Eugene Field and James Whitcomb Riley.” . .
—The students of the Mechanical Department return thanks to Thomas J. Sliney, chief : . engineer of “ The Winchester Repeating Arms Company,” New Haven, Conn., for presenting to their library two volumes of Appellar’s Cyclopedia of Applied Mechanics. It is to be ’ hoped that others may follow Mr. Sliney’s example in this regard.
—The Carrolls again met the ex-Carrolls on the Sth inst. It was the best Rugby game either has played this year. At the end of the first half neither side had scored; but	'
during the second half each made a touchdown, both failing to kick goal, making the score 4 to 4. It is hoped that another game may be played soon to decide the victory.
—At our football games, generous cheering at the clever plays of the home eleven is evidence of unfailing loyalty; but it is certain ’ proof of a shallow mind to applaud only the . successful manoeuvres of our own team. Brill- , iant plays on both sides should be recognized and applauded. This gives the foreign team . courage and makes the game what it should be—a contest of brawn against brawn. - .	*
—Inadvertently, an error crept into this column in last week’s issue. Some one reported that the magazines were not placed upon the Library tables for some days after	.
the date of publication. Upon investigating, -the Scholastic found that this was wholly untrue. And it takes this opportunity of setting the Library management right before ' . the public, and apologizing for our reporter’s . - -mistake.	<
—For the past week our Varsity eleven has .	. •
been practising hard and faithfully. Under the "	'
careful supervision of Coach Morrison and7 '	.
Captain Keough they have improved a great < . j ' deaLin the art of interfering. The . team work, ~	<
is better now than it has been this season. .	< :
The .sending of Dinkel to quarter strengthens the backs wonderfully, and it will go/a Jong.	r-i
way in perfecting the team work. The boys - J have been in secret practice for some time,and it is expected that they will astonish their admirers when they come out to play in public.
-—“.■The Sorin. Hall Shorties ” have appeared^ on the scene once more. .They have, gone inf active training for the great game hext 'Sou'4’-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
day with the Carroll Hall Specials. Nearly every afternoon they may be seen practising signals in the field back of Sorin Hall. Some time next week they will meet the “ Lengthies ” on the gridiron. This promises to be one of the hottest and most important games of the season, since both teams have been blustering for a long time about what they can do. Captain Hennessy seems to feel confident that his team, the “ Lengthies,” will come off victorious. This remains to be seen.
—On Saturday, Nov. 17, the regular meeting of the Law Debating Society was called to order with Col. Wm. Hoynes in the chair. The work of the evening was a debate on the question: “Resolved,That the enactment of a law prohibiting foreign immigration would be beneficial to the public welfare. The subject was well handled by Messrs. L. F. Gibson and A. B. Chidester for the affirmative, and Messrs. James J. Ryan and Frank D. Hennessy for the negative. The debate was highly interesting, and showed the careful preparation and research of the contestants. All of the speakers displayed rare elocutionary ability, and many strong, convincing arguments were advanced on both sides. After the subject had been thoroughly discussed, the decision of the judge was rendered in favor of the negative.
—Wednesday afternoon the University MootCourt was opened for business, Chancellor Hoynes presiding. The case of William P. Smith vs. City Park Commissioners was called for trial on the equity side of the court. The complainant’s bill was read and demurred to by the solicitors for the respondent, Messrs. Kennedy and Gibson. The demurrer was sustained in part. On motion of the complainant’s solicitors, Messrs. Hennessy and Chidester, the case was continued until the 28th inst., with leave to the complainant to file a supplemental bill. Eight cases have been entered on the docket, and the students of the Law class are busily engaged in preparing them for trial. The Moot-Court work is very interesting and instructive, and the students felicitate themselves upon the fact that more of it is done at Notre Dame than at any other law school in the country.
—A most interesting meeting of the Philo-demics was held on Wednesday evening, with . President Murphy in the chair. Mr. John De-vanney gave a most enjoyable reading, entitled “Jim Bolton.” All who have heard Mr. De-vanney in public can appreciate his rendition of the piece. Mr. Frank Hennessy also recited a humorous selection and kept his audience in an uproar. Then came the debate of the evening. The subject handled was: “Resolved, That women should be granted the right of suffrage,” and it was - ably discussed by} Messrs. Kennedy and Hudson for the affirmative and Messrs. Shannon and Cullinan for the negative side. When the four regular partici-
pants had done, the debate was thrown open to volunteer speakers.. Whereupon Mr. T. Mott and Mr. F. McManus responded with eloquent extempore speeches in favor of the negative side of the question. The meeting then closed.
Roll of Honor.
"	. SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Barrett, Burns, Cullinan, Davis, Devanney, Eyanson, Foley, Gibson, Hudson, Kehoe, Kennedy, Marr, J. Mott, T. Mott, McKee, Marmon, D. Murphy, J. Murphy, Oliver, Pritchard, Pulskamp, Quinlan, Ryan,* Slevin, Shannon, Stace, Vignos, Walker.~
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Arce, Arnold, Alber, Atcherton, Adler, Anson, Barry, Baird, Browne, Byrne, Boland, W. P. Burke, Baldwin, Blanchard, W? J. Burke, Colvin, Cunnea, Corry, Crane, Chassaing, Costello, A. Campbell, Cullen, J. Cavanagh, Delaney, Dowd, Follen, Fagan, Falvey, Gibson, Galen, Golden, Guthrie, Halligan, Hengen, A. Hanhauser, G. Hanhauser, Hamilton, Harrison, Herman, Howley, Hindel, Hierholzer, Hesse, J. T. Hogan, Hent-ges, Howell, Hanrahan, Kortas, E. Kaul, J. Kaul, F. Kaul, Karasynski, King, Kinsella, Lawlor, Lingafelter, Landa, Monarch, Murphy, E. McCord, Medley, J. McCord, McHugh, H. Miller, S. Moore, Mapother, McKee. McGinnis, Manchester, A. McCord, H. Miller, B. Monahan, J. Monahan, A. Monahan, R. Monahan, McCarthy, Murray, Ney, Neely, - O’Malley, O’Brien, Oldshul. Palmer, Pulskamp, Piquette, Rowan, Reardon, Rosenthal, J. Ryan, R. Ryan, E. Roper, Schulte, Smith, Scott, Sheehan, Schultz, Smogor, Spalding, Sanders, Thornton, Turner, J. White, G. Wilson, Walkowiak, H. Wilson, Ward, Wilkin, Wright, Zeitler.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Austin, Adler, Bartlett, Bloomfield, Ball, J. Barry, Burns, Benz, Cornell, Clune, Campau, Cannell, Connor, Corry, J. Corby, J. A. Corby, Cypher, Cullen, Ducey, Dannemiller, Druecker, Dixon, Davezac, Dalton, Erhart, Forbing, Flynn, Feltenstein, Fennessey, Franey, Farley, Foley. Fox, Fitzgerald, Girsch, Gimbel, Gause-pohl, Gainer, G. Higgins, E. Higgins, Howard, W. Healy, A. Hayes, J. Hayes, Harding, Hoban, Herraro, Hagerty, L. Heer,-E. Heer, C. Heer, Keeffe, A. Kasper, G. Kasper, F. Kasper, P. Kuntz, J. Kuntz, Konzon, Krug, Kirk, Kane, Langley, Long,-Lantry, Lowery, W. Morris, F. Morris, Miles, Maternes, Monahan, Monarch, Miller, Massey, Moran, Murray, Minnigerode, Miers, McShane, McPhillips, McCarthy, McPhee, McKenzie, McCarrick, McGinley, S. McDonald, G. McDonald, D. Naughton, T, Naughton, Nevius, O’Mara, Pendleton, Pim, Rockey, Reuss, Reinhard, Roesing, Rauch, Shipp, Spillard, Speake,. Strong, Sheils, Stuhlfauth, Sachsel, Storey, Shillington, Sheekey, Sullivan, Schaack, Smith, Thompson, H. Taylor, Tong, Tuohy, Tatman, Tempel, Underwood, Whitehead, Ward, Wallace, Wells, Watterson; Zitter. .	.	.
' ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Allyn, G._ Abrahams, L._ Abrahams,. Audibert, Bullene, Bump, Brinckerhoff, Breslin, Brissanden, Barrett, Curry, Clarke, Cressy, Campau, A. Coquillard, J. Coquillard, Catchpole, Corcoran,.Cassidy, J. Caruthers, F. Caruthers, .E. Dugas, G. Dugas, Dalton, Durand, Devine, Elliott, Egan, Fitzgerald, Finnerty, Goff, L. Garrity, M. Garrity, Hart, Hershey, B. Hesse, R. Hesse, F. Hesse, M. Jonquet, J. Jonquet, C. Kelly, L. Kelly, Kasper, Lawton, Leach, Morehouse, Moxley, McIntyre, R. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, McCorrV, McElroy, McNamara,-Noonan,' B. Nye. C. Nye, Paul, W. Pollitz. H. Poliitz, Plunket, Roesing, Ryan, Spillaid, Sontag, Swan, Strauss, Steele, Sexton,. Thompson, Thomas. E. Van Dyke, J.-Van Dyke, Waite, Welch.-
* Omitted by mistake last .week. ..	;	.