Volume 73	September 22, 1939	Number I
GERMANY, too, Dr. Cooney Clears Cooney believes is reCensored News leasing batches of atrocity stories to stir up sympathy in the neutral countries. The German ministry of propaganda under the Hitlered arm of Joseph Goebbels has made the successful move of bleaching all war news with the swastika sentiments of the Fuehrer. (See Page 9)
❖
W HAT Layden will Varsity Makes watch for is steady deBow Tomorrow fensive play, reserve strength, coordination, the return to form of Benny Sheridan, and the kicking and passing strength of last season. Squad morale, according to Elmer, is as fine as that of any team he has coached.	(See Page 12)
❖
THE RIGHT to interAppeal Powers cede for students who Given Council have broken University rule and the privilege of presenting student complaints to the University, are the two chief powers that have been granted the new Council .... The Student Council has been given charge of interhall sports. (See. Page 7)
❖
AN OUTSTANDING Jackson Dean	change in the Univer-
of Engineers	sity administration was
announced recently by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., University president, when he made known the appointment of Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., as dean of the College of Engineering.
(See Page 8)
Reverend President John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. “Notre Dame Brings You to the Feet of Christ. . .” (See Page 5)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HOW GOOD IS THE NOTRE DAME TEAM THIS YEAR?
A football Expert Tells You in This Week's Post
• What players from here will make headlines this season? Which opponents will be most dangerous? Francis Wallace has just completed a swing around the country, chinning with coaches, getting the inside, and now brings you the names to watch. What new tricks will add more touchdowns per game, and what players in colleges coast-to-coast have AllAmerican chances? Turn to this week's Post for a fact-crammed article that predicts this year’s winning teams. Wallace has been right two years in a row. Will he be right again?
Pigskin Preview of 1939
ALSO in this week's Post
FUNNY MAN BENCHLEY
Laughs from the life of a humorist by J. BRYAN, III
VARIATION ON A THEME
A modem love story by PAUL GALLICO
HENRY AND THE GOLDEN MINE
An imaginative fantasy by STEPHEN VINCENT BENET
SWING YOUR PARTNER, HECTOR!
Puzzling murder in a rural setting by SIGMAN BYRD
ONE TO MAKE A BARGAIN
What’s the real trouble with NLRB? by GARET GARRETT
THE BIG ONES GET AWAY
Short story of big-game fishing by PHILIP WYLIE
THE YANKS ARE COMING-BACK
How New England is making money again by STEWART H. HOLBROOK
AND... serials by REX STOUT and MacKINLAY KANTOR, editorials, poems, cartoons, humor, 104 pages of entertainment for your nickel. Out today.
by FRANCIS WALLACE
THE S^TUj^DHY EVENING POST Q
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
Summer Events
Memorial Dedication— Busy Commencement Week— Highlight Activities
June 2—First day of alumni weekend. Alumni registered in the morning, then played golf and talked the rest of the day. The Classes of 1889 and 1914 ate reunion dinners, saw the undergraduate production of Checkov’s “On the High Road,” in Washington Hall.
Layden Speaks
June 3—Class Day exercises preceded an alumni golf tournament and softball game. Later oldtimers sat sadly on the sidelines while Michigan State whipped Notre Dame, 4-3.
The Knute Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse was dedicated in the presence of the family of the late great Notre Dame director of athletics and some 3,000 persons.
Coast-to-coast radio presentation of the program was made possible by the Mutual network, and the local facilities of WSBT.
Arch Ward, alumnus, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, who wrote publicity for Rock when he first took over the head coaching job at Notre Dame, was master of ceremonies.
Principal speaker of the day was Charles E. “Gus” Dorais, director of athletics of the University of Detroit, teammate and always close friend of Rockne. Gus said, in part:
“We are gathered here, old teammates and friends, to make a feeble gesture in acknowledging a great man. Football coaches as such are not in a position to add much to the world’s progress or well-being. But you, Rock, burst all bounds and your memory of what you taught and exemplified made of you a beloved national figure and, better than that, a tremendous power for good among the people of this land.”
A flag-draped photograph of the former coach topped the platform.
The Rt. Rev. William Murphy, aged 83, Sandusky, Ohio, who officiated at the marriage of the Rocknes, paid his first visit to Notre Dame. . The Rev. Michael Shea, author- of the “Notre Dame Victory March,” which' spurred many a Rockne team to victory, came from Ossining, New York, to be present.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, eulogized Rockne and his ideals. Elmer L. Layden, president director of athletics at Notre Dame, said:
“. . . In title, ‘Knute Rockne was director of athletics and head football coach of Notre Dame; in fact, he was a great builder of American manhood for American life. ‘A boy who hopes to be a good football player,’ he said, ‘must have brains, courage, self-restraint, fine muscular coordination, intense fire of nervous energy and an unselfish spirit
INDEX
PAGE
The Week______________ 4
Campus_________—......- 5
Man About...........   7
Administration-------- 8
Faculty .............. 9
Calendar............... 9
Editorials ...........10
Literary..............11
Sports -..............  12
Splinters..............13
Introducing___________ 14
Our Daily Bread_______18
of sacrifice. He must live cleanly, he must develop the will to win so keenly that he can taste it He must make fafr play an obsession.’ ”
Seated also on the platform were many teammates of Rockne, along with Mrs. Rockne, her four children, and Miss Florence Rockne, a sister of the late coach.
That night the Alumni banqueters paid tribute to four retiring University professors, whose careers total 178 years of teaching at Notre Dame: Mr. Francis X. Ackermann, professor of mechanical drawing; Mr. William L. Benitz, professor of mechanical engineering; Mr. Edward J. Maurus, professor of mathematics; and Mr. Robert L. Greene, professor of pharmacy. Al though retired, these men will remain with the University in an advisory capacity.
600 Diplomas
June 4—Sunday morning the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., celebrated Solemn Pontifical Mass in the University gymnasium, and the Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., of Chicago, delivered the Baccalaureate sermon.
Six hundred seniors and graduate students assembled in the University gymnasium during the afternoon to receive degrees from the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University. Mr. William Henry Harrison, vice-president and chief engineer of the American Telephone and TeHlegraph company, of New York, gave the commencement address.
That evening, in Washington Hall, Miss Josephine Brownson, of Detroit, was presented with the Laetare Medal for 1939, for her “pioneering spirit and faithful devotion ... to the cause of religious instruction.”
♦>
Reid Lectures
June 20—Summer school opened with over 1,000 in attendance. The usual summer courses were offered; two guest lecturers conducted special classes. Robert Speaight, English actor and novelist, offered a course in contemporary poetry and drama. Mr. Speaight recently acted with Orson Welles in productions of Shakespeare’s historical plays
Mr. Richard Reid, Laetare Medalist of 1936, lawyer, publisher, and editor, also gave a special lecture course that dealt with the Catholic’s part in contemporary American affairs.
❖
Stay Out of Europe
July 29—Colonel Robert R. McCormick, editor and publisher of the Chicago Tribune, lectured on international problems, outlining the history of Europe since the Middle Ages. His conclusion after an analysis of Europe’s present troubles in the light of past events, was that “American intervention in Europe’s quarrels would be futile and absurd.”
More Diplomas
Auguat 1—Ninety-five baccalaureate and advanced degrees were presented by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, at the end of summer school. Richard A. Reid, editor of the Augusta, Ga., Bulletin, and special lecturer at summer school, was commencement speaker.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week by Ed Huston
Top of the Week
The latest rumor is that the “Spirit of Notre Dame” is being re-made in Hollywood. Robert Taylor is the left half back, this time, and Ann Sheridan goes to St. Mary’s. After that the plot becomes slightly improbable.
School Daze
Registration traditionally finds Freshmen bewildered. This year they stood in line for hours waiting to pass Fathers Misch and Doremus, guardsmen at the Main Building basement steps. One poor lad worked his way up three different lines, only to be told each time he was in the wrong class. Finally he found the right line, was nearing the top, when the bell rang—lunch.
One freshman, neither bewildered nor awed, drove up to the Main Building in a taxi, calmly got out and walked up the front steps followed by the cabbie with bags. We expected every moment to hear him call for room and valet. Things like that destroy our faith in human nature.
Table for Two
Any day now we expect to see flowers on every table, a fingerbowl for every hand, and Whistling Tommy Owens in a Tuxedo. It’s all because of the tablecloths. At first we thought they were a decoy, but the parents are gone and the cloths remain. We have no explanation for the second Irish potato famine. Perhaps it’s the war? Along that line we wonder what might happen if a bull market develops in horses. Maybe beef’ll make a comeback.
The Week’s Freak
He was after one of those soft secretarial jobs. Asked if he could type, he said fifty words a minute. Could he take shorthand? Sure, a hundred words a minute. The student employer went into ecstacies of joy. He’d find the fellow a good job. But the boy couldn’t type, and he couldn’t shorthand. So all summer long he went to night school and practiced. He came back to school and got his job—in the publications’ “morgue” where he doesn’t type, and he doesn't shorthand.
Aesop’s Fable
The Indiana squirrel season opens .Sept. 30. The Notre Dame squirrel seas
on officially opened last Sunday. The wise old squirrels stayed home and gathered nuts. The less wise squirrels went to town and gathered wool. The foolish squirrels went across the road.
Guide Service
Just to prove to Harry Boisvert and his cohorts that times haven’t changed much we are including a few paragraphs from Bill Kennedy’s “Week” of Sept. 21, 1935.... “The campus guide service, that valiant crew of unsung finger-pointers is reported to have had a most successful summer, what with every fortieth person on his way to or from the Fair stopping his buggy at the taxi stand and walking up to see a football game or so. But why the system was changed during registration time and a lot of strangers put on sentry duty is beyond us. It is probably beyond them, too.
We were conversing with two of these gentlemen, one tagged “Information” and the other merely a “Guide,” when a new arrival app^teched the desk and asked where he courafind Father O’Hara. “Father O’Hara?” said Information, and looked at the guide. “I dunno,” the latter answered. Well, there was much tossing of questions back and forth until the freshman meekly suggested that Father might be in his office. Grudgingly the two men behind the desk admitted he might be. It seems that he was, too.
That set us to wondering just how far the service did go, so we politely turnid to the man with a white badge and requested that he guide us over to the new laundry. His precise reply escaped us for the moment, but it was the approximate equivalent of “Nuts.”
The Week’s Wash
Associated Press has it that Notre Dame football teams were undefeated in ’09, ’19, and ’29. What year is this, Elmer.... Seniors asking Freshmen for the location of the Athletic office.... The Dome’s had another golden facial.... we know a fellow in Walsh—quite a politician by the way—who already has six dates for the Cotillion.... for awhile we thought they were going to broadcast the war play by play.
Bottom of the Week
Seniors in Freshman Hall.
OPINION
The present Arms Embargo and Neu-trility law invoked by President Roosevelt is one of the most important and most discussed topics of the day. With news of the present European conflict growing more threatening daily, the question of keeping the United States out of the war is a major one.
Residing on campus are three thousand young men. If war breaks over the United States the great majority of these three thousand will enlist, or be drafted into some branch of the nation’s armed forces. Therefore, their opinions on the pertinent question of neutrality should be considered of great importance. Realizing this, the SCHOLASTIC undertook to discover the average man-on-the-campus’s viewpoint on the neutrality legislation. Students from the 15 residence halls on the campus were interviewed. Folloiving are the opinions:
❖
Brownson—Julian Atwater: “I am in favor of keeping the Neutrality law in its present status. It must be kept that way if the United States is to stay out of another great world conflict. The cash-and-carry system definitely favors England. And partiality to any side is virtual declaration of war.”
Walsh—William. Bolchoz: “The cash-and-carry system as a substitute for the Arms Embargo seems to "carry” the greatest bit of assurance of keeping the United States out of the present war. The fact that the foreign nations must come to our ports, pay cash for their materials and take them home in their own ships, manned by their own sailors, shows, at least, impartiality. That is neutrality.”
Howard—William O’Hern: “I think the Neutrality law ought to stay the way it is.... absolutely. It’s impossible for America to engage in the business of selling the instruments of war without becoming involved in that war. Let foreign wars stay on foreign shores.
St. Edward’s—Stephen Smith: “We’re destined to get involved in this war some time in the future.' We might as well make some money out of it while we’re on our way.”
Dillon Hall—V. V. Gurucharri: “In the Philippine Islands where my home is, the opening of hostilities between England and Germany proved to be a source of boom to industry. Even American housewives who purchase sugar will attest to that. However, the Philippine Islands are a long distance from the
(Continued on Page 23)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Z 188
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 73
September 22,1939
Number 1
THE STEPS — THE FACULTY — A NEW SCHOOLYEAR
Father O’Hara Addresses Students at Opening Mass
Urges Humility on World Torn by Discord, Grief
In double file — cassocks fluttering, gowns whipping in the wind — clergy and lay members of the University faculty slowly descended the front steps of Main Building to the cool sunlight of last Sunday morning. Behind them, in the vestments of mass celebrant, walked the Most Rev. Juan Subercas-eaux, Bishop of Linares, Chile.
The procession crossed Main quadrangle, entered Sacred Heart Church, passed down the center aisle between students kneeling row on row. Softly, the Moreau choir took up the chant “Ecce Sacerdos.” The ninety - eighth schoolyear at Notre Dame had begun with solemn pontifical mass.
The Rev. John F O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered the opening sermon. He said:
“Within the next few months, you young men will be subjected to a cloud
burst of propaganda to save democracy. Outside of the walls of Notre Dame and outside of the teachings of the Catholic Church you will hear little about saving the world from itself; you will hear only the murmur of the plea to bring men back to Christ. And to hear a murmur your ear must be attuned to the things of Christ.” (For complete text of Father1 O’Hara’s sermon see page 13.)
“Within the next few months, you young men will be subjected to a cloudburst of propaganda to save democracy. Outside of the halls of Notre Dame and outside the teachings of the Catholic Church you will hear little about saving the world from itself, you will hear only the murmur of the plea to bring men back to Christ. And to hear a murmur your ear must be attuned to the things of Christ.
“Humility is the great lesson that the world has rejected. Pride of one sort or another is a ruling passion in the affairs of the world. The pagan doctrine of the “balance of power” which has plunged
Europe into periodical wars for centuries, is the periodical flowering of the vice of pride. This doctrine assumes that there is no honor among men, and that there is no other life to make good the inequalities of this world.”
(For the complete text of Father O’Hara’s sermon please turn to page 11)
Bishop Subercaseaux was attended by Assistant Priest, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.; Deacons of Honor, Rev. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., and Rev. James Galla-gan, C.S.C.; Deacon of the Mass, Rev. Peter Hebert, C.S.C.; Sub-deacon of the Mass, Rev. Peter F. Forrestal, C.S.C.; Master of Ceremonies, Rev. Francis A. Wenninger, C.S.C.
About the Bishop
The Roman Ritual always achieves unusual splendor at Notre Dame. The liturgical climax comes whenever Solemn Pontifical Mass is celebrated. Even the barest, bluntest spirit responds to the stately pageantry of cathedral candles, the rare velvets, the precious mitre of gold, the regal discipline of an ancient liturgy. Miraculously time and space lose their definition of restriction, and Sacred Heart Church becomes kin with Rome, and Rheims, and Byzantium. This relation became better crystallized last Sunday when the Most Rev. Juan Subercaseaux, Bishop of Linares, Chile, pontificated. The silver and black Circassian crosier he carried belonged to Bishop Finnegan, the late Ordinary of Helena, Montana. Such an incidental item, but the crosier of an American Bishop in the hands of a Chilean one evidenced once more how unified the Church is.
Bishop Subercaseaux, bearing a dignified resemblance to the present Holy Father, is touring the United States in behalf of his own and three other dioceses to accept funds with which to reconstruct churches and schools destroyed or damaged by the catastrophic earthquake of last January. In his diocese alone 40,000 people were killed, 70 churches totally or partially destroyed and 50 schools were put out of commission by the two-minute tremblor.
The Bishop commented with gratitude upon the generous attitude he has met everywhere. In Germany, for instance, the Catholics gave indubitable proof of their intense loyalty to the Church. They
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
gave unstintingly of everything they had -— vestments, medical supplies, bicycles, a hundred boxes of supplies in all. But the Nazi government arguing on the basis that these did not possess the equivalent of barter forbade them to pass the border. The Bishop hopes for a change of the Nazi heart. After a short visit with Father O’Hara, the president of the University, the Bishop continued on his mission.
Fall Retreat
Last Sunday evening freshmen and off-campus students crowded Sacred Heart Church to hear the Rev. Frederick Schulte, C.S.C., open the annual student retreat.
Father Schulte advised first year men that their duty was to develop the soul as well as the body. He analyzed the value and destiny of the soul, posing the questions: “What does God the Father think of the soul? What does God the Son think of the soul? What do you think of your soul?
His answer was the omnipotence of God as a creator, the suffering of Christ on the cross for all mankind, and the paradoxical blessing of Catholics in that while theirs seem the harder lot because of mandatory religious duties, in fact the graces they receive make their life’s burden easier to bear.
Monday. Father Schulte defined “Sin” as “the world’s greatest evil—an insult, treason, contempt and ingratitude towards God. “War, pestilence, disaster— the “popular” evils—shrink in comparison with sin.
The missionary pointed out that God the Father clearly indicated his hatred for sin when He banished the disobedient angels from heaven, when He sent down the deluge, when He consumed Sodom with fire. Father Schulte closed with Christ’s warning: “Unless you be converted from your sins, confessing your sins, you shall perish.”
Tuesday. Father Schulte pictured the horror of death for the grievous sinner, emphasizing the awful uncertainty of death. He deplored the tendency to view death objectively rather than as a personal appointment to lay aside the world and return to the Creator. Whether the return be in defeat or victory depended entirely on the free will of the individual. Presumption — the thought that tomorrow will be soon enough to reform — was sinful, was the story of agonized souls in hell. Saving the soul was a daily task. To live well was to die well.	. .
1909 Cab Hauled Boys To Campus for Dollar
“Just one more dance and then we’ll leave,” he pleaded.
“0. K., one more,” I smiled a bloody, sadistic smile as I conjured up gothically horrid visions of a rope around every rug-cutter’s neck—with me in isolated charge of the trap-doors.
Soon we were dashing down the stairs of the Palais Royale and up to Wal-green’s corner.
“Ah,” my jiving gyrator ah’ed, “The Wolfe is here.” Sure enough the faithful Mr. Wolfe and his famous Cab Number Two were there with door open and engine breathing normally.
“Got ten minutes,” we screamed.
“You’ll make it,” came the soothing answer. I pushed Rug-cutter in ahead of me.
“Suppose you’re used to this,” I offered—trying hard to be casual and at the same time smoke down my nerves.
Wolfe smiled at the mirror even though it was too dark to get a picture in it. “Time doesn’t change much... although in the old days it was Price’s Dance Hall and partners danced together. Course, back in those “teen” years we couldn’t make it in ten minutes going back. The boys had to figure on at least 30 minutes and a possible breakdown.
“The ‘teen’ years!” Rug-cutter tried to subdue adolescent amazement. “How long have you been taxiing here?”
“Well, I owned the first cab that ever
Around World — 28 Time* — In South Bend
lunked through South Bend—and I do mean lunk.
I thought about the word “lunk” and got lost in the conversation.
“Funny how it all came about,” he went on. “I bought a two-cylinder Reo in April of 1909. I happened to be parked near the Oliver hotel one day and a fellow came running out looking for a hack to get to the depot. There wasn’t anybody around so Charlie—he was standing in front of the bank where he worked—came over and said: ‘Ralph, why don’t you give him a lift?’ Well I did and the fellow gave me fifty cents and a career.”
“Had some bad times in those junks I imagine.” He had me interested and I wanted to see him through.
“Oh, lots of times the mud was so deep over near the school I had to drive down between the cemetery and the brush in the rear. But when you speak of those junks you must remember that they used to cost up to $3,000—and with no budget plan!”
Rug-cutter definitely had his mind above the dance floor. “You must have had to charge a steep fare to meet those expenses.
“A dollar a single and a quarter for each extra. Used to carry as many as eight or ten boys at once.”
“Must have taken them a long time to get that together. They spend ten minutes now getting four dimes into one hand.”
"That was the trouble,” answered Wolfe. “Some of them used to make a run for it. Even your feminine friends
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
across the way had their tricks. When eight people get out of a cab it’s pretty hard-to watch them all.”
The taxi came to a spluttering stop in the circle. “Did you ever figure out how many miles you’ve driven in all this time?”
“Almost an exact count. Seven-hundred thousand miles. That’s 28 times around the world!”
Another question popped into my mind but Mr. Wolfe pointed a warning finger at the clock on the dash-board.
New Council Assists
Board of Discipline
A new Student Council is being organized at Notre Dame. Heralded as one of the most democratic and effective organizations ever to appear on the campus, this new council is expected to create a new spirit of cooperation between the students and the University officials. It is also expected to bring a new life to all phases of student activities.
The right to intercede for students who have broken University rules and the privilege of presenting student complaints to the University, are the two chief powers that have been granted the new Council.
Under the superivision of the Director of Athletics, the Student Council has been given charge of all interhall sports. The new organization can also administer all athletic, social, and miscellaneous activities which pertain to student welfare.
The new Council is composed of 23 members and three advisory members. Representation is granted to 11 Seniors, five Juniors, four Sophomores, and four Freshmen. The four class presidents and the president of the Villagers Club are ex-officio members. There is a representative from each Hall and one other member from the Villagers. There is also one Senior elected from each of the five colleges of the University. The Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman presidents from the previous year are the advisory members of the Council.
The members of this new Council are to be elected during the first week in October. Freshmen members, however, can be elected as late as the first week in December. In order to be elected, a student must have a general average of at least 85 percent and must never have been suspended from the University.
The new Student Council intends to be in close contact with the student. Each floor of the residence halls must elect a floor chairman. The floor chairmen will constitute what is known as the hall committee. This committee will
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
Ye bridge addicts! Notice!
This is the story of William James Schaller, diminutive carbon copy of Waltei' Hagen, and protege extraordinary of Culbertson.
Little Bill prizes very highly a wallet he professes to have won in a bridge tournament in his home town, Milwaukee. His former bridge partners say he won it playing “honey-moon bridge” with his mother, and that his mother loves him very much (His slogan now is: “If there’s not game in the hand, play it at 3 no trump.”)
The stocky, black curly haired senior is known for his pugnacity and determination. Those qualities account for his excellent golfing record last season of eight wins and one tie in intercollegiate competition. During the summer he shot a 68 to break the course record at the Blue Mound Country Club in Milwaukee to add to his fine record.
But Bill doesn’t like to be reminded of his bet at the Wacanda Country Club at Des Moines last summer. It seems that he paid off by jumping into the club swimming-pool fully clothed in view of the entire assembly.
An impartial survey of Alumni Hall shows the following ex-partners who absolutely refused to engage in any further bridge games with the expert: Bud Kotte, Jack Dillon, Paul Menneg, Ed Repetto, Ed Huston, Joe Ryan, Jack Hackett, Bob Beaudine, Tom O’Brien, Dan Hushek and Tom McCarthy.
elect one of its number to he the hall representative to the Student Council. The dormitories have the right to pick three members to act as the hall committee in each dormitory.
The most distinguishing feature of the new Council is its intermediary power on behalf of students who have broken University regulations. As soon as the Board of Discipline is notified by the Council that it is taking a hand in a student’s case, the Board withholds its judgment until the Council’s committee has been heard.
Students who break the rules, must present the facts of the case to the Council. If the Council decides that the case is worthy, it will appoint a committee to meet with the Board of Discipline. This committee will represent’ the student and discuss the circumstances of the case and the penalty involved.
The University will appoint a faculty member, who is also a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to be the advisor of the Council. He will be present at every monthly meeting of the Council and at any special meeting at which he is needed.
Freshmen Submit to
Tuberculosis Tests
The most anxious people on the University campus last week were Freshmen and transfer students. One cause for suspense was the required tuberculin patch test. Freshmen feared possible arm “punctures” by injection needles, instead wore the tape arm-patches with relief, but spent two sleepless nights wondering whether the reaction would be positive or negative.
Actually Freshmen could have taken the test nonchalantly. Last year only three students of the 2,900 tested were found tubercular.
Dr. James McMeel, University physician, revealed that only 13.75%, approximately 300, of the tests were positive. In common parlance positive reaction “doesn’t mean a thing” — most of the time. The test simply indicates that the person once contracted the disease. Most tuberculars “grow out” of the disease during childhood. But students whose reactions are positive are X-rayed to determine if the tuberculosis is still active. The three students sent home last year are now recovering, Dr. McMeel reported.
Only Freshmen and transfer students were given the test this year. Next year the biennial check will be given to new crops of freshmen and transfer students, and to juniors and seniors. Approximately 1,000 students have already taken the test since school opened this year.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Enrollment	.
Tentative figures released Thursday by Robert B. Riordan, University Registrar, indicated this year’s enrollment will be the largest in the school’s history— 3,245. Breen-Phillips, recently completed Freshman Hall, is completely filled, and many students are being quartered in Freshman Hall and off-campus residences. The enrollment by schools:
Science ...................  308
Engineering ................ 313
Commerce ................. 1,143
Law ......................... 96
Graduate ..................  135
Arts and Letters ..........1,050
Total ...........3,245
Freshmen Occupy New Breen-Phillips Doubles
One early morning last spring a steam shovel and a contractor’s crew took possession of the cindery path Sahara between Freshman Hall and the Gymnasium. During the days that followed eleventh hour crammers complained against the ringing distraction of hammers while idlers were delighted by the fascinating gyrations of the steam shovel playing its part to the hilt.
Today Breen-Phillips Hall stands complete. Workmen labored under pressure late last Wednesday to finish installing the pews in the chapel. Only the lingering smell of fresh varnish reminds one that the hall has just been constructed. In appearance Breen-Phillips closely resembles the conservatively Gothic Cavanaugh and Zahm Halls, and completes the new Freshman Quadrangle. A network of recently laid cement walks gives it easy access to the rest of the ever-expanding campus.
The accommodations in the new hall are comprised almost entirely of double rooms, excepting six triple and three single rooms. The double rooms—smaller than those in Cavanaugh and Zahm, larger than in Freshman—are equipped with two single beds instead of the traditional double-deckers. Freshman with a penchant for deep thinking abed will not have to resort to second-story work. Besides, profound meditation is insured against disruption from the ever-menacing hazard of a hefty drop.
A large portion of the first floor of the south wing houses the new athletic offices. The ticket office, lately crowded in with the Treasurer’s office in the Main Building, has spacious new quarters on the ground floor with an outside entrance of its own. The offices of the Director .of .Athletics, Elmer Layden,
and of the various coaches are located in the south wing. The new centralization of the athletic department is certainly a convenience to be appreciated both by students and by the friends of Notre Dame.
ADMINISTRATION
Jackson Appointed Dean
Of Engineering School
An outstanding change in the University administration was announced recently by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., University president, when he made known the appointment of Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., as dean of the College of Engineering.
The new dean was president of the Lewis Institute of Chicago from 1935 until the fall of 1938. Prior to 1935
Dugald C. Jackson, Jr.
he headed the department of electrical engineering at the University of Kansas. He is the son of Prof. Dugald C. Jackson, Sr., once an associate of Thomas A. Edison, and head of the department of electrical engineering at M.I.T. until his retirement in 1935.
During the past few months Dr. Jackson, in collaboration with his father, has been working on a study of engineering education conducted by the Engineer’s Council for Professional Development and financed by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The new Notre Dame dean organized ' the data for the analysis. The writing of the report was the work of his father.
Father John Cavanaugh
New Publication’s Head
The first major change in University campus publications for more than a decade occurred last week when the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former prefect of religion, was named faculty director of publications. He will be assisted by a board composed of Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C. and Thomas J. Barry, director of publicity.
Father Cavanaugh replaces the Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C., (see page 10).
Coincident came appointments of the Scholastic staff members to editorial posts: William C. McGowan, Oakville, Conn., to News Editor; James Newland, Washington, Ind., to Sports Editor; and Frank J. Wemhoff, Fort Wayne, Ind., to Literary Editor.
Other staff members were elevated to columnist positions. Edward Huston, Connersville, Ind., will write “The Week” popular campus humor column. Frank Aubrey, Norwich, Conn., will collect “Splinters From The Pressbox,” and Clarence Sheehan, Youngstown, Ohio, will interview varsity athletes in “Introducing.”
FACULTY
A number of changes in the University faculty have been announced by the president of the University, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Most of the changes occurred in the College of Arts and Letters. The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters will serve as the new head of the department of religion; the Rev. Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C., will head the department of classics; Professor Earl F. Langwell heads the department of modern languages; the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., the department of modern history; and Professor William J. Coyne, the department of speech. All of these department heads have been formerly full time faculty members of the University.
Changes, other than the appointment of the new dean, is to the College of Engineering include the addition of Mr. James A. McCarthy, formerly of the United Fruit company and Massachusetts Institute of Technology to the department of civil engineering; Mr. Alexander R. Triano, formerly of Harvard' University, to the department of metallurgy; Mr. Frank Montana, architecture, and Mr. Robert C. Egry, formerly of the University of Detroit to the department of mechanical engineering of which
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Prof. Carl Wilcox is the new head. Prof. Wilcox, formerly of the Studebaker company and more recently a consulting engineer, succeeds Prof. William L. Benitz who retired last spring. Prof. John Northcott has been named head of the department of electrical engineering.
Additions to the faculty include several members of the Congregation of Holy Cross who have previously taught at the University, as well as laymen joining the staff for the first time. In the College of Arts and Letters the Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., sociology; the Rev. Walter O’Donnell, C.S.C., the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., and Brother Justin, C.S.C., English; the Rev. George Welsh, C.S.C., History; the Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., Religion; the Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C., and the Rev. Robert W. King, C.S.C., Philosophy.
In the College of Science: Dr. Norbert L. Noecker, formerly of the University of Wisconsin, will teach plant physiology; the Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., will teach physics. In the College of Commerce Mr. Francis J. Calkins, formerly associated with Standard Statistics, Irie., will teach in the department of finance.
CALENDAR
Friday
7:30 p.m. Sermon by Rev. F. Schulte, C.S.C., and Benediction. Sermon topic: “Perseverance,” in Sacred Heart Church.
Saturday
6:20 a.m. Close of first Mission with Mass, Instruction and Benediction in Sacred Heart Church; 2:00 p.m. Annual Varsity-Freshman Football game at Cartier Field; 7:00 p.m. First showing of “Love Affair,” with Charles Boyer and Irene Dunne in Washington Hall; 9:00 p.m. Second showing.
Sunday
6:00, 7:00, 8:30, and 10:00 o’clock Masses in Sacred Heart Church; 7:00 p.m. Benediction of Blessed Sacrament in Sacred Heart Church; 7:30 p.m. Opening of Second Mission in Sacred Heart Church. Sermon topic: “Salvation,” by Rev. F. Schulte, C.S.C.
Monday
7:00 p.m. Symphony orchestra practice in Washington Hall. Meeting of Dome staff in the Ave Maria building office; 7:30 p.m. Mission for upperclassmen in Sacred Heart church.
Tuesday-Friday
7:30 pjn. Mission for upperclassmen, in Sacred Heart church.
Interpret War Reports
Sanely—Dr. Cooney
/■ An intelligent interpretation of the / war news emanating from the capitals I of Europe can be achieved by the aver-| age college student only after a conser-\ vative and objective study of the mate-/ rial released by the foreign ministries \ of propaganda. This is the opinion of
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism at Notre Dame.
Dr. Cooney cites Great Britain as one
Dr. John M. Cooney
of the chief offenders of propaganda in the steady flow of radio and press releases from the war fronts, prompted largely by the fact that the British were shocked by the news of August 31 that Germany and Russia had signed a mutual non-aggression pact during the period of hostilities. The common belief that Russia planned the invasion of Poland’s eastern border as an antecedent to a Red drive into India caused the English to fear this incident as the first formal step toward the destruction of the British Empire.
r Germany, too, Dr Cooney believes, is releasing batches of atrocity stories to / stir up sympathy in neutral countries.
The German ministry of propaganda under the Hitlered arm of Joseph Goeb-\ bels has made the successful move of bleaching all war news with the swastika sentiments of the Fuehrer.
Dr. Cooney outlines two ways by which the ordinary reader may recognize the taint of propaganda in the war dispatches:Ml) Jn the general series of articles thefgradual trend of partisanship is at first faint in tone but gradually it becomes more apparent until it
reaches a painful obviousness. This biased drift is very noticeable with the progression of the articles. (2) In the individual write-ups the lack of definite statements is utterly conspicuous. Facts / are sorely wanting.J
The impression remains that war news must be sifted, analyzed thoroughly, read intelligently with an open mind before definite conclusions can be reached. Although American newspapers and magazines, as well as the radio networks, have assigned their best men to the task of covering the war news, their efforts have met with the strict censorship of the foreign powers. One must think as one reads. War news is colored—no matter whether it comes from London, Berlin or Paris.—F. G. Barreda.
Du Bos Dies
Charles M. DuBos, noted professor of French and English literature at Notre Dame, died suddenly August 6, at his home in Paris, France. Professor DuBos was preparing to return to the University to resume his duties as lecturer and critic when the fatality occurred.
Professor DuBos was considered one of France’s foremost critics, especially in his favorite department, English literature. Among his works are critical studies of Byron and Dickens, and what is considered his major accomplishments, seven volumes of criticisms entitled “Approximations.” Professor DuBos had a peculiar ability for perceiving the spiritual elements in literature. He was in great demand as lecturer in many European universities as well as at Notre Dame. The complete works of Edith Wharton translated into French have earned Professor DuBos deserved recognition.
Distinguished in public life, Professor DuBos was known to his intimates as a charming, vivid conversationalist, a gracious host, and a thoroughly sincere and modest personality.
Murray Text Reprinted
F. S. Crofts & Co,, publishers of Rev. Raymond W. Murray’s (C.S.C.) Introductory Sociology, have announced a fifth and revised printing of this college text for late in September. This up-to-the-minute printing will contain the changes made in the Social Security Act as well as other legislation enacted by Congress as late as the middle of August.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
William ,C. McGowan, News Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
FOUNDED 1 S 6 7
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Father Broughal
T IKE every new editor for the past decade we were looking for Father Broughal ten minutes after arriving on campus. Father Broughal is a faculty advisor who can be counted on to do ninety percent of the work.
We found him arm-chair-dozing in his third floor office in the Main Building. Maritain’s Theonas lay in his lap. A fan ruffled his shirt front. From the corner radio came proper operatic background for a symphony in comfort.
He was glad to see us because he had news. His assignment for the schoolyear did not include supervising the Scholastic. He was to teach ethics, and — incidentally—read a lot of books that had been gathering dust on the shelves.
He imagined it must be very hot down on the campus—sticky weather to start in rounding up the staff, but it had to be done and he wished us luck. Meanwhile he would stand fast at his post by the electric fan.
It was hot down on campus. Whenever the thought of Father’s fan obtruded we had to think back to what James S. Kearns, now Chicago Daily News columnist, wrote five years ago when he sat down to his last story as editor of the Scholastic. Jim’s story always forced us to the grudging conclusion that Father had earned a respite from blue pencils and copy paper—that some cool afternoons with a good book an an electric fan were due him.
Jim wrote: “... .Out of a very full campus routine, he has taken time during the past year to handle the solicitation of funds for the renovation of
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Donald Driscoll, Art Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Sacred Heart Church. More than that he prepared the plans for the redecoration— lighting fixtures, color schemes, liturgical exactness, and at an even greater expenditure of time and patience, he personally supervised the work of the craftsmen employed.
“The well - working of the church chimes in recent years is the fruit of his personal application to the problem. He devised and had installed a method of manual playing that was not formerly a part of the bell tower equipment....
“In a spare minute or two he had installed at the Grotto the stairway lights and the statue illumination that added so much to the nighttime beauty of the spot.
“And some time when you go into the Church to see the newly-placed, beautiful triptych shrine of the Holy Face, consider that the material is seasoned poplar—and that there is precious little of it to be had locally. You’ll have a small notion of the worth of intimate knowledge of fine things when you know that Father Broughal, the man who designed the shrine, was also the man who knew where to find the needed wood—an old passageway high in the Church.
“Out of such able and patient care for fundamental details of fine things as he has long exercised, has come much of the large beauty of the campus and buildings of Notre Dame.”
Of course, every editor since Jim’s time could add something of his own. Father was usually doing something for somebody. A suggestion to read a certain book. A valid criticism of work submitted. A letter containing a newspaper or magazine scribbled over with the fa
miliar blue pencil: “See how this fellow developed what you were working on last—”
Like all Irishmen he had a temper. Like all men who work hard he had no sympathy for complacent mediocrity. If you loafed on the job he would dress you down like a top sergeant. But we do not remember that he ever became angry at a vigorous, honest mistake. He wanted you to think. It was a case of think or get out, and there was no place in his system for thoughtlessness reinforced by an alibi. A judge in Montreal, a young bishop in the east, a newsman in Chicago—to name a few of his former pupils—will tell you that it was a good system.
We had better abandon the past tense for Father has not cut out all ties with the Scholastic. He will continue to write the liturgical column, “Our Daily Bread,” which he began last year, and which has made the campus aware of the infinite significance of the Mass. But he has escaped a formidable nine month of work and we know we will miss his help more with the passing months.
To Father Broughal we write a sincere “thank you” for all the staffs of the last ten years. For this year’s staff we express the hope that he will come down often for a visit. The office is still just to the left of the old archway, Father.— William C. Fay.
How About It?
rpODAY the first issue of the Scholas-j’tic rolled off the presses for the seventy-third successive year. And with this initial issue comes another invitation to the students from the editors to share in the task of turning out twenty-six issues which will continue the high tradition of student journalism at Notre Dame.
The Scholastic has always welcomed the contributions of students outside the staff and owes a great deal of its success over the years to these contributions. Many students, both graduate and undergraduate, who have been too busy to work on the Scholastic staff have found time to send us an occasional essay or piece of fiction or an original poem. It is the earnest wish of the Scholastic editors that this fine work will continue in this year’s magazine. Faculty members could be of great assistance by sending us any student class work they consider interesting to other students on the campus.
In short, the Scholastic is neither the concern of one student nor twenty nor one hundred. We think it is the concern of the three thousand students who read it every Friday. What do you think?
—Donald A. Foskett
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
“Friend, Goeth Higher”
Sermon delivered by The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, at a Solemn Pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart Church last Sunday
When Our Blessed Lord established the first Catholic college, he set certain definite standards for the selection and training of men for spiritual leadership. He used no intelligence tests, He did not select from the upper third of academic achievement, he asked for no letters of recommendation. Social prestige meant nothing. He selected men of common sense and character.
Most of the students of that first Catholic college were fishermen, men who lived by the toil of their hands, men who took as a matter of course vigils and fasting, men who could spend the night on the lake and catch nothing, men who mended their own nets. At least two of the group seemed to have been business men. St. Matthew was a publican sitting at the receipt of customs when he received his call. He did not wait to settle his affairs — he simply followed Jesus. Judas Iscariot seems also to have had some experience with business. He carried the purse, from which the simple wants of Our Lord and the Apostles were supplied from time to time. But the Evangelists tell us that Judas was a thief. He stole the offerings of the poor which were given for the common sustenance of the little band. Judas must have been a man of common sense and character, or he would not have been chosen by Our Lord. But Judas yielded to temptation little by little, and eventually, his character cracked under the strong temptation of a bribe.
The classes in this first Catholic college were taught by the wayside, in the boat, on the mountain top, in the desert, in the synagogue, in the temple of Jerusalem, wherever the Teacher could get His pupils about Him. The Divine Teacher has given us the perfect model of instruction. Frequently, from His figures of speech, we can depict the classroom. The fish, the nets, the grass, the fields white for the harvest, the sparrow, the every-day happenings of life in rural Palestine, the splendor of the temple in Jerusalem, everything about this Divine Teacher gave Him figures through which to impart profound lessons.
The teaching of Our Divine Lord was the most important teaching the world has ever known. It'gave the solution of all the world’s problems, and it did this
by referring them all to man’s purpose in life—the quest of the Kingdom of Heaven. It showed that the quest of material things beyond a modest competence was unworthy of man’s best efforts, was at times silly, was often dangerous.
Very, very often in the Gospel story, we are reminded that the Apostles were ordinary men with very ordinary weaknesses. Material ambitions appeared from time to time, and were dealt with promptly and effectively. Cowardice and human respect remained right up to the Crucifixion. Judas betrayed our Divine Saviour, Peter denied Him thrice; of the other ten Apostles, all fled but John, when He was seized and carried away to be crucified. All but Judas came back to Christ, although Thomas sinned by in-
In New England
They say New England folk are reticent, But I don’t knoiv. I’ve seen men Talk to the fields and the sky And find no lack of words.
It’s only with strangers they’re shy. Once met, they open their hearts. And who can say it’s better To meet for a moment and then fade away,
Than to meet forever and forever be a friend.
I think the land has much to do ivith it. The earth and rocks are eternally allied In a compact of life. But man Has no allies but other men So he must make staunch friends.
I knoiv I hope to have as friends Men who are shy—but not with me.
—John Reilly
fidelity. With the coming of the Holy Ghost, courage was perfected, and the eleven endured the tortures of martyrdom. St. John was miraculously preserved from the death of martyrdom, in order to be a witness to Christ through the first Century.
I have no statistical account of what lesson was most often repeated, but we are familiar with the Gospel story, and we must be impressed by these two things: First, Our Lord often encour
aged these simple men by presenting Heaven to them as a great banquet or wedding-feast. Such a picture must have appealed strongly to these men who so often went hungry. The second point to which I wish to direct attention is that often, very often, Our Lord insisted on the importance of humility.
In the Gospel assigned by the Church to be read in the Mass today, we find both the wedding-feast and the lesson in humility.
In the first Catholic college, only 12 men were chosen for honors; eleven received them—the honor of changing the trend of thought of the whole world, the honor of suffering persecution through a life of poverty and contempt, the honor of shedding their blood for Christ.
What is the vocation of the Catholic college man today? His opportunity is to do what the Apostles did. The world into which you are going out is far better in one sense than the world in which the Apostles labored, for it has had the blessing of nineteen centuries of Christian civilization. In other respects, it is far worse than the world into which the Apostles went, for it is a world in which much of the leadership has rejected the lessons of Christian civilization.
Within the next few months, you young men- will be subjected to a cloudburst of propaganda to save democracy. Outside of the halls of Notre Dame and outside the teachings of the Catholic Church you will hear little about saving the world from itself, you will hear only the murmur of the plea to bring men back to Christ. And to hear a murmur your ear must be attuned to the things of Christ.
Humility is the great lesson that the world has rejected. Pride of one sort or another is a ruling passion in the affairs of the world. The pagan doctrine of the “balance of power” which has plunged Europe into periodical wars for centuries, is the periodical flowering of the vice of pride. This doctrine assumes that there is no honor among men, and that there is no other life to make good the inequalities of this world.
To hear a murmur of the plea for a return to Christ, and tor follow that plea, (Continued on Page 21)
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Frosh Fed to 1939 Varsity In Test Game Tomorrow
Captain Kelly and Kerr Out of Starting Lineup
Take heart, you pigskin-minded who have tired of calisthenics and blocking practice and signal drills. For tomorrow afternoon Jake Kline will once more gather together a frosh eleven, that has existed as such for a week, in the stadium to do battle with the varsity gridmen. Tomorrow’s skirmish will inaugurate the final week of preparation for the Purdue game here on September 30.
Currently, the outcome of the 1939 Irish season is rather doubtful, since the extremely difficult schedule in prospect will require every ounce of skill and strength the Laydenmen can call upon. Head Coach Layden, with a brilliant group of backs at his command, is working to build up coordination. Unity of line and backfield has been stressed in the drills so far.
Offensively Notre Dame promises to reach greater heights. Junior Bob Sag-gau, spectacular in 1938, has the experience necessary to make him a really great back. Benny Sheridan, Harry Stevenson, and Billy McGannon are better than ever, while Lou Zontini can be depended upon to shine at right half. Milt Piepul and Joe Thesing will share the fullback duties tomorrow on an eleven sparked by Steve Sitko, the finest quarterback of last season, according to Bob Zuppke. Steve Juzwik, Bernie Crim
mins, and Mike Corgan are other backs to watch.
The starting lineup is pretty much a puzzle. Injuries to Guard Pete Kelly and to Ends Bud Kerr and Johnny Kelly have caused a few temporary changes. Hence there is a possibility that Jim Brutz may work in a guard spot and that Frank Biagi will substitute for Kerr, with Jack O’Brien in place of Captain Kelly. These injuries are hardly expected to affect the starting lineup against Purdue a week from tomorrow, however.
Of course, one of Elmer Layden’s prime concerns in the freshman tilt tomorrow is how this year’s sophomores will perform. Among the second-year men from whom the Thin Man expects big things are: Bob Hargraves and Jack Hayes at quarterback; Nick Pepin jack and the aforementioned Juzwik and Crimmins at the halves; Andy Chlebeck and Chuck McNeil at fullbacks; Ray Ebli, Howie Petchell, Jim Brutz, Paul Lillis, Bob Maddock, Herky Bereolos, and Marty O’Reilly in the line.
What Layden will watch for is steady defensive play, reserve strength, coordination, the return to form of Benny Sheridan, and the kicking and passing strength of last season. Squad morale, according to Elmer, is as fine as that of any team he has coached.
The Layden policy of taking each game as it comes and looking ahead only a week at a time will be strictly adhered to. “Purdue,” says Elmer, “is worry number one.”—John Patterson.
Frosh Drill
Work, work, and then a lot more work!!! That, in brief, is the recipe that Coach Jake Kline has decided to use on his Freshman football squad. From all appearances, it seems that Coach Kline has visions of seeing his yearlings deal out some real punishment to the varsity, come tomorrow and their annual tussle. •
Practice was opened on Friday, September 15. In the course of the first few days, approximately 120 frosh were issued equipment. It was evident, though, that the number will grow before long.
With lack of time as an added handicap, things have been going on the double quick to discover just how good the prospects for this year’s Freshman team will be. When last interviewed, the coach had little to say, but those who have known him in the past are confident that he will not be caught unawares by anything that Coach Layden’s varsity will throw in the way.
If the Freshman gridders need any incentive to make them work harder, they can’t do much better than to look at the showing that last year’s Freshmen are making on the varsity squad this year. From early practice, it seems that more than one of these sophomores will be putting in bids for varsity positions in the course of the coming season.
Donahue Golf Leader
After Second Round
The pressure will be on Phil Donahue of Alumni Hall tomorrow when he steps up to the tee to begin the second 36 holes of the University golf championship tournament. Leading the field at the half-way mark with rounds of 76 and 77, a total of 153, Donahue is
Tentative Varsity, left to right: Captain Kelly, Harvey, Gubanich, Zontini McIntyre, Thesing, Sitko, DeFraneo, Saggau, Gallagher, Kerr
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
trailed by one stroke by golf captain, Walt Hagen, Jr., and a freshman from Zahm, Joseph Matel. Hagen shot a 78 and 76 last Saturday and Sunday while Matel came back strong with an opening 80 to card a nice 74.
There is no defending champion this year as Tommy Sheehan, last year’s team leader, and recent medalist in the National Amateur, was graduated. The trophies will be presented Sunday afternoon to the new titlist by William A. Burke, son of William J. Burke, donor of the University course, with prizes being awarded to the winners of the first four places.
While the players were free to choose partners last week-end, the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., conductor of the tourney, will pair them tomorrow and Sunday. Starting time of the medal play is one o’clock, Notre Dame time.
A total of 17 turned in their rounds to Father Holderith. Many others competed, but after bad rounds decided to keep their aggregates to themselves.
Only two strokes separate the first five leaders of the meet. Behind the three named above, Bob Smith and another freshman, John Jacobs, who also hoppens to be Iowa Amateur Champion this year, trail with identical rounds of 77-78.
Other scores follow: William Schaller and George Schreiber of Dillon, both 78-79, for 157; William Fisher, Zahm, 82-76, 158; Thomas McCarthy, 76-83, 159; George Costello, 78-83, 161; Barney Turnock, 78-83, 161; John Conry, 81-81, 162; Sammy Nield, 77-90, 167; Robert Bertsch, 84-83, 167; Ed Aubrey, 84-85, 169; Benedict, 89-81, 170; and John Joyce, 95-87, 172.
Nield’s score is quite a surprise A standout of the team last Spring and participant in several eastern tournaments this Summer, everything went wrong last Sunday as he carded a 90.
Sheehan Amateur Medalist
Tom Sheehan, captain of the 1937 and 1938 Notre Dame golf squads, set a blazing all-time qualifying record by posting a blazing 139 in the qualifying round of the 43rd National Amateur Championship tournament, held recently in Chicago.
Recording as humid a score as the weather conditions under which he played, Sheehan came off the 36th tee of the swanky North Shore Country Club course, five under par, and two strokes below the national record.
It was indeed a great day for the former Notre Dame star, for among the 64 entrants who trailed Sheehan in Chicago that day, were included one na-
Splinters From The Pressbox by Frank Aubrey
By way of acquainting you with the latest bulletins from the G.H.Q.’s of the nation’s warring armies:
Mid-Western Front: NotreDame hurls full division at one point in the backfield.—General fighting breaks out for positions along the line.—Armed with four left halfs, army chief-of-staff Layden is preparing for a long siege. He will send Saggau, Sheridan, Stevenson, and McGannon into action, striking behind an advance guard of green troops, in an attempt to blast the Boilermakers from some 5,000 square yards of Irish territory. This is the first bit of action contemplated as the Irish forces move against the Elward line of Purdue’s great wall. Despite loss of a major part of the 1938 line, an Irish general staff communique said the reserves of last year, a great defensive unit, would be drilled in offensive tactics during the next few weeks as a preliminary measure to assailing the Elward line.
At 4:00 p.m. Thursday, the crack troops under Marshal Boland were from flank to flank: Kerr, Gallagher, De Franco, McIntyre, Gubanich, Harvey, and Kelly. Kerr will carry additional orders to be ready for duty as part of the Irish aerial attack. This attack seems capable of being carried despite any intervention of enemy defenders. With Saggau and Stevenson, expert aerial strategists, on hand, the Irish hope to control the air. The tackles, Gallagher and Harvey, are big, extremely mobile, and well-versed in hand-to-hand fighting. Any gains made by counterattacking Boilerirakers will have to be made through this pair. The Irish center will be held by comparatively light troops, but in reserve will be heavy tank corps, notably Chuck Riffle.
During the week Irish observers have reported the Cartier sector jammed with Irish forces, wiry quarters, fleet-moving halves, and heavy fulls moving up to reinforce Grant’s first artillery which will soon be pounding the Elward line. It is reliably reported that this campaign will see many attempts to turn the enemy’s flank. For this purpose Saggau and Sheridan will be used, preceded by a line of skirmishers under Steve Sitko. Sitko’s brilliant mopping-up featured Irish offensives against Minnesota in the last war. It is perhaps fortunate for the Gophers that they are remaining
neutral this time, as they were put to rout the last time they invaded Irish soil. During the rout Zontini led one assault from a point 15 yards south of the Irish northern boundary which swept completely through heavy Gopher forces.
A wire report from Chicago states that a brigade of 700 ushers assists in all Irish campaigns without pay. Local sources declared in reply that the entire Irish force is made up of dollar-a-year men.
From Lafayette: A Lafayette broadcast describes the Purdue capital as “drowned in the noise of clashing lines, and the thud of pigskins” as Boilermaker forces prepare to open the campaign with an invasion of hostile territory. Purdue expects to encounter its stiffest resistance in the vicinity of South Bend where the enemy is known to be particularly strong. Mal Elward as commander-in-chief has a veteran battalion of eight regulars to send into action. These men engaged in eight large scale operations last year and were successful in seven. At Minneapolis, although under constant bombing for three periods by Gopher air forces, the Boilermakers did not yield until the very last minute.
The reinforced Elward line needs a replacement for Joe Mihai who made the left side virtually unassailable for three years. Attacking strength of the army lies in the famous “B” division, of Brock, Brown, and Blelene.
Commander-in-chief Elward in a significant message to his men said regarding the 4 to 10 deficit of Purdue against Notre Dame, “We look forward through the triumph of the principle for which we have taken up arms, to the relief of the Purdue teams from South Bend domination.”
Special Bulletin from the Eastern Front:
Fordham, Sept. 14, Advice from the uppen Manhattan district is that Fordham has a corridor which invading director forces from Pitt, Tulane, and Alabama will fail to take. The Fordham corridor will be guarded by Marshal Sleepy-Phiz Crowley whose armies contain such stalwart names as Yudikaitis, Krywicki, Holovak, Petroskas, Hudacek, Bazis, and DeFilippo — a successor to Wojkiechowicz.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing by Pete Sheehan
“Watch the coins go by this year! Next Saturday afternoon at 2 o’clock a coin will silver over the stadium greensward, the choice of goals will be made, but before the kickoff John Francis Kelly, Irish grid captain, will make a strange request of the referee. John Francis will ask for the ref’s half-dollar. No, John doesn’t need a haircut. He intends to make a collection of the coins flipped before each game. By the end of the season, he predicts, he will have $4.50 of Irish victories.
The role of captain is not strange to Kelly. He piloted the cage team at St. Mary’s High, Rutherford, New Jersey, during his junior and senior years and also led the grid squad during his senior year. From Saint Mary’s John Francis went to Pennington Prep, where he also captained the grid and cage squads.
John Winberry, Notre Dame alumnus and St. Mary’s mentor, encouraged Kelly to follow in his footseps. The big Irish end enrolled here in September, 1936. After the hysteria o f registration had subsided John Francis’ mind began to wander homeward. He could see his family sitting around the table, his gang stepping out at night. Concurrently Phil Sheridan, Johnny’s teammate at St. Mary’s, was also stung by the homesickness bug; so, both boys set out one Saturday morning for New Jersey and home.
The reception was cool. Their parents told them
they were going back. Monday morning both Sheridan and Kelly answered, “here,” when role was called at eight o’clock class.
Until last year Kelly saw little action. Sweeney, Zwers and Murphy were not to be crowded by a sophomore. At their departure, however, Johnny got the call and held down the position throughout his junior year despite stem opposition from Johnny O’Brien, brilliant sophomore end. John Francis scored his lone touchdown against Minnesota but also promoted the first score against the
Gophers when he took safety man Harold Van Every out of the play on which Lou Zontini scampered 84 memorable yards to touchdown land.
This summer Johnny was assistant camp director at Camp Dupes, a young boys day camp at Wycoff, New Jersey. “Kei” had some rare experiences besides his normal duties which consisted of handicraft, swimming, and baseball instructions.
Statistics: Born May 31, 1916, at Jersey City. Moved to Rutherford, in 1924. Stands six feet two inches, weighs 190 pounds.
He is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters aand will receive his bachelor’s degree in June. Probably will return to the campus next fall to continue his studies in the College of Law, obtain his degree, pass the Jersey bar exam, and finally devote his life to corporation law and rooting for the Fighting Irish.
tional open king, four national amateur titlists, a quartet of sovereigns of public links, and five inter-collegiate champions. The Detroit lad was three strokes up on his nearest opponent.
However, with the end of the first round of play, shining Irish eyes were as scarce as shamrocks before St. Patrick’s day. For a comparatively unknown golfer from Philadelphia, Pa., Kean Donnelly, eliminated Sheehan, 3 and 2.—Tom Powers.
Strong Field Enters
Annual Net Tourney
Is this our year?
The question that confronts the Notre Dame tennis team every year since their near fatal origin, eight years ago, may be partially answered for Captain Fay and the team in a few weeks. Professor Walter M. Langford new coach, replacing the departed Pedro de Landero, this week got the annual Fall tournament underway. Coach Langford is interestedly watching the progress in this tourney and until its completion will reserve his opinion on the outlook for next spring.
This year’s matches should afford the best tennis since the institution of the tournament. Defending his title against the volleys of all comers, will be Dan Canale, sophomore, who last year rushed the title off the court before the vain opposition of the startled upperclass stars. The more respected contenders of the title-holder are Capt. Bill Fay and Jack Joyce, last year’s number 1 and 2 men and winner and runner-up for the State Collegiate crown. Fay, who is playing regularly, is in shape and Joyce, having taken both the Carolinas’ doubles and reached the semi-finals in the singles this summer, should be in peak form for his matches. Others bearing notice are letterman Red Bowler and steady Jack Walsh with Bob Sweeny and Joe Garvey, finalists in last year’s Spring play, as long-shots. The boys haven’t heard of any threatening freshman prospects but rumor has created a ’43 Californian, and tennis players say, “You’ve got to respect ’em when they come from there.”
This summer small but sturdy Dan Canale, ranking junior star, won the Mississippi State singles and doubles and in the Kentucky matches met and tusseled with the national finalist, Van Horn, losing after a 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 battle.
The large number of entries and improved play of the tournament now in progress indicate an increase of tennis interest on the campus and therein may lay the improvement giving the Blue and Gold their first winning season.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
Veterans Scarce On
Cross-Country Squad
Coach John P. Nicholson issued his initial call foi' the varsity cross-country team this week.
Minus the services of Greg Rice and Steve Schumakowski, two of the finest cross-country men ever to perform for Notre Dame, the Irish will be hard put to field a team on pai* with the 1938 track team. Bill Donnelly and Frank Payne, other stars of last season, were also graduated in June.
The outcome for a successful season is not as dark as it might seem, however, as several potential stars from last year’s squad remain for duty this year.
The distance team will be led by Curt Hester and Red Martin. These men performed well in last season’s meets and should give Coach Nicholson a good nucleus for a successful distance squad.
Joe Olbreys, half-mile star of last year’s varsity team, will also add considerable strength to the rather green roster. Hampered by an injured knee last fall, Olbrys was unable to take part in cross - country competition. He is now in excellent shape, and ready to render valuable services to the Irish cause.
Bogan, Collins and Wilkinson, also members of last year’s track outfit, should add some balance to the squad, and Hank Halpin, a quarter-miler of the past-two years, has announced his candidacy for the team.
Although the schedule has not been announced, the Irish will probably enter the national cross-country meet in November. Last year in the national meet, held at Lansing Michigan, Notre Dame finished second in total team scoring, with Captain Greg Rice winning first place in this meet.—Jack Wilkinson.
Varsity Baseball Men
Spend Busy Summer
Following their Commencement games with Michigan State the Notre Dame baseball team laid down their bats and mitts long enough to get home, and then, pretty well scattered about the country, picked up their bats again to spread the doctrines of Coach Kline.
From the mound of Cartier Field the pitchers went out to throw their curves in other parks. Rex Ellis and Norv Hunthausen pitched with clubs in the East, both accrediting themselves well, while speed-ball Mike Mandjiak used his southpaw in his home state of Michigan.
The catchers had a busy summer, with Tom Brennan working regularly for the Studebaker aggregation of South Bend,
and Al Vandevort receiving for an ama-. teur club in southern California.
Among the infielders, Captain - elect Chet Sullivan was one of the most active, playing with the Chicago Firemen, a fast amateur outfit, and hitting well over the .300 mark. Ray Pinelli, varsity shortstop, had a great summer in the East where he led his circuit in batting honors with a .392 average. Hymie Crane, other half of the keystone combination last year, played consistent ball with his hometown team in Northampton, Mass. Chuck Farrell, first base letterman, competed in the same league with Pinelli and gained considerable experience.
Outfielders Ken Oberbrunner, Roy Pinelli, Jim Behe and Lou Wagner played with their home town clubs. Don Maguire and Chuck Crimmons, promising replacements, got experience playing with various local teams.
Former Captain Sheehan
VARSITY FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Purdue at N. D............Sept.	30
Georgia Tech at N. D.......Oct.	7
So. Methodist at N. D......Oct. 14
Navy at Cleveland..........Oct.	21
Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh-Oct. 28
Army at New York...........Nov.	4
Iowa at Iowa City..........Nov.	11
Northwestern at N. D......Nov. 18
So. California at N. D....Nov. 25
Purdue Tickets
Student tickets will be distributed next week, for the Purdue game, upon presentation of athletic books, at the ticket office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
Students are kindly asked to enter the building by the south door, north of the gymnasium and leave by the east door, leading towards the tennis courts. This will give ticket officials a chance to distribute tickets much faster than last year, when the line entered and left by the same door.
Seniors—Mon., 12:30-4:00 pan. Juniors—Tues., 12:30-4:00 p.m. Sophomores—Wed., 12:30-4:00 pan. Freshmen—Thurs., 12:30-4:00 pan.
THEATRE
The other day I saw “Golden Boy” on the screen. It is, I think, one of the two best, and most faithful, cinematic adaptations of a stage play that I have seen. The other was the hilarious “You Can’t Take It With You.”
The intrinsic sweep and force of the play under insensitive supervision could have easily cheapened into melodrama. But, fortunately, it was not over done. For once, action and dialogue were intensely commensurate. The entertainment appeal of “Golden Boy” in its screen version is as close to universal, I suppose, as anything shown within recent years.
After a much touted “world-wide” search for a Joe Bonaparte with a fighter’s physique and a musician’s face, Hollywood suddenly stumbled, looked at its feet.... and found curly-haired, blue-chinned William Holden, a local boy notorious for not making good. Holden is no actor. - With little experience in college plays, he rashly undertook the small part of an old man for a Pasadena Playhouse on a dare. Soon after the opening curtain the audience agreed that young Holden was definitely no actor. However, grace came from other quarters. A talent scout asked to see Holden without makeup. A screen test followed. Real life and reel life became gratifyingly confused for the young man who was no actor.
You saw him in “Golden Boy,” his first role. He had a fighter’s physique and a musician’s face. His acting was but a thin fraction above adequate. Still what more could Hollywood want of a fellow uncertain of himself in buskins?
Lee J. Cobb carried the acting honors without any annoying competition. Cobb
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
did the elder Bonaparte with an instinctive, emotional appreciation of the ideal set for him in the same part by Morris Camovsky, who did the original Bonaparte for the Group Theatre. Cobb’s versatility is evidenced by the fact that he played Mr. Carp, the Schopenhauer-minded Jewish friend, in the Group production. For a young man of 27 that is truly an accomplishment!
Adolph Menj ou was his suave self. No more need be said. Barbara Stanwyck played Lorna Moon bluntly, with no softening frills or flounces. John Garfield’s stage role of Siggie, the son-inlaw, was well portrayed by Sam Levene.
Obliquely, “Golden Boy” recalls to mind that more and more Group Theatre’s adherents are being snared away to Hollywood by the classic bucket of gold. Instance.... Sylvia Sidney, John Garfield, J. Edward Bromberg, Sam Jaffe, and now, Lee J. Cobb.
—Vernon Witkowski
VINCENTIANS
How do you stand" with Charity? Remember Charity, that virtue often neglected by those seeking advice from spiritual directors?
Forgotten as it was in the turbulent times of St. Vincent de Paul and later when Frederick Ozanam modeled his Society on the teachings of the Saint and exalted it under his patronage, these men found time to preach charity and to act.
Recently we have realized that the saints were human beings. The works of wide-awake biographers show it. Most recent perhaps is The Mantle of Mercy, by Leo Weismantel. Look into this biography of St. Vincent de Paul.
Because of his humaneness Frederick Ozanam, in our humble opinion merits canonization. What did he do? He met a challenge—a hard-hitting challenge to his Faith. Critics attacked him with ‘‘Show us your works. You Catholics talk a great deal, but what do you do?”
In 1833 eight men under Ozanam— all of them college students—met that challenge with as strong a movement in charity as the world has ever known. Today, the St. Vincent de Paul Society is a monument to their courageous stand for the Faith—and it is a monument revered all over the world. Notre Dame has her own Conference, or division, of the Society. It is one of the first on a college campus in this country.
Want adventure? You have it before you in the Society. Notre Dame’s Con
ference visits the sick, the discouraged, neglected children, the family kept together by the helping hand of Charity. Drop in at the Walsh Hall club rooms of the Knights of Columbus and hear what is done. Meetings are held Sunday mornings at eleven o’clock. St. Vincent de Paul relieved the poor. Yes, but he did more: he saved the rich and those in comfortable circumstances by teaching them to do something in charitable work.
Biographies of the saints reveal a fact that must be experienced to be appreciated : working for God—but more especially with Him—is fun!
Your reward? Not a scroll stricken off for your key chain, but a medal engraved on your heart, Christ Himself on the one side and you on the other.
Throughout our New Testament the virtue of charity and its fruit, humility, stand out—the torches lit with the fire of love for God and for our neighbor. “Let our deeds be in accordance with our Faith.”—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
Office Re-opened By
Prefect of Religion
Through the sweeping corridors of Dillon Hall one easily finds the office of the Prefect of Religion, Rev. Francis X. Gartland, C.S.C., at No. 117. Father is already entrenched in the job of Confessor, Consultor, Librarian. Mornings from 6:30 a.m. till 11:30 a.m. he is available for Confessions and Holy Communion. Evening period for Confessions is from 6:15 p.m. till 10:00 p.m.
Oak-panelled No. 113 Howard Hall, “the clubbiest” of the three offices representing the Prefect of Religion, serves Rev. Richard Grimes, C.S.C. Morning periods are from 6:30 a.m. till 9:00 a.m.; evenings from 7:00 p.m. till 10:00 p.m.
The soft glow of the Green Room of Cavanaugh Hall this year reflects the bustling activity of Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C. Morning hours are from 6:30 a.m. till 9:00 a.m.; evening hours from 7:30 p.m. till 10:00 p.m.
In the three halls, during all periods, the Prefect of Religion and his two Assistant Prefects of Religion are ready to help you select books from the libraries, to furnish you with religious articles, to “talk things over.” The Dillon Hall office publishes the Religious Bulletin.
Football Contest
Free cigarettes! The contest sponsored last year by a national manufacturer of cigarettes will be continued again this
year beginning Saturday, Sept. 21, with the Notre Dame-Purdue and Indiana-Nebraska games.
Prizes of 1,000, 100 and 50 cigarettes will be awarded contestants who guess the scores of one or both of the games. All ballots must be turned in by 7 o’clock Friday evening. Ballot boxes are located in Brownson Rec, The Huddle and the Cafeteria. Three grand prizes will be awarded to the three men turning in the most ballots.
Rector List
Sorin Hall: Rector, Rev. Frederick Gassen-smith, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. James Stack, C.S.C. and Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C.
Walsh Hall: Rector, Rev. James Gallagan, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Louis Ernsdorff, and Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer, C.S.C.
Alumni Hall: Rector, Rev. Henry Glueckert, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C. and Rev. Robert King, C.S.C.
Dillon Hall: Rector, Rev. Francis Butler, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. John Dupuis, C.S.C., Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C. and Mr. Thomas Madden.
Howard Hall: Rector, Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. George Welsh, C.S.C., Mr. John H. A. Whitman and Brother Columba, C.S.C.
Morrissey Hall: Rector, Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Fr. Claridge, O. Praem., Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C. and Mr. Francis J. O’Malley.
Lyons Hall: Rector, Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Rev. Valentine Sehroeger and Brother Edmund, C.S.C.
Badin Hall: Rector, Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C. and Brother Meinrad, C.S.C.
St. Edward’s Hall: Rector, Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Wiliam McNamara, C.S.C., Rev. S. Lisewski, C.S.C. and Mr. Robert Connolly.
Cavanaugh Hall: Rector, Rev. Joseph Muckenthaler, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C. and Rev. Father Traub.
Zahm Hall: Rector, Rev. John Burke, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Rev. John O’Neil, C.S.C. and Rev. Gilbert C. Stack, O.S.B.
Breen - Phillips Hall: Rector, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C.; Prefects, Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C., Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C. and Rev. Cyril Novatony, O.S.B.
Brownson Hall: Rector, Brother Patrick, C.S.C.; Prefects, Brother Donald, C.S.C., Brother Casper, C.S.C. and Brother Pius, C.S.C.
Carroll Hall: Rector, Brother Justin, C.S.C.; Prefects, Brother Placidus, C.S.C. Brother Ben-itus, C.S.C. and Brother Columbanus, C.S.C.
Freshman Hall: Rector, Brother Ladislaus, C.S.C., temporary.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
About Slide Rules
What are those celluloid-covered sticks about a foot long engineers carry around the campus? This question often bobs up among inquisitive Arts and Commerce students. One speculated that they were swanky tokens of membership in that clan of algebraic manipulators. Others merely consider them puzzling tools in the black art of engineering. A naive Freshman thought they were good luck charms. Curious, we questioned one of the aloof men of Science. “Slide rule,” was his reply in a tone that smacked of contempt for our scientific ignorance. Finally we persuaded him that it would not be a waste of time to explain its use to an A.B. man (engineers secretly consider them impractical theorists).
From a 15 minute barrage of technical “shop talk” I gathered the impression they were handy for multiplication, division, and for the calculation of roots and powers. The average engineer, he said, can hardly get along without the slide rule once he learns to depend on it for mathematical operations. In fact a student in the upper scholastic bracket was spotted furtively drawing his favorite slide rule from a vest pocket to figure out his share of the meal check recently
Visit the Men’s Shop!
UNIVERSITY STYLES
in a Buffalo hotel.
Another clever and practicial science man finds his trusty slide rule of value in the dining hall. He not only settles dessert arguments but cunningly makes measurements in the meanwhile for that minutely larger slice of ice cream which he quickly grabs for himself. A slide rule is used for many other mathematical operations; logarithms, vectors, and oh well, what’s the use.—J. Brugger
Alright, Alright. . .
A Notre Dame sophomore’s determination to see the Fair, do New York, and get in everything else he could while in the Metropolis, gave him the chance to sing to 27 million persons on the night of Thursday, Sept. 7. Albert Plotkin, a South Bend boy and a member of the Glee club, was the courageous youth who braved the gong-ringing Major Bowes.
While in New York, Plotkin asked for an audition on the program and the Major liked his voice and dancing. He sang “Neapolitan Nights” and did a buck and wing tap dance. It goes to show that there are few things some Notre Dame man doesn’t get to do during the summer.
©o
in
Uptcun
I fMQfJ
Antinqued!
Dutch Style with
$5.00
READY-MADE SUITS and COATS
$30 to $50
Newest fashions in 3-button Tweed suits. Cheviots, worsteds in new fall shades. Zipper lined coats, Harris Tweeds, Camel hairs, in raglans and set-in sleeves.
DISNEY HATS
$5 - $7.50 - $10
SHIRTS—$2, $2.50, $3
Oxfords, whites and plain shades. Tabs in whites and stripes — French CufFs.
NECKWEAR—$1, $1.50, $2 up
Silks, wools, Foulards, Madders, Repps, Silk Knits, and Irish Poplins from Dublin.
RENFRANZ - RASMUSSEN
106-108 South Main (Opposite Court House)
As advertised in
Other styles for every occasion
$3.15 to $8.50
Widener's
SHOE STORE
123 W. WASHINGTON AVENUE
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
Liturgy, in its broadest sense, is life. “I have come that they may have life, and may have it more abundantly.” (John 10. 10) is Christ’s gift to man. Tbis life of which he speaks is sanctifying grace. The font and source of this life is the altar which the Church identifies with Christ.
The whole sense of the ceremony for the consecration of an altar, the anointing with the Holy Oils, the psalms and prayers that accompany it, refer to the person of Christ, his redemptive and meditative role. The Roman Breviary Office for the dedication of a church says: “The Altar, which anointed with oil, denotes the representation of Our Lord Jesus Christ, who is our Altar, Victim, Priest.”
The Roman Pontifical, in the rite of ordination of Subdeacons, uses these words. “For the Altar of Holy Church is Christ Himself, as John bears witness, who, in his Apocalypse (8. 3) tells us that he beheld a Golden Altar set before the throne, on and by which the offerings of the faithful are made acceptable to God the Father. The cloths and corporals of this Altar are the members of Christ, God’s faithful people, with whom, as with costly garments, the Lord is clad, according to the Psalmist—‘the Lord reigns, He is clothed with majesty’.” (Psalm 92.1.)
Mass Calendar: September 24-30
Sunday, —17th after Pentecost. Sd. 2d prayer, Our Lady of Mercy, 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 25—Ferial. Sd. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer of the Saints (Acunctis) 3d Faithful Departed, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V.R.
Tuesday, 26—North American Martyrs. Gd. 2d prayer, Sts. Cyprian and Justina, Martyrs.
Wednesday, 27—Sts. Cosmas and Damian. Martyrs. Sd. Mass: Sapientiam (in common). Prayer proper, 2d prayer of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V.R.
Thursday, 28—St. Wenceslaus. Martyr. Sd. Mass: In virtute (In common). Prayer proper, 2d of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V.R.
Friday, 29—Dedication of St. Michael, the Archangel. D. lcl. Mass proper. Credo.
Saturday, 30—St. Jerome. Confessor. Doctor. Db. Mass: In medio (Common). Prayer proper. 2d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Foresight Prevents
Dining Hall Shortage
A wisp of tragedy pangs the bosoms of some private profiteers today—and all because the Notre Dame Dining Hall officials strategically manuevered a corner on the food market this summer. The Apocalyptic birds of starvation and famine shall not come to roost over neutral Notre Dame, so the unofficial announcement goes.
In the official vein, however, the opinion has been expressed that if the European war continues for some time substantial repercussions upon the University buying will occur. “We cannot and will not predict the future,” E. F. Connolly, dining hall director, declared. “It’s a new version of Mr. Fagin’s old story —supply and demand.”
The University protected itself during the artificial price boom by signing contracts in the summer for such important items as meats, vegetables, lard, sugar, flour, cooking oil, chop suey, popcorn, and peanut butter. The years of fat and plenty seem assumed.
Schoolmen
Schoolmen held their first meeting yesterday and decided that candidates for admission should be interviewed in room 433, Walsh Hall, any evening from Monday, Sept. 25, to Thursday, Sept. 28. Candidates must be juniors or seniors majoring or minoring in philosophy. Entrance requirements will be disclosed during the interview.
Pions were also made at the first meeting for the annual philosophical disputation, and the possibility of two symposiums this year was discussed.
For the first time, joint meetings with St. Mary’s club will be held this year.
36
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
LEMOHBEES
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
ROOM
ACCESSORIES ...
Lamps, metal base and shade, right size for desk..$1.00
Clocks, in a variety of sizes and prices.
Second-hand Typewriters— ROYAL and UNDERWOOD
We have stationery to suit your taste with your own name and the University imprinted, both or either, as you wish.
Are you equipped with a FOUNTAIN PEN?
Complete stock of Sheaffer, Wahl, Esterbrook and Parker.
Notre Dame Bookstore
on the Campus
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
WT"1 -
KV

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
vys. jrrobst and 2>tnqLer
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
Catholic Press Meeting
At Mundelein College
Catholic college and high school journalists in Chicagoland will be guests of Mundelein College at the Chicago Regional Conference of the Catholic School Press association to be held on Saturday, Oct. 7.
Propaganda has been selected as the theme for the Conference, which •will open with registration at 8:30 and with Holy Mass at 9 o’clock, in the college theater,’ 6363 Sheridan Road, and which will consist in a series of lectures by outstanding Catholic philosophers and
writers, supplemented by round-table discussions for specialized groups.
In accordance with the plans for National and Regional Conferences, the meeting will be'educational rather than vocational in nature, and will be directed toward enabling the delegates to recognize and evaluate propaganda and to determine its influence in the formation of public opinion.
Organized at Marquette university in 1931, under the direction of J. L. O’Sullivan, dean of the Marquette School of Journalism, the association aims to promote Catholic school journalism, both in content and in form.
The problem of content — Catholic
thought—is given special attention at the general meetings, which are designed to enrich the background knowledge of the student writers and to enable them to develop intelligent, balanced viewpoints on current affairs.
The technical side of journalistic training receives consistent attention from the association in its services, which include the publication of the Catholic School Editor, a quarterly magazine containing articles on Catholic life and art as they are related to journalism, and articles more directly concerned with the mechanical side of publication; the maintenance of a critical service; an annual survey and rating; honor awards; and an annual creative writing contest.
Even a Railroad Spike cant "take it" like this Jewel of a Parker Pen
r BLUE DIAMOND
- mark on the ARROW clip means Guaranteed for Life.
SAYS THE RAILROAD SPIKE* * IN ONE OF THE S TORTURE TESTS / WAS CRIPPLED FOR LIFE BY
FERRIC CHLORIDE (acid) SOLUTION.''
THE COLLEGE
SAYS THE PARKER VACUMATIC-*/ WAS FILLED
WITH THE SAME ACID •WROTE ALLDAY -AS-MtLE UNE-AND l*M JUST AS GOOD AS EVER.1"
GUARANTEED for LIFE* (against everything except loss or intentional damage)
We’re using more than 250 college	1st—Filled with Acid (strong ferric
papers to tell students of the 5 devas- chloride solution which ate away a rail-tating and devitalizing feats recently	road spike) instead
performed by the Parker Vacumatic to	of with ink, this inprove it will last for life. No other pen	credible pen wrote a
we know has ever faced such torture.	5-mile line with the
Yet the Parker Vacumatic did it—can	acid on a revolving
do it any time—and come forth in per-	paper-covered drum
feet working order.	and finished in per-
fect working order.
Pencils io Match: $350 to $500
<0^ JLclrKCr ^m,aso
^VACUMATIC^
. Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are guaranteed for the life of the owner against A everything except loss or intentional damage, subject only to a charge of 35c for ’ postage, in^nr^pce <md handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.
2nd—“Bomb” Test: Parker’s Diaphragm filler encased in an oxygen bomb FOR WEEKS, where a single day equals 6 months’ normal age—to prove its long life.
3rd—“EJectrOCntjoe”: Every Parker Diaphragm proved 100% leak-proof by exposing it to 5,000 volts of electricity which flashes a red light if there’s even a pinhole leak.
4th—“Drip Test”: Pens filled and hung points down for hours in frigid temperature, then in torrid temperature.
5th—Dropped 3,080 ft from » airplane to prove the lovely laminated pearl barrel and cap are Non-Breakable.
You never saw such a pen. You never owned one. A sacless pen that holds far more ink than ordinary rubber sac pens —shows the ink level at all times, hence won’t run dry without warning, in classes or exams. So go and see it now and get it for college and for life.
The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Visitors Intrigued By
Rare Museum Exhibits
It is not rarely that students of Notre Dame or visitors to the University campus can pass through the museum of Natural History without being favorably impressed. Rare fossil remains and imitations of precious stones are on exhibit.
The fact that this is a particularly rare sight is a tribute, for the most part, to the Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C., first curator of the museum which began in 1879. Many of the small collections which constituted the early museum were burned in the University fire of this same year, but later attempts were made to salvage the remaining curios and to enlarge the somewhat depleted collection.
June 20, 1883 marks the date when the corner stone was laid for Notre Dame’s Science Hall, which now contains the University Museum of Natural History. The museum exhibits occupy a central front space there and extend to the building’s full height. Covering two entire floors, this unique collection is used extensively by students for class purposes. A reference library is located on the first floor.
Building up a museum collection is a problem—a big one and a tough one where contacts really counted. For instance, several of the outstanding curiosities the museum now possesses were acquired through donations. The Clement Studebaker collection of wood specimen from the United States and several foreign countries is located on the second floor, together with several prize cases containing typical forms, orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals given by. Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C.S.C., 1898. Numerous other cabinets lining the second floor walls, hold specimens of stuffed and skeletal birds, fish and animals, while still other cases are stocked with sea ferns and shells.
On the first floor, visitors may see a geological exhibition complete both in number and character of specimens. This group embraces fossils of all the geological formations, both of this country and Europe. Outstanding in this exhibit is a reproduction of the famous Rosetta Stone which was discovered in August, 1799, near Rosetta, Egypt. The original is now located in the British museum. On it is the decree issued at the coronation of Ptolemy in Memphis, 193 B.C., written in Hieroglyphic, Demotic and Greek.
No museum would be complete if it did not own a mineralogical collection. The Notre Dame mineralogical cabinets contain a large assortment of minerals from all parts of the world. It is especially rich in specimens illustrating the
crystalline structure, inodes of occurrence, etc., of the various ores and minerals, and embraces a large number of magnificent specimens of pellucid quartz crystals, amethyst, agate and jasper. There are also various ores of gold, silver, iron, copper, lead, zinc and other rare metals which would delight the heart of any metallurgist.
At the present time the museum is open from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. daily except Sundays.
50®°^
CHANGE OF SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 24
Effective Sunday, September 24, the South Shore schedule changes from Daylight Saving Time to CENTRAL STANDARD TIME. All trains continue to operate as before except that they leave and arrive on Standard Time.
TRAINS EVERY HOUR DURING THE DAY
New Time Table available at Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. For detailed information on South Shore service, phone 3-3111.
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOR* A SOUTH BENO RAILROAD

Wranglers
Wranglers plan the first meeting of the 1939-40 schoolyear for Monday, Oct. 2, at 7:45 p.m., in the Law Building. Members plan to discuss the annual fall Interhall debating contest, and to appoint a chairman for the league. Wrangler coaches will handle the hall teams.
Professor William Coyne, varsity debate coach, will announce the questiion to be debated by the interhall teams next week. As in previous years, the National Intercollegiate debate question will be used by the inter class teams in the tournament.
Dome Tryouts
All freshmen and sophomores interested in becoming Dome staff members for the 1939-40 schoolyear, will please report to the Dome office in the Ave Maria building at 8:00 Monday evening.
“Look for the Gold and Blue front”
SIRLOIN HAMBURGERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE SANDWICHES
WELCOME! — N. D. Freshmen
THE CAMPUS SANDWICH SHOP 124 N. Michigan St., South Bend
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
“Friend, Goeth Higher”
(Continued from Page 11)
your heart must be humble and pure. It is the duty of Notre Dame to teach you humility. This University cannot do this by itself, but it can lead you to the Master Teacher, Who will infuse that virtue in your soul. Notre Dame brings you to the feet of Christ through Confession, and daily Mass and Holy Communion. Therein lies your great opportunity. In the union of souls with Christ the Son of God, Notre Dame has a unique mission. Learn your lesson from today’s Gospel. Seek the lowest place at the confessional and at the Holy Table. Once when Chief Justice Taney of the United States Supreme Court was standing in line at the confessional, another devout Catholic offered him his place nearer the confessional, saying “The Chief Justice should not have to wait in line.” That great man replied “Not Chief Justice here, but a prisoner at the bar.” Another great Chief Justice, Edward Douglas White, stepped aside once to allow a colored woman with a basket of potatoes to ascend the street car ahead of him. The poor woman tripped and the basket overturned. The Chief Justice got down on the street and helped her recover her treasure.
South Bend's Largest Selection. All the New Styles
M'X
Learn the lesson of humility, seek out the lowest place, and in the Kingdom of Heaven Our Lord will say to you “Friend, goeth higher.”
Bookmen
The Bookmen, campus literary group, will hold their first meeting Oct. 4, at 8:00 p.m., in the Law Building. Members will select books for the organization’s library and discuss the semester’s program.
Several Bookmen memberships are open to students who are interested in a study of current literary trends and contemporary problems in literature. Candidates should submit applications for membership on or about Oct. 15; and election will follow within a few days.
Hello! Men of
No ire Dame
When downtown come in and see . us . . . visit our ARROW SHOP.
ELLSWORTH'S
CLASS of ’43 WELCOME!
Z^ollege isn’t so fear-'some as it seems the first day. You'll be getting a lot of advice on what to do and what not to do. When it comes to shirts, ties, shorts, handkerchiefs and collars . . . you'll do well to heed advice about buying Arrow. Two out of three college men wear Arrow shirts. They're tops on every campus because they fit better, wear longer and look smarter.
See the local dealer today and stock up for the semester.
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS ... TIES ... HANDKERCHIEFS ... UNDERWEAR
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MUSIC NOTES
This is the first article in the second year of the new “Music Notes” series. Since the Scholastic has included a department for music news as one of its regular features, “Music Notes” has certain specific duties to fulfill. This column will serve as a centralized spot where news of local musical events may be found. Each of the musical organizations of the campus is already planning programs and concerts for the year. All of these concerts will be announced be
forehand and reviewed afterward.
As a special innovation several articles will be devoted to the introduction of Notre Dame students possessing outstanding musical talents. The South Bend Civic Music Association and the South Bend Symphony are arranging an interesting concert season. It will be possible for Notre Dame students to attend all of the concerts. Each concert will be announced in this column together with information regarding tickets.
The enrollment of our music department this year has greatly increased.
With a larger number of students actually studying music, there will be greater possibilities for the development of a larger and better symphony orchestra. Both the Band and the Glee Club are rehearsing now for their approaching season. Students interested in joining these organizations should see Professor Casasanta or Professor Pedtke as soon as possible.
We extend our best wishes to the readers of this column with the hope that they will enjoy a year richly filled with musical entertainment.—William Mooney
NOTRE DAME
Dancing, fun, wherever you go. Great stuff when alone or with people.
All-wave. No aerial, no ground, no plug-in. Plays indoors, outdoors, anywhere. See this great set at your supply store now.
COfMOrURE
may eta, 25c
nestsheets; 15c up
MRA-LAST1K, the NEW way to paste;
■eat sharpaMs! WerW’s easiest, fastest, smoothest paacB anting! Slap
*10
by the two-tone point trademark”
It plays as you travel. Take it canoeing, skating, visiting.
WHO WANTS THIS G.E.CARRYABOUT FREE? Complete with Batteries—Retails *19.95
to the student who best completes this simple sentence in 20 w ■ words or less: “Sheaffer’s Fineline pencil is best for classroom work because............................"
I th® '‘pony’* full of answers in the back of the book, this ■ VX ■ w I • contest is a cinch—for here are samples of Fineline information that will help you write the kind of an entry that may win for you this great radio: "... because Fineline's double-length, thin, strong leads are permanently sharp.'*"... because Fineline's same-weight haitline, balance and firmly-held point enable me to write accurate shorthand and make graphs, sketches, medianical drawings, faultlessly.1'... "because Fineline leads come in 4 colors, and an average year's supply costs only 15c." "... because Fineline has a double-sized reversible propelling eraser." "... because so line a line makes interlining, sarall notes, figuring, duck soup for me!" "... because Fineline is the only REAL pencil writing improvement in 24 yean." GO AFTER IT! WIN, and have music, sports, entertainment, everywhere I
MAKE 50 ENTRIES IF YOU LIKE!
Contest rules: At your dealer, save the sales slip you get when you make a Sheaffer purchase of 10c or more (SKRIP, leads, adhesives, pens, pencils, etc.). Write your entry on any piece of paper and send it and the sales slip to Canyabout Radio Contest, W. A. Sheaffer Pen Co., Fort Madison. Iowa. Send as many as you like—-each has a chance to win! Judges' decision final. Judges: An ad expert, a lawyer, a minister. Remember—you are competing with students on your own campus only. Winner will receive his radio on November 1 from dealer indicated on sales slip.
Sheaffers
PENCILS FROM SI-PENS FROM $2.75 ENSEMBLES FROM $3.95
M.75
Uses the
Drop

The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
Opinion
(Continued from Page 4)
vengeance of Germany. The United States, in this modern age, is practically a next-door neighbor. Uncle Sam should stay neutral.”
Morrissey—Ed Hackett: “Stay out of the whole mess by enforcing strict neutrality; our ownly gain would be the loss x of our employment figures. Dead men can’t fill industrial positions!”
Alumni—F. Ciolino: “As the United States is a neutral nation, any country should be able to purchase ammunition and supplies just as she did before the present hostilities broke out. We have learned our lesson in the last war. The United States will not be drawn into another European war. Employ the cash-and-carry system.
Badin—F. Ferrante: “Keep the Arms Embargo as it is. Sell no arms via the cash-and-carry system, credit, or any system. We shouldn’t sacrifice our neutrality merely for the security of our ammunition manufacturers.”
Freshman Hall — J. Specht: “We should attempt to stay completely out of war, socially and economically. The neutrality law shows, at least, impartiality.”
Lyons—Paul Kelly: “America should not use war as a means of improving business, as the followers of the cash-
and-carry system would have us believe. The present Neutrality and Arms Embargo are the deciding factors in keeping us out of the war.”
Zahm—Ed McKim: “The cash-and-carry system as a substitute for the Arms Embargo has no guarantee of neutrality whatever. Give me Roosevelt and the Neutrality law—enforced to the very letter—“neutral.”
Sorin—Norbert Spencer: “I believe that the present Neutrality law should be kept in effect, purely from a humanitarian standpoint. Any business stimulation which comes from a war trade is an illusion—a false prosperity.”
Carroll—John Aselage: “Let’s stay out of the European situation altogether. Show favoritism to no side of the battle but our own. Keep the present neutrality and keep out of war.”
Cavanaugh — Charles Mitler: “Stay out of war at any cost. We have our own troubles without assuming Europe’s. Sell no arms to England or Germany.”
Breen-Phillips—John Metzger: “Neutrality!—to the letter of the law.” '
GEMS FOR COLLECTORS
15425—“Tales of Vienna-Woods,” Leopold Stokowski and Philadelphia Orchestra --------$2.00
36226—“Die Fledermaus” (Overture), Johann Strauss — Marek Weber and his orchestra_______$1.00
37227—“Finlandia” (Tone Poem), Sibelius — Victor Symphony Orchestra ----------------$1.00
36228—“Clair de Lune,” Debussy— Victor Concert Orchestra “Valse Triste.” Sibelius— Victor Concert Orchestra
$1.00
26306—“Tambourin Chinois,” Kreisler— Victor Salon Orchestra, Rosario Bourdon, director
“Caprice Viennois,” Kreisler— 75 cents
NOTICE!
THE SCHOLASTIC wishes to print additional opinions on the Neutrality question. Mail opinions to The Editor, 259 Alumni Hall.
THE HUDDLE
Pipe Headquarters" on the Campus
ALBUMS
M-445—Johann Strauss Waltzes—Boston “Pops,” Arthur Fiedler conducting --------------------$7.00
M-262—Johann Strauss Waltzes—Minneapolis Symphony, Eugene Or-mondy conducting $10.50
M-352—Ravel’s Bolero — Boston Symphony, Koussevitzky$4.50
M-552—Ravel's Bolero—Boston “Pops,” Arthur Fiedler$3.50
C-18—Grand Canyon Suite, Ferde Grofe
NOW REDUCED to_____$4.50
INA
POPULAR VEIN
Tommy Dorsey recording— fBlue Orchids (Day In. Day Out and f March of the Toys (By the River Ste. Marie
Vocals by Jack Leonard
75 cents
THERE’S ONLY ONE
BLUEBIRD RECORDINGS (Complete repertoire)—Artie Shaw. Glenn Miller, Vincent Lopez. Ziggie Elman. Dick Todd. Fats Waller, etc.
35 cents
\ DESIGNED BY i PHYSICIAN -OR A 3
LINKMAN PRODU
There’s only
DUTCH'CLARK ^GER CLEVELAND RAM*
MANAGER

DrGRABOW
Man of action get a big kick out of Dr. Grabow— It’s the pipe for you tool
—ONLY
nso
■ cmke* < * SIHBj
BENUMB BltUUl BOWL
DR. GRABOW Pipes ore presmoked with fine tobacco (EDGEWORTH) to break them in by Linkman's Ex-D*.CUBOWS elusive Pipe Smoking Machine. PATENTED CLEANER	MADE BY M. LINKMAN * CO., CHICAGO
We invite you to come in and hear your favorite records.
Complete supplies: Needles, Record Racks, Index Record Cases, etc.
RODIN, Inc.
132 N. Michgan Phone 4-1184 South Bend, Indiana
Open Tuesday. Thursday and Saturday evenings until 9 p. m.
NO BREAKING IN • NO BITE • NO BITTER TASTE

1939. Uggktt&MyeU ■ Tobacco Co.
Show-Hit of the New York World’s Fair, Chesterfield has the call
You see more Chesterfield smokers every place you go. That’s because Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the best home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos is the only combination that gives them a cigarette ; of real mildness with a different and
I	better taste and a more pleasing aroma.