
I Wonder What Monk Malloy's Favorite Crayon Color Is? 
n.--:...~ 
Congratulations ·--_ Fr. Malloy 
From The Regular Guys 

Contents. 

December 4, 1986 Volume 128, No. 10


Scholastic 

Cover Stories 


5 A Struggle For Recognition By Steffanie Keller 
A homosexual group at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seeks University recognition amid questions about what is best for gay students 
9 
Beyond The Stereotypes 
By Mary Carol Creadon 
Five Notre Dame students discuss how their homosexuality 
has affected their lives on a campus they call 'homophobic' 
14 
Between Science And The Church 
By ·Greg Tuel 
Differing responses to the matter of homosexuality by 
· science and the Church add complexity to an emotional issue 
_Departments 
3/Letters 
4/Week In Distortion: 
12/Calendar 
17 /Restaurants: Pepe's --Ole! 
20 /Music: Proving He's the Boss 
21/On Other Campuses: Hungry for Knowledge 
Student Life 
18/So You Wanna Be a Rock ·star... By John Perie and Kara Trowbridge 
Sports 

22/Moving Up Another Notch By Ed Jordanich 24/Scoreboard 
Cover Photo by Lucian Niemeyer 

Edrtorial 

Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mourishcr 

Managing Editor 
Keith Hrtrrison Jr. 

Design Editor 
Alex Peltzer 

Production !\tanager 
Matthew Bradley 

General l\lanager 
Phil Coghlrtn 
Editorial Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffcy/Dcprirtmcnts Frank Lipo/Ncws Greg Miller/Student Life Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Storin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 

Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 


Layout 
Jim Doerfler Susan Serrato Art & Photography Maria Murphy Joe Vitacco 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 




(wt

@ Basement o 
(l}

\)) Open Monday thru Saturda.y 12:30-5:30 
~ 
t 
Order ahead of time for your special occasion flowers 50 cents delivery to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
(No minimum purchase for dellvery) 

The Ultimate In Cool 

"So hot you're cool, so cool you're hot" --General Public 
Haven't you always wondered just how cool you are? How many times have you said, "Wouldn't it be great if there was some kind of test I 
By John Coyle could take to determine if little old me is cool?" Well, together with some noted coolologists (my roommates), and based on minutes of research, I've constructed the Ultimate Degree of Coolness Test. So get out your # 2 pencils and get started. And please -no cheating. 
ROUND ONE  ROUND TWO  
a. b. c. d. e.  Places you've never been: the Library (8) the Great American Hot Dog Stand (I) Goldrick's office (3) your eight o'clock class (I0) a football game (0)  a. b. c. d.  . Social Habits: You have been arrested (10) You own drug paraphernalia ... um, I mean, you have been to a drug store (9) You stay home Friday nights to watch Miami Vice (0) You have been to Chris' Ice Cream more times than you've been to Bridget's (2)  
ROUND THREE  ROUND FOUR  
a. b. c. d. e.  The contents of your refrigerator on a Monday morning consists of: two cases of unopened beer (3) one beer, two slices of pepperoni pizza. and a half-eaten donut (7) a quart of orange juice, three yogurts and a low-calorie carrot cake (I) absolutely nothing (10) your biology experiment (0)  a. b. c. d.  Your biggest concern right now is: how you will do on finals (3) whether your parents will let you come home for Christmas (8) what will happen if all four of your pencils break while taking a calculus test (0) where your next beer will come from (10)  

f. a bottle of anything and a glazed donut (my new running joke) (9) 
BONUS ROUND Hypothetical-situation question (point values are doubled). 
It's a Tuesday afternoon and you have two midterms on Wednes­day. A friend comes up to you and asks if you would like to leave right now for Detroit for a Grateful Dead concert (neither he nor you have tickets). You say: POINTS SCALE 
a.  "Who's the Grateful Dead?" (0)  
b.  "I really love that Jerry Garcia y Vega guy.  He's  
so cute and such a good singer but I really don't want  
to jeopardize my 4.0 GPA." (0)  
c.  "Awesome, dude!" Count me in, let's motivate out of  
this place right away." (20)  

Over 50 points: below freezing on the cool scale 
40-49: pseudo-cool -you have your moments but you still need work 
10-39: uncool level -just not making it cool-wise 
Less than 10: nano-cool ­
better  check for  a pulse,  
you're  so  boring  and  
uncool..  


For anybody below the pseudo-cool level, the only cure is to watch Harrison Ford, Billy Dee Williams and "Robert Scorpio" on the tube for three weeks straight. T~is is your only hope of ever being saved. 
Scholastic 




AStruggle For Recognition
By Steffa~ie Keller 

A homosexual group at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seeks University recognition amid questions about what is best for gay students 

~~~~;!I 8,of I986~
~ 
homosexual group 
associated with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's met with some senior staff members from the Office of Student Affairs to discuss the needs and concerns of homosexuals in this community. According to Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson, this discussion marked the first time, in his memory, that a homosexual group openly con­tacted the administration. 
The group, Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC), followed up the meeting with a formal pro­posal, essentially a request for official University recognition. In the months since last spring's meeting, the different approaches taken by administrators and members of the group toward the unique problems homosexuals face on campus have become apparent. 
According to its statement of purpose, "Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege is an organization centered.on the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Its membership con­sists of undergraduates, graduate students, alumni, faculty, staff and concerned persons from the local community." 
Joseph Acosta, co-chairman of GLND/SMC, said the group's current membership is 50 members, who each pay $5 per semester in dues. Of the. 50, approximately 30 attend meetings regularly, while others participate in various social functions, lec­tures, or other group-sponsored activities, Acosta added. The majority of the current members are graduate students, he said. 
"Graduate students are older, more willing to admit their homosexuality," said Acosta, who is a senior. "Undergraduates are still uncomfortable. They hide it instead of seeking some kind of support." 
Acosta said a reason for this fear may stem from the prejudice against gays, which he said can be very painful. ''Notre Dame is very homophobic. Many people see gays as a real threat," he said. "We don't usually have families. We don't lead what some see as tradi­tional lives." 
Acosta said that often people are afraid to contact the group because of these prejudices and stereotypes. "One . priest on campus referred to (GLND/SMC) as a 'sexual clearinghouse' for homosexuals. That's ridiculous. We exist for the conifort and help of gays and lesbians. It's very diffi­cult for us to understand these stereotypes, but in trying to edu­cate we also try to understand." 

The education of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community is a primary goal of the group, according to Acosta. He said the group has been in existence for approximately 15 years. "Recently, in the last three years, the group has become more struc­tured. It's turned toward more pol­itical aspects, especially educa­tion," said Acosta. 
As a part of this effort to create . awareness and to increase the 
resources open to them, a six­
member Liaison Committee com­
posed a letter and sent it to John 
Goldrick, associate vice president 

for residence life, on April 16. 
Copies of the letter were sent to 

Tyson and other members of the 
administration. 
The letter stated, "Concerning gays, lesbians and intolerance, we are working toward a day when homosexuality is considered an ordinary, noncontroversial aspect of everyday life." The group made six proposals in the letter, among them requests for a series of meet­ings with administrators, the use of the Center for Social Concerns and other University facilities and the right to advertise in University-owned and operated media. On July 7, in a reply from Tyson, their requests were denied. 

"As a result of my deliberations with other administrators," Tyson's letter said, "I must inform 

News 



you that we cannot grant your six requests . . . it is our judgment 

·· that formal recognition of GLND/SMC carries with it an implici~ sanction for a homosexual lifestyle which is not in keeping with the values of the University or the teachings of the Church. Moreover, it is our opinion that formal recognition of any organi­zation based on sexual preference is inappropriate." In addition, the letter referred homosexual stu­dents to the Office of University Ministry and the University Coun­seling Center. 
"It was a decision we made given that we call ourselves a Catholic university and that has certain implications with regard to the religious tradition that we claim," said Tyson. "We certainly have a responsibility to meet the needs of our students as best we can. The issue then becomes how they are best met and who meets them. I made a decision at that point that University Counseling and University Ministry would be the two groups that are most appropriate, though not exclusively them. 
"The American bishops came out with a statement in the middle 1970s about homosexuality," Tyson said. "We do what the bishops mention and that is pri­marily to meet homosexuals as functioning members of the Church and do what we can to meet their pastoral needs." 
Acosta said he does not feel that these needs are being met in the best way possible. "I don't like the fact that we were referred to (University Ministry and the University Counseling Center)," said Acosta. "It is not a fair deci­sion. It implies we are sick and sinful. Gayness is more of a social justice issue and our needs could best be met at the Center for Social Concerns. We want to edu­cate the Notre Dame community. Without University recognition, we are denied the use of funding and facilities to help us." 

Sister Karol Jackowski, dean of Student Affairs at Saint Mary's, said she wants to avoid an implica­tion that homosexuals are sick or sinful. "We've shied away from recommending the Counseling/Career Development Center and Campus Ministry. It implies (homosexuals) are sick and need to be forgiven. The full scope of student services is available to them." 
Although GLND/SMC has not applied to Saint Mary's for official recognition, Jackowski said, "We'd support their right to have access to any facilities open to students and not to be discriminated against." She also sa1d that Saint Mary's hopes to be able to work with the group through the Sex­uality Education program. 
"The first step is to work with them in planning our programs," said Jackowski. "We're planning a two hour in-service on homosex­uality for faculty and staff for second semester and possibly a program for RAs and student leaders in March. We have to move slowly with a population this con­servative." 
Jackowski said, on the issue of support for the group being in conflict with Church teachings: "This is a very sensitive and explosive topic in the Church. It (the Church's teaching) is not sup­portive of the homosexual lifes­tyle. To formally support such a group would be a very precarious position for a Catholic college to take." 
Scholastic 


News 

The organizers of Marquette University's Homosexual Support 
. Group said they are also very cau­tious in regard to Church teach­ings on homosexuality. "We arc not in conflict with the Vatican," said Father David Haschka, direc­tor of Marquette Campus Minis­try, which sponsors the group. "We're straightforward about the Church's view of homosexuality. Our goal is for students to achieve love and respect for the Church while learning to deal with the many complexities they face as homosexuals," he added. 
The Marquette group has been in existence for a year and currently consists of approxi­mately 12 students, according to Haschka. "The group is anonymous," he said "and is designed to provide a support for people with a homosexual orienta­tion." Haschka said the group does not formally sponsor any social activities, only regular rap ses­sions. 
The group was developed as a result of homosexual students expressing a need to Marquette Campus Ministry, and together the students and staff created the pro­gram, according to Haschka. Stu­dents are informed that if they want information about the group, they need only ask any rector or member of the administrative staff. "They then refer them to someone in the Campus Ministry office," said Haschka. 
The group has the support of the Marquette administration, according to Haschka. "The administration has stood behind us because our goal is not to encourage any kind of advocacy or activism. In general, we see our­selves as a support group, not an activist group," said Haschka. "That means our basic intent is to give students a confidential arena to look at their lives and see the gift as well as the struggle." 


December 4, 1986 
Unlike the Marquette homosex­ual group, GLND/SMC has met with opposition in its attempts to · publicize itself. Early last semes­ter, the Notre Dame administra­tion banned a GLND/SMC public service announcement from WVFI-AM and WSND-FM, the two student-run campus radio sta­tions. The announccme·nt described the membership and gave an address for the group. Two student managers resigned on February 28 because of the ban. 
The denial of official University recognition means the group cannot advertise in 

for an advertising policy we had implemented, indicated that they had only one or two members who were students (undergraduates) and the entire membership at this time was only eight people (excluding Acosta). The remainder of them were either graduate stu­dents or alumni." 
"The reason that there was only nine people on the list," said Acosta, "is because of the sensi­tive nature of the group. After I was informed of the new Observer policy, I went back to a meeting and asked for those who would be willing to use their names for a 

University-owned or operated media, distribute handbills on campus, maintain an address in the campus directory, maintain a mailbox on campus or participate in Student Activities Night.. 
The lack of recognition, does not ban GLND/SMC from advertising in the independently­run Observer. But according to Joseph Murphy, editor-in-chief of The Observer, the group has failed to comply with an advertising pol­icy instituted last spring and is currently not allowed to advertise. 
Murphy said that in a Sep­tember 30 meeting, Acosta was seeking to advertise with The Observer. Murphy said he ques­tioned Acosta about the group's size. "The conclusion of that would be for anyone that the group· lied.· A membership list which we were given at that time membership list. Nine people responded. When Joe Murphy questioned it, I just repeatedly said 'This is our membership list' because for his purposes, it was." 

The membership list was given to Murphy by Acosta to ,comply with the Observer advertising pol­icy which was implemented on April 22. The policy states that all groups wishing to advertise in The Observer may be asked to submit the names of all officers and members to The Observer. This information may be given to 
anyone who requests it from The Observer. Also, any ad may be refused by The Obser.Jer, edited by The Observer or fre marked "Paid Advertisement." 
According to Acosta, trouble with the newspaper began last spring when the group bought an ad which appeared in The Observer 

News· 
March 10. "Last year, The Observer printed an ad of ours with several mistakes which exceeded the numb.er allowed in their contract. After a series of several meetings,· we were finally able to get our money back. Shortly after that, The Observer came out with a new advertising policy." 

Murphy said, "We've had repeated difficuties with this group. In particular, the main issue for us is that in the Sep­tember I issue of The Observer, the spokesperson for the group (in a news story) said that this organi­zation has 50 members, most of whom are Notre Dame students. Our investigation of that proved them incorrect. 
"The whole point from our newspaper's standpoint was that as an advertising policy, we want to ensure accountability," said Mur­phy. "The group had, for what­ever reason, decided to lie to the paper and thought they could get away with it. They couldn't and they didn't, and we believe that· sense of accountability, accuracy, and confirmation." 
our  policies  are  not  designed  to  
discriminate.  Our  policies  are  
designed  to  give  our  readers  a  

Murphy added that The Observer limited the conflict with the group to the advertising pol­icy. "We've had numerous articles on the topic, both pro and con in our newspaper. We've addressed it in our news department and in our viewpoint department. It isn't as though we haven't addressed the issue." 
Acosta maintains that the group has 50 dues-paying members, even if they are not all willing to 
provide their names for a membership list. "I never told Joe Murphy that we didn't have 50 members," said Acosta. "Our membership list came about because of the Observer policy. It didn't include anyone who did not want their names made public." He said that is the only reason for the few members listed. 
Acosta said he always has been willing to let his identity be known. "I've always signed my name in all our correspondence. We've made a lot of headway. We've contacted the administration publicly. We're real people. There is a personal element which is cru­cial." But despite that headway Acosta said has been made, he said there is a long way yet to go. 


Jackowski said that "one of the good things about the group is that it is forcing the (ND/SMC) com-· munity to deal with homosexual­ity," said Jackowski. "We don't usually deal with sexuality in gen­eral." 
Jackowski also does not see changes in the near future of the Church's position. "I don't see much headway in the Church's stance toward homosexuals. The climate's just not right," she said. 
Haschka said he agrees that the Church's stance is decided for the . present time. "However, I think as an educational institution, it is our responsibility to meet special needs of students who have a number of special problems. How they relate to the Church is only one of many things they have to deal with. The challenge is to do so in a way that doesn't . conflict with the teachings of the Church." 
As for the future of GLND/SMC's official status, Tyson said, "Given the rationale 
that  we  gave them for  our  deci­ 
sion,  I  don't  see  room  fot  a  
change.  There would have to  be  

something more compelling than the application." 
Acosta said GLND/SMC will continue its work. "We may have a hard time, but I believe this group will continue on," · he said. "There are quite a few people who are working a lot, who are very dedicated. There remains a lot of education to be done and I believe the group·can help the community a lot." 
Scholastic 
News 

Beyond The Stereotypes 
By Mary Carol Creadon 
Five Notre Dame students discuss how their homosexuality has affected their lives on a campus they call 'homophobic' 


R> "Jim," a gay sopho­more at Notre Dame, said he often hears people mutter "fag­got" under their breath as he passes them in the dining hall. "It's pretty offensive," he said, "and it shows a lack of sensitivity. Even when people say 'fag' and they don't mean it as an attack on someone's sexual orientation, it still bothers me. It's as much a form of bigotry as is calling some­one 'nigger.' " 
A lesbian Notre Dame graduate student, "Carol" said she overhears students "tell a lot of fag and dike jokes," especially in a class she teaches. "Their jokes and comments really make me mad. I feel like saying, 'Hey, you wouldn't call that black student a nigger, but I never say anything. I probably will say something when it gets to bug me too much." 
The widespread, careless use of terms such as "fag" or "gay" in. the everyday language of students indicates the degree to which heterosexuals are uncomfortable with homosexuality, according to some homosexuals at Notre Dame. 
December 4, 1986 
"(The term) gay has such a bad connotation because society says it means you have something wrong 


The harshest form of abuse directed at gays and lesbians is verbal, according to Notre Dame senior Joseph Acosta. Acosta said he is comfortable with his sexual­ity and he doesn't let the negative connotations bother him anymore. But, he added, the continued use of such derogatory terms creates an environment of tension between gays and heterosexuals. In addition, careless name-calling and jokes perpetuate the stereo­types of gays and lesbians, Acosta said. 
Acosta, Dini and Bruther decided to speak openly about gays and lesbians at Notre Dame because, as Dini said, "We're ·tired of being a nameless, faceless 
If people began to realize 


with you. But there's nothing wrong with being gay," said Notre Dame graduate student Betty Jane Bruther. 
Brother Michael Dini, a Notre Dame graduate student said, "I know the slang is not directed at me but it is directed at a whole group of people which have been made into things. It's easier to treat things with contempt and disrespect." 

group. how many gays and lesbians there are at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and had real names to identify with, maybe things would change for the better." 
Both Jim and Carol (not their real names) requested anonymity 
, -' . -­
-~___,_~------~-­
News 

because they said there are some people, including their parents, to whom they have not yet revealed their homosexuality. They both said they do not want their parents, friends or co-workers to read about their homosexuality. Instead they wish to reveal it at an appropriate time. "Right now, it's just not worth the hassle," said the graduate student, "and I'm not sure what the reaction to it would 
be." 

Acosta said he believes "there is an intense homophobia at Notre Dame and consequently, many stu­dents who are gay don't come out of the closet until after they gra­duate." He said he first told his friends he believed he was gay at the end of his sophomore year at Notre Dame. 
"It was a really hard time for me," Acosta said, "but my good friends accepted it. Those who don't take me for who I am, I don't consider to be friends any­way." Acosta said he started to be honest with himself about his homosexuality after he read Dorothy Day's novel, "The Long Loneliness." He said Day struggled to know herself in that book. 
Dini, who said he began to reveal his homosexuality to others 
Jim said he found it easier to come to grips with his sexuality when he went away to school. "I met people who were open about the subject and talking with them made me begin to realize that I could possibly be gay. It came as a relief psychologically because I understood myself better, but it also became a problem. I'm happy about myself but now I have to tell. my friends and parents. And it's not something easily dealt with by others." 
"The realization that I was a lesbian came as a relief because it explained a lot of things that had been bothering me," said Carol. "It was like a revelation when it hit me so it was not difficult to accept; it was just that I had never thought of it in a serious context before .... I don't think of my being a lesbian as abnormal. It's just a variant form of sexual expression." 
Bruther said that although most homosexuals at an early stage of acceptance wish they were heterosexual, "I am at the point where I am comfortable with being a lesbian." 
Dini said he is sure about his sexuality, but "I often imagine that if a genie gave me the choice of being straight or gay, I hope I 




only after he graduated from a California college, also said self­acceptance is important. "I real­ized that in order to be healthy, I had to deal with it," he said. 
would choose to be gay. It's not that I feel bad about it; it's just the hatred and rejection I have to put up with, being gay, that I don't like." 

Acosta also said he is comfort­able with his sexuality because, "It's a part of me." He said he finally has a positive attitude about his sexuality and he no longer feels abnormal. 
"I wished I could change being gay at first, knowing what I would have to give up in life, because I really love little kids," said . Jim. "But I wouldn't change it now. It's the way I am and and the way I'm meant to be. I like being honest with myself and other people now. It's also nice not having to constantly question my own iden­tity anymore." 
Despite the fact that these stu­dents say they are comfortable 
Scholastic 


News 
with being gay, some said they still feel alienated at Notre Dame. Acosta said he would not have come to Notre Dame in the first place if he had known about the environment. "It's easier to be open about your sexuality at other schools," said Acosta. However, he does think his experiences at Notre Dame have been beneficial. "Coming here has made me a much stronger person. It doesn't bother me anymore. I've made the best of my four years here." 
Dini is somewhat less optimis­tic. "When I came here three years ago, I could feel the tension towards sexuality and it made me extremely depressed for the first two months," said Dini. "There is a mental imprisonment at Notre Dame. People aren't educated in the true sense of the word where a diversity of viewpoints is as res­tricted as it is here. People leave here without ever being chal­lenged in their beliefs." 
As a result, Dini said, "I don't feel welcome here. Everyone talks about the Notre Dame family and community. Well I don't feel it. The alienation is real; it's not 

. something I just imagine. There's a lot of antipathy for gays here. We're treated as outcasts." 
Bruther said she does not feel alienated, but has attended gradu­ate school at Notre Dame only since this September. She said she also feels more comfortable here than Acosta. and Dini because of her age (Bruther is 36 years old). 
The lesbian graduate student said coming to Notre Dame from Chicago, where she had many gay and lesbian friends, was somewhat of a culture shock. "Now," Carol said, "I'm pretty comfortable hei"e because I've made it comfortable for myself. I wouldn't put up with the atmosphere here if it weren't that the graduate program I'm in is 
December 4, 1986 
so good, though. It's much more difficult for an undergrad living in the dorms. Some gay undergrads call it pure hell." 
Jim said he does not mind liv­ing in a dorm, however, because not many people, besides his roommate and his close friends, know that he is gay. "If everyone knew, it would be more difficult because I would probably be harassed." The sophomore said he does not feel alienated but he thinks he would be more involved in his section if he did not sense that people were suspicious of his sexual orientation. 
All five of these students say they are members of the gro.up Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Each has a somewhat different idea of what the organization's main emphasis should be, however. Acosta, who is co-chairman of the group, emphasized the group's educa­tional function. Acosta said the 

Dini said the group is working at making the word gay less of a stigma. He wants the organization to "sensitize the ND/SMC com­munity to homosexuality so that students and faculty wiU begin to consider it in a serious context." He said that since ignorance is the basic problem impeding this pro­cess, "education is of ultimate importance." 
Bruther said she feels the group is most helpful to new members when it alleviates their paranoia about being alone. "The social interaction is important for it pro­vides a means of meeting other gays and lesbians at the school," she added. 
Carol views the group as a sup­port group. "My first year here was so hard because there was no open gay support system here like there is at most schools. It would have been much easier for me to be integrated into the school if there were such a recognized 


group often sponsors lectures on homosexual issues. He said the group's goal is to have the environment on both campuses free of homophobia. 
Another function of the organi­zation, Acosta said, is to provide a support system for students who are in the difficult process of "coming out" or making public their homosexuality. "There has been a lot of progress made in the rap sessions," he said, "because students are more at ease when they're isolated from the outside environment." 

group at the time. The major pur­pose of the group is to be a haven for gays and lesbians wh.o have to exist in an environment that is less than supportive of them." 
Jim said "being in the group makes me feel less of a minority at Notre Dame. The group has also made me more confident about myself. I hope that by the time I graduate, I will have helped to bring about some change in the attitude towards gays here. I know that sounds idealistic, but I want to help create an environment where people don't have to hide their sexuality." 



cc 1cago~J_~----~A:ll~t~i~m~es~a~r~eC:h~i~ca~g~o~t~im~e~.-~..-=s_w_e-en_e_y-=T~o~d~d~'~'-------~S:P:O~R:TS::.---------~ CONCERTS: 
f;!'  Billy Bragg  THEATER: "Cat On A Hot Tin Roof"  Apple Tree Theatre 1225 W. Belmont  Hockey:  
Vii  Cabaret Metro  Steppenwolf Theatre Company  Dec. 4-7 at 8:15 p.m.  Blackhawks vs. Buffalo Sabres  
3730 N. Clark Dec. 4 at 8 p.m.  2851 N. Halsted Dec. 5-8 at 8 p.m.  $15.50-18.50  Chicago Stadium 1800 ·w. Madison  
t;'i!'II  Peter Gabriel Rosemont Horizon  $14-20 "A Christmas Carol"  OPERA AND DANCE: "Katya Kabbanova"  Dec. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $7-25  
Lunt and Mannheim  Goodman Theater  Civic Opera House  Basketball:  
!iJ  Dec. 4, 5 at 8 p.m.  200 S. Columbus  20 N. Wacker  Bulls vs. Denver Nuggets  
if! '.;1 fjJJf "'' F:0 ~ji~ii 'f:£ ~ii;nr,-,;y. WJ  Jason and the Scorchers Park West 322 W. Armitage Dec. 5 at 8 p.m. 'ti! tuesday Park West Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m. Bad Brains Cabaret Metro Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m. Robert Cray Band Park West Dec. 10 at 7:30 p.m.  Dec. 5-7 at 8 p.m. $18-25 "Forbidden Broadway" Gaslight Cabaret 17 E. Monroe Nov. 4-7 at 8 p.m. $17.50-19.50 "Hamburger Twins" Briar Street Theatre 3133 N. Halsted Dec. 4-8 at 8 p.m. $16-18.50 "Little Shop Of Horrors" Royal-George Theatre 1641 N. Halsted  Dec. 5, 9 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 "Lucia di Lammermoor" Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Dec. 8, 10 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 "The Madcracker" Rialto Square Theatre 102 N. Chicago Dec. 7 at 8 p.m. $5-16 Bebe Miller and Company MoMing D~nce and Arts Center  Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Dec. 9 at 7:30 p.m. $7-17 Football: Bears vs. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Soldier Field S. Lake Shore Dec. 7 at 12 p.m. $17  


Compiled By Ace Corsetto and Charlie Buckley 

Michiana 
FILM: 
"Hoosiers" Forum I and II 52709 U.S. 31 Dec. 4 at 7 and 9:30 $4.50 
"Firewalker" 
Forum I and II 52709 U.S. 31 Dec. 4 at 7:45 and 9:15 $4.50 
"Song of the South" Forum I and II 52709 U.S. 31 Dec. 4 at 7:15 and 9:15 $4.50 
"Children of a Leaser God" University Park Mall Dec. 4-10 at 7 and 9 p.m. $4.50 ($2.75 matinee}· 
"The Nutcracker" University Park Mall Dec. 4-10 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 ($2.75 matinee} 
"The Race" University Park Mall Dec. 4-10 at 7:30 and 9:30 $4.50 ($2.75 matinee} 
"Heartbridge Ridge" University Park Mall Dec. 5-10 at 4:30, 7, and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 ($2.75 matinee} 
"The Color of Money" Scottsdale Mall Dec. 4 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 
"Solar Babies" Scottsdale Mall Dec. 4 at '7:45 and 9:45 
"Soul Man" River Park Theater 2929 Mishawaka 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 

"Nicholas and Alexandria" IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Dec. 7 at 5, 8 p.m. $1.75. 
CONCERTS: 

Lazy Boy and the Swivel Rockers Lee's Grill and Barbecue 1132 South Bend Dec. 4 at 10 p.m. 
All-Orchestra Concert Morris Civic A.uditorium 211 N. Michigan Dec. 6 at 8:15 p.m. 

Chamber Music Student Recital Northeide Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Dec. 10 at 8:15 p.m. 

THEATER: 
"Bingo" Northside Hall, Main Auditorium 1700 Mishawaka Dec. 5, 6 at 8:15 p.m. 
"The Man Who Came For Dinner" Firehouse Theatre 701 Portage Dec. 5-7 at 8:30 p.m. 
"The Gift" Colfax Cultural Center 914 Lincoln Way West Dec. 4 at 10 a.m. 


News 


Between Science And The Church 
By Greg Tuel 

Differing responses to the matter of homosexuality by science and the Church add complexity to an emotional issue 

The September 1984 and November 1985 issues of Science magazine contained 


articles which may forever affect 
· the psychological, theological and ethical understanding of homosex­uality. 
Three scientists published the results of a study on the influence 

the scientists said that these find­Dr. Patrick tJtz, director of the
of estrogen on heterosexual 

ings are based on a limited group Notre Dame Counseling
women, heterosexual men, and 

of homosexual men and does not Center spoke of
homosexual men. The results indi­cated that certain brain mechan­address the differences between the . uncertainty which still sur­isms in homosexual men are dif­men who are exclusively homosex­rounds the question of the origin 
ual in orientation to a greater or of homosexuality. It remains
f ercnt from those in heterosexual lesser degree. 
men. Apparently, there is a basic unclear as to what makes a person physiological difference between Different sexual orientations, homosexual. in their orientation, said Utz.
heterosexual and homosexual men. although conclusively linked to a physiological difference, still "There are people who are remain a mystery in terms of exact looking at physiological factors, 
But, the findings do not con­causes. And, while these causes there are people who are looking clusively answer the question of remain a mystery, the instruction at familial factors, and there are whether this difference determines and counseling methods of the people who are looking at the or results from the sexual orienta­psychologist and Catholic com­societal factors to explain the tion of the individual. Also, one of munity hang in the balance. ideology, the source, of 
14 
News 

homosexual behavior. There is no clear consensus or answer to this question." 
Utz said a more modern interpretation of sexuality might be a possible solution to the mys­tery. "The most important finding in this area over the last 50 years has been the notion that we ought not to think of sexuality in terms of homosexuality or heterosexual­ity, but rather we ought to look at sexuality as a continuum with peo­ple fitting somewhere on that con­tinuum," Utz said. 
"There is evidence that in vari­ous kinds of situations, people can find sexual gratification in homosexual. contact, such as in prison settings," he explained. "When they leave those settings, they revert to heterosexual behavior -suggesting that all of us are somewhere on this contin­uum," he said. "The real question is why is our behaviour predom­inantly on one end of the sexual continuum," Utz added. 
The age of a person who seeks to define his sexual orientation is an additional factor which must be considered. In a November 1977 article in Monitor, a magazine published by The American Psychologists Association, a survey indicated that the average 22­ycar-old gay male, although hav­ing already had his first homosex­ual relationship, will not acquire a positive "gay" identity until seven years later. 
"The main difference is that college students have not really defined themselves as homosexuals except for perhaps a very limited group of people, whereas when the average gay person hits 30 or 35, that person has allowed his iden­tification of himself to go beyond that group, and, usually it goes to family, friends and perhaps even to professional peers," Utz said. 

December 4, 1986 
While the homosexual himself struggles with his sexual identity, he is also judged, feared and discriminated against. When attempting to understand 
homosexuality, one must also understand the heterosexual's fear of this orientation, and the reason for the-,controvcrsy which sur­
h.\.
d

roun s t 1s issue. 

Utz said the fundamental prob­lem is the difficulty that people generally have with divergent ideas. "People tend to set them­scl ves up as the criterion of behavior. Differences arc con­sidered wrong," he said. In addi­tion, people fcar their own homosexual impulses, according to Utz. 
Mary Feeley, director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's also said the individual's own sex­uality is a source of fear. "Right now there is so much being writ­ten about homosexuality that we arc all called to look at our own sexuality, and that can be a very frightening thing for people to do," she said. 
The lack of a definite cause. of homosexuality causes some people to try to substitute stereotypes for factual answers and Utz said such stereotypes should be ignored. 
"We ought not to look at gays in terms of typical characteris­tics," Utz said. "Homosexuals are quite normal, understood in the 
context of being a minority 
group," he added. 
Nor is it apparently a distur­bance, according to Utz. "I have dealt with people who were homosexuals, accepted their homosexuality, and seem to be !iv-· ing as well-functioning human beings," he said. 
Students who are having diffi­culty dealing with their sexual orientation must confront difficult questions which may not have easy answers. "These students must ask the questions a.) Am I gay, b.) If I am, can I live with it and c.) How can I live with it?" Utz said. The answers do not come easily and, "That's why we see some instances of suicide by these people -they can't handle it," he said 
The counseling program for a person coming to grips with their sexuality is long and difficult, according to Utz. "First of all, we would assess a person's sexual f eclings, thoughts, and behaviors; then, depending on this assessment we would counsel that person, and deal with understanding and accepting themselves as sexual beings," he said. 
In addition, the Catholic homosexual often must attempt to understand the Church's stance and either reject the teaching or assimilate it into hi_s personal beliefs. "Those who come to me where homosexuality is the prob­lem are usually in the position of trying to tie together their sexual­ity in terms of their own self­concept, which for many of our students eventually means recon­ciling it with their own Catholic belief," Utz said. 
The latest statement of the Catholic position was revealed by the Vatican in October. A Letter 

News 
to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons stated: "Although the particular inclina­tion of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder." 
Confusion may result when a homosexual faces some of the seeming contradictions between the psychological position and the position of the Catholic Church. "It's hypocritical of the University that the administration will not recognize us as an organization, yet (University Counseling Ser­vices) refers people to us," said Mary Jane Bruther, a lesbian gra­duate student. 
Utz said, "The Counseling and Psychological Services Center can­not refer a student to those kinds of groups, but, if a student should ask what kind of groups are avail­able, we would assist that person in getting that information." 

A practical approach toward counseling the Catholic homosex­ual must incorporate an under­standing of the causes, according to Father Richard McCormick, Notre Dame's John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics. "If it's an orientation that is in no way due to the environment, it's much more difficult to expect a change in that orientation. If it's due to environment, education or familial factors in the psychological order ­some of these things could be · altered or watched for," he said. 
The Catholic Church, although it does recognize the significance of identifying certain causes, does not subscribe to any particular scientific or psychological theory. In 1975, the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith released a document, Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics. 
"A distinction is drawn, and it seems with some reason, between homosexuals whose tendency comes from a false education, from a lack of normal sexual development, from habit, from bad example, or from other similar causes, and is transitory or at least not incurable; and homosexuals who are definitively such because of some kind of innate instinct or a pathological constitution judged to be incurable," the document states. 
The Catholic Church's teaching about homosexuality condemns the act, not the homosexual person. "Any number of Bishop's Confer­ences have stated that the orienta­
·tion itself is neutral and people are not to be judged in any way because of their orientation," said McCormick. "This recent docu­ment from the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith has referred to it as a disordered orientation, and that's relatively new to hear that type of language from the Vatican. This document is a negative analysis of the orien­tation," McCormick said. 
McCormick identified some of the dangers in counseling persons seriously questioning their sexual 

orientation. "Men and women in college who describe themselves as gays may not be, and the implica­tion of that is if you start minis­tering to them as gays you may encourage and deepen that orien­tation," he said. Nevertheless, the Catholic institution must address the issue, he said. "A Catholic University is committed to a cer-. tain moral code. In organizing its response to gays, a Catholic University can do nothing to imply that the expression of homosexuality is equally legitimate or valid," he added. 
Feeley, noting this difficulty from the viewpoint of a Catholic counselor, said, "the tension is in being supportive of the Church's teaching and trying to understand that and uphold it. At the same time I want to stand and support every individual person who is questioning and search~ng." 

Scholastic •1s 
•

accepting applications 

For the positions of 

Design Editor and Photo Manager 
Any interested students should submit a resume and personal statement to Keith Harrison at the Scholastic offices on 3rd floor of Lafortune byTuesday, December 9. · Experience is preferred but not required. 

16 
Scholastic 


Pepe's---Ole! 
By Rosabelle White 
Pepe's Tacos provides comfortable surroundings for tacos and tostadas on the way to Beacon Bowl 
Nestled along the side of Lin­coln way West is a cozy little Mexican restaurant, Pepe's Tacos. The charm of authentic Mexican hospitality and inviting Mexican colonial architecture create warm and personal sur­roundings. 
Softly glowing chandeliers and padded booths make the dining area very comfortable. Music from a jukebox in the corner under a Mexican print con­tributes to the overall relaxing atmosphere. Pinatas suspended from the· rafters add a final touch to the decor of Pepe's Tacos. 
After deciding upon the table of your choice, a cashier doubling as a waitress greets you. Even as mere words on a menu, the appet­izers are enticing for their authen­tic Mexican appeal. They proved ness is part of their excellence, to one who's not sure what to expect, some of these sauces could be too hot. Appetizers are a little steep, at approximately $4, but portions are filling. 
For the truly ravenous appetite, I recommend the combi­


as delicious as they sounded; espe­cially commendable are the dif­ferent types of savory quesadillas and tostadas. 
The sauces are also quite good, if you have an experienced palate. Let the unwary beware, though: while the Mexican food connoisseur will attest that spici-
December 4, 1986 
nation platters. Although they are not quite on par with Chi Chi's or Hacienda, the platters at Pepe's are definitely superior to those at Taco Bell. The platters consist of tacos, tamales, tostadas, Spanish rice and beans. 
On the negative side, the rice and beans were cold, the beans pasty, and the tamale. rather watery. Reasonably-priced meals, here . at under $8 per person excluding drinks, are no excuse for problems like these. Bargain or no bargain, these drawbacks detracted from otherwise delicious 
fare. 
Pepe's Tacos serves Mexican and American beers, as well as imported and domestic wines. Among the beers on the menu are Dos Equis, Tecate, and Bohemia for the dark beer lover. Mexican beer runs about $1.95 per bottle. The house wines cost about 80 cents a glass, while the imported w incs sell at $8 a bottle. Sangria, a traditional Mexican wine punch, can also be purchased at $1 a bot­tle. 
Another asset of Pepe's Tacos is its proximity to Beacon Bowl. Located at 3700 Lincolnway West, Pepe's is ideal for an early evening meal with friends before begining · an arduous night of bowling. What better excuse for playing a few · games than to burn off the caloric effects of a trip to Pepe's? 
If you really do not have the time for a sit-down dinner buf are yearning · for Mexican . food, despair not. Pepe's Tacos has a take-out service. Be prepared to pay cash, though, because they do not accept personal checks or credit cards. 
So if you've been · craving Mexican food at a reasonable price in a comfortable, informal ·setting, "Buen Provecho!" 
17 



So You Wanna Be ARock Star... 

By John Perie and Kara Trowbridge 
This year's increased number of student bands offer great diversity, but have limited opportunities to perform 
In a town where concerts by have similar tastes about music, so at Lee's Grill and Barbecue, major artists like John we take turns picking which songs Uncle's Irish Pub and Chip's Night Cougar Mellencamp or Billy we'll cover," he said. As a result, Club, as well as campus events like 
Joel are rarities and an appearance the Law does covers of older songs SYRs. by Bruce Springsteen is almost out by artists like Lynyrd Skynyrd and The Law is probably the most of the question, fans of live music Jimi Hendrix as well as songs by established of the student bands. usually must head for Chicago if newer groups like R.E.M. and the "We've been together since they want to see a band perform. Violent Femmes. October of last year. We had a But this year, an unusually large "Doing that keeps all the bi;ind band even before that, but I was 
. number of student bands are try­members happy," Burke said. "It the only one to stay with the ing to make that trip to the Second also probably appeals to a larger group," said Fritz Lupone, vocalist City less of a necessity. audience. We do a mix of the and guitarist for the band. 
older and newer music each time Other campus bands formed at 
One of the best-known of these we play, and adjust to what each the beginning of this school year. student bands is the Law. The Law particular audience seems to like One of those bands is Lazy Boy plays a mixture of old and new the most," Burke said. and the Swivel Rockers. Drummer songs, according to Brian Burke, The Law plays at local bars Bob Kaemmerlen describes the bass player for the band. "The approximately every other week­band's sound as 'bubblegum punk.' members of the band don't really end, Burke said. They have played "We do a lot of obscure covers that 
Scholastic
18 
Student Life 

most people wouldn't know of," he said. Among those are songs originally done by the King Bees and the Paul Collins Beat. 
But the band also does more popular covers. "Some of our well-known covers would be songs by the Ramones, the Clash, the . Beatles and the Undertones," said Kacmmcrlen. The band also does versions of the themes from the Spidcrman and Batman tdevision shows. 
Lazy Boy and the Swivel Rock­ers have written three of their own songs. The most pop-sounding of the three is "She Likes All the. Boys," which is an example of what the band members call <'just . basic swivel rock." 
Their other songs have more of a punk sound, including "That Girl," a song, said Kaemmerlen, about "a guy who wants Marlo Thomas from the television show­'That Girl."' Their third original is · titled "Alien's Baby," which tells about "the experience of having an alien's baby," Kaemmerlen explained. "It's got kind of a surf beat to it." 
Lazy Boy does not write songs with a political issue or obvious concern in mind. Kaemmerlen said, "When we write the music or lyrics to a song, we have abso­lutely no message. We like to think of it as blatant superficial­ity." 
Another student band which is new this· year is ... In My Shrub­bery, which does covers qf songs by bands like Husker Du, the Replacements, Guadalcanal Diary and R.E.M. The band also does · their own version of Bruce 
· Springsteen's "I'm On Fire." "We all hate Springsteen, so we kind of, uh, play around with that song and do an impromptu of version of it," said Joe Zanies, lead singer of the band. 
... In My Shrubbery has writ­

ten two of its own songs. One of them is called "Dancin' With Mr. Id," which tells "how I wrecked our house and broke our TV and stereo after our first gig," Zanies said. The other song, "Kalorama View," is about relationships 
between students and residents in the Northeast neighborhood and how people are treated in that area of town, Zanies said. 

Senior Joe Zonies is the lead singer of ... In My Shrubbery. 
When describing the songs that ... In My Shrubbery has written, guitarist Hardy Lewis said, "We're not trying to be political, but we write songs that say something important. We don't want to waste that chance." 
Many of the campus bands are relatively. new, although the members have been playing and performing on their own or in other bands for several years. Greg Bower is the lead guitarist and vocalist for one of those band:;, Blind River. "We just got together this past week, but we've got musicians from a few of last year's bands, so we do have experience," said Bower. 
Blind River directs its music to those people who want to hear loud, electric rock. "We play older electric rock and roll," said Bower. 
"We tend to perform covers by Creedence Clearwater Revival, Grateful Dead, Neil Young, Little Feat, and other dominant bands!' 
Not all the bands play hard rock. IOI plays songs that the pub­lic would usually hear on the radio or see on prime time videos. "We play party songs from the sixties, seventies, and eighties. Everybody in the band has diverse interests. 
'-< We don't necessarily play what we 
~ like but what we think other peo­
;J pie want to hear," said Mark 
g Angiulli, the lead singer. 
0 

The Freudian Slips play mostly new wave music. They are also one of several student bands which have a female vocalist. "We do all covers, but especially those songs with female leads. A few of the regular groups that we cover are Missing Persons, Berlin, and the Bangles," said bass guitarist Mike Mennes. 
Recently, two events gave these bands -a good deal of exposure. First there was the Seven Band Bash in Stepan Center, which was sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network. Then the Student Activities Board sponsored a campus band jam in South Dining Hall. A number of the band members said that this exposure was welcome because of the obsta­cles which student bands face. For example, there are few places to perform in the area and competi­tion from other Notre Dame bands as well as local bands is strong. 
Mennes of the Freudian Slips said, "There's really no place to play in South Bend, so competition is greater. Theodore's may provide possible jobs for performances. The student manager at Senior Bar won't hire bands, so that cuts down on the places we can play.
· We want to be a Notre Dame band. We want to play for students. But if Lee's and Chip's are the only places to perform, chances are we won't be doing much playing." 



Proving He's the Boss 
Springsteen's Live/ 1975-8 5 is a nearly-perfect collection that demonstrates his versatility and talent 
By Melchizedek and Jones 


Usually it is necessary to be stupid to sell a lot of records, and often popular­ity and talent are mutually ~xclusive. But Bruce Springsteen's new and virtually flawless five­record release Live/1975-85 with the E-Street Band shows the per­sistence of his rock and roll talent despite the potential poison of suc­cess. 
This comprehensive set, fraught with musical vigor and vocal passion, spans Springsteen's seven previous albums. It includes a number of covers and Springsteen-written tunes that never made it to vinyl. Cuts like "Fire" and "Because the Night" are awe-inspiring. These five records encompass all of Springs­teen: slow and fast, wall of sound and folk, amusing and serious, clubs and stadiums. 
Some of the music gets lost in the recordings from the big sta­dium shows, but the detrimental effect is minimal. "Born to Run" loses nothing in Giants' Stadium. But the tunes recorded at the inti­
20 
mate Roxy nightclub are among the best on the album. The band tears up "Adam Raised a Cain," so that the original becomes practi­cally worthless. And a song like "Growin' Up" from the mono­chromatic Greetings From Asbury Park album sounds much more · complete with the E-Street back­
ing. 
Springsteen's band is the con­summate bar.band; their straight­ahead style has its roots in early­sixties soul. Aside from their 

musical prowess and the fact that they've played together for more than a decade, what sets them apart from other American bands is Springsteen's ability to concoct a 
mythical tune like "Jungleland." 
Unfortunately, however, that epic song, which was the former 
· centerpiece of Springsteen's shows, ·isn't on· the all?um. "Cover Me" and its garbage hi-tech echo­ing and the always pathetic 
"Bobby-Jean" should have been stricken to make room for "Jun­gleland." 
That's really the only fault with the set. Even with five records, there isn't enough room for all of Springsteen's best. · Thank God "Racing in the Streets" made it. 

A lot of folk-oriented tunes show up on Live/1975-85. A sparse version of "Thunder Road" sans electric guitar is the very first song. The live "Nebraska" is even more stark than the original. The disturbing line, "I guess there's just a meanness in the world" resonates. Additionally, Springs­. teen does "No Surrender" with only a guitar, harmonica, and a slowed tempo. That's the way it should have been done originally. 
Springsteen does no wrong on this album. His cover of Woody Guthrie's "This Land is Your Land" is done with perfect ear­nestness. Springsteen sings the words like he means them. The · Jersey boy aptly closes with Tom Waits~ "Jersey Girl." Clearly, Springsteen is as good a judge of .. songwriting ability as he is a song­writer. 
One final note: When you listen 

to "Badlands" drown out "Amanda" song.  play that  it loud to freaking  
Scholastic  



Sports 

Moving Up Another Notch 
By Ed Jordanich 

Coach Art Lambert's volleyball squad looks ahead to a tougher schedule after its best season ever 
W...hen the Notre Dame vol­., 
e ~
leyball team took the flnor 

.,
on November 22 for the 

z 
final time this season, the Irish § had plenty of momentum. They ·g brought a 33-6 record, a 17­
,-:i 
match winning streak, and a long-shot chance at an NCAA berth into their contest with perennial Big Ten-power Purdue. 
The Boilermakers beat Notre Dame, however, for the second time this season. A IO-I5, I 5-11, 9-15, 14-16 defeat sent the Irish home for the winter after the best season in their seven-year history. It was a year in which Notre Dame beat 13 regionally­ranked opponents, including Indiana, Ohio State, Northwestern and North Caro­lina State. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will not be part of the 32-. team NCAA Tournament field this year. But the improvement, talent and desire that this year's 33-7 squad displayed makes the dream of a berth in the season­ending tourney a real possibility in the future. 
This ye'ar's Irish not only fin­
ished with a superb record, but . did it with a flourish, winning 17 of their final 18 matches. According to Head Coach Art Lambert, it was not a bolt of 


Morin (3) helped the Irish to a three-game sweep or Northern Illinois ror win number 33. 
lightning that set his team on fire in the second half of the season, but something a little more down to earth. 
"The streak we had and our improvement was part of a long process," said Lambert. "We underwent a tremendous amount of learning and maturation, and there wasn't something special that produced the results we had this year. We worked very hard and we were twice as good a 


22 
Scholastic 
Sports 

team at the end of the year than at the beginning. We certainly brought our level of play up another notch." 
Lambert's goal is for his pro­gram to move up another notch to the NCAA tournament. Lam­bert knows this year's schedule did not help the Irish in the eyes of the selection committee, but is quick to point out that the schedule was right for his squad. 
"Notre Dame wants to play and beat the best," explained Lambert. "We know our schedule has to be strong to get that berth and next year it definitely will be. However, we have to build to such a point. This year we did not beat any of the top four or five Big Ten teams and we had to play some North Star Conference members who just don't have the commitment to volleyball that we have. These things hurt our power rating, which is the NCAA's measuring stick." 
Next year the Irish schedule will easily reach another, higher, plateau. Notre Dame will play nine Big Ten teams next year, as well as nationally-ranked Texas, this year's Southwest Conference champion. A trip to the West coast to play that region's peren­nial powers will further increase 
. the challenge for next year's team. Lambert has a strong nucleus of players returning to meet this challenge, and the peo­ple he will be counting on have had excellent seasons. 
All of Notre Dame's big guns will return next year, including sophomore Mary Kay Waller, who led the Irish in kill percen­tage, and sophomore Zanette Bennett, whose move to the out­side hitter position was a key ingredient in the late .season Irish steamroller. Big hits and timely kills from the frontline players kept Notre Dame in nearly every match and established the kind 
December 4, 1986 
of momentum that led the Irish to sweeps in 20 (exactly half) of their matches this season. 
"We really have super peo­ple," said Lambert. "(Sophomore Maureen) Shea and Waller played well at difficult positions and overall our freshman and sopho­mores did a consistently good job in light of the fact they did the 


.As an outside hitter, Bennett 1'l'IIS a smash. 
bulk of the playing this season." 
Freshmen like Kathy Cun­ningham and Taryn Collins have made their mark on Notre Dame volleyball. They are indications of the growing strength and talent of the entire program. The younger players also have the advantage of playing with versa­tile and hard-working veterans such as Kathy Morin. 
'.'Morin did a tremendous job for us this year," said Lambert. "She sacrificed, played wherever I wanted her to, practiced with intensity, and is a great example of what we are trying to accom­plish." 
For Morin, the team's success, a new position, and a gradual realization of some of Lambert's goals produced a good season and momentum for the future. 

''We have been on a road of volleyball education since Coach .Lambert got here," said Morin. 
"And now our hard work, experiences, and familiarity with his system and expectations are starting to pay off. I knew we'd be better this year and we were. Now we have to build on our success and work even harder. Our schedule next year will pro­vide a lot of incentive." 
Turning that incentive into improvement might not be easy for Morin and her teammates. Notre Dame was 106-37 in indi­vidual games, a winning percen­tage of . 7 4 I. They performed best in the second game of their matches with a 35-5 record for a .875 mark. Their dramatic rever­sal of 1985's 12-21 mark earned them a regional ranking for the first time in the school's history. One area on which Lambert is concentrating now in order to continue the program's momen­tum is recruiting. 
"We need some right side help and some middle help," said the Irish coach. "We have seven or eight people that we can count on, but we definitely need better depth and people who can challenge others for positions. Competition in practice means better preparation for matches and hungry freshmen can contri­bute in many respects right away. This year's sophomores and freshmen are good examples of this." 
The future seems to hold 

many good things for Lambert's squad and next year shapes up to be a pivotal one for the Irish pro­gram. Notre Dame will play its · tough schedule with a talented.
. 

experienced, and close group of 
relatively young players. The 
1986 season has proved Notre · 
Dame volleyball is capable of 
reaching its high goals. 
"Winning makes a big differ­ence," said Morin, a junior. This :i year was fun because we won. I'd like next year to be fun too." 
23 
Scoreboard 

.:ii~~m:fit~i~,~~11 !M~X<~r~'Hl1Hi:I 

Irish To Take On Top-Ranked Texas 
·woMEN'S BASKETBALL -The Irish opened their season Saturday with a 71­50 loss to sixth-ranked Rutgers. Notre Dame trailed 26-18 at halftime and never gave the Lady Knights a serious threat. 
Senior captain LAYETT A WILLIS broke double figures in the game for the Irish, scoring IO points and grabbing six rebounds. 
Scholastic athlete of the week, JULIE GARSKE, paced the Irish with 12 points in her collegiate debut. 
Twenty-nine Irish turnovers made it difficult for Notre Dame to come back from the deficit. Rutgers All-American Sue Wicks dominated the Irish with 24 points and 20 rebounds. 
Longhorns went undefeated, finishing with a 34-0 record. In other first-round action at the tourney, Ohio State, last year's Big Ten champs take on Colorado, last year's number-two finisher in the Big Eight. 
After the tournament action, the Irish return to the ACC to take on Indiana Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. 
HOCKEY -Notre Dame swept Lake Forest College this weekend, giving Head Coach LEFTY SMITH his 300th and 30 I st wins as a coach in his 19th sea­son with the Irish. 
ROBERT HERBER scored the game winner Friday, and MIKE McNEILL came through with an insurance goal to lead the Irish over the Foresters, 7-5. 
In Saturday's action, McNeill came up with the game winner once again, while Scholastic aihlete of the week, JEFF HENDERSON, saved 44 shots in a 4-1 Irish win. 
MEN'S SWIMMING -The Irish beat Ferris State 119-90 the weekend before Thanksgiving to even their record at 1-1. 
Co-captain STEVE COFFEY took firt place in the 200-yard Individual Medley to lead the Irish when they were down 34-32 early in the meet. ED VEOME, who has been pacing the Irish diving corps, earned two first-place finishes in the meet. · 
The swimmers will take ori Mankato State at 4 p.m. on Friday in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Saturday, Notre Dame plays host to the Fighting Irish Invita­tional. Ferris State, Illinois State, Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and Wayne State make the trip to swim against the Irish. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -The Irish women also take on Mankato State Fri­day in Rolfs. Their portion of the Fight­ing Irish Invitational Relays will include competition from IBinois-Chicago, Saint Mary's, and Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Saturday. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
JULIE GARSKE 
Garske, a guard on the women's basketball team, scored 12 points in only 19 minutes of playing time to lead the Irish scoring in their week~nd loss to Rutgers. In her college debut, the 5-11 freshman also pulled down four rebounds and had an assist in the losing effort. 

JEFF HENDERSON 
Henderson, a hockey goalie, turned away 44 
shots in the Irish victory over Lake Forest College in the second game of this weekend's series. The 6-1 junior from Columbus, Indiana allowed only one goal in shutting down the Foresters, as Notre Dame pulled off the sweep. 



Scholastic 


Life In Hell 



A 13 -CJ-~A PTER.. CAR'"TOCN MtrJI ­
5€:RIE.S iH~T 
HAS ONL':::> BE.GUi-J TO I= IC:,HT 
''MS.NICE. E,U~,, 
TIC!(ET"S TOT+lE BOX'tl\JG MATC.1-1 '"? OK DAli!.LtoJ/o, '::10 u SHov1.~1 HAVE. 
ALSO l<.>-101.JIII A'i: WI-\AT A C,AL, P~c.11::,uc;, ~E or: "THI:. ~s. M~ MAI..., SQUEEU:, DOOIU.I\AT. ADVAIJTA(:,,S: C.HE£R.l=IJL, A~EASL.c,l<l•ll:11..-,, 
PRAWSACKS: MA!, WlSE up SoME0A\1. 

'' OL-0 ~E.LLER" 
':,OV GoDDAMIJED SPr,JE1.ESS C.OOO-­
l=OR.-IJc,-rn11'l(, O'!AC,.· ASS NO•TAL&Ji' ,;c,.J OF A QrTC.1-1.'.'( 
<AN'T '-Jou see ':lOV'R.E 1-!Alr::r,JG, ME M15E.RA8L.E ?? 
At.SC, lcr-lowiJ Q'S: S~E-or.v•L, SOual'\IS<;,1\-1• NP6, 
M.1(1 OW ~.WA~:n~OC:, .~M HEI.I •. ADVA"1'T"1=>.bES: P~~ A"!lE.nio,J -ro '-JOV, t>IUllWaAt.lCS: 5C.2tE'-'lE5, T!iRO<JS Fl:!o,u.iG PAIi.iS, 

AL.So 1c..iowN AS: IJHt.JE~, 1,1\e.1,Hl:.IZ., GwMP'?. AOVAN'TAC:,Es: PA&.PtC.TA81.E.. DAAWSfl,I0:5: C.Oi.l'TP6tou<;. 
STRAtC:,HT, 
!>\IT o...i A DIFPc~E>JT i'lf.. (:,l::T A HAtRC.UT. C.MAl.l(,E. ~DV~ JQ8. 
MAlr::E. SOMf. MONE.~. 
00,-l'T C,tVf. ME 'TH Ai 
LOOK.. 
ALSO lcl'JOWN AS: WHtPC.RAC.l:ER, "'™I= SARC.~, .....S. k:N01>1•1T•ALL, !?,PU. A'1C><.HAn,I, ':lES MoN'I. AbVAo.JTA<:,es: OFTE,J R.l(.HT, t,R&UvQAC.I<',: Of:Tl:,J RtC.Mi, 81JT' Jo WHAT1 
AL.Jo \(~OWN A~: .io Fc>>J, HIIMOltt.ESS P11.16, CDl-c, F1;"· CMII.I..., PlloPo,,T,o>J, •C£8EAC,, SNAA.~-,. Al>VAII/TIIGES: ~OVA. Fl:!tE...,r .., ••• FEh SoRR'1 F«'1ov. 
DRAWBACKS: ':lotJ i.11L1, HAI/I."'° ~lttf,NO~. 
''t,.A S. VA<:,UEL'j 
ALSO KNOWN A'i: THe Flt.rr-~,WO!tR':,WAA.T, ~PICAL, Aw 'MoN H0>JE.,, ADVAp,,jTA&E'!t: -.As1v, socml£17. 
0RA\US'1~c;: E•EoJ M<>e.E EASIL.11 PER."l't,RQ€o. 
I BE.LlEVE "Tl·IIS t1'lTEitPR£r1Vf. !7ANC.€. 
WI LL 1::XPL.AuJ +!OW 
I !=EEL Aeoor ov~ 
RE.~10.JSH 1P. 
AL'io 1Cr-lOW"1 Pt'i: 1'1€ BA86~, SPOOlc:"3 GtR.L, St~WSALI., L00"'1'?, BAO ,.:i1,..i,;, AltiUTIC.. ADVAN"l'A~S: E..iTER.,Atwh,i(,L-, VNFA,lio..,A9Lf.. 
t)~AIJ8At.'o:.S: Wist.-~£AC> HE2.. POE,Ro, AUii.it>, 

~LSo KNOllll'J AS: FAST G,t~I.., ;-~~El.£~, <:,oovr1 ... e CMAAi.ce..,A, PASs,c;, 0\/T'. Al>VANTA6£S: Mo2E Fu,,) TIIA,J A SAe.tEt.Ol'Ml)IJt{,:,S 
ORAIA/8AC:I<~: UtJRELrASI..E; DRIVES oFF tL1 FFS. 
1 AM. vnE'2..l..'1 Co,J'r&IT t,.)ITI ~OV JVS"C' "ffiE WA~ '::)OO ~E, M'? HD.NO'.of,lc GE.-lhlS OF A&'ji:IUl:NO. 
r..i~ WE MV 

U)Vf. U "Z.£DuJE NOW, ALSo .,_,.,owN AS: M">. 5!1(,HT, 500\:>ESS,1:.wO(.I:• 
ovr, P£1t.FECTtotJ, GC>e~liovr. 
ll,D\IANTAul:\: Fu>itJ',, 1"'1"E•L•&E"11'; c//J/IJHt8,-rED. 
t;,QA\.JiAt.11:S; WILL I-IAVE .ioTI1 1fll6 To DOWITl-1 '}DV. 


-,,,.,,.-~ p , _; ",,, , ­







