

see 
CAMPUS PRESS 
for all your 
printed needs 
( posters, resumes, etc.) 
_ in the basement of LaFortune 

opeirated by 
.·. . 

-STUDENT UNION 


The Notre_ Dame· Student Union presents 
THE NAZZ 
Wednesday -Thursday in LaFortune Basement 
"the best in campus talent" 
Make it a creative New Year: · 
Scholastic needs helpers. Call Jake: 3632 Or stop by 3rd Floor LaFortune. 

'.. \ 



scholastic 
Vol. 120, No. 6, December 8, 1978 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
4 Coalition for the Hungry Anthony Walton John Denver: Singer with a Cause Phillip Johnson 6 · A Matter of Policy Dave Gill 
9 
. Where Passion and Precision Have Been One T. Peter O'Brien 12 _Senior ·fellow: A Quest for a Guest Paul Peralta 16 On the Existence of Santa Claus Dave Satterfield 20 You Deserve a Steak Today Molly Mclaughlin 

25 
. Go West, Young Men Jim Trausch REGULARS 


8 Perspective Theresa Rebeck 14 Gallery Kevin Pritchett 18 ... Book Review Elizabeth Donovan and 

Kathy Ryan 

lllust~ations: Mike Cantwell;. pp. 4, 5, 11, .. 16, 17; Michelle Gerard, p. 15; Cyndy 22 · Poetry Chris Simony Dykhoff, p. 2. . . . Photographs: Phillip Johnson,· pp. 6, 7, 13, 24 Fiction Melinda Bell 20, 21, 26, 26; Christopher Barlock, p. 9; Jeff Huhta, p. 18; Doug Christian, p. 27; 28 Movie Review · Tim Tedrick 
Editor · Jo.hn Morrissey Managing Editor Theresa Rebeck Art Director Mike Cantwell Production Manager Bernie Valenti  Staff Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Ken Scarbrough, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Betsey Sheridan, Sonia Chapko, Clay Malaker, Bob Barnes, Mike Brennan, Mike Greene, Tom Lucid, John Cassidy, Jeff Young, Greg Vansueh, Paul Theil, Kevin McCarthy, Sue Micinski, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl, Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Craig Smith, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sean F. Faircloth, Paul Hurley, Jim Trausch, John Bondaruk; Michelle Gerard. · ·  
News Editor  
Elizabeth Donovan Culture Editor  HaU Representatives:  ..  
Dave Satterfield  Eddie  Holden,  Mark  Sniegowski,  Sea"n  Berry,  Brad  Engelland,  Keith  Caughlin,  Ann  
Sports Editor . Mike Kenahan ·  Gleason, Sonia Chapko, Bill Swift, Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, · Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, John Cuckovich,  
Fiction Editor  Greg G. Gregory, LeoJ. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik.  ·  
Tom Balcerek  
Copy Editor . Bob Southard ·  The opinions expressed in _Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic  
Layout Editor Lisa Hartenberger Photography Editor  and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial _board of Scholastic or the ·University of Notre Dame,· its administration, faculty, or the student body.  
Phil Johnson  
Business Manager  
Kimberlie Gumz.  The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising  
Advertisement. Manager  Services and CASS Student Advertising,· 1nc. Published fortnightly during the school year  
Marcy Weigle  ·except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press,  
Notre  Dame,  Ind. 46556.  The subscription  rate  is $5.00  a  year and  back issues  are  
·Advisory Board  available from Scholastic.  Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.  
Elizabeth Christman, Mario Werge, Thomas Jemielity,  Pedi, Thomas John Miriam  46556. All unsolicited· material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1978 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­ 
Jones, S.C.  duced without permission ...  

Coalition for th~ Hungry 
We see them most every night 

on our way to dinner. Standing in 
front of the dining halls, in all kinds 
of weather, they hold a. bleach bot­
tle with·aside cut out, reminiscent 
of a beggar from a Dickens' novel. 
These people are members of the 
Notre Dame-Saint-Mary's . World 
Hunger Coalition. . 
The World Hunger Coalition 

(WHC) is a· group of approximate­ly 70 students on campus at No~e Dame and Saint Mary's. They or.;. ganize and participate in WHC activities such as money collection, fasting, Fasters' Mass and vegetari­an meals. Another 450 students participate in the activities. The .. collectors are in front of rthe dining halls Sunday through Thursday nights. Money is not directly solic­ited; the collectors' presence is a gentle reminder of the hu!)-gry peo­
pie who do not have a dining hall. Wednesday dinner is the fasting . I meal, and. the Fasters' Mass is held during this mealtime in Walsh Chapel Money is given to the WHC by the· Food Service, which contrib­utes a set amount for each·.· meal donated by astudent. . 
The Notre . Dame-Saint Mary's Hunger ·coalition was· started sev­eral years ago by two-students as a gesture to remind people of· the hunger problems around ·the world. Both students traveled extensively to gain firsthand experience of rthe problems, and returned to ·begin 
. collecting money ori campus. Initial­ly, the two were alone in the· pro­gram, but through their . efforts, WHC has grown· to its present size. · The basic goal of the ·world· Hunger Coalition is to raise student awareness of the hunger problems 
that exist around the world. The WHC offers ND-SMC students an opportunity to positively respond. The ideals are realistic in that mem­bers do not think that they have the end-all solution to world-hunger problems; instead they are trying to help in a small,· yet significant, way. 
Collecting money is not the pri­mary focus of the Coalition. This activity serves as a sideline in which the students can respond to the im­mediate need . for acUon. Money collected is placed in a special ac­count at a local credit union that gives high-ris~ loans to needy mem­bers. This way the money is,. in effect, used twice, since collections are turned -over to hunger organiza­tions only once a year. Last ·year,. $18,000 was collected and distrib-. uted , to,-among others; The Qxford Famine RE?lief Group (OXFAM) and, 
• ~•.t ", '. 
•• :> ..,· ..P·1;,,,~.,.::~'" <--,_ ··-:._/' /:c~~-":.,~-f,: 
~ 


by Anthony Walton 

the Justice and Peace Center in South Bend. The WHC also contrib­utes money to Bread for the World, a citizens' lobby group on hunger. So, the money is used locally as aid to needy families, and abroad as re­lief for famine and as a stimulus for development of self-dependence in problem areas. 
· Among the other activities spon­sored by the WHC this year was the recent Nestle workshop-dialogue. Both sides of. the Nestle controver­sy were presented, and there was opportunity for dialogue between the panel and the public . 
. Through activities such as . this and their other functions, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition is well on its way to ful­filling its goals. O 
--:.U:~~~/:.~·~;·;:< {\:,-.//\:/:·-.7~;_--_~,.,.:1'.·;_-;~~ _::·: :.~-'\f 
-/.::: ·_} ;-;·::·.•.·::,•, ·.·.:/.·.~,::'.:~--?.•••:·,·.,:..'~~-1~.:;.•..•.•.•.t,•!.·.~.•..\;'.:.•,;__-.,;.:,:.·_'.. ..·... ••.·.••·..~·•j.·:•.·,.••.,. ••••·•·.•:..··_1 •.•· .• ,-,,. , <s,:;.; . i~· ~, ~-,; :., ·.,; I ; ·~: '. '·,.,, .:·. .': • .•· . ,,·_. -. ·:_,_ ~· • 
, c:.:{->: . ,,, --,,,, , --: '--~---~)~<~::,:>:~~_\\:_:_/:.~--:<·:':.<-~{··,'· :_-,·;::.:..:£ ~ .,. \;:-·::~··~ >..__ :~: ... 
....',.1 -... -... -· .;.:1\:~.·::· .,;--,1:.!/l·,/}{~\-'\(':::<:\\: 



;itllii{IIIiliiillTIDli!IJI
t~;,::;;;t,\V:C,>;rld\has\to~take; ~·,:a~ive role '/,::problems· }!av~.:to·,be::faced :aJ1d{the;:l\1,~,1;?~,;::;'~J:in<<a£:V:fo1~.gia~:;1~}:taF~rr8i-n,iu~y~Ide'ii:ei~;w·a:ftwerar:e':'.'~bi~H?"han~ie:t~ t!-Z':l;:·;Jated'to 'solve the. problem'of:,worldJC/theni·:oi:address :ourselves'. to. them. ;;c.
',::~;?{~iiti¼ii(}r;!Jf•.s?iitWtni~l~~~fit;;t~~tt~t~f}~1t~-':::.W~'.t1i~~~~<>ff:~{:~~
>'::,,,,:.,;Janee, that ·We.cdon.Lgo. tell.;c;th_em.,"::1ife.-1tl!at.you;;are., go11:1g.t<>:,be.;ible,,,

:i~t;~iiii~&~i~iE~ll~i;i] 
~--, 
-/,;.I• 
,;._, 
~... ""<~-...
. .. .. 
__,: -~: 
..~ -. ~ .--; ~ ~ ' ... : ··. 
~:__ -~=~:,)..;; 
v.~,_.,.--. ­
•• '; . 
~~ "• 


;;::{~;~Ji . 
f·/. ~. ;: ,_:=,.1 

~ .:~Jr 
.:.:.,' .-~­
;~·•, 

A Matter of Policy 
"The University's endowment is a . source of income other than raising · student fees or other campus in­come, such as the Bookstore or the Huddle," remarked· Fr. Richard Zang, investment officer for Notre Dame, ·"and the purpose of the en-· dowment is to provide current in­come while maintaining its purchas­ing power." 
Notre Dame's endowment, which . contains $114 million, comes under the supervision of an investment committee, set up by the Board of Trustees. The committee chooses four.investment advisory companies, companies whose work consists sole-. ly of managing. and investing their clients' money. The clients can stipu­late where the money may or may not go, such as prohibiting invest­ments in an alcohol manufacturer or in the armaments industry. The ad­visory companies report at the quar­terly meetings of the Board of Trus­tees, where they give financial de­cisions and predictions,· and where Zang gives each company a perform~ ance rating, based on the success or failure of the companies' invest-. ments. 
For the past five years, a Board subcommittee has studied the Uni­versity's investment policy with re­gard to South Africa. In October of this year, the Trustees released a policy statement, formed from _ the subcommittee's recommenda­tions, concerning Notre Dame's shareholder responsibility in South Africa. The statement became neces­sary because of South Africa's con­tinued adherence to its official 

.. apartheid policy, ithat of racial seg­regation and discrimination to pro­mote and maintain white ascendan-. cy. Other major universities in the United States, such as Harvard, Chicago, Yale, and Columbia, have also re-evaluated their investment policies in South Africa. 
·The statement · contains four parts: shareholder. petitions, stock divestiture, bank investments, and implementation · of the University policy. Shareholders' petitions .for withdrawal of a company from South Africa would · occur if · the. company did not adopt or adhere to "principles that provide improved opportunities and employment prac­tices for nonwhites." Included in these principles are the Sullivan principles, drawn up by Rev. Leon Sullivan, a Detroit Baptist minister and board member of General Mo­tors. The principles act as a guideline for employment conduct and contain regulations such . as nonsegregation of races in all eating, comfort, and work facilities within the factory, equaf pay for equal work, and equal 
by Dave Gill 

and fair employment practices. Zang noted rthat "over 100 of the 350 American·corporations in South Africa · have adopted the Sullivan principles." 
Peter Walshe, professor of Eco­nomics and International Relations and Director of African Studies, . believes, however, that rthe Sullivan principles ·are weak. "The principles try to get rid of the color bar in the plant, but in no way ·do they challenge the apartheid policies of the government outside the plant," he remarked. "Once a black worker steps out of the plant, he receives no benefit from the principles." Walshe continued, "The fundamentals 6f the apartheid policies, which are to pro­vide black labor for white gain, are not challenged. The South African 
cabinet,  a  major proponent behind  
apartheid,  approved  the  Sullivan  
principles  when  the  members  re­ 

alized the principles would not 
:~-:a:lx/~..:~-:.::.:\ t 

. 
-_j 


Fr. Richard Zang, Notre Dame Investment Officer . 
threaten the society's status quo." 
The Board's policy statement is, 

according to Walshe, only a base. 
"At the very least,'' he insisted, "the 
policy needs the Sullivan principles, 
plus negotiations with black labor 
unions, which, in South Africa, are 
legal but unrecognized by the gov­
ernment or corporations. Secondly," 
Walshe continued, "the corporations 
must insist on married housing for 
employees, who now must live in 
male housing, . separated from their 
wives and children." 
The policy statement calls for the divestiture ·of stock "only under very limited circumstances." Zang stated that selling the University's stock would· hiirt more than help. ''Major companies · respond to their shareholders' opinions and if the University divested its stock," he said, "it could only picket outside the shareholders' meetings -instead of having an active voice inside;" Zang reasoned, "Both a pull-out by the corporations and divestiture could have a detrimental effect on South Africa. The loss of capital, technology, and jobs could injure the economy. While universities and religious institutions own a relative­
•ly small percentage of outstanding corporate stock, their ability to bring about socially · responsible change has been demonstrated." 
•"There would be difficulties in dis­investment,'' admitted Walshe, "be­cause blacks would suffer first and most. However," he continued, "the major black nationalist leaders and the Christian Institute, an ecumeni-. cal body in South Africa, are in favor of divestiture and a mora­torium on further investment, which would only fuel the ·apartheid fires." Walshe explained that the black leaders, who have suffered for over 50 years under a minority govern.: ment, are willing to suffer a. little more for a redistribution of political and economic power. 
The third part of the statement deals with· bank investments and loans. The University would not in­vest in banks that make or renew loans to •the South African. govern­ment, which would constitute a di­rect support of. apartheid policies. This also includes banks that ''re­fuse to disclose whether or not they are doing so." 
.. Implementation of the stat~ment's policies would entail informing the managements of portfolio companies of the policy and reviewing the 
progress of the portfolio companies 
in their adherence to it. "The first 
step is to influence companies to.. 
make commitments to racial pro­
gress and equal opportunity,'' ex­
plained Zang. "The second step for 
investors is to check up on the com­
panies to see that they are fulfilling 
their promises." 
Walshe noted <that enforcement 

and vigilance would be difficult for two reasons. "There is legislation in South Africa that requires any cor­poration to produce whatever ·the government wants if the govern~ ment asks for it, so the corpora­tions are, in the end, at the mercy of the government,'' he commented. "New • legislation was passed last month;" Walshe added, "making it illegal to' pass on racial progress information. New York offices can · relate the information, but the new law makes both vigilance and . en­forcement of the policy that_ much· 
more difficult." · ..· · 
Walshe also believes that one pol­

icy statement is not. adequate. "The 
situation in South Africa is fluid 
and changing," he said. "There 
should be constant revision by the 
Board of Trustees in consultation 
with students and faculty." O 
Perspecti'7e 

The housing office has a problem. There are too many students. 
Everyone knows about this prob­lem by now; it's been one of the most hotly debated issues on cam­pus this semester. The juniors are especially concerned because Ed Price, the Director of Housing, has made it clear that chances are good that his problem will become their problem. The threat of , being lot­teried off campus is hanging above every junior's head, and they are not very excited about the prospect. 
Why are the juniors making such. a fuss? After all, lots of students live off campus and seem to come through the ordeal without too many permanent scars. Some . of them-lots of them-even seem to enjoy it. So what's the big deal? Well, many juniors feel that the ad~ vantages to off-campus living are simply not worth the drawbacks. Transportation· is a problem, espe­cially in the middle of the perpetual blizzard they call "winter'' here. Se­curity is a problem, perhaps not as bad as many people believe, but a problem nonetheless. Also, because social. life at Notre Dame is cen­tered arotmd dorm living, moving off campus obviously separates the student from· the community in es­sential ways. · 
. Basically, forcing students off campus. separates them from their community against their will. Such 
a. move contradicts the ideal _of a_ supportive Catholic community that 
has been espoused in the Notre Dame 
propaganda . we;ve . all seen . since senior year in high school.. Such . a separation could encumber.. the· stu­dents in their quest .. for knowledge. Somellow, . it seems. a. little . self~ . 
defeating to see the Administration of our University pushing to imple­ment a policy which will hurt the academic careers of the students-:­
Ed Price has no other answer, however. He points out that the numbers are explicit: as things stand now, there · simply are not enough beds for next year's students.· Someone has· to go, and the most likely group to do away W;ith is next year's seniors.. It's an unfortunate situation, but · there· simply is no other solution. 
Not so, says the CLC. A special · committee was appointed early in 
.the semester to study the situation .. They recently completed their study and, according to Mary Ryan, one of the committee's . members, their .r~ search indicates that a, lottery is not necessarily called· for. "At this time there are other alternatives that could be followed up/' she expiains. While none of these alternatives will solve. the problem · overnight, when accepted as a whole, they add up to a . substanUal improvement of the situation. The. CLC suggests that RA's be chosen from the ju~ niors within each hall. The CLC sug­gests that perhaps some dorms are not using available space as efficient­ly as possible ( citing as examples the basement of Lewis and the un­used dining hall at Holy Cross) and that the Administration should have this ·space re-evaluated and re­vamped so that it may accommodate more students .. The. CLC . also sug­gests that the Administration ought to . begin looking into. the housing· problem from a long-range perspec-. tive ·and that . it make off-campus living more. attractive, safe and con­venient for . the.· students.· The CLC 
by Theresa Rebeck 

even goes so far as to hint that per­haps enrollment figures should be rolled back for a · few years until this whole mess is figured out. If the CLC's simple, common-sense ap­proach . to· the whole problem is implemented, there should be no need for a lottery. 
It all comes down to one basic question: who is going to bear the brunt of this problem? If the .Ad­ministration follows up on the CLC's proposed alternatives, they are faced _with the -heartache of reexamining and revamping. existing .dorm space on campus-no small task' How­ever, if they decide to toss off the problem with a lottery, they will be imposing a massive set of worries upon students who are really no more than innocent bystanders. After all, it is not the students' fault that admissions and housing . num­bers don't match up· pro~rly. It's not the students' fault that living off campus has become.increasingly im­practical over the years. No, this situation is the result of poor plan­ning on the part of University ad­ministrators. So how is the Adminis­tration going .to . resolve the con­sequences of this poor planning? 
The Administration cannot, in all good conscience, 1.ottery st.udents off campus. Transferring the brunt of a series of administrative oversights fo the students is <totally unjust. Other alternatives· to a lottery are available; they must be examined and implemented as completely as possible . .In loco parentis works two ways... If: the Administration wants to exercise' a parent's right to regu­lat~· • our lives, it must also assume a parent's obligation· to care for its 
. children. O · · · 

Where Passion and Precision Have Been One 
Hour"should tlie world be luckier i/ 
· this house, · Where · passion and precision hji,ve 
been··one 

Time out of mind, became too· 
ruinous .To breed the lidless eye that roves 
the sun? 
· .2..w. ·B. Yeats 

. For many people, the Unive~ity of Notre Dame is "that· school some­where·• in. the Midwest where they play a lot of football." The football achievements here outshine the aca­demic ones. During the past twenty years there has been a move to create a strong University program which will encourage the mind, and not just the body. This move needs to be ever more encouraged, for it 
is ever. more difficult to realize; it in~orporates the academic life of the students, and perhaps rnore ini~ portantly, the intellectual. life of tlie students. · · · . The Business School has planted its roots at the University, and.be-: cause of constant and conscientious care, .is beginning to · flower. The· School of· Science is thriving,_ as.is Engineering. The Arts and Letters School, precisely_ ' because of . · it:s . sometimes elusive nature, . needs to be ever more carefully nourished. The University· has engendered growth in the liberal and fine arts: it must now support, reassure, and enliven the program. The new art gallery, presently under · construc­tion, is testimony to the· University's 
· interest in the work of established 
by T. Peter O'Brien 

artists and masters. The work·of the present student: body, however, must: also be encouraged. . . . . •. 
The Old Fieldhouse. symbolizes for many students and faculty the spirit ·of the fine arts: tlie energy; the· enthusiasm,•• tlie .. spontaneity: . The· building has its problems; The roof leaks. The plumbing/ such as it •. exists, . is· deplorable. Year by _year, the brickwork becomei£·weaker and aestheticaUy'less ·pleasing. ·And yet, and yet,· the · building . means something. Its voice sometimes fal­ters, but is clear nonetheless: there must be a place for the fine. arts on this campus. Not until the roots of the finer arts have gripped tena­ciously the dirt of this campus should there even be a consideration to rip down the Fieldhouse. Yet if 
9 

things go according to plan, the building will be demolished within two years. Right now construction is going on behind the Engineering building. When that new building is completed, the Chemical Engineer­ing department will move in, and . the Art Department will take over the Chemical Engineering's old building. 
In 1968 there was talk of ripping down the Old Fieldhouse. In 1969 the "Save the Fieldhouse Cam­paign" materialized. Professor Don­ald Costello of the English depart­ment was one of the people involved with the campaign. In his words, it was ·a "nonconfrontational'' cam-· paign, marked by a "festive" eve­ning in the Fieldhouse, when stu­dents, faculty, and faculty wives got together to talk about what could be done to save the building. In the late 60's, the Fieldhouse was a sym­bol for the burgeoning interest in the arts; its informal atmosphere spawned a new vitality in the arts, according .to Costello. "Surrounded by all that great art," the group which · met that evening did not want fo see the building demolished. They sent a small delegation to Fr. Hesburgh, who soon returned to talk. with the group. When asked by Costello how long he would give them to raise money for some im­mediate repairs, Hesburgh said six months. The group raised the money. The lease on the Fieldhouse was extended. 
Since then, the · Fieldhous~ has been ignored by the Administration. It has fallen into disrepair, and it is no wonder: buildings must be con'." stantly maintained. Nine years ago the Fieldhouse could ·have been re­paired or. restored.. Now,. some say the Fieldhouse. restoration is doubt.; ful. Fr. HesJ?urgh )1a~ won by de-; fault: by his lack of support, the building .has deteriorated; by not making a decision about the Field­
-house and allowing the_ building to fall into ruin, he has tacitly stated the building shall not stand. Fr. Flanigan, head of the Art de­partment, stressed that the problem has gone from an "eyesore to-an economic" one. The Administration believes that there is now no chance to remodel or restore the building, 
curs. If the building were to stand, it must be made more accessible. One study suggests keeping the sturdy cast iron/steel frame and making the building transparent, iri a sense, recycling it, having part of · it as a greenhouse, perhaps part of it an indoor meeting place or plaza, and allowing for ·free passage through the building. ·The area could become. an arts center, rather .. than what it is now in the minds of 
and Fr. Flanigan sees the move .. many people -an eyesore. 
from the Fieldhouse to the Chemical 
Engineering building as a positive 
one: "The University has been gen­
erous to the Art Department," he 
stated.. When O'Shaughnessy Hall 
first opened in 1953, the entire Art 
Department consisted of one hall­
way on the first floor, and one pot­
tery room in the basement. Other 
groups on campus would have liked 
the Fieldhouse, stated Flanigan. The 
Art Department was fortunate to 
get it.· Yet his words were mixed 
with regret: "Nothing we move into 
will be as great as that." We would 
have had one of the premier spaces 
for fine art in the country had 
something been done eight years 
ago, he stated. , 
The Administration has made up its mind. Not all architects have. Flanigan noted that some architects believe they · can save the Field-house, some say they cannot. Pro­fessor Esrnee Bellalta of the archi­tecture department said there have been studies done each year by stu­dents in an· attempt to save the building,. or to revitalize the land whereon the. building now rests. The importance of that land is obvious: it lies between the Church/Dome buildings and the Memorial Library.' · Bellalta believes the space could be­come a "catalyst". for the area, a place·where·something common oc;. 
Another plan has been to save the western fa~ade, an architectural achievement of some note, and either keep it as an archway; or as the backdrop for an outdoor theatre. The fa~ade could also be placed on rollers (a task not as ~pensive as it seems) and moved to what is now the north side of the Fieldhouse. If the Fieldhouse is ripped down, the north quad is no longer a quad.' The fa~de could be that fourth side which was ripped down. . 
If the Fieldhouse is torn down, there will certainly be a psycho­logical rebound. The building has 75,000 square feet, and its ceiling is not.restrictive to even very large 
· sculpture work. The new facility to which the Art Department would move is 50,000 square feet. Projects which could only· be built· in the Fieldhouse (such as the thirty-foot boat built several years ago) could never get past the paperwork stage in the new facility. One of the ad­vantages of the Fieldhouse is that it is available twenty-four .hours a day, an availability the new facility would most likely not be able to duplicate. . .. 
Space, and more space. The Field­house offers the Notre Dame art students something desired in any creative . ·.· undertaking.. ' Flanigan stated visiting artists say we _hav_~ 
c.. 

"potentially one of the· best art spaces in -the country." They say, "preserve it." Flan_igan mentioned many other schools that have noth­ing approximating the space in the Fieldhouse: Such space could not be economically constructed today. Room to create, to explore, is so in­extricably a part of the artistic process. 
· Notre Dame has finally begun to establish a reputation for ·fine art. Each summer, owing 'to the enthusi­asm of Notre Dame ceramicist Wil­liam Kremer, the University holds a ceramic workshop.· The program is just now achieving some respect for the· University's · Art Depart~ ment. To assume the enthusiasm and ·spirit of 'the workshop could be transferred 'from the spacious Field-house to the more hermetic Chem~ ical Engineering building may be too presumptuous. 

If there is to be a change for the Art Department; that change should be a positive -one. The Art Depart­ment's move must be an improve­ment on the present situation. To regress from the state now achieved would be ludicrous. 
· If the Fieldhouse is to be de­molished, what is to go in its place: a parking lot, a grass field, a -prom­enade? The students and faculty should certainly have the right to know the plans. The Administration need not and should not have . a group of students and faculty on each of its research boards, but it should be willing to let the students and faculty know what de'.cisions it has come to. The students and fac-· ulty should be allowed responsible communication with the Administra­tion. A non visible -decision~making board fosters little maturity. 
-The University finds itself at an educational crossroad. The sports and sciences have always been en­couraged. In recent years the Busi­ness Department and Engineering Department have become more sig­nificant. Now is the time when the intellectual, critical, and artistic-life of the students needs not only to be encouraged, but nourished with commitment. O 
T. Peter O'Brien, a senior English major, is -the ·student ·assistant for the Committee on Academic .Pre>­gress. He spent last year in Ire"land. 
Senior-Fellow: A Quest for a Guest 
To say that Notre Dame has a few traditions would be like, saying the Vatican has a few priests. Let's face it, this place wrote the book on traditions. They range from Of­ficer Tim McCarthy's weekly traffic puns to the 10:45 a.m. Sunday Mass bells. As typical creatures of habit, we follow traditions. We rarely question why they -exist, or_ why ·we honor the~. 
Certain groups have certain tradi-_ tions and the senior class is a good example -of -this. _ _They've been through hell, high water, _and more finals. than anybody else. ,They are the ones who sport the collegiate battle scars. It is only natural that the • senior class enjoy their own traditions such as the Death March, Senior Week, and Senior Fellow. 
Senior Fellow, in -particular, is viewed in some circles as an all­encompassing embodiment of the so­called "class spirit.'-' It is the only unifying. representative figure with which the class -can identify. Or is 

It? ­At the risk of sounding like Tom Snyder, we are driven to ask "Why a Senior Fellow at all?," Megaprag­matists argue that in any type of selecUon process .for .an honorary title, there will always be a substan­-tial number of people who are ada­mantly indifferent. Thus, any hope for a representative figure is nil at best. Why, then, should anyone even bother? The· answer to this evolved through, you guessed it, tradition. The concept of Senior Fellow derived from what was originally known as 
the Patriot of the Year Award (see Scholastic Vol. 117, No. 9, Feb. 20, 1976). Inaugurated in 1945, the Pa­triot of the Year Award was be­stowed upon "an outstanding Ameri­can". and · conferred -annually on Washington's birthday. The first re­cipient was FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. The subsequent list of recip­ients was impressive and included such _notables as Bishop_ Fulton Sheen, John Glenn, Sen. John F. Kennedy, Vice ~resident Richard Nixon, and Bob Hope. 
In time, however, the premise for Patriot of the Year was changed. The year 1969 marked the birthof the modern Senior Fellow concept at Notre Dame. Following the model of Yale University's __ Club Fellowship, the Senior Fellow was designed to be just that-a .fellow, someone who would be part of the_ class for a few days. In a March 7, ,1969, editorial, the Observer commended the new concept as one which "surpasses that of .the fortunately defunct anachro­nistic Patriot of the Year Award. In past years, _seniors _ voted -from among several nominees for their choice, although their first choice was often. not the -eventual winner. Whoever would come here on Wash­i~gton's Birthday was invited to be the Patriot." Sound familiar? 
In. any event, then-Senior Fellow Committee Co-Chairman Chuck She:!dy attempted to justify the new format by stating: "The person nominated should be one who can contribute to the intellectual or social life at ND through vital discussion and by his presence on campus. The 
by Paul _Peralta 

emphasis is not on the Fellow being a patriot, but someone who can offer ND something." 
With this criteria, the Senior Fel­low Committee-chose as the first FeHow Senator Eugene McCarthy. The selection was immensely popular with the class and student body as a ·whole. Three -thousand -students packed Stepan Center to listen to Sen. McCarthy's address. 
-Almost a decade has since passed and yet ·the reasons for/ electing a Senior Fellow have -changed ·very little. Present -Senior-. Fellow Co­Chairman Tom Mielenhausen _reiter­-ates the need for a figure to -per­-sonify the senior class _spirit: "We need the experience of a Senior Class Fellow. Our whole idea is to_ have someone whom we _can. get some words from ... some message from the person whom we as a class chose to embody what we see as~ our char­acteristics_ and qualities."_ . : ­The ''characteristics and qualities" Mielenhausen refers-to. are, the cri­teria used ·to . select the Senior Fel­low. They state thatthe Senior Fel­low must 1) demonstrate.. personal qualities of unselfishness and fellow­ship, 2) have made a significant con­tribution to society, 3) be outstand­ing_ in his _or her vocation, and 4) typify the spirit of the dass of '79. Within these guidelines, the pres­ent Senior Fellow Committee, com­prised of twelve interested seniors, set out to narrow down a list of more than two hundred candidates nomi­nated earlier this year. The chore of screening nominees was facilitated somewhat with the usual amount of 
-. SCHOLASTIC 


·fioni these-letters give the committee an indication of · who can be con­sidered and who cannot. Because the 
· Senior Fellow Committee Budget is limited to providing only transpor­tation and accommodation costs, the most popular nominees are some­times ruled out. A classic example of economics dominating over de­mocracy. 
This was the case last year as the Class of '78 "chose" Senator Richard Lugar, when in fact one of the most popular . nominees was Steve Martin. Lugar was quite low on the list of preferences but he was also the "most available." As a consequence, only a handful of seniors attended his speech at Senior Bar. · 
In· this year's balloting, a . name most likely to appear as a forerunner is that of John Belushi. There are those who question such a person­ality's fulfillment of the four cri­teria for Fellow. After all, who can justify his claim to "qualities of unselfishness and fellowship"? Ap­parently, substantial senior class sup­port was enough to justify those qualities. In this sense,. there is a certain degree of representativeness.
Gary Fair and Tom Mielenhausen 
Mielenhausen concedes, "If Belushi joke candidates such as Adolf Hitler, similarity of opinion within the com-gets ·the most votes, it ·may be pos­Donald Duck, and Idi Amin Dada. mittee. But even with such safe-sible that some people take _the vot­According to Mielenhausen, the not-guards, weren't. there_ some worthy ·ing seriously and judge him to be the so-well-known nominees were re-candidates who just didn't make it . best choice. The Senior Fellow Com-· searched as much as possible to see because of oversight or lack of sub-. . mittee can't second-guess· these peo­if they met the required criteria. In stantial voter support? pie: We have to respect everyone's the final analysis/ the committee Mielenhausen and Co-Chairman · opinion." . decided if the . requirements were Gary Fair held · a Senior Fellow The system for choosing Senior met and, as a result, they came up Forum to insure against any such Fellow, although often lacking any with an _initial list of twenty-five omission. States Mielenhausen: "The representative semblance, is also nominees. But what about arbitrari-idea was to get feedback from in-hampered by financial limitations. To ness? Is selection a matter of com~ terested seniors who might have felt -_. change the procedure to honorary mittee opinion as to who's a valid their candidates were slighted. If bestowal in absentia would destroy candidate and who's not? ·• their merits _were brought to light, the concept of a Fellow. What could 
Committee member .Tim Cisar . then their names would. be added to · possibly be done to salvage the value stated that "in a sense, selection of the list." The forum resulted in an of Senior Fellow? the final nominee list is arbitrary · additional five names to the existing · There's no clear-cut answer to this, because the committee must evaluate . list. of twenty-five nominees. but a step in the right direction their (the nominees') respective The Class of '79 now has· thirty might be for the class to give careful merits as we see them. At the same _candidates from which to choose a consideration to the nominees. That time it's not arbitrary because the Senior Fellow. Ironically, the selec-way, the award could take on· more guidelines are followed as closely as tion procedure at this point resembles meaning. As it stands now, there is possible." Mielenhausen added that · the system so severely criticized be-· unquestionably some indifference in the possibility of arbitrariness is di-fore in that the nominee receiving -the voting. minished simply by the way the coni~ the most votes.may not be the even-Another answer might be to have mittee was put together. "We put tual winner. As before,'. the key is the Senior Fellow Committee Budget the word out at the beginning of the availability. · . · . .·-· . enlarged. The chances for a "true" year for all those interested in work-Letters are sent to each of the choice actually accepting the award ing on Senior Fellow. What we got thirty nominees inquiring as to their would be greater. Until such changes was a group of interested people availability (i;e;, ability to come to come about, however, the obligation who volunteered to work and · wlio ND during senior festivities in the is with the class; they make Senior were not hand-picked." In short, spring) and his/her willingness to Fellow as meaningful as tney want there was apparently no previous waive an appearance fee. Replies him to be. D 
Gallery 

FACES AND FACADES 



On the Existence 
In this age of commercialism, . 5). The glass of milk is empty and skepticism, and general unconcern the cookies are gone. , . for matters of which we have no 6) There are no doors swinging i true need, it has come to my atten­open, no lights left on, and no ·food k ·· tion that some people do not believe or beer gone from the refrigerator, 1 {. ,·in Santa Claus. Yes, Santa Claus. so one knows that his/her relatives f,. _ You know, the robust, white:,beard­did not stop by. ed, jolly fellow that abides at the 7) Therefore, someone had to de-l 
L
North Pole and makes an annual liver these Christmas presents and f visit on Christmas Eve to all the no one imaginable is this generous. F-·.• homes, delivering precious gifts and Except for Santa Claus. Upon ex-, good tidings. Yes, that Santa Claus. amination, one will find the same [ · ·­I find it ridiculous that people are pattern of activity has occurred not !· losing their faith in this once. well­only. throughout the neighborhood, ·. / accepted and very kind old man. So, but throughout the whole land. This· i .: . in keeping with the academic at­is more than a conspiracy; it is a -[ mosphere of Notre Dame du Lac,·1 movement ' instituted by some F would like to pose a few arguments strange cult or clan. Odds are, this k. that prove, ontologically, cosmo­welcome event is the work of the logically, teleologically, · _morpho­infamous . Santa. Claus. and . his band logically and totally illogically, the of merry elves. Yes, elves! existence of Santa Clause .. 
. . 

First, the basics : If that argument was not per­suasive enough, or if anyone ques­
1) On ·Christmas Eve, there ex-tions its validity, sit tight, there's ists in many homes a .Christmas more. When we deal in matters of tree, around which nothing is pres-extreme importance, it is more than ­ent. · necessary to be thorough. So onto­
2) Most, if not all, families retire logically speaking:·_ . to bed early on Christmas Eve with 1) It is conceivable that God. is visions of toys, turkey and Dallas the greatest being.· · · . t vs. Los Angeles dancing in their 2) It is also con~eivable that i·: heads. Howard ·Hughes .was _the· richest· 1-{::_ 
lef~)si!:;•o:~~ ~t~h;~o=~~e ::.· . pe;~o~:~;ep:p~:e~l~:·that Santa f?·r:._·_• fore the family retires. Claus is the most generous and jol-I "';;·.:) 
4) When the family awakens the . liest person, so, for simplicity's sake, L ·,·'.··_;/_.
t ..· ... : 
next morning, brightly colored gifts we shall say that it is conceivable ;:,w,r.
t.':_::·­
occupy the previously barren area that Santa Claus is the ntcest per-beneath the tree. son ever. 
16 

of Sarita Claus 

4) And something can be thought to exist that cannot be thought not to exist. Hence, if that-than-which­a-nicer~cannot-be-thought . <!an be thought not to exist, .then that-than­which-a-nicer-cannot-be-thought .. is not the same as that-than-which-a­nicer-cannot-be-thought, which is undeniably absurd. Something-than­which-a-nicer-cannot-be-thought· ex­ists so truly then, that it cannot be even thought not to exist .. So, Santa lives! 
·. If that one did not work, you may 
be a lost cause, or you may have 
gotten .lost in the last clause, but re­
gardless, Santa· Claus · exists. Even 
the·•Ebenezer Scrooges. of· the. world 
have made me come to that conclu­
sion. Recently, .I asked some well­
read, and knowledgeable nonbeliev.;. 
ers about the red-suited fellows who 
inhabit the shopping malls in . De­
cember. "Are · they · not Santa 
Claus?" I asked. -Whereupon, I was 
told, "No, those guys are fakes." 
Thus, it became.evident that there· 
actually does exist · a Santa __Claus 
because if these . men were fakes, 
they must be faking or imitating 
something.. And. _that something 
must be ·Santa Claus. • Thus, we de-· 
riye the real from .the. imitation. 
Santa Claus exists. 
, If-you question -the logic of the argumentation thus far, do not .be disappointed, .. because we are faced with the same problem. It is a very . difficult task to prove the existence. 
by Dave Satterfield 

of a man, as beautiful as Santa 
Claus. Hell, Descartes had trouble 
proving he himself existed. But 
where, then, did this notion of Sarita 
Claus begin? And isn't it silly to 
try to nourish .the myth, to try 
to keep it alive, especially in today's 
commercial world? Where does one · 
look for answers? 
As for myself, I looked around 
and found the answers were righ( in front of me. I saw my parents working long hours to put four sons through college and keeping three younger children happy, all the while caring. for each_ other. I saw students working at Logan Center, students helping other students in difficult situations. I saw professors giving solid advice and best friends buying beer and typing papers for each other. I, saw priests and min­isters offering guidance to people of their community. I had heard of administrators .that· actually cared for the needs and desires of their students. I saw people trying to make Jesus Christ's birth special to all people, not just . themselves. I saw people in love and people -who . cared and people who gave. That. is where. I found Santa. Claus. And I am . totally , convinced .. that, yes, Notre Dame, there is a Santa Claus. 
Let's do our best to keep. him alive. ­
For everyone. D 
Book Review 

by Elizabeth Donovan and Kathy Ryan 
The Non-Runner's Book, 'by Vic 
Ziegel and Lewis Go'filberg. 114 pages, $2.95. Macmillan Publishing Co., Inc., 1918. 
Question: On a brisk winter morning would you rather: 
A) leap from bed, don your ever­ready running suit, and sprint around the lakes, or 
B) crawl from bed, have a dough­nut, and crawl right back under the sheets? If B is your answer, The Non-Run­ner's Book is for you. ' America. is 

· currently plagued by an epidemic of running fever. -Intimidating words like "shinsplints,'' "carbo-loading," and "Adidas" have crept into the vernacular, making the non-runner self-conscious -of his sedentary yet pleasant ways. The Non-Runner's Book "offers advice and reassurance for the millions of Americans who want to know 'Is it all right if I don't run?' " ­
Non-running, according to the 

·authors, is a ·sport gradually· mas~ tered ·through · a non-vigorous . pro­gram which includes "weight train­ing". and "groan exercises." Diet is ever so important: special rules ("Keep a flashlight by yourrefrigera­tor") guarantee success Jor the non­-runner. Non-running is also a philos~ ophy, away of life leading to an in-. creased : awareness of·_ the total be­
. ing-"I sit, therefore, I am." The confirmed non-runner prefers nap~ ping t<>' jogging, ·.reading to speed­ing. "Theirs is the spirit of the gla­cier..Baby ducks are not frightened by their passing. They are non-run­ners." . ' 
While delivering a quick one-two to the jogging craze, the book also lays bare the silliness of all fads em­braced so . quickly and so seriously by Americans> Zen Buddhism, yo­gurt diets, and coping-with-stress analysts are-sitting· ducks for the · authors. 
The Non-Runner's Book is well 

-written -and highly entertaining, a good read after a heavy meal. For · anyone who can't understand your _aversion to twilight jogging, this book -would be-the ideal Christmas present. Non-run· to your nearest bookstore. Better yet, phone in the order. 

-Elizabeth, Donovan 

In Search of History, A Personal Adventure,· by Theodore H. White, New York,. Harper & Row, $1!.95, 561 pages. 
. The extremely self-conscious and indulgent opening must . be over­looked: Theodore White needs to ex­plain to his ·readers and to himself why In Search, of History is not The Making of. the President •1916. From the war correspondent in China dur­ing the Second World ·War, to the global reporter for the 1Joston Globe, then Harry Luce's Time magazine, then· Henry Wallace's New Republic, to the Pulitzer Prize winner of 1960 for the first installment in the series The Making of the President; the protagonist of the narrative's search has displayed too much continuity for the reversal which constitutes the newest· book; · Before reflection, ex­planation. After years on the cam­, paign trail,· White reconsiders pur­poses and achievements in the chron­icle of ·American history which he has constructed, -and in the advent of one more, similarly observed; sinii~ larly constructed chronicle'; he read­
justs his aims: · The thought crept in: i~ ,.was. probably more-useful to go back than to go on. It wa~ just faintly possible he" might learn more from what he has left out of his . forty years of reporting than to go on and add more observation. 
In. Search of Histori/then b~omes, not more, or niere, observation, but the anecdotes, opinions, intuitions aml convictions left unsaid through­out White's years of reporting. In the same lucid style, the same ap­pealing prose which "reports_" the events of the eras he, served, White exposes'the."diaries of a swift jour_­ney" which carried him from Jewish · , South Boston via the Chinese main-··· land to ·the editorial twenty-ninth · floor of the Time-Life Building. Along the route, there are political ; . personalities, sketched with · color . and precision: Douglas MacArthur ("He paced arid roared and pointed and pounded and stabbed with his cigar."), Mao Tse-turig (".. ·. those 
. who play with fire ought to be care­ful. ..."), Chiang Kai-shek ("His suc~ess is in utilizing all the contra­dictions .in his country to his own ends."), and Chou En-lai (".. ; he won my affection completely..."). No less fascinating is the implicit literary history, and its cast of char~ acters, among them the two editors of the.age, Harry Luce of Time ("He made instant history of the mosaic fragments of his choice.") and Henry·· 
SCHOLASTIC 

Wallace of The New Republic ("He was a self-intoxicated man with.but two subjects of conversation: botan­ical genetics and himself")... In the dramatic search for history, White captures the play of, politics and media in his informed profession­alism. 
· The narrative is interestingly varied: it encompasses linguistic dis­cussions on the translation of "lib­erty" and "democracy" into literal and colloquial Chinese, obvious ideo­logical bitterness about the American attitude toward the Chinese, and a somewhat moving, if not melodra­matic, .apology for White's own colored idealism about the· Camelot Kennedy, years. White's reversal in subject· combines cultural, personal, historical · and . political fibers con­necting the America of his years as witness; he refused to write one more Making of -the President for better reasons than this -espousal, however. The motive and the lesson-. of ·In Search of History is, finally, a his­torical one, and it admits of the changes which happen in history and in historical perspective. For White, the election of 1976 narrates a new kind of history, where his perspec­tive is inappropriate. Before ap­proaching that new perspective, the "break in narratives," White seeks to expose his credentials: In Search of History, then, becomes a stylish and, fascinating resume._ .. 
Son of the Morning, by Joyce Carol Oates, New York, Vanguard Press, 382 pages, $10.00. 
The opening of Son of the Morning cannot be overlooked. The prayerful and. penitential impulse of the pas­sage is guised in language which is flagrant, vain and icresponsible. Oates seeks to communicate an ob­vious religious impulse, in character and in artist: the publisher's trans­lation is a narrative "rise and fall of a modern Lucifer." The novel chron­icles in· cliche the birth ( conception by rape) of a male child, Nathanial, to an ignorant young Southern girl. The "story" traces, ever so loosely, the .'.'seven revelations .of extraordi­nary magnitude" made to Nathanial, growing evangelist. The circum­stances and accounts become less and less reasonable· as the religious im­pulse becomes lost, both by character and by writer, in language and imag-
DECEMBER 8, 1978 
ery which is both dense and vague. 
Son of the Morning is not tragedy, but insofar as it represents the failures of the talented artist and the abuse of a rich imaginative situation, it is pathos. The crime committed by Oates begs conviction on two counts. There is a real situation here, a potentially fine novel, given the religious experience at issue, cer­tainly an experience of our time. In addition, there are powerful stylistic tools employed, tools with potential, tools like narration independent of sequential time, lapses into metaphor and poetic prose, allusion and refer­ence to meaningful Biblical influence. But both situation and style are per­verted. The lapses are poeticized, not poetic. The portrait of the evangelist is neither sympathetic nor antago­nistic. Indeed, little effort is made to represent character or situation; Oates exploits both, doing a disser­vice to an imaginative concept and to her own artistry. 
Ezra Pound always applied style as the test of sincerity. The languid, elusive, uncontrolled prose/poetry of Son in the Morning suggests an un­refined sense of subject. Oates' deci­sion on matters of religious experi­ence is still unclear; her talents of illumination become powers of illu­sion. D ­
-Kathy Ryan 


Some friends and I were driving 
and frog's legs $6.25). The decor is around town a few weeks ago. when completely done in green and white all of a sudden I had a, munchie and gives the restaurant a · unique attack for Mexican food. Then I'm atmosphere. not sure what happened; the next ·For those of you who really like thing I remember is waking up a~ chicken, The Skillet at McKinley and the Hacienda feasting on their Ironwood is well· worth the visit. Nachos Fiesta. For .those of you who Open for dinner ·Tuesday through don't know what that is, imagine a Saturday and from 11 a.m. to 3:30 plate of crisp corn .chips topped with p.m. on Sunday,.this warm and cozy the Hacienda's special sauce, beef, family restaurant is renowned for refried beans, tomatoes, mountains .its "broasted" chicken. All items can of melted cheese, jalapeno peppers, be prepared for carryout and the sour cream, and good ol' guacamole! prices are reasonable, only $2.99 for Oh baby, was it ever good!· a chicken dinner including potato, 
I was here at Notre Dame just a cole slaw, cranberry-apple relish, roll, few days before I realized that eat­and after-dinner mints. ing off campus is both a break from If you're a meat and potatoes per­the dining hall and an adventure. It son, head for the Thunderbird Res-soon became second nature to· stop .taurant on East McKinley. Dinners at Dainty Maid whenever I was range from $4-$8 and include soup, downtown, or to head for Tiffany's salad, and choice of potato. The 
while shopping at Scottsdale Mall. servings·are hearty and there's -even Then this year, while contemplating a salad. bar for all you veggie fans. where to ·eat during October Break Although the atmosphere isn't spec­(I'm one of the few people who like tacular, you're guaranteed .to get· a 
_Yon· Deserve a Steak.. Today .. 
to stay here that week), I decided ·to explore South Bend's and Mish­awaka's inexpensive restaurants. My findings •. have not only given me a nice winter padding. on my waistline, but have also shown me the large. 
·variety of colorful and inexpensive restaurarits the area offers. If such natural delights as alfalfa sprouts, sunflower seeds, arid herbal 
·teas tickle your palate, then the Cornucopia, in the River Bend Plaza, is the place for you. Open from 10 a.m. to.·. 9 ." p.m. Monday ·. through -Saturday, this . reasonably priced natural foods _restaurant serves an array of tasty omelettes, salads, sandwiches;_ and beverages. Home­made desserts include such "natu­
·rals" as coconut carob chip cake and buttermilk-glazed pineapple carrot cake. It's a pleasant place for lunch· or a light dinner. Also in the downtown area on West Washington is the Soup .,'R Sandwich, a clean little · cafeteria 
. offering _a basic breakfast and lunch . 
· ment1 .. Although reasonably priced, the restaurant lacks a cozy comfort­able atmosphere. Up towards cam­pus, next to· the Memorial Hospital, 
·is. the DeLuxe Sandwich Shop. This . three-booth homeyrestaurant opened 
in 1942 and boasts along with its 
breakfast menu (including bagels), 
an assortment of inexpensive sand­
wiches. Although the place is tiny, 
it has a lot of character. and the 
prices couldn't be better; only 45¢ 
for a grilled cheese. 
If you're on a budget and want to 

fiU up, try the_ Come & Dine, an 
Amish restaurant on East Jefferson 
in Mishawaka. For $2.95 you can 
help yourself to the buffet lunch, in­
eluding two soups, two meat dishes, 
vegetables, over thirty selections at 
the salad bar (with such goodies as 
melon balls, crocks of cheese, and 
toffee-coated peanuts), homemade 
bread with apple butter, and pudding 
for dessert.· A stream running 
through the restaurant adds to the 
relaxing country atmosphere. Dinner 
starts at four and includes the buf­
fet, steak, and seafood. · Besides : these restaurants noted primarily for lunches, South Bend has some fantastic places to eat ·dinner. Among these places is the Mint Julep on East Washington. The biscuits and ·cornbread are made fresh daily as are the coleslaw and potato salad. The dinner menu, along with a salad bar, includes s_uch delec­tables as seafood crepes ($8.95) 
by Molly Mclaughlin 

good. meal. , Lee's BBQ on South Bend Avenue, one block easfof Eddy, has become 
·the haven for barbecue lovers. The most popular item is the barbecued beef although the two-room restau~ rant also serves barbecued· chicken, pork, seafood and, of course, foam­ing pitchers. . An average dinner costs· about $4, and there's "always more than you· can eat," says Tom Beverly, a Lee's regular. So if bar­becue · is your.· idea of a good · meal, head on down. 
Something else I realized over October Break was that South Bend's ethnic restaurants are just ·waiting to be discovered. ·They offer not only great food but a cultural experience. The China Garden on South" Mich­igan ·offers an extensive selection of northern·-Chinese and Cantonese food. ·This one-room casual restau­rant is, according to Emil T. Hof­man, "one of the best inexpensive restaurants in town." The China Garden is open for lunch and dinner Monday ·through Saturday; · dinners average about $5.' 
If . dishes ·such as sauerbraten, knackwurst; hot potato safad; and German chocolate cake invite you. to refill .your stein, then the Hans Haus 
. SCHOLASTIC 

on South Michigan is for yoti. This fine· Italian restaurant. Dinners, in­
German restaurant has a variety of eluding such entrees as fettuccine 
reasonably priced lunches and din-and chicken cacciatore along with 
ners, some under" $3. American-style . American and seafood courses, range 
beef, pork, and_ seafood are also from $4-$8. There is also a salad 
served. With flowers on every table, bar and a variety of Italian coffees 
paintings on the walls, hanging are served. This candlelit restaurant, 
plants, and display cases of hand-with its wrought-iron tables and 
painted ceramics, you'll be convinced chairs, is open Monday through 
the food isn't the only nice thing Saturday 11 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. 
about this restaurant. Anastasio's on South Main is one 
For anyone looking for a real Hun-of South Bend's more prestigious 
garian.treat, try the Budapest Night. dining. spots. _Open for lunch and 
Located on Prairie Avenue, this one-dinner ·Monday through Saturday, 
room music-filled restaurant has not this restaurant· has, in addition to 
only reasonable prices and daily spe-: its house specialties, pasta and classic 
cials, running under $4, but some of . entrees, a salad bar, hot hors 
the best· fresh homemade . desserts _ d'ouevres and house gourmet buffet. 
ever. Made daily by the Hungarian-_ Dinners average around $8.00. Anas­
born owners Albert and Helen · tasio's brick floors, red tablecloths, 
K'.ovacs, such goodies include a· plants, statues, pictures, photo­
zserbo, a six-layer torte. Alternated · graphs, fireplaces, -and . running 
between layer after layer of butter stream complete with bridge, create 
dough, a filling, mixture _of_ chopped. _ a truly romantic atmosphere, great 
apricots, nuts and sugar'_"is topped for a date. After 11 at night,-sand­
with chocolate· and waiting to be. wiches -($2.00) and pizza ($3.50), 
eaten. Other -desserts include piskota, _ made : with ·either a. thin or thick 
(a vanilla cake with apricot cream crust and imported cheese, can _be 
and English walnuts), and apricot ordered. It's definitely a place worth 
squares. Open for dinner Tuesday saving up for. 
through Saturday, · the restaurant Other high class restaurants such 
serves, besides Hungarian specialties, as the Albert Pick and the Quality 
beef and seafood. Inn offer _Sunday brunch_es worth 
About forty minutes southeast of biting into. A champagne brunch at _ 
South Bend in a town called Nap~ the Ice House costs $5.95 and offers 
panee, lies a historic and_ nostalgic a buffet of roast beef, sallsbury steak, 
place called Amish Acres. For $6.50 sausage, bacon, eggs, fresh melon 
you can feast on ~ountless helpings salad, bagels, muffins, coffee cake, · 
of thick bean soup, homemade bread, : and; of course, champagne._It's a nice 
cabbage salad, green beans, noodles, _· place : for when the folks are here 
mashed potatoes soaking in butter, and Dad's paying. 
~age stuffing, cider-baked ham, roast But don't think you hav~ to wait _ turkey, and crocks of sweet yellow until your parents visit to get a good 
butter and thick apple butter. To ··-·· ---·-·· -·· · · ··· 
_·<:..~:-.~-.i l 

top it off, if there's still room, are 
tins of pies, such .as apple, cherry, , 
pumpkin, mincemeat, arid. rhubarb," . -··: ;.,i:. 
along with vanilla date pudding~ 
Amish-Acres is the place everyone _ , __ ,_ . 
should ,go_ -at least once. My only :· I::.. 
advice is to go when really hungry._ _,,. . ... 
1 
The South Bend area has· a Jarge 

number of_ authentic Italian restau­
rants, tlie·oldest being··sunny Italy 
Cafe on Niles Avenue. Serving rea­
sonably . priced Italian specialties 
along with some_ .American dinners, ­
the_ family owned~and~operated ca.fe 
with. its red-checked -tablecloths, 
fresh flowers, and Italian music, 
creates a cozy and inviting place to 
-dine. · 
The Villa Capri, on Ironwood at the intersection of Edison, is ·another ­
DECEMBER 8, 1978 
deal; numerous restaurants serve daily specials. One of my favorites is the Golden ·Bear Wedliesday night pancake special Although I've had tastier pancakes, it's fun to go and 95¢ is always a good deal for a dinner. Shakey's Pizza Parlors offer an all-you-can-eat special ($2.40) of fried chicken, spaghetti, pizza, fried potatoes, and salad during lunchtime · Monday through Friday and for dinner Monday through Wednesday. This is a great inexpensive way to eat out. 
Bill Knapp's on Highway 31 has $2.95 specials Monday through Thursday which include besides the entree, a choice of two accompani­ments and fantastic buttered biscuits served with honey. Also on 31 is Bennitt's Buffet serving a variety of salads, vegetables, and meats. This smorgasbord · offers a good price ($3.65) although the atmosphere re­minds me of the dining hall. 
Even though I realize there'are so ma~y restaurants I haven't · even mentioned, those in. Michigan and numerous others, I hope I have at least . introduced · you -to one, new place. South Bend and Mishawaka' really do have good places to eat. So the next time you have a case of the Saga slumps, a few extra dollars, or the urge to discover the unknown,­go try a new restaurant, it's fun! D 
Molly McLaughlin•, is a -junior American Studies, major from Santa 
Barbara, Oa. If alL, 'her future arti­cles· are this much fun to -research, we ·think she'll be a frequent _c~ trillutor to Scholastic. 
--,. • • ..... ; ; ~~ :-:·; : < • !;··~. : ,,,. ,._ ,_ : 
ii' '. , , -' :·_ : 
; ? . -, , •• ~. '",. ~-: . ~; 
-·~....,.. .
. _;..:.:.";'; -.:-::•: . 
.:r~. -~: '; 
Poetry 
by Chris Simony 

the room smelled of prepared fish 

and weepy boxes 
and moist tabletops. 
I thought all this a year before, 
now it made no sense; 
the way the ceiling 
pressed my breasts. 

I couldn't see the place the_ triangle pointed to 
or the dry red plane 
that nourished it.· 

I knew this was no place 
for a grey enamel doorknob, 
but kept my eyes moving to the left. 

there, two brown biscuits, 
still warm, breathless 
squeezed through a floorboard; 
incapable of witnessing 
the meeting of wall and floor, . 
that no ge_ometer's compass could measure·. 
it is grey _and all your gloves dry in the oven. 

_you must wear child's socks 
over the hands, 

and think of five fine ladies, 
their hair in knots, 

dressed in cream flannels; 
buried to the waist · · · · 
in aqua sand 

on Kukatah Desert. 
they smell of mink coat linings 
and pearl-gray broadcloth upholstery. 
a whole erotic circus, 
to trace along the jawline. 
Ordeal by Roses 
I opened the drawer on your breakfast; bran milky bran clumped on a spoon in a tupperware bowl. 
I opened the door on your afternoon collaborations, you were backed in the brick mosaic lawn. gardenhose lengths wrapped your body. 
Your shaven head crossed with black brows . 
. ' 
your eyes falling-flat blue. 
Tracing my slow circle in your face, you smiled. pain-stemmed lips and your teeth kazooed "ordeal by ros~s." 
Well! this isn't the first time You've tried to make me guilty. .. I sat on round, flat steps, smelt rose in the wells of molars ; And followed paintbrush fiber legs of ants in their trail of chemical secretions. 
palm series 

1. 
apalm tree 

· with a paper bag over its head on the window. 


2. 
a palin1tree wrapped in Miami Herald's ·art and leisure section near the divan. 


· 3. a palm tree bowling ball bagged in· a closet. · 
4. 
a palm tree in a gym bag with sneaky leaves. 

5. 
a. palm tree ina box with white string, blue tape, and wet postage. 

6. 
a palm tree in a wastepaper basket. 


who does your interior decorating, here in Florida? 
Piano Heart 

lucia plays background music . glass bow scrapes a stringy piano heart. she smashes perfumed keys with black felt scraps. "this is music?" everyone leaves the theater. 
lucia plays in the fading box, her home of ivory clapboard. my teeth are· cold castanets· to accompany her. notes scale' ledges of throat skin,· . ·· tumbleweedy hair bursts on a brown forehead; her leotard clothing a five stave stomach. 
lucia removes a licorice slipper, padding note to note; , · drawing-black line along circular mazes. · a two meter jog from piano on end stops short. she ·bends to my applauding thumb. 
Summer Sta.tic 
"hey handsome, ain't you· sumpthin'? can't you see the relationship wasn't meant to· be· snowfall?" 
examining sp3 hybrid orbitals of our love, red plastic snap-togethers configurations i don't understand. 
but let us measure the radii of our atoms, and briefly consider electron behavior; due principally to electrostatic interaction. 
"hey handsome, let us consider the situation of our electrons. measuring output, when they make the jump." 
you must be my optical isomer, maintaining opposite rotations of the plane of polarized light. 
Chris Simony i8 a second-semester senior at St. Mary's OoTlege. She i8 from Pittsl1Urgh, Pa. . 

Fiction 

It was very cold. She sat isolated among thousands of gray rocks, the sea thrashing to a mist before her. The wind tousled her hair as she stared into the misty grey nothingness. She felt nothing. She did not shiver. She did not see. She was looking but nothing was there. She couldn't even cry anymore. There was no more sorrow-only emptiness. 
Things always seemed better in the morning. But she could not move. She drifted back into herself. 
It was her first time at a bar and she felt quite uneasy with the mass of strangers milling about. She seemed to be in everyone's way yet no one paid any attention to her. Suddenly a young man sat. talking to her. She felt uneasy. He asked her if she'd like to take a walk~ She thought it sounded like a · line, but decided that's probably why she was there in the first place, so she went. , , 
They walked along the deserted path., She started leading the way. He followed. She sat down. He sat down. Nothing was said. She got up and moved·. farther along the road. He didn't move. Finally he followed and.said he had to get back.. He'd walk her home. She never saw. him again. . 
The wind was calming and _the thrashing waves became but a rhythm by. which her heart seemed to beat.. She was conscious of the blood rushing through her body. She tried to stop it, but it came at every beat of a wave on the rocks. 
It was a lavish affair-wine, dine and dancing by candlelight. Four of them were sharing a hotel room. Two men, a woman and her. As the lights were turned low, she ended up with one of the men. She tried to keep her girlish-like attitude simply holding his hand. As everyone drifted off into sleep She lay awake. staring at the pattern in the ceiling. Suddenly the · other man began screaming in his sleep. She spent · the night walking the halls. 
The sun was slipping from grey sky to the calm sea. The water barely moved along its banks. Her blood slowed to its pace. She saw nothing. She felt nothing. 
by·.Melinda Bell 

It was only in ignorance. God loved her-said so many times and in so many ways. The charismatic groups, the meetings, the singing, the ,Amen. On the way home in the car he held her hand. He convinced her. He was the one who said God loved her. He must know. He talked her onto the couch to insult her. It was in ignorance. He left her morally intact--:-a crippled child·against the world. He took God with him when he left. 
The night sky performed a velvety blue function behind the silent twinkling stars. The moon glowed over the still sea. Little ripples made the man in the moon dance to. t}:le silence. She did not see. 
The movie. The boy she had just met. He held her hand. She shared that bit of her life. ·He said it was the alcohol. He had wished her no hard:feelings. · Hard feelings? Of course not.' It was just·holding hands. 
A seagull landed in the moonlight and walked around her, seeming fo want to say·something·but iiot knowing what to say. She didn't move. She didn't see. He flew away. 
A pot to boil spaghetti in. She gave it to him 
\ . . 
with a fake smile. A romantic dinner for four. Two women, a man and him. She dosed the door behind him with that smile stuck to her lips by hot tar. She didn't cry. She went for a walk. She didn't feeL She almost wanted to be angry but couldn't..She waiked to the beach. Shefound a place isolated among the . thousands of gray rocks. · 
The stars twinkled above her. The universe was at a cheery point in its existence..The stµt was peeking its red sails into the dawn. But she could not see. 
Suddenly she. rose and walked to the still water. She took off her shoes .. Then she began to slo_~ly, . methodically remove her clothes. She walked into the icy water without.feeling the cold.· D ··· · · 
Melinda Bell is a junior in the College of. Arts and Letters from Gibson1JUrg, Ohio. 
Ten ·years ago it was easy to pick the team· to beat in college basket­ball-:-it.was always UCLA first, and the rest nowhere. Now, it is a differ­ent story. It's been three years since the Bruins returned to Westwood with the national championship ·and UCLA is only one of many favorites to claim this year's crown. The era' of one-team domination is over and this means no undefeated teams, many upsets, a few dark horses, like· UNC-Charlotte and Cal State-Ful­lertoii, and; . exciting . basketball · all around the country. These are the likely favorites to vie for the crown next March. in Salt Lake City: 
Go 
.West-~
' 
Young Men 
by Jim Trausch 

·DUKE _:_ This year, as usual, · a team from North Carolina will rule the Atlantic Coast Conference. · But it will ·· not be North Carolina or North ·Carolina ·State,: it'll be 'the Blue Devils of Duke. Coach Bill Foster returns:the solid core· of his quintet' which was runner-up-to the Wildcats of Kentucky-in st.·· Louis, 
DECEMBER 8, 1978 
and, with that kind of returning 
support, it is easy to see why Duke 
.fans are optimistic. . . . . Foster's front line is awesome and young. 6'11" junior Mike Giminski is strong. enough to battle any big man in the country and has the touch of a surgeon. 6'8" Gene Banks, only a· sophomore, was ex­citing and 'quick last year and-even more bad news for Duke opponents -he will be improved. Kenny Den­nard is ·often overshadowed by his two All-American frontcotirt mates but he is a steady player. _If teams concentrate on Giminski and Banks, Dennard will. pick up· the slack. Running the team out on the floor 
•is Jim ·Spanarkel, the best guard in the country. He contributes by scoring (20 points per game), re­
-.bounding (he is 6'5"), assists.· (five per game), and he will usually get assigned to the ··opposing· .team's .. high scorer. .The other guard spot is held down ably by John Harrell or Bob Bender. 
. The only thing that stands in Duke's way to Salt Lake City is lack of··. depth· and the conference they play in; the toughest in the country. But with this team it seems 
·likely that the Blue Devils will be · going west at year's end to claim the prize .that barely · eluded them last year. This year they might just grasp it. 
MICHIGAN STATE -Last year Big Ten Rookie of the Year Earvin '.'Magic". Johnson led State to the 
. Big Ten crown and into the NCAA tournament.· They advanced to the regional final before a·tough loss to . 
· eventual champion ··Kentucky knocked them out. of the picture. .. This year promises to be even better• 
. H~ad Coach Jud Heathcote re­turns .· all five starters . from last year's club and one of them is, of course,. Johnson. Johnson is joined by Greg Keiser in the backcourt, and they run the fast breakto perfection. They finished one-two in most of the Spartan offensive categories ·last year. Joining them are sophomore Jay Vincent, andjuniors-.Terry Don" nelly. and · Ron Charles. Together they form an imposing starting five.· The . bench .is young, featuring sophomore .shooter Mike Brkovic; freshmen· Gerald Busby. and Rob Gonzales. ·, .. 
Michigan.State breezed to a· con­ference title last year .but that:was against a Phil Hubbard-.less Michi­gan. .This year they will face· stiff competition·. from·. the ·wolverines, Minnesota, and Indiana. They· should make. the tournament anyway ~ as. conferencechamps,·or ai:i an at~large team. The tough Big Ten race ought to season 'this young team so that 
by late March "Magic" arid his. team will have. their 'act together. . . . _ 
NOTRE DAME _..Last year the Irish went further. than they've ever been· before -to' the· final· four at. St.. Louis: : Once there they .lost heartbreakers to runner-up · Duke and third-place finisher_ Arkansas,· but came ·away with experience and. 

a yen for a bigger ·share -of this year's prize. 
Richard "Digger" Phelps hasi the horses to do it. Center tandem Bill Laimbeer (6'11n, 250 -· lbs.) and Bruce, Flowers (6'9", 225 lbs) :can effectively wear down any,pivot man they face. ·Joining them in ·the · frontcourt will be any combination 
) 
of Kelly Tripuka, one of the sensa­tional freshmen of a year ago, Tracy Jackson, smooth shooting small for­ward, Orlando Woolridge, master. of the dunk, or Gil Salinas, a string-bean sophomore.· All four will re­volve in and outof the lineup during the course of a game. It is this depth that makes NotreDame click. 
At guard, returning starter Rich Branning will be joined by Stan Wil­cox, freshman Mike Mitchell, and 6'7" swingman Bill Hanzlik. · Hanz­lik, a defensive specialist who is re­membered for shutting out Butch Lee last year, will have to come through for the Irish to· insure. the depth they want at guard, because 

U.C.L.A. -UCLA, UCLA, UCLA, UCLA, UCLA, UCLA, UCLA ­
· that's the way it was in the world of college basketball in the late six­ties and early seventies. But the Alcindor-Walton-Wooden years are over, and the once unbeatable Bruins have found it tough sledding in recent times. In fact, in the last two years they have failed to:. make it past the second game of the NCAA tournament, beat Notre Dame in Pauley, or land hometown high-schoolers like Greg Goorgin, Leonel Marquetti, and Maurice jVil­Iiams..And, they now face a confer­ence challenge from hated crosstown rival USC. 
less -than awesome. Gig Sims is great when he's rested but tires by game's end as he did against Ar­kansas last year. Forward Kiki Van­deweghe is an unstoppable offen­sive threat but cannot play defense. James Wilkes plays the good "D" but the offensive part of his game is weak. Also, a UCLA trademark, a strong bench, is missing. 
The Bruins lack the outstanding depth and young stars needed to carry on the tradition. In an im­proving conference this might be their last gasp. They will_ want to go out in style. One more National Championship banner would hang nicely fro·m the rafters of the House 
,,., --~ .j 
.-()"~~.o:;.,,1-'--­... ,,,#,,,,t
·"·<': t -; -..;.;'-:-_1
: i-~ 
-~,... 

The Irish huddle up for directions to Salt Lake City. 
beyond Branning the guard· position is inexperienced. 
The road to _the finals is not :an easy one, however. The Irish face a murderous road schedule with the likes of UCLA, Villanova, Mar­quette, Kentucky, Maryland, De­Paul, Michigan, and North Carolina State. The Irish should pull their usual share of upsets on the road, drop -a , few games over Christmas vacation, . win their twenty games, and reach the final four. Once there, Phelps and his crew just might ob­tain the one honor that has eluded them so far--,-an · NCAA champion­ship; ­

But don't run out to .buy flowers for the boys from Westwood; they are not dead· yet. The . Bruins still possess the .-talent to win it all. David Greenwood, at 6'9", will join a long line. of Bruin Players of the Year at the season's end. He's the most exciting player in. the college ranks.. Ray Hamilton, Greenwood's teammate since grade school, is quick and an excellent shooter. Brad Holland, who two years ago came off the .. bench against Louisville to win the game, is finally going to get the starting job he deserves. 
It's at. the center and other·for­ward position· that the Bruins are That Wooden Built. 

KANSAS -What team, behind Kentucky, has the second most NCAA victories? UCLA? North Carolina? Notre Dame? No, sur­prisingly it's the Jayhawks of Kan­sas, and this year they should add twenty more wins to their victory column. 
Ted Owens, coach of Kansas, has one of the biggest big men in the country in· Paul Mokeski (7'1", 250 lbs.). Mokeski's problem is his in­ability to stay in games; last year he was in foul trouble in. most. He will have to curb his overly aggres­sive tendencies if Kansas is to be a contender. Mark Snow, a 6'10" fresh­man from La Mesa, California's Helix High (the same school that gave college basketball •· Bill Wal.; ton), will back up Mokeski if he gets in foul trouble. 
At the forward spots, Kansas will have to hope for improvement out of John Crawford and Booty Neal, who combined for less than five points per game -forwards are not a Jayhawk forte. 
It is at the guard spot that Kan­sas excels. Darnell Valentine led the team in scoring as a freshman and headed the Big-8 in steals. and 
·· assists. Wil Fowler joins . hini at the other guard position. Owens might aiso play freshman Tony Guy and senior Brad Sanders with Valen­tine and Fowler, giving him a four­guard attack. That will enable him to spring his pressure defense on teams 'more consistently; Kansas should · win the Big-8 crown and advance to the tourna­ment. There it will depend on how long Mokeski can stay in a game. The longer he plays the farther the Jayhawks will go. 
NORTH CAROLINA STATE _:_ Coach Norm Sloan thinks he has the talent to beat out Duke for the ACC title. No, Sloan does not also believe in Santa Claus and the 
.Easter Bunny. His Wolfpack, com~ ing. off a 21~10 NIT finalist season, does have the· ingredients to edge the Blue Devils. 
Hawkeye Whitney, leading scorer of a year ago, heads this great bunch. Kendal Pinder, Art Jones, and Tony Warren will provide the firepower in the frontcourt. · At center, Craig Watts and Glen Sud­hop will alternate: Guard Kenny Matthews, one of the few run-and­gunners, heads the backcourt. 
It will be interesting to watch how Sloan . handles his match-ups with Duke. With all the tourna­ments the ACC plays, NC State could end up playing Duke four or five times during the regular season. By March he should have a strategy devised to beat them. A word of warning for Sloan however: do not concentrate on Duke alone because North Carolina, Wake Forest, Vir­ginia, and Maryland are waiting for one slip. State could end up beating Duke while being sacked from below. 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

DECEMBER 8, 1978 
When Trojan fans. talk of Pac-10 and NCAA championships one can­not doubt the sagacity of such dis­cussions; USC leads all colleges in NCAA championships, the bulk coming in baseball, track and field, and (as we all know). football. But when USC partisans talk of a bas­ketball powerhouse, well, the listen­er usually begins to doubt their san­

David Greenwood, Bruins forward, lays one off the· glass. 
ity. Not this year. Bob Boyd's crew seems ·ready to challenge the · boys from Westwood for this year's crown. 
The Trojans boast four outstand­ing youngsters in their frontcourt. Sophomore center Cliff Robinson led the Pac-8 in scoring last year 
at 18.4 points per game. Joining 
him are sophomore Purvis Miller 
and freshman sensations Leonel 
Marquetti and Maurice Williams, 
both from former UCLA pipeline 
Ver~um Dei High School. In the 
backcourt · is 5'10" playmaker Dean 
Jones, a junior college transfer, and 
Steve Smith. Don Carofino, second-· 
team All-Pac-8, will provide depth 
at the guard position. 
Last year USC beat Duke and 
New Mexico, but lost to Illinois. In­
consistency will once again be the 
word for the Trojans..They have a 
murderous non-conference schedule 
and two games with UCLA. Their 
record may not be great, but by the 
end of the year they will have 
gained experience and be one of the 
top ten teams in the country. 
RHODE · ISLAND -Rhode Is­
land has all the ingredients to be­
come this year's Cinderella team, 
a la Cal State Fullerton -and North 
Carolina Charlotte. It's tucked away 
in our nation's tiniest· state, · does 
not receive the media attention that 
the big schools do, and, most im~ 
portantly, it has a solid basketball 
team. 
The architect at Rhode Island is 
Jack Kraft -who came from Villa­nova, where he guided them to a second-place finish in 1971. Kraft's Rams will be led by . Sylvester "Sly" Williams -a 6'7" .forward with loads · of talent and a shortage of motivation who, when he decided to play, averaged almost 20 poirits per game last year. If he can get "up" for an· the games this year his production should increas·e. Irv Chatman, at 6'8", is a steady center. Add to this 6'5" forward John Nel­. son and freshmen Jimmy Wright, Roland Houston, Mick Johnson, Vic Bertaglio, and Kevin Whiting. And, if Gilson Dejesus can adjust to col­lege basketball, Sly will have a solid 
core to play with. 
The Rams are members of the ECAC which, like Rodney Danger~ field, gets no respect. In fact, it's been a long time since a team from this section of the country, outside of Providence College, seriously challenged for an NCAA title. · The Rams might change all that. Last year they came within four seconds of eliminating Duke; this year they should be in the tournament again. If Sly Williams· can get hot they'll
'

win a few games. . 
·Review 

INTERIORS 
Poor Woody. Allen: As one of America's foremost directing tal­ents, he seems to feel that he isn't taken "seriously" enough, so he has decided to make his · first "serious" film. (Does this mean no one took Annie Hall seriously? I.think not.) The .end product of this frustration is Interiors. It's a big risk, it took guts, and it may well clear new ground for him. But it is Woody wearing his Ingmar Bergman heart on his sleeve and, at times, the heart is a bit· enlarged-it's almost as if Mr. Allen had set out to make some­one else's movie without a real grasp of the material firsthand. 
The characters include · Renata (Diane Keaton), a beautiful, intense, successful poet with thoughts of death;. Flyn (Kristin Griffith), a television actress who is talented but too beautiful to be considered for anything other • • than· Farrah Fawcett-Majors-type roles;· and Joey (Marybeth Hurt), who is as sweet and intense as Renata but who feels· unfulfilled and has the need to be (which she seems to say inter­minably) "creative." . 
Joey makes life rough for Mi­chael (Sam Waterston), the political scientist she lives with; by c:omplain.:. ing . about her inability to create. Renata, in turn, feels guilt for ·her husband, Frederick (Richard Jor­dan), since she is the successful poet and he is the frustrated novelist, ~ duced to .teaching in a college and reviewing books in the ·New ·Yark Times Book Review. . 
Finally, we come to the parents: Eve (Geraldine Page),: an interior deco.rator ·who is as fragile as the interiors _which she creates; Arthur 
(E. G. Marshall), her soft-spoken, mild-mannered husband who shatters this pastel world with his matter~of­fact announcement at breakfast one morning that he is starting a."trial separation" from his wife. And fi­nally, there is Pearl (Maureen Sta~ pleton), the· most humane charac­ter in the movie who acts .or( her heart's feelings. Pearl is a bit gauche (she wears the most colorful cloth­ing in the film) and is not particu~ larly bright. Her commonness, how­ever, is a needed contrast to the mannered stiffness of the family. 

The problem with Interiors isn't the heaviness, it's· just that the heaviness doesn't always work. Is this perhaps Woody Allen's ic!ea (or fantasy) of the WASP domestic scene,· of native American affluence gone awry? (Although a full-blooded WASP on my father's side of the family, none of the discussions around our dinner table ever re­sembled any I saw in Interiors.) · This is where Allen tries hardest and succeeds least in imitating his master, Bergman. Bergman never tried. to • identify the terrors. of a certain segment of society; his fear was of how modern society had be­come sterile and homogenized. 
Still, there are promising virtues and some true beauties in Interiors. One is the visual beauty of the film. H is a true tart film. Only . two movies in recent American cinema have the beauty which Interiors has: Robert Altman's Women and Ter­ence Malick's Days of Heaven. Allen has chosen; very meticulously, cer­tain costumes, color schemes, and airtight compositions. He is predis­posed to the most neutral shades, which, coupled with Gordon Willis' cinematography,· make this a feast for the eyes. · 
But best of all is Woody's direc­tion of the actors. The cast gives fine, sensitive performances. The standouts. are Page and Hurt. Ger­aldine Page is marvelou.s -sporadi­cally kind, demanding in :extremis, pathetic in her loneliness, frantic in her, anger. Hurt is truly appealing as .the daughter who hates · her mother and, thus, goes out of her way. to convince' herself she doesn't. She is also understandable as the non-artist trying .to express artistic feelings. Waterston has a role which doesn't ~ak~ '.~ny grea_t demands on 
. by Tim Tedrick 

him, but he avoids the clumsiness 
which is inherent in the part. Staple­
ton is . terrific as Pearl, the coarse 
new stepmother.. She is played with 
heart and never played dumb ­
Marshall js fine as the desperate 
husband, but his desperation is dif­
ferent from his wife's. since his at 
least· has a purpose. Griffith is fine 
too as the youngest daughter, 
though her role is a relatively s~all 
one. 
The two characters who suffer are Jordan and Keaton. Jordan is as cliche as they come, portraying the hard-drinking, tough~talking unsuc.; cessful novelist. He's been in the Hollywood • stable of. stereotypes since movies began to talk. The most difficult role by far is Keaton's. How • does one act when one is, a successful poet? Not combing your hair, having rumpled clothes .and still looking great? The task seems impossible and Keaton does what she can with what's given. But go­ing on .the diaiogue that Allen has .written for. her -analytic jargon -it is conceivable that she is any­
thing but a successful poet. 
All in all, _Interiors is a film that 

Woody Allen had to make. I can 
think of no other filmmaker of late 
who has taken such a perilous step. 
In these days of the saccharine fluff 
which Hollywood cranks out, . In­
teriors is quite refreshing.; Interiors 
is not a success. as .a whole, in and 
of itself, but it helps us understand 
Woody and what he is up to. It 
shows. ·how close Woody is to all 
those great nuts· in his earlier films 
-only this time there are no laughs 
to distract or confuse us. To see Iri­
teriors is to perceive Woody Allen, 
from the third person, with both 
the viewer and Allen_watching Allen 
unfold on the screen. Go see it. . 
Tim .Tedrick, a junior. American Studies Major, ha.s long had .an in­terest in_ film. This is his first con­tribut_ion. to Scholastic. · 
Re'7iew 
·t}[e[f Youn9 
eomes a"cc,me 

. Neil Young's new album Comes A 
Time is a pleasant surprise. The sur­
prise part, , however, is standard; 
every new :Neil ,Young album is a 
surprise. It is. the. pleasantness that 
makes this album·. different. More­
over, Comes A Time is simply a 
good album: instrumentally, . vocal­
ly and technically sound. 
·· The only thing that is not sound 
on .the • album is, of course, Young 
himself. He does,. however, seem a 
bit safer. Putting his atavistic ten­
dencies aside, .Young expounds his 
primal vision lyrically on the al­
bum's first song C'Goin' Back." Here 
he evokes images of man in the state 
of nature and sees his situation of 
"having .nowhere-to stay". as some­
what desirable. It ·is evident from 
the start· that Young is dabbling 
once again in paradox, : stating the 
endeavor most· succinctly ,with the 
line: "These rocks I'm climbing now. 
have already left the ground." 
But, as always,: there is a certain 
amount of self-parody . in Neil . Young's .albums .. Comes A Time is no exception. In "Field of. Oppor­tunity,''. he wryly pleads, "Let me bore you with this story how my lover let me down;'' and goes on to superbly. violate the whole romantic tone of the album .with "Motorcycle Mama," a ·tight, ·bottled-up jam which is the best example ·to date 

of Young's increasing predilection seen as the long-lost follow-up to to sing about crude love and sleazy that album. women. . This song also contains · If it is, it is· not just that. "Look lyrics that carry on the tradition of Out For My Love," a slightly sur­Young's never-ending search for the realistic little ditty about love in an­ultimate tacky pun. He comes close other realm is evidence of Neil's 
. as the motorcycle mama (Nicolette growth and a culmination of many Larson) sings, "I'm here to deliver, of his themes and techniques. Never­· I hope you can be my male." theless, it is surprisingly unlike any­For the most part, however, the thing he has ever done. He sings of album· is replete · with Young's thoughtful resignation, a burning unique .style of existential romanti-heart and an open mind before . cism expressed provocatively via his · warning: "Look out for my love, deceptively simple lyrics. Nicolette it's. in your neighborhood. I know Larson, besides her stint as motor­things are gonna change, but I can't cycle mama, provides crisp harmony say bad or good." The song degen­vocals that both offset and ·uplift erates ·to even more cryptic lyrics Young's vulnerable lead. Yet, the accompanied by the sensual eeriness album is not without diversity. In of a muted rhythm guitar and a "Human Highway," an agnostic gos­piercing electric off in the distance pel song, we are treated to a nostal­somewhere begging for full expres­gic Buffalo Springfieldesque strum-· · sion. This could be the banner song along while "Peace of Mind" offers for a new "subtle revolution" based a hypnotic dirge-like melody. on the powerful nature of love and 
The title cut,· "Come A Time" is its irrational consequences. perhaps the most commercial song All revolutions aside, Comes A on .·· the album, whereas "Already Time is a fine album, fine in the One" is the most personal, yet they . true sense of the word in that it is are both good, appealing music. It an album crafted by Nei_l Young for appears that Neil has struck the • your listening pleasure. O same type _of balance between music as·· a personal. statement, and music -Tom Balcerek 
·as commercial entertainment that he did with his last commercially suc­cessful album, Harvest. And · in many ways, Comes A Time can be 
The Last ,W·ord 
by 
Jake 
Morrissey 
I do not know why she made such a strong impression on me. I met her only once, a long, long time ago, back when I looked at knees in elevators and Santa Claus was still a semireality. Even now, years later, someone will say something or move ai hand a certain way and my mind will turn back to her. 
Her name was Anna, but the fact of her name eluded me for several years. I always called "Antanna," mimicking the tone and inflection on the one word that my grandmother used. 
She was the oldest person I had ever seen. She rarely left her half of a dirty, m_ildewed two-family house that looked as if she had lived there forever. She probably had for all I knew. Her ashen grey hair was rarely combed and it was difficult· to determine where her grey hair stopped and her wrinkled grey face began. Dressing in old, shapeless clothes, I had no idea if she was fat or thin-the clothes she wore were so loose-fitting that they hid her figure. Ugly slippers and dirty socks completed her wardrobe. She smelled old. 
I can remember sitting, fearfully, on ·an uncomfortable brown-colored chair in this woman's dank, hollow living room she called a parlor-the first person I ever knew who used such a word. Everything in the room was the faded brown that over­comes when age is a reality. Walls, floors, even the· light that filtered through the yellowed curtains .were tainted with the same brown tinge. 
But it. was the statuary that 
frightened me more than anything 
else. Around the room, in corners, 
above doorways, . in paint-cracked 
niches were papier-mache ·-figures 
of. St. Joseph, St. Anne and the 
Virgin Mary. To my . eyes, such 
things were seen only in church, 
that strangely ritualistic entity that 
my parents dragged me to every 
Sunday. The statues wore faces of 
melancholy. I could not look at 
them. 
Conversation with Aunt Anna was 
extremely difficult for two reasons: one was her soft, cracking, cackling voice that cut the silence, the other was her frequent lapses· into French. She was my mother's father's aunt, my great-great aunt-what I con­sidered a terribly distant: relation­ship. My grandmother spoke (and · still speaks) both French and Eng­lish, and was able to communicate, if not easily, at least passably with this grey lady. At that time I had only a dim view that I spoke a language and it had a name, let alone that it might not be the-one the rest of the world used, so I listened to those 
strange tongue exercises with a mix­
ture of fascination and fear. 
Anna seemed to view me as little 
more than something my grand­
mother towed along with her when 
she went visiting, like a pocketbook 
or an umbrella. But she did offer me 
some candy at my grandmother's 
prodding. The candy was hard and 
stale, as if she had bought it years 
ago for a special occasion that never 
took place. I took one piece, careful 
to say "thank you," and sat back to 
wait for my grandmother to end 
her visit. We left a little while later, 
with promises to return soon. We 
never kept the promises. 

Her name, separated now into two words, popped up occasionally during my adolescence. In my early teens I think she fell ill and had to be hospitalized in another town, which my grandparents . visited . once a month. ·But Anna neither knew nor cared. Her mind had gone as grey as the face that fronted it. She was not a· frequent topic of con­versation; she was there,. but. not 
noticed. 
I realize now that I·really knew 
nothing about her, which probably 
is· nothing unusual for this · genera~ 
tion that · blandly accepts every-· 
thing. There is no sense of wonder, 
of going beyond the fa~ade to truly 
know a person. We of the Pepsi gen­

eration .have little time or patience ­
with the essentials .that cannot be 
found -in the supermarket. 
I do not know if Anna was ever 
married or if she had any children. 
What she was as ·a young woman 
never. was, and probably never will 
be, known to me. Her life, unless it 
is dramatized, fictionalized or glori­
fied by television, will remain amys­
tery for this child of the media. 
Her life was in a time without arti-_ 
ficial sweetener, paper plates, .. or 
frozen concentrated.• orange break­
fast beverage. Anna . came from a 
time when life was less plastic, less 
packaged, less ready-to-spread. Now 
I will see a faded Madonna statue or 
a figure· of St. Anne and I will think 
of her and her life and wonder. 
, Merry Christmas, Anna. O 
(' 

If you're a little bored with every New Year's · Eve turning out like 
· every other New Year's Eve, we've got some . really good news for you. . 
It's called the Pabst-Marshall Tucker· New Year's Eve Party. It's a real hand-· , .·clapping, foot-stomping rock concert 
that comes to you live 
from New Orleans. By 
radio. Just check your 
local listing for the time 
and station. 
Then pick up some, 
. Pabst Blue Ribbon. And have yourself the best New Year's you've had in years. 
THE PABST-MARSHALLTUCKER NEWYEAR'S EVE PARTY 
((l 1978 PABST BREWING COMPANY Mil"":°ukeie. Peoria Heights. Newark. Loa Angeles. fubst Geor91a 





