The story of
A CHEMICAL ACHIEVEMENT
How Du Pont scientists found a way to Moistureproof Cellophane
There’s no secret to Du Pont’s successful system for making chemical discoveries. It is simply research through teamwork.
As each new problem in research arises, it is tackled by men and women whose training and skill qualify them to master it. Backed by ample funds and facilities, they are continuously extending the field of scientific knowledge.
Take the case of moistureproof Cellophane. Plain, transparent Cellophane was strong, clear and protective. As a packaging material it had eye appeal. Its uses were limited, however. Perishable foods wrapped in this cellUoss'film were protected from contaminatiote and* were good to look at, b.ut they did not retain their freshness. :Tiiey-either Idst'or absorbed moisture, depending on the nature of the food and atmospheric conditions. .* '	.
That was a challenge to Du Pont research people. They set out to find materials that would moistureproof Cellophane without materially affecting its thinness or transparency. After developing a basic test to meas-
SMS
This is a booklet you H shouldn’t miss

Before deciding on your first job, send for your free copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” Describes opportunities for men . and women with many
types of training. Explains how individual ability is recognized and rewarded under the group system of operation. Address: 2518 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
Dr. Hale Chareh, Ph.D., Ohio State ’23, reenacts discovery of moistureproof Cellophane film. Bag at far right held water for weeks; other control bags showed evaporation.
ure moistureproofness, they tried various procedures—adding ingredients to Cellophane dope before casting, impregnating sheets in baths and coating the film.
Coating showed the most promise. Had you been a member of the research team on this job, you might have helped mix and test several hundred different coating formulae over a 10 months’ period. With suc-rcessful coatings in sight, a small '• pilot operation was set up. Then— ’to make sure the new Cellophane was right—doughnuts, cookies and cakes were wrapped in it and sent to market. Finally, engineers were called on to design machinery for full-scale operation.
Now everything from chewing gum to porterhouse steaks is being sold in moistureproof Cellophane. Another scientific achievement is helping change the food packaging and food buying habits of America!
Using your training at Du Pont
Diverse problems call for diversified talents. At any one time, there are hundreds of interesting projects under way in the Du Pont laboratories. You may be trained in chemistry, engineering or physics. You may have studied in the fields of botany, entomology, parisitology, pharma-
Cellophane has became the nation's symbol for modern packaging. Since 1927, continuing research has developed over fifty different types.
Cellophane is made by extruding viscose through a slit into an acid bath where it coagulates into sheets. Moistureproofing follows.
Organic Chemist M. L. Ward, Ph.D., Illinois '42, and Physical Chemist P. E. Rouse, Jr., Ph.D., Illinois ’41, conducting research on the permeability of thin membranes, including Cellophane.
cology or plant pathology. In fact, almost all the sciences are put to use at Du Pont.
Working as a member of a small team, the individual is afforded every opportunity to show his talent and capabilities.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING -------------THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WRITE TODAY W ’re Dl con- Co^Dcn. cnc	Crcauc'e
More facts about Du Pont— Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
2
The Scholastic
Memo. Col.
I A. T g
Yu'all Boy Retorts
Dear Editor:
I was elected treasurer of the “Rebels” this semester and I take pen in hand tonight after reading the article in the Jan. 14, 1949 issue of the Scholastic entitled “Council News” found on page 10.
We all know that the Student Council is a farce but when they submitted that article to you they showed their true colors. I was present at the executive council meeting when the president of the “Rebels” announced the final terms under which we were to be allowed to present our annual “Mardi Gras Dance.” These conditions were:
1. 100% of the profits wefe -to -be ^This letter was accidentally left out
given to the Married Veterans’ Maternity Fund. We oifered 90% to the worthy cause and retaining 10% to defray the expenses of the club.
2. An itemized budget was to be drawn up and passed on by both Father Kehoe and the Student Council.
Under these terms what could we do but “SURRENDER” (Ha!) the date?
The main reason for the poor attendance at the club meetings is that due to the failure of the “Student Directory” to make its appearance . . . we could not reach 8-5% of the eligible members or students.
Personally I am glad that the Class of ’-51 will have a dance on Feb. 2-5.
I feel that we could not have been insulted more than the Student Council did!
... You have done and are doing a wonderful job. Keep it up!
Raymond B. Streb
of the Jan. 21 issue. The point, however, is still pertinent.—Editor.
Faraway Fan Sends News
Dear Editor:
I have just received your issue of Oct. 1, 1948. You open classes in September, publish in October, mail in November, I receive it in December, thank you in January, you receive my answer in February— the first semester is over and we haven’t reached first base! Who said the world was small?
Thank you again for the Scholastic. I’m no longer in charge of the N.D. I helped found in Jolo, Sulu. I’m living aboard my lit’.le launch named “Fatima” after Our Lady but also with a view to pleasing the Mohamedans, my new parishioners. I live in the heart of Moro-land, touring the 300 islands of the Sulu archipelago, trying to establish a beach-
IF YOU CAN WALK
WE’LL TEACH YOU TO DANCE!
Private Instruction Only!
345 Lincoln Way West
South Bend, Indiana
JUDI OS
Alice and George Davis
Know the thrill that good dancers know . . . the thrill of being the best dancer in your crowd.
Open Daily 10 A. M. - 10 P. M.
Saturday 10 A. M. - 6 P. M.
Former Dance Director of
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS
Chicago
If you can walk we guarantee to teach you to dance . . . even if you’ve never danced a single step before . . . Our short cut method based on George Davis simple system of teaching, makes it possible for you to master the Foxtrot, Rumba, Waltz, Jitterbug or any othei- dance in just a few hours of private instruction.
.o^
\o°

Feb. 11, 1949
a
head. The operation is proving quite successful. About time we got around to tackling this quarter of a million Mo-hamedan group of Sulu in the P.I.
Now I know you can take a ribbing, so here goes. On the cover of your Oct. 1 issue I was surprised and agreeably shocked to find N.D. using the very machine I have for opaque projections and transparencies. Put that as “top of the week” or put me down as “bottom of the week” but N.D. Senior is catching up with N.D. Junior. ... I was somewhat saddened by the sentence telling your readers “that the film library was not ready to take orders.” When it does open I’ll be the first on the list. If ever I can contribute in any way just let me know. I have a Speed Graphic camera, 35 mm. Kodak and a Paillard-Bolex movie camera, and the field I cover might be quite interesting: the Moros of the Sulu Archipelago in the P.I.
Adios, and muchas gracias again for the Scholastic. It makes our N.D. students here feel that you are affiliated to them. Lucky birds! . . .
Gratefully yours,
B. Diom, O.M.I.
ND Co-eds — Here's Your Chance
Dear Editor:
We are sending you a copy of the
rules and regulations for MLLE’s College Fiction Contest, which will close April 15. As you will notice, we are awarding $1,000 in prizes.
Mademoiselle is usually well represented in the annual anthologies of best American short stories.... Since our magazine is one for young women between the ages of eighteen and thirty, we are anxious not only to reflect their point of view, but to publish fiction by authors of real merit in that age group, fiction which will continue to attract the attention of publishers . . .
. . . Eligibility: Women undergraduates only.
Sincerely,
College Board Editor, Mademoiselle
Them again.—Editor.
Column Upsets Music Devotee
Dear Editor:
As an interested bystander in the art of writing, I wish to compliment the Deems Taylor of Notre Dame — one Enrev Yellek for his fine music column of Jan. 21. Never have I appreciated a column so much as Critic Yellek’s fine dissection of modern music. What, dear editor, could be more perfect a metaphor than Johnny Lujackish for Stanley Kenton? What could be more novel and
scintillating than Mr. Kelley’s coinage of a new phrase—“little old us?” And what is better than a little 76-word sentence to break the monotony of plain, simple structures? There, editor, is art. There is writing. There is . . .
Little old me, Etep Luam
Scholastic appreciates Reader Luam’s appreciation, promises him more scintillation, and informs him that Johnny Lujackish is not a metaphor.—Eotide.
Eager-Vierhile Feud Rolls Along Dear Editor:
. . . After reading “The Week” in the Christmas issue by our one vile Vierhile, I had only one desire; to wash my hands and wish I could wash my mind in like manner to blot the memory of anything so contaminating written at that season and to the spirit of good fellowship. That was my first reaction; then after thinking the matter over, I began to feel quite surprised and a little sorry for the vile Mr. V. The man who loathes ALL comic strips and who tries so very hard to impress upon the populace that his smattering of jumbled words underneath the heading of “The Week” is supposed to make up a group of well organized columns from an intelligent? student, (Continued on Page 30)
SHRINK CONTROLLER for permanent fit!
100 Percent VIRGIN WOOL ADLER SWEAT-SOCKS
Perfect comfort for sports or casual wear . . . pure white 100 percent virgin wool Adler sweat-socks are now Shrink Controlled . . . wash them any way you like . . . the size remains the same. Heavy quality, per pair.
O5c
THIS WEEK'S BROWSER WINNER:
BOB YACKEL—363 CAVANAUGH HALL
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
either. Might get a new gym a few years and maybe enough mazuma to make that Student more than a topic of discussion
bank, after extra Union
Advertisers are making it harder and harder to live a normal life. If what they say is true (and who are we to deny them), we are confronted with a (Continued on Page 32)
The Week
By Bob VierhUe
Mrs. Eager Strikes Again
The unflattering caricature in the upper corner illustrates the condition I was in after reading Mrs. Eager’s a-priori proof that I am a vicious, vile, vacuum-headed human (see Letters). Her words have inoculated me with great fear. Maybe I’m a victim of dementia praecox? Seems I did receive a blow on the head recently. Or possibly it was something from the past? I do have a vague recollection of lying on my back as a child, chewing grapefruit rings, and spitting the seeds into the eyes of little girls. One thing is certain: I shall go to the Infirmary at the earliest moment and have Mrs. Eager removed from my back.
Bowl Games for New Fieldhouse?
Jim Costin, the popular purveyor of local sports lore, sounded off intelligently in a recent column on the inadequacies of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse for intercollegiate basketball. Most ND men will agree with Jim’s comment that “facilities for the game at Notre Dame are about the poorest you can find anywhere.” Jim, who has been around Notre Dame basketball almost since its beginnings, remembered that the situation was somewhat similar back in Knute Rockne’s days. Notre Dame’s home games were played on the dirt floor of the present gym with accommodations for 1,200. Watching a basketball game in those days was like viewing the midget auto races at the South Bend speedway. A fast break always resulted in a fog of dust and a dirty shirt. That gym problem was solved by building the present setup from the moola netted on a. post-season football game with Stanford in the Rose Bowl. Today we might be better off with that old dirt floor. At least the thousands of ticketless fans would feel that they were being saved from a dose of bronchitis by staying home. Comments Costin: “How about letting the football team help out again? ... As far as I know there is no other source of funds available for a proper fieldhouse at Notre Dame for years to come. . . . The need is so desperate for an adequate arena in which to play varsity basket
ball games that I think a letting down of bars (on post-season football games) for a few years until such a fieldhouse is provided would meet with the approval of one and all.” Sounds like a first rate answer to the problem. Such a venture wouldn’t harm our piggy-
in Foundation brochures.
Deflation in the Village
Economists who plugged the idea that supply would eventually meet demand (even though it arrived via Smolensk) and force prices down are getting a good puff out of the price-cutting in South Bend. Local clothiers are advertising dove-colored gebs and Bold Look shirts in mixed red-and-green pastels at 15 to 75 per cent off, depending upon how much you have in your pocket. We noticed an unset opal marked down from $199.89 to $189.99. A cuppa coffee was back to a nickel in every local restaurant except Clark’s — there you still pay for the atmosphere and Bruce Saunders’ breakfast. Students are wondering how long it’ll take the Cafe and Huddle to catch on.
Orchids for Father Burke
Father Eugene Burke gets our vote for Man of the Year. He’s in charge of the motion picture program over in Washington Hall. Students, accustomed to the swirling fog, dumb dames, and loony villains of Monogram B-pictures, are getting a taste of some really good movies. Typical of these grade-A films I was “The Treasure of Sierra Madre”, the B. Traven thriller about gold, guts, and guns. This movie played to two standing-room houses on Feb. 1. Future filmfare includes such hits as “Four Faces West” (tomorrow night), “Time of Your Life” (Feb. 21), “So this Is New York” (March 5), “Mating of Millie” (March 19).

Feb. 11, 1949
5
Entertainment
FEBRUARY 11
COLFAX (through 16)—Red River. A lusty Western which introduces the new sensation Montgomery Clift. He’s too covered with gore during the whole affair to get a really good look at him. On the whole though, this is a more intelligent treatment of the rugged West and its rugged men than usual.
tyuuM. the.
This semester the editor is going to say a few words for himself in the Scholastic. These personal observations will appear occasionally throughout the semester — probably about every two weeks. I’ll discuss matters of Scholastic policy and try to explain some developments in the magazine. We want you to know what we’re doing and why we’re doing it.
PALACE (through 13)—Luck of the Irish. Tyrone Power and Ann Baxter. Leprechauns and reporters and Irish colleens all together in a bubbling Irish stew stirred with the old boy-meets-girl plot.
GRANADA (ends today)—No Minor Vices. Fun at a sophisticated level. Louis Jordan and Dana Andrews running around after Lilli Palmer, which seems to be more fruitful exercise than going out for track.
STATE (through 13)—Flo icing Gold. Pat O’Brien, John Garfield, and Frances Farmer in a re-release of an exciting film concerning oil well diggers. Spiced with slimy battles and bursting wells.
FEBRUARY 12
GRANADA (through 15)—A re-release on a film classic San Francisco. Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy turn in one of the best performances of their respective careers. A great show which, if you haven’t seen, you should be hustling to see. And, if you pardon the editorial, this bodes well for future fan fare in South Bend if the Granada is dedicating itself to such fine re-releases. Also on the same program a comedy classic — the Marx Brothers at their funniest in A Night at the Opera.
WASHINGTON HALL—A high caliber western, Four Faces West. We might even suggest you go and see it. WH continues to bring above average film fare to campus. May it ever be so!
FEBRUARY 13
PALACE — Pitfail — With Dick Powell to blast you out of the seats — Dynamite. A double-barrelled booking to please the very violent.
STATE (through 15)—Toiver of London. Basil Rathbone snooty and evil and wonderful as ever, at the height of his sin in an oldie which, if you missed, should be a must. If you’ve never seen a man’s head crushed with a giant club before your very eyes rush down and watch Boris Karloff at work in this one. Sadly enough this fine film is attached to the Man Who Re-claimed His Head from which you can draw your own conclusions.
FEBRUARY 14
VALENTINE DAY—We can’t find it in our hearts to burst any bubbles of sentiment and sweetness you may have blown over this day. South Bend stores are well stocked with cards, candy or rolls of ribbon and lace if you’d like to “make your own.” ,
Speaking of changes, you’ll note a few typographic alterations this week. We think they make the magazine look a little more attractive. There’s also a new department —“The Bulletin Board.” “The Board’s” purpose is to list, simply and concisely, what has happened and what will happen at the University last week, this week, and next week. We’ll also try to include the more important veterans information, official bulletins, and opportunities for scholarships, fellowships, and summer schools.
The new department will supplement and underline the thousand and one notices that appear on Notre Dame’s bulletin boards every week. It will try to keep you abreast of what’s going on at ND and have the advantage of putting it all in one place.
Another purpose of the new department is to cut down the space devoted to news matter and thus give our feature and sports departments a little more elbow room. We’ll run as many features on as wide a variety of subjects as possible this semester. ... As always, though, the Scholastic will be a very peculiar magazine. I don’t know of another one quite like it published by any college in the country. Most colleges have a newspaper — daily or weekly — a literary magazine, and maybe a humor magazine. The Scholastic doesn’t fit any of those categories. It publishes news, but it isn’t a newspaper; it runs some feature stories that rightly belong in a literary or humor magazine, but it isn’t either of those. (We may even run some short stories this semester if we get any good ones.) But whatever the Scholastic is, it’ll continue to do the best job it can of informing and entertaining its readers and promoting campus activity and leadership. If you have any kicks or suggestions, let us know about them. Our “Letters” column is wide open to everybody.
Bob Stock
6
The Scholastic
AbAe
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 February IL 1949 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR News JOSEPH DUKERT___________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN_____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN___________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER._______________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN_______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK._____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN_______Faculty Moderator
Scholastic Opinion
Mr. Leahy's Road Show
Our schedule-makers have come up with more-than-adequate replacements for the three teams that ended their contracts with Notre Dame this season. Southern Methodist, North Carolina and Tulane should furnish top-calibre teams for the Irish next fall. Mr. Leahy and the Faculty Board over athletics should be lauded for their success in keeping Notre Dame’s schedule of the same high standing that it has been.	.
They should not be lauded, however, for the place where they agreed to play North Carolina. When the Army series was halted, the reason given was that the game was getting out of hand. They wanted to keep the game for the students.
Well, the students aren’t quite getting an even break next year. Out of ten games, four will be played on campus. The North Carolina game is being played in New York’s Yankee stadium; the Navy game will probably be played at Baltimore. There is some excuse for the site of the Navy contest — at least it’s close to Annapolis. But we can’t believe the New York alumni and bogus alumni of Notre Dame are reason enough to take the North Carolina game eight hundred miles away. After all, there are students here. Why not let them see the best games on the schedule?
Using the football team as a road show is no way to show the country that Notre Dame is more than a football school. And we hesitate to think of the result, if the faculty board in control of athletics and Mr. Leahy were told that the penguins in Little America are rabid Notre Dame football fans.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Next Friday evening, the 18th, the military of this old University are sponsoring a ball in the Oliver Hotel. Specifically, the sponsoring organization is the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps which is composed of exfly boys of the late war and would-be fly boys. Nothing could keep our whimsical photographers from decorating this cover with paper air planes. And the answer to that all important question: the blonde is Miss Ann Kennedy of Indianapolis. George Pfaff of South Bend is the lucky guy. Photo by Munger.
yCS Is on the Ball
Two activities coming up next week, both sponsored by the local Young Christian Students organization, indicate well that the sap of student leadership and enterprise is still running strong. The YCS will hold a skating party and dance for ND and St. Mary’s next Saturday, and its College of Commerce division will stage another good Town Meeting in the Engineering Auditorium next Thursday.
The skating party represents something of a revolution. Ten years ago the idea of bringing St. Mary’s girls en masse to the ND campus would have evoked suspicions of insanity. It just wasn’t done. The present YCS group, however, thought it should be done, and its vigorous presentation of the case for closer and more friendly contact with St. Mary’s brought agreement from the University administration. .
The Town Meeting Thursday is the natural sequel to the first such discussion sponsored by the Engineers YCS last fall. Father Keller and Professors Scanlan and Sheehan will talk about labor and management and students will pepper questions at them from the floor. Forums like this can help the student develop ideas of his own on the problems he’ll meet after graduation and also build a strong, Catholic attitude toward the complex issues the country is trying to unravel today.
It’s a long jump from skating parties and town meetings to the practical problems of conduct and opinion a Catholic college student runs into after his diploma is hung up on the wall. But the ideas, initiative, and leadership bom here can make the road a little straighter and surer later on.
Feb. 11, 1949
7
NOTRE DAME
100 Years
(SECOND EDITION)
by Arthur J. Hope, C. S. C.
rious and amusing incidents that. helped build an ambition into a great American university.
The Rockne era . . . the legend of George Gipp . . . the Four Horsemen.
Notre Dame’s one hundredth birthday was the occasion for the first printing of this 500-page book. On November 26, 1942, Notre Dame rounded out her first full century of existence. Much has happened since then — the death of Father O’Donnell, Lobund research, the happenings in the little village of Vetville, the many anecdotes of an older post-war student body. Thus the second edition is an intimate account of Notre Dame in her first 106 years. Included are the saga of Father Sorin, the great football years, the’ glories of academic achievements, and many others. Available now . . .
$4.00
a single copy (postpaid)
SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO:
The Notre Dame Book Store
Notre Dame, Indiana
Student problems . . . how they were solved . . . Campus Life.
8
The Scholastic
2>ame
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 15 FEBRUARY 11,1949
Mardi Gras Planning
Nears Final Stages
Lecture Series Slates Novelist Evelyn Waugh For Appearance Here in Drill Hall Feb. 23
With less than three weeks remaining for the Student Relief sponsored Mardi Gras, to be held at the Navy Drill Hall Feb. 28 and March 1, publicity director Bud Condron announces that plans for Carnival concessions and advance raffle sales are proceeding satisfactorily.
Campus clubs, individual students, and South Bend merchants have contributed well to the carnival. The principal concessions at the carnival, the cake and coke booths, have both been assigned to the married Vets. The California Club is planning a booth in the motif of the ’49er gold rush days, honoring the one-
CHAIRMAN MOORHEAD The Returns Are Coming In
hundredth anniversary of that famous Californian event.
The weight-guessing booth will be operated by the Buffalo Club, while a basketball stand will be managed by the Philadelphia Club. The penny-pitching concession will be operated by the Dayton Club.
Bob Canon, who canvassed the South Bend business area for Mardi Gras contributions, has met with considerable success, but the chairman of campus
Evelyn Waugh, distinguished British novelist and satirist, has been signed by the University Concert and Lecture Series to appear in the Drill Hall Feb. 23. The subject of his lecture will be “Three Convert Writers.”
One of England’s and America’s most widely read writers, Mr. Waugh is best
Irish Architect Cops First Prize in Sign Design Contest
Willoughby Marshall, architecture student from Apalachicola, Fla., has been awarded first prize in a contest sponsored by the Te Deum International Society for his design of a road sign to indicate to passing motorists the proximity of a Catholic church.
Designs entered in the competition among ND architecture students will be submitted to the Catholic hierarchy for selection and approval. Stamped metal signs, to which will be attached the individual church name and hours of Mass, will then be distributed to parishes throughout the country.
Second and third prizes were both won by Vincent Boyle, of Milford, Mich. Honorable mention went to entries submitted by R. F. Stechschulte, of Windber, Pa., Charles McAuliff, of New York City, and Pat Weishapl, of Norfolk, Neb.
donations John Moorhead, 337 Dillon, states that there is still a need for student contributions.
Donation book returns are pouring in daily. All who have not as yet turned in their* books are asked to do so as soon as possible. They may be returned at the basement of the Dining Hall every day, at lunch from 12 to 12:45 and at dinner from 5:30 to 6:45. As an added inducement to the book sellers, the Student Relief committee will present N.D. blankets to the ten students selling the most books.—Jack Ward
known for his novels, which include The Loved Ones, Brideshead Revisited, A Handful of Dust, Vile Bodies, and many other equally well-known works. His most recently completed fictional work, Scott-Hing's Modern Europe, is scheduled to hit the book stores some time this month.
In 1930, he was received into the Roman Catholic Church, and six years later was awarded the Hawthornden Prize for his Edmund Campion, a biography of the Jesuit martyr of Elizabethan times.
A seasoned traveler, Mr. Waugh has visited the Near East, Africa, the Arctic and many countries of Europe. During World War II he served in the Royal Marines, the Commandos, the Royal Horse Guards, and finally in 1944, with the British Military Mission in Yugoslavia, where he corrected proofs of his now famous Brideshead Revisited dropped to him there by parachute.
In his lecture here, Mr. Waugh will discuss the peculiar characteristics of English Catholicism by examining the lives and works of eminent convert authors, G. K. Chesterton, Msgr. R. A. Knox, and Graham Greene.
In the last presentation of the Concert and Lecture Series, Monday night, Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, Professor of the Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago, spoke on “The Nature of Man” in Washington Hall.	'
BLUE CIRCLE OPENS
Those interested in joining the Blue Circle, student honor society, and who meet the following requirements:
80 percent academic average
Sophomore or above should submit a letter stating qualifications to: Bernie Powers. 239 Howard Hall. Letters must be postmarked no later than Feb. IB.
Feb. 11, 1949
9
Hardy Souls To Defy Wintry Blasts At First YCS-Sponsored 'Ice-Breaker'
It has taken 107 hard and blustering Indiana winters to make the ingenious generations at Notre Dame decide upon holding a winter carnival. Full credit can herewith ba given to the ever-active YCS groups for presenting the first affair of this kind. It is entitled the “Ice-Breaker” party, and will be held Saturday, Feb. 19, from 3:30 in the afternoon until 11:30 that evening. Bids are being sold at $2 a throw.
Following the schedule that has been found popular at the St. Mary’s winter carnivals, the program will start with skating on the ice bound St. Mary’s lake at 3:30. After many flops, crack-the-whips, and perhaps some prosaic hockey games, the crowd will move to the comforts of the cavernous Drill Hall for supper
The evening’s menu will consist of hot dogs, potato chips, cake, and coke and coffee. Supper will start at approximately 6 p.m. and will continue until 7:30, when dancing will start. Dress for the entire affair will be strictly informal, with sweaters, skirts, denims and ski clothes being the relaxed keynote.
The purpose of the gigantic winter carnival will be to aid the national YCS office in Chicago. Bill Sahm is the Notre
Dame chairman of the party with Walt McGovern, Ed Sullivan and Frank Zap-pala serving as his committee. Terry Kelty is in charge of the arrangements for St. Mary’s. Nancy Branton, Joan Bryan and Rita Wilson will assist her.
Chairman Sahm said, “This entire shindig is completely unusual as far as the relationship between Notre Dame and St Mary’s is concerned.” The large throngs that are expected to attend this mid-winter frivolity will undoubtedly attest to this statement when they wend their aching ways home at the end of the full program.
ND Grad From Newfoundland Wins Rhodes Scholarship
According to an announcement by the Selection Committee for Newfoundland of the Rhodes Scholarship Trust, James J. Greene, a graduate student at the University of Notre Dame and native of St. John’s, Newfoundland, has been named the 1949 Rhodes Scholar from Newfoundland. Greene is 20 years old and is majoring in English in the Graduate School.
During his undergraduate days at
SERVICES HELD FOR TOM OWEN
Funeral services for Thomas F. Owen. 67, were held on Ian. 26 in Sacred Heart Church. Mr. Owen served for 22 years as superintendent of service in the University of Notre Dame dining halls. He died of an intestinal ailment from which he had been suffering for five months.
Mr. Owen was a native of Sydney, Australia, and prior to his coming to Notre Dame, he did dining room work in Chicago hotels. The Rev. Edward I. Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart Church, was celebrant of the Funeral Mass, and burial was in Cedar Grove cemetery in South Bend.
Notre Dame, Jim distinguished himself in extra-curricular affairs. He was elected president of the Wranglers and served as publicity chairman for the Notre Dame Glee Club for two years. He was also very active in interhall athletics, having helped win the interhall . football crown for Lyons Hall in 1946 as a member of the team.
Jim will begin studies under the Rhodes Scholarship next Septembei- at Oxford University in England. He will study law while in attendance there.
450 Seniors Receive Degrees in January Commencement
Father Cavanaugh here presents a Doctorate of Philosophy on Indurti Venkata Krishnamurti of Vizianagram, Madras, India. Left to right in the picture are: The Most Rev. John King Mussio, Bishop of Steubenville, Ohio; Rev. Howard Kenna, Director of Studies; Rev. James E. Norton. Assistant Director of Studies; Fr. Cavanaugh and Dr. Krishnamurti. Above, a Vetville wife receives her “diploma,” too.
10
The Scholastic
Tony Papa To Play At Air Military Ball
Notre Dame’s budding birdmen will switch the wings to their feet next Friday night, when the University Air ROTC unit sponsors its second annual Military Ball, from 9 to 1 in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel in South Bend. Tony Papa’s Orchestra will provide the tunes.
Tony Ray, chairman of the affair, has extended an invitation to all midshipmen of the Notre Dame Naval ROTC group and reserve officers who wish to attend. Uniforms must be worn.
St. Mary’s has granted 1:30 permissions to SMC girls attending the Ball, and Notre Dame students on campus will have to 2 a.m. privileges. Special busses between St. Mary’s and the Oliver will be provided.
Tickets can be obtained for §3.00 per couple from any member of the AROTC through representatives in each Military Science class. Blind date arrangements can be made by seeing Charlie Helmuth, 258 Badin Hall.
Assisting chairman Ray in mapping out plans for the Ball are Rotcees Larry Heuser, Jim Ford, and Bob Campbell.
Commerce YCS Group Sponsors Town Forum Featuring Catholic Views on Labor Legislation
Under the auspices of the Commerce YCS group, the second Town Forum of the year will be held next Thursday evening, Feb. 17, at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The discussion will concern labor legislation viewed as contrasted to the present labor legislation, mainly the Taft-Hartley Act.
The guest speakers will be Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., Prof. Alfred Scanlan, and Prof. John H. Sheehan. Father Keller, of the Department of Economics, will present the moral aspect. Mr. Scanlan, of the College of Law, will talk on the legal aspect while Mr. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, Avail present the economic aspect. A discussion period, with questions from the audience being allowed, will follow.
The first forum of this type was pre-
MOVIE SERIES CLOSED
The Press Club announced last week that its film program for this semester has been over-subscribed. The club is returning those requests for tickets that could not be handled, and no more applications will be accepted.
sented last fall by the YCS Engineering group. It met with great success and according to George Patterson, the chairman of this week’s forum, a commerce senior, it is hoped that “these interesting forums can be continued.”
Theater Sounds Tryout Call For One-Act Play Series
Greeting the spring semester with the first offspring of its new activities, the University Theater announced the production dates for a series of one-act plays last week. Under the direction of Francis J. Hanley of the Department of Art, the three one-act plays will be presented in Washington Hall at 8:15 on the evenings of March 14 and 15.
The three plays slated for presentation under the University Theater’s revitalized program are The Rising of the Moon by Lady Gregory; Dust of the Road by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman; and Monsignor’s Hour by Emmett Lavery.
Tryouts will be held in Room 241, Main Building, beginning Feb. 14 at 2:15 p.m. and continuing through Feb. 15 at 4 p.m. and Feb. 16 at 2:15 p.m.
Dining Hall Scene of Mystery Ball
Spinney
The January grads held their final function as students in the Dining Hall between semesters. The huge room was cleared of the omnipresent beans and sausage and became a dimly lit, flower strewn ball room. Gene Hull, provided the background music. In attendance as honored guests were several members of the faculty of the College of Commerce and their wives. John Fogarty served as chairman.
Feb. 11, 1949
CAMPUS CLUB NEWS
A Campus Clubs column will be run in the SCHOLASTIC this semester. Any news concerning the clubs or club members is welcomed by the staff. Please either send your publicity to the SCHOLASTIC, Box 185, Local, or else bring it to the editorial office in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall. ’The deadline is 2 p.m. Saturday afternoons.
'Barber of Seville’
Comes to Notre Dame
Rossini’s sparkling opera-comique, the popular Barber of Seville, will be presented in the Navy Drill Hall on Saturday, Feb. 26, under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series. The opera will be produced by an itinerant troupe from New York City under the direction of Charles L. Wagner, who, during the past decade has come to be regarded as one of the country’s most important producers of operas on tour. The comedy will be sung in an English translation.
Boasting a talented cast of gifted young American artists and supported by a male chorus, Mr. Wagner’s company plays one-night stands of a single opera with alternating all-star casts in the leading roles. For Rosina, there are the young coloraturas, Marilyn Cotlow and Graciela Silvain; for her lover, Count Almaviva there are tenors Edward Nyborg and Jon Crain; and for the irrepressible Figaro are Norman Young and Andrew Gainey, both baritones.
An orchestra of twenty-five New York City musicians, under the direction of Paul Breisach, will enliven the tuneful, familiar Rossini score. Mr. Breisach, often considered one of today’s foremost operatic conductors has achieved considerable fame for his interpretations of the Metropolitan, Chicago, and San Francisco operas. In addition, brand new stage settings and colorful, authentic costumes will add to the visual impression on the stage. The scenery is designed to meet the requirements of all sorts of stage conditions. Time magazine appropriately tagged Wagner’s company “opera-a-la-cart” because they travel in large streamlined busses while the scenery and orchestral instruments follow in ten-ton thirty foot trailer trucks.
Ticket arrangements for the Feb. 26 presentation of The Barber of Seville will be announced at a later date.
Indiana Residents Eligible For Harvard Law Scholarship
Harvard Law School has announced the opening of competition for the Walter Kessler Law Scholarship for the next school year. The scholarship is restricted to residents of Indiana who intend to return to Indiana for practice and engage in public affairs here. It consists of a stipend of $1200 for one year, plus $450 during each of the two succeeding academic years, subject to maintenance of an acceptable scholastic average.
Students desiring to apply for the award should write to the Director of Admissions, Harvard Law School, Cambridge 38, Massachusetts for copies of formal application blanks. These must be returned no later than May 1.
Final appointments will be made by a special committee after personal interviews with all candidates whose applications are approved by the Dean’s office.
Changes in Editorial Staff Announced by Scholastic
Starting the second semester of its 83rd year of publication, the Scholastic announced several editorial staff changes this past week. Bob Stock, a junior journalism major from Cleveland, Ohio, has stepped into the editor-in-chief’s slot. Joe Doyle, last semester’s editor, graduated in January.
Ken Thoren, an A.B. sophomore from New Rochelle, N. Y., has been promoted to associate editor. Vic Dorr, a journalism junior from Blackville, S. C., has taken over the reins of news editor. Joe Dukert, another A.B. sophomore and from Baltimore, Md., will be this semester’s assistant news editor.
THE NEW EDITOR It Was a Hard Week
Seniors Say Thanks
The Senior Class did something unusual last month when it held a ball for its graduating members in the Dining Hall. They needed help to put the dance across, and they want to say thanks to the people who helped them. So they wrote this letter-to-the-editor as their thank-you note.
Dear Editor:
We would like to take this opportunity to thank all of those who helped in making the January graduation ball a success.
In particular we wish to thank Mr. Ford and his staff for their cooperation in the use of the dining hall. Many last minute obstacles were successfully overcome by their aid. Chairman John Fogarty and his committee members did a splendid job in organizing and completing arrangements for the dance. And Mr. George Strong of the commerce faculty should be commended for providing us with the theme and the idea for the decorations.
Senior Class Officers
Jim McLaughlin, Secretary.
ND Glee Clubbers Return From Warm Southern Tour
After a blissful ten-day sojourn in the sunny Southland, some forty members of the Notre Dame glee club returned reluctantly to Indiana’s wintry blasts last Sunday, completing their current midsemester tour.
The southern tour had been acclaimed a success. On their swing through Miss-issipi, Alabama and Florida, many sponsors expressed a desire for a return engagement. Said one southern critic, “The Notre Dame Glee Club thrillingly entertained and wholly captivated the large audience.”
But the concei-t series was not all business. During the course of the tour, the Irish glee clubbers were handsomely wined, dined and danced from Greenville, Miss., to Miami, Fla., including a royal welcome at Miami’s exclusive Barry College for girls. Their sight-seeing included visits to the ancient city of St. Augustine, the mythical Fountain of Youth, alligator and snake farms, the famous Marine Studios at Marineland, Fla., and the crystal-clear Silver Springs.
12
The Scholastic
The Bulletin
Board
Next Week
Audio-Visual Films
Full-color scenic films of Cuba and other points of interest in the Caribbean area will highlight next week’s program at the Audio-Visual Center. Besides this feature, slated for Monday and Tuesday, the schedule includes: Deep Horizons, color film on modern oil drilling methods, on Wednesday and Thursday; and a Friday double feature, Mr. Bell and Boundary Lines. All showings are at 4:15 p.m.
St. Augustine and History
Members of the philosophy and history departments of the University will join forces Tuesday night at 7:45 in a discussion of “St. Augustine and the Interpretations of History” in Room 101 of the Law Building. Professor Gerhart Ladner, of the Mediaeval Institute, will analyze the theory of history as exemplified in St. Augustine’s City of God, and compare it to other philosophies of history.
The Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., will lead the discussion of Professor Ladner’s paper, and Mr. Herbert Johnston will preside as chairman of the discussion.
ND Plays Michigan Again
Bertelli, Miller, Daley and Hirsch will do their stuff all over again next Thursday at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, when the second in a series of sport film revivals brings to the screen the ND-Michigan game of 1943. ’Twas the last Irish grid defeat at the hands of a collegiate foe.
Gurian on World Government
Professor Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science will take part in a public discussion of World Government tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. in Mandel Hall at the University of Chicago. Others scheduled to take part in the forum are Professor G. E. Borgese, secretary of the Committee to Frame a World Constitution; Professor Kermit Eby, national director of research in education for the CIO; and Professor Frank Knight. Professor Thomas Cook will act as moderator of the discussion. Eby, Knight and Cook are all professors of social science at the University of Chicago.
Also . . .
The Military Ball, sponsored by the University’s AROTC unit, the YCS Town Meeting, and the YCS “IceBreaker.” For details of these events, see the news pages of this week’s Scholastic.
This Week
Six From ND in World "Who's Who"
Six ND faculty members are included in World Biography, a new international leference book. They are: the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., professor of history; the Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion; Dr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law; Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of political science; Dr. A. Robert Capon-igri, assistant professor of philosophy; and Dr. Jose A. Caparo, professor emeritus of electrical engineering.
Library Adds "Heritage"
Heritage, a widely publicized new magazine aimed at pictorializing our national birthrights, took its place in the Periodical Room of the University Library, through the generosity of Mrs. William J. Corbett.
O'Hara Lectures
John Montrose, vice-president of the Hughes Tool Company, and Richard Manville, New York advertising consultant, spoke in the sixth lecture of the Bishop O’Hara Seminar Series. Seniors in Commerce heard the talks on “The Nature of the Marketing Process” and “Advertising Research.”
Doyle Writes for "Concord"
Former Scholastic editor Joe Doyle joined four other university newspaper bigwigs in a forum on student press censorship in the February issue of Concord. In the same issue, Vince Giese, ND grad student in politics, couples the Roosevelt New Deal with a recent political upset by a guy named Harry. Bill Sherman, January grad in journalism, surveys college basketball systems, while two other Notre Dame students, George Murphy and James McCarthy, evaluate jazz as an art form in “Up From Basin Street.”
Eastwood Talks for ASM
Dr. L. W. Eastwood spotlighted the technical “bugs” holding up production of revolutionary new lightweight autos in an address before the ND chapter of the American Society of Metals. He discussed unsoundness of castings in magnesium, aluminum and beryllium alloys.
Gifts Total $600,000
Final accounting of gifts to the University during 1948 brought the donation total to $614,939.42. According to figures released by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., one alumnus contributed a total of $112,853.31, while another benefactor donated $100,000
toward, a Liberal and Fine Arts Building Fund.
Swabbies to Florida
Commander McMahon, of the ND Department of Naval Science, announced that the sophomore class of the NROTC will spend their summer training at Pensacola, Fla., where they will spend a six-week period in aviation study, and Little Creek, Va., where they will receive two weeks of amphibious training.
Nine students in the University’s Naval ROTC unit have chosen duty in the Marines and will receive their commissions in the Corps in June, 1950. They are: James L. Black, Eugene T-Corcoran, J. E. Courtney, James J. Cramer, R. B. Gawne, H. H. Hamilton, L. P. Loura, W. Murphy, Jr., and J. P. Plunket.
Wainwright Visits ND	■
Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright, the “Hero of Corregidor” and long a prisoner of the Japanese during World War II, spoke Tuesday night in the Drill Hall. Ex-GI’s from all over Indiana converged on the campus to hear Wainwright, who is the national president of the Disabled American Veterans.
Last Week
New Families Move In
Nineteen vets, their spouses, and two score youngsters moved into Vetville to replace graduating seniors. In a special ceremony at the Vet Rec Hall, wives of the January grads received diplomas citing them for courage in surviving postwar housing hardships and the rigors of northern Indiana weather.
Wallace New Alumni President
Francis Wallace, nationally prominent author and journalist, was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Other officers elected by the Association Board of Directors were: Harry G. Hogan, honorary president; Louis F. Buckley, first vice-president; Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., second vice-president; and Robert T. Hellrung, special director of alumni clubs.
Grads Commissioned
January graduates Earl V. Carlson and Edward M. Jett have received commissions in the Civil Engineer Corps of the Naval Reserve.
Opportunity
lobs
Several engineering positions, with salaries ranging from $3,727 to $5,232 a year, have been declared vacant by the
Feb. 11, 1949
13
Public Roads Administration and several other Federal agencies. Bachelor’s degrees in engineering, plus at least one year of professional experience, partially in highway or highway bridge engineering is required.
Federal job openings in the fields of physical and biological science, paying from $2,152 to $3,727, have also been announced. To qualify, applicants must pass a written test.
Details and application forms for these Federal positions may be secured
O'DONNELL TROPHY
The Detroit Quarterback club's dinner on Feb. 1 was the occasion of the presentation of the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell Memorial Trophy to the University of Michigan, emblematic of the Wolverine's 1948 national football championship as determined by the Associated Press poll. National Monogram club president Fred Miller, coaches Frank Leahy and Ed Krause, business manager Herb Jones, sports publicity director Charles Callahan and WSBT sportscaster Joe Boland were in the Notre Dame party which went to Detroit. Michigan's Director of Athletics Fritz Crisler and Coach Bennie Oosterbann accepted the trophy for the Wolverines.
from post offices or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Summer Schools
Students interested in Latin American literature, language and institutions will have a chance to study them first hand at the summer session of the University of San Carlos, of Guatemala, between July 1 and August 19. Special classes in Mayan civilization, supplemented by tours through the Mayan Highlands, will highlight the courses. A catalogue can be obtained by writing air mail to the Secretary of the Summer School, Apartado 179, Guatemala, C. A.
Fellowships
Fellowships for graduate study in Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden for 1949-50, are being offered to American students by the American-Scandinavian Foundation. Further information about the grants, which vary from $750 to $2000, may be had by writing the Student Supervisor of the Foundation, 116 East 64th Street, New York City.
Navy Commissions
The Navy Department has announced that senior members of the NROTC are eligible to take a special supply course leading to commissions in the Navy Supply Corps.
Father Peyton's Family Prayer Appeal Opens Aquinas Lecture Series for '49 in Drill Hall
As the first speaker on the Aquinas Lecture Series for 1949, Father Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., returned to Notre Dame, the scene of his ordination, Wednesday night to address two Drill Hall audiences on the theme of his nation-wide Family Theater Radio program, “The Family That Prays Together Stays Together”. Sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Bookshop of South Bend, Father Peyton’s address was the first of five notable lectures scheduled by the Aquinas Series.
Father Peyton, who in gratitude to Our Lady for his recovery from tuberculosis launched the Family Rosary Crusade in 1942, has received international acclaim for his amazing accomplishments toward establishing family prayer. His Christmastime “Joyful Hour” and the “Triumphant Hour” at Easter, featuring the stars of Hollywood, are among the best-known of his radio productions. These anual broadcast features, combined with his weekly Family Theater of the Air have served to convert thousands of families to daily family prayer.
In his talk Wednesday night, Father Peyton carried his audience back to his home in County Mayo, Ireland. Beginning there with childhood recollections he traced the chain of events which
brought him to America, the priesthood, Notre Dame, his affliction and recovery, and finally his gratitude to the Blessed Virgin which has since been expressed in the Family Rosary Crusade.
At that awkward age — too old for the chow hall queens and too young for St. Mary's girls
In the second lecture of the current series, the Rev. Harold C. Gardner, S.J., literary editor of the national. Catholic weekly, America will speak on “Ideas and Ideals in Current Literature” in Central High School Auditorium on March 4. The Hon. Michael V. DiSalle, Mayor of Toledo, will return to the Drill Hall on March 25 to talk about “Toledo’s plan for Labor Peace.” Daniel C. O’Grady of Notre Dame’s Department of Philosophy will deliver the fourth lecture of the series in the Central High auditorium on April 8, speaking on “Isms, Facts, and Truth;” and William H. Mooring, noted film critic and correspondent, will close the 1949 series on May 6 at Central High with a lecture entitled “Hollywood in Focus.”
Debating Team Set For Spring Action
Today Notre Dame’s debate team opens its busy spring schedule by participating simultaneously in three major national debate tournaments.
A group of beginners are at Lafayette, Ind., to compete in the Purdue University Novice Tournament. Part of the varsity squad is in Boston to debate in the Boston University Tournament, while another section of the' varsity is entered in the Grand Western Tournament at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.	'
Four other major tournaments will follow in quick succession, according to Professor Leonard Sommer: the Eau Claire State Teachers College Tournament, Feb. 18, in which Notre Dame is defending champion; the Azalea Tournament at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala., Feb. 24; the Wisconsin University Tournament at Madison, Wis., March 11; and the Tau Kappa Alpha National Discussion and Debate Tournament, Lafayette, Ind., March 31.
Besides this tournament schedule Notre Dame will debate ten leading colleges and universities in dual matches. These contests, all on the Notre Dame campus, include Toronto University, Feb. 16; Western Michigan College, Feb. 25; Georgetown University, Feb. 27; Boston University, March 26; Southern California, March 28; Texas University, March 29; Cornell University, March 31; and Pittsburgh University and Mundelein College at dates in April yet to be determined.
Students are invited to attend. The time and place of the debates will be announced later.—Frank Haendler.
14
The Scholastic
Army Makes 2nd Lt.'s Of 2 yr. College Men
An opportunity for advancement, of particular interest to veterans now attending college, has been presented by the Army in its latest program. In its policy of procuring officer material to build up a strong national defense, commissions as reserve second lieutenants for active duty are being offered to veterans who have completed two or more years of college.
WO's and EM's Eligible
This plan is also open to warrant officers and enlisted men now in the Army, as well as members of any of the armed forces’ reserve units. Military experience is a necessity and this service, not restricted to time in the Army, must have covered at least one yeai-between Dec. 7, 1941 and June 30, 1947.
In addition to the two-year college education requirement, the candidate must not be due to attend any college or university at the time of expected entry on extended active duty. No waivers of this educational clause will be granted.
At time of application the applicant must have reached his nineteenth birthday and not have passed his thirty-second. The passing of a standard physical exam is also* essential.
Naturally, the prospective second lieutenant must be a citizen and be able to attain the mental requirements of the Army General Classification Test. Among the factors causing ineligibility are being a conscientious objector and previous separation from the service under other than honorable conditions.
OCS, 2nd Looie, Two Years
If these requirements are satisfied by the candidate and he is approved by the examining board, he will then attend Officer Candidate School and, upon com-' pletion of his work, graduate as a second lieutenant in the Officers’ Reserve Corps. At least two years of extended active duty then follow.
According to Capt. J. Welch of the U. S. Army Recruiting Station in South Bend, each graduate of the school has a very good prospect of obtaining an appointment in the Regular Army. In addition, recruiting stations have received the authority to request waivers on men discharged for reasons of disability; this gives such men a better-than-average chance of entrance.
Those desiring further information on this program should contact the U. S. Army Recruiting Station, 206 Monroe Street.—Charlie Didlea
Dome Glow
Munger
NEW LIGHT ON THE DOME — Sightseers, night airline patrons, and stray sparrows who passed the south side of the Dome on Feb. 27 got a glimpse of what three new floodlights could do to $20,000 worth of gold leaf. These new Mazdas replaced three lights of varying candlepower which had become totally ineffective.
Being Is ‘Audio-Visualized1 In Mock Philosophy Exam
Notre Dame’s currently beardless philosophers have hit upon a new and comparatively painless method of absorbing background material for their study of early Greek thought.
In an experiment unique in the annals of education, a class of philosophy students under the direction of Professor Elie Denissoff has been successful in “audio-visualizing” important moments in early Greek philosophy. Students impersonated the Ionian, Pythagorean and Eleatic philosophers in a mock quiz program which sought answers to the question of the origin of the universe and the problem of “being” and “becoming.”
Each “contestant,” as he appeared, displayed a sample of the basic element in his solution — earth, air, fire or water. Even philosophers can concede to occasional humor, and the procession of the “ancients” was accompanied by “Give Me Land, Lots of Land,” the “Air Corps Song,” “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes,” and “Cool, Clear Water,” respectively. Also featured on the program were visualized charts of Greek philosophy.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., acted as judge for the quiz session. Cups of hemlock were awarded the winners.
Eager Rules Tonight Over Engineers1 Ball
Notre Dame engineers plan to revive the famed Engineers’ Ball in all its pre-war glory tonight. They have secured the Drill Hall to house the music of Gene Hull and his “danceable” orchestra, as well as seven and a half miles of crepe paper decoration, a 12 foot by 16 foot mural of Eager, the Engineer, contributed by Pat Weishapl, and a large coat of arms for the college of engineering, designed and painted by Ed Hughes. The mural of Eager is done in a Valentine setting.
The dance favors are to be miniature slide rules in the form of a pin, designed and made by Paul Novak and George Benning. A new feature in this first Ball since 1941 is the tux pool. The engineers have arranged to rent tuxedoes on the campus for §2.50 each and a dry-cleaning to those who need them. So far, this project, for which George Muller is responsible, has brought in over 50 tuxedoes. The engineers propose that this pool be made a permanent feature for future dances.
The afternoon of the dance will find the Engineers and their dates witnessing a movie of the football highlights of 1948 in the Engineering Auditorium. Chairman Joe Harkins has also announced a dance at the Progress Club on Saturday night, with Gene Hull again providing music.
Chairman for the dance is Joe Harkins. Other members of the dance committee include: Bob Weber, Bob Clemency, and Al Kemitzer who handled publicity; Paul Doyle, George Muller, and Dave Medwig, who were on arrangements; Chuck Bauman on entertainment and programs; and Elmer Carvalho on decorations. Two - thirty permissions have been granted for the Ball, and 1:30 permissions are extended for the Saturday night follow-up. Dave Driscoll
Former Officers Eligible for Regular Army Commissions
Four hundred to six hundred commissions as second lieutenants in the Regular Army are now being offered to college graduates who served as commissioned officers in any branch of service during World War II.
Those interested in securing one of the lieutenantships should submit WD AGO Forms 62 and 643 in duplicate, accompanied by certificate of graduation from accredited college, and a recent photograph. Undergraduates may send an officially verified estimation of their graduation dates. Application blanks are available at the office of Lt. Col. Palmer in the Social Science Building.
Feb. 11, 1949
15
Muncie Picks Notre Darner As Outstanding Young Man
Mario Pieroni, 1940 graduate of Notre Dame, was recently honored as Muncie, Indiana’s “outstanding young man of 1948” by the Muncie Junior Chamber of Commerce. '
Pieroni, sightless attorney who travels only with the aid of his seeing-eye dog, is a member of the law firm of Pieroni and Pieroni. His brother, Charles, also an ND graduate, is senior member of the firm.
A judge of the Muncie city court, Pieroni also maintains an active law practice. In his frequent public talks he has striven to convince people that the sightless person is a normal man deprived only of his vision and wishes to be treated in a normal way. He asks that the blind be given opportunity whenever possible and points out that they have talents and skills which can be of great value to their employers.
Children's Hospital Nears Completion
Down along the familiar bus route to the city, that new hospital whose progress we have watched for about a year, has been 70% completed. The Northern Indiana Crippled Children’s Hospital at Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard is scheduled to be finished by the middle of May. All the exterior work, including masonry and drives, has been installed. This winter the inside fixtures have been begun. With a 251-room capacity, the building comprises a basement, a first floor, and doctors’ quarters in a small second floor in the central portion. Work is under way inside. Nearly all the door frames have been set and the oil-fired heating plant is in use. Herman J. Schumacher, the general contractor, foresees completion of the entire project by the scheduled date next spring.
Girls Rap Conceited, Shaveless Males; Men Blast Dawdling, Affected Females
Miami, Florida—(ACP)—A list of what girls dislike most in men has been compiled from a wide assortment of University coeds by Miami Hurricane feature writers:
Heading the list, and running neck and neck, are dirty fingernails and conceit. “God’s gift to women,” and he who “constantly tries to prove he’s a college yo-yo,” are definitely taboo. Dirty and bitten fingernails are not only taboo —“They are strictly repulsive,” according to the long-nailed coeds.
“Men who can’t stop talking about how much money they spend, who can only talk about cars and how fast they can make them go, who boast, generally, about every phase of their lives, and who always try to be the life of the party,” are heartily condemned.
Vulgar language, sloppy dressers, and men needing a shave come high on the
list of dislikes. Cigars, beards, suspenders, and mustaches are generally condemned. Bad manners, table and otherwise, are unappreciated by the gals. The “overbearingly tempermental male is very hard to endure,” said one of those interviewed.	•
Sarcastic men, loud men, lazy men, and those with shallow, insensitive natures are among the banned. “I like a fellow who has ambition—who can talk about something besides the race track and cars,” is the way one coed put it.
Male superiority complexes come at the head of the list. “The kind of boy who thinks he’s superior in intellectual ability to the female—tells you what to wear, criticizes every little thing about you, insists on choosing the evening’s entertainment.
Delaware, Ohio—(ACP)—Men at Ohio Wesleyan were quick to reply to the Florida poll with their tabulation of what’s wrong with women:
The consensus was that painted fingernails in run down condition compares quite favorably with the men’s dirty fingernails condemned by the coeds. One chap inferred that some women paint their nails to cover up the dirt.
One male complained about women being late for dates saying that many coeds take the stand that if they are on time for a date, they are showing too much interest. Accordingly, they show up anywhere from 10 to 40 minutes late. They also “tend to put too much emphasis on the amount of money possessed by their date,” he continued.
Another interviewee begged that women at least “try to act natural without affecting the mannerisms of a sickening teen-ager attempting to play house.”
Mendelssohn's 'Elijah' Will Feature Brotherhood Week
Highlighting American Brotherhood Week (Feb. 20-27) locally will be a presentation of Mendelssohn’s oratorio Elijah at the Palace theater, 8:30 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 24. The biblical sto-y will be sung by members of the Michiana Brotherhood Chorus, directed by Dr. George L. Tenney.
The production is sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews, whose South Bend director is Louis A. Radelet, instructor in the Department of Sociology. Tickets may be procured on the campus at the Student Council Office, Room 122 of the Main Building, open Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 12:45 p.m. to 4 p.m.
16
The Scholastic
A Fortune in Print
Rare Books Lie Dusty in Nieuwland Library
By BILL LYMAN
The Nieuwland Library in the Biology Building is only about twice the size of the lounge in the basement of the Dining Hall. But over 8,000 books on botany are neatly packed into the brown metal cases which press its walls and run down its middle.
And these books are unusual. If you were to browse through them for yourself, you’d find that more than half of them are collectors’ items. "You’d see the books dated 1809, 1793, 1744, 1678, 1606, 1583, 1528. And, on closer inspection, you’d find that they have calfskin and pigskin and even wooden bindings, and that they are written in Greek, Latin, Arabic, German and French, and are illustrated in detail by the old system of wood cuts. Then, you’d take them in hand and find that their covers are frail and that their pages are sometimes scarred. You’d begin to wonder how such treasures ever came to Notre Dame and why they are buried in the Biology Building.
The Greeks Had a Science for It
Some history helps one to appreciate the value of these books. It seems that botany, which is the study of plants and plant life, began about 380 B.C. with the Greeks, Aristotle and Theophrastus of Eresus, and continued to about 80 A.D. with the Romans, Pliny and Dio-corides. Then it dropped into the profound eclipse suffered by many other sciences in the Middle Ages.
A small group of German botanists picked up the study of plants again about the beginning of the sixteenth century. Their studies and the new printing presses of 1498, produced the earliest printed books on botany—among them some of the volumes now in our own Nieuwland Library.
For instance, we have first and second editions of important works by each of the four great sixteenth century Herbalists—Brunfels (1464-1534), Bock (14981554), Funks (1501-1566), Bauhin (1560-1624). One of these books by Otto Brunfels is a large folio-sized job bound in pigskin; it is called Heranm Vivae Eicones and dated 1531-32. Inside a typewritten note reads: “The author was the first of the four great sixteenth century
Herbalists. The wood cuts of the work were done by the best engraver of the time, Hans Weydiz, and even now are considered models of correctness and detail in contradistinction to the clumsily illustrated plants in other works for nearly three hundred years subsequently.”
After the first Herbalists, the study of plants became a very respectable modern science. Pioneers like Lobel, Cordus, Cae-salpino, Malpighi, Grew, Jussieu and the famous Linnaeus prepared the ground
FATHER SHEEHAN AND THE BOOKS From Six Dollars to 400
for the study of botany as we know it today. And the Nieuwland Library is bulging with early editions of important works by these men. Two first edition volumes of Linnaeus’ famed Species Plantarum (1753) are now idling on a back shelf along with other old jewels like Hill’s British Herbal (1756), Mor-reson’s Historia Plantarum (1715), Miller’s Gardeners’ Dictionary (1731), Hor-tus Indians Malabaricus (1678) by Henry van Hheede, Rariorum Plantarum Historia (1601) by Carolus Clusius, and two pieces by Diocorides Pedanius (of Anozarbos) and Dodonaeus Rembertus dated 1528 and 1529 respectively.
The Nieuwland Library is rightly named in honor of Rev. Julius A. Nieuw-
land, C.S.C., as he wras directly responsible for acquiring all of the valuable old books. Father Nieuwland was Professor of Botany at Notre Dame from 1904 to 1921; then he became Professor of Organic Chemistry until his death in 1936. From 1920 to 1923 he was Dean of the College of Science.
Bargaining and Building
During these thirty-two years at Notre Dame, Father Nieuwland made it his business to build the Botany Library into one of the finest in the Midwest. He went to great trouble bargaining for the old books; some volumes he picked up for six or eight dollars apiece would now sell for three or four hundred dollars, if they could be obtained at all.
Undoubtedly Father Nieuwland thought he was building a collection always to be treasured at Notre Dame, and he probably would have been somewhat put out to see what little use it was put to in the years after the last war began. People just didn’t have time for his old books; they couldn’t see much importance in Botany when there was another job to be done.
But, in the three years since Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., became head of the Biology Department, there seems to be new hope. Father Sheehan has taken an interest in the Graduate School of Botany which never amounted to much at Notre Dame, though it dates back to 1918. His plan is to build it into a respectable institution,- and naturally Father Nieuwland’s old books will play a vital part, as graduate work demands much research.
The World Needs Food
The big reason Father Sheehan decided to push Botany research is that the world needs food—better food and more of it. More trained botanists will surely lead to better methods of growing crops and saving foods.
So, in another ten years, you are likely to find quite a different story when you go browsing through the Nieuwland Library. If Father Sheehan has his way, you’ll find a tidy group of young botanists fingering the pages of Father Nieuwland’s old gems; theyTl be gaining knowledge and unburying treasure at the same time.	. -
Feb. 11, 1949
17
CAMPUS GUIDES
No Wondering While Wandering
By A. J. SCRIBA
“Did George Gipp have flat feet?” “Any muskies in St. Mary’s Lake.” “Did the big tree in front of the Grotto really inspire Kilmer’s poem?”—If you can’t answer these questions don’t try to get a job with the Campus Visitors Guide Service. The men who’ve been the official guides for sightseeing visitors to Notre Dame have been asked these, and more.
Notre Dame has had an official visitors guide service for years. Though very few students seem to have heard of it, it is a very busy organization.
Prior to the Chicago World’s Fair, during a sleepier era at Notre Dame, one of the Brothers was always on duty to tour visitors. But during the fair it seemed that every carload of fair-goers stopped off at Notre Dame to look around. The problem of satisfying these crowds brought into existence the present official group of paid students who show visitors the campus. Until two years ago guides were picked haphazard as needed. Now guiding is a steady job under student employment. This fall the employ
"... AND THIS CRUMBLING RELIC IS SORIN HALL.*'—The rats are pedigreed
ment office combined the guiding job with the messengers.
Joe O’Hara, Tom Devanny, Jack Boyd, Vic Melchiore, Mack Hardesty, and Bill Duggan, present Blue Circle chief, made a genial and informed touring team last summer. Art Casey, Jim Martin, Jim Nolan, George Frazier, and Jim Wetzel are on the job this fall. The men on call now haven’t had much to do yet except handle football crowd stragglers; but they have a big program of cub scouts, women’s clubs, and jaycees coming up. In the spring when the school trips start pouring in they’re planning on some heavy duty.
They Came in Mobs
The summer guiding team of Duggan and associates saw plenty of heavy duty. They were kept on the double nearly every day all summer. People swarmed to the campus in couples, families, and mobs. Interests varied from those of fifty artist-nuns from Desplaines who spent an afternoon in the quiet Art Gallery, to that of an excited subway alumnus who didn’t want to see any-
UP THE FORBIDDEN STAIRWAY
. No extra charge
thing but “the football stuff.” Reactions ranged from that of the non-Catholic businessman who decided to send his son to Notre Dame, to the Michigan football player whose final comment was, “nice prison.”
In spite of the edge and strain the summer guides liked the job. All agreed that “they were nearly all very nice people.” Said Bill Duggan: “We took them from the circle down the main quadrangle to the Administration Building, then to the Church, the Grotto, the Log Chapel, the Rockne Memorial, the Dining Halls, and back again. We tried to keep up a running fire of information all the way, but nearly everybody asked so many questions that we usually got sidetracked. Different people were interested in almost every conceivable thing about the school. How many students? How far to St. Mary’s? Was the first catapulted plane in the United States really shot off the roof of the Science Hall? When they built the stadium did they sod it with Rockne’s old Cartier Field? Why don’t they regild the Dome? How deep is St. Joseph’s Lake? Why aren’t women allowed on the golf course? What does LOBUND mean? How much does it cost to go to Notre Dame? I don’t believe I had a person all summer who didn’t ask me how much going to school cost.
“The kind of food, the discipline, the social life, and especially anything at all about St. Mary’s seemed to interest almost everyone too. Every now and then we’d get someone who had some special thing he wanted to see, like the Log Chapel or the Rockne Memorial. Usually though they were out just to see what they could and left it to us.
18
The Scholastic
We had a lot of people who made long trips just to see Notre Dame. Most of them were tourists passing through. Once or twice I drew blase cynics who spent all their time comparing everything unfavorably to what they’d seen before. Most people were tremendously impressed with the whole thing.
“I spent my most interesting day taking a hundred blind people around. They had come to their state convention in South Bend and the only thing they wanted to see was the school. Four of us took on the job and we really had a tough time. The seeing-eye dogs scrapped all afternoon and we wore ourselves out trying to explain in enough detail to make things clear. With every building we had to go into how many floors, what color the brick, the style of architecture, and details of decoration. These people really asked us some questions too, ‘Is the Dome perfectly round?’ ‘What is the Grotto made off?’ ‘What kinds of trees are in the quadrangles and what do they look like? Though only about a fourth of them could see anything at all, they seemed to get a big kick out of everything. It was work trying to help them visualize the campus, but it was fascinating too.”
Guide Contemplates Infanticide
Tom Devanny, who helped Duggan to make the blind see, went on a few very lively tours on his own. Like the rest, good-natured Tom took them as they came, but his specialty was playing pied-piper for the grade-school set. Said Tom: “I like kids. I’d usually rather show them around than older people. They have more fun. But one squad of fifth-graders last summer almost had me cutting switches. They came out from South Bend to see Gregori’s Columbian murals in the main building, ‘because we are studying Columbus,’ and they asked me every idiotic question all forty of them could think of. They thought I should know everything. ‘What kind of a leaf is this? ’ ‘Did Father Sorin know Columbus? ’ ‘Why can’t you walk up the steps of the big building? ’. ‘What’s a tradition? ’ Just try to explain something like tradition to a kid sometime.
“They had me hitting my head against the wall before the afternoon was over —but they certainly enjoyed everything, and they didn’t miss much. The next week they wrote a whole orangecrate full of thank-you letters to the school. That’s right, and more questions too. But I still like the kids.”
Joe O’Hara has no special preference for children, but he made a lot of trips around the campus. Besides the tour with the blind he guided a Bishop from
(Continued on Page 26)
FOOD for THOUGHT
ND Gives Mental Relief, Too
By JIM KINGSLEY
No ordinary room is 126 Howard. A maze of desks, filing cabinets and official-looking papers, it is a center of international relations. It is also the domicile of one George Witteried, who is no ordinary student.
George, a lanky 23-year-old Chicagoan, was named last August as National vice-chairman of the Student Relief Campaign. His job is the engineering of what is termed “intellectual relief.”
George has never taken a job more seriously. His cohort, Lou Burns, National Chairman of SRC, predicts that “within two or three years, the phase of relief we call intellectual relief will replace to a large extent the material relief that we emphasize today.”
And if anyone ever took a prophecy to heart, that person is George Witteried. At the moment, he is conducting a correspondence campaign that involves 207 American Catholic colleges and 40 European student groups. A flow of some 50 letters a month from students desiring foreign correspondence passes through his hands. “We hope to have over 1,000 a month,” he adds, “when the campaign really gets under way.”
Must Devise Indoctrination Program
Up to his neck already, George still looks to the future. He must devise a program of indoctrination for next year’s quota of European students who will have scholarships at American universities. He must also have a magic wand to reduce the severe shortage of textbooks among foreign students.
And, as a climax, he hopes to set up a “leadership” summer camp in Europe.
“Its purpose,” he explains, “would be to give European and American students a knowledge of their common cultural heritage. It would embrace 200 students in six weeks of operation and would run concomitantly with a tour of Europe — for the same purpose — by a group of American students.”
George is already planning to attend the UNESCO-sponsored Commission for International Education Reconstruction conference on international reconstruction, to be held in the early spring. He
will also attend the national conference of UNESCO next April in Cleveland.
Shows No Signs of Strain
Of course, George spends a goodly part of the day at his job. But he does not look like one who makes seven circuits of the meat-grinder every week. In fact, he doesn’t even look as though he’s straining to keep up an 85 average. George is a senior majoring in finance and hopes to enter law school next year. .
He has been, at one time or another, a lifeguard on Chicago’s Montrose Beach; a gob on the carrier Intrepid’ and a pioneer in at least three Notre Dame student organizations — the NSA, the International Affairs Club and the Generation Club, of which he is president.	’
You may ask him — jokingly, of course — what he does with his spare time; but that doesn’t seem at all ridiculous to George. He will, in all probability, launch an hour-long discussion on reading (his room is crammed with books of all kinds); swimming (he swam in last year’s interhall meet); roller skating (“good way to meet women”); and “just talking with people.”
If you know of anything closer to perpetual: motion, we’d like to see it.
GEOBGE WTTTEHEID Never So Serious
Feb. 11, 1949
19
Scholastic Sports
Take It Easy, Ed !/z---Coach Krause
Close Contest With Boilermakers Expected As Cindermen Prepare For Fieldhouse Meet
By JIM HOWARD
A versatile and well-balanced Purdue track team will meet Notre Dame’s powerful tracksters tomorrow at 1 p.m., in the Irish fieldhouse in what is scheduled as one of the most evenly matched cinder contests of the current season. The pole vault will be the opening event.
“It’s going to be a tough meet and the victory margin for either team will be slight” says Irish track coach “Doc” Handy. Boilermaker mentor Dave Rankin will invade with a veteran squad, and one that has no major weak spots. Charlie May, ace sprinter, and broad jumper Jewell -Daily are the co-captains of the Lafayette group. May, who finished fourth in the Big Nine championships last year, is backed by Harold Omer, on outstanding sophomore dashman. Notre Dame will rely on sophomore Bill Kupfer and Lancaster Smith to offset the Purdue strength in this division.
To counter Daily in the broad jump, Coach Handy will use John Worthington who will also run in the hurdle events. Ray Espenan was injured in the Michigan State Relays last week and may not be able to jump tomorrow. The Irish thin-clads will feature Bob Smith, outstanding dashman, and Ray Sobota in the quarter-mile against Jack Miller who is defending state champion in that event.
The half-mile will be one of the top events with Captain Bill Leonard and Pat Kenny battling with Boilermaker Walter Klink for top honors. Notre Dame may also use Vai Muscato, a strong sophomore middle distance run-
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 12—BASKETBALL at St. Louis TRACK, Purdue here
16—BASKETBALL, Marquette here.
18—FENCING at Case
19—BASKETBALL at DePaul TRACK, Bradley here
ner, and Gerry Johnson veteran runner in this crucial race.
In an attempt to stop Purdue’s top miler, Lewis Blanchard, Notre Dame will enter Jim Kittell and Tony DaDamio

LAWRENCE BUSBY Purdue's Altitude Ace
in that event. Leonard may run in this event also. Jim Murphy, consistent two-miler victor* for N.D., will be forced into a rugged battle with Bob Rodibaugh, Purdue’s crack sophomore runner. Jim Kelly and Lou Tracy will compete for Notre Dame in either the mile or two-mile runs.
An Irish trio headed by Bill Fleming will carry the Notre Dame hopes in the hurdles, against Everett Veregge and Joe Kennedy, Purdue’s monogram winners in those events. Leo McKillip and Bob McDavid round out the barrier topping group from Notre Dame.
Lawrence Busby, a vaulter capable of 13 ft. 10 inches, is Purdue’s brilliant pole valuter. Jim Miller of Notre Dame set his best mark of 13 feet 2 inches last Saturday against Busby in the Michigan
(Continued on Page 24)
Irish Nurse Injuries For Biliikens Battle
By RALPH WRIGHT
Reeling from a series of injuries that have completely repudiated the old “luck of the Irish” adage, Notre Dame’s basketball team looks for no mercy when it takes the floor against mighty St. Louis, tomorrow night at Kiel Auditorium in, St. Louis. Coach Eddie Hickey’s barrel-rolling Biliikens are as good as ever, which means they are just about the best college quintet in the country.
They still feature that fast-breaking, short-passing attack built around Mr. Basketball himself, Easy Ed Macauley. The stringbean center (6 feet 8 inches, ISO pounds) controls both backboards, sets up the plays and averages about 17 points per game on a minimum of shots.
In the first twelve ball games, Macauley racked up 208 markers with an amazing shooting percentage of 55% from the field and 75% from the free throw line. Joe Ossola, the darkhaired drive-in specialist, and rugged Bob Schmidt had 125 and 133 points respectively. Little (6 feet 1 inch) Lou Lehman and Marv Schatzman, the lanky
Kunkle
SPARTANS SWAMPED
O'Shea Steal* Ball on Rebound
21
Feb. 11, 1949 -
forward whose long one-handers bothered the Irish no little last season, round out the regular five.
St. Louis has won 14 of 15 contests, the most recent being a 43-37 overtime triumph over Long Island. And, though they took the Sugar Bowl tourney by edging Kentucky, 42-40, the Bills are rated No. 2 behind the Wildcats in the AP poll. That’s because the antagonizing Oklahoma Aggies stalled to a 29-27 upset win aftei’ St. Louis had gone 11 games without a defeat.
Hilltoppers' Return Game
Next Wednesday the Irish play Marquette again. The Hilltoppers have been hot and cold, mostly cold. Two of their best performances to date were a 68-48 rout of Michigan State at East Lansing and another 59-42 win over the Spartans last Saturday. Sammy Sauceda, recently promoted to the starting five, and gigantic Frank McCabe should be the most troublesome of Coach Bill Chandler’s not-too - troublesome boys. Before coming here, Marquette has the unenviable task of trying to snap Bowling Green’s long skein of home victories Monday night.
With John Brennan definitely out and four other’ starters battered and bruised, Coach Ed Krause has no reason to be too confident against anyone. Marty O’Connor, the jump-shooting soph, has filled in nicely and Leo Barnhorst has risen from the ranks of the good ballplayers to those of the great ones. Barney’s play against Denver, Butler and MSC was the last word.
SAMMY SAUCEDA Marquette's Jumping Bean
Bengal Bouters Gird For March 28 Prelims
The 13th annual Bengal Bouts—Notre Dame’s carnival of clout—will get under’ way on Monday, March 28. Preliminary bouts will continue on Tuesday and Wednesday, March 29 and 30, with the semifinals on Thursday, March 31. Final action and the crowning of champions comes on Saturday, April 2.
Christy Walsh, Jr., who promoted the
Fencers Beat lllini: Schlosser Saves Day
The Fighting Irish beat the Fighting lllini last Saturday, 14-13. The difference between the teams was not just an extra point, it was the slashing sabre of Bob Schlosser which toppled the unbeaten lllini.
In the deciding match of the meet, Schlosser, who had won his two previous duels, found himself on the short end of a 3-1 score. It was at this point that he rallied to win, 5-3, and bring Notre Dame the victory by one point.
Prior to the Illinois match the Notre Dame fencers had not been pressed too severely. In their opening engagement they trounced Illinois Tech, 17-10, and followed up by whipping Chicago University, 16-11. During the semester break they traveled to East Lansing to knock over Michigan State, 15-12. The Michi-, gan State match saw Nick Scalera and Ralph Dixon win three matches apiece in the foil and epee, respectively.
Notre Dame will cross blades next with Case on February 18. The Irish will be seeking their fifth consecutive victory this season, their 10th straight over two seasons, and their 15th win in their last 16 outings, dating back to 1947.
1947 bouts with success, will again be in charge of the fights. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C. S. C., will be the chairman.
Veteran trainer Dominic Napolitano heads the tape and arnica department, assisted by Charles Waters. “Nappy” has been handling Bengal Bouts since 1931 except for the war years when he served as boxing instructor for Iowa Pre-Flight school. In all that time no serious injury has resulted.
Tickets will be handled by Bob Welch. There will be a slightly different arrangement for students this year, but a later announcement will give details of the plan.
Jim Slattery is in charge of the program. He will receive assistance from Bob Vierhile, Jim Clifford, Tom Feeney, Tom Stewart and Ed Casey. Advertising is being handled by Phil Coyne with Jack Crane and Jim Siebold on the committee. Ted O’Malley and Tom Kennedy are the public relations men.
Bengal Bout publicity is in the hands of Jim Butz, and Bob Hennault is chairman of the banquet committee. Other banquet planners are Bob Molnar, Joe Judge and John D’Antoni.
Action is tentatively scheduled in eight weight classes—126, 135, 142, 147, 155, 165, 175 and heavyweight divisions. The college rules are followed in the fights.
Training began last Monday in the boxing room of the old gym. All students are eligible to compete, but before reporting to Napolitano for workouts, they must get a doctor’s slip at the infirmary. Napolitano plans daily workouts in the boxing room beginning at 3:45 p.m.
The Scholastic
22
Track Team Opens Wi+h Win at Michigan
The track team opened their campaign on a successful note two weeks ago at the Michigan AAU meet, but an epidemic of dysentery put them in the mediocre class last week at Michigan State’s relay carnival.
Only Bob Smith, South Bend’s contribution to Notre Dame, could come through with a victory at the Michigan State meet, but the week before in the AAU meet at Ann Arbor, the Irish thin-clads pulled in four victories, and took two. seconds and two fourth places.
Among the victors at Ann Arbor was the mile relay team whose time, 3.21.5, ranks among the best in the nation this season. Other winners were Johnny Helwig in the shot put, Pat Kenny in the 880, and Jimmy Murphy in the two mile run.
Seconds were taken by the shuttle hurdle and the two mile relay teams. Tony DaDamio finished in fourth place in the mile while Bill Fleming took the same place in the high sticks.
Smith’s victory at East Lansing came in the 300 yard dash which he took by a comfortable margin in 31.6 seconds. In addition to this the team got three second places and four thirds. The seconds were taken by the mile relay squad, Vai Muscato in the 600 yard run, and by Johnny Helwig in the shot put. Peculiarly enough both Muscato and Helwig hold the National High School records in these events.
Bill Fleming showed great promise for the coming season when he tied the meet record of 9.1 in his heat of the 75 yard high hurdles, but could do no better than third in the finals, thanks to an irritation of an old injury. Fleming also ran a great anchor leg to give the shuttle hurdle relay team third place. Other thirds were taken by the distance and the sprint medley teams.
Jim Kittell ran well to take fourth place in the 1000 yards and Jim Miller pole vaulted 13 feet 2 inches, the best of his career, to tie for fourth place.
—Ted Prahinski
REMAINING BASKETBALL GAMES
Feb. 12—At St. Louis
16—Marquette here.
19—At DePaul
23—At Michigan State
26—At Canisius
28—At N.Y.U.
Mar. 5—At Northwestern
7—St. Louis here
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box
By HARRY MONAHAN
Miscellaneous Correspondence
Mr. H. Lee Hope: How is the varsity band earning its letters this year? On behalf of the student body may we invite you and your group to play for at least one home basketball game before the season ends.
Mr. Frank Crosiar, WHOT, South Bend: You owe either an apology to the Notre Dame student body or an explanation to your listeners for certain inferences you broadcast during the Notre Dame-Butler game on January 31. The radio audience could hear the Indianap-opis crowd booing Notre Dame players as they left the game. Yet you praised them as loyal Butler fans and commented that they showed the same kind of spirit that the spectators in the Irish fieldhouse exhibited towards visiting teams. You must have been more than speechless at the first Notre Dame-Butler game this year to make a statement like that.
Until Leo Barnhorst received a thundering ovation at the Michigan State game, little “Buckshot” O’Brien, Butler’s sharpshooter, had the distinction of receiving the biggest applause from a fieldhouse audience this year. We have yet to hear the Irish student body boo and give catcalls as opposing players left the court as the Indianapolis crowd did. We resent being classified with them, and as we said before, you owe the student body an apology or your listeners a fairer picture of the true state of Notre Dame sportsmanship.
Musings at Halftime
Have you ever played basketball while wearing Leo Barnhorst for a sweatshirt? . Ask “Hi, Vince” Boryla how easy it is — to score five points. ... We will join those plugging Ray Meyer for the Notre Dame basketball coaching job soon to be vacated by the promotion of “Moose” Krause. Can anyone pick a better nominee than the DePaul mentor? Meyer always did want to coach a team that could win on the Irish home court. He did it this year, but let’s give him a real chance to increase his fieldhouse win average. . . . Carl Nedom of Salinas, California, advises us that the
outstanding player award in the Shrine East-West charity game is the Bill Coffman trophy, not Kaufmann as reported here. We have been the target for several complaints from California lately. The “unusual” weather must have unnerved the normally siesta-minded Westerners. We will vote for any sensible plan that produces a new fieldhouse without recourse to the very long range plans of the Foundation. But of more urgent need under the present conditions is a new scoreboard. The present monstrosity is a disgrace and also valueless to too large a percentage of the crowd. If an automatic device is too expensive at least get one that removes the “little people” who now scamper back and forth in front of it obstructing the view. An electric scoreboard suspended at midcourt need only show time and running score to add greatly to the spectator enjoyment of the game.
Drop Kentucky? No!!
Our bluegrass alumni have started howling for blood due to the ticket situation for the Kentucky game. It will be most unfortunate if this group succeeds in causing the cancellation of one of the top three Irish cage rivalries. Kentucky is one of the nation’s best and it will hurt the prestige of Notre Dame basketball if it is dropped from the schedule. And we think the good of Notre Dame basketball far outweighs the nature of the current complaint.
Notre Dame can say nothing to Kentucky on ticket allotments as long as the present crowded conditions prevail on the Irish home court. Why should Kentucky officials give us 1,700 tickets to their home game when we can’t give them more than 50 to our home.games? The real solution is a new fieldhouse — which is a project of the Foundation — which is a step-child of the Alumni Association— which brings the problem right back into the laps of the very ones who are complaining.
Coach Krause, don’t drop Kentucky. They are good rivals, and besides we have a small score to settle with them next year on our home court.
Feb. 11, 1949
23
Kampus Keglers Reopen Pin Warfare; Buffalo, Texas Clubs Lend Close Race
Kampus Keglers will open their spring bowling competition Sunday afternoon after giving the pin boys a short rest over the semester break. The pace in both leagues is still torrid and a spread of only three points is all that divides the first six teams in each league. The pace-setting teams in each league hold only one point margins over the number two squads.
The Buffalo club holds a slim one point lead over the Metallurgy pin splitters in the Blue league. Pressing the Metallurgy claim is the third place Central New York club. Only one point separates the Detroit, Philadelphia and Chemist clubs, from the Gold league leaders from Texas. The heat of competition in the Gold league is evidenced by the fact that nine out of the first ten high individual averages were posted by men bowling for squads in Gold league play.
Buffalo will risk its lead when it meets the New Jersey club and the Metallurgy team will try to slip into the lead at the expense of another New York squad from the Rochester club. Texans will battle the Fox River Valley boys and the number two trio will be pressing their opponents to overcome that one point deficit.
The complete schedule for Sunday is as follows:
BLUE LEAGUE
Minnesota vs. St. Louis; New Jersey vs. Buffalo ; Indianapolis vs. Kansas City; Youngstown vs. K. of C.: Rochester vs. Metallurgy; Kentucky vs. Vetville; Central N. Y. vs. Toledo; Chemical Engr. vs. Generation; Utica vs. New England.
Play-for-Dough Gridders Return to Study
- With the advent of spring (?) comes the return to school of many of the Notre Dame footballers who have graduated to the professional ranks.
Two of the play-for-pay boys who are continuing their studies in the college of law are Gentleman George Ratterman and Bill Gompers. Both did yeoman work for the Buffalo Bills this past season in leading the Bills to the championship of the eastern division of the All-American Conference.
Another of the Buffalo stand-outs back at Notre Dame is William “Zeke” O’Connor, who snared many of Ratterman’s passes while holding down an end position for the Bills. Ratterman, of course, handled Buffalo’s quarterback duties, and Gompers did his running from right halfback. O’Connor has
GOLD LEAGUE
Aero vs. Syrian Lebanese: A.S.M.E. vs. Inter-American : Italian vs. Philadelphia; Detroit vs. Rockford: Architecture vs. Off-Campus: Met Club vs. Prop & Wing: Columbus vs. Pittsburgh : Fox River Valley vs. Texas: Chemist vs. Cleveland.
League standings as of February 6: BLUE LEAGUE			
	W.	■ L.	Pts.
Buffalo 				 14	4	19
Metallurgy 			 13	5	18
Central New	York- 	 13	5	17
New England		 13	5	16
St. Louis 			 12	6	16
Rochester 			 12	6	16
Toledo 				 10	8	14
New Jersey .		 9	9	13
			
Minnesota 					 8	10	11
Kansas City .		    8	10	11
Utica 			 8	10	11
Vetville —			 8	10	10
A.I.C.E. 			 8	10	9
Youngstown _		 7	11	9
Kentucky 			 6	12	8
Indianapolis ..		 5	13	7
K. of C. 			 4	13	6
Generation —		 4	14	5
League standings as of February 6: GOLD LEAGUE
	W.	L.	Pts.
Texas 		13	5	18
Detroit 		13	5	17
Philadelphia 		12	6	17
Chemist 		12	6	17
Met Club 		12	6	16
Rockford 		11	7	15
Italian 				11	7	15
Off-Campus 		11	7	14
Pittsburgh 				10	8	14
Fox River Valley 		10	8	13
Aero 		.. 9	9	12
A.S.M.E. 		s	10	11
Inter-American 		6	12	8
Cleveland 		6	12	8
Architects —	 	-	6	12	r*
Columbus 		5	13	7
Syrian-Leb			5	13	5
Prop and Wing 		2	16	2
recently been acquired by the AAC champion Cleveland Browns.
George Strohmeyer, the Texas Terror, has also returned to school. George performed in the AAC circuit too, throwing his blocks and tackles for the Brooklyn Dodgers. From all reports, he did a fine job. With the combination of the Dodgers and New York Yankees, George’s contract has been shifted to the Chicago Hornets (formerly the Rockets).
John Perko, who was a regular guard on the 1943 national champions and who later performed in the pro ranks, is back at Notre Dame, brushing up on some educational subjects that will enable him to teach school. Perko helped coach football at his hometown high school in Ely, Minn., this past year.—Jim Butz
Irish Grid Honors
Kunkle
At the recent testimonial banquet for the Notre Dame football team Coach Eddie
Anderson of Iowa presented All-American citations and sweaters from the AllAmerica Board of Football to 1948 Captain Bill Fischer (left) and 1949 Co-captain Leon Hart. Fischer was also presented with the Captain's Cup, having been elected captain by the other members of the A-A Board's eleven. Forty-four grid monogram winners were presented with gold footballs at the banquet. Hart and "jungle jim" Martin received the captain's shillelagh from Fischer upon announcement of their appointment as cocaptains for the 1949 Irish football team.
Track
(Continued from Page 21)
State Relays. In the shot put, John Helwig is given a slight edge over Charles Hening the Purdue star who can toss over 49 feet.
Ed Jones and John Shafer of Purdue are expected to make it impossible for Notre Dame to score over one point in the high jump, as both have cleared over 6 feet 3 inches. Bill Fleming will represent the Irish in this event if his injured foot is healed. Tom Devine may also jump for Notre Dame.
An Irish quartet will be selected from among Steve Provost, Paul Schwetsche-nau, Sobota, Leonard, Bob Smith and Bob Boyne to run the mile relay which may be the deciding event of the spectacular contest. Because both groups are so well balanced, the meet will be close, and final superiority may rest in the outcome of this grueling mile relay. Purdue will present a top foursome of Miller, Ed Crook, Chester Bartol and Frank Harder in an effort to outlast the Irish in this event.

24
The Scholastic
Interhall Basketball
Interhall basketball competition was reopened on the Rockne Memorial courts. Judging from the scores turned in on the first day of scheduled contests, Notre Dame’s campus eagers are going to lead the parade back to lower scores in basketball. The present round-robin program will be continued for several weeks until the teams are chosen for the championship tourney.
In games played last Monday the Breen-Phillips frosh dropped a close 3129 decision to the Cavanaugh five. How- ' ard was an easy victor over a hapless Walsh quintet, 24-7. Badin and Lyons battled through a tight contest and the Bogmen barely squeezed out a victory, 37-36. In a minor civil war the Morrissey Gold team tagged hallmates on the Morrissey Blue five for a 40-38 decision.
The schedule for next week’s games is as follows:
February 14
3:00 Morrissey Gold vs. Detroit
4:00 Kentucky vs. New Jersey
5:00 Howard vs. St. Edwards 7:00 Breen-Phillips vs. Farley 7:45 Badin vs. Howard
February 15
3:00 Dillon vs. Morrissey Blue
4 :00 Rhode Island vs. Central Illinois
7:00 Walsh vs. Cavanaugh
7:45 Cincinnati vs. Lyons
. scoring honors by dumping in 15 points. Close behind him were Leroy Leslie, Don Strasser, and Bob Wray who scored 12 points each.
NOTRE DAME
FGFT P
Leslie rf ______ 5	2	2
Fitzgerald _____ 111
Wilcox If ______ 4	1	1
Clancy _________ 6	3	1
Dunn ___________ 1	0	1
Wray c _________ 5	2	1
Jaekles ________ 2	1	0
Blair  0	0	0
Stricker _______ 0	0	0
Neumayr 1g _____ 2	3	1
Laney __________ 0	3	1
32 15 9
PEORIA AUTO PARTS FGFTP
Havens rf_____2	10
Shuff If 1	0 2
McGann ________0	0 1
Root c 6	14
Lard rg 0	0 4
Hillie 1g_____1	1 2
Gauwitz  0	12
10 4 15
Varsity Batterymen Called As Baseball Season Nears
The 1949 baseball season will get underway next Monday, Feb. 14, in the fieldhouse with a call for the returning varsity batterymen. The first general call, for all other players, will be made, with the weatherman’s approval, in approximately three weeks.
From last year’s hard-luck squad, which finished with only a little better
than a .500 mark, will return some outstanding pitchers who should shine. Walt Mahannah, Tony Lipton, Bob Nemes and Dick Kluck are all good righthanders, while the southpaw duties will be shared by Dick Smullen and Jack Campbell.	.
Dick Maher, Jim Presley, Tom Boland and Joe Stasch will fight it out to receive first call to catching duties. With such a staff of batterymen, the squad has the nucleus of a defense which should show good results come spring.
For Every SPORT
Gym Shoes
Gym Pants
T Shirts
Sweat Shirts
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP 121 West Colfax Phone 3-3702
February 16
3:00 Cavanaugh vs. Zahm
4:00 Washington-Maryland vs. Central New York 5:00 Alumni vs. Walsh
February 17
3:00 Generation vs. West Virginia
4 :00 New England vs. K. of C.
7:00 Sorin vs. St. Edwards 7:45 Dillon vs. Alumni
February 18
3:00 Toledo vs. Buffalo
4 :00 Aesculapian vs. Indianapolis 3:00 Breen-Phillips vs. Farley 7:00 Air ROTC vs. Metropolitan 7:45 Zahm vs. Morrissey
Frosh Basketeers Pulverize Peoria Auto Parts Quintet
Last Saturday a strong Notre Dame freshman basketball team easily defeated the Peoria Auto Parts five, 79-24. The Peoria squad stayed close for the first quarter and then was swept away by the attack of the Irish frosh.
Blazing to a 39-17 halftime lead the future Notre Dame Krausemen kept pouring it on in the second half. The Peoria five had an 8 to 2 record before they met up with Coach Sobek’s eager charges.
Dick Clancy, wiry forward, took the
Coton Club
. . . A famous Steak and Chop House with Notre Dame men for many years.
Club Parties by Reservation
115 WEST CENTER
SOUTH BEND
Feb. 11, 1949
25
Campus Guides
(Continued from Page 19)
India, several high school classes, and a Michigan University Sorority. Said Joe: “It’s really interesting to. see the reactions that other people have to things about Notre Dame that we’ve grown used to. Practically everyone I ever took out to see the empty stadium was appalled at its size. And people can’t seem to absorb the idea that the stadium is strictly for fcotball and is used only four or five times a year. Another thing that hits them is the vastness of the dining halls; they can’t see how anything so big can work. The church seems to be the most impressive thing for all. I’ve even had non-Catholics tell me that it was the most beautiful church they’d ever seen. The Grotto affects people differently. In the summer its even more beautiful than now, and I’ve seen people so overcome with emotion that they’ve cried. But I’ve also seen people who took little interest.
Find BRT Costs Surprising
“The cost of going to Notre Dame was a big shock to most people. Somehow they seemed to have the idea that going to college was a much cheaper proposition. Neither could most people get over the fact that most of Notre Dame’s 5,000 students live right on campus. Even when shown the halls they couldn’t see how it could be done.
“Almost every group we showed around was bristling with cameras. They took pictures of everything from the stadium to the watchmen’s shanty, but the Dome and the Church took the big beating. The walking scenery of summer football men came in for a lot of attention. Leon Hart in a tee shirt always stopped the show.
“In the course of the summer I was asked everything—and I found out a lot about the school I didn’t know. Many people are really up on the subject, and many who aren’t have heard stories. By the end of the season we were doing pretty well with the stories too.
“The overall impression was that Notre Dame is a very wonderful place. A few scoffed, but the majority obviously envied us. as students here. After a few trips you find yourself feeling pretty good about Notre Dame.”
If after taking in this viewpoint there is still a man left irked at his lot, there is one short story left. Let Vic Melchiore tell it. “I guided a man and his family who had come all the way from Cincinnati just to see Notre Dame. They stayed in South Bend for four days and spent their vacation browsing the campus.”
26
Ye Saintly Days of Yore
With this picture of the old Hill Street car, the SCHOLASTIC inaugurates a new photo feature. We do this with a bow to University Photographer Wally Kunkle and Father Lange, proprietor of the muscle factory back of the Main Building. Father salvaged several thousand negatives which were about to be destroyed, catalogued them and Wally has given us some of the best prints. The Hill Street car was a Notre Dame institution. It plied from downtown to a point just south of Father Sorin's statue. Often the motormen ran the car with a bland disregard to the end of the track. Once, in a disagreement with a recalcitrant motorman, the old-time Notre Darners burned the car to the trucks. With the end of the roaring twenties came the end of South Bend's "Street Car Named Desire."
WND Returns to Air Waves With Full Broadcast Plans
WND, the campus radio station, is back on the air for the new semester with a full schedule of broadcasts. As last semester WND will be on the air from 1 until 10 Monday through Friday and from 7 until 10 on Sunday nights.
The hours from 1 until 7 will be occupied by FM broadcasts. Popular music to the students’ requests will be featured from 8 until 9 on “Requestfully Yours.”	'
A new feature in collaboration with the Music Department will be the playing of the transcription of the Philharmonic Orchestra every Friday afternoon from 4:30 until 5.
The Sunday night program will include the St. Francis Hour and the Concert Hour.
On Tuesdays and Thursdays music will be featured with the south of the border tempo from 7:30 to 7:45 with La Baza Club furnishing music from Latin-American countries.
Civil Service To Aid U.S. Science Students
Sophomores and juniors interested in scientific careers with the Federal government will be the recipients of benefits under a new Student Aid Program announced by the Civil Service Commission.
The aid offered by the Commission is in the form of several special training programs in the fields of engineering, chemistry, mathemat’cs. metallurgy, physics, meteorology, and geology. Appointments to the positions will be pro-bational but are usually for employment during school vacations. Upon completion of the academic program the appointee is eligible to return to his original position at a higher grade.
An examination for the appointments will be given at various centers in the country including South Bend. Information relating to the program and applications for the examinations can be obtained from Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science.
The Scholastic
Names Make News
Professor FRANCIS J. HANLEY, assistant professor of Art at Notre Dame, has been awarded the Peter C. Reilly prize for his water-color painting of the Log Chapel, entitled “Winter Recollections.” The prize is given annually to an outstanding Catholic art instructor. This marks the second time Professor Hanley has won the prize. His oil painting entitled “Sung in Samurai” won in 1939. His latest prize-winning painting will be moved to Washington in April, where it will be exhibited in the Corcoran Gallery with other paintings of regional art. It is now on exhibit at the 25th annual Hoosier Salon in Indianapolis.
The Society of American Bacteriologists, Indiana branch, has elected ROBERT F. ERVIN, Assistant Research Professor of Bacteriology at Notre Dame, to the post of Indiana counsellor to the Society. Professor Ervin, who was elected for a two-year term, will represent the Indiana branch at all
DR. PRICE Indiana's Best
meetings of the national organization. By virtue of his election, Professor Ervin is automatically a member of the national council of the Society of American Bacteriologists. At Notre Dame, he is also business administrator for the Laboratories of Bacteriology (LO-BUND).	.	’
Professor DANIEL H. PEDTKE, head of the Department of Music at Notre Dame, gave the fourth and final
series of talks concerning the academic contributions of the University to the South Bend area, before the Lions club, two weeks ago. Professor Pedtke’s talk was entitled “The Educational Aspects of Music.” Sixteen members of the Notre Dame glee club, under Professor Pedtke’s direction, sang at the meeting.
The Rev. ANTHONY J. LAUCK, C.S.C., a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, has recently been honored by having a limestone carving, sculptured by him, included in the 144th annual exhibition of oil painting and sculpture in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia. Father Lauck, who was graduated from here in 1942, was invited to participate in the exhibit by Henry Kreis, chairman of the jury of sculpture, and Joseph T. Fraser, director of the academy. The invitation came after the jury inspected and approved of the limestone carving, “Judas”, a study of the great betrayer. This marks the second consecutive year that Father Lauck has been invited to participate in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts exhibit.
Villanova College, Villanova, Pa., recently announced the appointment of JIM LEONARD as head football coach there. Leonard, a graduate of Notre Dame, played for the Irish in 1931,32-33, and coached the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1944. He will succeed Jordan Oliver as coach of the eastern ball club.
“The Meaning of Notre Dame to Mishawaka” was the subject of a talk by DALE FRANCIS, a graduate student in political science and member of the publicity department of the University, before the Lions club last week in Hotel Mishawaka. Francis discussed the influence the University has on townspeople in this area.
Gunnery Sergt. JAMES P. JONES, USMC, will conclude a three-year tour of duty with the naval ROTC unit at the University of Notre Dame next week. Sergt. Jones will rejoin the second marine division at Camp LeJeune, N. C., the division with which he served in the Pacific theatre during the war. His replacement at Notre Dame has not been announced.
FRANK LEAHY, head football coach at Notre Dame, was the dinner guest of President Harry S. Truman in
the White House on Feb. 9. An old friend of the president and head coach, Judge Paul Connery, of Norwalk, Conn., arranged the dinner meeting and was also a guest of the president. Coach Leahy has known the president since the latter’s senatorial days, but has never before been his guest in the White House. Leahy is currently making a speaking tour of the East.
JOSEPH SCOTT, prominent Los Angeles, Calif., attorney, and honorary
MR. SCOTT Service to the Republic
alumnus of Notre Dame, has been awarded the 1948 Medal of the American Irish Historical Society “in recognition of service to the Republic.” Thomas J. Curran, Secretary of the State of New York, in presenting the medal to Mr. Scott, praised him as “a leader of the American bar, an outstanding Catholic layman, a fearless crusader in the cause of human freedom and the most powerful eloquent voice in America.” Mr. Scott received an honorary Doctorate of Laws degree from Notre Dame in 1915, and since that time has been a frequent lecturer at the University. He was the 1918 recipient of Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal.
Dr. CHARLES C. PRICE, Head of the Department of Chemistry here, has been named the Outstanding Young Man in the State of Indiana for 1948 by the Indiana Junior Chamber of Commerce. Dr. Price received the honor from the group for his outstanding scientific research conducted in the Chemistry Laboratories at Notre Dame. The award is made each year to a man 35 years of age or younger for distin
Feb. 11, 1949
27
guished accomplishments. Dr. Price announced last month that he and his associates for the first time in the history of science have isolated two chemical compounds capable of neutralizing dangerous Rh antibodies in the blood which may cause still-births and miscarriages in pregnancy, and jaundice and other blood diseases in newborn infants.
The Chicago Tribune has announced the appointment of WALTER TRO-HAN, member of the Trib staff for nearly 20 years and a 1926 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, to the post of chief of the newspaper’s Washington Bureau.
FRANK KOPCZAK, class of 1937, and former ND tackle, was named this week as football coach at St. Rita High school in Chicago. He was formerly line coach at Washington university of St. Louis and head coach of St. Louis Mc-
Bride High school.
JOE DOYLE From Halter to Altar
JOE DOYLE, last semester’s Scholastic editor, was married last Saturday to Miss Juanita Lees of South Bend. The Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., witnessed the ceremony in Sacred Heart Church. The former Miss Lees was a nurse in the Notre Dame Infirmary.
Mr. BOLESLAW SZCZESNIAK, an authority on Asiatic culture, has joined the faculty of the University as an associate professor of history. This summer, Mr. Szczesniak will offer a course in European-Chinese history, and next year he will teach courses in the history of China.
SOS FOR BRIDGE ADDICTS
The entry list is still open for candidates for the National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. Notre Dame has been entered in the Great Laks Zone competition. The early phases of the tourney will be conducted by mail, with all players playing prepared hands under the “Duplicate" system of scoring. Winners of the campus tournament will be awarded a free trip to Chicago and a stay at the Drake hotel with all expenses paid, in order to play in the finals. Entry blanks may be obtained in either the K. of C. clubrooms or at the Student Council office in the Main Building.
Library Display Shows Life at Mediaeval U's
The second exhibit on the history of the mediaeval European universities, now on display in the Notre Dame Library, depicts the organization of the higher faculties, especially that of theology.
Prepared by the Rev. A. L. Gabriel, professor in the Mediaeval Institute, the exhibit includes unpublished documents, miniatures and seals depicting the history of the Sorbonne in Paris. The House of Sorbonne was originally designed for sixteen poor students of theology selected from the four student “nations”: French, Picard, Norman, and English-German.
The documents are in three cases on the main floor of the library. They illustrate the interior life of the Sorbonne, showing the masters in full ac-activity. One document describes the generosity of the Irish master, Thomas De Hibernia, who bequeathed his own books to the library of the “poor scholar.” The miniatures give a vivid picture of student life at the Faculty of Theology
The exhibit gives clear proof that modern higher education has its roots in the mediaeval tradition, and that the proud name of the Sorbonne goes back to the charitable foundation established by Robert of Sorbonne, chaplain of St. Louis, to help poor students pursue their studies.
Through the courtesy of Mr. Paul Byrne, director of the library, several rare books from the library’s collection have been included in the exhibit.
Most of the Gals Slouch, Mich. State Survey Finds
East Lansing, Mich.—(ACP)—Reporters of the Michigan State News took a posture survey of coeds on a Sunday afternoon in the Union Grill. They report a pronounced slouch on 60% of the coeds observed:
“A slouch not only makes a woman look sloppy, it affects her personality and her physical welfare.”
“It’s a shame tha tso many of the so-called “cream of American womanhood” should carry themselves as if they were frightened.”
The article goes on to quote from “State Board Questions and Answers for Nurses:”
“Question: What effect does poor posture have on one’s mental attitude?
“Answer: Poor posture comes to be associated with the grumbling, dissatisfied and unhappy individual. Any effect on the physical well-being will sooner or later be reflected in the mental outlook. Good posture suggests good breeding, alertness of mind, fearlessness and an attractive personality, although people may possess more character and desirable personality traits than bearing indicates.”
■ ' SPECIAL-------------
OFFER to
Notre Dome Men
"The Spaghetti Card"
The "Spaghetti Card” entitles any student to $6.00 worth of Italian and American food for only $5.00. Purchase your card from our waitress the next time you come in. String along with the "Spaghetti Card" . . . and SAVE!
WE CATER TO SPECIAL PARTIES
Papandrea's
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
(formerly THE CAPITOL)
415 NORTH MICHIGAN
Jimmy and Kose Papandrea
28
The Scholastic
By BO CONNOR
Despite the fact that television isn’t commonplace, except in the large cities, it seems to be just a matter of time before such places as Peoria, Dayton and even South Bend will have it. All of the big radio manufacturers realize this, and consequently have begun to produce home TV sets in great numbers (they expect to have produced 25,000,000 by 1958). Lest we are overtaken by this modern industrial phenomena without knowing what it’s all about, let’s at least see how it operates.
From what I can gather the TV camera works pretty much the same as any ordinary camera does. A scene is transferred into an optical image by a lens. Here, it seems, is where TV differs basically from the camera: by focusing the image on an electrically sensitized plate, rather than on a chemically sensitized film (as it’s done in a Kodak), the result is an electron image. Every point of this electron image gives off emissions which are proportional to the amount of light falling on any particular spot.
Image Into Electrons
Where the ordinary camera catches and records the scene as a whole, in the TV camera the scene is received at once but is dissected immediately into electrical impulses. The emissions off the electron image are turned into these impulses (better see the Science Digest for particulars on this process), which are then amplified and transmitted either through the air or along ground lines.
The whole process reminds me of one of those scenes in a Walt Disney cartoon. The antenna at the receiver picks up the jumbled electrical impulses, reassembles them — much like Bugs Bunny could change a costume — and zoom; they’re on your TV screen as clear as a miniature movie. TV experts explain the “movie like” effect by pointing out that the human eye retains each image for about a tenth of a second after it’s gone, and so, by rapidly changing the scenes, a continuous sequence seems to be operating.
Light Won't Bend
The experts have nullified the big technical difficulty that has held up nationwide televising. For some reason light waves don’t bend with the curve of the earth, so TV waves are lost at the end of the horizon unless artificially
diverted. They devised three ways of doing this (all workable enough, I guess), but each was tremendously expensive. There was, establishing relay stations every 30 miles or so, laying coaxial cables ($5,000 a mile in 1940) or sending airplanes up to 25,000 feet and having them act as relay stations. Expensive or not, we can expect one of these forms to give us regular television anywhere in the states, and in the near future, too.
STUDENT DIRECTORY OUT.
Announcement has been made of the publication of the annual Student Directory. An innovation has been made this year — the Directory will be sold in the Bookstore for twenty-five cents a copy. All students are listed in the publication. along with both their campus and home addresses and class status.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because Be Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
WHIN a camel’s hair coat company refused Sheedy as a gift— he went all to pieces. It was a blow that’d break an ordinary camel’s back—but not his! He remembered hearing about the Finger-Nail Test . . . tried it . . . and hot-footed for a bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now you wouldn’t know the old boy! His hair has a snappy, well-groomed look. No more of that old dryness and loose, ugly dandruff! He’s the hit of every caravan!
Even if you’re not a camel—you, too, should be using nonalcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil containing Lanolin. You needn’t walk a mile for it—your nearest drug store has it in bottles and tubes. And your barber can give you a professional application. Get some today!
* of527 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
New Printed Guide Outlines Use of ND Library Services
Currently being distributed among soph and frosh English classes is a handbook entitled Use Your Library: A Guide to the Resources and Services of the University of Notre Dame. Upper-classmen, graduate students, members of the faculty and others interested in the new pamphlet may obtain a copy at the circulation desk in the Main Library.
The guide deals with the numerous services offered by the various departmental libraries of the University as well as those given by the Notre Dame central library. Use of the card catalog and common reference works is also described.
The handbook was printed by the Ave Maria Press and was prepared by a special committee made up of Irma Boni-celli, Pauline Ramsey, William Setty and William A. Kozumplik. Its cover was designed by Louise Baxter of the Catalog Department.
Feb. 11. 1949
29
European Liturgical Minds To Lecture at Summer Session
Two European liturgical authorities have accepted invitations to lecture in the Notre Dame liturgy programs at the 1949 Summer Session, it was announced this week by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
The Rev. Joseph A. Jungmann, S.J., of Innsbruck University, Austria, and Professor Donald Attwater, of Blackfriars School, Llanarth, Raglan, England, will take part in the lecture series under the auspices of the Department of Religion. Father Jungmann will lecture on the “Primitive Christian Liturgy” in the ND graduate program. Professor Attwater will explain the history, liturgy and rites of the 8,000,000 widely scattered Catholics of the Eastern Rite who are in communion with Rome.
Both scholars are noted authors. Professor Attwater’s chief writings have been on the Eastern Churches, while Father Jungmann’s most recent work on the origin and development of the Roman Mass, Missarum Sollemnia, has received world-wide recognition.
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) isn’t even psychologically weaned. He follows the dictates of his own narrowed reasoning like a child. He is his most ardent listener (and from the scoop around school, just about his only ardent reader) and I am indeed happy to score one when I think of an imaginary character like Eager upsetting his supposedly well balanced mind so much. As I intimated before, I really cannot imagine anyone being so dull and finding so much to gripe about or living a life so uninteresting . ..
Yours truly,
Mrs. Eager
Ruehle Signed To Play At Sophs' Mardi Gras
Pat Gallagher, Phil Finnegan and the sophomore class have finally lifted the Iron Curtain around final details for the Rebel-less Mardi Gras Ball, set for Feb. 25 at the Palais Royale.
Bob Ruehle’s tunesters will provide the rhythms from 9:30 to 1 with the dance co-chairmen making the usual promises of “really danceable music.” Bids will go on sale, at $3.00 a throw, Monday in the basement of the dining hall. Representatives in each residence hall will also aid ticket sales.
Except for the fact that the decorations will reflect the “New Orleans atmosphere,” these plans, along with the name of the Mardi Gras Queen, are still strictly “hush, hush.”
Ball promoters emphasize that freshmen are eligible to attend the semi-formal affair and will get late permissions along with the upperclassmen.
Notre Dame of Philippines Asks News of Namesake
Notre Dame of Kidapawan. It’s a little school for boys and girls in the Philippine Islands. It looks to Notre Dame, U.S.A., for inspiration.
Rev. James P. McSorley, O.M.I., writes that any word about Notre Dame, U.S.A., is devoured there. He says he could use the music to Notre Dame songs and the scripts of any plays or musicals . put on here. Any other news from Notre Dame will be much appreciated.
Father McSorley’s mother, Mrs. Richard McSorley, of Philadelphia was Catholic Mother of the Year for 1948. He has eight brothers and sisters. He can be addressed at Notre Dame of Kidapawan — Kidapawan, Cotabato —
Republic of the Philippines.
WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAR?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . . . plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet. If you appear to have the qualifications for success, our manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial income at 65
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street	New York 5 N Y
FIRST ’N JR AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET ADDRESS DEPT. /
NAME.
AGE.

CITY.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
"Rosie’s." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
30
The Scholastic
Music
By VERNE KELLEY
After a long rest due to exams and vacations, here are some more musical notes . . .
“Finian’s Rainbow” opened in Chicago two weeks ago and is expecting a long run. Should you have some extra money, you would appreciate the show which has such fine numbers as “How Are Things in Glocca Morra”, “If This Isn’t Love”, “Old Devil Moon”, and “Necessity”.
Music in a more popular vein can be found at the Blue Note, Chicago’s own upholstered cellar at 56 West Madison Street. Holding forth in the smoke-filled room is the King Cole Trio but not for long. On the North Side, Howard Street, Herbie Fields and his sextet make with nice sounds at the Club Silhouette, but watch out for that 26 girl when she counts dice.
Records Shmecords . . .
The canned side of music is more interesting these days with the arrival of Woody Herman’s new Album, “Sequence in Jazz”, written by Ralph Burns. It is one of the better things done lately. Stan the Man (who has disbanded for psychiatry) has his latest album on the market —“Encores”, which runs from “Peg of My Heart” to “Somnambulism” — the latter sounds like it reads.
Sir Lawrence Olivier is on wax as “Hamlet” along with some of the musical score from the motion picture of the same name. For something like $4.50 or so, you can hear the Shakespearean readings and the original music on the film’s soundtrack.
RE: Correspondence
Pete Maul may be classed as one of the dissenters when a name is aimed at Stan Kenton, from what we gather, and Michael Graham seems to have uncovered a Harry Yeager, formerly with Benny Goodman, now playing in a New York radio studio and appearing in a Down Beat pic. More of that later.
SENIORS, SELECT YOUR PIC!
All seniors are reminded that their choice of a picture to appear in the 1949 DOME must he at the Bagby Studio on or before Tuesday, Feb. 15. If it is not submitted by that date, the photographer will make the choice. No exceptions will be made to this deadline.
They have what H lakes
Telephone linemen have the traditional Bell
System spirit of service that aims to "get the message through.” They also have what it takes in the tvay of equipment and supplies.
Their wires, cables, poles, tools and countless other things are provided by Western Electric— maker or supplier of practically everything used in your telephone service. We carry stocks of 31,000 different items to help all Bell telephone people, not only to do their daily job of maintaining and expanding telephone facilities but also to meet sudden emergencies.
• Western Electric has been a part of the Bell System for many, many years—ever since 1882. Our people share in the System’s spirit of service. We, too, are always ready to answer the unexpected hurry call—to help "get the message through.”	.
Western Electric
k UNIT OF THE BEU SYSTEM SINCE 1882
Feb. 11, 1949
31
Council Will Poll
On Student Trip
The football game for the 1949 student trip will be decided upon next Monday by student poll, the Student Council decided at its Wednesday session.
Campus students will check their game preferences (among which are North Carolina, Southern Methodist, and Michigan State) on a special list at morning check on the 14th. For the gentlemen who linger in the dreaminess of the Percale’s, there will be a handy ballot box on the bulletin boards. Off-campus students will get their chance in the little shanty in the rear of the Notre Dame police department. Site of the game will be announced in this organ next week.
The Council moved that there be a pep rally the night before the St. Louis home game (March 7). It will be conducted similar to the football affairs.
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY

Are You the Rockhead O'Brien My Father Is Always Talkin? About?
i 26 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
$2.00 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS 214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
The Week
(Continued from Page 5) whole flock of damnable dangers. We must first pass the “fingernail test” or be frozen out of the J. Paul Sheedy set which American women simply swoop up to and droop before. There’s no retreating, either, from the warning signs of “denture breath,” “whiskbroom headache,” “T-zone irritation,” “middle-age middles,” “hyper-acidity,” and, worst of all, “deficiencies due to a lack of vitamin B-l.” Even though you can occasionally relax with an “always milder, better tasting, cooler smoking” fag in your hand, with all of the acids and alkaloids inside you behaving perfectly, you must go on and on — cultivating your mind, your personality, your figure. Right now we’d chuck it all for some little remedy which would make these exams “a treat instead of a treatment.”
One of Frank's Boys
Crack of the week came from some sharp character who told us he was “just visiting.” He remarked that he had spotted, during his tour of the cam
pus, a huge human in front of the Rockne Memorial who he figured was one of those world-famous Notre Dame football players. He talked with the big fellow about the prerequisites for playing football and, finally, asked him if he had taken a foreign language in the course of his studies. “Yes,” was his reply, “four years of English.”
A recent issue of Time boasted rather proudly that Wisconsin is the only U.S. campus where 3.2 beer is sold. We’ll wager Notre Dame is the only U.S. campus where a 3.2 fruit cocktail is served daily at breakfast. ,
Oh, What a Life!
Christian Dior, the Parisian dress designer with the whim for tampering with the hem line of women’s dresses, plans on raising the skirt hems on all of his spring creations until they are 16 inches off the ground. This is four and one-half inches higher than last year’s New Look. Probably this is further proof that you can’t keep a good man down, visually at least.
32
The Scholastic
You Can Change the World, by James Keller, m.m., (Longmans, Green and Co., N. Y., 1948, 53.00).
If one million people in the United States will take the trouble to spread the teaching of Christ by example in the way that the godless work to spread their doctrine, the menace of atheism and Communism will be defeated. This is Father Keller’s assertion, and to this end he has formed the Christophers. You Can Change the World is a handbook for these people. The emphasis is on individual action, in the vocation of the individual. Taking a leaf from the Communists’ book, however, Father Keller especially advocates Christians to exert themselves in the four vital fields which the Communists have tried to control; education, government, labor, and writing.
The professions which Father Keller recommends are not, perhaps, the most profitable; in spite of this, the good which is to be done is a powerful argument for entering them. The call to these fields seems to be especially pointed toward college students, most of whom have not yet decided on their future. It is increasingly plain that there is grave danger to both our nation and our religion from the influence of evil from this direction. Father Keller has given a practical answer to a pressing problem. If you want to know what you can do, read You Can Change the World.—Garret Bolger
Speaking of Books
Publishers across the country claim they are now being hit with the expected “slump” after the post-war “boom” period. Publishing lists for Spring are down 10 to 20%. . . . New trends in books include a swing away from the heavily sexed historical novel. One novel advertisement in books sections recently plugs a new historical romance as being “cleanly written”. . . . Simon and Schuster have published a Spring List highlighted by such works as Actions and Passions by the hardhitting liberal Max Lerner (to be reviewed in this column next week). . . . Sports Page by the ex-sports chief of the New York Herald-Tribune, Stanley Woodward, and Alexander P. de Seversky’s new book on the airplane, Peace Through Air Power. . . .
Closer at home . . . The 34th Edition of University Debaters Annual is out...
it includes, among others, a debate between Notre Dame and Purdue which took place last year. . . . One of the Judges of the Catholic Press Association short story contest, which closes
March 31, is Notre Dame’s own authorprofessor Richard Sullivan. ... To keep posted on reviews of current books and news about books keep posted on this column.
Two things cfcry Co^p min should know!
7	.
This is a father. Thinks crib note is payment due on baby's bed.
Sleeps little—from after the bawl until son rises. Should be graduated tal-cum laude. He looks smooth as a you-know-what in a "Manhattan” shirt.
howling success. Popular button-down collar. Always fits right—looks neat.
Size-Fixt (fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less). In white and solid-colored oxfords.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
Feb. 11, 1949
3?
RROWSER’S Column
the light has finally dawned; the sun has risen and so let’s make hay.
Before he leaves here every student should be thoroughly indoctrinated in the purposes and operations of the Foundation. After he leaves here he should take an active part in it. As we have said, it’s a matter of life and death.
This column is not, noi’ has it ever been, in the employ of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. Our relations with that institution are strictly platonic. Cut this column is, and always has been, a student effort and feels a very natural attachment to the Foundation and what it considers its efforts on our behalf. So if, in the course of these paragraphs, we let ourselves ■“go” we plead for your bountiful patience and forgiveness.
We like the Notre Dame Foundation. In fact, in the course of a Notre Dame lifetime, we have become quite fond of it. We like it because it is doing something big and doing it well. We like it because it means a greater Notre Dame, because it means Science Building and new Libraries and Student Unions. We like it because it has one central purpose— to get money and it doesn’t beat around the bush about it. It is a very vital thing, this Foundation. It may even be a life or death matter.
Alma Mater Faces Crisis
Notre Dame, whether its students realize it or not, faces a crisis. Like every other private institution of higher learning in this “progressive” country of ours it’s got a fight on its hands. Any day it may be dealt the body blow of Federal Aid to Education. Whether it can roll with the punch and come back for the next round is, in large measure, up to the Notre Dame Foundation. The pioblem is one of finances and that’s just where the Foundation fits in.
And so it seems almost unnatural that the Notre Dame student body is so apathetic towards the Foundation and what it is doing or trying to do. This is partly due to the powers in control. They have never seemed to realize the necessity of propagating their cause among the undergraduate masses. This seems, from this observation post, to be a shortsighted approach. After all the students of today are the contributors of tomorrow and unless something is done to change the attitudes of a great majority of the scholars roaming this campus
the Foundation coffers will be emptied.
But despite the poor campus publicity job, it seems as if the students should know better. Whether they like it or not, they are tied up organically with Notre Dame now and have been from the day they first registered. Their success in the future will depend to some pai-t on the future success of the University. To translate this into dollars and cents their diplomas' worth fluctuates in direct proportion to the prominence of Notre Dame. If you can’t believe that ask an alumnus.
Notre Dame is a poor school. Its endowment is pitiful. Something should have been done a long time ago to start building it up. Why it took so long to realize the numerable inadequacies around here remains a mystery. But
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each. *
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
QUESTIONS A It takes five letters to make THREE, They’re all in Chesterfield, you see.
”D There are three in the pack which have three in each one Which should make about nine; in reality, one.
C Think of a word for a biscuit, change a letter and then You’ll have a home for Daniel; but not the lion’s den.
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS A WINNERS
DANA ANDREWS and C. D. ALLEN talking about Chesterfield.
Mr. A(ndrews) says “They’re mild and they taste good.”
Mr. A(llen) says “I’ve been smoking Chesterfield ever since they used to put them up in a cardboard box.”
R DANA ANDREWS in “NO MINOR VICES." (The sequence refers to the number of letters in the three words of the picture title).
Q Answer: SEMORA. Spelling backward (AROMES) you change E to A and get fragrant smells (AROMAS).
Note to Father Sweeney
In connection with the Foundation, Father, here’s a suggestion. Why not send some students around to make these speeches in behalf of the cause? They know the immediate problems — they go to class in the Social Science Building; see their movies in Washington Hall. There are quite a few quite capable souls who could do no harm before an interested audience. Just a suggestion.
Here and There
Wild applause for YCS groups who are sponsoring these student forums. One of the best moves any campus organization has made in a long time.
As long as this is “Build a New Field-
34
The Scholastic
house Week”, here’s the Browser’s three cents worth.
That we need a new fieldhouse is strikingly apparent. The present one is a disgrace to the teams that play in it, ND and visitors; to the student body and the University.
Taking exception to the much-abused Messrs. Costin and Vierhile, let’s not be small time. Instead of getting involved in messy post-season commitments, why not play a home season in Soldiers Field in Chicago and build our Fieldhouse on the proceeds? But if we have to make the bricks ourselves, a la Father Sorin, let’s put a new one up before the old one collapses on MacAllister’s head.
(is	th time)
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Hours:
Mon. 9-12	Fri. 1:30-5
Thurs. 9-12	Sat. 9-12
1:30-5
en-tie=time
See your Arrow dealer today and pick out a few neat knotting Arrows for your favorite student or professor.
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
Arrow ties come in a wide assortment of patterns and fabrics and make a perfect Valentine gift.
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Arrow ties . . . $1.00 to $2.50
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s Adler’s
for
Arrow
4N Kt - WCMtM 4 MMNHM
35
Feb. 11, 1949
Copyright 1949, Ljgg£tt & Mrus Tobacco Co.
Chesterfield Contest — page 34