VOL.87,No.6
i-sO)
ns 'V




pi Barbara E. Sullivan, left, of g East Orange, N. J., Junior Prom Queen and Date of Chairman joe O'Toole; and Naundas C. Fisher of Chicago, Guest of Honor squired by Co-chairman Bill McCormick.

19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
SOU[hnstoRE
23 April 1946
Dear Sir:
A couple of friends and I were passing through the cafeteria last week when we were attracted by a wonderfully musty old odor, and following the scent, our noses led us to that department of the cafeteria known as the “Magazine Rack.” We had a delightful time poring over the faces of the venerable stock and for a moment we could not perceive any change in its face since the last time we noted it—that was just six years ago, in the fall of 1940.
But after a more studied search-we became aware of two new additions: a magazine called the Atom and another called Photography. We managed to stomach the pamphlet called Atom because, although it tended to be of a “progressive” nature, it seemed to be of sufficiently little interest to the body of students and instructors on the whole that in time it might become a work to be “revered”; when someone po:nted out that it had been in th? stacks for nearly a year now, we accepted it immediately to the fold.
But Photography Magazine remained a bitter shock; for, while it is not really a good magazine it is nonetheless a saleable piece and as such not only is the tradition (so very important) of the “magazine rack” disrupted, but the continual fumbling about of the sales lady as she reaches for an occasional copy will knock or dishevel some of the dust of antiquity that has gathered during the past years.
While we leaned against the counter in sentimental reverie, we observed the woman-in-charge glance nervously about the room and then slip a copy of Colliers from under the shelf. Putting questions in “certain secret places" we learned that a limited supply of Colliers, Newsweek and The Saturday Evening Post, are kept for students who appear to be over 21 and are of sound character and bearing.
I intend to expose this literary underworld! Also I am appalled by a foul rumor that there has been an effort on th? part of several students to make acceptable such magazines as Time, Harpers, The New Republic, The Atlantic Monthly, The New Yorker, Story, and The Catholic Worker. All of these magazines are of a superior quality and have no
2
place on the Notre Dame magazine shelf. Having striven for years to build up a collection of this sort, underhanded efforts to sabotage this work on the part of a few men with literary taste are resented by those of us who have a love for things of the “past and academic.” Our literary museum is in fear of its life; no other university in the land can
claim such a distinctive and unusual type of art. Let us presei-ve it!
I do not mean this to be an entirely destructive writing. It has come to my attention, recently, that there is a new publication on the Abajo Indians of Inner Paraguay on sale by a certain South American publishing house. Details on their habits of eating and living and on
their complete social structure are given. I feel that this book is so devoid of any practical value and of so little interest to all that it would make a commendable addition to the magazine rack. I cannot understand why it has not already been snapped up by those who guide the policy of the museum.—P. F. C.
(See page 34)
It’s a party...Have a Coke
eep up on Notre Dame News—subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or for your friends in service—
$ 1.00 for the Spring semester
Name.
Address.
Clip Blank and Mail to Publication* Office—Notre Dame. Indiana
3
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
^he. Q'leen
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
...............iiniitiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiitiiiitiiniiimiiiiintiiininiuiitiuiiuii......mmum.............
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL -	-	-	-	- Managing Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor GEORGE COLLINS ----- Navy Editor JOHNNY WALKER -	-	-	- Feature Editor
JOE CHENEY -	-	-	_ News Editor
*
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH -	-	-	-	-	. The Crow’s Nest
BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL _	_	_	_ Campus Clubs
¥
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL _	-	_ Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA (Cover by Bill Braun)
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING ' JOHN A. O'CONNOR
¥
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-
M. E. VARGA -	-	-
JAMES JOHN
JIM REGAN
JOHN THOMAS
DICK DEITZ
JIM CLEMENS
PETE BROWN
JIM MALER	'
MEL GODDARD
DICK DOWDLE
CLARENCE ZIMMER
LEONARD DENTE
JOE WILCOX
JOHNNY KREUGER
-	- Faculty Advisor
-	- Circulation Manager
-	-	- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration-Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
Words so often fail to express the true sentiments of the mind . . . yet each of us shares in varying degrees the loss of a real friend, Gene Conner, who, before his untimely death in the Burlington train disaster, did a part time hitch in the Huddle dispensing coffee and do-nuts while sweating out a full time job with a local concern ... to those who knew Gene, nothing more need be said ... to those who didn’t . . . enough can’t be said. . . .
It was only a neighborhood dance . . . and Frank (Francis) Grimaldi, 1946 apostle of N.F.C.C.S., tripped the light fantastic . . . and it was fantastic ... at the St. Mary’s Soph Cotillion last weekend . . . when asked to sign his date’s program, he wrote in bold letters . . . “Keep the Faith” . . . and signed it, St. Francis ... a fitting epigram for such a heavenly occasion ... is there any connection between the warm spring afternoons, the SMC conservatory D’Amour, and a very obviously marked AIR MAIL letter bearing the Holy Cross postmark received in No. 9 Sorin a few days ago? . . . something’s on the wing. . . .
At the Bengals . . . after three wide passes at the target, Satti sighted sub and sank same. . . . Robinson and Blaze waltzed through three sets and Arthur Murray was called in to make the decision. . . . Robinson won by a minuet. . . . McGrath harassed Hogland’s hemoglobin and came through with a fancy win. . . .
Frank Kowalski was among, those caught sneaking in late at the Ten-ten Mass last Sunday ... a Padre stopped him to find out the why for. . . . “Had to wait up till two a.m. to set my watch for daylight saving,” pleaded Frank. ... although a bit early in the season to be discussing monogram winners, it is rumored about that Jack Quinn’s sweater measurements are already in the hands of the local tailor . . . which is to say that the ND Golf Club has things pretty much in the bag . . . including a generous supply of new golf balls ... all honestly acquired. ...	'
Here and there . . . John Chambers palming an extra piece of butter in the chow line and then getting only one piece of bread. . . . Earl Mullen qualifying for sharpshooter this week by delivering his papers via the transom and hitting two out of every three students in the face. . . : Chunky Me Govern trying to get Mr. Mullaly to teach logic in a more colloquial language. . .-. “Spider” Webb, Vet’s Club Prexy, all hopped up about the coming Student Golf Tournament . . . the Walsh Hall Diamond Cutters defeating the village brewery nine at Leeper Park last Sunday to the tune of 17 to 1 . . . runs, not kegs. . . . Johnny McGuire in the Caf with a different girl every day.
We’ve keen duly informed via the Mails that Al McNulty, Irish tenor of Dillon Hall, is now available for parties, tea dances, and Irish Wakes ... is it true that Jerry Cowhig is on a diet? . . . unconfirmed but very much believed is the fact that Ed Stalmasic and Frank “The Killer” Syzmanski will be featured in a ten-minute intermission bout the nite of the Bengal Finals. . . .	(Continued on page 34)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing ‘ at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 6
MAY 3, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Punchers Feature Bengal Bouts
BARBARA SULLIVAN QUEEN OF ARABIAN NIGHTS' PROM
Tonight’s the night! Against the glittering musical background of Jimmy Lunceford’s music, Barbara Sullivan of East Orange, N. J. will reign as this season’s Prom Queen. She is a graduate of St. Elizabeth’s College and the guest of prom chairman Joe O’Toole, The guest of honor at the dance is Naundas Fisher of Chicago, Illinois, who is co-chairman Bill McCormick’s prom date.
The Rockne Memorial has been transformed into a magic paradise with music soft to invite the gay throng of dancers to usher in Notre Dame’s first full-scale Junior Prom since the beginning of the war.
Evening gowns and tux’s will give a Hollywood air to the scene. Girls from all parts of the United States have arrived and are ready for an evening of glamor and the thrills that go with a formal dance at Notre Dame.
General chairman Joe O’Toole and his capable assistants have expended themselves in arranging a grand week-end for those fortunate enough .to have a bid
Junior Prom chairman Joe O'Toole, left, and co-chairman Bill McCormick.
and a girl. Promgoers are being granted two o’clock permissions. Jimmy Lunce-ford and his band begin playing at nine o’clock and will put their instruments to bed at one o’clock tomorrow morning. The traditional grand march, led by the committee chairmen, will begin at the stroke of twelve.
Tomorrow afternoon those attending the prom will be afforded a chance to get together once more at the Indiana Club where dancing will be featured from two o’clock until six. Tomorrow night the fellows are on their own and will probably haunt the Hoffman, Oliver, or LaSalle Hotels with their “best” girl on their arms.
Sunday morning the Promgoers have been invited to attend the ten o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. In the afternoon there will be many a sad farewell as the girls hurry to pack for their trips back home with many pleasant memories of a week-end filled with happy surprises and a minimum of sleep.—Joe Cheney
Prelims End Last
Night; Finals Thurs.
The greatest Bengal Boxing tournament in the event’s 15-year history got off to a flying start last Monday night as the preliminary round got under way. From the standpoint of attendance and class of competitors, the 1946 Bengals is destined to top all previous shows.
Eight bouts were held Monday night with boxers in the 145-pound class and 165-pound class competing. Bob Satti, peppy New London, Conn., 14-5-pounder, opened the show with a thrilling, punch-filled decision over Bernard Peterson of Omaha, Nebr. Frank Robinson, Buena Park, Calif., followed with a three-round decision over Larry Raville of Malone, N. Y.. Popular Jack McGrath of Chicago showed exceptional boxing skill in defeating Merritt Hoglund also of Chicago. Winner of the 194-5 Sportsmanship Trophy, Joe Kosnik won his first match in a three-round nod over Frank Fahey of Lakewood, Ohio.
In the 16-5-pound group, Donald Campbell, Brooklyn, N. Y., won over Bob Hayden, Beacon, N. Y. Gerry Mahoney, South Bend, pounded out a decisive three-round decision over Bill Corbett of Chester, Pa. Mahoney had his opponent groggy, at the end of the fight. Defending champion in the 165-pound class, Ralph Deem of Milwaukee, Wis., outclassed Gene Jones, game puncher from Wilmette, Ill. In the final bout of the evening, plump but powerful Navy trainee John Gierek of Chicago rallied to score a decision over John Farrell, Syracuse, N. Y.
The knockout boys swung into action Tuesday night as four men won their bouts by technical or straight k.o.’s. In the first fight of the 127-pound class, Dick Greenwell, Morgansfield, Ky., defeated Don White, 1945 finalist from Zanesville, Ohio, in a three-round decision; Bob Gaffney of Syracuse, N. Y., followed with a decision over Charles (Continued on page 29)
5
Foundation of Peace Organizations
Rests on Sand, Fr. O'Donnell Says
“There is no true peace in the world today because God and the moral law have been forgotten,” the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, said last Sunday in an address on the Catholic Hour, broadcast over the National Broadcasting Company network.
Father O’Donnell’s talk was the first of five he will have on succeeding Sundays over the Catholic Hour on the general subject of “Hail Holy Queen.” His next address will be given next Sunday, May 5, on “The Merciful Mother.” The Catholic Hour is broadcast each Sunday at 6 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time.
“Is it any wonder,” stressed Father O’Donnell yesterday, “that the world is weary, confused, heart-sick? It is like a ship without a rudder on a storm-tossed sea. It is in the throes of revolution as two forces, those of God and those of anti-God, struggling for supremacy in a battle in which there can be neither compromise nor. armistice, because truth,
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
whence all basic principles flow, cannot be compromised.
“Yet, in spite of this stark realism,” the Notre Dame president continued, “we find nations trying to establish a peace organization whose foundation rests on sand instead of rock. And the reason is that at the base is a conflict between the forces of God and anti-God. One can no more fuse these two forces than he can mix oil and water.. So an escape seems to be necessary, and it takes the form of a letter U complex. We have U.N.O., U.N.R.R.A., U.N.E.S.C.O., U.S.S.R., and U.S.A., ostensibly united on paper, but as fragile as a wafer. What is needed is an internal evolution of the individual Y-O-U; then and then only can there be a solid base for the collective U. And we can have this only when Y-O-U—all of us—see that God must be put back into our daily lives with His moral law as our daily time-table. And by the moral law, I mean the Ten Commandments, changeless and unchangeable.”
“The impact of the struggle,” emphasized Father O’Donnell, “is being felt here in the United States. From the cradle to the grave millions of our people are trying to get along without God. They profess no religion, or actually belittle and even deny God’s existence. As a result, morality, for them, is not fixed and objective, but relative and subject to. change with time and circumstances—it is a kind of cafeteria morality.
“A national examination of conscience shows that the family unit is breaking down because so many fathers and mothers neglect their parental responsibilities. They are, in fact, more delinquent than the juveniles whose delinquency they deplore. Yet the nation can be strong only as the family is strong. And there are other causes for grave concern: Much of our Christian heritage of education has been discarded in favor of a system of secularism that does not educate man in the light of the hereafter, but only trains him for the here and now. Planned parenthood and race suicide flout God’s holy will. Divorce is encouraged by statute. There is a disregard for authority bordering on contempt as the virtues of obedience, honesty and integrity are consigned to the limbo of neglect.”
Father O’Donnell pointed out, however, that there is no reason to despair or think that all is lost. “Personally, I have great confidence in the large number of Catholics and non-Catholics who still believe in God and the Moral Law,” he added. “They constitute the leaven of the masses, and it is this leaven which can readily form a ‘new paste,’ to use the scriptural expression. They serve as a base for a spiritual regeneration.”
“Hence, there is still hope, and that hope may be further strengthened if we but have recourse to Mary, the Mother of God, Queen of this nation, Queen of all nations, Queen of Peace. On bended knee, we ask thee, O Mary, to have compassion on a war-sick, weary, confused world. We are willing to undergo our daily Calvary, if you will but tap for us the eternal well-spring of Redemption and let flow the rivulets of grace on your sons and daughters who have forgotten their Creator and Redeemer, the true source of all help and strength.”
Wyoming U. Problems
Fifty campus leaders of Wyoming University met recently at a Gridiron banquet for the purpose of securing student opinion on pertinent campus problems. The problems which received the most discussion included their critical housing situation, inconvenience of their registration system, and the question of school spirit.
6
Savoyards to Present "Mikado"
Performances from May 26-29
W. S. Gilbert of the bitterly satiric sense of humor, and Arthur Sullivan of the dancing music combined their talents for many operettas. Among them are lolanthe, Patience, Ruddigore, Pirates of Penzance', The Gondoliers, Princess Ida, H. M. S. Pinafore, Yeoman of the Guard, and The Mikado. The latter is one of the three or four most popular of all the Gilbert and Sullivan comic operas. It will be presented the latter part of May by the University Theatre under the able direction of Prof. Cecil Birder, one of the outstanding contemporary Savoyards.
The Mikado’s plot is the somewhat trite boy - meets - girl - falls - in - love -leaves - inheritance - trouble - trouble -trouble - Justice - triumphs - sunset -fadeout variety. The popularity of the work is due to the clever frosting of humor and satire, and the delightful music.
Nanki-Pooh, the son of the Mikado, leaves his home and family because an extremely unattractive lady of the Imperial Court falls in love with him. He disguises himself as a second trombone and wanders the countryside. While playing in a band he sees the beautiful Yum-Yum (what expressive names!) and loses his heart to her. He cannot marry her, however, because she is be-throthed to her guardian, the tailor Ko-Ko. The first turn of the plot comes then, when he learns that Ko-Ko has been condemned to die for flirting. Nanki hurries to the town of Titipu, where he supposes his love awaits him. In the meantime (what would fiction do without the ‘meantime?’) Ko-Ko has been released and made the Lord High Executioner, for reasons he explains thus, in
Notre Dame Savoyards on stage
song:
Our great Mikado, virtuous man, When he to rule our land began, Resolved to try, a plan whereby, Young men might best be steadied. So he decreed in words succinct, That all who flirted, leered or winked (Unless connubially linked) Should forthwith be beheaded.
And so we straight let out on bail
A convict from the county jail,
Whose head was next
On some pretext
Condemned to be mown off,
And made him Headsman, for we said
“Who’s next to be decapitated
Cannot cut off another’s head
Until he’s cut his own off.”
Nanki is thus in the same position he was at the start of the play—but complications enter when Yum-Yum admits she loves him. In elation Nanki volunteers to be Ko-Ko’s first victim, provided he is allowed to marry Yum-Yum. Ko-Ko agrees.
Once again the plot thickens. This time with the discovery that if Nanki-Pooh is killed his wife would have to die also. On hearing this Yum-Yum has a change of heart about Nanki, and when Nanki’s suitor from the Imperial Court arrives confusion comes to a climax.
It just wouldn't be comic opera if things didn't manage to straighten themselves out in two acts, but how they do you'll have to see for yourselves at the local performances, May 26, 27, 28, and 29 at Washington Hall.—Bi'.l Plzff
Ford's Walter Folley Addresses Detroiters
More than 200 students heard Walter C. Folley of the Ford Motor Company state that big industry today is looking for “clean-cut young men who think right and live right” when they attended a meeting sponsored by the Detroit Club on the Notre Dame campus, Wednesday, April 24. “There has never been a time in history in which there was such opportunity in industry as at this time,” said the director of training and education at the Ford company.
Dean James E. McCarthy of the Commerce school introduced the speaker and highly praised the Detroit Club for bringing such an outstanding man of industry to the campus.
Mr. Folley entitled his talk “Opportunities in Industry,” explaining that it gave him plenty of room to expand on his topic. He told with exactness what companies such as Ford expect in any young man they hire and then elaborated on the type of training given to those who possess the qualifications to secure a position in the company. Stressing the importance of extracurricular activities in college, he pointed out that “we want leaders, not just men who can dangle a fraternity key and show that they were in the upper 25% of their class. We want the men who can show these plus.”
A man of versatility, Mr. Folley, stressed throughout his talk—which, incidentally, kept him before the group for nearly two hours while interested students fired questions at him—that a young man’s personality and out-of-the-classroom record are immeasurably important when he applies to big business for a position.
At a meeting of the Detroit Club held last week on the campus, Mr. Malcolm F. Knaus of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees in Detroit read a communication from George B. Morris, Jr., president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. The letter congratulated the campus club members in planning and presenting the program at which Mr. Folley spoke. Mr. Morris heaped praise upon Pat Nolan, president of the campus group, “who initiated the contact with us and who, by virtue of his enthusiasm and sincerity when meeting with our Board of Trustees in Detroit, caused us to awaken to our responsibility and shouldei* it gladly.” The cooperation displayed by the club on the campus and the club in the city has set a pattern for Notre Dame alumni-student relations. “In the future,” Mr. Morris added, “let us continue the kind of dynamic cooperation, such as evidenced by this meeting, that will be productive of mutual benefit.”
7
NFCCS Regional Congress Opens
Tomorrow; 24 ND Delegates Attend
Tomorrow morning at eight o’clock two chartered busses will roll into the Notre Dame circle to pick up delegates who will travel to Grand Rapids for the Regional Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. Half of Notre Dame’s 24-man delegation will climb aboard each of the busses which will then travel over to St. Mary’s where the delegates from across the Dixie will fill the motorcade to capacity.
The congress will open on the Aquinas College campus in Grand Rapids at two o’clock tomorrow afternoon and will continue until Sunday noon when it will close with the Rev. Wm. Cunningham, C.S.C., Chaplain of the Ft. Wayne Region, blessing the conference at Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament.
Heading the delegation from Notre Dame is Frank Grimaldi, president of the region, who will preside at a council meeting which will be held-in conjunction with the congress. Official delegates to the council meeting representing N D will be George Igel and Pat O’Meara.
The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., chaplain of the Notre Dame Vets Club, is making the trip to the congress and will guide the ND Commission on Veterans Affairs, which will present a program before a general assembly of the Congress on Sunday morning consisting of the delivery of speeches and the introduction of topics for discussion relative to the general theme of the conference, “The Spiritual Rehabilitation of the Nation.”	'
The Notre Dame Catholic Action Study group will hold the chairmanship of the panel discussion on Saturday afternoon. O’Meara will be head of this group and serving on the commission will be B. J. Bedard, Dave Slattery and Joe Becker.
Pat Nolan, president of the Economic Roundtable club at ND, will serve as chairman of the Commission on International Relations and Inter-American Action. Other delegates from here on this commission are Tom Murray, Paul Qualy, Vince Hogan and Rolondo Duarte.
Chairman of the Vets Commission is Thomas McCaffrey, and Frank McCarthy will act as secretary. Other Vets on the commission are Jerry Feeney and Tom Brogan.
Completing the list of Notre Dame delegates are: Robert Reinders, J. C. O’Connor, Frank Cacciapaglia, Elbert Burgstahler, Dick Ahearn, Joe Rud, Jim
Greene and Don Winter.
Other schools in this area sending delegates to the congress are St. Francis of Ft. Wayne, St. Joseph’s of Collegeville, Ind., and Nazareth College of Kalamazoo.	’
Dr. George McMorrow, professor of philosophy at Nazareth, will deliver the opening address to the entire congress meeting at a general session tomorrow afternoon. Folowing questions and discussion, the congress will break up into the sectional meetings of the various commissions. These meetings will all delve into the general theme of the congress and will discuss the spiritual rehabilitation of the nation as it fits into the pattern of activities of their own special interest group.
After dinner tomorrow night an “open house” will be held on the Aquinas Campus and this social function will run until 10:30, providing the delegates with ample opportunity to accent the informal contact aspect of the functions of the federation.
The Sunday session will open after the delegates attend Mass and breakfast on the downtown campus of Aquinas. After the Vets have completed their portion of the program, the chairmen of the sectional meetings will report on the discussions and conclusions drawn at the various gatherings on Saturday afternoon.
The Notre Dame-St. Mary’s delegation will depart from Grand Rapids .at two o’clock Sunday afternoon.
The chief purpose of the congress is to stimulate interest in the NFCCS, a national Catholic organ whose activities have been dormant during the war years. This congress is the first held in the Ft. Wayne Region since 1942.
Member of N.D. Board of Lay Trustees Dies
Grattan Stanford, v:ce-pres’dent and general counsel of the Sinclair Oil company and member of the associate board of lay trustees of the University since 1937, died in New York City after a brief illness. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1904.
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., and former president of Notre Dame, was celebrant at a solemn high requiem Mass Tuesday in St. Ignatius church in New York City. He was assisted by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Views on St. Mary's
By BOB KANE
Go to the Tea Dance . . . who me? . . . not on your life ... oh well, just once . . . what can I lose? . . . not much of a dancer but I’ll listen to the music . . . scoot- over the highway . . . front gate demolished . . . women drivers? . . . past the pond and up the steps. . . . Ticket? .. . for what? . . . not me, I’m just looking . . . not shuffling . . . the long hall . . . ■ wonder if what they say in the Scholastic columns is true . . . arm-pit gloves . . . cigarette holders . . . slinking debs . . . slinking, that is. Juke box being administered to by no fewer than eight girls . . . thought it was a stove at first . . . ’cause they had no gloves on . . .
Busy Little Hostess
' Anyhow somebody must have left the icebox door open . . . buttoning my coat higher I listened to Frankie. . . . Laughing on the . . . crying on the ... he can’t make up his mind ... a tugging at my elbow . . . little girl . . . big sign hostess ... fix me up? . . . gulp . . . I’m not here for the shuffle . . . c’mon, lovely girls, romantic music . . . well, just one. . . . Alice this is Bob . . . dance? . . . love to . . . oh, freshman too? - . . equal footing . . whoops, sorry ... no it was me . . .
j.k. . . . getting in the groove. . . . Alice very nice . . . good dancer . . . good conversationalist . . . begin to doubt Green Banner, Crow’s Nest, et al. . . . this girl is different . . . knows Sister Maria Luisa, a dear friend of mine. Ummm . . . wish I knew more steps . . . boys edging out of the corners . . . girls fan out a little . . . the party is moving . . . the joint is jumping . . . bettei- give this sweet young thing a break ... let her dance with someone who knows know
Girls Lovely. Music Romantic
Retire to corner . . . oh, oh, Gloria the hostess . . . c’mon, lovely girls, romantic music . . . o.k., if they are all like Alice . . . tempus fidgits . . . brings a cross-section of the St. Maryite . . .and it’s not bad . . . the “Heavenly Scent” they wear in theii' hair is more potent than my Vitalis . . . some of the Cinder-ellas won’t circulate . . . excuse—“waiting for someone” . .. well, she had better give up . . . cause she has been standing for a half-hour and no one has been near her . . . sorry, lady we can’t all be Gregory Pecks . . . those particular few should be in a roped off area . .. simplify things . . . plenty others . . . comes five o’clock . . . had a good time . . . beat a retreat . . . past the duck pond and over the highway.
8
12,000 Ensigns Commissioned at N. D. Fro O'Donnell Discloses at Dinner
Neai-ly 12,000 ensigns—a total greater than the officer strength of the Regular Navy at the start of World War II— have been commissioned at the Naval School at the University of Notre Dame since 1941, it was disclosed in New York last Monday by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Father O’Donnell was the principal speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet of the Notre Dame Club of New York at the Park Lane Hotel. This was part of the 23rd annual observance Monday night of Universal Notre Dame Night, at which the spiritual, patriotic and academic ideals of Notre Dame were commemorated by more than 25,000 Notre Dame men, and tens of thousands of their friends, meeting in scores of communities throughout the United States.
Universal Notre Dame Night this year was dedicated to the nearly 10,000 alumni and former students of Notre Dame who served in the United States Armed Forces during the war. Of this number, 310 made the supreme sacrifice, while another fourteen are listed as still missing in action and presumed dead, and another 1,200 were wounded.
Teaching, residence, classroom, laboratory and other facilities at Notre Dame have been used to train early 25,000 naval students in the last five years, Father O’Donnell revealed. This total includes the nearly 12,000 ensigns who were commissioned at Notre Dame, another 5,000 officers of all ranks who received their- indoctrination training at Notre Dame, and thousands of other V-5, V-12, and Marine Corps Reserve trainees at Notre Dame.
In Notre Dame laboratories, Father O’Donnell also disclosed, Notre Dame scientists and engineers worked on important research problems for the United States Government in nuclear physics, ordnance, metallurgy, chemistry, biology, and in other’ fields. This research is continuing, he added.
Thousands of civilian war workers also were trained in technical and administrative subjects at Notre Dame under the Engineering, Science and Management War Training Program, Father O’Donnell said, while many pilots were graduated from the Civilian Air Patrol training program at Notre Dame.
Speaking over a national network of the Mutual Broadcasting System after the dinner, Father O’Donnell extended greetings, on behalf of Notre Dame, to
the alumni, former students and friends of Notre Dame meeting all over the nation in connection with Universal Notre Dame Night. Represetative Clare Booth Luce of Connecticut was another speaker over the same program.
In his radio address, Father O’Donnell said that America lacks a sense of moral equilibrium largely because “the American system of education has been badly out of balance for a long time.”
Secularism, which denies God and “confines man’s destiny to this earth,” was denounced by Father O’Donnell as being responsible for much of the present confusion in American education. Secular education, he declared, has “tried to put God out of his own universe and to set up in His place an intellectual idolatry.”
Notre Dame men and other God fearing Americans of all creeds have the duty to insist that “American education be firmly grounded on the truth that knowledge of God is the beginning of all wisdom,” and to help “restore God and the moral law to their rightful place in American life,” Father O’Donnell added.
Engineers Meet
The University student chapter of the American Society for Mechanical Engineers was host to more than 200 delegates from A.S.M.E. chapters from midwestern colleges and universities this week.
Institutions represented included Purdue, Indiana, Wisconsin, Marquette, Northwestern, Michigan, Minnesota, Detroit, Rose Poly, Ilinois Tech, Michigan State and Michigan School of Mines.
Job Placement
Seniors interested in any of the listed companies for job placement may call- 'for details at the office of the Placement Counselor. Room 115, Main Building, between the hours of 9 to 11 a. m. and 2:30 to 4:30 p. m.
Major Course	Placement Companies
Chern. Eng., Elec. Eng., Meeh. Eng., and No. American Aviation (California). Aero. Eng.	Army Air Forces (Dayton, Ohio).
.	Curtiss-Wright (New Jersey).
Experiment with Internal Combustion Eng.___Ranger Aircraft (New York).
Eng. Design and Aides, Laboratory Aides U.S. Bureau, of Reclamation (Denver), and Draftsmen.	.
Elec. Eng. and Meeh. Eng Detroit-Edison Co. (Detroit).
B. S. in Chem.. Chem. Eng., and Metallurgy. .. Carnegie-Illinois Steel (Pittsburgh).
Teachers: English, Mathematics, Science, Military School (in Georgia).
History, and Foreign Languages.
N.D. Profs Lead Economic Discussions in Toledo
Desirability of forced arbitration and the forced acceptance of arbitration decisions on the part of both labor and management was one of the questions discussed at the first combined labormanagement session of the Industrial Relations Institute in Toledo on April 30.
Other questions discussed at the first combined session last Tuesday were whether- there is any danger that industry and labor will gang up under collective bargaining and rob the public, and whether capital invested in ’ production is entitled to a full year’s dividend if it cannot provide full yearly employment. Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, served as moderator. ’
The second combined session of May 2 dealt with a discussion of three questions: (1) Should the chosen representatives of labor have a voice along with management in a given industry? (2) Should there be legal control of unions and the question of foremen’s representations? (3) The question of foremen’s unions; or are foremen’s unions part of management? Christopher J. Fagan, professor of Economics, served as moderator.
The third combined session on May 7 will feature a discussion of four questions: (1) What return should capital get? (2) Can our present system be made to function and provide full employment? (3) How can we prevent inflation? (4) From what source is the average pay increase of workers found? Moderators of this session will be Rev. Edward E. Keller, director of the Department of Economic Research, and James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce.
9

In the year 1834, there lived in the city of Le Mans, France, a holy and devoted priest, Abbe Basil Moreau, Professor of Divinity in the Grande Semi-naire, and Canon of the Cathedral of that city. For a number of years he had been preaching the Retreat which soon gave him the reputation of being one of the first preachers of all France. Perceiving the immense good he was doing, the Bishop of Le Mans, Msgr. Bouvier, authorized him to form a society of auxiliary priests to cooperate with him in preaching' Retreats throughout the diocese.
The Sisters at Common Prayer in Chapel of Holy Family.
t
Father Moreau dedicated his group to the service of the Holy Cross, a fact of significant omen and peculiar appropriateness. To impress the Cross deeper upon men’s hearts in lands where it was already recognized as a life-giving symbol, and to plant it in foreign soil of countries whose inhabitants had never before been sheltered by its saving shadow, became the great object of their lives.
About 1839, after Father Moreau had organized a group of priests and Brothers, several pious and devoted women of the humbler class of society offered themselves, from a motive of holy charity and zeal, to help conduct the work of the new establishment. They desired to be under the spiritual guidance of Father Moreau, who was universally venerated for his wisdom and sanctity. Father Moreau soon established a Sisterhood as a branch of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
In 1841, on the Feast of St. Michael, four young girls knelt joyfully in the chapel of the Salvatorists of the Holy Cross and became the first Sisters of the infant congregation. In July 1843, Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., who from the. time of his arrival in America had kept begging the mother house to send Sisters to his new settlement at Notre Dame, welcomed Sisters Calvary, Bethlehem, Nazareth and Mary of the Sacred Heart. The loft of the little log chapel which the Brothers had built in addition to Father Badin’s chapel a year before was to be their home. In this small room with only one window they dwelt happily for two years with their Lady Poverty. On one side of the tiny sanctuary was an alcove from which they heard Mass and received Holy Communion.
Brother Timothy brought their meals from an outside kitchen, though sometimes there was very little to eat. .But when cold and hungry, the Sisters were cheered by the thought of their father founder across the sea who used no bed, had no fire in his room, fasted three times a week, and lived as a penitent.
Postulants soon came to join the Sisters. Father Sorin began to see the imperative need of a novitiate at Notre Dame. He laid his plan before Bishop Hailandiere of Vincennes who rejected the proposal as impractical at the time. The Sisters of Providence had established themselves a few years before in his frontier diocese and he could not envision how a poor and scattered Catholic population could support two communities. The unfolding years were to answer this question in a glorious affirmative. .
Father Sorin’s problem found a solution in the small village of Bertrand, six miles from Notre Dame. It was located in Bishop Lefebre’s diocese, then the diocese of Detroit, and he gave his approval gladly to Father Sorin. So in the September of 1844 Father Sorin performed
the ceremony in St. Joseph’s Church in Bertrand which marked the first time a Holy Cross habit was conferred on Sisters in America.
Coincident with the coming of the Sisters to Notre Dame, the little school in the woods began to grow. The second catalog published in 18t0 showed a roll of 60 students and 13 young theologians. The school’s expansion was accelerated further by the fact that in 1851 the Northeim Indiana and Southern Michigan Railroad was completed through South Bend to Chicago. That year also by interposition of Henry Clay, Notre Dame acquired its own post-office.
The Sisters were of service everywhere. The school took on a more cheerful atmosphere since the Sisters tried to recreate some of the comforts of home. The students found their clothes whiter; the curtains that hung in the dormitory were as spotless as snow. Sacristy, clothes-room, dairy, and laundry—every department began to show their care. They glorified their humble tasks of washing, ironing, mending, and cleaning by the high purpose in their hearts. They did the washing in a rickety old shed built on the edge of the lake to facilitate the rinsing of clothes. An early alumnus of Notre Dame, the Reverend Dr. Kilroy, gives this pleasing reminiscence: “Many a time on a windy day, I heard the melody of fervent Hail Marys alternate with the splashing of running waters and the murmur of the lake.” It was not until 1875 that two Sisters were sent to Chicago to tour through institutions to study mechanical developments in the art of laundering clothes.
In 1853, after some experimentation, the Sisters adopted their present Holy Cross habit. That same year, the novitiate was transferred from Bertrand to Notre Dame where the Sisters were cloistered until the Academy of St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception could be prepared for them a mile to the west above the banks of the St. Joseph’s river. But in 1872, at the special request of Father Sorin, the novitiate was again erected at Notre Dame, for postulants destined principally for manual work.
Gradually the Sisters became represented in more departments at Notre Notre Dame. In 1873, ten Sisters took lessons- in printing under the direction of Brother Stanislaus as well as in. stitching and folding of magazines for The Ave Maria. Up to 1877 the Sisters cooked for the community and the students in the basement of the old church until the “new kitchen” was built at the extreme south end of the old Ave Maria Building. The Community of Sisters now grew to such proportions that in 1889
ten Sisters were sent to Bengal, India, at the request of the Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda in Rome. Each Sister was given fifty dollars in gold “in case of accident or separation so as not
The first Sisters to arrive at Notre Dame were all French and their names will be always enshrined in the memories of those who have benefitted by their pioneering spirit. The first Mother Su-
second was Mother Praxides, Father Zahm’s sister. All subsequent administrators received the title of Sister Superior. The present Superior, Sister Benedict, has been in charge for the past three years. Her pleasant and cheerful smile make visitors in her office feel at home immediately. The other Sisters have only the highest praise for her and the work she has accomplished since her coming to Noire Dame.
Sister Aurelia is the oldest Sister on the campus. She is eighty-three years old and has been at Noire Dame continuously for the past sixty-three years. For many decades she was in complete charge of the church linens but for the last few years she has been busying herself with folding handkerchiefs for the students and in prayer.
Sister Elfred has been working in the laundry since she arrived from Bavaria forty-three years ago. At one time while en route to Notre Dame with four young applicants for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, she was stopped at Ellis Island by authorities. She was ordered to be detained until everything she was carrying could be microscopically inspected. One of the inspectors who happened to be on the scene, overheard her say that she was from Notre Dame and promptly interceded and permitted- her and her companions to proceed. It was only afterwards that Sister Elfred learned that he was a Notre Dame graduate.
In 1861 the Union was torn with Civil War and General Lew Wallace, commander of the Federal Forces in South
ern Kentucky, applied to the Sisters of Holy Cross for nurses. Mother Angela and five Sisters responded immediately and were assigned to the military hospital at Paducah. In 1862, seventy-five Sisters were represented in nursing centers at Louisville, Cairo, Mound City, Memphis, and Washington, D.C. That same year two Sisters became war casualties. Returning from the war the Sisters were promptly forgotten until 1903 when Congressman A. L. Brick of South Bend secured for those still living the meager pension of $12.00 a month.
From their very arrival in America the Sisters had to endure privation. In 1874 one wrote from a mission that the Sisters had neither table nor chairs and possessed only one tin cup among them for drinking purposes. But she added characteristically that they were happy with the Blessed Sacrament near them.
The Sisters have played a vital role in the development of Notre Dame since their arrival in 1843. Generations of students, many of them now gray-haired, remember with affection the motherliness of these unselfish women, the huge, rectangular apple pies they baked, the unorthodox handouts in the afternoon to youngsters who always stood in ravenous queues at the old kitchen. Today without their patient help the laundry would be an incomprehensible mess. And it is very comforting to students to know that in an emergency Sisters are at the infirmary to take care of them and to pray them over a crisis. .
Certainly most memorable among the
various culinary feats the kind Sisters were called upon to perform was the banquet they served for Father Sorin’s golden jubilee on August 15th, 1888. Having risen at two o’clock in the morning and hearing Mass at four, the small community started cooking a meal which eventually fed 8,600 guests before the day was over. Over 600 Sisters attended from St. Mary’s and the missions alone. But the wonder of the day was the pyramidal cake which stood in the place of honor just before the jubilarian’s place. It was a towering structure of seven beautifully glazed layers surmounted by a double ladder of five rounds. On one ladder the rounds were worded, “Wooden;” “Tin,” “Crystal,” “Silver,” and the top one “Golden.” On the rounds of the ladder facing the chair of Father Sorin were, “One Year,” “Ten Years,” “Forty Years,” Forty-five Years,” and the top one “Fifty Years.”
Perhaps the most melodramatic aid the Sisters gave occurred during the second fire at Notre Dame when the Main Building was reduced to a $200,000 loss. The Sisters rushed in without any thought of personal danger to rescue paintings, books and valuable manuscripts. Some were doused through and through with the fire hoses. Mother Angela, as soon as she heard of the fire, rushed from St. Mary’s by swift carriage and personally saved the refectory silver. She barely escaped being crushed to death by falling timbers. Mother Mary Charles of the Academy at Salt Lake City sent from her own impoverished resources a check for a thousand dollars. It was this check which Father Sorin sent to Rome for Masses to be said for the rebuilding of a yet greater Notre Dame.
In November of the year 1900 two other disastrous fires broke out at Notre
The Sisters spend their afternoon and evening recreations by keeping busy. During the war they knitted for overseas. In lighter moments they gather about the community piano and sing. Some have become pretty sharp at Chinese checkers. On the Superior's feast-day and holidays the Sisters play Bingo. The prizes are tied up in fancy packages and always provide a surprise. The radio is turned on only for important programs such as Universal Notre Dame Night, football, and the Catholic Hour.

I t
i
4-
s
Dame. The new church caught fire and no less than 800 pieces of vestments were destroyed. Perhaps no chronicler could have been more vivid than the anonymous Sister who described the burning of the old gymnasium. “In the afternoon of November 9th, the gym-
The Community meals are hearty but devoid of any fripperies except on feastdays. The Sisters are permitted to converse at table on feast-days and whenever else permitted by the Sister Superior. Otherwise silence is observed. If the bell for conversation rings the Sisters all respond with a “Deo Gratias." The statue of Our Lady in the refectory is a very ancient one. It stood formerly in the old Ave Maria building.
nasium was destroyed by fire. It made a dangerous blaze as the water protection had not been finished that far out. During the fire all of the Sisters who could be spared from their employment spent their time before the Blessed Sacrament. . The candles were lit on the altars and all prayed fervently for the preservation of Notre Dame. . . . While the flames were still raging, Very Rev. Father Zahm went to the telephone and gave a contract foi‘ a new gymnasium to be completed in 90 days.”
The Sisters understand what spirit means at Notre Dame. During the fall afternoons when the “Fighting Irish” trot out on the football field, they know that the Sisters sitting in their hard, straight chairs in their cells or kneeling before the Blessed Sacrament are saying their Beads for them and their victory . . . these Sisters who perhaps don’t know the difference between a first down, and a clipping penalty.—Joe Cheney
The Sisters have been represented 'at the Infirmary ever since their arrival. Today. under the supervision of Sisters Lea James, Agnesina, Michaela. Ludgeria and others the infirmaries at Notre Dame rank with the most efficient in the country. Two outstanding Sisters who served in the old Infirmary were Sisters Bethlehem and Cecilia. Sister Bethlehem had a keen eye for those students who were faking, and her way of testing everything was castor oil. If the student survived this ordeal he was sick. But the wiser kept away.
13
"I AM THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION"
By JOHNNY WALKER
“I am the Immaculate Conception.” These words were spoken to Bernadette Soubirous as she knelt in the cave at Massabielle. The world well knows what subsequently happened at Massabielle; the miracles; the building of the Grotto of Lourdes.
Here on the campus nestled in a wooded knoll is a replica of the Grotto at Lourdes, a place which needs no introduction to Notre Dame students.
Like so many other great traditions at Notre Dame, the Grotto was envisioned and constructed under the supervision of Father Sorin, founder and first president of the University. Completion of the Grotto in its present form was due chiefly through the generous donation of the Rev. Thomas Carroll who studied theology at Notre Dame.
The present site of the Grotto was- determined only after a careful study of the campus. Consideration was given to a location across St. Mary’s lake near to Holy Cross Seminary. The hill near
The Grotto, Center of May Devotions to Our Lady.
St. Joseph’s lake upon which stands the 12th station of the Way of the Cross was also considered as a possible site. Construction was finally begun in the spring of 1896 in the little knoll behind Sacred Heart Church. Unhewn rock to lend the touch of irregularity found in nature was used throughout the Grotto. Some of the boulders in the foundation weigh as much as two or three tons. Large stones were also placed in the crown of the arch to give the impression of stability. Father John DeGroote, C.S.C., brought back from Lourdes a stone which was set in the Grotto and the many pilgrims who annually visited the place used to kiss it from motives of piety.
During the building of the Grotto, just to the left of the cavern a spring of clear water was struck marking a curious parallel to the miraculous flow at Lourdes. A plaster of paris model of the proposed grotto now stands in the back sacristy of Sacred Heart Church
and indicates that an ornate little shed was meant for the drinking well. On August 12, 1896, the present statue of Our Lady was carried in solemn procession and installed in the niche of the Grotto. The Grotto was dedicated on the Feast of Our Lady of the Snows by Father Sorin. The good Sisters walked in procession from St. Mary’s where alone in the cool of the moonlight stood Father Sorin, majestic in his long white beard, chanting the words of dedication, “O gloriosa Vir-ginum”
And so it has been down through the years, the unbroken murmur of prayer from generations of Notre Dame students. Every May, the month of Our Lady, the students assemble at the Grotto after supper for May devotions. The annual laymen’s retreat, which was a war time casualty, was always concluded by Benediction given at the Grotto by the Bishop of Fort Wayne.
What could be more fitting for the school that is dedicated to Our Lady to remember her and cherish her in such a devout manner. Thus, our minds are carried back to the day at Massabielle and little Bernadette and those words, “I am the Immaculate Conception,” which were not spoken to her alone, but to the world.-
Prof. Sheehan Speaks at Roundtable Meet
The Economic Roundtable Club, meeting in the Ramble Inn last week, had as its guest speaker Mr. John H. Sheehan, head of the Notre Dame Department of Economics. At the meeting, presided over by Fred Funk, Roundtable secretary, seven new men were officially welcomed into the club. As usual, a dinner preceded the business meeting and the delivery of the talk.
Mr. Sheehan chose to speak to the club “About Organizations” and made some constructive remarks concerning the conduct, purpose and high ideals of campus clubs such as the Economics Roundtable. Most of his talk was devoted to the selection of topics for papers and the preparation of these papers. At the weekly meetings of the Roundtable one of the members delivers a paper to the club. Mr. Shehan also dealt at length on the types of books and periodicals which club members should be 'reading to keep abreast of authoritative thought in current interest fields.
He concluded his talk by paraphrasing the late Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University, by advising members to regard, their position in the Roundtable as an opportunity to be a “go-giver” rather than a “go-getter.”
14
56 Latin-Americans
Attend Notre Dame
Back at the turn of the century, when the United States’ “dollar diplomacy” was beginning to be felt in Latin-America and Franklin D. Roosevelt was still a ’teen-aged Harvard student, Notre Dame already had in effect a goodneighbor policy of its own. For decades Latin-Americans have been attending Notre Dame, and at one time in the early 19C0’s about eight percent of the student body came from Central and South America.
Notre Dame still has a representative group of Latin-Americans studying for degrees. Today 56 students from 15 of the Central and South American republics are enrolled at the University.
The greatest number, 12, comes from Ecuador, 10 of whom are from Quito, the capital, and two from Otavalo. Next comes Puerto Rico with six; two from Santurce and one each from San Juan, the capital, Barranquitas, Utuado and Fajardo. Cuba, Mexico, the United States and Peru rank next with five each. From the “Pearl of the Caribbean,” Cuba, two are from Cardenas and one each from Matanzas, Artemisa and Tomba. Mexico has two from Mexico City and one each from Guadalajara, Merida and Nuevo Loredo. The five living in the U. S. give as their cities, Dallas and Del Rio in Texas; Pecos, New Mexico; Tampa, Florida; and New York City. From here we go South to Peru and find three from Lima, the capital, and two from Arequipa. Of the Guatemalans, all four come from Guata-mala City, the capital. Panama is next on the list and we have two from Pan
COM**
HERMAN'S 60T THE TRUE NOTRE DAME FIGHTING SPIRIT. HE GOES BACK EVERY SUNDAY.
ama City, with one each from Colon and David. Here the number drops down to three from San Salvador, the capital of El Salvador. From Nicaragua come two, both from Managua, the capital. The rest of the students from Latin American countries are singles, totaling five, one each from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Manizales, Colombia; Santiago, Dominican Republic; Caracas, Venezuela; and La Ceiba, Honduras.	,
Photographic Contest Will Close May 13th
The First Annual Notre Dame Photographic Contest, sponsored by the Scholastic Board of Editors, will close Mon? day, May 13. This contest is being conducted to select the 15 best pictures of people, events and still life on the University campus.
Cash prizes and certificates will be awarded to the best first, second, and third photographs. Twelve certificates will be awarded for honorable mention merit. Any number of photographs may be submitted by a contestant.	•
The three winning photographs will be printed in the May 24 issue of the Scholastic and ■will, in addition, be syndicated to various newspapers throughout the United States. Together with the 12 photographs to be awarded honorable mention, they will also be printed in various other publications of the University, such as the Notre Dame Alumnus.
All photographs entered in the contest must be submitted to the Publications Office, Room 118 Main Building by 4:30 p.m., Monday, May 13. Photographs submitted will become the property of the Scholastic.
K. of C. Meet Tuesday.
Open Renovated Lounge
The Knights of Columbus will hold their first meeting of the month in Walsh Hall at 7 ;30 p.m. next Tuesday. At that time delegates to the state convention to be held near the end of the month will be elected by the council members. Plans will be presented for the publication of the Santa Maria, which will be a historical review of the numerous activities of the current scholastic year.
Grand Knight Robert Sullivan has announced that the renovated K. of C. lounge will be ready for occupancy some time' within the next two weeks. The opening of this room will culminate the repair program which has seen a complete refinishing of all the council chambers and offices.
Further committee appointments for the K. of C. Ball will be given by Chairman Ralph Hayman as part of the business meeting.
Another highlight of the week’s activities was the first meeting of the current Santa Maria staff and the preparation for the second issue of the Casey News, which- is a bi-monthly publication of council events.—James Sullivan
Adm. Sprague Outlines R.O., V-12 Disposition
Real- Admiral T. L. Sprague in a recent navy bulletin outlined the disposition of NROTC and V-12 undergraduates which will go into effect July 1.
USNR trainees who are fully qualified to continue in the NROTC program will be transferred to the appropriate enlisted personnel separation center for discharge and their former rating, if any, will be restored.
USN trainees who are fully qualified to continue in the NROTC program will be transferred to the appropriate enlisted personnel separation center, regardless of date of expiration of enlistment for discharge “for convenience of the government,” or “expiration of enlistment,” as appropriate.
The USNR trainees who are not fully qualified for continuance in the NROTC program will be transferred to a separation center and their previous rating, if any, will be restored. USN trainees who fall under this classification will be transferred to the nearest naval recruiting station for general detail unless they have not had recruit training, in which case they will be transferred to the nearest naval training center for such training. USN men who are serving on expired enlistments will be transferred to a separation center and discharged.
15
Ail Roads Lead to Prom Tonight;
Imported Talent Arrives on Campus
The ‘imported talent’ for Notre Dame’s gala Junior Prom week-end has already completed its collective journey from the four corners of the United States straight into the heart of South Bend. All of the young ladies, of course, are worthy of a praising blast from the Scholastic's bugle, but a special few, the dates of the Prom chairmen, merit public consideration.
The queen of this 1946 Junior Prom, that lucky creature who tonite will enjoy the full value of Prom Chairman Joe O’Toole’s personal escort service, is Miss Barbara Sullivan, of East Orange, New Jersey. A graduate of Saint Elizabeth’s College, “The B” is employed in the research department of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, in Murray Hill, N. J. We could even refer to her as the “Bell” of the ball. (Sorry, lads, sorry!)
Co-chairman Bill McCormick is the “man Friday” tonite for the Prom’s guest of honor, Naundas C. Fisher, a graduate of Chicago’s Mundelein College and a native Chicagoan. Naundas is a private secretary in between her guest-of-honor appearances at Notre Dame.
The Decorations Committee chairman, Willoughby (“Wib”) Marshall, promises to show up this evening with a bundle of personified Southern accent, Mercia Oliver, from Apalachicola, Florida. Mercia is taking time out from Stephen’s College, in Columbia, Missouri, solely for the benefit of the Prom and, incidentally, “Wib.”
Bob Mulcahy, Publicity Committee chairman, is courting Marie (‘The Wheel’) Didier, who comes to South Bend, well recommended, from Massapequa, Long Island, New York. Marie attended Pratt Institute in New York City, studying commercial art.
From across the Dixie, as a good-neighbor representative from St. Mary’s, comes Donna Willmeng, a native of Watervliet, Michigan, and the property, for tonight only, • of Music Committee chairman Elmer “Moose” Matthews.
Ohio’s lone delegate among the women of the elite is Colette Leahy, squired by Program Committee chairman Dick Ungashick. Sounds like Dick has a true daughter of the old sod under his wing for the week-end.
Jack Galloway, chairman of arrangements, is escorting Jean? Peggs, a Watertown, New York, product, who graduated
just this week from Syracuse Univer7 sity. “Jeannie” arrived in South Bend this morning—it must be nice to be free!
The Saturday Tea Dance chairman, Fred Heinritz, also is squiring a college grad into the “Rock’s” beautifully decorated interior tonight. Fred’s date comes from Appleton, Wisconsin, and the University of Wisconsin is her alma mater.
And there you have the luminaries of this biggest and best of all Junior Proms. We’re sure that these eight lovely young ladies, along with the three hundred others who invade the Arabian Nights harem in the Rockne Memorial tonight, will have a wonderful time in store for them during their coming week end in the land of enchantment and tropical splendor (sounds goods, anyway!) Lucky lads and lucky girls, these couples who will be cheek to cheek -when the sweet strains of Jimmy Lunceford’s rhythms begin -wafting forth from the “Rock” about nine p.m. It’s been a lot of hard work for the committee chairmen, but now they can see that it was well worth it in the end. Women, women, -women— Notre Dame welcomes you with open arms!
Mr. LaCugna Elected to Sturzo Board
Mr. Charles La Cugna, a Teaching Fellow in the Department of English, was appointed a Member of the Board of Directors for the Luigi Sturzo Foundation For Sociological Studies at a meeting held in Brooklyn, New York, on April 26th and 27.
Mr. La Cugna will aid in determining the policy of the board in the preparation of publications and other materials, and has been specifically appointed to procure lecturers in the field of Sociology.
Other members of the Board include Bishop Hass of Grand Rapids, Don Luigi Sturzo, Mario Einandi, Clement Jed-rzejewski, Alfredo Mendizabel, Rev. Ford, and Miss Angelina Lognasso. Mr. La Cugna is the youngest member of the Board.
Since receiving his B.A. at Manhattan College, New York City and his M.A. at Fordham University, he has studied at St. John’s University. At present, he is working for his Ph.D. in Political Science.
History Dept. Proposes Latin American Classes
Notre Dame students looking to Central and South America as future fields of work and study will be able to enlarge their knowledge of those countries beginning next fall. The increased interest in Latin America will find its counterpart in a new program of classes in Latin American History which the Department of History has planned beginning next September.
By the addition of Professor Thomas E. Downey, the University will be able to offer several varied courses dealing not only with the general history of Spanish America but also with the particular countries “South of the Border.” Professor Walter Langford, who has charge of the Latin American courses at the present time, will concentrate his attention more completely on Spanish and Portuguese literature which is so important to a proper understanding of the history of Central and South America.
Dr. Downey specialized in the field of Latin American History under the direction of Dr. Herbert E. Bolton, the famed historian and teacher of the University of California. In addition to his study and teaching, Professor Downey has spent considerable time visiting the countries south of the Rio Grande, part of the time in the services of the War Department.
Besides the general courses in Latin American History which will be required courses hereafter for history majors, Dr. Downey will offer next September two courses: the “History of Argentina, Brazil, and Chile,” and “The Republics of Central America.” In the spring semester he will offer “The History of the Caribbean Area” and “The History of Mexico.” In the school year 1947-48 Dr. Downey will also offer a course in the history of Spain which is generally regarded as very important for anyone who would really understand the cultural history of Spanish America.
CALLING MARRIED VETS
All married vets attending Notre Dame are invited to bring their wives to an informal mixer in the Rockne Memorial Lounge at eight o'clock Tuesday evening. May 7. Plans for social and cultural activities will be discussed.
The mixer is sponsored by the wives of faculty members assisted by the Veterans' Club.
16
Notre Dame Quiz Match Highlights
National Inter-American Meeting
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Commission on Inter-Action (La Raza Club and Inter-American Affairs Club) a quiz match on Inter-American affairs was the highlight of the annual meeting of the National Commission on Inter-American Action NFCCS (National Federation of Catholic College Students), held in Philadelphia recently.
Outstanding on this occasion was the quiz match sponsored by Notre Dame in which * a team from the Chicago Area contested against a team from the Detroit Region. The members of the Chicago Area team were Oswaldo Arroyo, Notre Dame; and Ethel Dignan, Mundelein College; referee, Tom Murray, Notre Dame; and score keeper, Jeanne McNulty, Mundelein College-. The members of the Detroit Region team were Marjorie Jacobs, Siena Heights College; and Shan-drose Steurer, Mary Manse College; referee, James Garey, St. John’s University, New York City; and score keeper, Thomas Donnelly, University of Michigan. Consultants were Rev. John Donnelly, Ph.D., and Rev. Anthony Os-theimer, both of the University of Pennsylvania.
The purpose of the Commission is to unite Catholic college students in the United States for the furthering of better understanding and cultural relations between the Americas. Present at the
Tom Murray, at rostrum, center, was referee of quiz match; and Oswaldo Arroyo extreme right, was a member of Chicago area team.
annual meeting were Catholic students from colleges and universities, both Catholic and secular, all over the country.
Among the speakers were Dr: Roy T. Davis, director, Inter-American School Service, American Council of Education, Washington, D.C., whose address was broadcast directly from the hotel; and the Honorable Bernard Samuel, Mayor of Philadelphia.
The activities for the second day included an elaborate dinner at the college and reports on Inter-American action for the numerous regions throughout the country. Tom Murray of Notre Dame reported the activities of the Ft. Wayne Region, stressing this University’s Panel Program now in its fifth year.
. ■» a O '«
N.D. to Cooperate
In A-Bomb Project
Notre Dame is included in the list of 24 educational institutions which will cooperate in research toward peace-time use of atomic energy with such facilities as available in Chicago laboratories.
Dr. F. H. Sneding, director of the Iowa State college atomic energy project and a member of the board of governors • of the “superlaboratory,” said, “the superlaboratory will be to atomic energy research what the Mount Wilson observatory is to astronomy.”
To Award O'Donnell Journalism Medal
The committee on Scholarships and Prizes has announced a new medal, THE HUGH A. O’DONNELL GOLD MEDAL FOR JOURNALISM, which will be awarded to the senior journalism major who has the highest general - average.
Founded by the late Hugh A. O’Donnell, formerly of the New York Times, this medal is in memory of his brother, the late James F. O’Donnell, Bloomington, Ill., newspaper publisher.
Hugh A. O'Donnell Journalism Medal
The medal is 14 carat gold, with a genuine emerald set in the center of the star of the University Arms. The reverse side will bear the title of the medal, the recipient’s name and the year of the award. The medal will be presented with a watch chain.
This is the first of several University medals to be redesigned so that they may be worn in the manner of a 'Phi Beta Kappa key.
Dr. Ladner, Historian, Joins Faculty at ND
The Department of History has acquired the sei-vices of Dr. Gerhart B. Ladner, it has been announced by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department.
Dr. Ladner, who will assume his duties with the beginning of the fall semester in September, is an authority on the history of mediaeval art. He is at present an instructor in history at the University of Toronto, Canada, and is also associated with St. Michael’s Institute in that city.
Dr. Ladner received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Vienna, Austria, in 1930. Following that, he served on the staff of the Monumenta Germaniae Historica in Berlin and Munich. This association long has keen active in the editing of documents on German history. Also, before coming to North America, Dr. Ladner served as lecturer in history at the University of Vienna.
During the years 1943 to 1945, he held a captaincy in the Canadian army, and, following his discharge, joined the faculty at the University of Toronto.
17
Elmer Mathews and Bob Mulcahy tilt the "girl" for promers.
When some 300 Notre Dame Junior Promgoers and their escorts file into the Rockne Memorial tonight, they will behold one of the finest decorating spectacles ever executed for a campus dance. As so often happens, decorations are a last minute effort to hide the ghost lines of a hall. This year, however, decorations were given a high priority and long before the Prom date had been set, student artists, architects and engineers were hard at work drafting an unusual design that would be correct and complete in every detail. In spite of their overwhelming enthusiasm, so far they have managed to keep the theme a secret. Behind this display of artistic finery went a lot of hard work, painstaking effort, and serious thought, blended with a spirit of cooperation and judicious management.	’
First in the limelight, the number one man of the evening, is Prom Chairman, Joe O’Toole, from Newark, New Jersey. Joe is a law major, returning from the
18
wars to pick up the loose ends of his education and to resume his many campus activities. His keen knack of cutting red tape and ability to meet key people made him the logical choice of his classmates as Prom Head. ...
Ever since the day preparations were begun, Joe’s room at 336 Dillon Hall has been the center of many heated, rhetoric discussions, where high powered politics often exploded and threatened more than once to kick in the spokes of some of the local big wheels.
Assisting Joe, and filling the big job of Co-Chairman, was Bill McCormick, also a returning vet, who hails from the wind-swept city of Chicago, and completing his studies here as an Aero-engineer. Bill’s easy going temperament and quick Irish wit often helped the O’Toole Toilers, and many times was instrumental in smoothing off the rough edges of controversies during committee meetings. It was due to his untiring efforts and patience in various dealings
with Mr. Russell in Chicago, that the Band contract was finally signed, sealed and delivered.
It is not often that a Prom Chairman can say to his decorations committee tha~ he'd like something new and differem and receive word a few weeks later thav all is in readiness for the big night. That’s the main reason that Webb Marshall has been voted one of the mos; valuable men on this year’s committee. ' He was given the go ahead signal and was not heard from again until he had the theme in the completion stages. Webb, a Fine Arts major, returned to Notre Dame from his Florida home after a two year leave of absence, during which time he was in the employ of his military uncles. Sharing the honors with
- - ------ -.t>
Not the pay off. Just Dick Ungaschek, lelt, ar
Webb are three Beaux Arts students from the college of Architecture, who were a big part of the decorating campaign. They are Joe Lang, from Pittsburgh, Pa., runner up in many National Beaux Arts contests, and president of the Architects Club, Joe Gasperella, from Vandergrift, Pa., who has distin-‘ guished himself by earning two football monograms in as many seasons, and ' Bernard “Buzz” Heulsebush, from Effingham, Ill., who is just about to be drafted into the Army. He intends to ask for foreign service in hopes of coming in contact with some of the historic architecture, now mostly in ruins.
Closely allied with all the committees was Activities Chairman, Jack Galloway, A.B. major from the Bronx, New York,
it, and Fred Heinritz transacting Prom business.
Jack Galloway and Webb Marshall
touch up the Genii for the Prom.
whose promoter type talents made him a natural for the job. Whereas the other committees had but one assignment to worry over, the list of needs given to Jack could be strung out a block long. They included making arrangements for the hotel reservations for out of town girls, special transportation, coke concessions for the prom, checking, tux rentals, and supplying working parties for the other committee heads.
A big item that can’t be overlooked in the business of preparing a Prom is that of publicity. Chairman Bob Mulcahy, was an ideal selection to direct the publicity campaign this year because of his affiliations with the ND Radio Club. A speech major from Long Island, New York, Bob plans to continue in radio when he receives his sheepskin, but may have to wait a few few extra years because he too, is on the potential list that makes soldiers out of boys. Assisting Mulcahy on publicity were Jim Butler, Jack Miles,
Bob Shiel, Pat O’Neill and Joe Cheney.
The duties of contacting the musical agencies to ascertain which bands would be available for the prom went to Elmer Moose Mathews, Band Chairman from South Orange, New Jersey, an English major in the Liberal Arts College. In the early stages of his job, Mathews, desk was piled to the ceiling with correspondence from entertainment bookers all over the United States, each letter containing the traveling schedule of important and outstanding name bands who might possibly reach Notre Dame on the night of May the third. After narrowing down the selection to a workable number, a series of long distance phone calls were necessary to make detailed' inquiries, and finally, afetr all the data had been assembled, the committee selected Jimmy Lunceford and his orchestra on the merits of his previous performances at college proms.
(Continued on page 27)
19
Senior Ball Week-end Set for June 7, 8, 9
Plans are now under way for the first Senior Ball Week-end to be held at Notre Dame since the start of the war. Considerable progress has been made by the senior class in hopes of making the week-end a high point in the social activities on the June calendar.
Co-chairmen Bill Carbine and Fritz Funk have announced the following chairmen for the week-end of June 7, 8, and 9: Transportation, John Specht; Publicity, Joe Patrucco; Tickets, John Vaughan; Housing, Bill Dunne; Photography, Jim Balidor; Imitations, Jack Tenge; Decorations, Sam Wing; Music, V-12 Bill Dwyer; Patrons, Ralph Hayman; Seating, Wally Rogers; Arrangements, Harry Sullivan; Refreshments, Don Trottier; Entertainment, Bernie Finucane; Music, Jim Clemens; Friday night dinner, John Pradzk; Saturday dinner, John Slater; Sunday music, Barney Slater; and Sunday breakfast, Don Degnan.
The schedule for the week-end features a formal candlelight dinner-dance which will be held at the Oliver Hotel on Friday night, June 7. An informal get-together is planned for Saturday afternoon at Lincoln Park in Mishawaka. Seniors have been given access to the facilities of the American Legion Home. A special Mass for seniors and their guests and a private breakfast in the University dining hall is also being planned for Sunday.—Joe Cheney
Mr. Conner Killed
in Burlington Wreck
The entire country was profoundly shocked by the calamitous train wreck last week. The impact of the tragedy came especially close to our campus in that we were all saddened to hear of the death of Mr. Everett E. Conner, husband of Helen Conner, manager of the Huddle.
Mr. Conner had just been discharged from the army after three years of service and had accepted a position with Ford-Hopkins Company. His home address was 310 E. Penn St., South Bend.
Mr. Conner was’ born May 14, 1910, in Hannibal Mo. He atended LaGrange. Baptist College in that city and was graduated from the University of Missouri. He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Helen Conner, a brother, Mr. R. Conner, both of South Bend, a sister, Mrs. L. Glasscock, Albuquerque, N. Mex., and his father, Mr. A. C. Conner, of Hannibal, Mo.	’
The Scholastic extends its profound-• est sympathy to Mrs. Conner on the occasion of her bereavement.
Fr. T. McAvoy Speaks at History Meeting
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, represented the University at the meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association which was held at Indiana University recently. The Mississippi Valley Historical Association is an organization of historians and teachers interested in the teaching of American history. Father McAvoy offered a paper in the sectional meeting on the Old Northwest.
Father McAvoy
In his paper, entitled “Abbe John Rivet at Vincennes, 1795-1804,” Father McAvoy gave an account of the missionary activities of Father Rivet and his efforts to revive the religious zeal of the French inhabitants of the village of Vincennes. He also presented Father Rivet’s observations on the social and economic conditions of the settlement at the period when it was ceasing to be a French village and becoming an American frontier town. '
Associated with Father McAvoy in the discussion were Professor' Theodore C. Pease of the University of Illinois, and Director Howard H. Peckham of the Indiana Historical Society.
Cuban Pianist to Play in Drill Hall Tonight
One of the greatest pianists of the present day, Jose Echaniz, a native of Cuba will appear at 8:15 tonight in the Drill Hall as a soloist with the South Bend Symphony orchestra in its concert. He will play in the place of Witold Mal-cuzynski, famous Polish pianist and pupil of the late Ignace Jan Paderewski, who can not keep his engagement because of illness.
Born in Guanabacoa, a suburb of Havana, -and descended from distinguished Spanish, French and Italian ancestry, he came to the United States fresh from a series of triumphs in his native country to make his New York Town Hall debut as a mature pianist in
Mrs. Helen Conner of the Huddle wishes to extend her gratitude to the students and faculty for their sympathy in her recent bereavement.
1927. Then followed seasons of alternating coart-to-coast tours, European engagements, and many tours of Cuba, including 11 appearance as soloist with the Havana symphony orchestra. Recently he has appeared as soloist with a number of major American symphony orchestras among them the Philadelphia orchestra, the Chicago symphony, the St. Louis symphony and the Cincinnati symphony.
Echaniz recently has been active also as a conductor. He had his first big opportunity when he was invited to conduct the Havana Philharmonic orchestra in 1939. His concerts as conductor were equally successful and to his career as pianist now must be added a growing reputation as one of the outstanding younger conductors.
Annual Mathematical
Publication Off Press
Issue 7 of the Reports of a Mathematical Colloquium, one of the mathematical publications of the University, has just been published. An issue has been published about once a year since 1938 when Professor Karl Menger started publication of the journal. The “Reports” are devoted exclusively to mathematical research done at the University.
The present issue contains three papers on hyperbolic geometry: one by Father DeBaggis, one by M. L. Tomber, and one by Prof. Menger. An article by Prof. Pepper is devoted to metric geometry. Prof Milgram contributed an article about closed curves in the plane. Five papers are devoted to the development of algebra of analysis, a theory which was initiated in previous Notre Dame publications. The papers are by Prof. Menger, Father F. L. Brown, Prof. Milgram, Father J. C. Burke, and Prof. Mannos. All authors are teaching and doing research at the University.
Another publication of the Department of Mathematics is the Notre Dame Mathematical Lectures. Four pamphlets have been published so far; further issues are in preparation. The Notre Dame Mathematical Lectures is widely read in mathematical circles. The number of copies sold. equals that of the monographs of’the American Mathematical Society. Favorable reviews of the “Lectures,” as well as the “Reports,” have been published in this country and recently abroad.
20
Scholastic Sports Section
Irish Diamond Squad on Road;
Clashes with W. Michigan, Iowa
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball squad will be in Kalamazoo, Mich., tomorrow afternoon, where it will begin a five-game road trip by taking on the Western Michigan University Broncos in the first of a home-and-home game series. Then on Tuesday and Wednesday the Irish diamond squad will put in an appearance at Ames, Iowa, where it will trade hits and pitches in a two-game series with the Iowa Hawkeyes, definitely a top team in the Big Ten.
Last season Western Michigan and Notre Dame tangled four times. At Kalamazoo the Irish rode the Broncos 26-10 in the first game; rain cut the nightcap shoi-t at 2-2 after five inings of play had elapsed. The Broncos came down to Cartier Field to throw the Irish 13-0 in the opener of a doubleheader, but the Kline hands brushed themselves off and came back to win the second game 3-0.
Western Michigan, like so many other Michigan schools, takes its baseball seriously. It points with pride to its splendid past records and to its ability as a provider for major- league talent, most
Jack Barrett, Mainstay of Irish Mound Staff
famous among whom are “Stubby” Overmire, Frank Secory, and Bay Thomas. The Broncos’ ball park, Haymes Field, is conceded to be one of the best equipped in the country. Seating 5,000 and possessing all modern fixtures, it has a roofed grandstand semi-circling the field from short left to short right.
Back at his old spot as coach of the Broncos is Charlie Maher, whose baseball coaching tenure was interrupted by a hitch in the navy. So far this season Western Michigan’s record is not too impressive. For one thing it lost a doubleheader to Ohio State, which was defeated twice by the Sorin Sultans of Swat.
The probable starting lineup for the Maher-men will include: in the infield, Fred Stevens, first base; Oren Davis, second base; Wayne Tei-williger, short stop; Dick Groggel, third base. In the outfield will be Ivan Flecer, Ken Stillwell, and the dependable hard hitting Tom Krupa. The pitchers are giving Maher the most grief this spring. From these six wil emerge his starter — Ed Rossi, Ernie Victor, Warren Biddle, Jim Post, Wally Shy, or Gordon Bowdell.
Meanwhile, there is little evidence of change in the Notre Dame camp. Jake Kline is stringing along ■with his ace curve bailer, “Kewp” Barrett, just as long as the redhead’s arm doesn’t give him serious trouble. Barrett complained of an ailing arm early in the season, but consistent work sems to be just what the doctor ordered for him and that is just what he is . going to bet Petrelka at first; Kozlik at second, Hassett at short; Schneider at third; Raba, Gilhooley, and Mayo in the outfield; and Sheehan behind the plate round out the starters. Notre Dame’s outfield should present a problem to all opponents this season. Going into the Northwestern game Tuesday it had a combined average of .433, which isn’t bad sticking. But look for Sheehan any day now to start peppering those distant fences in his customary style.
Toeing the rubber- in the, first game against Iowa Tuesday will be either Dick Smullen, the Bronxville Express, or the blond Czech, Dick Kluck, with his hard fast one. Both these boys have shown Kline that they are capable of finishing ball games and offer good sup-
N.D. Golfers Defeat
Ohio State, Marquette
Freshman George Stuhr, of Garden City, N. Y., led the Notre Dame golf team to a 23 to 7 victory over Marquette ■ and a 33% to 2% win over Ohio Northern on the Notre Dame golf course Saturday, April 27, in the season opener for the Irish linksmen.
Stuhr fired a 78-75—153 for the best score of the meet. Dick Whiting of De-
’ troit, Mich., No. 1 man on the Irish team, posted a two-over par 73 in the morning round, but came up with an 87 in the afternoon round to finish with a 160.
Missing two three-foot putts in the final round cost Stuhr a score of 151 for the day. Szalkowski shot an 81-83—164 to turn in the best performance for Marquette, while Hayworth Dick came through with a 93-92—185 for Ohio Northern’s best score.
Ohio Northern’s effectiveness on the course was hampered by the fact that the Buckeyes played a match against Toledo University, Friday, and drove by car early Saturday morning to compete at Notre Dame.
Captain Tom Kennedy shot an 89 in the morning round and a 78 in the afternoon for a total of 167. Jim Besen-felder had 84-76 for 160, Everhart Schleck tallied 78 in the morning round and gave way to Jack Quinn in the morning round, being relieved by Tom Conley who shot an 82 in the afternoon.
The Notre Dame golf team will meet the University of Wisconsin team in the second match of the season for the Irish golfers at Madison tomorrow. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach, is expected to start Captain Tom Kennedy, Everhart Schleck, Joe Totten, George Stuhr, Dick Whiting, and Jim Besen-felder.
Following the Wisconsin match, the Irish linksmen will travel to Lafayette, Ind., to engage the Purdue golfers on May 11, before entertaining Michigan and Northwestern in the only remaining home contests.
port to Barrett who will be ready to take his turn on the mound again Wednesday.
The department of athletics recently added a home-and-home game series with Great Lakes which brings the season’s schedule to 21 games. The Klinemen will meet the Bluejackets here on June 1 and again on June 16 at the Great Lakes Naval Training Center.
21
Eight Teams Compete in Baseball League
Dillon Hall and Breen-Phillips Hall \nll meet in the first game of the 1946 Interhall Baseball League, Monday afternoon at 3:45, on the field south of the campus, Mr. John A. Scannell, director of Physical Education, announced this week. Eight teams have entered this league and one game will be played daily until the schedule is completed.
Entered in the league besides Dillon and Breen-Phillips are nines from Walsh, Cavanaugh, Sorin, Zahm, Alumni, and St. Edward’s Halls. These teams will all see action next week. If sufficient interest in the league warrants, games may also be played on Saturdays and Sundays. All games will be seven innings. Each manager will select one umpire to officiate the tilts. Ernie Szekely of the Physical Education Department, is the director of the league.
—Jim Regan
Irish Garner 12 Hits, Defeat Wildcats, 7-2
Walt Mahanna, husky newcomer to the Notre Dame pitching staff, introduced himself to a large gathering of fans on Cartier Field last Tuesday as he hurled seven-hit ball to defeat Northwestern, 7 to 2. While Mahanna kept the Wildcat hits scattered his teammates pounded out 12 timely blows, nine in two innings, off Schumacher and Schulz, the Northwestern pitchers.
Tom Sheehan carried the brunt of the Notre Dame batting load with three hits in four trips to the plate including a lusty triple in the eighth inning. Kozlik, Mayo, and Hassett each connected for two hits. After the Wildcats had taken a 2-0 lead in the fourth inning, the Irish batted around in the fifth to score four runs on five hits. Sheehan opened with a single and before a force out ended the party, Gehring, Hassett, Schneider, and Mayo had hit safely while two Northwestern errors aided in the Notre Dame run department. Schneider’s single came with the bases loaded and drove in two runs.
Schumacher was routed in the Irish eighth after a single by Mayo, a wild pitch, and a single by Petrzelka sent one run home. Sheehan greeted the new pitcher, Schulz, with his three bagger scoring Petrzelka. Hassett’s second hit drove home his roommate, Sheehan.
Mahanna issued the only walk in the game to start the 9th inning but retired the next three batters in order. The game was played in the fast time of one hour and 35 minutes. Mahanna struck out eight men.
Softball League Opens
With 12 teams entered in the Interhall Softball League, physical education department officials have decided to run two divisions, with the winner of each division meeting for the campus championship. As in basketball, the leagues are expected to be divided according to the position of the hall on the campus. Six teams will compete in the eastern section while the other six teams will be in the western half. Frank Maxwell of the Phy Ed Department, director of the league, announced that the first games will be played Monday.
N.D. Trackmen Capture One First at Relays
Thunderstorms and Notre Dame threatened a field of 600 collegiate athletes, but at the conclusion of the two-day Drake Relays it had rained little and the Irish could count only one victory.
Medill Gartiser, Bill O’Neill, William Fleming, and Johnny Smith combined in the 480-yard high hurdle shuttle relays to win over Minnesota and Wisconsin by 20 yards. It was all wrapped up in 1:06.1. However, similar glad tidings were riot to be found in the University relays. In the two mile event the Handy quartet found a slot behind Michigan State and Nebraska, while the four mile team placed second to the University of Indiana.
Bill Leonard, running anchor on the
TICKET INFORMATION
More than a thousand attended the first evenin? preliminaries of the Bengals; if that is any indication of the attendance at the finals, it might be worthwhile for the student planning to attend to procure his ducats presently—most presently.
Students may only attend at the student rate by purchasing their tickets in advance, at their hall, bookstore, or at the Huddle. Definitely, students may bring dates or their wives (that's still a date, you know) on a student ticket. Therefore, gentlemen, two tickets—and you and your date may attend at the student rate.
Ringside and general admission tickets may be had downtown, or at the box office on the night of the finals at the established price.
Ticket prices for the finals:
Student Tickets (adv. sale)__ 50c
General Admission___________$1.00
Ringside Seats -------------$1.50
four-mile squad, was thwarted at the tape in much the same fashion as at the Chicago Relays a month ago. After leading on the third leg, the Irish saw the helm go to Feiler of Drake who paced the final mile until challenged by Indiana’s Earl Mitchell. Leonard clung to the veteran Hoosier’s scorching pace but was unable to nullify his one-stride advantage. Time for the total distance was 17:56.5.—Bob Leander
N.D. Rifle Team Second in Hearst Rifle Match
The Notre Dame rifle team, composed of members of the NROTC unit, blazed their way to the second place spot in a field of more than 40 contenders in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match. The Irish squad garnered a total of 882 points of a possible 1000 which was surpassed only by the Northwestern delegation. Ed Soergel is captain of the Notre Dame group and Lieut. Comdr. M. A. Censale is the moderator. Individual
scores were as follows:
Don Woley.............180
Lloyd Biscomb..............179
Ed Soergel ...........177
Kent Carroll..........174
Hevland Swanson.......172
Killer on Edge—Fires Zig. Cuffs Challenger
Pandemonium reigned in the Szymanski camp this week as a reconciliation between the Killer and his manager, Cza-robski, the Aiderman, fell through. It has been apparent for some time that a rift between the two was inevitable due to a disagreement over income taxes. Apparently, the Aiderman decided he would take 90% of Szymanski’s share of the gate receipts for taxes which he has paid for his fighter. The Killer became very indignant over this proposal and told “Zig” he was fired, whereupon the Aiderman immediately resigned as The Killer’s manager. Szymanski, however, has acquired two new managers in the form of Bob Dove and Jim Brutz, former All-Americans at Notre Dame.
In the meantime both battlers appear to be in top physical condition for their battle Thursday night which will be one of the main attractions on the card. While the fight can hardly be called a “grudge” match, tempers have flared at recent meetings so as to indicate that both fighters will throw a lot of leather. The most recent verbal exchanges took place over the past weekend in a local physician’s office where the champ and (Continued on page 27)
22
Bengal Bout Finals to be Fought Thursday
Thursday evening, May 9 at 8:00, ring fans will have the chance to witness the greatest intramural event of the year, in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The Bengal Bouts, now a campus tradition, have in the past 14 years built up a record of popularity and support unequalled by any other such affair held at the University.
Monday through Thursday of last week, those who attended the Bengal preliminaries and semi-finals will most certainly agree that the fellows in the ring put everything they had (could spare, or originate) into their efforts. Men awarded the decision of the officials in the semi-final rounds of their class will meet in the finals.
With 41 men still signed at the tourney’s start, eight will enter the ring on the deciding night. On that same evening Tony Zale will referee the middlewight bout. To anyone who is acquainted with the boxing world and its highly publicized notables, the name of Tony Zale should ring a familiar gong.
The Notre Dame band will be in attendance, just to make the affair a little more festive. Seniors Szymanski and Czrobski will attract the Bengal goers at the intermission -with their championship encounter.
Among other luminaries who will be in attendance the night of the finals are Frank “Spike” McAdams, noted mid-westem referee and Notre Dame graduate. Mr. McAdams a classmate of Coach Frank Leahy, will officiate in the ring for one of the final bouts of the Bengals. Also present at the Bengal finals will be Stanley Link, noted cartoonist from Chicago, author of such well known strips as “Tiny Tim” and “Ching Chow.” It might be well worth noting that Mr. Link’s pen was formerly responsible for such strips as “Andy Gump” and “Moon Mullins.” Spectatoring the finals will be another Irish sports enthusiast, Mr. Edward Dunigan.
Honorary Judges Announced
Headman John Power announces the following men as the Honorary Judges of the 1946 Bengal Bout Finals: Hon. F. Kenneth Dempsey; Captain J. .Richard Barry, U.S.N.; Mr. Ernest Morris; Mr. Joseph F. Donahue; Mr. Otto A. Pfaff; Mr. E. E. Richards; Mr. Eugene L. O’Brien; Mr. Bernard J. Voll; Mr. Robert Fischgrund; and Mr. E. R. En-darfer.
INTRODUCING
By JIM CLEMENS
The leading hitter’ thus far on this year’s crack Notre Dame baseball team is John Lewis Mayo, a strapping 6 ft. 1 in. 190-lb junior who, in the first five games of the season, laced out 10 hits in 20 trips to the plate for a gaudy. 500 average.
Even more phenomenal perhaps than this sensational clouting is the fact that the husky Youngstown, Ohio, youngster played little if any baseball before he made- his first appearance at Notre Dame as a member of the Marine Corps
in the V-12 program in the summer of 1943. Advised to try his hand at a diamond career by a zealous baseball fan in St. Louis, who saw him idly knock down some fences with his long drives while clowning around a St. Louis sandlot, Jack donned his first pair of spikes on Cartier Field and so impressed Clarence “Jake” Kline, Irish baseball mentor, with his natural all-around ability that he won the regular right field spot on the 1943 summer nine. The following season he won a monogram at his left field berth, compiling an average well above .300 in some 22 games.
Though he now calls Youngstown, Ohio, his home, Jack was born in the little town of Litchfield, Ill., on July 26, 1925. For the next 12 years his family migrated through several midwestern states, until they settled down in Youngstown in 1937. Jack attended
Rayen High School there from 1938 to 1942, winning a monogram in track in his senior year. He competed in the pole vault, high jump and half mile, and relates that the high point of his brief track career was advancing to the state finals in the pole vault where he was ignominiously shut out.
Following his graduation from high , school, he put in a brief appearance at Illinois before he enrolled at St. Louis University in January, 1943. In March of that year he enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve, and was sent to Notre Dame for training in July.
In November of 1944 he was sent to Parris Island, South Carolina, for boot training, and later to Quantico, Virginia, to Officers’ Training School, where he was commissioned a second lieutenant July 4, 1945. His first assignment as an officer took him to Camp Pendleton, California, for overseas training but the war ended in the meantime and on December 7 he received his discharge.
Before returning to school in March of this year, “Jumbo,” as he is affectionately known to his teammates, accepted an invitation to work out with the Jersey City Giants of the International League in Jacksonville, Florida. There, he created quite an impression on the Little Giants’ bosses with his heavy stickwork and speed on the base paths. He relates, with a touch of nostalgia, how he smashed out some solid blows against the old screwball maestro, Carl Hubbell, while wearing a pair of that talented worthy’s baseball shoes.
A second semester junior, Jack expects to graduate in June, 1947, with an A.B. degree in Sociology, and from there he plans to combine a baseball career with Law School. However, his more immediate plans call for a summer of baseball in Bennington, Vermont, under the watchful eye of “Jake” Kline, to whom he gives credit for his rapid development as a ball player. “Jake” is likewise “very high” on the youthful Mayo, describing him as “a big powerful boy who can really slash into those bases.”
Highly popular with his teammates, the quiet and unassuming “Jumbo” is ■ apparently headed for a great season and will undoubtedly wind up as one of the greatest outfielders in Notre Dame history before he leaves the Irish campus.
23
ml.

Top left, a section of the crowd at the opening prelim of the Bengal Bouts last Monday night. Above, announcer Mike Hines. Left. Frank Robinson decisions Larry Raville. Below left Gerry Mahoney and Bill Corbett. Mahoney won the bout. Below, fast foot-work by Jack McGrath, right, takes him out of firing range of Merritt Hoglund's left. McGrath won. Referee George Vander Heyden is the third man.

24
Above
Peterson intently listen to
right. Bob Satti and Bernard Van der Heyden's instructions.
Carey. Below referee
Above, McGrath and Hoglund exchange long ones.
right, Robinson and Raville. Right, Harp Dougherty holding the bottle, John Gierek on the receiving end. Gierek defeated John Farrell. Below, after-the-bouts discussion. Elmer Angsman (back
to camera), Pete Richinski, John Hickey, Father Charles Tom Sheehan, Bill Hassett, Leo Klier, and Vince Eoryla.
25
WE MIGHT AS WELL PREDICT IT-NOTRE DAME OVER ALL IN NATION
By PETE BROWN
Unless a team has 33 men who eat raw meat three times a day or break two-inch steel rails with their bare hands, it is almost useless to try to field a football team next season. Everybody reports that his favorite coach has potentially this spring the greatest team the OF Alma Mater ever had.
Reports from the East have it that-Army and Navy by natural processes have improved over last year. The quotes go, “They can’t and won’t be beaten.” Even if this were believed by John Q., what are the predictor’s predictions for the head-on collision of the two teams late next fall? We know that it isn’t fair to ask that question. Ethics, they call it. But being mere normal human -beings, we are unable to visualize two irresistible forces bucking each other without a break somewhere.
If our spies are right, the Steel City will forget Goldberg, Stebbins, Chicker-neo and Cassiano when the Panthers of Pittsburgh romp forth with theii' dream team. “Sure Sutherland’s boys were good, but wait ’till you see us this year,” so says Alexander X. Mote, Pittsburgh ’29. Mr. Mote, we will have to take your word for it until October 5th.
In the Middle West the same situation prevails. W. E. Clipp, Illinois ’09, needs little or no encouragement to tell one and all, “We have Young and Rykovitch, isn’t that enough?” Okay, Mr. Clipp, so you have Young and Rykovitch and a few others whose names you can’t recall at the moment. Sure they look good on
Speaking of Spring Football Practice
By JOSEPH C. RYAN
Here are twelve captains of Notre Dame football teams, taken at random from the captains of the last twenty-five years. From the list on the right can you pick the year each captain led the team? If you can't get eight right, you are a bit rusty on your football history. Answers on page 28.
s	. 1 Joe Zwers 					a. 1923
z	2 Harvey Brown 			b. 1924
	3 Paul Host			c. 1929
2	4 John Law			d. 1930
	5 Frank Dancewicz			e- 1932
2	6 John Kelly			L 1936
s	7 Jim McGoldrick			g. 1937
2	■	8 Paul Lillis			h. 1938
2	9 Tom Conley	I			i. 1939
2	10 Adam Walsh			j. 1940
2	11 Milt Piepul			Jc. 1941
2	12 John Lauter			1. 1945
paper, but the gridiron is where they prove it.
A little bit south in the Sovereign State of Indiana, the Boilermakers of Purdue are fast developing into a power to be reckoned with. Northwestern and Iowa are going their own quiet ways not disturbing anyone. Eddie Anderson is back with Iowa. This one thing is enough. to make any of the pre-season guessers turn his head more than once in a westerly direction. ,
The Mighty Red Horse of Troy is once again on the move. For many years this demon had wreaked havoc on its Pacific Coast Conference opponents. Occasionally it even proved to be a thorn in the side of the Irish. The war brought about a general decline of PCC football. Now the men of Troy are back, as powerful as ever.
The teams of the South are also greatly improved. Tulane, our only below-the-Mason-Dixon-Line worry, has plenty of big, fast, rugged men out for Spring practice.
The reasons for all the spectacular adjectives about good ould State U. are many. The outstanding one is the abundance of material at every school. Lettermen of the past five seasons are returning to the respective schools to finish their education and collegiate eligibility. Some of these men were All-American, while most were just good football players who in the past few years have matured in mind and body from theii' work for the government.
Every team has great depth in proven ballplayers. All these factors will produce some of the greatest games from a cooperative standpoint that the paying customers have seen in many years. No one team should be far superior to its rivals as has been the custom the past few years.
Navy Humbles Netters;
Wildcats Tomorrow
Smarting from a surprising 7-1 opening match loss to Navy at Annapolis Monday, Notre Dame’s tennis team will be seriously eyeing the comeback trail as they go onto the clay courts here tomorrow afternoon against Northwestern, winner of two of their first three matches.
Capt. Bill Tully lived up to his Junior Davis Cup nomination of last week as he rallied, after dropping the opening set, to defeat the Naval Academy’s No. 1 man, H. I. Tilles, 5-7, 6-3, 6-1.
Notre Dame’s winning ended there. No. 2 George Ratterman fell before F. H. Fisher, 6-1, 1-6, 6-2; Capt. J. H. Doyle topped N.D.’s Ed Caparo, 6-1, 6-4; Harry Erd dropped straight sets to Navy’s Jagoe, 6-3, 6-4; Bogt from An’ napolis beat Arti Hoffman, 6-1, 0-6, 6-2; and H. P. Fishman, Philadelphia Interscholastic Champion, downed Joe Brown, 6-2, 6-2.
Tully and Ratterman paired to give the Irish netters an even break in the No. 1 doubles match, losing 4-6, winning-6-3, then ending with a 5-5 set called on. account of darkness. Caparo and Erd lost 6-4, 6-1 to Gower and Fisher; and Tiff and Bogt won 6-4, 6-2 sets over Type Hartmann and Hoffman.
Northwestern’s racqueteers aren’t giving Coach Langford’s charges a chance to reinforce their broken lines either. Paced by two of the outstanding collegiate netters of the Mid-West, Larry Daly, in his first, year of varsity competition, at No. 1, and former National Boys’ Champion. Bobbie Jake, who captured letters at' Northwestern in ’41 and ’42, at .No. 2, will give the Irish a tough row to hoe come tomorrow afternoon.
In opening appearances, the Wildcats eased by Kalamazoo, 6-3, then beat Michigan State, 5-4, before falling to Chicago U. last Saturday, 6-3.
Jake is unbeaten in all three matches, while Daly’s only loss came in the Kalamazoo meet, as did the Daly-Jake double combine’s one defeat. Norman will be at three, Glickman No. 4, Roth No. 5, . and Lindquist is No. 6.
Thursday Indiana U. comes to Notre Dame, the Irish go to Lafayette Friday to meet Purdue, then journey to Lexington, Ky., Saturday to face the University of Kentucky.
26
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
IRISH SPORTS CALENDAR
Saturday, May 4 — Baseball, at Western Michigan
Track, at Wisconsin Tennis, Northwestern, here Golf, at Wisconsin
Tuesday, May 7 — Baseball, at Iowa Wednesday, May 8 — Baseball, at Iowa Thursday, May 9 — Tennis, Indiana, here
The spring sports schedule for this week does not offer much in the way of local entertainment with Coach Walter Langford’s tennis team the only athletic group playing here Saturday. The tennis team will also be host to Indiana here next Thursday afternoon. Northwestern’s racquet swingers come here Saturday. The Wildcats dropped a match to the University of Chicago last Saturday, 6 to 3. The Wildcats won the number one and two singles and number one doubles events but team balance brought victory to Chicago. Bobby Jake, pre-war basketball and tennis star back with the Northwestern sextet this year, is number one man and will probably be paired with Notre Dame’s captain, Bill Tully.
Western Michigan gave warning of its strong baseball team as they easily downed a very good Michigan State nine last week, 9 to 1. Iowa dropped two ball games to Minnesota over the week-end, but the Hawkeyes are always good, particularly on the Iowa City diamond.
The Irish track squad defeated Wisconsin during the indoor season and should score an outdoor repeat at Madison Saturday. Wisconsin’s outstanding competitor is Lloyd LaBeach, dash man. He took second in the finals of the 100 yard dash at the Drake Relays. The Notre Dame golf team meets Wisconsin, also. The Badger golf team lost to Northwestern, 18 to 13, but defeated Indiana, 15 to 12, in matches last week-end.
Derby Day!
While Notre Dame, for obvious reasons, has no entries in the 72nd running of the Kentucky Derby tomorrow, the event is of national and historic sports prominence and merits even a word from this corner. It is against the Scholastic sports policies to linger on the national sports scene too much but things like the World Series, Indianapolis 500 Mile auto race, heavyweight boxing champion
ship fights, and the Kentucky Derby are too tempting to pass over. So, back to the topic at hand.
The reason for this little essay on the Derby is the result of the latest splinter to fall into our press box—a copy of the official program for tomorrow’s big race. It is an excellent publication crammed with interesting facts on the attraction. The grand old man of the Derby is Colonel Matt Winn, who at the age of 13 attended the first Derby, back in 1875. He has not missed one since. Winn has gone on record as stating that he is considering buying some horses and trying to win the Derby himself—after the running of the 75th in 1949.
Ed Danforth, sports editor of the Atlanta Journal, has named the Derby as America’s greatest sports event. Says Danforth, “What does the Kentucky Derby have that other horse races, and football games and prize fights don’t have? The Derby has Colonel Matt J. Winn, the man who makes the godmother of the late Cinderella look like a rank amateur at parlor magic.” Danforth goes on to point out that Winn has made a national fiesta out of the race with 100,000 people coming to Louisville to see the race while countless millions listen over the radio. Winn sold the Derby to the people on its tradition so that it is now firmly embedded in the hearts of American sportsmen as one of the nation’s greatest sports events.
From a completely amateurish standpoint, a toss of the coin says that Lord Boswell, with Eddie Arcaro up, will lead the pack under the wire.
Junior Prom
(Continued from page 19)
To make the weekend complete, a Tea Dance has been scheduled for Saturday afternoon at the Indiana Club, from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. Fred Heinritz, returned vet and resident of Badin Hall, has been chosen chairman for this activity which will feature the music of Jack Davis and his orchestra. Heinritz, Wisconsin born and reared, has gone to great lengths to make the Tea Dance an enjoyable afternoons’ entertainment and an opportunity for the out of town guests to get better acquainted.
Rochester Golfers
to Hold Tournament
The Rochester Club will conduct its annual Divots Tournament Tuesday, May 7th and 8th on the University Golf Course. The tournament will be in the nature of a blind bogey.
Club contestants in the Tournament will place their names and their chosen handicaps on the notice in the Golf Shop the day they play. Chairman Joe Flood and Phil Blum will be on hand to collect fees (fifty cents per player) and arrange for foursomes.
At the next regular club meeting, the blind bogey will be drawn and the one whose net score matches the number drawn will win the Bogey Prize. Smaller prizes will be awarded for low gross and a boobey prize for high gross.
Killer on Edge
(Continued from page 22) contender went through the preliminaries of a physical check-up. It seems there was a difference of opinion as to who should weigh in first. The Killer, complaining that he might catch cold if he had to wait, shoved the contender to the side, but he bounced off the wall, came back and a mild scuffle took place until the two were separated. The challenger, who up to the weekend nonchalantly remained in the background, appeared to be fed up with Szymanski’s rough house technique.
This reporter finds it hard to believe that two such erstwhile and long time friends as Szymanski and the Aiderman have parted company over the minor matter of income taxes. The separation appears somewhat off-color, but we will wait until after the bout on May 9 to voice our opinion as to the possibility of collusion on the part of either the “Killer” and/or Czarobski.
GREETING CARDS
ARTISTS’ SUPPLIES PICTURE FRAMING
I. W. LOWER CO.
Decorators
128 North Michigan St.
27
ED MC KEEVER
Head Football Coach, Cornell University
(Editor’s Note: This is the seventh in a series of articles on former Notre Dame students who have distinguished themselves in the collegiate coaching profession).
“Working his way through college” is a familiar story of thousands upon thousands of students, but the theme takes on an unusual twist when the young man makes and sells belts of rattlesnake skin. That, however, was the system used by E. McKeever to finance his education at Texas Tech.
coach via a long distance phone call. Ed begged off for a week, talked it over with his wife and Pete Cawthon, and finally accepted.	,
In 1941 Leahy came to Notre Dame, bringing McKeever with him to act as first assistant and backfield coach. During Leahy’s illness in 1942, Ed ran the team for three games, winning all of them. When Leahy left Notre Dame in May, 1944, to accept a commission as lieutenant in the United States Navy, Ed was named his successor for the duration. In 1944, his only year as head coach at Notre Dame, McKeever directed the Irish to victory in eight games and lost only to the powerful Army and Navy elevens. Notre Dame came back that season after the worst defeat in its history, 59-0 by Army, to defeat Northwestern, Georgia Tech, and Great Lakes, and to be recognized as one of the outstanding college teams in the country. McKeever moved to Cornell as head coach and director of athletics last season where, due to a shortage of material, he won only five games while losing four.
McKeever’s stated theory is that the shortest way to the goal line from any
mother will
given spot on the field is through the air. Hence he tries to develop a great passing attack to augment whatever running attack he can muster from what he has on hand.. Some of the greatest passers he has' ever had under his guidance are: Barnett at Texas Tech; O’Rourke and Connolly at Boston College; Bertelli and Lujack at Notre Dame. None of these had ever excelled at passing until they came under Ed’s control.
Perhaps his greatest attribute is his ability to get close to his players, to know their likes and dislikes, and their families. He keeps in constant touch with his boys both on their studies and their football. His patience is famous. He will work for hours on a weakness. It is this patience and an obsession for little details that make McKeever one of the outstanding coaches in the country.—Mel Goddard
= Answers to Quiz on page 26	=
1—1937 ______________7—1938	i
2—1923 _____________ 8—1941	|
3—1932  9—1930
4—1929	 10—1924	1
5—1945 11—1940	1
6—1939 ____:________12—1936	=
Ed McKeever
Ed was born in San Antonio, Texas, in 1910; attended schools in several Texas towns; went to St. Edward’s University prep school; then entered Notre Dame in 1930. He had played football, basketball, and baseball at prep school, so he continued his athletic career at Notre Dame by playing on the first frosh football team, and winning numerals in track and baseball. After Ed returned to Notre Dame in the fall of 1931, his father’s health became so poor that Ed left school to work and be near his dad. His father improved steadily so Ed entered Texas Tech where he played right halfback on the 1932-33-34 teams. During McKeever’s three-year term as a varsity halfback Tech won 30 cut of 35 games. After finishing college he became backfield coach at Tech under Pete Caw-thon, remaining there until the spring of 1939.
At a coaching school in Texas in 1938 McKeever met Frank Leahy, who was impressed with Ed’s personality, ideas, and ability. When Leahy was made head coach at Boston College in 1939, he offered McKeever the job of backfield
28
worth-while gift. . .
blouses ... slacks ... slack suits beach and play clothes
HERBERT FRIEND'S
Worth's
SOUTH BEND
127 NORTH MICHIGAN
Bengal Bouts
(Continued from page 5)
Dohnal of Chicago in three rounds. In a 135-pound class bout, Rudy DiTrapano, Westdale, W. Va., took the nod over Bill Summerlin of Savannah, Ga. Summerlin was also a finalist last year.
Russ Van Keuren, Army Air Force vet, pulled the upset of the night by scoring a third-round knockout over Bob Pasquarella, Philadelphia, who was defending the champion of the 135-pound class. Pasquarella won the 1945 championship with a knockout in 19 seconds of the first round but had no such luck this year. He had won the first two rounds but two telling blows by Van Keuren spelled finish for- the plucky Philadelphia boy. Van Keuren won after one minute of the third round after flooring Pasquarella in the second. Paul Porter, Beaumont, Texas, 145 pounder, scored a technical knockout over Frank Robinson, Bueno Park Calif., in 45 seconds of the second round.
In the 165-pound class, Ralph Deem scored his second straight ■win with a lightning-like technical k.o. over Gerry Mahoney.. Deem landed two vicious rights on Mahoney, both dropping him for a nine count. Mahoney tried to get up after the second knockdown but the referee wisely halted the fight only 44 seconds after the initial bell sounded. Bill Agnone, Youngstown, Ohio, won his first bout over courageous but outclassed John Gierek with a t.k.o. two seconds before the end of the final round.
Wednesday night found the knockout boys still present. In the 135 division, Tommy Balenti, Altus, Okla., stopped Rudy DiTrapano in 1:03 of the second round. The fight was stopped after DiTrapano received a bad cut over his eye. It was Balenti’s first bout of the tournament, and DiTrapano’s second. Joe DeLia, 155 pounder from Newark, N. J., defeated Frank Spiegel, Tuckahoe, N. Y., in three rounds. Action was slow.
Jesse Posten registered the cleanest knockout of the Bengals to date as he put Bob Wagner, Chicago, on ice after one minute and 34 seconds of the first round. Wagnei* remained out in the center of the ring for 10 minutes and was carried to the dressing rooms. He hit his head on the canvas as he fell, this blow being as damaging as the one received from Posten. Wagner and Posten were in the 155 class.
Jack McGrath won his second bout in a close decision over Bob Satti in the 145-pound class. Satti came back with a strong third round, connecting with a right to McGrath’s chin as the bell rang but he did not have enough points to gain the decision. Paul Porter made it two straight t.k.o.’s as he stopped Joe
Kosnik in 1 minute and 40 seconds of the first round, also a 145-class fight.
John Agnone pounded out a three-round victory ovei- Ronald Campbell of Brooklyn, N. Y., in the 165-pound division. Campbell stunned Agnone with some solid blows in the second round but Agnone drove his foe all over the ring in the final round to win. In the final bout of the night, George Dickson, Pasadena, Calif., won over Frank Bustard, Berwyn, Ill., in a three rounder in the 175-pound class. This was another close decision with Dickson piling up points in the first two rounds.
Inter-American Affairs
At the bi-weekly business meeting of the Inter-American Affairs Club held on campus Monday, April 29, committees were appointed to plan an informal dance to be sponsored by the club in the near future, and to organize a tentative staff for a publication the club hopes to inaugurate next semester.
McAdams To Referee
Last minute news of Bengal Bouts reveals that the Honorary Referee of the evening will be Frank “Spike” McAdams of the Class of ’31, former Bengal boxer himself, member of the Illinois Boxing Commission, and noted referee in the Chicago area. Mr. McAdams has but recently returned from the Pacific area where he distinguished himself valiantly in the service of his country.
Paul Thompson addressing 14th Annual Mid-West Group V Student Conference of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers Held Last Monday and -Tuesday in the Engineering Building Auditorium.
Wranglers Hear Burns;
Admit Four Members
Notre Dame’s distinguished discussion club, the Wranglers, admitted four new members into their ranks at a recent meeting. The new Wranglers.are Roland Steinle, Pat Finan, Bill Pfaff, and Dick Tourne.
At the second meeting of the semester Jim Burns of Ithaca, N. Y., delivered a paper called the “Redestruction of Europe.” His talk attacked the planned annihilation of Germany as decreed in the Potsdam Declaration and as it is being carried out in the present occupation of Germany by Russia, the United States, Britain, and France. He pleaded the case of those Germans, “who in the shadow, went about their business.” He stated that we have declared the people guilty of the crimes of Hitler when less than 50% of them voted him into power. The Potsdam Declaration, he said, does “not have a single constructive idea” in it. “We are conducting ourselves in the same manner” as Hitler, he concluded, and unless a true spirit of brotherhood and justice and charity is pursued chaos will strike Germany and all of Central Geimany.
General agreement with the speaker’s-case was expressed by the members of the club. Mr. Frank O’Malley, club moderator, pointed out that we should care for the peoples who were crushed under the Hitler heel before we turn our sympathy to the Germans in the postwar era.
29
SHE NEVER FORGOT YOU-
GREETING CARDS and a wide selection of GIFTS from
NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington Street
"In the J. M. S. Building"
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS ANO CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
COLLEGE PARADE
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
For our opening item of this week we have taken from the St. Mary’s Static a list of the likes and dislikes of some columnist. After censoring the column though, we find that the only item fit to print is one that reads, “I like boys who remember you even if they have only been introduced once.” . . . Sweetheart, if you’re not worth remembering, no sane man is going to stick around to be introduced a second time!
The Minnesota Daily comes up with the old bromide that a kiss is unsanitary and warns its readers to be careful of the millions of bacteria transferred during the period of osculation. . . . Maybe we’re old fashioned, but personally we prefer running the risk to a more sanitary rubbing of noses.
As usual, the Auburn Plainsman can be depended on to contribute a few Daffynitions.
Columnist—a two-eyed creature who uses one eye for peeking and the other I for writing the column.
Comedian—one who has a memory for old jokes and hopes others haven’t.
Moonshiner—He who makes rye while the moon shines.
Mint Julep—Depth bomb with a southern drawl.
The co-ed from Iowa Wesleyan who insists that she will never marry a GI has her counterpart in the SMC stude who swears that she will never marry a Notre Dame man . . . but who certainly goes all out to land him!
WJOTW department — Stolen this week from the West Point Pointer . . . obviously their joke division is not on a par with their football team* *.
What’s worse than raining cats and dogs?
I don’t know, unless it is hailing streetcars.
You can’t kiss a girl unexpectedly. The nearest that you can come to it is to kiss her sooner than she expected you would.	—Ball State News
In order to protest against the Easter Vacation that they didn’t have, students at Southern Cal hoisted a huge Easter Bunny on top of a statue in front of the University library. . . . All that was hoisted around here on our three days off was the anchor as we set sail.
Sponsor — the golden goose for whom the radio comedian lays the egg.
—Gonzaga Bulletin
At Indiana, some ardent admirer of the girl who was elected prom queen smashed a showcase window where her picture was on display and stole the portrait. . . . That’s funny, for the only girl that we know who is worth going to all that trouble for doesn’t even go to Indiana.
The Harvard Lampoon has named Van Johnson “Ham of the Year.” Obviously the Lampoon staff has no females on it.
Time to go. As they say in JRussia, I guess I’ll walk out.—Butlei- Collegian
To Interview R.O.'s
Lieut. Maxwell Space arrived at Notre Dame today to interview members of the NROTC and V-12 graduating classes. While here Lieut. Space will give three lectures pertaining to the type of billets open for newly commissioned officers. Mr. Space will also administer an officers’ qualification test and personally interview each trainee to determine the type of duty for which he is best fitted.
Preregistration for rooms with the Director of Student Accounts will take place from May 13th to the 18th. Individual students will be notified when to apply.
Preregistration for classes with the Director of Studies will take ' place from May 27th to the 31st.

DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP	5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT 100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
30
Well, kiddies, we have finally recovered from the violent exertions of our Easter week-end, and must return from the sublime to the ridiculous . . . namely, writing this magnificent piece of literature. So prepare yourselves, my children, for Chapter 72, Book 175 of “One Man’s Troubles.”
To begin with
Curious fly, Vinegar jug, Slippery edge, Pickled bug.
Our longie for the week concerns the performance of “Faust” over in Dublin. Along towards the end of the opera, Satan was thrusting Faust through the trapdoor which represented the gates of hell. His Majesty got through all right ... he was used to going below . . . but poor, stout Faust only managed to get half-way through before getting stuck. Suddenly, an Irishman high up in the balcony called out devoutly, “Saints be praised . . . Hell is full!”
Which reminds us to tip the hat to the K.C. for their recent vaudeville entertainment. We think everyone will agree that it was an evening well spent.
ADF REPORTS
Dear Lads:
Well, here I am back again after an absence of three weeks or so . . . back again trying to make this broken down column readable before C & P drive it further to the dogs.
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
There have been many complaints leveled at my poor defenseless head in recent weeks concerning my bitter attitude towards a certain girls’ college (and I don’t mean Vassar). I have been asked to explain my position in that matter. My first trip there . . . far in the distant reaches of the past. . . began auspiciously enough. But the minute I entered the door, a massive arm seized my puny wrist, and a pleasant female baritone inquired (in much the same tone as a prosecuting attorney), “Do you know any one here?” I, overawed by this brisk efficiency, murmured, “No, ma’am.” A leer, not unlike a look of sadism, passed across her gorgeous features. “You soon will,” she replied. Then with a deft flick of the wrist, threw me to the floor and quickly bound and gagged me. So, my sons, is it any wonder that I fear that magnificent establishment? But when I feast my eyes on the array of pulchritude from there which periodically invades the campus, then brethren, I’m more than willing to forgive and try to forget.
To think . . . only 64.more days and I shall once more return to my paternal hearth deep in Dixie. Let’s see—64 days . . . how many minutes? To the first man who answers that question goes a genuine hand crocheted knitted door knob. To enter this new contest, simply tear off the top of your nearest English prof, and send, together with four hundred dollars to ADF, c/o Cell 61/2, Happy Rest Nut House.
C’est tout pour aujourd’hui,
ADF
Then they tell the story of the ancient pallbearer at (logically enough) a funeral. The director of the parlor approached
him, and asked solicitously, “Well, granddad, how are you?”
“I’ll be ninety-nine tomorrow,” the old man replied.
“Well,” the director remarked, as he gazed at the tottering one, “It’s hardly worth going home, is it?”
ATTENTION LAW STUDENTS
(Don't let this happen to you):
Judge: “Do you challenge any of the jurors?”
Defendant: “Sure . . . and I think I can lick that little fellow on the end, too.”	.
Tip you're looking for a typist for x your thesis work contact Mrs. G. E. McKnight, Morningside Hotel.. South Bend, Indiana.
10 CENTS PER PAGE

Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Flowers for Mother’s Day
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Phone 3-8227
You'll want to send flowers — just the right gift for Mother's Day. Always a wide selection of cut flowers, corsages, and potted plants at

Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our fivn taboratory..
Satdili BsmA tylvud Qotnfuuuf.
114 South Michigan Street
South Bend
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251

31
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
In our travels this past week we came across a humorous incident concerning a staunch member of the Vets’ Club. It happened in the showers of Howard Hall where many students were stunned to see an ex-GI enter the shower, turn on the water and .then proceed to take a shower with his GI raincoat on. That may be the way they did it out on the islands, buddy Allwein, but fella, you’re home now.
Seriously though, the Notre Dame Veterans Club set a standard for meetings this past week when they held a super-duper get-together. It included a discussion on future plans and the showing of the Ohio State - Notre Dame game of 1935. On their calendar for the latter part of May is a golf itourney climaxed with a dance.	"
The Campus Bookman’s Club has issued a call to any and all students interested in good literature. Anyone who would like further information leave your Amber-like novel in your room and call at 209 Cavanaugh Hall.
FLOWERS
are the
Perfect Gift
for
MOTHER'S Day
If you place out-of-town orders early, you save . telegraph	y
expenses.	I
Corsages /y Cut Flowers J
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
West of the Oliver Hotel
Phone 3-5149
This particular space in this column should be devoted to the Aero Club and Polish Clubs, but since theft" secretaries haven’t contacted us as yet, we don’t know anything about their activities.
The New York Met Club held a business meeting this last week. President Don Degnan announced plans for the summer formal and also appointed Mike Weinberg and “yours truly” as co-chairmen for the affair. So far the Fifth Ave. Hotel is our choice. An orchestra has been contracted for the evening and some very fine entertainment will be on hand.
That lively contingent from Cleveland had a smoker on May 1st and guess who was the speaker? Yes, that’s right! Old Senator Ziggy (he jumps a rank in each issue) Czarobski himself. Ziggy gave another one of his fine talks, this time describing the 1943 Army game. We won that year fellas!
On their agenda for the future the Cleveland Club has scheduled a Communion Breakfast for May 12, Mother’s Day. Many Cleveland Alumni will be present and a very entertaining program has been planned. What better day for a Communion Breakfast than Mother’s Day during the Month of Our Blessed Mother?
The toastmaster for this affair, by the way, ■will be Vic Gulyasser, class of ’42, who was a Cleveland Club president himself once.
The next few lines should be filled with news about the Indianapolis, Cincinnati,
AU Through the Day Dark Town Poker Club Ah Yes. There's Good Blues
Tonight
Seems Like Old Times Full Moon and Empty Arms
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
and Wrangler’s Clubs, but we haven’t received any to print.
The Toledo Club received a jolt during their last meeting when they heard that one of their charter members, Frank Venner, was recovering from an acute attack of rheumatic fever. However, upon receipt of a letter from Frank they learned that he is coming along fine. Frank is now stationed in Texas. Toledo Club president Thomas Francis has asked that all of us say a prayer for Frank. Can and definitely will do, Thomas.
The Toledo Club has announced a dinner in May and plans for a picnic in June. Committees for both affairs have been chosen and plans are under way.
Incidentally a merger was noticed this past week between Chicago and Pittsburgh. The power behind the throne of the Chicago Club, a lad from River Forest, was seen strolling under the shadows of the “Rock” with a petite (that’s the right word, isn’t it. Jack?) young lady.
Curly’s Contingent, “Ye Ole Boston Club” is arranging for a dinner at Rosies. All interested should contact Art Brady in Lyon’s Hall immediately. That means quick like a bunny.
“Open Letter” TO ALL CLUB SECRETARIES: Fellas, this column was originated for the betterment and amusement of the Campus Clubs and all concerned. As yet few club secretaries have cooperated so far in handing in news or gossip on their clubs and members. *
If your buddy stands on his head at a club meeting, or right in the middle of South Bend for that matter, we want to know about it. Just write his name on a slip of paper and place it under the door of 338 Howard. It will then appear in this column and no one will be any wiser as to who donated the information.
Former N.D. Trainer
Joins Chicago Rockets
The Chicago Rockets of the AllAmerica football league have announced the signing of Eugene J. “Scrapiron” Young as head trainer. Young was the Notre Dame athletic trainer from 1930 to 1945, first serving here under Knute Rockne. He graduated from the Notre Dame Law school in 1927 and coached at St. Catherine’s high school in Racine, Wis., prior to his return to Notre Dame.
After resigning his position as Irish trainer in January of 1945, Young took over the trainer duties for the Detroit Lions of the National Football League. He also conditions jockeys during the racing season at Sportsman’s Park, Chicago. The Rockets have employed Young on a year-around basis.
32
RAMBLING
The eyes of 126 of us RO’s are beginning to shine forth that certain peculiar light only to those who see the prospect of finally joining that league of distinguished gentlemen with the gold stripes. At last we will be able to leave behind us all of those “witty” remarks that began to make us wonder if our uniforms were as dashing and as complimentary as we thought. (Not that they ever could be.) We refer to what usually happens on a train when some local yokel takes a glance at the shiny buttons and sometimes more shiny pants and asks the question, “What time is the train due in Kokomo, conductor?” Muttering something about the need for specially trained men, we ignore the query and head for the club car. Then comes the porter with his, “There’s a seat right up here, CHIEF.”—That is
always good for a tip—and then we settle back, relaxing with dark thoughts about the ignorance of certain people.
A few minutes later the typical feminine night train traveler arrives and spotting the immaculately dressed man that sits smoking his cigarette so worldly wise, (that’s us, bub), drops instantaneously in the seat next to us spilling half our “ginger ale” (basically, that is) over that beautiful crease in the trousers. And so another friendship opens. But does it last all the way to Scranton, or to Akron, or even to Fort Wayne? No. Soon comes the inevitable question. The chances of postponing it to Scranton, or to Akron, or even to Fort Wayne are about as great as “Pappy” Hoglund’s chances in the Bengal Bouts. She says, “Tell me, Sugar, what is your rank? I don’t see any stripes on your arm.” We should be prepared for this moment. We knew it was coming. But we can’t face it. We think about telling her that we’re just a modest ensign and don’t wear our stripes, but we won’t. We clear our throat, mutter a few aws and wells, and then confess that we aren’t quite commissioned yet, but it won’t be long, we add with pride and determination. The conversation lags. To say it lags is putting it mildly. It stops. Finally the night train nightmare remembers something that she left in her seat and leaves.
We sit dejectedly. But the porter (bless him) returns to our side with his

“What’ll ya have, CHIEF?” It helps, but not enough. We get out the calendar again and cross off another day. Only
59 more to go. It’s not far now. Soon we’ll be able to walk into the Bowl-Mor alone. Soon the South Benders will no longer point at us as we go prowling by. (Music cue — Rising to a crescendo) Soon we’ll have that stripe. Twenty-six months — it’s been a long, hard, uphill climb, but the end is in sight. WE’LL BE COMMISSIONED! ! ! What’s that, Lady? No, I don’t know if we stop at Fostoria.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“I’ll tell the OOD I was in your room when they made the room check.”
LIBERTY LIBERTIES
Angry Father: “Say: It’s almost midnight. Do you think you can stay here all night?”
Rivkin: “I don’t know—I’ll telephone the Captain and find out.”
WEBSTER'S WORRIES
Seasoned troops: troops mustered by the officers and peppered by the army.
Helicopter: An egg beater with ambition.
Tactful girl: one who makes a slow boy believe that he is a fast worker.
He-man: one who hits his wife over the head with his mother-in-law.
RO'S ARE TALKING ABOUT:
The clothing establishment of Wolf & Williams, Inc. located in 249 Morrissey. They buy and sell anything that ever had to do with a Navy uniform. With
VOUR HAIRCUT by appointment at
South Bend’s outstanding Barber Shop —
FRED SHIVES 205 S. Main Street
J£FFERSOn BARBER SHOP
Phone 3-9386 for appointment.
FOUR BARBERS ON DUTY
Williams doing the buying and Wolf the selling, it’s an assured success. . . . The exclusive club headed by. Bob Shapiro and Clyde Smith. Under the mystic name Clamppon, they’ve organized the entire West second deck into an active group with monthly meetings. . . . Chances of getting in are inversely proportional to the ability to obtain tickets to St. Mary’s. Student Officer Winnie who is striking for a jay-gee’s commission in July instead of ensign. It is reported that he is the guy who roamed the decks last Wednesday morning yelling “Reveille in five minutes.” (Please omit flowers.) ... Those lectures by Marine Captain Chip who still claims that he isn’t here to sign anyone for the Marine Corps. Maybe so, but Marty Ris noticed that he carries six different fountain pens.... The physical exam last week for those men who are receiving commissions. ... If you had strength enough to walk over there, you were “in.” They had a little trouble with Larry Sims though. He had printer’s ink instead of blood in his veins. . . . Low grade, incidentally.
*
FABLES NOT FROM FODROD
Said a foolish young lady of Wales, “A smell of escaped gas prevails,”
Then she searched with a light, And later, that night, Was collected—in seventeen pails.
—John Smith
Molke^
Send Her a
HALLMARK Card
Also—you won’t want' to miss our fine selection of Gifts to send home.
At the Bookstore
Badin Hall
33
LETTER
Dear Sir:
The campus here at Notre Dame is nationally recognized for its natural beauty and setting and architecture. For picturesque campuses Notre Dame is listed among the first three universities in the country and first in the Middle-west. This may he hypothetical to some and highly controversial to others; to us here at Notre Dame it is only natural.
Why . . . must a deluge of garbage, papers, wrappers and cigarette butts be strewn around this beautiful campus to give the appearance of a public picnic ground?
The local caretakers might improve conditions a great deal by placing attractive containers in well situated places around the campus—such places as outside the quadrangle, near the Huddle, the Dining hall, the bus stop, and residence halls.
The condition could he improved a hundred percent if the students would take pride in their campus. . . .
Returning ex-student.
Burke in, and was told that Johnson was in Fraser’s room . . . the fourth nite the padre became wary and asked where Fraser’s room was . . . nonchalantly Burke replied . . . “Well, Father, I’m not sure of the address but I think it’s about three miles south of Mishawaka.” . . .
Life drawing class was a big problem to Pat O’Meara ... he drew the mop first and then draped the model around it. . . the Junior Prom will bring charming young girls to ND from all over the U.S. . . . the most inspiring one arrived early this afternoon looking very chic . . . and wearing a bonnet that she made especially for the occasion . . . and that being the sign of the times . . . makes it time to sign . . . see you at the Prom.
Elect Prof. Stevason
Prof. Carl Stevason has been elected chairman of the South Bend Chapter of the American Society of Tool Engineers for 1946.
Shavetail in Germany Phones N.D. Application
Lt. Francis O’Hara of Brooklyn, N. Y., who is serving with the army of occupation in Germany, has his heart set on attending Notre Dame. He telephoned the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., registrar, from Nuremberg, Germany, inquiring about the possibility of matriculating at the University in the fall semester beginning in September.
1900
Est.
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
The Green Banner
(Continued from page 4)
Not to be outdone by the local pranksters, Jack Madden worked a smooth gag on his colleagues, and for nearly a whole day had them believing that he had been expelled from school ... he even went so far as to pack all his gear and purchase a train ticket. . . and then pulled a hero act by remaining on the campus . . . “To see if they really meant it.” . . .
❖
It’s official now . . . the Notre Dame Navy ... a special type fleet recognized by their slide rules and by an act of Congress . . . will go ashore for the last time after the June Graduation exercises . . . and Notre Dame will once more become an inland campus as advertised in the travel guide . . . the latest release from the Radio Club states that Jim Kress has a job in the WHOT studios as an extra for the singing commercials . . . and can sing them all in any desired rhythm. . . .
❖
A Court injunction was issued recently by Ralph Hayman that bars any Phil-lie from running in the Kentucky Derby unless his dues are in order . . . paid adv’t from the Philadelphia Club . . . and incidentally where is that suggestion box that the S.A.C. has been talking about? . . . At three successive night checks in St. Ed’s Hall last week the rector came to Burke’s and Johnson’s room, found
34
Another Headquarters for ARROW
Loads of Arrow Shirts in many different collar styles to make all necks look handsome.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
It's Adler's for ARROWS

M TNI CORNER... UKNIMN $ MfllMMDN
Are these Arrow Ties sirloin or cyanide?
As the saying has it: One man’s meat is another man’s poison.
Recognizing the truth of this, we’ve provided for every nuance of good taste by making Arrow Ties in colors, patterns, and style that someone’s sure to respond to.
One blessing common to them all is the special lining that makes perfect-knotting easy.
See your dealer’s Arrows today. You can’t miss.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR ° HANDKERCHIEFS ° SPORTS SHIRTS
THESIS
"On Notre Dame Men"
(This article was discovered by Jerry Otwell, among the papers of an elderly lady who graduated from St. Mary's a long time ago. Her name is naturally -ivithheld as a confidence.)
Notre Dame men are what we “Rock” women sometimes marry.
They have two hands, two feet, and sometimes two ears, hut never more than one dollar or one idea at the same time. Like Turkish cigarettes, these ND men are all made out of the same material: the only difference is that some are better disguised than others.
Generally speaking, the men of ND may be divided into three main classes: husbands, bachelors, and widowers. A bachelor is a negligible mass of obstinacy entirely surrounded by suspicion. He claims he got this way through close association with our school, where he claims the pass-word is no. On the other hand, husbands are of three types: prizes, surprises, and consolation .prizes. Making a husband out of a man is one of the highest forms of plastic art known to civilization. It requires science, sculpture, common sense, faith, hope and charity. Mostly charity. -	- ‘
If you flatter a Notre Dame man you frighten him to death. If you don’t, then you bore him. If you permit him to hold your hand as you walk, he gets tired of you in the beginning.
If you believe in what this representative of the Irish tells you, you cease to charm him. If you don’t believe all he tells you, then he thinks you are a cynic. If you sometimes wear gay colors, rouge, and a startling hat, he hesitates to take you out, but on the other hand if you wear a little brown beret and a tailor-made suit, he takes you out and stares all evening at the woman in gay colors, rouge and a startling hat.
If you happen to join him in his gaieties and approve of his drinking he swears you are driving him to the devil. If you don’t approve of his drinking and further urge him to attend the Sunday . Tea Dance he vows you are a snob.
If you are the clinging vine type, he doubts whether you have a brain; if you are a modern, advanced, intelligent woman, he doubts whether you have a heart. If you are silly he longs for a bright-mate; if you are brilliant and intellectual he longs for a play-mate.
Yes girls, Notre Dame men are just worms in the dust. They come along, wriggle around a little and then finally one of us girls here at the “Rock” gets him.
35
Copyright 1946. Liggett & Myeu Tobacco Co.