-Cbc-
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DlSCeQVASlSemPfcRVICTVevS^ •VIV£-9VASlCRASMORITVRyS-
Vol,. XLV. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January 20, 1912. No. 15.
Optimism.
SIMON E. TWINING,- ’13.
Even in the darkest night -Stars are shining, and the light, -- Veiled- from our defective sight, • Bears its-cheer to countless crowds,—
Tiny fairies of the clouds. .
. God alone knows what is right, . Snow can not stay always. white; . .
• Sunlight, may .be cause of blight;
Gold itself is part alloy, ., _ Sorrow must be mixed with joy.
American Journalism.*
GEORGE GRISWALD HILL.
TH regard ; to the first form of yellow journalism, while it is abhorrent to people of -refinement, the experience of every newspaper publisher leads him sooner or later to ask himself how. many
people of genuine refinement there are,—at least of that degree of refinement which will —cause-them-to turn aside from prying into, the'private affairs'of their neighbors. Here is a case in point.:	..	..
The daughter of an extraordinarily wealthy New York family- was married recently to a member' of the English nobility. There was an element of vulgarity about the affair. The young woman was beautiful and had been supposed to be a girl of refinement^ but she,. or her family, did hot hesitate to. cater to public curiosity by furnishing to- the press
a list of the magnificent wedding gifts, much detail regarding the bride’s trousseau, etc., and from other sources came information regarding the discreditable character of the somewhat elderly bridegroom’s past life. One New York newspaper, regarding the whole affair as vulgar and unworthy to be spread before its readers, treated it in the most stereotyped manner. When the time came for the wedding the Chief of Police ordered out a . special detail of one hundred men to protect the wedding party from the crowds which he appreciated would besiege the principals and guests both at the residence of the bride’s parents and at the church. Nevertheless, the newspaper to which I refer confined its account to commonplace details, giving the simple facts of the wedding, the members of the bridal party, etc., and when admittance to the church was refused to its representatives, it respected the wishes of the family and permitted its men to remain away. Another, a popularly reputed yellow journal, instructed its men by hook or by crook to secure every detail. Among the details so gained was the fact that the noble bridegroom permitted a footman to assist his bride into the carriage after the ceremony, .and the further fact that on returning to her residence for the wedding breakfast, the bridegroom jumped from the carriage and hastened into the house with no thought of his bride, while her veil caught on the carriage door, and', in her embarrassment, she was unable to rdease herself until a police-
. man came forward and disentangled it.: Which . of- the two newspapers, do you imagine; was most in demand next day, the one which treated the event as it deserved to be treated, or the one which gave those details which
. *’ Lecture read before the. Faculty and students - in Washington Hall, Wednesday, Nov.’22, 1911. -
226	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
afforded a considerable insight into the manners and. character .of the bridegroom and thus emphasized the . unfortunate side of . alliances between American girls and the nobility of the old world?. Had you been familiar with the. facts?,which ^preceded this weddings would you,have been?satisfied to read the paper which treated..it cursorily, or would you have insisted upon securing the journal which, even at the'.sacrifice of the self-respect of its reporters, had secured the more interesting details? A- newspaper can not exist -without circulation, -and-, while the struggle for circulation will not excuse violations of, morality; the necessity-therefor and -the demand of the public for- news of the character described—-and that there is such a demand can not be gainsaid^should be taken into consideration before toosevere criticism is visited upon either editor or . reporter. I suspect that it is no easy task even for the Christian theologian to draw a sharply defined line between, permissible (gossip and that .which is culpable. Certainly it is not for the poor editor,, and so for him;! bespeak your charitable consideration. - -For : that yellow journalism which -consists of deliberate distortion of facts - L. have nothing but condemnation, nor have. nine-tenths ofthe- editors and - newspaper publishers in this; country. There are a'few newspapers which have built up large circulations by tins form of" mendacity, but I am happy to say that?the number which follow .the practice is steadily; diminishing. . Yellow journalism of that? character >is passing, at least in so far as tile daily presS is concerned. There, are. still a? number of the cheaper magazines /which practice it; There are magazines which pose as mentors of the public morals which do hot hesitate." to capitalize slander and which bank onthefactthatthey can ruthlessly defy the law against- libel. because they, would receive from a libd suit sufficient advertising: to.offset? thei expense; - But it is .of thedaily press which I would1: speak, and, therefore, I may permit such-magazines and- their. -legions of dupes -to pass1 without .further comment.. ;>
- There is another kind of journalism to.which ’ the adjective “yellow” is often applied, although it -was practisedlong before;-that , term was heard of. That is thejoumalismwhichtells the- truths but: tells it in a manner, carefuflly calculated to- cater to base appetites/ There is, as there -must always be, a diversity of
opinion;regarding the propriety of publishing the, details of crime. Crime is news, and that it is so is a compliment to the good and orderly	.
life s led -by the average citizen, The details	«
of an orderly, and a commonplace life are not news; tThe fact that a man has done his duty	,
Under -ordinary circumstances ? is not .interest-	i
ing.Hundreds of thousands of men perform	?
their: daily duties, support their wives and! educate -their, children, go to church on Sunday " and .occasionally attend the theatre or some	;
place of.-amusement. -Publication of such facts would, be dull and uninteresting. But let a	'
man-fail in,the performance of some important	i
duty^ abandon his wife, -refuse to educate and support his children , or attend some highly discreditable place of amusement, and it - is	,
news. It is out of the ordinary, and it is that	**
which is out of-the ordinary which is news. .
. The-icontention that the publication of the *	;
occurrence of . crime tends to; effect its pre-	’
vention,, to arouse public sentiment, to lead	r
to-the-suppression of saloons . and immoral	'
plays and other contributory causes, is as old '	|
as it. is well known. Against it is offered the	>
argument. that such publication affords bad	j
example1 to the weak, inspires evil thoughts,	j
familiarizes people with sin, and breaks down	5
many of the barriers which are the natural protection of the innocent against evil. The . subject is too deep -for consideration here.
But- there is a phase well , worthy the attention of Catholic pupils, and of Catholic teachers.	' j
There are two methods of. chronicling crime.	J
One is shrewdly calculated to pander to evil.
. The other is as carefully devised ;to avoid that -end, . The -newspaper which seeks to present every subject with which it . may have to deal in-tiie,least, objectionable manner is deserv-	j
ing>of a/support it-too often, fails to receive	I
from; those. who should be most careful in this' I respectToa newspaper man, the -character	|
erf the papers which constantly find-their way	I
into c-Christian homes , is. a constant source , of	1
surprise. It is neither feasible nor desirable	|
inthisage.to exclude the daily-newspaper	. I
from the home; but there is no excuse; what-	I
ever.foradmitting acertaintype ofnews-	J
paper into an atmosphere which it can hardly fail to pollute.\=Jt seems sometimes as* , if jt •	|
was not at all realized that the strict teaching j 1 of the Church regarding;bad • literature applied	I
: as surely to the newspaper. as to books and ' .	-f
periodicals.-: Nor doesthere seem tobeany	? J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Warrant- for condoning and st/pporting'Such publications’even by those who maybecareful to keep-them out of their homes: -	- - - < *
-“I can not- , get along- without the-Mobn. It is so inimitably bright,” a-professorinone of our universities once said to-me/-1 might have answered so is the devil, who is- credited, I believe; with being a most entertaining companion when it suits his purposes 11 did venture the suggestion that the newspaper in question often carried wit to: the£-point>of blasphemy; that it never hesitated -to * make _ a butt of morality, that-its general policy -was subversive of< the rights- ofman,andthatit was flippant in its handling of iall public questions. “But it is so delightfully deVet;” was the answer which left me, as a; laymari/ witb no response to make. •	: ; -	~
I believe I am expected to deli ver a lecture, not a sermon/ and so I must ask pardon for the serious turn-my remarks have taken-mid plead as my excuse the earnestness with-which I feel on this phase and problem-of-journalism. Before dismissing it, I do wish • to make an earnest plea to every young man who has a sister or a younger brother at home tofbe careful of the kind of newspaper he;takes into his: home. I bespeak for the newspaper editor who is doing his -best - to make,, a - clean; upright newspaper the* -support of Catholic men and women. And it affords me pleasure to be able to conclude this part of my: subject -with the words<of noless- an authority than - the Right Reverends- James . A.. McFaul,- Bishop of Trenton/ who- said-in a recent sermon: -	-i: > t
“ After an extensive study - of-my: subject it gives me very great pleasure-to statepubhcly that I have reached the conclusion that there are- many American newspapers?and newspaper men striving to observe d high:'moral standard in their publications. In theT midst of so many / temptations inviting, them to swerve from the straight and narrow- path, these-papers and the men connected? with them certainly deserve the highest commendation. The individual in any walk of- life is never found perfect, and as corporations are- made up of individuals they will be inclined to similar , defects. The most that we can- reasonably expect of our newspapers is that they will strive nfter perfection.’’	*	5- - r
That American journalism has rendered valuable service to the nation-1 believe-none
will deny. From.the days = of ?the Federalist down5 to the civil war, the peculiar, , discursive type of journalism of thosedaysseems;inthe light bf experience, to have beem . peculiarly fitted to the needs of the formative-period of the -nation. Many- editors contributed >-much of value to- the consideration.the; great problems of those days. All .facilitated ..their solution; for by reflecting the .views. of those so competent. - to contribute- they ^multiplied their power. • •	.	: in <• t.
In the suppression of corruption both , in high and lowly places the press has -rendered important service, and often after . exposing such corruption has lent valuable aid. to those who determined -to stamp it out. When waves of crime have , permeated :a community or swept over, the country iti has been., the office of<tfie press, to make-known: the fact; to discover and disclose the reasons, and often to conduct a campaign for -the • eradication of the most potent causes. - j .; . ...1	.
; In times of great political excitement, the American press -has generally exhibitedre-markablecomposure and self-control, andhas often served to allay ratherthan to ‘foment excitement, in marked contrast. to the press of certain other countries, i. -l «r-~	. .
To the preservation of the -solidarity of the country American journalism - has' •» also : contributed its full share. : In the opinion of many able students of public affairs'- a republic as large as this, including so much-territory and containing so many and such diverse interests, would be an impossibility without - press which 'annihilates distance, and-by conveying from' one end of the country to the other news of all important events and; by effecting the widest interchange of opinion,- promotes /a community of interests otherwise: unattainable. Nor cah it be: denied that the wide; dissemination Ofthe daily papers has served-to prevent that growth of dialects .so marked' in older countries and has preserved ther language as a comparatively , simple and uniform medium of expression, ..undistorted by-tiiaf - variety of colloquialisms and pronunciations to be found • in; the English-speaking countries ^of f Europe.
<It is .‘probably true that comparatively few people have any conception .^ -the energy, and enterprise displayed by the average newspaper in the effort to.supply its readers-with all the news and to do so at the.eariiest.possible moment-after it has occurred^Theinventiotj
228
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the telegraph revolutionized journalism, and . now no first-class newspaper stops to think . of the cost of telegraph tolls if it is persuaded that the event to be described is of sufficient general interest. The newspaper man who has attained to any responsibility in his profession ; must. be like a soldier, prepared at any moment to go to the uttermost ends of the earth -.at the command of his managing editor. I recall meeting during , the campaign of 1908 a fellow newspaper man from Washington in a hotel in Cincinnati. Normally a model .of; correct dress, I was amazed to see him clad . in . soiled canvas, tennis shoes and flannels as he entered the hotel without a single article of» luggage. When opportunity afforded he explained that he had been playing tennis during a leisure hour when a telegram reached him saying that a certain prominent New Yorker would . pass through Washington on his way to consult the Presidential candidate then staying in Cincinnati, z “Join him at once and. don’t leave him until you can wire the result of his visit,” the telegram read, and well ‘ disciplined, if unprepared, the newspaper man . hailed a taxicab, and raced for the train, ■— then practically due, nor did he hesitate to make the long trip .to the Crescent City without ' even a toothbrush in the way of baggage.
1. Scarcely more preparation was allowed to •	a., man ordered to the Arctic to. meet Peary
and . who sailed for that northern dime with a number of ? white duck suits which he had just assembled pursuant to instructions, to proceed to Panama. In the bld days, when a . President of. the . United States travelled ^ through the country it was customary to trust . -to the local newspaper man in each city he visited to send the details of his visit.. Nothing of the kind , is permitted now, and whether
- the President, travd 500 miles, or. 15,000 the larger newspapers send , their representatives . along that every incident may be chronicled,
• that intelligent comparisons, between., his reception in one city and in another, may be - made, in a word, that the demand.ofthe public
; for all the details of.a trip.of the Chief Executive of the Nation may be presentedand presented within a. few , hours > after their. occurrence.
. . Of-course, the expense of sudi service; is tre. mendous. President Taft,: as you all know, ■ . has. just completed, a trip of is.ooo miles.
. All.the larger-newspapers had representatives on his train, in rears . paid: .for .by. the news
papers, and. the expense for each man who accompanied the President amounted to not less than $2,000. During the recent Russo-Japanese war, several newspapers chartered powerful sea-going vessds for the use of their correspondents detailed , to witness and describe, if possible, the encounter between the fleets of Togo and Rojestvenski, and the story of the war correspondent who, having reached the only available telegraph office first, filed the Book of Genesis, that is, instructed the operator to cable it to his office, so as to hold the wire against his less fortunate competitors while he wrote his dispatch, or enough of it to make a start, is well known. Perhaps the most expensive newspaper dispatch of which there is record was that of the Peking correspondent of a London daily who, at the time of the Boxer outbreak, sent his paper, a 1500 word account of the situation, a.t a cost of $2.40 a word, a total cost for telegraph tolls of $3600 for a dispatch a column long. There are newspapers in this country whose yearly bill for telegraph tolls, aside from their share of the expenses of the Associated Press, amounts to over $100,000.
No discussion of American journalism would be complete without some reference to the methods of gathering news and to the wonderful ingenuity of American inventors which has made possible the modem newspaper. As I have said Die invention of the telegraph revolutionized journalism. Only in less degree has. the invention of a method whereby four telegraph messages may be sent oyer the same wire at the same time contributed to the prompt transmission of the news. In order to avail themselves .of the full advantage of telegraphic communication,: the newspapers have been led to" organize ;what are technically known as press associations, chief of which is the Associated Press. This organization, supported by all the newspapers which constitute its .membership, maintains;representatives in every town of, importance in the country. In .the larger cities it has offices^and- astaff of .men. In the smaller towns its needs are . usually supplied by a single representative who is often employed, -on;;.. one.; ofthe; local. newspapers. Whenever anything; of moment: occurs the locals representative telegraphs to the nearest Associated Press office:.a brief outline, asking if a fuller account is wanted. and then sends an c account: within the limitation, as:, to the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
2291
<
, <
I ■
\
number of words, prescribed by the office; When received there the dispatch is edited and distributed by telegraph to every member of the association throughout the country. Correspondents of this association are also maintained in the capitals of most foreign countries and often in the lesser cities, and for events of special importance, like wars, great international athletic contests^ etc., men especially qualified are sent- from the United States to the scene of action. There are a number of lesser press associations in this country, but all are conducted on the same principle, although none can afford to supply as complete a service as the Associated Press because of the smaller number of papers between which the expense is divided.
The larger newspapers send their own correspondents to Washington, some. of them maintaining more or less expensive bureaus there, and they. also employ special correspondents in some of the larger cities in this country, notably in Chicago, and in London, Berlin and Paris. The necessity of maintaining special correspondents at these . points grows put of the desire of the larger papers to furnish to their readers more detailed accounts of important happenings than the associations can provide, of the demand for dispatches of an especial, political character—the associations, . being supported by papers of all shades of political affiliation, are compelled to furnish accounts of political events as nearly neutral as ' possible—and of the custom of permitting special correspondents to write dispatches largely editorial in their character, that is containing opinions as well as news, which necessitates a certain harmony between the views of the special correspondent and those of his editor.	, ’
(To be continued.)	- -	"
One who is blind, deaf and dumb may live to a ripe old age, but if all were blind, deaf and dumb, mankind would quickly perish. Hence the senses, though not necessary to the life of the individual, are so to that of the race. Since they are the indispensable means of its preservation and culture, it is the duty of individuals to use'- them hot merely for their own profit and delight, but for the general good. Teach thyself, therefore, so to see, hear and = speak, : • that -thou mayst bei a benefactor.—S/>oZding. cj	?
Resignation.
CYRIL J. CURRAN, ’ 12.
J HE mother love no longer thrill’d- •.	.
Her throbbing breast, her. babe was gone.
Her heart was aching sore; she still’d . . „ ..
Her trembling sobs, and watched the dawn -Of morn above yon distant hill, ..	. “	.
And wept: “Good Lord, it was Thy will.”, .
The Dreamer.
th6mas f. o’neill,- ’ 13.
Dudley Jenkins Shurter was but a clearing house. clerk in the employ of the People’s Savings Bank, yet his timid and homely extenor housed the imagination . of a fairy-tale writer; for at times, when fie was alone.in his room at the Wellington, and nothing but his dreams could disturb him, fancy .would lead him. to believe himself a CpeurdeLion charging at the host of infidels who surrounded a fertile oasis of virtue—the Wellington. Shurter was cut out for the ministry, and it must have been through some slip of fate that he was denied the duties of that profession? tn imagination he had done gallant deeds, but in reality he was only a pale, spectacled youth of twenty-two, who combed his hair as none other would venture, and who - was unfortunate in the possession of unusually blank features, and a mind which, was strangely lacking in initiative.	:
The hands of the alarm clock on the chiffonier were pointing to eight-thirty, when Shurter, rising from his chair, carefully fixed a mark in the book he had been reading .and then placed it on the window sill. He was about to take a walk, after which he would come back to the room and retire. '	< ’	'
. The misshapen brown felt hat which he took from the hbok on the door was not an indication of the amount of money possessed by Dudley Jr, for if one investigated, he woilid find that; the People’s Savings-Bank had a very considerable sum credited to the account of that young gentleman." But to Shorter; a mOst peculiaf fact was that everybody seemed to know about it- “ Even, the elevator ;boy was accustomed to twit ?him about hissaving .ways,;and
230	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
|i-
now as Dudley stepped > out of the elevator cage and went towards the street, the boy called after him:
“Going out for a drink, Shurt?”
Shurter’s reply was’ a cold, contemptuous look, this being his favorite method of punishing the too familiar. ■'	:	:
It must riot be supposed that he was entirely oblivious to this continual round of nagging. He resented it, and often he had lain in his bed and thought over plans for the punishment of flie ever-present “Judders.”" But this was as far as he got—the offenders were punished (inly ’ iri his imagination—and there, to be sure, their punishment was severe!
In just such a state of mind h6 now walked dowri the street, thinking of those who1 deserved the Vengeance of a long-suffering person. His enemies were few, for his acquaintances in the city were few; arid all these were his enemies,— the messenger boy at the batik, the paying teller, and the cashier; but above all he wished that retributiori would overtake tiie teller. Gladly would he withhold vengeance from the others if only he could settle scores' with Gardiner, the teller. But the possibility was far removed.	■
Gardiner was superior in physical arid conversational powers, and while in the possession of these two weapons of strength arid speech he was unapproachable. Shurter firmly believed that this accomplished tormentor, could talk anyone from his purpose, no matter who the person, or what the purpose. • He ac-knowledged that Gardiner was beyond him and that he might as well leave all his trust with chance, and hope that soon revenge would come. Meanwhile he would be the enemy of Gardirier and no amount of smooth talk could change him.
A window filled with books caught the eye :	of Shurter and caused him to stop.........
i	. “Why hello,; Shurt I ’’.said the voice of Gardiner
the-teller, as\he laid his hand on Dudley j’s shoulder and compelled that much-abashed gentleman to turn about. “I’m surprised to see you here:tonight. It’s not often that you i	travel this street”—and : so the: silver-tongued
L	Gardiner led the way to a conversation ;then
;	to Dudley J’s horror the same magnetic talk
j	drew him into a nearby caf^.-
{	Gardiner said a cheerful good-bye to Shurter
L	as he left that jovial.individual at the ^riter-
section of Front and Main Streets, and as the artful teller:; went towards his dodgings, • he chuckled at* the manner in which j Dudley J. had been taken into one of. those “horrible saloons.” As for Dudley, he had lost all-the animosity he had cherished earlier in the evening. Three or four glasses of certain devilish concoctions, had rearranged .his , views and convictions. ..	.. .
. Feeling tremendously light-hearted he walked through ■. the . .well-lit. streets,. and. seemingly without object, he drifted. towards the outer edge, of the. city.:. But again his grievances	J
came to mind,-and in the new self a great anger arose. He quickened his walk and soon came into, unfamiliar districts, but he. aimlessly protracted his journey . until the street stopped at . the entrance to. a . boulevard, which was guarded by two great stone pillars.
Dudley was tired and seated himself on the granite .steps of a small building not far from the pillars. The night had turned chill and. foggy arid he wished that he were back in his room, but he said to hiiriself, “ I will rest a bit, arid then take a car back to Wellington.”
A cat came Out on the sidewalk in front of him and commenced to lick its paws. Several other cats cariie out of the.fog, some sat on the sidewalk arid gazed silently at Dudley, while others walked about on the driveway near the gate posts. The number of the moving cats was constantly growing.* Some* climbed up	J
the great stone pillars and arranged themselves comfortably on the coping at the top; others went up'the telephone. poles and commenced, to swing themselves to and fro on the wires. Dudley, , watched all.. this without amazement.
He leaned his head against, the stone at his back and noted that through the mist there appeared ‘ two moons, joining each other at. the edges, but still two distinct moons. He thought .,of Gardiner, and . with muscles twitching set, out, towards .the house: where the teller lived. . He would drag him out of	i
bed and thrash him. How long it took Dudley to reach the central part of the city, he did not know; but as he came near.theFeople’s Savings	. J
Bank he noticed that a light was burning above	|
the teller’s desk. .Perhaps Gardiner was in there. Hewouldgoinandsee.
The transom, above the door was open and .Dudley easily climbed through. Noone was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
;	in the banking room. He turned out the light
? j above'the /teller’s desk and from a secluded i <	*
corner watched, a policeman go by the front '	windows. A dim light from the glass dome,
over the banking room, showed up the more prominent objects in the: bank. ..
Dudley’s eyes roamed slowly over the room. There was the vault with its big circular door. Often had he swung it back after Mr. Phelim ,	had turned the combination; He stepped to
the vault door and looked at the combination )	spindle—absently he rested an arm oh the
'	large bolt handle. It moved a: trifle under his
weight—a push downward, and the* dobr was unlocked.	i	• - ‘	. .
Now was his chance to even matters with :	Gardiner. He could take a few of the teller’§
|	books and* leave themon a desk. Gardiner
)	would be blamed.	'
Dudley-pulled hard on the handle. The ।	door would not yield. He gave another’ tug
|	harder than the first ; the hinges gave way and
j	the door came tumbling on him. '
He sat on the sidewalk for a moment and looked about. All around were tombs. and tombstones. In the light of the .early dawn j	he discovered that he was at the foot of some
’steps which led to the entrance , of .a small granite tomb. A large brass ring, swinging back and forth, knocked noisily on. the bronze, door of the tomb.
Erato.
THOMAS A. J. DOCKWEILER, *12. "
’ (Q. ERATO, pray do not fly, ’ ’	“
Nor look on me with scornful eye..
What have I done to be thus used,1— Of what dire fault am I accused ’
Which knowing I may rectify?" ‘
Why is it that whene’er I try* - -	•
To scale Parnassus’ summit high •'
Thy sweet assistance is refused, -	-
O Erato? .	'
Art thou then, like a maiden shy . • ■ Who comes not though her "suitors sigh ? .-r Or, now coquette like art amused." ;
- To see my feelings so abused, > •. .
: When from my. wretched sou! I cry;; .
.	•. O?Erato? • -	" ,... ; -i- ;
231
The Spoils System. :
JOHN F. O’CONNELL, ’13.
. The advancement. of civilization, bringing, as it does, a higher and a nobler, conception of the value of humap life, has brought about, by a gradual ,process, of change,, a.refinement in.the methods and results of warfare. ..War does not meair to us, as it did to the ancients, an intensely personal conflict betweennations, nor do we feel that much depends, upon our active co-operation><#as individuals in the. con-; flicts brought on by the state. In earlier times, and in .isolated ' cases, even as; late., as the eighteenth century, the.general.application in warfare of^the doctrine “To the victor,belong the spoils,” created a general sense of. insecurity. Animated by this feeling nations made aU interests subserve the development, of a. conquering army. Just as defeat, meant; PPverty. death, annihilation, so victory, meantwealth, power, slaves, spoils. Hence, to . achieve victory, at whatever cost, was . the aim and ambition .of all peoples. The pages of. history are filled with tales of the awful effect of . this principle. Towns and villages sacked and burned; ’ invaluable records and works of art destroyed’; populations killed or sold into a ■ slavery far worse than death itself,-1—all, that the spoils of the victor might be increased.
In the light of subsequent events we see the folly of Greece and Rome in ranking so highly among' national virtues the development of a - warlike .spirit. .That the oppressed will hot always remain so is inevitable.’ Death will eliminate entirely, ^or means will be foimd to circumvent the oppressor, and* to visit upon him, manifold, the punishment* he has inflicted on others. Such was the experience of the barbaric nations of the' early ages of Christianity, the Franks, the Vandals, the Huns.' With one Sole object,—that to pillage and ' plunder,—for three hundred -years they subsisted 'on the spoils of the peoples' whom . they conquered. But in time disintegration set in:. -Nations-can not, any more than in-■ dividuals, exist without toil; and the" need of . sustenance?, no longer to be wrested by-force . ofcartes' from despoiled. countries, finaHyout-weighed the necessity of an armed force and worked to their undoing..	/
Great as was the folly of these ancient peoples
232.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
!
!	in thinking to perpetuate their national life
by grinding beneath oppression’s heel the weaker nations of their time, despoiling them of wealth and enslaving the creators of wealth, how foolhardy would they have been to seek the .same result, to strive to strengthen their state and make endure for all time by plundering, not the wealth of foreign countries, but that of. their own; by destroying, not the :	actual lives of their enemies but the moral,
life, the moral sense of their own communities.. And yet, this seeming absurdity is being tolerated, more than tolerated, is upheld as a just and equitable condition by the people of our own . country.	.
“To .the victor belong the spoils of the enemy.’,’ Not to warfare is it now applied but to - statecraft, to. politics. The victor is the political party entrusted by voice of the majority with the guidance of the state. And the spoils,—the word itself connotes robbers’ booty, pirates’ loot,—the spoils are the advantages resulting from the disposal of millions in taxes for the support of the government, for the i	maintenance and improvement of our national
j	institutions.	' '
:	' And what is the cause to which this system
1	is dedicated? Politics, professional politics,
the parent of the spoils doctrine. Not the' s	politics of Washington, or Jefferson, or of
j	Adams. No, for that was statesmanship. De-
j.	mosthenes knew nothing of the spoils system,
i	nor of such politics, for his was the principle
;	of Aristotle,—“ The state exists for the sake
;	of life, good life.” Not the parasitic life of
i	the professional .office seeker; not for the enerI	vating life of the lobbyist whose interest in
1	- good government concerns itself solely with
the privileges which he secures; no, but for |	the sound, wholesome life from which proceeds
s	higher ideals.	.
“The state exists for the sake of good life.” It	Does “good life” contemplate the exploitation
I	of the very sources from which life flows? Does
|	the existence of the state mean, too, that an
|	army of politicians, men with no thought
J	above their personal gain, shall guide ..its des-
|	tinies? Does “good life” mean:.'that '.these
creatures of a commercial age shall be permitted to barter offices in return for votes; onto offer governmental privileges in : return for cam;	paign funds?	:	...	1
;	One hundred and forty, years ago the fathers
p ‘ of our icountry laid down their lives “ that a
new nation might be born”; a nation of	i
men equat in rights and equal in- privileges.	J
Their government was founded oh this principle of equality. It was the bond which united the thirteen states out of which was formed one harmonious whole. Plainly, such an equality meant the total abandonment of	,
favoritism, for favoritism is. ever the emblem of tyranny.	.	,
Nurtured by the high ideals upon which her.	;
independence was based, the Union grew in	]
wealth and in power and grew strong, in the. liberty unto which it was begotten. With.	J
strength, following nature’s laws, came the parasite. The administration of the functions of government demanded officials and official helpers, and created numerous positions of	.
responsibility. The inauguration and maintenance of public institutions, requiring, as they do, the expenditure of millions annually,	,
afforded the parasites a means of peipetuating in power, not the nation, but those who owed their freedom , to the Union.	\
We witnessed but a" short time ago the spectacle of one of our lawmakers defending his honor and his right to a seat in the Senate against charges of having placed himself in -office by means of bribes paid to legislators	,
with whom rested the power of election. The entire country was aroused; its moral sense was outraged, and the voice of the people demanded a rigid investigation to determine the truth of the accusations.	;
I mention the incident because it serves to	‘
show that though we live in an age of finance we have not succumbed entirely to the lure of the dollar; that we have not yet reached the stage where money is acknowledged, the	j
supreme dictator of our thoughts and actions.	/
Why, then, with this example before us of the '	/
power and might of the people .when aroused, ,	/
do we tolerate the spoils system? Does our / standard of right and wrong behd. with the circumstances, or means of an act, condemning	'
as wrong the bartering of . money-.-for power while countenancing the Same act where the consideration-is but one. step-.removed from money? Are we, as a nation, so.dense that we	;
fail to see the.relation between such corruption	t
and the bribery of the judas. who takes the	}
thirty pieces of silver as the price of betraying - J his Master? ■ Or :.has our< moral sense’ become so calloused that- we can bear iniquity hidden	|
by the doak of respectability, or sanctioned	I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
by the high priests whose power depends upon its practice?
“The public official,” said Archbishop Ireland, “ is appointed lor the public good and is sworn to labor for it. If he prostitutes his 'office in order to enrich himself or his friends, he has sold his country for gold and is a traitor.” Yet the principle by which political power is secured, and once secured is retained, is the prostitution not alone of the office, but of ‘the official and of the public that tolerate the system.
Years of prosperity, of indulgence in the pleasures bought with the fruits of God’s bounty, have dulled our ethical sense. In that respect we resemble one other nation, long since decayed, but which was in the heyday of its glory the richest, most powerful country of the world—Rome. But it fell into evil ways; gradually the canker of corruption ate. into its vitals; truth and right became bywords in the hearts of its rulers and of its people, and soon the power which once was hers fell away and left her a prey to the barbarians.
If we are to take a lesson from her bitter experience, if we are to preserve the state we hpld so dear, it follows as surely as night follows day, that we must abolish the evils now sapping our national honor. The corruption of a nation leads to the corruption of its rulers; and the corruption of a nation’s rulers means the ultimate foundering of the state.
. The interests of every true patriot lie in the abolition of that which tends to undermine the moral sense of the community, or which, in our officials, might tend to place private gain before the public good. The’ spoils system is founded upon the pillage of the public moneys for private gain, and is first and foremost among ; the evils which threaten the ultimate loss of our national unity. The common acceptance, of the doctrine of spoils only serves to vivify the need for radical action; If we are to transmit to posterity the heritage of pride in country bequeathed to us from the time of Washington, we must strike at the root of the evil which threatens the welfare of bur land. ’
• Abolish the. spoils system. Make the holding of office depend upon fitness alone;. make the election of honest legislators and the. appointment of honest executives a matter, of personal interest, and we will revive, the. patribtism, the love of country,- which now lies dormant in j so many hearts;. we will insure to bur- nation life land power, - - ~
233
.	Vanity Verse.
Ephemeral.
THE snow that glittered in the morning light. And decked the earth in nature’s softest hue
Is quickly gone. -
The man that glitters in a borrowed light
Is soon forgotten, by all those he knew, When life is done. •	~	.
T. F. O*N.
To H. R.
Downy snow tonight enshrouds thee, Friend of yesterday;
Wailing winds chant dirges o’er thee,
Closed within the clay.	,
Thou hast fled, as all men must,— All must Death obey—
All, like thou, return to dust, Friend of yesterday.
P A B
Think!	'
Think of the folks in Panama, down in that torrid clime	'	.
A-panting and a-yelling for ice-water all the time;
Or else a-using energy wielding a palm-leaf fan ' And digging the big ditch in between drinks—any-time they can.
They’re siveaiingl oh, to think of that, and wearing fewer clothes .	...
Than trees are wearing leaves up here where everything is froze.	.	-
Yes, sir, they’re buying ice down there at seven cents, a pound .	.
And mighty glad to get it, too,—and here we’re all ice-bound. .
We’re freezing ice-cream on our stoves; and shivers running rife
So thick around our backbones, we could cut them with a knife, ’	.
But down in Panama, where eggs would fry out in ’ the street,	-
They’re wasting all that precious warmth, they are— so help me, Pete.	"	•
Up here,. it. seems a fairy tale, we’re running: ’way
; from’ice; :
Down there they’re running after, it, and think it’s . . just so nice. ' w .	-“k' - k
Up here we hug.the kitchen.fire, wear felt shoes on ' . our feet; . .	2	.	.	’ l ._ . . is . ,
Down T in Panama " pajamas .are’; -now _ worn . in;
. .the heat/-G.
234	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum, Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLV. January 20,1912. No. 16.
Board of Editors.
of the . old . rich families had lost everything. Worst of all, the Northern carpet-baggers were upon them, ready to snatch what little might be left. It was a discouraging outlook, to say the least.
But today the seceding states have reassumed much of the old-time prosperity. They are no longer backward industrially, and agriculturally they are at the front. The negro problem is* yet to be solved, but time and patience and serious statesmanship will solve that also.

JOHN P. MURPHY,
PATRICK A. BARRY,
*12
12
CYRIL
SIMON
LOUIS
J. CURRAN,
E. TWINING,
12
13
J. KILEY, ’13
WILLIAM M.
EDWARD J. HOWARD, *12 RUSSELL G. FINN, *12 WILLIAM J. MILROY, ’13 JOHN F. O’CONNELL, ’13 MAURICE NORCKAUER, ’14 GALVIN, ’14.
—Governor Glinn last Saturday told us in a very popular way the story of the South, its reverses and its gradual return to prosperity.
He depicted feelingly the ter-The South, rible calamity of the Civil War, its awful effect upon the social and family life of the time. He gave instances of heroism among both the boys in blue and the boys in grey, and declared that no war in the history of mankind called for more selfsacrifice or exhibited such splendid bravery. With the inspiration of personal experience, he described the horrors of the Reconstruction, that blackest stain upon _our national life.
Those of us from the North have little conception, perhaps, of the enormity of the problem which the South faced after the war, and which she is now only beginning to solve. In the colonial days her social organization was almost feudal. After the Revolution, although the democracy changed many of the old customs, the wealthy land-owning families remained as baronial as before. How could it be otherwise as long as it was lawful to buy and sell human beings? But in a moment all was changed. The Emancipation Proclamation sounded the death-knell of the old South. After the war the surviving whites had to meet a multitude of negroes, formerly held in abject servility, upon terms of legal equality. The blacks
-—On the eve of a great presidential election such as this of 1912, the weakness of our party system becomes apparent. Great social and industrial problems are crying Concerning to be solved, —corporation con-Candidates. trol, currency reform, and that ubiquitous wrecker of campaign pledges, tariff revision. We need a strong and fearless executive, a leader who can arouse a sleepy congress and exact this mass of legislation. Republicans point to Taft, LaFollette, and Roosevelt; Democrats, to Wilson Clarke and Harmon. But how will a choice he made? On the basis’ of ability? No, it is of only remote importance to a party that it propose a man of presidential ability; not a strong president, so much as a strong candidate is sought for. Ability is not the ultimate test. A strong candidate is often an inoffensive individual whose past record offers only a restricted field to muckrakers. On both sides there is already , talk of such a“ compromise candidate;” it should be hushed. A party, like a man, should have the courage of its convictions. We want no “spineless candidates.” The interests of the people have, been subordinated to the interest of parties but too often in the past.	'
—The quiet conservatism of campus life received quite a jolt last year when military training was. .introduced into., the curriculum of , the University. The The Military Bait work of Captain Stogsdall . . has thus far-made a deep impression on the students, and it seems assured that military training will remain at Notre Dame. This year, to. enliven interest in
clamored for recognition ini their new-found this department of the University* a military rights, and their numbers were overwhelming, hall has been forced into our program nf Besides, the country was impoverished.: Many events. For tome little time our judgments
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
were wavering between resentment and warm encouragement of this innovation. : Usually it is- not our disposition -to embrace every new venture that a particular body of! students may choose to foist upon us. We care to determine, first of all, the qualifications and relative worthiness of the-scheme and then to investigate the privilege of- those who would prosecute it. That the members of the battalion are among the most highly representative men in the University we are very willing to believe, because we have watched them closely and know them well. The members of the battalion are hard workers; they, have been uniformly regular- in their .attendance -at drill; they have'been enthusiastic to increase the membership of . the battalion; and now they are confident the military "will help to -make the military, ball popular. • Since. we have' much confidence in them and respect them as an organization, we can not protest against their endeavor which would make for the social progress: of the school; ^Yes, we are satisfied that the military ball is deserving of a place on- our program, and- know that -under proper management - it can be brilliantly successful? At any rate, it is a; step forward, and the enthusiasm with which the cadets have undertaken to realize the project is highly commendable.	.	.
—The spectacle of a Chicago paper, that makes pretence of high purpose in its editorial page, presenting in its news pages the matrimo-
:	- nial reflections of two “four-
Where We Draw times” married actors- is
. The Line. not so inspiring. The actor, as a multi-married person, is sickening enough;, but when the multimarried actor seriously-essays-to teach young men and young women his or her concept of the meaning of matrimony, then we want the fresh air and the sun. A- newspaper can not afford to serve its readers beefsteak with the right hand of its editorial page, and serve slop with the left hand of its “society” columns. Certain actors may marry and re-marry as long as loose-legislation permits. It will prove of-little use to preach decency to them.- But we claim the right to demand from our morning, paper, for which we pay two cents per diem or six 'dollars per annum, that it-shall not turn its pages into a pulpit for actors to gospel us on their conceptions of morality and matrimony . -
235
. Good “Fellows” in Opening Concert
The “Good "Fellows” Company rendered a very pleasing .musical program Tuesday, Jan. 16, the opening of the 1912 schedule of lectures and concerts.- The “Good Fellows” Company consisted , of a quartet composed of two ladies and two gentlemen, and a piano accompanist. Besides some excellent harmonized singing,— the first, number, for instance,—there were a number of solos which were well received by the audience. There are several more musical numbers during the remaining part of the course, which, if they prove as enjoyable as this one, should add much to the attractiveness of this year’s schedule.	‘
Mr. Chapple Speaks to Students.
Mr. Joe Mitchell Chapple, Editor of the National Magazine, addressed the students, Tuesday, January 16. As Mr. Chapple himself remarked he is not a “regular orator,” and he had no prepared address to deliver. His was rather an impromptu talk, much of which was good, but, like many good talks, was often disconnected. He spent considerable time in giving advice as to how to get on in the world, emphasizing the importance, especially to a young man, of the ability to make and keep friends and also the advantage of possessing a great deal of what is familiarly known as “nerve.” These qualities, Mr. Chapple thinks, when combined with concentration of mind will ensure success.	.
------_ — •*-
Ex-Governor Glinn on the South. .
Ex-Governor R. B. Glinn of North Carolina, a loyal American and a staunch Southerner, lectured on “The South” last Saturday evening. The governor proved to be an entertaining talker—one enthusiastic about his subject, being a great admirer of his country and especially of ' his own section. The ex-Govemor briefly traced our history from the days of the British rule through the Revolution, the War of 1812, the Mexican war and finally that of the Secession. In his account of the Civil War he paid a hearty tribute to the heroism of both the “boy in blue” and'the “boy in gray,” each of whom did his duty as he saw it.	.
At present; the distinguished- speaker said,
236	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
we stand one of the most powerful and wealthy nations of the world. This development is most wonderful in the South as it has all come about since the terrible days of the Reconstruction Period. If this remarkable progress is to be continued certain evils, especially dishonesty among men in public life, must be corrected; and for such reforms, the country necessarily looks to the younger generation, particularly to the men who are educated in large schools like our own, where, if anywhere, sound character will be formed.
/ The Notre Dame Club of Chicago.
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago is progressing mightily. On November 8 there was a Notre Dame dinner at the Great Northern followed by a theatre party. The monthly dinners held by the club have proved most enjoyable. A section of seats has been reserved for N. D. rooters and friends in the west and north balcony for the First Regiment meet, tonight. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago has the spirit that quickens.	/
Notice.
On the 22nd of this month Coach Smith of the baseball team will take charge of the squad that are to try for positions on the team. It is his desire and the desire of every man interested in the success of the team that anyone who feels that he possesses some baseball ability, and is a member of any of the college departments, should report for practice the ’ very first day. Notre Dame in the past has made an enviable reputation in this branch of athletics, and this season we should at least try to sustain this reputation. With the prospects of a good schedule, a good coach and a hard-working squad we can even better if. So let every man who has made good on any hair team, high school team, or in fact on any team, who is eligible for the Varsity, get out and give his best;
.	J. P. Murphy (Manager).
Society Notes.
Brownson Literary Aid) Debating.
The preliminaries for the Brownson Debating team will be held January 25, 26, and 27. The question for debate' is: ‘-Resolved; That
the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution be repealed.” The method of elimination is, the two best speakers of the first evening will contest against the two best of the second. The winners of this debate to be pitted against the victors of the last debate to decide who will qualify for the semi-finals. The two best speakers of the evening will be named regardless of which side of the question each upheld. The contestants’ manuscript and delivery will be given equal prominence by the judges when making their decisions.
The time limit for the 'main speech is ten minutes and the rebuttal three. Each speaker is entitled to the privilege of a rebuttal. The program of the three evenings is given below.
Jan. 25—Affirmative, Vaughan, Laird and Clark; Negative, Walsh, Riley and Fordyce.
January 26—Affirmative, Smith, Guppy; Negative, O’Neill, Ely.
January 27 — Affirmative, Walters, Viso; Negative, Robins, Marshall.
Civil Engineering.
/ Three good papers and a discussion.of more than ordinary interest formed the program of the meeting of the Civil Engineering Society on Wednesday night, January seventeenth. Mr. Kane read a paper on the “ Error of Closure in Land Surveying” in which he described the errors that creep in during the measurement of a field and how the notes must be adjusted in order to eliminate these errors. Mr. Duque related “The History and Development of the Bridge Truss.” He traced the history of the truss from its infancy to the present day and explained the various types of trusses by means of blackboard diagrams. Mr. Enaje’s paper treated of “The Arch in Engineering” very thoroughly. The theory of the arch was explained and the several kinds of arches were described.
Mr. Cortazar had been considering for several days the possibility of a man’s getting off a perfectly smooth plane. On Wednesday night he was asked to give a decision and his reasons therefor. He stated that he believed it to be an impossibility for the man to do so. This statement provoked a storm of protest from Mr. Kirk who argued that the man could get off the plane, and advanced a number of logical arguments to prove his. contention. This question was perhaps -the most warmly discussed of all that have come before the society this yean	-Ct. ---h- j
THE NOTJRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
237
Personals.
—Benjamin C. Bachrach’s (A. B. ’92) present address is Kenilworth, Ill.
—Arthur J. Hughes (’11) has recently been promoted to Assistant Advertising Sales Manager of Butler Bros., Chicago.
—Lester Rempe, a resident of Corby last year, paid a short visit to the University Wednesday. He has a position with the Crane Co., of Chicago.
—Edward J. Perry, student of engineering in 1908, is in the drafting department of the Illinois Steel Company. His address is 6430 Drexel Ave., Chicago.
—The Rev. Leo Heiser, C. S. C. (’02), of Columbia College, Portland, Oregon, has been spending the Christmas holidays in South Bend. He left for the West during the week.
—Frank X. Cull (’08), in renewing his subscription, writes us that his address is 479, House Office Building, Washington, D. C. Also he sends his best wishes to his friends at Notre Dame, and they are many.
—Leo J. Cleary has taken up efficiency engineering and has charge of installing a scientific management system in one of the largest woodworking factories in the state of Michigan. His address is 585 Grandville Ave., Grand Rapids, Michigan.
—We learn from the Pittsburg Dispatch that at the annual Notre Dame ball Mr. Raymond Daschbach had the honor of leading the grand march. From the extensive and enthusiastic newspaper report we are sure the Notre Dame ball is still the top notch of Pitt’s social events.
—Thomas A. E. Lally (Ph. B. ’06) is now conducting his own law office. in the Old National Bank Building, Spokane, Washington. His success exceeds the most sanguine expectations of his friends. In addition to his law practice he is Treasurer and General Counsel of the New World Life Insurance Company.
Calendar.
Sunday, January 21—Brownson Literary and Debating Wednesday, January 24—Marcosson Concert 7 :36 p. m •Thursday, January 25—Sorin-Corby, Walsh-St. Joseph .	~ in basketball •	-	.
.Saturday, January 27—Wabash vs Varsity at Notre Dame in basketball. •	-	,	, '
Two Noted Speakers Coming.
Former Governor Yates of Illinois and Colonel James Hamilton Lewis of Chicago, are names that will add to the interest of any' lecture program. Colonel Lewis will address the students on February 20, while ex-Governor Yates is booked for March 19. The reputations . for oratory and high citizenship which these two distinguished men enjoy will assure them a large and enthusiastic audience.
Obituary.
Last Monday at Rockford, Illinois, Mr. Patrick Quinlan, father of Rev. M. A. Quinlan, (’93), John M. (’97), James J. (’08) and Joseph (’11), was buried from St. James’ Cathedral. The fact that Mr. Quinlan has one son in the priesthood, two studying theology in preparation therefor and one daughter a Sister of Mercy, is a sure indication of what manner of man he was. In death he needs no eulogy, since his life is his highest praise. The funeral mass was sung by Father Quinlan, and the blessing was pronounced by Right Rev. Bishop Muldoon. Rev. Father Finn, of Rockford, preached the funeral sermon. Interment took, place in the Rockford Catholic cemetery. To Father Quinlan and the members of his family the Scholastic extends the sincere sympathy of the entire University. R. I. P.
Prayers are requested for the repose of the soul of a brother of John J. O’Malley (Brownson . Hall), who passed away at his home in Kansas City, Mo., Sunday, January 7th. The family has the profound sympathy of the University in their bereavement. R. I. P. -
All at Notre Dame will learn with regret of the death of Dr. M. V. Halter’s mother who was called away at her home in Akron, Ohio, . yesterday morning. . Mrs. Halter was a typical Catholic mother, singularly attached to cher faith. She was well known and well loved in Akron where she leaves a large .circle of . friends to mourn her. The Scholastic extends ' Dr. Halter and the other members of his family sincere sympathy in their loss. . R. I. P. ,
' Local News. - .	. .
—The Washington papers giveaverylengthy ; . account of the Cardinal’s Day celebration. .	: ?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
238
Rev. Father Cavanaugh’s sermon delivered at the mass received very enthusiastic notices.
—Several Sorinites took favorably to skating. Then came the thaw and the sport had to be abandoned.
—The handball courts are continually occupied these cold days. Very interesting games are played.
—Basil Soisson was. elected captain of the Corby hall basketball team at a meeting held Wednesday evening.
—Brownson hall expects to develop the strongest basketball team in its history under the management of Thomas Ryan.
—All the Walsh students attended mass of requiem for the repose of the soul of Father Quinlan’s father on last Monday morning in the hall chapel.
—The Carroll hall basketball team clashed with Mishawaka High School at Mishawaka, Wednesday evening. The final score was 28-16 in Mishawaka’s favor.
—A meeting of the Notre Dame K. of C. will be held Friday, January 26 in the council chamber. Installation of officers and a smoker are among the attractions.
—The Rev. Father O’Donnell spoke at the-monthly banquet of the Knife and Fork Club of South Bend. The banquet was held in the Oliver dining room Tuesday evening.
—The basketball team of St. Joseph’s hall met the St. Joseph (Michigan) High School at St. Joseph last Friday. The score was 32-22 in favor of the Notre Dame men. .
—Messrs. Carmody and Nolan furnish music every evening in Corby rec room. Since the weather is cold and the “ lid ” oh the Corbyites appreciate this advantage of home life. ~
—The engineers are making remote preparations for their annual trip to Chicago to witness the automobile show. Just at present the Faculty has plans submitted by the engineers under advisement.	.
—The continued cold weather is not an unmixed evil. There has never been less postChristmas visits to the infirmary. Even the . regular callers find it hard to trump up an excuse to secure extra.diet. ,	;
—Despite the factthat the-Varsity has claimed all of Corby’s last year stars, Father Farley is confident that ; the basketballand
track championship will ' come “the hall this year, and that the cup now held by Sorin will be added to the trophies in the office.
—Anerrbr was made in last week’s Scholastic in recording the decision of the judges of the Bireen Medal Contest. Father Bolger’s ranking should have read as follows: Milroy 1, Hagerty 2, Heiser 3, Murphy 4.
—The concert which is to be held this even; ing in Washington hall at 7:30, will be one of the finest in the ' course. The performers are without ‘exception artists." Mme. Ruegger, the cellist, is one of the leading cellists in America.
Athletic Notes. - ‘
... First .Regiment. Tonight. . ..
■ The formal sentry of. Notre Dame into the world of track sport for-the-season of i9i2. will take place in Chicago} today. Eighteen men comprise the band pledged to uphold the honor, of the gold and blue in the meeting held under the auspices of the First Regiment.
The meeting is a handicap affair, and while the margins allotted the various entrants by the official, handicapper are not available when this is written, .experience teaches that it is unwise to expect undue liberality from, those in charge,. Practice has been going.on steadily for. the past two weeks, however, and all of the men are in such shape.as to. warrant hopes of a position high up in. the. scoring column. The meet has attracted entries from the Chicago Athletic Association, the Illinois Athletic Club, Chicage and .Northwestern universities, Seventh Regiment, Gaelic Athletic Association of Chicago, as well as numerous unattached athletes, and promises toprovide a fitting opening for the spring season.-	...
One of the features, of the meet will be a special race in the 40-yard low hurdles between Captain Fletcher of the Varsity, Haskins of the C7 A. Burgess of the I. A. C., and Shaw of Northwestern university. All of the men are stars in the event, and the race promises to -be .one of 'the "-best offerings of the meeting. . -	....	.	.
The. list- of- Notre Dame entries .indudes Captain Fletcher, Philbrook, Wasson, Williams, Fisher, Bergman, Hogan, O’Neill, Rockne, Plant, Larson,- Mehlem, Hood, Donovan, Wells, Henehan, McLaughlih and McCarthy.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
239
• : 'Baseball Practice Begins.
-The call for candidates for ' the Varsity baseball nine has been issued by Captain Fred Williams and practice will, begin next Monday, January 22. Edward Smith, manager of the Grand Rapids Central League club, has been engaged to coach the players, and daily workouts, excepting Sundays and holidays, will be the program until the closing of school in June.
A heavy schedule, which includes an eastern trip planned to last three weeks, coupled with the necessity of filling several positions on the team, is the reason for the early opening of the practice season. ..	.
Little can be said concerning the prospects for the season, although the presence of a number of the members of last year’s team will provide the nucleus for a nine capable of making the year one long to be remembered in baseball history. Captain Williams, Farrell, O’Connell, Granfield; Amfield and Regan are the monogram members of last year’s squad eligible for the nine. The ruling of the Conference on the summer ball question, by which Quigley and Hamilton may be declared eligible, is awaited with interest.	,
Snowed Under Coming and—Going.
Chet Freeze’s collection of All-Collegians furnished a striking illustration of the truth of the shop-worn adage “ They can’t come back” last Monday when the Varsity was permitted to romp away with the long end of a 34 to 5 score. Conditions seemed auspicious for the invaders, and the glowing accounts of their prowess retailed to Assistant Manager Cotter by an enterprising press agent presaged an ignominious defeat for the gold and blue. The All-Freeze Collection was snow-bound coming and got in late. Also going. Injuries kept Cahill out of the game entirely and promised to prevent McNichol and Kelleher from giving their best, while rumors of training regulations broken during the holidays added to the gloom which pervaded the Varsity camp. Furthermore the visiting quintet was composed of stars in the basket game. Ryan and Penn sported monograms from Illinois, Ross hailed from Northwestern, Freeze is late of Notre Dame and Aldous, who played a better game than any of the others, escaped without assigning himself to any Alma Mater. As has been remarked, the outlook was ominous. .
But the game proved the futility of dope.
The Varsity .was in the pink of. condition while the visitors, especially- our own “Chet,” had evidently wasted their energies in plowing through the snowdrifts between Chicago and the gymnasium. Accurate passing, good team work and an ability to locate the basket marked the work of the Varsity. Both teams were guilty of fouling in the first half, although the gold and blue drew the majority of penalties. The game was won in the opening session which ended with the score standing 15 to 1.
McNichol, Kenny and Granfield were the stars of the contest, although the defensive' work of Feeney and Kelleher deserves credit. The second .period became farcical after the score had been increased to thirty, the Varsity making no attempt to increase the count, merely passing the ball from one to another. A team of substitutes was sent in toward the
end of the session, and the stars made a final
effort to increase their score but with poor success. Lineup and summary:
Notre Dame (34)	All Collegians (5)	
McNichol, Zgodzinski	R. F.	Ryan
Kenny, Kelly	L. F.	. Penn
Granfield (capt.), Larson	C.	Aldons
Feeney, Finnegan	R. G.	Ross
Kelleger, Smith	L. G.	Freeze (Capt.)
Field goals—McNichol	5, Kenney	5, Granfield 6,
Zgodzinski, Ross, Aldous.	Free throws—McNichol 2,	
Aldous. . Referee—Ulatowski. Time		of halves, 15
and 20 minutes.
Northwestern college, of Naperville will send a team to Notre Dame today. The team has a reputation among secondary schools in Illinois, and will undoubtedly furnish the Varsity with a good practice game.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL SCHEDULE.
Basketball was given a great impetus by the interhall managers at their meeting Tuesday afternoon in the arrangement of a series of two games with each hall. After many “ bursts” of eloquence, Sorin was scheduled to take on Corby for her first contest. Following which the schedule was quietly adopted.
This is the biggest schedule yet arranged, and it means much hard work for the teams. When interviewed the different managers declared the possibility of putting two teams in the field, not only to relieve the men but to give everybody a chance to show his calibre. Although it has not been definitely settled, some of the games will. be played as openers to the varsity battles.. This system is followed in all the tag - colleges, and while we
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
have no class contests Jhe hallj;battles should, .it would scarcely be safe to say that the artistic skill - of those'who played their part on the stage was superior to the-administrative, skill displayed .by, .those , .who had charge, of the . general management of .the entertainment.”—Walsh Hall Entertainment.
serve the purpose. This would bring out the best men and give Coach Maris a line on what might be Varsity material next year. Again, there is “nothing doing” during the halves of the big games in the way of cheering or sing-ing, and the Interhall dashes would fill this void.
While the different teams have hot started in earnest some of them - have already smothered outside teams. St. Joseph conquered St. Joseph High and Brownson, expects
to defeat Culver today. This should. prove an incentive to the men in giving their best, for we all look for victories from any. teams that represent Alma Mater in any. capacity.
Jan. Jan. Feb. Feb. Feb. Feb.
Interhall Baskets allSchedule. - -
25—Sorin-Corby, Walsh-St. Joseph.
28—Brownson-Sorin,- St. Joseph-Corby.
1 —St. J oseph-Brownson, Walsh-Corby. - , 4—St. Joseph-Sorin, Brownson-Walsh.
8—Sorin-Walsh, Brownson-Corby.
11—Sorin-Corby, Walsh-St. Joseph
Feb. 15—Brownson-Sorin, St. Joseph-Corby.
Feb. 18—St. Joseph-Brownson, Walsh-Corby.
Feb. 22—St. Joseph-Sorin, Brownson-Walsh.
Feb. 25—Sorin-Walsh, Brownson-Corby. '
Safety Valve.
And the interhall reportertells them “they heed not try to excel in everything, but bend their energies towards becoming good ip some onedirectiori.”
•. Between the Senior and Junior monogram men (andboys), the Chicks and the -Vaudeville troupe, everybody in Walsh will be. able to sport amonogram from now on. No knodt in this, we hope ’
•‘ Great Pairs. ; - Faculty -aid ' Students .-Board. and.Tuition .
Cap : and Gotol; • 7 j j • Debating and Chatpry BreadandButter: ? I
j-
/ ...	’■ ,	‘ .'-'J;'/''
The Sign. _ * -
Know, stranger. Starihope here resides In ample comfort', nor dismissed ■ Who has-some lasting -care E’en as in Hellas
; Long ago. ... .	. *	'■	■
-no-I- -
---: hope —5 ; --------- —missed
-• last— car-
A Point of Information. .
“Lovely!” said Johnny, :	• -
When a maiden quite bonny Just glided:, beside him when sweeping. the > floor The miss .was .resulted--^ . > And straightway resulted'. . A misunderstanding*:'and blushes^ galore.
“I want you Jo';khow rir,	: ^.7
.. ; Wherever; I, go, sir .-	■
I allow .no .remarks onmy beauty, Sir .-Pat!”....
‘ ■ Yerra, I spoke o’ the .weather, .
: An’ ■ Pd Eke tb know whether !
Every maid in these parts is insulted- by that?’7
Last Saturday^. Sbrinite discoveredtherewas ice on the lakel Which proyesjhat aH the menqf Sorin ' are not-sleeping all;tiie..time...	A/ £-• . . A- rr,
,... The; -Midland- Naturalist willsayeditorially^xt Monday:	'
“Involucres cyliridric campanulate .io mm. high, .■5 ‘ mm; /wide?4 Outer bractk'herbaceous,somewhat acumihate spreading the middie'. broadly kpatulate or / . rhombieovate obtuse with purjdidi entire,somewhat . jreuipuskmar^^	; J. 7_. ■
' -While we differ somewhat from the author in regard 7to tire'.-'*'cyluraric. campanulate’’ ’^ Kaye' serious doribtshl^ut the “rhbm^	whathesays
'Jali<&t£suggestive^not
tosay riU««mriative.jYies,c Sir ?
i
W:C. Stands fm
We^grerCoMkki^’
Or yon cansay itthisway:St6rmitindowshhve been added-' to. Sorin’s equipments — -
ifO
7 :Jhe“^ ;colle^'ihitr^’k*^<Nir^
nptstelbte.bntheirightofMonday^t^ . accounts.	.:	-
5^;




Ih&tiiteJf

