This bsok is net t© t ak au f roin th ^ib?i~§
The Notre Da^e^
*
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
Oct. 20
1933
««« Recreating the Glory of Sacred Heart Church at the
University of Notre Dame
In the period between 1870 and 1880 the Italian painter, Gregori, executed the inimitable frescoes in Sacred Heart Church, University of Notre Dame. For sixty years "their beauty has glorified these venerable walls with profound religious feeling. True—their original freshness has slowly dimmed with the passing years. For this reason it was desired to bring back the touch of the master who created them.
This difficult commitment, together with the restoration and repair of the entire stained glass originally made in France, was entrusted with our studios —as being one of the few organizations in the country worthy of assuming so great a responsibility. Under the personal direction of Mr. Conrad Schmitt the work has gone forward—with a true understanding and appreciation of the old method of painting in fresco and al secco. As the restoration and redecoration nears completion the delicate, original splendor again comes to lightreflecting a fresh, new inspiration that will last indefinitely.
Visitors and all those within travelling distance are cordially invited to inspect the work—and see the superiority of this fine technique over the prevailing methods of decoration. A visit now to Sacred Heart Church is something which you will long remember.
Should you be considering or planning the interior improvement of your church or chapel—consult our studios. We will gladly offer individual suggestions—and tell you how finer ideals of beautification can be ■realized at low cost.
CONRAD SCHMITT STUDIOS
1717 W. WISCONSIN AVE. 410 WEST 24th STREET MILWAUKEE, WIS.	NEW YORK CITY
MURALS » DECORATIONS * STAINED GLASS * LIGHTING FIXTURES
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section IIOS, October S, 1917, authorized June So, 1918.
James S. Kearns.....!	 .	Mitchell C. Tackley..
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD.................EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN......................JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH___________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.................. College	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL......................—Staff Artist
Sports Staff JOHN D. CARBINE .........EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR..............HOWARD	T. WALDRON
.........Jiditor-in-Chief .........Managing Editor	.
Neius Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD--------------------------News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR---------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI-----------------------Assistant News Editor
JAMES A. BYRNE___________________________FRANK KELLY
ROY O. SCHOLZ-------------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL______________________JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY_______________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES__________________________LOUIS R. HRUBY
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY ________________Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
October 20, 1933
No. 5
CAMPUS TALKERS—II
Last week we noted a new low in campus conversations. Now we observe a new high in another favorite sport: criticism of student activities. The devotees of the pastime have added great numbers to their ranks this fall and some of their clamoring during the past week has been too loud to be overlooked.
We have never held that a man* must possess ability superior to that of the one with whom he finds fault to have the right to criticize. But we do submit that the individual who does absolutely nothing in the line of campus activities has not the right to propagate wild tales of inefficiency concerning persons who have reached some measure of success in undergraduate organizations. For one who, in four years, has done nothing more than pass his maximum number of required class hours, brace the lamp post at Michigan and Colfax, contribute to the support of the drug store soda fountain, to speak ex cathedra on the faults of student activities is one form of injustice. Even more unfair is the fact that these authoritative eruptions are accepted as valuable and accurate by a goodly number of listeners.
Analyzed even sketchily, these charges of favoritism, clannishness, and inefficiency become, evidently, re-echoes in empty barrels, founded not on knowledge of the subject concerned, but fortified by complete ignorance of facts. Well meant criticisms and suggestions, backed by thought, are welcomed by any campus organization if they are brought to the front door. Grumbling asides on the faults of groups of which the grumblers know nothing are not only ineffective, regardless of their popularity, but are discouragingly annoying.
THE NEW BLUE CIRCLE
Two weeks ago The Scholastic announced the formation of a new Blue Circle. Last week the appointment of Reuben A. Grundeman to the chairmanship of the body was announced. In both news items there is cause for considerable student rejoicing.
In sanctioning the formation of the new body, University officials granted, among other things, that it will come “properly within the range of the group’s functions to drop a hint to . any student who is in danger of suspension by reason of the abuse of certain University
October 2 0, 1933
privileges, that the undergraduates are not in sympathy with his actions.” As pointed out in the news story on the organization of the Circle, that sort of remonstrance from the students themselves will have the dual advantages of fore-warning the offender and of preserving the abused privilege for the school at large.
The Scholastic has long felt that there was a definite need for just such a body at Notre Dame. It hesitates to characterize the new organization as “the first breath of student government,” or by any other similarly high sounding term. Student government, in name and in fact, has for the most part, a distinctly juvenile and Boy Scoutish air about it. That should be in no sense the object of the Blue Circle. Rather it should fall within the province of the group to be a body of mediation, not of domination.
The student body should not look upon the Blue Circle as an instrument whereby the limits of regulations on student activities will be narrowed. Rightly handled, the group should effect a widening of those bonds, in directions that are reasonable and beneficial.
To date there is no cause for implicit faith that the Blue Circle can accomplish its established aim. However, the organizers of the movement have given every evidence of sound judgment in their work of launching their plan. Undeniably they have made an excellent choice of a chairman. Grundeman has had S.A.C. experience, he knows the school and the nature of the needs that the Blue Circle hopes to supply. It is now the duty of the student body to give a full measure of support and cooperation to the Blue Circle so that it may come to be all that it can and should be.
BOARD OF STRATEGY
Notre Dame is saved. The extra-University board of control is back on the job. No longer must school officials wait for inside instructions and information to come from California, where the strategists held forth a few years back: the brain trust now works out of New York. They’re all old hands, these helpers. Their group is intact. Even their advice is the same as it was a year ago. It certainly must be great to be told not only what you should do, but what you are going to do, two months in advance. A tied football game, a ten point victory, and the explanation and solution are out already. Happy days I
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Choose Your Partners
So it’s Kay again for the Cotillion. Well, we of the class of ’34 can go with dignity, for we had Kay too; and thus not only can we smirk at the sophomores for confirming our judgment, but we can get downright familiar with Herbie and the boys. ■“Remember me? Joe Pullahouse-down? I asked you to play ‘The Last Rose of Summer’ back in ’32. Sure glad to see you again,” nodding a friendly welcome and managing to look extremely bored. We shall be tossed to the stars.
And allow us to offer the sophs our sincerest congratulations. Not once did we hear . . several orchestras are under consideration at the present time. Negotiations are being made -with Isham Jones, Guy Lombardo; Vincent Lopez, and Paul Whiteman to play singly or collectively for the sophomores and their guests.” For the first time in four years somebody just went out and engaged an orchestra and announced a dance. Of course we have no assurance that the sophs themselves weren’t agog with various considerations, but to the casual observer there was no fuss. Which is very pleasant.
There’s just one thing likely to upset our dignity. Dorothy Lamour wasn’t trilling a gay note when we were first introduced to, Kay.
Costume de Soiree
There’s a good tale of a man who labors on this sheet who was going over to the dance at St. Mary’s last week. He sleeked himself up to a high pitch of sartorial elegance: brushed his hair for long, frowned over a tie-selection, worked vigorously in the shower, and dressed as carefully as he could. But when he appeared on the scene of festivities people looked amazed and laughed. He didn’t know what the matter was until after the affair was over one of his Sorin sub neighbors pointed out to the color-blind Scholasticer that his coat was of Oxford and his trousers were a brilliant tweed.
Indiana, oh Indiana!
Radio listeners alternately laughed and cursed at the stumbling broadcast of the Indiana game. Old hands even people who like Bill Munday— reported that it was the worst microphone chattering they had ever heard. The gentleman we listened to was certainly a bit befogged. He had our young men playing Kansas
T w o
(which may have been gentle irony) for the first two minutes; Katz, who didn’t even make the trip, threw a pass under his kind but firm perception; and to crown it all, in one grand burst of lyric eloquence there was a commercial backfield in which Max Adler played quarter, The First National Bank full, and the City Dairy was here, there and everywhere.
But our Indiana scouts report that his observations had a basis in reality. This Indiana affair seems to have been just about the maddest thing since 16-14. We pass over little items concerning the refereeing and officiating in general, and the disorganization which reigned everywhere, to this choice bit of Indiana substitution. Know, then, that one Sprauer started at right guard. That is the only name we have, because nobody could keep up with the nomenclature of the thing. A substitute came in for right guard; the right guard went to center and the center went out; a substitute came in at center and the left guard went out and the center went to right guard and the right guard-center went to left guard; a man came in at full: the right guard went out and the full went to right guard; then came a new right guard, and the full went out and the old right guard went to play full. That’s not all, but it’s as far as our man got.
Papers who reported frenzy in Kansas game please copy.
Grotto Devotions
The mass at the grotto Monday morning, celebrating the canonization of Blessed Bernadette in Rome on the same day, was a splendid idea, we think. Devotion to Our Lady Of Lourdes is deeply rooted at Notre Dame, not only on the part of the students, who have always found in the grotto a favorite place to pray, but also on the part of the Community. The novitiate is a center for distribution of Lourdes water, and publishes The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes each month. The fame of the great shrine is well reflected here.
But why not make more use of the grotto? Outdoor benediction during May would be both beautiful and inspiring, just as the Corpus Christi procession outdoors is. In a compact religious center like Notre Dame, religion should not be confined to the Church and the chapels. It should flower in the fields, and become a part of the very earth, as though it too were consecrated.
Speaker Rainey Is Notre Dame Visitor
Having barely recovered from the excitement and pleasure of Senator* Gugliemo Marconi’s visit last weekend, University officials and student body took “time-off” Tuesday to greet another distinguished gentleman, a leader in the nation’s politics, Congressman Henry T. Rainey, Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Arriving on the campus at 11 o’clock, the veteran Democratic Congressman spoke to the entire faculty and student body of the Law College. He said, “Law is the greatest of all professions. Practically all of our congressmen are lawyers. But keep out of politics until you are substantially ‘set up’ in your law practice.” Following his talk he was presented with a cane by the enthusiastic law students.
The Speaker then went to the University Dining Halls for lunch and to address the students. He was accompanied by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Dean Thomas F. Konop, Postmaster John N. Hunter, H. G. Davis, W. K. Studebaker, Charles E. Speth, Lloyd E. Grennan, and Judge O. R. Deahl. To the students Congressman Rainey said, “Ther are many more opportunities for you today in this ‘new era’ than when I graduated from college one-half century ago.”
The white-haired Speaker came to Notre Dame as the guest of Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the Law School, who served in Congress with Mr. Rainey from 1910 to 1917. As President of the South Bend Knife and Fork Club, Dean Konop had asked his friend, while enroute from his home in Carrollton, Illinois to Washington, D. C., to speak to the club at its first fall meeting Tuesday night. ,Mr. Rainey’s subject was, “What’s Ahead For America,” a topic which he developed by showing the past and present work of President F. D. Roosevelt’s administration, stressing particularly the “non-interference” policy of the United States on the recent European crisis.
Congressman Rainey has spent most of his life as a public servant. After practicing law in Carrollton, Illinois, from 1885 to 1902 he was a member of the 58th to the 66th Congresses from 1903 to 1921 and of the 68th to the present 73rd Congresses from 1923 to 1933.
The first meeting of the Rochester Club was held last Monday evening in the Brownson Rec with Presi-dent James Gleason, in the chair.
Plans for a banquet to be held in the near future were discussed, and a committee was appointed to make the necessary arrangements.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, October 20
Scholastic staff meetings: Editorial Board, Ave Maria Building, 6:30 p. m., News and Sport staff, 7:00; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra practice, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Saturday, October 21
Cross Country, Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa., 10 a. m. (E.S.T.); Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 12:30 p. m.; Football, Varsity vs. Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa., 2:00 p. m. (E.S.T.) ; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m. “Hello Everybody” with Kate Smith.
Sunday, October 22
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for Freshmen and students in St. Edward’s and Lyons Halls, 7:30 p. m.; Interhall Football games, 1:15 and 3:15 p. m.
Monday, October 23
Distribution of tickets for Pittsburgh game to Seniors, Notre Dame Stadium, 3:00-5:30 p.m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 • p.m.; Jugglers Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.; New Jersey Club meeting, Carroll Hall Rec., 7:45 p. m.; Metropolitan Club meeting, Brownson Rec., 7:45 p. m.; Tryouts for “Thanks For The Blow,” Band Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday October 24
Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p. m. Wrangler meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Distribution of tickets for Pittsburgh game to Juniors, Notre Dame Stadium, 3:00-5:30 p. m.
Wednesday, October 25
Distribution of tickets for Pitts-burgh/game to Sophomores, Notre Danie Stadium, 3:00-5:30 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Jugglers Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Thursday, October 26
Distribution of tickets for Pittsburgh game to Freshmen, Notre Dame Stadium, 3:00-5:30 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Distribution of tickets for Pittsburgh game to late comers, Notre Dame Stadium, 7:00-8:30 p.m.
Dr. O’Grady Speaks
Dr.' Daniel C. O’Grady, professor of philosophy in the University, lectured on the “Psychology of Laughter” at a session of the Alpha Iota sorority’s national convention, at the Oliver hotel, Thursday, October 12.
Alpha Iota is a national sorority of secretaries and stenographers.
CONFER HONORARY DEGREE ON SENATOR MARCONI HERE
Grid Tickets-----
The following bulletin concerning the distribution of student football tickets was issued this week:
“For the remaining games at Notre Dame—Pittsburgh, Purdue, and Southern California—all students are requested to secure their own tickets either on the days appointed or between seven and eight-thirty o’clock on Thursday night preceding the game. The days set aside for student ticket distribution at Stadium Gate No. 14, are as follow’s:
Monday, Seniors, 3:00 to 5:30.
Tuesday, Juniors, 3:00 to 5:30.
Wednesday, Sophomores, 3:00 to 5:30.
Thursday, Freshmen, 3:00 to 5:30.
Thursday, — 7:00 to 8:30 for all who were not able to get tickets on days and hours above.
“No tickets will be issued after 8:30 on Thursday night — kindly arrange to secure your tickets during these hours.
“You are directly responsible for the tickets issued on your book and it must be used by you and you alone. Should it be found in the hands of another, not a student, it will be taken up at the gate and you will be subject to disciplinary action. This procedure is necessary in view of the Federal Ticket Tax ruling on student tickets.”
Notice!
Because of the large number of Juniors who have not had their sitting for photographs for the Dome, it has become necessary to advance the “deadline” one week from today, to Friday, October 27th. The photographer is in the Walsh Basement studios every afternoon, except Saturday, from 1:15 to 5:00 p. m.
Proofs are still priced at fifty cents!	,
CONTENTS
Editorials .................... 1
“The Week” .................... 2
Speaker Rainey ................ 2
Marconi ....................... 3
Cotillion...................... 4
Music Revue.................... 5
K. of C. Nezvs ............... 6
“Neivs of the Week” .......... 7
“Man About Campus” ........... 8
“Voice of the Campus” ........ 9
Club Notes .................. 10
Carnegie Game ................ 11
Indiana Game ..............   12
Introducing ................. 13
“So They Say” ................ 14
Splinters ................... 15
On Doivn the Line ............ 16
CEREMONY OCT. 14TH
Signor Marchese Guglielmo Marconi, renowned scientist and inventor of the wireless, was the recipient of an honorary degree of doctor of laws at a special convocation held in Washington Hall Auditorium last Saturday afternoon. More than 900 students and faculty members assembled to honor the distinguished senator.
The Marchese was accompanied to the University by his wife, the Mar-chesa Marconi, Vice-Consul Dr. Antonio Ferme, his wife, of Italy, and Dr. Sergius Grace, vice-president of the Bell Telephone Co. He made a special trip from the Atlantic seaboard to receive the degree.
The convocation honoring Senator Marconi began with a procession from the Administration Building. The Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne, headed the procession. The Reverend James Wesley Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president and acting president of the University, and the entire Notre Dame faculty were also in the procession.
The Washington Hall stage was decorated with flags and flowers. Bishop Noll presided at the convocation w’ith Father O’Hara, the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dr. Grace, the Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Thomas F. Konop, James E. McCarthy, ViceConsul Ferme, Professor Pasquale M. Pirchio, Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., were grouped about Senator Marconi on the stage.
The Moreau choir, under the direction of the Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., opened the program with the singing of “Come Holy Host.” This was followed by the address of w’elcome by Father O’Hara.
“We regard this happy occasion as an extension of our graduation exercises of last June,” said Father O’Hara. “Our illustrious guest was expected then, but an accumulation of duties in Europe prevented his visiting our country at that time, and he had to defer his acceptance of the invitation extended nearly a year ago to accept an honorary degree. His excellency has now paid us the delicate compliment of making a special trip from the Eastern seaboard to be •with us today.”
Father O’Hara then told of the experiments of Prof. Jerome Greene in (Continued on Page 10)
Three
October 20, 1 933
Cotillion Ticket Sale To Close Tomorrow
' Jack Sweeney, 336 Morrissey Hall, announces that the tickets for the seniors and juniors are selling rapidly. Since there are only seventy-five tickets available for the men of these
John Sweeney Directs Ticket Sale.
cwo classes, Sweeney advises those who have not made reservations to do so immediately. The deadline for the sophomore ticket sale is eight o’clock Saturday evening, October 21. No tickets will be sold to anyone after twelve o’clock, noon, Wednesday, October 25.
Tickets for the Pittsburgh game, Saturday, October 28, may be obtained by presenting one’s Cotillion ticket and A. A. book at the Athletic Office in the Main Building. The students attending the Cotillion, and their guests, will occupy the east stands in the stadium, opposite the Notre Dame cheering section. Tickets for the game will be S3.60 per couple.
Tickets for the dance will be the same as in former years—three dollars. Those students attending the Cotillion will have the privilege of two o’clock permissions.
Sophomores desirous of making reservations for the Cotillion may do so either at 407 Lyons Hall or 177 St. Edward’s Hall. Jack Sweeney, 336 Morrissey Hall, is in charge of the junior-senior ticket sale.
Church Work Continues
The refinishing of pillars and ceiling, and the retouching of frescoes continued this week, as the work in the presbyter of the Sacred Heart Church reached the final stage. The scaffolding is already raised in the Lady Chapel where operations will be confined. Visitors are asked not to walk beneath the scaffolding while the men are at work.
Celebrate Anniversary of Fort Wayne Diocese
The combined voices of every Catholic choir in South Bend will feature the celebration of the diamond anniversary of the Fort Wayne Diocese, to be held in the K. of C. Hall, Sunday evening, October - 29, at eight o’clock. They will be assisted by the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the baton of Professor Seidel. In addition to the musical program, there will also be speeches by prominent members of the South Bend clergy and laity. The festival is open to the general public.
The choir, which will be composed of approximately one hundred and eighty voices, will render two well-known pieces. “Long Live the Pope,” a composition of Ganss, is at the request of Professor Muzzny; while the second offering, the famous “Hallelujah Chorus” from Handel’s opera “The Messiah,” will be periormed at the special request of Monsignor Osadnik, of St. Adelbert’s Church.
Professor Seidel will also direct the orchestra in several additional selections during the course of the program.
Lay Faculty Club Hold Reception For Faculty
The Lay Faculty Club held its annual reception for the University Administration, the deans of the colleges, and the new members of the faculty, last night at 7:30 in the Faculty Dining Hall. The guests of honor were the Superior General of the Holy Cross Congregation, Father Donahue, and bather O’Hara, vicepresident of the University.
There were about one hundred people present including the wives and friends of the professors. Professor Frank W. Horan, Chairman of the Program Committee, was in charge of the reception. Two of the speakers were Professor Pedro A de Landero, president of the club, and Professor Herbert J. Bott, secretary and treasurer. The reception was mostly an informal get-together and reunion of the faculty.
Recent Productions Are Booked for Showing Here
A new schedule of movie bookings for Washington Hall has recently been announced. Selected short subjects will be shown with the following feature pictures:
October 21.—“Hello Everybody.”
October 27.—“Crime of the Century.”	-
. October 28.—“Mama Loves Papa.”
October 31.—“Be Mine Tonight.”
Nov. 4.—“Destination Unknown.”
Presidents’ Council Plan Initial Meeting
Clay Johnson, president of the President’s Council, requests all the presidents of the active campus clubs to send to him a list of each club’s officers for the current year and also an approximate number of the members of each club respectively.
An effort will be made this year to instill more activity in the campus clubs. Since there is no available list of the active campus clubs and the officers of each club, the President’s Council needs the co-operation of each club in this matter.
The general impression about campus clubs is that they exist solely for the purpose of the dances each club holds during the holidays. If this situation is true the inevitable conclusion is that such clubs have no legitimate reason to exist.
Negotiations are under way to summon a meeting of all the presidents as soon as possible to discuss the plans for the year and the reorganization of the system of issuing charters to the various clubs. The plan is to issue new charters to the sundry clubs at the beginning of each year.
For a club to be eligible to have its charter renewed it must show some constructive program for the previous year, a solvent financial statement, and a favorable report of the conduct at its holiday dances. This plan will be up for discussion at the first meeting of the President’s Council. To insure some speedy activity of this organization each president must co-operate by sending the president of the President’s Council the above-outlined information as soon as possible. Address Clay Johnson, 109 Walsh Hall. .
With the help of each president, the Council will endeavor to raise itself from its dispirited condition of past years. Election of the additional officers of the Council will be held at the first meeting.
College and Class Figures Issued By Registrar
The total number of students enrolled in the colleges of the University for the year, 1933-34 has been compiled. The available figures show: College	Fr.	Soph.	Jr.	Sr.	Sp.	PG total
Arts & Letters	292	253	280’	236	4	1	1056
Science ------ 95	64	47	32	1	2	241
Engineering ....138	79	74	77	368
Commerce -----186	188	160	171	4	709
Total -------711 584 561 516 9 3 2384
Law	1 yr. 2 yr. 3 yr. Sp.
32	36-	38	2	108
Graduate Students	55	55
Total 2547
Four
The S cholastic
To Conduct Debate
Tryouts On Tuesday
LINNETS PLAN MUSICAL REVUE;
“THANKS FOR THE BLOW” IS NAME
Try-outs for the varsity debating team will begin on Tuesday, Oct. 31, at 4:05 o’clock in the basement of the Law Building. Those trying out will argue the question: “Resolved, that an amendment to the Federal Constitution making permanent the powers of the president as of July 3, 1933 should be adopted.”
Constructive speakers in the tryouts will be limited to eight minutes and rebuttals to three. Students of all classes of all the colleges are eligible for the teams.
At a meeting held last Saturday in the basement of the Law Building, Mr. Coyne outlined to the contestants the presidential powers which he thought might well be discussed in the preliminaries. He announced that up to date 28 men have handed in their names for the contests, including six of the old debaters. He urges all others desirous of entering to see him at once.
The teams will be chosen earlier than usual this year because of the possibility of holding one or two debates in early December. The time in which each contestant is to talk in these contests will be announced on the bulletin boards and also in The Scholastic of next week. .
When Marconi Visited Notre Dame
Left to right: Most Reverend John F. Noll, Marchese Guglielmo Marconi and Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C.
Uniforms ---
A new sight will be presented when the University band marches on . the football field here next Saturday completely arrayed in bright new uniforms. The old uniforms of army grey with black puttees, which have been in use for the past ten years, will be displaced by snappy ensembles of navy blue.
The new uniforms, ninety in all, will consist of blue double-breasted coats with white pearl buttons and gold braid, and long gold striped trousers. The overcoats will be of a darker shade of blue, doublebreasted with large white buttons and gold braid. The hats have white, waterproof, washable tops, black visors and black foundations trimmed with gold braid.
Louis Alaman, dram major of the band, will be clad in a white shako, small blue jacket trimmed in gold, white breeches and black boots.
Prof. Manion’s Mother Dies
The mother of Professor Clarence M. (Pat) Manion, professor in the College of Law, died at her home in Henderson, Kentucky, on Wednesday of this week.
CAST WILL INCLUDE 200
“Thanks For the Blow” is to be the name of a snappy, up-to-date, musical extravaganza to be produced by the Linnets early in December. The revue, an innovation in the field of entertainment on the Notre Dame campus, will contain all types of dancing, performing, singing and clowning. The purpose of the show, as its title suggests, is to depict the undercurrent of feeling found among Notre Dame’s student body.
The Linnets, established last year by the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., and- Professor Joseph J. Cas-asanta, are merely sponsoring the show, for participation is to be open to all members of the student body. The proceeds from the production are to be donated to the local chapter of the St. Vincent De Paul Society.
Call Issued To All Students
A call is being issued by Father McAllister and Prof. Casasanta for all types of student talent. Specialty actors, banjo players, accordian players, tap daancers, xylophone players, quartets, vocal or instrumental trios, magicians, and novelty pianists are wanted, to comprise a cast of nearly 200.
Not only are performers wanted. Those interested in the technical and production side of the show are also invited to fake part. Song writers, script and scenario writers, experienced stage hands and technicians, electricians, and make-up men are asked to report. Brother Elmer, C.S.C., who has had five years’ experience with the Warner Brothers corporation will head the technicians. Poster artists and scene painters as well as costume designers will be needed. Ray Naber, ’33, who is employed in South Bend, has generous ly consented to aid in the production.
All students, who are talented
Will Hold Meeting Oct. 23
along any of the lines suggested or who have any ideas that might aid in the production of the revue are asked to report at a meeting of the Linnets to be held Monday evening, Oct. 23, at 8 o’clock in the band room of Music Hall.
The presentation is not intended to be a burlesque. It will, as far as possible, be carried out along the plans of the popular revues current today on Broadway and on the movie screen. The feature number of the show will be an original musical selection to be named “Thanks for the Blow” which is to be written by some student.
Five
October 20, 1933
Fr. O’Hara Addresses Two Chicago Groups
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, addressed a joint meeting of the Holy Name Society and the Catholic "Youth Organization which was held in St. Sebastian’s Parish in Chicago, Monday night. Two of the other speakers were Bishop B. J. Shiel, who presided over the meeting, and the Reverend Edmund Byrnes, pastor of St. Sebastian’s.
Father O’Hara praised these two organizations as defenders of Catholic morals and urged their support. In speaking of the Holy Name Society Father O’Hara said, “It is a vigorous, square-toed, All-American protest against the decay of religion. It preaches the gospel of good example. It gives the weak-kneed brothers the power of numbers to overcome human respect. It proclaims to a doubting, distracted world the doctrine that it needs most today — the doctrine that Jesus of Nazareth is the Son of God, equally God with the Father.
“And I like the Catholic Youth Organization. From what I can observe of the working of this organization, Bishop Shiel has come closer than any of his contemporaries to the heart of the boy problem.”
Father John Cavanaugh Addresses Italian Club
A meeting and smoker was held by the Italian Club last Tuesday evening, October 17, in the Carroll Rec. After a short business session, the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who has recently returned to the University after a number of years absence, gave a short talk to the club members on Italian culture. Father Cavanaugh mentioned the important part played by Italy in various fields of learning, such as literature, art and science, and urged the club members to continue their work in promoting interest in the activities of their race.
Plans were completed for the arrangement of a series of Roman dinners, the first of which will be held at Vumbaco’s restaurant in South Bend on October 31. These affairs proved to be very popular last year, and are still under the direction of Andrew Maffei, chairman of the entertainment committee of the club.
Refreshments were served at the close of the meeting.
Met Club to Meet
The annual Army game trip to New York will be the chief topic considered at a Metropolitan club meeting called by President James J. Dunnigan for 7:45 Monday night, Oct. 23, in Brownson “Rec.”
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
For today, this column is to be one of dedication. Because of the perishable quality of news items, it was impossible to hold over the news of the smoker until this issue, so it had to supersede chronologically what
Rev. John J. Reynolds, c.s.c.
Explaines K. of C. Aims.
we consider to be its inferior in value of every other kind. This column, then, is dedicated to our chaplain, Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., in recognition of his superb talk to the candidates at the same smoker. Mention of Father Reynolds’ speech was foregone last week, because we felt that it merited prominent space in its own right, apart and distinct from all remarks about the smoker itself.
Most of us know and appreciate Father Reynolds’ ability as an orator, but he surpassed all previous achievement that night. In outlining to the candidates the advantages of the Knights of Columbus, he explained the aims of Columbianism in such a fashion that even the council’s most noted cynic was stirred from his lethargic slouch to add feeble but surprising applause to the general acclaim.
That he made a deep and lasting impression on his hearers is evidenced by the fact that his speech is still being talked about. If any candidate present can ask himself why he was persuaded, or why he persuaded himself, to join the Knights of Columbus, and still be uncertain as to his reasons, he is either deaf or dumb (not necessarily mute). If each member could explain Columbianism, its aims and ideals, so clearly, so suc-cintly, so beautifully, the whole campus would be inducted forthwith.
We wish to assure Father Reynolds that his inspiring effort did not fall on mute images; that his speech will be remembered. Its effect will be evinced assuredly by a marked increase in the number of candidates. The impetus Father Reynolds has given the council will prove to be an investment of the highest possible value, not only to the council, but to him. “For he cast his bread upon the waters.”
Television Not Quite Ready Says Marconi
By Mitchell C. Tackley
“Television is not quite ready for the world” said the Signor Marchese Guglielmo Marconi to a Scholastic staff member in an interview immediately following the special convocation held in Washington Hall last Saturday. “There are a few technicalities and expenses that prohibit the immediate popularity of it,” he continued in reference to why television has not been introduced into the homes of today.
In defense of his own invention, Senator Marconi stated that the spoken word will always be more important than the picture. For this reason, he .said, television has not been received as enthusiastically as was the radio.
“Radio waves can and are sent around the world and back,” the Senator answered to a question asked concerning the possibilities of the radio. Marconi assured the staff writer that a radio message can be sent and received at the same station, the waves having traveled around the world and back again to the same spot.
Marconi said that he considered the perfection of the telephoto processes very near at hand. Perhaps in a year, or even six months, he stated, the process will be perfected. Much depends on the invention of new appliances and auxiliary mechanisms, he concluded.
The Senator is extremely fond of music. When asked if he played any instruments, he said, “Yes, piano, but not in public.” He has studied music and regards it as a valuable part of his life.
The renowned inventor is at the present time working and experimenting on micro waves to be used for the perfection of his already practical radio telephone. Marconi asserted that his telephones are now in use for communication between England and South Africa.
Signor Marconi speaks with a slight English accent although he was born in Italy and spent most of his life there. Marconi’s mother was Irish, and his father Italian. He was very gracious and kind to the various press representatives who conversed with him. He very generously autographed a few cards for the reporters.
He wished to impress the staff representative and other members of the press that he considered it a very great honor and was very much flattered to be a guest of the Notre Danie faculty and student body. He stated that Notre Dame was indeed a “very great place.”
The Scholastic
Six
Prof. Hull Talks On “Climate” To A.I.E.E.
“We are living in a glacial period/’ With these startling words Professor Daniel Hull, head of the physics department of the University, climaxed a lecture on. the subject “Climate” before the Notre Dame Branch of
Prof. Daniel Hull
Climate, an astronomical result.
the A. I. E. E. at its second meeting of the year in Room 220 of the Engineering Building on Monday night, Oct. 16.
Professor Hull, in the course of the 45 minutes during which he explained the causes of climate and its vagaries, told his listeners that there have been four or five great epochs in the geological history of the earth, roughly 250 million years apart. He explained that at these comparatively regular intervals of millions of years great glacial periods have occurred, to be followed by intervals of general and uniform warmth. He made the statement that we are now slowly emerging from the latest glacial period and will eventually enter another period of great warmth.
These alternate eras of cold and warmth, said Professor Hull, are caused by our solar system approaching and departing from an adjacent solar system whose heat is absorbed by our planet. Climate, he remarked, is an astronomical and not a geographical result. His talk was extremely interesting and entertaining, and it was well received by his audience.
Other speakers on the program included several students, who presented papers of immediate interest to electrical engineers. Norm Conley, a sophomore, gave a brief biography of Maxwell, while Harold Gilday, a junior, gave a comprehensive report of tests on low-voltage networks. Al Hiegel, a senior, delivered a technical discussion of capacity, its history and mathematical theory. Cy Foote presented the regular bi-weekly review of happenings in the electrical engineering world.
A mock radio program, broadcast over a public address system, in which several clever'talks were given brought the meeting to a close.
News of the Week
By George P. Leyes .
Germany’s action in withdrawing from the disarmament conference and the League of Nations has thrown the whole European situation into turmoil. The consequences are tremendous because the disarmament conference is definitely shipwrecked, and Europe must face the possibility of Germany rearming.
The background of the crisis involves an important shift in the European balance of power. For years most of the world’s great powers, including Great Britain, Italy and the United States, have felt that France was too strong — so strong that with the help of its allies it could easily dominate Europe. The conference thus became in the minds of these powers, a political weapon for the purpose of effecting this readjustment of power in Europe.
Germany’s menacing attitude under the new Hitler government has now changed the entire outlook, and France is more than ever determined not to let Germany rearm unless it has guarantees that it will not expose France and hei’ allies to some new German attack. Europe now feels that if Germany is once again equally rearmed, she will keep Europe in perpetual turmoil by territorial and other demands, with intimations that if these demands are not granted, force may finally be resorted to.
While France is staging a gigantic lottery in an effort to balance her budget, several nationally prominent men in the United States are charged with violating the federal lottery laws. Senator James J. Davis, former Secretary of Labor, and Theodore G. Miller were acquitted, while the sentence of Frank Hering, editor of the Eagles magazine, is still pending. The indictments were based on the government contention that the “drawings,” although conducted by the Moose lodge as a charitable enterprise, were little more than gigantic lotteries which netted the promoters and the fraternity millions of dollars.
The billions of dollars being spent by the government in its war on unemployment, crime, poverty and the mal-distribution of wealth tends to bring the centralization of authority more and more to Washington. Mr. Roosevelt’s plan seems destined to establish a social theory of wages in which salaries in excess of fair value will be forbidden. The large salaries paid movie stars is one example of the abuses which he hopes to end by
Economic Seminar To Organize October 24
A committee composed of Charles McNichols, Lowell Hagan, and Francis Linton are planning the work of the Economic Seminar for the year. The first meeting has been tentatively scheduled for Tuesday night, October 24.
At that session, McNichols will read a paper on the Cuban situation. He will outline the position which the United States occupied in the revolution. Tariffs and American bankers’ ownership of Cuban plantations will also be discussed.
Ten seniors, mostly Economic majors, form the nucleus of the Seminar. It is expected that a similar number of juniors will become associated with the group to establish a basis for next year’s organization. Any junior interested in the Seminar is asked to communicate with one of the committee.
The club will hold regular meetings once a week, either at or before dinner in the evening. Papers to be read at each session will be concerned with some important phase of current economics. The committee is now planning these papers for the entire semester.
Formerly, the discourse was presented after the meal, but a new arrangement may be tried this season in that the paper would be read, members of the Seminar then conducting a round table discussion of the topic.
Head Cheerleader Clark
Makes Final Appointments
James Clark, head cheerleader, this week announced the personnel of the squad under his direction. The list includes two sophomores, Jim Ef-flinger and Miller Mallett, and three freshmen, Joe Quinn, Aart Gerend, and Howard Barnett. According to Clark, the methods of leading the student cheers will be varied throughout the season.
the movie code, which will set the standard of values.
Since there are abuses in many other industries besides the movie industry, it seems that a graduated surtax law such as is in effect in most European countries would hit everybody the same. If the President thinks that his own salary is too large, there should be no justifiable reason why a movie star or industrial magnate will not do his best or strain his powers to succeed, even though he is not paid a million dollar a year salary.
October 20, 1933
Seven
‘Santa Maria’ To Be Qut Next Thursday
The first issue of the Santa Maria, official publication of the local council of the Knights of Columbus, will be released Thursday, Oct. 26.
It will be dedicated to the guests at the Sophomore Cotillion. The general tone will be informal, with a cover in an autumnal maroon scheme embossed with the publication’s symbol and a sketch of the Santa Maria.
A special article by Joseph Petritz, director of University publicity, will be one of the outstanding features.
“We hope to make the Santa Maria one of the outstanding Knights of Columbus publications in the country,” Editor Kennedy announced. “Last year it was generally recognized by Columbian leaders as the leading council publication in the west.”
Ray Martin, a junior, has been appointed assistant editor and George Wenz, a senior, will act as business manager for the coming year.
Fr. Laurin Addresses
French Club Members
The French Club held a meeting last Monday night at 7:45 in Carroll Rec. The club was addressed by Father Edouard Laurin, C.S.C., who spoke on “Organization.” He stressed especially the value of organization to a young man. Professor Earl F. Langwell gave a talk on his travels in France and in Alsace-Lorraine comparing the living customs there with American living customs.
Louis Grosso gave a reading on different notable pieces of art in the Library. The next meeting of the French Club will be held in the Library where the entire club will look over the paintings.
On another part of the program was Lindsay Phoebus, who sang a couple of popular songs. He was accompanied by Justin Tompkins. The members of the club also sang several French songs. The meeting opened, as usual, by singing the “Marseillaise” and was closed with “Bon Soir, Amis.” Other songs were “Alouette,” a popular old French song and “A La Claire Fontaine.”
Harold May was unable to give the saber-fencing exhibition which was scheduled for this meeting as the official fencing equipment had not arrived. Professor de Landero stated that there will be no more exhibitions of fencing until the fencers become a little more finished in the art. He added, however, that there will he exhibitions in a few weeks.
Eig h t
Stew Osborne is a pretty regular guy with a world of stuff on the ball and a disturbingly effective way of concealing just that amount of stuff. He has never had to wax his face in nice clean smiles and when he says hello he means it. Yet with this knack of being precisely his own self, he has, through the course of four active years, become very well
known in the right kind of way.
His political activities have been of a particular nature. He has never been much of a joiner and his name on a ticket usually means mere consent. Perhaps this is just why he has always been considered one way or another whenever the polished, whispering youths of the campus came out for their annual Spring kill. His attitude has never been the typical “whattam I goin’ to get out of it?” One that has more or less left campus politics with a pretty definite stench. What we’ve been trying to say is that Stew Osborne has always been the rugged individual in the three year imbroglio of class politics.
Not A Boy Scout
There is no danger, however, of Osborne’s being classed as a Boy Scout. He does his own things in his own way and if you don’t like it— well, perhaps you have some idea of what to do. Stew’s brother Phidell was decidedly one of the better known lads in last year’s class. In the Monogram Absurdities last year he did admirably in backing up the antics of Groucho Lukats.
Just now Stew is resting up after a strenuous week-end in Indianapolis and Bloomington. According to all the other gentlemen of joy it was one rare stay. We asked Stew if he had himself a time. “Yeh, fine.” That’s Stew Osborne.
Wranglers Lay Plans For Debate Schedule
Arthur L. Korzeneski, a junior member of the Wrangler Society was named chairman of the Lemmer-Trophy Debate League this week. The new chairman outlined his plan of procedure for the intramural debating season at the meeting last Tuesday evening in the Law Building.
Aided by suggestions from the other members, Korzeneski tentatively decided to divide the campus halls into Groups I and II. Under this system, there will be a total of 33 debates, 12 preliminary, two semifinal and one final contest in Group I, and 14 preliminary, two semi-final and one final contest in Group II. The entire season will be ended by the final debate between the winners in each league or group.
Each Wrangler member has been-assigned to a hall as “coach.” These are, in Group I: Alunmi, .Louis Hruby; Badin, James Boyle; Howard, Richard Ballman; Sorin, John Hayes; Corby, John Logan; Walsh, Hugh Fitzgerald. In Group II they are: Carrbll, Robert Schmelzle; Brownson, Justin Hannen; Dillon, John Heywood; Freshman, Franklyn Hochreiter; St. Edward’s, Thomas Proctor; Lyons, Edwin Holman; Morrissey, Eugene Blish.
It is almost a certainty that the question to be used in these interhall debates will be the Varsity-Debate question, “Resolved: that an amendment to the Federal Constitution making permanent the powers of the President of the United States as of July 1, 1933, should be adopted.”
The winner of the final debate between the two league champions will be awarded the “Lemmer Trophy,” now in possession of Howard Hall, last year’s winner.
Sixteen Denominations Are Represented at Notre Dame
Statistics were issued this week by the Director of Studies, Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., listing the religious affiliations of the students enrolled this year. The figures show ninety-two per cent of the students to be Catholic, with the remaining eight per cent distributed among fifteen different denominations. The statistics:
Catholic, 2349; Protestants, 48; Jewish, 34; Methodist, 31, Presbyterian 21; Episcopalian, 14; Lutheran, 12; None, 10; Baptist, 9; Christian, 5; Greek, 6; Congregationalist, 2; United Brethren, 2; Apostolic, 1; Christian Scientist, 1; Community Church, 1; M. B. C., 1; Total 2547.
The Scholastic
Fr. O’Hara Speaks At Alumni Dinner
Voice of the Campus
Elect Fr. Nieuwland
Head of Academy
The St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club held their first dinner of the year Wednesday evening at 6:30 in the Lay Faculty dining halls, to honor the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Prefect of Religion.
Speakers of the evening included James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, and Edward Meehan, who extended the club’s formal welcome to the vice-president of the University. Father Hugh O’Donnell was introduced to the club members.
In a short speech, Father O’Hara thanked the club for the tribute accorded him, and urged the members to further develop the club qualities of courtesy, loyalty and Catholic action. He stated various instances wherein these qualities added to the goodwill of the University.
The program for the evening was handled by Toastmaster Paul Butler, ’27, president of the club. The “Jugglers,” under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, played during the course of the meal. Later in the evening, another musical program was presented by Professors Seidel, Davis and Groom, of the Department of Music.
Junior Class to Sponsor Pittsburgh Football Dance
The- Junior Class will sponsor the first football dance of the season Saturday evening at 9 o’clock, Oct. 28, at the Knights of Columbus Auditorium. Andrew Maffei has been appointed chairman of the affair by President Thomas K. LaLonde. Marty Ross and his orchestra have been engaged to play for the dance. The tickets which are one dollar per couple may be purchased in any one of the residence halls on the campus.
Mother Of Professor
J. Arthur Reyniers Dies
Funeral services for Mrs. Alice B. Reyniers, mother of Professor J. Arthur Reyniers, instructor in bacteriology in the College of Science, were held Wednesday of this week.
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, was celebrant of the Solemn Requiem High Mass, in St. Bavo’s Church, Mishawaka. The Reverend Otto Keller, pastor of St. Bavo’s, was deacon, and the Reverend Anthony Badina, pastor of St. Monica’s church, subdeacon.
Interment was in St. Joseph’s cemetery, Mishawaka.
October 2 0, 1 9 3 3
“Thanks for the Blow”
Editor, The Scholastic:
What has become of the “Linnets”? I see every other campus organization advertised on the bulletin boards. The only one that accomplished anything worthwhile last year, as far as I can recall, was the “Linnets.” Here’s hoping there are some birds in last year’s nests.
C. D.
Juvenility Deplored
Editor of The Scholastic:
After viewing the Sunday motion pictures which have been presented at Washington Hall since the opening of the school. I have a vehement complaint to make. The type of movies presented entertain only the juvenile. It is about time that our matured taste is catered to, after all, we pay to be entertained.
Our taste demands pictures in which we can appreciate worthwhile productions. Save Chic Sale for the boy scouts.
J. L.
An ‘Outsider’ Praises
Editor, The Scholastic:
Believe in giving credit where it is due, hence the letter,—having just finished reading The Scholastic, and having enjoyed it thoroughly, I felt a word of praise from an outsider would not be amiss.
A year ago May, I played your vodvil theatre in town, and as I expected, I received a few cute calls from the boys in the audience. Naturally, I classified them as “just school kids, and fresh ones at that.” (I’ve played New Haven, Madison, Des Moines, Lincoln, out to the coast, so have missed very few, and they are all alike).
Be that as it may, this June I was on the bill with 32 of your boys in Washington and Baltimore, and I am •very proud to say that I have never met finer gentlemen in my life—perfect examples of fine education and breeding. They accepted their four shows a day as part of their duty to the University.
Thursday I stopped off at Notre Dame, I routed myself out of the way (from Toronto to here) so that I might purposely meet these boys again and enjoy their company. I heard them sing—Joe Casasanta put them through their old routine for me. Believe me, I was thrilled.
Again I say that all the printed booklets of the school mean little as an advertisement when compared to the splendid moral advertisement these boys left behind them.
Very sincerely, Sibyl Bowan, Indianapolis, Ind.
At the recent meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science, held in Bloomington, October 12 to 14, Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., was elected to the position of President of the Academy. This is the highest office in the Academy and is filled annually by popular election.
Coincident with other recent honors bestowed upon Father Nieuwland, this distinction comes as somewhat of a crowning glory, inasmuch as the Indiana Academy of Science, founded in 1894, celebrates its golden jubilee next year with Father Nieuwland at its head.
Father Nieuwland was accepted as a member of the Indiana Academy of Science in 1904 and was later nominated to the position of Fellow to the Academy.
First scientific recognition by the Academy was accorded Father Nieuwland in conection with his work in botany. His earliest papers were concerned mainly with that science. The Greene-Nieu-wIand Botanical Collection is well-known and justly famous.
Later Father Nieuwland turned to the field of organic chemistry. In this he has been greatly successful and has been cited numerous times for the discoveries made in his chemical researches. Just a few weeks prior to the Indiana Academy of Science meeting, Father Nieuwland was awarded the Morehead medal at Chicago in recognition of his research work in acetylene chemistry.
Despite his work in chemistry, Father Nieuwland has not forsaken the field of botany. At this last meeting, he presented a paper in that subject to the Academy.
At the same convocation, Professor Theodore Just, Ph.D. was nominated to Fellowship in the Academy in recognition of his work in the field of botany.
Academy of Science In Session Monday Eve
The Notre Dame Academy of Science held its regular meeting last Monday evening in room 102 of Science Hall.
The main business of the evening was the discussion of plans for the year submitted by the executive council. A motion for the abolition of the criticism of each presented paper, was defeated during the business session.
Meetings will be held on every second Monday. Dr. George Paff, instructor in Histology, will be the speaker at the next meeting, to be held October 30th.
Nine
Marconi Is Honored At Convocation Here
(Continued from Page 3)
May 1899 on the Notre Dame campus. Prof. Greene at that time successfully sent wireless messages about the campus and to South Bend. This was the first experiment of its kind in America.
In the name of the University of Notre Dame, the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., read the citation: “the degree of doctor of laws conferred on a scientist and inventor whose experiments in the field of electricity revolutionizing the communication of human thought, have made the world for all time his debtor, and have brilliantly demonstrated once more the Catholic principle of the essential unity of science and religion, Guglielmo Marconi.” The actual presentation was made by His Excellency, Bishop Noll.
Senator Marconi’s brief speech of acceptance was received with much enthusiasm. The scientist, in accepting the degree stated, “I will keep and hold this as a perpetual reminder to me of benevolence and appreciation.” The great inventor lauded the noble experiments of Prof. Greene, the man who led America in advancing the wireless.
The Marchese concluded saying that he would never forget the honor bestowed upon him and that both he and his wife were extremely happy to be among the faculty and student body of Notre Dame.
Father Connerton then led the choir in “Cantate Dominum.” The convocation came to an end with a blessing by Bishop Noll.
Before leaving the University, Senator Marconi paid a special visit to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, who is confined in the University infirmary.
Irish Club Accepts Members
At the second meeting of the year, held last Sunday morning, the Irish club accepted three new members and formulated plans for the coming year. The new members are J. Kavanaugh, Ed Killmurry, and P. Foley.
It was decided that the club ■will run its meetings on a study club plan enabling the members to participate in an organized chronological study of Irish history. A member will be appointed to lead the study for each meeting. A committee was appointed to select the books to be used by the club from the Hibernian collection of the University library.
Application blanks for membership may be obtained from President John J. O’Connor in 251 Sorin, or from any member.
Ten
Celebrate Mass At Grotto To Honor St. Bernadette
Celebration of Holy Mass at the Grotto marked Notre Dame’s public observance of the canonization day of St. Bernadette, Monday, October 16. The Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C. was the celebrant. In spite of the chilly and threatening morning, a fair-sized group was in attendance.
St. Bernadette Soubirous, at the age of fourteen, first witnessed the apparition of the Blessed Virgin upon earth at the Grotto of Massabieille, near a stream called the Gave, outside of the village of Lourdes, France, on the 11th of February, 1858. She witnessed the apparition seventeen times following tins first one, receiving messages and instructions to be carried out.
Now called the Grotto of Lourdes, named for the village itself, rather than the Grotto of Massabieille, the shrine has become famous the world over, and is visited by thousands of pilgrims annually. The numberless miraculous cures are attested to by the large staff of physicians retained to investigate the authenticity of cures.
Dr. Baldinger Attends Indianapolis Convention
Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy department, recently attended the annual joint meeting of the Indiana State Board of Pharmacy and the deans of the Indiana colleges of Pharmacy. This session was held in the Statehouse Annex in Indianapolis.
The State Board yearly invites the deans to tins affair in order’ to discuss with them problems in pharmaceutical education.
College Diploma Means A $15 A Week Job In N. Y.
In the October 6th edition of the New York Daily News, this article appeared: “Grab your Diploma; Here’s a job!”
“Perhaps you’ve been wondering what a college education is worth in these days of depression.
“Well, provided you are a graduate of Harvard, Princeton or Yale, you can get a $15-a-week job is bus boy in a famous Times Square restaurant.
“This ‘splendid opportunity’ was advertised in yesterday’s help-wanted columns of a morning newspaper. The ad did not specify that applicants should be Phi Beta Kappas.”
Scholastic Staff
The regular staff meeting will be held tonight at 6:30 and 7:00 in the editorial offices, Ave Maria building.
Many Campus Clubs Active During Week
In commemoration of the discovery of America and in honor of the new members of the club, the La Raza Club held a banquet Thursday evening October 12, at the South Bend Inn. The new members welcomed were, Robert Benavides, Antonio Busqueta, Alberto Castineira, Jaime Gomez, Telmo de Landero, Hector Sarainana, the new members come from Texas, Mexico, Cuba, and Colombia.
Bookmen
Surrounded by the examples of old European tapestry in the Bendix collection in the University library exhibit, Mr. Paul R. Byrne, librarian, entertained the Bookmen with a presentation of the historical background of the tapestries, at the regular Bookmen meeting last Monday evening.
Interhall Debate
A general meeting for all interested in intramural or interhall debating will be held Monday, Oct. 23, at 12:30 p. m. in the basement auditorium of the Law Building. Students in all classes and halls are eligible for the interhall teams, competing throughout a well-rounded season for the Lemmer Trophy.
Symphony
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will hold a dress rehearsal with the South Bend Catholic Festival Chorus at the K. of C. Hall on Sunday, October 22, at 4 p. m.
Pitt Club
The Pittsburgh Club meets tonight in Brownson Rec, at 7:45, according to an announcement by President William C. O’Toole.
All freshmen from Pittsburgh and vicinity are requested to attend the meeting, in addition to the old members.
A. S. M. E.
Mr. C. C. Wilcox, of the Studebaker corporation, honorary chairman of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and vice-chairman of the St. Joseph Valley branch, will be the speaker at a meeting of the Notre Dame group to be held Wednesday, October 25, in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, at 7:45 p. m.
New Jersey
The New Jersey club will meet Monday night, October 23, in Carroll Rec, at 7:30.
Reports on two summer dances are to be made.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Harriers Meet Tech
Runners Tomorrow
CARNEGIE TECH THREATENS TO UPSET IRISH COMEBACK
The Notre Dame cross country squad, destined to be one of the most colorful here in recent years, left today for Pittsburgh, Pa. where they
Coach John P. Nicholson “We’ll have a good team.”
will encounter the Carnegie Tech harriers in the season opener tomorrow afternoon.
Before leaving the campus Coach John P. Nicholson appeared in a confident mood. Although the Skibos are quite strange to Nick, he picked his squad to finish first. The Irish runners will undergo something new when they square off with Tech, in the form of an extremely hilly course. Despite this disadvantage, Coach Nicholson still counts on a win.
During the past week “Red” Grimes, captain, has reported and will be taken on the trip east. The Irish leader hasn’t had enough time to reach top form yet, so not very much can be expected from him. Eddie King, Joe Young, track captain, Clyde Roberts, Norman Duke, Leo McFarlane, Gene O’Reilly and Robert Lee complete the crew of eight that headed east today.
History —
1922—Notre	Dame 19,	Carnegie	Tech. 0.
1923—Notre	Dame 26,	Carnegie	Tech. 0.
1924—Notre	Dame 40,	Carnegie	Tech. 19.
1925—Notre	Dame 26.	Carnegie	Tech. 0.
1926—Notre	Dame 0,	Carnegie	Tech 19.
1928—Notre	Dame 7,	Carnegie	Tech 27.
1929—Notre	Dame 7.	Caraegie	Tech. 0.
1930—Notre	Dame 20,	Carnegie	Tech. 6.
1931—Notre	Dame 19,	Carnegie	Tech. 0.
1932—Notre	Dame 42,	Carnegie	Tech. 0.
Total—Notre Dame 206, Carnegie Tech. 71.
In their ten game football series with Notre Dame, the Scots of Carnegie Tech have won only two games. But the balm of these two victories has been enough to soothe the sting of eight defeats. One victory startled the football world; the other upset an Irish tradition which had stood for twenty-three years.
Carnegie first defeated the Irish in 1926. Notre Dame had run roughshod over eight opponents and, to all appearances, was headed for the national championship. The Skibos, on the other hand, had been defeated twice. The Carnegie game was considered as a lull before the all-important Southern California battle which was to decide the national championship. But when the smoke had cleared from the Carnegie-Notre Dame game, Wally Steffen’s boys were the 19 to 0 victors and the Irish championship hopes had been trampled in the dust. Incidentally, Notre Dame went on to conquer Southern California in their next game.
In 1928 Carnegie came to Notre Dame and upset Irish tradition by defeating Rockne’s men on Cartier Feld. It was the first time in twenty-three years that Notre Dame’s record on its home field had been marred by a defeat. The Irish team of that year was a comparatively weak one, and a week previous had played itself out to defeat the Army, the strongest team in the East, by the score of 12 to 6.
Carnegie Tech’s team gave Notre Dam* national champions of 1929 one of the toughest battles of the season before going down to a 7 to 0 defeat. Time and again, the Irish marched down the field only to be halted by a stubborn Skibos line once they were within striking distance of the goal. Finally a long pass gave Notre Dame a first down on Carnegie’s three yard line.
Three times, Frank Carideo sent (Continued on Page 14)
GORMAN IS CAPTAIN
Starting Lineups
Notre Dame	Carnegie
Vairo LE__________________________ Stewart
Krause ............. LT------------- Croft
Wunsch ______________LG___________ Dreshar
Gorman (C) ___________C---------- Trbovich
Schiralli .........._RG------------ Burzio
Roach .............. RT------------ Nutter
Devore ______________RE____________  Lewis
Gaul ______________  QB__________ Bevevino
Lukats ..............LH------------ Spisak
Brancheau .......... RH________ Vorderburg
Elser -------------  FB------------ Sayles
Officials: Referee. Col. H. B. Hackett. (West Point). Umpire, C. G. Eckles, (Washington and Jefferson). Field Judge, E. E. Miller, (Penn State). Head linesman. J. J. Lipp. (Chicago).
By Howard T. Waldron
With another fighting Irishman, Tom (Kitty) Gorman, appointed captain by Coach Hunk Anderson, the Notre Dame football team entrained yesterday for the eleventh renewal of their series with Carnegie Tech. Gorman, husky Irish center for the past two years, played one of the best games of his career last week against Indiana University, and Anderson rewarded him with the captaincy for this game with the Scots.
Pre-season speculation made the Tartans appear an easy victim to the Notre Dame grid machine, but their play since the football opener has changed this viewpoint. With a team composed almost entirely of veterans, Tech rode rough-shod over Temple’s Owls coached by the venerable Pop Warner, running up a 25-0 score. Last week against Xavier University a last quarter field goal gave them a 3-0 victory over an inspired Xavier team. They used only a straight running attack, being content to save their heavier guns for Notre Dame.
Back in 1926, a Notre Dame was roaring along the path to a national championship until they hit a fighting Tartan team near the end of their season. The score ended 19-0 in favor of the Scots. Again in 1928, paced by the same quarterback who led them to victory as a sophomore, the Plaid handed the Irish their first defeat in a quarter century of play on Cartier field. The name of the All - American who quarterbacked these teams to victory is Howard Harpster. Tomorrow he faces Notre Dame in a different role. Harpster (Continued on Page 11)
October 2 0, 1 9 3 3
Eleven
LUKATS, ELSER LEAD IRISH TO 12-2 TRIUMPH OVER HOOSIER ELEVEN
NICK GALLOPS 54 YARDS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Power was the keynote of the Notre Dame attack that swept Indiana aside at Bloomington Saturday, and enabled the Irish to come out on top, 12 to 2. Coach Hunk Anderson turned big Don Elser loose in an onslaught on the husky Hoosier line and the Gary tot streamed through the openings with the power of a locomotive that soon told on the stubborn downstate defense.
The Indiana tilt was to have thrown much light on what can be expected of the Irish in the future, but when the 20,000 fans filed out of the stadium the experts and their aide-de-camp force, the barber shop quarterbacks, were still at a loss as to what is to come.
Although the Blue and Gold warriors appeared slow and at times lacked the precision of a typical Notre Dame squad, their 292 yards gained on running plays shows the marked improvement that came over Anderson’s charges since the opener.
The ball carriers worked together much better ana the blocking was on the upgrade as can be attested by those who saw Lukats hang up the first Irish touchdown of the campaign on a 54 yard off-tackle slant. Nick’s jaunt wrote another chapter in the book of Notre Dame’s “perfect plays,” in which blocking is the essential feature.
The Hoosiers recovered a fumble by Elser late in the first period and brought the ball to the Irish 48 yard line where an incompleted forward pass on fourth down on the second play in the second quarter cost them possession of the ball. Lukats started off right tackle on the next formation and aided by perfect blocking, romped across the chalk marks for the score that put the locals in the lead.
The superb blocking of Schiralli, Michuta, Gaul, and Devore swept aside would-be tacklers and cleared the way to the extent that Lukats covered the 54 yards without a hand being laid on him.
Things were a bit off-color from the Irish point of view in the first five minutes of the fray. Thirty seconds of play had elapsed when Shakespeare, standing on the goal line in punt formation, let a bad pass from center roll into the end zone. After a mad scramble the lad with the literary name finally downed the ball behind the goal for a safety.
With this bit of erratic football the Hoosier scoring was concluded
STATISTICS
Notre
Dame Indiana
First Downs ................. 8	5
Yai ds gained in scrimmage..292	30
Number of kickoffs ---------- 1	3
Yardage from kickoffs ...... 42	154
Average length of kickoffs .... 42	51.3
Number of kickoffs returned 3	1
Yardage from kicks returned 83	6
Av. yds. from kicks returned 27.6	6
Number of punts ............ 12	14
Punts blocked ............... 0	2
Yardage from punts..........536	504
Av. length of punts ...... 44.6	37
Number punts returned....... 7	6
Yds. from punts returned---- 47	35
Av. yds. from punt returns.. 6.7	6
No. of passes attempted ..... 4	7
No. of passes completed ----- 0	2
No. of passes incompleted.—	3	3
No. of passes intercepted--- 1	2
Yards gained from passes ....	0	47
Yards from penalty ......... 70	20
No. of fumbles .............. 9	3
Own fumbles recovered ....... 5	3
Opponents fumbles recovered	0	4
and only four times during the fifty-nine minutes of play that followed did Indiana enter the Irish territory in possession of the ball and on none of these journeys did they penetrate beyond the 25 yard stripe.
The final scoring play of the session occurred mid-way in the fourth quarter. After Jones’ punt was partially blocked by Devore, the Irish put the ball in motion on the Hoosier 38 yard line. Brancheau tore off six yards through the line and Elser drove into the Indiana secondary for a first down on the 24 yard line. Lukats, Brancheau, and Elser carried the oval to the 10 yard line on the following series of downs. On the next play' Elser found an opening and crossed the line standing up, for the final score. Lukats failed to convert both kicks after touchdown.
One of the features of the game was the kicking duel between Elser and Jones. The honors were about even until Devore blocked two of the latter’s boots and Elser sent a 70 yard spiral up the field to cinch a definite advantage.
Coach Hayes’ Hoosiers employed a 6-2-2-1 defense to stop the Irish passing game, which they did to perfection, but the six man line proved unable to halt the Notre Dame running game led by Elser, Lukats, and Pilney. The Blue and Gold adopted the triangle defense until late in the fourth period when they shifted to the 6-3-2 to halt the Hoosiers who took to the air and promised to make trouble with an expected passing game.
The most consistent ground gainer for the Irish was Andy Pilney who toted the ball eleven times for a total (Continued on Page 13)
Interhall Grid Teams Upset By Weekends
By Nick Connor
Weekends, trips to Chicago and the World’s Fair created havoc in last week’s Interhall football league. One game was not played, another was forfeited, and Carroll’s team disbanded during the week. Perhaps this week a decided change will be seen as the tradition of the halls is getting the best of the students, and full teams are expected on the gridirons this weekend.
In the Freshman-Carrol game the first year men of Freshman won 6 to 0. The frosh from Dillon won on- a forfeit from St. Edward’s. This is the first time in many years that St. Ed’s has not had representatives on the field.
Most of Morrissey’s Gold Coast athletes went home over the week-end and they were forced to use three of the Brownson players to complete their roster of eleven players. Brownson, however, fought them to a standstill during the four quarters of play. Hilly Wertz, center on the Morrissey outfit, was the standout of the game as he blocked and tackled like “Bud” Boeringer, of varsity fame a few years ago. Woody Stillwagon, Bronwson right end, caught several passes that might have resulted into touchdowns had not Wertz been on the job.
Coach Kennedy’s powerful Corby aggregation was too fast for Walsh, and the lake front team won 6 to 0. The Walsh eleven appeared ragged at times but perhaps that was caused by the off-tackle smashes of Red McCarthy. Corby’s score came in the middle of the second quarter on a 15 yard spinner over the center of the line.
During the first quarter an Alumni man was injured and the junior hall was forced to play through the remaining three quarters with ten men. As it was, the Alumni team came near tying Lyons on the last play of the game. A Lyons man fumbled a pass • on the junior’s two yard line. Jim Nolan of Alumni grabbed the ball and ran to the Lyons three yard line before being tackled by Dolan, Lyons’ fullback. The gun was fired before another play could be started. Lyons scored its touchdown on a pass early in the third quarter.
On Sunday, October 22, at 1:15 Freshman will meet Morrissey on the Minims field. On Brownson field Dillon and Carroll will come together. The St. Edward’s-Brownson game will be held on Cartier No. 1. All of these teams are members of Group I.
In Group II Corby will try to in-(Continued on Page 15)
The Scholastic
Twelve
Basketball Players
Drill Under Keogan
Thirty men reported to Coach George Keogan last Tuesday afternoon for the opening practice of the basketball season. Among the candidates reporting were three regulars from last year’s quintet. Captain Ed Krause, All-American center, will not report until after the close of the football season.
Joe Voegele, second only to Krause in last year’s scoring, Johnny Jordan, forward and Leo Crowe, guard were the regulars of the 1933 team who reported Tuesday. Only one member of last year’s varsity, Captain Johnny Baldwin, has been lost through graduation.	.
Several men who were reserves last year are expected to make strong bids for regular positions this year. Eddie Alberts, Joe O’Kane, Vince Fehlig, Jim Newbold, Larry O’Neil and Vic Mettler look to be the best of these.
Sophomores, however, coming up from a strong freshman team will give last year’s reserves plenty of trouble. Among the most promising are John Ford, forward; George Ireland, guard; Don Allen, guard; John Hopkins, forward; George Wentworth, forward, and Edmund Goldsmith, forward.
Freshman Coach Clay Johnson worked with a squad of nearly 150 men in his opening drill of Wednesday.
. INDIANA GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
of 93 yards. Lukats went into action a like number of times and covered 61 yards, 54 of which were chalked up on his touchdown run in the second period. Elser, who divided his time between kicking, blocking, and running, carried the oval seventeen times for a total of 84 yards.
Hunk Anderson elected to start his second string line and shock troop backfield composed of LaBorne, Shakespeare, Tobin, and Hanley. The first team was rushed into the game near the close of the first quarter when the Irish took the offensive on their own 45 yard line.
NOTRE DAME (12)	INDIANA (2)
Millner ------------LE........ E. Antonini
Stilley ............LT......... Anglemyer
Leonard ............LG____________ Voliva
Solari .............CL............. Kelso
Pivarnik ...........RG----------- Sprauer
Michuta ............RT______________ Zoll
Peters -------------RE_____________ Lyons
Laborne ............QB............. Dauer
Shakespeare --------LH----------  Sawicki
Tobin ..............RH.............. Robb
Hanley--------------FB—............ Jones
Touchdowns—Lukats, Elser.
Safety—Shakespeare.
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Nicholas Paul Lukats, regular left halfback on Notre Dame’s 1933 football team, has twice, by long runs, set the Irish on the comeback trail.
Nicholas Paul Lukats 89 attempts—487 yards.
Last year a fighting University of Kansas eleven scored early and, at the end of the first quarter, was leading the Irish, still floundering from the Pittsburgh disaster of a week before, by the score of 6 to 0. Things looked rather bad for Notre Dame. The team which had averaged a point a minute in its first three games had gone through 3 5 minutes of play without a score.
Lukats then took matters into his own hands. On the third play of the second quarter, he skirted left end. eluded several tacklers and sprinted 48 yards for a touchdown. Once started again the Irish marched on to conquer Navy, Northwestern, and Army before succumbing to Southern California.
This year, it was again Nick who pulled the Irish out of a slump. A Notre Dame team, which according to pre-season dope, was to be the best Irish team in three years, had been outplayed by Kansas in the first game of the season. Indiana was leading, 2-0, in the second game, when Nick again took matters into his own hands. This time, his effort was a 54 yard dash for a touchdown—the first Irish score of the season.
Lukats came to Notre Dame from Froebel High School of Gary, Indiana in 1929. He reported for freshman football and played left half on the first frosh team.
Lukats reported for varsity football in 1930. Rockne, although he had Marchy Schwartz and Mike Koken for the left half position, saw years of promise ahead for Nick and, rather than have him sit on the varsity bench, assigned him to the “B”
team for experience. Nick looked so good with the Hamburgers that Rockne took him west for the Southern California game. Here he scored his first intercollegiate touchdown and aided greatly in the 27-0 rout of the Trojans.
Last year, his high knee action, a great change of pace, arid a dazzling speed in cutting either left or right brought him an average yardage of better than five yards. He carried the ball 487 yards in 89 attempts for an average of 5.3 yards. Mike Koken who, for part of the season, was considered varsity left halfback, carried (Continued on Page 16)
invite you
to inspect the new men’s magazine they are all talking about
in our
Campus Store
or
Downtown
"Esquire"
[Should you like to inspect some of the newer ideas in men’s apparel you’ll read about, drop in ivhen down-tozvn]
&inqAtbni
October 2 0, 19 3 3
Thirteen
So They Say
“Showing flashes of its reputed power, the Notre Dame football team defeated Indiana today, 12 to 2. . . . The Irish showed far better teamwork and blocked much more effectively than they did against Kansas a week ago.” Associated Press dispatch in the Milwaukee Journal of Oct. 15.
“Notre Dame partisans, alarmed by suspicions that Notre Dame football prestige is endangered by the potentialities of the current outfit, got little to calm them in the first quarter today. Afterwards the boys got to clicking and never really had to open up. But just the same there was little about the offensive today aside from the work of Elser and Pilney to throw the Notre Dame followers into fits of ecstacy.
At times Notre Dame looked downright clumsy, an observation that is supported by numerous fumbles, rarely observed on a Notre Dame team under ideal weather conditions such as prevailed for this game.” Edward Burns in the Chicago Tribune of Oct. 15.
“ ‘Hunk’ Anderson’s ‘Floundering Irish’ of a week ago bounced back today to show evidences of being a football team as they gave Indiana a 12 to 2 beating before a crowd of 18,000 fans. Although the Ramblers of today caused no unnecessary cheering on the part of Notre Dame supporters, their victory did serve to convince them that Mr. Anderson’s boys can play pretty fair defensive football on occasions, a fact attested by the meager 30 yards of rushing that Indiana totaled throughout the perfect afternoon.” Wayne K. Otto in the Chicago Herald and Examiner of Oct. 15.
“Their attack still crude in technique and marred by fumbling, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame displayed dashes of color and flashes of form Saturday afternoon in Memorial Stadium to beat a tough defensive and fair offensive Indiana team 12 to 2.
. . . Lukats’ rim was a beautiful piece of work reminiscent of Rockne days when the original Notre Dame shift was still valid.” Chet Grant in the South Bend News Times of Oct. 15.
“While some of the ‘cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame’ yodelers around our village may be stifling a yawn after last Saturday’s smacking down of Indiana, they might be interested at least, to know that there were a few bright spots in the game.
1.	The plunging and kicking of the
Fourteen
human locomotive who is known as Don Elser from Gary, Indiana.
2.	The Jimmy Crowley (or would you say the Marchy Schwartz) tactics of one Andy Pilney of the good old West Side.
3.	The improvement of the Notre Dame line.
The line that was kicked around a trifle by Kansas looked like something against the Hoosiers. . . Notre Dame needs a polished quarterback and. it might be Gaul who functioned most of the way last Saturday. Gaul showed he had a noodle and that’s what is needed on a Notre Dame team.” Jimmy Corcoran in the Chicago American of Oct. 16.
“Two flashes of brilliant football by a Notre Dame eleven gained the Fighting Irish a twelve to two victory over Indiana.” Associated Press dispatch in the Philadelphia Public Ledger of Oct. 15.
“Carnegie will give the Irish a lot of ball game.” Judge Wally Steffen (former coach at Carnegie Tech) in the Chicago American of Oct. 16.
John O’Hanlon Is Favored To Win Fall Tennis Tourney
With the quarter-finals completed, and the semi-final round to be played on Wednesday, the singles play in the Fall tennis tournament nears completion. Play in the doubles division of the tourney got under way Wednesday with a large field participating. Going into the quarter-finals, Captain John O’Hanlon was still in the running and the ranking favorite. Scores:
J. Waldron defeated Kelly.
McGinnis defeated Bott.
Prendergast defeated Freeley.
Fallon defeated Garland.
O’Hanlon defeated Cannon.
McNulty defeated Seward.
Puterbaugh defeated Hackenbruch.
Ziepprecht defeated Weldon.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
Joe Savoldi plunging into the Carnegie line. Three times, Joe failed to gain an inch. On the fourth down, Carideo again called for a plunge by Savoldi. This time Joe did not go through the line. He literally dove over it to give the Irish the only touchdown scored in the game.
The series with Carnegie started in 1922. Notre Dame has won eight of the ten games played.. Not since their memorable victory of 1928 have the Scots conquered the Irish. Last year’s 42-0 defeat by the Irish is the worst in the history of the Pittsburgh school.
CARNEGIE THREATENS
(Continued from Page 11)
is making his initial debut as a major football coach this season at his alma mater.
No Notre Dame team has ever made Harpster taste defeat and he is determined that this aggregation of the Fighting Irish won’t break that tradition. Carnegie has had a rough road in the last two games with the Irish. In 1931, they lost 19-0, and last year they were swamped 42-0.
Team Is Experienced
Captain Colin Stewart and Lewis, at the end berths, give the Skibos twofast experienced flankmen. Both weigh 185 pounds, are fast, good pass receivers and fine defensive players. The tackle posts are the strongest berths on the team. Four veterans, Thurman Croft, who pulls back to do the punting, uoloway, Forsman, and Nutter, who hits the scale at well over 200 pounds, should give the Irish endmen a tough afternoon.
The veteran Clyde Heinzer and his partner, Henry Dieshar, supply plenty of beef, experience and blocking power at the guard berths. Burzio, a rough and ready lineman, is a capable understudy for these veterans. At the pivot or center post there is a keen battle for the regular berth between the veteran O’Toole and a new sophomore star, Trobovich.
In the backfield, Harpster has an experienced unit composed of Joe Mihm, a 200 pound line-bucker and pass receiver, Bill Spisak, hard-running left halfback, Steve Terebus, a speedy, flashy back who does the passing, and Angelo Bevevino at the signal-calling post. Johnny Sayles, fullback, and Vorderburg, furnish Harpster with two fast running replacements. Captain Stewart is also a place kicker de luxe.
Shock Troops May Start
Notre Dame, which looked like the old time Irish elevens at certain periods in the Indiana game, will probably start its “shock troops.” These second team men received their initiation to college football last Saturday and performed in very capable fashion. The line was invulnerable and the backs were airtight against the Indiana passes, so that Coach Anderson will probably start them to give his varsity team an idea about the Carnegie offense.
Carnegie has a well-rounded running and passing attack, but lacks the powerful replacements of the Irish. Yet, with the spirit of their new leader instilled into their play, they should give the Notre Dame men a good, tough battle. The Irish are still crude in their attack, but are picking up power and finesse with every game.
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
INDIANA NOTES
The opinion that we said we expected to have after seeing the Hoosier game now stands in fact. We think that Notre Dame has a good strong team, slow in starting, but destined to go far.
The game at Bloomington demonstrated that the Irish have one of the most powerful defensive teams in the country: we don’t think Indiana could have scored if the game lasted six weeks. Outstanding defensive heroes: Hughie Devore, Kitty Gorman, Harry Wunsch. The Irish line played a colorful, smashing defensive game, never waiting for a ball carrier at the line of scrimmage but going in after him.
Hugh Devore’s play in the final 18 minutes of the game was probably the best individual work of the day: two blocked punts, three tackles of Hoosier runners for losses totalling 35 yards. Kitty Gorman worked better than we’ve ever seen him at filling up holes over tackle as Devore and Vairo handled the interference.
Who blocked the tackle when Elser scored his touchdown? Our guess would be Wayne Millner, and he did a great job.
Nick Lukats’ touchdown run was the first time since last year’s Kansas game that Notre Dame has really cleaned up on a play from scrimmage.
Pilney’s third quarter parade made him look just about as flashy as he has in practice all fall. When he gets into the open he changes direction faster than any other back on the squad.
The Irish blocking was still mighty ragged for three quarters or more of the game. But they showed that they know how to block and that they can clear up the secondary when in their stride.
Officials:	The linesman
even moved the sticks after Devore had thrown Hoffman for a 22 yard loss. Then they put them back in the wrong place, until Hunk showed them where to go. ’
Elser’s longest kick: from inside his own 15 yard line to inside the Indiana 15 yarn line where Michuta downed it.
Jones’ first quarter punting: away from the Irish safety man to the right side of the field, cramping left halfback plays. ■
Kitty Gorman saw the most service: 57 or 58 minutes.
Ray Brancheau looked like the right halfback we’ve been expecting all fall, blocking, running, tackling.
Notre Dame could use a forward pass attack that is more potent than the one displayed last week. Four passes thrown, none completed.
SCORECASTS
Last week: 24 winners, seven losers, four ties. For the season (three weeks): 62 winners, 13 losers, seven ties. This is by far the hardest week to predict that we’ve encountered so far. But without reservations, here are 31 selections:
NOTRE DAME 13, CARNEGIE TECH 0.' N. D. Opponents
Illinois 7, Army 0.
Indiana 6, Northwestern 0.
Southern California 20, Oregon State 0.
Purdue 7, Chicago 6.
Navy 13, Virginia 0.
Pittsburgh 14, Minnesota 0.
East
Fordham 13, Boston College 0.
Brown 7, Yale 0.
Colgate 14, New York University 0.
Princeton 13, Columbia 7.
Syracuse 20, Cornell 0.
Dartmouth 13, Pennsylvania 7.
Harvard 7, Holy Cross 0.
Middle West
Rice 20, Creighton 7.
Oklahoma 14, Iowa State 0.
Nebraska 13, Kansas State 0.
Michigan State 13, Marquette 7.
Michigan 14, Ohio State 0.
Iowa 13, Wisconsin 0.
South
Centenary 13, Texas 6.
Announcing
THE A. NASH CO.
542 Associates Building .
Men’s Custom Tailoring at prices that you usually associate with ready to wear clothing.
$23.50 — $27.50 — $32.50 — $38.50 — $45.00
FKe cater to—and please—men of taste—the men that know.
See our representatives in Sorin—or call at our branch office:
NICK LUKATS
DON MARTIN
TONY PUGLIESE
A. F. Daschbach, Manager, N. D. ’25
Georgia Tech. 20. Tulane 7.
Louisiana State 13. Arkansas 0.
Vanderbilt 20, Mississippi State 6.
Tennessee 13, Alabama 0.
North Carolina 14, Florida 0.
Kentucky 20, Washington and Lee 0.
Far West
California 7, Washington State 0.
Oregon 27, Idaho 0.
U. C. Los- Angeles 7, Loyola 0.
Stanford 7. San Francisco 0.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 12)
crease its victory string when they meet Badin on Cartier no. 1. Alumni, last year’s champ, will pit their strength against Walsh on Brownson field, and Lyons and Howard will tangle on the Minims field. All games in Group II are scheduled for three o’clock.
Interhall Football Standings				
GROUP I.	W	L	T	Pts.
Dillon 		.... 2	0	0	4
Freshman 					.... 1	0	1	3
Brownson 		.... 0	0	1	1
Morrissey 			.._ 0	o	0	0
St. Edward's 			.... 0	0	0	0
Carroll 		.... 0	0	0	0
GROUP II	w	L	T	Pts.
Corby 				2	. 0	0	4
Lyons 		.... 1	1	1	3
Badin 		..... 1	0	0	2
Walsh 			..... 0	1	1	1
Howard 			..... 0	1	0	0
Alumni 				..... 0	1	0	0
Time still remains for us to tailor your formal attire for the Sophomore Cotillion.
October 2 0, 19 3 3
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
ELMER LAYDEN’S Duquesne grid team won their fifth straight game last week, defeating West Maryland, 13 to 0 . . . Quarterback RIBLET at Purdue is the brother of an AllAmerican quarter at Michigan State in 1908 . . . CURLY LAMBEAU, coach of the Green Bay Packers played with Notre Dame in 1918 . . . The youngest of all big time coaches is 25 year old HOWARD HARPSTER of Carnegie Tech . . . NORTH-
Established 30 Years
LemontreeS
OPTOMETRISTS 222South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients ail over the world.
blow If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
. •
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
WESTERN held STANFORD to a tie game last week by stopping them on the 6 inch line ... By defeating St. Mary’s 14 to 7 last Saturday, Southern California won their 25th straight game . . . RALPH KER-CHAVEL’S place kick from the 20 yard line gave the U. of Kentucky a’ 3 to 0 victory over Cincinnati University . . . Due to mine labor troubles in Indiana the Sullivan and Clinton high school game was governed by military rule.
STEVE SOUCI has played nine years of football—98 games—without taking time out ... AL BENEDICT scored three knockouts in one evening in 1910 . . . ALABAM’ PITTS, with three touchdowns led the Sing Sing grid team to a 40 to 13 victory over the Port Jervis police team . . . JIM CAMPBELL, halfback at Rose Poly Tech is lost to his team as he is a member of the National Guard, who are now serving in the disturbed mine fields . . . HAST BOY, favorite to capture the Argentine Derby was stabbed in the flank before the race . . . Buenos Aires will have a $2,350,000 stadium that will seat 100,000 people . . . The DePauw and Wabash teams are the only undefeated and untied squads in Indiana ... Last Saturday Princeton’s sophomore team defeated Amherst 45 to 0 . . . In the game with Cornell, HERMAN EVER-HARDUS of Michigan ran back a kickoff 91 yards ... A forward pass in the last 55 seconds of play gave the San Jose eleven a 12 to 0 win over A. A. Stagg’s College of Pacific team.
Georgetown scored 20 points in the last quarter to tie Manhattan, 20 to 20 . . . PAUL RUNYAN won the eastern golf championship by shooting 291 holes . . . Notre Dame outscored Indiana from scrimmage 292 yards to 30 ... 13 year old DOROTHY KIRBY of Atlanta, Ga., recently won the woman’s golf championship of Georgia . . . The Harvard football team learned the secret of speed by practicing with heavy gears and heavy shoes . . . ED DW0N0W-SKI, Fordham half, leads the scoring in eastern football circles with 38 points . . . CARL HUBBELL pitched 10 shut-out games last year to lead the National League pitchers.
A fractured jaw will keep HARRY SPINNEY, Brown’s great quarterback, on the bench for an indefinite period . . . ARTHUR EHLERS, a promising freshman tackle at Iowa, died from brain injury suffered in practice .. . ORIEN CROW, center on the Boston Redskins, is said to be the best looking athlete in the country. . . . LUIGI BECCALI failed to lower his own world’s record for 1,500
meters by .6 of a second . . . Mount Royals is the first pro football team in Canada ... Colgate was scored on for the first time in more than a year when they beat Rutgers 25 to 2 . . .
INTRODUCING...........
(Continued from Page 13)
the ball 103 times for an average of 3.6 yards.
Nick has started off this season in great shape. He was the outstanding Irish back in the Kansas game and his long run of last Saturday started the Irish on the way to victory over their Hoosier rivals. In the Indiana game, Lukats carried the ball eleven times for a total of 61 yards, an average of 5% yards. With practically no interference, he averaged 2^ in the Kansas debacle. His record for the season is 86 yards in 21 attempts which gives him an average of a little better than four yards.
While at Froebel, Nick played football, tennis and track. He was captain of Gary’s grid team which won the state title for two years and was, two times, a halfback on the AllIndiana Interscholastic team. Playing for Froebel, Nick met as opponents Don Elser, Rocky Schiralli and Ed Krause.
Nick was the seventh ranking junior tennis player in the nation and was half of the fifth ranking doubles combination while a student at Froebel. He was runner-up in the Western Boys tournament of 1928. Last year, after a long layoff from the net game, he joined the Irish tennis team and ranked as number one man before the season had ended.
Yes Sir ...
Get YOUR copy of "Esquire"
The Magazine for Men at ■ HecK^Aker 111 W. JEFFERSON BLVD. “Just off Michigan’’
Sixteen
The Scholastic
it leaves the Ladies flat!
IF you use lipstick—or if you really prefer a chocolate pecan sundae to a Scotch and soda—you might as well stop reading right at this point. ESQUIRE is not for you and you had better face the grim fact now.
If, however, you are a genuine male—if you have a healthy masculine taste for good clothes and strong language—if you like the real inside on sports—if you’d rather read a brief saga by Ernest Hemingway than a sugar-coated tale of love in the suburbs—
In that case you will want to rush right out and get your copy of ESQUIRE before this first and somewhat limited issue is sold out.
" For here, at last, is a man’s idea of a magazine come to life! Here are “short” short stories by such writers
as William McFee, John Dos Passos, Dashiell Hammett and Manuel Kom-roff.
Here is humor by such a rollicking list as George S. Chappell, Montague Glass, Robert Buckner, George Ade, Harry Hershfield and David Monroe.
Here are 16 pages on what to wear and when to wear it—written for men who think that good tweed is something to be smelled with reverence and worn with ease.
Charles Hanson Towne comes to the rescue of a bathtub gin generation with some hard-and-fast advice
on how to behave when the waiter hands you a wine card—and won’t that be a help! Benny Leonard himself tells about half a dozen fights for the lightweight championship that were never entered in the record
books. Charlie Paddock gives the inside on why some famous championships changed hands.
Never before, in fact, has such a list of contributors been gathered together in a publication. In addition, there are forty pages in color including the greatest number of full-page cartoons ever printed in a magazine.
The price of ESQUIRE is fifty cents per copy or one dollar fifty for four issues. If your dealer cannot supply you address Esquire Publishing Company, Palmolive Bldg,, Chicago, Hl.
Esquire
THE MAGAZINE FOB MEN
AT THE BETTER MEN'S STORES AND NEWSSTANDS
: ice tobaccos
*ht—no loose ends
smoking a Lucky, have you § the long white ash? That’s
i of fine, choice Turkish and
:ic tobaccos. And have you how fully packed Luckies these choice tobaccos—rolled o’round —so pure—with no ids. Luckies always please!
Copyright, 1933. The American Tobacco Company.
it’s toasted ”
10TECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE
NEW MAGAZINE FOR MEN APPEARS
An event of particular interest to college men is marked by the debut of “Esquire” this week, a new candidate for recognition in the “Class” field, designed exclusively for masculine consumption.
In aiming its editorial guns at the nation’s men, Esquire has resorted to subject matter and contributors best known to the masculine reader—with only one dash of - femininity in the person of- Audrey Wurdeman. Miss Wurdeman is a ranking poetess, protegee of George Sterling and is said to be the great granddaughter of the immortal Shelley.
Ernest Hemingway, Nicholas Murray Butler, Gilbert Seldes, Charles Hanson Towne and Ring Lardner, Jr., the latter, as son of the late humorist and a Princeton undergraduate, appear in the first issue as writers of non-fiction.
Fiction, of the sterner sort, is authored by a group of contemporary writers that includes John Dos Passes, William McFee, Manuel Komroff, Morley Calaghan, Erskine Caldwell, Dashiell Hammet, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and Vincent Starret.
Bobby Jones, Gene Tunney, Benny Leonard and Charles Paddock, are the spoiling bloods turned writers, who contribute articles on the fields best known to them, the golf course, the ring and the cinder track.
Humor, an inevitable dish on the male reading menu, has as its exponents in the first issue of Esquire; George Ade, Montague Glass, George S. Chappell, Harry Hershfield, Robert Buckner and David Munroe. In its pictorial aspect, C. Alajalov, William Steig, E. Simms Campbell, John Groth, George Petty, Nat Karson and Ty Mahon wield brush, pen, lithographic crayon and even oil, in varied treatments of humorous illustrations.
“Princeton Panorama,” a treatise on college life by Ring Lardner, Jr. is here worthy of mention.
Whether the title was chosen for its alliterative qualities, or because the author’ himself happens to be a Princeton undergraduate, is not known. However, one thing is certain, Lardner Jr., who gives promise of following the long and rapid strides made by his illustrious father, and who sincerely wishes he had a name of his own, has contributed an interesting comment on college life as more than a social and educational interlude.
In a style, individually his own, and only naturally reminiscent of the late Lardner Sr., the article is principally in defense of the college man’s activities as a normal and entirely necessary function in a well rounded existence.
Drop in at SPIRO’S For Your Copy Of "Esquire"
BY REQUEST
We Continue Our Sale on Parkette Pens
Made by the Parker Pen Co.
Since our College Opening Sale we have had many requests for Parkette Pens. To satisfy this demand we are continuing this attractive offer.
Parkette Pens are
made with the same precision as the rest of the Parker line. Fourteen kt. gold points—“writing tested.” Handsome barrels in latest color effects, including the popular pearl finishes; all mounted in fine gold-filled trimmings. A most outstanding value.
Walgreen DRUG STORE 208 NORTH MICHIGAN L. Newman, Mgr.
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354	Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
'50WRt;
COMPLETE YOUR EDUCATION!
No Notre Dame student’s education will be complete without a few visits to the World’s Fair. And what better way to go than via South Shore Line. . . speedy, convenient, direct to the Fair gates. . . and low in cost 1 No waits, no confusion. Hurry! Before the Fair closes!
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, phone 3-3111, or write Mr. R. E. Jamieson, General Passenger Agent, 140 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago.
LOW COST ROUND TRIP
SOUTH BEND
to CHICAGO with 9 day return limit
60
Sophomore
Cotill ion
Palais Royale
FRIDAY EVE., October 27,1933
•
Make your next dance a pleasure!
THE SEASON for social events is on — The pleasure you will have can be increased by having the proper tuxedo.
The individuality, comfort and self-assurance of a Kuppenheimer Cavalier, will make you want for many a chance to wear it.
>25 . >45
Complete Tuxedo accessories at both our stores — downtown and on the campus.
You’re THERE with *
CROSLEY
DwJ!* Dual Range
Had IO Superheterodyne
ONLY
$23»5
Complete with Tubes
Here is a Crosley 1934 new 5 tube radio that will make you sit up and take notice. It’s just about 5 years ahead of the times. It gets what you want, the way you want it.
DAVIDSON SALES Co.
107 E. MONROE ST.
Open Evening*
ATTENTION!
Free Examination
. *	\
I* Your Hair Falling?	|
Bothered With Dandruff?
Itching Scalp. Efe.?
Try U* For Satisfactory Results.
Lot Us Restore
Your Natural Growth Of Hair
RELIANCE HAIR
GROWING SHOPPE • 230 W. Washington Men Only Private Entrance Phone 4-6771
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
50Uthnsehor[
Livingston’s
Invest $| Now!
and save yourself letters and postage
Let us mail The Scholastic home for you—from now until Christmas for only one dollar postpaid.
The folks will read all about campus affairs, the football season, how you’re getting along in Club circles.
Give them this week-by-week record of your school year.
Phone, write, or call the Publications Office, 232 Administration Building—Anytime from Dawn to Dusk.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
At the University	Notre Deme, Ind.
(jJ^
cstcrficld
tie cigarette^
Co?


"I’VE SWUNG many a stick and I know how to spin ’em.
"I’ve smoked many a cigarette and I know how to taste ’em.
"Chesterfields aremilder — they taste better — and



SO®®
