For important summer occasions . . .
wE
COOL, WHITE
TUXEDO JACKET
$28.95
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame

Tropical weight formal trousers, $12.95
Enjoy the casual comfort that makes it a pleasure to wear an After Six lightweight white dinner jacket. Authentic in even7 detail . . . natural shoulders . . . tapered sleeves . . . slender lapels . . . smoother fit through chest and waist. Have your own summer tuxedo jacket . . . tailored to fit you perfectly . . . readv when vou need it. Charge it the Campus Shop way.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
Pay One-third in July Pay One-third in August Pay One-third in Septemper
•	No Carrying Charge.
GET YOUR CAREFREE, SUMMER CLOTHING BY
PALM BEACH AT THE
CAMPUS SHOP
There’s no need to wait for hot weather . . . the Campus Shop is ready now to show you the famous Palm Beach line of comfortable clothing for summer wear. Suits, slacks, sport coats, sport outfits . . . they’re all her now. Why not get yours now and be ready when hot weather arrives to stav. Charge it the Campus Shop way.
PALM BEACH WASH aN WEAR SUITS_ 39.95
PALM BEACH SLACKS, from. 9.95
PALM BEACH SPORT COATS, from__ 29.95
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dent
[ay 6, 1960 -	.	- s
ESP On Campus
yr (Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
EUROPE MADE SIMPLE: No. 1
Summer vacation is just around the corner, and naturally all of you are going to Europe. Perhaps I can offer a handy tip or two. (I must confess I have never been to Europe myself, but I eat a lot of Scotch broth and French dressing, so I am not entirely without qualification.)
First let me say that no trip to Europe is complete without a visit to England, Scotland, Wales, Ireland, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Lichtenstein, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, Greece, Yugoslavia, Albania, Crete, Sardinia, Sicily, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Lapland, and Andorra.
Let us take up these countries in order. First, England.
The capital of England is London—or Liverpool, as it is sometimes called. There are many interesting things to see in London—chiefly, the changing of the guards. The guards are changed daily. The old ones are thrown away.
Another “must” while in London is a visit to Buckingham Palace. Frequently in the afternoons Her Majesty the Queen comes out on the balcony of the palace and waves to her loyal subjects below. The loyal subjects wave back at the Queen. However, they only
continue to wave as long as Her Majesty is waving. This of course is the origin of wave lengths from which we have derived numerous benefits including radio, television and the A&P Gypsies.
Be sure also when you are in London to visit the palace of the Duke of Marlborough. Marlborough is spelled Marlborough, but pronounced Marlboro. English spelling is very quaint but terribly disorganized. The late George Bernard
* * *
And you also know all you need to know about smoking: Marlboro if you want the best of the filter cigarettes—Philip Morris if you want the best of the unfiltered cigarettes.
Shaw, author of Jo’s Boys, fought all his life to simplify English spelling. He once asked a friend, “What does g-h-o-t-i spell?” The friend pondered a bit and replied, “Goatee.” Shaw sniggered. “Pshaw,” said Shaw. “G-h-o-t-i does not spell goatee. It spells fish. Gh as in enough, o as in women, ti as in motion.”
It must be remembered, however, that Shaw was a vegetarian—which, all in all, was probably a good thing. As Disraeli once remarked to Guy Fawkes, “If Shaw were not a vegetarian, no lamb chop in London would be safe.”
But I digress. We were speaking of the palace of the Duke of Marlborough—or Marlboro, as it is called in the United States. It is called Marlboro by every smoker who knows flavor did not go out when filters came in. Be sure you are well supplied with Marlboros when you make your trip abroad. After a long tiring day of sightseeing, there is nothing so welcome as a fine, flavorful Marlboro and a foot bath with hot Epsom salts.
Epsom salts can be obtained in England at Epsom Downs. Kensington salts can be obtained at Kensington Gardens, Albert salts can be obtained at Albert Hall, Hyde salts can be obtained at Hyde Park, and the crown jewels can be obtained at the Tower of London.
Well sir, now you know all you need to know about England. Next week we will visit the Land of the Midnight Sun-France.	© I960 Max Shulman
OUR SOUTHERN READERS
Editor:
In reply to the article entitled “Begin- r ning Tomorrow,” by Al Pinado, Secretary of the South Bend NAACP, I think the following facts extracted from an editorial in the South Bend Tribune (April 8,1960) should be sited [sic]. First, Mrs. Charles H. Wills, President of the South Bend NAACP, has stated, “the local units of these national chain stores y do not discriminate.” Therefore, the exercise of the “silent protest,” does raise * the question of whether the Negro is justified in striking a friend as a means of retaliating against someone who is not considered a friend. In effect this “silent V • protest,” amounts to a secondary boycott which may or may not produce the desired effect of influencing national management into changing its policy of dis- b crimination in southern units. The editorial prudently suggests that, “under the circumstances there is ample grounds for suggesting that it will not, in the i ■ end, be the instrument of winning friends and influencing people so far as the Negro is concerned. There must be a better way for the Negro (indeed for all of us) in the North to extend a helping hand to his brethren in the South.”
Terry Lamb, 237 Pangborn
Editor:
I have just finished reading this week’s I Scholastic. I have never written you before, but this time I just can’t hold my opinions back.
It seems to me a terrible shame that the “supposed spokesmen and organs” of the student body are run by, it seems, agents of the local NAACP.
This issue even put in an article say- * ing that the South Bend NAACP was going to demonstrate downtown Saturday, April 9! This is student news? Let’s stick to campus news, or is that * asking too much?
There was one good point in the Scholastic, though. I was glad to see the “Repercussions” against another f “supposed spokesman” of the student body, our soon-to-be ex-student body president (thank God) and his obviously rash and unsupported letter to the 30 * southern colleges supporting the “sit-down” strikes. “Look before you leap,” next time, Babbitt!!
Don Hendon, 153 Cavanaugh (Continued on page 24)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second das* mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. Tht magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate ’’’■esc	for National AdvcrtLSne
by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New iork 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.

4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame

•J

1
A
Vol. 101 No. 23
MAY 6, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff
ROY RUBELI Wade Clarke . Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff -
CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith . Thomas Sullivan .
' William Sweeney William Veeder.
1 'I

sports editor and staff
THOMAS ROSE . William Cary :	J. (Jay) Kilroy ‘ ,
copy editor and staff
WALTER RUDGE
George Casey Peter Geniesse -. Thomas Marciniak
. art editor
JERRY FLORENT
photographer	:
WALTER DALY, Jr. 5 business manager and staff
ROBERT HORN
Thomas Carey . Joseph Finnigan ; > circulation manager.
LAWRENCE LEACH. , moderator \ ■' /-S'-'•'/■
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.$ news reporters ■- / , Philip Larrabee V John Ohala. f. Thomas Schlereth ; William Sparks 5
sports reporters
JohnBechtold
Iw^Hmyitt-^ :^W»««&Walsh
ON CATHOLIC EDUCATION: Recently, we received in our mail an unassuming and largely unpublicized document from the NFCCS. Entitled “The Campus Reports,” the pamphlet is a comprehensive study of the problems of Catholic higher education. It takes the Catholic university apart and gives careful consideration to the purpose of the Catholic university, its curriculum, its students, and its future. Making no pretense of answering the problems concerned, the NFCCS is primarily interested in determining the exact nature of the difficulties it points up. One of the basic problems outlined is an anti-intellectualism which seems to be characteristic of Catholics in general. This feeling naturally arrives at the university and we find students primarily interested in grades, job preparation, or finding a marriage partner. But all the indictment does not fall on the students, alone. It is suggested that sometimes there is a confusion among the leaders of the schools as to what relationship exists between the term “Catholic” and the term “college.” It often “seems to be thought that the purpose of a Catholic university is to save souls and that of secular universities is to make leaders.”	.
Religious instruction and administration policies are also inspected by the NFCCS survey. Again quoting the pamphlet, “Generally, the outstanding paradox in Catholic higher education is the weakness of the religion curriculum.” Religion courses often tend to be repetitious and “lacking in intellectual challenge.” Moreover, the students themselves often feel religion courses will be “snaps” and they fail to approach them with the proper attitude. In regard to student-faculty-administration policies, the study reports that this is certainly one of the worst problem areas. It is felt that the administration often acts without proper explanation and that the students interpret this as authoritarianism. Quoting the survey, “Extreme authoritarianism can be a very dangerous thing psychologically and from the viewpoint of a successful educational experience.”
There are other valuable points made in the report. Written under the guidance of NFCCS Executive Vice-President Bill Scheckler, the study presents a strong case for continued Notre Dame participation in the national federation. The report is very informative and could yield concrete benefits. Our congratulations to Bill Scheckler and the NFCCS on a fine effort.

THE BEST SOUND AROUND: Throughout the past year we have been continually impressed by the admirable and generally thankless job that has been turned in by student-operated radio station WSND. The campus broadcasters have had some really significant accomplishments this year. Their programing has greatly increased in quality, and the professional competence of the station is marked. Not the least of the newer changes at WSND has been the completion of an entirely new “second voice” which now serves Notre Dame in addition to its older partner. Although the Scholastic has been known to disagree with WSND on occasion this year, we would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our cohorts on a job well done.

IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION: This year the administration has enacted a few changes in the disciplinary system which promise to make life a little easier for students. Effective after Easter, night-check has been moved back until 10:30 p.m. This later' time allows the student who would like to finish his work and go out afterwards an opportunity to get in an extra half-hour of work. Not only this, but the new time allows an extra half-hour of uninterrupted study before the usual evening break. The new night-check time is a good idea, and in our opinion it should be retained. Still another change in the rules was made. It was the trial suspension of morning checks for the senior class. These checks, a vestige of the old-chapel attendance checks formerly required 6 days a week, have carried over to the present day mainly to encourage the ridiculous old “early to bed, early to rise” habit. Students 20 years of age, however, are quite capable of deciding when to get up in the morning, and the class of 1960 has managed quite well without the help of the checks. It is our suggestion that next year all classes be given the chance to enjoy this “senior privilege.”
REWARDING ROUNDUP: A new innovation in intercampus communication, the “Rider’s Roundup” has been erected in the Student Center through the efforts of student government’s Ed Butler. The new scoreboard, which allows those who are looking for rides and those who are looking for riders a place to meet, is located in the south entrance way of the Huddle. Each potential rider or driver places a ticket in that section of the board which bears the name of the locality to which he is headed. The “Rider’s Roundup” was put up just in time for the Easter vacation, and although no one could judge its success unless all its users were polled, the ample number of tickets on the board immediately before vacation time served as proof that the scoreboard is definitely being used. The Scholastic takes this opportunity on behalf of the many riders and drivers to thank Butler- and his commission for this, one of the more tangible results of the 1959-60 student government.
—B. T. & T.
snssscin gsngn nmanna sngQg □anBass □anna □00 □asaBBE □as □□
□□□□□ G3HS E000 □□□ □00 nan e □□nnns an
naEHHaa □□□ man 0™™ □□B0Q 0Q0H000 0D0QQ 0000000

U3MSNVK3DM
QittmiimimmiiiiiiitimiimHimiiiiiimiinmiimimiiiffliimiimmmHiimiMffliiitmmmiimtiiiiimiiimmiiitimiitiimmiiiiiimiiiHQ
Contents
I	11
j	At the Theaters___________________________19	Escape __________________________________ 7	I
|	Back Page---------------------------------34	Odds and Ends____________________________29	I	-
|	Campus Scene _____________________________ 9	Our Cover________________________________23	I
f	Commentary---------------------------------5	Repercussions_____________________________4	|	,
|	Critical Horizons_________________________15	Sports Picture __________________________27	|
=	2 >
EL.iii.iiii...m..mi.miamm.n.lnum,u...m...m..a.a..a....a.a..aaaBiaaaaaa...........„.a..aaau..a.a......a.iaii'm„aaam.u.mi...i.a........a«aB
KGDL ■CROSSWORD No. 12
ACROSS
1. Went by pushmobile?
8. Blows some Kool smoke
13.	Fop tune out of Tchaikovsky (2 words)
14.	Ease
15.	Famous saxophonist, Bud__________
16.	Pine away, for more than a year?
17.	Slightly absent
18.	No specific wine in a storm (2 words)
20.	Poet Eliot
21.	Opposite of inning?
24.	Good for a blast
25.	Famed cartoonist
26.	Gal for “Pillow Talk”
27.	Come up to the Menthol Magic of_________
28.	A kind of dance
29.	He wrote
“No man is an island.,
30.	Short road
31.	Pad is the hip word for it
32.	Star of “Take Me Along”
35. Earned run average (abbr.)
38. It’s flying, in France
40. A Kool smoker?
Great! (2 words) 42. Kools are famed
for Menthol______ 43. Nice try-44. South Benders
DOWN
1.	Snoring arena
2.	Stop or where to park
3.	Thar’s gold in ’em
4.	Bullfight rah-rah
5.	Ripe name for a dame
6.	Shakespearean actor
7.	Reject
8.	Wonderful difference in Kool (2 words)
9.	On the qui vive 10. No gadget for sharpies?
11.	N. C. heel
12.	Kind of tax
19. Trot or what trots 22. Gassy light 23. It’s a bit of a blow
24. Florida souvenir
26.	The first thing you said?
27.	Kape______
28.	Bardot-like
29.	Signify
31.	Phony place
32.	Leslie Caron 33. Girl’s name 34. Go away, cat! 35. Jane Austen novel
36.	Absorbed
37.	For the pot
38.	Friend of the French 39. Short variation
41. It’s for kicks
13
15
40
38
43
42
45
45. What rejected suitors get (2 words)
YOU NEED
THE
cigarettes
Mas..
01960, BROWN * WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
KGDL
' 4*^° 1 AVAILABLE WITHOUT k FILTER J
When your throat tells you time for a change^
a real change

ofKQDL


6
The Scholastic
I*
by CHRIS FOLEY
project guidance
t Chubby: Hey Charlie, whatcha got ta eat?
Charles: I’m sorry Chub, but I don't have anything for you.
* Chubby: Yeah? What about these sandwiches hidden in your dresser? Aha, Charlie, ya gotta hide ’em a little bet-ter’n that, kid; us frosh is sharp.
*r Charles: Yes, you sure are, Chub. Those were my supper.
• Chubby: Yeah? Well I guess you kin get some more, huh? These ain’t so good anyway.
Charles: Sure Chub, I’ll get some more. So long.
Chubby: Whatta ya mean so long? I * ain’t going no place. What ya doing there?
Charles: This is my senior essay.
Chubby: Yeah? Senior essay, huh? ’ What’s it about?
Charles: It’s on the philosophical and political exigencies of the Norman invasion of England.
Chubby: Yeah? Sounds great, Charlie. Name me a few exigencies.
' Charles: Well, I’m basing the paper on the premise—
Chubby: Geez Charlie don’t go explaining that stuff to me. I was only ' mockin’ ya when I said it sounded great.
Cantcha take a joke? Actually it sounds pretty crummy. I gotta go now any-fi how. You don’t want this apple, do you?
Charles: No, I guess you can take it.
Chubby: So long.
No soonei' has Chubby left than the ’ door opens once again, revealing Rocco Slick. Rocco is breathless as’ he grabs Charlie’s jacket from the closet and says:
Rocco: Hey Slugger, let’s go! Here’s your coat; come on, let’s go!
Charles: Why? Where are we going?
Rocco: Not us, kid. You! We wantcha * ta buy us some booze. Come on, willya?
Charles: Now look Rocco, I’ve got a lot of work to do, and besides you know that I can’t go around buying liquor for * ■ minors.
Rocco: Minors, shminors. Look buster, you 21 or aintcha? You supposed to solve all the problems we bring to ya or aintcha? Well we got a problem. We want some booze and we want you to go down and get us some so cut out all this stalling around and get going, ya hear? Whatja take the job for if ain’t gonna help us out? Huh?
May 6, 1960
THE CAST (in order of appearance) -Charles Rancid............mature	senior
Chubby McFink...........rotund	freshman
Rocco Slick...........volatile	freshman
Cuddles O’Toole_____fun-loving	freshman
Grubby McPink...........grimey	freshman
The setting is room 281 of Farley Hall, home of student advisor Charles Rancid, a mature senior. Charles is at his desk one December night when he is visited by freshman Chubby McFink, who nonchalantly munches on an apple.
Charles: I don’t believe this is one of my duties, Rocco. I’m sorry, but—
Rocco: Listen, wise guy, there’s five of us that wants the booze and if you don’t produce in an hour, I’m warning ya’ .. .
With that Rocco leaves, but his place is immediately taken by Cuddles O’Toole, who enters carrying a can of shaving cream. Without saying a word, Cuddles saunters over to Charles and sprays him liberally with shaving cream about the face and upper part of the body.
THINK
Cuddles: Hey Charlie, pretty cool, huh? It’s air-o-sol. I’m sprayin’ everybody tonight and I didn’t want to miss my old buddy Charlie. Howya doin’, anyway? .
Charles: Just fine, Cuddles, just fine. Hand me a towel, will you?
Cuddles: Sure kid, here ya go. It comes off realieasy.^ou^e doin’ okay, huh?- No-problems or nothin’?
Charles: No, no problems in particular.
Cuddles: That’s great Charlie, ’cause I got a little problem I wantcha to help me out on, see?
Charles, sensing that Cuddles is bothered by just the type of problem senior advisors are meant to cope with, pushes aside his books and listens intently.
Cuddles: Ya see Charlie there was this dance last week, ya know?
Charles: Yes, I remember.
Cuddles: And ya see I rented this car, see?
Charles? Yes, go on.
Cuddles: Well, ya see what happened teas I wrecked it, see?
Charles: Completely?
Cuddles: Yeah. In the St. Joe river, see? And no insurance or nothing.
Charles: Well, Cuddles, you’ll have to go down to the rental agency and tell—
Cuddles: I rented it off a guy.
Charles: Private car, eh? Well, that is a problem. You’ll just have to tell the gentleman that you wrecked his car. I’m afraid you’ll have to make restitution.
Cuddles: There’s a little bit more, Charlie.	-
Charles: Oh?
Cuddles: Yeah, ya see I gave the guy your name when I rented it on account I ain’t got no driver's license or anything, see, so I think he’s gonna come lookin for ya, probably. You think about what to tell him, huh? I gotta run now; so long, Charlie.
Charles: So long.	.
SMILE
Another visitor appears; it is Grubby McPink.
Grubby: Hey Charlie, I got a term paper for ya to do.	•
Charles: All right, Grubby. Put it with the rest of them over there.
Grubby: Man! Look at all of ’em! You’re gonna be a busy kid, Charlie.
Charles: Yes, I’m afraid—
Grubby: Hey, Charlie, I seen ya at that dance the other night. Where’d ja get that broad? Man o’ Man what a scageroo! Where’d ja find her anyway? An Ugly Contest? I know you ain’t no prize yourself Charlie, but you oughta be able to do a little better than that. Anybody should.
Charles: That was my fiancee, Grubby.
Grubby: You’re kiddin!
Charles: No, Pm not.
Grubby: Geez. Well, that’s the way it goes sometimes, I guess. I didn’t hurt your feelings or anything, did I Charlie? . I mean I didn’t know it was your fiancee or anything. I just thought you got stuck this once. Or I mean I thought — oh well. Hey look Charlie, Rocco’s plenty mad at you. He’s got a bunch of guys cornin’ down here and ....
7
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
LIFE
Welcome back Domers! The sun is shining (sometimes) and the leaves are out (almost). Adventuresome souls have taken to Bermudas and short sleeves, and spring notices about sunbathing and the University lawns clutter the official bulletin boards. What’s all this mean? I’ll tell you. It means that your senior essays are due along with a multitude of term papers. It means that every crazy professor in the school will be rushing to finish up all the work he can possibly cram into the last few weeks. . It means that you will have work up to your ears and only spring weather (maybe) and the senior ball to keep you from doing it.
So, I’ll tell you my solution to all of your problems. Get yourself a blanket (not University issue of course) and the latest copy of LIFE, go down to one of those trees on the fax'
side of St. Mary’s Lake and forget your cares while you peruse the problems of that great big world out there. Of course, you will probably flunk every course you are taking but what the heck? You’ll have fun doing it.
THE PERPETUAL CANDIDATES — JACK AND HUBE
The Mock Convention’s own Jack Kennedy is running, running, running. His latest territory is the state of West Virginia; his latest opponent is his old friend from Minnesota, Hubert Humphrey. The issue again seems to be religion, and the stakes are even higher than in Wisconsin. This time Jack is bucking a Bible-quoting set of Baptists who sometimes feel that with a Catholic president “There’d be too much influence from Rome.” In addition to this, both campaigners are faced with an obliging group known as the “Lever Brothers.” These gents pull the handles on the Logan County voting machines for citizens who are a little undecided on which way to vote. But since the “Levers” are a friendly lot they are quite accustomed to helping the candidate with the biggest bank account, that is, if he is willing to part with some of it. It should be interesting to note which candidate is the most generous.
YOUTH IN REVOLT —RHEE RETIRES
The riots in Korea have finally been settled and the students emerge as the victors. LIFE, this week notes something that has been apparent in a number of newspaper headlines in the last few weeks: students elsewhere in the world are not quite as peaceful as the American variety. Youthful demonstrations in Korea have brought about the fall of the dictatorial government there and similar demonstrations are now plaguing the government of
Turkey. Following an article on Korea, a LIFE protests have occurred in Latin America and in Budapest. “Idealism backed up by willingness to fight,” is how the revolts are characterized and the result is that the fire of youth has saved at least one nation for democracy. What would U.S. students do in the same case?
Elsewhere in LIFE is another of those articles on Caryl Chessman and capital punishment. Written before the criminal-lawyer-author’s untimely death this week, the story weighs the merit and falsehood of the state’s taking a man’s life. It is an interesting study of the social institution which made this convict’s life a political football. On the cover is Yvette Mimieux, a home-grown French type starlet. She is seen on her way up. Lastly, is a second story on high school dropouts. When will someone write about college dropouts? We need saving, too.—Adv.
For the Best in BOOKS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES • 1
TYPEWRITERS •
MONOGRAM SPORTSWEAR
SEAL JEWELRY •	:
CLASS AND	i
MINIATURE RINGS •	:
RELIGIOUS ARTICLES	>
SPECIAL GIFS FOR GRADUATES
AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
on-Me-campus
editorial notes that student

8
The Scholastk

‘MOST HAPPY FELLA' AT WASHINGTON HALL
Blind Date Mixup Sets Mood of Broadway Hit
“A musical landmark!” That’s what 1 , Life magazine has called the Most Happy Fella, the musical which opened at Washington Hall last evening. The production, which will continue to run to-V night, tomorrow night, and three days (May 12, 13, 14) next week end, is an adaptation by Frank Loesser of the Pulitzer Prize-winning comedy, They <- Knew What They Wanted. The musical was a Broadway hit, thrilling New York audiences for 86 weeks.
£ Tuneful attraction. The attraction’s wealth of perky show tunes, romantic , duets and fervid arias has been employed by composer Loesser to enhance the
Jr poignancy of the tale. It tells the wistful story of an aging Italian winegrower in California’s Napa Valley; a lovable, generous but hardly romantic man verg-4 w ing on 60, who wins a tired, discouraged San Francisco waitress as a mail-order bride by masquerading behind the photo of his handsome young foreman.
4 , When the young girl arrives at the ranch and is shocked to find that her blind-date husband is an old man, who has accidentally broken both legs while driving too exuberantly to the bus station to fetch her, she is so numbed that x she lets herself be rushed into a marriage ceremony. Later, in her emotional letdown, she pathetically lets herself be
MIKE McKEE AND MYRNA WALKER
Last minute rehearsal for University Theatre production
J May 6, 1960
seduced by the foot-loose ranch foreman whose photo persuaded her to the adventure in the first place. Still further developments and the ultimate solutions provide an abundance of entertainment.
Without abandoning the foot-tapping, everyday values of regular Broadway show tunes, Loesser also put into his score some of the turbulent, hot-tempered kind of music ordinarily heard only in operas.
These songs range from the rhythmic simplicity of the hit parade’s “Standing on the Corner, Watching All the Girls Go By,” through the sprightly duet, “Happy to Make Your Acquaintance,” the rafter-reverberator, “My Heart Is So Full of You,” the lyrical “How Beautiful the Days,” the lilting “Young People,” the rousing tribute to Dallas entitled “Big D,” the comic “Ooh, My Feet,” “I Know How It Is,” “I Made a Fist,” and “I Don’t Like This Dame,” to the high-spirited travesties of Verdi-gurdy Italian opera entitled “Sposalizio,” “Abbondanza” and “Benevenuta” — an unprecedented array of tunes, 35 in all.
Cast named. Tony, the male lead and vineyard owner, will be played by Mike McKee. Chief in support of his role of the beaming, ebullient grapegrower will be Myrna Walker, (Rosabella) his mailorder bride and Joe Harrington, Joe, his drifter ranch foreman. Karen Koehne-mann (Cleo), will be seen as a roughhouse type on the lookout for a man and Tom Karaty, Herman, as an amiable fieldworker. Mary Kay Vrancken, Marie, will play the role of a jealous spinster, adding intrigue to the show.
Five Seniors Receive Top Engineer Awards
Five outstanding engineering seniors were recently named as winners of the Engineer of the Year Awards to be presented during the Engineering Open House next week end.
Tom Hirons, Paul Marto, Dave Nagel, Charles Riehm and Bill Thrall, the recipients of the award this year, were selected on the basis of their scholastic average, University disciplinary record, and outstanding achievement in an engineering oi' other campus activities.
Each engineering and architecture department head was asked to submit a list of names of the men in their department with the highest scholastic averages. Also, each of the engineering organizations was asked to enter their two top senior members. From these names, the staff of the Technical Review made their final selections.
Tom Hirons of Adrian, Mich., is majoring in Nuclear* Option of Mechanical Engineering. He is currently holding a 4.15 average. Hirons is a member of Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society, the student branch of ASME, and the Detroit club. Throughout his four years at Notre Dame, Hirons has held various committee positions.
Paul Marto, who hails from Little Neck, N. Y., holds a 4.77 average. He has been a member of the University marching and concert bands for four years, the Engineering Science Club and Honor Society, and is a NROTC contract student. A member of “Who’s Who,” Marto has had two articles in the Technical Review and is presently the president of the Notre Dame bands.
Dave Nagel of West Chicago, Ill., has been president of the Engineering Honor Society this year. He was one of the original founders of this society. Holding a 5.2 average, Nagel is an active NROTC regular. A member of “Who’s Who,” Nagel plans to do graduate work following three years of Navy duty.
Charles Riehm of Louisville, Ky., is attending Notre Dame on a National Merit Scholarship. A NROTC Regular, Riehm received the NROTC Chicago Tribune Award for two years. He received the IRE Student Award of 1960 and holds a 5.22 average. Riehm is also a National Science Foundation winner.
Bill Thrall is in his fifth year in the Architecture school. Holding a 5.5 average, Thrall is a member of the Engineering Honor Society and the Fine Arts Club. He has received a Notre Dame Student Body Scholarship and the Kervich Gold Medal for architecture. Thrall plans to attend Columbia University for graduate studies as a Woodrow Wilson fellowship winner.
9
Chessick Named Station Manager of WSND; Plan Closer Contacts With Student Thoughts
Tony Chessick was recently selected as station manager for Notre Dame’s radio station, WSND, for the coming year. Chessick, presently a junior from North Arlington, N.J., plans on “straining for closer contact with the ideas, opinions, and tastes of the Notre Dame Campus.”
His policy will be to entertain the listeners with the various forms of music — popular, classical, jazz, show tunes, and folk tunes. WSND will strive to keep its listeners abreast with current events on the campus, sporting, national, and international scenes. “All in all,” Chessick recently stated, “we plan to increase oui- facilities to bring WSND closer to the student.”
Frank Hamilton, a junior from Miami, Fla., was named Channel I program di-
TONY CHESSICK
New station manager of WSND
rector, and Thomas Musial will direct the programing for Channel II. This newly added circuit will strive to present a more expanded and unified schedule of programs.
John J. Cooney will take over the duties of business manager. Cooney, formerly of Wymissina, Pa., will be a senior next year. Douglass V. Koch, a junior from Yonkers, N. Y., will be WSND’s chief engineer.
James O’Leary, a Rockford, Ill., junior, will be Channel I’s chief announcer, while Charley Fernald will serve in this capacity for Channel II. Carl Goy of Chicago, Ill., will be chief production engineer next year.
Sports Director F. Richard Ciccone, plans an Irish Basketball network and interviews with major sports personalities.
Albert Hamilton will serve as the station’s news director. This department
10
will aim for the fullest possible coverage of Notre Dame news events.
J. T. Phillips of Oklahoma City, Okla., was appointed sales manager, and Andy Burd of Tulsa, Okla., will work as the traffic and continuity director.
Rounding out WSND’s new staff are public relations director, John Meyers of Lewiston, N. Y., and chief record librarian, C. David Feske, of Indianapolis, Ind.
WSND will continue to build up Channel II while holding to their non rock n’ roll policy. Remote broadcasts will be extended, and Comedy of Errors, a Sunday evening listening favorite, will be continued. To round out the station’s policy for all-around entertainment will be various discussions and information programs.
Debate Team Scores New Tournament Win
Notre Dame’s Debate Team added another major tournament to its list of victories last week end when it defeated the University of Florida in the finals of the Marx-Xavier Invitational Debate Tournament in Cincinnati, Ohio. The team of Chris Lane and Guy Powers topped the 1st of 26 schools from all parts of the nation.
The team advanced to the finals by compiling a 4-2 record in the preliminary rounds. Notre Dame defeated Brooklyn College in the quarter-finals and the University of Kentucky in the semi-finals. For Powers, the victory over Kentucky evened the score; for this same team had eliminated Notre Dame at the Notre Dame Invitational early in March. For Chris Lane, a freshman, the victory marked his third straight tournament win.
Debate coach, Professor Leonard Sommer, was well rewarded for his efforts as he received the $50 award for the coach of the winning team. The three trophies awarded to the debaters ran the team’s total to 18 for the year, again surpassing all previous years.
The win at Cincinnati climaxed a week of work for the debate team. On Sunday, April 24, the team had participated in two televised debates on the Chicago station, WBBM-TV. A team of Maurice O’Sullivan and Jay Whitney defeated a team from Marquette University, 3-0, while Joel Haggard teamed with Powers to defeat Northern Illinois University by the same unanimous score.
This week end Dick Meece and Jay Whitney will travel to Milwaukee and Marquette University to defend the championship that Notre Dame won last year. This marks the end of the intercollegiate season for the team.
MISS ANN MULREY Reigns at seniors’ “Reverie” .v,
Senior Dance Tonight ? In Drill Hall 'Reverie* '
Anticipation and excitement of the senior social calendar will reach its * climax tonight as the Senior Ball, apt propriately christened “Reverie,” will; be held in the Drill Hall. The festivities, to take place from ten until two, will feature the orchestra of Harry James; and his golden trumpet.	?
Reigning over the evening’s activity will be Queen Sarah Ann Mulrey, a', journalism major from Marquette Uni-; versity. Accompanying Miss Mulrey will be the general chairman of this; 4 year’s ball, Ted Dudley. Dudley, a, ( marketing major from Newhall, Cal., is. a member of the student senate and; social commission, and is the chairman , of the Hall Presidents Council. c?
The evening will begin as the juniors^ park the cars of the graduates to be^; A polyethylene stream, supplied by spectacular twenty-foot waterfall bright-~3 ; ened by multicolored spotlights, will-'^ meet the gaze of those in attendance;^5 ‘ This stream, beautified with floating" orchids, will surround the dancing areal? and set it off from numerous tables on^'s the side.
Saturday evening will see a dinner-^| dance at the Erskine Country Club un-i;; der the chairmanship of Bob Toland^y Dinner music will be provided by Wally/1 * Jones on the piano, followed by the^* orchesti-ation of Dick Vann for dancing.|i>,
The week end will be brought to awl close with a Mass, choired by the Gleeg! Club, and a Communion breakfast in th^]. new dining hall. His Excellency Bishop:^ Paul J. Hallinan of Charleston, S. C.0? will be the featured speaker at th^? ’ breakfast. His Excellency is a NotreB Dame graduate and past National; Chaplain of the Newman Club Fede® ration.	fi..
The Scholastic^
Rieck Names Additional Men to Scholastic Staff
» Chas Rieck, next year’s editor of the Scholastic, has named William Veeder to the position of executive assistant on next year’s staff. James Hickey was v named circulation manager and Dennis Luczak, art editor.
Veeder, a sophomore from Arlington, Va., in addition to his special responsi-• bility of procuring the back page will be assisting with the layout and features. He is on the dean’s list, a member of the Bookmen, on the staff of the * Juggler and has been a member of the features department of the Scholastic this year.
Hickey, a junior from Grand Rapids, * Mich., is majoring in economics. He is in charge of circulation and distribution, and is planning a more reliable method of distributing the Scholastic w to the residence halls.
Emphasis will be placed next year on a more “sophisticated” approach to the art work, said future art editor, Dennis Luczak. A fine arts major from Chicago, Luczak will be in charge of the ■ cover design and illustrations. He has in the past contributed a number of " Scholastic covers and last summer some of his work was on exhibit in Chicago.
Hayes Stars in Production of Wilder's 'Skin' Next Week
» Helen Hayes, the renowned “First Lady of the American Theater,” will head a cast of students in presenting Thornton Wilder’s The Skin of Our Teeth at St. Mary’s College, May 10-14. The production, to be held in O’Laugh-r lin auditorium, began rehearsals upon the arrival of Miss Hayes last week.
Howard Lord, director’ of the play, has announced that Gaynell Bordes of • New Orleans, La., a St. Mary’s senior, and David McDonald of Pittsburgh, Pa., a Notre Dame junior, will head the student cast of 22 men and women. Miss r Bordes will appear as Sabina, while McDonald, son of the president of the United Steel Workers, will take the person of Mr. Antrobus.
” To lead the supporting cast is Nancy Trohan, a St. Mary’s senior. Miss Tro-han, daughter of Walter Trohan, the Chicago Tribune Washington Bureau
- head, will hold the role of Gladys in the Wilder opus.
The following students, all of whom have appeared previously in theatrical ‘ productions at Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s, will also have significant roles in the forthcoming Wilder production: Henry Whittemore (Henry); Sally Ann - Rosenheimer (Fortune Teller); Jerry Sebold (Telegraph Boy).
AB Senior Eugene Pisano from Paterson, N. J., will be stage manager. - His assistant, Mary Armbruster, held a lead role in the recent campus production, Tiger at the Gates.
Settings will be super-vised by Donald Rathgeb, lighting by James Cronin, and costumes by Suzanne Stemnock.
Lawyers to Hold Ball At Morris Park C. C.
Tonight the Morris Park Country Club will be the scene of the annual “Law Ball” with the Don Gray orchestra providing the musical entertainment. The dance, chaired by Mason Sullivan, will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Hailing from Chicago, Sullivan is a second year law student having graduated from Notre Dame in 1956. His fiancee, Miss Ann Sweeney, will reign over the entire evening’s festivities hav-
MISS ANN SWEENEY
Queen of lawyers' high court
ing been crowned “Queen of the Lawyers’ Ball” by Dean O’Meara of the Notre Dame Law School. Miss Sweeney, who graduated from Rosary College in River Forest, Ill., in 1956, now teaches the first grade.
From among the married students’ wives a “Mrs. Law Ball” will be chosen according to customary practice. Also featured at the intermission of the dance will be a swinging choral group called the “Four Tunes.” John Dunn, Art Rule, Ed Hilgendorf and Jim Kane will do the vocalizing and have promised to include among their large selection of old favorites, some of the new “rockin” ballads.
Assisting Sullivan is Bill Kennedy, who did much of the preliminary planning; Mike Rose and Tom Clusserath are acting as business managers, and handling the decorations are Dan Webber and Rusty Byrne. Mike Gruthner is heading the refreshment committee which is preparing exotic citrus beverages for all those in attendance.
Car permissions will be in effect for those attending the Ball. Undergraduates under 21 who procure cars must register them with the Prefect of Discipline. All car permissions will expire at noon Saturday. Two a.m. permissions are granted to all undergraduates on the official dance list.
2. Otis
Wheeling aii Dealiig
Amidst rumblings of various political undercurrents, and after a long rest period, the Senate again convened last Monday evening. The mock convention, campus elections, and the Easter respite all served their purposes, but they also intensified this last political wheeling and dealing.
After all this maneuvering, a slate of officers and stay senators was chosen to carry the Senate into
posterity. These seven stay senators, or “carry-overs,” were elected: Jack Clark, John Clark, Rich Jalovec, Chris Lund, Steve McMahon, Walt O’Toole, and Don Rice. They combine with the recently-elected college senators (A.B., Tom Colleton; Commerce, Tom Hinchey; Engineering, Oliver Williams; Science, Denny Cantwell) to keep the legislature going until the new hall senators are selected next fall.
Then came the long-awaited V-P election. Jim Naughton nominated Don Rice, and SBP-elect nominated John Clark. On a secret ballot, Don Rice became the new SBV-P. After Bill Scheck-ler nominated him for the office of Secretary, Jack Clark won by acclamation. Scheckler also nominated Tom Colleton for Treasurer, and he beat out Keegan-nominated Rich Jalovec.
In a separate and laudatory move, the Senate voted Dennis Murphy and Bill Scheckler the outstanding senators of the year. To this I add my kudos.
The Senate did some other business too, and on the nonpolitical side. Keegan reported on a many-signatured letter protesting SEP Babbit’s letter which appeared in the April 1 Scholastic and was sent to 30 southern sbp’s. John Christen reported a nominal profit for the year’s social commission doings. Andy Lawlor reported that Robert M. Hutchins cannot come here as originally hoped, but United Steel Workers’ David J. MacDonald will speak on “Labor in America” on May 10.
Jim Wysocki reported a $30,140 net profit for the Mardi Gras and he gave the Senate a check for that amount. Dennis Murphy reported on the new heads of the various concessions for next year. Skip Easterly received $35 as partial subsidy for his trip to an NSA civil lights convention, and he explained what happened.	-
The NDEA committee again reported. They wrote a rationale for the recent vote on the loyalty oath and disclaimer affidavit. But the Senate decided they did not want only a negative vote on it, and consequently hope to vote something positively next week.
One campus election yet remains, and do not minimize its significance: the Sorin Hall “Ugly Man” will be voted on Sunday afternoon.
May 6, 1960
11
YCS Awards Scanlon Thomas More Medal; Citation Notes Outstanding Apostolate Labors
Tom Scanlon, a senior from Scranton, Pa., will be this year’s recipient of the annual Saint Thomas More Award. The award •program was established four years ago by the YCS in an attempt to give special recognition to those seniors whose work in the student apostolate has been outstanding.
A General Program major, Scanlon is presently the president of the Blue Circle Honor Society. He is also a winner of a Dome Award and a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and was last year’s president of the Society of Mary.
Rom a group of six. Scanlon was chosen from a group of six seniors nominated by juniors active in the Catholic action groups on campus. The final choice of a winner was made by a committee of priests on the faculty who are closely connected with the lay apostolate movement.
Besides special achievement in the field of the student apostolate, the receiver of the award is also required to show “a spirit of generosity and unselfishness, excellent leadership qualities and academic merit.”
The award will be presented by Father Hesburgh, president of the University at the Senior Class Day exercises on June 4. It consists of a sterling silver medal of Saint Thomas More, the patron of laymen, and a parchment citation.
Directing the award program for this year is a committee of sophomores composed of Pete Hennigan of Sands Point, Long Island; Phil Yawman of Rochester, N. Y. and Paul Hyer of Konsho-hoken, Pa. Hennigan and Yawman are in the liberal arts college and Hyer is
PETE HENNIGAN, TOM SCANLON AND JERRY MURPHY Congratulate YCS Thomas More Award winner
12
in the college of science.
One of Scanlon’s more noteworthy achievements was his instrumental action in the formation of Notre Dame’s Society of Mary. He will be cited for his work at a communion breakfast sponsored by YCS to be held May 15. Students are invited to attend the breakfast.
Grad Students Awarded Grants, Stipends by NSF
Nine University of Notre Dame graduate students have been named as winners of fellowships for advanced study in the sciences, mathematics and engineering. The fellowships were awarded by the National Science Foundation.
Winners of Cooperative Graduate Fellowships Award include John C. Cantwell of St. Louis, Mo.; Ronald J. Knill of Elkhorn, Wise.; John E. Scheu of Hannibal, Mo. and Donald R. Weidman of Kansas City, Kans. These grants provide a NSF twelve-month stipend of $2,200 plus a discretionary stipend of up to $800 from the institution where they are enrolled.
Three other Notre Dame students won NSF summer fellowships which provide stipends ranging from $50 to $75 per week plus tuition and fees. They are John E. Derwent of Chicago, Ill.; Charles A. Kelsey, of Santa Fe, N. M. and Ernest Menold of Springfield, Penn.
The Notre Dame winners accounted for six of the 42 cooperative fellowships awarded to students at Catholic colleges and universities.
•	I
Nagel Receives First Annual| Cavanaugh Theology Award 1
Scholastic achievement in the field of theology at Notre Dame will no • longer go unrewarded with the recent; naming of David Nagel as the winner J of the first annual Rev. Joseph H. ] Cavanaugh Award.
The honor will be conferred annually by Notre Dame’s theology department on a graduating senior “who has evidenced high qualities of personal character and academic achievement, particularly in theological studies.” Recipients are chosen from three top seniors in each college by their instructors, prefects and rectors.
Nagel, an engineering science major , from West Chicago, Ill., is also a member of Who’s Who and president of the Engineering Honor Society. A small reception at graduation will be held for i him and his parents, at which time he and his parents will receive an award.
The names of award winners will be inscribed on a bronze plaque in the foyer of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. Father Cavanaugh, who died in 1954, formerly headed the department of Theology at y Notre Dame. Anyone who has taken the freshman religion course at Notre Dame is familiar with his work, Evidence for our Faith.	■
Three Scholars Named To Danforth Fellowships
The Danforth Foundation recently named three Notre Dame seniors among those awarded Danforth Fellowships. Bruce Babbitt, Tom Banchoff and Jim Yoch were selected along with ninety-nine other college seniors.
These awards are presented to those . young men preparing for a career in college teaching. With the aid of this fellowship, the recipients are expected to attend the graduate school of their K own choosing and continue on to their doctorate.
A council of seven educators recommended these men to the Foundation y on the basis of academic ability, personality congenial to the classroom, integrity and character.
The appointment assures the winners j. of financial assistance through the completion of their doctor’s degree. Also, these men are free to accept any other national fellowship which they may have been awarded.
Babbitt, present Student Body President, plans to further his studies in the field of geophysics at Durham Univer— sity in England.
Banchoff, a mathematics major from Trenton, N. J., will study for his doctorate at the University of California in Berkeley.
Upon graduation Yoch, the present editor of the Juggler, will further his studies in English Literature at Princeton University.
The Scholastic
1
When things get too close for comfort*
your best friends won’t tell you... but your opponents will!
Old Spice Stick Deodorant brings you safe, sure, all-day protection.
Better than roll-ons that skip.
Better than sprays that drip.
Better than wrestling with creams that are greasy and messy.
NEW ELASTIC CASE NU^SET
STICK DEODORANT
ro* INSTANT USE
140
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
May 6, 1960

The most beautiful new look in diamonds
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
You have to see it to believe it! Looks like a diamond star floating on her finger. And it makes any diamond look bigger, brighter, more beautiful. Don’t even think of any other engagement ring until you see the dazzling "Evening Star"* collection at your Arfcorved jeweler's.
And, for real proof of value, ask your jeweler about Art-carved's famous nationwide Permanent Value Plan. It gives you the right to apply your ring’s full current retail price, should you ever desire to, toward a larger Artcarved diamond—any time—at any of the thousands of Artcarved jewelers throughout the country. •
IMPORTANT. Every genuine "Evening Star" diamond is guaranteed in writing, for color... cut... clarity... and carat weight and only Artcarved stamps the exact diamond weight in the ring. It's a genuine "Evening Star" only when-the name is stamped in the ring.
Beloved by brides for more than one hundred years (1850-1960)
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept CP, 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N. Y.
FREE: Send me more facts about diamond rings and “WEDDING GUIDE FOR BRIDE AND GROOM.” Also name of nearest (or home-town) Artcarved Jeweler.
Name___
Address.
.County or Zone.	State,
e~crtmeo stm>« oaten mt. «mm w- ernes oummcd to swow ocnn. core. neo, j. e. wooes sone, mo.
YOUR HEADQUARTERS EXCLUSIVELY IN SOUTH BEND FOR EVENING STAR DIAMONDS by __________
rtcarvec
WE HAVE EVENING STAR DIAMONDS “Round — Oval and Emerald Cuts”
Priced from $225 to $600
★
Many other engagement ring and wedding band styles by
ARTCARVED available
★
Credit (without interest) and lay away available to Notre Dame men
★
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 South Bend, Ind.
' if
14
The Scholastic.
In keeping with the recent student interest in the problems * of racial integration, the Scholastic features this week, Skip Easterly’s defense of student “sit-ins.” Skip attended the N.S.A. emergency conference on the “sit-in” movements in Washing-■' ton this month and has taken an active part in the sympathy demonstration at Notre Dame.
SOUTHERN SITUATION
SIT- IN '60
by SKIP EASTERLY
. GREENSBORO, N. C., 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. Four well dressed young men enter Woolworth’s and purchase articles at several counters. They proceed to the lunch counter and order coffee. The waitress refuses to serve them. The store manager reiterates the store policy. The four remain seated until the store closes. Why did the waitress refuse to > serve them? Because they were Negroes, and as the manager stated, “Negroes are not served here.”
Immediately the students swung into action. Student Body Presidents from the four Greensboro colleges; Bennett College;
* Greensboro College, North Carolina A & T; and University of North Carolina Women’s; and thirteen other student leaders formed a committee to direct all future activity.
Thus was born the sit-in movement, a movement which has electrified the South, the nation, and indeed, the whole world. However, this was only the beginning, similar demonstrations * have occurred since then in sixteen other North Carolina cities; Richmond and seven other Virginia cities; Montgomery, Bir-■ mingham and three other Alabama cities; Nashville and three other Tennessee cities; Miami and eight other Florida cities; ' in seven South Carolina cities; in Atlanta, Georgia; West Virginia; Louisiana, Mississippi; Ohio; Maryland; Kentucky and Texas. In each of these demonstrations the Negro and white students involved have been well dressed, orderly, and non* violent in the protest of segregated facilities.
I will attempt to show the situation in the South, the reasons for their actions, and the feelings of students and others in the South by endeavoring to answer several questions that r I feel are the most asked by Northern students.
Why a demonstration? Why the sit-in movement? What Negroes are saying is that the impressions people have of them are false, as is evidenced by the neat, orderly appear" ance of the demonstrations. Aftei- having talked to many of the student leaders of the southern schools it is apparent that I these people are dissatisfied, distraught and uneasy. These feelings are caused by the painfully slow implementation of the Supreme Court decision of 1954 stating that the integration of schools should proceed “with all due speed.” These students have been roused by the conniving methods and evasive schemes employed by southern officials in granting the rights that are due the Negro by this and subsequent decisions of the highest court in the land. The demonstrations are not asking that the whole problem be solved overnight but ‘ they ask that substantial progress be made now!
That American students are guaranteed the right to freely express their opinions and ideas so long as no other basic human right is placed in jeopardy is above question. The paramount consideration in these demonstrations is the fact that the Negroes involved have been neatly dressed, and have been in all instances orderly. And with the supreme test of absorb
ing the gruff abuses handed out by white hecklers, they have proven that they are willing to suffer now in order to rejoice later. I attended a meeting recently at which Paul LaPrad, the leader of the sit-in movement in Nashville, demonstrated the horrible heckling tactics of the southern whites. It is unbelievable that these Negroes are able to restrain themselves when affronted by the attacks of sleazy, unkempt, long-haired young whites who use the foulest language and tormenting tricks such as blowing smoke in the faces of Negroes and whites sitting at the lunch counters. Despite this there have been only two cases of Negroes being riled into physical action and these were both ignited by the persistent harassing of young whites.
Now, to non-violence. What exactly does the term mean? How does it work? The non-violent philosophy as implemented by the southern Negroes is a peaceful expression of their feelings that segregation is totally inhuman. In the words of Wyatt Tee Walker, “The Negro is not out to cause race hatred, but is attempting to secure equal human dignity for all.” The alternative to non-violence is violence and neither faction wants, or is prepared for violence. Among the students of the movement the philosophy is not to ignite race hatred but in a most positive way to foster love and peace among men. These people are dedicated to attempting to bring about a social situation in which the races would live together in harmony. They are non-violently expressing themselves and they state above all that when desegregation is accomplished they want to live with the people who now taunt them. They feel that non-violence is the proper means to achieve their end — a society without discrimination according to race, creed, color or national origin.
Thus the Negroes are not just elbowing their way in where they are not wanted. They are not, as some people think, trying to have the lowest of Negroes eat in the most fashionable restaurants. Even today when a lower class white attempts to enter an exclusive restaurant he is dealt with as an individual and asked to leave. Similarly in an integrated community when lower class individuals attempt to patronize the better restaurants they will be dealt with accordingly, no matter what their race or color.	.	.
The greatest problem among prejudiced whites is the fact that they do not know well any Negroes. For example how many whites have ever visited the home of a Negro and talked with them? Not necessarily on the racial situation, but on any topic? As Al Pinado, a Negro who obtained a graduate degree from Notre Dame has said, “You can’t love what you don’t know.” How true this is; whites discriminate against Negroes without even making an effort to know what and who they discriminate against. It has been proven that there exists on this very campus considerable racial prejudice, and this is
May 6, 1960
15
completely against all Christian principles. Christ became man, died for our sins, and rose from the dead to restore all men to the Father. Thus the Negro has as much right to a heavenly reward as anyone else has, and on these principles alone segregation would seem to be violating not only human dignity but also basic Christian doctrine. We must love all men and pass through this life prudently granting each man his due, and the Negro is not being treated prudently but, more importantly, even humanly. It is precisely this lacking and the maltreatment over the past centuries that has been aroused and has caused the new sit-in movement, and the voice of the Negro will not be stilled until he is treated on an equal plane with whites in every facet of life.
The most biting example of segregation is the fact that in some Catholic parishes in the South, Sunday is the most segregated day of the week. This is evidenced by the fact that the whites receive communion first and after this the Negro steps forward to receive the same Flesh and Blood of our Redeemer.
EXAMPLES OF AN APPALLING SITUATION
Another example was engraved into my mind on a recent bus trip through Georgia. At a small town in southern Georgia there were four people waiting to board the bus, two white women, a Negro woman and a white man. As the door opened the women stepped forward, the man stepping aside to allow the women to alight. When the Negro woman went to step up, the white man shouldered his way past her, forcing her to the side and making her wait until last. This brought home most graphically the unequal treatment which would give anyone enough cause to actively support the Negro and his cause.
How about other demonstrations? There have been similar demonstrations to the Greensboro one and there have been protest marches throughout the South. On February 25, Bernard Lee, the student body president of Alabama State College in Birmingham led 35 Negroes to the lunch counter of the court house at which they sat-in. As a result nine “ringleaders” of this peaceful, non-violent demonstration were expelled under the governor’s orders. (The governor sits as chairman of the State Board of Education and threatened to stop state aid to this state-supported institution). The governor, John Patterson, then threatened to close down the school if any further demonstrations occurred. On March 7 over 3000 Negroes of Montgomery, mostly students, were on their way to the State Capitol building to stage another demonstration. They were met by a mob of some 10,000 whites, but the police dispersed the whites and turned back the Negroes before any violence could occur. At a later demonstration 30 students and a faculty member were arrested for disorderly conduct and disobeying an officer.
Demonstrations in Atlanta led to the arrest of 77 students. The first Atlanta demonstration was staged in a downtown department store. Seven male Negro students, accompanied by a white youth attempted to enter the basement grill at Rich’s department store. The group was told that the store had separate facilities for Negroes next door. The students talked with the general manager for about 15 minutes and then left. The white student claimed that he and his friends, presumably Negro, had received service at the store the Saturday before. It was near closing time, white patrons left the restaurant and others were denied entrance until the Negroes were finished eating. Bolts of dry goods loaded on carts were placed before the grill entrance to obscure the view while the Negroes ate.
Eventually the students of Atlanta University Center which comprises leaders from Atlanta University, Clark College, the Interdenominational Theological Center, Morehouse College, Morris Brown College and Spelman College, had printed in all the Atlanta newspapers a full page advertisement entitled “An Appeal for Human Rights.” It was attacked by Governor Ernest Vandiver as not being written by students and as having overtones usually heard in anti-American propaganda. Which brings us to the next question.
Was the entire movement staged by CORE, NAACP or any other group? This attack by Governor Vandiver is not the only one; former President Harry S. Truman also stated that the demonstrators could be communistic. Along with this go
16
the accusations that CORE (Conference On Racial Equality) 5 or the NAACP had staged the demonstrations and were re- | sponsible for and the instigators of the movement. I can say that both of these statements are utterly ridiculous and extremely false. I know that the “Appeal” was written by stu- ’ dents because at the Washington Conference I stayed in the same hotel room with one of the students who assisted in writing it. Now for the argument that the entire movement is rigged, by communists or others. It is plainly evident that the governor, the ex-president and any others who make this : claim have never talked to any of the students involved. There • is no doubt in my mind after having talked with these people that they have done this on their own. The mere fact that ; the four freshmen at North Carolina A&T met for four long months before the present movement began is enough evidence that they needed time and the courage of their convictions to 0 act as they did. Incidentally, it was at one of these meetings that one of the four suggested that they attempt to buy a cup of coffee at the local Woolworth’s store. Also the fact that the Negroes involved feel so strongly, are so committed to this movement that they are willing to march to demonstrations when they know that there will be white mobs waiting for them. These mobs are not the most peace-loving citizens of the state. They have inflicted much bodily harm to the Negroes, Bernard Lee tells me that he saw a Negro woman struck down by a bat-carrying white, and this took place directly in front of two policemen who laughed it off and went their way. The Negro demonstrators have been shoved, kicked, punched, trampled and manhandled, and hardly ever are there arrests by the police. So convinced are these students that one stood # up at a recent Little Rock meeting and said, “My family has told me to quit demonstrating. They told me to get out of jail. They said to get back to studying. They told me of the sacrifices they had to make for my education, and how I would probably lose all if I didn’t quit. And I thought, and then I realized that the education was fine, but it didn’t mean a thing <> unless I had a situation in which equal opportunity prevailed, and I could use some of that education. So I’m staying with ' the movement.” These are the kind of students that are in . this movement, dedicated students who are individually con- 4 vinced that peaceful resistance will lead to victory in the lunch counter demonstrations.	;
What exactly is a sit-in? This type of peaceful resistance : calls for several Negro students to sit at a lunch counter and wait to be served. They remain silent while seated as a silent ’ protest of the segregation policy of the store. The original ■*! sit-ins saw a few courageous students sitting-in. However, as the movement grew the number of demonstrators swelled to < the point where there were enough students to occupy all the . seats at the counter. As it has emerged the recent trend has 4 reverted to the original policy of taking only a few seats while f allowing other patrons to be served. It must be noted that demonstrations have occurred at department stores, drug , stores, bus terminals, five and dime stores, concert halls, libraries, and any other facilities which utilize a “We don’t ; serve Negroes” policy.	1
THE PURPOSE OF A “SIT-IN”
What do they hope to accomplish by sitting-in? It is ap- J parent that they are not just attempting to be served at a ‘ . counter that refused them service previously. This is an all- . out movement designed to erase racial discrimination wherever ? it exists. These people are peacefully demonstrating for rights I that by all means are theirs—the law of the land as inter- [ preted by the courts requires equal treatment. The aims of J the movement are that Negroes be treated equally wherever | they go; that they be served at any seat in any restaurant;^ that Negroes be allowed to sit anywhere on buses, at concerts'^
or at any public entertainment; that Negroes be allowed into { any facilities which are now segregated such as hospitals, libraries, and art galleries; that Negroes are allowed to join or- A
ganizations whose other requirements they are
rea to join or-^ able to meet, g
including country clubs, fraternities, sororities, unions, housing
developments, etc.; that on all fronts Negroes be treated with the respect and dignity that is so seriously lacking in this country today.
How about boycotts? The argument used against boycotts
The Scholastic
ri
S!
is that the owner should have the right to select the patrons of his establishment. This in itself is the most segregational of ideas that has yet been advanced. Do these people also want to select the people who work in the fields and produce the ► goods that they are making their livelihood selling? Do they want to select the people who manufacture the goods that they eat or the clothes they wear? Do they want to select the people who build the fancy cars they drive around in? Do they want to select the people who dig their graves?
What happens at these demonstrations? At many of them the immediate result is the closing of the lunch counters. At this point the Negroes picket the store. In many instances * the sit-ins have led to arrests, also the pickets have been arrested. By the end of two months there were over 1700 arrests and the great majority have been the Negro demonstrators, for, rarely do the police arrest the taunting white hecklers. r These arrests have led to impossible bail and fines. The student movement has been plagued by unjust jailings, excessive bail, prolonged legal battles, excessive fines and court costs, and the threatened and actual dismissal from schools. The 1 arrests themselves have been for such offenses as disturbing the peace, breach of the peace and many other trumped-up charges. The students here are acting under the civil disobedience principle, that these minor laws have to be disobeyed when they come in conflict with a higher, moral law which is so definitely violated by the segregation practices existing today.
I think that the expulsion from schools that has been used ' to thwart the movement, the negative repressive laws (such as laws which make it a misdemeanor to remain on premises when asked to leave), and the fantastic fines and jail sentences have served only one purpose — to bolster the movement. Just ' one example, eight Florida A&M students now in Leon County jail serving sixty days rather than pay the $300 fines that were imposed upon them. Going to jail becomes a courageous act, being sacrificial lambs serves only one function—to instill the movement with a sense of solidarity and religious fervor that unifies the movement.
SOUTHERN NEGRO AND THE POLICE
Police action and the lack of it, has been as horrible as the deeds of Southern officials in stalling off integration from the Court decisions to February 1. Several of the Negroes I met in Washington related to me incidents that show how Negroes, many times women, were beaten during protest marches, sometimes with baseball bats and these have been in the plain sight of apathetic policemen. In Marshall, Texas, a courtroom was jammed when 57 students who were arrested went on trial. At the same time a crowd formed on the courthouse steps. Armed policemen were ordered to clear the court but the students remained seated. Finally the District Attorney decided to drop the inquiry and list the charges as pending. As the students left the courtroom fire hoses were turned on the Negro demonstrators outside the courthouse steps, and white students were allowed to aid the police in maneuvering the hoses.
What have these demonstrations accomplished? The integration of some southern facilities has been brought about by the movement. In San Antonio, Texas, the businessmen after noting citizens elsewhere and after mediating with the Council of Churches decided to abandon segregated lunch counters. In Jefferson City, Mo., meetings of biracial committees have led to integrated lunch counters, as of March 28. Two stores in Greensboro, N.C., had begun to serve Negroes by April 5. These are only a few of the many diverse breakthroughs achieved by the movement.
The fact that Mayors’ biracial committees have been established in at least 26 communities is heartening to leaders of the movement. Just the fact that negotiations have been begun is a victory, let alone the recommendations and calls to action that will result from mature discussions of differences.
Another accomplishment is the leadership ability that has been developed in the southern Negroes. Students have shown their ability and courage to speak out for and lead others to non-violent means to acquire equal human dignity. The students have shown they are responsible and aware enough to lead their communities now and in the future.
May 6, 1960
At the Shaw Conference (April 15) student leaders of southern colleges met to discuss the sit-ins and unify their actions. This meeting was described to me as an excellent example of the non-violent tone and religious fervor of the movement. These leaders have developed their thought and are convinced and are dedicated people who are committed to action which will end racial segregation.
The unity of the student community, not only on a single campus, or in the South, but across the nation also could -not have been accomplished without this movement. The awakening of students all over the nation and their penchant to aet is one of the more significant achievements to date.
What about the northern supporting actions? The loudest cry of Southern students is that discrimination exists in the North also. This is evident in Sheboygan, and Kenosha, Wise., where Negroes have 24 hours and no hours to leave town. This is evident in Chicago which has a completely segregated Catholic parish. This is evident by a case just this past winter in which a South Bend restaurant refused to serve Negroes. There are many such incidents in the North, and Southern students urge the investigation of these in an effort to aid the movement, by erasing these blights. Demonstrations, picketing, letters supporting students and condemning public officials, and the setting up of funds to aid the Southern students have been the major* forms of action. These are meant to bolster Southern students and to instill them with the fact that students of the North are supporting them, that they agree with their actions, and that they hope and pray for the success of the movement. Several motorcades have been launched which saw students from New England going to the Capitol in Washington to picket in protest of segregation.
The supporting picket action in Northern states is based on the theory that nation-wide pressure on chain stores will eventually lead their national offices to change their policy. Thousands of letters of support have been sent southward to student leaders, and these leaders tell me how warmly they are appreciated. It is heartwarming to know, they say, that a national feeling has been aroused, and that throughout the land students agree with their actions. Government officials and school administrators who oppose the movement have been besieged with letters and telegrams which have reprimanded their actions. These along with Mayors’ committees and other negotiation measures are intended to make obvious to these people that integration is imminent and that now is the time to act.
What have my contacts with Southern students shown me? The most evident fact is that this is a student movement. A movement well thought out, well carried out, and a movement based on the philosophy of love of neighbor. Without resorting to force, these people are crying out against discrimination, and are asking Southern officials to put an end to racial segregation. This movement will not die, it will exist as long as intimidation of Negroes exists.
A MANIFEST OF THANKS
I am inspired by courageous demonstrations of my fellow students in the South, both Negro and white, who have braved all opposition to bring about desegregation of facilities throughout the South.
I am thankful that I live in this era, an era which win be noted in history as the beginning of the equality of races.
I am thankful that I could meet these students who are so encouraging, who believe in their movement and who are committed to non-violent expression of their views.
I am thankful that I was able to exchange ideas with persons so dedicated that they spoke out to the world against discrimination and who acted so fearlessly to wipe out this menace.
I am thankful that there are students in the South who are not out to start a fight but to win one.
I am thankful that I live in a time when students can be heard, can speak out their convictions.
A Southern student has said, “The heart of the Confederacy is today plagued with heart trouble. The students who have joined the sit-in movement are tired of sitting it out, they are the physicians who will cure that heart by eliminating the cause of the trouble—racial discrimination.”

“Notre Dame refused to go to Church.” These words, uttered by a disgruntled-supporter of the Idaho Senator, sum up the consequences of much of the behind-the-scenes activity at the recent Mock Convention. Demonstrations, posters, and speeches add color to any political convention and on the campus level may win for it such titles as “the greatest mixer in four years” or “a meaningless mock.” However, the truly important decisions are often made in the storied “smoke-filled rooms,” and such was the case at Notre Dame’s Mock Convention.
Why and how did Kennedy win? This is perhaps the most basic question one could ask about the convention.^ There was too much detpi-minnd opposition to him to label the nomination a case of ■“Catholics voting- for a Catholic.” There are many factors that were important, beginning with Kennedy’s considerable popular_~suppoi't and including the su^ -'^perior pre-convention work of his campus fo^es^the profusion of their paigmnatertaly-and the leadership of Senior Class President Dick~~CorBett~and— Senior Class President-elect Pat-Nee.— -However, at the opening sessions of the convention Kennedy, Johnson, and Stevenson each seemed to have an equal chance . . . until after the third ballot.
At the close of Monday night’s meeting the results of the third ballot were Kennedy 491, Johnson 415, Stevenson 211, and Church 199. The only candidate to gain any advantage from the second ballot was Kennedy who increased his total by 200. The others had fairly consistent support from the second to the third ballots. However, by this time all of the other favorite sons except New York’s Mayor Wagner were eliminated, so each candidate had as many votes as he could hope to secure, without there being a shift in one of the major factions. The strongest group most likely to shift was the Western Bloc and their favorite son, Church, obviously a prime contender for the vice-presidential nod.
One hour and a half before Tuesday’s session, the Western Bloc chairmen met and took stock of their position. An analysis of their strength showed that they could deliver 160 of their 199 votes for either Kennedy or Stevenson. Johnson could receive only 30 votes. Realizing the significance of their bargaining position, they called in each of the campaign managers cooling theii- heels outside of the O’Shaughnessy “caucus room.” First came Denny Shaul.
Shaul offered no plan. He did say that • without New York’s 114 votes, even all the votes of the Western Bloc could not deliver Stevenson. However, if the Western Bloc did go Stevenson, he would try * to support its vice-presidential candidate, ‘ although he could not promise much more . than his own vote for him. Shaul also pointed out that if Kennedy should lose ' the presidential nomination, he would be a very strong vice-presidential contender, and certainly would have much more support than any favorite son of the Western Bloc. He did say that he thought a Stevenson-Church ticket would be one of the best possible ones. Next was Rivers A. Patout, the wily whip of the Johnson team.
Although Patout did offer the support of the South for the West’s vice-presi- A dential candidate, there was little enthusiasm in the West for the South’s presidential favorite. Patout said his candidate would win that night and also men- w tioned a Johnson-Mansfield ticket, but there were still few takers among the Westerners. Patout left and in came Messrs. Dick Corbett and John Sears.
Sears began by displaying a sheet of r paper on which was a written agreement promising 575 votes for Senator Church ’ on the vice-presidential ballots, if the Western Bloc would go Kennedy . . . and 575 plus 199 equals vice-presidency. The agreement had been signed by Kennedy campaigners Corbett, Sears, and Terry Smith. It was obviously the most concrete proposal that would be acceptable to the Western Bloc. Subsequent discussion showed that the Kennedy forces were assured of at least 575 votes for Kennedy on the fourth ballot. No one was certain which way New York would go, but the Kennedy people knew that with the votes of the West they would not need New York.	4
After Corbett and Sears left, the chairmen made their plans. First a poll of those present indicated that Church was favored for the vice-presidency. But 4 more important was their decision regarding the fourth ballot. Recalling Shaul’s view that unless he had New York Stevenson could not win, the bloc members decided to follow the lead of that delegation. Hoping that this would satisfy the desire of New York chairman Paul Hundt to be the convention “king- , maker,” the Westerners felt they could count on his support of Church for vicepresident. The chairmen decided to pass (Continued on page 22)
18
The Scholastic
May 6, 1960
19
Q. P-
... in the Drill Hall
Presented jointly by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and the University of Notre Dame, the South Bend Symphony appeared at Notre Dame’s own Cow Palace last Sunday afternoon in the last concert of its twenty-seventh season. While the Drill Hall improves the sound of the orchestra in one respect — the listener can hear all sections of the orchestra (a phenomenon not true of O’Laughlin Auditorium where the strings are often absorbed into the front border curtains and the brasses overpower the remainder of the ensemble), it hampers it in another — the total sound is somewhat muffled, as though a chorus were humming off stage. The best acoustics on either campus, in my opinion are in Washington Hall (which couldn’t hold the South Bend Symphony if they sat two on a chair). Nevertheless the Symphony came up with a fine concert and made the afternoon well worthwhile.
The program opened with the D Minor Symphony of Dvorak (his fourth). The first movement, an allegro, showed me something I have wanted to see all year in Edwyn Hames: authority. He conducted with a precision and a vitality he had not displayed before and his efforts resulted in a well intoned, well interpreted first movement.
The brasses introduce the second movement (Andante e molto cantabile) and are followed by a lyrical string passage, which begins in the violins and is picked up by the cellos, the violins continuing in a quadrupled rhythm obligato. The horns tended to be choppy and the legato intended by the composer simply did not come off. The strings redeemed the movement by their exceptionally full tone and their precise intonation. The violin and cello duo is followed by a theme in the wood winds which was partially lost ■ (probably due to the house rather than the orchestra).
The third movement, a fairly quiet scherzo, and the fourth movement (Allegro con brio) display the composer’s use of folk material. Also quite apparent in this part of the symphony is the influence of Wagnei- on Dvorak. There are innumerable key changes (notably in the last movement) and the harmonies are quite chromatic. Both movements open with folks songs in D minor and move through several full orchestra passages (each marked by a definite modulation) to restatements of the original themes. The climax of the symphony (in D major) served to show what this orchestra can do both in precision and interpretation. Hames balanced the orchestra beautifully in a well-proportioned crescendo to the climax and ended the symphony at a unison cut-off, which for once was really unison.
The second orchestral work performed by the Symphony was a ballet suite from Tchaikowsky’s Swan Lake. Musically, Swan Lake derives its beauty from its
AT THE THEATEEJ
Though it’s been two weeks since I came back, I’m still bushed. But I took time out to drag myself to the typewriter and here’s what came out.
The Avon Art is trading on laughs, expected or real, this week. Their double bill consists of The Rookie and TV/ien Comedy Was King. The former serves as launching pad for a new comedy team: Tommy Noonan and Pete Marshall. Noonan is the pratfall man and Marshall plays it straight — or relatively so. If you saw the Martin and Lewis movie that places them in an Army camp, there is little for you to see in The Rookie. There are some good scenes toward the end when the team doubles as themselves and a couple of Japanese who don’t know the war is over. When Comedy Was King offers better fare, even though slapstick has faded from entertainment. The movie is nothing more than a collection of famous routines by Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, Buster Keaton, Wallace Beery, Gloria Swanson, the Keystone Cops, Stu Erwin, and many others.
Some years ago, Sam Goldwyn made a movie which enabled him to put on screen the Goldwyn Girls once more. The movie was based on several Damon Runyon short stories about his peculiar brand of New York natives, and its name was Guys and Dolls. This week, the Colfax brings it back for the enjoyment of one and all. Appearing in the starring roles are Frank Sinatra, Jean Simmons, Marlon Brando, and ' Vivian Blaine. The humor is unique, if a little weird at times, and the songs are still excellent. Vivian Blaine is extremely funny in her role of the dumb girl friend of Frank Sinatra, to whom she has been engaged for something like eight years. Jean Simmons proves she can sing, and even Brando joins in the fun. Stubby Kaye, the Marryin’ Sam of L’il Abner, is at his best. Even if you saw the movie the first time around, drop by the Colfax. You won’t be disappointed by this Movie of the Week.
After getting funny with Please Don’t Eat the Daisies and racy with Tall Story and Room at the Top, the Granada turns to the West and The Unforgiven this week. r The large name cast is headed by Burt Lancaster, an old hand at this sort of thing, and Audrey Hepburn, who lends a powerfully feminine touch to the sometimes undercooked story. Miss Hepburn plays a half-breed, and this fact is the spark which sets off the onscreen violence.	*
The State has more movies this week than it can accommodate, and all of them are geared to attract the younger wild set. Starting yesterday, and running for three days, they are showing This Rebel Breed and The Threat. Starting on Sunday and running until Wednesday, they will show Guns of the Timberland and The Rise and Fall of Legs Diamond.
This Rebel Breed descends on you with the subtlety of a 20-ton Diesel locomotive. Rita Moreno and Mark Damon have the leading roles in this story of racial prejudice seasoned with dope addiction. Violence is the order of the day until the police roll up theii- trousers and wade into the blood bath. The Threat is not much better, featuring a man hunted by the underworld and the police at the same time. Some people have a knack for getting into weird trouble.
Alan Ladd has got his daughter into the movies. Her name is Alana, which is not a marked departure from his. The movie is Guns of the Timberland and features, besides Alan and Alana, Jeanne Crain, Gilbert Roland, and that ever-lovin’ Frankie ' Avalon, who also tries to sing two songs. His efforts are fruitless. All in all, the movie amounts to little else than gunplay and a just ending in which the villain, Gilbert Roland, is consumed in the sacrificial pyre of a huge forest wienie roast.
The Rise and Fall of Legs Diamond features Ray Danton and Karen Steele, with Elaine Stewart. It is the story of a minor gangster of the 1920’s. It has a violent beginning, a violent middle, and a violent ending. It is very violent. It might make you sick.	—Tony Wong
flowing melodies and rhythmic patterns; its greatness lies in its purpose: the ballet itself. When played as a concert work the suite amounts to not much more than musical frosting, sweet and pretty, but rather nauseating when taken in great amounts. For the most part the orchestra did the work justice and several things remain in my mind as worth mentioning.
While the first movement again showed the orchestra at its best for precision, the second movement had its ups and downs. The pizzicato introduction was a nightmare and yet the waltz which followed in the strings was beautiful. The trumpet soloist produced some really pretty tone, but lost touch with the conductor and was almost a half beat behind at the end of his solo.
There are two places in this movement (other than the final passage) in which the full orchestra is employed. At the first of these Mr. Hames used a circular
conducting technique often used by Leopold Stokowski. His movements were just short of precise and so were the resuitant attacks in the orchestra, producing a kind of machine gun effect in the ear of the listener. At the next full orchestra passage he used the same approach but with more definition; the results were superb. I have noticed during the course of this concert series that Mr. Hames’ use of the baton has been, for . the most part, merely perfunctory, and that when he does make a substantial effort at directing the orchestra (as he did during most of last Sunday’s per- x formance) the music takes on a whole new dimension and the quality of the Symphony is improved tremendously.
The third and fourth movements „ (played as one) include several solo passages which merit mention; they follow in rapid succession and are begun with a harp cadenza and solo. The Sym-
(Continued on page 30)
20
The Scholastic
SENIORS BEWARE
Final examinations will be administered to seniors during their last two class days of the semester. This is done to facilitate the combining of averages in time for the commencement exercises, since each senior must have a 2.00 average to graduate. Seniors with a 4.50 average or greater will be entitled to possible exemptions. Whether they will be exempt will depend on the discretion of their individual instructors. Where nonseniors are in the minority the instructor may test the entire class with the seniors.
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING, YOUTH WORK, farming, clerical work dene by Brothers are in great need today in the U.S. and foreign missions.
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
New Court Favorite!

RACKET STRING
VIA BANK OF AMERICA TRAVELERS CHEQUES money only you can spend
•	Playt lll(« gut
•	Stay* llvalltr
•	Lasts longer
•	Gauge controlled
•	Moisture Immune
ALWAYS SPECIFY
QUALITY STRINGS
Play it safe this summer! Carry your travel funds in blue and gold Bank of America 'Bravelers Cheques... backed by the world’s largest bank. Low-cost B of A Cheques are sold by banks everywhere—here and abroad.
Approximate Stringing Cost
VANTAGE Tennis..........$»
PRO-FECTED Tennis.......>7
Badminton......$6
MULTI-PLY Tennis........$S
Badminton .... .$4
At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.
SPECIMEN
FKIH i KKS < 113	f
Wanknf Amrrirn
SPECIMEN
- SPECIMEN
May 6, 1960
Mock Convention
(Continued from page 18)
Take my shirt, my lit. notes and my cuff links... but get your own
YOU TELL HER, MAN. The Court King is your shoe...professional traction-tread soles, flexible instep, full cushioning. A pro on the tennis court, but just as right with slacks.
A GIRL HAS RIGHTS. Like having a Champion Oxford made just for women. Comes with fashionable new taper toe-or round toe, if preferred. Light in weight, cool and colorful.
Get U.S. KEDS—male or female-at any good shoe or department store.
*8oth U.S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of United States Rubber Rockefeller Center, New York 20, New York
until New York announced its vote. If the state went Stevenson, the bloc would go Church for that ballot, they meet to <1 decide whether they would follow. If New York went Kennedy, they would < also vote Kennedy.
As the voting began, the New York delegation, still in caucus, passed, much to the consternation of everyone. Antici- ' pating another vote for Wagner, some of the passing Western Bloc states voted ' for Church. Then New York cast its vote for Kennedy. Several Western states 5 which had not yet announced their votes, spurning a firm offer of support by Rivers , Patout, went to Kennedy also. The end of the ballot saw Kennedy with 660 votes, Johnson 548, Stevenson 173, and Church 96. The fifth round proved a shoo- * in for Kennedy, with New York and every Western state vntingjmi Kennedy, giving him the nomination with a smashing total of <934 votds^ Then the vice-presidential balloting began. . . .
From the first ballot for vice-president, it was blatantly obvious that the Ken- , nedy people could not deliver 575 votes, *' or even 175 votes, for Church. The only states which went Church outside of the Western Bloc were the four rigidly-Ken-nedy states of Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, and Oklahoma —109 votes in all. , Moreover, there was no display of enthusiasm among any of the Kennedy supporters for Church.	“
After the session ended, the Western a Bloc leaders buttonholed Corbett, Sears, Nee, and Smith, all of whom were very apologetic for Church’s poor showing. They agreed to “see the chairman” of the state delegations and to distribute mimeographed material on Church. They < i promised that the voting would be different on the next night, at least here 4 they were right.
On Wednesday, a second meeting was 4 : held before the convention of the Kennedy people and the Western Bloc members. At this meeting the Kennedy people admitted that they were very appre- v ciative of this fact. However, in spite of their gratitude, they had won no further > support for Church, nor was there any of the promised campaign literature for ‘ him. It became clear that the offer of i the 575 votes was completely unrealizable. The most they could promise was • that if the splintering Western Bloc could hold together on the second ballot, they would be able to get additional sup- ‘ port for Church on the third ballot. The rest of the story is simple.	**
The Western Bloc held out for Church on the second ballot. The Kennedy forces increased their “gift” by one vote. On , the third ballot, realizing that Church A । was lost, the Western Bloc finally split	I
up. Kennedy’s forces passed, then went	V
Hodges. And in the end, most of the J bloc, determined to foil the Kennedy ’ J backers if possible, supported Symington j with the cry of “sold down the river.”
Mark Thompson Bill Hanley
The Scholastic
LUGGAGE
Trunks and Bags
T A	luggage
JACK b ~
327 S. MICHIGAN AT 7-3009 Free Delivery
THIS WEEK’S COVER —The graphic design approach is used on this week’s cover, employing the University Theater’s production of “The Most Happy Fella" as the theme. The artist is the Scholastic’s new art editor, Denny Luczak, a junior in fine arts from Chicago.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. . Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
SCIENTIFIC ADVANCES 801-802
Progress of Women (toward men)
Dr. Allure
Magnetism of men who use ordinary hair tonics studied. Conclusion: barely existent. Magnetism of men who use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic studied. Conclusion not yet established since test cases being held captive by neighboring sorority. Examination of alcohol tonics and sticky hair creams (rubber gloves recommended for this class). Result: repelled women. Frequent use of water on hair cited: this practice deemed harmless because ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic mollifies its drying effect. Female Appraisal of Contemporary Male. Conclusion: Student body O. K. if student head kept date-worthy with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic.
■VASELINE’ IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH POSO S INC
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
nominated most-likely-to-succeed .... overwhelmingly elected!
Piper Slacks by H-I-S
Pipers lead the poll for campus popularity! Dig the reasons . . . guys look sharper in pencil-slim Pipers. They like the lower ride on the hips... the side buckles that replace belts ... the Continental slant of the front pockets. $4.95 to $8.95, in a host of washable fabrics at on-the-ball campus shops.
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
Editor:
Hard as it may be to believe the Scholastic has reached an all-time low in journalism, even worse than before. I do not speak of such objective writings as those concerning campus elections, sporting events, and the like which your staff does an adequate job of portraying to an interested student body. This is the job of a campus paper.
However, when the Scholastic staff begins to exress subjective opinions, why must we be forced to read such tripe as the “Commentary” and “Back Page” of the April 8 edition.
Also, has the Scholastic become the campus organ for the NAACP? It is, Mr. Editor, the legal right of an establishment to refuse service to anyone it wishes. I do not believe that Mr. Kresge’s and Mr. Woolworth’s successors in running the retail chain of stores are going to quake over losing South Bend’s Negro trade. I, and I think, few other students, give two bits what Mrs. Eurilla Wills is doing in the South Bend area for the NAACP. If we are interested, there are several newspapers more than adequate for printing “all the news that’s fit to print.” This is not a bad slogan to adopt. Why don’t you?!
Raymond Stefani, 212 Lyons
TROUBLE IN CLEVELAND
Editor:
Convinced of the sincerity of the Scholastic in printing her letter, I nevertheless do not believe in Barbara M. Timm. In fact, I have my doubts about the existence of Ursuline College itself. Last week I wrote to the alleged Miss Timm, offering my services as a Notre Dame man, one of a breed she professed genuine devotion to. No reply has been forthcoming, and I must conclude that either she found me unappealing or else she is a real nonentity. I prefer to believe the latter.
Joe Vandewalle, 2030 Beverly Pl. South Bend, Ind.
(ED: Miss Timm not only exists, but her letter published in the Scholastic caused the president of the Ursuline stu-' dent body to write a public letter of apology to the John Carroll student newspaper.)
“MOCK" REACTIONS
Editor:
We feel the nominating of John F. Kennedy at the Mock Convention was effected by many who did not know the issues, and did not bother to study them. We feel many of his supporters went to have a good time and did not undertake to think or seriously consider his real qualifications, or those of any other candidate.
This number of the uninformed who voted for Kennedy did so primarily on the basis of his being Catholic, although another factor of his “good looks” entered strongly into it.
To this uninformed many, we would call attention to an article appearing in the Time magazine issue of April 11, 1960, entitled, “How Catholics Should Vote.” This article reports on a statement made by one Father Francis J. Connell which originally appeared in Baltimore’s Catholic Review. We quote, “A conscientious Catholic must regard it as a sin ‘to vote for a Catholic candidate merely because of his faith.’ ”
We base these observations on experience as delegates actively supporting an “also ran” candidate.
J. Wyrsch, 301 Cavanaugh J. Walker, 313 Cavanaugh Editor:
May I offer all the laurels and garlands possible to the tireless committee members of the Mock Convention.
Thanks for a beautiful, unselfish job which, I am sure, paid off in the enjoyment of all.
Dan O’Neill, 433 Walsh
Editor:
I am quite sure that I am echoing the sentiments of all of us who helped, in any capacity, with the Stevenson campaign during the recent Mock Convention when I say that I was very proud to be associated with Denny Shaul, who led the campaign. He led his supporters in an all-out effort for Governor Stevenson, but when it became clear that the will of the convention leaned toward John Kennedy, he publicly released his supporters, advising them to follow their own preferences.
Shaul was not interested in a last-ditch stand for Stevenson, although many of his supporters would have followed him all the way. He was interested in nominating the best man possible. After Stevenson, he felt that the best man was Kennedy.
I think that the entire student body should be grateful to Denny Shaul for the wholesome influence the Stevenson campaign had upon the political education of the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s.
John Akalaitis, 125 Sorin Hall Editor:
I had the honor to be the Chairman of the Oklahoma Delegation to the Notre Dame Mock Democratic Convention, and I am a native of the state of Oklahoma, as were the majority (27) of the delegates.
We feel that you completely misjudged our delegation in your recent Commentary on the 1960 Mock Democratic Convention. It should be brought to “your all’s” mind that in 1956 the Oklahoma delegation nominated Senator John Kennedy to the office of vice-president. Also our Governor, J. Howard Edmondson, has almost openly committed himself to Senator Kennedy. On all five ballots 27 out of our 29 votes were cast for Senator Kennedy. Senator Kennedy, in our estimation, has a much better chance to win the predominately Democratic South than Senator Johnson has of winning the (Continued on page 25)

J h
24
The Scholastic
campus character
MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
ASTIC’S reading.
Rasmussen
Men's Shop
has them.
$1.50
COOPER'S. INCORPORATED • KENOSHA, WIS.
J. T. Phillips, Chairman of the Oklahoma Delegation
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
PSAMUEL PSYCHE
A thinking man’s thinking man, Psamuel finds that thoughts come easiest when he is most comfortable.
That’s why he always wears Jockey brand T-shirts. He likes the way the fine combed cotton feels next to his skin. He likes the way the twin-stitched, nylon-reinforced collar keeps its shape. And he likes the full-proportioned body and extra long tail that never creeps.
You, too, will like yourself better when you enjoy the comfort of Jockey brand T-shirts. Your favorite campus store
tyockeu
® SRANO *
T-shirts
Repercussions
(Continued from page 24)
North. We feel that Senator Kennedy has a very realistic stand on integration and agriculture. And finally, for your information Oklahoma is rapidly becoming the industrial center of the Southwest.
We wish that the Scholastic before
trying to speak with such authority would check with people who have ac-. curate information. This way the Schol-
Commentary” would be worth
Editor:
The undergraduate “leaders” are to be complimented for their very fine “mock” convention. The realness of the situation was shocking, especially when one recalls, a Joe Smith of Republican infamy. Their surveillance by the substitution of blue shirts for the characteristic black and brown was also impressive, if not ingenious. All this is of the past, but I do hope that they discover before they join the ranks of graduates, that group-think and muscle-methods are dangerous.
William J. Gerardo, ’57, 301 Fisher
POOR COVERAGE?
Editor:
I was very surprised and disappointed at the incomplete and inaccurate coverage given to the two-mile relay team at the Cleveland Knights of Columbus Relays on March 18. It should be brought to your attention that the 7:40.2 was more than just another race or a mediocre performance; it happens to be a school record for that event and should be recognized as such.
Dennis G. Johnston 212 Howard
McCLAVE
PRINTING CO.
•
Phone CE 4-7361
•
305 NORTH NILES AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DIAMONDS JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittaauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	IMS. Bldg.
STUN II flMM Eurc^ean Year Plan
A full academic year for undergraduate students at the University of Vienna including three Field-Study -Tours through Europe. English-taught courses. German language study. Housing in Austrian homes.
Time: SEPTEMBER to JULY. Application deadline: JUNE 15.
COST: $2,125 Price includes: Ocean transportation, room, board, tuition and travel in Europe.
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wacker Drive, Dept. R.
Chicago 1, Illinois
Please send this coupon for detailed bulletin.
aUnn
city	MM
•cUel
May 6, 1960
25
DON’T LET THE MONTH OF JUNE COME TOO SOON
It’s an important month for you...and for IBM
June may mark the start of a career of rapid advancement for you with IBM. We need ambitious college graduates, with good scholastic records, for careers in direct and indirect marketing, applied science, programming, systems, and other areas. We've been expanding rapidly ... and we promote from within.
Whether you’re majoring in engineering, science, math, business administration, or liberal arts, you should know about IBM and what we have to offer.
DATA PROCESSING DIVISION
See your Placement Officer for more information. If we have already interviewed on this campus, and you did not get to see us, please write or call:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager
International Business Machines Corporation 234 N. Michigan St., South Bend 1, Indiana Telephone: CEntral 2-8251
IBM ©
26
The Scholastic
* ND Golfing Team Meets
Bellarmine and Wildcats
' Notre Dame’s linksmen started their season with a rush, scoring victories over Northern Illinois, Bowling Green and DePaul. On April 23, Terry Lally, f with a 148 total led the squad to a 19%,	16% win over Northern Illinois. The
’ Northerners were led by Mike Spinello’s 146 score. At the end of the morning, ' Notre Dame led 13-5, but the final 18 holes of this 36-hole course gave the Green quite a bit of trouble before they finally held off the ll%-6% finishing rush of the Northern Illinois team.
I, Last Friday at the Notre Dame f course, Bowling Green and DePaul succumbed 10%-7% and 18-0, respectively. Once again Lally led the Irish golfers, , turning in a par 71. Bowling Green’s Warren Harold toured the course in 73 4 strokes, while DePaul’s low scorer was ' Dennis O’Malley with a 81.
* Last Monday, the Irish traveled to Iowa for a match with Iowa and Western Illinois.
Tomorrow Bellarmine and Northwestern will visit the Burke Memorial course. Bellarmine has captured three of its first four matches and is regarded as a fine team. The perenially strong North-I	western team is a threat to reverse last
'	year’s loss at the hands of the Green.
h Hillsdale is Notre Dame’s Monday guest. Very little is known of the Hillsdale visitors.
On Monday, May 9, the state championship will be determined at Lafayette, Ind. In addition to Notre Dame, > Indiana and Purdue are participating in this match.
( Purdue was champion of the Big Ten and runner-up in the NCAA tournament V last year. An indication of Indiana’s strength this year is the fact that they have already defeated Purdue.
TERRY LALLY
Number one Irish golfer
KUNEMEN BATTLE WESTERN MORGAN;
GENTEMPO AND CARETTA PACE HITTERS
This afternoon Notre Dame’s baseball team returns home to battle a strong Western Michigan team. Tomorrow the Broncos host Notre Dame at Kalamazoo in a return game. After a successful spring vacation Southern trip and a so-so regular season beginning, the Irish look to this coming week’s heavy schedule to show their true form.
Lettermen return. Last year’s District Four NCAA Champions and Mid-Ameri-can Conference Co-Champs, Western Michigan features a letterman at every position. Bronco Coach Charley Maher is entering his 21st year at the helm with a lifetime mark of .677. He has developed such major leaguers as Ken Hamlin, Ron Jackson and Frank Overmire at Kalamazoo. The Irish will be out for revenge because last season Western Michigan eliminated Notre Dame from the NCAA playoffs.
On Monday the Irish journey to Madison, Wis., to face the Wisconsin Badgers in a two-day series. The Badgers, one of the early leaders in Big Ten play, are paced by star football quarterback Dale Hackbart in left field.
Notre Dame returns on Wednesday to battle Michigan State on Cartier Field. The Spartans, under the able guidance of Coach John Kobs, feature two outstanding pitchers, Don Sackett and Mickey Sinks.
Going into last Tuesday’s encounter with Michigan, Notre Dame boasted a 12-3 record for the year. A ten-game spring vacation trip produced nine out of ten wins for the Irish. The Irish defeated Evansville, Murray State, Memphis Naval Air Base, Illinois, Memphis State, Arkansas State (twice) and David Lipscomb College before losing to Austin Peay State. The Irish finished their trip with a victory over* Vanderbilt.' Irish Coach Jake Kline called the trip “beneficial” although he wasn’t pleased with the many errors committed by the infield during the trip.
Palihnich shines. In the first game after returning to school, this leaky infield committed three errors, but the Irish defeated Purdue, 7-2, thanks to a 14-strike-out performance by Junior Nick Palihnich. Palihnich was particularly impressive with men on base. The only damaging hit off the quick right-hander was a home run by outfielder Clyde Washington.	.
On April 27, Northwestern held off a ninth-inning rally to hand the Irish their second loss of the season, 6 to 4.
Last week end Notre Dame split a two-game series at Bowling Green, coming back to win the second game, 14-0, after dropping the first, 3-2. Left-hander Mike Brennan permitted the Falcons only four
singles, while notching his third victory without a loss in the second game.
As the Irish begin to move into the second half of their schedule, the starting unit seems to be pretty well set. Leading off for the Irish this season has been second baseman Jack Gentempo, currently leading the Irish hitters with an average of well over .400.
. Junior Chuck Lennon is currently following Gentempo in the batting order. Lennon, a strong-armed center fielder who was a reserve for much of last year, has shown great improvement in his hitting to add to his always steady fielding.
The Irish fixture at third is Danny
JOHN CARRETTA
Power hitting first baseman
Hagan. Hagan, a leading hitter for the Irish last year, is again having a good year at the plate as a consistent long-ball hitter.
Leading the Green in power hitting in the first fifteen games has been first . . baseman Frank Carretta. Batting in the ’ clean-up slot, Carretta has handled his, job well as he currently leads the Irish in runs-batted-in.	.
Right fielder Frank Finnegan is the most improved hitter on the squad. Like Carretta, he has become one of the .. squad’s most consistent power hitters. Finnegan is followed in the batting or- . -der by sophomores Bill Brutvan and Walt Osgood. Brutvan and Osgood have : both shown great promise in their first ■year. Osgood has been taking the place of injured Captain Ed Wojcik at the ,; catching position. Battling for shortstop are junior Bob Scarpitto and sophomore Billy Howard, both of whom are seeing their first varsity action for the' < Notre Dame basebailers.	• ? ;
May 6, 1960
Cadet Cindermen Battle Irish In Dual Competition Saturday
Notre Dame’s track team opens its home outdoor season tomorrow when it faces a strong Army squad on Cartier Field. The visiting Army team has one of its top squads in the East and should provide keen competition for the Irish.
Coached by Carl Crowell who is enjoying his tenth season at the helm of the Cadets, the visitors will be led by a strong nucleus of 14 returning letter-men. Heading this group is Captain Bill Hanne, one of the top 880-men in the college ranks today.
The West Pointers are especially strong in the distance and fieid events. John Jones and Howard Roberts will be difficult competitors for Ron Gregory in the one and two-mile events. Junior Gene LaBorne has done well this spring in the high jump while senior Phil Chappell is the Cadet’s leading broad jumper.
Rounding out the Army’s field strength are Lyle King, a strong javelin man, and Mike Mireau, the Cadet’s leading shot man.
On Wednesday, the Wilsonmen will host the Indiana Big. State meet. Featuring strong teams such as Indiana and Purdue, the meet is one of Indiana’s top track events of the year. Also entered in this year’s meet are Butler, Wabash, Hanover, DePauw, Ball State, Indiana State, Manchester, Indiana Manchester, Central, Evansville and Rose Poly.
On April 23, the Green traveled to the Ohio Relays in Columbus, Ohio. The Irish placed first in three events. Gregory won the 800-meter run in the time of 1:53.2. Tom Reichert set a new Notre Dame outdoor record in the pole vault as he won this event with a leap of 14'4%". Notre Dame’s sprint medley team also took a first with a timing of 3:27.4. The distance relay team placed fourth in its event, while the 400-yard relay unit placed second in that event.
Individually, the Irish were led by junior Jerry Fitzpatrick who placed fourth in the 100-yard dash and Dick Monjeau, capturing a third in hop-step-jump with a mark of 44' 8". Sophomore Tom Dempsey secured a fifth place in the 1500-meter run.
The Wilsonmen traveled to the Drake Relays at Des Moines, la. on April 29-30. Leading the Notre Darners here was Gregory as he placed second in the open mile. Monjeau continued to win points for the Irish as he placed fourth in the hop-step-jump event.
The sprint medley team of Steve Schwartz, Fitzpatrick, Frank Hemphill and Gregory came on strong at the end to capture fifth place. Notre Dame’s distance medley unit composed of Schwartz, Dan Rorke, Tom Dempsey and Gregory also won fifth. The final winner for the Irish was senior pole vaulter Tom Reichert whose leap tied him for the fifth position.
There were many national stars participating in the relays. Bill Nieder, for one, broke the meet shot record.
28
Irish Footballers Resume Practice Sessions: Kuharich Names Ray Lemek as Coaching Aide
Notre Dame’s football charges have reached the three-quarter point in spring football practice, and the squad is now preparing itself for the Old Timer’s game which is scheduled one week from tomorrow.
During the first week of practice, Coach Joe Kuharich and his assistants concentrated primarily on conditioning the squad with calisthenics. However, offense was also stressed as the freshmen aspirants became acquainted with the Irish offensive patterns.
Interrupted sessions. Due to the late Easter vacation this year, the practice sessions were interrupted after the first week and a half. On return from vaca-
DICK EVANS
Returns to pro ranks
tion, the squad once again had to recondition themselves with calisthenics. At the same time, the newcomers and veterans alike began their initiation into the Notre Dame defensive setup along with the offense. Coach Kuharich and his assistants will concentrate on this combination of offense and defense right up until the day of the Old Timer clash.
The Irish held their first intrasquad scrimmage on Saturday, April 9. In this contest the emphasis was on the Irish offensive patterns as several units alternated. in directing the attack. Coach Bill Daddio stated that “the scrimmage was impressive and we were pleased with the way the team had progressed after only one week of practice.”
Outstanding in this scrimmage were halfbacks Ray Ratkowski and Angelo Dabiero. Ratkowski repeatedly reeled off long runs during the afternoon as Dabiero was also a constant threat, breaking away for one touchdown of 65 yards
and gaining good yardage on several other occasions.
Proof of the good conditioning of the I Irish athletes was the fact that only one injuiy resulted during this hot afternoon session. This injuiy was to tackle Joe Corollo’s ankle, putting him out for the ? remainder of the spring.
Kuharich and his assistants scheduled another scrimmage last Saturday after-noon also. The coaching staff has also planned a full intrasquad scrimmage for tomorrow afternoon.
A
In last Saturday’s scrimmage, Coach ' Kuharich alternated personnel into his offensive unit, using three teams during the long afternoon drill. Again the em-phasis was on offense as the attacking unit controlled the ball throughout the scrimmage. Three different offensive units were used. Quarterbacks Norb Rascher, George Haffner and Ed Rutkowski were impressive in directing the attack.
1 -
Junior Bill Henneghan, a quarterback H who has been transferred to fullback, was impressive on running power plays. Dabiero, a speedster who has been a constant break-away threat all spring, was •f also effective in his offensive halfback slot.	;
Thus far, the freshmen have been par-ticularly impressive in the practice sessions. Not only is this group providing depth, but many are playing so well at the present time that several of the lettermen are being “pressed to the limit” in order to keep their first team berths.
Promising freshmen. The freshmen ends have been especially outstanding. ’ Jim Sherlock, Seiler, and Dennis Murphy are just three of this large group who are pressing for top positions on the 1960 unit. But the freshmen strength is not just centered at the end position. Quar-terbacks Rascher, Rutkowski, Daryle La- * monica and Eddie Eck and halfbacks , such as Dennis Phillips and Charles O’Hara are just a few of the many names that the coaches have been calling on this spring.
I
While none of the squad members departed during the Easter holidays, the “I coaching staff sustained a loss when Dick Evans resigned as assistant coach to accept a position with the professional f Cleveland Browns. Taking the place of y Evans during this year’s spring sessions * has been Ray Lemek, an ex-Notre Dame lineman who captained the Irish eleven t in 1955.
It is also certain that Coach Kuha- j rich will receive the assistance of ;s ex-Irish great Ralph Guglielmi. Gug-lielmi, now the starting quarterback for j: the Washington Redskins, will be work-ing with the quarterbacks, teaching them i the fine points of that position and help- ’ ing the players with their passing. j
The Scholastic |
■ ODDS and ENDS
■ When the New York Yankees walloped
► Baltimore 16-0 last Saturday to move in-H to undisputed possession of first place in . f 1 the American League, it was the first time , that the once feared Bronx Bombers had 7 occupied the top spot since the final game of the 1958 campaign. As of last Sunday • only 1 % games separated the Yankees and last place Cleveland (minus Herb 7	7 Score and Rocky Colavito). Over in the
National League, the Pittsburgh Pirates 7 stretched their league lead to 2% games A	over second place San Francisco and had
*	a nine-game win streak after lacing the
Redlegs 13-2 last Sunday. Moreover, Stan Musial and Ted Williams were showing A	signs of returning to form after sub-par
■	performances in 1959. All in all, it looked
like red hot pennant races in both leagues would keep the fans and experts guessing
U about the winners until the final man is out. . . .
4^
QUICKLY QUOTED: Manager Bob Elliott of Kansas City banned golf for his
players on off days saying, “Let ’em stir lemonade and take the family out for a picnic.” Joey Giardello commenting on his recent brawl with middleweight champ Gene Fullmer in which both fighters were guilty of frequent (and flagrant) butting, “I hit him with my head once for spite but he started it. He did everything. ...”
The Summit Meeting of the nation’s top shot putters took place at the Drake Relays last week end and when the smoke had cleared, Army Lieutenant Bill Neider emerged as top dog of the day’s competition. Neider and world champ Parry O’Brien had been engaged in a heated verbal exchange with O’Brien getting off the longest throws in this mud slinging contest. However, when the actual competition got under way on Saturday, Neider had the final answer with a put of 63 feet, 11 % inches. The best that Powerful Parry could do was 63 feet, 1 *4 inches. The third prominent shot putter present, strongman Dave Davis, placed third. A notable absentee was young Dallas Long of USC who had a 60-foot 5-inch effort in a double dual meet with Stanford and Occidental. All four of these iron ball enthusiasts will be in action at the 20th annual Los Angeles Coliseum Relays on Friday night, May 20. What a battle that should be. . . .
SPORTS SHORTS: A swimmer, 6-6
Dennis Ruppart, was the tallest athlete participating in any of the Spartans’ 14 varsity sports during 1959-60. . . . Another note from the land of the Spartan: it is believed that the 1929 Michigan State basketball team was the first collegiate athletic team to attempt and complete an airplane trip when it flew to Milwaukee to play Marquette. Shades of the Wright brothers. . . . PICK OF THE WEEK: Tompion to win the Derby. . . .
May 6, 1960
RAY BENDER
Irish tennis captain
Netmen Travel to Iowa To Test Seasoned Foes
Notre Dame’s tennis team continues its heavy schedule of matches today and tomorrow when it travels to Iowa City, la., for a match against the combined opposition of Iowa, Northwestern and Ohio State. On Wednesday, May 11, the Irish continue their travels as they journey up to Kalamazoo, Mich., for a match with a seasoned Western Michigan squad.
The Green netters return home on Thursday, May 12, to host a strong University of Toledo team on the Notre Dame courts.
Coach Tom Fallon’s netters brought their season record up to 7-3 last Tuesday when they defeated the University of Indiana at Bloomington, Ind. The score of the match was 6-3. In singles competition, Don Ralph, Bill Heinbecker, Ray Bender and Dee Stevenson picked up victories for the Irish.
Last Monday’s match against the Purdue Boilermakers at Lafayette, Ind. saw the Notre Dame team come out on top as it rolled up a perfect score of 9-0.
Notre Dame began its spring vacation schedule on April 18 when it traveled to New Haven, Conn., to meet a strong Yale University team. The Ivy Leaguers were victorious in this initial encounter with a Notre Dame tennis team. In the top match of the day, All-American Don Dell faced Notre Dame’s All-American Ralph with Dell coming out on top in a long battle.
On April 19, the Irish traveled to Cambridge, Mass., for a match with Harvard. In their first tennis meeting with this Ivy League team also, Notre Dame was defeated. For the remainder of the trip, Fallon’s squad lost to Princeton while defeating the Merchant Marine Academy.
Notre Dame defeated Marquette on April 29 and then journeyed to Madison. on April 30 where it defeated the University of Wisconsin.
ND Sailors Win First In Wisconsin Regatta
Last week end the Notre Dame sailing team participated in its fourth regatta in as many weeks and took a . first at Lake Mendota, the home waters of the University of Wisconsin. Commodore Dan Schuster and ex-Commodore Mickey Pavia’ skippered the Irish to 34 points, fighting against 30-mile-per-hour winds Saturday and light air on Sunday. W. Franklin Bohlen, Mike Zusi and Ed Bukowski crewed for Notre Dame.
The previous week end, April 23-24, the team was in competition at New London, Conn, and at Ohio State. On the East Coast, at the Boston Dinghy Club Challenge Cup Invitational Regatta, 13 schools competed. Schuster and Bohlen skippered with Zusi and Bill Kelly crewing. Notre Dame beat five schools for eight points while the host school, the Coast Guard Academy, sailing in its home waters won, sixty points ahead of the second place school.
The same week end “Weenie” Kuras and Chuck Finnegan skippered on Leatherlips Lake as the Irish romped over three schools for a sixth at Ohio State.
The Notre Dame Invitational Regatta was sailed at Hudson Lake, April 9-10. Seven schools participated in a good, but cold, example of intercollegiate racing. Schuster, Pavia, Bohlen and Kuras brought home a second for the Ramblers, right behind the University of Detroit.
All in all, these regattas, held under all types of conditions and against all types of competition show that Notre Dame has a fairly well balanced team able to do well anywhere, anytime.
The Wisconsin Regatta is the district elimination for the Midwest Championship Regatta to be held on Lake St. Clan- at Detroit, on May 14-15. The top two schools here go to the National Intercollegiate Championships, also held in Detroit, the 13-17 of June. However, this week end the team is at Detroit Yacht Club for a Memorial Trophy Regatta. This is sort of a warm up for the Champs as nearly all of the same teams are sailing here as will be in the Intercollegiate Championships.
Meanwhile, the Sailing Club has open sailing for members every day down on St. Joseph’s Lake.
GERITY GOLF
The annual Gerity spring golf tournament is currently in progress. Play began last Monday in ten flights with 16 players entered in each flight. In Gerity play, men of equal caliber are matched with no handicap given. This makes for more interesting competition. The winner of each flight is presented with a beautiful trophy, courtesy of Mr. James Gerity, after whom the event is named.
29
WBDHMfSS CANOE WK
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete
camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates.
(P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
SAVE 20% Use Your Student Discount Cord At RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
. . . and you'11 know why when you see our complete, modem selection of formals and accessories. Tastefully tailored, correct in the smallest detail—and comfortable! You'll find our service convenient and economical, too.
★
LOUIE'S TUXEDO RENTAL
Phone AT 7-0575 ★
9 Blocks West of Michigan St. Between Washington and Western on Laurel
G. P. Scarpia
(Continued from page 20) phony’s harpist, Doriss Briggs, played well, with integrity and musicianship, though some of her higher tones were a bit twangy. The violin soloist (also the Symphony’s concertmaster), Joseph Goodman, continued, only not quite as he should have. Approaching a tone from below on a violin can be effective and has its place, but scooping on every note is both vulgar and unmusical (especially in Tchaikowsky which demands the utmost in taste to succeed). Furthermore, Mr. Goodman’s runs were inexcusably sloppy. (It’s no wonder the Symphony’s string section can’t play runs in unison — a single performer such as Mr. Goodman can make a single run sound like several different violinists playing several different songs).
Sam Sciacchitano, first chair cellist of the Symphony, improved the movement considerably with his return to tasteful Tchaikowsky. His solo followed Mr. Goodman’s and he played musically, intoning each note precisely on pitch and sticking to the tempo demanded by Hames.
The last movement crashes through a lusty Hungarian Dance and Czardas. It convinced me that the orchestra and its conductor are well worth the price of the season ticket and I encourage anyone interested in quality music to support the Symphony in its next season.
BYRON
“Give away thy breath!”
Fran My XA Yea, line 36
A final note: Eileen Farrell, one off the greatest of modern sopranos, who? was to appear with the Symphony at this concert, was taken seriously ill and was . replaced at the last minute by Kim Borg, ' Metropolitan Opera Bass. Mr. Borg sang , two Verdi arias in the first part of the ? program, the first from Simon Boccane-gra and the second from Don Carlos. These are hellish numbers to open with and I hesitate to say that they were dull because I feel that he could have done much more with them had he saved them until he was warmed up (or at least un- : til the audience was).	i
In the second half of the program he attempted the famous “Catalogue Aria” from Mozart’s Don Giovanni and “La callunia” from Rossini’s Barber of Seville. Though his placement was better * in these arias than in the Verdi (in which he swallowed a number of his high tones) I fear that I disagree bitterly with his approach to Mozart. I like mine j| the way Mozart wrote it: interpreted, j yes, but straight. Mr. Borg simply clowned his way through this masterpiece and his tempos were such that I am sure no orchestra could possibly stay with him. The Rossini was done well, but the Mozart soured me.	■
As an encore Borg chose the moving death aria, “Protshay moy sin” from / Moussorgsky’s Boris Godunof. His interpretation was both griping and convincing and I do wish that he could have been as successful with his other num- ’ bers.

z(
30
The Scholastic
University Given Papers Of Late Postmaster Gen.
y Personal papers of the late Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States have been presented to the University by his son, Thomas
* J. Walker. The documents will be added to the archive collection of the personal papers of many prominent Catholic laymen, according to Rev. Thomas McAvoy, i C.S.C., Notre Dame archivist and curator of the University’s manuscript col-j lections.
Walker, one of the most important y aides of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, had given the University most of his papers before he died last September 13. The more intimate documents, which he had retained to work on his memoirs, have now completed the li-t brary’s collection.
Father McAvoy also announced that s' Walker’s papers and the incomplete > memoirs will provide the basis for a biography to be prepared by Dr. Aaron Abell, professor of history at Notre Dame. Abell, who had several conferences with Walker before his death, is $ a' former president of the American Catholic Historical Association.
h	____________
Maryknoll Professors Added To Summer Graduate School
f Two Maryknoll priests, widely known i for their scholarship, have been added to the faculty of the University of b Notre Dame’s summer graduate program in Theology.
Rev. John J. Considine, M.M., professor of contemporary world affairs at Maryknoll Seminary in New York, will teach a course dealing with the theologi-y cal and sociological implications of current problems at the global level. He will be assisted by Rev. William Coleman, M.M., professor of Church and > mission history at Maryknoll.
Father Considine is the author of several books including New Horizons in - Latin America and Africa, World of New Men. He has travelled extensively throughout Asia, Africa and Latin ; America and holds several editorial and advisory posts with international or-> ganizations.
Father Coleman taught at the Colegio Gonzalo Correa in Chile for six years before joining the Maryknoll faculty in 1956. He is the author of Latin American Catholicism: A Self Evaluation.
4
y

i
i
i
ESTERBROOK-picking up new users every day
Bears or People—Esterbrook has a pen point to suit every writing personality! They range all the way from one fine enough to write the Gettysburg address on the head of an instructor to one broad enough to write on the side of a barn.
The Esterbrook Classic fountain pen starts writing instantly—the minute it touches the paper. Feels so ‘right’ in the hand... and looks good, too I Choice of six colors.
Durable? This pen is so durable that it’ll last long enough to hand down to your children... if that’s your idea of fun.
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN •2.95 Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
May 6, 1960
•T. M. The Estabrook Pm Co.
THERE’S A POINT CHOICE OF 32-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU I
Famous for accuracy, built to serve for a lifetime, the Hamilton watch is styled to stand out—in class, on campus—everywhere.
Perhaps you’ll get your Hamilton this Spring.
Fine jewelers everywhere are now featuring a full selection—including the style that’s right for you. Hamilton Watch Company, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
HAM/LTON
■ the unmistakable look of leadership
Priest-Sculptor Given Art Department Post
The appointment of Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., as head of the department I of art at the University of Notre Dame > was announced not long ago by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Father Lauck, who has been awarded numerous prizes for his sculpture, succeeds Professor Stanley S. Sessler who has headed the department since 1937. Sessler will continue as a member of Notre Dame’s art faculty.
Professor Frederick Beckman, a specialist in design, has been named administrative head of the department of art. t The appointments are effective September 1.
Tutored by masters. A native of Indianapolis, Ind., Father Lauck received a professional diploma in fine arts from \ the John Herron Art Institute there in 1936. He entered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Fathers the following year, ' was graduated from Notre Dame in 1942, and ordained to the priesthood in 1946. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1950 after receiving a diploma in advanced sculpture from the Corcoran School of Ait, Washington, D.C.
Father Lauck has received many na-tional and regional awards for his sculpture. His walnut sculpture, “St. John i Beside the Cross,” won the Fairmount Park Purchase Prize and can be seen at 4 the Pennsylvania Academy of Art in Philadelphia. His “Monk at Prayer,” a limestone sculpture, won the Widener Gold Medal.
Royal Society Fellow. A native of St. Petersburg, Russia, Sessler joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1928. His paintings have been exhibited internationally and have received several awards. He is / a Fellow of the Royal Society of London and the International Society of Arts and Letters, Lindau-Bodensee, Germany.
Professor Beckman was graduated from Notre Dame in 1942 and received a master’s degree from Columbia University in 1949. He has specialized in design for commerce and industry and serves as a consultant in that field. He directs the department’s sequence of courses in industrial and automotive design.	>'
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
The Scholastic
32
Student Political Activity
(Continued from page 34) physical assault, risk the loss of a college education, accept jail sentences and fines, and face the bayonets and bullets of coldblooded police? We hear that these are passing problems and, given time, will take care of themselves. This is a sentiment broaching upon fatalism. Never in the history of mankind has a problem “passed.” Problems are only worked out by the direct action of those faced with them. Racial discrimination has not “passed” from this country since the first slave arrived three centuries ago.
The only objection to demonstrations which carries any validity is the fact that violence often occurs and innocent people may be harmed or killed. The fallacy in this objection is in assuming that the greatest evil mankind faces is injury or death. Although violence is always undesirable, it is not always unavoidable. It is part of the human condition that some men must suffer, as Christ suffered, in order that justice may be es-• tablished. All three examples cited above were conceived as peaceful demonstrations. In the sit-in strikes any violence
%
$
that has occurred has been initiated by those opposed to this movement. In Korea and Turkey it appears that both police and some students were responsible for violence, but we do know that the intentions of the students were peaceful and their action was the only possible means of solving their dilemma.
The year 1960 has began with wide- ~ spread political activity on the part of students. Let us hope that in the colleges and universities of the United States it also marks the end of the “silent generation” and the beginning of a genuine upsurge of interest and involvement in the crucial issues of our time.

1QUIMS UBURT aid BOOK SHOP
from our University Shop DISTINCTIVE SPORTWEAR FOR LATE SPRING AND SUMMER
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
FOR THE
Independent Traveler...
Here is an opportunity to join a unique organization made up of people interested in unregimented European travel. Members have a source of travel information and referrals with no commissions involved; bases of operation in New York and Europe as well as a meeting place for members to socialize and have fun; shopping tips and discounts, lists of English speaking doctors and dentists; low cost travel insurance, hotels and food .sources-, social activities, and many other services. If you are planning to travel to Europe . ■ • send for full information on the benefits of membership to...
Overseas Guest Club
Wool-and-Orlon* Acrylic Blazers, $40 * Wash - and - Wear* Dacron* Polyester and Cotton Plaid Odd Jackets, $35
India Madras Plaid Odd Jackets, $35 Dacron - and - Worsted
Tropical Odd Trousers, $19.50
* Wash - and - Wear*
Odd Trousers, $12.50 and $15.50 Colorful Sport and Knit Shirts, $4 to $8.50 Bermuda Length Shorts, $7.50 to $12.50
"DuPont’s trademark
ESTABUSMDlflS
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO
509 FIFTH AVE., N.Y. 17 / OX 7-5157
May 6, 1960
33
Bock Pg^g
i
political activity and the student
by JOSEPH KEYERLEBER '
Joseph Keyerleber, whose interest in demonstrations is well known, defends the right of students to participate in political and social movements. Aware of the student’s zinique access to information and thought, Keyerlaber insists on the obligatory nature of this right.
These are dynamic times. Newspapers have been filled during recent months with accounts of people in various lands striving for freedom and justice. Prominent in these movements have been the students, who refuse to accept oppression incompatible with their level of education and who demand their rights as responsible members of political com-, munities.
STUDENTS IN TURMOIL
Demonstrations conducted by briefcase-carrying students in the Republic of South Korea were directly responsible for the resignation of President Syng-man Rhee, who had developed a virtual dictatorship in what is supposed to be a democratic nation, and Vice President Lee Ki Poong, Rhee’s handpicked successor, who had been elected in a flagrantly rigged election. The emergency interim government, headed by an independent, has pledged to reform the brutal police force, to end corruption in the distribution of United States aid, and to hold free elections in the near future. Although the situation in Korea is unstable and the final outcome unforeseeable, the developments to date constitute a classic example of social action by responsible students which achieved directly the goals it sought.
Hard on the heels of the Korean uprisings came similar activity in Turkey, another Western-oriented republic which has been the victim of an authoritarian government. Students in Istanbul are demonstrating against the suppression of a free press and restriction on the political activity of the opposition party. As in Korea; they are demanding “FREEDOM, FREEDOM!” and calling for the resignation of Premier Adnan Menderes. It is impossible at this point to predict the outcome of the situation in Turkey, but at the very least the students have succeeded in calling interna
34
tional attention to an undesirable political order.
Even the most lethargic and unaware student in the United States cannot have avoided some information about lunch counter sit-in movement sweeping the South. The students, faced with reprisals ranging from lighted-cigarettes dropped down their backs to stiff jail sentences, have conducted themselves with dignity, restraint, and charity. Embracing the Ghandian principle of peaceful resistance, they have gained support from many Northern students, in the form of money, resolutions, and sympathy demonstrations.
Only a person with the mentality of an ostrich can deny the reality of the problems spotlighted by this student activity all over the globe. Whether he considers himself a liberal or a conservative, it is the responsibility of the individual to learn the facts and to form an opinion in the light of Christian principles. In this shrinking world provincialism and isolationism are just as great an obstacle to international peace and justice as communism.
Two questions arise immediately in regard to the widespread political activity of students: 1) What should be the role of the student in his political community? 2) More specifically what is the justification for mass demonstrations?
STUDENT'S DUTY TO ACT
Students have the responsibility to concern themselves with their social environment simply because they are people just like anybody else. As James Reston expressed it in The New York Times: “Damn kids think they’re members of the human race!” Students more than any other segment of the population are able to form sound opinions because of the availability of reading material, the primary concern for truth whcih is the special prerogative of the student, and the greater capacity for knowledge of college students. Opinions are socially useless unless carried into action, and it is the height of naivete to maintain that a sheltered, socially-unconcerned student will blossom into a civic-minded, internationally aware adult on the day of graduation.
The Popes since the days of Leo XIII
have been stressing the need for the laymen to reconstruct the social order in j accordance with Christian social justice, ’ a goal that can be achieved only when college students are vitally concerned with the problems of their own commu- < nity. Although most of us in this country are fortunate enough to live in en- , vironments where social justice generally prevails, the need for Christian opinion on current problems and direct action where necessary, as in the case of racial discrimination, is undeniable.
LEGAL UPRISING	?
Demonstrations are sanctioned by the Bill of Rights in the United States Con- * stitution, which guarantees “the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.” This amendment reflects a natural right of individuals who agree with each other to express a group opin- . ion. Basically, a demonstration is just that: a dramatic expression of opinion designed to call attention to a grievance and to initiate reform. In situations where the normal methods of political change — the legislature and the courts — have proved inadequate, demonstrations may be the only means to secure justice short of revolt. Such is the case in the three examples cited above. In South Korea the elections have been ' rigged and strongarm police tactics had < stifled opposition prior to the mass student demonstrations. In Turkey, opposition journalists have been arrested and the former president was prevented from a making a political speaking tour by the army. In the South, local and state prosegregation legislation has seriously crip- । pled the legal battle for racial equality. In all three cases, students have exercised their right and obligation to work directly for a just political order.
Rationalizations are offered against Student involvement in political affairs, and particularly against demonstrations, by those Who would rather see a surface _ order and tranquillity than the turmoil ■’ and confusion that often accompanies a movement toward social justice. We . hear that demonstrations reflect immaturity. Does an immature person endure
(Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic
Styr Auifyptttir
Wtirntdow
Now
in short sleeves
Wherever you go . . . you look better in an Arrow shirt
Two ideas to keep warm weather in the fashion front: a soft batiste with University styling ... and luxurious hopsack oxford, in pullover model. The buttondown collar with the perfect arched flare looks smart with or without a tie. Both $5.00.

See our University Fashions
for warm weather days
Arrow’s favorite soft roll buttondown takes you handsomely through the summer in the cool comfort of short sleeves, lightweight
“Sanforized” fabrics. $5.00. Shown also all silk stripe ties, $2.50.
Stop in today while the selection is ample.

GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
8
Smoking more now...but enjoying, it less?
Have a real cigarette...
nr	li
CSHCL
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Bi
i
1
=*
11 1 ? r ; i i i
s
0
0

isSi



The best tobacco makes the best smoke