
GET A JOE! 
Interested in working for Scholastic? Then come to an introductory meeting: 


... DO t1 FOR. HOH i DAD 
Keep your parents in touch with campus news, sports and special events. Send them a subscription to Scholastic, Notre Dame's weekly student magazine. 
-------------------------------------------------. --------------------------------------­
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

------------------~-------­
Address-------------------------,-----­
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $18. 7 5 x years = $____ 

Contents 
January 22, I 987 Volume 128, No. 12

Scholastic 


The 1986 Season 
t"< 

i:: 4 Michigan By Jon. Theisen 
n
;· 
::, 

z ;;· 7 MSU By Pete Gegen 
s 
(I) 
'< 
..,(I) 

IO Purdue By Matt O'Donnell 
---,....... ····--­
12 Alabama By Mike Chmiel 
IS Pitt By Ian.Larkin 
18 Air Force By D~n Coyle 
23 Navy By Frank Lipo 
25 SMU By Ed Jordanich 
28 Penn State By Kathleen McKernan 
31 LSU By Marc Parker 
34 USC By Larry Burke 


20/Scholastic All-Opponent 
38/Final Word: Lou Looks Team Forward and Back 
36/Scoreboard: A special 

40/Individual Honors 
review of the fall season 


Cover photo by Paul Pahoresky 

Letters 
Scholastic 

Vol. 128 January 22, 1987 No. 12 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Editor: Maher Mouasher Managing Editor: Keith Harrison General Manager: Philip Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 

Sports: Larry Burke Departments: Catherine Coffey News: Frank Lipa News: Kathleen McKernan Student Life: Greg Miller Copy: Aimee Starin Student Life: Bob Winn 
Production 

Production Manager: Matthew Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfler Photo Manager: Allan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy 

Administration 

Business Manager: Dan Gamache Comptroller: Pete Cespedes Advertising: Julie Gschwind Circulation:Mike Hoban 
Editorial Assistants 

Sports: Ed Jordanich News: Steffanie Keller Departments: Kathy Scarbeck Sports: Phil Wolf 
Layout 
Theresa Gianoli 
Susan Serrato 
Cathy Stacy 
Art & Photography 
Lucian Niemeyer 
Joe Vitacco 
Ros Winner 

Scholastic is represented for national 
advertising by CASS student advertis­
ing, Inc. Published weekly during the 
school year except during vacation and 
examination periods, Scholastic is 
printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN. 
46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 
a year and back issues are available 
from Scholastic. Please address all 
manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, 
IN 46556. All unsolicited material 
becomes the property of Scholastic. 
1987 Scholastic. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction in whole or in parts 
without permission is prohibited. 

Gays on Campus 
Dear Editor, 
As a gay alumnus, I have par­ticular reasons to be pleased with your Dec. 4 issue "Homosexuality on Campus." I congratulate you on your courage in facing an issue which others seek to avoid. 
The quality of reporting skills in your magazine is quite good. I wish the theological skills of Father Richard McCormack were as finely shaped. 
Your editorial argument com­paring gay students' need for a group with black students' forma­tion of an NAACP chapter is just to the point: the emphasis is really human liberation. 
Thanks for recognizing that "there is also a need to educate the rest of the University, as is clear by observing the attitude many students have. toward homosexual-. ity." Liberation is for all, not just some. The white community has 

· benefitted from the liberation of 
blacks  quite  as  much  as  blacks  
themselves.  
What  is  unacceptable  is  the  

number of gays and lesbians who will never be able to acknowledge their homosexuality to themselves or their community until . they leave Notre Dame. What a shame that this special atmosphere cannot allow for the diversity of its members. It is crucial that gays feel as much a part of the com­munity as non-gays. 

Phillip Schatz ND '72, '74 
Dear Editor, 

I would like to thank Scholastic and the candor of the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's group for the articles on homosexuality on. our campuses. The courage that these students showed by openly discussing their' personal lives was inspiring. 
At the same time, it is sadden­ing to realize that they feel so alienated because of our ignorance and prejudice against them.. In a 
· Christian community such as ours, one would hope that we can accept people as they are without judging them. 
If part of the purpose of these articles was to make us aware of this prejudice, I think it succeeded and I hope that the homosexuals on our campuses will feel more like they are a part of the Notre Dame family. 
Patricia Soranno Walsh Hall 








Hey Business Majors 
Scholastic is looking for 

Advertising Sales Persons 
Gain valuable business experience and make some extra cash by selling ads for Scholastic. 
Contact Julie Gschwind at the Scholastic office, third floor LaFortune or call 239-7569 for more information 
No prior experience necessary, but access to a car is preferred. 

January 22, 1987 


!I
The Holtz Era 
eg1ns 
By Jon Theisen 
The Irish beat Michigan everywhere but on the scoreboard as Lou Holtz began his stint as Notre Dame football coach 
Bo Schembechler brought his third-ranked Wolverines to Notre Dame Stadium with the intention of beginning his quest· for the national champion­ship. After an afternoon of bumps and bruises, Bo and his boys jumped on the bus home from Notre Dame with Schembechler crying, "We came out with a vic­tory. I don't care how you come out with them." 
It is a good thing Schembechler doesn't care how his victories come; this one came by the nar­rawest of margins. En route to los­ing 24-23, Notre Dame missed on six scoring opportunities, three times turning the ball over inside the Michigan 15-yard line. 
Despite the mistakes, several Notre Dame players had outstand­ing performances. Flanker Tim Brown gained 116 all-purpose yards, averaging 8.3 yards each time he touched the ball. The offensi:ve line gained praise from Schembechler, Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz and halfback Mark Green who said, "I felt the offen­sive line really controlled Michigan's line. The guys just did a great job up front." 
Notre Dame quarterback Steve Beuerlein also turned in one of the best performances of his career. He completed 21 of 33 passes, six more than Reisman Trophy candi­date Jim Harbaugh of Michigan, who was 15-of-23. Unfortunately for the Irish, Beuerlein also com­pleted a perfect pass to Michigan defensive back David Arnold in the end zone with Notre Dame trailing 24-20 with 10:54 left in the game. That was one of several costly Irish mistakes which gave the Wolverines the win. 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
-~ .3 

After driving 75 yards in 13 plays, the Irish scored first in the contest. From three yards out, Brown followed Green on a slant left, then outraced defenders to the corner of the end zone. 
The Wolverines responded with a scoring drive of their own. Michigan drove 80 yards before Jamie Morris was able to power across the endline to even the score. 


The first Irish turnover came at the beginning of the second quar­ter. Reggie Ward took a pitch left and raced nine yards to the Michi­gan six before losing his grip on the ball. Although Michigan was unable to convert the turnover into any points, the Irish had missed on a crucial scoring opportunity. 
After the defensive unit con­

tained Michigan, the offense took 
the ball with renewed energy and 
drove for a second touchdown. 
The defense then held the Wolver­
ines to a field goal and the Irish 
took their 14-IO lead in to the 
locker room at halftime. 
Michigan scored on its first 
possession of the second half. 
After driving 78 yards in 12 plays, 
Morris again did the honors. From 
one yard out, Morris went around 
the right end untouched for the 
score. Notre Dame failed to cover 
the ensuing kickoff and Michigan 
came up with the ball on the Irish· 
27-yard line. On the first play 
from scrimmage, Harbaugh 
showed why he was a Reisman 
candidate by guiding a missile into 

•the arms of Morris. Morris' third touchdown of the day left Notre Dame down 24-14. 
i:-< 
~ 
§. 
~ 
3 
ct> 
'< 
ct> 
.... 

Despite his hat trick of touch­downs, Morris had nothing but praise for the Irish defensive line. "Notre Dame's defensive line is big. They're much stronger than they were last year," he said. 
With time running out, Beuer­lein took command of his offen­sive troops and led a successful retaliation attack. The offense showed tenacity by plowing through, spinning off and hur­dling over its opponents. The touchdown came on a three-yard shot-put pass from Beuerlein to tight end Joel Williams. But John Carney;s e:i<:tra point attempt sailed wide left, establishing what would later prove to be the one-point margin of defeat. 
The most controversial play of the game occu·rred with 4:26 remaining in the final quarter. With the Irish down 24-20, Willi­
ams shook off coverage in the back of the end zone and pulled down a Beuerlein pass· for. what appeared to be the go-ahead· touchdown. However, back judge Frederick DeFilippo signaled an incompletion. Williams, DeFilippo claimed, landed out of the end 
zone. 
Michigan 

"I couldn't see that. But the Michigan ball boy said he had · both feet in bounds," Holtz said. 
"I couldn't see the play from where I was standing," said Schembechler. 
Williams said simply, "We were robbed." 
Then, on fourth and goal from the eight, Carney drove home a field goal, leaving Notre Dame down 23-24, and with 4:26 left in the game, the Irish defense took the field. 
Michigan gained one first down before defensive tackle Mike Griffin and the rest of the defense stopped the Wolverines once again. Griffin made tackles on two of the next three plays after the first down and then slammed a shoulder into Michigan fullback Bob Perryman. The football popped from Perryman's grasp and was recovered by Notre Dame 

Andy Beck's catch helped set up a field goal, 
linebacker Wes Pritchett. 
Led by the outstanding protec­tion of Byron Spruell, Shawn Hef­fern, Chuck Lanza, Tom Freeman and Tom Rehder, the Irish moved the ball to the Wolverine 28. With 
January 22, 1987 


---------------------------------------,--------------~~ 
Michigan 

a fourth down and 13 seconds on the clock, Notre Dame was in position to win the game. How­ever, Carney's 45-yard field goal attempt faded left and the game ended: Michigan 24, Notre Dame 
23. A series of bad breaks for Notre Dame had aided the No. 3 Wolverines in an "upset' of the unranked Irish. 
Reflecting on his team's four turnovers, one missed field goal and one missed extra point, Holtz said, "I've never seen so many things go wrong.,, 
/,)·., 
wr 
it:i~f<;~·: 
[i:)Ji 
Despite the loss, many left the stadium feeling content Many observers were discussing a new attitude about the team which seemed to emanate from first-year coach Holtz. The crowd cheered his daring when Holtz successfully sent Beuerlein up the middle on a fourth-down play and called pass 

I. 
I, plays while in the wishbone for­mation. The new feeling on the Irish sideline was recognized by Schembechler who admitted, "When we came in we didn't know what they would do. The multiple formations kept us off balance.,, 
After the Michigan loss, loyal Irish fans circulated talk of bowl bids and national championships, and sportscasters compared Holtz to Knute Rockne and Ara Par-

i• 
seghian. 

I: Even Michigan flanker John Kolesar used superlatives to 
~ 
::, 
~ 
E-< 
"C; 
~ 
g 
00 
>, 
..,gi 
g 
o 


describe the Irish. "I personally Dame played a great game, and think they have the best talent in you can't take that away from the nation," he · said. "I was them. They're going to have a surprised by their offense. Notre great season."II 


Caught.Short Again
By Pete Gegen 
Hurt by costly mistakes and a pair of big-play interceptions by MSU cornerback Todd Krumm, Notre Dame fell to the Spartans 
Last week we felt we beat Michigan," Irish quarter­back Steve Beuerlein said after the Michigan State game. "Coming out of the locker room at the end of a game where you feel like you outplayed the other team, you can hold your head up. And we'll hold our heads up coming out of here too, but it's a little bit harder." 
"Here" was Spartan Stadium in East Lansing, Michigan, and the hanging heads were a result of another come-from-behind-but­fall-short loss, this time to the Spartans, 20-15. 
The disappointing thing about this game was that, unlike the Michigan game, nobody could claim the Irish had outplayed the Spartans. Beuerlein, for instance, had a relatively poor afternoon. Because the offense could not move the ball on the ground, Beuerlein had to put the ball up 36 times, completing 19 of them for 259 yards. But two of those passes wound up in the hands of Michi­gan State's Todd Krumm. 

The Spartan corner back returned his first interception 44 yards for a touchdown to give Michigan State a 7-3 lead late in the first quarter. He prolonged the Irish . frustration by picking off a pass intended for Milt Jackson with 1:26 left to play. "Notre Dame is known for their quick out routes," said Krumm of his heroics. "The way Beuerlein stepped back out of the line I kind of realized what the play was." ­
Those two errant passes made Beuerlein the easy scapegoat for Irish fans who had patiently waited two games for a reawaken­ing of the echoes, but other mis­takes were just as much to blame. The dropped passes, a missed field goal, a personal foul and a blocked punt all helped dig the hole which the Irish could not climb out of. It was this game that caused thoughts of the previous four seasons to 
Michigan State 
creep into the minds of players and fans alike. "You know, I'm tired of• being close," said defen­sive tackle Wally Kleine. "I've been close for so damn long I'm sick of it." 
But this was a new season under 
a new coach, and Kleine wasn't 
about to give in to the frustration. 
"In certain areas we've got a lot to 
work on," he said. "We're not 
giving up. When we say the fight 
is back in the Irish, we still mean 
it." 

Kleine (eight tackles), along with linebacker Mike Kovaleski (13 tackles) led a respectable per­formance · by the Irish defense, which allowed only 13 points on the afternoon. Notre Dame's main goal was to contain then-Heisman Trophy candidate tailback Lorenzo White, who was injured later in the season. But White was healthy for this game, and Spartan head coach George Perles did not hesi­tate to use him, calling his number on 10 of the Spartans' first 12 offensive plays. "We tried to string it out -he's .real good on cut­backs," said Kleine. "He had 140 yards, so we didn't do too well. Nobody should ever have that much."· 
True, White finished with 147 

· yards rushing, but it took him 41 carries to do it And cornerbacks Troy Wilson (seven tackles) and Marv Spence (nine tackles) held White to short gains on sweeps. 
Spence and Wilson also were preoccupied with Michigan State quarterback Dave Yarema, who had racked up 258 yards passing the previous week against Arizona State. But the Irish secondary responded for the most part, hold­ing Yarema to only 114 yards pass­ing. Wilson had one interception and free safety James Bobb 
knocked away two passes. There was one glaringly bad mark on the secondary's report card, a 40-yard . touchdown pass from Yarema to Mark Ingram at the beginning of the fourth quarter which gave 
Michigan State a 20-15 lead. 
After rolling up 455 yards of 

offense against Michigan, more good things were expected from the Irish offense. Instead, incon­sistency was the rule as the offense could not establish the running game. Tailback Mark Green fin­ished with 30 yards on 13 carries, and the team managed only 82 yards on the ground the entire game. 
As if to emphasize the defi­ciency of the running game, Green was the · leading Irish receiver, grabbing 6 for 53 yards. Flanker Tim Brown had four catches for 75 yards. 
' . _White's busy day (41 carries, 1·47 yards) included some high-stepping to avoid teammate Bobby Morse and Irish linebacker Dave Butler. 
l s 
I 

Michigan State 

r optimism as the senior quarterback 

n 
~­
z
;.· 
a 
~ 
e: 

Green was the leading Irish runnei (13 carries (or 30 yards) and receiver (six catches). 
Because Notre Dame could not move the ball, punter Dan Soren­sen made his first appearance of the season ( the Irish did not punt in the Michigan game). In just the second quarter, Sorenson kicked the ball away four times: "Our offense didn't have the con­sistency,'' said Holtz. "I know there are those who say throw the ball 80 times. But you've got to be able to run as well as throw." 
The offense went to the air in the middle of the third quarter, resulting in Notre Dame's first touchdown of the game. The seven-play (six passes), 80-yard drive was capped by a 38-yard touchdown pass from Beuerlein to tight end Joel Williams. Although Beuerlein was sacked on the two­point conversion attempt, Notre Dame still trailed by just four points, 13-9. 
The Irish · appeared to . be headed for another score when Beuerlein hit Brown at Michigan 

State's  five,  but  Spartan  strong  
safety  Dean  Altobelli  crunched  
Brown  on  the  tackle,  causing  a  

fumble, and cornerback John . Miller recovered for Michigan State. 
After the defense had forced the Spartans to punt, the Irish quickly put the ball in the end zone on a four-play, 43-yard drive. Tailback Anthony Johnson scored the touchdown on a five­yard run. But once· again, the Irish could not convert the two-point attempt and were left facing the task of having to· put the ball in the end zone to overcome a 20-15 deficit. 
At this point the similarities to the Michigan game . were once 

· again evident. The Irish defense held, forcing · Michigan State to punt. Notre Dame took over at its own 34 with 2:37 remammg. Beuerlein fumbled on a second­down play~ but the Irish recovered. Anxiety. then turned to connected with Brown for 26 yards and a first down. Beuerlein then hit Williams on the sideline and the completion, along with a roughing-the-passer penalty by 
Michigan  State,  moved  Notre  
Dame  to  the  Spartan  31  with  a  
minute and a half to play.  


The crowd of 79,859 figured it was over. The Irish fans waited for the fantastic finish that never did transpire the previous week­end. Beuerlein dropped back and saw Jackson open on the sideline. He fired a pass and it was caught, not by Jackson, but by Krumm. It had happened again. · Instead of the sweet smell of victory, the Irish had the bitter taste of defeat.II · 
January 22, 1987 




Third Time's ACharm 
By Matt O'Donnell 
In his third outing, Lou Holtz recorded his first Irish victory as Notre Dame romped over Purdue with near-perfect play 
Johnson's 13-yard run was good for his second touchdown and a 34-9 Irish lead. 

Irish fans ·breathed a sigh of relief. The waiting was over. Lou Holtz had won his first game as head· coach at Notre Dame. There were no last-minute turn­overs or key mistakes to ruin this one. In a near-perfect game Notre 
. Dame sound_ly defeated Purdue, 41-9. 
"It was good to win. I'm happy for the players," said Holtz. He had 
· plenty to be happy about after an impressive performance by the Irish offense. Notre Dame rushed for 276 yards on 60 carries and com­pleted 11 of 16 passes for 202 yards. 
On its opening drive Notre Dame set the tone for the game, displaying a mixed offensive attack. Senior quarterback Steve Beuerlein, with excellent protection, connected with Tim Brown and Milt Jackson for passes of 17 and 29 yards, respec­tively. These, combined with Mark Green's runs of five, seven and eight yards moved the ball from the Notre Dame 26-yard line to the Pur­due six. From there Brown took a pitchout from the wishbone forma­tion and raced around right end for four yards and a first down at the two. On the next play senior full­back Pernell Taylor went off tackle for the second touchdown of his 

career. 
The Purdue offense greatly aided the Irish effort with its turnovers. With 2:50 left in the first quarter 
i 
l 10 
.,...
f 
.,
z 

Irish linebacker• Cedric Figaro recovered a fumble by tailback Jerry Chaney at the Notre Dame 49. This time with Terry Andrysiak at quarterback the Irish marched all the way to the one-yard line, only to be driven back to the 25 by three consecutive penalties. John Carney then kicked a 42-yard field goal to put the Irish up 10-0. 
On the first play in the second quarter, James Medlock's fumble on a handoff up the middle was recovered by Notre Dame's Dave Butler.· Four plays later, the Irish capitalized once again when Anthony Johnson went off tackle for the score, putting the Irish up 17-0. 
Later in the second quarter Beuerlein hit Jackson on a 35-yard touchdown strike to extend the Irish lead to 24-0 at the half. For Jackson it was the second most productive game of his career. The senior split end finished with four receptions for 107 yards on the day. 

"I enjoy every game that I play here," Jackson said. "It's gratifying for me to just block and help the other guys. We told ourselves we should have won those first two games. We came out angry today." 
Unfortunately for the Boiler­makers, Notre Dame didn't calm down in the second half. Brown returned the opening kickoff. ·25 yards to the Notre Dame 30. Six plays later, Beuerlein, on a play action fake, hit Jackson on a 26­yard pass. That set up a 49-yard field goal by Carney -his longest ever in regular-season play. 

On the following drive Purdue finally got on the scoreboard when Chaney took a pitch from the one and went in for a touchdown. How­ever, when the Boilermakers went for two on the conversion attempt, Notre Dame senior captain Mike Kovaleski stopped Chaney just 
short of the goal line  on  a shuffle  
pass  from  freshman  quarterback  
Jeff George.  
After  Purdue  placekicker  

Jonathan Briggs converted a 22­yard field goal early in the fourth quarter the Notre Dame offense sealed the victory. The Boilermaker's attempted onside kick was recovered by the Irish on the Purdue 42, and a strong running attack moved the ball to the 13 for Notre Dame. From there Anthony Johnson hurdled through the mid-die, breaking a tackle at the five and finally lunging across the goal line for his second touchdown of 
the day. But some excitement was still to come for Notre Dame fans. On the next possession Green took a pitch on the left side and after zigzag­ging, cut back to the center of the field for a 27-yard touchdown that made the victory complete. 
January 22, 1987 
c1 ::: 
~­
::, 
z 
.en· 
3
·~•Cl) 
""I 

Braxton Banks broke loose for 34 yards on Notre Dame's last possession of the game. 
However, not to go unrecognized was the Notre Dame defense, which held the Boilermakers to a mere 54 rushing yards and forced three turnovers. Wally Kleine had seven 
· tackles on the day, while Ron Weissenhofer, Brandy Wells and Kovaleski each had six. 
"We didn't go to double coverage as much as we had planned," Kovaleski said. "What they do well is cross their running backs in . their passin!S scheme. But we did a good job of tackling them as soon as they got the ball. When they scored on us and moved the ball it was a matter of them getting the ball over the linebackers' heads. I. really think we can do a lot better." 
While Kovaleski analyzed the Irish defense, Purdue coach Leon Burtnett tried to find something positive to say about his team's lop­sided defeat. "I thought we played a . . v_ery good game against a very phy­s1cal team," he said. "Obviously they outplayed us. When you get 
Purdue 

beat that bad I'm not sure what more you could say." 
Burtnett said he was pleased with his freshman quarterback, who completed 28 of 43 passes for 241. yards. "Our quarterback, Jeff George, played by far his best game," Burtnett said. "He had some receivers drop balls and that wasn't his fault." · 
However, even in such a lopsided·. victory, Holtz was able to point out. mistakes made by his team. "The• most discouraging thing is that we· let them convert on too many fourth downs." The penalties really hurt the Irish as well, according to Holtz .. 
The wait was over for Notre Dame's first win, but there was no time to sit back and relax. The Irish were to face second-ranked Ala­bama the following Saturday.II 


Down And Out In The South 
By Mi~e Chmiel 

Alabama picked up its first-ever win over Notre Dame with an awesome display before 76,000 fans at Legion Field 
': 
' 
: i 
i. 
! 
After finding little success in the North, the Irish took a 1-2 record from the autumn climate of the Midwest to the summery South. A field tem­perature of more than 100 degrees and a less-than-welcoming crowd confronted Notre Dame in its southward migration to Alabama's Legion Field to take on the second-ranked Crimson Tide. 
The Irish had quite a bit at stake on this trip: they could pick up their second straight win, even their record at .500, and in beating the Tide, make great strides in . regammg national recognition. Standing in the way, however, was an unbeaten Alabama team that was entertaining thoughts of a 
national championship. 
Although the Irish had beaten Alabama in an four meetings between the two teams, the Crim­son Tide appeared destined to overcome the Irish this year as it rolled t.o a 28-10 win before 75,808 partisan fans. The thrash­ing marked Notre Dame's third loss of the year against a Top 20 team, but this was the only lop­sided loss of the season for the Irish. 
While many believed that the Irish had little chance to knock off this highly-rated team, the Irish believed that they had the ability to head north with their second win. "We came into this game thinking it shouldn't even be close," said Irish center Chuck 
Hwk '.J;~: ·:,i~t() fJi: 1~i;tJ;1fii0~tit!~\~10~~,:
W¢,;;•••h~c1 ,:.•· ·an'.. : ex~e11ent:;1
i,!i1;i[1\tili~~ii~~l

v~F& vv~Ol,,r;:. r:0;:HPt~ii:~'R;< 
t~rii~ i Nc,tre\
< · .i.,L)i: :j;·:i iiO; •..... ·· ..:•, 
Lanza. "We had an excellent game plan, and we thought we could run our offense to their defense very 
well." · 
After winning the coin toss to start .the game, .the Irish elected to kickoff and successfully halted the Tide in Alabama territory for two short-lived drives. Then, disaster struck for Notre Dame. The Irish began their second drive with a play that gave the Tide an emo­tional charge. 
On the second Notre Dame pos­session, all-America candidate Cornelius Bennett blind-sided quarterback Steve Beuerlein for an eight-yard loss. The hit, which gave Beuerlein a concussion, stym­ied the Irish drive and charged the Alabama faithful to a fever pitch that shook Legion Field. 
"That play really excited the crowd and gave them great momentum," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz after the game. "That hit he made? . . . It really did pick us up," said Alabama nose guard Curt Jarvis. "That's probably one of the most ·vicious licks I've ever · seen on a quarterback. I think that kind of set the tempo for the rest of the game." 
Two plays after the Bennett sack, the Tide revealed an abun­dance of team speed that left the Irish in the dust for most of the contest. Fielding a 39-yard Dan Sorenson punt on his own 34-yar_d line, Tide speedster Greg Richard­son returned the ball 66 yards for 
"1 12
II. Scl,tolastic 
Alabama 

the game's first score and a 7-0 Alabama lead with a little over five minutes left in the opening quarter. 
"The punt return was some­thing that we had been working on extremely hard this week," said Richardson. "We had been watch­ing films and we saw that we could get a return on them because they had a lot of big guys that were real slow on their coverage teams. I made the turn and got some key blocks and walked into the endzone." 
Despite the speedy return and shift in momentum, the Irish stayed in the contest with. three strong drives after the score, but the turnover haunted the Irish once again in the early season. After junior quarterback Terry Andrysiak replaced an injured Beuerlein for the first time in the game, Andrysiak fumbled a hand-off that Tide linebacker Greg Gil­bert recovered on the Alabama 36-yard line. 
Four plays later, Tide quarter­back Mike Shula hit the speedy Albert Bell on a breakaway, 52­
[/i''.N''·•··•·• 
;;~~ "~f:,J!~t!~f~IJJ! 
C~~~'Vr ,,;:~11il·t th~&Jdf.didhr,i:
:'heed•·•·.••..J.•..~~9;:, 
•··· e11c:9iJrag~·11,
·m~tat2·}m···
1~s··e~~:"&B,ii1
.:•········r..•·····•·····•·············· 

yard pass play. With seven minutes left in the first half, Alabama had amassed a 14-0 lead with two big plays. 
"They ran a pretty basic offense," said Irish free safety Mike Haywood, who returned to the defensive backfield after an early leg injury. "They try to pound the ball down your throat. Then, if they don't have success in pounding the ball down your throat, they try to throw the big bomb." 

Following Bell's score, the Irish came back to knock on the door deep in Alabama territory. After John Carney missed a 46-yard field goal, the Irish stopped the Tide on three straight plays, and left tackle Robert Banks recovered a Shula fumble after a hit by out­side linebacker Darrell Gordon. At the eight-yard line, Tim Brown grabbed a Beuerlein pass in the flat, and ran into the end zone to cut the Tide's lead in half. 
Before the half, however, Shula engineered another scoring drive for the Tide with an 18-yard pass play, a 15-yard personal foul against the Irish, a 16-yard reverse by Bell and an 11-yard touchdown pass over the middle to tight end Howard Cross. 
With 59 seconds left in the half, Andrysiak helped the Irish com­plete their scoring with a 71-yard drive that ended with a 22-yard field goal and no time remaining. In the first half, the Irish out­gained the Tide 226 yards to 149 yards and controlled the ball for 17 minutes; the 21-10 deficit, therefore, did not seem insur­mountable. "When we came out in the second half, I felt really good," said Holtz. 
"We felt at halftime that we were right in the game," said Beuerlein who continued to switch in and out of the line-up with Andrysiak. "We just needed to come out in the opening drive of the second half and get something out of it." 
To open the second half, however, Brown fumbled the kickoff to Alabama. Shula then took the Tide into the end zone in three plays, with the points com­
13 
Alabama 

"They have a chance to be a fine football team before this season is over. That will depend on what they're made of. They have some really fine talent. I know a f cw of our offensive linemen don't want to go up against them again. They also have some people at the skill positions that give them the opportunity to be a fine team." 
For the Irish, the loss to Ala­bama proved to be a low, point as far as the scoreboard was con­cerned, but against the Tide Notre Dame provided more evidence that it could play with the top teams in the country. Eliminate the turn­overs and big plays, and Alabama would have found a win tough to get, even at home.Ii 
Cross' 11-yard touchdown reception gave Alabama a 21-7 lead in the second quarter. 
ing on a 22-yard pass to Bell. The score deflated Irish hopes and 
created  a  margin  that  was  
impossible  to  over­ 
come.  
"I  knew  that  Alabama  was  a  

good second half team, and they didn't need any encouragement," said Holtz. "When we received the kickoff and turned it right over, and then they converted a third down and nine.... From then on, they played it very conserva­tively." 
Throughout the rest of the game, the Irish were unable to muster any solid threats. The deepest second half drive for the Irish resulted in an incomplete fourth-down and five pass from the Alabama 30-yard line. 
Both teams exchanged turn­overs in a lack-luster final quarter that saw Andrysiak throw two interceptions. Shula also had a pass picked off in the fourth quarter, as did Irish reserve quarterback Steve Belles. The contest ended with Alabama advancing national championship hopes and Notre Dame remaining frustrated by turnovers. 

"Alabama is an excellent foot­
ball team," said Holtz of the group 
that Ray Perkins had inherited 
from the legendary Bear Bryant. "I 
was really impressed with them. 
Alabama would be very difficult 
to beat. They have a complete 
team. Their kicking game is 
awfully good, their offense is solid 
and they don't make many mis­
takes. Defensively, they force you 
into a lot of bad plays." 

As the Irish approached the middle of their season, however, hope for success still existed. "We just have to have another good week of practice," said Irish split end Milt Jackson. 
"Notre Dame was like I talked about all week," said Perkins after his team's fifth straight win. 




An Inch More To The Left 
By Ian Larkin 

John Carney's three field goals weren't ·enough as his final attempt sailed wide right to give Pitt a win over the mistake-prone Irish 
' ' I t 
was an exceptionallydepressing loss for our foot­ball players." These were Lou Holtz' words after the Irish had lost to the Pitt Panthers, 10-9. Once again, in the same fashion as in the Michigan and Michigan State games, th~ Irish took the ball deep into the opponent's terri­tory with time running out, but were unable to score. 
i::: 

The luck of the Irish was not -~ there for John Carney this time, as 3 his 38-yard field goal attempt with 18 seconds left went wide to the right. It was a tough loss for the team .and the home crowd, who had expected a win after coming close twice before. Notre Dame was left stunned by the frustration of letting the game slip away after having the ball and · the lead with three minutes to play, then getting a second chance, only to watch it end in defeat. 
Pitt entered the game kd by fifth-year senior John Cangemi and Notre Dame was starting junior quarterback Terry Andrysiak. Steve Beuerlein h:id 
January 22, 1987 
suffered a concussion in the loss to Alabama the week before and Holtz wanted to revive an offense which had scored only 10 points against the Tide. It was a perfect football day at Notre Dame Sta­dium, 65 degrees and partly sunny 
Pitt's defense sacked Beuerlein twice and forced one interception. 
skies, as the Irish lined up to kick­off. 
The Irish defense started the game off by stopping Pitt's first possession.on Cedric Figaro's fum­ble recovery, but Notre Dame's 
Pitt 

offense also was stalled by the swarming defense of Pitt. What had been predicted to be a defen­sive battle was turning out to be just that. 
Notre Dame's next possession ended with a missed 41-yard field goal by Carney. Pitt then marched down to ·the Notre Dame 26-yard line behind the passing of Cangemi only to have a missed 43-yard field goal attempt by freshman Jeff Van Horne. Beuer­lein then entered the game at the Irish helm and took Notre Dame deep into Pitt territory as the first quarter came to a close. 
The second quarter started with Carney hitting a 35-yard field goal for the first score of the game. Because of Notre Dame's good kickoff coverage, Pitt was then 
16 
forced to start at its own one-yard line and got nowhere under the heavy pressure of the Irish defonse led by 6-9, 274 pound Wally Kleine. 
Up to this point, Pitt was stym­ied by poor field position and the excellent defense of t.4e Irish. Notre Dame's offense, meanwhile, stopped itself on its next two pos­sessions with Beuerlein's incon­sistent passing and two costly penalties. Andrysiak again entered the ballgame, only to turn the ball over on a fumble two plays later. 
Pitt finally inherited the ball in good position -on the Notre Dame 26 -only to have its field goal attempt blocked by senior defen­sive tackle Mike Griffin. In the last series of the first half Beuer­lein returned to the quarterback spot and drove the Irish to the Pitt 31 to set up Carney's 48-yard field goal. 
The first half ended with Notre Dame leading 6-0 and each team relying on its defense. Neither the Irish quarterbacks rior Cangemi were successful in sparking any kind of threat. The first half statistics favored the Panthers, but they didn't tell the whole story, as the Panthers' drives all started deep in their own territory. The Pitt offense was only in Notre Dame territory three times in the first half. 
The first Irish drive of the second half ended with linebacker Steve Apke intercepting a Beuer­. lein pass intended for Anthony Johnson. Pitt took over at its own 17 and on a third-and-14 situation: 
Scholastic 


Pitt 

Cangemi flipped a pass to Pitt's "Refrigerator," Craig Heyward, who broke tackles for a 19-yard gain. 
On the next third down play, Cangemi connected with Bill Osborn, who was able to slip the grasp of Brandy Wells and gain 32 yards. Heyward took the ball on the next three plays and blasted to the Irish two yard line. Cangemi scored on the next play from scrimmage to give Pitt a one point lead. 

The Irish offense once again went nowhere and quick-kicked on third and 23. Three plays later, Pitt again was faced with a third down and long situation, and broke the big play -a 28-yard pass to flanker Chuck Scales. The Pan­thers started the fourth quarter at the Notre Dame three-yard line but were stopped cold by the Irish defense in a four-play goal. line stand. 
Notre Dame proceeded to regain the lead on a 20-yard field goal by Carney after driving 74 yards behind the running of Per­nell Taylor. Pitt's next possession was marred by a Figaro sack and another dropped pass and the Pan­thers were farced to punt. 
Notre Dame took control of the ball with 2:53 to play and a two­point lead. But the Irish offense generated only five yards in three plays while only eating 30 seconds off the clock. To make matters worse, Dan Sorensen's punt was blocked, which let Pitt take over at the Notre Dame 34. 

This set up a 29-yard field goal by Van Horne that gave Pitt a 10-9 lead with 1:17 left to play. Beuer­lein and company took over at their own 24. On the first play from scrimmage the senior quar­terback hit Milt Jackson, who flew down the sideline for a gain of 31 yards. Anthony Johnson caught a 23-yarder on the very next play. 
After the Panthers stopped the Irish at the Pitt 24 yard line with 18 seconds left, it all came down to John Carney's 38-yard field goal attempt. The kick went wide right by a matter of inches. Another heart-breaking last ditch effort by Notre Dame had failed. 
the victory when they had the ball with a two-point lead and less than three minutes to play. Carney, who began the season as Notre Dame's most accurate field goal kicker, did not connect on two this day. Holtz said of the last missed attempt, "Maybe that was a little 

The loss left the Irish wondering what was needed to get the victories that'se_emed to be so elusive. The defense was superb, racking up five sacks and pressur­ing Cangemi every time he dropped back to pass. But the Pitt defense was just as tough on the Irish, holding them to 300 total yards. 
The defensive standouts for the Irish were the guys who had been doing the job all season, Wally Kleine (two sacks), Mike Kovaleski, Dave Butler and Steve Lawrence. The Irish offense could not get on track and had to rely on the three field goals by Carney while never threatening the six point paydirt. 
Pitt head coach Mike Gottfried summed up the Panthers' first half position, "At halftime, I told the kids we were very fortunate to be only six points down. We had bad field position all during the first half and there were a lot of dropped passes." In the second half the Panthers didn't fare much better but the blocked punt was the break they needed for the go­ahead points. 
The Irish once again did them­selves in. They could have sealed too much pressure to put on one young man." Whatever the case, Notre Dame came up short again and saw its record dip to a discouraging 1-4. Air Force loomed on the horizon and the Irish had to put another tough loss behind them. ¦ 

January 22, 1987 

. . -. ----· 
• ~-~~_.,_.......____ 
__~"'-'---'..Lu....c·--~-~------------=-•"·""---~-~--­



Breaking. The Wishbone 
By Dan Coyle 

For the first time in five years, the Irish defense stopped the Air Force wishbone and sparked Notre Dame's offense to victory 
0 ff we go, into the wild blue ·yonder, 
Flying high, into the sun . ... 
Nothing can stop the U.S. Air Force. 
or four years this song had
F
haunted Notre Dame foot­

ball. Beginning in 1982, when the Falcons beat the Irish 30-17, it seemed that nothing could stop Air Force from finding a way to defeat .. Notre Dame: blocking the potential game­winning field goal in 1983, block­ing another field goal and return­ing it for the winning touchdown in 1985. 
But this year, sparked by a smothering defense and some out­standing individual offensive efforts, the Irish blasted the Cadets back into the wild blue yonder by a 31-3 score. 
The game was billed as a con­test between thunder and lightning -Notre Dame's bulk against the smaller, faster Falcons. But on this day; the Irish had both size and speed. Tim Brown's 95-yard bolt for a touchdown lit the Irish fuse in the first quarter; the defense, finally outweighing and outplay­ing the Cadets, solved the wish­bone offense. Notre Dame held Air Force, a team that was averag­ing 29 points and 324 yards per game heading into the contest, to 
18 
245 total yards and a single field goal. 
"It was the first time, maybe, that we've really played a com­plete :game -offense, defense and the kicking game," said Head Coach Lou Holtz, whose team 
improved to 2_4_ ... ~ · ~ 
z 
i::: 
.~ 
3 


Johnson•s 77. rushing yards led the Irish. 

Early in the game, however, this year's Irish looked more like the same team that had lost to Air Force each of the past four years. Notre Dame's first -possession ended with a fumble at midfield; the second saw the Irish drive to the Falcons 15-yard line before penalties and a sack took them out of scoring range;. the third was stalled by another sack and ended in a 12-yard punt by Dan Soren­sen. 
Sorensen's short punt set up the first score of the game, Chris Blasy's 32-yard field goal with 55 seconds left in the first quarter. "Touchdown Jesus" seemed to be throwing its arms up in despair ­another Irish loss to the Cadets appeared to be on the way. 
The lead, however, lasted all of 14 seconds, which was time enough for Brown to take the kickoff at the five, break a tackle at the 15, and race down· the center of the field for a touch:. down. Brown's run erased · the Air For~e lead and dashed any Falcon hopes that this Irish team would fold like that of years past. 
"The guys up front did a great job of blocking," Brown said, "One guy got a hand on me, but I didn't really see him." Holtz, however, gave the credit more directly to Brown, "Tim got some great blocking, but you don't return a kickoff for a touchdown without some tremendous indivi­dual effort." 
After two ineffective Notre Dame possessions, the Irish defense lit the spark under the lethargic offense with the first of four fumble recoveries. Sopho­more safety George Streeter, start­ing in place of an injured Brandy 
Scholastic 


Air Force 


Kleine (96), Mike Griffin (94) and Robert Banks (56) held Tomallo and the Air Force offense in check. 
Wells, jarred the ball loose from Falcon quarterback Vince Tomallo. Linebacker Cedric Figaro recovered the ball on the Irish 38. 
The offense responded with its first sustained drive of the day, a nine-play, 62-yard march, the Irish using their superior size and strength to move the Falcons and the ball downfield. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein capped the drive with a one-yard dive off a broken play and the score was 14-3. 
Beuerlein used his legs as much as his arm to beat the Falcons, car­rying IO times for 50 yards. The Irish senior relied on smarts and guts, picking his spots and plowing slowly but surely ahead on option plays when the pitch man and full­back were covered. 
"Coach was calling me 'twink­letoes,"' laughed Beuerlein, who is known more for his size 14-E feet than for his speed. "I don't know what motivated him to run more 
January 22, 1987 today," responded Holtz, "He did what he had to do to win." 
The Irish offense struck again just before the half. Dropping back from the Irish 24, Beuerlein spotted Brown racing deep down the middle, covered by two defenders. Slightly underthrown, the ball came down into a mass of players. Brown outfought two Fal­cons and came away with the ball and a 48-yard gain, setting up John Carney's 27-yard field goal with :01 left on the clock. The Irish went to the locker room comfort­ably ahead, 17-3. 
It is a tradition at the academy that following an Air Force score, the cadets in the stands do push ups for every Falcon point. The Notre Dame defense permitted the visiting cadets to remain comfort­ably in their seats for the · remainder of the afternoon, allow­ing zero points and only 100 yards 
of total offense in the second half. 
The cadets might as well have sat on their hands for the second half, as their offense crossed the · Irish 40-yard line only once. How did the Irish manage to suddenly . control an offense that had : wreaked such havoc against them · in years past? "We were on top of it a little more today that we were in the past," said senior tackle Wally Kleine, "We got a little closer to it." 
Outside linebacker Figaro com­pared the attitude of this year's defense to that of years past. "This time we came out and attacked them," he said. "Before, we played more of a slow-play defense, which I felt hurt us. But today we didn't wait for them." 
The Irish· offense didn't wait 

for the Falcons either, putting the game away in the third quarter . with back-to-back touchdown drives. A 12-play, 71-yard drive ended as Pernell Taylor powered his way into the end zone from 
one yard out. 
Notre Dame allowed the ·Air Force offense to have the ball all Continued on page 22 
/ 
WR Wendell Davis 

RB Bobby Humphrey
LSU 6--0, 189, Jr. 

Alabama 6-1, 180, So. 
QB Jim Michigan E 
TE Brian Siverling Penn State 6-7, 253, Sr. 

of tense 
C Patric MSU 6-2,, 
PK Don Shafer 
USC 5-11, 180, Sr. 



· G Jeff Brege( 
USC 6-4, 280, Sr. 


G Mark Hammerstein 
Michigan 6-4, 285, Sr. 


~............___ ~-.--~-------'~­
' -~ . 
Air Force 



Continued from page 19 
of one minute, and then took over for a 13-play, 62-yard drive, tak­ing 6:30 off the clock. Anthony Johnson hurdled over the pack from one yard out, and Carney added the extra point to complete the scoring. 
All that remained for the Irish in the fourth quarter was the task of holding the 31-3 lead. And they did with a conservative offense and a defense that refused to allow the big play. 
Both back-up quarterbacks Terry Andrysiak and Steve Belles saw action in the fourth quarter. Neither particularly jistinguished himself. Andrysiak botched a snap from center; Belles tossed his only pass incomplete. 
One back-up who did distin­guish himself was Streeter. Getting his first real taste of playing time as a result of Brandy Wells' injury, Streeter spent a good deal of the afternoon in the Falcon backfield, making eight tackles, including three worth 26 yards in losses. Streeter also broke up two passes, caused a fumble and had an inter­ception nullified by a penalty. 
"It's hard to do much when you're just on the kicking team," Streeter said, "I got a chance to play at the expense of an injury to­a teammate and I just tried to pick up the slack." 
Holtz was less restrained in his praise of Streeter's pla~. "I was impressed," he sa1"d. "I'm sure that this performance will be encouraging for him." 
The past four years Notre Dame had gone into its game with the Falcons favored to win~ and the Irish. This year there seemed to be a difference in the Irish atti­tude, a seriousness that had been 

lacking. 
"Going into the football game we had a tremendous amount of respect for the Air Force football team," sajd Holtz. Senior center Chuck Lanza put it differently. "There was no playing around this year as far as we were concerned. We had a very intense attitude. We knew it was a matter of wear­ing them down." 
The victory was especially gra­tifying to those Notre Dame seniors who had played in the past losses. "It feels really good to finally beat Air Force," said cap­tain Mike Kovaleski. "Through the years they've really been a thorn in our side."II 
,.·..·.c 
,,:, 'lfl~[if~r;[gt~j 

\:..•.·1•.sf <i~#r~et•·····i·•······•··· ........i·r.·•····•.•i;::·•·.•.•··•·•·:i· / ..•··•···.•.>•·· ;;~ '..··ii:?GhiK~1a$y·•32:fi~ld.·~%.~l<•:d
i·:~fili~i~li~1l!i.;~t~i[kti]ij 
>2nct<iua.rter :>··· ······ 
•·&J;:2.•••si~:tirBg~~ilgiri;li
i'r1~YRick)t'····· ,,... 
1
.~~if}8i~~:~Y:.#.zr.·
('i~r~~u#;tiii\.:i[(.•.•·•••...·. '( :~~)~jJj]n~11~~91 
!.L1'Ir51::·.••••~titho\: (Q:ifpeY kick. 

,.. 
~ ~ 

@ 
z 
i:: 
co 
·u
j 


every year Air Force had surprised . Darrell Gordon made a big hit wJth his play against the Falcons' wishbone offense. 

Halfway Is Enough 
By ]~rank Lipo 
The Irish recorded their 23rd consecutive win over Navy with a 28-0 edge in the first half and sloppy play in the second 
The Notre Dame-Navy series, the nation's longest continu­ous intersectional college football rivalry, returned to its roots in Baltimore on November 1 for the first time since 1953. And as has been the case so often since the first meeting of the two· teams in 1927, Notre Dame came away with a lopsided victory to bring its season record to 3-4. 
The 33-14 Irish victory, Notre Dame's 23rd in a row over the Middies, gave the Irish a whop­ping 50-9-1 series lead. But although the final score showed the traditional Irish dominance, Notre Dame also showed the dis­turbing "split-personality" which plagued it the entire season. An excellent first half propelled the Irish to a 28-0 lead. The story in the second half, though, was a lack of Notre Dame consistency and a Navy team that wouldn't quit. 
Well-executed plays filled the first half for the Irish, leading to 16 first downs and 314 yards total offense. Notre Dame held Navy to just 23 yards total offense in the half and only one first down. 
On their second. possession of the game the Irish steadily moved . the ball down the field and scored on a two-yard pass from quarter­back Steve Beuerlein to Joel Willi­ams. The pass, which was tipped to Williams by Navy middle guard Enoch Blazis, capped a 14-play, 57-yard drive. 
The Irish scored a touchdown on each of their next two posses­sions. Tim Brown, the standout all-purpose man for the Irish, quickly scored on a 77-yard pass from Beuerlein. Brown caught a total of 5 passes for 142 yards in the half and caught two more for 42 additional yards in the second half. The All-American's seven catches netted t84 yards, a career high for the talented junior. 
After a Navy punt, Irish full­back Pernell Taylor capped a 60­yard, nine-play drive with an 11­yard touchdown run on Notre Dame's riext possession. 
Navy's Tony Hollinger, nor­mally a flanker but filling in for the injured star tailback Chuck Smith, fumbled at the Navy five­yard line and the ball was recovered by N_otre Dame line­backer Cedric Figaro with just more than three minutes left in the half. Two plays later Taylor scored his second touchdown of the game with a one-yard dive. Notre Dame took the. 28-0 lead to the locker room. 
"I think that the way we played today in the first half, we can play with and beat anybody," said senior captain Mike Kovaleski after the game. 
Beuerlein, who was nine of 12 for 176 yards and two touchdowns in the first half and 15 of 22 for 248 yards in the game, agreed with his classmate. "The first half we played pretty well," Beuerlein said. "In the second half, we came out flat, and Navy was fired up. We need to get the killer instinct to finish up and do well the rest of the way." 
The lack of that "killer instinct" was evident in the second half as Navy scored 14 points and moved the ball well, earning 13 first downs to Notre Dame's six. The Irish scoring was limited to only a third-quarter field goal by senior John Carney and a fourth­quarter safety by the Irish defense. Carney's field goal was his 40th at Notre Dame, breaking the previ­ous school record of 39 set by Dave Reeve in his career (rom 1974-77. 
Navy head coach· Gary Tranquill, who was fired at the end of the season, had his offen­sive problems eased by the Middie 
January 22, 1987 
Navy 



defense. Led by the hard-hitting play and 18 tackles of safety Marc Firlie and the 26 tackles of line­backer Vincent McBeth, the Mid­dies were able to slow down the Irish offense and stay in the game. 
Quarterback Bob Misch started the game for Navy instead of reg­ular starter Bill Byrne. Byrne, brother of backup Irish quarter­back Tom Byrne, was benched after three consecutive losses prior to the Notre Dame game. After a dismal first half in which he was unable to lead the Middies into Notre Dame territory, Misch took charge in the second half. In the final minute of the quarter it took just two passes to Hollinger to move the Middies 40 yards into the end zone. 
Byrne replaced Misch after the safety and drove Navy 77 yards down the field for its final score. Byrne's 21-yard pass to Flanker Michael Ray was his 27th career 
(') 
[ 
~ ~ 
g
::r 
o:, 
g
11, 
..:i 
g:
r::
; 
touchdown throw, a new Navy career record. Byrne looked impressive in his reserve role, completing seven of 12 passes for 88 yards. The seven completions brought his career completions total to 357, also establishing a 
new Middie record. 
Carney and Byrne weren't the only record-breakers on this warm Baltimore night. Beuerlein's 244 yards of total offense (the 248 passing yards minus four lost rush­ing yards) brought his career total to 5,553 yards in that category. Joe Theismann held the previous career record for total offense, piling up 5,432 yards from 1968 to 1970. Figaro's second quarter fumble recovery gave him six for the season, establishing a new Irish single-season record. The previous record of five was held by six other Irish players. 
Despite the Irish problems in 

the second half, the victory was still a big one for Notre Dame. The defense was strong throughout the game, holding the Middies to 218 yards in the air and min us-seven yards rushing in 23 attempts. The longest Navy run was only six yards and Misch was sacked four times. The swarming Irish defense was well-balanced, with 22 players registering tackles. 
"Against Navy, we played awfully well the first half, but the second half was a different story," said Head Coach Lou Holtz. "We still are ·waiting to see us put together a full 60 minutes of good football against a team with minimal mistakes." 
Although the Irish victory was not as impressive as Holtz had hoped, it was a much-needed win, ending an eight-game road losing streak which stretched back to a 27-20 loss to SMU in the 1984 Aloha Bowl.II 
24 


Brown Rides Mustangs Out Of Town 
By Ed Jordanich 

Dallas-born Tim Brown paced the 4-4 Irish with 235 yards as his hometown SMU Mustangs fell by a whopping 32 points 
1966, after Notre DameIn destroyed the Trojans of 
Southern California 51-0 in 
Los Angeles, USC coach John 

McKay was asked if he saw any 
weaknesses in the Irish effort. 
"Yeah," he replied. "Their sixth 
kickoff was a little short." 
SMU head coach Bobby Collins could certainly empathize with McKay after taking a similar beat­ing at the hands of the Irish, 61~29 at Notre Dame Stadium this sea­son. 
Notre Dame extended its win­ning streak to three games and evened its record at 4-4 by scoring more points than any Irish team since J977 and racking up the most offensive yards by a Notre Dame team in the 1980s. Big plays on offense and defense against the Mustangs highlighted the most convincing win of the season for Lou Holtz's squad, and the Irish head coach was pleased with the results. 
"We were 1-4," said Holtz. "But I had faith in these guys and all the credit goes to them. We beat 
January 22, 1987 
a good football team in SMU and we did it in a good, sound way." The Irish win set the stage for an encounter with undefeated and third-ranked Penn State the next week. The SMU game indicated that the Irish would be ready for 
0 
u 
u 
~ 
~ 
~ 

the Nittany Lions. 
Not only did the Irish pile up 615 yards in total offense, but they received outstanding individual performances and spectacular plays from their big guns on both sides of the line of scrimmage. 


SMU 


Senior quarterback Steve Beuerlein had one of his best days in an Irish uniform with 269 yards passing on 11 completions. A big chunk of that yardage came on a third quarter bomb to junior flanker Tim Brown that covered 84 yards. 
Brown had another incredible day and Holtz commented after the game that his star receiver/runner and returner had 
earned "two desserts." The Dallas native burned the team from his home town with 235 all-purpose yards to up his per-game average to 173.7. It was his third consecut­ive · game of over 200 yards in total offense. 
Despite the blowout indicated by the final score, Notre Dame had its hands full with the Mus­tangs through the first half. The game began inauspiciously, as both teams punted on their first series of downs. But what followed was a barrage of touchdowns and field goals that did not stop until the last minute of the game. 


Four minutes into the game, Irish senior cornerback Troy Wil­son brought the traditional capa­city crowd of 59,075 to its feet with a nifty 47-yard punt return to the SMU 43-yard line. Sticking exclusively to a running game that Holtz wanted to establish, Notre Dame marched into the end zone in l O workman-like plays. Alonzo Jefferson carried the final two
! 
yards. The senior from Florida. I scored for the first time in nearly
i t'¾O years, after sitting out almost 
ali of 1985 with a knee injury. 
SMU wasted no time in answer­ing the Irish. Combining the deft. fakes of quarterback Bobby Watters and the hard running of backs Ron Morris, Jeff Atkins, and Joe Morrison, the Mustangs hit paydirt in less than two minutes to tie the game at 7-7. 
26 

Kicker John Carney added the first of his four field goals of the day for the Irish, a 28-yard effort, to put his team ahead I0-7 at the en.ct of the first quarter. 
SMU went ahead for the last time early in the second quarter when tailback Atkins completed an 87-yard touchdown drive with a·· three-yard burst. The Irish defense seemed to be on its heels as Watters had little trouble mov­ing the Mustangs down the field. 
But the Irish offense also moved the ball at ease on its next possession. Beuerlein hit a streak­ing Brown over the middle and the flashy flanker outraced several 

Holtz sent in plenty or successful plays 
with receivers such as Reggie Ward. 

defenders before he was forced to the sidelines at the Mustang five for a -gain of 60. Freshman Anthony Johnson, a South Bend native, dove over on fourth-and­goal from the one to cap the drive and put the Irish back in front, 17-14. 
On SMU's next possession, Irish senior defensive lineman Robert Banks came up with the defensive hit of the game and perhaps the most pivotal play of the contest. Banks beat his man to the inside and chased down Watters, causing him to fumble at the SMU 15. Outside rush specialist Cedric Figaro pounced on the loose ball and not only gave the Irish the football in prime field position, but extended a record in the pro­cess. Figaro's recovery was his seventh of 1986, a single-season school record. 
Banks talked about his play after the game. "Watters had a lot of time to throw," he said, "but he scrambled right to me. I'm glad Fig was there because we needed that spark to get us going." 
The Irish capitalized in one play, as Brown took a pitch out of the wishbone and followed key blocks from Johnson and Mark Green to scamper into the end zone untouched. Suddenly the Irish were up by 10 points. After the defense stopped the Mustangs in three plays, Carney added a field goal, tliis one from 40 yards, to end a short drive and put Notre Dame on top, 27-14. 
The Irish got the ball back once more before the half, and took advantage of their opportunity. Carney converted from 30 yards for a 30-14 lead after 30 minutes. 
Early third quarter action resembled the start of the game as both defenses forced punts from seemingly -sluggish offenses. Another big defensive play got the Irish going in the second half and set the stage for a rout. 
Freshman linebacker Mike Stonebreaker, playing for senior captain Mike Kovaleski, who had suffered a concussion in the first half, picked off a Watters pass to give Beuerlein and the offense a first down at the SMU 30. From there the offensive line took over and showed the improvement it had made in the -previous three games. Johnson ran four times to set up senior P~rnell Taylor's 
Scholastic 
SMU 

seven-yard bulldozing run into the end zone. With the scoreboard reading 37-14 Irish, SMU mounted a drive to get back into the game. 
Watters directed an 80-yard, 14-play march that led to a touch­down and a two-point conversion to close the gap to 37-22. The Mustangs appeared to have gotten their second wind, and at this point Holtz was still worried. "It was a real dogfight up front," said the first year Irish coach. "We kept coming at them but it was anybody's game until that big play." 
That big play was Beuerlein's deep sideline fly-pattern call exe­cuted to perfection. Moments after SMU had scored, Brown hauled in the third longest touchdown pass in Irish history and put the game out of reach, 44-22. The play broke the Mustangs' spirit, and opened the floodgates for the Irish offense. 
Banks recovered another Watters fumble and set up a short Carney field goal, his record-tying fourth of the day. It was the second time the Irish senior kicker had made four in a game in his productive career. 

The first string was replaced by Terry Andrysiak and the second unit after an SMU punt with 10 minutes left in the game. The backups had been criticized· by Holtz for a poor performance the week before against Navy. Against the Mustangs, the reserves scored two touchdowns of their own on drives of 60 and 58 yards. Tailbacks Hiawatha and D'Juan Francisco, Aaron Robb, fullbacks Tom Monahan and Braxton Banks, as well as the quick-footed .\ ndrysiak used excellent blocking to escape the dog house. 
Robb ran in from a yard out and Andrysiak made several quick 
January 22, 1987 
moves that took him across the goal line from 20 yards out to wrap up the Irish scoring. The blur of running, passing, and scoring by the gold helmets stopped at 61 points. The Mustangs would add a late touchdown pass but SMU coach Collins acknowledged the Irish dominance following the game. 
"I have to give Notre Dame credit, they played extremely well," said Collins. "They made the big play to counter our runs at them. Notre Dame has played well all year and they are a very good football team. They could play anyone in the Top 20." 
Collins also commented on the brillant play of Brown, and in the Irish locker room Lou Holtz echoed the praises of his most potent weapon who would go on to 
'I

earn first-team Associated Press ., All-America honors. 
"Timmy Brown played a tremendous game," said Holtz. "I think his success is a combination of things. You've got to have some breaks go your way. But the blocking is better, the ball is there and he's playing great." 
Notre Dame's excellent line play on offense and opportunistic defense were all good signs for Holtz and the Irish. The momen­tum derived from beating a qual­ity opponent like SMU sent the Irish into the Penn State game with confidence that an upset was in the cards. Collins and his SMU team were testimony that the Nit­tany Lions would face an improv­ing, explosive, and prepared group of Notre Dame players. ¦ 


Upset-
e-
ot 
By Kathleen McKernan 
The Irish came within six yards of knocking off the eventual national champs,' but Penn State's defense stopped them short 
looked as though thingsIt were going to be different 

for the Irish as they took on the Penn State Nittany Lions on a cold mid-November afternoon. 
"It was a great football game," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said of the matchup with the eventual national champions, which featured numerous momentum swings and a down-to-the-wire finish. "... if you didn't care who won. Unfortunately, we did." 
It was shades of past games and a forecast of games to come for both teams when Penn State stopped the Irish deep in Penn State territory with less than 39 seconds left., after having the ball first and goal on the Lion's six­yard line to assure a Lion 24-19 victory at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Penn State's coach Joe Paterno had praise for both his club and the Irish after the tight game. "I know it sounds like a cliche, but you hate to see either team lose a game like this," Paterno said. "I think they played as well as they could, and we played as well as we could. · 
"We beat a great team away from home in a tough stadium," he continued. "That's what you have to do to win a national cham­pionship. We didn't win it but we stayed in position." 
Penn State may not have won the national championship with this ball game, but Paterno's words became an exact prognostication of things to come. In this game, as in future Lion's outings, Lou Holtz' assessment of the team from State College, Pennsylvania held true. "Penn State is used to win­ning," he said, "and they found a way." 
Penn State scored on its second possession of the first quarter, picking up 78 yards in 11 plays on four first downs after a Steve Beuerlein fumble recovered by the Lions' Pete Giftopoulos. Tailback 
D.J. Dozier ran for a total of 26 · yards in the drive. State's quarter­back John Shaffer passed 34 yards to Ray Roundtree after Dave 
Butler tackled Dozier for a one­yard loss to open the possession for the Lions. After a Dozier 13­yard delayed run to the Irish six yard line, fullback Steve Smith and Dozier alternated runs for short yardage until Smith went over left tackle for the touchdown. 

Notre Dame picked up its first three points on a John Carney 20­yard field goal early in the second quarter and forced Penn State to . punt after tackle Mike Griffin sacked Shaffer for a· ten-yard loss on second down in Penn State's short possession. The Irish picked 
...
i 
a 
z Q) 
; 
·u3 


Senior captain Kovaleski led the Irish with 11 tackles, two for a loss. 
Scholastic 


Penn State 
., 
i:: 

up another three points on a 38-ll 
yard Carney field goal to come t 
within one. 
Notre Dame held the Lions on ~ their next possession and forced ~ them to punt, but on the next Irish ~ possession, a pressured quarter-2 ~ back Steve Beuerlein fumbled and 8 was saddled with a 12-yard loss. With 1:03 remaining, Penn State had the ball on its own 25 yard line. Despite advancing the ball as close as the two-yard line and cal­ling three timeouts to set up the big play, Penn State settled for a Massimo Manca 19-yard field goal to end the half with the score: Penn State 10, Notre Dame 6. 
With that field goal, as with the first touchdown, a Beuerlein fumble helped Penn State score. But at halftime, Beuerlein was try­ing to look beyond the fumbles to contributed to the Irish seizing a Mark Green gained 11 yards onthe next half. 
13-10 lead after Carney converted two plays. Brown gained "I wasn't feeling down at all at the extra point. seven, but then was grounded for halftime," he said. "In fact, ever­a loss of seven by Don Graham on
Penn State's Brian Siverling, a 

ybody kept coming up to me and his next run.
tight end, received two important
talking to me about it, and it got a 
passes in Penn State's third quarter
little irritating. I kept saying, 'I'm Beuerlein then avoided
scoring drive and avoided Irish 
all right. I just want to go out and linebacker Shane Conlan's charge
strong safety George Streeter to 
play like we did in the first half.' to get the ball to Brown for the
run 22 yards and set up split end 
On the first fumble, I didn't see touchdown. With the score now
Ray Roundtree's 31 yard reception 
the guy until he hit me. On the 24-19, Holtz· elected to try for the
and six-yard touchdown run. With 
second one, I wanted to throw the two point conversion to pull
Manca's extra point conversion,
ball out of bounds in Mark Penn State reclaimed the lead, I7-within three points of the Lions Green's direction, but (Shane) 
13. with plenty of time (about eightConlan hit my arm as I was throw­
The Lions padded their four minutes) remaining in the fourth ing." point lead early in the fourth quarter. Brown and Beuerlein 
To open the second half, Tim quarter on a Shaffer quarterback traded places for the attempt; Gif­Brown ran 97 yards on a kickoff sneak for one yard into the.end topoulos intercepted Brown's pass return, but that was called back zone after a balanced run­in the end zone. · because of a clipping penalty on pass attack from Tim Manoa, Blair 
Penn State could not score in its
the offense. On the replay the Thomas, and John Shaffer. 
final possessions, as the IrishIrish went nowhere, as did Penn At this point, trailing by 11 defense shut the Lions down.
State on its next possession. Notre with 11:45 remaining, the Irish Looking back on the end of theDame had its moments of brilli­began their comeback. S_tarting game offensive linebacker Cedricance on the next drive, gaining 92 from its O\Yn 36, Notre Dame · Figaro said: "We just waited tooyards in 1:49 on six plays. A 15-gained a first down after Beuerlein long. We could have done it ear­yard run by tailback Mark Green, lost four on a rollout and then lier, but we did stop them -on theira 50-yard Beuerlein pass to Milt passed to Ray Dumas, who gained last two possessions. We shouldJackson, and Beuerlein's quick out 18 yards on the run. A play later, play that way the whole gam~." 
from the 14 to Brown who Beuerlein hit Jackson. in the ran nine yards for the touchdown middle of a secondary zone for 17. The Irish nearly came through, 
The Lions staved on top as Dozier ran over, through, and an'.!und the Irish defense. 
January 22, 1987 
', j 

' I 
i 
Penn State 

in their final possession at the end of the fourth quarter. Starting at its own 20-yard line with 3:52 to 
go, Notre Dame gained a quick first down on a 22-yard Anthony J ognson run. Ray Dumas caught a 

,Beuerlein nine-yard quick out pass; then Jackson caught a Beuer­lein pass at the line of scrimmage and gained 15 despite safety Ray Isom's hit. 
Beuerlein brought the Irish to the Penn State six-yard line after a 

0 
g 
g 
-~ 
cn 
. g 
:F­
·~ 
::i
°' !;3
cr= 
i:: 
::i
,. 
Jackson led all receivers with 118 yards. 
nine-yard pass to Monahan and a 19-yard gain by Jackson. 
Now, the Irish were playing on a short field with the ball on first and goal at the six with a little more than a minute left. Isom hit Brown for a loss of three. Don Graham then sacked Beuerlein for a loss of nine yards. Beuerlein said of Penn State's blitzing defense: 
"Their blitzes were very timely. When we needed a big play, like at the end when they got that sack, they came up with the perfect call." 
At third down, Beuerlein attempted a pass to Joel Williams 
30. 
--------~--­

in the end zone, but it slipped through his hands for a incomplete pass. On fourth down, Beuerlein passed for five yards to end Irish hopes for an upset. 
"When I threw that pass to Wil­liams I thought it was six points all the way," Beuerlein said. "That play went just as we wanted it to. We were close, but close doesn't count." 
Against Penn State, as in the games against Michigan, Michigan State, and Pitt the Irish nearly 
pulled off a victory only to fall short in the final seconds. Close­
ness may not count and losing only 
serve.s to"build character," but the 
Irish football team continued to put out a solid effort despite diffi­culties. 
"Like I told everybody after the Pitt game, this team is not going to give up," captain Mike Kovaleski said. "We're going to fight right up to the very end. Penn State is a very good football team, but we are too. I couldn't be prouder of our guys than I am right now. The momentum swung back and forth the whole game, but our guys never gave up. (At the third and eighteen play) I told them that they were going to score. And they looked at me and they knew they were going to score too, but it just didn't work out." 
Penn State's loss was the final home game for the Irish seniors who have played through four not-so-impressive campaigns, at least not impressive in light of past Irish performances. Williams commented on the role of the seniors in the face of a season of tough losses: "I think we're really trying to establish and pass on a positive attitude that it doesn't have to be like this." 
"I refuse to classify these ath­letes as losers," Holtz said. "We have had some bad breaks. 

Other teams have made good plays against us and sometimes we don't do the Iittle things that we need to. This football team came from a long ways down though and it's a big hump to get over -once they do, they'll be fine. 
"I really don't know what else to say. It's frustrating. I guess I could cry and show you that way, but I can't tell you what's on my heart. I couldn't possibly ever be more proud of a football team. 
"We have gotten better," Holtz continued, "but we still do things that are destructive. I'm proud of the players, not proud of the defeat We will bounce back." 
It took the final game in the Los Angeles Coliseum against USC for the Irish to rebound, but that final home game re-emphasized Notre Dame's capability to play with the best as well as to falter against them when Joe Paterno's group defeated the Irish 24-19 on the Lions way to a national championship . II 

.......•---.-------~---~:;___---~--~:._ ,---,---:-_:..•_ •-,--~-:--•-~ --••;..::. • .\ ..-~---.-~~-~'/:"',_"l•-,.-',')__r:~':...~ •••~•,:.,,::_-..___::_1..,_•:,::;~~~:_:_ ::, :-~~,.--.J.~'•::•:..~""'_::.,r,".'.• ,::":"'•••: :~/\.!?::I'~f 

Still No Cigar 
By Marc Parker 
The Irish lost their fifth close game of the season as LSU ran out the clock to preserve a 21-19 victory 
It was a balmy Saturday night. The temperature was 70 degrees, and there was a chance of rain. Unfortunately for the Irish, they would be the ones with damp spirits in the locker room after the game. 
After suffering a heartbreaking loss to Penn State, the demanding Irish schedule required that they challenge twice-beaten, eighth­ranked Louisiana State. To make things worse for the Irish, they had to travel to Baton Rouge to take on the Tigers. Tiger Stadium 
· is considered to be one of the most difficult places in the country for a visiting team to play. 
The game was important to both teams. For the Irish, there was still a chance to play in a bowl game if they were to win their last two games. For the Tigers, it was an opportunity to prove their worth to the Sugar Bowl selection committee. Even though the Tigers defeated SEC rival Ala­bama,· either team could be chosen by the Sugar Bowl committee if each finished with the same conference record. If the Tigers were to play impressively and beat 
January 22, 1987 
the Irish, they would be virtually assured of a Sugar Bowl invitation. 
LSU won the toss; and ran the kickoff back to its own 29-yard line. The Tigers then drov~ brilli-

The Irish used one time-out too early. 

antly, and on third and six from the Irish I3-yard line, quarterback Tom Hodson threw a touchdown pass to the · nation's leading receiver, Wendell Davis. It capped an I I-play, 7I-yard drive which burned 5:07 off the clock and gave the Tigers a 7.,.0 lead. 
The downtrodden Irish needed a lift, and the always-reliable Tim 
~ 
.. i:: ~ ~ 

Brown provided it. He took the Tiger kickoff on his own four­yard line, broke up the middle, and cut right at midfield, outrun­ning the LSU coverage to score the Irish touchdown. John Carney provided the extra point, and the Irish were tied 7-7, with the offense never having taken the 
W field. 
i:: 
~ 
n,

.. The Tigers took the ensuing
::i 

0. kickoff on their own I 8-yard line 
8 

:;:!. IT i:: ::i..  following a fair catch by LSU return man Chris Cruz. They marched masterfully down the  
field for 82 yards in  17 plays to  
score  their  second  touchdown.  
Hodson threw the touchdown pass  
to his other outstanding wideout,  
Rogie Magee.  

The Irish had an opportunity to stop the Tigers, though. Earlier in· the drive, Hodson had completed a; third-down pass for enough yard­age for a first down to Davis. Davis fumbled, but recovered it himself, taking the ball away from four Irish defenders who· were in the area. It was the first of four LSU fumbles, and the Irish would not recover any of them. 
---,---------. .. ····-~~~-----~~ 
LSU 

The first quarter ended with the Tiger_s on top 14-7, and the Irish offe.nse had spent only 45 seconds on the field. The offense would need to hold onto the ball so the weary defense could rest if the Irish were to have a chance to win. 
Midway through the second quarter Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein was replaced by backup Terry Andrysiak in an attempt to spark the stalled offensive unit. Andrysiak moved the Irish to mid­field. There, on first ·and · 10, Andrysiak ran the option play.• right and kept the ball. :tie furn-, bled on his way down, giving the · · Tigers the ball. · 
After LSU punted, the Irish moved the ball down the field 

well. With 17 seconds remammg on the clock, Irish kicker John Carney booted a 49-yard field goal. Unfortunately for the hard­luck Irish, a dead ball, offsides call on the Tigers nullified ca·rney's kick, and the ball was moved forward five yards to the LSU 26. Then, in keeping with the luck of the Irish, Carney's shorter 44-yard kick sailed wide left. It would be his· 1ast miss of the 1986 
season. 
The Irish were outplayed in the first half, but they trailed by only seven points. The feeling at half­time was that perhaps this time the Irish could win a game in which .they were outplayed, instead of 'losing games which they won everywhere but on the scoreboard. 
Also, a come-from-behind victory on the road would give the Irish the confidence they had been struggling for throughout the sea­son. Most importantly, a victory would give the Irish momentum going into their season finale with rival Southern Cal in Los Angeles. 
On their second possession of the third quarter, the Irish showed, as they had throughout the ill-fated season, that they would never quit. The spunky squad drove 52 yards in 13 plays to score three points as Carney kicked a 31-yard field goal. Notre Dame now trailed by only four. 
The Irish then had another opportunity to recover a Tiger fumble. On the kickoff, a crush­
a

g ing tackle by freshman Mike ~ Stonebreaker caused return man ~ Sam Martin to fumble, but the ball 
m 

g rolled out of bounds before the ~ Irish could recover it. On the? Tigers' first play of that posses­~ sion, Hodson dropped back and 
g: fired the ball right into the chest § of Irish free safety Steve Cl> Lawrence. He picked off the pass 
on the LSU 30-yard line, and raced all the way to the Tiger two before he was pushed out of bounds by running back Harvey Williams. The luck of the Irish appeared to be changing. U nfor­tunately a comeback was not in the cards for Notre Dame. 
After fullback Pernell Taylor plunged twice into the line to give the Irish a third and goal inside the LSU one-yard line, tailback Anthony Johnson was met by three LSU defenders trying to go over the top of the line. On fourth down, Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz decided to gamble and go for the touchdown. His .call was a pitchout to versatile Tim Brown, who was lined up in the backfield. The Tiger defense was up to the chal­lenge, however, and threw Brown for a four-yard loss. 





All year, the Irish had been unable to score consistently from inside their opponents' 20-yard line. In fact, the Irish failed to score on these occasions 16 times during the season. The Irish had stopped themselves again. 
But Notre Dame would not give up. On their next possession, the Irish capped an 11-play, 27-yard drive with a 44-yard Carney field goal. The Notre Dame offense controlled the ball for over 11 minutes in the third quarter. The rested defense was playing well, and things were looking up for the Irish. They trailed by only one point with 11:34 left in the contest. 
The Tigers took the ball on 
January 22, 1987 

their next possession and marched impressively 79 yards in 11 plays. The conversion made the score 21-13 with 7:45 remaining. 
Again, the Irish refused to give up. After getting. the ball back on a Troy Wilson interception in the end zone, the Irish began to drive from their own 20-yard line. Andrysiak came out to lead the team when Holtz decided Beuer­lein could not continue. Andrysiak led Notre Dame the length of the field in just 1:34 as he threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to D'Juan Francisco in the rear of the end zone. Holtz decided to go for the . tie and attempt the two-point conversion, but Andrysiak's pass fluttered just past the arms of open tight end 
LSU 

Joel Williams on the right side of the endzone. 
Notre Dame had. only one time-out when LSU got the ball back. The Irish defensive players were tired; they had been on the field for a long time in the humid Southern air. The Tigers converted two key third-down-and-long· situations with passes of 17 and 12 yards. Those first downs enabled them to keep the ball and run out the clock, escaping with a narrow 21-19 victory over the scrappy Irish. 
The loss meant that Notre Dame's chances of playing in a bowl game were gone. For the Tigers, the victory almost assured them of the Sugar Bowl invitation, which later 


"This Is The Game" 
By Larry Burke 

With those words from holder Steve Beuerlein, placekicker John Carney kicked a 19-yard field goal with no time on the clock to beat USC 
For colle.ge football fans, the mention of the Notre Dame-USC rivalry conjures up memories of classic confronta­tions, hair-raising finales and occasionally even a little contro­versy. There was 1978, when USC's Frank Jordan beat Notre Dame 27-25 with a field goal in the final seconds. In the 1982 game, television replays showed that Michael Harper did not have possession of the football when he scored the game-winning touch­down in a 17-13 Trojan victory. 


The 1986 edition· of this his-· toric rivalry certainly did nothing to tarnish the tradition. The Irish, who spent much of the season coming out on the short end in heartbreaking games like this, capped a thrilling, improbable comeback on a 19-yard John Car­ney field goal with no time remammg. Notre Dame's rally from a 17-point fourth quarter deficit stunned the 17th-ranked Trojans, along with 70,614 parti­san fans in the Los Angeles Col­iseum. 
It was a finish that many Notre Dame players and fans saw as an important springboard for the 1987 season. The Irish, who played the nation's toughest schedule according to the NCAA­computer, probably deserved a better record than their final 5-6 mark. But the dramatic victory 
§ Cl> 
~ ~ 
;
Jil ..c:
..., 
::, 0 
~ ~ 
g
0 


over USC helped ease the painful memories of losses by less than a touchdown to Michigan, Michigan State, Pittsburgh, Penn State and LSU. 
The game was as devastating for the Trojans as it was redeem­ing for the Irish. Immediately fol­lowing the contest, · there was speculation that the loss, regardless of the closeness of the game, may have cost USC Coach Ted Tollner his job. Before the game, it had been thought that Tollner's squad would have to finish the regular season 8-3 and earn a bowl bid if th~ coach was to keep his job. 
The Trojans got their bowl bid 

· -a New Year's Day date with Auburn in the Florida Citrus Bowl. But the loss to the Irish left USC at 7-4, with consecutive defeats to. rivals UCLA and Notre Dame. Tollner's 1-7 career record against those two schools, some thought, would ultimately cost him his job. The speculation proved correct; the axe fell on Tollner nine days after the Notre Dame game. He was replaced by Arizona coach Larry Smith in early Janu­ary. 
For most of the game against 
the Irish, things had been looking 
good for Tollner and his team. 
USC took the lead five minutes 
into the second quarter, and the 
Irish were playing catch-up most 
of the day. 

It appeared that the Trojans' head coach would preserve his job and gain his first-ever win over Notre Dame when the USC offense lined up on a fourth down and inches at the Notre Dame five-yard line midway through the fourth quar_ter. Leading 37-27, Tollner elected to pass up a shot at a field goal, opting instead to go for the touchdown that would put the game out of reach. 
Quarterback Rodney Peete went over the top of the pile. USC thought it had a first down, but the officials disagreed, spotting the ball short of the first-down marker and awarding possession to Notre Dame without even calling for a measurement. 

"I not only thought I had made the first down, but also -I thought I made it by about a yard and a half," Peete said. "Then an offi­cial marked it as losing yardage. It was a very bad call; the worst I've ever seen. They didn't even meas­ure it. Then, I lost my cool." 
That resulted in a 15-yard penalty on Peete for unsportsman­like cond\lct, which helped the Irish get out of a hole and pro­pelled them to an 80-yard touch­down drive that culminated in a five-yard scoring pass from Steve Beuerlein to Braxton Banks. Beuerlein then connected with Andy Heck for the two-point conversion that closed the gap to 37-35 and set the stage for Carney's heroics. 
But the senior placekicker might never have had his moment 
January 22, 1987 
of glory were it not for some heroics from Tim Brown. With less than three minutes remaining in the game, Holtz inserted Brown on the punt return team after the Irish had stopped the Trojans on third and three at the USC 27. Brown made Holtz look like a genius, racing 56 yards down the right sideline to the Trojan 16­yard line. "I just wanted to make sure I caught the ball," Brown said. "After that it was "just watch the blocks. The guys did a great job." 
Earlier, the junior All-American had run back a kickoff 57 yards to set up Notre Dame's second touch­down. Brown also had caught a 49-yard bomb from Beuerlein to set up the final Notre Dame touch­down following the Irish defensive unit's critical fourth-down-stand. 
From the 16, Notre Dame then ran the ball to the USC one-yard line, setting up Carney's game winner. And the importance of the moment did not escape the senior kicker. To that point, Car­ney had been upstaged by his USC counterpart, Don Shafer, who had kicked three field goals, including a Pac-10 record 60-yarder to close out the first half. 
"There were lots of things in the back of my mind," recalled Carney. "I've been in that situa­tion two times befcire and come up empty. I knew it would be my last collegiate kick, and I didn't want to have any regrets. I didn't want to think what would happen if I missed." 
Beuerlein, who took over the holding duties in the sixth game of the season, wasn't about to let Car­ney lose sight of the magnitude of his kick. The senior quarterback, a native of Fullerton, California, remembered his words to Carney moments before the winning boot: "I said, 'Johnny, this is the game 
USC 

that's going to make it all worthwhile. This will make us 
i 

forget about all the other games. I know it." 
Sophomore Mark Green, another California native who enjoyed a big day (119 yards on 24 carries) hoped the comeback would turn out to be a positive omen. "Maybe this will carry over to next year," he suggested. If it does, 1987 could be a very good year for Notre Dame football.II 

tlili:[JiifiiIi:J ,Jscti;§~s
~·:,:, ":.·>..';'.,.,.::.::·: ::.: ..,.,::,;.;.,.. ;·:•;.:
:~p<\~;~v
Steye,iBeuer. 
'2i(~#:4ileiCH . .~,~r~i,~~§kl}~~~iii)'~~!~t2~BQit1
·~~~f~i:~rfoy··•··Holt·.. J··•·•·illn.s~~~.r:~fi\J 
:NB ~:'.rJWHCcitA6{}:ff
ie.1~i' gi~r:c;!ii;
,£rg8•·•·~.'$~~iJ1!;~~:rh~1ai:i6J1!:,.....,.... 
111~)Hii!~~i~~'t;¢1~•8Pii:
!NPi•~·••,cJtri1et..·.•··•• 
1(f§i}JJa~ir· 
,!{~£~I 'f:l:;I) . CNfi. -~ o:a:raxto'H•f . 
ffrom Beuerlein· (Milt" J ipass from Beu~rlein) '. . :·• 
ii~iiliiy . lfiTillf~-l~ktrl:!:,~~
.lein.(Heclc pass fr.m•:Betietlein :.•:cd 
i~!lit#~l~~~i~IJ~1~ittl~~1if~ t~l~ 
35 


Scoreboard 
i'.;;.~ll~·~j~1•·•reti.ew.<>.r::i~.~iiai,1.Ji~~.~~1···•I ·:r; C61t1pilecl,b; Eel .16~<1a11f2f 

1. Brilliant Season For ND Volleyball
It 

ND VOLLEYBALL -The Irish posted a brilliant season under coach ART LAMBERT, finishing with a 33-7 record. Notre Dame ended the year with 13 wins over teams that were regionally ranked at some point during the season. A 17-match winning streak was a school record and it landed the Irish into the regional polls for the 
first time ever. 
Frontline players MARY KAY WALLER, MAUREEN SHEA, ZANETTE BENNETT and MARY CUNNINGHAM keyed the Irish attack, while settters KATHY MORIN and TARYN COLLINS provided excellent sup­port. 
Following a 12-21 record last year, the Irish achievements and.· improvements were spectacular. Dominated by underclassmen, 
Notre Dame's move to national recognition will meet a formidable challenge next year as the squad plays the toughest schedule in the program's history. 
ND FIELD HOCKEY -Notre Dame ccncl uded a re building year with a 6-12-1 record in the fall of 1986. 
Head Coach JILL LINDEN­FELD loses senior tri-captains 
36 

MARY WAGNER, MEG McGLINN, and all-time scoring leader CORINNE DiGIACOMO to graduation. 

The volleyball team had its best season ever. , 

Defensive specialists CARO­LINE BEREZNY and BENET DeBERR Y will be among 18 players returning next fall. 
ND SOCCER -Notre. Dame's 13­7-2 season was a pivotal one in the development of the Irish program as Coach DENNIS GRACE'S squad made a strong transition to a high caliber of competition. The productive 1986 season was marked by strong performances against several very talented, nationally-ranked opponents. 
Offensive firepower will return in abundance as junior scoring leader TIGER McCOURT, mid­field threat JOE STERNBERG, and forward RANDY MORRIS all will be back next year. On defense, captain STEVE LOW­NEY, JOHN GUIGNON, and 
· PAT McCLANAHAN will try to keep the ball out of the goal vacated by senior keeper HUGH BRESLIN. 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUN­TRY -A 20th-place finish in the NCAA District IV meet completed the first varsity season in which the Irish competed in women's cross country. 
Irish coach DAN RYAN'S team was led by JULIA MERKEL, THERESA RICE, KATHLEEN LEHMAN, LINDA FILAR, and WENDY MURRAY. All will return next year. 
ND MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY ­1986 was a season of maturation for the young Irish team coached 
Scholastic 

Scoreboard 
by JOE PIANE. The squad, com­posed mostly of freshmen and sophomores, experienced disap­pointment in the form of injuries and a 1-3 record in dual meets. 
Led by sophomores DAN GARRETT and RON MARKEZ­ICH, the Irish defeated Michigan State in a dual meet and ended the year with a 15th-place finish the District IV meet. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL Saint Mary's completed its best varsity campaign ever with a record of 22-8. The Belles finished the sea­son ranked third out of Indiana's 19 NAIA women's volleyball teams. 
Head Coach MARY JO LAMBER T'S team placed two members on the All-State team, senior JULIE SCHROEDER and freshman MARY McCARTHY. Schroeder led the team in kills and finished second in the state in blocks with 3.9 per game. Senior MARY REIDY ended the year averaging 3.4 blocks per game. 
three individual state champions, Saint Mary's ended its 1986 fall season with the program's best performance in the last three years. 
Guided by district Coach of the Year, DEBBIE LAVERIE, the Belles head into the spring season 
... 
~ 
~ 
z, 
:a
·.:; 
::I ..:i 

powers and several NCAA schools, the young team, coached by JOHN AKERS and ERIC EV ANS, bene­fitted from senior leadership and. freshman talent. 
Senior captains GLORIA ELEUTERI, ST ACY SNYDER, ANN -NORA EHRET, and 

Schroeder had a .365 attack per­centage to lead the Belles, and McCarthy was Lambert's top player in assists. Schroeder was also named to the Northern Indi­_ana District 21 All-District team. 
Despite losing Schroeder and Reidy, the team's other senior co­captain, Saint Mary's will return four starters to a squad bolstered by strong recruiting after a suc­cessful season. The Belles will be coached by Notre Dame graduate . SUE MEDLEY next year, with 
Lambert serving as an assistant. 
SMC TENNIS -With a 14-3 record, a second place finish in the NAIA District 21 tournament, and 
January 22, 1987 
looking for their sixth consecutive berth in the NAIA nationals. Los­ing in the fall to only three opponents, all of whom were NCAA Division-I programs, Saint Mary's fielded a young team with one senior. 
State champions included BUFFY HEINZ, CHARLENE SZAJKO, and KIM DRAHOTA. Four players also made the all­district team, including Szajko, Heinz, JENNIFER BLOCK, and 
KATE McDEVITT. 
SMC SOCCER -In their second season as a varsity team, the Belles neared the .500 mark with a 7-9-1 record. Playing a challenging schedule composed of NAIA MARY ANN PERRI combined with freshman MOLLY MEEHAN to lead the team. Meehan finished the fall season as Saint Mary's leader in shots with 47, in goals with seven, and in assists with five. KAREN CHANDLER was second to Meehan in shots and assists. 
Other key players that will return for the Belles include LAN­DRY CLEMENT, KAREN CHANDLER, and goalie PATTY HATFIELD. 
Saint Mary's begins its indoor season with a tournament at Mar­quette in February and will host its own tournament soon after­wards.II 


Lou Looks Forward And Back 
By Lou Holtz 

Head Coach Lou Holtz reflects on his first season at Notre Dame and discusses the future objectives for the Irish squad 
When the field goal attempt went through the uprights on the last play of the game with Southern Cal to climax a come-from-behind 38-3 7 victory for the Irish, it culminated my first year at Notre Dame and hopefully set the tempo for the 1987 season. Unfortunately, not all the games ended on such a positive note; we lost five games by a total of 14 points. However, I do believe the foundation has been laid to build a successful program in the future. 


My experiences at Notre Dame the first year have been extremely positive. Never have I been asso­ciated with an organization or institution that more personifies the words trust, commitment, love and faith. 
We are all aware of the leader­ship that Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce and their administra­tion have provided, and I am con­fident thr~t Father Malloy, Father Beauchamp and Father Tyson will continue in that tradition. I have consistently been impressed by the dedication the people of Notre Dame exhibit in their perfor­mances, and the special spirit the University has. It is an exhilarat­ing experience to attend the team Mass on game days and listen to the sermon by Father Riehle, the team's chaplain, or to visit the Grotto or Sacred Heart Church when troubled. 
Two of the most remarkable people I have come_ fo contact with here are Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, and Mike DeCicco, who is the academic advisor for our varsity athletes. I am happy to report that overall our athletes performed rea­sonably well in the classroom. Last year we set a goal of a 2.5 GPA for the team, and, while it seemed difficult to achieve at that time, I'm happy to report that we attained it for the fall semester. The credit for this improvement must go to our football players, as well as to Dr. Hofman, Dr. 
DeCicco, and the tireless efforts of a committed and· unselfish faculty. A few players were disappointing in their performances in the class­room, but we hope to rectify this in the very near future. We would like to raise the overall average from our players even higher in the semesters to come. 
Football games are not won because of a player, a coach, a kicker or an official, nor are they lost for anx of these reasons. We win and lose as a team. I'm often asked which loss bothers me the most, and for me the worst loss is not a game, but rather the loss of some fine seniors to graduation. They were not only excellent ath­letes, they were outstanding indi­viduals. 

There is no way to minimize the loss of such players as Mike Kovaleski, Ron Weissenhofer, Wally Kleine, Robert Banks, Dave Butler, Steve Lawrence, Troy Wil­son, Mike Haywood, John Carney, Dan Sorenson, Steve Beuerlein, Milt Jackson, Shawn Heffern, Joel Williams and Hiawatha Francisco. We lose some other seniors whose names may not be as familiar to you, but I can assure you they were no less important to us. 
No one could prepare me for the avalanche of requests for interviews from the media that are made upon the football coach at Notre Dame. Roger Valdiserri and his staff in the Sports Information office do an incredible job of dealing with reporters. Without their expertise it would be diffi­cult, if not impossible, to handle the everyday responsibilities that a coach has at a major university like Notre Dame. 
As we look back on the 1986 
Scholastic 


season, I would like to emphasize the positive steps the football pro­gram has taken. I have great respect for Gerry Faust and the contributions he has made to this institution, and when we achieve our goals and our objectives, he should feel a part of it. We do have fine young men on this team, and they desire to reach the top. They 
. played with the Notre Dame spirit and conducted themselves, for the most part, with a great deal of class. Their enthusiasm for the game and their desire to succeed was impressive. 
I do believe there is room for improvement, and I expect we will. I, like so many other people, am impatient and want to get back on top as soon as possible. Gene Corrigan, who I think is a great leader and administrator and who is also a friend, reminds me that Rome wasn't built in a day. Although my reply to him is, "That's because you weren't the foreman," Gene does seem to put t]:iis, and any situation, in the proper perspective. Whenever I get down, I can always talk to him. 
It also is a great advantage to be able to talk to a living legend like "Moose" Krause, who is one of a kind. It is people like this that make you realize how fortunate we are to be at Notre Dame. Attend a pep rally or walk through the tunnel on game day, and I promise you that chills will run up and down your spine when the band plays the Notre Dame Vic­tory March. 
It is imperative that we have a great recruiting year, and all indi­cations are that we will, although of course there is no way to know for certain what will happen on the signing date. The-last two years were not great recruiting classes, even though we lettered nine · true freshmen. In planning for the next few years, our needs 
January 22, 1987 
are numerous 8.nd critical. Some running backs, a power fullback, a skilled quarterback, quality receivers, at least two tight ends, several defensive backs, lineback­ers both inside and out, offensive· and defensive· linemen who can dominate a game, a punter, and a placekicker are imperative to our future if we hope to reach our objectives. 
~ ~ .. 
~ ., ~ 
..c:
...
... 
Ill 
l 


Head Coach Lou Holtz 

The one incident that bothered me the most over the past year is the sugg~stion that we may desire to win at the cost of academic excellence. Nothing can be further from the truth. When we recruited two fine young athletes last year, . each had the 16 core curriculum courses that Notre Dame requires 
and each had compiled bettP.r­
than-average grades. 
We had not received the SAT i scores of these young men when we offered them scholarships. We were quite surprised when they did not do well on their SATs, as all indications were that they would. Notre Dame decided to honor their scholarships with the resolution that all decisions in the future would be made after receiving test scores. Both young men are attending Notre Dame, and they acquitted themselves rea­sonably well in the classroom last semester. 
I have often said that the reason we have eyes in the front of our head rather than behind is so that we can see where we are going rather than where we have been. With this thought in mind, we are looking forward to next season. Even though we won't be as talented this year as last, there is a chance we will be a better team. How much better will depend upon the improvement we make during the.off-season. 
Our questionable areas for the 1987 season are: 1) quarterback, 2) defensive line, 3) secondary, 4) kicking game, both field goal and punting, and 5) depth. We do have positive qualities going for us this fall, though, and while the schedule will be more difficult than last year, I am hopeful that not only will we be competitive, we will also be successful. 
As we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Notre Dame foot­ball, we should pause and reflect on the illustrious names of players, coaches and administrators who built the great traditions of Notre Dame. I can assure you that all of us involved in the football pro­gram are committed to the same principles, values and standards as those who preceded us.II 
39 



! ! 




Life In Hell 
THE C.AlliOON 

FEAR. OF 6E.1.J(:, SE11.i..o W•-rK 
A..i U1J~oiJTR01-1..AgL£ URGE. TO HIJ/l.l. ~ouRS~l.l" OFF A C.L1i:i= 
NIC:,.{T MARES OF SE.11JG GAAIJoMA 1..:i f1 coi:f1,J 
MAK<O PrT' ScHDOL 
-


DE.AD DOGS OIJ -----._ THI:. ~l(:,t4WA~ ~ 
w~~ 
-=----­

FIRST R.EAl.1"2.AT10.J '::lolJ 







