RefleCtions on Death 

·OUR RECORD SELECTION SPEAKS' FOR ITSELF 
JUST FOR THE RECORD . 
.100 CENTER COMPLEX 
MISHAWAKA 
259-1813 
Ever wonder what's happening back home? Well, believe it or. not, there are people back home who would like to know how life is treating you. Let them in on the ideas, events, and people that are Notre Dame. Give them a· subscription to Scholastic and they can see for themselves what is at the heart of 
. Notre Dame life. ·.. ·. 
· St. lUary's Literary Magazine . 


CHIMES 
Now accepting poems, fiction, photography and short plays. Fall Semester ·Deadline: 12/1/79 Send manuscripts to: 
Max Westler 
310 .Madeleva 

------. . Scholastic . . . . . .  .-­. . ·.·  -----, · I  
LaFortune Student Center  ·1  
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  1  
I  

Plec1se send .............. years of Scholastic · j at $7:00 per year to: I
I

! . Name ....... : ...... ; ........................................ ; I· · · 1 Address ...........~ ................ : ................. ~ ....;.•I . . I City ....... ::................................,.......::...............·..... , . 
I . . . . . , . _ ·. . I 
1: State •. :....: ........... "..........:.,.... Zip...........:;· J 

l . ·-·~·~·----·-----_J 
SCHOLASTIC 



Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Managing Editor 
Bob Southard 
Art Director 
Jim Hofman 
Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 
News Editor 

·. Lisa Hartenberger 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek. 
Copy Editor . Anthony Walton 
Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 
Sports Editor 
Tom Westphal 
St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer 
Layout Editor 
Clay Malaker 
Photography Editor· 
Ken McAlpine 
Business Manager 
Pahl Davis · 
Advertisement Ma'nager 
Kevin Murphy : ·--. . . 
Distribtuion Manager 
Jerry Murphy 
Undergraduate ·Advisor Bernie Valenti 
Staff 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, Mary Leavitt, Donna Teevan, Cathy Wisniewski, Pat Worklan, Jim Sommers, Michael D_iaz, Ken Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradley, Chuck Wood, · David 
N. Randall, Keith Caughlin, Steve Burkart, Tom Orode, Rick Keppel, Brendan Brown, Dodee Camey, Michael Meisch, Ed Wimmer, Ric_h Marcello, Tim Tedrick, Lee Smolen, Tom Krueger, Ann Bridget Clarke, Cecelia Mitchell, Susan. Labriola, Betsy Spinelli. 
Credits Photographs: Ken McAlpine, 3, 9, 30; Scholastic Archives, 22, Theresa Rebeck, 23, 24; Pete Romzic, 28; Publicity Photos, 18, 19. 
Illustrations: Jim Hof~an, 7, 20; Katie O'Meara, 11; Paul Monardo, 12, 14; Cecilia Mitchell, 29. 
Front Cover: Ken McAlpine. 
Advisory Board 
Jim Winters, Mario Pedi, Edward Fischer. 
OCTOBER 5, 1979 




SCMOL/\STC
Vol. 121, No. 2, October 5, 1979 
.Notre Dame, Indiana 
. 
FEATURES 
6  The Holocaust: A Lesson to Remember  Pat Work/an  
8  Reflections on Death: Death, A Year Later  Marcia McBrien  
9  A Question of Fate  Anthony Walton  
10  Death Be Not Loud  Christopher Antonio Stewart  
23  Theatre: Interview With an Actor  Theresa Rebeck  
26  Juniper Press: A Special Class  Jim Sommers  

28. The Playboy of the Western Chur'ch Fr. R.. Griffin 
REGULARS 
4 Perspective • Bob Southard 
5 ·1n Retrospect 13 · Fiction ·Lisa Hartenberger 16 Gallery Ann Bridget Clark 18 Film Tim Tedrick 20 Music Peter Cleary 27 Perspective Tom Westphal 30 Last Word Dave Satterfield 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic a·re those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University 9f Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student 
body. -. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacaUon and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press; Notre Dame, · 1nd. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright© 1979 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
3 


I'm not going to complain about inadequate drinking or beetle-brained Administrators. I'm not going to sniffle about sexual preferences or bankrupt social lives. 

Because, frankly, I couldn't care . less. 
I mean, to hell with this mess we've had tossed in our laps; as far as I'm concerned, reality is either dead or very unsatisfactory, and there's no good reason to keep it. I can't think of one instance where reality has gotten anybody to any­wher·e worthwhile. 
And, no, I haven't discovered some new way to mix chemicals. I'm pro­posing. something much healthier, much fresher, and much cheaper: surrealism. 

Yes! Surrealism! It's a technique, a state of mind, and a creed which can -pick you up, dust you off, and. plump you down in a significantly more interesting world. · _. 
I'm afraidJt's the only reasonable attitude left.· You've got· to make your own reality, by God!· Do it in 
pocket, and show it to policemen. No 

matter; . it'll be yours : and yours · 
alone, and there won't be billions·of 
people you'll have to share it with. 

You can stuff it in your closet, take _ 
it to the movies, or push it off_ tall : 
buildings. It will all be up to you. 
I know very well this idea isn't 
completely original, but it's just not 
getting the attention it deserves on 
this campus. When was the last time 

you heard a serious discussion of · 
surrealism? (Surreal directives don't 

count -they're too one-sided.) I· 
know a few people who have only a _ 
passing acquaintance with reality 
and they certainly seem to be smiling 
more than everyone else; so why 
hasn't there been more of an effort 

to bring absurdity to the -masses? ­
Why the cover-up? 
But never mind; it's ·out in the 

open. now and it's still not· too late. . I'm calling on_you to reject reality · . and save your sanity. For your own · sakes, become smart shoppers in the supermarket of life. -Read some of those labels; don't buy the first 
_any way you wish,: though: paint, • world view that· comes along; The your reality green. Wash your face . avenues and alternatives are endless, in it. Fold it up,· put· it -in your ·•· and no one can plead ignorance-: even the freshmen have been here a month and so should be able to recognize the absurd. 
It may be your last hope, so get out there and surrealize your poten­tial! Let your shackled skulls free, let yourselves indulge; the world. is your bean-bag. Improvise -and ad­lib, invent and steal; go ahead and write your notes on a squirrel; be~ come a Druid and -mail long ·letters to Scientific American; go to bed at 
8: 30 ; eat your textbooks ; collect lint--'--'-anything at all. But whatever you do, start now; tomorrow is prob­ably too late. 
Finally, as a small gesture of sup­port,·I'd like you to have part of this . magazine. Here: 

Use it surreally. .D . 



.In the la_te sixties there was a lot ofcontroversy over the presence of the ROTC at Notre Dame. With the aid of General Program, SCHOLASTIC fought: back .. 
January 12,' 1968; · February 9, 1968 
FROSH: :·oo YOU HAVE WHAt IT.TAKES. 

TO BE APHILOSOPHER KING?" 

*I~ YOU. DO, DON'T· SETTLE FOR LE~S. . . , 
· If 70U wiil complete~ your fir1t )'eor of colleg• thi1 ·o,·philo1opher kings. Most ia,Q~ b~sin~n;=o~d fimi·~ 
spring a~d ,,av, had rotten training; yOu !'oW' tlave ·a_ opt for the coUege graduate ~ohos been trained and. 
special opportunity to· achieve lntellKlvol prowe11 and· ·cofflmi11ioned Cl, a P,hilOiopher kln~b haS the 
fulfill_ th4t req'1irerHftt1 d&manded of a i,hilo$0pher king. -abiUty to abatrod, COnvefse. o~d inspire 0th.rs to·o,.Ot• 
Thro~ih. t~is unique thr~•year' progr~-m of ~pp.tied er productivity•. Goin wi_•d~~ b_eyond your, yea~I ... . : 
claHlc1 you will gain sPeciol d.ill In extricoling yourulf ~ ~, ~ It is.. cot•g~colly imperotive thol you_lnffstigote this' frorn metophYsicol Cluondaries. AMAZE YOUR FRIENDSI . Important opportunity9 You owe it to yovnelfl Lear" the ropes ·01 the tfKJlectic. Unleo1h you"r hidden -. ·-. ; i. , -. -• • • • • • . 
•power1 of rationality.· · · For complete Jncformotiol'I ~l'I _the lhree•y~r Gentfal ~­
. -· · · Program of Liberol Stud;.s '" your History 'of Science·.­Noted coptoins of iadu1try report a critical 1h~rtog•· Profenor Con compus). · 

THE GENERAL PROGRAM. OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
THIS IS DF..FIN'mL\" NOT A PA.ID AD\T.RTISEMENT 
OCTOBER: 5;-. 1979 
The Holocaust: 

A Lesson to Remember 
Last summer I visited Yad Va­shem, a memorial/museum in Jeru­salem dedicated to those six million Jews who had been exterminated as part of Hitler's "Final Solution." I was accompanied by three friends, two of whom had relatives that dis­appeared in concentration camps during World War II. That after­noon was an-unnerving experience. Hitler's demonic plans had never seemed so real and terrifying. 
My knowledge of the Holocaust prior to this experience -had been based on teachings typical-of paro­chial schools. In high school we saw the nighmarish film, "Night and Fog." I remember coming away with mixed feelings of disbelief and relief. Disbelief that · man could _commit such a crime against his fellowman. Relief that• the Holocaust was over and safely stashed away in history books. But since ·my visit to Yad Vashem, I have realized how close the past remains and the intense an­guish it still inflicts on many people. I know· that it is impossible to ever fully comprehend the hideousness of the Holocaust, but I also believe that it is important to remember this event in a living way, as opposed· to the dusty history book approach that we've all relied upon for so long. 
The President's Commission on the Holocaust is attempting to do exactly this. President Carter · established this commission on November 1, 1978. He directed the committee to research ideas pertaining "to the establishment and maintenance of an appropriate memorial to those who perished in the Holocaust, to examine the feasibility for the creation and maintenance of •the memorial through contributions by the Ameri­can people, and to recommend ap­propriate ways for the nation to commemorate April 28 and 29, 1979, which _the Congress has resolved shall be 'Days of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust.' " . The commission's members include historians, survivors of the Holo­
-caust, Senators, Congressmen, and religious leaders of. all denomina­tions. Carter nominated Father Hes-· burgh to the commission, who in turn appointed Professor-Donald 
· Kommers to represent him. Kommers . is the director of the Center for Human Rights at Notre Dame. From July 20 through August 12, -Kommers visited Holocaust mem­· orial in Treblinka, the• Warsaw · Ghetto, Auschwitz, Birkenau, Jeru­salem, Kiev and Tel Aviv. The trip physically and emotionally drained .the commission's members; but the exhausting experience proved to be an invaluable one. "One important purpose ·of our mission was to inspect existing me­morials in Europe in the hope of find­ing models on which to pattern an appropriate memorial to the victims of the Holocaust in the United States," said Kommers in a recent 
by Pat Worklan 
interview. Other goals of the com­mission included investigating Holo­caust records in the archives of Poland, Russia, Denmark, and Israel, consulting government· officials on their treatment of the Holocaust, and visiting certain locations in Eastern Europe, all of which would aid in deepening the· commission's aware­ness of the Holocaust .. "All of these monuments and museums are wit­nesses to the massive slaughter of the _Jews and give us some interest­ing ideas on how to construct a me­morial in the United States," Kom­mers stated. "I doubt that any specif­ic recommendation will appear in the commission's report to the President. The· exact nature and form of any such monument will in all probability be the work of some continuing 
body." 

Some dissension arose within the committee over the question of whether the memorial should be dedi­cated solely to the Jews. What about the other Poles, Russians, Slavs, and Slovaks that suffered as a result of being labeled ·• ."subhuman". and treated accordingly by the Nazis? Should the Holocaust be treated as an experience unique to the Jews, or as a universal experience? Argu­ments such as these are part of the "particularity vs. universality" dis­pute. Kommers optimistically stated, "I think most [committee members] realize that if any such memorial is to secure congressional support, it will.have to memorialize all the vic­tims . of the Holocaust. Actually, I think it is perfectly possibl~and desirable-to create a memorial that recognizes both the particularity and universality of the Holocaust." 
The President's Commission on the Holocaust will also propose the for­mation of a "Committee on Con­science." This committee would meet at the National Memorial to the Holocaust on a regular basis, and receive any actual or potential re­ports of genocide. The main purpose of this commission would be to alert the national conscience in the event that any totally inhuman assault, such as the Holocaust, would. ever recur. The plight of the "Boat Peo­ple" is an example of the type of problem that this'' committee . would try to handle.. ·· · 
r•· . 
.. 

One recommendation that the President's Commission will present involves the prosecution of Nazi war criminals in America. While Kom­mers personally disagrees with this proposal, most of the· members feel it is necessary to investigate further. Kommers believes that the prosecu­tion of Nazi war criminals is pri-· marily the responsibility of the West German government, not the United States. However, he does concede that deportation proceedings should occur, provided that the . accused· party gained American citizenship frauduleritly. · 
These are just a few of the recom­mendations that Hesburgh and Kom­mers along with the rest of the com­mission presented to President Car­ter on September 27. Elie Wiesel, an Auschwitz· survivor, essayist · arid novelist, chaired the commission. believe that he best summed up their mairi goal in the following words: 
.We do not have this commis­sion simply to remember, but to warri. Last time it was the killing of the Jews, then the attempt to annihilate humanity itself. Be­tween the two came the sin of in­difference. Today when we hear the word "holocaust' .'it is · preceded 

•by the word "nuclear." If there is to be no new holocaust, first we have to look backward and learn. We hope ·this mission is a begin­ning. For if we forget, the next timeindifference will no longer be .a sin. It will be a judgment. O 
Pat Worklaii is a junior history major at St. Mary's: This is her first contribution. · 

OCTOBER ·5, 1979 
here who could remember with me. 

The one redeeming feature of fu­neral homes, commercially maudlin as they are, is thaf they get everyone together, amid the plastic palms and grim floral arrangements to look at and talk. about the deceased.: Not that . I· particularly wanted my · last sight of my-uncle to be orie with his jaws :wired •shut· and his body·, in­flated with'iformaldehyde; but;; the contact with· the fact of his death might have shattered my emotional insulation. ·As it was, t·had to wait until this summer before the situation ...... c~me home to me;·it wasri't apartic­·.,; ularly painful · interval, but •-it'. did by Marcia· M.cBrien leave me wondering what·' kind · of · .,:. · ,:: ,.. .. . mon·ster·I·was, noCto mourn my 
It took me a year after the fact to did. ·come,· it wa~; bec~~se I'd final-favorite .uncle with ·any· tears or cry. for. Uncle -Norman. Not~that I 1y ·c81.lght' up with thE! ·.~µn~a,, ~Or lamentation.::. ·, ·· ~· ' didn't:have tears.to shed the after~ rathez: fu.atit caught up with.:ine; · Separation;:despite ail •this, did noon I. called ·home, some three days The worst ·of·. it: is knowing 'that have its advantages. The Uncle Norm 
. after the beginning of sophomore he's· not _coming· back,'. that. if, tlie I remember is the Humphrey Bo­year, to find that he had collapsed more· outlandish.: theories· of the gart look~alike of:.the ·photo taken and died on a·tennis court that morn-next world are true, he mightvery the night before he died, not an alien ing. But there was a gap somewhere, well.be translated into'the'. energy of corpse .hidden away: under six .feet a space which could not be walked God .or the Spirit or· the-Cosmos of earth, faceless and voiceles's: He through, but · merely around. No ·-when we next meet which r don't is still the same figure of mythic catharsis, no extended sobbing, none . like at all. The best ~e can do until proportions, maybe a Httle . m~re of the usual emblems of grief; The ._ thenis to remember, to go on.talking ....~Y!hic: now.s~?ce_ the tell!ng and i:e­extent of my involvement· in ·the about him; to "keep. his'. memory te~lmg: of _stones_ about him go;s on funeral was a Mass card and a candle . green." To think of him every time· without him to sit by and occasional­at the Grotto;_ by family dictate; I: :· the: Wilson sweeps in my hand to-. _ly remark, '.'Nice, ·_but it's bullshit." didn't go home. Maybe that's· why it ward the ball (also, with none of his .. ·· He was, very briefly, .a good-look­_didn't sink in. There's some passag~ · expertise _behind ·-it). To-write it ing, verbal, impatient Irishman, and in 'Gone _Wit11, the Wind in '.which a' ·down from a year later; after/the . t~e terror ofthe In_dian Village Ten­near-hysterical . Scarlett O'Hara. is ·· worst sorrow and before the for-ms Club. . He drank Manhattans, led away from her father's grave by _ getting. .,_ : . . . _smo~ed ciga:rs, .and swore with an a friend, so _that she might-not hear.-_!fhere's-.-a picture (now encased· easy and unattainable grace; he hated the clods of earth falling on his in. a photo album somewhere)·that bores, snobs and Ethel Merman (not coffin. . _· · _ I have of Uncle Norin , taken the·'_ necessarily.in that order). He didn't ; . Burial is a, very; final thing, and . night befo:i;e he died, :When he ·and -:give a damn about status s~bols or even belief in an ·afterlife can my parents went "out on the town" what people thought ·of him, or what . wear. thin on the edge of a grave. As . together for the·iast -1:im~~ He looks a damn about status symbols or what 
· .I said before,· I was spared _all this, _good,. really good, with a light tan people thqught: 9f hiin, or what they and in the few. times I to_uched home and without the twenty· pounds that thought of him after he said ~hat base between . footbal~ season and he picked·, ~P the wint~r _before;·My ·• he thought ·of them, wll~ch }1e did semester finals,. it still didn't really motlier _sent me the_ picture about : often and without ·_-embarrassment. sink in that Uncle Norin had not, in.. two _weeks after he died, and I kept • Best of all, he laughed loud and hard, fact,,simply gone off on some over-·_ iLtacked-up on,my-bulletin board·-and in all the right places, at all of extended: tennis. tourney, .. to_ return-:,· froni then until May .. The:damndest. my jokes,, ~hether they were -good any day. · · · _ part of it all is that it never bothered . or not. · ·. · . Then . came tl?,e summer, and the . me to have. it up there in broad day-· . . _Maybe it. is too .late to. hear the .Wilson racquerwaiting in my closet light, like·an openwound;.r even·got .,earth strike the coffin; for me, that's was not·mine, but,one of his. The a•kick out of noticing that Uncle · justas_well.-Ilikemypictureofhim, more we . talked about _it at-home, Norm bore a startling resemblance niinus funeral-home _'aura, less the abo~t the. _afternoo~:0it :happen~d, ··::.to Humphrey. Bogart,-something I'd unrecognizabilityof corpses. Just·as, about the funeral, about him, I began.· ·ri'ever·. seen before.-·Even with :.his · perhaps, he liked going out in the to see how much I'd been shje~ded : photo in front of me every:day, :the . middle of his last volley, sans arthri-. from his d~ath by. the·t~o hundred·/ fact of--his death stiUdidn't sink iri. tis,_sans'.old 'age, sans hospital bed. miles_. away from home. My little •· . Intellectually,:!dE?alt with'it; pre-· .Death,· a year later, and a eulogy, a brother cried whenever hi~ name was .-_:.dictably enough, I went through-the year late -<uncle'Norm ·. but still too mentioned; my -grandmother cried C process. of trying fo' find -a meaning· soon to/ the ·people' ~ho saw you ­whether it was or not. My father, for his death, found none, and con-into the ground last September. I probably hiding the deepest scar eluded that death, being death, didn't hope you like it. Usually I don't of all of us, said very little about need to have a meaning. I was too share this stuff with just anybody, • losing the older brother he wor-· caught up in this miasma of pseudo-but you're different. I know I can shipped as a small boy and admired profound thought to t!!ink of the depend on you to laugh in all the. as . a man. When the tears finally __ ·man himself. There wasn't anyone right places. · · . 


' '.by Anthony W~lt~n 
~ ; : . : .. . . , 

Over the 'summer. I found myself one would lose his life before having seemed· very ·unfair that ·she be· de­wondering about who would die dur-the chance to fully.live it_.-:· ,.,,_, • riied her future; but-· somehow her ing the break; which,students would ·For.me personally, the."fairness'!·_; dying in· a_mqtorcycle·accident_ "ex-' be missing when--the fall semester of a specific death can be somewhat : plained" it foi•ine::To die· in such an began., That may seem a bit morbid, articulated. Depending on the cir-. • accident seems ;to be· purely iri th_e but it seems·that every summer. three cumstances, whenever I find myself. hands of fate; as ifis something that -to four students die. I, wondered if searching for an "explanation," I· . occurs when we ·a:re living our every:.' someone I knew would be ·among find myself saying something like,· , day ·lives ·doing things that we al­that group. It.could, have· been my "He was 85, he lived a . long,' full • ways. do .and. cannot' ·uve witho'ut. roommate, a: close friend, or a casual life," or-"He was only 35; -he had ·a -Every 'day we go-swimming, ·driye acquaintance.-;_. T··-:.. : . family, why?" As death-is inevitable,· · our cars, ride:·our motorcycles; ac­
.·As it turned out; I knew oniy one . I find· it easier -to. accept it among · tivities that we could die doirig. We of the· students that died,' and that · · elderly people, for it is the final step ; don't anticipate· the· danger· because was-only·a vague acquaintance. But:: in the symmetry .of. life. !.•am.sad-; these kinds of activities are indige:.· the· deaths. still · touched . me . in· a · dened by the death of a grandparent; ' nous to life;· Drinking from: a' ·water strange so'rt of perso_nal-way. These . for example, but it does not evoke fountain could cause us. to contract' were young people who were expect-in me the feeling of bewildered grop-a•fatal _disease. There is really ·noth­ing,· and:had ·every,right to, a long ing, the almost angry feeling :that •· ing that we· cari:_ do• about these and full •life. :Then · suddenly, with-. someone has been · "robbed,'' a feel~ : things, short of' locking ourselves iri · out ·any. warning,--life. was over, • ing T get when I hear ·of a young . a room and never.coming out. To die· they. were gone. If what-we believe death. Amidst this emotion I have : by pure :accident,. going about our 
. aboutthe ·afterlife· is;true, ·they are tried . to.·firid "reasons,"· and . can '-normal affairs,· isisorriething tliat is' now"with:God .. But:where does,that: : soinetime3 find some .·semblance· of. -to me a part of life,_and though it is leave us? If the person· was close to .. an, explanation, but riot always.· . hard, very hard to·accept; I can kind us we can only cry,• then look at· · This is perhaps best exemplified by ·. of understand it. Itis at least a· straw the sky and -hope that.it has·to· do two< of the deaths that the Notre '. to :grasp at. : -' ,'. ·.--· .. with somethiriirwe don't understand.· Dame ·community ·experienced -last · .; There was another death·over the· If the person was not close to us, summer. Catherine. Guthery died in :.· summer that, no matter what I do;T upon. hearing, the news we may be a motorcycle accident. When I heard cannot seem to ·find any re·ason or saddened, if only ,for a. fleeting mo-thbi. news• 1·.'.was up·set; but is I ~xplariation ·for.-: ·Wallace :Daniels· · menf; ·think; of' the tragedy,. theri thought about it, ·1 found that for , was shot to:death outside a disco in move·on. Jn:the back of my mind, myself, .1. reached:_a reasonable,: Kansa~City.Frorriwhatdetailslcari· though, there. ,remains· a nagging though 'tenuous, understanding as ; gather about :the shooting, he was ·question of "fairness,":of why some-to why ·it ·had· -to< happen;· : It i iri";the-right:place/at.the right time/ 
OCTOBER 5,. 1979 . 
doing the right thing. Sitting in his car, momentarily discussing possi~ bilities for an· after-date snack or · some: other such topic, :hang! A shot was fired, shattering the windshield, fatally wounding Daniels. It·was ~p­parently ·. a __ motiveless crime.· It appears· -that the assailant was in­tending "only'' to rob, not to kill, and somehow,.the reason not even known to the· assailant,-the gun went off, and in every sense of the word, Wal­lace Daniels was "wasted." An acci­
dent, ·yes, but then again very defi­nitely not an accident. _ _ 
I cannot pinpoint what it is that so thoroughly disorients me about a death such as -this. It has something to do with the needlessness of it. To die in a· car accident, though also needless, is somewhat more under­standable, for me at least...The closest. I can come to defining the despair is -that it has . .to do mostly with human intent or carelessness. l think it is because of the malice 

Death --Be 

Not 
· "I don't want to :achieve immor­tality through my. work. I want to 

involved, the purposeful inter.t to -.-achieve immortality ' through not 
deprive someone else of his human rights. A car accident, although it may be caused by carelessness, is not _ something that anyone intended.· to · happen. Though the man· that -shot Wallace Daniels did not intend to kill him, he did intend to rob him, and in 'error; ultimately robbed him of his most precious possession: . 
Obviously. this raises all sorts of. questions, nqne: of which -have real answers. In the. end, as all death, has the same result, we tend not to be concerned with how the_ person died, but more with the fact that he is dead..To ine; ·death. is_ something that is inevitable, and it is also in-. evitable that some of us. will die be­fore our expected time. That is some-_ thing that comes with life. The,fact. that all people do not regard life·in a way that is beneficial to all is _also a part_ of life; it has been sin_ce Cain. Yet that does not make it any easier.to handle· a senseless murder. 
It seems useless to me . to. sit around after the fact of a car acci­dent and wonder~ why the ~vei-, didn't drive 35 or 25 instead of 30, or why he didn't "take the -other way.":· "Fate" . had those _two: ,cars traveling along convergent paths. "It _was meant to be."·-Only God :or some· other ·such force could _have changed -the outcome._ It seems to b~ an altogether different, ._and much crueler ."fate" that your life may someday He in the hands of another human. _ . . . ; 
;_For·, me, .. the question:· of life or death is one that I want God to answer. Perhaps . God : did answer__ for :Wallace Daniels. I hope so. · O 
dying."-Woody Allen · 
. .. 
Watching .a·-sunset can teach you much about ·the act·• 'of dying. The extraordinary brilliance, the full lus­tre of color-be is orange, red, pur­ple, or pink-makes me wonder why the best part of any show is always at.the end. Of course, this· is· not to diminish the beauty of sunrise, .that awesome nioment when mankind's awareness of that idea, rebirth, emerges with such pristine clarity. But sunrise is another time, another essay. Right now, the _issue is the sunset over. -Pangborn, ·which is where I gaze from my penthouse in Fisher. An:-.-Air· Force jet streaks eastwardly, leaving its white tail be­hind ·to distract me from the sultry orange sunset blazing triumphantly, almost defiantly, · like a gorgeous woman flaunting her·meteoric beau­ty; . _ a beauty that dissipates the moment it reaches its apogee. · Sun­set, beauty.:...instants in the second of life,dn the year of eternity. Rare. Fleeting. Soon, the sunset over Pang­born· vanishes. into nocturnal noth­ingness. 
The sun is a good symbol for life. We. take particular note of it only on: special occasions: . sunrise, sun­set, ·eclipse. Just like life, except in life we can· change the names of the events, call them birth, death, mar­riage. As Christians, we accompany these events with religious initiation rites. We call them sacraments,· holy events which hopefully insure us safe transport to our justly deserved abode in .the next existence. · 


Loud 

by Christopher Antonio Stewart 
The sun, as life, is a rather mun­dane part of our existence, something we take much for granted. I niean, it's a rare occurrence when you hear someone say, "Hey, did you see how gorgeous the sun was today at 3 
p.m.?" or "Let's go to the beach to­. day. Weatherman says noontime sun is gonna be too -terrific for words." 
People who go around saying 
things like that are soon· transported, 
rapidly, to very quiet places nestled 
in. the verdant countryside. They're 
usually escorted by.· men whose job 
it is to secure a.firmly:fitting jacket 
around the person · in question, so 
that he hurts no one, least of all him­
self. -(Pardon ·the :sexist language. 
Women are not immune to these ex­
periences.) 

After all, the sun is. so_ ordinary, 
so commonplace, no big deal.· No rea:.. 
son -to get excited, Mr. Dylan once 
said, in a· song made famous by Mr. 
Hendrix. Just like life, remember? 

Life at :high noon, or early eve­
ning, is also. taken, for granted. Most 
of us are in the spring of life, late 
teens or, early twenties.-The morn­
ingtide of existence. _The entire day 
awaits our savoring, enjoyment, eel-_ 
ebration and participation. All of the 
variegated ecstasies, sweet splendors 
and joys that are destinedto come to 
us in our·springtime will be lucidly 
remembered in our. days of autumn, 
those declining days • of retirement, 
golf-playing; backaches,' grandpar­
enting, and melancholy. 

Ah, bliss, give me a kiss. Youth is so sweet, so full of feeling an·d activ-. ity, so enlivened by the efflorescence. of , -dreams, , hopes, _, personalities, minds, and right friendship. So idealistic, so . romantic, so lacking common:-sense, •so· utterly naive.,In~; 
SCHOLASTIC 
nocent optimism in the face of ubiq­uitous terror, contingency, death. 
The only real failure of the sun as a symbol of life is that it · does not die. Imagine this scenario. 
"Hey, did_ you hear, someone killed the· sun. 'Sombitch · kidnapped it for ransom, but nobody paid any atten7 tion. They all thought it was some public relations• gimmick by. the De­partment of Energy. The '.nappers snuffed it." . . 
"Goddam: _There goes my tan." 
A very unlikely event. 
The sun, like the. Son, is eternal in its design..Rise and fall. Day in and day out. Epoch after epoch. In­cessant. The universal insomniac, if you pardon the anthropomorphism. 
People die, sometimes in the dawn of life, at noon, and early evening, just before sunset. I'm not quite sure why thi.s happens, .why accidents be­fall men, still,. in our age of techno­logical hubris and moon-walking so­phistication. I must confess that these moribund 'intrusions into my consciousness unsettle me-; irritate me. To be perfectly frank, they humble me. 
To a certain extent, I subscribe to the proposition set .forth by Robert Lifton, a Harvard theorist who has done extensive research .with · sur­vivors of disasters and :man-made atrocities, like Hiroshima and Naga­saki. He coined the expression "sur­
· vivor's guilt" as.a way of describing the anxiety of those left behind. . · 
Survivors sometimes have a harq time figuring out why they lived, when· so many died. Or why it hap-. pened to a . loved one, and not them instead. Things like that. . · 
Death makes me wonder; especial­ly about .that Holy Androgynous One, the Verity of Verities, God. 
Death also makes me think about the Church, and its efficaciousness in consoling those left behind. It 
tries. · · Then I wonder some more, in be­
tween term papers, football games,· love affairs gone awry, and the cease­less stream.of thought, ever protean, wondering:. why? ,·. . 
Last. year a young woman from St. Mary's College died in a car_ crash. Her death enraged me;· the seeming incongruity, the utter gratu­ity ofJt.· .. · 
Her death also revivified me. It did for me what all the pious drivel and insipid intellectualism about the Resurrection never could. Until her death, the Resurrection was a non­event, a cosmic miscarriage, a psy­chological fixation of little old ladies who attend daily Mass and maintain active memberships in the local chap­ter of the St. Vincent de Paul So­ciety. 
Not only did this girl's death af­fect me, it forever banished my own 
grand illusions ·of immortality. As a 
result of her death, I wrote an arti­
cle for The Observer, which s9me 
thoughtful. soul mailed. to the young 
girl's mother. Her mother wrote me 
a very touching letter in return, ex­
pressing her gratitude for my writ­
ing about her daughter. The _mot?er 
and I remain in touch, exchanging 
letters from time to time. She tells 
me about her suffering, which is in­
tense and her faith, which is obsti­
nate '.and greater ·than the tempta­
tion to despair. ,_ . ·. -. _ . · 
I love that woman. She's a whole 
lot.stronger than I think I'd be had 
I been· a mother who lost her baby 
in the noontime of life. . . . . 
In the past year,. there have been 
other deaths, as bizarre. and inexpli~ 
cable, as mind-searing. and soul-· 
rending as that of the young woman 
from St. Mary's. Deaths that really 
challenge me; deaths thafmake me 
wonder. These are a few _of them. 
Last summer, when !was home in New York, there was the infamous "laughing murder." A fifteen-year­old boy, whose father was a gradu­ate of Notre Dame, was shot to death . in front of Columbia University by another youngster. Why? Hugh Mc­Evoy an honor student who wanted to be1a priest, was laughing with his friend as he strolled down the street. The murderer-to-be took offense, and 
silenced the laughter with a bullet. 

OCTOBER· 5, 1979 
This past spring, Charles Frankel met death in a similarly Kafkaesque fashion. He was an accomplished man: professor of philosophy at Co­lumbia, the head of a humanistic institute,· who for a while managed the State Department's cultural pro­grams abroad. He wrote for the New York Times· Magazine, and other erudite publications. He was a much­loved teacher by the students at Co­lumbia, so much so that even during the riotous and divisive • Sixties, he was constantly ranked among their favorite pedagogues. · 

Unaware of his credentials, some . unphilosophical. members· of . Brook-' lyn's ghettoes plundered his home in May. Not content with their booty, their malevolence spilled over into reality. The subsequent carnage in posh Bedford Hills, New York, left Frankel, his wife, and two neighbors dead. They were slaughtered for the simple reaso'n of being in the wrong . place at the wrong time. Their own 
homes.· · · 
Not even Plato came to his de-· fense. ·
i. 
Wally Daniels, a ND sophomore­to-be, and member of the swimming team, died under equally absurd cir­cumstances this suminer. He· was shot in the head as he satin his car with his girlfriend outside a disco iri Miriam, Kansas, not far from his home in nearby Kansas City, Mis­souri. Someone told me the gun acci­dentally discharged, that the killer had only intended robbery: · 
Robbery, indeed. · · I'm told he was quite a fine diver. He' was also only 19 years old. Springtime. · · · ·-· 
· There's also · Vito · LaLoggia, a Grace Hall resident who died in a drowning accident this ·summer. Catherine Guthery, a: Farley Hall resident, a motorcycle accident· vic­tim. And a dear friend of ;many in the Notre Dame community;Joe Evans, the man with the impeccable memory.· Gone before T ever had the· chance to thank him for; his · mariy kindnesses, his simple beauty, his unobtrusive ·humility, and: all the other virtues he exemplified so well in his dignified life as a· Christian philosopher at·du Lac. ' 

Last but not least, there 'was Don Miller, one of Notre ·Dame's im­mortal Four Horsemen. He died this summer at the ripe old age of 77. Eveningtime ·. . . wheri legends are supposed to die. · · ·· · · · · 
MiHer's death, out of all the afore­mentioned, was the <inly one that I can fathom, and come to, some ra­tional terms with:·'· .:-, · · 
For the others, · and I .believe Woody Allen would agree; the sun had no_t yet set. 0 
The author dedicates this piece to Mrs. Loretta Cerabona, arul'all peo­ple who notice the sun, whenever it shines. 

•·. ' ScHOL'ASTIC 



fCTOn 
She bent down to tie her white shoelace. The red 
pull string on her hooded sweatshirt dangled and 
bounced over her stiff fingers. ·Having completed the 
knot, she straightened and hitched up the· grey baggy 
sweatpants ·she had found· in her dad's drawer. She 
star.ted her series of waist~twists and toe-touches to 
loosen up for her jog, running through the routine effi­
ciently and without thought. She alternated lunging 
.three times on each ·side to stretch out the upper leg 
while stabbing the gold-flecked air with an _imaginary 
foil. Planting her hands against the side of the house, 
she let her back sag, holding her heels on the ground. 
She felt the grainy brick on her palms and the pull in 
her.· calves for a total of eighteen counts. 
She took off down the edge of her yard toward the 
black tar road behind the house. Keeping her eyes down, 
she watched her Adidas Country tennis shoes work over 
the browning lawn. When she reached the scrubby tree 
row which shielded the house from the road, she plowed 
•through the · dry snapping · branches and weeds to scrabble up the slight incline of the ditch wall at the road. As she· crossed to the opposite side to run against oncoming traffic, she kicked loose a small stone which rattled across in front of her. The day's last sunshafts flicked in and out the tree_ line as she jogged down the road. . .. -_._ . 
She padded along, rolling the cool evening air against 
her teeth and lips as she breathed in and out of her 
mouth. Her breathing· grew rhythmic, and she brought 
her attention to the lush of colors and· light. "Wet 
springs and dry falls for beautiful autumns." She 
formed each_ word with· exacting precision inside her 
head. She . called up the scene of -the yellow. kitchen 
curtains arid her_ dad,. across the table, wrapping his 
rriouth, . teeth and ·fo~'gue arotiml the words, <lwet­
springs-and~dry~falls ; ..." She remembered picking at 
the yellow plastic tablecloth_ with her fork; "Wet springs 
and 'dry·falls;" 'she said aloud. She smiled at the small 
breathy words as they hung in her ears before· evapo­
rating. She:' conUnued to run the wm:ds over In her 
mind,· mixing. them' through her· breathing until she 
reached: the :three-way stop sign. She checked briefly 
for _traffic and_· jogged straight ahead. . • . . , 
. 'A red. truck filled with Mexicans and 'lawnmowers 
approached her. She stepped down orito the shoulder; 
The truck did not move over, but speeded up. She 
jumped down· into:the _ditch as the truck-whizzed ·by, 
throwing up dust and gravel into her face. The mari 
on the passenger side leaned out his window and yelled 
something.'' The three men in the back end with the 
gardening tools laughed and tossed out their own shouts; 
Their "features blu'rred 'as the truck passed.. Her mind 
shapedthe word, "Assholes,,,'and clamped onto it asshe 
blinked'rapidly to clear a bit of dust from her eye. She 
dropped her eyes a.nd watched her feet against the black 
road. The truck and shouts· faded: She raised her head 
again as she approached the familiar break in the trees · 
alongside the road. A battered park district pickup 
had been pulled off the shoulder into the dusty weeds 
· just ahead. Leaving the road, she ran on the rutted dry brown path through the strip of trees into the park. 
Jog at Evening's Fall 
by _Lisa Hartenb~~ger 

OCTOBER 5, 1979 
She broke into the wide field. Filled with the deepen­ing blue air and sun-stroked reds and oranges, she pumped her legs and arms harder, harder, deep into the field. Gasping for breath,· she slowed her pace as she finished the length of the park, and allowed her breath to slacken into a soft in-out harmony. She rounded out the corner and the autumn wind slapped a bright red mark onto her right cheek. She headed toward the slide· and merry-go-round along the back edge of the field. The empty pink and blue horses bobbed up and down on their rusty springs in the wind. The swings, wooden and peeling, squealed on their chains. She jogged, straining her calves, through a sandbox rigidly defined by lengths of black railroad ties. She neared the silver batting cage marking out the other back corner of the field. As she cut behind it, she noticed the wind blowing hard against her as she started up the length of the field. The early evening shadows spilled across the dying grass, and the wind blew in through her sweatshirt's zipper to her chest. Her nose ran and her ears felt red and hot. She let her head hang and watched her feet carry her along the browning grasses. 
A buzzing sound to her left and ahead pulled her head up. Close to the road and near the middle of the field's front edge, she could see a man with a chain saw. She immediately recalled the forest green truck parked along the road, past the tree row. She idly wondered what he could be doing; fragments from another day flowed in response to the half-question. Her dad, stand­ing in the muddy puddles near the folded-out back end of the station wagon, watched the chain saw he held sputter, then quit. "Fire hazard," he said in the whin­ing silence as he tossed the machine in the car. "Have to empty the saw." He banged the back end shut. 
The memory fell back and she focused on the man again. He faced her direction. She could see he had orange hair, cut very close to his head in a butch, so that it spiked straight out. He wore a red and black plaid jacket, unbuttoned and open, exposing a well­muscled chest clad in a tight black tee shirt. He wore stained jeans and gridded work boots. He stood just inside the tree shadows stretching across the field. He held the running yellow chain saw just below his waist, in front of him. · 
As she drew nearer, she saw the man was grinning at her. His mouth stretched tight across his smooth face, and pulled his eyes to dark slits. His teeth gleamed yellow. She noticed how numb her legs felt, how the wind slowed her. pace. The once-bright leaves· seemed cold, dead, in the fading light. The black .tree trunks blocked out the sky and cast long dark shadows out across her and the man, binding her to him. She didn't want to look out to the man anymore, but she could not stop. She tried a pleasant smile, but her mouth hesitated and trembled. His face did not change. She dragged her eyes down to his reddened chapped hands and the vibrating machine he held below his waist. The wind whipped her hair into her face and her eyes watered at the sting. She wrenched her face from him, 
, ,~~;~{~~~\\ ·s· ~~~~:1. 
. ~~ ! -:S:\,·\:·¾,.,' ~· \ ~~;.,,,ti
} • ' l' ..,..., i C ,,..,., ' • • ~ 
• '·1·.J ;-, ·~ '"t·]'·\ >',:' •
~, ~-) ,': l er--,,,..,, .·~~. ·~~: ;...,, 
:•,,\(•l,.', ·••~~:·•v 
. ·rl'·r ·i· -,.; ~ ,~:. --·,, ··(~;.~ 
~ ~·i~~Jif?;,~: ~.~. ;;; ~:'
s (:' > 
I, 

f:i*f,;; :, .\1' ,':· ·1:,~
~ '1: -~ ., ( > ~ • • 
;1 I , ]{ '.!•"' ~ • ; ,
/ 11} .1.(., . • 
#> ,"\,, :~:..~ 

.l __;,..-,..... ~·r.. !,..,=~:. ·•·. and pulled her legs out in front of her, hard. The wind pushed her back, .sitting firmly on her chest. . · . He stood · deeper in the shadows now, as the sun settled down further into the thickening sky. and the light faded fast. He arched his back and started to. pull the tip of the whirring chain saw first to 'the, sky and then down to his feet, and then up again, first leisurely, then furiously. His eyes, dark gleaming slashes in his face, never moved off.her. Her breath came·hard and sharp as she strained to get away, leave the field. She passed him and her back felt naked and open. The chain saw roared, reverberated, pounded behind her· eyes'. She ripped through the tree row, unable .to force her quiv­ering legs to run along the front edge of the field, back to the path on which she had . entered .. The hulking shape of the truck loomed up, blocking her path. She ran past it with her blood pounding under her throbbing
skin. · · ' · · .. The road crept deep into the dusk before her. The nearest streetlight glowed steadily way down the· black tree-lined road, brushing at the encroaching cobwebs of night shadows and mists. To her left, black wispy clouds . scudded across the weak splotchy pink left behind by the setting sun. She ran desperately .with her eyes streaming . towards · the light, ·but .· soon ·she -slowed, 
SCHOLASTIC 
trembling. She listened to her sobbing breath subside 
into soft moaning jerks, and then settle into chordless 
staccatos. Her legs lost all sense of individual motion . and moved her mechanically toward the light. 
"Phone." The verb poured into her mind, like liquid gelatin into the mold of the telephone· in the kitchen. Yellow, the telephone hung on the wall next to the laundry room, above the desk crammed with phone directories and cookbooks. Settling into the consistency of a sticky putty, the thin runny. thought congealed and smeared over the hushed twilight. Confused images of her mother's face with a half-formed, "What ...". on the lips, her dad standing in the hall with his tie loosened, the six o'clock news babbling mindlessly into the family room dark, heat from the ovens, the smells of meatloaf and onions meshed, melded, melted like syrup over the peak of the freshly forged notion to tell, to call someone. She added with meticulous detail the telephone's tactile tangents of . plastic wires and metal springs to the mental scenario . of telephoning. The delineation tore away at the membraneous trails of indecision and gave birth to the shining unblurred res­olution to call the police. 
She drew into the cold bleak light circle from the street lamp. The greenish chilled light spewed down from a grey sweeping height of concrete. An insidious slinking coil of whispers stirred deep within her thoughts at the light and crept alongside the glittering resolve occupying the forefront of her mind. (What happened?) she could not stop herself from asking. The question swelled into (what/did/he/do?). She felt her desire to make the phone call tremble and crack. She asked again (What-did-he-really-do?). She practiced, in her mind, saying into the yellow mouthpiece to the _ faceless silence, "Well, he just stood there and smiled." The response -came to her. (Well, lady, what's your problem then?) The once~firm resolve tottered and crumbled to a powdery dust, leaving her mind cold and empty. 
The cool stillness of the evening swept over her, dry­ing her sweat, whitewashing the red broken lines in her eyes. She heard a dog barking somewhere off the road. Her skin· felt stiff, crusty. As she reached the three-way stop, she automatically checked for cars, and continued on. The entrance to her subdivision appeared and her legs carried her off the black-tarred road and toward the house. Arriving at the driveway, she stopped and walked slowly to the garage. She turned the key to open the electric door. .The opening door kicked on a harsh yellow light in the garage, making her ·squeeze her eyes in,a squint. She grabbed the doorknob to the laundry room and pushed against the door with her hip. As she entered, she reached out with her hand and pushed the switch by the door to close the garage. Shutting the dark-stained door behind her, she walked into the warm yellow kitchen and passed the telephone. Her mom stood at the sink. "Dinner in fifteen minutes," her mom volunteered. "We're having meatloaf." She nodded at her mother's words. She took off her running shoes and holding them in her left hand, she crossed, sock-footed, out of the kitchen and into the tiled hall. Her dad stood there, peering into the darkened family room at the six o'clock news. Absently playing with his tie, he said without looking at her, "Hi hon." She said, "Hi." She ·walked past him to the carpeted stairs leading to the bedrooms. She walked into her room, dropped her shoes, and turned on the light. She opened her drawers. She selected some clean underwear, jeans, and a· tee shirt. Turning the light off, she walked out of her room. She walked down the shag-carpeted hall, and turned into the yellow bathroom. She flicked on the light. She put down her clothes on the closed toilet seat and opened a cabinet to select a clean fluffy towel. She closed the bathroom door against the unlighted hall and locked it. D 
BEER 

. Beer and Poetry Beer and poetry go well ·together One to ease,.one to please Expanding mind. and belly Contrapositively 
Hyperbole, a belch Simile, a mug Read about the inner world And chug-a-lug -­

Blow off the frothy head · For Willie and Montague Keats should have owned a brewery He should have got married too 
·-Tom Balcerek 
EVE 

En una vispera quieta de verano 
Si acaso contemplo nada · en el cielo vacio, si acaso soy noche por un momenta, y si acaso caira tu estrella y tallera un creciente de luz de dia, · hare un deseo ( esperando que tu, tambien, consigas lo tuyo). 

On a Quiet, Summer's Eve 
If I should gaze at nothing in the empty sky, if I should be night for a moment, 
.and if your star should fall and carve a crescent 
·of day light, I will make a wish (hoping you, too, will get yours). 
· · .-Michael Diaz 
OCTOBER 5, 1979 







flTO 


OCTOBER: 5, 1979 
ffiltn:·.we Are Not Amused 

by Tim Tedrick And that's sad. Given the re-chance. sources with . which the movie com-Another often-cited reason for the 
There is one thing a person• can missioner · has to work, Student . status quo is that foreign· films and always expect when the .Center for Union could schedule a blockbuster offbeat .films don't succeed on the Experiential Learning and the Notre lineup, with an adventuresome and Notre Dame campus. I seriously Dame Student Government sponsor interesting mixture of new and old, don't know· how. this can be said; a film series, and that is variety. This domestic and foreign, commercial only two foreign movies were shown semester's Social Concerns Film and cult motion pictures. But with by the Student Union last year and Series was an enjoyable yet thought-the exception of five films ("Casino that hardly qualifies as a large sam­ful mixture of commercial and non-· Royale," "Harold and Maude," Psy-pling. This fall's list _contains no commercial features; it ranged froni cho," "The Mouse That Roared," . foreign and only two offbeat · films entertaining Hollywood products to "What's Up, Tiger Lily?"), Student ("Harold .and Maude" and "Tiger serious documentaries. Any series Union consistently settles for medioc-Lily"). If this is their idea of "daring that would have both "Norma Rae" . rity and "the sure thing." programming," they have a lot to and "The Politics of Torture" in-My question to all of this is, . learn. eluded in the same schedule.could be "why?" Student Union gave a num-· Some constructive advice for the justifiably called diverse. ber of reasons, but none of them are future: why doesn't this year's movie 
At about the same time, the Notre easily believed. · Their first excuse is commissioner take some chances, if. Dame Student Union also announced money; they-have to make money not with this semester's· schedule, its roster of films. One word can on every film. This reasoning can be then with the spring semester's? describe the Student Union's selec-quickly shot down. Student Union is There is no need · to continue the tion: boring. Granted, the schedule funded by our student activities' fee; legacy of ineptitude left by the two has some sure-fire-we'll-make-a-jil-· they don't have to sell stock, take previous film commissioners. Student lion-dollars-type rriovies ("Heaven . out loans, or put up capital to start Union has in its hands both the most Can Wait," "Grease," "The Longest · business.. To be sure, it would be popular and the most persuasive art Yard"); it's also :about as imagina.; · silly _to show films that consistently form on this campus-:-the film-and,. tive as a hospital meal tray. • More lose money, bufthey don't have to · i with hope, maybe will discover this and more, the Student Union's. film· run the series like a collegiate-level-by the time the selection of': the list reads like last year's,· last .... junior-achievement project,·.. either. spring films comes about. · .. ·month's, or even ·1ast week's enter-.They· could even show ·. a series of But then again, it's easy to take tainment guide in any newspaper. · free films...::.those a person ordinarily the attitude of a girl who sat in front They seem to have constricted their wouldn't pay to see (vintage classics, of. me· and some friends at "Tlie schedule almost exclusively torecent-documentaries, etc.) but would like Battle. of Algiers." . That is, "Who ly released motion pictures, so what ·. to view without commercials~along .·· would· come and see this movie un-· 
.. was playing back in your home town with· a divers·e selection of revenue-less-they had to?"·.. last summer you can expect to see on making films. I'm sure that this Well, believe me, I think you would next spring's film lineup. would be successful if only· given a be surprised. 
18 .. ,_ ScHOLASTIC . 

IUSB Film Series 

Sunday October 7 The l\lagie Flute Friday October 12 Persona. Sunday October 14 A Tale of Two Cities October 21-28 Alfred Hitchcock Film 
Festival Sunday October 21 -Spellbound Wednesday October 24 Young and Innocent Friday October 26 _The Lady Vanquishes Saturday October 27 Notorious Sunday October 28 Dial-1\1 for l\lurder Friday November 2 Antigone Sunday November 11 Room Service Sunday November18 --_ Singing in the Rain Wednesday November 28 -High Noon Friday November 30 , The l\lusic Room Sunday December 9 -Blow-Up Wednesday December 12 The Producers AUshows at 8:00 p.m.; $1.00 admission; $8.00, season 
pass. 

Student Union Film-Series 
October 10, 11 -Fl\l ­October 12, 13 Heaven Can Wait October 16, 17 Death Wish Oct. 31, Nov. 1 P-sycho November 6 Casino Roya.le November 7 · The l\louse That Roared November -· 8 The -1\lagic Christian November 10 The Return of the Pink 
Panther November 11 The Pink Panther Strikes 
.-Again November 14, 15 -Paper l\loon November 29,: 30 What's Up, Tiger Lily? December 1, 2 Singing in the Rain December 7, 8. Grease December 12, 13 l\lidnight Express 
·lfu1rnrn ~mcm~tf 

at,1 
•:: >"-. :·;__­

-~­
-. 

. .·· . . . . ... 
. . --. .. 

OCTOBER-• 5,· 1979 

~ 
i>:,~;..,;,_~;·<U.,.~ 

fMusic: Dylan's. Train Comes In 
by Peter Cleary learned and marched to a new 
anthem. 
Bob Dylan, long a waylaid vaga-The "Me-decade" '70's were an bond searching for his musical home,· .obvious disappointment to . Dylan, is back on the track. In fact, he now who became largely disaffected with appears more precisely on the mark his own work. Thus, these were lean than ever. Slow Train Coming, the years in terms of productive output. latest Dylanesque pronouncement, is The discontent and revolution of the full of anger and affection, conflict '60's were gone, and Dylan could not and resolution. With this latest easily adjust to this. Except for album he returns unto the mount Blood on the Tracks (1974), a tor­from which he delivered "Blowin' in ·· menting love album, a bland America the Wind'' and a· host of· others be-· had wrought a bland Dylan. '. .. moaning the American condition. That is, until now. Evidently an 
Dylan's career is marked by a de-extensive . self-examination has velopment. and growth characteristic brought about .a major artistic re­of any true artist; Early Dylan re-awakening. The spilled blood has cordings revealed a ·sensitive; . yet been cleaned off the tracks, and, al~ inexperienced · musician. Guitar though slow in coming, this has been strapped. over:. shoulder and har-· one train worth the wait. With Slow monica locked around neck, Dylan Train Coming, Dylan once again has at one time appeared a rather typical . something urgent to sing about, and folksinger. ··Yet he was atypical in his voice carries it off brilliantly. All many ways. The man had a strong of the musicians are equally hungry, soul and a compassionate under-but never sloppy, as great attention standing of life. He toiled and grew has 'been paid to every detail. The up· in a country racked by turmoil. total sound is sparse, yet biting, and And Dylan was an integral part of it. · ab_ove all sharply professional. He has always been a man in touch "Gotta Serve Somebody" is the with his.world. More than anything, . opening track from the new offering. Dylan has always had-an-ear bent A song of crucial. choices between low . to the heartland,. listening. for. . opposing poles, it speaks of richness the stifled rumbling of .. the train •or poorness, winning or losing, good­that's finally come into the station. ness or badness, and eventually be­From · these chaotic mid-60's came tween the devil and the Lord. · albums such as Highway 61 Revisited "Precious · Angel" is the most 
(1965)and Blonde on Blonde (1966); melodic tune aboard.the train. It is both considered to be among ·the both · a · personal love. song .and a more articulate messages of strife .beautiful tribute to all women, as recorded on vinyl. . Dylan begs the precious angel to end 
· The late 1960's continued to stimu-. his blindness. late Dylan. He responded with John . The complexity increases with "I . Wesley Harding. (1968) and Nash-Believe in You." Itsings of separated ville Skyline (1969). ·.classics like friends, lovers, family; all objects of "All Along the Watchtower" and · strong belief, similar to the belief in "Lay Lady Lay" were added to the God. The message of the '80's is ever-growing list of j'gospels accord-. becoming clear -hope, belief, and ing to Dylan.'' By this time, Dylan love. ·"I Believe in You" rings of the had become firmly entrenched as the · subtle religious .overtones that are "spokesman of the 60's.'' With each woven throughout .the entire work. new song. he sang, his disciples "Slow Train Coming," the title 
track from the album; may. well be 
.. the most powerful ahd poignant 
. American message of . the . decade; 
The visual imagery of trains and 
tracks is clearly patriotic, yet the 
-poet rightly ,questions the state of 
·. the nation and its citizens. Energy 
crises, food · shortages, and, most 
. -. . . importantly,·· human dignity are 
Sketch by Jim H<?frYlfLn, • all dealt with in a manner much 
wiser,. more sensitive, and with greater maturity than Dylan was previously capable of. Still, the per­vasive sense of hope and faith re­mains in tainted,form: 
My baby went to Illinois 
With some bad-talking boy she 
could destroy 
A real suicide case 
But there was nothing I could do 
to stop it. · 
With . "When You. Gonna Wake 
Up?" Dylan once again assesses 
America. The resounding personifi­
cation urges the slumbering giant to 
"strengthen the things that remain. 
Dylan meets many social problems 
face to face, but with his strong be­
lief in humankind, he prophesies 
that all can be saved. · 
The final highlight from this album 
is "When.He Returns." Harnessing' 
vocal strength from well within · his 
soul, Dylan belts out this praise to 
the Lord, as ifHe were his closest 
friend.. Bravely . facing his eventual 
meeting .with ·God, Dylan sounds 
truly at ease. 
Dylan has matured. and now is at 
the zenith of his career. His vocal 
control has become so complete that 
it is now his most expressive instru.: 
ment; his guitar arid harmonica work 
is more eloquent thari ever. The 
arrangements and production com~ 
plement the songs and their mes­
sages. Furthermore, Dylan's song~ 
writing style, while remaining sim­
ple, has become paper sharp. 
I do~'t ca;e ab~ut economy 
I don't care about astronomy 
But it sure does bother me 
· To see my lo\'.ed ones turning into 
puppets: · · 
. Bob Dylan, a ~aster p~et-~usi~ cian ofour time, has issued his most definitive statement. Slow Train Coming, ari· album filled ;with .faith . in the nation that lives on the tracks, is the latest work of· this authentic artist; it is undoubtedly his tour· de force. · . 
Pete Cleary is ·a.senior business major from Port. Huron; Michigan. He is a staff.music consultant. 




fntrobucing: 
The Scholastic Music Survey 
Ask not for whom the music polls, 

it polls for thee . . . and that's pre­
cisely why we at Scholastic are an­
nouncing with this issue the Scholas­
tic Music Survey. It will be, to our 
knowledge, the largest, most exten­
sive music poll ever undertaken at 
Notre Dame. ; Theories abound on what kind of 
music Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students really like; now we'd like 
to find out for certain. 
Please type or print your name, 

identification number, hall and year 
on . a piece of paper and do the fol­
lowing: list your ten favorite songs 
of all time; list your ten favorite 
albums of all time; list the ten 
groups that you would most like to 
see in concert (yes, a Beatles reunion 
would be nice, but let's be reason­
able); list your ten favorite overall 
artists or groups; list the best musi­
cal event you've seen in your-years 
at Notre Dame (freshmen will have 
to fake it). Then answer these ques­
tions: 
1 (Upperclassmen ·only) Do you 

feel that the concert schedule at 
Notre Dame -has gotten better or 

worse since you've been here? 
2 Name a musical area (pop, jazz, 

disco, soul, rock, etc.) in which you 
would like to see more reviews and 
features. 
3 Name a musical area in which 

you would like to see less reviews 
and features. 
Mail your results by on-campus 

mail (no postage necessary) to 
Scholastic Music Survey, Scholastic 
I
magazine, LaFortune Student Cen­ter. The results will. be. tabulated 
-1 most of the semester,' and will be I published in a later Scholastic. D 
ScHOLASTIC 


One confrontation with Lance Davis is enough to smash every 
Interview with an Actor 
stereotype you ever mighthave held about professional actors. 
Forget all of those visions of Lau­rence Olivier · and Richard Burton; forget anything you ever heard about tall, stately, dark-haired . men with fiery temperaments. Davis is decided­ly short. He has a puckish face· and a slight build, and his · temperament is about as far from fiery _as they get. He talks incessantly. In short, . he seems perfectly suited to play Peter Pan or Lear's Fool but not much else. 
Five minutes. of conversation with Davis will convince you that just as you were wrong thinking that pro­fessional actors usually lookand act something like Richard. Burton, you're also wrong if you think he's only suited to play Peter Pan. Davis has been a professional actor for ten years, and in those years he has felt equally at ease portraying psychotic old~ clergymen and French Kings as well as several whimsical sprites. His current role is that of Hamlet in the Notre Dame/St. Mary's produc-· tion of the Shakespearian classic. 
Davis comes to Notre Dame as a "guest performer," the first such in nine years. Since his ' graduation from Notre Dame in 1969, he has kept in contact with Dr. Reginald Bain, one of ·the stalwarts of the Speech and Drama Department for the past thirteen years. Bain .had wanted to bring Davis in to work with the students for several years now, but it was difficult to find an appropriate time slot. Finally, after many schedule collisions, Davis and Bain agreed upon September-October 1979 as a suitable date; ·· and the Notre _Dame/St. Mary's community had a professional actor in its midst. 
Davis is a confident, --personable man who has an opinion on every­thing and loves to tell stories._ He en­joys being with college students, and they enjoy having his attention. All of the. students who have come in contact with him; whether through· his work on Hamlet or his partici­pation in some of the acting classes, appreciate his talent and casual will­ingness to share his knowledge and experience with them. Cathy Hurst, the senior Speech and Drama major who will be playing Ophelia, ob­serves, "He's more than willing to help anyone in the cast. And he's living and breathing Hamlet these days." . 

-The faculty members of the-de­partment are also glad to have Davis around. "Not only does he have a long . and impressive lisf of creden­tials,'' observes Julie Jensen, .Assis--­tant Professor of Speech and Drama, "He's wonderfully original as a crea­tive artist. He does not sit still; he's always trying a new thing. That's an inspiration for any artist to see, someone talented and creative, but who's never sitting back being sure.'' 
A short discussion with Davis is almost all that's needed as proof that he is indeed a very gifted performer. 
by_ Theresa ·Rebeck 

One doesn't even have to watch him', on stage; in a m·ere ten minutes of ·casual conversation, Davis' commu:· ment to his art makes itself'evident. · Since he arrived in South Bend, he has virtually not . pllrted with his copy of Hamlet once; he reads it constantly, over lunch in the· pay cafeteria, at the bar in Corby's. He discusses the play continually-"I'm pretending right now that Shake­speare was a German playwright," he'll tell you. Then, after listening to every recording of every production he can find, after reading every piece of criticism concerning Hamlet he can lay his hands on, after trying to 
play Hamlet six different ways, he graduation from Notre Dame, Davis way· of iiving up · there, and some and the show's director, Dr. Reginald had broken into professional theatre; actors in the.;compariy had set up Bain, .. wiU decide what Lance Davis' he got a high number in the draft very nice lives in Minneapolis, had "melancholy Dane" is going to be lottery; he· was dating a girl who, the wife, the 2.3 kids; ·the car.··. ·. I like. Anyone who puts that much he says, looked like Cybil Shepard. didn't want to end up in the position energy into acting needn't neces-"It was the best ,of . all possible· of being ·40 years old arid havirig .to sarily be good .. ·. but it certainly worlds," he smirks. · leave to finally go test my w.iilgs in increases the likelihood.· Inthe spring of that year, Davis New York. I had been at the Guthrie 
A quick . scan . of his credentials went back to school, btit he never five · years, played great . parts, also -presents rather overwhelming completed the program·_ and· earned worked .with Michael ·, Langham; evidence supporting the conclusion his MFA. "I had my Equity card. I . worked with real geniuses ..... but that Lance Davis· ("Lance" is short . thought that was pretty· good proof you know when it'stime to move on." for DeLancy, a . family · name) is -that I could · act," .he· explains. So Davis says "moving on" is .an in­either very talented or well-liked by -he went back to the Guthrie, .where escapable part of the' actor's· life­God. He began his .career in a high -he worked for five years before he style. "We're gypsies, we',know it," school in St. Louis, playing the psy-took·. off to "pay ·his. dues" in New he admits. He likes living his life chiatrist in Teahouse of the August York in February of 1975.· this way,· and for' this reason, he has Moon. ("I must. have been awful," . Davis explains his decision to leave little interest in becoming a television he grins:) In 1965, Davis came to the security of his position at the · actor, although he has been seen on Notre Dame. As a freshman he had Guthrie with ease; as if it were the · television twice, once as· a minor small parts in several Notre Dame most natural thing to do at the time. character in the pilot of Beacon Hill productions, and he spent his. sopho-· "You -can get into a very bourgeois and once .as _Louis XVI in the mini-more year in Angers, France, taking part in the first Foreign Studies Pro-· gram offered here. He came back to Notre Dame to find that while he was in France the . Speech and Drama departments of Notre Dame and St. Mary's had merged and that a Dr. Reginald Bain had joined the faculty. _ Then, in the spring of his . senior year, while· he was waiting . to be 
-drafted, he auditioned for arid won . the McKnight Fellowship, ·a· fellow­ship which allowed hini tostudy in the graduate department of Speech · and. Drama at the University of· Minnesota and the Guthrie Theatre· 
in Minneapolis. _.In the suriuner of 1969, .he went to Minneap·olis •to ­establish · himself. 
Davis studied at the university 

.for nine months. In the summer of 1970, the ·artistic· director of the Guthrie Theatre, Michael Langham, saw him playing an 80~year-old 'man in •. the melodrama · Lady of. Lyons. Langham ·asked him to corrie over 
. to the Gµthrie _and play the part·of a twelv~year-old 'boy in a play· by Aleksandr' Solzhenitsyn that fall. 
·.-Within a year·and_ ahalf after his Lance pa.vis and Tony Mockus rehearse .<!-scene from 

-. 
SCHOLASTIC 

series The Adams· Chronicles. "I'm i;ure Dr. Parnell curled up· in a ball and hid under the couch," he laughs, describing the aftermath of his por-· trayal · of the French King. "My French accent is very atrocious. Un­fortunately, I learned more mime than French while I was iri Angers." 
· Davis shakes his head.when he dis­cusses these two escapades, both of which· he considered complete fail­ures. "They didn't put their money into the writing," he explains. "Americans try .to sink all of their 'bucks' into having .real crayfish at the.banquet scene, but they don't put any money in the writing. That's where the.British beat us around the hand• every time; .. they spend a lot more time and care on their scripts. Americans just try to outproduce." 
So; although he •has taken part in such -projects' and acted .in commer­cials,. Davis tries to stay away from television.. "I·don't have a television face. ;My training is in the stage. And" for .television, you have to be safe,. cute, tricky. You can get into some . very . bad habits." 
•Davis is not one to let himself get into bad habits; it seems that. he rarely sits still long enough to de­velop them. While in New York he moved -from project. to project, often leaving the city for long periods to do shows in other areas of the coun­try.. He came to· Notre Daine just after finishing a production of Nigel Wilson's Class Enemy, in which• he played a .punk rocker, and he will leave two or:three days after the close of.Hamlet. to· go back to New York and then to Denver, Colorado, to :work'•with a· repertoire theatre which will open there in• November.· Davis is a gypsy in the fullest sense of the word. ·· 
"I don't· want to· become a New York· actor/' he explains. "I don't want to become a TV actor; I don't want those limitations. There are so many traps you can fall into. I just want to make my own way,· and hopefully when I'm dead .and gone, and a bunch of young actors are sitting around wondering what they're going to do, my name will come up, and somebody will say, 'yeah, I like the way he did it. . .' " 
· Although he is glad to be back at . Notre Dame for a while, Davis ad­mits that he is dismayed by the struc­ture and concerns of the Speech and Drama Department as they stand now, and, indeed, the structure ,and concerns of the-whole University. He points out that the theatre students have had little practical training in areas such as voice or movement, and he · questions the emphasis on intel­lectual· knowledge and . theory he finds · within ·the Liberal .Arts Pro­gram here.·· 
He draws the'anafogy, "It seems to me that if you're training someone to be a chemical engineer, you give him everything he needs to become a chemical engineer. . . . unless ..you just expect him to write about chemi­cal engineering.· You .have to: give these kids who are studying the arts the tools, the possibilities~ and· you have to . respect• what they're doing. Or else,. if you don't want that, fine, if you don't want the artistic mental­ity and temperament present on cam­pus, then fine: say· so. But if not, then .you have to get these kids ready. 
"I've meta lot ofpeople who intel­lectually know a , lot about the theatre; but when· it comes to pro­duction, they're still living . in the library.·. Now, that has to be done; ariy person' who's :in the theatre. or the: arts. ha.s to accumulate · all .of that, but-there's a time when 'you have to stand up there and paint, and the techniques have to be there." 
Lance· Davis' has been a dynamic presence on:the Notre Dame campus for the past month: He is not a half~ way person, and he is appalled when he encounters any such attitudes in the people he meets. "If you're going to be· an economist, then fine, be an economist," he tells them. "But don't study economics while I'm up there on the stage. Go into the next room. And I promise I won't act in your economics class." 
Above all else, Davis is an artist; he takes his workvery, very serious­ly. "An artist has to do what he does," he explains. "If he could do anything else, he would. Artists, painters, writers-they're working out their lives. Their lives are not separate from what they do, they're answering .their · basic life questions by what they do. ButI'll tellanyone who's· thinking about being an~art­ist-if you can do anything else and lead a· full and happy life, then for God's sake, do· it." 
-Davis admits that. he's been very lucky; that he's never had to do any­thing besides· act to survive. "Some­times, though, I have huge stretches when I have 'to swallow that pride and say, 'Excuse me, but could you lend me a couple hundred? . . . I'll get it · back to you, I've got a job coming up ·in February'... You know, at age 32, you sort of think ·... Is this a mature way of approaching one's life? But you find that that's what you do."· , ·. 
Davis' return visit to Notre Dame has. been brief, but· those who had the chance to meet-him, talk to him, or work with him, found it un­deniably valuable. He leaves an inter­esting impression on everyone; an impression ·of · someone who has chosen · a set of values and com.: mitted his -life to them: 
This · coming week, the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community will have a chance to witness the quality of theatre such : commitment · pro­duces.· O 
Juniper Press: 





A Special 
.Class
. 

by Jim Sommers 
An alternative to the pen-twid­dling, daydream doldrums of fre­quently fruitless. lecture sessions is Juniper Press, a productive studen~ publishing compariy operating out of Professor Elizabeth Christman's unique American Studies course now in its fourth year, 462 Book Pub­lishing. Securing a ·quality manu­script, reaching a contractual ar­rangement with the author, applying skillful. editorship alorig with de­signing, producing, advertising, and marketing the polished product en­tail the major ·functions of all pub­lishing compariies, including Juniper Press; the hopeful result is the goal of any business-a profit. . 
Yet in explaining the philosophy behind the three-credit book-publish-' ing course, Professor Christman is quick to point out that "making a profit is not the primary goal. We might learn a lot by not making a· profit. The goal of the course is that each student become a part of a pub­lishing company and learn what is involved, in publishing a book." Al­though assigned writings, readings, quizzes, and field trips are requisite, the main class . activity_ gravitates around the success of Juniper Press. "I like the idea of learning by trying it out," says Christman, a ·former literary agent .for Harold-Ober As­sociates in Manhattan. 
In light of Christman's perspec­tive, the knowledge imbibed by un­dergraduates from the . course is resourceful in three ways: 
1) . "Publishing of some sort is a very .possible career." .Several of Juniper Press are active in the pub­
.. lishing business; some·are·employed by publishing companies such as Andrew-McMeel, Viking Press, and Bantam Books. 
2) Activity in Juniper Press pro­vides its members with a taste of "experience in :any. business. It in­volves .people trying to· do a job together." AlLof Juniper Press's de­partments desire. the output of a quality · product and thus· need effi­cient interdepartmental · coordina­tion and clear understanding of per­sonnel problem~a key to any. suc­cessful business. 
•3) "The · publishing business is closer to the ·life. of the scholarly." Scholarly careers such as. teaching or writing often · involve knowledge of the publishing process; 
.The course's popularity is such that the class usually closes out im-· mediately to seniors, although a handful of juniors are members of this year's Juniper Press. Ari intern­ship with the Notre Dame·Press is another channelfor eligible students who have taken or who are present­ly enrolled in the course~ 
Although Juniper Press is de­signed as a learning experience in the.publishing business, the company has raked in a.profit on every liter­ary work. it has published. Each Juniper Press member buys a $35 company share, then the compariy tries -to recover .. the initial . invest­ments hopefully· accompanied by a . profit. In past years, Juniper Press opted to retain a portion of the earn­ings while. students . regained ,their $35 plus a.dividend.·Last year's com­pany turned out a . gross profit of 50%, and .a net ,profit of 30% on Dolores W. ·Frese's work, Virgins and Martyrs. · 
This year's.company also plans to make Juniper:Press a profitable en­terprise. "In ··,reality, we are very !!}Uch a professfonally oriented busi­ness," notes Juniper ·Press president, 

Leo Latz. An enthusiastic editorial 
staff headed ·by Mike Shields, editor­
in-chief. and managing editor, Jim 
Minutolo, prepares·for production.of 
the ' chosen, manuscript. Production 
manager Mary Palumbo and staff are 
responsible for the production of the 
manuscript in paperback form: .Var­
ious· departments· handle· advertising, 
distribution, sales, ·and finances, all 
with the same intent of making the 
finished product a marketing success. 
The literary piece chosen for pub­
lication this year is Ralph Mclrier­
ny's Abecedary: An Antic•AZphabet, 
a collection of imaginative verse pat­
terned in a cleverly devised alpha­
betical framework. Abecedary dis­
plays a number of curious·.themes, 
all colored with Mclnerny's own 
quick, delightful wit. Mclnerny has 
published eleven· or twelve novels; 
and several:scholarly'works, and he 
currently directs Notre Dame's Medi­
eval Institute. . · . 

Juniper Press views Abecedary as a potential success and intends to ·market the book shortly after the 
. fall . semester break.· Affirming the attitude of the company, president Latz stated, "We are :very. excited about our new book business because .it is a fresh idea. We have a quality product, and we are going to aggres­
!
sively market 'it." Indeed, Juniper Press is part of a special class -that is in a_class ofUs own.•:,. ·. , D 
Jim ·sommers is a· junkir A~ Studies major. Th,is is his first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
. . ScHOLASTIC 


. } . . ­
The_ plight of the unsung athlete. 

A. subject. which concerns all too few. Sure, · everybody knows who all · the football and basketball players are. Maybe eyen some of the hockey players if. you're a zealous fan. But,how,many of you can say that-you even_ know who -the_leading scorer on the lacrosse team was last year, orif the tennis team had a win­ning season? .. 
No, the unwritten rule. of Notre Dame sports is: We pay you to come her~you perform so we earn money -you get your.namein print.-Quasi­celebrity status is taken for granted by most of the players in the revenue sports. Before I go on, let me make myself perfectly clear (as a former Whittier gridder often insisted) by 
· saying that football, basketball and hockey. players definitely deserve the mounds of publicity heaped upon them.-They work long, hard hours in hopes of achieving national prom-: inence for -themselves, their school, and their peers.. My contention is simply•. that,athletes participating in other. "minor" sports ·-and clubs should be !1Ppreciated, respected and applauded·for their efforts and per­formances as. well. 
People fail to realize that almost all .sports. at Notre Dame._ -require a sense of dedication even ND athletes 
. seldom ·previously. needed. Just be­
. ·cause a sport-cannot stand financial­ly independent does . not mean it doesn't involve its fair share of work. 
V\Tr~stling, cross-country, baseball, soccer, track, tennis-the list goes on and on. In each of these sports, to even represent Notre Dame requires an athlete to have spent countless hours refining his abilities. In almost all sports, Notre Dame fields teams that are highly ranked in the Mid­west, if not the whole country. One interesting feature of most Irish squads is the noticeable lack of scholarship players. Despite the de­cided dearth of financial assistance to these so-called "minor" sports, they consistently come up with su­perior performances. Be it with ski­ing, crew or fencing, the Irish will inevitably end their seasons with more notches on the right side of the ledger. 

This winning tradition of. Notre Dame athletics can be traced to the natural .talents of the performers on the teams and, significantly, to the continual efforts of the members to improve on their own raw material. 
And mind you, it's not easy to keep trudging out to that practice field every day with the limited fanfare that goes with one's position. Some sports, such as fencing and track, involve practice virtually nine nvmths of the year. But how many 
by Tom Westphal 

people attend "minor" sporting events such as these? A fencing ac­quaintance dryly commented that there are usually more fencers than spectators at his meets. 
From my own personal experi­ence as a varsity tennis player, I can argue the unpublicized case. of the minor sport participant. One prac­tices endless hours with the goals of self-improvement and· hopeful con­tribution to the team's · success, knowing full well that very few will even know of one's existence on the squad. 
The home tennis matches were certainly not attended by numerous hordes of followers. Parents and friends were occasional spectators but often you alone must cheer for yourself. Winning for the glory of old Notre Dame.vanished early as a cognizant concept. 
This commentary · should not be construed as a plea for pity for the minor sports. It is, however, an at­tempt to avail the Notre Dame com­munity of the dedication of a good number of its own members who rarely receive mention for their deeds. I suggest that ,the reader ap­preciate not only the star football or basketball player but also the per­formers · on lesser-known teams .or clubs who often put in as much, if not . more, effort than 11.!e .. big­leaguers. One more thing. ·Try to catch a "minor" sport or two in ac­tion this year. I think you'll like it. . . 


The Pla.yboy of the 

by Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 


I smoke a stylish brand of unfil­
tered cigarettes. I drink double Man­
hattans on the rocks, with a twist of 
lemon substituting for the hack­
neyed cherry. In New York,..after. 
the theater or. ballet, I have supper 
with show people at Sardi's; it im­
presses them as classy when the 
liqueur I order is a green chartreuse. 
I know languages well enough to ask 
about legumes· instead of vegetables 
in a French restaurant, or to recog­
nize the German equivalent of soup 
du jour. I am at home with Auden, 
familiar with · the galleries where 
Picassos hang, and recognize the 
Mahler symphony in Death in Ven­
ice withqut benefit of reading the 
screen credits. I've always thought it 
nice to be considered sophisticated: 
to know the difference between Beau­
jolais and the house wine, or to •dis'­
missthe pate maison as merely meat 
loaf. I've never really wanted,·despite 
St. Paul, to seem unspotted by the 
world. · · 
One would scarcely need to be the 
playboy of the Western church to 
feel embarrassed by the gift-from 
the dearest girl in all the world, the 
faithful JeanniHf a teddy bear; 
not just a regular·old faithful brown 
teddy bear, mind you,'. but a musicai 
teddy bear, whose insides tinkle with 
the tune · of the "Teddy Bears' 
Picnic." · 
"It's too cute," I thought. "Toots 
Shor would laugh at me." · ' 
As· I complained to· a friend: ··"It 
probably makes ine the only priest 
at Notre Dame to have his own·teddy
bear." · · · "Probably the only priest," he said; not at all helpfully, "to have his own 
musical teddy bear, anyway." , · 
"I'm ·being · · puhisJ.ied,11 · L ·said, 
"probably by atheists who hate me. 
Jeannie and I do a children's show 
on radio: · our· theme ·song is the 
'Teddy Bears' Picriic.'·Nowl'in being 
punished by a teddy bear who sits. on 
the corner of · my bed :at riight, 

tinkling · silliness · about picnic. time ·for teddy bears." •· ~<< : . .. "Maybe,'' my friend said,· ''you can get the tune switched to 'Ave Maria'?" . . . · 
My mother always·:·says; if she 
doesn't want me to do . something: 
"I bet Bishop Sheen doesn't do that," 
or, "I bet you wouldn't catch Father 
Hesburgh wearing those.'' · 
I'll bet Hesburgh and. Sheen don't 
get teddy bears· for their birthday, · 
because people respect them too 
much, but how can I explain that to 
Jeannie? 
Obviously the best thing to do with 
an unwanted teddy bear is to send it 
to live in an orphanage. The prob-
SCHOLASTIC 

lem is that Jeannie, the world's dearest girl, believes in teddy bears. When-someone speaks critically of the crimes of Nixon, for example, she will explain things by saying: "He never had a teddy bear." I don't know whether Nixon had a teddy bear, or not; but Jeannie says he 
-~7.-~-.'' 
··,·:'. . 
;• ·;/·''. '· 
~• /l ,' 
,:· :,' 
}{>.
.;, : 
~·}.·, 
.~'···,(; 
.1~ ·' •. -' 
'.'. y.

never did; therefore, nothing that he 
,:(.. ~:·<­

did bad can be held against him. In 't",.· 
Jeannie's mind, a teddy bear is the 
last unsurrendered ·_ ·symbol of inno­
cence we hang onto -from childhood. 
When we give up our fidelity to _· •.•;;7,,;.
lit teddy bears, the amnesia of adult-,:­hood settles like a veil over the · sweetest times we have· ever known. 


:r,r

The warm, comfortable domesticity 
"~:-'." . 

of a stuffed animal keeps the cruel 
: ' 

beasts away, Jeannie says; and old age itselfis as kindly as a tabby cat if 'we can meet it while clutching the worn paws of our favorite teddy. .""" ­
How can I surrender the last sym-· having the toy, seems so at home, I almost feel as bol of innocence, and still keep Jean-"What kind ·of a dog are you?" I though I were borrowing room from nie's· faith · in ~'me ·as her· favorite asked · him, "if you can't keep my him. It's as though he were a presid­cleric? ' · world safe from teddy bears?" ing. spirit, a household deity, making .. 
Darby O'Gill, I thought, will help.· The next day when I came into the everything else feel exactly in place That cocker spaniel will never toler-· room, Darby had taken the_ teddy in the space that it occupies. -_ ·· ' ate a teddy bear on the premises. _bear down from the bed, and was · He even makes me·feel at home;! Why, Darby gets jealous of church guarding it, while fast asleep, hold-· find him to be a very peaceful bear, mice.':.When I presented the bear to ing it between his front paws. A love·._ very comforting to look at with the the beastie, he sniffed at'it as though · affair_had-begun, and there was no red· ribbon around his -neck. I don't he wondered if' it had brought a· need for me to make further intro-need him,· of course; he's a great hmch.-Then, sizing the bear up as ductions. _ embarrassment, -and ·I could never though assuring himself it would not --· So, for a while now, the teddy·bear explain him to Jimmy Breslin. But insist on sharing his water dish,' has been an ·embarrassment to me, this morning, he rolled off his pillow, Darby yawned; stretched, and went-_---sharing an adjoining pillow, because --·onto my· side -of the bed. When· I back to reading -Nietzsche. If· I play Darby won't Jet me lock it ·in the woke up, I .was h\lgging him. · · · the silly tune, T thought, Darby will bathroom. I keep leaving the window ---I would have hated myself< for destroy the damn thing with his -open, hoping thieves will break in hugging him, and would have flung teeth; and I w_ill be rid of it-forever;· ' and steal it. I think:· HI should get · him across the roo·m, except that I wound up the mechanism for the -desperately ill in the night;_ and a briefly, .at the _end of my night's music, singing the words myself so -priest comes in .to anoint me, I'll' sleep, I dreamed it was Christmas that Darby would feel. doubly in-play it cool: I'ffsay: "Did you bring· morning; and I was five years old. jured. -that teddy bear with you? I wonder My father was waking me up, and 
where it came from?" Or, I'll say: asking if I was going to sleep all 
--When you go down to the woods -_"Father Flannigan of Boystown kept · day; or would r'come down and look 
_ today; you're in for a big_ sur-ateddy bear on his bed. He said that at the _tree? · · 
-· · prise;· · · · 
Spencer Tracy told him tha_t a bear It was a nice dream to -have, and I ·When you go down to the woods on your pillow keeps the wolf away -thought of Toots Shor, _Richard 
today/you better go in disguise from the door.'' · Nixon and Jimmy Breslin, and won-For every bear that ever there was Actually, I don't know if Spencer dered 'if they all had teddy bears; ­Will r;ather: therefor certain be-Tracy and Father Flannigan •ever and if they did, whether all our teddy 
cause .... discussed teddy bears. But a priest bears would ever meet at the same 
· ori a sick call would hardly bother·_ · picnic: --_ . 
Darby lifted his head, and trotted · ·to check sources. If he did, they Nevertheless, for a playboy of the over.'He rubbed his·nose against the sh_ould take away his oils, arid make .Western church, a teddy bear is still bear's tummy, to find out where the him a historian. · an embarrassment; music was coming from. · At the moment, it feels natural to . It would look too cute, bringing 
have the teddy bear in my room. your teddy bear.with you when you
Toda.y'_s the day the teddy bears _Sometimes, you know when the .drink your double Manhattans on the 
have their picnic. -things you have don't ·like each ---rocks. It's going to take more_ than 
--other. You come in suddenly, and nice dreams to convince me that-I 
At this point, -the turni!~ends, and you sense that fighting has been go-·_ need a riear relative of Pooh-bear to begiris over, and I expected Gotter-· -ing on: the chair has been scuffling -• help me on a' journey into the past dam:nierung. But Darby O'Gil_l, giving with the table; the table just took a where the bleached bones of·child­me a look asthoughtoask:'''Is that kick at the rug. Everything I own hood lie waiting in-the sunshine of all there· is?" lost interesfiri the toy, · likes teddy: the statues, the pictures, innocence: · · · -• D and apparently, interest iri me for : the whales, the unicorns. ·-Teddy 
OCTOBER 5; 1979 
TIil L!\)T WOQD 
Shakespeare really Francis Bacon or was Francis Bacon 

by Dave Satterfield 
· Last spring, I overheard two students discussing 
their course selections for this semester. The discussion 
dragged through talk of finance, accounting, marketing, 
management, computers, electronics, genetics,. ·fluids, 
solids ·and a score of other· courses, bringing ·tears ·to · 
my unprofessional eyes. I continued listening when, at 
last, they reached the spacious, fresh land of electives. 
Oh, but this was not just the bland land of electives; 
they had reached that most hallowed land of Recom­
mended University Electives. Anxious to hear .which 
electives would be chosen, I was appalled . when they 
bdth agreed to register for an "easy A" course. They 
seemed to have no regard for the content of the course. 
They knew it was an "easy A." · 
. I understand that this method of elective-choosing 
is quite common among students. If this is so; I think 
that the University ought to offer some more interesting 
and unique "easy A" electives. There should be one 
chapter in the course . selection book devoted to these 
"easy A" courses, making the registration process sim­
pler than _it presently is. But, the courses niust be unique. 
They must offer the student a. certain amount of mis­
direction and confusion. And, of course, to maintain 
interest, a. certain amount of humor must be injected · 
into each course. Here is a small sampling which I 
believe might intrigue the brainy, bored bachelors and 
bachelorettes of business and bionics. 
PHILOSOPHY 486: Contemporary Moral and Ethical. 
Problems . · . 
.. An insightful and modern approach to today's moral 
and ethical . problems through seminar discussions. 
Texts: The:National Enquirer and a soon-to-be-released 
book, A Collection of Ann Landers'-Best 
Co~Professors: Rona Barrett and Rex Reed 
PHILOSOPHY .101: Conflict Resolution via Rene Des­
~es .... 
Using Cartesian methods, we will come to know 
whatever we wish to know-in .one semester. .Requirement: Faith · _ · Professor: Madelyn Murray O'Hair . 
ENGLISH 410: Shakespeare or Bacon? 
This course will attempt to. solve the mystery: Was only himself or was . he Shakespe4:1re and is Hamlet merely a nickname for Bacon's only child? · R_equirement: Again, faith . · . . · . Professor: Duffy or Rathburn, or Rathburn or Duffy HUMANITIES 317: A Study in Oration and Humility 
A multi-media experience, this class studies the s·uc­cessful linkage of oratory. genius with the virtue of humility. We will study the methods of_ two modern masters, Howard Cosen and Muhammad Ali. Requirement: ,Earplugs,· if desired Professor: John Lennon HUMANITIES 169: Love. and the Early Greeks 
An extensive, objective study of the Greek notion of ideal love and its modern-day implications. · Texts: Plato's Symposium ·and the Dade County Law Books .: . Co-Professors: Truman Capote and Anita Bryant . PSYCHOLOGY 123: Alcohol: The Problem at Notre Dame 
This class will meet once a week on the Green. Field and discuss such pertinent social problems as:· How can Goose's sell such lousy beer at Happy Hour and get away with it? How much does Corby's··management 
··pay the St. Joe County· Health Inspector? Are the weirds· Irish and Alcohol synonymous? . Requirements: 21 I.D. · · Professors: Ed McMahon. and Dean Martin ., FINE ARTS 312: Contemporary Music 1974-1979 . This course . will study modern music, evaluate its worth and attempt to answer such questions as: Is Punk Rock appropriate for· the guitar Mass? Can ,disco save the Mideast? Is Andy Gibb actually a reincarna­tion of Beethoven? : · · . · · · Requirements: Again, earplugs, if.desired. Co-Professors: Johnny Rotten arid The Bee Gees . GOVERNMENT 315_: Justice at Notre Dame: A Model for All . . . . 
An objective·look at Notre Dame's judicial system. Texts: Machiavelli's The· Prince ·and ·The. Collected Memoirs. of Josef Stalin . , .. . . . . . Co-Professors: Dean Roemer, Fat.her VanWolvlear and Trixie, a well-trained seeing-eye dog ENGLISH 499: A Glance at the Classics 
This course will do as it states;.glance at the classics of literature. Tolstoy's War and Peace, Dostoyevsky's .Crime arid Punishment, Cervantes' Don Quixote, Mel­
. ville's. Moby Dick, The Unabridged Anthology of Ameri­can Fiction Since 1850, and many more masterpieceswill be covered. . . . · ·.. . .··. 
Texts: The -1979 Illustrated Edition .of "Cliff Notes Skims the Big· Ones" Professor: Any Arts and Letters student PRE-PROFESSIONAL, 101: The Esophagus 
This introductory pre-med course is: an. elective; but is commonly known as a .~'must': for all serious pre­medders. Potential M.D.'s will analyze the esophagus and. determine, areas where incision: proves most effective. 
. Requirements:· No need, or desire for friendship Professor: Lizzie Borderr 
As I said, these courses are just a s;imple. If '\\'e're 
. going to waste our time with "easy A". courses, why not enjoy it? So if.you have any suggestions for:' courses of this type, feel ·free. to send them to Scholastic. We'll knowwhat to do with them. 
SCHOLASTIC 



WANTED 
Students interested in . govemment and public . · affairs. Students who would like a voice in determining public .policy decisions. Interviews will be held to discuss graduate studies af the 
SCHOOL OFURBAN AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS, CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY on Thursday, November "s, 1979 from 
1:00 p.m. -~:00 p.m. in the Office ofPlacement Services. 
Sunday through Thursday, 12PM -4AM · Coffee and· Donuts A place for the book-weary to relax over acup or two , 
.. Gle~mary Missioners . . Room 17 ' 'BOX 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
·Name 

Address _ _;__;__;__;__;__ City______;, State_··__ Zip Age,..;_·_.·__ 








