© &
Attention:
Student Clubs and Organizations
Scholastic is again sending out a special summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen
If you are interested in advertising in this issue please contact Karen Riley at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune. Office hours are 2:00 - 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday.
Let those freshmen know you are out there — advertise in Scholastic!
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
XI
ENTERTAINMENT
5
Out of Bounds Bruce Springsteen King Lear
NEWS
Tax Time is Back
CAMPUS LIFE 9 Bookstore Basketball
fO
SPORTS
14 Which Way Would You Go?
16 A Surprising Success
DEPARTMENTS
2
12
19
20
21
22
24
Editor’s Notes Letters
Coming Distractions On Other Campus SPY Extra
Week In Distortion
Glancing Back Final Word
Cover photo by Matt Cashore.
APRIL 9,1992
EDITOR’S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
April 9, 1992
'T.: ■; Disce QuasiSemper. Victims. ... <	, Vive QuasiCras Moriturus ;	. ..
: 7^	7;	. . ;
'?	''	J
•i EDITOR IN CHIEF	:	.. /'^” ‘
..Ratricia Doyle '• M ' /••' / ; . ■' /■
^MANAGING EDITOR '	<
.? Margaret-Kenny x ;	/v/-/<::..; '' •/ ;/
EXECUTIVE EDITOR ”
jD^vid;^	/ ■
/campus^ ;■ ■	;;
;'Editor:: Mollie Mudd /	/'	'■ ■ s.
;yROR^ /	' '' ■; '
/Editor: Jim.	;/■/.."■/
/entertaw^	-/ . /;;.
' .Editor: 5J. Bradley Keck ,
/ DEPARTMENTS /
■/Editor/MichaetOw -f d , <;/	‘
/ Assistant: Cplih'dla^'/ '' ’	'■</?■// ,.';/
/•COPY'A ..:./ ■' ’ *'<	/ ■/.'
E^	.■•■/:
: .</:
';E®	■;/?< ■■.:'. / //■
? SENIOR
AMaricehe;Ru	Amanda Clinton, / -
^eft Jotz/Pete: McGillicuddy, Jenny:Tate,'. ’ /■?', /Hefdi Laur^^ m:; < //T//'-/.. /'• - • '7
d '<>■ ■	■■ ■7
'/gWhIc^r^ •;.'/'•///J'	;
//Ma^^	/'//'///A	•/:/
Systems/;/-//	:•<	-
i/^nager:.Xeyjn;Buttler. /a-/'/'/:/, •.■//
|awei^	'
I'Mangecfe //■<.■ ///;/</'v j; [C-
7 BUS LN ESS7 7 7c <	:U 7.77
=:'Manager:.EHIeen.;Shelley\ . <
7'77/
■■ f	:///
We Return
After a brief hiatus, Scholastic has returned in full force, despite the unfortunate loss of our computers. The staff of Scholastic wishes to express its thanks to the Dome for the use of their computers and office to publish this issue. Hopefully, the Scholastic computer system will be in working order as soon as possible.
Due to the imminent Presidential primaries, the Gipper is missing in action this week. He has been called away to Washington, D.C. to advise President Bush on the state of the election. If the country’s political scene calms down, he will return in time for our next issue.
Speaking of which, there will be no issue of Scholastic on April 16 because of the Easter holiday. The next regular issue will be April 23.
To All Aspiring Journalists
If you are interested in writing, editing or photography, Scholastic wants you! We are always looking for new faces and fresh ideas to make our publication the best it can be.-Call 239-7569 if you are interested.
Talk to Us!
Let us know what you think. Call the office at 239-7569 or 239-5029 with your questions, comments or problems concerning Scholastic. Compliments are also nice.
Scalas tic ispuSGsftufwee^ i/irou^wut tfescfootyear except during examination, and vacation periods al riie 'University of 9jplre 'Dame, 9^lre Dame,-I9^46SS6 and printed at 'Die (Peters, Inc., Milford, 19^ 4£$42, 'DhSuSseriptionraleis^2$00^earmd£ac^issuesareavaihSU at $12$/copy. 'Die opinions expressed in StAolasiic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial hoard of the Scholastic or of the 'University of Umpire Dame, its administration, faculty or students, editorials signedScholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial hoard. Manuscripts are vselcome. All unsolicited materials become the properly of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholar tic Magazine. ^Hights reserved, ^production in tvhole or in part without permission is prohibited.
In This Issue
This week Campus Life .writer Heather Rakoczy informs us on Bookstore Basketball XXI, its background and some of this year’s more creative names. In Entertainment, editor Brad Keck tells us all of the entertaining events going on on campus, in South Bend and in die surrounding area in his column “Out of Bounds.” Dave Chmiel, former Scholastic Advertising Manager, reviews Bruce Springsteen’s new releases. Cricky Kavanaugh takes a look at the Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theater’s production of Shakespeare’s King Lear.
As the national income tax deadline approaches, Notre Dame files its own taxes. Senior Staff Writer Jenny Tatereports on the taxes filed by our own non-profit organization.
In Sports, John Regruth tells us of three Notre Dame baseball players who chose college over professonal baseball. Writer Nick Matthews looks back John McLeod’s first season as basketball coach, a season that eclipsed in a NIT bid and final-round loss to Virginia.
Once again, Scholastic lives on, even after the death of Mr. Manners. The regular . Departments columns are still flourishing
—“On Other Campuses,” “Week in Distortion,” “Coming Distractions” and our newest column, “SPY Extra.”
The “Final Word” has also been written by St. Ed’s resident, Dave Chmiel. He writes on the fourth annual St. Edward’s Hall Charity Carnival.
MargaretS. Kenny
? Managing Editor
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writers name, address and phone number. 'University students should include their year in school and college, faculty members should include their department. Ml letters must be signed. 9[ames will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right i0 Utters that are libelous or obscene bythelawscf the United States. Scholastizcdsowilleditfor copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. 'Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
address all correspondence to'IhcDditor
■	Scholastic
I,.	’ .	Lafortune Center
9jplre Dame, 19(^4£5S£
SCHOLASTIC
LETTERS
Dear Editor:
We are writing in regard to “What’s In a NAZZ” by Elizabeth Graner (March 26, 1992). We are deeply disappointed at Miss Graner’s lack of commitment to include information about all of the bands that participated in NAZZ, especially Victoria’sReal Secret. While she accurately described the members of some bands and chose highlights of their performances, she failed to recognize VRS for their talent and originality, saying only, “.. Victoria’s Real Secret also deserves a mention for their first song, which was just great,” at the very end of the article. Not only are they a freshmen band who have been together for less than a year, and who have progressed significantly, the majority of their performance included original songs written by VRS band members.
Miss Graner was so excited thatDissFunktion “deservingly ” won first place and is playing sometime during An Tostal. For this reason, Victoria’s Real Secret deserves the attention and recognition that Miss Graner gave the other basnds in the article. We hope that in the future she will give proper credit to those who earn and deserve it.
Lori Garner
Sarah Klinges
Freshman Year of Studies
O®| i t o r
|||jllgiMS JglSg
v.„- x \
Senior Month APRIL 1992
REVIEW & PREVIEW
by J. Bradley Keck
T et me just say that if you can’t find something to do this weekend you are either extremely weak or you really like to watch golf on T.V. So maybe The Masters is a big deal, but do people really wear the green jackets?
This weekend S t. Ed’s andFisher halls are having their big spring events. The St. Ed’s Charity Carnival takes place on the Fieldhouse Mall and features the ever popular “moonwalk” (give a buck to charity, take your shoes off, jump around, get real tired). The boys from Fisher are moving down to Saint Mary’s Lake for their sixth annual regatta. Watch boats (ships?) from every dorm compete as you choke down a food service cookout lunch on the northeast side
Every Friday
12:00-2:00 pm

of the lake.
Also, if you get the chance Notre Dame’s mainstage production of King Lear is playing at Washington Hall (review on page six). From all that I’ve heard it is a spectacular, moving production. In the Little Theater at St. Mary’s the Department of Dance and Theater is preforming a dance/concert en-titledDance and More, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday nights. The concert includes new choreography to songs from everyone from Cole Porter to Jane’s Addiction. Jazz lovers should also check out the Collegiate Jazz Festival Friday and Saturday. This is the oldest festival of its kind and features 15 band’s from around the country.
Axl Rose is also going to be on the loose in both Chicago and Detroit over the next few days. Tonight and tomorrow Guns n’
Take a break from the dining halls! You deserve
FRIDAY LUNCH
at
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Roses will be at the Rosemont Horizon. Then on Monday and Tuesday they have their make up shows at the Palace in Auburn Hills. Remember they had to cancel the shows there in January when Axl hurt his hand throwing a microphone (or was that a bottle of Black Death vodka he threw at Slash’s head?).
If they are a little too wild for your taste, you can always go and watch Fred Flintstone tear up the ice, as Ice Capades take center stage at the J.A.C.C.
Next Monday the Beastie Boy’s release their album Check Your Head and on April 21. The Cure is unveiling Wish.
In an event the S.U.B. narrowly missed booking, The Black Crows and the Cypress Hill Gang join forces this Saturday at the Great Atlanta Pot Festival. The event is staged yearly to gather support for the National Organization for the Reform of MarijunaLaws. Neitherband’sfinereputa-tion is expected to suffer as a result of agreeing to play at this concert. M
Subs Burgers Pizza
Alumni-Senior Club is open every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night From 9:00 pm until 2:00 am
=	I.D. Required
llllllllllM

ENTERTAINMENT
Bruce Takes A “Leap of Faith” After a five year sabbatical, ‘The Boss” comes out with two new albums
by Dave Chimiel
At 12:01 a.m., on Tuesday, March 31,1 found myself waiting in line at Tracks.
I had never seen it this crowded. What was the big deal? New releases: Def Leopard and “The Boss.”. Bruce Springsteen is back!
I talked to the guy behind me while I waited in anticipation (after five years, forty minutes is nothing). We talked about how Bruce has changed over the years. We both had seen him in concert on his Tunnel of Love tour in 1988. It was the best concert I had ever seen, and it still is. But this guy was not impressed. He had seen Bruce back in his “glory days” on the Born in the U.S.A. tour. Bruce had changed, too much for him to be excited about the new releases. He was there for Def Leopard.
At the time I did not really understand the guy’s complaint. Then I went home and listened to my new CD’s. There was a different sound coming from my- speakers that I was not used to. Where is the Band? The “E” Street Band? I listened in silence to a tamer Bruce, just hoping for Clarence Clemons to whip himself into saxophone frenzy. It never came.
As I listened to the foreign music, I thought back over the last five years for Bruce: a broken marriage, a baby and a new wife, backup singer Patti Scialfa. Somehow the music made more sense.
In the old days, much of Springsteen’s music portrayed the hard life of the blue-collar worker. Bom in Freehold, New Jersey
(not Asbury Park), Bruce witnessed this hard life that had broken the spirits of so many. He saw it, and he used it in his music. Songs like “Darkness on the Edge of Town” and “The River” reflected the problems of the society in which he grew up.
Nowadays, it seems Bruce has a more optimistic outlook. He still writes of lost love and hard times but more and more of his music reflects hope, a change that started with Tunnel of Love. His music is a little slower, but his message is clearer: these are “Better Days” for Bruce Springsteen.
Lucky Town has ten songs, including the already released singles “Better Days” and “If I Should Fall Behind.” Bruce plays all the instruments on Lucky Town, accompanied by Gary Mallabar on drums. “Professor” Roy Bittan provides additional accompaniment on keyboards in “Leap of Faith,” “The Big Muddy” and “Living Proof.” Roy is the sole member of the original “E” Street Band featured on either album.
Human Touch has fourteen tracks, including the tide cut. On this album, Bruce plays guitar with Bittan on keyboards, Randy Jackson on bass and Jeff Porcaro on drums. One of the best things about the Springsteen albums is the guitar. In the modem day of electric keyboards and synthesizers, it is good to hear someone who can still play the guitar. Although he is not as good as Eric Clapton or Eddie Van Halen, Bruce is still an accomplished guitarist.
One of the highlights of the. Human Touch CD is the song “57 Channels (And Nothin’ On),” which features only Springsteen on bass and Porcaro on drums. This heavy sound compliments Bmce’s hushed drawl in a song about a couple that had everything— except love. Love is a powerful theme in both albums.
Bruce Springsteen has gone through a lot since he broke onto the rock- and- roll scene over twenty years ago with Greetings From Asbury Park, NJ. He has changed, and so has his music. He has grown from a wild 24-year-old rebel in Born to Run to an older, more mature artist in his current works. When I saw Springsteen in concert, he said thatwhen he wrote “Bom to Run”he thought
he was writing about a guy and a girl who just wanted to run and “keep on runnin’.” But as he reflected on the song, he realized that it was asking questions about what he wanted to do with his life. It seems that he has found the answers.
All of Springsteen’s work is filled with his own feelings and emotions, in these new songs more than ever. He took a big risk with even his most faithful followers when he decided to solo without the “E” Street Band, a move he almost made for Tunnel of Love but found that he was not ready to do so. I will miss the driving sound of his earlier days, but I will enjoy the new sound with enthusiasm.
His latest albums are a dramatic departure from his earlier works which featured a great rock band. Some people will undoubtedly not like the change: my friend in line at Tracks, for example. But then there are those who will listen to his music for the meaning found in it and enjoy it because of Bruce’s new outlook.
Bruce has taken a “Leap of Faith” in his new image, and some of his fans will probably feel betrayed and fall by the wayside. However, I think the majority of us will hang on and enjoy the refreshing change and be happy for Bruce now that he found that “Human Touch.”
It takes a leap of faith to get things going It takes a leap of faith you gotta show some guts
It takes a leap of faith to get things going In your heart you must trust
David Chmiel will attend law school at the University of Pittsburgh in the fall. His biggest goal in life is/was to someday write for Scholastic magazine.	□
APRIL 9,1992
5
by Cricky Kavanaugh
TA irector Reginald Bain and many others JLf have taken on the challengeofproduc-ing King Lear, one of Shakespeare’s most powerful and harrowing tragedies. King Lear is set in a primitive era and is acted out by a cast in druid-like costumes on a stage set
in stone. According to Chris Murphy, who plays the part of Edgar, Lear “is not a play... it is a spectacle.” Director Reginald Bain, who has directed four other Shakspeareian plays in his career, claims that, “Theater is an event people come to experience, not just an interpretation of a play.”
Lear promises to be exciting and moving for all who attend in that it includesagenuinesword fight with real swords, an eerie musical score and abounds with madmen, fools, storms, deceit, death and disguise. Although Lear is an ancient story told to cel
in life.
□
6
SCHOLASTIC

ebrate the memory of a King, its apocalyptic themes of destruction and conflict within family society and the individual transcend time. Bain, who sees all theater as a puzzle, bases this play’s success on his hope that it will challenge the audience to question and piece together the fragments of the broken world with which we are left at the end. The chilling last lines of the play spoken by Edgar attest to the timelessness and challenge of this play. Edgar proclaims in the aftermath of the decay of King Lear’s family
ENTERTAINMENT
tributed by the director and cast, many other important people have helped King Lear to' come off the pages of the script and into the
and kingdom that “the weight of this sad time we must obey, speak what we feel, not what we ought to say. The oldest hath bome most: We that are young shall never see so much, nor live so long.”
Many hours of preparation have been invested in this production of King Lear, which will be showing in Washington Hall from
Nick Spangler
The cast of King Lear preparing for this week's preformance.
April 8th through April 12th. In fact, Reginald Bain started this project in the spring of 1991 by researching and reading everything he could get his hands on about King Lear and its production on stage. Auditions for the play took place in early January of this semester, and rehersals began in February, the day after the completion of Our Town. Bain promises that the cast is of high caliber, and that they have worked long and hard for the five performances which will be given. In addition to the work con
theater here at Notre Dame.
The costumes, the set, the lighting, the choreography and the musical score combine to create the perfect atmosphere in which to bring the themes and characters to life. Richard F. Donnelly, of the Communication and Theater department, along with Jane Paunicka are in charge of costume design. The costumes are made of rectangular and square pieces of drab-colored material, and the dim, dark colors reinforce the experience of suffering and tragedy of the characters who wear them. The massive, spooky set designed by Bruce Auerbach reminds one of S tonehenge in that it consists of grey stone-like blocks which tower over the stage and extend upon the balcony. The
chalky lighting, also de-signed-i by Bruce Auerbach, gives thechar-acters’ faces a deathly glow as their lives proceed to self-destruct. Reginald F. Bain Jr., a graduate of Notre Dame and a professor of music . at the University of South
Carolina,is thccomposer of an original musical scorewritten expressly for this production of King Lear which puts an additional edge upon the mood of the play. According to the senior Bain, all of these factors theatrically cooperate to create a primitive environment and add a ritualistic context to theplay.
If reading
Shakespeare’s King Lear had not previously sparked your interest, sentyour imagination spinning and heart beating with suspense and anticipation, or moved you to tears, when you see iton stage it will. This production of King Lear promises to be entertaining and thought-provoking. The hard work and effort put into King Lear promises to stimulate anyone who is open to the experience. You do not have to be a Shakespeare lover or scholar in to appreciate and enjoy King Lear— you only have to be interested
NEWS
Tax Time is Back
 by Jenny Tate
Notre Dame functions, as do most educational institutions, as a non-profit organization. Yet, contrary to what one might expect, as tax season draws to a close, the university’s pocketbook will weigh somewhat less than before. This year, Notre Dame will pay apporximately $150,000 to theFederalGovemmentandanother$50,000 to the state of Indiana in taxes.
True, non-profit organizations are tax-exempt Yet even non-profit organizations mustbe registered with thelntemalRevenue Service. Air not-for-profit organizations that generate gross receipts of greater than $25,000 a year must file a Form 990, a source of IRS information concerning activities, income and expenses throughout the year. This form is tax-exempt. However, organizations such as Notre Dame must file an additional form, Form 990-T, to de-
Notre Dame, like the rest of the country, is preparing to file its annual tax return.
What does the university pay?
termine taxable income. Non-profit organizations generate taxable income through the operation of unrelated business activities.
Notre Dame’s UBI (unrelated business income) stems from any activities notdirectly engaged in for the pursuance of the organization’s exempt purpose, namely the education and welfare of its students. For example, the profits generated from certain items sold in the Bookstore, such as jewelry and crystal, constitute taxable income. Other sources of UBI include non-university related Morris Inn revenues, non-university related revenues from the golf course, rock concerts and certain summer activities conducted by other organizations who use Notre Dame facilities. As one might imagine, distinguishing between taxable
and non-taxable income can become quite a chore. “In addition to the taxes you pay, you have to keep elaborate records,” said Tom Mason, university vice-president of business affairs.
To be considered taxable, income from unrelated business activities mustmeet three
requirements. First, “the activity mustbea trade or business,” (Journal (/Accountancy, May 1988). In other words, the activity must be carried on for the production of income. Additionally, the “activity must be carried on regularly.” Finally, the “activity mustbe unrelated to the organization’s exempt purpose.”
However, certain revenue-generating activities are automatically exempt from taxes. Activities in which either all of the labor is volunteer or all of the items sold are donated are tax exempt. Yet, the stipulation that most directly affects Notre Dame concerns the Convenience Exemption under which all items sold by the university for the convenience of students are tax exempt. An example of an item falling under the “convenience exemption” would include all toiletries sold at the B ookstore. Most clothing and jewelry, even though they bear the Notre Dame logo, are not tax exempt, however. .
Not surprisingly, taxable income and non-taxable income prove to be centers of controversy as it is often difficult to distinguish between the two. The majority of the conflict stems from small businesses that resent the fact that non-profit organizations con
duct certain activities for which they are not taxed, while the small businesses are taxed for the same activities. Accounting professor James Wittenbach stresses that the issue hinges on the question of fairness. “There is a lot of concern right now in the small business community over tax-exempt organizations becoming involved in unrelated business income. Non-profit organizations
Iritis just' ahother ■ cost of doing bysi-ness. We pay whatever they determine is taxable, and it jlist becoines apart of W
cess.” :
are becoming involved in activities that compete with the small business sector,” said Wittenbach.-
Thus, tax-exempt organizations are often able to obtain a competitive advantage over private small businesses. The effects of this advantage are only intensifying as more and more organizations are declaring tax exemption. Currently, 60percentof all exempt organizations fall under the category of 501 C (3), which pertains to religious, scientific, education and other institutions. However, approximately 25 other classes of tax-exempt organizations exist.
Because of these two concerns, coupled with the fact that the US Government direly needs money, non-taxable income currently receives great scrutiny. The IRS now sends more auditors to tax-exempt organizations then ever before. “We are audited regularly by the IRS,” said Mason. “You’re always under pressure from the Federal Government, who is looking for more tax revenue, and the small businesses, who are complain
ing to their Congressmen. Universities are in the middle trying to keep their head above water,” said Mason.
Therefore, universities are finding certain activities which have rested tax exempt, to be now taxable.. Corporate-sponsored bowl games, under a recent IRS ruling, now comprise unrelated business taxable income. In essence, the universities are receivng less income per bowl appearance. Additionally, certain advertising practices which generate revenue for universities have become considered taxable UBI as have professional entertainment events sponsored by and conducted at a university facility.
Yet not all revenue generated outside of the university’s tax-exempt purpose constitutes taxable UBI. The difference between taxable and non-taxable income stems from the difference between the passive generation and the active generation of income. Passive income consists of any dividend and in terestpayments,rentandroyaltiesreceived by the university. Importantly, thus, endow-ments to the
•university are
tax-exempt. Likewise, any activity which uses university facilities butin which the university remains com-p 1 e t e 1 y uninvolved remains tax-exempt. For most universities, this rental income comprises only a small portion of their non-taxable income. “It’s tough to be passive. A lot of universities do not just want to turn their facilities over,” said Wittenbach.
^Budgeteer;
fcOhtitbr iniiOg
SINGLE
Taxes serve as nothing but an expense for any organization. And although, as Mason stated, the $150,000 is “not anything to sneeze at,” the expense is fairly negligiblein relation to the overall financial status of Notre Dame. Mason emphasizes that taxable activities should not be eliminated due to the fact that any income above taxes does constitute money which can be fed back into the university and that “no tax is 100 percent.” “It is just another cost of doing business. We pay whatever they determine is taxable, and it just becomes a part of the budgeting process,” said Mason.
Even Notre Dame must supplement the pocket of Uncle Sam. And, although the amounts are presently relatively small, increased IRS legislation concerning taxable income could affect the university down the road. The recent ruling on corporate-sponsored bowl games and the discussions concerning taxing income generated by telecasts of football games have the potential to hike Notre Dame’s tax expenses. □
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
•FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦LAUNDRY
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
8
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL
The Tournament of Teams — And Their Names
By Heather Rakoczy
Only at Notre Dame could a name like
“Five-freshmen-guys-who-get-to-gether-to-play-bookstore-basketball-and-re-alized-they-wouldn’t-go-anywhere-past-the-first-round-so-decided-to-get-a-little-recognition-by-having-one-of-the-Iongest-names-in-the-tournament-and-if-that-doesn’t-get-any-publicity-nothing-will”be attributed to a basketball team and not seem completely outlandish.
In some cases the art of team naming has become the ultimate test of talent in that contagious disease known to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s community as “Bookstore Basketball.” Devious humor has often led students to attack prominent university personalities, as evidenced by the team name “Dick Vitale, Al McGuire, Digger Phelps and two other guys who don’t know a damn thing about basketball.” There was also Bookstore XV with “Bill Buckner, Michael Jackson and three other guys who wore a glove for no reason.” Of course, there was the creativity of Bill Laimbeer at work with his team “Pope John Paul I and the Pope of the Month Club.”
It was Bookstore XIX, however, that produced one of the longest names in the history of the tournament that read “One guy who can spell onomatopoeia, one who can spell
APRIL 9,1992
antidisestablishmcntarianism, one who can spell osteoporosis, one who can spell supercalifragilisticexpealadocius and one who can spell ‘doosh’.”
How about the equally creative women’s team names such as “We-can’t-play-tonight-because-we-have-a-headache” or the flipside which reads “We-can’t-play-basketball-but-we-know-how-to-score?” The early days of coeducation created the name “5-reasons-to-go-to-Notre-Dame.”
While these names may have been a-blast from the past, their creative tradition is still fresh and alive with Bookstore XXI. The difference is that since 1982, when Dave Dziedzic was the commissioner, tournament officials tried to censor team names. Frequently, the office of student activities replaced names with numbers to avoid any problems. By 1986, students became more selective in naming their teams; still, over 100 names of the 689 teams that year were subject to censorship.
Despite thedisagreementsbetween faculty and students concerning which names were in “good taste,” the tradition could not be forsaken. So it’s time for Bookstore Basketball hysteriaagain, wherejustaboutanything goes. With the exception of the spirit of the participants and fans; the names are asecond-ary part of this 21-year-old An Tostal spring festival.
On occasion, however, the names of the teams dictate the excitement of the tournament. For instance, alumni might remember a time when “Five guys who wear body paint” would come out to the court coated from head to toe with body paint in all of the primary colors.
There was also the year of the “Human peanut butter and jelly sandwich,” which, as one might imagine, became a “sticky” affair. Security drew the line, however, at “Five guys who coat themselves in breakfast cereal.” To play basketball covered in Captain Crunch, Sugar Smacks and Cherrios is one thing, but to steal costumes from the dining j hall is quite another issue. Worst of all, this team (unintentionally but inevitably) would leave its costume’s remains on the court as a burdensome obstacle course for successive	»
teams.	j
However, original names and costumes	1
cannot necessarily be equated with success.	•
“Five guys who coat themselves in breakfast ’ cereal,” said after losing 21 -1, “It’s the first time we scored in five years!”
While not indicative of the healthy Notre Damezestfor competition, yclamusing nonetheless, there was a team known by the name	j
“Weneverpracticedeven once.”To theshock ! and dismay of all the spectators, the team lost	s
every game 21-0 forjour consecutive years. j
In keeping with annual tradition, the
9 J
"Esophagus Constrictors have never been without noteworthy antics in their sevenyear team tradition. They are best known for their perfect record—of losses. Donning a garb of white t-shirts and pocket protectors,
and armed with their calculators, this team would arrive complete with their GPA-num-bers plastered across their backs. When they were not lay ing down of the court practicing their “Ghandi Defense,” they were launching midcourt shots, careful to first calculate the wind velocity and the phase of the moon.
Butwhatabout those teams who never won and were tired of never winning? In 1981, five gentlemen from Dillon advertised in The Observer and actually “bought” a Bookstore team. Five cases of beer afforded these hardcore athletes with a valid excuse to forfeit.
Itwas this fi erce spirit of competition that be-camean o v er -whelming factor in 19 7 3 with the “Jocks V s . SMC Basket-b a 1 1 Game” which later became t h e “Jocks vs. Girls Basket-b a 1 1 Game” to in-c 1 u de
the
women
of Notre Dame as well. The varsity athletes would play against the women. Fortunately for the women, the varsity athletes were made to wear boxing gloves. Of course, the more inhibited varsity athletes would, sport a
. jock strap over straw hats as well to complete their ensemble and to further distract their opponents. The last such game, however, was played in 1977.
Also in 1977, Chris “Hawk” Stevens, a
varsity basketball player, received the “Dr. J.” Award. Stevens, a 1974 graduate, returned in 1977 to win the slam dunk competition where he was said to have dunked a pair of basketballs simultaneously. Rumor has it he was outfitted in a Pink Panther suit for his moment of glory.
Some of the other Bookstore Basketball awards include Mr. Bookstoreand Miss Bookstore, MVP, the Golden Hatchet Award (for the player who commits the most flagrant fouls), the Hoosier Award (for the player who shoots the most and scores the least) and
MattCashore
The tradition continues on the Booksotore courts with "Have That!" vs. "Nuts.”
the Iron Man Award (for the hustling masochist).
The Iron Man Award of 1977, for example, was given to Jeff Carpenter, who was a varsitybasketball player who insisted on partici
pating in the tournament with a broken collarbone. Also created in 1977 was the AllDevine Team (later the All-Faust Team and now the All-HoltzTeam) which consisted of football players with outstanding perfor
mances in the tournament.
Of course, the awards have never been a necessary part of the tournament; they are simply part of the fun and frenzy. In 1973,for instance, the Mr. Bookstore title was shared for the only time in the history of the tournament. The recipients were Pete and Paul Clemens, twin non-varsity athletes. One of the twins recalled the prestige that accompanied such an award: “I do remember how we found out that we had won; I read it in The Observer at lunch a couple of days after the tournament had ended.” So much for their
vanity and glory.
A n -otherbit o f award trivia: t h e Golden Hatchet Award has not always been known by that name. A var-s i t y football player, Dave Hullman, r e -ceived this award in both t h e 19 7 8
a n d 19 7 9 tournaments; as a result, the award was temporarily renamed the“Dave Huffman Golden Hatchet Award” since he exemplified the very essence of the honor. Brian Enrightwas the only other recipient to hold the title of
10
SCHOLASTIC
repeat winner (or offender, as the case may be) in 1983 and 1984.
Of course, Bookstore Basketball has retained some structure and decorum in spite of the many antics that accompany it. What began as 53 teams has grown into a recordbreaking 704 teams this year, making Bookstore XXI the largest basketball tournament in the world.
The teamsproceed through this singleelimination set up into the sixteen sectionals (often called “sextionals” and named after a “hot babe of the moment” such as Christy Brinkley, Cybil Sheperd or Brooke Shields) or sometimes still called “sectionals” and creatively tagged Stepan Sectional, Infirmary Sectional, or St. Joseph’s Lake Sectional and the like. The teams advance into the four regionals named after the first four commissioners: Vince Meconi, “Bone” Tim Bourret, Leo Lalz and Rob Simari.
Il was Fritz Hoefer and Vince Meconi together, however, who brainstormed the concept of Bookstore Basketball. Though it was originally developed as “a competition that would rise above the fun-and-games events of An Tostal and appeal to the athletes on campus; it was the first An Tostal event with a serious athletic character” as an April 1987 Scholastic article so states.
In 1973, however, Meconi saw the need to create some eligibility rules for the second annual tournament. Teams were allowed only one Notre Dame basketball player to each team. Later the rules stated that a set total of three varsity athletes could participate on a given team.
Bookstore Basketball was originally cal led the “BookstoreHysteriaToumament.” Over the years, the location of the final games has moved from behind the bookstore to behind the JACC to the present local of Stepan courts.
One thing that has not changed, however, is the date of the finals. The games have always been played on the last day of An Tostal week, a Sunday. In both 1981 and 1987, ESPN requested to televise the finals. Since ESPN wanted to show the finals liveon a Tuesday, the Bookstore commissioners refused. Tradition wouldnotbe compromised.
Bookstore Basketball was originally run according to the rules generally usedin “pickup” games on campus. Meconi, commissioner at the time, said the tournament was to “feature the style of ball which is character-
Notre Dame Women get in the game too!
At Stepan courts, "5 Degrees & No Jobs" vs. "R. A. Hos."
istic of games here at Notre Dame.” Later, rules stipulated that games would be played to 21 and a two point margin was required for a victory. Games have been played regardless of the weather with only two exceptions in the history of the tournament. Characteristically, referees have been provided for the final playoffs, a best-of-three series.
An integral part of the tradition today is the Hall of Fame Game which began with Book-storeXIin 1982. This game usually kicks off the tournament. An Irish varsity player from
1961 to 1963, Father Malloy can usually be spotted on the courts. In 1987, he headed a team featuring “All the President’s Men.”
What began as an An Tostal attempt at serious competition has turned into a conglomeration of creativity, fun, frenzy and the continued hysteria over Bookstore Basketball, one of the greatest tournaments in the country — or at least at Notre Dame. □
Special thanks to Mary Beth Sterling ‘81 for her lime and research.
APRIL 9,1992

Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Colin Clary at 239-7569.
if
Thursday 9
Performance: “King Lear," Washington Hall. 8:10 pjn. $7.
Movie: “Tlx: Godfather Part III." Science Hall, St. Mary's College. 8:00 pjn.
Performance: "Dance & More," Little Theatre, St. Mary's College. 8:00 pjn.
Movie: "Princess Bride." 8:00 & 10:30 pjn. Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Performance: Faculty Voice Recital, Patrick Maloney. Suite, 7:30 p.m.
Lecture: Canonicity and Its Critics, "the Classics and Multiculturalism: Alliance of Misalliance," Hesburgh Library Lounge. 8:00 p.m.
Friday 10
Performance: “King Lear/ Washington Hall. 8:10 pjn. $7.
Lecture; “Religious Bigotry and the Moonies," Room 124 Center foe Social Concerns. 12:15 pjn. (Brown bag or soup and bread for $1.)
Lecture: “Fools Rush In: The Saga of a Physicist in Urban Math-Sciencc Education.' Room 127, Nieuland, 4:20 p.m.
Jazz Festival: J.A.C.C., 7:30 pjn.
Baseball: Notre Dame vs. Evansville.
Covcleski Stadium, 7:30 pjn.
Lecture: "A Prisoner of Conscience in the Soviet Union." Galvin Life Science ■ Auditorium, 7:30 pjn.
Film: "Boyz N The Hood," 7:30 & 9:45 pjn., Suite, $2.
Movie: “JFK," Cushing, 8:00 pjn., $2.
Lecture: "From Quarks to Cosmology," Library Auditorium, 8:00 pjn,
Saturday 11
Performance: "King Lear," Washington Hall. 8:10 p jn. S7.
Performance: "Dance & More," Little Theatre, St. Mary's College. 8:00 pjn. Storytelling: "Who’s In That Frame and Who's Ori The Pedestal?" Suite, 10:30 a.m. Jazz Festival: J A.C.C. 1:00 pjn. & 7:30 p.m.
Baseball: Notre Dame vs. Evansville, Jake Kline Field, 1:00 pjn.
Film: "BoyzN The Hood," 7:30 & 9:45 p ju., Suite, $2.
Movie: "JFK," Cushing, 8:00 pjn., $2. Tennis: SMC vs. Taylor, Tennis Courts, SMC, 1:00 p.m.
Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Mt. St. Mary's, Krause Stadium, 2:00 pjn.

LaFortune InformationDesk
239-8128 -
Student Union Board: 239-7757 239-7354
SophomoreClass:239-5225
JA®C Ticket Information:
Junior Class: ;^9^51	3 -
Shite FilmSenes®
Weekend Wheels Schedule: > % 2
. 3 V. •	.k	-P--PV o-.:	-’-f::	■ • • ..
;.pial|||!|Oiil
xM||tethe music iine|s£|i3dbfbr^
x 2117 for theatre info
x 13 01 for TV sports even ts
x 1303 for national sports report
X 2525 for college events x 1213 for world news
^Sunday 12
Tuesday 14
TOUCH
FOUR
Performance: "King Lear," Washington Hall. 3:10 p.m. 17.
Sixth Annua! Fisher Hall Regatta: St. Mary's Lake, 11:00 ajn.
SL Edwards Hall Charity Carnival: Noon-6:00 p.m.
: Performance: "Dance & More," Little
; Theatre, St. Mary's College. 7:30 p.m. Concert: St Thomas Liturgical Choir, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8:00 p jtl
Monday 13
Mlme: Notcd mime artist Trent Arterbcrry does his thing, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m.,
S8.	' •
Mime: Noted mime artist Trent Arterberry docs his thing, Washington Hall, 8:10 pan., $8.
Film: "Rosemary's Baby," 7:00 pjn., Suite, $2.
Film: "Bangin' With The Homeboys," 9:30 p.m., Suite, $2,
Coming Soon
An Tostal!!!
Movie Theatres

Brian, Colin, & Vince are performing every where...soon.	ftww by NickSp«i<hr
100 Center Cinema I & II:
Scottsdale Theatre
Town ^ Country Theatre: < - 259-9^
University Park Cinema East
University Park CinemaWest:



FOnimT & IIC
Which Way
Would You Go?
Three Notre Dame baseball players put the pros on hold so that they can pursue the college experience
By John Regruth
£1 ince ESPN began televising O theCollegeWorldSeriesade-cade ago, the popularity and, consequently, the power of top-notch college baseball programs has soared. Many stars who traditionally signed professional contracts straight out of high school are today finding the college option harder to bypass.
In addition to adegree, many play-; ers are discovering that a quality ‘ baseball education can be obtained i on the college campus. The level of Notre Dame’s baseball program, - according to coach Pat Murphy, is ; comparable to long season Class A ; baseball at the professional level. 2 The combination of a college educa-2 tion and a quality baseball program - is enough for Murphy to lure some - of the best young talent to South ; Bend.
;	“College offers a chance to get an
* education, to become abetter person 2 and to improve as a baseball player,” i said Murphy. “Pro baseball can I only make you a better baseball ■ player. I believe college is defi-; nitely the route for an 18-year-old ; who cares about his future.” :	Paul Failla, a freshman Notre
■ Dame baseball player who chose college over a contract with the Kansas City Royals, concurs.
Freshman Paul Failla chose college over a professional
Notre Dame.
However, besides being another option for high school phenoms, a college scholarship gives draft choices leverage in negotiations with his new pro team. Once a player attends his first college class, the team that drafted him can no longer sign him. Also, once a player enters college, he cannot be drafted again until after his junior year. Therefore, a player can, in effect, use college as a tool to test his worth to a particular team. This development has pushed signing bonuses higher and has caused alarm among the management ranks in professional baseball.
Two highly publicized cases of high school players using college to strengthen their positions in negotiations have occurred over the past two years. In 1990, Todd Van Poppel, aright-handed flamethrower from Arlington, Texas, announced his intention to attend Texas University and postpone his major league career. Because of his announcement,mostpro teams passed him up in the draft except the Oakland Athletics^ The A’s took a chance that
Mari okuda Could persuade Van Poppel to
contract. "To an 18-year-dld, the money can be very seductive, but I knew I couldn't lose if I went to college.'
join their organization by offering him enough money. The plan
“You have to choose which route is more responsible. To an 18-year-old, the money can be very seductive, but I knew I couldn’t lose if I went to college.” 14
worked and Van Poppel signed fora
Tim Kraus, a right-handed pitcher chosen $1.2 million signing bonus.
in the 11th round by the San Francisco Gi- Last year, the draft’s very first pick, leftants, and outfielder Steve Verduzco, a fifth handed pitcher Brien Taylor, coaxed $.1.55
round pick for the Philadelphia Phillies, also million out of the New York Yankees by turned down professional contracts to attend threatening to go to Louisburg Junior Col-SCHOLASTIC
lege, ihe Yankees, desperate tor pitching and wary to waste a first round pick, capitulated to Taylor’s demands after twelve weeks of often bitter negotiations. Without college as a viable option, neither Van Poppel nor Taylor could have attracted such high bids.
Kraus, Verduzco and Failla said they used college for bargaining power, too, though generally only players drafted in the first three rounds have success with the ploy.
“We waited for offers (from the Giants),” said Kraus, whose injured right elbow affected San Francisco’s dealings with him. “We waited until just before classes started, but felt that the offer wasn’t comparable to what Notre Dame offers.”
Failla said his dealings with pro baseball changed after he decided to attend college.
“After I signed a letter of intent it was like another recruiting period. Basically, it was up to [a professional team] to make an offer I couldn’t refuse. [TheRoyals]madeafairoffer but it’s hard to put a price tag on Notre Dame and the college experience.”
Because the current rules pressure pro teams to make offers that meet the demand of the player before classes start, a tension is rising between pro and college recruiters as they compete for the same talent. For instance, Failla said that the Royals’ negotiators “talked down college and talked up playing in the minors” to persuade him to sign. Verduzco encountered similar tactics from the people representing the Phillies.
“Their initial offer included money to cover college tuition which gives the impression that they ’re concerned about youreducation. They also made promises about life insurance and being on the 40-man roster,” he said.
Murphy, who spent five years in the minor leagues, said he isn’t surprised by the gambits of pro teams.
“The bottom line in professional baseball is attendance, getting people in the park. It’s a business. But, they try to align themselves with education” to show they care about the player’s future.
Steve Verduzco (above) and Tim Kraus (below) have chosen Notre Dame over the Major Leagues.
Mari Okuda
i he most drastic, and perhaps illegal, measure that major league baseball is considering to maintain control is a newly proposed rule which could govern the future drafting ofplayers. Management isproposing to change the length of time a team can hold rights to a drafted player from the current one year to five years. With such a rule, a team could let a player attend college without any worries of losing him.
The owners, of course, will argue for both the rule’s fairness and necessity. A player can attend college if education is really his top priority and, because management will no longer be pressured to shell out huge sums of money in signing bonuses to keep a draft pick from going to college, the rule would prove to be fiscally responsible in increasingly chaotic financial times. The major league players union, however, will likely attack any such rule heavily because of the threat it poses to the relatively few freedoms and scant bargaining power of young players.
In a larger context, the proposed rule also threatens collegebaseball as a whole. If a professional team holds the rights to a player on a college baseball team, how much control can it yield over a college coach? For instance, if the Giants had the rights to Kraus while he attended Notre Dame and felt that he was being overpitched or under-worked, could they pressure Murphy into changing his handling of the situation? For obvious reasons, Murphy sees problems if the rule goes into effect.
“The aims of the two levels are different. The pros develop baseball players while we try to develop people. The pros can’t tell college how to run itself. Each should let the other run itself,” he said.
Despite all the maneuvering of pro baseball, Kraus, Failla and Verduzco will not be affected immediately by the new rule if it is approved. They, along with the other freshmen, cannot be drafted until June, 1994. Their prospects of being drafted seem high considering that since Murphy took over four years ago, every player who was drafted out of high school but chose to come to Notre Dame instead has been drafted again.	□
April 9,1992
15
_____:____SPORTS____:___
A Surprising Success
After a slow start, the Notre Dame hoopsters hit their stride and earned a
By Nick Mathews
trip to NYC and the finals of the NIT
resulted in multiple turnovers. With a
This will be the country's most-watched, most-inspected, most nit-picked program. Gary Nuhm’s words in Street and Smith’s college basketball preview (a.k.a. “the bible” to basketball aficionados) describe the anticipation with which the 1991 -92 Irish basketball team was awaited. A myriad of questionmarks loomed: Would Phonz remain elligible? How would head coach John MacLeod make the transition back to the college game? Would the bench be able to step up after combining to average an undernourished total of 7.8 points per game the previous season? How would the freshman class respond to being thrown into the fire? In addition to these uncertainties, the Notre Dame schedule was the most difficult in the country, with virtually no cupcake teams (a fact basketball guru. Dick Vitale - made painfully aware nearly every night on ’ ESPN). Moreover, this schedule contained a highly irregular spacing of games. Luckily for the Irish, MacLeod did not look at the ; schedule before accepting the job as head : coach. What Notre Dame basketball fans i expected was survival. What they received - was much, much more.
; MacLeod ushered in a new era of Notre 7 Dame basketball by discarding Digger ; Phelps’ frustratingly patient style of play and ; implementing an uptempo offense comple-
record of 1-5, the Irish found themselves digging a very deep hole. Over theholidays, however, the team began to click as it notched victories on the road against USC, LaSalle and North Carolina. Although they were to remain somewhat inconsistent throughout the remainder of the season, this string of wins marked a turning point for the Irish where they proved that they could run it with anyone. Overall, Notre Dame defeated seven teams ranked at some point during the season in the AP Top 25: USC, UNC, DePaul, Stanford, Syracuse, St. John’s and UCLA. At times, the excitement spread and the J.A.C.C. lived up to its billing as the Thunderdome.
When all was said and done, the Irish season proved to be a very surprising and welcome success. The NCAA Tournament, a distant dream after the dismal start, ended up one technical foul away from reality (a foul assessed to MacLeod after his response to a very questionable nocall in the final seconds against DePaul). Instead, the Irish turned their
Matt Cashore
LaPhonso Ellis became the first Irish player in over twenty years to join the 1000/1000 Club.
focus and chanelled their intensity to the NationallnvitationalToumament. This tournament proved that Notre Dame was a hard floor force, as the Irish pummelled foe after
mented by an intense man-to-man defense, foe and literally threw a “block party” that
' The running attack had mixed results through' out the season, yet it provided the fans with - excitement and the players with opportuni; ties to showcase their talents. The senior ; trifecta of LaPhonso Ellis, Elmer Bennett I and Daimon Sweet flourished in the new : system as they displayed an aerial attack ' filled with backdoor alley-oops and shot blocks into the seats.
■ The new system was not an immediate success, however. At the start, the Irish
; struggled. As their intensity on defense wavered, the result was easy baskets for opponents. Mental mistakes during fast breaks
included ten rejections against Western Michigan and twelve against Kansas State before falling to a tough Virginia team led by All-American Bryant Stith.
The trifecta leaves Notre Dame with a plethora of memories for Irish fans from its senior year. Who can forget Elmer Bennett flushing it on Manhattan’s unsuspecting Keith Bullock, or LaPhonso Ellis soundly fouling DePaul’s David Booth to prevent a dunk in the waning moments of a Notre Dame win, or Daimon Sweet finalizing a perfectly timed alley-oop against the Tarheels?
LaPhonso Ellis, in particular, had NBA written across his chest this season. Ellis shot a sizzling seventy percent in his last fifteen games while leading the team in rebounds in each of those games, making him the first Notre Dame player in over twenty years to join the 1000/1000 Club (points and rebounds). In addition, he set career and game highs for blocks and recorded twenty-one double-doubles on the year. Many of these points came on monster jams, as Ellis slammed home over seventy dunks this season.
With the leadership and determination of the seniors, this year’s squad overcame a great deal of adversity en route to winning eighteen games, thereby rising above all expectations and restoring pride to the Notre
Dame basketball program.
□
te
SCHOLASTIC
i
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Andy Zurcher: Zurcher, a junior from Parker, CO, defeated the University of Wisconsin's Brian Nelson at the number- one-singles slot by a score of 7-5, 6-3. Zurcher's win was one of many tight matches in a4-2 Fighting Irish Men's Tennis Team victory. Zurcher also won his match against West Virginia's Manolo Moure by amore comfortable marrgin of 6-4,6-3. Zurcher, the49th -ranked singles player in the country, performed under the pressure of the top seed. He and his teammates played in a jumbled lineup due to an ankle injury suffered by Mark Schmidt.	.
...
Melissa Linn: Linn, a senior pitcher for the Fighting Irish Softball Team from Allentown, PA, posted a 1 -0 shutout win over Evansville last weekend. Linn came within one pitch of throwing a perfect game, but the opportunity was spoiled in the sixth inning when the Purple Aces recorded their one and only hit - a little dribbler down the third base line. Linn now has a record of 7-7. She posted five strikeouts in the game. Two years ago, as a sophomore, Linn did throw a perfect game in rain shortened contest that lasted the official five innings.
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!


Over 30 Locations In The Michiana Area!

B
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
lining had recipes and Vdgme that Supreme Court justice’
Baring an A for an A
Will some people stop at nothing to distinguish themselves from the other masses in class in order to get an A? Apparently not, since a student at the University of Oklahoma recently bared it all in a streak across campus as part of a class project, according to The National On-Campus Report. Professor Linda Wilcox told her sociology class to go out and break a social norm and then write a paper explaining the reactions they encountered. “I didn’t want them to do anything illegal,” she said. The student apparently tried to communicate with a wide variety of people as he ran across the South Oval. The only thing he was sporting was “Honk if you love Jesus” scrawled across his chest. A copy of the paper was unavailable at the time of this writing.
A summer of intelligence at Miami
Turn mystery meat into mystery meat with tasty sauce
Some ingenious students at prestigious Yale University have come up with a few alternatives to the daily helping of Noodle Kiigel, according to the College Press Service. “Tray Gourmet: Be Your Own Chef in the College Cafeteria’* is a cookbook by students Larry Berger and Lynn Harris that tries to turn that brown funk on your plate into something edible using only a micro wave, salad bar and condiments. However, not everything sounds as delictible as the original dish. For example, institutional roast beef should be dressed with "peanut butter, Wostershire sauce, lemon juice, sugar . or honey, soy sauce and a dash of ginger.” Hungry? How about some Nietzche’s Nachos, Chinese Peanut Pasta, Plato ’ s Pita Pocket, Holy Guacamole, Je ne sais.pas crepes and Pita Fajitas. Unfortunately, not all dining hall treats can be slavaged. Stir fry beef and peppers, however, was termed inedible toxic refuse.
Just another cheap and easy subject to rip on the University of Miami appeared in The Hurricane, the playschool’s newspaper. Yes, you too can earn three Miami credits by signing up for the summer session’s “Writing a Love Letter” offered by the Department of Foriegn Languages and Literatures. Students will read Laclo’s Les Liasons Dangereuses and Rousseau’s La Nouvelle Heloise and be required to compose their very own passionate note. Popular reaction to the class may result in its being offered during the fall semester. Continuing in this tradition, Miami hopes to offer “Getting Dressed” and “Campus Newspaper Reading” to help round out the basics in life.
So you’re from New York? New England’s so nice
Here’s a painful blow to one of the largest public university systems in the world (and education in general), according to The National On-Campus Report. In a recent quiz, only one person in a class of 50 could name all nine U.S. Supreme Court justices. The pop quiz, given to a class of juniors and seniors at the State University of New York at Albany, also yielded three students who failed to name one Supreme Court justice. To top it off, one student submitted “Susan Dey” of L. A. Law fame in place of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. Now, as you slurp down your frogurt, try and beat theS.U.N.Y. system.
They kneaded each other, but she was toast.
Edited by Mike Owen
J&EOWU. MJ McMUFfW
Ine murit MUrhHini h Sty j»mr hungry.

APRIL 9,1992
19
'Owamely UmsjpaiHBdl lbj ©olhim smdl
;.; I Some off-the-wall clips from SPY magazine return this week to spice up your dining pleasure (or drinking pleasure, whichever the ; - case may be). This week, it’s a comparison of two of the most -2 - charismatic organizations in the world— the Billy Graham Crusade 27; and The Grateful Dead. Unfortunately, it is still unclear whether -; Jerry Garcie duly is God, man. In addition, we have actress Sean 2 - . Young losing her mind and Guns 'n Roses guitarist Slash losing his : cookies. Check it out.
Born Again, Forever Dead
The most profane city in the world can occasionally play host to the sacred: One week this fall, 250,000 people flocked to see the Reverend Billy Graham Crusade in Central Park and 170,000 attended nine Grateful Dead concerts at Madison Square Garden. We wondered how the spiritual lives of these two feverishly devoted groups of worshipers compared.
What is the nature of God?
Lewis, Grahamite-. “God is a spirit, and we’re told we’ve got to worship Him in spirit and truth.”
Fred, Deadhead: “God is, I guess, religion's top figure.”
Have you ever had a revelatory experience?
Karen, Grahamite: “Sometimes, reading the Bible every now and then, something will strike me as new or will be revealed to me although I’ve read the same passage many times.”
Pele, Deadhead: “I was watching the watergobyandsitting withmy friends, and it was like a big connection sort of thing, and everything just came together, and I was, like, ‘Wow, you know?’” Shannon, Grahamite: “I came to a point in my life'when I realized I couldn’t make it on my own, and there was no way for me to get to Heaven, and [that] I was a sinner. I turned to the Bible and asked God into my heart.”
Bob, Deadhead: “I got really bombed one night, and a cop drove me home instead of arresting me. I think that was an act of God.”
What is the highest goal to which people can aspire?
Ernest, Grahamite,: “To love your fellow neighbor as yourself.” Pete, Deadhead: “Loving yourself as you love others.”
Is any passage in the Bible/a Dead song particularly meaningful to you?
Drew, Grahamite: ‘“He has given us authority to trample over scorpions and snakes and principalities and powers, and nothing by any means shall harm us.’”
Marion, Deadhead: “‘Ashes, ashes, all fall down.’”
The Usual Suspects
Shortly before her guerrilla invasion of the Warner Bros, lot, where she tried to terrorize Tim Burton into casting her in the sequel to Batman, jittery madwoman-actress Sean Young attended a videocassette-distributors’ convention for the purpose of publicizing the video release of herrecent flopAAj^Be^	Spotting
a poster for another springtime clunker already out on video—The Hard Way, starring her psychological victim and ex-lover James Woods — Young bounded up to the poster, defaced Woods’ likeness with a Hitler mustache and other unflattering scrawls and then skulked away, giggling like an inpatient.
On a warm evening not long ago, guitarist Slash emerged alone from The Ritz-Carlton hotel on West 59th Street, presumably to reoxygenate his bourbon-soaked brain. While he was swigging from a half-empty bottle of whiskey Jim Monison-s tyle, brushing his hair out of his face and trying in vain to prop himself up against the hotel’s facade, a middle-aged couple walking by vaguely recognized him as somekind of celebrity. The wife shouted, “Excuse me, are you in a rock band?” Amazingly, the former junkie replied lucidly. “Yeah, Guns ‘n Roses,” he said. “I’ve never heard of that band,” parried the skeptical matron. Slash produced a small duffel bag bearing the band’s logo, pointed to it and said, “Look: Guns 'n Roses.” The woman, still not entlirely satisfied, asked, “So who would that make you?” “Slash!” the guitarist replied, annoyed but still helpful. “I’m SZajA, man!” At that point, a handler came out of the hotel’s lobby and piloted the guitarist back in.
20
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
“©TQglfe ©©') Sth©
© r© © fc © J® 9
Roger Hipp bids farewell to Week in Distorion and the bizarre yet lovable Notre Dame family
I A s Dick Vitale might say, “Break out j	/Y thecrackers,baby! It’s Velveeta time!”
After three years of writing for “Week in Distortion,” this is my last column, and I have positively no qualms about smothering it with cheese.
t I used to get annoyed at the farewell col-■	umns that begin popping up this time of year
‘ like... lik e... (Oh, supply your own simile, t I graduate in a month and I’m too apathetic ; to think of one.) After all, why should underclassmen be interested in words of wisdom from people who might have puked on them as recently as the last SYR? But now it’s my turn, nay, my duty to impart My Insightful Thoughts and Reflections About My Four Years Under the Dome.
You know You're getting old when...
... you’re not in PLS but you drink coffee with your dinner.
... you identify more with Bert than Ernie.
... you identify more with Homer Simpson than Bart Simpson.
... you don’t include your social security number whenever you write or say your name.
... your bathroom is less than 300 feet from r your bedroom.
... you realize your stereo picks up AM stations. '
*	... you check the box marked “unemployed”
instead of “student.”
What I’ve gotten out of writing this column : One S YR date, one hate letter, and two anonymous hate messages (so far) on my answering machine. This hasn’t exactly been the explosion of public attention I hoped for, but it’s probably for the best. My rela-
APRIL 9,1992
five obscurity during my college years will make it hard for the opposition to find dirt on me when I run for President.
I’ve also gotten this impressive entry on my resumd: “Humor Writer, Scholastic, the official student magazine of the University of Notre Dame, a National Catholic Research (that’s right, dammit — I said RE-
What Tve gqtteii out] ofwritingthiscolumn:
Oiie SYR date, w hate letter? and twoi anonymous hate ines-sages; (so far) on iny; answering niachine. 1
SEARCH!) Institution. Provided oodles of knee-slapping fun to the entire Notre Dame family or would have if they had bothered to read my column.”
My vision for the research university: If the powers that be are really serious about getting an invitation to join the Ivy League, they need to do more than invent slogans and siphon undergraduate financial aid money to the graduate schools. They need to shut down the undergraduate schools entirely. If there weren’t any pesky
undergrads running around, no one could question the university’s commitment to churning out journal articles and getting government grants. The change would be temporary, just long enough to balance things out—say the next 150 years. Of course, we would keep a few undergraduates around: the football team and (after we join the Ivy League and can earn an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament) the men’s basketball team. Father Sorin would be so proud.
My thoughts about our commencement speaker: Somepeoplehave been saying that having President Bush talk at us for a few minutes constitutes an endorsement of his candidacy by the university. I wonder if these people think that the Baltimore Orioles and Major League Baseball endorsed the GOP ticket by letting the President throw out the first ball on opening day. Some people think that the President is coming to score political points with Catholics. Somehow I don ’ t see this passage appearing in the history books: “Bush’s election prospects looked shaky until, six months before the election, he gave a commencement speech at that well-known Catholic Research Institution, the University of Notre Dame. Immediately he surged in the polls. Come November, American Catholics voted in record numbers, unanimously, for Bush. □
And finally, my(andLouisXV’s) lastwords to the underclassmen: Apres moi, le deluge.
Roger Hipp isaproud member of the Sesqui-centennial Class and will cherish his lastfew weeks in Dillon Hall.
21
/T8 42- 1-9.9 2?
LlrJvefiity of Noire Dome

Glancing Back
Over the years, students have shown concern over university housing, not just recently in light of Pangborn's conversion
compiled by Margaret Kenny
TTTith last semester’s announcement of VV the conversion ofPangbom Hall from a male dormitory to a female residence hall, there has been much discussion around campus about the tradition that is inherent to a dorm at the University of Notre Dame. Therefore ... what others have said about some of the dorms over the years:
On October 1,1954, Scholastic published an article covering the announcement of the construction ofPangborn Hall.
Plans for a new $800,000 residence hall were announced during September, by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S .C., president of the university. The building, which wii provide campus living accomodations for 200 upperclassmen, has been largely made possible by a generous benefaction of Thomas W. Pangbom and John C. Pangbom, through the Pangborn Foundation, Hagerstown, Md.
“With the marked increase in enrollment in recent years,” Father Hesburgh said, “the university has found it imposssible to provide campus residence facilities for all its students. The construction ofPangbom Hall will enable many students who formerly lived off-campus to share more fully in the life and spirit of Notre Dame. I know I speak for generations of Notre Dame men in expressing the university’s gratitude to Thomas Pangbom and John Pangbom for their magnificent gift.”
Pangborn Hall, which will be Notre
Dame’s fifteenth campus residence building, is to be erected on the new quadrangle between Fisher Hall and the Rockne Memorial. Designed by the Chicago architecture firm of Holabird, Root and Burgee, the buff brick building will be a tasteful blend of modem functional and collegiate Gothic architecture. The structure will include 100 doublerooms, a chapel and recreation room. Construction will begin this month and the building will be ready for occupancy in September, 1955.
Completion ofPangbom Hall will follow that of the Roy Hammes Shopping Center. Construction has started on the Badin Bog building which will house abookstore, clothing store and other recreational facilities.
The Pangborn brothers operate the Pangbom Corporation, Hagerstown, MD., one of the world’s largest manufacturers of blast cleaning and dust control equipment. Thomas Pangbom is a member of the advisory council for science and engineering at the university and a trustee of the Catholic University of America. Through the Pangbom Foundation, which the brothers created in 1945, numerous grants have been made for charitable, religious, scientific and educational purposes.
Later that month, the magazine covered the living conditions on the "Goldcoast.”
In 1909 the “aristocrats” of Notre Dame’s student body were clamoring formore comfortable living quarters. The university answered their pleas with a new building — Walsh Hall.
The elite who became residents of Walsh were more than satisfied with their surroundings and promptly dubbed Walsh the “Goldcoast.”
Suites of rooms consisting of a study, two bedrooms and a bath were available to those who could afford it. Mosaic hallways, inset sinks, gigantic closets and enclosed marble showers made Walsh blue-bloods happy.
All the woodwork in the hall is solid oak which is great for keeping the noise in or out, as the case may be. The new hall even had — of all things — an elevator.
In its early days, Walsh was the only hall on campus with a recreation room. After dinner the “Gentlemen of Walsh,” as they liked to be called, could be found scanning the quadrangle for freshmen they could dupe into becoming pinboys. That’s right, these lucky people even had a bowling alley in the basement.
Until 1920 smoking was forbidden in the rooms in the residence halls but this didn’t bother the Walshmen. They found their brass bed posts made excellent ashtrays after the round balls on the ends of the posts were removed.
From 1921 to 1925 the department of speech held their classes in the lounge of Walsh’s basement now.occupied by the Knights of Columbus. A few years later the bowling alley was closed. The men of Walsh could go into town now wothout special permission from the rector and besides the freshmen were demanding union wages for setting pins.
From 1940 to 1945 Walsh became the “Good Ship Walsh.” The naval R.O.T.C. unit took over the entire hall, in fact Sorin
22
SCHOLASTIC
Hall was the only hall on campus not turned over to R.O.T.C. units. The “swabbies” installed new lighting throughout the hall, rewiring the entire building in the process. They also ripped out the drinking fountains in the hallways and extended the fire escapes to the ground level.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., supervised the entire renovation of Walsh’s chapel in 1950. It now ranks among the most beautiful on campus. The renovation was made possible by a $10,000 grant from the parents of the late Jack Donahue, a former Walshite. Walsh rector, Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., centers the spiritual life of the men of Walsh around this chapel.
Today, the residents of Walsh still point with pride to their hall. Its bay-windowed rooms and convenient location are unique features. An indoor driving range and four ping pong tables have also been added to the recreation room.
And Walsh residents are still talking about their prize-winning homecoming display. Walsh teamwork came, through again — according to the Walshmen.; .
In past years the residents of Walsh have been active in nearly all campus activities. This year’s crop of 210 seniors is no exception and has more than its share of “big men on campus.”	.
Any way you look at Walsh, it’s a pretty good hall to live in. Rev, Thomas Walsh, C.S.C., the hall’s namesake, and president of the university from 1891 to 1893, must be proud of “his boys.”
On October 7, 1966, Scholastic named Carroll men as "the best conditioned men on campus” due to the.exercise they exert simply walking to and from class.
Just imagine, a hall with its own gym and playing fields, huge lakefront rooms, a carpeted lobby and easy access to. both South Bend and SMC. A dream'of the future? Not
for the 103 residents of Carroll (formerly Dujarie) Hall. All these comforts are being enjoyed now and with only a few complaints about such minor items as no heat, hot water or electricity. Since Carroll is the only hall with bike parking problems (i.e., no racks), many residents are thinking of applying for off-campus car privileges to shorten the distance to classes. But despite all these hardships, the men of Carroll Hall stand straight and firm, endowed with thatpioneer spiritof old, ready to respond to every challenge. Challenges like getting to those 8:30’s and foraging for their food in the distant South Dining Hall. One thing for sure — those with the gumption to last through the long, hard winter will be thebest conditioned men on campus.
Dillon is lauded by Scholastic for its innovative section system in November, 1966.
With the dubious distinction of residing in the largest Catholic men’s residence hall in theUnitedStates, theresidentof Dillon Hall had seemed resigned to his fate of forever living in anonymity among 440 colleagues. But last spring 30 Dillon students determined to reconstruct the hall, to make it seem more like a home than an overnight bunker.
They turned to the section system. By breaking down the hall into groups of manageable size, they hoped a fellowship could develop that had been lacking. To even acquaint with 440 neighbors was not only impossible but in a way frighteningly superficial; to meet30 nearby students was a more humble, promising enterprise.
Now the sections meet together regularly, discuss issues, have dinner, plan parties, discipline those straying from the fold and even naturally preserve a semblance of silence during prime study time. Numerous friendships have been formed among section members, and the fellowship initially
desired now seems largely realized.
On March 1,1968, an editorial questioned the motives of the administration concerning the construction of two new high-rise dormitories.
The university is building two new high-rise dormitories north of the library. These dorms will alleviate the overcrowded living conditions and enable many off campus to return to campus.
However many students are afraid that when these buildings are completed, the administration will coerce students to live on campus. We agree with Fr. Hesburgh that Notre Dame is and should be a residential university. But the administration does not realize that there are many valid reasons for living off-campus. Many students do not wanttolivein cramped roomsand besubject and be subject to the restrictions on cars and girls in the room. If, when the dorms are completed, on-campus living becomes more attractive, people will return. But these decisions should be left up to the individual student. If a student chooses to live off-campus it does not necesarily mean he will take no interest in the university. On the contratry, the extra freedom offered by living off-campus may increase his awareness and responsibility.
In addition, living off-campus should encourage the students to become more involved in the problems of South Bend. The university should not be a place of seclusion where the student ignores the problems of the outside world. This is the effect of forcing students to live on-campus,
;	Aresidential university cannotbebuiltby
force.	□
—All information previously published by Scholastic.
APRIL 9,1992
23
by Dave Chmiel
ND.!
24
■ □
SCHOLASTIC
We want your money.”
The Fourth Annual St
Edward's Charity Carnival
On Sunday, April 12, Fisher Hall will be sponsoring its sixth annual Regatta on Saint Mary’s Lake. The Regatta is always a great event, demonstrating the innovation and spirit of each dorm, and this year will undoubtedly be no different. As you all turn out for this event, you might notice something going on up on top of Holy Cross Hill, the St. Ed’s Charity Carnival.
In the spring of 1989, the residents of St. Ed’s decided that they wanted to do something for the local charities and causes in the community while at the-same time, providing the students of the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary’s community with some fun. But what? Fisher had its Regatta, Keenan had the Revue, and Sorin already does a yearly talent show. Whatever we were going to do had to be fun and able to attract a lot of people, but it seemed that most of the really good ideas were taken, except for one. And thus was bom the Carnival.
While the Carnival bears my dorm’s name, it is hardly just a single dorm event The success of the Carnival is dependent on the support of all the dorms and many campus organizations. Each dorm on cam
Dave Chmiel was the 1991-1992 Scholastic Advertising Manager and will be attending law school at the
University of Pittsburgh next year.
pus is invited to sponsor a game booth at the Carnival. Prizes are awarded to those who can master the game in question. Some booths test the physical prowess of the individual, others provide a service for their patrons. Past booths have included free throw shooting, a football toss, a dart throw and, for those who were a little desperate, a kissing booth. This year we are really excited because we will have a record number of booths and will hopefully raise a record amount of money.
I remember the first Carnival. Nearly every resident of St. Ed’s got in line to try their luck at dunking our rector, Fr. Gene. An incredibly long line of guys waited their turn patiently in anticipation of getting even with the rectress ofBP, Judy Hutchinson. Many of these people were successful, more than Fr. Gene and Judy hoped, I’m sure. Which campus celebrities are going to be in the tank this year? The only sure way to findout is to be there. Another attraction is the test
of strength — see if you can ring the bell. A lot of people have tried, most guys were trying to i m press the girls. Sometimes it worked, other times it didn’t. Do you have what it takes? Also returning this year will be last year’s star attraction, the moonwalk. Only a handful of people have ever walked on the real moon, but thanks to this baby, we all can find out what it’s like.
While one of the goals of the Carnival is to have fun and maybe bring home a prize or two, another is to raise money. Actuallyjhemaingoalistoraisempney. Sure we want you to have a great time, but what we’re really after is your cash. All of the proceeds from each booth go to a charity of that dorm’s choice. In the first three years, nearly $4,000 were raised thanks to the support of the student body, faculty and staff of the university. Every time the bell rings, someone gets fed. Every time someone goes down in the dunk tank, money is raised for the homeless. Every doller you spend makes
a difference. This year proceeds generated by the Fisher Regatta will go to the Meghan Beeler/Colleen Hipp Scholarship Fund as will a share of the funds generated by the Carnival. Fisher and St. Ed’s are really excited about this weekend. It’s sure to be a great one filled with a lot of memories.- But perhaps more importantly, it will provide us with a chance to help those less fortunate than we are. We expect a lot of support form the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s community to help us help others.
We have been really satisfied with the turnout in the past. Every year it gets a little better, and we think this year it will be even bigger. This Sunday, the Fisher Regatta will run from 11:00 in the morning until 2:00 in the afternoon. We encourage everyone to come out and see what a little creativity and a lot of spirit can build. But before you leave, look up on the Hill, we’ll be there waiting for you. It’s only another fifty yards and its definitely worth it. We’ll be going from noo until 6:00. So come on out and let the less fortunate find out what we really mean when we say, “We are
floqLfcHtyM
L
Cu P Out Atto Save
TLACE TicturE Here
3. CtfW This FAMEl Idtru Yoci |M AwAueT, PACKET, E-rl)
4.. WH£M Sezuau 1>ES ire 7S6ARS ITS U6LY Head , JUS r TAKE OLLT
OOK
_sWf^Stt__________________________
O&e. A6At^ Jack HallhciHates Ai<d Speaks to a wM...__________________
He/ Hep ’. Hon
-pip Your. '^ARTiUt
6o?
P^OlT <0 3)0 rr KitUT MoU.

U6U, T ?HswtP feogAg/Y C& VHilo^oW/ feRu.iR&tf&Jr out oF -Off UA/... i£rs 5K... 4^113 *-..
SORRY!This clak Has B&h Umpo^a^ilY Closed Mt«l 4 H»& rNT&<^cJ6 AHP T/4l£u_l6&JT jTuDfHT 4aS THE CHAr/CA T&
W-
PueHeg
LPT? ,1 tep AH &NUi^
O-A&... Tmi>
LOo& Cool--;dW 3^^ *
TTS Al^5T WEI<-if Yoifo
OF&enM^TAN
YOULU NEED
to:
jhh/eaam !••■ iP!... th-at
CLAM HA<
Cm£p PoA pAV^J feAD W YoiX &>oL.

T^is clam orf Aurics M HM&Tk&MTH CerJTukV P^il Ras GcT to OfeM.

Th| $(M Youi^ TiM^ IS UR Vou rlOW W£ 3C/^PTH-^; Anp
Ho LDbte£X 0<4SiTW>
A Ar this
Al’PLtCAT^ JS AvAH-A?^ ATT^ feiSTU^V 6FFi^.
J^^You Realise
Tou CArl	expelled
F%>M f&n-RE pAMS™ fez	Sex ?
YcAH^l6MTf
WITH M UMPfRAAE
FARM AMML
N*T£: W THE AiWrtX ATte^tt to S4^£ HiM5£1T F^jA the FirEs o F HEp.} _______C0&-BR/W& You Tris AfESSAAg...
Hi 1 we allk^w THE Utiive^nT ArcwW$ UPaH Ttf^ARi-rAL FaRiilLATtaH. ^OU BE U)oHPEKi^; u ktoAT
Cam X, as A aood Cathouc '&>Y/6<rv (choose ohe)} Do f W To ESCAPE AfYG?UE6El'£4RS C . iPfh MY Morals ntact? ' Ml X	J	’"
4ctxmuYs $iwt£ You’/sg lHDlAHAt That's Accepta^
I WAS 7?EFERRlK6 TQ $&CUAL 7?£LATiat(S uirrHA lad^ eveH /F ste's Your F/A//C£E.
MAMA HAMA?
St^p before I
"Durst MY
VAA SERWUS^AC^. %Ad PuLAC.
Ym'RE X}*®* Fl6H I EW JeM/XARiA^ lOOuib 6a Ta SCtioaL Here if that dehe
Ta^F /r EA$Yl VRMR A AMD CAi/4
TKmH, JU BE SACk /X
A	MHiLE.	i
WHERE ARE You	I
6oiM6 f	I
"Jo Call U$C \

i	7*o	1. THIS 7AH£1- 0F swusTic.	J
■ Z. Pi^P fl PICTURE OF Youk. Famwfe -pA^E^ Me, AHd AFFi\ it To TIE $Pace F^^ped.
I hope T Gulp BE of ueu?
Mom kehehsez -The
4 dmi Hi strata h's Kulz*.
WHcM rr G>MES TD SEXUALITY
■DE4/ALOP y&MR FeeuMSS |C T^WTWiWRf,
&0OT3 LuCK , AHD
"Tilis PAf/EL AMD look At tMe ’Picture, Tie Vexy siaHT^f A Mothe Vaue™
APMIbhSTRAT&R IS 6uARAMTE£T) TO ?£STKOY YOUR SeYPgp/E ?M^eT>MTtiY. ife^EHBEKia Sttxw Your ta^t^er tod .