THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

775
John V.
William Bernard
Leo McIntyre, Richard Parrish, Richard Elvers,
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
Hinkel,
Craig Garber
David Saxon George McNally
John DeRoulet Raymond Drymalski
J. F. Mahoney, Cyril J. Mullen, Arthur Stenxus, John Bergan,
- - - The Week The College Parade Music and Drama - - Club Editor
Editor~inrChief Business Manager
ADVERTISING
J. T. BONNER, - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H. J. NOON, - Local Circulation Mgr.
D. M. Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	h. O’Bryan
C. M. Ashman	E. J. Carlin
W. E, Burchill
NEWS
R. W. Munz
George A. Kiener
Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt, - - - News Editor
I, Asst. News Editor Literary Editor >	* - Sports Editor
VOL.	APRIL 20,1928	No. 25
1872	TABLE OF CONTENTS	1928
The Week.........................J. F. Mahoney..............  776
Next Week’s Events........................................    777
Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, Active—L. R. McIntyre.... 779
Music and Drama..................Arthur Stenius ..............780
The Campus Clubs.................John Bergan—...............  783
The College Parade...............Cyril J. Mullen............  784
Hobnails .................-.......Allan-a^Dale ............-- 785
Why Not Russian Literature?......Bernard J. Bird ..........   786
Mr. Croesus and the Asphalt Merchant.—Richard W. Rice-------- 788
To Thaiiarch (A Poem)............John Reddin-----------------— 789
Baseball Team Returns............John V. Hinkel--------------790
Other Sport News......................................    791-794
i
twh SCHOLASTIC ia publiahed weekly at the University of Notre Dome.	may bo
oddreeaed to ame SCHOLASTIC or to room IM or 4M Moniaeer HaH.
Katored „ weomUtam matter at Notre Dame. Wives. Acutance for maOWat voM rate of portwe. Section UOS. October t, 1S17. aaWrM Jane St. 1HS.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Desene the Patronage of AD Notre Dame Men
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
776
The campus is undergoing a Spring rejuvenation, greater in its scope than any previously attempted. The washing of the windows means that our vision will no longer be restricted by the rains of yesteryear, and the new screens will serve to keep us from falling or jumping out, as the case may be.
Other enterprises, including the reconstruction of the lawn, are going forward rapidly.	'
Gradually, the student body recovers from the illusions of grandeur that Easter* vacation usually brings together with snow, dances, late sleeping, and a hilarious end of Lenten restraint. Thursday, there were three hundred and fifty-five men on the campus who had been out until three, four, and five o’clock in assorted Isotta-Fraschinis, Hispano-Suiyos, and other hyphenated automobiles ' every night during the vacation; Friday the number decreased to one hundred and thirty-three; and by the ti.r.e we go to press, the number has fallen to five, one of whom admits that on Easter Monday he was forced to the level of a new Ford.
The baseball and track teams return from the south with highly satisfactory records, and the Glee Club, despite its reduced strength, is reported to have knocked ’em dead in the East. ... it is reported. Our first opportunity of seeing the baseball team in action came Tuesday afternoon: the game began auspiciously, with a large and enthusiastic audience, but by the fifth inning most of the young men had found urgent business elsewhere, and at the end only the clergy and a handful of the faithful remained. For those who were forced to leave, the score was, Notre Dame, 3, Kalamazoo, 0.
The two major dances which annually precede the Senior Ball engage our attention tonight and a week hence. The Lawyer’s Ball
has been distinguished thus far by legal invitations and handsome leather programs. Last year this same affair was so good that no one wanted to leave when it was over; at one A. M., the leader of the orchestra stated that the boys were just getting into the spirit of the thing, (the private opinions of the dancers to the contrary notwithstanding) and those who had been accustomed to attending the riotous dances at St. Mary’s and retiring at a decent hour were still awake. At 1:05 the applause after the last dance was still deafening; at 1:20 the orchestra was all packed up and most of the young revellers were calmly sleeping—sleeping anyway. As if the original posters advertising the Casey Formal were not enough, Bart McHugh has personally recommended the dance to us, which should convince any skeptic. Last year it was held at the Knights of Columbus, hall, and was a pleasing and successful dance; this' year the Palais Royale will be the scene, with Benson’s orchestra, conducted by Johnnie Mullaney, rendering the music. The Senior Ball is coming in for a lot of ballyhooing, and the Big Business methods behind it should make it a success. Coon-Sanders have assisted at a good many informal revels, and might be said to possess the Notre Dame spirit in full, or as nearly so as an orchestra can.
Douglas Fairbanks is getting old and feeble and Richard Barthelmess deserves a better, and more logical, story than “The Patent Leather Kid.” The ballet dancers at the Palace danced about with gusto and abandon, and were moderately entertaining. For light entertainment we suggest that you attend the Metropolitan Club Charity Smoker next Wednesday in the Faculty Dining Room.
Add similes of 1928: as obsolete as,the practice of transferring butter from the serving-dish with a knife.	—J.F.M.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
<><•❖❖❖ ❖ ❖❖<❖❖❖<> <♦•><•«.>	$ .J. .j,
♦ NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS *
Friday, March 20—The Chicago Little Symphony Orchestra—Washington Hall—8:15 P. M.
The Lawyers’ Ball—Palais Royale ballroom— 9:00 P. M.
Saturday—Baseball—University of Iowa vs. University of Notre Dame—Cartier Field—2:30 P.M.
Movies—“Running Wild,” starring Conklin and Fields—Washington Hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Sunday—Masses—Sacred Heart Church—6:00, 7:00, and 8:30 A. M.,—Students; 10:15 A. M.—Parish Mass.
Benediction—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Monday—Meeting of the Scribblers—Publications’ Building—8:00 P. M.
German Club—Hoynes hall—6:45 P.M.
Tuesday—Exemplification oi the first degree by Notre Dame Council, K. of C.—South Bend Council’s home—7:00 P. M.
Baseball—Western State Normal vs. U. of Notre Dame—Cartier1 Field—3:30 P.M.
Wednesday—Meeting of the Wranglers—University Library—7:45 P. M.
Neo Scholastics—University Library—2:15 P.M.
Thursday—Spanish Club—Hoynes hall—7:30 P. M.
Friday—K. C. ANNUAL SPRING FORMAL, sponsored by Notre Dame Council—Palais Royale ballroom—9:00 P. M.
French Seminar—Community House—8:00-9:30 P. M.
N. b.—Termination of Scribblers short-story contest extended to April 27.
WILLIAM JEFFERYS NAMED
VALEDICTORIAN OF SENIOR CLASS
The valedictorian of the senior class to be graduated this June will be William H. Jefferys of Hanging Rock, Ohio, a student in the College of Commerce, it is announced by a committee composed of tlie Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C. S. C., and Professors Charles Phillips and Paul Fenlon. Richard C. Elpers and Pierce J. O’Connor were named class poet and class orator.
The three men named by the committee are prominent campus figures. Mr. Jefferys, the valedictorian, is an active member of the Knights of Columbus and he was recently appointed chairman of the decorations committee for the Senior Ball. He is a major in Domestic Commerce and plans teaching as a profession. He lives in Corby hall.
Richard C. Elpers has an established reputation as a writer of poetry, plays and short stories. He was the winner of the Scribler’s poetry contest last year,' and was awarded third place this year in the same competition. He is the literary editor of
777
The Scholastic and a member of several organizations, including the Scribblers.
The class orator, Mr. O’Connor, has been active in forensic work since his coming to Notre Dame. He was a member of the University debating team and is considered a speaker of great power. He is a prominent member of the “Wranglers,” honorary debating society.
■----------------------❖--------- SENATOR JAMES A. REED
ADDRESSES THE STUDENTS
The Honorable James A. Reed, senior senator from Missouri, and one of the leaders of the Democratic party, addressed the student body and faculty Thursday, April 12, at 2:30 P. M.
Mr. Clarence Manion, professor in the Law College, introduced Senator Reed to the audience. The imposing gentleman from Missouri then proceeded to show the extending influence of bureaucracy in the American government, and the necessity of a closer adherence to the Constitutional idea of government.
He was particularly emphatic in attacking the present tendency toward laws calculated to interfere, not alone with personal liberty in general, but with the most intimate activities in American lives. He cited as examples the Child Labor Law, the Maternity Bill, andithe Prohibition Amendment.
NOTRE DAME HAS OWN POLICE FORCE
The Notre Dame campug is now, patrolled throughout the day and part of the night by a uniformed police force consisting of several men commanded by Joseph H. Kennedy, who had 23 years experience .as a member of the Chicago Police Department. This is a move on the part of the Department of Safety for the benefit of the students and the property of the University.
The road that stretches past the new dining halls has been made safe for the students by the placing of two policemen there for the regulation of traffic. One of these men, a motorcycle policeman supplied . by the South Bend Police, is stationed at the Off-Campus office. It is his special duty to watch out for speeders. Much favorable comment has been made by the student body concerning this precaution.
METROPOLITAN'’CLUB TO SMOKE
In an effort to raise funds for the Bengal Missions, officers of the Metropolitan Club have arranged a monster smoker which will be held next Wednesday evening in the Lay Faculty Club. Tickets have been placed on sale by Edward Cunningham, chairman of the arrangements committee. All students are invited to attend.
A feature of the evening’s entertainment will be the appearance of the Glee Club quartet, and Anthony Kopecky, who will offer several solos. In addition, James “Charleston Charley, Hey! Hey ” McShane has promised to exhibit new ballroom steps.
Those assisting Conningham in arranging the charitable event include: Harley McDevitt, business manager of The Scholastic, and Walter Donelly.
778	THE NOTRE DAME
LAWYERS WILL HOLD AN-
"	NUAL BALL TONIGHT
“Hear ye! Hear ye! The Circus Court of Notre Dame is now open.”	.
Such will be the salutation of the court crier when the Lawyers open court in the Palais Royale ballroom tonight as the town clock chimes away the hour of nine.
Chief Justice William J. Coyne has been selected as judge pro tern of the annual April term of the highest festive court in the county. Draped in justinian splendor Judge Coyne shall hear the various pleas of the four hundred some couples who have been subpoenaed to appear and who will merit the penalty of missing the best time of their life in the event that the summons is not heeded.
It seems as though this will be a busy night for Judge Coyne and Prosecutor Thomas V. Happer. The first case at bar is that of the ,Law Club vs. Hugh Swift et al, an orchestra of note. The defendant is charged with maliciously entering the city and with malice afore thought, force of arms and deadly weapons to wit: a clarinet, saxophone and drum, driving the blues away. It is rumored that the defendant will receive the full extent of the law and be sentenced to the hard labor of tooting and playing of saxophones, cornets, drums, • pianos, and so forth. It has been said that this is not the first appearance of Hugh Swift at the Notre Dame court. It will be remembered that it was the same gentleman who served sentence at the Lawyers’ ball last year. His return is by popular demand, according to President Cyp Sporl and Chairman William Daily.
The Committees
Elaborate plans have been made for the formal opening of the court this evening. A new decorative scheme-for courts of law has been reached by the committee on decorations headed by Edward McGuire and assisted by John Cain, George Beamer, Gerald McGill and William Konop.
The arrangements were taken care of by Ruben Momsen, J. Patrick Canny, Lester Hegele, John Wallace and Phillip Berthieaume.
Those who must present tickets to the court tonight may blame Edmund McClarnon, Charles Lynch, Gerald Roach, Bernard Zipperer, Stephen Wozniak, Thomas V. Happer and Russell Reilly.
Those who received sub-poenas might note that V. Don O’Meara, Richard Quinlan, Bernard Wood, Edgar Maggi and Willard Wagner are the gentlemen responsible.	.
A committee composed of James Cowles, William Hurley, Fred Ruiz, Sidney Eder and Robert Kirby discovered Hugh Swift and his musicians and are responsible for bringing them to court.
The court reporters include' Joseph P. McNamara, Maurice Coughlin, Edward White, Joseph Hemph-ling and William F. Craig, while the court program was arranged by Robert Mohlman, Herbert Nestor, Alvin Hans, Seymour Weisberger and John Smith. ’
SCHOLASTIC
Impanelled in the jury will be patrons and patronesses Colonel William Hoynes, Dean and Mrs. Thomas E. Konop, Judge and Mrs. Dudley G. Wooten, Professor, and Mrs. James F. Kirby, Professor and Mrs. Elton Richter, Professor Clarence Manion Professor Edwin Frederickson, Major and Mrs’ Charles H. McDonald, Judge and Mrs. Orlo R. Deahl Judge and Mrs. G. A. Farabaugh,' Judge and Mrs’. J. Fred Bingham, Judge and Mrs. Lenn J. Oare, Mr. and Mrs. Dudley M. Shively, Mr. and Mrs. Vitus Jones and Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gilmer. '
It is essential that everyone who has been summoned to appear at the Palais Royale tonight be there at the opening of the court at nine o’clock unless they miss the best part of the program,
“Hear' ye! Hear ye! Be at court at nine tonight!”
ANNOUNCE FIRST UNIVERSITY THEATRE LIBRARY PUBLICATIONS
The first publications of the University Theatre Library, which will be released May 15, will consist of four one-act plays written by undergraduates at Notre Dame. The plays will be published in separate volumes and will be supplemented with complete production notes.
The plays selected for the Library were all published last year in the Notre Dame Anthology and two of them were produced by the University Theatre. “Out of the River,” the first of the publications, which was written by James Griffin Jay, won first prize last year in the Indiana Literary Contest, conducted by Culver Military Academy.
The remaining three publications are “The Omad-haun,” by William H. Vahey, “Prairie Dread," by Linus Maloney, and “Martha Jeffries’ Mother,” by Richard Parrish. All of the plays were written in the Playwriting class conducted by Professor Charles Phillips.
The publications are being edited by Professor Phillips and the production notes were prepared by Frank W. Kelly, director of production for the University Theatre. The plays will be available for dramatic clubs in parishes, schools and colleges throughout the country.
----------$-----------
NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS ORDAINED
Another former Notre Dame man has added his name as lieutenant in Christ’s army of the Church Militant. According to an announcement received the other’ day, the Reverend Donald S. Gallagher was ordained as a secular priest, March 24.
Father Gallagher was a student at Notre Dame from 1920 to 1924, when he graduated with the degree of Litt. B. He is very well remembered by many through his activities while at school, having distinguished himself both in sports and in the literary field.	.
——--------------------
John A. Daily, LL.B., ’27, an attorney at Burlington, Iowa, has donated a copy of the New Io'va Code to the University Law Library.
779
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, Active To Hold Eighteenth Annual Spring Formal Dance Friday Evening April 27, in Palais Royale Ballroom.
Tktrd Class to Be Initiated in South Bend Council’s Home.
HOWARD PHALIN, Grand Knight of Notre Danie Council.
Notre Dame Council, Number 1477, ’ Knights of Columbus, will be very active during the next two weeks. This fact was revealed by Grand Knight Howard Phalin at the Council’s regular meeting, held Tuesday evening, April 17, in the council chambers in the basement of Walsh hall. At this meeting the Grand Knight and Lecturer Edward P. McKeown were chosen by the Council to represent it at the State Convention of the Knights of Columbus to be held at Gary sometime in May. George A. Brauti-gan and Charles Short were selected as alternates.
' TO HOLD SPRING FORMAL
Friday evening, April 27, the Council will give in the Palais jRoyale ballroom its annual spring formal dance. Benson’s Blue Jackets, one of the most representative of the Benson bands, directed by the inimitable “Johnny” Mullaney, will furnish the impetus ’for the patent-leather-shod hoofers of the polished hardwood. This orchestra is the same intact that played at the Trianon, Chicago, for* the great Saint Patrick’s Night dance on March 17, and the recent elaborate “Hoodoo Ball,” an annual affair, given in the exclusive Bal Tabarin of the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, Friday eve., April 13.
The patrons and patronesses for the dance, as announced by the general chairman, Edward P. McKeown, are: Mr. and Mrs. Edmund A. Wills, Mr. and Mrs. Callix Miller, Dean and Mrs. Thomas F, Konop, Judge and Mrs. Dudley G. Wooten, Professor and Mrs. James Hines, Professor and Mrs. Henry C. Staunton, Professors Charles Phillips, Clarence Manion, Fred Ruiz and Paul Fenlon.
Grand Knight Phalin and general chairman McKeown will lead the grand march with their fair ladies. Four hundred couples, in accordance with the Council’s limitation to that number, will enjoy both the spaciousness of the Palais Royale ballroom and the attractiveness of the formal’s programs.
The personnel of the committee for the formal is as follows:
EDWARD P. McKEOWN, General Chairman of K. C. Spring Formal
Edward P. McKeown, chairman.
Music—Robert E. Kirby, chairman ; J ohn J. Mahoney, George A. Brauti-gan.
Tickets—John W. Dorgan, chairman; John Fahey, Fred J. Rahaim, Robert Cooney, LeRoy Conway, Joseph Friel, Thomas C. Mahon, John F. McMahon, William H. Leahy, Harry McKeown, John Cannon, John P. Manning, Bart McHugh.
Arrangements — Phil Chuckles Quinn, chairman; Michael Ricks, Louis Buckley, J. R. Murphy, Joseph P. Hilger, Leo J. Schultheis, Charles Short, Lawrence Master, William O’Malley, Frank Hegarty, Frank Kelly.
Reception—Joseph S. Morrissey, chairman; Joe Daigneault, John F. Frederick, John E. Brannan, Charles Swartz.
Programs—William P. Dowdall, chairman.; Bert Korzeneski, Don Molloy, W. H. Murphy, Joseph Nash, John E. Chevigny, George E. Leppig.
Decorations—James Shocknessy, chairman; William P. Kearney, Joseph Scales, Daniel Cannon, Judge McBride, Wm. Breshnahan, Maurice Goodeve, John F. Leitzinger, Edward Garrity, Walter Hart, Publicity—Leo R. McIntyre, chairman; William Duffy, George A. Kiener, Henry Massman.
THIRD CLASS TO BE INITIATED
A third class of candidates will be initiated into the mysteries of the second and the third degree of the Order by the local knights Sunday afternoon, April 29, in the home of the South Bend Council. A banquet in honor of the candidates who successfully pass the degrees is to follow the initiation. The seventy candidates Tuesday evening, April 24, at seven o’clock in the South Bend Council’s chambers, will be given the first degree.
It is believed that the consummation of the conduction of the third class of candidates through the mysteries of knighthood will establish a precedent. For, as far as it is known, never since its inception in 1910, has Notre Dame Council initiated three classes in one scholastic year.
780
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ •> ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ * * *
* MUSIC AND DRAMA *
<• •> «> <• ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
The Little Symphony Orchestra of Chicago, perhaps the most famous organization of its kind, comes here tonight for a concert in Washington hall. The orchestra is conducted by George Dasch, who enjoys a nation-wide reputation as a musician.
All sections of the modern symphony orchestra are represented in the Little Symphony Orchestra, This in spite of the fact that the personnel consists of but twenty-four players.
A number of distinguished soloists are members of the orchestra. Of particular interest are Herman Feller, violinist and concertmaster, and Theodore Du Moulin, principal violincellist.
One of the best concerts of a remarkable season was given in Washington hall Wednesday, April 11, when Lorna Jaxon, mezzo-soprano; Virgilio Lazzari, basso; and Forrest Lamont, tenor, appeared here. The three artists combined to present a program that has seldom been equalled in Washington hall.
Those upon the campus who, because of the presence of the Lenten season, missed the opportunity of seeing the splendid legitimate stage productions which were presented shortly before Easter will be thankful, without doubt, that South Bend is given the opportunity of seeing Katherine Cornell in that much discussed play by W. Somerset Maugham, “The Letter.” The play comes to the Oliver Theatre today, with a performance tonight and two more tomorrow; inability of securing a suitable theatre in Chicago before Sunday being the reason why South Bend has been fortunate enough to secure this production which only recently left New York. The story of the play has become familiar to many through the recent publication of it in book form, but glowing, detailed reports regarding the play’s presentation assure one that as a production it is supreme. Those who have seen Miss Cornell in the past surely will not miss the opportunity of seeing her in “The Letter,” while those who, as yet, have not been fortunate enough to see this noted actress in any of the plays which she has carried to success, would be foolish to miss the chance of seeing Miss Cornell who is, without doubt, one of America’s foremost actresses. Mess-more Kendall, who presents “The Letter,” has endowed it with an exceptional cast in support of Miss Cornell, including Allan Hayes, J. W. Austin, John Buckler, James Vincent, Eva Leonard-Boyne, Burton McEvilly and Josephine Morse.
Judging from the various excerpts which we have seen regarding the Glee Club during its trip throughout the east, one may readily and rightfully *ay that as far as enthusiastic reception is concerned, the Christmas trip which the Club took to the western coast has been duplicated.
CELEBRATE UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT MONDAY
Students and alumni of the University will participate in the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night Monday, April 23. This will mark the fifth annual celebration of a night which is devoted to the payment of a universal tribute to the University.
On the Notre Dame campus, in all the leading cities of the United States, and in many foreign countries the Night will be observed by thousands of Notre Dame students, graduates and former students. Heretofore, the Night has been considered a “spiritual homecoming” for the alumni. ,
There will be no official gathering of the students Monday, due to the fact that the St. Joseph Valley Alumni association of Notre Dame is meeting that night. However, the S.A.C. 'is cooperating with James Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, in the distribution of pamphlets that carry a special message to the students concerning Notre Dame Night.
About 70 meetings of the alumni will be held Monday night in various parts of the world. Special entertainments and programs have been prepared for these meetings. The programs range, from the election of officers for the ensuing year to discussions of scholarships and employment services.
ARMSTRONG REPRESENTS UNIVERSITY AT '	ALUMNI CONVENTION
'Notre Dame is being represented at the Third Convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation in New York City, April 20, 21 and JJ2, by James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary. Notre1 Dame is a pioneer member of the Federation and one of the most active Catholic alumni organizations. Hugh A. O’Donnell, Notre Dame, ’94, is Secretary of the Federation and John T. Balfe, Notre Dame, ’20, is chairman of the committee on organization.
Cardinal Hayes, Mayor Walker, Bishop Dunn and the new Bishop O’Rielly of Scranton, who received an LL.D, from Notre Dame in 1909, T. A. Daly, who received an LL.D, in 1917, and Theodore F. McManus, LL.D., ’14, with a number of prominent Alumni Secretaries from non-Catholic schools, will address the Convention.
Mr. Armstrong will speak Saturday afternoon, April 20, explaining the reason for the being of the Alumni Secretary. He left Notre Dame Monday, stopping at Toledo Monday night as a guest of the N. D. Alumni there. ■
---------$---------
PROMINENT ALUMNUS DIES
Edward J. Lennon, LL.B., ’23, died Monday, April 2, in St. Joseph Hospital, Fort Wayne, Ind. Mr. Lennon was deputy attorney-general of Indiana, an aide to Arthur' Gilliom. He was one of the states leading citizens and a prominent Catholic. While a student here, Mr. Lennon served as student manager of athletics, being the first student ever appointed to that post by Coach Rockne.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GLEE CLUB COMPLETES SUCCESSFUL EASTERN TRIP
The Notre Dame Outing—er, pardon, Glee Club, returned to Notre Dame Tuesday after a nine day tour of the East that served as the culmination of a concert season that, geographically speaking, extended over something like ten thousand miles. The club sang before about six thousand people in the ' eastern trip that included in its itinerary appearances in Detroit; Canton, Ohio; Brooklyn, N. Y.; Garden City, L. I., and Seton Hill College, Greensburgh, Pa.
The Glee Club, composed of twenty-seven men, was heartily received on its every appearance. Anthony Kopecky, tenor soloist, was, as is a habit of his, the popular favorite of the group. His wide popularity was most in evidence in Brooklyn where he was acclaimed by an audience of 1500 people. The proceeds of this concert went to the Bengal Mission. The Quartet and the Trio were the recipients of considerable praise, as was Joseph Casa-santa, director of the club.
Sing at Seton Hill
The high point of the trip was reached when the club visited Seton Hill college for a concert last Monday. An informal concert was given at the college in the afternoon for the student body, faculty and friends of the school. In the evening the club members were guests at a dinner and at an informal dance that followed. Students from Duquesne and St. Vincent’s College attended the concert, dinner and dance.
Detroit was the scene of the first appearance of the club on the trip. The concert was given at the Knights of Columbus home under the auspices of the Detroit Alumni club. After a short stay at Cleveland, the club moved on to Canton, Ohio, Tuesday and sang before 1500 people in the Canton auditorium. ■ A dance followed the concert, which was given for the benefit of Mount Marie Academy at Canton.
Enjoy New York Visit
New York City and the Vanderbilt hotel, ahem, joined in playing host to the singers for two days, Thursday and Friday. Thomas O’Malley, manager of the hotel, and Edward A. Byrne, chief engineer . of Plants and Structures of New York City, made every effort, to make the metropolitan visit a pleasant one.
Brooklyn bridge was crossed Saturday evening and a concert was given at the Knights of Columbus auditorium. The club was even more successful on this occasion than it was on its initial appearance last year, which is something to think about. . The club members put in a busy day at Garden City, L. I. Arriving there Sunday morning by bus, they went to the Garden City hotel, where they were the guests of J. J. Lannin, the owner, a former owner of the Boston Red Sox. • After singing Gou-■ nod’s Missa des Orpheonistes at St. Joseph’s church, they were taken for a drive to the Curtis and Mitchell flying fields and through the residential district along Long Island Sound.
781
Homeward Trip Begins
The club sang that evening at the Hempstead theater. The Rev. John A. McNamara, a Notre Dame graduate, and the Rev. Francis Healy, C.S.C., pastor of St. Joseph’s church, Garden City, were instrumental in bringing the club to that city.
The Glee Club will make its final appearance Monday, May 7, when it appears in South Bend before an audience composed of members of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni association of Notre Dame, and the South Bend St. Mary’s club. It will also mark the conclusion of the three-year service of Andrew Mulreany as business manager of the club. • Mr. Mulreany has been untiring in his efforts to make the club a success and he has succeeded amazingly well in the opinion of persons interested in the organization. Joseph Casasanta, director, and the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, faculty adviser, are likewise deserving of the highest congratulations.
“SANTA MARIA” ANNOUNCES SHORT-STORY CONTEST WINNERS .
Leo R. McIntyre, editor of The Santa Maria, announced Wednesday, April .18, the winners of that magazine’s short-story contest, which terminated March 26. Basil Gerald Rauch, of Dubuque, Iowa, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was awarded first prize for his story “Heritage.” John F. Burns, of Fall River, Mass., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, won second prize with his “The Real Portagee.” “Novembral House” the opus of Bernard A. Garber, an A.B. senior, was awarded third prize.
Garber is a member of The Scholastic’s staff and president of the Press Club of the University. Both Burns and Garber are members of the School of Journalism.
The short-story contest sponsored by The Santa Maria, organ of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, was the first of its kind ever held at the University. “It is hoped that other campus publications and organizations will follow the example of The Santa Maria;” declared Professor Paul Fenlon, chairman of the judges’ committee, “for such competitions stimulate campus writers and arouse them to greater efforts in the short-story field.
“The stories submitted all were of the highest standard, which indicates that some progression has been made, when it is considered that many of the contestants came from the University’s freshman and sophomore class,” terminated the professor.
The prizes will be presented to the winners by Grand Knight1 Howard V. Phalin at the next meeting of Notre Dame Council, K. of C., to be held Tuesday evening, May 8, in the basement of Walsh hall.
The judges of the contest, in addition to Mr. Fenlon, were McCready Huston, noted short-story writer and novelist; and Father Leo Ward, C.S.C., writer and associate editor of The Ave Maria.
I
782	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
<•	4* ❖ *2* *•*
♦ OUR CONTRIBUTORS -	♦
<•<><«•;> ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <•
Bernard J. Bird, who surveys introductorily the field of Russian literature, is an A.B. senior in the School of Education. This is his first appearance in The Scholastic.
The name of Richard W. Rice is also new to these pages. Rice is a Pre Med sophomore.
John Reddin’s ‘-'To Thaliarch,” a product of Father Hebert’s Latin classes, opens up a new field of Scholastic material—translations of classics. The facility of the expres_ion in this interpretation is more surprising in the fact that John Reddin is merely a freshman. He should go far.
COON-SANDERS NIGHTHAWKS
TO PLAY FOR SENIOR BALL
Coon-Sanders Nighthawks, famous radio and phonograph recording orchestra, have been chosen to play for the Senior Ball, May 11. Jim Shock-nessy, chairman of the Ball, determined on the former Kansas City men, who are now playing at the Blackhawk Cafe in Chicago, in preference to several other of the foremost orchestras in the country. He also announced that the Coral Gables Bob-o-Links,‘ at present on tour, will furnish the music for the Senior Tea Dance on May 12.
Starting in Kansas City years ago under the title of Nighthawks, the Coon-Sanders Orchestra has swept to nation-wide fame via radio, phonograph records, and personal appearances at the most prominent hotels, theatres and other amusement places in America’s largest cities. They have
broadcast recently from Stations WBBM and KYW Chicago, while playing at the Congress Hotel and the Blackhawk Cafe. While playing in Chicago, the organization won the National Radio Popularity Contest as the most entertaining unit in the country. They are under the direction of Carleton Coon and Joe Sanders.
Arrangements for Tickets Made
Concerning tickets to the Ball, Shocknessy announced that the five dollar deposit should be paid by this evening. The remaining seven dollars and • fifty cents may be paid between now and the first of May, which will be final date on which the sale of tickets will be held. With a one dollar class tax, the total cost for attendance at the Senior Ball will be thirteen-fifty.
The favor, the ticket for the Ball, and the ticket for the Tea Dance will be presented to each senior when he gives the receipt for his final deposit to the ticket committee.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held Monday evening, April 16, in Science hall. The meeting- was devoted to a talk and experimental demonstration of the physiological, therapeutical and pharmacological action of “Digitalis” by Mr. Richard W. Munz. The history and source of the agent were first considered. Following this, the theories concerning the conduction of impulses in the heart of man and of the frog were taken up in detail, and from this starting point the various stages of the action of Digitalis were discussed. Digitalis is one of the most important drugs at the command of the medical profession, and its use in heart disease requires great care.
SCRIBBLERS LENGTHEN CONTEST
The Scribblers short-story contest has been extended to April 27. The date originally decided upon was April 20.
During the past week, John T. Cullinan, contest chair-man, communicated with faculty members urging them to exhort the campus writers to immediate action. It will be remembered that two prizes will be awarded for the stories rated first and second respectively by the judges. Twenty dollars in-gold will constitute the first award, while a second prize of ten dollars in gold has been agreed upon.
To date, the response to the Scribbler contest has been thoroughly discouraging and it is hoped that Notre Dame men will respond with a representative group of manuscripts. Manuscripts must be submitted to John Cullinan, 107 Sorin hall, before midnight of the 27th. All copies shall be in triplicate form to facilitate the work of the judges.
Judges who have accepted the invitation of the Scribblers to read manuscripts include, Sidney B. Whipple, editor of the South Bend News-Times; Miss Dora I Keller, head of the English department at South Bend High School; and Mark Nevils, political writer foi’ the South Bend Tribune.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
METROPOLITAN CLUB
The regular meeting of the Metropolitan club was held last evening in the North room of the University Library.
The final plans for the Metropolitan Charity Smoker to be held in the Lay Faculty club on Wednesday evening, April 25, were completed. The smoker is under the chairmanship of Edward F. Cunningham, who is being assisted by Walter A. Donnelly and Harley L. McDevitt.
The committee selected to choose a plan for the club charm, submitted their findings to the members. The meeting was closed with an announcement by President John S. Lavelle to the effect that the Senior Farewell Banquet will be held the latter part of May.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB
The annual Easter formal given under the auspices of the Grand Rapids club was held on the evening of Easter Monday in the Italian Room of the Hotel Pantlind, Grand Rapids. Dinner was served from 10 until 12 and dancing enjoyed from 12 to 3. The affair was very successful socially and financially and due credit must be given Leo Manns and James McDermott, who arranged the affair. The music for the occasion was rendered by “Dude” Deitrich and his Syncopators.
The next scheduled meeting of the club will take place on Thursday evening, April 26, at 8 o’clock in the Lemmonier library.
SCRIBBLERS
Although a majority of members were present in the new Scribbler Room of the Board of Publications Building, Monday night, the meeting was adjourned by the President, Walter Layne, after a brief discussion of the short story contest, dues, and the Scribbler Anthology. Mr. Layne decided that it was too cold to introduce the new members who attended, Louis J. Hasley and Murray Hickey Ley.
The members hope that a meeting will be held on next Monday night in the same room.
FORT WAYNE CLUB
The Fort Wayne club entertained with its formal Easter dance on Monday evening, April 9, at the Anthony hotel, Fort Wayne, and proved to be one of the outstanding social affairs of the Easter season in Fort Wayne. Chairman Robert Eggeman was assisted by Edmund Breshnahan, Joseph Dillon and Frederick Schoppman in arranging for the affair.
One hundred couples were present at the dance. Jack Stassamon and his Chicago Wildcats of the Trianon ballroom, Chicago, played the program for dancing.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
There will be a special meeting of the Connecticut Valley Club immediately following the first Playground League ball game on Friday, April 20. It is
imperative that all members be present at this time as details for the annual banquet will be discussed. Saturday, May 12, has been selected as the date for this affair which gives promise of exceeding, in its degree of success the recent smoker staged by the Connecticut Valley men.
CHICAGO CLUB
Chicagoans from Notre Dame and other institutions of higher learning celebrated the end of Lent on Easter Monday evening at the Congress Hotel when the Chicago Club of Notre Dame held its annual formal. The music was furnished by Johnny Hamp and his Kentucky Serenaders for the early part of the evening and by Abe Lyman and his orchestra from the musical comedy “Good News” later. The 500 couples present used two ballrooms, the Balloon and Gold Rooms, throughout the evening.
The colors of the University, gold and blue, formed the decorations, with the large Chicago club banner above the orchestra.
According to President Dick Halpin, the dance was the most successful that has been held, and according to those present he was right. The guests left regretfully at 1:30 P. M.
The dance ranks as one of the most successful ever produced in Chicago and was the largest in the history of social affairs at the Congress Hotel
CLEVELAND CLUB
The annual Easter formal of the Cleveland Club of the University, held in the ballroom of the Midday Club, Cleveland, the evening of April 9, was a success from both financial and social standpoints. The success of the affair' is due in’ no small way to the officers of the club and the dance committees.
More than ninety couples danced to the music manufactured by Jack Gardner and his orchestra of Cleveland. The ballroom was set off in very attractive decorations.
The committee in charge of the affair included William O’Neill, Cy Matthews, Norm McLeod, Joe Fitzgerald, Charlie Rohr, John Zabach and Al Shipacasse.
WISCONSIN CLUB
The annual formal of the Wisconsin Club was held in the Elizabethan Room of the Milwaukee Athletic Club, Milwaukee, on Tuesday evening, April 10. The program of dances was played by Skaens’ Wisconsin Ramblers of Fond du Lac, from 9:00 to 2:00.
The ballroom was attractively decorated in the University’s colors, blue and gold set off by streamers and penants of Notre Dame’s rivals in athletics. The lights were covered with gold and blue crepe paper.
The committee in charge of the dance was: James Rank, chairman; Fred Miller, Paul Brust, Earl Lam-boley, Jean LaBoul', John Voss and Hilmar Boehm.
784 '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
| THE COLLEGE PARADE
By Cyril J. Mullen
A lament from The Messenger of St. Mary Academy: “But alas, who can picture the girl of today manipulating a typewriter, driving a car, or perchance, piloting an airplane in the fussy flounces of her grandmother’s youth.” No one, I fear, alas and two or three alases, no one. The muscles of my throat are sore from the unholy mirth caused by the attempt. If I had followed the outline above, my chuckles would have been only moderate; but I made the mistake of trying to imagine an old-fashioned female track meet.
A writer in The Wag, of Routt College, makes the following confession: “I have read most of Lambs essays, and can honestly say that I really enjoyed them.” If such open individualisms keep up, some solid citizen is going to scream “intelligentsia!” Then there will be another one of those depressing college scandals with the usual newspaper headlines something like:
DECADENT YOUTH CAUGHT READING LAMB!
Is Being Held for Questioning by Authorities —Express Fear That the Boy is -	Intelligent.
—$—
This time, the humorous section of The Fordham Monthly is composed of a parody called: “The Sweetpea Blossom. A literary magazine published by the students of the Applebury Seminary for Young Ladies.” Here are two excerpts from the “Alumnae Notes.” What do you think? Elsie Von Busheck of the class of ’27 is married! We never expected it, and Elsie, old girl, you certainly put one over on us. The bride wore pink bunting and an air of intense relief.”
“The Grim Reaper has gathered to his bosom Winifred Fluff of ’26. The staff of The Sweetpea, Blossom offers its heartiest congratulations to the Grim Reaper. He certainly knows how to pick ’em.	'
The Purple and White of Assumption College, Ontario, pleads guilty with the following statistics: “Between 1870 and 1920 there were 38 Murphys. . . . The Ryans come next with 36. There were 27 Sullivans, 25 Doyles, 23 Walshes, and 22 O’Briens,” and comments : “This is quite a formidable array of China names, and leaves the impression that Assumption has been blessed (sic.) with plenty of blarney.” I inserted the “sic.”
There is some discussion at the University of Southern California about the injustice of not giving sweaters to all of the varsity football men. I can understand that principle at stake, but to an honest Californian the uselessness of a sweater must be apparent. When I was in that lovely State, I sometimes wore a slicker to protect me from the frequent and very dampish night drizzle. A native soon pointed out, however, that this was neither a drizzle nor a fog, but a much less abnoxious condition known as “low cloud.” Later, when on the beach, I remarked to another native that the cold ocean wind froze my hide in precisely the same way as did Lake Michigan winds. He patiently put me right by explaining that what I thought to be a cold wind, was really a warm, balmy zephyr wafted off the Gulf stream. My sense of values, he hinted, had been neglected- And then one day the sun came out. Within an hour I felt as though my natural bodily moisture had evaporated and that I was well on the way to be fried in my own fat. I said as much, with considerable acerbity, to a sunkissed product who only sniffed, looked down his nose at me, and said that first of all the climate was ideal; that I didn’t know good weather when I saw it; and anyway, that this was an exceptionally poor summer. All other summers were just as described in the real-state pamphlets.
So you see, as I was remarking before my digression, sweaters in California would be preposterous. The varsity players should be given leather bound real-estate prospectus.
. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
HOBNAILS —_______
THE SONG OF THE SOPH.
I know this college bluff and paint;
It’s all the bunkr—don’t think it ain't.
I know the tricks of gettin’ by;
1 fool ’em all before their eye.
They don t catch ME—they’re too de.m slow; Don t tell ME how it’s done, big boy,
I know.
A text book, pal; I never crack, And still I know ’em front, to back.
Exams? I never flunk a one!
Watch ME, jo-jo, learn how it’s done.
Why play with facts—just make a show;
Don’t tell ME how it’s done, big boy, I know.
I had MY spell of studyin’ hard.
It’s over now, and listen, pard,
These babes that would be learned guys—
Send them to ME, I’ll put ’em wise.
I know MY onions an’ how they grow;
Don’t tell ME how it’s done, big boy, I know.
—NUMBER 55.
BUT BOARD IS FREE AT OHIO GOW
’allo M’sieur Allan : No doubt you have read in those dear “News-Times” how the inmates of the Ohio State Hoosegow have turned to writing short stories for amusement:
PRISONERS HELD AT OHIO’S
CELL TURN TO WRITING SEVERAL CONVICTS BECOME CLEVER AS
.	AUTHORS OF SHORT STORIES
No doubt also you know that the men of Notre Dame, “he” or otherwise, do the same thing. It seems to me that one can make a simple equation, as follows:
Life at Ohio Gow is to Short Stories as Life at N. D. is to Short Stories.
Then, dividing through our equation by the term Short Stories, we find that:
Life at Ohio Gow equals Life at N. D.—Q. E. D.
.	'	—number 75664980.
SONG
(To be sung to the tune of Tipperary) I’m going back, back, back to dear old Badin To Badin by the sea;
Where there won’t be no more gaddin’ And there’s water to my knee;
WTiere the moon shines bright upon the fire-escape And the watchman can’t be found.
I’m going back, back, back to dear old Badin When I’m six feet un—der—ground. ■
‘	—nick bottom.
TOMORROW
Some sweet day, cool and bright, You’ll miss me dear, And fear
I’ll vanish from your sight.
You’ll be afraid and cry
For me to come, And from	/
The guilt of dust to fly.
Through endless years that song
You’ll sing, and weep, To sweep	’
The dark, gray clouds along.
When it’s too late to grieve, A fallen dream	.
Wfill seem
Too hard now to retrieve.
Those pretty words I spoke
You have forgot,
And not
All your sweet lips invoke
Can never touch my heart.
And I regret
That yet	-
We must stay far apart.
—ROBIN ROGER.
GERMAN-IRISH FLYERS HOP
(Chi. Trib. Headline.)
This dance publicity is crowding out the real news.	—the albino boy.
This is the home-stretch and it won’t be long now. Do you see the freshmen strengthening their characters against the temptations of the vacation by spending their monthly pers in the library? Do you see the sophomores writing home, “Dear Father: I really know so little that I couldn’t accept that desk job with your firm; no, let me start from the bottom as a laborer"? Do you see the juniors turning down a lazy summer in Michigan to go to summer School? Do you see the seniors going about with mournful faces through the happy corridors of dear old Alma Mater, soon to be left forever? Well, this is the home-stretch, and did you ever see a race-horse get down on his knees fifty feet from the . post and beg the jockey to throw away the feed-bag and tighten the harness and let him run around the track some more? DID YOU?
—ALLAN-A-DALE.
.786
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
r —L|TERApy -—-=—-^1
Why Not Russian Literature?
An Essay Implying an Affirmative Answer
BERNARD J. BIRD
UPON consideration of William Lyon Phelps’ comment on the ranking of Russian literature in the world of letters, it seems far* from inappropriate to raise the query that titles this paper. Writing upon the subject of Russian literature about a decade ago, this famous critic said: “Russian literature, like German music, is the world’s best.” Furthermore, lest this statement be passed over in silence, only last summer in his “As I Like It” column of Scribners’ Magazine, Professor Phelps wrote again unequivocally that he has found no reason for altering his opinion regarding this great body of Slavic writing.
Despite the expression of such beliefs as that held by the learned Yale professor, however, Russian literature continues to remain static so far as the general public is concerned. Just why such a condition should obtain, when we consider even a few of the many gems from the pens of Russian writers, is difficult to explain. On every compiled list of books that purports to select the world’s greatest novels, we invariably find two or three places assigned to Russian authors. For example, what representative selection of this nature could fail to include . Tolstoi’s great, melodramatic masterpiece, “Anna Karenina?” Time and time again this book has been heralded as the best that has ever been written by any man in any language. Nevertheless, millions of pseudocultured persons were introduced to this book for the first time recently when Miss Greta Garbo played the role of the immortal Anna in the screen version of Tolstoi’s chef-d’oeuvre. I am sure that Count Tolstoi would feel uncomfortable in his grave if he were to know that his darling character had
to be cinematized to become known to many who pretend to know literature.
A great book, like any other product of the intellect, is addressed to the rational faculties of man. Any work of art must sacrifice a great percentage of its value in being modified to fit screen adaptation. And “Anna Karenina” was no exception to this rule. What alterations those indescreet scenariowriters effected in this instance! But perhaps such a phenomenon is inevitable in our con-• temporary age. Someone has cynically said, and not falsely, that in the present century, culture is retrogressive in proportion to materialism’s progress. This statement, while it may be the creature of some misanthrope’s pen, contains a great deal of verity. The principles that have been responsible for so many improvements in modern living should not find application in the field of culture. Too many would-be intellectuals desire their cultural diet to be pre-digested by scenariowriters and then re-served on the screen. Of course it is to the tastes of those who are loathe to make use of their mental eyes that . these eclectic composers pander. But anyone who knows anything at all about psychology, appreciates the superiority that the imagination has over the physical eye for appreciating literature.
Russian literature is held in higher honor abroad than it is in this country. While Arnold Bennett’s enthusiastic devotion to the Russians is to be taken with the proverbial grain, it is not to be entirely disregarded. Mr. Bennett has always been considered a persona grata among the best critics of literature. The twelve best novels of all time, according to him, are the work of Russian masters. This lavish praise is certainly not
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
without some significance in any appraisal of Russian literature. Before Bennett, Gallsworthy as well as Thackeray spoke very highly of the Russian authors, and of Turgeniev in particular Hugh Walpole, of Oxford University, might also be cited as an ardent admirer of the great Slavs. A most cursory glance through the works of these English authors reveals a decided Russian influence. Conrad, too, tells us in his writings that he read the works of Dostoievski most assiduously. The above mentioned writers are only a few who have borrowed from Russian literature. An exhaustive enumeration would be impracticable for our purposes here.
“Fathers and Children,” the great society novel by Ivan Turgeniev, has always been one of the criteria by which the social type of novel is measured. Dignity and culture radiate from virtually every page of this work. Turgeniev’s women characters are perhaps the most salient feature of his writing. They are inimitable; they are so strong in their charm that they seem to defy comparison. In “Torrents of Spring” we meet a woman who seems to combine the most dynamic qualities depicted in all the best woman characters of fiction. Maria Nikolaevna is not weak-spirited like her sisters of contemporary fiction; she is truly one of the most interesting women in the whole range of fiction. Women of her type would not only maintain equality with the male species, but perhaps would swing the pendulum to a point of feminine superiority. And where is the type of woman found in “Virgin Soil,” to be encountered to-day? It is certainly a far cry from women of this stamp to those who move through our modem best sellers. What a sad commentary it is on human nature to realize that such types of femininity are met only on the pages of books!
To lay claim to culture without having followed the psychological path constructed by Dostoievski in his “Crime and Punishment certainly seems presumptuous. In this
787
classic, “the great Russian inquisitor of souls, as he has been aptly termed, provides a place for all the feelings that register in the human heart. Many superficial critics have criticised this work unfavorably because of its descent into morbid realism. To this argument I always picture the sympathetic Dostoievski rejoining in apologetic tones, “Thus we act, and thus we are.” What a massive canvas, and what a quantity of color he employed to portray faithfully the lives of the archcriminal, Raskolnikov, and the moral street-walker, little Sonya. This same author’s “The Idiot” has caused him to be regarded as the most sympathetic artist in literature. It sounds paradoxical to say that Mishkan, the idiot, was in all respects save one, the ideal man. But I would invite anyone inclined to disagree with me to reserve his criticism until he has read the book. In the course of this tabloid of deranged life, the abysmal depths of human feeling have been plumbed again and again.
Russian literature has been condemned as starkly morbid in its realism. As far as many of its passages are concerned this charge could be sustained. But the realistic note of Russian literature for the greater part is not the physical realism of Zola or Flaubert, but rather a spiritual realism which is very conspicuous in Dostoievski’s “Brothers Karamazov.”
The presence of this strain of realism has been attributed to that mysticism which seems to be inspired by the religion of the Russian steppes. This affinity of human spirit with divine is very evident in the environment which surrounds the scenes of most of the Russian novels. In conclusion, then, is it presumtuous to begin this inadequate survey of the field 'with a title implying an affirmative answer? No, I am sure that even the most discursive glance over the efforts of these men from Pushkin, the father of Russian literature, right down to Gorki, a contemporary of ours, will compensate anyone a hundred fold.
788	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mr. Croesus and the Asphalt Merchant
A Reincarnation of Dives and Lazarus
f-
RICHARD W. RICE, JR.
THERE used to be a beggar who came every day to sit on the lower flight of steps leading into the 171st street subway stop. He wore a very high leather collar because his neck had been broken in some way that seemed to make it difficult for him to hold his head up. Both hands were off and so he held his hat between his knees while offering his shoe strings and buttons.
Mr. Croesus, who lived down the hill on the Drive, was very much annoyed by the presence of such an unwholesome fellow. He had his clerk tell the chief of the police precinct to have the beggar removed to some other' subway entrance. But the chief said that the beggar had a police permit to sell on that corner and he could only promise to have him removed when the permit expired. So the unlovely body of the asphalt merchant continued to decorate the floor of Mr. Croesus’s subway entrance. With his bony stubs he played with cigarette butts, crushing the tobacco from the paper, scraping the crumbs and dust in piles, then with one great blow of the stub, he would send all scattering across the damp cement. Witnessing such a performance invariably caused Mr. Croesus to jingle his fingers thru the coins in his pocket. He scarcely ever bought any shoe laces, however, because he was not a man to tolerate idleness.
Now one winter morning, long before daylight, Mr. Croesus started down town in a great hurry. The icy wind sweeping up from the river chilled the air in Mr. Croesus’ lungs and made goose-pimples stand out on his legs. He looked back to where the white fog hung low over the Hudson just as his own damp breath hung before his nose and frosted1 his neat mustache. In the subway, the lights were not all lighted at this time and Mr. Croesus was startled to see the body of the beggar lying close to the vacant newsstand. He was dead and stiff in the cold morning air. One knew that he was dead
because it was unmistakably written on the upturned face. Mr. Croesus was furious. Why had not someone found and removed the man? Without turning his back on the corpse, he walked to the edge of the platform and listened for the train. It was not coming and Mr. Croesus knew that trains were not frequent at this time of day. He was thinking of walking to the next station when he remembered the telephone booth.
But at the door he hesitated! That long narrow box. He looked in. He had seen it a thousand times before but it had never looked like this. Standing at arm’s length he poked the doors open. In the corner of his eyes he could see the slumped body of the asphalt merchant piled among his shoe-laces and tobacco crumbs. Mr. Croesus jingled the coins in his pocket and stepped gingerly into the telephone booth. He thought twice of lighting a match rather' than closing the door in order to gain the light in the roof of the booth. But finally he shut the door with his foot and read his number in the book.
“Police station? There’s a dead man in the 171st street subway—a beggar. Send someone to get him. Will you? Never mind who I am. My name can’t go in on anything like this- No, I won’t stay here! I’m a busy man if you must know.” .
He hung up and kicked at the door as he had done when he had closed it. Of course, it did not open. The roar of the coming train was in his ears, it shook the little box, it made the wires at his side ring and buzz. He saw the dead man on the platform. A man with a broken neck! And where were the poor devil’s arms? The red and green lights up the track were coming on with an increasing rumble. He kicked again and again at the dooi' with his feet. It was the box! He knew now why he had feared this long narrow box. The lights, red and green, seemed to be everywhere and the buzzing, whirling box was squeezing him down. He bumped
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
789
his knees and his elbows. It had got him. It the box. A newsboy got them after Mr. ^n«W\Th® hghtS had gone Croesus and the beggar had been carried to
44m	i	naa oeen carnea io
away and he cold black air was creeping the morgue for identification. For now Mr. mJ- nf his nnSing J?™’ thlCOi?S jin' Croesus was no more nor less dead than the gled out of his pocket and lay on the floor of beggar.	*	;

' 1
To Thaliarch
HORACE, BOOK I, ODE 9
You see Soracte glittering .bright, Its forests struggling ’neath the white And dazzling load. You see the plight Of silent torrent captive bound With icy chains encircled round.
Dispel the chill, pile fagots high, Let cheery sparks from embers fly, And as the flickering shadotvs die, Bring, Thaliarch, the Sabine cask, And in its four-year warmth we’ll bask.
Throw from your shoidders every care That gods are better fit to bear, Who, when the unruly winds that dare To battle on the roily deep
They calm, the elm and cypress sleep; •
Whate’er the morrorv has in store
Is not for thee to question or
Inquire; but when the day brings more Thau’s reckoned, count it an advance. Spurn not young love, nor graceful dance,
For age does not.impair your power.
Seek out the grove and star-lit bower;
And at the secret trusting hour,
When evening hides the maiden’s blush, And ivhispers stir the sylvan hush,
A smothered laugh betrays the maid, Unnoticed ’midst the leafy shade, Who, when she's found, seems half afraid To yield to stubborn love’s request The ring or bracelet, his bequest.
—JOHN REDDIN.

790
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
|	SPORT NEWS--------s|
Kalamazoo Whitewashed in Home Debut
MILLSMEN PLAY ERRORLESS BALL TO TRIUMPH. Donohoe Pitches Brilliant Game.
The varied and puzzling offerings of one “Tank” Donohoe who was performing for the first time in Notre Dame baseball livery in a regularly scheduled game, proved too great a proposition for the Kalamazoo College nine to solve successfully last Tuesday afternoon on the Cartier Field diamond, and the visitors from Michigan proceeded to absorb a thorough 3-0 whitewashing.
Donhoe let the Kazoo outfit down with but five scattered blows, struck out four, did not issue a single pass, fielded his position in faultless style, and in general conducted himself as a seasoned veteran instead of a raw recruit. Materially aided by the errorless support of his mates behind him he was complete master of the proceedings at all times. Indeed, so effective was his pitching that only one Kalamazoo runner got as far as third base, when Moran misjudged Johnson’s liner to center field in the fifth. Johnson was cut down at the plate a moment later on Niemiec’s perfect throw of R. Watson’s grasser, so this advantage of the visitors was short lived.
R. Watson, the visiting hurler, also pitched splendid ball, allowing Notre Dame but three safe blows, all from the bat of Lordi, who seemed to have the Indian ,sign on his efforts. Seven free tickets to first paved the way for Watson’s downfall, however. . Lordi Gets First Notre Dame Hit
Both aggregations went scoreless until the fifth session when Lordi deposited a Texas Leaguer in deep left, was sacrificed to second, took third on a fielder’s choice, and scored when Thompson, visiting catcher, let the ball get away from him.
The Millsmen secured their other two markers in the eighth when two walks, two stolen bases, two sacrifice hits, and an error with Lordi’s third single thrown in for good measure, cashed Niemiec and Wilson with the tallies.
A snappy double play, Donohoe to Schrall to Colerick in the fourth, nipped a potential Kazoo rally in the bud and also provided the fielding gem of the battle.
Lordi led the Blue and Gold offensive operations with three singles, all the hits allowed by R. Wat-■ son. ■ Sullivan, Colerick - and Donohoe shone defensively for Notre Dame.
The work of R. Watson and Davis was outstanding for Kalamazoo.	.
Score by innings:
( R. H. E.
Notre Dame___________0 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 x—3 3 0
Kalamazoo____________0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0 5 2
Three-base hit: Johnson; double play: Donohoe to Schrall to Colerick; passed ball: Thompson; hit by pitcher: by Watson, Schrall; sacrifice hits: Donohoe (2), Sullivan, Colerick, Niemiec, Moran, Lamoreaux; stolen bases: Colerick, Wilson (2), Hart; struck out: by Donohoe (4), by R. Watson (7); bases on balls: • off R. Watson (7).
BASEBALL TEAM CONCLUDES SUCCESSFUL .	SOUTHERN TRIP .	’
Coach Tommy Mills and sixteen Notre Dame baseball players engaged in their annual spring practice tour of the sunny South during the Easter recess just .passed, and returned last Sunday with the splendid record of five wins in seven starts against four of the most powerful diamond aggregations in the Southern section.
The Blue and Gold performers clearly asserted their superiority over every foe encountered, with the possible exception of the Spring Hill College nine of Mobile, Alabama. Even at that though, the Alabamans after soundly drubbing their visitors from the middle-west in the first of two scheduled games, had the same dose administered to them in the second and final attraction of the short series by their visitors. Fort Benning, Georgia, the other combination to triumph over the fast-travelling Notre Dame diamond contingent, was defeated in the other tussels of the three-game series arranged between the two teams. Louisiana State, and Vanderbilt, two of the strongest nines in the Southern Conference, were the remaining victims of sparkling Blue and Gold play. Old Jupiter Pluvius steppe in to prevent the playing of the second engagemen carded with Louisiana State, April 8, and also a pair of battles scheduled with the Loyola Universi y baseball representatives at New Orleans, Apn and 10.	, ,.
Encouraging features of this highly commenda e early season play by Coach Mills’ proteges we the increased hitting ability of the team as a Who >. and the noteworthy slabbing performances W trio of hurlers, Rust, Jachym, and Walsh. A e >
the NOTRE DAMESCHOLASTIC
the Notre Dame performers put up their usual exhibition of brilliant defensive work in practically every battle on the card.
A short summary of each game follows:
At Fort Benning, Georgia, April 3—Notre Dame 2, Fort Benning 1.
An opportune home run from the bat of Ed Walsh, sterling Blue and Gold pitcher, with the score deadlocked at one-all in the ninth inning of the first clash betv een the Millsmen and the Soldiers, gave the Notre Dame players a well-deserved triumph in their initial contest of the season. The score was 2 to 1.	s
The game resolved itself into a hurling duel between Ellis of the Fort Benning team, and Walsh of the visitors. Both pitched mid-season ball and were accorded fine support by their mates behind them. Each whiffed six opposing batsmen but Ellis was touched for twice the number of safeties that Walsh allowed.
Notre Dame inaugurated the scoring in the second round when Moran singled to left, stole second, and counted on Walsh’s one-baser to center. Fort Benning tied the score in the eighth when Newman scored all the way from first after Colerick had dropped Walsh’s attempted assist on Smythe’s grounder, and the former West Point star had accidentally booted the ball into the field.
Three thrilling double-plays by the Blue and Gold infield featured the engagement and helped Walsh out of several bad holes.'
Walsh, in addition to pitching a fine game, led the Notre Dame batting attack with a home run and a single out of three trips to the rubber. Doubles
by Lordi and Colerick and Schrall’s also deserve mention.
Score by innings:
rousing triple
Notre Dame . Fort Benning
.0 1
.0 0
Batteries: Walsh and
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Lordi; Ellis
E 0 2
R H 0— 2 10 0—1 5
and Douglas.
At Fort Benning, Georgia, April 4—Fort Bennine-3; Notre Dame, 2.
A wild pitch by Rust in the last half of the ninth, which enabled White of Fort Benning to score the winning run from third, provided the winning margin for the Soldiers in the second game of the series with Notre Dame, 3-2. Until his damaging heave Rust had pitched one of the prettiest games ever witnessed in the Gowdy Memorial Stadium at Fort Benning, allowing the. heavy-hitting Georgians but five hits and two runs in almost nine innings of
McGaha on the mound for the home nine took advantage of the two runs coined by his mates in the first and sixth innings respectively, and held the visitors in check until the eighth when Notre Dame tied the score. Singles by Lordi and Moran, a balk, and another safe hit by Rust, were productive
791
of the tying tallies in this inning. Following this rally the battle seemed slated for extra innings, but in Fort Benning’s half of the ninth White walked, stole second, took third on a passed ball, and as narrated before, counted when Rust heaved a wild one past Lordi.
The Blue and Gold players outhit their hosts, 7 to 5, including Captain Sullivan’s three-cushion sock, but inability to connect safely with the ball when hits meant runs proved their ultimate undoing
Rust collected two of McGaha, while Sullivan Notre Dame afield.
Score by innings:
the seven hits allowed by
was the shining light
for
Fort Benning Notre Dame .
.1 .0
0 0
5
Batteries: McGaha, and Lordi. .
E 2 2
R 000100 1—3
000002 0— 2' 7
Morris and McCarthy; Rust

. At Fort Benning, Georgia, April 5—Notre Dame, 3; Fort Benning, 2.
A thrilling ninth inning rally which was productive of three runs after two were down, was instrumental in giving Notre Dame the rubber contest of the three-game series with the Fort Benning diamond outfit, 3-2. The battle was well-played throughout.	-
It was Joe Jachym’s arm and Joe Jachym’s bat which enabled the visitors to finish in front of their determined hosts. Starting his first 1928 game on the mound Jachym, while solved for nine hits by the Soldiers, kept the bingles well-scattered and held Fort Benning to two runs, both secured in the ' first frame. And it was his screaming triple to right center in the stirring last inning rally which cashed Moran and Lordi with the tying runs of the fray. The Notre Dame pitcher also had the honor of counting what shortly proved to be the winning marker when Serail poled a one-baser to left a moment later in the same round.
Roosma, Fort Benning pitcher, hurled a commendable game until the Blue and Gold rally in the last frame nullified his would-be winning efforts.
Moran and Serail led the Notre Dame batting attack, collecting three safeties each out of four official trips to the plate. Schrall, together with Wilson, also performed brilliantly afield.
Score by innings:
1
R
Notre Dame	«0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3— 3
Fort Benning_____2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0— 2
E 2 2
H 10 9
Batteries: Jachym and Lordi; Roosma and Douglas.
At Baton Rouge, Louisiana, April 7—Notre Dame, 5; Louisiana State, 3.
Notre Dame assumed a small lead in the very first inning of the engagement with Louisiana State which was never relinquished thereafter, and the
792
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Baton Rouge outfit was forced to accept the short end of a 5-3 score. Although outhit by their hosts the Blue and Gold safeties proved the most opportune in the manufacture of runs.
Walsh, on the mound for the Millsmen, pitched a fine brand of ball until the eighth, when two walks and two hits resulted an two runs, and his exit in favor of Rust in the role of relief hurler. Rust" effectively applied the brakes to the suddenly ambitious Louisianans the rest of the way. • '
Sullivan inaugurated the run-collecting in the first inning by doubling to left center and being propelled to the counting block by Colerick’s single to the same place. Further Notre Dame scoring was averted until the eighth when a three run sortie gave the Blue and Gold a substantial lead which their hosts could not overcome. Niemiec’s triple, Colerick’s free trip to first, Bray’s single, an error and a sacrifice hit were the main ingredients used in the manufacture of these markers.
Sullivan also scored Notre Dame’s final tally in the ninth when he was hit by a pitched ball, and ' was worked around by several errors and walks, until he counted on a fielder’s choice. ,
Bray secured two of the seven hits credited to the visiting team, while Sullivan and Schrall performed brilliantly in the field.
Score by innings:
RHE
Notre Dame .........1 0 0 0 0 0 0 3	1—	5	7	2
Louisiana State ....0 0 0 0 1 0 0 2	0—	2	8	5
Batteries: Walsh, Rust and Lordi; Smith and Strickland.	,
At Mobile, Alabama, April 11—Spring Hill, 6;
' Notre Dame, 0.
The curves and fast balls of John Tedesco, Spring Hill College pitcher, were solved easily enough by the Notre Dame batters, but not opportunely enough, so the Alabama institution was able to shut their visitors out by a 6-0 score. At the same time the Blue and Gold supporting cast was getting a quartet of errors out of its system, practically all of which figured in the Spring Hill scoring.
It was a tight pitchers’ battle between Jachym of Notre Dame, and Tedesco of the hosts, until the sixth inning, when the Alabamans chased three runs across the counting block, and then proceeded to practically cinch the tussle by duplicating this performance again in the seventh. The Millsmen had frequent chances to score, but each time when danger threatened Tedesco was, equal to the emergency and retired the side scoreless. The real story of the game is told in the fact that no less than twelve Notre Dame runners ware left stranded on the paths by their mates who were unable to come to their succor.
Lordi and Colerick with two safeties in three tries each, and the fielding of Schrall and Sullivan featured for the Blue and Gold.
Score by innings:
R H E Spring Hill .........0	0 0 0 0 3 3 0	x—	6	7	0
Notre Dame ..........0	0 0 0 0 0 0 0	0—	0	10	4
Batteries: Tedesco and Blaize; Jachym and Lordi.
At Mobile, Alabama, April 12—Notre Dame, 6;
Spring Hill, 1.	’
Smashing the offerings of two Spring Hill College pitchers to all comers of the diamond, and supporting Walsh’s brilliant hurling efforts with errorless baseball, the Millsmen achieved sweet revenge for their defeat of the previous day by decisively defeating the Alabama club, 6-1. The triumph among other things snapped Spring Hill’s string of consecutive triumphs which had reached twenty-eight.
Walsh was well-nigh invincible on the mound for Notre Dame, and backed by gilt-edged support let the Southerners down with four scattered safeties, including a home run by Delmas in the seventh inning for Spring Hill’s only tally of the game. The Blue and' Gold pitcher topped this splendid performance by fanning eleven opposing batters.
Notre Dame got down to business in the inaugural session when Schrall doubled to start the hostilities and scored on Colerick’s safe rap to center. Another two-bagger, this time by Sullivan, and singles by Walsh and Colerick again, interspersed with an error, a stolen base and a sacrifice hit, increased this majority to four in the third round. •
Poliskey tallied Niemiec and Colerick for the final Blue and Gold tallies, with a sizzling liner over second in the eighth.
Walsh in addition to his splendid pitching exhibition, also poled out three hits to share high batting honors with Colerick who collected a like number. Poliskey with five hard puts-outs in right field featured defensively.
Score by innings:
RHE Notre .Dame .........1	0 3 0 0 0 0 2	0—	6	11	0
Spring Hill .........0	0 0 0 0 0 1 0	0—	1	4	2
Batteries: Walsh and Lordi; Douville, Cazentre and Blaize.
At Nashville, Tennessee, April 13—Notre Dame, 4; Vanderbilt, 2.
The Millsmen concluded their highly successful jaunt by capturing a well played battle from the ' strong Vanderbilt nine, 4-2.
Rust,. Notre Dame ace, hooked up with Creson, Commodore slab artist, and.a pretty hurling duel resulted. Both pitched fine ball, especially the former, who let the Southern Conference team down with but a trio of safe blows.
After a walk, sacrifice, and Colerick’s single had been instrumental in giving the visitors a one-run lead in the third, the Commodores chased two runs across the plate to assume a short-lived advantage in the fifth. The Millsmen rallied in the eighth, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
793
scored three markers when Colerick watched four wide ones sail by, to count when Creson heaved the ball widely to the third baseman. Jachym then walked, Lordi singled him to second, and both scored when Rolfe, Vanderbilt tenter fielder, allowed Rust’s hot single to go through his legs. ,
Rust clearly deserved his victory, for in addition to limiting the Commodore bingles to but three, he also walked only two, and struck out ten.
Lordi, as usual, was the shining light with the stick with a pair of hits. Wilson and Sullivan looked good in the field.
Score by innings:
RHE
Notre Dame .....0 0100003 0— 4 7 2
Vanderbilt .....0 0002000 0— 2 3 2
Batteries: Rust and Lordi; Creson and Oliver.
FRESHMAN BASEBALL
After several weeks of practice, Coach Jack Cul-hane of the Freshman-Varsity has his team in fairly good early season condition. Culhane is a former Boston College baseball and hockey man. It was in the latter sport that he earned considerable reputation in Intercollegiate circles. He is at present a
graduate student in the Boy Guidance Department	f
of the University.	.	. r
The following infielders and outfielders are still	I
members of the squad: Bartley, Oulette, Jordan,	v,
McNerney, Askew, Callahan, Cushwa, Maloney,	|
Wright, Hoxie, Brazell, Davis, O’Connor, Nash,	I.
McGarrall, Pucci and Rudolph. Of the batterymen	!
still retained, Mannix, Smith and Lisecki have	r
shown possibilities as pitchers, while three other twirlers are yet to be selected. The present catch- '	'!
ing staff consists of Connolly, Wallace and Prescott.	:
The final cut will be made early next week.	;
TRACKMEN SUCCESSFUL IN SOUTHERN ••	:
RELAYS	• _ '	S
Unusual success marked Notre Dame’s participation in the Southern Relays held at Georgia Tech University in Atlanta, Saturday, April 14.
The outstanding Notre Dame accomplishment was the brilliant victory of the two mile four over a comparatively fast field. Stephen, Quigley, Bill Brown, and Abbott running in the order named, flashed to a beautiful triumph over Kentucky, Louisiana State, and half a dozen other quartets in the commendable time of 8 min. 30 4-10 seconds. Elder,
Office: 3-6978 Residence: 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
SOUTH BEND INDIANA
794
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1
Wherever you go—on campus ground — at football game — in snappy roadster—no matter what outdoor activity—there you will see Sawyer’s Slickers — the unfailing choice of collegiate style setters throughout the country. Distinctively cut, Sawyer’s Slickers not only look well but give absolute protection against rain,sleet arid snow.
Sawyer’s Slickers are obtainable at men’s stores, haberdashers anddepartmentstores. Get yours—TODAY.
H. M. SAWYER & SONS
EAST CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS
(MAKERS OF GENUINE OILED CLOTHING SINCE 1810)
Redgate, McGauley, and England carried the Blue and Gold to second place in the 880 yard sprint' relay, which was won by Indiana ‘ while a team of Kelly, Elder, Eng’ land, and Abbott finished third to Iowa in the sprint medley.
Elder also ran second to Cummings of Virginia in a close 100.
SPRING FOOTBALL ENTERS TOURNAMENT STAGE; ROUND
ROBIN PLAY ON
With the last cut over, and all ' surviving candidates of the spring session divided into six complete teams known respectively as the Army, Navy, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Wisconsin, and Southern California, the previously announced Round Robin tournament is on with all teams struggling valiantly for the steak dinner which is to grace the inwards of the victorious aggregation. The schedule has been so arranged that each team will play six games from now till the spring season closes. To give the teams the needed rest each one will play only twice during the same week, but one team will be playing each day so that students interested will have ample opportunity to see fall varsity prospects in action.
Judging from the single battle that has been played at the time of this writing, the schedule will provide plenty of action and thrills as well as very good football. The contest was the Army vs. Georgia Tech brawl which the Army won 6-0 when Bernie Lahey, frosh halfback, cut through a broken field for. sixty yards and the only touchdown of the fray. Although this six pointer was the lone score,' Georgia Tech threatened several times, their third quarter advance being stopped only after an ex- ■ ceptionally hard tackle forced the Tech half to drop the ball on the Army twenty yard. Again in the fourth quarter they were deep in Army territory when the fine whistle cut their advance short., was an exceptionally hard foug • game throughout, the Army hav ing a slight edge over their opp°n^ ents both offensively and de en, sively.	-J. ». ZUBER- ,