Vol. XIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 22, 1886.
No. 36.
A Dactylic Dressing'.
[In the course of a recent conversation on the rarity of pure dactylic verse in English, our friend John, with his customary frankness, intimated his belief that regular dactylic English*verse, with th‘e triple rhyme, did not exist; and further, dogmatically, and contemptuously, asserted that the undersigned could not write a dozen lines in the required metre. The following is commended to his attention.]
John, my dear boy, we’ve remarked you repeatedly Airing your views on the ills of humanity,
Heard you quite frequently handle conceitedly
Subjects that served but to show your inanity—
- Hence we rebuke your immoderate vanity.
Providence, John, when his mercy befriended you,
Lavishly granting you mental profundity, Ne’er for a moment, we fancy, intended you
Ever to alter this planet’s rotundity.
Let not such schemes, then, disturb your jucundity.
Juveniles, John, though their talents be glorious,
Ne’er should insist on their own great ability,
Ne’er should be arrogant, e’en when victorious;
Youth should be noted for graceful humility. -Insolence always is gross incivility.
Vaunt not your prowess and valor so scornfully,
Sneer not at others each chance opportunity,
Else, John, you’ll rue your impertinence mournfully;
“ Cheek” does not always escape with impunity;
“Tour day will come, and we care not how soon it be.
Down, J ohn! step down from your throne, and demolish it.
Take a back-seat, and bewail your temerity
E’er to have left it. Your pride, boy,—abolish it;
Act like a youth of good sense and sincerity.
Meanwhile, how’s this for dactylic dexterity?
Myne’ Dewar Imeson.
Those who are engaged in the perpetual endeavor to appear “ smart ” should remember that such efforts result in nothing more than an exhibition of puppyishness of temper and a piggishness of manner that ill become persons with any pretension to mind or cultivation. .
A Review of the Feudal System.
BY F. H. DEXTER, ’87.
Though our modern jurisprudence, and, still less, the society of the nineteenth century, bears but few traces of the so-called Feudal System, it is nevertheless of the greatest importance to appreciate the prominent part which this scheme of polity played in the history of European nations. To-day no one but the antiquary inquisitively-searching for historical curiosities, or the industrious legal student tracing up the laws of property, is at all familiar with the features and workings of the system. The subject is. such an extensive one, however, involving so wide a range of attention and such multiplicity of detail as to make it impossible to enter here into a comprehensive or complete discussion. The present paper will therefore contain no more than a few references to the origin and cause of the system and its final establishment. The Feudal System, by which is meant that condition of society which prevailed in Europe during the Middle Ages, and was manifested in the general relation of lord and vassal, is not entirely of a technical nature in its particular connection with the history of law, but it appeals to all whose study is the history of modern nations and their object—a rightful understanding of the social and political progress of the period in question.
With regard to the origin of the system, historians have displayed a wonderful patience and ingenuity in their endeavors to relegate it to distant ages beyond the ken of history, some going so far as to locate it among the ancient races of India in . Asia, or the rude inhabitants of. Scandinavia in northern Europe. There is in the customs of these people, however, too faint an analogy with those of a more recent age to warrant the deduction of the system from them, or to consider these facts any more than the indications of a natural progress _ of primitive people towards enlightenment. The supporters of this theory base their conviction upon a fancied resemblance, which they claim to have discovered in the mutual relations of sovereign and

57°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
subject in the early laws of these races, to the developed feudal principle of a later time; but these phenomena can be but the early glimmerings in the barbarian mind of an embryotic jurisprudence. The more rational and certain theory is the one advanced by the majority of modern writers on the subject and accepted by the scholars of both Europe and America.
The Roman Empire had gradually spread its conquests over a vast extent of territory, and its rule, under Trajan, at the beginning of the second century, extended inland from the shores of the Mediterranean for hundreds of leagues, embracing the fairest provinces of the Old World. All the conquered provinces remote from the centre of Empire were divided among the Roman soldiers, with free and absolute enjoyment. Taxes, and sometimes military services, were levied upon them by the governors; but still they remained the true and unrestricted masters of the soil. The story of the downfall of the Empire is well known to all. Mighty Rome had grown too wealth}' and unwieldy to sustain itself, and when corruption and violence began to gnaw at the vitals of State the poison spread also to the various members of the imperial body. Daily it weakened and declined from internal causes, while there were not lacking external influences to accelerate its ruin. The year 476 witnessed the overthrow of the Western Empire by Odoacer, King of the Heruli, a barbarian tribe from the North.
THE ANCIENT GERMANS.
In the interior of Germany, and beyond, dwelt innumerable tribes of whom little was known until the sword of Caesar and, more than a century later, the pen of Tacitus turned the attention of the Romans to that quarter. Of their early history we are in general quite ignorant, but the latter genius has left us, in his elegant treatise De Moribus Germanorum, an insight to their condition at the opening of the Christian era. In the customs of these people we have the answer to the first part of the discussion, for, as the learned Chancellor Kent properly observes, “the Feudal System was created by the union of Roman laws and barbarian uses.” Hence is it important to investigate the character of these races, whose successful inroads and rude institutions effected such wonderful results through-_	-	o
out Europe.
Within the interior of their vast territory, which historians have been pleased to term the oficina gentium—storehouse of nations—they roamed in a wild state, little removed from that of the savage. Every man was a warrior, and a good one too, as the Roman legions often found to their sorrow. They were fierce and uncouth, and free as the air they breathed, recognizing no superior and boasting, not even of a government. Their life was nomadic; moving from place to place, with their . families and flocks, under the guidance of an appointed chief, and settling wherever chance dr the fortunes of war should offer show of inducement. Upon locating in a new country, the lands were parcelled put among them, the chief retaining the
largest portion. Eventually, he attached to himself, by reason of grants out of his domain, a set of attendants, to whom was given the name of comites— companions. In return, fealty was promised by the latter to the chief, and they were ever his most faithful supporters.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SYSTEM IN FRANCE.
Upon the dissolution of the Roman power innumerable bodies of these Germanic hordes rushed from their northern fastnesses and hurled themselves upon the debilitated provinces of the Empire, blackening their path by bloodshed, fire, and rapine. Among them was the powerful nation of the Franks, composed of several different tribes, who overran northern Gaul in the year 486, under their active leader Clovis. In the space of a few years the Franks firmly established themselves in the conquered district, introducing their manners and what laws they possessed among the Roman population, whose land was confiscated and divided among the conquerors. The old custom of the comitcs was continued after the conquest by Clovis and his successors, who thereby attached to their court the most distinguished warriors Of the nation. Subsequently, this body received the name of leudes, or fideles, and this is the first stage of a systematic and regularly defined vassalage. There has been considerable discussion as to the precise nature of the original grants given under these circumstances, but it may be accepted as most probable that they were given originally to terminate at the pleasure of the chief or king, and having only the incident of fealty; butthat later they were granted for life, and eventually made hereditary—which change was also accompanied by the introduction -of a definite military service into the tenure. In this way rose a superior class—the leudes—who ranked even higher than the free soldiery, possessing small allodial lands. Thus, in this simple relation, was laid in Frankish Gaul the foundation of the system which was subsequently to constitute the complicated polity of feudal France.
Although the germs of the Feudal System flourished simultaneously in the various other countries occupied or conquered by the Northmen, it nowhere advanced with such rapid and steady pace or met with such legal-like development as in France, especially under the Carlovingian and Capetian dynasties. It owed its formation to the necessities of the conquerors; for, considering the condition of the times, it was the only method by which they could hope to secure their new possessions from the incursions of the other barbarian tribes who continued to roll, wave after wave, from the North.
In time was introduced the benefeium^ which was the name of an estate granted by the leude, or lord, as he may now be called, of which the receiver was entitled only to the usufruct, or enjoyment of the profits, without possessing the absolute title. This became ^a&feudjif,Gxfee of later times, when the great vassals of the crown began to assume a wider control oyer the lands under them, and to grant them, in turn, among their immediate followers and supporters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
57i
In the weakness displayed by the last of the Merovingians (successors of Clovis), the holders of extensive fiefs were enabled to acquire considerable independence and to aim at adangerous power, which remained only for the masterhand of a • Charlemagne to check. Upon his accession to the crown left him by his worthy father, Pepin le-Bref, and the subsequent acquisition of others, he sought to consolidate the royal power and place the nobles in a safe position of dependence. All were made direct vassals of the Emperor and were subject to his immediate control, while his military strength lay in his hcer ban, or feudal militia, made up of his various subjects throughout the Empire. His dominions he divided up into counties, over each of which he placed a count, who held it as a -fief for life.
Thus during the life of this great genius the dangerous features of the system were kept in abeyance; but upon his death, and the consequent dissolution of his empire, it emerged into the fulness of an established and universal code. His sons were too weak to maintain the arrangements made by him, and the mourning for his death had scarcely ceased throughout the provinces before the nobles were busily engaged in breaking down the barriers he had erected against their ambition and were endeavoring to wrest from the hands of his successors all the prerogatives which royalty alone should have exercised. A powerful encouragement was given their designs, and, in fact, the regular establishment of a feudal aristocracy was recognized by the capitulary of Charles the Bald, who, in 887, declared all fiefs to be hereditary. This act, though it was not intended to derogate from the ultimate right which the king was supposed to retain to all lands as lord 'paramotint, or stizerain, nevertheless invested the fief-holders with a power which daily increased until it eventually set at defiance royalty itself. According to the phraseology of the law, the lords became vested with a title in fee simple, while their vassals were possessed of an estate less than freehold. A regular feudal jurisprudence was now built up by the opening of the tenth century, based on the one grand idea of a military vassalage. Subinfeudation became the common practice, and every lord, or tenant in chief, had around him a small army of retainers, constituting the order of lesser vassals, who held of him much in the same manner as he held of the king.
In thus granting his possessions to his military tenants a regular ceremony was observed, which consisted in the vassal’s pledging homage and fealty to the lord, who thereupon invested him with the title of the land. The general nature of the vassal’s obligations may be understood from one form of the oath by which he bound himself to his superior:
“ By the Lord,” said the inferior, placing his hands between those of his chief, “ I promise to be faithful and true; to love all that thou lovest, and shun all that thou shunnest. conformably to the laws of God and man: and never in will or weald (power), in word or work, to do that which thou loathest, provided thou boldest me, as I mean to serve and fulfil the conditions to which we agreed when I subjected myself to thee and chose thy will.” *
* Lingard’s England, Vol. I, Chap. vii.
Investiture was of two kinds, proper and improper. In the former, the tenant was put into actual possession by the lord or his servant, and this was called livery of seism; in the latter, a piece of turf, a branch, or other natural object from the land was delivered to the tenant as symbolical of the actual transfer. From the moment of investiture their mutual obligations began—fidelity and military service on the part of the tenant, who received, in exchange, protection from the lord. Because the nature of these services was free and uncertain, subject to the vicissitudes of war, they were considered honorable and the only ones worthy a freeman and a gentleman, whose whole occupation in life was that of arms. United in the service of a common lord, and bound by the strongest sense of honor and human affection, these military vassals identified themselves with the fortunes, persons, and very existence of the chief, who led them to battle in time of war and presided over their domestic affairs in time of peace.
DIVISION OF CLASSES.
With the increasing power of the nobility, the system rose in the tenth century to its greatest height, and, as a consequence of its universality, European society was divided into three great classes, the nobles, the freemen, and the serfs, or villeins. The first of these orders had become as so many petty kings; for each day they had become bolder arid more aspiring until little was left of royal prerogative but the mere acknowledgment of his theoretical suzerainty, which amounted in practice to very little, as the haughty lord, surrounded by his sworn followers, might at any time defy the royal mandates. When Hugh Capet, in 990, advanced upon Tou^, on the Loire, then besieged by Count Aldebert of Perigueux, he sent on his heralds to question the authority of the latter, who was asked: “Who made thee Count?” The haughty Count replied: “ Who made thee King?”
Within their own territory the lords exercised the privilege of supreme jurisdiction, power to coin money, and the right aiprivate-war. Besides the enjoyment of these great powers they also derived immense authority and considerable wealth from the several incidents of the feudal relation which had gradually crept into the system. These were relifs, fines upon alienation, escheats, aids, and, in England and Germany, -wardship and marriage—all of which became the source of great imposition and extortion. Estates held in vassalage were preferable; for, as the nobility were exceedingly averse to the independent and unencumbered possessions of the allodialists, they succeeded by their, increasing power and menaces in inducing these free proprietors to place themselves under the protection of their nearest lord, who exacted therefor only the promise of fealty, arid the relation might be terminated by the tenant at pleasure. Thus arose the practice of commendation, being but the establishment in practice of that theory which had gradually obtained in France, and was given expression by the feudal
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

lawyers in the maxim, uNulleterre sans seignieztr™ —no land without a lord. '
Time worked a decided change in the position of the ordinaryyhzgzwezz, the second class of society, who, if they once stood on an equality with the proudest of their race, were eventual!)' reduced to a semi-subjection in their dependence on the nobility. They were distinguished, however, by the nature of their services, which were generally military in character; for it was not until the age of the Crusades that the popular attention was given to commerce, or its calling deemed honorable. Here it may be asked by the critical reader: Who was it that carried on the domestic arts and produced the means of subsistence for the gentlemen soldiers whose dignity would not permit them to indulge in such.menial labor? This fell to the lot of that unfortunate class of predial slaves, the serfs and villeins, who lived in the most abject condition of servitude. It is stated that the villeins were a step removed from the former class in that their duties were not of such an indefinite or ignoble nature. Thefreesnan had rights which commanded respect, but the serf none—his labor, his very body and all that he might earn were subject to the absolute disposition of the master. Beaumanoir thus quaintly sums up their condition: “ The third estate of man is that of such as are not free, and these are not all of one condition; for some are so subject to the lord that he may take all they have, alive or dead, and imprison them whenever he pleases, being accountable to none but God; while others are treated more gently, from whom the lord can take nothing but customary payments, though at their death all that they have escheats to him.”
It will be readily seen that the policy of Feudalism -was to advance the individual, affording the source of aggrandizement for few, but proving the doom and oppression of many. So well did'the society of the time conform to the principles of the institution that when Hugh Capet, founder of . the third race of kings, ascended the throne of France in 987 he found, by far, the great majority of his people in servitude.
(conclusion in our next.)
William H. Seward.
The character, the influence and the worth of men are revealed and estimated by the lives they live, the works they perform and the good which
has so ordained that even the fall of a leaf is noted and produces an effect; in like manner, the slightest act of man leaves behind an indelible trace the impress of which is, unconsciously, felt by succeeding generations. It has been said that circumstances make the man; while this to a certain extent is true, it more frequently happens that the causes which lead to the acquisition of fame and influence are the direct results of an energetic and creative genius. In the economy of nature all have a destined duty to perform, and he who unflinchingly
and to the best of his ability acts in the drama of life the part for which he was created is truly great, let his station in life be what it may.
While it is not our province to sit in critical judgment on the acts and achievements of men of acknowledged superiority and worth, no one can be denied the privilege of admiring the fruits of a useful life, or of sounding the praise of one who in the hour of the nation’s peril was one of the strongest bulwarks of national union and liberty. In forming the concept of the character of a man in public as well as in private life due consideration should be paid to the time in which he lived, to the circumstances with which he was surrounded and to the lasting effect resulting from his acts.
The subject of this sketch was born in Florida, Orange County, New York, in the year 1801, of eminently respectable parentage; his father being one of the leading and influential citizens of the county. Young Seward was carefully trained, receiving every advantage of a Christian education, which fitted him for the important position he was destined to occupy. At the age of nine he was sent to the Academy of Goshen, N. Y., within whose walls Dr. Noah Webster and Aaron Bun-had studied. In 1815 he entered Union Colleg-e, completing his course four years later. As a student, Seward gave no evidence of being pre-eminently brilliant; he was a faithful, painstaking worker, standing well in his classes; and that was all. During the last year of his collegiate life he spent six months as a teacher in the schools of the State of Georgia, where many of the inhumanities and degradations incident to a life of slavery came under his notice. The scenes he there witnessed produced a deep impression on the mind of the young tutor, and did much towards shaping the future bent of his actions, when he was brought face to face, and had to deal with that momentous question. Returning home, he began the study of Law, which he had already chosen as his profession, and was admitted to the bar in 1828. A student by nature, an indefatigable worker, and gifted with a clear insight into human nature, he soon rose to a distinction in his profession, which was not confined by the boundaries of state. His integrity and love for justice won the esteem of all, and often prompted him to defend those whom he believed to be unjustly accused, and who were unable to employ counsel, or to offer him any recompense; while, on the other hand, he was often employed to conduct cases in other states, which on account of their importance have become historic in the annals of American jurisprudence.
Although as an attorney he acquired a reputation that will live as long as the history of the American bar, yet it is as a-statesman and politician that he is best known and understood. He early manifested an active interest in public affairs. His keen insight into the workings of men and things, his superior talent and sterling worth were soon recognized by his friends and fellow-citizens; while the courage and earnestness with which he asserted his convictions, supported by a strong force of character and evident purity of purpose, caused

W
Sr

<8
s s
p
B
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	573
him to be both feared and respected by his opponents.
His first appearance in the political arena was in the State Convention of 1824, where he boldly denounced the supremacy of the “Albany regency,” a term applied to a class of men, who at that time manipulated the political machinery and controlled the administration of the state, and whose final overthrow he witnessed a few years later. An oration which he delivered the following year, in Syracuse, in the cause of liberty and against the extension of slavery, was widely circulated and served to increase his popularity.
In 1830, he was elected as an anti-Mason candidate to the State Senate. This was the first public trust which he held, though previous to this he had been tendered and had refused the nomination to Congress. Entering on the duties of his office the following January, he soon took an active part in the deliberations of that body. The measures which he advocated and championed, among which were the reformation of the educational system, the abolition of imprisonment for debt, the extension of public improvements, the amelioration in the condition, and reform in the management of convicts, and his opposition to the growing powers of monopolies, and the energy with which he carried them forward, marked him as a clear, comprehending statesman. Mr. Seward was the candidate of the Whig Party for Governor of New York, in 1834, but was defeated by the Democratic nominee. Subsequently, in 1838, he was elected to the chief magistracy of the State, defeating his former rival, Governor Marcy, and was again re-elected in 1840. He refused to become a candidate for a third term when the acceptance of the’ nomination by him was tantamount to an re-election. His administrations are marked as among the most vigorous and successful in the annals of the State. The prosecution of public works and the encouragement given to commerce and industry served to revive the then depressed spirit of trade. The enlargement of the Erie canal, to accommodate the increasing carrying trade between the Western State and the Atlantic sea board, was, and has continued to be, an important factor in the prosperity of the State. The removal of the legal disabilities imposed upon foreigners and the abolition of imprisonment for debt were measures as wise as they were useful; and although strenuously opposed by Know-nothings and demagogues, they have since received the approbation of advancing civilization. Governor Seward urged upon the Legislature the necessity of providing for the education of every child as the surest safe-guard of Republican institutions, and to this end earnestly advocated the distribution of the school fund proportionally among all schools, maintaining that the duty of educating the youth is a primary obligation resting on the state, and that sects and others who assisted her in this regard are in equity entitled to a just recompense; that, besides, .numerous children are thus educated and become useful citizens, who, otherwise would remain ignorant, and perhaps a burden to society. The eradication from the statutes of the last vestige
of slavery may be said to have been the crowning act of his administration.
A controversy between Governor Seward and the Governor of Virginia, in reference to the fugitive slave law, growing out of a requisition by the latter on the former for the return of .two seamen charged as slave abductors, engaged the attention of the people of the nation, and served to increase Seward’s popularity at the North. In 1848, Mr. Seward was elected to the United States Senate, as the successor of Gen. John A. Dix. He at once took strong grounds against the extension of slavery in the territories. His ulterior views on this subject raised a storm of opposition from the leaders of the pro-slavery party, who denounced him as a fanatic and a revolutionist. While on the-other hand, the energy with which he undertook to oppose slavery extension caused him to be recognized as the leader of the anti-slavery party in Congress and at the North. In 1850, while discussing the California admission bill, speaking of the rights and duties of Congress respecting the territories, he said; “ It is true, indeed, that the national domain is ours. It is true, it was acquired • by the valor and with the wealth of the whole nation. But we hold nevertheless no arbitrary power over it. We hold no arbitrary authority over anything, whether acquired lawfully or seized by usurpation. The Constitution regulates our stewardship; the Constitution devotes the domain to the Union, to justice, to welfare and to liberty. But there is a higher law than the Constitution which regulates our authority over the domain, and devotes it to the same noble purpose. This territory is a part, no inconsiderable part, of the common heritage of mankind bestowed upon them by the Creator of the universe. We are his stewards, and must so discharge our trust as to secure in the highest attainable degree their happiness.”
As a debater, Mr. Seward had few superiors on the floors of Congress, though he had among his colleagues such men as Henry Clay and Stephen A. Douglas. Possessing an almost inexhaustible fund of general information and an easy delivery, he was ever ready to take part in the discussion of any subject which might arise. These qualifications rendered him invaluable to his party. And on the organization of the Republican party in 1856, he became its acknowledged leader in Congress. He took a prominent part in the discussion of all the important measures which came before Congress during his term as Senator. But his most brilliant efforts were in defense of humanity and justice. In the debate on the Kansas admission bill, in 1856, he said: “ He who found a river in his path, and sat down to wait for the flood to pass away, was not more unwise than he. who expects the agitation of slavery to cease while the . love of freedom animates the bosoms of mankind.” Repeating the parting injunction of the Continen-tai Congress to the people of the Union, “ Let it never be forgotten that the cause of the United States has ever been the cause of human nature,’’ he continued, “ Let us recall that precious monition ; let us examine the ways which we have pur_
SU
sued hitherto under the light thrown upon them by that instruction. We shall find, in doing so, that we have forgotten moral right in the pursuit of material greatness, and we shall henceforth refrain from practicing the miserable delusion that we can safely extend empire when we shall have become reckless of the obligations of Eternal Justice and faithless to the interests of universal freedom.”
Everybody expected that Mr. Seward would be the nominee of the Chicago Convention for the Presidency in i860, and indeed he lacked but a few votes of a majority on the first ballot. But of late years there appears to be a fatalism intervening between the Presidential chair and a statesman of acknowledged standing. Clay and Webster each sought the position; and although the former several times received the nomination, jealousy and envy ever proved an effectual stumbling-block to their ambition.
President Lincoln, when selecting his constitutional adviser in i860, in acknowledgment of Mr. Seward’s ability, and in deference to public opinion, placed him at the head of his Cabinet. The exigency of the times were such as to require of the Secretary of State the exercise of the highest degree of sagacity, adroitness and diplomacy. On the one hand, internal strife was wasting the sinews of the nation; while across the Atlantic the nations of Europe, who had become jealous of our rapid growth and prosperity, sat like grinning demons rejoicing at our suicidal course and willing to aid us in our self-destruction should the opportunity offer. In this situation great prudence was necessary, for a single misstep—and one which we came near making in the case of Mason and Slidel—might have involved us in complications which would have ended only in the extinction of national existence. And for the ability with which Secretary Seward upheld the dignity of the nation in those trying times, his countrymen owe him a debt of gratitude which cannot be repaid and will not be forgotten-. While monuments of bronze, of stone and of marble bear testimony of the affections of a grateful people for their benefactors, yet the American statesman requires no such means to perpetuate his existence; for the memory of such a man is indelibly written on the hearts of those for whom he has labored, and they will transmit the remembrance of that name untarnished and glorified to succeeding generations; and wherever on the face of the earth there are found hearts whose pulsations are warmed by the love of liberty, there will be found living monuments of. its originators and defenders; and the laurels won by such statesmen will fade only when the history of republics shall be forgotten.
P. J. Goulding.
The heights by great men reached and kept-Were not attained by sudden flight, .But they, while their companions slept, Were toiling upward in the night. • ■
—Longfellow.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;	g
14 . .	.	_-_ 5%
■	3
Art, Music and Literature.
—The German Bundesrath has ratified a convention with England for the mutual protection of artistic and literary works.
—Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes is going to be the
•	O O	y.
lion of the London season. The Queen has asked ? that he be presented to her, and he will be over- J whelmed with social attentions.	* ,
—The literary event of the hour in Berlin is the i; publication of “Das Tagebuch des Kronprinzen.” 4 In the rough and ready form of a diary, the book gives an interesting account of the life of the German Crown Prince from 1831 to the present day. §
—Archduke Ludwig, Salvator of Tuscany, is the author of an interesting illustrated volume, entitled “Lose Blaetter aus Abbazia,” published in Vienna I; the other day. Another distinguished author, the fe Archduke Joseph, has just completed a curious grammar of the gypsy idiom, a work which is the result of many years of research. It is euphoniously entitled “ Romanocsi Bakero Sziklaaibe.”
—Queen Victoria has presented to the Vatican library a copy of the magnificent volume on the works of Raphael as represented by the examples of that master in the Windsor Castle library. The plan of this work was formed by the Prince consort and its execution begun by him. It has been completed by the Queen herself. One hundred copies have been printed and sent to the crowned heads only. Another copy has been presented to the Pope personally.
—The pectoral cross presented by the Emperor of Germany to the Holy Father is of ancient style and of the Latin form. The length of the longer arm is twelve centimetres, or nearly four and three-quarter inches; the shorter, nine centimetres; with the ring attached to the longer arm, the length is sixteen centimetres. It is formed of gold, incised in its whole length and covered with brilliants and rubies; the work is all done by hand, and denotes the ability of the artist. In the centre is the head of the Saviour, surrounded by sixteen brilliants of large size. At the points are four large brilliants, and in the centre smaller specimens of the same. All are of the best water. The ring has a rosette of seven brilliants, with a large ruby in the centre. Two carved angels support this rosette. A golden chain, over a yard in length, is attached to this splendid gift.
—Among the documents in possession of the Deputy-Keeper of the Public Record Office, London, are a quaint water-color drawing of the meeting between Mary Queen of Scots and the Lords after the battle of Carberry Hill; the “ orangejuice” letters written by. Father Garnet when a prisoner in the Tower; a portrait, by Johann •Wirix, of Father Garnet’s head in the midst of an ear of wheat, as it appeared to a Catholic when looking at a straw taken as a relic from his scaffold; the, original interrogatories for Guy Fawkes, in the handwriting of James I, ordering torture to be applied—“the gentler tortours are to be first usid


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
575-
unto him, et sic 'per gradus ad ima tenditur—and so God speede youre goode worke”: depositions to which the shaky signature of Guy Fawkes, after being racked, is attached; a warrant in King Charles I’s own hand, ordering the use of the rack, May, 1640; a paper in the handwriting of Mary Stuart, being reflections on adversity—“ a thing of which she has had as much experience as anyone ”; and a holograph letter of Cardinal Wolsey to Henry VIII, on his fall, asking for mercy.	-
College Gossip.
—Dr. Colinet, lecturer on Sanskrit at Louvain, has established an Oriental Society in that University. Several interesting meetings have already been held, and the young society promises to have a very successful future.
—George Bancroft, the historian, and Prince Bismarck graduated at the same university—Gottingen—about the same time. While Bancroft was United States Minister to Germany, during the period of the Franco-Prussian war, he and Bismarck were intimate friends.
—Rev. John McGinty has completed a neat and commodious building in Woodland, Yolo County, California, for the purpose of a day and boarding school for girls, and it will be formally opened next fall, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross from St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Father—“ I want my son to acquire a thorough knowledge of the English language.” Tutor— “ Yes, sir.” Father—“ I want him to learn vigorous English. Do you know what I mean by vigorous English ? ” Tutor—“ I ought to. lam a straight-out Democrat, and I spent three months in Washington last winter.”—Sun.
—It is announced from Rome that in view of the notable development of the Urban College and of the schools connected therewith, as well as those of the Polyglott press, the accommodations of the present palace of Propaganda Fide are becoming quite insufficient, whence arises the desire to secure some other locality, at once suitable to the need, and not too far distant. Consequently a project has been mooted for the purchase of the Mignanelli Palace, in Piazza di Spagna, which is near enough to Propaganda to allow of a connection being made, if requisite, by tunnel.
—The Benedictines are building a great college in Rome for the members of their Order of all nations. The Villa Montalto at the Piazza de Termini, to be demolished in accordance with a municipal decree, will be replaced by a college fertile instruction of secular students, which will be one of the finest buildings in modern Rome. The great Franciscan International College, and house of preparation for missionaries, near St. John Lateran, with a splendid church, will be opened next autumn. It contains 250 rooms and costs 1,600,000 francs, all the result of small contributions from the Catholics of the whole world.
—It is about time for another budget of school stories, and here they are: Teachers are required by some pupils to put questions in just the proper form to elicit the answers desired. Recently a class of girls had been discussing the climate of Chili, and to see if one of the number knew that the seasons there occur at opposite times to ours, the question was put: “When do they have the seasons in the south temperate zone,Katie?” “All the year round!” was the instant response. “If England is our mother country, is India our father country?” asked a promising pupil the other day. “ No, indeed; why do you ask such a question?” “Nothing, only I see its Farther India on the map.” He was only 10, and said it in good faith. Another pupil read the expression, “ arms of the sea,” in a very vague fashion. “ What do you mean—anything given in charity?” “No, ma’am.” “Firearms, perhaps?” “Yes, ma’am.” “ Will you tell me ["this rather impatiently] any explosives from the sea?” Shells.” He was sent to the head in language. That some boys at an early age appreciate the responsibilities of life is shown by the twelve-year old who wrote in a composition : “ Col. Ellsworth was engaged to be married, and this was more solemn than his death.” Another small boy, with the possibilities of eminence in the field of romantic literature in the dim future, handed in this bit of graphic description: “ The selvas are occupied by a great variety of reptiles and insects, such as the monkey. There are many poisonous insects hanging from the bows where tambourines grow. The rhinocerous lives on the most beautiful trees. In the frigid zone we see immense icebergs and icicles on which are whales and other birds—a large animal is scooting water through his nose. In the Arctic Ocean we find birds sitting on the grass—these birds walk on their hind feet.” How many uninteresting essays we should be spared if writers who have not a slight knowledge of matters discussed were to follow the example of the high-school girl who wrote: “ I am to write on the subject of zEsethticism. Having nothing whatever to say on the subject, I now proceed to say it.” That was all. This was an actual reading in a Somerville grammar school the other day, by a big boy, of the passage in the reader which tells how Longfellow took possession of the Craigie house and lived an ideal life there: “After this, Longfellow retired to the carriage house, and there lived an almost idle life!” —Boston Record.	-
—The following from the N. Y. Sun will be found apropos by youths who are inclined to be “a little too previous”:
“ Everything was nice except a little incident that made some very young men sad. These young men were students from Columbia, and to explain to the world how happy they felt they arose, twenty strong, and said loudly and passionately: “Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah! C-O-L-U-M-B-I-A! ” This struck 400 sons of toil who filled cheap seats, and they rose and yelled, “ Rats! ” Then, seized with a sudden inspiration, they rose again and cried out, “ R-A-T-S!—Rats! ” This had great success with the big crowd, which cheered and hooted, and made the young men very uncomfortable. .	.
^6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, May 22, 18S6.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support ol the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the Universify of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. '
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed avnumber, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for bind; ing, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Staff.
Frank H. Dexter,	P. J. Goulding,
F. J. Hagenbarth,	T.-J. Cleary.
M. B. Mulkern.
—The vandalism which has been gradually depriving the public buildings in Rome of their religious and artistic character, has received a check in the eloquent protests which it has called forth from the literary and scientific minds of Europe. One of the most notable of these protests came recently from the learned German writer, Grimm, who vigorously denounced a work of destruction only to be compared with that of the barbarians who wrecked the Empire. The Emperor William has written an autograph letter of congratulation to Grimm, and this fact has produced considerable irritation among the officers of the Government at Rome. It is expected, however, that it will have the desired effect, and that these modern vandals will be shamed by public opinion into an appearance of reverence for antiquity.
Silver Jubilee.
On Wednesday, the 19th inst., Rev. A. B. Oechtering, the esteemed Rector of St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, Ind., celebrated his “ Silver Jubilee,” or the twenty-fifth anniversary of his ordination to the Sacred Priesthood. The occasion was made one of joyous festivity, numerous friends of the reverend gentleman assembling to greet and congratulate him on the happy anniversary. About forty of the reverend clergy of the diocese and from Notre Dame, together with Right Rev. Bishops Dwenger of Fort Wayne and Rademacher of Nashville, were present. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Father Oechtering, during which Bishop Dwenger preached an appropriate and affecting sermon. A grand banquet was served in the afternoon, after which addresses of congratulation and handsome purses were presented, as indicative of the esteem and regard in which the subo
ject of the day’s rejoicing is held by his parishioners and his brethren of the clergy. The occasion will long be remembered in the parish of Mishawaka, where this efficient and zealous Rector has labored for upwards of twenty years with signal success. Rev. Father Oechtering is a model priest: active and zealous in the promotion of the work of religion and education; and this jubilee anniversary is a fitting and merited jewel in the crown formed by years of noble and devoted service in the ministry. To Notre Dame he has proved himself an old, tried and true friend, and all here rejoice with him on the recurrence of this pleasing epoch in his career and hope that it may prove the prelude to the glory of a “ Golden Jubilee.”
--------- | — --------
Education.
The Catholic World for June contains a very interesting article on the subject of Education, which was written in response to an invitation from the Louisiana Educational Society, and was read before that body, from whom it received the highest praise. It will not be out of place to present at least an outline of the article, while recommending it in its entirety to the attentive perusal of our readers.
The writer begins by referring to the importance of Education, whether viewed “ in its relation to the culture of the human mind or its influence on human happiness, whether we discuss its bearings on religion or regard it solely in connection with the interests of the State.” The fact that there is no other subject “about which so much has been said or written for the last sixty years,” is an evi- • dence of its transcendent importance and that it “ retains an undying interest for the changeable minds and tastes of the multitude.”
The answer to the question': “ What is true Education” is given as follows:
“ Education bythe very etymology of the word, e ducere, means a leading out, a gradual unfolding, of the powers of the mind, as a rosebud, by the growth and opening of its exquisitely delicate leaves, becomes, through some occult or almost insensible process of nature, a full-blown rose,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5H
and thus attains its perfection as a flower.- It is a common mistake to confound education with mere instruction. A youth may be well instructed without being well educated. To-day, after the ubiquitous schoolmaster has been ‘ abroad ’ for several generations, well-instructed men and women ought to be numerous. But who will look out upon the -world at large, or study it in its truthful mirror— the daily press—and say that well-educated people, old or young, are, like wisdom, ‘ easily found ’ by those who seek them ?
“ The real end of education, properly and worthily so called, is, we must bear in mind, not the bestowal of a defi nite amount of learning. This is even a secondary consideration with a genuine educator. Its main object is to fit the young for earth without z/wfitting them for heaven; to direct the whole bent of their nature towards the higher, not the lower, aspirations. The soul must be trained to truth and the muscles to the endurance of fatigue. The plastic mind of the child must be moulded to virtue while the intellect absorbs knowledge. Thus will education become, what in its highest sense it must ever be, a lever more powerful than the lever of Archimedes, able to lift mankind from earth to heaven.”
The writer proceeds to develop these thoughts, showing that the object of the cultivation of the intellect is to make us more intelligent citizens and “ enable us to fulfil with a higher degree of excellence the duties laid upon us by our heavenly Father.” No species of literature, art or science is excluded in the work of education—although in individual cases it may counsel the pursuit only of those branches which are essential and the abandonment or omission of those that are likely to prove useless. Education, “ though essentially progressive, does not blindly follow the spirit of the age, but teaches what the times, respective positions in life, and individual capacities point out as likely to be most useful in particular cases.”
“ Genuine education will not sharpen the wits and neglect the heart, or develop the physique and ignore the mind. It is not above considering whether a pupil whose schooldays must necessarily be few should not eschew such studies as might be expected to prove unprofitable in after-life. It will not be satisfied that its disciples acquire learning without the remotest idea as to how that learning is to be applied to the business of every-day life. It will set experience beside erudition. For as it is what we assimilate rather than the amount of food we take into the system that sustains our bodies in the exercise of their functions, so it is the knowledge which we apply to practical purposes that is of greatest utility to us.
“ Education brings us in contact with the great minds of every age, and teaches us how to value their splendid qualities while avoiding their errors. It engenders respect for the opinions of others, and a wise tolerance of different views when no sacrifice of duty or principle is involved. Finally, and chiefly, all true education is founded and grounded upon the immortal ethics of the Ten Commandments. Consequently, while instructing us in literature, science, or art, it insists that we be honest and honorable, truthful and God-fearing, frugal and industrious; that we dread a stain upon our conscience more than a stain upon our garments; and that, while cultivating to the utmost the purity of language which is now so rare as to seem in many cases little more than a tradition, we must be far more afraid of uttering an untruth than of perpetrating a solecism, of wronging our neighbor in person, property, or character than of failing to achieve the highest standard in mathematics, or geology or classics. . . .
“ Once upon a time but little learning entered into the people’s curriculum. Yet if the Ten Commandments were studied and practised the youth in the schools were chaste and holy in thought, and faithful and honest in. word and deed. A foundation was laid for the broad principles of truth and honor, for a fitting appreciation of one’s own rights, and a sensitiveness of justice as regards the rights
of others. Zealots, anxious to introduce special studies ir-respective'of such controlling circumstances as capacity and utility, might regret at the public examinations to find conic sections and animal biology represented by zero on the programmes. But if they were upright men, men of high principle, they would rejoice to think the pupils had been so trained with reference to moral rectitude that they might not unreasonably be expected to grow up men and women of integrity, whose word would be as good as their oath, whose promise would be equai to a bond, who would be faithful to God and perform honestly and well whatever duties they assumed in relation to their fellow'-beings. The prevalence of crime, especially of such crime as can be committed only by the educated, proves that these principles are not inculcated successfully, if at ail, in the common schools.” _
After an earnest plea for the thorough study of the vernacular in education, the writer calls attention to the words—of almost universal application— of the Superintendent of Public Instruction in California, who says:
“ Two things ‘ are especially to be noted in our popular school education: it usually leads to no interest in literature or acquaintance with it, nor to any sense of the value of history to modern men—a serious defect; and its.most general character and result are a distaste for manual labor.’ ”
After showing that public school education has done but little towards intellectual improvement, the writer proceeds to show that the same is true— and perhaps more strikingly so—in its moral aspect. “ Unhappily, moral advancement has not been promoted in the communites which have been longest under its (public school system) sway; reliable statistics prove them to have, not a monopoly of virtue, but a monopoly of corruption.” In this respect, as far as comparisons can be made between North and South, the writer says: .
“ Because common-school education has never been so general in the South as in the North, has never, for example, attained the prominence in New Orleans that it has in Boston, it has been less deleterious in its moral effects in Louisiana than in Massachusetts. It must also be admitted that, with the Catholic religion, the founders of Louisiana planted the idea of purity which exists in a very ■ special manner wherever the Blessed Mother of God is venerated. Nor should we forget that the chief, if not the only, teachers of the women of Louisiana for the first century of its existence were religious who had consecrated their virginity to God. Hence the most aggressive Louisianian could not write of his native State as competent authorities write of Massachusetts. Dr. J. H. Kellogg asserts that crime ‘threatens the very existence’ of the commonwealth. Another celebrated physician, Dr. R. J. Storer, gives a sad prominence to the well-known fact that ‘ increase of population is limited almost wholly to the foreign element.’ Dr. Nathan 2\llen, of Lowell, shows that, apart from such increase, ‘ the population of Massachusetts is really decreasing.’ Indeed, many parts of New England are afflicted with what is called ‘the evil of depopulation,’ and there are many schools in that region whose average attendance is less than a dozen scholars.
“The.relation of education to crime in Louisiana is far from being such as the promoters of mere secular education can reasonably boast of; at no other period of her history has she seen so many embezzlers and defaulters, so. much corruption in high places, so much dishonesty in legal and municipal business, and such abundance of fraud in every department. In social life, if we can credit the lights of society, never before were.deceit, hard-heartedness,. utter prostration before wealth, fashion, and every form of worldliness so rampant. Commercially, never were the relations between labor and capital so unsatisfactory, not to say inhuman, as is evidenced by frequent strikes and upheavals and in many other less emphatic ways.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In conclusion the-writer speaks pertinently and eloquently of the necessity of moral training in every system of education. Not alone the mind but the heart must be educated if we may hope ever to realize that ideal Republic in which each and every citizen will be found to contribute his part towards the general perfection of the whole.
“ Hence let virtue be the foundation of popular education, and the results will be worthy of the zeal with which earnest men and women labor in the great cause. Then •will the wolf dwell with the lamb, and the leopard lie down with the kid; the fierce and sanguinary and the gentle and good mingle in lowly adoration of Him ‘ by whom kings reign and lawgivers decree just things.’ The pure of heart, the honest of hand, the upright, the honorable, the true— all might ‘ drink deep of the Pierian spring,’ satiate their thirst at the fount of every science, and handle the tools of every craft. For then education would rest on its legitimate basis—the Commandments given to our fathers on the holy mount. ‘ Popular education,’ says Guizot, ‘ to be truly good and socially useful, must be fundamentally’ religious.’ And a greater than Guizot, O’Connell, the only Catholic quoted in this lengthy article, was wont to say: ‘ Education without religion is worse than ignorance.’ ”
Bancroft’s History.
It were well for many authors that they- had died before they had tarnished the fair fame of their youth by the follies of age. There have been more authors than one who obtained a great name for what they have written when young and in the prime of life, who yet have called down a heavy judgment upon themselves by those things which they;' have indited when old. Puffed up with pride on account of the lavish praise bestowed upon them, they have thought to themselves that their dictum was something which the world would not dare gainsay. Yet they7 have erred; and the world then seeing their pride and the real extent of their knowledge has placed them on a lower level than that on which they7 formerly7 stood. A notable • example of this is Dr. Dollinger: famous once for his learning, he is now named only to be pitied. The works of his youth find no friends with nonCatholics, for in them is a strong condemnation of Luther and of all heresy; the works of his old age are laughed at and ridiculed by7 the Catholics because they see in them only7 the vain endeavors of a man puffed up by7 pride endeavoring to make facts agree with certain opinions of his own.
We have here in. the United States an example of how a man may7 lose a reputation by the indes-cretions of age. George Bancroft, the historian, is not a man of the same ability7 as Dr. Dollinger, vet he had obtained considerable of a reputation as a writer of history. It is true that he always labored under the reputation of having studied a course of German philosophy7 and of making the facts narrated in his “History of the United States” tally with his philosophy. If the facts to be related sustained his philosophy, all well and good for the facts; but if there was any discrepancy between the facts of history7 and his philosophy, then the history7 was to suffer for it.:
By another class of persons the voluminous work of Mr. Bancroft wras considered as a very enter-
'taining one indeed, but rather a work which was intended to show off how beautifully7 he could turn a period or introduce his flowers of rhetoric.. There was always a straining after effect and a display7 of fine writing, which was thrust upon the reader even until it became tiresome. Yet Mr. Bancroft had some admirers, who believed that, if not equal to those of Prescott, Hallam, Lingard, Macauley, and others, who, although their works are not received by everyone as correct in all matters, yet are worthy of great praise, his work was a book of much merit and was in reality7 a history. We	:
greatly fear that these admirers of Mr. Bancroft	■
will be rudely disturbed in their ideas when they take up the 10th volume of his History. If they7 have the least idea of what historical writing is they7 will at once see that instead of writing history, Mr. Bancroft endeavors to make history the apologist of the “ Sects,” and shows himself rather as a bigot than as a historian.
Mr. Bancroft studied in his youth in Germany. Educated at an infidel university, we are not surprised that he should bear no love for the Popes,	;
the greatest of all rulers; but we certainly7 should	l
expect that in a history of that country7 for which i the Popes of Rome have never done aught but what was of a friendly7 nature, there should be nothing concerning Popes; or if there were, that it should not be unfriendly in its tone. But such	■
is not the case. Mr. Bancroft goes out of his way	;
in the regular narration of the course of events to	’
introduce a chapter on Germany. Now we, with	j
all our countrymen—and forthat matter the whole	;
world—never suspected that at the time of the	‘
revolutionary war much sympathy7 was ever felt in	;
Prussia and Protestant Germany7 for the struggling Colonies. On the contrary, we had always supposed that it was from Protestant Germany that	i
the hired soldiers were procured by England to	]
fight against the Colonists. Such, history7 tells us, was the case; and let Mr. Bancroft cover things over as deftly as.he can, until he proves all history to be false, we cannot believe him when he would fain have us believe that the king of Prussia was in secret in sympathy with the “Rebels” of ^6.
The fact that some few of the authors of Germany sympathized with the Colonists proves nothing. The Federalists had' many7 friends in England during our Civil War, y7et would anyone from this fact argue that England was favorable to the cause of the Union? Such was the case with Prussia, and all the special pleadings made by Mr. Bancroft will not avail him in making intelligent men reverse the opinions which they have formed after a careful reading of the history of the War. of Independence. The real animus of the author -is seen by his unfriendliness towards Spain and France, the only European powers who did the least practical good for out; forefathers.
It has become quite the mania for some writers, since the Vatican Council, to discover the great cause of all evils to be the Infallibility of the Pope. About the time of the meeting of the Council we were told by our enemies that it was a novelty in	■
the Church; since the definition, none of the scum	■
' ■ - ■
1 -	1
-	-	1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of Catholicism leave the Church without exclaiming against Infallibility. All must attribute to this dogma the awful catastrophes which happen. Mr. Bancroft must not write without raising up his voice against Infallibility, and must have his word of praise in favor of the Reformation of Luther; but what the Infallibility of the Pope, the Reformation so-called, and the other matters which Mr. Bancroft introduces into his chapter on Germany and the United States had to do with the War of Independence is more than we can understand. There are many men who seem to lose all control of themselves whenever the word “ Pope ” is mentioned, and Mr. Bancroft is one of them.
Mr. Bancroft may be sincere in his estimate of Luther, but the warmth he shows when giving’ this estimate displays more of bigotry than it does of the impartiality of an historian. He talks for some time about faith alone saving us, and upon the liberty of conscience and the emancipation of men from authority. We have always supposed that authority was necessary for liberty and good government. We believe that where there is no authority there can be no real liberty; but Mr. Bancroft seems to think that authority and liberty are two contradictories, and that man should be freed from all authority. It may be said that he holds this opinion then only in matters of religion. But if all authority should be discarded in religion, why not in Governments and in society?
Mr. Bancroft in his sketch of Germany and the Reformation is very reticent of the many disorders brought upon Germany and the whole world by the doctrines preached by Luther, which he praises so highly. He says nothing of the frightful civil wars which the Reformers waged against all who were not of their style of thinking. He says they were struggling for liberty: surely it was a queer way to show their love of liberty of conscience by endeavoring by force to compel others to think as they did. There is a great deal of rant talked about Luther and the Reformation. Were Luther alive to-day his present followers would be ashamed of him, and his name would be classed with those of Rochefort, Bradlaugh, and others of that ilk. The Commune, which caused such frightful disorders in France was but the logical result of the teachings of Luther. The Internationalists are the only persons who follow to their real conclusions the doctrines started by Luther and the Reformation.
We might quarrel with many statements made by Mr. Bancroft, as that of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes “driving out of France a million and a half of ‘the best’ of the French nations.”*
Surely the inhabitants of France must have been very bad people when “the best” of them were a set of men who were concocting conspiracies against legitimate government, inviting foreigners to invade their country, and who were fomenting civil war. But we have done with Mr. Bancroft. His whole chapter on “Germany and the United States” was written to vent his spleen against the
* The small capitals are Mr. Bancroft’s, not ours.
Popes and the Catholic Church, and to make an apology for Protestantism, which, by opposing authority, has always opposed liberty. His attempt has as an historian fixed his status. His parallel between Prussia and the United States is forced to the extreme; there is no resemblance between the two nations. A man who can wilfully insult his readers by asking them to see resemblances where none exist, deserves no confidence. To prostitute history to the service of a system of philosophy and the defence of a religion is an offence which connot be pardoned. Mr. Bancroft will be known in after generations, if his name be known at all,, as a man who made an ambitious attempt to write the history of a great people and failed.
B.
■■■■■■■KnKa	. ■
• In Memoriam.
BENJAMIX C. HUGHES.	‘
Died.—At the residence of his parents, 444 W. Adams street, Chicago, on the 12th inst., Benjamin C. Hughes.
In the above we are told of another visit by the angel of Death to the fold of those whom Notre Dame in bygone days has called her own, and with it is elicited our heartfelt sympathy in this hour of affliction for the parents, who are listed among the old pioneer and kindest friends of our Institution. Mrs. Hughes will be remembered for her particular interest and assistance in the establishment of the Ave Maria, and her name is engraved upon the magnificent crown as a member of the Guard of Honor, which presented it to . Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. The reward for her efforts towards the honor of the Mother of God she certainly recognizes in the happy death of her beloved son. Ben was one of “the dear old boys” of the “Silver Jubilee” period, and will be remembered by them in the various scenes of that grand old year. Since leaving college his occupations have been in the mercantile world,. until, reminded by a protracted illness that though young in life its end was near, he turned his mind with noble resignation from the vain hope of recovery to the consideration of his eternal welfare alone and the preparation for the ordeal. through which he was to pass. His confidence was in the assistance of the Mother of God. To repeat his own sentiment, he had known the blessing of a devoted mother’s care on earth, he felt the same . awaited him in heaven. His cross of pain and long suffering was borne with remarkable fortitude and patience until the end, when, fortified by the Sacraments of our Holy Church and the spirit . of prayer that attended him, he calmly gave his soul to God, and left to the loving members of his fam- : ily who surrounded him a soothing comfort to their-grief in the beautiful and happy, death he had experienced.	J
Then do not mourn a life too brief	. .
That leaves this mortal sphere	-	..	<
Empowered by grace and prayer, in joy . '
Eternal to appear.	.	_ .
.	M. M. F.
580	TSE NOTRE DAME SCSOLASTIC.
Personal.
Local Items-

—Col. Cyrus W. Fisher, of Denver, Coh, paid a flying visit to the College this week.
—Rev. G. Houck, of Cleveland, Ohio, Rev. J. Walters and J. Guendling, of Lafayette, Ind., were welcome visitors to the College during the week.
—Mr. J. Hammond, the gentlemanly agent of the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York, was among the visitors to the College during the week.
—At a grand bazaar recently held at Austin, Texas, Rev. Peter Lauth, C. S. C., ’62, received the distinction of being voted the most popular clergyman in the city.
—An interesting letter has been received from W. T. Johnson, ’68, of Kansas City, Mo. He was an eye-witness of the recent storm in that locality, and, like other Kansas citizens, he denies that it was a cyclone. No buildings suffered from the storm except those known to be in an untrustworthy condition.
—Among the visitors during the week were: H. J. Hueskamp, Fort Madison, la.; Miss M. Davis, Harmon, Ind.; Mrs. James Stump, Watertown, Dakota; J. B. Bolton, Oskaloosa, la.; J. P. McCarthy, Chicago, Ill.; Jas. Howard, Nashville, Tenn.; A. C. Dodd, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Bradley, Pacadina, Cal.; William Reed, Iowa City; John Pl Valentine, St. Louis, Mo.; Sam O’Brien, ’84, South Bend; Ed. B. Goldsbery, New York; Mrs. J. L. Hayes and Master Frank Hayes, Harvard, Ill.; Miss Maggie Clifford, Ligonier, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Geo. F. Davidson, Louisville, Ky.; C. W. Fisher, Denver, Colorado; W. W. Corbet, Chicago, Ill.; Xavier Roth, New York.
—Rev. James J. Curran, ’68, the founder and director of the Catholic Protectory at Arlington, N. J., sailed for Ireland on Tuesday the 4th inst. He will take a three-months’ vacation, during which he will strive to recuperate his impaired health caused by years of zealous and unremitting labors. The best wishes of his many friends go with him for the happy realization of all his desires. The QatJiolic Review (New York) says:
“The reverend gentleman has acquired much celebrity for his varied accomplishments, including those of artist, journalist, musician and inventor, and for his scholarly attainments, which include a knowledge of medicine to a high degree; while his benevolence and patriotism have endeared him to a host of friends throughout America. Many gentlemen escorted him on board of the Nevada, of the Guion line, including his kind-hearted Bishop, Right Rev. Dr.Wigger, who, in his solicitude for Father Curran, urged him to consent to a few months’ repose; also Very Rev. Chancellor McCartie, Rev. Father O’Connor, East Newark; Rev. Father Smith, Arlington; Rev. Father White, Newark; Rev. Father Fox, Seabright; Rev. Father Callan, South Orange; Rev. Father Murphy, Jersey City; Rev. Father Carr, Hackensack; Rev. Father O’Reilly, Yonkers; Commissioner Miles O’Brien; James B. Farrell, President of the Home Rule Club; L. J. Cailanan. Vice-President of the Home Rule Club; John Furey, General Kirwin, of the Tablet; Thomas F. Meehan, of the Irish American; James W. O’Brien, of the Union; Bryan G. McSwyny, John D. ' Egan, James Rogers, etc. The evening before his departure a number of Father Curran’s friends gave him a banquet in this city.”
—Baseball 1	s
—Excitement!!
—Five weeks more.	.
—We won’t take it!
—Let us have a public debate.
—Go back and touch your base!	f
—An artesian well is to be sunk on the premises | of the Scholasticate.	<
—“The Age of Leo X” is the subject for the	v
final essay in competition for the English Medal.	;
. —An interesting debate is progressing among the St. Cecilians. A full report will be given ; next week.
—The game played between the second nines -of the Seniors resulted in a victory for the “ Reds” i by a score of 21 to 16.	j
—The photographic group of the officers of	;
the Hoynes’ Light Guards, taken bjr McDonald,	•
of South Bend, is a splendid work of art.	■
—Corporals have been appointed for the Junior company of the Hoynes’ Light Guards as follows: 1st, H. Smith; 2d, D. C. Regan; 3d, M. B. Mui-kern; 4th, A. Finckh.	i
—About thirty students will receive the Sacra- j ment of Confirmation next Monday morning. Rt.	;
Rev. Bishop D wenger is expected to arrive at Notre	:
Dame to-morrow (Sunday) evening.
—Professors Paul and Kindig and Master R. Oxnard took part in the concert given at Mishawaka, last Tuesday evening, in honor of the Silver Jubilee anniversary of Rev. Fathei' Oechtering.
—Wanted:—a perfect baseball umpire. The	;
demand comes from all quarters. When supplied, no doubt he will appear in Barnum’s curiosities as the ninth wonder of the world.—Boston Pilot.
—The Junior 1st nines played their 2d championship game Thursday afternoon. After playing about two hours and a half victory was declared in favor of the “ Reds” by a score of 26 to 18.
—The hose has at length been turned on one of the College buggies. When the fact was discovered great enthusiasm was manifested on all ‘ sides, and people began to wonder what it foreboded.	'	.
—Thefollowingnames should appear in the “ List of Excellence” for Instrumental Music: Messrs. Nussbaum, Remish, Cleary and W. Cartier. The name of J. Fitzgerald was omitted for Algebra last week.	•
—The St. Cecilians have begun to make preparations for their annual summer entertainment, which will be given early in June. A grand	i
Shakspearean revival is among the things spoken of for the occasion.	' ’ -	;
—The servers enjoyed an extra “ rec” on Tties-	1
day afternoon. A pleasant little picnic on the	j
banks of the St. Joe, under the kind and attentive	’
chaperdnage of Rev. Father Stoffel and Bro.	j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	581
Marcellinus, added to the delights of the occasion.
—The Philopatrians enjoyed an excursion to St. Joseph’s Farm on Thursday last. They express their thanks to Rev. President Walsh, Bros. Leander and Marcellinus and Prof. Hoynes for kind favors in promoting the pleasure of the occasion.
—The contest for the Mason Medal is close and excitingr among the Juniors. The score—according to the honorable mentions in the Scholastic o	___
—is as follows: P. Jacobs, 53; C. Ruffing, 49; T. Goebel, 48; E. S. Ewing and P. Brownson, 47; F. Long, 44; G. Myers, 42; C. Cavaroc, E. Dillon, E. Darragh and R. Newton, 41.
—The second of the series of championship games in the Seniors was played on Thursday, and was very close and exciting. The score by innings is. as follows:
Innings :—1 23456789 Blues:—1 0303010 2=10 Reds:—1 4100700 0=13
—The Curator of the Museum has received a very interesting curiosity from Mr. David Munro, of Brooklyn, N. Y. It is a copy of the largest newspaper ever published. It is called, “The Illuminated Quadruple Constellation—The Mastodon of Newspapers.” It measures 70 by 100 inches, and was published in New York, July 4, 1859.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Monday evening in St. Edward’s Hall. Compositions were read by Masters Cobbs, Nussbaum, Dunford, Sweet and Nealis. While the composition of all showed study and attention, the essay of Francis Cobbs, on “The Great Men of America,” was pronounced the best.
—Messrs. Adler Bros., the South Bend clothiers, have kindly promised to donate a handsome gold medal to the captain of the nine winning three of the five championship games which are to be . played between the first two nines in the Senior department. This liberal offer has been duly accepted by both nines and a vote of thanks has been returned to the donors.
—Joseph A. Lyons, Professor in the University of Notre Dame, Ind., who is well known through his many writings, has published an excellent English translation of Moliere’s “ Miser.” The female characters of the original are omitted in the translation without injury to the plot and interest of the play. This English version is well adapted for presentation at college or school festivals, commencements, etc.—Herold des Glaubens.
—The fifteenth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Saturday, May 15. Mr. F. Larkins was elected to membership. The question: “Resolved that the Knights of Labor are detrimental to the interests of the Country” was debated. The affirmative was upheld -by Messrs. Harless, Houck and Hull. On the negative were Messrs. Rahilly, Hamlyn and Jess, the latter of whom made a remarkably eloquent speech, which gained the victory for his
side. Classical selections were given by Messrs. C. Harris and Jess.
—The frost of the early part of this week were fatal to the coleus^ but did not injure the geranium and other hot-house plants which have adorned the vases of our frontage since the beginning of this month. We hope the injuries to the coleus^ fatal as they now seem, are not beyond remedy, but we would remind our zealous gardener of the caution which Virgil gives—in one of the Georgies, we think—
O venture boni! nimium ne credito veri, by which he delicately intimates that geranium can stand a good deal more than coleus.	.
—On Tuesday evening, August 2, 1886, the Board of Government of the C. T. A. U. of A. will meet in Washington Hall, Notre Dame, and on the following morning Pontifical High Mass will be celebrated in the church at that place. Delegates will be escorted to the church by visiting Societies. On Wednesday evening, August 4, a reception will be held in Washington Hall, at which addresses will be delivered by able and prominent speakers, and on Thursday evening the well-known Columbian Society of Valparaiso, Ind., will delight the citizens of Notre Dame by the rendition of that strikingly suggestive drama, entitled “ Drink.” —I. C. jB. U Journal.
—His Excellency Governor Gray, of Indianapolis, accompanied by Judge Egbert and Mr. P. O’Brien, of South Bend, visited the College yesterday afternoon. The students were assembled in front of the main building, and, after music by the Band, Governor Gray spoke at some length, expressing his appreciation of the hearty welcome. accorded him, and gave earnest and practical advice concerning the advantages of education and the duty of the students to profit by their splendid opportunities. Some time was then spent in visiting the College buildings, the Governor expressing his pleasure at all he saw. The visit of the Governor, though necessarily brief, gave the greatest pleasure and it is hoped that an opportunity will soon present itself when we may be favored with another and a more prolonged stay.	.
—One of the most pleasing events of the. week was the soiree musicale given on Sunday evening in the grand parlor of the University. Besides the members of the Faculty and a number of visitors, the boys of the military companies were privileged to be present, and all heartily enjoyed the rich and rare treat which was afforded them. The musical part of the exercises consisted of selections by the String Quartette—whose playing was particularly admired and heartily appreciated—choice morceaux for the piano rendered by our little prodigy Master R. Oxnard; a beautiful piano duet well executed by Masters R. and H. Peck; a brilliant Saxophone solo by Prof. Kindig, and a duo for violin and piano by Prof. Paul and Master Oxnard. In addition there were several well-delivered recitations presented by Messrs. F. H. Dexter, E. Darragh, A. McIntosh and Fred. Crotty, whose efforts imparted a pleasing variety and contributed in no
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
slight degree to the entertainment of the audience. We are pleased to hear that it is the intention to provide a number of these soirees during the remaining weeks of the scholastic year, for the benefit of those who will merit the privilege of attending them.
—Picked nines of the Juniorsand Seniors played the first of the series of championship games Sunday afternoon. The game was umpired with great tact and fairness by Mr. J. Burns. The following is the complete score:
Juniors.	a. b. r.
E. Benner, s. s. and 2d b..4	2
• J. Courtney, 3d b..........3	1
G. Cartier, c.............. 2	2
G. Cooper, p................4	1
G. Myers, 2d b. and s. s... 3	1
F. Fehr, istb.............. 5	1
W. Wabraushek, 1. f....... 4	o
E. Dillon, r. f. and c. f. 4	o
J. Hayes, c. f. and r. f... 3	1
I.B. T.B. P.O. A.
E.
1 2
1 1 o
o I o
o
o I o
6
3 1
12
1
o
5 9
5
o o o
I o I I
Total
9
Seniors.	A- B.	R.	I.B.	T.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
j. Nester, 3db		.... 5	I	I	2	4	I	I
A. McNulty, s. s		.... 5	I	3	4	I	3	0
C. Combe, c			.... 4	0	I	1	9	5	I
V. Burke, 2d b		.... 4	I	0	0	I	0	4
F. Combe, 1st b			■ • • • 5	3	3	4	6	0	1
W. Breen, l.f.		•	5	0	'T		I	0	0
A. Browne, p. and c. f....	... 4	I	2	2	2	0	0
J. Wilson, c. f. and p....	.... j	0	0	0	0	8	2
P. Chapin, r. f		.... 4	I	I	1	0	0	0
schulze, Bacigalupo, Cleveland, Colina, Courtney, Cleary, Chute, G. Cartier, Cavaroc, Coles, Coad, Chaves, E. Campbell, S. Campbell, Doss, Dickinson, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dungan, Dunning, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finckh, Flood, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Fontanel, Goebel, Galarneau, Garrity, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hiner, Hoye, Hall, Jewett, P. Jacobs, Joyce, Klaner, Kern, W. Konzen, F. Konzen, Luther, Long, Mohun, Mc-Conn, Mueller, McPhee, McIntosh, Myers, Meehan, Mul-kern, Mitchell, Macatee, Mulberger, McCart, Nealis, Noud, Nester, Newton, Nations,* O’Connor, Oxnard, O’Kane, O’Gorman, Preston, Redlich, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Ramirez, F. Smith, S. Smith, N. Smith, Shields, Spencer, Talbot, Tewksbury, Towner, Tarrant, Tiedrich, Van-selow, Valasco, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Bailey, J. Boland, H. Boland, Bull, E. Connors, J. Connors, Chute, Cobbs, Crotty, Campeau, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, Jesse Dungan, L. Doss, Dewald, T. Falvcy, E. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, E. Garber, F. Garber, Graham, Grant, Griffin, Healy, Haney, Hillas, Inderrieden, Jones, Jewett, Kellner, Keeffe, Klaner, Landenwich, Main-zer, Moncada, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy, Munro, H. Mooney, Maloney, Mitchell, August Morgenwcck. Albert Morgenweck, M. Moran, P. Moran, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Nester, Noonan, Nussbaum, O’Neill, Paul, Piero, F. Peck, J. Peck, Quin-lin, Riordan, Rowsey, Steele, Stone, Sullivan, P. Sweet, A. Smart, W. Smart, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Taft, Tillen-berg.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Total....................40	8 13 16 24 17 10
Struck out: by Wilson, 8; Cooper, 1. Base on Balls: oft' Wilson, 9; Cooper, 3. Wild Pitches: Wilson,3. Passed Balls: C- Combe, 2; G. Cartier, 3. Stolen Bases: McNulty, 2; Breen, 3; Brown, 3; Chapin, 2; C. Combe, 3; F. Combe. 2; Courtney, 2; Wabraushek, 1; Myers, 1. Benner, 2; Cooper, 1. Two Base Hits: Nester, 1; F. Combe, 1; McNulty, 1. Left on Base: Juniors, 8. Seniors, 7-Double Plays: C- Combe, to J. Nester; Fehr, to Cartier. Umpire: J. Burns. Scorers: J. I. Kleiber and T. Williamson.
Class Honors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Cobbs, Piero, Sweet, Crotty, Murphy, McIntosh, Dunford, E. Peck, E. Nealis, Nussbaum, Graham, McGill, Martin, II. Garber, Ciarcoschi, Jewett, J. Peck, C-Scherrer, E. Doss, A. Sullivan, Nester, Munro, Quinlin, Jones, J. Connors, E. Scherrer, E. Connors, W. Smart, G. Sweet, Paul, H. Mooney, C. Mooney, Stone, Klaner, F. Mainzer.
O I
o o
I
I
o
9	8 8
Score by Innings:—1 23456
Juniors:—2 o 1 2 o 1
Seniors:—1 2 0 o 3 o
7 8 9
3 o *=9
1 o 1=8
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Ashford, Aubrey, V. Burke, M. Burns, D. Byrnes, Bowles, Bolton, Baca, Browne, P. Burke, Conlon, Congdon, Craig, Chapin, Cusack, Cassidy, Carbajal, Cartier, Chappell, Dexter, Dolan, Daley, Dempsey, Egan, Emmons, Finlay, Forbes, Goulding, Albert Gordon, Alex. Gordon, Gallardo, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Harrison, Judie, Jackson, Jeffs, Johns, Koudelka, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Karst, Kendall, Kwilinski, Larkin, Murphy, McNulty, Murdock, McErlain, Miller, Moon, Nancolas, O’Rourke, Ott, O’Connell, Prudhomme, C. Pas' chel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Padilla, T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, E, Rielly, Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rhein-berger, Rodriguez, Shaide, Stubb's, Saviers, T. Sheridan, Soden, Sack, Snapp, Triplett, Vandercar, Werst, W. Wil-’
’ liams, White, Wagoner, Zeitler.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Austin, Ackerman, Akin,. Benson, Bowles, Baur, Brownson, Boose, - Bunker, Borg- ,
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director.of Studies.]	.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL
BRANCHES.
German—Messrs. Baca, Dillon, Myers, Larkin, Goebel, West, Maguire, Sack, P Jacobs, Senn; French—Messrs. Brownson, Cavaroc, L. Fontanel, Finlay, Houston, C. West, Becerra, Porter, P. Prudhomme; Spanish—Messrs. Dexter, Gallardo, Nations, Rodriguez; Instrumental Music—Messrs. Luther, W. Akins, Wilson, E. Prudhomme, Preston. Tiedrich, Padilla, Rodriguez, McPhee, C Ruffing, Fisher, A. Ruffing, L. Chute, O’Kane, Cooper, L. Scherrer; Vocal Music—Messrs. Conlon, H. Paschel. C. Paschel, E. Riley: Telegraphy—Messrs. Murphy, Vanselow, Austin; Type-Writing—Messrs. Walsh, W. Gordon, J. Ancheta, Goulding; Phonography—Messrs. Hamlyn, McConn, Harris, Flood, Darragh, Wabraushek.-Remish, Adams; Elocution—Messrs. A. Browne, Dexter, Hagenbarth, Latshaw, Harris, Ancheta, Jess, D. Byrnes, Murdock, Finlay, Stubb, Kleiber, V. Burke, Becker Fred Combe, J. .Wagoner, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Miller, Padilla, Soden, Breen, McGuire, Dolan, A. Gordon, Darragh, Cavaroc, Newton, J. Garrity, Levin, Talbot, Mulkern, E. Berry, McPhee, F, Fisher, D. Regan, Scherrer, Adelsperger.	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Tflary's Academy.
One Mile JT^est of Notre Dame University.
—A picnic, on the southern bank of the tortuous St. Joseph’s, was the order of the day on the 12th.
—At the regular Academic reunion recitations were given by the Misses S. St. Clair and A. Donnelly.
—Mrs. Sherman, wife of Gen. W. T. Sherman, St. Louis, and Miss Genevieve McMahon were among the visitors.
—A grand instruction on “ Steadfast energy of purpose ” was given to the Children of Mary by Very Rev. Father General on Monday morning.
—The orange cake made by Miss Lizzie Carney and the fig cake compounded by Miss Mattie Munger, on Wednesday, were “ superlatively ” palatable.
—Miss Lulu English, of Columbus, Ohio, arrived at St. Mary’s on Monday evening, and is warmly welcomed by her former teachers and companions.	_
—The dinner of the Class in “Domestic Economy” on Wednesday was supplemented by icecream, thanks to the thoughtful attention of Miss Mary Ducey, who was on a visit to the Academy.
—The painful intelligence of the death, on the 14th ult., of Mrs. W. P. Whipple (wee Miss Katie Joyce, Class ’76) has just reached St. Mary’s. The Children of Mary went to Holy Communion, offering their intention for the repose of the soul of their departed associate, as she was a member of their Society. May she rest in peace!
—As an incentive to more than usual efforts in the 1st Senior Composition Class, the Prefect of Studies kindly offered a handsomely bound volume of Whittier’s poems for the best composition on a given theme. A spirit of friendly rivalry gave interest to the contest. Misses B. Morrison, A. Donnelly and G. Wolvin deserve special commendation from the Prefect for their excellent essays. The prize was accorded by acclamation to Miss M. Dillon.	’
—On Sunday, the Feast of the Patronage of St. Joseph, at the six o’clock Mass, celebrated by Very Rev. Father General Sorin, two little Juniors, Maude Clifford and Cora Prudhomme, had the happiness of making their First Holy Communion. In the quiet of a low Mass, where no voices were heard except the subdued tones of the celebrant and server, and on the festival of St. Joseph, whose unobtrusive guardianship of the Incarnate Word made him by excellence the patron of a hidden life, these dear children were admitted for the first time in their lives to the Heavenly Banquet. The snow-white blossoms and the golden glowing lights upon the altars spoke to their hearts of the purity and fervor most dear to the Divine Guest so joyfully welcomed by them that morning. A day never to be forgotten; May 16,1886, will be kept
by the youthful First Communicants, as an anniversary dearer than every other, since on that day they for the first time received the Bread of Eternal Life. May the benedictions of that happy morning, fruitful in every blessing, accompany them throughout their earthly career, and guide them safely to the everlasting joys of which they have received a foretaste!
—The final lecture before the St. Cecilia Society treated of the “Folk Song and Modern Leed,” and was one of uncommon interest. Independent of the invaluable history of music given from a Christian standpoint, the high character of the production may be inferred from the following extracts. After explaining the origin, the nomenclature, and the ranks of song singers in the olden times; of the bards, the minstrels, the troubadours, the minnisingers, and, speaking of the close of the crusades, the lecturer said:
“ Some afterwards took the name of ‘ knight errant,’ or wanderers, and added to their function as minstrels the great work of reformation of morals and of suppressing and avenging the cruelties of the arrogant warrior barons. The means of accomplishing their zealous enterprise was the education and ennobling of public sentiment by their songs, and by raising woman to her proper social position. Taking the Blessed Virgin for a model, the songs of the minstrel were devoted to the praise of chastity, beauty, conjugal devotedness, and every other virtue which should adorn the character of woman. To the loved tones of the harp, they sang in the castle halls to their warlike audiences of prowess in battle against the foes of God and virtue; of the cruelty experienced in captivity under the Turk; of holy places desecrated by the impious Paynim, to whom woman was a slave, despised as on a level with the brute creation: then would they contrast the debased condition of the Moslem with those who were born to a happier lot in Christian lands, and thus they roused the better nature of their but half Christianized auditors.”
After a beautiful description of the harmony of the Holy House of Nazareth, “a perfect concord vibrating from the earthly, trinity .... thus releasing moaning minor nature and resolving the discord of Eden into the accord of Heaven,” the lecturer closed as follows:’	.
“ Dear children, learn well the melody of Nazareth. Obedience is the key-note; humility the dominant; selfsacrifice the sub-dominant; with these three notes you can harmonize your scale of life’s trials. By thus using music —the only science you will take with you out of this world —you will then understand her language, and use your glorious art in singing forever the praises of the Lamb of Nazareth, the Lamb of God.”
Excelsior.
Indescribable are the emotions aroused by reflection on this theme considered in its different relations. First we behold the hopes, springing from their warm fresh source, in the heart of the child; Further on the arena opens, and the broad theatre of life, with, its varied prospects lies before us. Emulation in the vast fields of learning nerves every effort. In these expanses of alluring research the academic and collegiate curriculums are included. Ever is the eager mind hoping and striving for the attainment of something more ele-
V	*	-	V
yated than the present can supply. The aims, the
584	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
enterprises, the aspirations on which were concentrated every energy at the dawn of life seem worthless now. The object is attained. The charm has passed away with the efforts exerted to secure the envied prize. How entrancing the treasure appeared when beheld from the distance only the ardent heart of youth can understand; but the beautiful bubble melts in the air; yet “Excelsior! ” cries the resolute aspirant, undismayed by his disappointment. Forward and upward he urges his course. Despising danger, resisting pleasure, the brave warrior, encased in the panoply of courage, and armed with the sword of patriotism, goes forth to taste the nectar of success.
But though brightest laurels crown him, they satisfy him not. Struggling through difficulties and perils, made strong, perchance, by the rebuffs of relentless fortune, he reaches at length the ideal of maturer years, and the age of thought and discretion finds him still aspiring. Warned by the swift approach of life’s inevitable term, to be content with the present elevation does he heed the premonition? No; the insatiable heart still cries, “Excelsior!”
4 Hear the steep generations how they fall Adown the visionary stairs of Time, Like supernatural thunders—far, yet near— Throwing their fiery echoes through the hills.”
So in life, the attainment of each successive desire leaves but a far off echo in the soul; grand it may be, but perishing. Yet those phantom voices, receding through the distant hills of memory, speak not of the past, but of the future; not of triumphs in departed years, but of inspiring possibilities in the time to come.
Longfellow, our beloved American poet, admirably depicts this eager inclination of the heart for what is best and highest. Nothing can allure, nothing intimidate the youth in his eager career. Dead on the Alpine summit, he still
44 Grasps in his hand of ice
The banner with the strange device.”
This earnest, upward impulse of the soul is not to be subdued even in death. There yet remains an immortal height to be surmounted, an ascent to eternity. The very natural impulses of the mind and heart hold in view the never-ending progress. This longing for ceaseless advancement is an inevitable condition. When confined to honor and virtue, and untrammelled by avarice and unworthy motives, it is a most estimable and noble impulse. The ascent to eternity is thereby rendered a glorious crowning to the constant exalted inclinations of those who cannot rest in sublunary things.
Rowena I. Fenton ( Class ’Sy).
Roll of Honor.
* SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Blacklock, Claggett, Coll, Cox, Carroll, Dillon A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dart, Desenberg, Egan, Fuller, Farnsworth, Fitzpatrick, Fenton. Flannery,-Griffith, Gordon, Guise, Green, A. Heckard, Hummer, B.'Heckard, Henry, Harlem, Kearney, Kearns, Kennedy, Lang, Levy, Lauer, Livingstone, Mun
ger, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, Monahan, Neff, Nagle, North, Nester, Riedinger, Rose, Rend, C. Scully, S. StjClair, L. St. Clair, M. Scully, Stadtler, Shields, Stafford, Stocksdale, Thornton, Trask, White, Walsh, I. Wynn. 2d Tablet—Misses L. Haas, M. Kearsev, Kingsbury, Patrick.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, L. Bragdon, M. Coll, Campeau, M. Clifford, M. Duffield, L. Griffith, F. Hcrtzog, A. Keyes, M. Mason, M. McEwen, L. Nester, C. Prudhomme, Paul, F. Steele, E. Sheekey, M. Smith. 2d Tablet— Misses B. Snowhook, G. Regan.
1	o
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Kendall, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, M. Lindsey, J. Wallace.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses Barlow, Bruhn, Shephard.
2d Class—Misses Carney, Horn.	•
2D Div.—Misses Guise, Morrison, Van Horn.
3D Class—Misses Dillon, Fuller, Munger, M. F. Murphy, Riedinger, Rend, Snowhook, Scully, Wolvin.
2D Div.—Misses D. Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Haas, Kearney, L. St. Clair. '	.
4T11 Class—Aliss Brady, L. Foine, Egan, Lauer, Regan, Shields.
2D Div.—Misses Barry, H. Coll, M. Cox, A. Duffield, A. Donnelly, Keyes, I. Wynn, Walsh
5th Class—Misses Beckmann, M. Duffield, E. Donnelly, Flannerv, Addie Gordon, zklice Gordon, A. Livingston,
^7	7	1	O	7
Nagle, Smart, Stadtler, Servis, Thornton.
2D Div.—Misses Allnoch, Clendenen, Chaves, Clifford, A. Cox, B. English, Fenton, G. Faxon, Kearsey, Levy, M. Murphy, S. St. Clair, M. Smith, M. Stafford, H. Stumer.
6th Class—Misses Bragdon, Bubb, Claggett, Carmien, Considine, Carroll, Desenberg, Farnsworth, Griffin, Hummer, A. Kennedy, Kearns, McEwen, Moon, J. McHale, L. Meehan, E. Nester, A. Nester, Odell, Patrick, Qualey, Robb, Spencer, F. Steele, Sheekev, R. Smith, Trask, White, F. Wynn. .	“
2d Div.—Misses Andreus, Blacklock, Campeau, Cad-dagan, Dart, Heckard, Hertzog, Henry, Kendal, C. Lang, Morse, C. McNamara, M. McNamara, N. Meehan, S. McHale, Mason, Neff’ Pierce.
7th Class—Misses Blair, E. Balch, T. Balch, M. Coll, Lyons, Monahan, North, Prudhomme, Stockdale.
8th Class—Misses E. Blaine, M. Lindsey.
9T11 Class—Misses Lee, Wallace.
harp.—ist Class, 2d Div.—Miss M. Dillon.
2D Class—Misses Fitzpatrick, Shephard.
violin.
Miss Carney.
GUITAR.
5TH Class, 2D Div.—Misses Otero, Servis.
6th Class—Miss Egan, Robb.
?tii Class—Miss L. Griffith.
organ.
Miss Harlem.
COUNTERPOINT.
Miss Bruhn.	.
5	HARMONY.	.
Misses Barlow, Horn, Shephard.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss Bruhn.	,
2d" Div.—Misses B. English, F- Murphy.
2D Class—Misses S- St. Clair, H. Guise.
2D Div.—Misses L. St. Clair, S. McHale, R. Fenton. .
3D Class—Misses L. Walsh, G. Stadtler, M. Cox, N. Donnelly, F. R.obb, L. Foine.
4TH Class—Misses F. Wynn, L. Levy, M. Fuller, M. Chaves, M. Barry, I. Wynn, G. Regan, R. Smith, C. Griffith, A. Shephard.	‘	,
5TH Class—Misses E. Allnoch. M. McNamara, N, ■ Meehan, L- Bragdon,, M. Beckmann, M. Otero. ’