Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 16, 1887.	No? 31.
The Pleasure Boat.
The Rights of Labor and. the Duties of Capital.
Swiftly from the verdant shore The pleasure boat is gliding, With gilded prow and dipping oar . The silver wave dividing.
Darting thro’ the foaming spray, She skims along the billow, Or calmly steals her silent way Beneath the drooping willow. ,	_
The placid lake’s effulgent dye Is heavinsr bright before her, And not a cloud obscures the sky, That smiles in beauty o’er her. Along the shore the summer beam Each floweret bud discloses, And silver lilies catch the gleam Of blush-diffusing roses.
Hark! the bugle’s mellow strain From hill to hill is ringing, And every zephyr o’er the plain The joyful note is bringing.	’
The eagle from his eyrie darts To hear the flying numbers, And Echo from her grotto starts Awakened from her slumbers.
Oh! like this lake which, as it flows, Reflects the blaze of Heaven, So may the tide of love repose	.
While o’er it we are driven.
May every hour be calm as this, Nor tempest dare invade us, Till we behold, supreme in bliss, The mighty One that made us.
E.
What do we mean by originality ? As soon as we are born the world begins to work upon us, and this goes on to the end. And, after all, what can we call our own, except energy, strength, and will? If I could give an account of all that I owe . to great predecessors and contemporaries, there would be but a small balance in my favor.— Goethe.
The relations of labor to capital is a question environed by very serious and extremely complex problems which have long challenged the attention and engaged the serious thought of philosophers and statesmen. At the present time this subject supplants all others in public interest. Circumstances, in fact, combine to make it the question of the hour. Nor is it strange that the question of the rights of labor should possess a deep hold on the masses. . No other question short of eternity and eternal interests has, or can have, a •more important bearing on the welfare of the individual, or can affect him more deeply or more permanently—for the most obvious of reasons, that of self-interest. From the hour when Adam went forth from Eden to “ earn his bread by the sweat of his brow,” his descendants to this day have never been able to free themselves from this part of the penalty of the original transgression.
To labor is the universal lot of the human race. Labor, says a philosopher of the modern school, is the charter by which we hold bur right to live. This has been the unvarying law from the beginning, and, beyond all doubt, will so continue to the end of time, despite the Utopian dreams of socialistic theorizers. But the burden of this original penalty is not, it is true, equally'nor always fairly distributed,—the burdens and rewards of life seem to bear no just relation one to the othe.r,—and hence the mutterings of discontent at all times, and the present outcry on the part of the toilers in protest against the conditions they feel to be burdensome and which they know to be oppressive. From these and kindred causes arises the demand for social equality, and the more reasonable, because more just, attempts to improve the condition of the.laborer, in diminishing the hours of labor and increasing its too scanty reward. . .
Totally from, and independent of, abstract specu-jlation stands, as on a rock, apart the question of the rights of honest labor—a question to which, as I have already said, the circumstances of our time have given new and special significance. What,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
then, do we mean, and what do we understand by THE KIGHTS OF LABOR?
And, first, what do we mean by labor?
I cannot employ a more exact definition of the term than that given by Cardinal Manning, whose sympathy with the working classes has been conspicuous throughout his active and useful life—a sympathy deep, earnest and practical; shown, not alone in his labors to improve the condition of the working classes and the poor in England, but also in his brave and generous efforts in behalf of the struggling and oppressed people of Ireland. His Eminence defines labor to be “ the honest exertion of the powers of our mind and of our body for our own arood and for the good of our neighbor,” and he adds that those who exert the powers of the mind, though' they may never have wielded an axe, never have guided a locomotive, and never have driven a spade into the ground, that these are equalty true laborers worthy of the name. The same distinguished authority declares that “labor has a right not only to its own freedom, but it has a right to protect itself.” Here, then, we have the way made plain for a clear and correct view of the subject. I start with the premise, then, that labor has a right to be free and the right to protect itself. Any conditions, therefore, which serve to trammel that freedom and which hinder or impair the right to sell his labor on fair conditions is an injustice to the laborer.
Labor has a right to claim a “fair day’s wages for a fair day’s work,” and the right to do everything lawful to promote the welfare and to elevate the condition of those who toil—the right to do everything to this end, except the. right to do wrong I This latter, no man or body of men can have the right to do under any circumstances. The end does not justify the means. Labor may not enforce even a just demand by other than lawful means and agencies.	■
Labor, undoubtedly, has the right to combine and unite in leagues and societies for mutual support and protection, provided these leagues and associations are not organized on a basis and employing methods forbidden by the law of God and the laws of the land. The freedom of labor implies the right to strike; but this right, especially where large bodies of workmen are concerned, is a right to be exercised like a reserved power, only in extreme cases, arid after every other means of adjustment shall have been exhausted. As in the case of an appeal to arms or a rebellion, the strike should have,
First: An adequate and sufficient cause:
Second: A reasonable probability of success— and both considerations are to be taken together. Unhappily, as we have seen, great strikes have been too often inaugurated and carried on for long periods without regard to these conditions.
Enormous sacrifices have been endured by considerable bodies of men, thus unwisely thrown out of employment, the business of wide sections of the.country paralyzed for the time being, and great distress and suffering occasioned by the incbrisid-
erate action of some rash and ill-advised leaders. Taking into account the result of the generality of strikes and the consequences to all concerned, it may well be questioned if on the whole they have in any sense benefitted the labor interest. From the testimony of those who have given attention to the subject it would seem they have, on the contrary, proved almost uniformly disastrous.
Unfortunately, there are always men—and in these recent years they seem to be more noisy and more numerous—who delude and hoodwink the masses with claptrap and loud professions, leading their followers into snares and pitfalls. The laboring classes especially are too often duped by demagogues and false leaders who seek only their own selfish ends, little recking the consequence to others of their evil counsel. Labor must resort to, and can only succeed in enforcing its just rights by reasonable and lawful methods. The force of public opinion is, and will always continue to be, an important factor in the adjustment of labor troubles in the United States. Arbitration, after all, seems to offer the reasonable and true solution of and for the existing labor troubles.
It is a method which appeals to reason and common sense. Voluntary arbitration by mutual agreement wherever and whenever practicable. Courts of arbitration might be provided for and established by law, with authority to determine in the case of corporations, and the like. The question of the i limits and extent of the authority of such courts is, of course, a nice question.	j
The question of the equal rights and the equal I freedom of capital as to the conditions of the em-	1
ployment of labor must likewise be regarded and	j
considered; but, no doubt, a fair and reasonable ! basis for necessary legislation is not beyond the	j
scope of possibility. There ought to be no an-	|
tagonism between capital and labor.	j
Rightly understood, the interests of both are _ j identical. With moderation and good counsel on | both sides there need be no collisions, no conflicts. ’ In the effort to obtain better wages, and consequently greater comforts, better and brighter homes, ; better food, better amusements, better education j and better government, labor will command gen- ; era! sympathy.	j
The sympathy of every right-thinking citizen 1 will necessarily be with the just and reasonable * claims of honest labor—with every effort to promote and elevate the condition and circumstances of the industrious workman and his family.	j
The people of this country, more so, perhaps,	j
than any other, are themselves generally engaged ’ ■ in labor—in one or another form of industrial or	?
professional employment or calling. We have no	1
privileged or exempt classes. The capitalist of to- - j day was himself a toiler a few years ago, and re-	j
mains, in fact, a toiler still, with anxieties and re-	]
sponsibilities to which he was formerly a stranger. . j Ruskin remarks, in his characteristic way, that ■ “ many a beggar' is as lazy as if he had ten thousand a year; and many a man of large fortune is busier than his errand boy.”
There is a working class, strong and happy j ' -- -	- - '	'	-	1
•	-	-	4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°3
among both rich and poor; there is an idle class, weak, wicked and miserable among both rich and poor. One principal cause for the existing troubles is the prevailing habits of waste and extravagance. There is need for reform in this regard. We must return to more thrifty and economical ways and methods. We need more and greater industry, more and greater economy, and far more general sobriety. The race for wealth is open to all; the course is free. The first millionaire in the United States was once a poor Irish emigrant; and 1 would not need to go very far to point out examples of men who have acquired wealth, and even great wealth, in recent years by steady and . persevering industry, combined, of course, with special talents and favoring circumstances. This is the poor man’s country—the promised land. No country ever offered so fair and so great advantages to the men who labor; no other in any age presented so glorious and so promising a field for their energy, so splendid a reward for industry and perseverance.
The almost boundless area of the Nation’s wide domain was generously thrown open to the world, and all were invited to enter upon and possess the land. We may well marvel at the blindness of the millions who neglected this opportunity. Thousands and tens of thousands are toiling and struggling in the great centres, festeiing in cellars and garrets and tenement houses, in the eastern cities especially, who, had they been possessed of the requisite wisdom and energy, might now be the happy and prosperous owners of homes and farms on the rich prairies of the West. The demand for ten hours’ pay for eight hours’ work, lately put forward, is not a reasonable claim, and cannot succeed. Even when conceded under force of circumstances it has not long remained the rule. Nor is the demand for a general adoption of the eight hour rule, even if conceded, likely to prove an unmixed boon to the workman. Wages, by the inevitable law of supply and demand, will soon be adjusted to the new conditions.
It is absurd to curtail the capital of labor—and the laborer’s capital is his labor. Labor needs all the pay it can get for all the work it can reasonably perform.
THE DUTIES OF CAPITAL.
What is meant by capital? Capital is wealth and resources in the hands of the individual citizen—his own, inherited or acquired; or held by corporations as trustees for one or more persons. The capitalist in the employment of his resources, like the laborer in the employment of his capital, is free to use his means as he sees fit, in any manner not detrimental to the general public interest and welfare—to employ it in industry or not, and to make such terms with labor as may be mutually agreeable and satisfactory. The capitalist, of course, can determine for himself the conditions on which he will carry on his shop, factory or business, but a just regard for his duty towards others, especially those depending on him for employment, demands that fair pay, reasonable rules, and due consideration shrill be shown for the dependent class, for
their personal comfort and general welfare. The religious, moral and social advantages of the working classes should never be lost sight of by the considerate employer, and every stimulus and' encouragement ought to be given to habits of industry and sobriety. The responsibility of the employer does not end in merely paying labor what was stipulated. Capital carries with it grave moral and social, as well as civic, responsibilities and duties ; and one of the highest of these is consideration for the well-being and general welfare of those in any way allied to it. This is a high duty, as well as the prompting of sound policy. The lines should be broken down'between capital and labor. There must be an end to the spirit of distrust, of envy and, worse than these, of hatred, which is sown so widely and so deeply of late years. We need more examples of practical benevolence among the wealthier classes. We must break down, once for all, the wall of hatred and discord, which too many demagogues and mischiefmakers are seeking to build up, dividing and separating capital and labor into two hostile camps and parties. It is not true that all capitalists and employers and corporations are heartless and tyrannical. ■ Very many of the largest employers of labor in Chicago—I speak now of facts within my' -own observation and knowledge—are men of well-known benevolence of character, men who deal fairly and justly with their employes, and who give largely and munificently to churches and charities, and who make a liberal and beneficent use of the wealth with which God has blessed them.
If we would have peace, prosperity and general contentment in this country, there must be a speedy end to these constant collisions between labor and capital. Ill feeling between classes must not be allowed to go on festering into rancor. The wisest of the leaders in the labor movement descry the danger and seek to arrest this evil tendency. The material progress, the social welfare, the moral elevation of this nation depends on the speedy and prompt extinction of the dangerous spirit now too' rife in our midst. Mob rule and lawlessness will never be permitted to prevail in this country. The American people are an order-loving, law-abiding people. They possess in a great degree the Catholic principle: respect for authority. They are justly attached to the principles of liberty which have drawn thither people from every land who sought to enjoy the freedom and the advantages offered here in abundant measure. Wonderful and amazing as the growth of this country has been up to the present time, we are evidently only in the beginning of a still more wonderful era of progress and prosperity. Fifty years ago De Tocqueville predicted that this country would yet possess a population of one hundred andfifty mil- ■ lions! The prediction of the philosophic Frenchman, which then must have seemed an idle dream or a far remote contingency, is fast becoming a fairly demonstrated prophecy. Surrounding us on 1 every side and in every part of this vast continent we see the fast accumulating evidence and testimony which give assurance of its near realization.
504	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The natural increase of our active and energetic population, the varied and multiplied sources of wealth, and the steady development and improvements in every form of human industry; the constant and never ceasing inflow of people from every land, from all the countries of Europe, the Teuton, the Sclav and the Scandinavian; the Celt and the Saxon; from the isles of the sea, and even the unwelcome contingent from Asia—all swarming to these shores as to the “ promised land ”—all combining to form and constitute the great aggregate of this stupendous cosmopolitan population,— and all gladly accepting our proffered privileges, our freedom and forms of civilization, with their duties and responsibilities. This is, indeed, too precious, too sacred a heritage to trifle with and to put in peril. .	.
No false teaching, no passing and emotional outbreak of frenzy, no war between castes and classes, can be allowed to arrest, for ever so brief a space, the majestic march of this great country in its glorious and beneficent career. Every high and holy consideration, as well as every motive and prompting of self-interest, forbids.
Religion, with its benignant influence and its tremendous power, will interpose its awe-inspiring form in the front of danger. Should disorders come threatening the peace of society, and the forces of danger and destruction menace the welfare and the institutions of this free country, the Catholic Church will be found, as always, on the side of order and authority. Her influence will save society from disorder, and civilization from wreck, in this as it has done in past ages and in other lands.
W. J. Onahan, LL. D., ’76.
Metastasio.
One summer’s evening, about the year 1708, a rich lawyer named Gravina, who was accustomed to write bad tragedies, was walking near the Campus Martius, in Rome, in company with the Abbe Lorenzini. As the two sauntered along they heard at no great distance from them a sweet and powerful voice singing verses with astonishing fluency to the measure of the canto improviso. As they approached the shop of Trapasi, from whence the delightful melody proceeded, they were surprised to see a lovely boy, not more than ten or twelve years old, pouring forth the verses on the objects which surrounded him. Their admiration of him was great, but it became more intense by the com-, pliments which he took occasion to bestow upon them. When the boy-poet and musician concluded his song, Gravina called him, and with much praise and caresses offered him a coin of considerable value. This the boy, with many thanks, politely declined. Entering into conversation with the lad, Gravina was struck with the intelligence of his replies, and proposed to his. parents to adopt and educate him as his son. Moved by the sincerity of the offer, and pleased with the brilliant prospects thus opened to their son, the parents consented, and the
boy Trapasi was made the adopted son of Gravina, and became known to posterity as Metastasio.
Pietro Antonio Domenico Bonaventura Metastasio was born in Rome, on the third day of January, 1698. At an early age he manifested a great love for poetry, which was stimulated by reading the works of Tasso. After his adoption by Gravina he received an excellent education, the learned lawyer intending that he should follow the profession of the law. At the same time that he destined him to be a lawyer he had him well educated in the classics. Such was the progress of the boy that at the age of fourteen he wrote a tragedy, “ Giustino,” after the model of the Greeks. He followed his patron to Naples, where, by the, charm of his manners and conversation and by his wonderful powers of versification and elocution, he made many friends. He did not give up his legal studies, but received minor orders, on which account he is often styled Abbate. .
His patron Gravina, dying in 1717, left Metastasio a considerable fortune; but the prodigal poet ran through most of it in two years, and for a short time he redoubled his efforts in the law. However, it was not long before he returned to his favorite pursuit. lie composed an epithalamium and the drama of Endimione. He afterwards wrote, under the protection of the Viceroy of Naples, Gli orti esperidi Angelica, the latter after Ariosto. The principal characters in these plays were taken by the beautiful Maria Bulgarini, or La Romanina, under whose inspiration he wrote his Didone aban-donata,yn\\\ch was set to music by Sardi and other composers. This opera was produced in 1724, and established his fame. From Naples he went to Rome, where his Semiramide (which Myer-beer set to music in 1819) Ezio, Alessandro nelP Indie, Catone in Utica, and Artasesse were performed in rapid succession.
Ine 1729 he repaired to Vienna, where he succeeded and soon surpassed Zeno as imperial laureate. He occupied all his time in supplying the court with lyrical dramas and oratorios, writing poetry and instructing the Austrian princess in music and Italian. He published, in 1733, his Olim-piade, which his enthusiastic countrymen honored with the epithet of “divine”; and in 1734, one of his most celebrated musical dramas, La clemenza di Tito, which was again set to music by Mozart in ’ 1790. On account of the death of Charles VI, in 1740, and outbreak of war, the theatre for which he was employed was closed, and Metastasio then devoted all his time to literary pursuits, chiefly to translations from the Greek. In 1744 he published his Antigone, and. many-translations from the ancient Greek authors. With the return of peace, in x757, he wrote 11 re pastore, which was performed by the ladies of the imperial family. His last operatic play, entitled II ruggiero, was performed on the occasion of the marriage of the Archduke Ferdinand, in 1771.
Metastasio acquired a great deal of property. On the death of Romanina she bequeathed him considerable possessions, but the poet restored to the lady’s husband the'right of disposing of them. His
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
505
generosity was almost reckless; yet on his death, which took place on the 12th of April, 1782, he had a very large estate, which he bestowed upon the children of his friend Martinetz, whose hospitality he enjoyed when he first arrived at Vienna.
A writer, speaking of the character of Metastasio, says: “ He was beloved .as much for his amiable character as for his genius. He was as gentle in his life as in' his writings, and young aspirants to fame had no more devoted friend than the venerable poet, who was among the first to recognize the genius of Mozart, and to express his admiration of a comic opera which the youthful composer, then only twelve years old, had set to music in 1768, at the request of the Emperor Joseph. Metastasio was a devout Christian; and Pope Pius VI, happening to be in Vienna at the time when he was taken ill, hastened to his death-bed and gave him his benediction.” The remains of the poet were buried in the Church of St. Michael, and in 1788 Cardinal Riminaldi placed his bust in the Church of St. Mary, in Rome.
Schlegel says: “A perfect purity of diction, a grave and unalloyed delicacy, have rendered Metastasio, in the eyes of his countrymen, a classic author, the Racine of Italy. In the softness, tender-• ness, chasteness, and gentle pathos of his verse, he is not surpassed by any other poet of the musical drama; and although deficient in the genius of impassioned tragedy, he is unrivalled in his operatic lays.”
The lyrical dramas of Metastasio were set to music as soon as they were written, but none of the original music now exists, unless, perhaps, it be in the imperial library in Vienna.	D.
Pleadings.
(Continued.)
It may be of interest to students to state briefly in this connection the means by which actions were begun in the superior courts of common law at Westminster prior to the passage of the statute 2 William IV, c. 39, which provides that thereafter personal actions should be commenced by summons, capias or detainer:
In the King’s Bench—by original writ: First, (a) against individuals generally; (£) against peers of the realm and members of the House of Commons; (c) against corporations and hundredors. Second, by bill of Middlesex or latitat. Third, by attachment of privilege, at the suit of officers of the Court. Fourth, by bill (a) against members of the House of Commons; (3) against officers of the court, which includes attorneys; (c) against prisoners in custody of the sheriff or marshal of the court prison.	.
In the Common Pleas—by original writ, special or general. First (special), against peers, corporations and hundredors; (general), which did not require personal service, against defendants in concealment or keeping themsely.es out of the way, so
that they could not be personally served with process and arrested. Second, by capias quare clausum fregit (trespass), based upon a supposed original writ, and answering to the bill of Middlesex or latitat in the King’s Bench. Third, by attachment of privilege, at the suit of officers of the court. Fourth, by bill, (a) against officers of court; (£) against members of the House of Commons.
In the Exchequer. First, by subpoena adrespondendum^ a process analogous to the subpoena out of chancery, and directed to the defendant. Second, by venire facias ad respondendum^ a process in the nature of an original writ, and used at common law against persons having the privilege of Parliament. Third, by quo minus capias^ a process answering to the bill of Middlesex or latitat in the King’s Bench, and capias quare clausum, fregit in the Common Pleas. Fourth, by venire facias or capias of privilege, at the suit of officers of the . court. Fifth, by bill («) against officers; (3) against members of the House of Common; (c) against prisoners in custody either of the sheriff or of the warden of the Fleet.
The Fleet, which is so frequently mentioned in the old books, was a prison in London. It was so called from a small stream, on the.bank of which it stood. To it prisoners guilty of contempt of court or arrested for debt were committed. At that time the word was frequently used in the sense of a stream, creek, and the like. The stream’on the bank of which the prison stood was called the Fleet. It is now wholly obliterated, having long since been filled up.
An explanation of why so many old Norman French and Latin wordsand expressions occur in the law and in thepleadings may be found in the fact that the proceedings of courts were at one time conducted in Norman French, and at a later time in Latin. The preference for a learned tongue to the vernacular may be traced to the close relation in the Middle Ages between the Church and the courts. Until the twelfth century the clergy were the only lawyers. Until the sixteenth century the king’s chancellors, who directed proceedings in the High Court of Chancery, were ordinarily bishops or prominent ecclesiastics. From the time of the Norman Conquest until 1363, legal proceedings were conducted, recorded and reported in Norman French. . A statute of that year required them to be conducted in French and recorded in Latin; but for some time afterward they continued to be reported in French. Then Latin superseded the French; and, with the exception of a few years during the protectorate of Cromwell, the proceedings of the courts were conducted in Latin until i73°- 1° x733 a statute was passed providing that the technical terms of the law might still remain in their respective original languages. Hence, technical French, Latin and even Saxon words and expressions still remainin legal proceedings. The tendency, however, is to drop them, or to substitute more modern equivalents.
Writs to bring a defendant into court are writs of process, or judicial writs. The ordinary writs of process are the summons, capias and attachment. Writs between the original writ and judgment are
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
called mesne writs. Those issuing after judgment are called final writs.
The prcecipe is similar to the original writ in its general outlines and the object to which it is directed. The declaration corresponds to it in all essential respects, although much more elaborate, detailed and complete. In preparing the declaration, the facts are to be diligently studied and the law applicable to the issue carefully considered. It must show a right of action in the plaintiff! The law applicable to and decisive of the matter in controversy should stand out clearly and prominently in the mind, and the facts should be carefully and minutely analyzed. And as the analysis proceeds, the principles of the law should be applied to every material question or point they present. Thus the application of the law to the facts and the relation of the facts to the law should be made as clear and perfect as diligence, power of thought and professional knowledge can make them. Knowing what is requisite in law to constitute a cause of action, the attorney who thus familiarizes himself with the facts ought to know before he drafts his declaration whether^ he has facts sufficient to meet the requirements of the law and to maintain his cause of action. If not, he should secure additional witnesses, so as to be able to fill up every gap and to leave unproved none of the necessary allegations. He should know before he writes his declaration every material thing that he can prove, and it should be so drawn as to lay a foundation for every fact that he needs to prove. No fact can be proved or introduced in evidence at the trial unless the statement of the cause of action is broad enough to furnish a basis for it. But if the allegations of the declaration are too broad, and evidence is wanting to support them at any material point, the case is not proved, and, if a verdict finding otherwise is rendered, it must be set aside.
Carefully drawn pleadings are not wanting in suggestiveness of a mathematical demonstration. The declaration may be regarded as corresponding to the multiplicand, and the plea to the multiplier. Every figure or unit employed in the solution of the problem must be derived from and rest upon the figures preceding. Any mistake in this particular results inevitably in an incorrect solution. So in building up a case. Nothing collateral or foreign to the issue can be tolerated in the pleadings or admitted in evidence. All must proceed regularly, step by step, broadening or narrowing, according to circumstances, but admitting nothing extraneous—nothing not growing and developing naturally from what precedes. And such is the order of procedure all through the trial—from the precipe or summons to,the final writ or execution.
If the declaration fail to show a right of action in the plaintiff-, no subsequent allegation in the replication can help him. And in such case under the code he cannot new assign.in his reply. If he is to recover damages at all, it must be upon the ground originally set forth as the basis of his claim. In certain cases, however, the declaration may be substantially and technically correct in its allegations,
and yet show on its face that the plaintiff had no right to sue when he commenced the action. For instance, he may begin it prematurely, as where he sues in debt on an obligation, and the writ bears a date prior to the time fixed for payment in the instrument. There can be no-recovery upon any matter arising after commencement of the action, unless we except interest on demands carrying interest. This can be recovered as damages up to the time judgment is rendered. What it is unnecessary to prove should not be alleged. It is unnecessary to allege consideration when suing in assumpsit on bills of exchange and promissory notes negotiated before due, or on specialties or sealed instruments, for all these import a consideration. But where a condition precedent forms an element of a contract sued upon, performance by the plaintiff of his part of it must be averred. Otherwise his right of action will not appear. Proper demand of payment on the drawer or acceptor of a bill of exchange, together with due notice and refusal of payment, must be averred in an action against the indorser or drawer. Notice and demand are of the gist of the action, and must be specially set forth in the declaration, of else a complete right of action will not appear from it. The general averment, “ although often thereunto requested,” is but matter of form and of no avail as a substitute for the special statement. The gist of the action means technically an element of the case without which there would be no ground upon which to sue.
(to be continued.)
Art, Music and Literature.
—It is said that Lady Wilde’s “Irish Folk-Lore and Fairies ” will yield her ten thousand dollars.
—The May Popular Science Monthly will have a timely article on “ The Influence of Snow Masses on Climate,” from the pen of the eminent Russian meteorologist Woeikoff.
—Rene Robert Chevalier de la Salle is to have a statue in the cathedral of Rouen. Pie was the first explorer of the great lakes and the Mississippi, and founded the French colony in Louisiana.
—A bronze monument to the memory of General Gordon, designed by Mr. Boehm for the king of the Belgians, is soon to be placed in Westminster Abbey. It represents the hero recumbent on a sarcophagus, with his military cloak flung around him.
—The Kreuz-Zeitung says that the library of the late Leopold von Ranke, the historian, has been sold to an American college. Dr. Hartwig finds that the most important manuscripts left by Von Ranke consist of a copious diary and a book of maxims of government, the latter of which Von Ranke prepared for King Maximilian of Bavaria.
—Gladstone, in his “ Studies of Homer,■” says of the Catholic Church: “She has marched for fifteen hundred years at the head of human civilization, and has harnessed to its chariot, as the horses
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°7
of a triumphal car, the chief intellectual and material forces of the world; its art, the art of the world; its genius, the genius of the world; its greatness, glory, grandeur, and majesty have been almost, though not absolutely, all that in these respects the world has had to boast of.”
—The late Mrs. Florace Mann ( wife of the Flon. Florace Mann, and sister of the late Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne) has left a romance of West Indian life, which will be published by D. Lothrop Company, Boston, at an early date under the title of “Juanita.” The proof is undergoing revision by her sister, the venerable Miss Elizabeth Peabody. Mrs. Mann resided for a time in Cuba in early life under circumstances Jwhich supplied exceptional opportunities for observing the life and institutions of the island, and her friends expect much from her posthumous and only romance.
—The Athenceum says that a discovery of some interest to the lovers of old ballad literature has recently been made in the finding, in an old house in Cheshire, of a MS. book of early Jacobean date, put together by one Robert Hassall. It contains the ballad on the death of the Earl of Essex, begining—
“ Sweet England’s pride is gone, waile-a-daie, waile-a-daie,” differing somewhat from known copies; also a complete copy in sixteen verses of “ A Lamentable Moue of a Souldier for the Losse of his derely beloved Lorde,” as well as further ballad and other entries that seem to be entirely original. The pith of the book will shortly be given to antiquaries through the pages of the Reliquary.
—The name of John G. Saxe, whose death occurred last week in Albany, N. Y., was a household word some fifteen or twenty years ago. Everybody read the latest humorous poem from his pen, and his fame in that literary vein was second only to that of Oliver Wendell Holmes. Mr. Saxe’s later life was darkened by an intellectual debility which had its origin in the nervous prostration induced by a railroad accident when on a lecturing tour. His series of “Humorous and Flistorical Poems” were originally published by Mr. James T. Fields, of Boston, and have been enlarged from time to time. “The Money King and Other Poems” was published in November, 1859. “The Flying Dutchman, or the Wrath of Fieri' Von Stopplenoze,” was published in New York in 1863. “ Clever Stories of Many Nations,” written in rhyme and illustrated by W. L. Champ-ney, was published in Boston in December, 1864, and was followed in 1866 by the “Masquerade and Other Poems.” Among the works afterward published were “ Proud Miss McBride,” and “Leisure Day Rhymes.” Many of Saxe’s longer poems were first delivered at college commencements and other anniversary occasions. “ Riding on the Rail ” is one of his most frequently quoted pieces. Mr. Saxe was born in 1816 at Highgate, Vt., in which State in earlier life he practised law and took part in politics, having at.one time received the Democratic nomination for the governorship:—Home Journal. ■
Scientific Notes.
—A new edition of the writings of Galileo, in twenty volumes, is to be published at Florence under the authorization of the Italian Minister of Instruction.
—The consumption of gas from natural sources has reached enormous proportions at Pittsburgh, Pa. The supply is from six companies, who manage more than 100 wells and own more than 500 miles of pipe mains. A single company supplies 400 manufactories and 7,000 dwellings with their entire fuel. The total capacity of the lines is estimated at 250,000,000 cubic feet per diem.
—The evening of Dec. 4 last a remarkable fireball was observed at Stoney hurst College, England. The moon at the tjme was at the full, but in spite of this, the whole sky was lit up as by a rocket. The ball moved rapidly at first but its movement was gradually slower and slower, until just before vanishing, it burst into several fragments. A trail of light,lasting for a minute and a half, was left behind.
—The monks of St. Bernard, who devote themselves as ardently to the study of science as to the rescue of wayfaring men, have brought the telephone into their service of mercy. The famous hospice is now in telephonic communication with the Cantine de Proz and the village of St. Pierre, as also with the Cantine de Fontinte and the village of St. Cherny, on the Italian side. A further extension of the system is in progress, though the execution of it must needs be surrounded with great difficulties in that Alpine region of snow and ice. —Electrical Review.	-
—Mr. Carl Hering gives in the Electrical World some interesting and curious computations: “The energy set free on firing a small pistol is about 600 foot-pounds, the pressure being about forty tons per square inch. A watch consumes about one fifty-four millionth of a horse-power, so that the energy of the bullet would serve it for two years. An Edison telephone transmitter requires about one thousandth of the energy in a watch; it would therefore be worked for 2,000 years on the energy exerted in the pistol. A lightning-flash of 3,500,000 volts and 14,000,000 Amperes, and lasting one twenty thousandth part of a second, would run a 100 horse-power engine for ten hours.”
—The problem of heating cars by steam and lighting by electricity is assuredly approaching solution. The splendid express train between Boston and New York at 4.30 p. m., daily, on the Boston & Albany Railroad is fitted up with devices which have proved so far satisfactory. One train is already equipped, and the other will be immediately. The heating is by the Martin “anti-fire” system, wherein the heat is supplied by steam, from the locomotive. The lighting is by the Weston incan-descenflamps, the electricity being supplied by the Julien storage system. A double row of lamps depend from the ceiling of each car, sixteen in the main saloon, one in each vestibule and closet, and one on each platform.
5o8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
w w sw«.
Notre Dame, April 16, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence *n Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A National Anthem.
We do not think that there is any country outside of ours that does not possess its national anthem, with a music peculiarly its own, and such as to reach the hearts of the people, live forever in their memories and affections, and give- constant proof of the supremacy of the art divine, the power and majesty of a nation’s music, when placed in contrast even with the power of its law-makers. We go further. We have yet to learn that there is any country, outside of our own, that has borrowed or stolen its national hymn from another.
It is a well-known fact, and one that must be regretted by every true-spirited American that our so-called “ Grand National Anthem ” has not the slightest particle of nationality about it, except the name “America”;—the poetry is not worth mentioning. And yet, for the past fifty years, all our grand public meetings and demonstrations have been “ enthused ” by the singing of this so-called American, but really English hymn. But little attention has been paid to this notorious fact, whether it be on account of the “Anglophile” spirit of our leading musicians, or the apathy of an American public wholly devoted to commercial pursuits.
Recently, two of our leading American Journals —the one purely secular, the other a Catholic weekly—the New York Suu and' the Nezu York Freemans Journal—made strong editorial references to this subject. In our own humble way, we express the hope that their remarks will receive the notice and the prominence they well deserve from the press every where throughout the country.
It will be, at least, one method of showing that we are not wholly.materialistic in this great Republic, and will serve to create a public sentiment upon a subject of national interest. Says the Freemans Journal:
“ It is certainly a strange anomaly that we should be the only nation in the world that condescends to steal its national anthem, and that, too, from our natural enemies. Fancy celebrating our triumph over England every Fourth of July with the inspiring strains that fired the British heart at Bunker Hill and White Plains! Even the little republics of Andora and San Marino have their distinctive national hymns. But we have lost the trick of blushing, or we would be ashamed to confess to such a dearth of musical talent as this scandalous appropriation of a foreign anthem to our own uses implies. If we have no composer capable of producing a national anthem worthy of the country, then let the suggestion of the Nezu Pork Sun be adopted, that the next Congress ‘ rectify this egregious absurdity by offering a liberal reward for the best national anthem, the merit of it to be determined by a competent musical tribunal.’ ”
Easter at Notre Dame.
Easter Sunday—one of the greatest festivals of the ecclesiastical year, inasmuch as it commemorates the triumphant consummation of the work which the Redeemer of the world had come from heaven to accomplish—is a day which always appeals to the Christian heart. It will remain, until the end of time,the standing and effective reminder to the non-Christian of the divinity of the Founder of the Christian religion and the obligation im-posed upon all who look to a happy immortality, of conforming their life to the new dispensation which He inaugurated. Therefore, it is that, in keeping with the greatness of the day, the services of the Church are made unusually solemn and impressive at each annual celebration of this glorious festival, thus at the same time expressing the joy and glory of the Spouse of Christ upon earth, and awakening the religious sentiments of souls whose guardianship has been entrusted to her and whom she would seek to lead in the way of peace, of light and of truth.
Here at Notre Dame, blessed as it is with unusual advantages, not only from an educational but also from a religious point of view, possessed of a large and magnificent church, with a numerous and devoted , body of clergy, the sacred ecclesiastical liturgy is ever carried out with great splendor, and conformably to all the prescriptions of its solemn ceremonial. Thus it was that, on Sunday-last, the sacred edifice was thronged with an immense congregation, composed, not only of students and religious, but of devout people from South Bend and neighboring cities. The altar was gorgeous 00	o o
in its rich decorations which shone forth splendidly amid the blaze of myriads of lights, while the air was redolent with the sweet perfume of the profusion of flowers with which it was adorned. Solemn High Mass was celebrated at ten o’clock by Veity Rev. Father General Sorin, assisted by Rev. President Walsh-and Rev. J. O’Hanlon, as deacon and subdeacon. The magnificence of the ceremonial was enhanced by the appearance
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
509
of the venerable Superior-General of Holy Cross —his tall, stately, commanding figure, graceful and impressive in every movement, lending additional splendor to the rich, powerful voice with which nature has endowed him, and which advancing years fail to weaken or to render less penetrating and attractive. Indeed it would seem as though each succeeding year only adds new charms to the vocal powers of the venerable Founder, as it does to the vigorous health and elastic step with which Heaven continues to bless him. Father Sorin is deservedly the object on which the affections of all hearts at Notre Dame are centred; and the fact that the weight of years tends in no degree to diminish his usefulness, is a blessing which is a source of joy and prayerful thankfulness to Heaven from all the inmates of this noble home of religion and education, which he founded and whose development and progress he has for well-nigh a half-century with rare wisdom directed.
The solemnity of the services was well observed in the music by a special choir, under the skilful direction of Prof. Paul. The “Mass” which they rendered was a splendid illustration of the highest style of ecclesiastical music, at once devotional and artistic, appealing to the feelings of the heart and pleasing the taste of the lover of music. It revealed to all present how well the musical art, as exemplified in the harmonized “Cecilian Masses,” may be made to serve as an aid and accompaniment to the grand offices of Divine worship, in contradistinction to the light, florid music which, though pleasing the ear, distracts the mind from the object upon which its attention should be fixed. During the Offertory and Communion, the exultant “ O filii et filiie” and the joyful “ Regina Coeli ” were sung with feeling expressive of their appropriateness to the beautiful Easter celebration.
The sermon was preached by the Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., and was an eloquent exposition, at once dogmatic and moral, of the grand fundamental dogma of the Christian religion.
With solemn Vespers in the afternoon closed the religious services of the great festival day—a day, beautiful in the many charms which nature, when arrayed in all the glories of the spring-time, ever possesses, and beautiful, especially, in the inspiring thoughts and elevating reflections which the annual commemoration of the great event in the life of the world’s Redeemer must ever bring with it to the Christian soul.	C.
Loquacity.
’We believe it was Solomon who said, “A fool is known by the multitude of his words.” Yet charity will never allow us to rank all who are marked by a voluble tongue in the category of fools. All professions have their incessant talkers; in fact, they are found in almost every department of life. The pettifogger will bluster and thunder for several hours on mere trifles, where a sensible use of fifteen minutes would have been sufficient
to exhaust the subject. One loquacious individual, in an assembly of farmers will talk so long and loud on the best mode of raising cattle, and from the minute description which he gives of their habits, tastes, peculiarities and wants it would not require much guessing to tell whose company he has been in the habit of keeping. Loquacity finds a paradise in politics,—there the highest degree of importance is attached to the most trifling subjects. It is not unusual for the orator to launch out so far, or soar up so high from his subject that he never returns to his starting point, which was the election of Snooks to the dignity of township collector. That much-abused eagle, the stars and stripes, and the battle of Bunker Hill are all mixed up in patriotic confusion.
We think loquacity can be attributed to the want of study and serious reflection. The man who thinks is never flippant; if he is called upon to address an audience, he keeps his subject before his mind, never for a moment losing sight of it, never dropping it to turn to side-issues. Holding in contempt the applause of the mob, he spurns to gain the approbation of the ignorant and vulgar by pandering to their depraved tastes,—his address is free from buffooneries, vulgarisms and personalities; appeals to the low passions and prejudices of his hearers never escape his lips. Although he may appear dry to the ignorant, yet, in the true sense of the word, he is truly eloquent, for eloquence is the art of convincing and persuading; good sense must be at the bottom of it,—and therefore it follows that fools can convince none but fools.
How different are those flippant creatures who never, during their lives, read a sensible book; who never spent six hours in solid study! Still they will talk, talk for hours, just for the pleasure of hearing themselves talk. The gossiping village band will dispose of more State questions during an evening than an ingenious diplomatist could review in a lifetime. The student, after attending college for a few sessions, will give his opinion of-education and discipline with more assurance and .a greater air of authority than those who have devoted a lifetime to the subject; and it would be amusing, were it not that their opinions are often pernicious, to hear them declaiming against such and such a rule that time and experience has proved to be highly beneficial. In cities, men will gather in squads and will talk incessantly on subjects concerning which they never read ten lines.
Such creatures think that eloquence consists entirely in talk. Hence it is no wonder when an ignoramus, whose whole possession consists in a voluble tongue, and from whose lips flow a stream of words as steady as water shoots up from the fountain, makes his appearance, he is immediately set down as an orator.	-
In this land of sovereigns we arc too apt to be led away by talk; we like to hear well-sounded periods, which we applaud; but if reason asks why we applaud, what portion of the address gave us the most pleasure, we are unable to answer. The infant smiles, and is lulled to sleep by the sweet
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sounds of its mother’s voice; yet we are not infants, and still it frequently happens that, infant-like, we not only smile, but fairly yell, throw up our hands, gesticulate wildly, and cry out bravo! and for the life of us we don’t know what we are making all the noise about. _	.
How often does a smile of approbation play upon the face when we hear a speaker denouncing an opponent in language that would arouse our indignation were it uttered in private! What an intellectual' treat do we anticipate when the next speaker arises to reply! We hold up our hands in holy horror against the bull-fights of Spain, but we can sit and applaud when we hear men attack each other with the most deadly, the most poisonous, the most cutting weapon that can be imagined —the tongue. How often does it happen that a speaker will offend against the common decencies of life in his use of vile language, under the pretext of exposing corruption! Now, if we have an inordinate desire of talking, just for talk’s sake, to be arguing and dogmatizing, just for the sake of gratifying our vanity, appearing odd, or obtaining the reputation of being learned, our room will always be preferable to our company among people of good common sense.
We may depend on it, if we arc always first in giving our views and expressing our opinion, we will soon, to use a common phrase, be “played out”; and although it is said that the American people submit to more humbugs than any other nation, still they are not long in discovering a “bore,” and once he is discovered, his name is ever afterwards associated with mental torture.
'	B.
Books and Periodicals.
The Proscribed Heir. A Drama in Five Acts. Translated from the French. Notre Dame, Ind.: J. A. Lyons. 1887.
This is an excellent translation of one of those admirable French dramas which have been found peculiarly suitable for presentation at college and school exhibitions. It might be said that it is more than a mere translation, for idiomatic expressions and modes of thought and action peculiar to the American citizen have been skilfully introduced without impairing the spirit and plot of the original. We commend the play to all college societies. Golden Wreath for the Month of Mary.
Composed of Daily Considerations on the Triple Crown of Our Blessed Lady’s Joys, Sorrows and Glories, with Examples and Hymns set to Music. Second Edition. Notre Dame, Ind.: “Ave Maria Press”; pp. 200, 32mo, cloth. Price, 50 cents.
With the near approach of the beautiful month of May, this excellent little manual of devotions appears in good time to be put in the hands of every devout Christian, anxious to enter into the spirit of the month consecrated to the Mother of God.. The arrangement of the matter, as indicated in the title above, is such as to excite and give ex-~ pression to the best sentiments of the heart, and
thereby serve as an efficient help to the soul in the performance of the exercises of piety with which the month should be marked. The reflections on the joys, sorrows and glories of the Blessed Virgin are based upon the fifteen mysteries of the Rosary, and happily illustrated by striking examples. There are also several hymns and a very beautiful Litany, which are set to music, and add not a little to the value and interest of the book.
Socialism and the Church. By Rev. Willibald Hackner. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co. 18S7.
The commotion lately stirred up by Mr. Henry George, of New York, bids fair to be productive of great good, inasmuch as it has led to many forcible expositions of the truth from the pulpit and the press. These will eventually produce their ef-.fect and serve as a powerful antidote to the poison infused into the social body by communistic theorists. The pamphlet mentioned above will aid most effectually in spreading the light of truth, and therefore merits an extensive circulation. Father Hackner’s treatment of the social question is marked by profound reasoning, apt illustration, historical knowledge and practical application. It will be read with pleasure and profit by the philosophical thinker as well as the ordinary reader. The divisions are: (1) Philosophical Aspect of the Question; ’ (2) Historical Aspect; (3) Sociological Aspect; (4) The Root of Social Evils; (5) Solution of the Social Question. We take the liberty of presenting the following extract from the conclusion of this admirable treatise:
“ Now, what was the cause of the blissful condition of those dark ages, so conspicuously absent from our times? Certainly, not the theory of Communism; that was unknown. There was individual ownership in land, sanctioned by civil and ecclesiastical law. Therefore, individual ownership cannot be such a curse as Mr. George represents it, or the sole cause of poverty in our time and country. If it were, it should have been so in the time of the Middle Ages. Mr. George mistakes. The causes of the social welfare of those ‘dark’ ages are the same as I have enumerated above—the six social virtues: Faith and Charity amongst all; Justice and Piety amongst the rich; Patience and Meekness amongst the poor. With these six social virtues, which are the conservative forces of society, those ages were permeated as to all classes of people, as every one acquainted with the history of the Middle Ages should know. It was a time of lively faith combined with profound piety, as the splendid cathedrals and other church monuments, to which Mr. George refers, prove to this very day. And", springing from this, there was a strong sense of justice towards everybody, particularly the poor and laboring class, evidenced by innumerable works of charity, the shadows of which project into our time by the traditional existence of hospitals, asylums, hospices, and other institutions for the public welfare dating from the ‘dark’ ages. Those times were animated by the spirit of St. Francis of Assisi, who with his spiritual sons, the Franciscans, so vividly exemplified the six social virtues mentioned by St. Paul. And if our time does not return to these principles —to faith and charity, to justice and piety, to patience and meekness—society will crumble to pieces. Legislatures may help a great deal, but they, as well as governments, must be pervaded by this spirit, else the blind will be leading the blind, to the fatal detriment of both. Organizations are very useful, and nowadays, as an antidote, they are even necesssary; but they, too, must make these six virtues their platform of principles. Otherwise, instead of helping to solve the social question, they will help to dissolve society and hasten the social catastrophe feared by all, and even predicted by some.”	.	.	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
511
Personal.
—Mrs. and Miss Fisher, of Leadville, Col., were welcome visitors to the College last week.
—E. Coolan, of ’84, and Charles Thiele, of ’81, were recently promoted to Sacred Orders, at St. Francis Seminary, Wis.
—T. E. Steele, Esq., ’84, passed Easter at the College. Many friends were pleased to meet him and congratulate him upon his success as a rising young attorney of Columbus.
—A recent letter from Right Rev. Monsignor o	o
Straniero shows that distinguished prelate to be in Egypt on his way to Palestine. The latter part of May will see him again in Rome.
—Rev. D.J. Spillard, C. S. C., spent Easter in Watertown, Wis., where he took part in the ceremonies of Holy Week and Easter Sunday at St. Bernard’s, one of the largest and finest churches in the State.
—George Rhodius (Com’l), ’84, after visiting the principal cities of California, is now in Portland, Oregon, where he will remain a few days and then return eastward, stopping at all the places of note on his route.
—Mr. and Mrs. Martin Cummings, of Chicago, and Miss May McDonald, of Watertown, Wis., were among the welcome Easter visitors, and passed a few pleasant days at Notre Dame, the guests of Very Rev. Provincial Corby.
—Rev. N. Mooney,’77, delivered the Latin address to his Eminence Cardinal Gibbons on the occasion of the “ Polyglott Academia,” held on the 4th inst. by' the students’ of the American College, Rome, a notice of which appeared in the Scholastic of last week.
—The genial Director of the Tailoring Establishment, Bro. Augustus, C. S. C., spent a few days in Chicago during the week. He speaks in the most glowing terms of the successful condition of St. Columbkille’s School, under the direction of the Brothers of Holy Cross.	.
—In speaking of “a great temperance work” being done by Rev. M. F. Campion, ’66, of Logansport, Ind., by the establishment of adult and cadet Total Abstinence societies, the Sunday Critic says: “We wish the different Protestant churches in town had some such adjunct as this.”
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mrs. James O’Neill, New York; Mrs. Dr.Rowsey and Miss Rowsey, Miss Cooney, Toledo; Mrs. Mayer, Chicago; Mrs. Huiskamp, Ft. Madison, la.; Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Pender, Columbus, Ohio; J. Gray and J. G. Orr, Piqua, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Jas. Webster, Chicago; Col. W. McRae, Lockport, N. Y.; Mrs. J. Mainzer, Mrs. M. B. Bruggeman, St. Paul, Minn.; J. M. Du Shane, Connellsville, Pennsylvania.
—Frank Hegart, a prominent member of the Junior Class of ’86, and now a distinguished mining expert at Challis, Idaho, recently took part in
a literary entertainment, and received the following encomium from the press:
“The selection from the immortal bard, by Frank lle-gart, and the universal approbation with which it was received, and the congratulations extended to the young man upon his superb rendering of such a piece of literature, are proof positive of the appreciation of his talent and education.”
Local Items.
—Launch the boats!	.
—Where are the navigators?
—Our horticulturists are busy.
—Any news from the Punjaub?
—Mendelssohn Quintette Club to-night.
—The trees are donning their Spring garb.
—The conversaziones have been inaugurated.
—Two new recruits have joined—Don and Cart.
—We hope to hear soon again from our Easter choir.
—No lounging on the B. B. grounds when “ Sag” is around.
—Navigation opened Friday. Captains Gordon and O’Donnell mean business.
—Willie’s candy pants came to grief. Henry’s claws were too many for them.
—Cement walks between the college, presbytery and adjacent buildings would be things of beauty and utility.
—A new thirty-inch “ Peerless” cutter is one of the latest improvements introduced into the Printing Office.
—The grand dress parades of our local military * companies add greatly to the pleasure and interest of our “ rec ” days.
—A very interesting meeting of the Carnoy Biological Society was held in Science Hall on Thursday afternoon.
—It has been announced that all essays in competition for the prize medals should be handed in before the 15th of May.
—The credit of an “Ancient Classic Dramatic Revival” will be due to the Philopatrians. Over thirty young artists will appear.
—Our hunters brought in, as trophies, one large bird and twenty small ones. It was a very fine nest, indeed, that they captured! .	.
—“Midshipman Bob” is having an extensive sale in Europe and America. Every young man should procure it from Prof. Lyons.	.
—Through the kindness of Rev. President Walsh, the St. Cecilians will go on their annual suburban expedition early next week.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Mr. James Meehan, of Ludlow, Ky., for two valuable donations of fossils and petrifactions.
-—Among the new features in the Junior gymnasium is- the handsome rowing-machine kindly presented by Mrs. Dr. Rowsey, of Toledo, Ohio.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—In your intercourse with others, he sincere. It but too frequently happens that persons stultify and injure themselves by the insults they offer to the intelligence of their neighbor.
—Messrs. Adler Bros., South Bend, have the thanks of Military Companies “A” and “ B” for the grand medal offered as a prize, to be contested by the members in three competitive drills.
—The competitors for the grand Medal for Oratorv have entered their names.- The contest promises to he very close, and one of the most entertaining events of Commencement time.
—Our botanist reports that all the prominent •wild-flowers are now in bloom. It is worthy of note that they have appeared almost simultaneously and not “ processionally ” as in former years.
—The second nines, of the Junior department, have bought handsome baseball suits, and they are now determined to contest with their larger brothers of the first nines the honors of the “diamond.”
—Several of the Seniors indulged in a game of __________	o	o cricket Thursday afternoon. Many of the players showed themselves to be experts. Ashton says he ‘ knows to his cost that one at least is a hard hitter.
—Very Rev. Father General’-s Easter gift to the princes was a beautiful picture—la Vierge a la Chaise. The Very- Rev. donor has the sincere thanks of all at the “ palace” for the treasured gift.
—The Staff received only7 two (2) Easter eggs!! They7 came from an humble admirer, and were made all the more acceptable on account of the apparent neglect of would-be enthusiastic partisans.
—The Philopatrians devote the time of their meetings to the rendition of selections from the drama which they7 will present in about three weeks. The scenes of the aforesaid drama will be laid in Athens and not in Syracuse.
—The Baseball Banquet on Thursday7 evening was a recherche affair, and proved an unqualified success in the attainment of its object. The menu comprised all the delicacies of the season, gotten up in the most exquisite style.
—A crayon portrait of Very7 Rev. Father General, the work of Brother Albert, C. S. C;, is greatly7 admired by connoisseurs, who pronounce it a real ' work of art. It was kindly7 presented by the artist to the Minims, and it now graces the walls of St. Edward’s Hall.
—The commissioner’s wagon presented a very7 interesting sight last Saturday7 noon. It was loaded “chuck full” with boxes for the boys, and it required no little exercise of skill to unload. We are inclined to opine that the Easter festivities were not merely7 nominal.	-
—Bro. Frederick is doing excellent work on the fresco painting in the chapels of the new extension to the church. The ornamentations will be similar in design and finish to those in the nave, and, like . them, will form the framework of the beautiful series of paintings by Gregori.	.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1887 is another of the publications of the busy7 press connected with
the University7 of Notre Dame, Indiana. This is its twelfth year. Besides being an almanac, it gives a large Share of pleasant and useful prose and verse, under the editorship of Prof. J. A. Lyons.—Irish Monthly.
—The singing of the choir on Easter Sunday7 received unstinted praise from all who assisted at the High Mass on that day. The good voices of the members and excellent training of Prof. Paul were well displayed in the rendition of the harmonized Cecilian Macs and the music at the Offertory and Communion.
—The Band was out in delightful open-air music on Thursday last. We extend our greetings to the members, congratulating them on their good playing, and hoping to have the pleasure of frequent] v hearing them. The Band is a sine qua non. Every7 one admits that it imparts much life to the environments of this locality. Long may7 it wave!
—The second nines of the Senior department have ordered handsome baseball suits for the season. Twelve of the Notre Dame teams now appear in full regalia on game day7s. It is a novel and pleasing sight to stand on an elevation near the corner of the Gymnasium to witness twelve nines, all in costumes of red, blue, white, gray, etc., .engaged in our national game.
—At the meeting of the Lemonnier Boat Club, held on Tuesday7 evening, the following officers were elected: Rev.T. E.Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. M.J.Regan,C.S.C., President; B.T. Becker, Treasurer; G. H. Craig, Recording Secretary; L. Bolton, Corresponding Secretary. Messrs. Houck, Gibbs, Fehr, Nelson, and McNally were admitted to membership. The election of a Commodore was postponed until the next meeting.
—The arms have been received. QuartermasterGeneral Shepherd shipped last week to Col. Hoynes 25 Sharp’s rifles, with bayonets, belts, and other necessary7 accoutrements. They came on Monday, and were promptly7 distributed. As Co. “A,” commanded by7 Capt. Cusack, was fairly supplied, most of the new guns went to Co. “ B,” Capt. Craig commanding. The two companies now have 125 Sharp’s rifles on hand, and are ready7 to settle the “Fishery7 Question,” or any7 other international difficulty.
'—“The Giants,” a picked nine from the baseballists of the Seniors, who felt slighted on being left out in the cold last week, organized a strong team, and sent a challenge to the Minims expressing the desire that championship be settled between these rivals in a series of games. The series was begun with an exciting game last Monday. Both sides displayed enthusiasm, and from the word “play” distinguished themselves, contesting hotly the issue till the finish. The Minims won by7 a score of 27 to 23.
—Without doubt the handsomest specimens of binding in the.library are the magnificent volumes which have just arrived from Archbishop Riordan. All the works are bound in the finest tree-calf, elegantly tooled and gilt edged. When His Grace
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	513
of San Francisco honors Notre Dame with a gift, O 1 he always sends a royal one. Another fine specimen of printing and binding has been presented-to the ecclesiastical museum by Mr. Nealon, of Boston, in the form of a Dominican breviary from the famous establishment of Desclee, Lefebvre et Cie.
—The Baseball Sociable, Thursday evening, was financially and socially a decided success. Among the guests we noticed the President of the University, many members of the Faculty, Mrs. Dr. Ro wsey and Miss Ro wsey, of Toledo; Miss Cooney of the same city; Mrs. James O’Neil, of New York; Mrs. Pender, of Columbus, and Mrs. Hertford, of Washington. The Crescent Club Orchestra, with the assistance’of Professor Paul, presented a choice programme of music, and ices and other delicacies were gracefully served by Messrs. Jewett, Ashton, Fehr, and Hull.
—At the 23d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, held Wednesday evening April 13, Master W. Clifford read a well-written criticism on the previous meeting. Essays were read by W. McKenzie, W. Welch, W. Boland, M. Reynolds and J. McGurk. Master Fisher appeared to good advantage in a humorous recitation. Master F. Long presented an entertaining- paper on “ Life in Africa.” In the last report the name of T. Goebel, who presented the best essay of the year, was unintentionally omitted. Master Vhay was elected Historian, and Master G. Tarrant was appointed Clerk of the Moot-court.
—As previously announced, a grand concert will be given in Washington Hall by the Mendelssohn Quintette Club, of Boston, this (Saturday) afternoon, at four o’clock. The following is the
PROGRAMME :
1.	Overture to “The Poet and Peasant”.....-..Snppe
2.	Fantasia for Flute—“The Swiss Boy”........Boehm
Mr. William Shade.
3.	Quartette in G, Op. iS, No 2..........Beethoven
4.	Fantasia for Violin—“ Mignon ”.........Sarasate
Mr. John Harguardt.
5.	“ Chant du Soir ”—Melody for Clarinette..Flamm
Mr. Thomas Ryan.
6.	L’Angel us.................................Liszt
(Composed for Quintette of Strings.)
7.	“ Sherzo Hollandais ”—Solo for Violoncello.... Dtinkler Mr. Louis Blumenberg.
S. “ Tema con Variazione”...................Mozart
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Precious, mitre, richly embroidered with gold and profusely studded with gems of various colors, used by Rt. Rev. Mgr.. Hendricken, first Bishop of Providence, R. I., presented by Very Rev. Father Stang. Jewelled mitre used by Rt. Rev. Bishop Toebbe, presented by B. Francois. Likeness of Bishop Ludden, of Syracuse; engraving of Bishop Scanlon, of Salt Lake, presented by H. Morse. Souvenir of Archbishop Marechal, presented by Sister Mary of St. Francis. Autograph of Bishop Lavialle, presented by J. Donnovan. Nineteen pages of interesting manuscript from the pen of the first Bishop of Marysville, presented by Mrs. M. O’Connell. Engraving of Bishop Dubois; autograph letters of Bishop Fenwick, of Boston, Bishop Mrak, of Mar
quette, and Bishop O’Reilly, of Hartford, presented by Mr. Stephen Tuigg. Sacred fillets of linen and white silk used in the consecration of Rt. Rev. Bishop Fink-; gold mitre and embroidered sandals used by the Arch-Abbot of the Benedictines; photograph showing the, principal buildings of St. Vincent’s Abbey; autograph letter of Rt. Rev. Boniface Wimmer, O. S. B., presented bv Very Rev. Prior Hof may r. Photograph of Rt. Rev. Bishop Conroy, presented by Mr. Thos. Martin. Five autograph letters written by the second Bishop of Detroit, presented by R. J.
—A meeting of the Microscopical Society was held Thursday afternoon in the Biological Laboratory. Rev. Father Kirsch opened the session with an exhaustive explanation of the construction and uses of the large compound microscope with its accessory appurtenances. He made an especially detailed demonstration with the aid of drawings by himself, of the Abbe condenser. The parabolic condenser in Father Kirsch’s possession is the second of its kind in the United States—the Microscopical Society of Baltimore having the other. This appliance, the invention of Prof. Abbe, of Jena, has an immense condensing power, and serves the desired purpose to perfection. At the conclusion of Father Kirsch’s discourse, a paper was read bv H. D. Hull on “Protoplasmic Movement” (cellular) ; illustrations from the stamen and leaf cilia and trichomes of “ Tradescantia Virginica” were produced in enlargement by F. Long for more practical and clearer demonstration. The subject of this communication will be further developed at -the next session. T. Flood next read an account of the observations he had made of the growth of the yeast plant, its fermentative products, etc. A set of drawings by Mr. Flood himself enabled him to very prettily and exactly set forth the modes of cellular reproduction in this interesting, common, and but slightly known plant. The presence of Rev. Fathers Walsh and Zahm with Father Regan and Signor Gregori gave stimulus to the desire of its members to make the society “boom.”
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Archambeault, M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Beckwith, Becerra, P. Burke, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Barrett, Burns, Brown, Colma, Crane, J. Crowley, W Crowley, Cusack, W. Cartier, Craft, Cassidy, S. Dorsey, Dreever, Dickenson, Duffin, Dempsey, Eyanson, Finckh, Ford, Fehr, Fry, Gallardo, Gibbs, Griffin, Houck, Hummer, Hagerty, Henrv, Judie, W. Jeffs, E. Jeffs, Kelly, Kreutzer, Kleiber, Kings-north, Kramer, Lally, Ley, Langan, Lyons, Leonard, W. Luhn,rMcManus, McKeon, J. McDermott, T. McDermott, Marx, McFarland, V. Morrison, McNamara, Myers, McNally Neill, Nelson, Nester, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nic-holl, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Kane, L. O’Malley, Orr, O’Donnell, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Quill, Ryan, Rhein-berger, Rothert, Rodriguez, Rochford, Suing, W. Sullivan, F. Smith, Wilson, Weber, Wagoner, W. Williams, W. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger. Austin, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Badger, Bunker, Bull, W.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boland, Baca, Benner, II. Boland, Burns, Black, Bruce, Brannech, Burts, S. Campbell, J. Clarke, Cooney, Coad, F. Chute, L. Chute, Curtis, G. Cooke, Carney, Cleveland, Cavanagh, Cliftbrd, Casey, Duffield, Dunning, Daniels, Devine, Draper, Dempsey, Dunford, Fitzharris, Falter, Flood, Fisher, Flynn, Freeman, Galarneau, Goebel, Glenn, Girten, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hart, T. Hake, A. Hake, Henry, Hannin, Hayes,* Hove, Handly, HeUbord H. Higgins, Heller, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jacobs, Julian, Johns, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Kern, Kutsche, Keating, Kinsella, King, Long, Lane, McKenzie, McCart, Monarch, W. McCormick, McGurk, McIntosh, McPhee, Mulberger, Moncada, Morrison, Meehan, Mitchell, McGuire, McCabe, McCambridge, Nations, Nussbaum, O’Connor, Ormond, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, O’Shea, O’Hearn, Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, Preston, Quealey, Roper, Redlich, Reynolds, Riedinger, Rea, Sweet, B. Stephens, F. Smith, M. Smith, Sullivan, Taliaferro, Tivnen, Tedeus, Vhay, Warner, Wilbanks, H. White, L. "White, Walker, Welch, Walsh, Wade, Wilkin, Wageman, Weiner, Wile, Gray, Circoschi.
MIXIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Boettcher, Bloomhufij Boyd, Black, Blumenthal, A. Backrack, S. Backrack, H. Backrack, Clendenin, Crotty, Cooke, Cohn, C. Connor, W. Connor, J. Conners, E. Conners, Corbett, Dahler, Doss, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan. F. Davidson, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, Foote, T. Fairey, F. Fairey E. Fal-vey, Graham, Gale, Grant, Griffin, Goldmann, Garrabrant, Garber, H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, Haney, Hagus, Hillas, Jewett, Koester, Kutsche, Keefe, Kane, Klaner, Kerwin, Kraber, H. Kinsella, Lowenstein, C. Mooney, Martin, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, Munro, Mainzer, Mahon, A. Mason, Morgenweck, McPhee, McDonnell, McIntosh, McGuire, Nester, O’Mara, O’Donnell, O’Neill, Priestly, L. Paul, Quill, Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Silver, Smith, A. Sullivan, J. Sullivan, F. Sullivan, Stone, Sweet, Savage, F. Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, Triplett, Taft, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Witkowsky, Walsh, Ziemann.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. Wagoner, J. Kleiber, E. Dwyer, S. Craft, P. Brownson, G. Craig, P. Burke, C. Stubbs, A. Finckh, V. Baca, C. Rheinberger, V. Morrison, C. Neill, A. Larkin, L. Dorsey, W. Cartier, II. Rothert, W. O’Connell, M. Mulkern, C. Hagerty, G. Houck, C. West, R. Newton, C. Cooper, G. Myers, E. Ewing, T. Goebel, L Chute, M. Falter, C. Vhay, J. Fisher, E. Adelsperger, F. Long, W. McPhee, M. Morrison, P. Darragh, P. Paschel, P. Nelson, T. McDermott, II. Prichard, J. Cusack, H. Long, J. Burns, F. Griffith, W. Henry, D. Barrett.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
collegiate course.	.
Moral Philosophy—J. Kleiber; Logic—M. Mulkern, II. Rothert; Latin—J. Wagoner, P. Brownson, T. Goebel, C. Neill, M. Falter; Greek—P. Brownson, J. Burns, M. Falter; Civil Engineering—H. Rothert, W. Cartier; Calculus —C. Hagerty, G. Houck, E. Ewing; Surveying—C. Hagerty; Trigonometry—P. Paschel, J. Meagher; Geometry— C. West, W. Morrison, M. Falter, E. Adelsperger, C. Shields; Algebra—C. Neill, W. McPhee, W. Reynolds, J. Fisher, F. Long, O. Sullivan, H. Prichard, J. Adams, S. Nussbaum; Literary Criticism—C. Neill; American Liter-ature—NL. Falter; Rhetoric—T. O’Regan, W. McPhee, A. Gibbs; Composition—J. Hayes, W. Clifford; History—F.
McDermott, M. Falter, Meehan, F. Prichard, S. Nussbaum, J. Langan, E. Darragh; Botany—II. Hull; Zoology —M. Falter; Geology—E. Dwyer, M. Mulkern; Ancient History—C- West, F. Long.
Catholic Schools ano Public Schools.
Brother Fulton has begun his campaign against the Pope by attacking the Roman Catholic schools before a committee of the Senate at Albany. Pie says that the Catholic teachings wholly unfit children for future American citizenship.
Therein he disagrees with distinguished Protestant theologians. In the last article ever written by the late Rev. Archibald Alexander Hodge, one of the most profound theologians of the Presbyterian Church, he took the broad ground that Catholies and Protestants alike have “a common essential Christianity, abundantly sufficient for the purposes of the public schools.” “ Webelieve,” proceeded Dr. Pledge, “in God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, in Plis fatherly providence and love. We believe in the same divine-human Saviour, and place alike all our hopes of salvation on His office and work as mediator. We believe in the infallibility .and authority of the inspired word of God, and we nearly approximate agreement on all questions touching the Sabbath, the oath, the rights of property, marriage and divorce, etc., and with regard to the religious elements of science, physical and moral, and on all questions in which the State or the schools of the State have jurisdiction?’
Dr. Pledge went further, and said that the testimony seemed to show that Catholics were nearer than Protestants to the true position with reference to religion in the public schools, the subject of his important paper in the Nezu Princeton Re-viezv for January. Thereupon he quoted from the Rev. Dr. Jenkins, a Presbyterian minister, the opinion, formed after a careful examination of a series of school-books used in the Catholic schools, that “they are truer to the ideal of our fathers [the Puritans] than any set of books I know to be in use in the State schools of America. Their Readers,” proceeded Dr. Jenkins, “present a truer and juster view of the state of literature in America today than can be gotten from the books in use in the public schools. Their ‘ History of the United States,’ not seeking to ignore all those spiritual factors which gave shape and power to the past, is a far more complete exhibition of the formative elements in the national life than that taught under the patronage of the State.”
“ In view of the entire situation,” concluded Dr. Hodge, “shall we not all, of us who really believe in God, give thanks to Him that Pie has preserved the Roman Catholic Church in America to-day true to that theory of education upon which our fathers founded the public schools of the Nation, and from which they have been so madly perverted ? ”
Yet Brother Fulton goes before a Senate committee to denounce the Catholic schools as furnishing an education which unfits children for future American citizenship!—N. T\ Sun.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Jftary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Juniors are zealously preparing “New Arts,” which they will present next week.
—A pleasure ride to St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend,was afforded the Graduates on Easter Monday.
—The offering of the Minims at Easter for dear Mother Angela was the providing a Mass for her precious soul.
—Work on the beautiful new church is rapidly progressing, and every day adds some new feature to its prospective perfection.
—The first Easter card received at St. Mary’s was a very beautiful one presented to a little Junior, Miss Margaret Geer, by Father General.
—Mrs. Gregori and Miss Lillie Van Horn secured Masses for St. Mary’s beloved little music teacher, Sister Mary of St. Cecilia, on the second anniversary of her death—Thursday, the 14th inst.
—Miss Sophie Papin, of St. Louis, Miss Clara Richmond, of Elliott, Ill., former dear pupils of St. Mary’s, and Miss Linda Fox, Class ’83, sent loving messages of condolence on the loss of St. Mary’s in the sad death of Mother Mary of St. Angela.
—Carnations, lilies, and Marechal Niel roses, to say nothing of the numerous other lovely flowers on the altar at Easter, were wonderful in their luxuriant profusion this year—fitting types of the new and glorious immortality promised to the faithful in the mystery we are now commemorating.
— Touching letters respecting dear Mother Angela arrived on Sunday—one from Rev. Father Schmidt, the former pastor of Lancaster, Ohio, who is now at Baden-Baden, Germany, and one from Sister Mary Joseph Baget, of the Convent of the Presentation nuns, Clonmel, Ireland.
—The decorations of the repository on Holy Thursday were exquisitely beautiful. The High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father General. On Good Friday, Holy Saturday and Easter Sunday, the ceremonies were conducted by Very Rev. Father Corby. On Easter Sunday, he sang High Mass and preached a magnificent sermon on the Resurrection of Our Lord. The choir entered thoroughly into the joyful spirit of the festival, and the soul-inspiring voices thrilled the listeners like the anthems of heaven.
“Blessed are They Who Mourn, for They shall be Comforted.” .
“ Our hearts are full of angels When they are full of sorrows,” And the angels and the sorrows Loving messengers of God— Our strongest, purest, human love Diviner graces borrows,
From the pity that we feel for those Who are bending ’neath His rod.
Who hath never known deep sorrow
Hath never felt deep sweetness,—	’
The strange delight they only know
Who closely clasp the cross;
And that life hath missed its measure,
And that soul lacks true completeness That hath not learned what heavenly gain Lies hid in earthly loss.
“ Our hearts are full of angels
When they are full of sorrows; ” We may hear, if we will listen, The fluttering of their wings, And their glad chants of thanksgiving
For the coming of the morrow, With the peace of soul and heavenly strength
That patient suffering brings.
They throng—the radiant angels—
Where we kneel in desolation,
Beside the dreary new-made graves, Where our best-beloved sleep;
But holier Voice than angel voice
Speaks words of consolation, And sayeth to the mourning soul: “ Blessed are they who weep.”
And closely to His Sacred Heart
His wounded hands are holding, With gentlest, kindest pressure
The drooping, weary head,
While He (who wept at Lazarus’ tomb),
That pierced Heart’s love unfolding, Fulfils His tender promise— “ They shall be comforted.”	‘
Joy hath its blessed work to do, But sorrow’s ministrations
Are more divine, because they lift
The soul to heights above:
Te Dettm ends its glorious strains
In humblest supplications;
But—De Prof undis endeth In the confidence of love.
R. V. R.
Systematic Knowledge alone Available.
The nearer the condition of our mortal existence approaches to the harmony of the brighter world towards which our hopes aspire, the greater contentment and happiness we experience. On the other hand, the farther we are removed in our surroundings from the order which is Heaven’s first law, the more irreconciled are we to the disappointments and pains to which we are here subjected. Tranquil waters reflect the azure sky, and the xvell-ordered life is the epitome of heaven.
As when the sun has disappeared from the western horizon at eventide, the sky still glows with, the purple and gold that marked the track whereon the radiant king of Day had departed in his splendor, so back on this fallen world the color and bloom of Eden still lingers, and the vast realms of Nature respond to the first law of Heaven. .. It is true that one who would make the study of Na
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
ture tributary to the happiness of the world must respect this law. Superficial and desultory information amounts to very little. We think of the ostentatious, would-be-scholars, in the times mentioned by Vaughan in the life of St. Thomas of Aquin; servants were hired to carry large volumes through the streets to and from the university, while the pretentious scholar would strut behind that people might suppose him to be something wonderful in learning, because he had been attending the lectures. He wished to appear great, though he would not take the trouble to be so. The true scholar is not pretentious. Knowing how vast the labyrinths of science, and how close the study must be to make him an adept in even one, he is modest when it comes to the question of many, and though a life-time be devoted to them, he has only found out how little, not how much he knows. In contemplating the most insignificant as well as the most sublime of Nature’s productions, we see that perfection of parts, harmony and symmetry prevail. From homely life, take the honey-comb, or the spider’s web. What geometrician could adjust the parts of either with a more accurate precision? Fragile as is the material with which the diminutive creatures construct their work, the bee and the spider keep the just proportions; the one in his waxen castle, and the other in his aerial tapestry; and in the most stupendous works of physical creation, nothing could exceed the unbroken order of the heavenly bodies revolving in their orbits.
There is not a science which does not impress the same truth. In fact, what is science without the systematic arrangement of facts and principles which the very word implies? It is little more than a mere chaos of useless knowledge, the possessor of which is often not always the safest member of society; for how often is it demonstrated that “ A little learning is a dangerous thing.” In the history of unhappy outbreaks against social order, we may generally trace the disaster to some active, but ill-disciplined mind, which has fomented the discord. Learning, united to a tranquil, humble disposition, produces results quite contrary. Order brings harmony: its absence brings confusion.
But, admire as we may the regularity of Nature’s wonderful phenomena, there is something which concerns our happiness even more intimately than the knowledge of them, and that is the acquirement of those habits of order which made so many thrifty, happy homes in the days of old, and which was far more to their possessors than would have been all the wealth hidden away in the mountains west of the Mississippi, more even than the combined knowledge of all the learned men that have ever lived. Practical, systematic knowledge alone is permanently useful.
Why does the sun rise and set at regular intervals, but to remind; us of the great law in question ? Why are the clock and the watch so necessary in the domestic economy ? Because we must measure the time, and time is money—or better.
To remedy the disorders and to tranquilize the inequalities of dispositions, nothing is so power-
ful as order; nor is there anything which so readily communicates itself among the young as habits of order. This is what constitutes the charm of Convent boarding schools. Orderly habits are required. It may sometimes be irksome to keep the rules, and to observe the accepted codes of good behavior, but the temporary inconvenience will be more than repaid by the advantages derived from their constant practice.
The few suggestions we have cited are enough to demonstrate the fact that in great thing’s, as well O	O'
as little, systematic knowledge alone is available.
Ada Shephard ( Class ’<?/).
Mother Angela.
—Obit. Friday, March 4, 11 a. m. On Friday, one brief hour before the noon,
The lowly Nazarene, with thorn-crowned head,
Wan, weak, blood-bruised by cruel blows, was led From Pilate’s halls to Calvary: eftsoon The Lord was crucified. For that rich boon,
The life He gave us, countless saints have shed
Warm, grateful tears, and countless lives have sped In sacrifice:—such, not inopportune, The life thou gavest to Christ’s sacred cause,
Sweet Mother Axgela, whose saintly tread,
Obedient as the sea-tides to the moon, Sought God through life, nor swerved from Heaven’s laws. —Angels were near when thy bright spirit fled
On Friday, one brief hour before the noon.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF ACADEMIC RULES. ---------------------------
‘	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Blair, Bub, Bates, Blacklock, Beschamang, Clendenen, E. Coll, Claggett, Dillon, A. Duffield, M. Duffield, C. Dempsey, H. Dempsey, Dart, Dunkin, Egan, Ewing, Fuller, Foin, Faxon, Flannery, Griffith, Guise, Gordon, Gavan, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Hertzog, Harlem, Henke, L. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, Hawkins, Johnson, Kearscy, Kearney, Kearns, Kennedy, M. F. Murphy, McHale, M. Meehan, L. Meehan, Miner, Murphy, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, McCormic, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, O’Conner, Negley, Neff, Pierson, Proby, Quealy, G. Regan, Riedinger, Rend, E. Regan, Shephard, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, R. Smith, M. Smith, Stafford, Stocksdale, Sullivan, Sweet, Trask, Triplett, Thompson, Van' Horn, Williams, Wolvin, Wehr, Wimmer, Weishart, Wright, Zahm.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence— Misses Boyer, Bragdon, Bruus, Blaine, F. Burdick, Bridgeman, Beaubien, Campbell, Campeau, Crane, M. Coll, E. Dempsey, Fritz, K. Fisher, J. Fisher, Griffith, Geer, Huntting, Hake, Hinz, Hull, Hughes, Kendall, Koester, Knauer, Lindsey, McDonnell, McEwen, G. Meehan, Mercer, Mason, E. Nester, Prudhomme, Quill, Stiefel, Schmauss, Stapleton, Wiesenbach.
.	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Pay Excellence^iiAS^s, I. Becker, M. Becker, Caddagan, 'McCormic, O’Mara, Pusgley, Quealy, Wallace.