

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

news 04 
6 News Stories of the Year 
Scholastic Staff 
Get up-to-date on campus happenings with a review ofthe top news stories of the 2007-2008 school year. 

1 O Faces to Remember 
Christopher Meskill & David Poell 
Take a sneak-peek at the campus celebrities that you should know. 
14 culture 

1 5 Perfect Strangers 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic slims down the spectrum of roommate relations into three basic 
categories -"kindred spirits," "I'm OK, you're OK," and "it wasn't meant to be." 
1 6 Home, Sweet Home 
Peter Hadley & Jessica Farmwald An overview ofyour future home -the residence halls and their traditions. 

24 Clubbing at Notre Dame 
Michael O'Connor 
A sampling of the opportunities -from service to athletics -available to help you do more than just homework. 

38 Is there anything to do around here? 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
From live music to films and plays to art, literature and beyond, Notre Dame is alive and thriving with fun. 


s orts 34 
34 Sports Stories of the Year 
Scholastic Staff 
Read up on the most newsworthy stories in Irish athletics during the 2007-2008 school year. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 



EDNOTES 
FROM THE DESK OF THE EDITOR 
FROM HOME TO DOME 
Welcome, class of2012, and congratulations on an excellent choice of where to spend the next four years ofyour life. 
Odds are, you'll be surprised by how soon you make your mother cry when you call your dorm "home" on the phone. Making the transition from everything you've known for the past 18 years can be intimidating, however, especially coming to a place as steeped in tradition as Notre Dame. That's why we've created this issue of Scholastic specifically to prepare you to make yourself a part ofthis unique community. Spend some time learning the Alma Mater on page 5 so as not to embarrass yourself at the end ofthe first home football game. Catch up on the biggest news stories of the past year on pages 6-7. And memorizing the Irish lingo on page 9 is a must in order to make your way around campus. 
You'll also be amazed by how quickly you get to know your new college friends. After eating, studying, partying and living together 24/7, by fall break, you'll feel like you've been best friends for years, not months. 
Even ifyou don't fall into a close group offriends in your dorm right away, don't stress -there are plenty offish in the Notre Dame sea. Get out and get involved. Join Swing Club, or any of the other groups outlined on pages 24-26. Go on a 
Campus Ministry retreat. Pick up a couple of shifts at Reckers. Even better, join 
the staff of the Scholastic, a biweekly publication bringing intelligent and insightful 
campus news to the masses since 1867! (A little self-promotion never hurts. Contact us at scholast@nd.edu for more information! We're lots of fun.) 
Especially first semester freshman year, everyone is looking to make friends. All you 
have to do is make yourself available. Stop Facebook-stalking that cutie from Intro 
to Philosophy long enough to go cheer on the soccer team (unless, of course, he/she 
plays soccer -then you're just being creepy). 
Finally, don't get stuck in a rut. It's easy to fall into the habit of always eating in 
the same spot in SDH, spending every Friday night in the same room in Dillon, 
studying in the same cubicle in the Hesburgh Library, etc. But you'll have a much 
better experience ifyou branch out and really_explore all that Notre Dame has to 
offer. Make a lunch date with your friend from FYC for some international cuisine 
at Greenfields in the Hesburgh Center. Take in a c;oncert at the DPAC. Try writing your next paper in the library in Bond Hall or Fitzpatrick. 
Get excited -you're in for an incredible ride. We're so glad to have you. 
See you in the fall, 

Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

Corby .Night 


Men ofthe class of2012 ... Is God calling you? Jo.in us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a pri~st or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 

Wednesday, Sept. 1 7, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 
, Questions? call 1-6385 
Why Notre Dame? 
A primer on Our Lady's University 

Notre Dame is a unique place. It is in the middle of nowhere and seemingly archaic with· its single-sex dorms, parietals and unyielding Catholic identity. Yet, the vast majority ofalums speak so positively about their alma mater, not to mention the donations they pour in. Many employers gush at the prospect of hiring Notre Dame students. So what is it about Notre Dame that makes it so special? Notre Dame is technically a university, but it's more than just that. It is a place that strives to fulfill its goal to educate, not just the mind, but also the body and spirit. Although this aim may seem a bit lofty, if you let the university shape you, you will find yourself growing in more ways than just intellectually. Your four years under the Dome will give you the ultimate college experience. There is no other place that offers the combination oftop-notch academics, high-profile athletics, stellar Campus Ministry programs (and not just for Catholics), a gorgeous campus and a tight-knit community that feels like family. You'll find that Notre Dame is a demanding place. There will be plenty ofparties and SYRs to attend, as well as more interhall sports opportunities than you can imagine. However, there will also be presentations to prepare for, 10-page papers to turn in and some bickering with professors over your final grade. During the fall, you'll find that postponing your school work until the weekend will become a pointless exercise. Notre Dame football weekends will consume your life, period. There are so many things to do, but seemingly so little time to do it all. Life at Notre Dam~ may be overwhelming at times, but think ofit as an opportunity to sharpen your time management skills. Think of it as a place that tests your ability to have the boldness to say "no" in the right situations. If attending Notre Dame isn't exactly your dream come true, think of what a Notre Dame education can provide for you. As an 1,mdergraduate, you might not be able to see the bigger picture ofwhere your education will take you, but trust us -a Notre Dame degree will prepare you for the real world. We live in a society that is driven by success, one that tempts many students to choose majors they think will lead to a big paycheck. But it is essential that you study what you care about. It is true that picking the right major can be difficult, especially given all of the available options. Still, college is a place where you will learn how to think, write and read critically, as well as where you will receive a holistic sense of the vast span of opportunities that are available to you. Choose a major that will fulfill you intellectually, and the rest will take care ofitself. Look at Head Football Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78). How many football coaches do you know that majored in speech and drama? Take advantage ofNotre Dame. You'll be surprised how much it has to offer. Get to know your professors. They don't bite and can be valuable resources. Study hard, but don't let it deter you from getting out of the library to experience campus events and meet lifelong friends. Enjoy the traditions, and don't take anything for granted, because it all will go by faster than you think. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 


Fight Song & Alrna Mater 
The essential songs for life under the Dome 
Scholastic Staff 
Many incoming freshmen have the luxury of already having the Fight Song and the Alma Mater ingrained in their minds since birth. But for many freshmen, the first time they hear these songs will be during their first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an introduction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2012, you'll know as well as your own name. 
"Notre Dame Victory March" (The Fight Song) 
Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates -brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a monogram winner in baseball -in 1908. It was first performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her glory and sound her fame,  
Raise her Gold and Blue  Chorus:  
And cheer with voices true:  Cheer, cheerfor old Notre Dame,  
Rah, rah! for Notre Dame  Wake up the echoes cheering her name,  
We will fight in ev'ry game,  Send a volley cheer on high,  
Strong ofheart and true to her name  Shake down the thunder from the sky.  
We will ne'er forget her  What though the odds be great or small  
And will cheer her ever  Old Notre Dame will win over all,  
Loyal to Notre Dame.  While her loyal sons go marching  
Onward to victory.  
"Notre Dame, Our Mother"  
(The Alma Mater)  

The Notre Dame Alma Mater is performed at the end of every football game at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. It was composed in 1930 by Joseph 
J. Casasanta, a 1923 ND graduate, in honor of the dedication of Notre Dame Stadium -the House that Rockne Built. The lyrics were written by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., a 1906 graduate and ND's president from 1928-1934. 
Notre Dame, our Mothe1; Tende1; strong and true, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame; And our heartsforever, Love thee, Notre Dame! 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

Molly Slavin 
While most freshmen have probably been to Notre Dame at least once before the first day of their freshman year, arriving for Frosh-O weekend may surprise even those who have come to football games since they were in diapers. The 2007-2008 school year saw huge changes in the physical layout of Notre Dame's campus. Dubbed the "Campus Master Plan," it is the university's strategy for adding to the already expansive campus of Our Lady's university. Begun in 2002, the Campus Master Plan includes such recently opened buildings as the Jordan Hall of Science and the DeBar­tolo Performing Arts Center. However, this ambitious plan does not stop with what has already been created-in the works to open for the 2008-2009 school year are Duncan Hall and an expanded Notre Dame Law School. Duncan Hall is soon to become the 28th 
dorm on Notre Dame's campus. Built for male students, it is expected to house 153 transfer upperclassman and 79 first year stu­dents for the 2008-2009 school year, with an overall capacity of 234 students. The three­story building is located on West Quad, right next to McGlinn Hall. The dorm will not only have air conditioning and an eleva­tor (already a source of jealousy for many students living in older dorms) but a social lounge, a study area, a kitchen and vending machines in each of the dorm's six sections.­Duncan Hall is the first of four new dorms Notre Dame intends to build over the next ten years. The new dorms will ease the on­campus housing crunch, and the university hopes to retain more juniors and seniors in on-campus accommodations by providing more living options for them. 
The Notre Dame Law School is currently undergoing an enormous expansion, thanks to donor and trustee Robert F. Biolchini, who alone made a donation of $15 million. 
The building, which will be renamed Biol­chini Hall, will include a massively extended Kresge L:i,w Library, new classrooms, offices and new space for the Notre Dame Law Review. The new building will expand from its current place on South Quad all the way across DeBartolo Quad, with an arch in the middle to accommodate pedestrian traffic. 
The campus expansion plan will continue beyond these two buildings to include more projects like aJACC expansion, a new science learning center and the aforementioned new residence halls. The class of 2012, however, will be the first freshman class to have these two completed buildings on campus for their entire undergraduate experience. And as for the upperclassmen, we'll welcome the end ofthe construction that blocked our path to DeBartolo Hall and enjoy seeing what else springs up before our time at Notre Dame comes to a close. 0 
ScholasticNews Jg_·············· 


Party Permit Ordinance 
Jessica Farmwald 
I and brought to the forefront the negativen the summer of 2007, the South Bend feelings that some South Bend community Common Council proposed a party members have toward the university and 
permit ordinance that threatened to curb 
its students. In her e-mails to the student the wild-partying ways of the 20% ofNotre body, Brown asked off-campus students to Dame students who live off campus each year. be respectful towards their neighbors. In In early forms, the proposal mandated that September, the Community Campus Action anyone living in houses with two or more Coalition (CCAC) was formed in order to be a forum for discussion ofcampus-community
unrelated residents would have to apply for relations. The CCAC includes students and 
a permit 10 days in advance if they were administrators from Notre Dame, Holy
planning to host a party in which 25 or more 
Cross College, Saint Mary's College andpeople would have access to alcohol. 
Indiana University South Bend as well as
Then-Student Body President Liz Brown 
South Bend city representatives. 
and then-Vice President Maris Braun caught 
At the CCAC's first meeting in February
wind of the proposal. They spent the last 
of 2008, several council members noted a
month of the summer attending Common 
decrease in the number of complaints due
Council meetings and working with South 
to loud student parties. The CC.AC hopes 
Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke and other city 
to maintain this trend by continuing to
officials to combat the ordinance that they 
foster dialogue between students and their
felt unfairly targeted Notre Dame students. 
neighbors. Also, current Student Body Presi­
Because most students were not in the 
dent Bob Reish and Vice President Grant
South Bend area for the summer, Brown sent 
Schmidt's platform includes five different
e-mails to the entire student body to keep 
initiatives specifically aimed at improving
everyone up to speed on the issue A Face book 
community relations. 0group created in opposition to the ordinance grew to over 2,300 members. 
The ordinance was eventually defeated in the early fall of 2007. All of the drama only highlighted the tension between Notre Dame students and their neighbors, however, 

Silver Anniversary of the CSC 
Vanessa Adjei 
University of Notre Dame facilitates com­students with a means to give input on munity-based learning, research and service the activities of the CSC. Applicants forThe Center for Social Concerns (CSC), founded in 1983, celebrated its 25th 
informed by Catholic Social Tradition. VOICE are selected by existing membersanniversary this year. The CSC adds to Through the Center, learning becomes of the advisory board. 
the character ofservice at the University of 
service to justice." The CSC is currently under construction. 
Notre Dame. Through programs spanning 
· The CSC is Notre Dame's service and The new building will also include the Insti­the university's curriculum, the CSC works 
community-based learning center. The tute ofChurch Life, currently located in the to bridge the gap between students and the Center is involved with the South Bend Hesburgh Library. The building will be four wider Church community, thus, expanding community through relationships with stories with a· chapel, student library and the opportunities for students to participate about 50 local organizations. Notre Dame coffee house. Itwill reclaim its location near 
in their community by promoting social undergraduates have the opportunity to Hesburgh Library. 0 take community-based learning courses.
consciousness. The CSC facilitates the placement of these
The anniversary celebration featured a 
students with various organizations that·
theme of "solidarity." This focus demon­
are in need of assistance. Also, it provides
strated a commitment to promoting the 
similar services through community-based
common good on Notre Dame's campus and 
research for local organizations. There
throughout the world. Mass was held at the 
are also non-curricular based service pro­~ 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart, and a lecture z 
grams.
was delivered by Archbishop Diarmuid () 
~
Notre Dame students are involved with 
Martin of Dublin, Ireland. 
::S
the CSC. VOICE is the student advisory 0
According to its mission statement, 
bo~rd for the Center. VOICE provides I 
"The Center for Social Concerns of the Cf) () 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 7 ••....... 

I
I~ 
I 

, • c;" , ~' S' , ~' .... ". ·' ': -:-, ' "' •'.i. CJ_,-;
~~r-=rr:.~.....-·--==·-,,-~'-"'"'=~-~~---,---,,= ~'= >~~~~~,..-~~~~ 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 


STUDENTS 
Meet student members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Core Council for Gay & Lesbian Students · Welcomes the Class of 2012 
We members of the Core Council are administrators and gay and lesbian students who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian and bisexual issues, the Core Council strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame a place that accepts and prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 

Visit our web site at corecouncil.nd.edu 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students also sponsors: 
• 
Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo 

• 
Green Room 


•. • Solidarity Sunday 
• 
Community 

• 
NETWORK Sessions 

• 
StaND Against Hate Week e Day ofSilence 



ScholasticNews G: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

Learn Your Irish Vocabulary 
Michael O'Connor 
AnTosl:al: The Celtic festival of spring; a 
SYR: Officially called a "theme dance," weeklong celebration hosted by the Student "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from Union Board with fun events for students. the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook. 
Pariel:als: Dorm visiting hours that
Bengaf Boul:s;. Annual. student-run_ permit members of the opposite sex to bC>xing tour11-amep.t .that benefits ch~rity,. 
be present only during certain times of the day. 
Quarl:er Dogs: zs.:.cent hot dogs sold in i L'aFortunestarti11g atmidnight. ' 
Reckers: A 24-hour restaurant located behind South Dining Hall. 
Reslife: -Office of Residence Life. and 
. . . 
Housing, the most despised compound word on c~nipus;it's where you go if you break parietals -or ~ny other rules. . . ­
The Rock: Knute Rockne Memorial, an exercise facility on South Quad. 
' L.-••-.~·.....;.,.......,"-'-~--'-----~--~~~---' D6, D2/D2000: Student parking lots, located near South Quad and North Quad, 
Touc:hdown·J~sus: Offici;llykriown as respectively. 
the Word ofLife.Nforal, a famous moiaic on the southwallofthe HesburghLil>'rary:--DART: The sysi:em by ~hich students .i 
! • 
. •·C . . . :. . ···:· ". .. .·.· -•· .• .... . . -! 
· registerfor: classe~. :No\VoninsideND, : · . it•gained the nidc11ame frorri ihe days ef ·j f. ~olf~: Newer,. ~ho~~h harderto,fi~_d, . Turl:le Creek ("TC"): Apartment I~fep~o,ni!egistrado11. · -· · -· --· · · • · j 
complex formerly popular among ND r.: :;,~fm.i_sP\.ttlity,I9catrd Of\}hf.:.easf.sidi . 
students; located very close to campus, it 
~·. .. . j
Dogbook: The photo directory of was hit hard by a local rioise ordinance, Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a The Shirl:: Worn by most students and but remains home to "Rally in the Alley," traditional aid for finding dates to dances. fans at football games; proceeds from sales a large party at the beginning and end of 
are used to fund many student activities the school year. ....... D·~.A.§::{,""f~e:·.M.af}~~P.• ·lJ·•e.B'ar:,t.o.l.?·i 
on campus.• Perf9r:i1:1ingcArts··Ce11ter;hom~ pfw'orld~·1 

..,wsNh:, Stticl611t:~i~n firi~ JfH'fadio jc1~ss'hiii;¥'au:c1·c1anie•pJrfCJI"lii~#ces: ·\ .u; j· -.-·'¥,ti9r1 ;pe~i:iµiihgiiclassic~llllii~fc:}' . 
The Huddle: A convenience store located 
in LaFortune Student Center. Sl:onehenge: War memorial fountain at the south end of North Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshman
:,i~1if:i~1ij:~iJ1~~il~ti 
orientation activities. 
)gr/&s, av;iil;1ble courses_and Webwaili> ·' ·· 
JACC ("Jack"): Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center; home of basketball and hockey games and pep rallies. 
! z 
' ;,···c· :::'••·•·· ·,-.:·,•.J·•·• :<,> :· •>• ·.•.•·•:·, ·"•·.-1 i= () Funf.LaFoftune>StuHerit\Ceriter;._ l ~ 
0
WVFI: Student-run progressive radio I 
t.•.. .a1.·~_fm.aiiy8:ervic:es.-.'fi.or··•-. sfu···d.~n.·t·s.·.;a·s.·.. w.•e·l····-l.·,·•1 ()
! as several:restaurants·,.-.· : .•.-.·: ..-. ".-. •··, ._-:·. : . station located in LaFun. (/)
1: .·,_.·. c' . . . . _·-... : ..• . -_
L-:..:_· -<.. -·;--·-_ ./..-.,,--..-----~--.::.,;~--.: /:.· .... --.·--. -.. -. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 9 :........ 



Make sure to look good and hard. The following faces belong to those people that you, as a Notre Dame student, should know. JENKINS: In April 2004, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was elected the 17th president of Notre Dame by the board of trustees. He is the university's third president since 1952. Jenkins, 54, is a 1976 graduate of Notre Dame. He received a master's degree from the university in 1978, and he also holds two degrees in philosophy from Oxford University. Jenkins was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1983. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in the Department of Philosophy. From 1997 to 2000, Jenkins served as the religious superior for the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. In 2000, he was named vice president and associate provost of the university . .During the 2003-2004 school year, Jenkins was on sabbatical, serving as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago. Jenkins made himself the subject of much controversy two years ago when he initiated a campus-wide discussion on the relationship etween academic freedom and Catholic 
"""""10 
character at Notre Dame. The discussion centered around whether or not to allow the continued presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Gay and Lesbian Film Event on campus . Jenkins ultimately decided not to prohibit these two events but to require discussion panels as a way to encourage dialogue about the issues. 
WEIS: In December 2004, Charlie Weis was hired as the head football coach of the Fighting Irish, following the firing ofTyrone Willingham, who had served for three years as head coach. 
Although Weis was not the university's first choice, he fit the job description. Even before coaching his first game in blue and gold, he already had something in common with Irish legends Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy-a Notre Dame diploma. Inaddition to his Class of 1978 ring, he has four Super Bowl rings from his 27-year coaching career. 
Weis has studied the game from every perspective and at every level. He began his career as a high school coach in New Jersey before moving to the collegiate level with the University of South Carolina and from there on to the NFL. Along the way, Weis worked as a defensive assistant, offensive coordinator and special teams coach. 
Weis was greeted enthusiastically and quickly achieved rock-star status on campus. During his second year as head coach, Weis led the Notre Dame football team to an impressive 10-3 record and a place in the Sugar Bowl. After a dismal record of 3-9 in 2007, however, Weis will need to prove that he can carry on the winning tradition of Notre Dame football with his own recruits. 
POORMAN: The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., is beginning his 10th year as vice president of student affairs, a position 
in which he oversees several programs, 
including Campus Ministry, Student 
Activities, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security 
Police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, )le said that his new responsibilities gave him. a chap.ce to "serve 
[the] students," a task which he admits is "at 
once daunting and exciting." 
Prior to serving as vice president, Poorman 
was an associate director ofCampus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and a priest-in-residence 
in Grace Hall before it was converted into 
offices. Poorman received his bachelor's 
FRESH(VIAN ISSUE 2008 

degree from the University of Illinois and a Master of Divinity from Notre Dame. He later earned a doctorate in Christian ethics from the Graduate Theological Unidn in Berkeley, Calif. 
McGraw: Entering her 22nd season as the women's basketball coach, Muffet McGraw is only the third person to head the women's basketball program at Notre Dame. Over the past two decades, McGraw has led the Irish to an NCAA Championship in 2001, two Final Four appearances in 1997 and 2001, and six Sweet Sixteen trips, all in the 
undergraduate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second master's in theology while studying for the priesthood, and a doctorate in Christian ethics from Vanderbilt University. He also has received countless awards, including 22 honorary degrees. Malloy has served as co-chair of the· subcommittee on college drinking ofthe National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a component of the National Institutes of Health) and chair of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
ScholasticNews (~ ···· 
BREY: Brey joined the Irish as the boy's head basketball coach in July 2000 after leaving the University of Delaware. He made his excitement about coachingatNotre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only been to South Bend twice before today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the bus [ ... ] and_ drove off this campus many times, [thinking,] 'I wonder if I could ever_ be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here." 
And Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to their first NCAA tournament 
········ 
last 11 seasons. 
McGraw draws from her own experiences on the court. She was a four-year starter at Saint Joseph's University in Philadelphia, Pa. The 5-foot-6-inch point guard then coached at a Catholic high school for two years before joining the California Dreams, of the since-folded Women's Professional Basketball League, for one season. 
McGraw has built the Irish women's program into one ofthe most competitive in the country, and she is not going anywhere else anytime soon. In June 2008, she signed · a contract extension that leaves her at the helm of the Irish women through the 2014-15 season. 
MALLOY: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., (ND '63, '67, '69) served his final term as the 16th president ofNotre Dame in 2004, a position that he had held since 1986. He also has served as a professor of theology since 1974. Malloy was remarkably accessible for a university president, as he conducts a freshman seminar each semester and resides in an undergraduate residence hall. Several years ago, before a knee injury, Malloy even played an occasional game of basketball with students. He received 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (ND '39) served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As president emeritus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh has played a pivotal role in developing several of Notre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to national and international public service. He has held 16 U.S. presidential appointments involving many major social issues, including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, Third World development and immigration reform. Among the recognitions that he has received are the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Freedom. 
"Father Ted" finds time to connect with students, often guest-lecturing in the classroom and presiding over Mass in residence halls. His presence on campus is ubiquitous; the library, center for international studies and the public service program all bear his name. 
appearance since 1990. He since has led the team to four more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-10 opponents, a first in Notre Dame history. Brey was named Big East Coach of the Year in 2007 and 2008. 
Brey's career winning percentage in 12 years as an NCAA head coach is .640. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey served as an assistant at Duke under Mike Krzyzewski and as head coach at prep powerhouse DeMatha High School in Maryland. 0 


Regina Gesicki 
It's time to begin that daunting task of packing. "Where do I start?" you ask. Never fear. Whether you're a list-maker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the low-down on dorm room necessities. When you arrive on campus, don't be discouraged by the looks of your room. While they come with the standard desk, bed and closet, empty dorm · quarters tend to resemble prison cells. Be sure to bring plenty of posters, pictures and even Christmas lights to spruce up the walls. Some students buy rope lights or shamrock-shaped lights for school spirit. Most rooms have only a single overhead light fixture and fluorescent lights over the sink, so floor lamps do wonders. You also will want a desk lamp and maybe one small light to clip onto your bed for late-night reading before you doze off to sleep. 
UI Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not a: 
::::, come with linens, so make sure you bring 
!::i some bedding -sheets, blankets, pillows, 
::::, 
u comforters for the cold winters, etc; ­
u whatever will make you feel comfortable.
~ 
Body pillows are great for lying on the floor :r: U) u and studying. 

Some dorms have beds that can be bunked, 
while others have modular furniture, which means you can bunk your bed on top ofyour desk and wardrobe. Ifyour dorm does not have 
modular furniture and you would like to loft 
your bed, you can purchase a loft kit at a local hardware store, such as Home Depot, when you arrive. 
Ifyou do not have a handyman moving you in, store employees often will assemble a loft for a fee. Or, ifyou're feeling adventurous, you can even try building your own from scratch. But remember to bring a toolbox. 
To make for a homier crib, you might want to bring a couch or futon. Ifspace, money or transportation is a problem, canvas butterfly chairs or bean bag chairs are the way to go. You also may want carpet or rugs to cover the hard floor, which can get very cold to walk on in the winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus at the Stepan Center during 
Freshman Orientation weekend, and usually 
you can find the right fit for your room at 
the campus sale. Room dimensions vary, and 
some can be found on the Office of Residence Life and Housing Web site. (Visithttp://orlh. nd.edu.) 

Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap 
and shampoo to and from the community bathrooms. A robe or large towel and shower shoes (i.e., flip-flops) are also a necessity. 
As far as laundry goes, you can do ityourself or use St. Michael's Laundry Service. St. Michael's is an on-campus laundry service that will pick up your dirty clothes, wash them and return them for a fee. Ifyou decide to do your own laundry, most dorms have coin-operated washers and dryers ($1.50 and $1.00 to wash and dry one load, respectively). Make sure to bring rolls of quarters, a laundry basket or bag to haul your duds to the laundry room, detergent, stain remover and a drying rack for clothing you'd rather not shrink. Also, if you do not want to lug those quarters around, you should think about purchasing Domer Dollars, which are credited to your student card. As an added incentive, each load of laundry is 25 cents cheaper using the "dollars." _ 
One of the most important decisions will be whethir or not to bring a computer and, ifso, whether· to use a desktop or a laptop. If you choose to leave your compuuii'it home, you can use one in a computer cluster on campus. However, some students prefer to write papers and e-mails from the comfort of 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
their rooms, which makes a desktop computer 
an ideal choice. Most students find it easier 
to bring a laptop computer to school. This 
allows students more freedom when worlting 
on papers or using the Internet, as they can 
relocate to their hearts' desire. 
There are many ways to connect to the 
Internet in LaFortune Student Center and Hesburgh Library if you bring a laptop. These campus buildings and all the .dorms recently have been outfitted with wireless Internet connections. You may want to bring a wireless Internet card to make connecting convenient. For_non-wireless computers, there are standard ethernet jacks available around campus. Additionally, ifyou don't want to lug a printer to campus, both color and black and white printers are available in the computer ·. clusters. Every student is given $100 in their print quota at the .start of the school year; black-and-white printing costs 10 cents per 
page. Color pages deduct 75 cents. 
As far as entertainment goes, bring 
whatever tickles your fancy. Many students 
bring televisions for those much-needed 
study breaks. The dorms are equipped with 
cable, but ifyou and your roommate are movie 
addicts, you may want to bring a VCR·or 
DVD player. A CD player oriPod will provide· 
some musical variety. Get in touch with your 
roommate to divvy up the more expensive 
items you'll share. 
Aside from West and Mod Quad dorms, 
most are without ai~ conditioning. A fan may 
come in handy for those hot nights at the . beginning and end of the school year. 
One thing to remember is that microwaves 
are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most 
floors in the dorms have a microwave in the 
common room for making popcorn or Easy 
Mac late at night. It might be a good idea to 
bring a hot pot that will boil water so you can make Ramen noodles, the quintessential college food. 
Rooms no longer come equipped with land line phones. For an extra fee, however, you can get one for your room. A cellular phone has many advantages, often including free long distance service and increased mobility. Cell phones are one of the easiest ways to keep in touch with family, old friends from home and new friends around campus. 
As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few must-haves. Don't forget warm clothing for the infamously cold South Bend winter. You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mittens and a hat if you don't want to freeze. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or poncho for rainy walks to class and football games. Remember to bring outfits and shirts in your dorm's color to show your spirit at pep rallies. Since most of the closets are small, you may want to buy some plastic shelving containers, which are cheap and practical. 
Aswimsuitis a must for the mandatory swim test that all freshmen take at the beginning of the year. Each dorm will have a couple of dances -both formal and semi-formal -each semester. Pack a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience with the football games, pep rallies and dorm evehts. 
Ifyour suitcases are stuffed, or ifyou fo;get something, do not worry. Although South Bend maynot be a buzzing metropolis, it does have plenty of retail stores. The University Park Mall is complete with a Macy's, Banana· Republic, Gap, Sephora, Express and many other stores. And ifyou absolutely must have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a phone call and a care package away. 0 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
Scho/asticCulture «ii-············ 
~ I 

-----al&o vi&it ----­





EC ENDS 
F N OTR.E DAME 

Rl:S'IALIRANT & ALEHOUSE PUB 
&iiVe!-ff-'-1 HWf IM J •¦ lP-KEYFm1 

Q&Btihdfii?-31!-!ifiF3Mi.•EeMdhi lilwd ! 


n@ d© f~s food.nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 

Scho/asticCulture @· · · · · · · · · · · · · 
,~~'-,.,
.~ 
---~·-·-C/<~•,.



Perfect ~.­
,_,,,,,,-:.;:• 

Strangers 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Welcome to your new dorm room. Behind your door you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that some universities house gigantic supercomputers that match each incoming freshman with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, as well as similiar musical and neatness preferences. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not receive any sort of personality questionnaire that will be fed into a supercomputer to match you to your dream roommate. But fear not. The indiscriminate process of the Office of Residence Life and Housing is not without its merits. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much different. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. While the resident assistant (RA) is there to help you with your problems, you'll find that banging on the wall and constant finger-pointing will get you nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situation arise which needs more than a little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematic approach, you'll find that you are more adaptable to dealing with a shared room than you may think. What's more, the amount of influence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste of your precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: Remember that your roommate-to-be is probably reading this same thing right now. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 

Kindred Spirits 
You may move in on your first day, meet your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him or her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. In either case, count yourself among the lucky few ifyou find a best friend in your roommate. You'll both love Kanye West and hate country. You'll own the same color of shower sandals, and you'll have more fun playing in the box your Gateway was shipped in than actually using the computer. Within a month, you'll know each other inside and out. 
While rare, this situation is certainly possible. Always having your best friend around you adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number of friends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in during Freshman Orientation weekend. Use it as a chance to meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person and, for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to play volleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on the Xbox. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
This may be the most common situation for roommates. There is absolutelynothingwrong with not asking your first-year roommate to be best man or maid ofhonor at your wedding. In this instance, your roommate is nice, considerate, relatively neat and gives you your space. Whatever his or her personality may be, it's not difficult to live with this person. ~n this scenario, you'll both make friends ofyour own 


'it. 
' '._,_~•'· 
z 
::a
_, 
w 
0 w 
z 
w 
~ 
z 
>­
II) 
z 
0 
~ 
0:: 
t;; 
::J
_, 
:! 
but have pizza and watch a movie together 
every once in a while. At the very least, you'll 
have a comrade to join you as you head to the 
dining hall those first few nights or to throw 
a Frisbee on the quad with after class. 
You'll get to meet all of your roommate's 
friends, and you can introduce him or her to 
yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana 
in your own room will send you down the hall, 
to another floor or to another dorm for your 
best friends. The more effort you make, the 
more people you'll meet, and the more likely 
you are to make those lifelong friends. 
It Wasn't Meant to Be 
Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. 
You may verbally argue on several room­
related points, or your roommate could be so 
inconsiderate that you actually look forward 
to parietals. Whatever the case may be, don't 
hesitate to ask your RA for advice. The worst 
rooming situations can warrant room changes, 
but this scenario is rare. 
On the bright side; you will have an 
especially strong impetus for making friends 
outside the room and a good reason to get 
involved in extracurricular activities. Don't 
let the person you share a room with taint 
your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned . roommate, your first year at Notre Dame will 
be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heart 
in the fact that your future roommate has the 
w 
0::
same reservations you might have about living :::>
·!:i
with someone you've never met. To ensure :::> a good year, be yourself, be considerate and, u u perhaps most important ofall, keep your mess ~ 
:5
confined to your side of the room. 0 0 
I 
u 
(f) 
15 ••••••.•• 


Peter Hadley & Jessica Farmwald 
Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a brief introduction 
to some ofthese time­honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race. Each dorm builds its own chariot to win fame, Ben-Hur style. For their White Wedding Dance -with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" 
-the men of Keough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. Keough, partnered with Welsh Fam, is known for dominating Late Night Olympics, a night of competitions for charity among the halls. 
McGlinn: The Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for hosting Casino Night, an evening of gambling and games. Students can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money or display their moves on the dance floor. All proceeds benefit Our Lady of Hungary Catholic Parish and School. 
·O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some of the most active and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride at pep rallies and at signature events, such as the Miss ND Pageant. O'Neill co-sponsors an event with Lyons called "Recess" -a number of playground games and Ring-Pops and candy necklaces bring students back to their middle-school years. 
Duncan: In the hopes ofrelieving resident overcrowding, Duncan Hall, currently under construction, will be a men's dorm opening in the fall of2008. 

Welsh Family: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse cin campus. The easternmost residence hall on West Quad organizes one of the more unique events on campus: the Welsh 
~ 
::, Family Feud, a game-show style competition !::i ::, that pits dorms against each other, part of u a spirit week full of events centered around 
u 
dorm pride. West Quad boasts the newest
~ 
0 dorms on campus, the only residence halls 
I 
(JJ u on campus other than Mod Quad to have 

air-conditioning. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

god 

Sorin College: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., former university president, lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Vietnam War. Sorin hosts an off­color talent show during one home football weekend each year. Rubbing the right foot on the statue of Father Sorin at the main entrance brings good luck. Past residents of 

north 

Cavanaugh: The women ofCavanaugh have an annual weekend in the spring during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall ofFame or moms come in for a brunch. Which parent comes alternates each year. Every winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to their Snow Ball, a formal dance held in LaFortune Student Center. This past spring, the Chaos hosted their annual Dance-a-thon as a fundraiser for Hannah and Friends, a foundation that works with children with autism. The foundation was started by Head Football Coach Charlie Weis. 
Zahm: Themost infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahmbies. Before the 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
Sorin College include Knute Rockne, George Gipp and Moose Krause. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women host the Walsh Wild Week in the fall, 
a series ofcompetitive and not-so-competitive events. It culminates in the Mr. ND Pageant and the Walsh Hall Fall Frolic. Walsh also hosts Football 101, a popular question and answer session with players from the football team. 
Lewis: Lewis is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously 
first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torquemada (a ceremony mysteriously kept under wraps). In true fraternity spirit, most members of the dorm insist on calling their home "Zahm House" instead of Zahm Hall. 
Keenan: Named the 2007-2008 Men's Hall of the Year, Keenan is connected to Stanford Hall by the Chapel of the Holy Cross. The Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Revue. The revue is a three-night show that the Knights put on every February. A sellout crowd attends this collection oforiginal student comedy. Keenan is also host to a huge mud volleyball tournament in the spring. 
Stanford: The men of Stanford live directly across the quad from North Dining Hall. The Griffins once were known as the Studs, but changed their mascot in tribute to former rector, the Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Scho/asticCulture 
@· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which ends the week of activities. The names of the Chicks' chosen dates are announced in an ad in the Observer, the university newspaper. The building served as housing for nuns until 1975 and is famous for their patio and accompanying covered walkway. Lewis was named the 2007-2008 Women's Hall of the Year. St. Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest campus building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 1929. It is the only residence hall listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall, or the Stedsmen, began a tradition of wearing kilts to football pep rallies. St. Ed's holds an annual event called Founders Week which includes a 2-on-2 basketball tournament and a charity shootout. All proceeds from Founders Week go to a charitable cause. St. Ed's has an end-of-the­year dance on a yacht in Chicago. It is also home to a weekly Spanish Mass. 
.They also put on an Iron Grill contest where contestants from each dorm compete to grill the best steak. Every spring they host the Benefit Bash, a late-night event, with proceeds supporting an orphanage in Chile. Farley: Farley Hall, located next to North Dining Hall, has been a women's dorm since Notre Dame went co-ed in 1972. Pop Farley week is perhaps the best-known event of the Finest. This celebration, which culminates with a dance, features a different fun activity for the Finest and their dates each day of the week. 

Breen-Phillips: The Babes of BP raise 
money each year for diabetic patients with · their Meal Auction. Students and faculty members bid to eat with campus celebrities 
who have volunteered for the event, such as w 
former university president Father Hes burgh ::, 0:: 
·!;j
and former No_tre Dame running back ::, and Washington Redskin Reggie Brooks. u u In the late winter or early spring, Breen­
~ 
Phillips provides relief from the cold with its 0 
I
Beach Week. U) u 

, 
.....:........ @Scho/asticCulture 
mod 
Siegfried: The Ramblers of Siegfried compete annually against Knott in the Flan­ner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug-o-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co­sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt~putt tournament where sections in the dorm construct each hole of the course. 


south 
Knott: At pep rallies, the Juggerknotts can be easily spotted in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, an afternoon of free food and entertainment from campus bands. Knott also hosts the Justin Brumbaugh Basketball Tournament in honor of a 
former resident who died in his senior year. The Juggerknotts had the honor ofbeing named the 2007-2008 Hall of the Year. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P­Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. In 1981, Pasquerilla West was the first dorm built specifically for women at the University ofNotre Dame. In the spring, Queen Week, an 
}; 
intradorm event, fosters inter-section competi­tions and ends in a dance. One girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. 
PasqueriUa East: PE is the home of the Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Com­pany (a.k.a. PEMCo), which stages a complete musical every February. The troupe's history includes productions of "Godspell," "Guys and Dolls," "Damn Yankees" and "Footloose." This past year's play was "Kiss Me, Kate." PE is also proud ofits annual intradorm event, the PyrOlympics. The sections compete against each other in relay races and costume contests, among other events. PE is unique because its first through fourth floors are numbered five through eight, in order to differentiate it from Pasquerilla West. 
Alumni: Conveniently located at the in­tersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host Wake Week, an event steeped in tradition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni's biggest rival is its neighbor, Dillon. The rivalry is re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon compete in different sports competitions. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 students, Dillon was voted Hall of the Century. Its signature event is the Dillon Pep Rally, which is held before the first home football game. The Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes keynote speakers and ND cheerleaders.
w 0:: :::, The Big Red also hold the Stache Bash in the !:::i 
:::, spring. The Dillonites all grow mustaches to raise u money for charity in anticipation of a dance. 
u 
ti 
~ Fisher: You'll know Fisher by the gigantic ~ green 'F' on the building. Every spring, Fisher ·;~hosts the Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide boat 
race on St. Mary's Lake. In the fall the Green Wave holds a 50-hour roof-sit, during which students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn sits on the far west end ofSouth Quad. Ithosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 volleyball tournament in the spring. It also is the site for A Life Uncommon, a group that meets regularly to help students deal with eating disorders. Pan­gborn hosts the Phox Phire, a bonfire where the effigies ofthe mascots ofopposing football teams are ceremoniously burned. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall in honor of a freshman resident killed by a drunk driverin 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. Lyons also hosts a beach-themed dance each fall. 
Morrissey Manor: The building isn't just its residents' home, it's also their mascot, the Manor. Morrissey is the second largest men's dorm on campus. Each fall, the men of Mor­rissey host the Tomatina, a food fight festival based on an annual event held in the Valencia region ofSpain. The event raises money for the St. Vincent de Paul Society. 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall ofthe school year (arguably the only time that the · arrival ofsnow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade ofRooms. Every fall they host t:11e Howard Hoedown, a country western-themed dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus­wide karaoke and dance competition, the Badin Breakdown. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certifi­cates at local restaurants. 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake from the west edge of campus, Carroll Hall offers a beautiful view._ The Vermin enjoy a close-knit environment as Carroll has the fewest residents of any dorm. "A Carroll Christmas" features a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs. The hall's "GO IRISH" banner is made with 80 bed sheets and 10,000 staples. If you've been assigned to Carroll, a bike is a must, unless you want to be late to class every day; this dorm is located· farthest from the rest of campus. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 



PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

Published Since 1867 Serving the Notre Dame Community 
10 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
NAME: ________________ 
ADDRESS: ______________ 


SCHOLASTIC 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT · 
HTTPS://MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI STUDENTSHOP/ 


Scho/asticCulture @· ·.. · · · · · · • •· 
r )t'saboutthattim~,kids.hi~ythat cheiesy·high s-~hobl ;;;~rbqc)k,thi6W7ti asjcieyour.. graduationcap c1ncl getreadYfprthe bestfouryears... of.your. life,· •·j i..·• S~(ne call ita.min9:-opening experience, some call it abreakJrom .• real.i.ty~nd l !isome call it th~ only time,in··.life when lewd debauchery is nofonly ac~epted j 
LIJ~t}!~oJD~aged.>_ > . : > ......,.. :L' d 
This here is the Gipper, the anonymous spy/writer who keeps this campus up-to-beat on its most absurd, disgusting, immoral and hilarious events. In every issue of Scholastic, Gipp gets to describe the best "tips" received since the last publication. This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends and lovers. If it's funny, juicy or obscene, Gipp needs to know about it. You report, Gipp derides . 
•,..,.,,, ...-,.·-,--~.-:, -~---..-···--,---··,~-------, ·•~.-----_______,..,.... 
/>•·•·. ·iJo.u)naYbe as~ih.g_. y.,f~t·a•typJcalpipp.tipi~-• yJell,Jhere.'~.·:npi;a.ct definitjori/~uttrythj~f.or,a rule,'of thu~b:Jfone ofyow. , 
•. frierids does:ioniethihg s6.c1sinine that':youknowany tfue. fri~nd.would ke;pitqlli,et;Itwill··.~akEl a~dcid tip;:·.tet's.giyei'~oine .· \ .. ·exqr11pl~_~: /(o(jr'r9orr1m~t~)kips·c:1~.~.~·tqpr.ink f)al.fac:a.lie• c>f Nattylight·.· .}~on'tt.ip}~ipp'.;Ypur n:i9rrirliate•s1<ips cia~~ topa'n:ibipiit~>•· ( in some extracurricular activity in the bushes behind Main Building -by all ·mean·s, tip Gipp. , • , 

·•••·. TheGipper would loye to give some examples ofpast classic tips,bufunfortunately ;;,,~ can't go into toe) muchdetaH inthis .·: . ·is•~~-El;f\fterall, .t:,,19.n1 prqbably.. ""ill ·.. P<:li:usEjJbr<:>LJgh jt... afteiYoll'.refi11fshEld_./l?Lit c'on,fthis fall,,Ypu_·.·c1.11 will ..·.b~c;pril~familic!,ry~•ith• ' ..·.Gipp'su~iqaerv,.o;:>-./•·:\c·•·•····• ·'·•··.·.i·.•.•·· .... ·:•'.·•··, >•··•·•·····•<:/ii> , .•:i .i->::<·····i... ·.. ·•: "·.•:-.,·:;;,, 
.· A.nywc1y;\~hough se.lf~prqYnotion;.the $ipperJeels ~-dut}(t6. letyqy•· kn6v} the't11rn9sJh~ydon't teU.•yodin:th_e,.wel¢orrie'pack'et••·, 
~~~~·-·.,-~·-__:~-s-J.·.:~---·-~· . -,-.·,.:·~ ...,' ··--·;.-,.-;-~.. -;::::...·-~;~.:-~;;}:·: :~-:-~;:;;; -~· .-.: ·:>-/,,::,;.::/-:_:;<~>-._~:~~:>~ -~:,'·.··~ '. -~•=·-~­
You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus. Actually, many students say that Notre Dame is all about football, beer and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that, to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler of touchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through of the heathen, secular aspects of our campus life. 
Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary (a.k.a. duLac, the official campus rule book) can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college 
hoping to get closer to a special someone after 12 a.m. on weekdays or 2 a.m. on weekends, you might be in for a rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone get to rest. Right ... because college students aren't old enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 
!.·';assista~t·.(RA).:: RA.s•are.the:se?iors vvho,•either ·.becaiJse JheY didn't .have:enbughf rien?s.:tciJivi:)·offcarripus·,or if1-ntedJo:save < 
fJl½til{i!li~Ul?:irii~i&MPi~igtl;;i:!~~!f'llf;;r:11~Wl1iltiit~t~~J~l~'.;1Jfiiklii~#t~liii~6#&i;[€~,;0
L;-the ¢.aseqf some:RAl=l/ctpp,c1re11tlyJne.cu"\t?R~teirit1ye,,f\nc1lly!',.Inc111y.9ase,91ppacJ,;,1~ElSYOLJ.tq:l3.efr1er,d. ygurgA:·Ap1P.;E>ElpaUi3e\.l 
That should be all for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to start your time here as he is to ruthlessly embarrass you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of Gippland, because Gipp promises that you'll adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' across South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some ODs, complaining about 
w
Reslife and debating whether to ask your crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC out on a date to NOH or SDH. Sound 0:: 
::,
fun? 
!::i Enjoy the rest of your summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -justso things are back to even by fall break. And if ::, (J 
you remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip Gipp! See ya soon. t) 
~ 
0 
I 
t)
T;PTHeg;PP 
U) 
o o ® 0 e e at gipper@nd.edu 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
23········· 
' -~-----~ --~~---' 
~---­


t ··· · .. · · ·· ·.. @ScholasticCulture 



Whether you want to continue your involvement in student government or meet other Domers who share your love of horseback riding, Notre Dame has a club for everyone. Take a look at a few of your choices ... 
Michael O'Connor 

[. ACADEMIC > 

Scholastic choice: SIBC NDESIGN ENTREPRENEUR CLUB 
One of the largest student organizations This club gives members the opportunity to A group ofindividuals who plan to start or have at Notre Dame, the Smdent International explore the world of graphic design through already started their own businesses, the "E­Business Council (SIBC) is the only one of speakers, field trips and various internships. Club" travels to national conferences, sponsors its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, campus speakers, provides internships and job the SIBC is dedicated to providing smdents PRE-PROFESSIONAL CLUBS oppormnities for club members and prepares with real-world professional experience and These include Pre-Law, Dental, Veterinary members to write business plans and compete 
international development. Every summer, and Medicine; they bring guest speakers and in competitions. the SIBC sends dozens ofsmdents around the admissions representatives from post-graduate world on international summer internships schools to campus and provide resources to INVESTMENT CLUB and teaching positions. learn more about the fields of smdy. It provides students of all majors with 
the oppormnity to manage an investment ANTHROPOLOGY CLUB SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS portfolio of over $300,000 of real money. As a club within a major, it aims to establish This club fosters a sense of community Weekly presentations, discussions and connections between smdents and faculty among women in engineering through social semester trips to the Chicago Board of within the department. activities, career aid, service and academic Trade make this club vital for establishing 
support. connections. 

Scholastic choice: ITALIAN AND GERMAN CLUBS 
These two are just a few ofthe many cultural/ language clubs on campus. The Italian Club's activities include oppormnities to practice speaking Italian, cooking classes, trips to Chicago's Italian neighborhood and Italian operas in Chicago. The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"domer"fest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 

for local grade school smdents to barbeques on campus. 
LAALIANZA 
One of the largest culmral clubs on campus, it was formed about five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates and entertains smdents through programs that include Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Formal. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
This club celebrates Asian-American heritage through fellowship, service and events that showcase the unique values of various Asian cultures. 
HAWAII CLUB 
Works to share the culture ofHawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. This club is open to all smdents. · 
TEXAS CLUB 
An outlet for ND Texans to celebrate and learn about Texas pride and culture. The club sponsors various social activities and campus­related events, as well as recently helping to bring coup.try artist and Texan Pat Green to campus for a concert. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

Scho/asticCulture @....· · · · · ..... 

Scholastic choice: BENGAL BOUTS 
The 76-year-old Bengal Bouts boxing tournament offers an opportunity for men with varying levels of experience to compete to raise money for Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. If you are into boxing and happen to be female, check out the Women's Boxing Club. 
WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB 
This running club offers women of all levels the chance to get in shape and learn more about running.They compete in road races in the area and sponsor two big events: the Holy Half Marathon and the Relay for Life, on­campus races that raise money for charity. 
SKI CLUB 
Members compete in both giant slalom and slalom events in Michigan, Wisconsin and Canada. 
CLIMBING CLUB 
Sponsors rock-climbing trips to places like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky and 
•--SPEClALINTEREST. 
provides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all levels of experience. 
EQUESTRIAN TEAM The club takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders of all levels are welcome to join and do not need to own a horse. Throughout the year, the team participates in competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association. 
SAILING CLUB 
Their practices are held on St. Joe Lake on campus and at another nearby lake in Michigan. Members race throughout the Midwest and the nation. 
POMSQUAD This group of 14 women from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is dedicated to enhancing the spirit ofNotre Dame through the performance of dance routines. The Porn Squad performs at pep rallies, basketball halftimes and campus-wide and dorm functions such as the Notre Dame Activities Night and the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 

MEN'S WATER POLO 
This club team is consistently one of the top performers in the Midwest. With the official season in the fall, team members travel to places such as Florida for their more relaxed spring season. Notre Dame also has a Women's Water Polo Team. 
FIGURE SKATING CLUB 
Founded in 1999 and recognized as the athletic club of the year for 2001-2002, the team skates against varsity and club teams, and they have competed for two national championships, achieving eighth place in 2000 and seventh in 2002. 
FIELD HOCKEY TEAM 
The team was formed three years ago to offer both men and women of all skill levels a chance to participate. The team practices four days a week in the spring and fall and competes against other teams in the area. 
Scholastic choice: UNIVERSITY BANDS 
They include the marching band, several concert bands, jazz bands and brass and percussion ensembles. Tryouts for the bands are open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
SWING CLUB 
Members meet weekly for two hours of"East Coast" swing lessons and dance time. The class is geared toward beginning dancers, but there are student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS & COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
These groups hope to raise political awareness and participation among university students. Members also campaign for local candidates. 
MARTIAL ARTS INSTITUTE 
This club teaches the unique techniques and applications ofVeeJitsu RyuJujitsu and Chung Do Kwan Tae Kwon Do. Students who begin as :freshmen can reach the rank ofblack belt in both arts by the end of their junior year. 
FARLEY PLAYERS, ST. ED'S HALL PLAYERS AND PASQUERILLA EAST MUSICAL PLAYERS 
A few dorms sponsor groups that put on student theater and musical productions each year. 
ND-8 
Sparked by Notre Dame's Millenium Development Goals, this group works to petition goverments to end extreme poverty. 
GLEE CLUB 
Notre Dame's all-male choir has a strong :fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels in the U.S. and abroad. 
THE DOME YEARBOOK 
Always looking for writers and photographers to help with spreads, the Dome is an all-color publication. The time commitment is very flexible, and although experience helps, it is not necessary. 
BAGPIPE BAND No prior experience is necessary, as new members are provided free bagpipes for four years and given lessons. The band performs on football weekend mornings in full dress 
(i.e. kilts), as well as at other university and dorm events, particularly around St. Patrick's Day. 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE 
An all-inclusive group that works to 
w 
improve race relations and interaction ::,0: at Notre Dame, it encourages increased !:i 
::,
communication between different racial and 
CJ 
u
cultural groups through informal weekly 
~ 
small group meetings and special events. 
::s 
0 
I 
u 
U) 

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
.. • • • • • • • • • • • • • @ScholasticCulture 

.. -·-,--~ ..

LSERVICE> 
Scholastic choice: csc 
The Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns offers a number of very popular service trips over fall and spring breaks, providing opportunities to better understand social justice issues across the country, from Florida toD.C. 
C.A.S.H. (COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS) 
This group works with local community centers and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and English-language instructors to the Hispanic community. 
FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) 
This group serves as the first level of the emergency medical system for events and 
athletics on campus. Team members hold Red 
----~~-~--------····-· r•--------------·-·-·-·-·.-· . ·----. . . -. . . . :.· . l 
___,__ ..,, '--··--· .........:.....:--., --··-··--· .· ,..........:.... ·-----·-·-----~, '.· ~ _:___ ~_J 
Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY Notre Dame's chapter of the national group works each year to build a home in the South Bend area and sponsors the annual "Shack City" fundraiser. 
AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE 
The university's chapter of the U.S. organization seeks to integrate Catholic social teaching into U.S. policies in Africa. Each year, this club sponsors Africa Week, aimed at raising awareness for justice issues in Africa. 
TAKE TEN 
A program initiated by the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, it is open to students interested in teaching techniques for non­violent conflict resolution to grade school students. 
CIRCLE K 
This ;ervice group offers around 20 projects covering a wide range of interests, from playing with animals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Center. This is the club to join ifyou can't decide what kind of service you want to do. 



Scholastic choice: THE BASILICA GROUPS 
The Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart has a number of ministries open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgical Choir, the Women's Liturgical Choir and the Handbell Choir. The Basilica is always looking for new readers, Eucharistic ministers and altar servers. 
IRON SHARPENS IRON 
This interdenominational, student-led Bible study group seeks to faster solid Christian relationships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their f~ith through fellowship, praise and worship, Biblical teaching and prayer. 
~~H~~~E.!~Ql,~_RS_·H_·._,]P_·,_i'_:lp_,~\~e,';:_ 
BAPTIST COLLEGIATE MINISTRY 
An organization open to all Christian traditions, it focuses on fellowship, faith-sharing and Christian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visil:!>, retreats, shared meals and other activities. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
. A Catholic men's organization focused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church, the Notre Dame chapter is dedicated to the principles of the nationwide order through many activities, including their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for 
charity. 
..-,'.G.:c,),t:_,:JX,L]_v_·_,1:M_._'"_)_:,N_,,:.__G_:Y{~_f:_f,:f_._;:i:,:%_f1 ::fi-:~t('.J-,;/>:,\\//;;i,, ,,·.c··· r/
~!=~~~-~~-~-'"'......~~;~........,.................,._;"""'"':.......=.:.....~"'=-'-'-'-"'-''-"'-'~"-"-"-"'-'---=·""'-·:=}::'-'-:?:""'·::'-:,"':--...:.;..-·:·-=-··""··.--.:.,c· .·.):·::::.\~..-.-.· •._·'.•._:/·
...:.:.r::::.,:­
Scholastic choice: STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Student government includes class councils that plan events for each class, the Hall Presidents' Council, a Student Senate with members elected from each dorm and the 
w Executive Staff. Student Government is the 
::, 0: best way for student voices to be heard and for 
::, !:::i student-planned events and ideas to become 
u 
u realities. 
t5 
::i 
0 SUB 
I 
Cf) u Student Union Board (SUB) plans campus-wide events like movies and concerts. Each class has a council that also plans events. Many ofthe candidates each year for student council president are former SUB officers. Joining SUB is a great way to get involved in student government during freshman year. 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL 
Judicial Council provides peer advocates to students facing disciplinary hearings in the 
Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY RETREATS 
Notre Dame offers many retreats, including the Freshman Retreat, which is geared 
· toward the issues and experiences of early college life. There are opportunities to lead retreats as upperclassmen, as well as to attend the popular NDE (Notre Dame Encounter with Christ). 
FOUR:7 
A Catholic faith group based on small group sharing and larger worship sessions, they offer retreats and speakers to add to the faith experience. 

FLIPSIDE 
This is a student-run organization whose purpose is to program weekend events that do not involve alcohol, such as bowling, ice-skating and trips to Chicago. The events are open to all students and aim to provide alternatives to drinking on campus. 
••••••••. 26 FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 



, • 
you re inn 
Whether you're in town for a football game, reunion, or graduation, or just welcoming family and friends to campus, you're always inn at Ivy Court Inn and Suites. 
With an unbeatable location, eco-friendly policies, and newly renovated rooms, you'll find yourself inn luck, inn good company, and inn style. 

Visit ivycourt.com today to check out our new look and make a reservation! 




IVYCOURT 
INN & SUITES 



SCHOLASTIC 
,fnap~ot 
PHOTOS BYJUAN MULDOON 


Scho/asticCulture @· · · · · · · · 

Michael O'Connor & Regina Gesicki 
Sometime during the semester, the dining hall's spicy sea nugg.ets will send you running, or crawling, off campus to the nearest eating establishment. Or perhaps late-night Reckers just isn't making your sweetie feel special enough. Better yet, maybe the parents are in town and want to fulfill their biological duty to feed you. Whatever the reason, getting off campus every now and then will keep your taste buds in better shape. We propose visiting some of the following venues to satiate your deepest culinary hankerings. 
THE WHITEHOUSE DINER ("FAT SHIRLEY'S") 
Location: Corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham Prices: Meals range from $2 to $5 
The atmosphere is smoky and the food is greasy, but man is it good. The Whitehouse Diner, nicknamed "Fat Shirley's" after a former waitress' girth, is the place to be after parietals have taken effect and Reeker's becomes a little too played out. The food is cheap, off of a classic diner menu, and breakfast is the house specialty, served all day and all night (the diner is open 24 hours). Note: Avoid anything labeled "stew." 
LA ESPERANZA 
Location: 1636 North Ironwood Prices: Traditional Mexican food from $8 to $12 
An authentic Mexican Restaurant, La 
Esperanza serves up fresh and delicious Mexican originals and favorites, from tacos and gorditas to sizzling fajitas. With southwestern decor and music, it has a real Mexican feel. Try it out if you are looking for a more traditional "south of the border" experience than dining hall quesadillas. 
I' 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
THE VINE 
Location: 103 W. Colfax (Corner of Michigan and Colfax) Prices: Main courses range from $8 to $15 
Looking for a restaurant that is perfect for a date, dinner with the family or a casual evening with friends? TheVine, in downtown South Bend, has a great atmosphere and even better food. For your main course, try one of several delicious pasta dishes, with or without meat. The dessert menu changes every day, and the wine list is extensive. Best of all, nothing at The Vine is very expensive. 
CJ'S PUB 
Location: 417 North Michigan Street Prices: Burger platters from $6.45 to $10.95 
C]'s Pub is famous for one thing: its burgers. They are enormous, delicious, prepared to order and can be topped with BBQ sauce, Canadian bacon, grilled onions and four types of cheese. Their projector screen and excessive ND paraphernalia add to the experience. It's crowded on football weekends, but it's a fantastic way to experience great food and the ND culture. 
MIKADO 
Location: 402 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki counter where the chef will prepare your food right in front ofyou. This Japanese restaurant is popular with students and South Bend residents alike. Its relaxed atmosphere is fine for family dining or a date. Ifyou like darker meat, we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak. If you like sushi, come here to get it fresh. The menu includes items like octopus and barbequed eel for more adverturous eaters. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from ~ampus dining fare. 
ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 
Location: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. Prices: Pizza starts at $7 
Rocco's has been a Notre Dame staple for many years. All the decorations herald Notre Dame traditions and victories past and present. It is close to campus, so students can be found enjoying the excellent (and inexpensive) pizza on almost any night. Though most people do go for the pizza, the pre-meal antipasto is not to be missed. 
ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE Location: 111 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $6 to $10 
Most newcomers -and current students -are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer: diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic restaurant doesn't exactly mark a boom in the city's cultural demographic, but it does make for interesting eating. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken and beans. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade and perfectly complement the coffee. Also, Elia's is cheap, making it a great eat for those on a tight budget. 
LULA'S CAFE 
Location: 1631 Edison Road Prices: Coffee from $2 to $5, food from $3 to $7 
Lula's Cafe is located just off campus, making it a popular study spot and hangout for students. The coffee is always fresh, and the specials change daily. Try one of Lula's w seasonal offerings or go for one of the cafe's ::, c:: new twists on old favorites, such as the Brie ::, !::i grilled cheese. Take some time to check out the CJ 
u 
eclectic decor as you enjoy your meal. 0 
53
:s 
0 
I 
u 
(/) 
31 ••••••••• 


n 
ell duate ... iation yhting ~ 
ineering .LaAlia up ... L· sfitute .. edical ck Trial A .. National rAnimals. 
nSmile Stu ·an Fellows mPonSgresh ... Ps tmentCI ... Saint 
dent Senate ... Club ... Sym 
STUDENT ACTIVl11ES
AD 

SAD.ND.EDU 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~Scho/asticSports 






Sports Stories0 ' th¥ear 
The Magic of Notre Dame 
Marques Camp 
Magic. Ifl could describe the culture of 
Notre Dame in one word, magic is perhaps the only word that seems appropriate. This magic, rather than the sleight of hand and deception we sometimes associate it with, is an experience of mystical, powerful and charming proportions. The magic is sensed all around, yet cannot be described. The magic is there, but cannot be seen. 
Aside from the undeniable spiritual influence ofthe magic ofNotre Dame, it is the tradition ofIrish athletics that gives the school its magic. This tradition is what experiencing Notre 
. Dame means. More so than any other college institution in the country, Notre Dame was shaped by the great names of the past who built the foundations for a tradition. The Four Horsemen. Knute Roclrne. George Gipp. Austin Carr. Paul Hornung. Joe Montana. Rudy. These are some of the authors that helped pen the magic. 
It is a curious fact that despite the school's prestigious academic and spiritual reputation, it is the athletic tradition that brings in rabid fans from different walks of life, different parts of the world, of all ages -in fact, many of these fans have no direct connection to the university. Yet they are drawn in by the magic, most notably the magic of the football team. Everybody, whether a fan or not, lrnows about Notre Dame because ofthe unparalleled tradition of the football program. Eleven national championships, seven Reisman trophy winners and 96 All-Americans are only 
~ 
0 D. Ul 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u 
Cf) 
the beginning of the story. 
For many fans, the Notre Dame campus is the Mecca of college football. Strolling across the campus on a crisp autumn Saturday, making their way to the legendary Notre Dame Stadium, fans can't help but feel overwhelmed by the magic and tradition. Less like a stadium and more like a cathedral, Notre Dame Stadium evokes a transc~ndent quality; more than a 100-yard field and bleacher·seats, millions upon millions of fans show up every home football game to pay homage to the tradition. Itis an experience that simply cannot be duplicated anywhere. 
We often see sports as a novel way to ward off the pressures of everyday life. Attending the football game on Saturday keeps a student's mind off of the homework that is due for Monday; taking in an exciting basketball game· will make one forget about all ofthe pressures oftests, friends, roommates and homesiclrness. But more than this, sports, especially at the college level, share a more aggregating quality that not many other activities share: They serve to unite individual people into communities and communities into a whole. Sports bind us together in a web of common experience -they give us all a stake in something, leading us to come together as one body. Much like religion, sports unite people thatin manyways had nothing else in common but a shared passion. This fact is what makes Notre Dame and its tradition: of athletics unique. More so than any other school, Notre Dame is about unity. Not only does the unique athletic tradition build a community ofpeople on campus; it builds a community of people from all over the world. Ask any passionate fan about what makes Notre Dame so special, and the likely answer that you'll get is the magic. For those people who are lucky enough to make the trip to campus, the magic is something 
that is felt the instant you stand and admire the statue ofMary and the Golden Dome. At this instant you truly recognize that you are standing in a very special place, a place where some of the greatest athletes and coaches in Notre Dame history have also stood. A place where tradition was born and continues to evolve. A place where human experience goes beyond the material and into the spiritual. Notre Dame, above all else, is a place where the spiritual experience takes precedence over all else. 
So feel truly blessed to be on such a magical campus. Every day, in every Irish athletic team, new authors are working on the story that Roclrne, Rudy and others previously wrote. In a sense, to experience athletics today is to experience the works ofthese great individuals firsthand. Whether you are a fan of sports or not, Notre Dame will likely touch you in such a way that the transcendent purpose of sport will become apparent. By experiencing the magic and the tradition, you are becoming a part of a strong, united community that is unlike any other. 
Welcome to Notre Dame, and I hope you enjoy the show. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily the views of 
Scholastic. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

Scho/asticSports €'. · · · · · · · · · · · · · •. 

Women's Soccer Preview Men's Football Preview 
Mike Tresnowski Mike Tresnowski 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team ended their 2007 cam­paign on quite a roll. Before falling to Florida State in the na­
tional semifinal game, the Irish had won 17 straight games over 
10 weeks and had not trailed in a match for 708 consecutive minutes. 
If momentum has ever carried over from one season to the next, this 
year's soccer team should expect to start the 2008 season strong. 
The team, however, will have to overcome the loss ofsome key senior 
contributors. Ashley Jones and Amanda Cinalli leave the program after 
setting the record for most combined games played ofany pair of class­
mates in ND history. Keeper Lauren Karas graduates with an average of 
only 0.71 goals allowed per game in her final year. Together, the senior 
class lost only 10 games over their four years and won the NCAA title 
in '04, the semifinals in '06 and '07 and the quarterfinals in '05. 
The team welcomes back its top four leading scorers including first team 
All-American seniors Brittany Bock and Kerri Hanks. Senior Elise Weber 
also returns after earning second team all-region honors. The three rising 

seniors made up tl1e nucleus of the 2007 team and hope to pick up right where they left off. 
The team showed promise during its spring game against the Mexican U-20 national team on March 14, winning 2-1. 0 
Things can only go up from here. Pick nearly any moment from the 2007 season, and it could qualify as an all-time program low. 
Maybe it was the 38-0 disaster in Ann Arbor. Or the other 38--0 
blowout, this time at home to USC. Or maybe it was the two home 
losses to service academies. We've been through the worst. 
One reason for hope is the Irish recruiting class. Led by quarterback 
Dayne Crist and wide receiver Michael Floyd, the 2008 recruiting 
class has been heralded as both the best in the country and the best 
Notre Dame has fielded in over 15 years. 
In addition to bringing in fresh talent, Coach Charlie Weis will 
welcome back nine ofhis offensive starters and eight on defense. This 
means the Irish will have an experienced quarterback for the first time 
since Brady Quinn. At running back, the Irish boast a three-headed 
monster in junior James Aldridge, sophomore Armando Allen and 
sophomore Robert Hughes. 
While the 2007 team played one of the toughest schedules in the 
country, the 2008 line-up appears a bit more manageable. The program 
has replaced challenging games against Georgia Tech and Penn State 
with a home game against San Diego State and road games at North 
Carolina and Washington. 
Finally, the new season brings about a new coaching structure. Weis 
has delegated play-calling duties to Offensive Coordinator Michael 
Haywood and will bring on aggressive defensive schemer Jon Tenuta 
at assistant head coach. Weis will have the opportunity to show that 
he can learn from his past struggles and reinvigorate one of the most 
prestigious football programs in the country. 0 

Notre Dame vs. Michigan: April 10, 2008 
Notre Dame was playing in the first Frozen Four in school history. It was Michigan's 23rd. Notre Dame was the 16th team selected out of 16 spots for the NCAA Tournament. Michigan was the first. Notre Dame wasn't even supposed to make it this far, shocking the country by defeating No. 1-seed New Hampshire in the first round and then rival Michigan State. For Michigan, a Frozen Fourth berth was no surprise. 
Against all odds and expectations, however, it was the Irish who came out fired up on April 10 in Denver. Freshman forward Calle Ridderwall struck first, finding the back of the net for a goal five minutes into the game. Less tlrnn a minute later, senior Mark Van Guilder added another goal for the Irish. Before the end of the first period, the Irish added another goal. The Irish are up 3-0 after just one period. And they're not even supposed to be here. 
Adown-but-not-outMichigan team took the ice in the second period and swiftly shrugged off the shock of their early Irish barrage. In the span of 15 seconds, the Wolverines knocked 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
in two goals, bringing the score to 3-2. For the rest of the period the two teams settled in. Both had power play opportunities; both failed to convert. 
In the third period, however, Michigan finally managed to score on a power play, knocking one past Irish goaltender Jordan Pearce. Knotted up 3-3. Michigan had successfully fought back from the chaotic first period, but with under a period to play, the biggest upset in Notre Dame hockey history did not seem out of the question. With 8:30 remaining in regulation, Irish fonvard Kevin Deeth made that dream one step closer to reality as he skated by· Wolverine Scooter Vaughn and knocked in a goal on the left side of the net. 
As tl1e Notre Dame Victory March rang throughout the Pepsi Center, it looked like the No. 1 Michigan Wolverines only had a thread of a chance left. And with just over five minutes left to play, Michigan freshman Carl Hagelin barely tlrreaded one into the net. Shot from parallel to tl1e right of the net, the shot ricocheted off the blade of Pearce's skate and into the net. Just one degree left or right -the puck bounces out, and the Irish move on. But after surviving a nail-biting Michigan power play in the final minutes of the game, the Irish head to overtime. 
Senior Irish defenseman Dan VeNard rips a shot toward the goal. Initially saved, the puck flies out directly in front of Riddenvall. Wasting no time, Ridderwall unloads. Goal. Game, Irish, 5--4. Ridderwall's teammates mob him at the center court. Over 1,000 miles away, Notre Dame students celebrate in their dorm rooms, local sports bars and at a game watch in theJACC. For the first time in a long time, Notre Dame beat Michigan in something. For the first time in an even longer time, the Irish are in a championship. And for the first time ever, Notre Dame can confidently be called a hockey school. 
Although the Irish fell to Boston College in the championship, the hockey team was 
~ 
greeted by an enthusiastic crowd at Main 
0 
a.
Circle when they returned to campus. A school (/) u
that suffered tlrrough a brutal football season 
t5
and a disappointingly early exit from the men's 
::i 
NCAA Basketball Tournament finally had 0 I u
something to cheer about. 0 (/) 
35 ........ . 




Listening In ... 
j,: ,:L~ Student 1: What's that? 
,, ····,:·· ··,>
LL.: LJlw Student 2: Scholastic. Law Student 1: What is it? Law Student 2: It's campus news for literate people. 
~ouldn't even eat that stuff drunk." ~,/· -Huddle worker, in reference to quarter dogs 

•··•>•c.,-.•·-.-, I hooked up with his friend yesterday." -not-so-secretive female student 
r•: ' S~~ent 1: What's your fa~rorite class this semester? tii"dent 2: Probably parasitology. Student 1: Wow! That's so cool that you get to study all about Paris! 
~.ow do you spell 'masochist'?" ~lJ:~7 -student filling out a Teacher-Course Evaluation 

132 Years Ago 
An Ideal Freshman 
On September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel [ ... ] to those who begin their college life this year." 
The freshmen will be ''placed in the midst ofcomrades hailing from all parts ofthe country [. ...] They have good and bad qualities, both ofwhich 771ay exercise so771e influence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cziltivate the friendship of such as 771ay be distinguished for their virtue and intelligence." Like the good and bad companions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would beco771e an esti771able and accomplished 771an, faithful to the 
o c:: duties oflife, he mustfollow faithfully the promptings ofhis good inclinations and banish at once ~ those ofthe bad." 
rs The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to 
~ begin the banishing, so as to arrive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and j_·. g~ accomplished man." · ii -Doug Schlarman 
.~ 
j . ' .fi 1f1 ········· 36 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008
~t 


.. 
----~-------­
• • • • • • •· •· •· .. • @ScholasticCulture 
Is there 



anything 
todo around here? 
Ryan Greene & Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Welcome to South Bend, the city that sleeps. A lot. If you're looking for a lively, exciting town to paint 
red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth of entertaining possibilities, campus life can more than make up for any such shortcomings. 
. Here's a handy guide of what to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE 
• Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) 
Opened in the fall of 2004, the DPAC is one of Notre Dame's newest buildings in an ambitious campus-wide construction plan. The center features five different theatres, including the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre and an innovative 100-seat pipe-organ the­ater. The theaters have been designed so that concerts may be held simultaneously without noise interference from one theater to another. Covering 150,000 square feet and at a cost of $64 million, DPAC is the home of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. The new theaters absorb some of the student performances traditionally held in Washington Hall in addition to serving as a venue for outside acts. The Browning Cinema 
a: w is also the only THX-certified movie theater 
::, 
in Indiana.
!::i 
::, 
u 
u 
• NDCinema
~ 
0 You can catch the best of Hollywood,
I 
u independent and international :films at DPAC 
en 

......... 38 

every Thursday through Saturday night. Recent films have included "Rear Window," "Paranoid Park" and "The Red Balloon." Formerly known as Cinema at the Snite, this project is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. 
• SUB Movies 
The Student Union Board shows movies everyThursday through Saturday night for an entrance fee of $3. While it also shows older, second-run films, it tends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, like "Atonement," "Sweeney Todd" and ''I Am Legend." 
• Student Film Festival 
InJanuary, the films made by Notre Dame's film-production students are showcased for a weekin the state-of-the-art Browning Cinema at the DPAC, courtesyofNDCinema. Consider this your chance to check out the :films before they hit the indie :film-festival drcuit. This must-see event promises controversy, artistic expression and even a few laughs. 
• Theater 
From classical tragedy to lowbrow comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre Dame has it all. Washington Hall hosts many performances during the year, and student plays have also been performed in DPAC. Performances featuring the professional English troupe "Actors from the London Stage" in their unique renditions of Shakespeare's plays are a special feature at Notre Dame. Every year the Pasquerilla East Music Company presents a popular musical to sell-out crowds. Recent hits_ have included "West Side Story" and "Kiss Me, Kate." A variety of other shows 
-are hosted through additional groups such as ND Opera, The-Not-So-Royal Sha_kespeare Company and St. Edward's Hall Players. 
LIVE MUSIC & MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday night at LaFortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student solo musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this event is free for everyone. Hyou're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign-ups each week. 
• Concerts and Shows 
Nota lot ofbands pass through South Bend, but you can count on Notre Dal!le to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Ben Folds, 0.A.R., Jack's Mannequin, Third Eye Blind and stand­up comedy by Vmce Vaughn. Great bands should continue to invade campus with the year's kickoff event, Student Activities' "The Show." Also keep your eye out for concerts at Legends -an all-ages university-run club and restaurant south of the stadium -and at 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 

the Joyce Center. Past years' offerings have included John Mellencamp, Flogging Molly and Jason Mraz. 
• Collegiate Jazz Festival 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot ofattention from jazz enthusiasts nationwide, including Brandon fylarsalis, who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television broadcasts around the clock. NDTV's news program highlights campus news, sports, entertainment events and more. Tune in to campus cable channel 53. 


ARTS &LITERATURE 
• Notre Dame Literary Festival 
For one week each February, the Student Union Board hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. For­merly known as the sophomore literary festival and going into its 41styear, ithas featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, Dave Eggers,]ohnIrving and Tom Clancy. 
• The Visiting Writers Series The Creative Writing Program, a graduate 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 
program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number ofwriters throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal ofpress, so look around the hallways of O'Shaughnessy for posters, or checkout the English department's calendar of events at www.english.nd.edu/ events. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sun­day, and admission is free. It tends to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, al­though many students and professors attend the opening of the spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
•· Student Union Board (SUB) 
While South Bend isn't exactly an entertain­ment hub like New York or Chicago, SUB does a good job of bringing outside shows and speakers to campus as well as sponsoring various on-campus activities. Divided into sev­eral branches, SUB not only provides weekly movies and occasional concerts, but also mul­ticultural and intellectual activities, in addition to student services like prize raffles, organized trips, and final exam stress relievers. 
• FlipSide 
Though looked down on by some as an "anti-drinking" organization, FlipSide does a good job of providing consistent student 


Maria Sellers 
Consider yourself among the lucky and privileged few. Your intelligence, athleticism, spirituality, and talent have 
e_arned you a place in Notre Dame's Class of 2012. You have survived the competitive application process and are about to embark on your college journey. Congratulations and good luck! You earned it. 
Joshua Hammack, an accountancy major from Huntington, W Va., was named valedictorian for the Class of2008 with a 3.99 GPA. Hammock's achievements were not limited to the classroom -he played intramural basketball and soccer for Zahm Hall and 
participated in Notre Dame's Boxing Club and Bengal Bouts. Hammack is also committed to service; he was a student mentor and math tutor for high school students. 
What makes ND unique, in your mind? I think the focus Notre Dame places on bettering the entire individual is what makes it unique. At Notre Dame, you are expected to do more than just study and learn the requisite · materials. Here, you are tested physically, spiritually, and academically. It's a more holistic approach to education, and it really challenges you to become a better person. And, in the end, I believe it's very successful. I think anyone who decides to come here can expect to work hard and be challenged, but he or she can also expect to learn how to live and make a difference in this world. 
What class gave you the most trouble in your four years, and why? 
The class that gave me the most trouble was the one in which I got an A-, Accounting for Federal Taxation. I think it gave me so much trouble because it was so rules-oriented, and I really had a hard time making the rules unique and meaningful in my mind. In other words, the Federal tax code is very complex, and I think any class based mostly on that code would be a real challenge for me. 
Where's your personal study spot? 
When I study by myself, I just study in my room. However, if I am studying with friends, I usually go to the LaFortune basement. 
240/o projected percentage of minority students 
250/o percentage ofacceptance 
1400 average SATscore ofthe Classof2012 
40/o projected percentage of intemational students 
770/o projected percentage of first-generation Domers 
32 average A CTscore ofthe Class of2012 

What's your favorite way to procrastinate? 
I usually just hang out with friends, especially this year. I try to enjoy the time I have with all the people I've met here as much as I can. So, whether it's going out to a movie or playing a game of pick-up basketball, I always try to include my friends in my procrastination. 
What's your best advice for a student to balance work, extracurricular activities, free time and sleep? 
Don't expect it to come naturally. It's difficult to balance all the things you want to do. You really have to force yourself to achieve balance, and it is a challenge. However, don't be discouraged. It can be done, and you really don't have to sacrifice any of the things you want to do. You just have to learn how to make time for each of them. 
What is your favorite way to unwind while 
at school? I love to go to the movies. Going to the theater with friends is practically guaranteed to be a good time. Add popcorn to the mix, and you can't go wrong! 
What's your favorite brain food to keep you focused while studying? 
Mint chocolate chip ice cream! 
Any "don't miss" opportunities you recommend? 
Bengal Bouts is one of the most gratifying experiences I've had here. Bengal Bouts is a unique combination of service and athletics. Participating in an event that supports such an admirable and worthwhile endeavor -the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh -was very rewarding. Training so hard was meaningful not only because of the personal benefit, but because ofthe funds we raised and the assistance we provided. It wasn't just about throwing punches and blocking blows. The reward was much greater than individual victory or momentary glory. It was about helping people half a world away and providing others with opportunities that will last a lifetime. I strongly 
encourage anyone who has the opportunity to 
participate or attend to seize it. 
What are your plans for the real world? 
Next year, I am going to dedicate myself entirely to service. Service has always been very important to me, and I think this is the best time for me to do that. I'm going to teach at the Paraclete Academy -an after-school enrichment progi:am for middle schoolers -in Boston. I'll also be using the next year to prepare for law school. I'll take tl1e LSAT . at the end of the summer and begin the application process shortly thereafter. As for 
the real world, I hope to successfully practice . 
law and become a published author. 
What will you miss the most upon leaving ND? 
I'm really going to miss the Grotto. Over the course of my four years here, I've become very attached to that space, and I really enjoy spending time there in quiet thought. The Grotto has also been a place where a lot of my closest friends have been there for me when I needed them most. A place like the Grotto is exceptionally rare, and even just a few moments in prayer there can make a huge difference. It's always given me a great deal of comfort and peace. I will definitely miss being able to light a candle at the Grotto when I feel I need to do so. 
Any other miscellaneous wisdom you would like to impart? 
My advice to incoming freshmen would simply be to continue to work hard in and out of the classroom. There are many opportunities available at Notre Dame, and there's no reason to' become one-dimensional or neglect something you enjoy. Four years goes very quickly, so take advantage of your time here. Set high goals for yourself, and then work to achieve them. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2008 



Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 2 



Domer 
Mail in application 
-~········-····-·-•····-··~I 
ndlD Number 
..I 
j
Last Name ; 
......... ,,............ -~-~-.... J 

Middle Initial 
---·------------·-·..··-----·---~ 
i___ !_o~al Address -·---·--····--·-....... ·--·---·__ .... .J 
Permanent Address i 
~-~---••-•-••-•••••--•-•••-•-~•••--~••••---••"•·•------,J 

Primary Phone Number 
L. -----~---'---­
Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollars Account. 
$____ (minimum $20) 
Deposit is by: __Cash __Check (Make checks payable to the University of Notre Dame.) -··--·-·-----............ ._ __ 
nature· 
... -......... ~-------·--·---·------··--·--··---' 
Please mail to: 
University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1129 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (s74) 631-7814 

r 
Domer Dollars make campus life easier! 
You don't need to carry cash! Simply use your University ID card to buy just about anything on campus. 
Domer Dollars are safe, convenient, electronic funds purchased by credit card, cash, or check and programmed directly onto your University ID card. To learn more about Domer Dollars, visit 
www.nd.edu/~cardsvcs 
Activating your account couldn't be easier. Mail in the application form before August 1st, or use our website after August 1st to make a deposit. It's safe, secure, and very convenient. Remember this site for balance inquiries, sales histories, and of course, future deposits! You or your family members can make deposits using either MasterCard, Visa, or Diners Club at www.nd.edu/-cardsvcs. 
A few Domer Dollar locations: 
Hammes Bookstore · (Get your books and supplies) 
ND Food Service locations 
(these are just a few) Burger King Starbucks Subway Sbarro Reckers Legends of Notre Dame 
Vending and Laundry Sorin's at The Morris Inn The OIT Solutions Center Riley Digital Imaging Studio University Hairstylists 






