The Notre Dame Scholastic
199
((HHIM
Some time ago a philosopher, in one of his cosmic moments, coined the expression, “simultaneous thinking.” Largely because it was the fruit of a finely general, rather than a narrowly specific moment, it shivered a while in the cold, and then, frozen and disgusted, retired into the cellar, where so many good things retire—permanently.
But the minting fits our purposes in a rather fine way. And, fully knowing the many accusations, ranging from vagueness to mild lunacy, that may be lodged against us, we submit for your consideration a few “ideas”—that for us at least, have about them the semblance of a “method”—concerning Music.
Have you ever, when listening to a fine, a beautiful piece of Music, a composition that really talks to you, have you. ever, we'say, thought of a poem whose very spirit and essence find parallel in the Music?
Have you ever, when glorious rivers of sound are flowing round your body and through your brain, thought of a great painting, a marvelous statue, a mystic engraving, a mysterious woodcut, each and every one of which may find parallel and description in the Music you are hearing? Have you ever, in short, practiced “simultaneous thinking?”
Music, because it employs sound as its medium is the most universal of the arts, and, precisely in the degree in which it is universal, sums up and pictures, in sound, the content matter of the other- arts.
And certainly when the impact on the brain and the emotions, caused by a single poem, a single novel, finds itself increased by a companion art speaking much the same message in another voice, certainly then, we say, one experiences a double enkindling of awareness, where before it was one’s fortune to experience only one stimulant to heightened conciousness.
And now, running out of space, we realize that we have, in all likelihood, offended you by “plunging” into dark depths! If so, we are sorry; but we do hope that we have given you an idea!
re Dame 5cholas^ i c
b isee - Qu a s i - S emper -Viet ufus-Vi v«r-Quasi-Cras-Mor i turns
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley.
Harley L. McDevitt.
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire. Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford..... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith...... Alfred E. Gall......
PAUL J.
Hallinan
James J. Kearney
James Collins
Howard Webster
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Harry A. Sylvester Henry B. Asman
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington
Chester M.
J. Noon
Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Daws
James L. Rizer......
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
VOL. LXIII.
NOVEMBER 1, 1929.
No. 7.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—Archer Hurley.
Coming Events
Editors of New Quarterly Announced—Vincent T. McIntire.
203
A Man About the Campus.
Music and Drama—Joel Egerer^.
Campus Clubs
Editor’s Page
Cartier Field, Old and New—Alfred E. Gall_.
208
Notre Dame Humbles Carnegie Tech—John Kiener—
210
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr..
217
On Down the Line.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of '	All Notre Dame Men
___Editor-in-Chief Giaduate Manager
........Managing.Editor Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor 		The	Week ....................The College Parade ....................Music and Drama
............Campus	Clubs
.. .Script Features
Editor
Editor
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy
George Allan-John Motz Leslie Raddatz
SPORTS STAFF
William J. Magarral, Interhall Sports Editor James McFeeley Robert C. Balfe
Local Circulation Manager
.. .Local Advertising Foreign Advertising
Manager Manager Manager
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
200
201
204
205
206
207
222
200
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I I AVE you ever seen an elephant in evening clothes with a gold-plated trunk which snorted syncopation, and whose enormous body was tormented with the violent twitchings associated with St. Vitus dance ? Jack Crawford is the one to whom we refer. For to that monstrosity goes much of the credit for making the Cotillion what it was. This Cotillion, incidentally, was the first Notre Dame dance at .the Palais in recent years where one could actually dance. Usually the student and guest marches onto the floor at the opening strains, take a stand and elbow-dig and shinkick the crowded neighboring couples until the music stops. Then all retire to the sidelines for a brief rest before the next struggle.
And now* that she has gone home, Sophomore, how long will it be before she will write to tell you of what a marvelous dance she just attended with the pale vegetarian who used to eat yeast cakes in high school? Girls do that, sometimes, but not more than once, if your side of the score board is registering.
T
X WO more games, three for some, and then another trip to Chicago. And a game at the other end of the line that promises to be the best of the season. The team will do its share, it always does, but the student cheers are not always so reliable. Our cheering section didn’t win the Wisconsin game—fortunately it didn’t have to. Exams will be over, the game will be the next to the last of the year, and there will be plenty to shout for. Forget youi- dignity, stoicism, date, or neuralgia, and let the birds see your lungs!
^)vER in the Law school they have a tradition about senior lawyers and canes, their compatability, and how well the one looks with the other. And it seems rather just that students who have enjoyed a year more of Notre Dame life than any of the other undergraduates should have the honor of some distinction or other. Hence it is that we feel there is no overlooking of Notre Dame’s democratic precedent in this privilege of carrying sticks. Canes would never do for commerce students, as they all learn to talk with the hands; engineers never take their hands out of their pockets long enough to twirl a stick, and the medical students use their hands only for back slapping. To the lawyers then, go canes—may they lean on them long and heavily!	-
Sophie TUCKER, who looks like a balloon of many flights, and whose voice sounds like a wail from the depths of the Everglades, was the heroine of “Honky Tonk”—an exclusive offering to students last Thursday. Although the tickets were complimentary I can’t see that “Honky Tonk,” as an offering to the men who are responsible for the preservation of the nation’s culture, was at all a complimentary offering.
FA MTN A TTONR are here, and with their advent ends the first quarter. The first and the worst—it is hard to get back to books after summer vacation, football and the other activities of college life deserve a share of our time and efforts, and one needs a little time to find himself again. Many students will consequently be a little anxious until examinations are over and we settle down to await the arrival of the holidays. Some of us have been quaffing our scholastic draughts out of an eye cup so far this year, and have as our only consolation the freedom from the dregs that go with larger vessels.
.^\.T last two boys in South Bend are being educated. From all reports these lads have convinced themselves that the Persian Hafiz was right when he wrote, “Wisdom is a wearisome wench, bring for hex* neck the noose of wine.” These boys, moreover, paid a high compliment to a man who is doing remarkable things on our campus. A subtle appreciation of humor is part of education, though not a dogmatic part. Two boys were forced to leave the high school library last week for excessive laughter. .They were reading the Juggler. The Funny Fellow bows in acknowledgement.	.
EInGLAND is a world power—one of the most powerful. And a large share of her greatness can be accredited to two little countries which are famous in many places for many things. The Irish and the Scotch met, nominally, at all odds, last Saturday. Two stone walls grated against each other while a mob of spectators howled to have one or the other crumble. The Irish wall finally heaved itself to one end of the field, and won a victory. Carnegie Tech has some unusually good players. Notre Dame has some phenomenal ones.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
201
<♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
II Coming Events II
THURSDAY, October 31—Spectator Club meeting, Journalism room, 7:45 p. m.—Movies, Reginald Denny in “Nightbird,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
FRIDAY, November 1—All Saints’ Day; classes excused. — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 a. m.; high mass at 9:00 a. m.—Breakfast, 8:00 a. m.— Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Office, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, November 2—Football, Notre Dame vs. Georgia Tech, Gridgraph, Gymnasium, 2:00 p. m. —Movies, “The Flying Marine,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Villagers’ Club Dance, Oliver Hotel, 8:30 p. m.—Cross Country, Notre Dame vs. Butler.—Utica club banquet, Green Parrot Inn.
SUNDAY, November 3—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 a. m.; high mass, 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Inter-hall football, 9:30 a. m. and 2:00 p. m. —Inter-hall Cross Country championships.
MONDAY, November 4—Quarterly exams: Classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 have quizzes at regular class period; classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have regular class. •
TUESDAY, November 5—Quarterly Exams: Classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes at regular class period; classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have regular class.—Last day for handing in names for Breen Medal Contest.
WEDNESDAY, November 6—Quarterly Exams: Classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have quizzes at regular class hour; classes taught at 8:00, 10:00 and 1:15 will have regular class.
THURSDAY, November 7—Quarterly Exams: Classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have quizzes at the.regular hour; classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have regular class.—Election of members to Spectators’ Club.
FRIDAY, November 8 — Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Office, 7:00 p. m.—Freshman nomination of class officers, Gymnasium, 12:30.—Junior Class Informal Dance, Palais Royale, 8:30 p.m.
SOPHOMORE COTILLION GALA AFFAIR
Last Friday night, the Sophomore Cotillion! To the men of the class of ’32 and their guests who came from twenty states to attend the dance, it was an event of distinction, entirely meriting the title—“Cotillion of Charm.” There were about 300 couples present.
Aside from the charm of the dance itself, the music was the outstanding feature on the evening’s program. Jack Crawford’s band of clever musicians played and frollicked for four hours to the immense delight of the dancers. The huge director, whether crooning sentimental loveballads, or singing comedy songs, showed rather definitely why he was the talk of the Atlantic seacoast. For a half hour, the microphone was moved up to the orchestra pit and WSBT broadcasted the music over their station.
The programs were well-liked— attractive blue-leather covers imprinted with the figure of the Dome. The ballroom was attractively decorated with autumn leaves.
On Saturday afternoon, the sophomores and their guests attended the Grid-graph and heard the reports of the Carnegie Tech battle. Aftei- the game many attended the “B” Game on Cartier Field, between Wisconsin and Notre Dame. On Saturday night, a dance given by the Senior- class was held at the K. of C. Ballroom, in honor of the varsity’s victory.
Mass was celebrated Sunday morning in the Morrissey chapel, at 9:30, followed by breakfast in the faculty dining room. The rest of the day was spent in touring the campus and making departures for home.
* * •;« #
I! S.A.C. Notes II
♦♦♦	* *;«	.j.*
NOTRE DAME TRADITIONS
The traditions of Notre Dame were ’ never made; they grew up unconsciously, like epic poems. And at the same time, along with traditions and almost indistinguishable from them, interesting historical legends have grown on the campus.
A short distance to the rear of Corby Hall stands an old and impressive sycamore tree. Its gnarled and twisted limbs seem to form the outlines of a human hand. There is an epic and a legend connected with that tree.
For many years after Notre Dame was founded, Indians often visited the grounds; and one old chief, in particular, was often noticed here. He seemed most interested in this sycamore tree, near which he would linger for hours. Finally one of the brothers who had become interested in the chief inquired why he spent so much time at that spot. The old chief replied with this story:
“Years ago, when I was a youth, there was enmity between the white settlers and the Indians. One white man, who had lost a cherished friend in a raid, vowed eternal enmity against every Indian. It happened that one day my friend was fishing in this lake and was discovered by the white man, who, remembering his vow, crept upon my friend and wounded him with a knife. The unhappy Indian sprang up and ran until he fell exhausted on the spot where this sycamore tree now grows. The white man again attacked him, and, in reply to the Indian’s appeal for mercy, said, “You are an Indian, and Indians have killed my dearest friend. Therefore, I shall kill you.” The Indian, with his dying breath, appealed to God for vengeance. I ‘ found his body on this spot. And shortly there sprang up a tree where my friend’s blood had trickled into the earth. The tree grew into a peculiar shape; it is the hand of my friend lifted to heaven in supplication.”
Such is the tale told by the old chief. It may be only a tale of fancy; but the old sycamore is a relic of the romantic days of Notre Dame, a record of a day long passed.
LECTURES TO BE GIVEN IN WASHINGTON HALL
Dr. James J. Walsh, M. D., has been engaged to speak before the student body on Thursday evening, November 14, in Washington Hall. Dr. Walsh has spoken before the students of the University on previous occasions, and has indeed won the friendship of those students who either heard him speak or have come into personal contact with him.
Dr. John T. Frederick, Ph. D., editor of “The Midland,” is scheduled to lecture in Washington Hall on the evening of December 3. His lecture is primarily for those students who are now in the various English courses; however, any student in the University is welcome, and Dr. Frederick’s lectures will prove to be of interest to all present.
202
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Vernon J. Knox President Junior Class
JUNIOR CLASS INFORMAL NEXT FRIDAY; SAINT
MARY’S TO ATTEND
The Junior Class Informal, the first dance sponsored by the class of 1931, will be held next Friday evening in the Palais Roy-ale b a 11 -room, South Bend. The d a ncing will begin at 8:30. A r range-ments for the dance are rapidly nearly completion according to the general c h airman, Joseph
Deeb, and present plans indicate that this affair’ will be one of the outstanding social events of the year.
Music will be furnished by the Indianans, one of the best known orchestras in this vicinity. The band will offer-several distinct novelty acts during the evening.
Through special arrangements made by President Vernon J. Knox, the students of Saint Mary’s will be allowed to attend the dance. This marks the first informal dance which the students of Saint Mary’s will attend, and in all probability their only informal dance of the year. Notre Dame is indeed fortunate in having Saint Mary’s students as their guests.
Outside of the Junior Prom, which will be held the first week in February, this is the only dance held under the auspices of the Junior class. Members of all classes are cordially in-vited to attend, as permissions will be granted by their rectors; twelve o’clock permissions being granted those with tickets.
The committee in charge of this dance includes: Robert Kennedy, John Kuhn, John Zabach, James J. Kearney, and Bud Tuohy.
GLEE CLUBS TO BROADCAST NOV. 15
The Notre Dame Varsity glee club will make its first public appearance of the year on November 15, the eve of the Notre Dame-Southern California football game, when it will broadcast over the “Armour Hour” program from Chicago. Thirty seven states will be included in- the
National Broadcasting Company hook-up which will reach from coast to coast.
The Notre Dame singers will have the spot during the first half hour of the program while the glee club and band of the University of Southern California will furnish the entertainment for the remainder* of the hour. Songs of both schools, which will echo around Soldiers’ Field the following day, will be sent over the ether by the two organizations.
Jerry Parker, manager of the glee club during the past year and this, has made all arrangements for the broadcasting of the Notre Danie club while Professor Harold William Roberts, dean of the music department of the University of Southern California, has completed the arrangements of his club and band to broadcast from Los Angeles.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Notre Dame glee club and band, expects to take about 35 men to Chicago to sing for the concert. The club has been holding regular practices for five weeks and has many new songs, and arrangements prepared to entertain the millions of listeners who will be thinking and talking that night of the two schools and their teams.
The club will be entertained by the Armour Company, Friday evening with a dinner at which Professors Roberts and Casasanta will be the guests of honor.
COACH ROCKNE WILL NOT ACCOMPANY TEAM
TO ATLANTA
Knute K. Rockne will be unable to accompany the team to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game because of his continued illness. Doctors report that Mr. Rockne’s condition is not critical, but that rest is his main necessity. Visitors were refused admittance to his home throughout the week and the telephone was disconnected.
In the interval between Mr. Rockne’s recovery, which may be one week or three weeks, the team will be under’ the supervision of Tom Lieb, assistant coach. It is hoped that Rockne will be able to be present at the Southern California game.
SENIOR COMMERCE MEN TO BE INTERVIEWED
Inquiries are now being received by Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, from various concerns who wish to get in touch with
recommended Seniors who are now in the College of Commerce and wish employment after graduation. All Seniors in the College of Commerce who wish to secure positions for themselves for next June with these concerns, are asked to interview Dean McCarthy as soon as possible.
1000 STUDENTS TO ATTEND DRAKE GAME
The S. A. C. will conduct the student body to the Drake game via the South Shore Line, next Saturday and return them to South Bend not later than two-twenty, Sunday morning. In accordance ■with the University ruling, no week-end permissions will be granted, irrespective of permanent, residence in Chicago.
Trains will leave South Bend for the major part of he morning and will return immediately after the game until twelve o’clock. Classes will be held as usual on Saturday morning.
FRESHMAN CLASS NOMINATIONS NOV. 8
According to Robert Hellrung, chairman of the Students Activities Council, nominations for the office of president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer for the class of 1933 will be held in the gymnasium, Friday, November 8th, at 12:30 p. m. Final elections will take place Thursday, November 14th in the gym, between the hours of 12:30 and 5:00 p.m.
GRIDGRAPH TO BROADCAST GEORGIA TECH GAME
Again next Saturday at 2:00 p. nr., the student body will file into the gymnasium to receive a play-by-play account of the Georgia Tech game. For the first time this year, the Gridgraph Committee has called every facility into use to give more interesting accounts of the games.
The Gridgraph this year, is so great an improvement over those of former years that the accounts of the game almost transports the listener to enjoy each plunge, each flying tackle, each shrill of the whistle.
Frank McGreal will be the official announcer this week, and upon him will rest the responsibility of giving the students and guests of the Gridgraph committee, a clear, thrilling account of the battle with the Golden Tornado. -

The Notre Dame Scholastic
203
Editors of New Quarterly Announced
Board of Publications Names Five Men
The Board of Editors for the new campus literary publication, appointed by the Board of Publications, is as follows: The chairman of the new magazine will be Louis Heitger, a senior in the College of Commerce. He will be assisted by four associate chairmen, Cyril Mullen, president of the Scribblers; John L. Nanovic, editor of the Juggler; Murray Hickey Ley, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, and Louis Brennan, a promising sophomore writer.
Heitger Chairman
Mr. Heitger, while a member of the Commerce school, has acquired local fame by his literary endeavors. Several of his stories were published last year in the Scholastic and received much favorable comment. The new publication will contain some of his latest work. In keeping with
Louis Heitger
Walsh Hall’s bid for recognition as the home of campus literati, Mr. Heitger acknowledges his residence there as a matter of policy. All material is to be submitted to Mr. Heitger.
Scribber President is Member
Cyril Mullen, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and president of the Scribblers, will be one of Mr. Heitger’s associates. Both Mr. Mullen and his brother, Jack, who was editor of the Scholastic two years ago, have made themselves famous for their literary ability. As associate chairman of the new publication, Mr. Mullen will be an invaluable aid in choosing the best campus talent for publication.
“Juggler” Head on Beard
The Publications Board, feeling that it would be well to have a representative of the Juggler on the new staff, chose John L. Nano vic as a second assistant to the chairman. Mr. Nanovic is a prominent writer who'has seen his articles and stories in almost every publication printed at the University. H e has had experience on the Literary staff of the Scholastic, a s well as practical journalistic expe
rience. During the past summer, he edited his own home town paper in Palmerston, Pennsylvania. His position as editor-in-chief of the Jztggler is a silent acknowledgement of his ability.	’
“Scholastic" Chief Associate Editor
The staff of the new publication has secured the services of Murray Hickey Ley as a board member. Mr. Lay has seen his critical articles and poetry printed in the Scholastic,
Cyril Mullen
and several years ago when the Anthology was printed, he was represented by a short story and a poem. The Anthology, it will be remembered, was a collection of the best verse and prose of the student body. At present Mr. Ley is serving in the capacity of editor-in-chief of the Scholastic.
Sophomore Completes List
A sophomore, Louis Brennan, of the School of Arts and Letters, was chosen to complete the staff., During his freshman year, he wrote several excellent criticisms which called attention to his'ability. Many articles from him are expected during the year. Like many able writers Mr. Brennan is extremely shy and retiring. To date he has successfully eluded the photographer, but we hope that in some future issue we may triumphantly produce a ‘‘cut” of him. The other members of the staff were photographed during unexpected intervals when they were caught off their* guard.
To Seek Out Best Campus Talent
The new publication is to be a col
Murray Hickey Ley
lection of the best campus talent available. It will try to preserve the admirable traditions of the famous Anthology.
The Anthology, which appeared in 1927, was composed of selected articles from the best short stories, poems, criticisms, and one-act plays published during the year. The new magazine expects to equal, in point of literary merit, the excellent record of the Anthology.
First Issue December Second
The first issue will appear on the campus December 2. While many appropriate names have been suggested for the new literary endeavor, the Board of Publications has not as yet made a choice. The title will appear in an early issue of the Scholastic.
204
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
Two weeks ago we interviewed Timothy A. Moynihan for this col-
umn. The interview
Tim Moynihan
was a very pleasant one; we wrote our story, — but then things began to happen. There was only one cut of Tim, and the Scholastic’s Sports Editor w’ant-ed to use it for the Sports page.
Being magnanimous that way, we waived our prior rights to the cut and held the writeup for the next issue. As you all know, Tim is one of the mainstays of the Varsity line.
Tim’s liking and aptitude for football was developed at Rawlings High School, Rawlings, Wyoming, where men .... oh well, we won’t say it. Since there is only one place for football players of speed and power, Tim came to Notre Dame, where he has been one of Rockne’s best bets for two years. In his freshman year he started out as a tackle, but was shifted to center. In his sophomore year he earned a monogram by his fine playing on the shock troops. When Johnny Fredericks graduated in 1928, Moynihan became the regular center, and Walter Eckersall picked him for his All-Western team that year. As for this year—well, most of us saw him play in the Wisconsin
game.
In addition to his two monograms for football, Tim also has two basketball monograms. He has been on the basketball team for two years as guard, and a very capable one to boot. When in action on the court he is always worth watching, for his nonchalant, seemingly indifferent style of guard play is as colorful to watch as it is deceptive to the opposing team.
Tim states that Professor Hines is his favorite instructor, while history is his hobby. “History, he says, has always appealed to me. The record of the past as revealed by Mr. Hines, has a fascination not to be had by any other study. Yes, history is my favorite hobby.” -
PUBLICITY DEPARTMENT IN MANY TASKS .
Publicity is unpaid advertising. A newspaperman would laugh at the idea of giving out valuable space for free advertising, but Notre Dame secures space worth thousands of dollars free through the work of the publicity department. The chief work of the department is that of keeping the public informed of the interesting happenings here, athletic and scholastic. The department supplies the important newspapers of . the country with news stories and feature articles about Notre Dame. It maintains a telegraphic service with the main newspapers also.
Mr. West and Mr. Hurley are codirectors of the department. Mr. West, who is also the golf supervisor at the University, came to Notre Dame in the fall of this year. He has had several years of journalistic experience on such well-known newspapers as the New York World and the Chicago Tribune, and it is probable that he will teach classes in journalism next semester. Within the short time that he has been here, he has proven himself capable of making the department one of the most efficient units of service here.
The football season is undoubtedly the busiest season for the department. The Daily Star of What Cheer, Iowa, sends in a request for pictures of the “B” team and of the Notre _ Dame mascot, if any, and it is the duty of the department to supply the required pictures. The distribution of press tickets for the home games, so-called, is one of the department’s most exacting tasks, because there has never yet been an instance where the demand did not far exceed the supply. The telegraphic reports of team injuries, team practices, etc., is another important item.
Besides these services, the department is entrusted with the handling of many minor matters. When a book is written by a member of the faculty the author may request the department to do everything possible to make the book known to the outside world. Unusual local episodes—like that of the Chapel Car used by the football team—which have publicity value, are reported by the Department to more than three hundred and fifty newspapers. Last year the de-, partment sent out a travelling library and gave it the publicity necessary to insure the success of such a venture.
K. OF C. HOLDS BIMONTHLY MEETING
It was announced by Grand Knight Chevigny at a regular bi-monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, held last Monday evening in the Council chambers, Walsh Hall, that the first initiation under the present group of officers, will be held on the second Sunday of November. Already a large number of applications for membership have been submitted to the membership committee and the next class promises to be a large one.
After the formal part of the meeting Lecturer Francis McGreal called upon many of the members present for extemporaneous talks. The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., Chaplain of the Council, when called upon replied with several stories from his seemingly unlimited supply of anecdotes. Following him Warden John Cannon, Advocate Thomas Cunningham, Joseph Nash, Frank McAdams, and Bernie Conroy spoke. Lecturer McGreal is to be complimented on his discovery, among the members on the campus, of such latent ability as was brought before the assembled brothers Monday evening. In his choice of such members as Dan Cannon and Fred Rahaim to exhibit some plain and fancy steps of the terpsichorean art, he conclusively proved that the campus abounds with men who are capable entertainers.
Besides the entertainment from within the Council the worthy Lecturer also secured John Beljon’s Trio, consisting of three members of the Notre Dame Jugglers: John Folks, Patrick Mangan, and John Beljon, theii* leader. Along with this trio, Jerry Roach rendered several vocal selections to the great satisfaction of the members.
VILLAGERS’ CLUB TO HOLD DANCE
The Villagers’ Club will hold a dance tomorrow evening, November 2. The affair is to be held in the Oliver Hotel between the hours of 9 and 12, and Fred Faust and his Music Masters have been engaged to play the program of the dances. Forrest Hazen is chairman of arrangements. The admission will be $1.50 a couple, and tickets can be purchased from members of the club or at the door on the evening of the dance.
The Notre Dame Sc h o 1 a
11 Music and Drama 11
La Argentina is again flashing her ultra-high Cuban heels and clicking her saucy castanets in Manhattan. Last week she gave a recital that }vas the most successful kind of a success. The audience didn’t applaud, it cheered. She is planning on giving sixty recitals, during the winter, throughout the length and breadth of these United States and will appear in Chicago in the early part of December. She posses all of the charm and grace that any dancer could hope to have, plus all kinds of personality. If at all possible, take in one of her remarkable performances. I reiterate, don’t miss La Argentina.
On November the eighteenth, Katharine Cornell will appear at the Selwyn Theatre in Chicago. She is to be seen in a dramatization of Edith Wharton’s The Age of Innocence. Miss Cornell is supposedly America’s claim to dramatic fame and as I remember- her in The Letter, she was most excellent.
Fritzi Scheff of light opera fame, is airpearing in New York, in a series of revivals, notably Herbert musical comedies. Famous Viennese Fritzi, who was the toast of New York twenty years ago; who sang at the Metropolitan for three years and then signed a contract for the then fabulous sum of a thousand dollars a week; who was dined by the Astors and the Vanderbilts and who possessed a waist just seventeen inches in circumference. But since the war, Fritzi’s life has not been a bed of roses. The public clamored for musical shows that savored of anatomy classes. The sweetness of the musical comedy of earlier days had disappeared and poor Fritzi had a few years of struggle. Now at the none too tender age of fifty, she is again treading the boards. She is singing Mlle. Modiste and Sweethearts just as she did in 1905 and is taking the metropolis by storm.
Demure Jane Cowl is playing in a mediocre piece of work entitled Jenny. Critics have pondered why she throws her talent into such a waste of time as this. With her ready wit and sly laughter she will always draw the crowd, but an actress of her ability should not fool with such a superficiality as Jenny.
Ring Lardner’s June Moon has settled itself for a nice stay in a
place called Manhattan Island. Critics pronounce it the funniest thing since the return of the prodigal son. Uncle Ring even went so far as to compose a few lyrics for it and they are, to say the least, as funny as the story about Ring and the Southern Gentleman. New York critics called it “the laughing hit” so it must be that. We hope it is, because its a hard winter that has to be spent in Great Neck. If you dote on comedy (plenty of it) you will go and love June Moon with Norman Foster, Lee Patrick. Linda Watkins and Harry Rosenthal, and, by the way, George Kaufman helped Ring with the story.
ENGLISH SEALS IN MORRISSEY HALL
The English university seals which have been encased in the wall panels of Morrissey Hall lobby are beautiful examples of the excellent work being done in the Fine Arts School. The seals are painted in the Design class of Professor Stanley S. Sessler. The class spent most of the second semester of last year in working on them. They were completed and set up in the hall lobby shortly before Commencement.
Although but twenty seals grace the walls at present, these are only the beginning of a' decorative scheme which will embrace the entire lobby. Twelve more bits of painting have been finished by Professor Sessler’s students and these will be added to the present decorations in the near future. The plans call for thirty more seals to be done, which, when finished, will occupy every square in the wall panels. In the large panel which faces the entrance to the hall, a beautifully designed canvas will be placed.
The seals which have been already set up are exquisitely colored and are rich in their symbolic significance. Each one is an exact reproduction of the original seal. Eighteen of them are of Oxford and her colleges and the two remaining ones are the Cambridge University seal and the seal of Christ’s College. Further seals will be added, representing the most ancient and most venerable of the colleges of Cambridge. Professor Sessler has written to the outstanding institutions of learning throughout the world and has acquired an extensive collection of university seals. From these will be chosen the ones the art students will paint, until enough have been done to complete the decoration of the lobby.
tic •	205
The Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C. S. C., rector of Morrissey Hall, says that the purpose of the paintings is more educational than decorative. Each insignia is a perfect specimen of scientific heraldry, and each contains history which goes back as far as the Middle Ages. The facts and legends connected with the beginnings of various colleges which the seals represent, are interesting and enlightening. Students who have found the seals intriguing in the mystery of their symbols would do well to look up their significance.
NEW MEN ADDED TO SCHOLASTIC STAFF
The Scholastic announces the appointment of four new men to the news staff with this issue. Joseph Reedy and John Motz, Seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, and Leslie Raddatz and George Allen, fr,esh-men in the same college, comprise the new men to be added to the staff at this time.
Now that the Scholastic is more properly a news magazine, the cooperation of the entire student body is needed to make it a success. Any news that may be of interest to the student body as a whole, may be turned in at the Publications Office, Main Building.
With this issue, Ramon G. Smith succeeds Joseph Reedy as club editor. All club secretaries may send in club articles to Mr. Smith, Science Hall, or to the Publications Office.
DR. MAHIN PUBLISHES CHEMISTRY BOOK
Dr. Edward G. Mahin, professor of Analytical Chemistry and Metallurgy at the University, has had his latest book, “Introduction to Quantitative Analysis,” recently published by the McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York. This book is an abridged edition of a larger text which has been in use in about 125 colleges and universities. Dr. Mahin wrote this book, which is now being used as a standard text, in order that schools other than strictly engineering and chemical ones could make use of it.
This book is the third in the “International Chemical Series.” Dr. Mahin is also the author of “Quantitative Analysis,” and “Quantitative Agricultural Analysis.” This latter book was written in collaboration with Dr. R. H. Carr, professor of Agricultural Chemistry at Purdue University.
206
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUbS
BOSTON CLUB
The club chaplain, Reverend Francis J. Boland, C. S. C., gave a talk at the Smoker in the Faculty Dining Hall last Wednesday. Speaking of the educational facilities offered by Notre Dame, Reverend Boland stated with due emphasis that “because we came so far to school, we must have been firmly convinced that Notre Dame offers something which no other American college can offer.” Thanking the chaplain for his words and suggestions, President Driscoll assured him that “Notre Dame offers infinitely more than any of the colleges in Boston,” and he stated further that “it is the duty of our local club to see that the leading schools and academies in the Metropolitan Boston area are acquainted with Notre Dame’s unusually fine educational facilities.”
Reverend Boland recalled a few famous lines which seem to characterize the personality of Boston’s old families: “Here’s to good old Boston, the home of the Bean and the Cod, where Lowells speak only to Cabots and Cabots speak only to God.”
Jack Saunders, Chainnan of the Dance Committee, read aloud a couple of telegrams from two of the leading hotels bidding for the Christmas party.
EAST PENN CLUB
The banquet of the East Penn and Johnstown clubs was held Thursday, October 17, in the South Bend Inn. Approximately forty-five members were present.
Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., Honorary President of the East Penn Club, acted as toast master and introduced the following speakers: Father Cannon, Professor Paul Fenlon, of the English Department, and Doctor Cooney, of the School of Journalism.
Following the speakers, Zeno Staudt and John Beljon offered several banjo and piano selections.
PITTSBURGH CLUB
At the last meeting of the Pittsburgh Club, plans had been completed for running a special train tn the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game, but difficulties arose which could not be overcome, and the plan had to be called off.
The president of the Club, however, Thomas Murphy, succeeded in getting to Pittsburgh, and concluded plans for the Christmas Formal. The old members will be delighted -to hear that the Ball will again be held at the Pittsburgh Field Club. Already out-of-town requests for tickets have been received by the Secretary, and ticket sales plans are being discussed among the various committees selected for that purpose.

At the last meeting, James Dodson was appointed general chairman and his aides are: Anthony Wise, Jr., William Steitz, John Roney, Eugene Coyne, William Magarral, Bernard Conroy, Charles Spinelli, John Hickey, and Richard O’Toole. Tickets for this dance will be printed soon. All members are asked to watch for the next meeting date in the Scholastic. /
NORTHERN NEW YORK CLUB
The Northern New York Club has organized for the present year, and has already outlined a program of events for the pre-Christmas season. New members, numbering fourteen were introduced at the last meeting held in the Law Building last week.
The next meeting will be held within the next two weeks for the purpose of concluding plans for a banquet to be held before the Christmas vacation, and the usual Christmas dance.	*
James Bordeau was elected secretary, and all new members who have not yet entered the club should hand their names to him at an early date.
UTICA CLUB
The last meeting of the Utica Club was held last Sunday morning in the South room of the Library to begin plans for the Christmas dance, and to conclude plans for a banquet to be held next Saturday, November 2, at the Green Parrot Inn. All members who wish to attend this banquet are requested to inform E. J. Sweeney, 112 Corby Hall.
ENGINEERS’ CLUB
On Wednesday evening, October 23, the Engineers’ Club held its first banquet of the year. There were approximately 200 members present, and the event was a great success. The opening address of welcome to the new members and to all those old members who have returned, was given by President John J. Cassidy, who introduced the toastmaster, Professor Daniel Hull. Professor Hull’s lively discourse throughout the meal, and during the introduction of the speakers kept the club well entertained.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, gave an address relating to his recent trip to Detroit, where he attended the Thomas A. Edison golden jubilee celebration. The Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Engineering, next gave a very interesting talk, and he was followed with discussions by Mr. John J. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works, Mr. John F. Cushing, ’06, of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company, and Mr. John A. C. Warner, of the Studebaker Corporation.
Altogether it was a very interesting evening for the Engineers, and they hope that sometime in the very near future another such banquet will be held.
CLEVELAND CLUB
The Cleveland Club will hold its first smoker of the year on next Thursday evening in the faculty dining hall. The principal purpose of the affair will be to welcome the freshmen members of the club and give them a better opportunity to become more intimately acquainted with the members of the organization and its purpose. The smoker will also serve as a forerunner to the banquet which the freshmen of the club will give for the older members in the near future.
Clarence Kozak, general chairman, has secured several prominent members of the faculty as-well as a number of well known students as speakers. John Beljon will be in charge of the musical program.	-
THE NEW MAGAZINE
In this issue of the Scholastic definite announcement is made of a new literary quarterly to be published here at Notre Dame. The staff, -composed of men specially selected for their abilities in various fields of writing, is already planning the first issue, scheduled to appear on the second of December.
For some time the literary section of the Scholastic has been, in point of physical extension, an innocent victim of circumstances beyond the control of the editors. Now that it is removed an immediate two-fold advantage is at once evident: there will be a special magazine in which creative writing may develop in a real and obvious manner, and the Scholastic will become more truly what it should be, a record of events at the University, set down for the information of students and faculty of today and tomorrow.
So much for the Scholastic proper; now let us consider, briefly, the significance of the step that finds expression in this new publication; the significance, to us, of a magazine of this type.
Imparting information is but one of the many functions of a college; among the chief duties of an institution of so-called “higher learning” is that which demands fostering of the creative spirit, and gives tangible recognition to the floiverings of this spirit.
It is one thing to smile upon, to volubly encourage, the young writer; it is quite another thing to show him that his efforts are appreciated and valued, not only for what they are worth, but likewise, for the spirit in which they are conceived.
Life today, and we must say, life as it is lived in many universities, has an almost overwhelming tendency to exalt the noisily spectacular at the expense of the quietly worth while, to place on a pedestal the temporarily attractive, while relegating to a low lying plaque the permanently valuable.
Against such a trend we would set ourselves with all the resources at our command, declare our position with every ounce of energy in our possession.
We demand return to, and recognition of the essentials of education! So long have the gaudy externals, the glaring by-products held sway that they are now in a position to threaten seriously the primacy of fundamentals. And it is with fundamentals only, that we should, properly speaking, concern ourselves.
In the front rank of the elementals to be sedulously fostered by the college, scrupulously sought and seriously esteemed therein, is awareness of life! Awareness, awareness, and yet more awareness!
And right here we have a mainspring of the creative urge, a paramount cause of the creative output.
And again, right here, in this new magazine, we have a tangible indication of recognition of the writer, the critic, the poet, and the dramatist.
Short stories will record experiences, observations, that have for the writer more than ordinary, ephemeral interest; literary criticisms will set forth subjective interpretations of great figures in the arts, and, in so doing, create a new watch-tower on the boundaries of those visions of the universe held by the reader; poems will delineate sensitively phrased impressions of various objects of experience; one-act plays will picture those moments of life in which white and red flames clash in conflict; book reviews will sum up what outstanding figures of the day have to say about the day, and add to the summation the reviewer’s reply, to what has been said.
Of such things will the initial number of this new quarterly be composed; succeeding issues will carry on the tradition; but over all the work will hover the wings of the great white albatross of Awareness.
For it is only by Awareness that our lives are made rich and varied, our days wrought into magic, glowing tapestries to drape over the walls of the years!	—M. H. L.
208
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Cartier Field—Th
By ALFI
Warren A. Cartier, C. E. 1887
ferent faculty members, however, were all that saved the Athletic Association from ruin.
In 1899, after a meeting of various University representatives, letters were sent to the alumni for aid, but not a bit of help was extended the growing University. Whether the men addressed had cracked ice in their shoes or wore cold water bags around their necks is a matter of conjecture. Somehow it seemed that college loyalty, which to the alumni then seemed only
letic management decided to use a J shaped track in laying out Cartier f named after the generous donors bicycle track—they had bicycle race the gay nineties—and a foot t; circled the proposed football field ar baseball diamond. A grandstand aij clubhouse were to be erected on] southwest side of the field.	I
It was soon realized that such alp posed structure would soon be inadeq,!
HEN future Freshmen will be seated in the new stadium, perhaps watching a second edition of the immortal Four Horsemen running the ball down the field and plowing through the opposing
line with the aid of another Seven Mules—
when another Elder, Rockne, Stuhldreher, Walsh, or Gipp will save the day for the University—the past stadium, the history of old Cartier field, will be but a passing memory in their minds.
Shakespeare said once that all the world was a stage on which we are merely players. Experience, however, teaches that only a limited number of us are football players. Notre Dame men who have trod the turf ever since the incarnation of football at the University have immortalized the very turf on which they made and broke records.
Back in 1886, when the University was still in her ’teens, her football teams, unacquainted with the modern-day box office receipts played on an open field. This old system of conducting all varsity sports on such a field was soon found to be unsatisfactory. The burden of supporting the teams rested chiefly on that portion of the student body then residing in Brownson and Sorin halls. Generous sums from dif-
a matter of rooting for the teams when they played, was frosted. The contributions which were solicited did not even suffice to defray the expenses of mailing the letters.
Despite this set-back, the University authorities in June, 1889, decided to go ahead with the project of building an enclosed field. Those who attended these games would then have to pay admission in order to share expenses. A letter was sent to Warren A. Cartier, C. E., 1887, asking him if he could lend any assistance toward purchasing some land and putting a fence around it. Mr. Cartier, who resided in Ludington, Michigan, at the time, was a member of the firm of Rath and Cartier, and also of the Cartier Lumber Co. He was, to quote from files of the Scholastic of 1900, “respected for his abilities" and for his genial character.” At the time of his donation he was acting as mayor of his home town. The response to the request overwhelmed University officials. Father Morrissey, who was the president of Notre Dame at that time, was much touched when he read Mr. Cartier’s reply. The loyal alumnus not only promised aid, but said that he himself would buy the required lumber for the project, build the necessary fence, and last of all, construct a grandstand.
A ten-acre plot across the street (at that time) to the east of Brownson campus was therefore immediately purchased.
After careful consideration the ath-
An Early A,
for the needs of the teams, conseque: a subsequent change which resultec the first Cartier field was therp । adopted.	j
This consisted of an enclosed field vs entrances located at the north and sor west sides, and two entrances on the ivi side of the field. Specifications for/ field called for a 220 yard straightaa running almost diagonally across J field. On the north of this track wai
National Champions, 1924
be situated one of the two football fl with an adjoining grandstand. Sc of the runway was to be a quarter J track, banked at the turns so as to ; vide thrills for the bicyclists of that ' Inside this enclosure was to be loc another football field and baseball ■mond. The grandstand adjacent to field was built to seat 500 people.
Special attention was given to devc ing the quarter-mile track. A Mr
• W. Moulton of Vanderbilt Univer
The Notre Dame Scholastic
209
()/d and the New
J E. GALL
d bo was in charge of the work, gives ? me interesting facts about the coni' Auction of the work. There were
e ven layers of material on the track:
h.) three inches of coarse cinders, (2)
r spreading of earth, (3) three inches of i edium size cinders; (4) another spread-
,1 5 of earth; (5) two-thirds of an inch | fine cinders and loam mixed; (6) the wne; (7) the same only with the cinders
1, ill fine]1. Each layer was sprinkled
Cartier Field
;:nd rolled and final hardening was ob-c lined by using a seven ton roller. -^The University, recognizing the enerosity of Mr. Warren Cartier, vad a beautifully mounted and embossed mstimonial sent to him. It was etched ■St blue and gold on white parchment. Jhe decorating and subsequent painting .das done by the Art department of ^int Mary’s Academy. An old Scho-li STIC writer says that the fact that the i :ademy was doing the work “is an as-c rrance of the tastefulness with which j was done.”
; The scroll embraced the emblems of " arly every field sport played at that I ne in the American colleges and unirsities. It read as follows:
Warren A. Cartier, C. E. ’87 Greeting from the University of Notre ame. •
Grateful for the generosity which •ompted you to bestow on your Alma
Mater an enclosed field to be used in perpetuity for the athletic games and contests of the students, the University of Notre Dame offers you this assurance of thankfulness. The gift will be known forever as the Cartier Athletic Field, and your name will be inscribed in the list of eminent benefactors of Notre Dame. By your generous gift you have earned the gratefulness of the University, and of the students, present and future, to whom you have set a wholesome and conspicuous example by your loyalty to your A Ima Mater and your solicitude for her welfare.
This spirited example of generosity was never to be forgotten. It was perhaps this thought which prompted the teams to fight hardest when they had their backs to their own goal line. It was this spirit, too, which spurred on the team, for from 1905 to 1928, twenty-three years, they remained undefeated on their home field.
Notre Dame’s football history is a chronicle of brilliant achievement. Her first game was played in 1887 with Michigan: The Michigan team gave Notre Dame a few minutes of preliminary practice before the regular game. Such was Notre Dame’s initiation into the sport which in future years produced stars like Gipp, Eichenlaub, Rockne, Dorais, Eggeman, Farley, Salmon, Miller, Luke Kelley, Dimmic, Philbrooke, Cofall, Bachman, Walsh, the Four Horsemen, Kiley and Hering.
Back in the “good old days,” the flying wedge was the most popular form of assault. It was a cross between a steam roller and a 42 centimeter shell. The center was under no obligation to pass the ball. Whenever he felt moved by a spirit he would tear through the line himself with the whole team concentrating its weight in the small of his back, while the opposition concentrated their weight in the pit of his stomach. Skill was never permitted to enter into the limelight along with weight, blood-thirstiness and the desire to trample the opposition into the sod. Those were the days of moustached heroes. In the absence
Another Old View of Cartier Field
George Gipp
of the old cheer of “Holdemsonsofnotre-
dameh-o-ol-d-dem,” the atmosphere was rent by the dull crunch of breaking bones and the occasional thud of a luckless player exploding between the impact of two tons of beef.
Those days were soon over. Coming down through the years, we find Notre Dame’s teams winning countless victories on Cartiei- field. The terriffic line-plunging of Salmon and Eichenlaub, the uncanny forward passing and drop kicking of Charlie Dorais, the accuracy of “Big John” Eggeman, center; Lou Salmon, captain, ’02, ’03, ’04, the hardest-driving fullback who ever ripped an opposing line to shreds; Rog Kiley’s stellar performances, “Pop” Farley’s runs around ends—all these are still being discussed in the smoke-filled rooms of the students.	.
In 1905, Notre Dame scored what was probably the largest score ever made on any field in America. They played the American College of Medicine and Surgery and beat them, 142-0. There were 33 minutes of play, or an average of four and one-third points a minute. Yosts’ “hun-y-up” system in comparison with that is a mere tortoise. It is said that play was so fast that the only time the spectators saw the players was before the game and during the half. There was a period in which 10 touchdowns were scored in eight minutes, or seven and one-quarter points a minute. ’
And then came Gipp—the wonder man
. (Continued on Page 224)
210
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5 POKTS
Notre Dame Humbles Carnegie Tech
Fighting Irish Win Close 7-0 Victory Over Shihos
THE Notre Dame eleven, under the personal direction of Mr. Knute K. Rockne, chief generalissimo of the forces, safely patrolled the Carnegie Tech line so well last Saturday that they surprised 65,000 odd fans, the largest crowd
❖-------------------------------❖
His Defensive Play Has Been Feature of Season
❖-------------------------------❖
Ed. Collins
ever to witness a football game in Pittsburgh, and blasted the Skibos’ fond hopes of three straight victories over the Rockmen.
Rockne Pleased at Victory
Led by the inimitable and flying colonel from the blue grass regions of Kentucky, Jack Elder, the Rockmen plunged, dove, twirled, and twisted to a slim victory of 7 to 0. Slim as it was, it pleased Mr. Rockne, who could be seen in his wheelchair amidst all the smoke and murk of the fair city of Pittsburgh, along the side lines behind his men, grinning for dear life.
Elder and Savoldi—a combination such as is likely never to again appear in the history of football. If one of them isn’t able to deliver the other can be depended upon, and so it was' against Carnegie Tech. It was Elder who got off the only long run of the day for 33 yards, after slipping through tackle and dodging- the opposing backs, only to be thrown fiercely to the ground by a flying tackle from Murry Armentrout, Carnegie back, who seemed to appear from exactly nowhere" at the time.
Savoldi Again Saves Day
Gallopin’ Joe Savoldi finished the matinee session by cracking the Tartan line for no consequential gain on three downs, but on the last try with three yards to make for- the score Joe dove high over his line and cleared the goal for what proved to be the winning points. Frank Carideo nonchalantly kicked goal from placement for the extra point and cinched the win.
The ubiquitous Jack Cannon again performed creditably on the defensive against Carnegie Tech. Along with Eddie Collins, Johnny Law and Marty Brill, the Skibos’ offense was cracked at every turn.
Both Teams Shoiv Strong Defense
Perhaps the reason for the seemingly uninteresting contest last Saturday was the fact that both teams showed what will be undoubtedly the best and tightest defense of each squad this season.
Notre Dame counted only eight first downs against Tech’s three, and the latter were not made until late in the third quarter when a sudden flurry arose after the Fighting Irish
had made their touchdown and had relaxed a bit.
The Tartans put up a good battle qnd were, not easily downed, as some might be led to believe. Notre Dame had to fight and fight hard ev-
|	STATISTICS OF	THE	I
|	GAME	i
| FIRST DOWNS:	|
1	Notre Dame, 8.	e
E	Carnegie Tech, 3.	e
| PASSES COMPLETED:	B
E	Notre Dame, none out of 5.	E
E	Carnegie Tech, 2 out	of 6 for	E
E 38 yards.	, 5
| YARDS FROM SCRIMMAGE:
E	Notre Dame, 218 yards.	E
E	Carnegie Tech, 76 yards.	e
I	PENALTIES:	1
E	Notre Dame, 20 yards.	i
E	Carnegie Tech, 15 yards.	i
^jiaaaaaaatiaiiitaaaaaiaaattaiaiaaaiaaataiiiiiaaaaiiiiiiiuiiiiaiaaaaiiatQ
ery minute of the game; and the best team was rewarded in the end.
Karcis Punishes Notre Dame Line
Led by “Bull” Karcis, the Skibos tore and smashed their way against the Rockmen, but time and time again were thrown back for no gain. The largest advance made by the losers was a short eight yards, and that made on a clever end play by Murray Armentrout, halfback.
It was a bitter defeat for Carnegie but their defense was just a wee bit undetermined. It weakened just once but that occasion was sufficient for the Fighting Irish to eke out their lone counter, and then coast along with victory in their hands.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
211
SUMMARY		
Notre Dame,	. 7	Carnegie, 0
Collins	LE	English
McNamara	LT	Highberger
Kassis	LG	Schmidt
Nash	C	Ducanis
Metzger	RG	Dreshar
McManmon	RT	Schnupp
Vik	RE ’	L. Flanagan
Gebert	QB	Eyth
Schwartz	LH	Kerr
Kaplan	RH	T. Flanagan
Savoldi	FB	Morbito
Touchdown— down—Carideo	Savoldi. Point (Placement).	after touch-
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Moynihan for Nash, Law for Metzger, Cannon for Kassis, Twomey for McManmon, Donoghue for McNamara, Carideo for Gebert, Elder for Schwartz, Conley for Vik, Colrick for Collins, Mullins for Savoldi, Brill for Kaplan, Savoldi for Mullins.
*	Carnegie—Karcis for Morbito, Rosensweig
for English, Armentrout for Kerr, McCurdy for Eyth, Fletcher for Duncanis.
Referee—D. W. Very (Penn State). Um-1	pire—H. G. Hedges (Dartmouth). Head lines-
man—J. J. Lipp (Chicago). Field judge— j C. J. McCarty (Germantown).
FIGHTING IRISH MEET GOLDEN TORNADO SATURDAY
When Notre Dame stacks up against Georgia Tech down Atlanta way Saturday they will be bucking ■ one of the most “up and down” teams of the season.
- < The Golden Tornado has been living up to its appellation, doing just what a tornado is supposed to do. It , has been wrecking havoc with some of its opponents and skipping away r from others under the sting of defeat.
Georgia Tech launched its 1929 championship quest by defeating the Mississippi A. and M. eleven, 27 to 13. During this game it did not present the same smooth running
INTERHALL SPORTS
After a week’s layoff, the Inter-hall Football League swung back into action last Sunday with five games being played and one forfeited.
i‘- Larger scores than usual were made in most games Sunday, some being due to the winner’s superiority, but in most cases coming as the result of the breaks of the game.
r	#	,
,	Momssey Leading Group 1
Morrissey took undisputed possession of first place in Group I with a clean-cut 13-0 victory over their Gold Coast neighbors, Lyons. Morrissey
machine which won the national crown last year. Tech did show flashes of consistent form, however, but still the victory was not impressive.	•
The following week the Golden Tornado was snowed under by North Carolina, 18 to 7, on the loser’s gridiron. They came back against Florida the next Saturday and beat them, 19 to 7.
Last week Tulane was host to the Tornado and defeated them, 20 to 14, using a fast running attack combined with a mediocre passing offensive.
The Fighting Irish will line up against a team which has won two games and lost two so far this season. Notre Dame will have to combat a team which has two excellent punters in “Stumpy” Thomason and Mizell. Both have been getting off long spirals in the games so far this season. Thomason has been booting them as far as seventy yards and Mizell rates j'ust as highly as his teammate and rival, incidentally, as both have been fighting it out for the right halfback position.
Forward passes, from Dunlap, chunky fullback, to Tommy Jones, a temperamental, but nevertheless great end, will probably be Tech’s greatest threat Saturday. Notre Dame must present a better passing defense than shown heretofore or the Southerners may complete several passes for appreciable gains.
Notre Dame lost to Georgia Tech last year, 13 to 0, after six years of straight victories and will surely be out to begin anew when they take the field against such stars as Thomason and Mizell, the same two who performed so wonderfully against the Rockmen last season.
showed much strength in this game, and it will take a scrapping team to make them bow in defeat. Sophomore provided the surprise of the day with the manner in which they walked over the St. Edward team. The Sophs rolled up 25 points while keeping their own goal line unscathed. The second-year men were held to a scoreless tie by Corby a few weeks ago, so they must be content with second place even though their standing is still perfect. Badin forfeited its third straight game. It is to be regretted that Badin is unable to put a team on the field for these contests.
I RESUME OF GAMES 1 i SHOWS TEAM’S I 1 SUPERIORITY 1
E rT* HE keen defensive play E 1 which is the bulwark of the a E success of the Fighting Irish so 1 E far this year, is evidenced in a : E summary of the four games 5 E played. Notre Dame has gained 5 E nearly four times the amount of E = yardage its opponents have, E 1 on plunges and end runs. i E Including the Carnegie Tech E E contest, Notre Dame has gar- i = nered 1258 yards from scrim- E I mage against her opponents’ j E 324. Forward passes have been e 1 the nemesis of the Fighting | 1 Irish so far, for they have per- E = mitted the opposition to com- E E plete 16 passes in 45 tries for E E a total yardage of 172. Notre = E Dame has made 9 tries of 46 E 1 good for 144 yards.	E
E Completely outclassing the E E opposition in every game so far, E E the Rockneites have gone far in- E E to the lead in the matter of first E E downs, possessing 55 against 22 E E for the vanquished teams. E
□
Walsh Shows Power
Aftei- being held to a scoreless tie by Brownson in their first game of the year, Off-Campus “got going” with a 12-6 victory over Carroll two weeks ago, and gained momentum Sunday with another well earned victory, this time with Howard as their victim, by 8-0. The Day-Dogs’ line headed by Bill Walsh, and their backfield with Kozak doing heavy duty, seem to be about as good as any that Group II can offer. Walsh is another strong team in this division but they failed to impress in their 0-0 tie game with Howard a few weeks ago. In Sunday’s game they took to the air to defeat Brownson by 8-0. A blocked punt led to the safety.
Freshman Near Top •
Freshman Hall showed considerable power to hand Carroll its third straight defeat. With victories over Carroll and Brownson already chalked up, Freshman has only to take Howard into camp to win the mythical “Freshman Championship.” Last year Howard won this title from Freshman, so perhaps the boys from the opposite end of the campus are out for revenge.
212
The Notre Dame Scholastic
George Gipp, the Perfect Football Player
GEORGE GIPP, beloved son of Notre Dame, epitomized the perfect football player. Where sycamores whisper under a pale Indiana moon, Hoosier football enthusiasts still retell his dazzling exploits.
Tacklers missed Gipp by inches, but they missed him. His hip weave would have made a blacksnake turn green with envy. Every move was timed to eliminate lost motion.
Gipp personified that overworked term, “triple threat.” When he dropped behind Notre Dame’s light line, opponents didn’t know whether to expect kick, pass, or run. His passes, thrown like a bullet along a flat trajectory, usually found safe anchorage in Roger Kiley’s arms.
Harboring the quaint notion that the human foot could be used for kicking purposes, Gipp punted lazy spirals that often carried over the safety man’s head. Drop kick? This boy could boom a drop almost as far as he could punt. Against Western Reserve in 1916, Gipp split the uprights with a sixty-two yard drop kick, the second longest in football history!
Gipp gave all he had every minute he was in action, a trait. which ultimately cost him his life. Refusing to quit, he played through his senior year West Point game despite a dangerous throat infection. Pneumonia developed. He died on the campus he loved so dearly, looking out at the golden dome of our Lady’s chapel fired by the evening sun.
At Last! . . . . the greatest of all modern mythical elevens Football’s Post War Pantheon
HERE they come! . . . the football stars of the past ten years . . . the men of the new game who were greater than the great. . . the men we have seen ourselves . . . the galloping ghosts, the superb line-bucking backs . . . the quarterback who never made a mistake . . . the tackles who never missed . . . the phenomenal ends who were down under every punt, who couldn’t be outflanked. Here they come in review! George Trevor picks his first and second ten-year All-American football teams for s Liberty. Read his story of the men who brought countless thousands to their feet in a spine-tingling gesture of homage. In this week's issue of
^Liberty
■	Weekly for Everybody	,
On Sale Now
e
Notre Dame Schola
4
s
213
Team standings after games of Sunday, October 27, are:
Group I	•
	Won	Lost	Tie	Pct.
Morrissey	3	0	0	1.000
Sophomore	2	0	1	1.000
Lyons	1	1	1	.500
Corby	1	1	1	.500
St. Edward	0	2	1	.000
Badin	0	3	0	.000
	Group II			
	Won	Lost	Tie	Pct.
Off-Campus	2	0	1	1.000
Walsh	2	0	1	1.000
Freshman	2	1	0	.667
Howard	1	1	1	.500
Brownson	0	2	1	.000
Carroll	0	3	0	.000
Morrissey, J		L3; Lyons, 0		
The Morrissey Hall :			scholars	defi-
nitely decided the championship of the Gold Coast Sunday morning when they trounced the Lyons champions, 13 to 0. As the score indicates, the first half was about evenly fought. Lyons’ only scoring threat came early in the game when they recovered a Morrissey fumble on the 10-yard line. Morrissey held, however, and kicked out of danger a
few seconds later. The Scholars plunged deep into Lyons territory on several occasions in this period but lacked the necessary punch to put it over.
About the middle of the third quarter, Chevalier, speedy Morrissey halfback, returned a punt 55 yards for the first score. The .extra point was made. Shortly afterward Morrissey blocked their opponents’ kick, and following several end runs, Mortenson took it over for the second marker.
The work of Tighe Woods in the line, and Mangin and Hoff in the backfield was best for Lyons, while Chevalier and Melchione stood out for the winners.
Walsh, 8; Brownson, 0
Scoring on a pass with but 30 seconds of playing time remaining in the first half, Walsh defeated Brownson on the Varsity practice field Sunday morning. The winners blocked a punt in the third quarter and downed Henafin, Brownson left halfback, behind his own goal for a safety, bringing the score to 8-0 and concluding the scoring for the day. .
O’Connor stood out for the winning
eleven. It was his long ran around left end that placed the ball in a scoring position, and again it was he who threw the pass to Jane for the only touchdown of the game.
Morrow, fullback, and Henafin, halfback, carried the brunt of the Brownson attack which seemed much improved over that of recent games.
Freshman, 20; Carroll, 0
Carroll Hall suffered its third straight defeat of the season Sunday morning when Freshman buried them under a 20-0 score. The Main Building boys could not make much headway against the Frosh line, and fumbles ruined the few chances they did have of scoring.
Freshman scored in each of the first three quarters. Stechschulte, the Yellow’s big right end, scored first when he blocked a punt and recovered behind the line. McKeever scored next, in the middle of the second quarter, on an off-tackle play from the five-yard line. Rowen concluded the scoring bji crossing the goal line after a series of end runs and line plays had put the ball in scoring position.
YOU CAN FIND No Better Food in Town
Than at
Sumner’s Cafe
126 N. Main St.
SPORT TOGGERY	|
LEATHER COATS	j
SWEATERS	|
JERSEYS	|
BUCKSKIN SHIRTS	1
and JACKETS	I
GLOVES, ETC.	|
SPECIAL	I	I	MEET YOUR FRIENDS HERE |
CHICKEN DINNERS [ [	  j
“RECO” Store	|
113 N. MAIN ST.	]
I After Theater Specialties. | | OPEN EVENINGS TILL 8	|
EVERY SUNDAY	I i
I I The
214
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame	I
-	I
Georgia Tech	i
If you cannot attend the game you i can get a play by play report in the 1 News-Times “Pink” Football Extra, i containing final scores of all games; on - i the street Saturday night at 7 o’clock. i
1	THE
| NEWS - TIMES
QiiiiiittctittitiiHittnitmiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiittiBitimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiituiiitaiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiii
[•jiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiitiii'BiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiKiKiiiiiiiitiitiirtttttMtHrniiuiinHiifiiiifrtHtrtsrntfttj
I Follow The Crowd, Men,
i	to
| The Rainbow
I	Restaurant
i South Bend’s Most Beautiful Place i
E	Opposite Palais Royale	i
i	—o—	. i
e	'	We serve	;
Special Breakfasts, Lunches	i
e	and Dinners.	i
;	Mid-night Specials also.	j
=	—o—	j
i	OUR COOKING AND FOOD	j
?	ARE WONDERFUL.	j
Juiuiiiiiiiiillliiiiiiiiisilliiililllltitiisiiiiiiiiillliiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiititillliiiiiiiiiiiiiisiiiiniiiitliilal
[■JiiiiiniHHnjMHjamifjajfHmai


QaaBaiaBBaataaiiiBiiaiaaaaaaiBaaaaBBaaaaaaBiaiiiaaiiaaaaaaaBBBBBiBaitaaiaiaBBiiiiiiaaaaaaaiaaaaBaaaiBiiiiiiBBiiiitaaai
Campus Regulation Footwear Dictated by Cinder Paths
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop |
119 North Michigan St.	|
CREAM, BLUE -OR BROWN CORDUROY PANTS $2.95 and up
DOUBLE- SOLED Field-Shoes Rivited Vamps
$3.65
' Sizes 6 to 11
Boys* Sizes 2 to 5

GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
ifiiiiiiiimiummuiiiMiHMmiimimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimtmi
The Notre Dame Scholastic
215
McCarthy, Poynton, and Stech-. schulte starred for Freshman, while Malone and Van Allen were best for the losers.
Off-Campus, 8; Howard, 0
In a hard fought game, marred by frequent fumbles on the part of both teams, Off-Campus defeated Howard Hall Sunday afternoon by an 8-0 score. The Gold Coast freshmen could not gain consistently through the strong Off-Campus line, and fumbled too often to make a serious scoring threat.
Kozak, the day-dogs’ stocky halfback, scored the only touchdown of the day in the first quarter on a short run around right end. Early in the second quarter, a Howard halfback fumbled behind his own goal line and recovered to give Off-Campus a safety and two points. This ended the scoring for* the afternoon. The boys from ■ downtown threatened repeatedly in the second half but were never able to put it over.
t?. The playing of Kozak in the back-i't field and Bill Walsh in the line for ■ Off-Campus was easily the feature of t the game. Gehring and LaRue were V best for* the losers.
V.
Sophomore, 25; St. Edwards, 0
With a combination that scored al. most at will, Sophomore Hall triumped over the St. Edward “Minims” on Brownson Field Sunday morning . by the score of 25-0. Capter, fullback for Sophomore, frequently penetrated the loser’s line for long gains.
The first touchdown was made in the second quarter when a St. Edward back fumbled a punt on his own 20-yard line and a wary Sophomore . man recovered. Straight football, with Capter carrying the ball most of the time, put it across the goal. The second chance for a Sophomore score came as a result of a bad kick. The ball was taken through the line to bring the score to 12-0 at the half.
Cox took a pass from Conti to score in the third period. The kick for extra point was again blocked, making the score 18-0. A quarterback sneak by Conti just before the game ended chalked up the fourth marker. Garlangei' carried the ball over for the extra point.
Corby, 2; Badin, 0
Badin’s team failed to appear.
at its best... in a pipe
MEN’S preference for a man’s smoke—the pipe—is plenty positive. But do you know why? We’ll tell you.
First, pipe tobacco’s different— for instance, Edgeworth. Second, tobacco smolders as it should in a pipe. And third, these mean you get more satisfaction—greater relish of the good old savory burley, soothing fullness of rich smoke.
VAL BLATZ BREWING COMPANY
With an exclusive flavor that’s refreshing and lasting. Save the wrappers. See inside for list of premiums.
Milwaukee, Wis.
VAL BLATZ BREWING CO. MILWAUKEE. WIS.
There’s even a fourth reason: you like good company. The pipe-smoking brotherhood is that.
Tobacco’s at its best in a pipe. It gets a chance to be itself there—to loosen up as it comes to life, to expand and take in air and glow. Only the choicest leaves get that chance, moreover, for pipes tell the truth about tobacco. Choice leaves, choice blends, and mighty careful handling. Edgeworth comes up through eleven distinct processes before we’re willing to pass it on to you.
If you keep on missing all this, that’s your fault—for we’re waiting to send you your first pipefuls of Edgeworth. See the coupon? Fill it out, get a good pipe and the postman will bring you a neat little glad-to-meet-you packet of good old Edgeworth.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos—selected especially for pipesmoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15^pocket package to pound humidor tin.
SAWYERS Rainwear FROG BRAND SLICKERS
LAWYER’S Frog Brand Slickers have estab-w lished a lasting reputation on the campus among well-dressed college men and women where rain garments* of good appearance as well a* long life are essential.
Sawyer flickers’ are all good-looking* roomy* well-cut garments, guaranteed to keep )ou absolutely drv and warm an4 are to be had lined or unlincd. buttons or clasps as you prefer. >n a Hide variety of styles for every purpose. Your choice of colors. Shops everywhere carry them.
HM. SAWYER^ & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE. ------------MASS.
r«Vork.N.Y Ch»o«a.UL M.LowtaM® S» A««xita.Tc***
EDGEWORTH
1 Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741 2
LARUS & BRO. CO.,	I
Richmond, Va.	!
I’ll try your Edgeworth.	And I’ll	try	:
it in a good pipe.	|
Name.	—	I
Street	■	I
Town and State	|
Now let the Edgeworth come!	v	|
__________________________________J
I	Dr. Leo J. Quinlan	I
]	DENTIST	]
i 514 J. M. S. Building	j
= South Bend, Ind. i
216
The Notre Dame Scholastic
J THE SOUTH BEND	I
| CLEARING HOUSE BANKS |
I	—0—	i
St. Joseph Loan & Trust Company
1	—o—	i
I	INVITES THE ACCOUNTS	j
1	OF NOTRE DAME MEN	|
|	—o—	I
I	122 W. Washington, J. M. S. Bldg.	j
{■Jitiiiiitiiinitiiiiiisiiiiitiiiiiittiiittiiiriiiiiiitttittititiriiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitttiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiititfa]
Where Notre Dame
Men Meet
f “Always in the Crowd” |
1	Delicious Malted Milks	I
j KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG j j	327 North Michigan Street	|
J^MaaaaeaaiiaiaimiaimuaaiiiitaaiiiiiiiaaminataiaaatieiiiiiaiiiaitaaaiaiaaaaaaiiiamiaaiinaiaitimiimimQ
1	R. K. 0.
GRANADA
= The Students’ Favorite Theatre
4 DAYS—STARTING SATURDAY
THE STAGE STAR OF “LULU BELLE” IN HER FIRST TALKING, SINGING SUCCESS—
Lenore
Ulric
IN
“FROZEN
JUSTICE"
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT TALKING
3 Days Starling Wednesday Janet Gaynor
IN
“Four Devils”
You’ll Love Her in Her First
Talking Success.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
217
♦ ❖ ❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ * ❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ »:»	BY H. A. S. JR.
Possibly the most significant feature of last Saturday’s games was the comeback of several teams. Stung by successive defeats Princeton and Indiana battled their stronger opponents to a tie, while Yale, trampled on by Georgia, found herself, as the shadows in the Bowl lengthened, and led by the diminutive Albie Booth, rode rough-shod over a powerful Army team.
*	$	3:
The effect of two hard games in a row without using shock troops, even in mid-season, may be seen from the Harvard-Dartmouth game ' of last Saturday. Harvard, after battling Army to a tie the previous Saturday, outplayed Dartmouth up to the middle of the third quarter, and then cracked wide open. We will not say that Harvard would have beaten Dartmouth if the Crimson had not played Anny the previous Saturday, but surely the game would not have deteriorated into the rout that it was, had the Crimson not been forced to give all it had on the previous Saturday. In passing .it might be well to mention the great play of Ben ’Ticknor, the Harvard center, who stood out as a veritable rock on the crushed and broken Harvard team in the last quarter, just as much as did the elusive Marsters for the triumphant Green.
* * *
Georgia Tech is not to be taken too lightly tomorrow. The Golden Tornado may not be able to strike with the force that it used last year, but the Southerners ■will present a powerful team that will scrap all the way, and, in addition, will have the warm climate as a substantial ally. A northern team playing in a warm climate is bound to be enervated to a certain extent.
* * ‘ *
Coach Nicholson’s x-country men did well to hold Michigan State as well as they did last Saturday. State has one of the greatest aggregations of distance men ever-gathered in one school. No less than five wearers of the Forest Green can run the two-mile in well under ten minutes. Outside of Penn State, the boys from Lansing probably boast the strongest x-country team in the country.
S|*
WE NOMINATE FOR THE HALL OF FAME:
Bernard Crowl, a resident of Ridgefield Park, N. J., captain and center of this year’s Rutgers University football team, who last Saturday completed his thirty-eighth complete successive game of football without having a substitute. Crowl’s remarkable record extends over his senioryear in high school, his freshman year of college, and his three years of varsity football.	.
* * *
The Carnegie Foundations report contained nothing startling or new. It merely showed that even this august body can make mistakes. At least two of the schools they named as having a clean slate are guilty of one or more of the charges lodged against other schools.
* * *
Last Saturday was fair, giving us six wins and a tie out of nine selections thus far. Tomorrow we pick Cornell to down Columbia, Princeton to beat Chicago, and Yale, strong in the confidence of its newly found line-charge and the inspiration of little Albie Booth, to upset Dartmouth.
1	R. K. 0.	I
|PALACE i I Sunday-Monday-Tuesday |
!	5 EXCELLENT ACTS	I
E. & J. McCrea in ‘UP SHE GOES’ _________________I
JOE ROBERTS IDEAS
‘Smoke-screen’
- By ROBERT KASPER
Former Notre Dame Man .
Prize winning Playlet of the 1929 Chicago Drama League Tournament.
SEN0R1TA LUANA AL CANIZ
Assisted by
Juan Puerta, Hector Cortex
and
Louis Betancourts Marimba Band
. One Other Surprise Act.
I	On the Screen	j
I	ANN PENNINGTON I
I HUGH TREVOR \
I “THE NIGHT I | PARADE” |
=	An All-Talking, Singing, Dancing,	=
=	Melody Picture.	- :
5]a8aaiaaaaaBaaa8aaa„iaaiaiaa«niaianniiiiiaMmiaaaiiiaaaaaaaiaamiiiaaaaimi„i«imiiaiauaaaaaaaaiaaaaaamii[m
218
E"’"'Hlltlttttlll!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
innmijaiHitiitHtHittiHfifiiutiicitiutiiiHtMiMiMimnHiiHiiiiwftMHtiHHHtiirQ
JT p p P V tt t.
Sure! You Can Win
$25. in merchandise given free to the right guessers of the score of the Notre Dame football
next game ’
The Winners last week:
John O’Connell, Room. 386, Oliver Hotel, South Bend, Ind.
Bernard Sharp, 424 St. Louis St., South Bend, Ind.
Eugene C. Calhoun, 219 Sophomore Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Walter F. Philipp, 421 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
B. Marnocha,
429 South Pine St., South Bend, Ind.
Tipton Worthington, 813^4 E. Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Irvin Linderman, 609 Cedar St., South Bend, Ind.
Jim Trotter, 255 Sophomore Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Paul O’Brien,
Brownson Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Francis M. Loney, 307 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dale Lindsey,
R. R. No. 3, Box 77, South Bend, Ind.
George Hummer,
R. R. No. 2,
Don Burke,
619 E. Indiana Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Ernest Dice,
207 E. Bowman St., South Bend, Ind.
Robert Wood,
1032 E. Cedar St., South Bend, Ind.
Earl Carter,
1103 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Eugene Bliss,
143 Sophomore Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Maurice Murray,
217 Sophomore Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Alex Wilson,
109 Sophomore Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Kenneth Lynch,
616 West LaSalle Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Bill Vaughn,
114 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Charles Montgomery,
Carroll Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Norbert J. Guette.
129 Sophomore Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Ed. Lavelle.
Lakeville, Ind. Denis Deranek, 2014 Kenwood Ave., South Bend, Ind. G. A. Koch, 215 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Dick Yales,
1273 Longellow Ave., South Bend, Ind. Bussell Sabb,
Brownson Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Joel Egerer,
120 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Mrs. L. R. Owen,
1705 South Dale Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Marquis Menzie, 744 - 24th St., South Bend, Ind.
Frank Powers, 329 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
George Goron, 1122 Queen St., South Bend, Ind.
Virgil Healey, 433 E. Mishawaka Ave., Mishawaka, Ind.
509 N. St. Peter St., South Bend, Ind.
S. Wronski,
823 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Gerald Curtin, 823 E. Sorin St., South Bend, Ind.
R. A. HounsheB, 525 N. Cushing St., South Bend, Ind.
Hans Mohn,
R. R. No. 5, Bos 276, South Bend, Ind.
John E. Meyers, 613 N. Sherman Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Dick Uhl,
817 Cleveland Ave., South Bend, Ind.
J. L. Pierson, 221 E. Dubail Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Mrs. D. D. Dunn,
1031 Cleveland Ave., South Bend, Ind.
W. J. Gibbens, 427 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Try your luck
Make this your headquarters
----—----.
& a —“
Saturday thru Tuesday
Hailed as the Finest of All-Talking Dramas
MadameX
A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer All-Talking Drama with
RUTH CHATTERTON LEWIS STONE and Raymond Hackett
Wednesday thru Friday
You Know What a Doctor Is Up Against!
See and Hear
RICHARD
THE LOVE DOCTOR” A Paramount All-Talking Farce
With JUNE COLLYER
A Publix Theatre
The Notre Dame Scholastic	219
HARRIERS LOSE CLOSE MEET TO MICH. STATE
Michigan State’s cross-country team added another victory to its long unbroken string last Saturday afternoon at the expense of Notre Dame’s inexperienced but promising squad. With four runners back from last year’s championship team, Michigan State bids fair to make this its third consecutive undefeated season.
Notre Dame’s fighting harriers did not bow without a struggle, however. The closeness of the score, 26-29, indicates the nature of the race. It was a battle from start to finish with the better team winning out over its slightly inferior- opponents.
Notre Dame Finishes Strongly
Lauren Brown, who appeared in the C. I. C. and Michigan State track meets here last year, led the harriers to the wire Saturday in 22 minutes and 59 2-5 seconds—fair time for the four and one-fifth mile distance. Chamberlain, a teammate, scored next, and he was followed by Wilson and Howery, Notre Dame sophomores. Biggins took sixth, Cavanaugh seventh, and Captain Quigley, who was
hampered by sickness during the entire race, finished in ninth place.
To-morrow the Blue and Gold meet the strong Butler University squad in the only home meet of the season. Butler boasts one of the best distance men in the middle west in Joe Sivak. Urdane is another who should give his teammate a close battle every foot of the way.
DAILY PRACTICE SWINGS CAGERS INTO FORM
The candidates for the 1929-30 edition of the Notre Dame basketball team are now engaging in daily practices under the guidance of Coach George E. Keogan.
Several workouts a week had been the order up to last week but Keogan instituted daily drills in an effort to whip a formidable team into shape for the coming season.
A large number of candidates have been reporting for the practice sessions, including Captain Donovan, Ed. Smith, and John McCarthy, the regulars left from last year’s outfit.
Many Sophs on Squad
The present squad, composed most
ly of excellent sophomore material, will be kept intact until the close of the football season. At that time the basketball players now performing on the gridiron will report for cage duty.	.
Inasmuch as the football season does not close until the game with Army on November 30, Keogan will be forced to select a team from those now working out for the opening game of the season with Armour Institute of Chicago, which will be played on the home court, December 2.
Freshmen Cagers Report
Over a hundred freshmen basketball aspirants reported last Monday night to Coach Joe Jachym for the yearling cage team. Coach Jachym immediately began preliminary cutting and carefully weeded the players, giving each one an equal chance to perform.
Daily freshmen practices have been the order this week and it is expected that they will continue with a large squad kept intact. Arrangements have been made whereby the freshmen squad can practice at night, leaving the floor clear for the varsity during the afternoon.
Special This Week And Next
15 Jewel Studebaker Wrist Watch; White gold filled case $20.00
This watch sells regularly at $24.00, and you must mention this ad. in the Scholastic to buy at the special price
South Bend Watch Company
Store Hours	. J Qi -
8 until 6	yfOTP
Saturday until 9	* WCCCtl kJLU! V
- 1720 Mishawaka Ave.
Plenty of Pan-king Space ' No Time Limit
220
The Notre Dame Scholastic
j	HELLO MEN!	J
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
I	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	1
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
j GEORGE L. MILLER |
1	103 North Main Street	|
|	South Bend, Indiana	=
i	—o—	i
e	Scheyer tailored Clothes	e
|	represent perfection in	|
|	•	tailoring, woolens	|
e	and style,	e
j	$55.00	I
I	and up	=
j WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
| SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
I	West Washington Ave.
J IMPORTED and DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR I
[■JiiiiiHiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittttitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiitiitiiitiHtiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiitiniiiiiit Q
QtiiittitiiiiiiiuiiiiiMiiiitiitttiiiiiiiiiiiitiitfiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiittiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiHuniiitiiiiiinioQ
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
o
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS
FUywers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
•3

219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
El.
-13
The Notre Dame Scholastic
221
:	RESERVES WIN TWO OF
J THREE GAMES OVER
WEEK-END
Three Notre Dame “B” teams took the field Saturday against three schools, and in two cases returned victorious. The Wisconsin “B” team < proved superior to the Notre Dame “B” team in the home game played ; on Cartier Field. The score was J. 10 to 6.
*	Freshmen Trounce Valparaiso
The Freshmen ' gridders invaded Valparaiso to help that university celebrate its homecoming day and the - Irish yearlings severely trounced the * - Valpo boys 46-3. There were 3,000
fans present for the encounter. The Freshmen hit Valparaiso’s line hard and employed a variety of end runs, off-tackle smashes, and lateral passes to sweep the light Valparaiso team off its feet.
Defeat Northwestern Handily
Another win was recorded for the fighting Irish “B” team when a portion of that squad donned the moleskins in Evanston to defeat the Northwestern “B” team 12-0. The game was played as a curtain-raiser for the Northwestern-Wabash tussle. The Irish scored in the third period when Fishleigh caught a pass from O’Brien and ran 30 yards for a touch
down. Again in the final period the Notre Dame reserves counted when Williams crashed over from the five yard stripe.
The Wisconsin-Notre Dame game in Cartier Field was marked by a beautiful dropkick by Davidson, Badger back, at a difficult angle, from the 35 yard line. The second quarter had barely started when Abe Zoss intercepted a forward pass and ran 70 yards through a field of red shirts to score for Notre Dame.
Wisconsin scored on a fluke when Obendorfed snatched a Notre Dame fumble in. mid-air and ran through all opposition in a 50 yard sprint to the goal line.
morning on hundreds of campuses from coast to coast. Try it for breakfast tomorrow. Crisp. Golden. Delicious with milk or cream. Particularly tempting with fruit or honey added.
CORN RAKES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fra' ternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and
Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.



222
The Notre Dame Scholastic
qou can see and feel the d ifference -Nunri-Bush
cAnklefashionedOrfords
\A/^hen you burn / the midnight oil, provide for the extra tax on body and brain. Shredded Wheat—for the late supper and next morning’s breakfast—supplies the extra vigor you need.
Shredded Wheats/ Pleasant to eat—easy to digest
Patronize the SCHOLASTIC advertisers
❖ II11111111111111111111 ♦ | On Down the Line | ♦ I 111111 1111111111111II ❖
.... Here are the four dots we promised you . . . .We can’t keep up the idea .... there wouldn’t be enough room for anything else . . . . “Iron Man” Joe McGinnity, colorful National League pitcher, is waging a losing battle with death .... He set the modern record of 51 games pitched in a season .... In 1904 he hurled both ends of a double header .... and copped them both ....
—MAKE—
. . . Ohio State coach slated to scout the Illinois-Iowa game a week ago chartered a twelve-passenger plane ... he missed the train but didn’t want to miss the game . . . John Pesek, of the “grip and throw” clan, has had more than 60 wrestling bouts in Australia this year . . . and not a single fall lost in them either.
—THEM—
. . . Jimmy Dykes, the real hero of the “A’s” in the world series, is running a bowling alley in Philadelphia . . . Miss Kinuye Hitomi, Japanese broad jumper, broke her own world’s record for that event by leaping 10 feet, 10% inches . . . Only three world series have ever resulted in a clean sweep for the winning team . . .
—RAMBLIN’—'
. . . The average polo player receives nothing ... he spends from $5,000 to $20,000 caring for his ponies ... El Boxeo, as it is known in Mexico, is Boxing ... it is becoming a national sport there . . . Ohio Wesleyan captain, Ted Franz, returned a kick-off 101 yards for a touchdown in an early , game this year . . .
—WRECKS’— .
. . . New stadium at Duke University has a scout box, seating 60 scouts . . . White footballs are now legal . . . increase of night games made the national football rules committee decide that they could use them at night ... a real slugging bee was held between Philadelphia and the Cubs in' 1922 . . . the game ended, 26 to 23, in favor of the Cubs . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
223
QiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiBiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiamtitiiiiiitiiiiiiiti tHHiiiiiiitHiiiimiiiiitHmmmmiiiiiHaaiiimiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiimisitiiimiiaiBiiiiimiiiiiimmiaiaiimmimiimiiiiiiiiiiitiiiimmiiiituiiinmQ
INDIANA
£uxe
Cab Company
“The Cabs the Students Ride”
-	iiiuiiiiiittllllllllllliiilliiiiliiiiiiiillltliiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiitiiiiaillllliiiitililllliiaiiiiiiliiaiiiiiiliiiti	.	Z
j	After the Dance	I
|	After the Show	[
]	As the nights grow	|
|	colder, call an	|
|	INDIANA	|
Z	*	tiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiuiiiiiiiiiiiililtlliiiiiiiiiiiiaaaiiaiiiatiiiiiiaiiitaiaiiiaiitsiiaiiiiaaiiiiiititiiiiiiiii	—
| Call 3-7147	Call 3-7147	|
| ^Reliability! Safety! Courtesy! |
[JJiimiiHiHiimiiHiiiiiiiiiimiiuiiiiiiHaBiiimiiiiiiniiiiiiiaiiiHiiiiiiiiiaiiHHiiiamiiiiiaiiiiiimaaaiaiiaiiBaaiiaaaaniiaiBaBaBiaBBBBaMaBaimiaaiaiaiiiaiiaiia uiiamiiisammiiimiiaaMamaammiuMmiiiMiamiuiianS
224
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
CARTIER FIELD—THE OLD AND THE NEW

Shorter W cruse
Suits s40, s45, $5O Overcoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	.
<hurter Mouse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
;	The character of the suits and	:
F	overcoats tailored by Charter House	=
will earn your most sincere liking.
MAX ADLER i
S	Inc.	J
£ On the Corner Michigan and Washington —
(Continued from Page 209) and the most picturesque and outstanding player of Notre Dame football history. His memorable feet still tread the immortal turf on Cartier. The echoing thud of his cleats is still drumming in the minds of presentday Notre Dame halfbacks. The team of that year, 1920, and the team of 1924, the year of the Four Horsemen and the consequent national champions were hailed as the greatest teams to be turned loose on Cartier field. Their bewildering aerial attack, brilliancy in offensive and defensive play, and herculean lineplunging stand out like searing words burned on a human soul.
Through it all can be seen the misty spirit of Cartier hovering over the teams. The blotching of her escutcheon last year by Carnegie Tech will never be forgotten.
The new Cartier field stands are being rapidly filled. A mass of humanity is slowly filling its concrete seats. Banners, bunting, gay colored ribbons, chrysanthemums, girls, an autumnal sky and another Notre Dame team are providing an excellent setting for the first game. Thundered cheers are echoing across the molten blue of an Indiana sky. Humanity, crowds, footballs, tenseness, silence, line plunging, a touchdown, cheers, pandemonium, another quarter, no score, end runs, blocking, an injury, a steadfast fight at the goal line, two minutes to play, a penalty, a beautiful punt—the final whistle and a new victory to dedicate a new Cartier.
J)erit Experiment. With gottf Appearance
At the Best Mens* Shops
Qiuuiiimiiuiumiiiiiuiiniunuiiiiiinmnunuininnuuiuiiiiiiiiin................
Take Care of Your Feet	I
dr. 11 McKinney
Registered Podiatrist (Foot Ailments)	E
Phone 2-1840 por Appointment	E
Open Sunday and Evenings	313 PLATT BUILDING	E
by Appointment.	Wayne and Michigan	E
EI""'............................                ■■■■■■■■><■■■■■■..uim«»»»i»i>£l
niHHiniitiinHiiittiiHiitHHiiiiniiiiiitiil
The Notre Dame Scholasti
225
Beat
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
down at Chicago next Saturday—the gang is going “SOUTH SHORE" because they know it’s their railroad. Talk to Charlie Woods in the Book Store! ▲ ▲ ▲
Special (
« ) (Da? °fthe same) Medes j §4.25 Round Trip Offered ( (Over rveek-end)
Good for return up to Sunday midnight.
SOWRE
EVERY HOIK on the HOUR
226
The Notre Dame Scholastic
we want to stress the fact that truly fine suits - topcoats and overcoats bearing that sound name
“thomas craig”
can be obtained at the following prices
suib	29?° - 34?°
extra trousers 5.50
topcoats	35.00
overcoats to	45.00
adler brothers