scholastic 
APRIL 13, 1973 
L •: ,,
:,i\--~ '•
;ff··• 
-.ft,f{:--:-f:'Si>-: 


_:_::.,,• ,. ­
-· 
. ' 
•_,• r< 
'i~"'.. /;:.:-'t> 
:~-~~ s;:t~~~· ~,~:.. 


~:~t~&Ctio
ns
·~:f;~:._-·;S:~ :;, .
~:i~?\~{~f:;-,-, ,, 
'--1 .,,...,,. .. -,, .... :"'" 
·-~i,-,... ...~'!.l\-~.. -...

tft~~;:._,. 

., \," ,.,,,.,. . 
;~~\-:, ·:. ~--:.:;:-::·•<.~· "\ _.•:-·· 
~~~·~ ,-:-........ • •· ... ;,, Ji,.--• .. 'J, A .... •
):·J~.::··;~:'.:.,.. 
.,<" -~;::~>:.., ,­
?,:~.. •... ~~ ... 
...... ...... . .!I .. ; 
. *-,'•;:,~~:i--~ 
i~~l~~::;,~;••••,::w'~ 
The staff and the new Editorial Board join in :expressing ·deepest thanks and best wishes to Greg Stidhain~ and the graduadng members of the Editorial· B6ar_d ·and staff for 
· a year of hard work, dedication and· enjoyn1ent. Also, on -their behalf and our own, we extend our thanksJo·everyone at Ave· Maria Press· for their contin1:1ed· coop·eratiort and patience. 

:',:: 



APRIL 13, 1973 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 




scholastic 
4  editorial  
MONTAGE  
6  not quite the day to go sky-diving ANALYSIS  greg conti  
8  where do we FORUM  go from  here?  mark wenig  
10 13  on university governance: the goerner letters coming home to n;tre dame: some first impressions  robert I. kerby  




18  the future of liberal education  
19  student government: whither and why  
22  week in distortion  
THE  ARTS  
. 24  in memoriam  
25  art at n.d.: the benefactors' exhibit  
30  all that jazz  
32  and still more jazz  
34  byrds: tailspin  
36  magical  mozart  
38  deep throat: they.call this art?  
39  coming distractions  
40  dance for those who can't  
SPORTS  
42  what's new for spring?  
46  the last word  

terri Fhillips 
joe runde, jack wenke, 
t. j. clinton, tom enrico & pat roach 
t. j. clinton 
tim standring tom enrico buddy__vespole & Jim gresser kevin dockrell jack wenke jim bullock & paul colgan theresa stewart tom gora 
mare nishan & doug kenyon kerry mcnamara 
VOLUME 114, NO. 13 

The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, . Ind. 46556 .. The magazine is represented for ' national advertising by National Educational ·.Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, 
New Ymk, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during -_vacation and examination periods, tbe SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave llfaria Press, 
. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers arc available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre 
.Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHo~TIC. 
~ditor: kerry mcnamara / art director: jim purvis '/ production manager: jim pauer / assistant editors: greg conti, jim gresser, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke / business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: pat ahasic, paul bolduc, jim bullock, 
t. j. clinton, paul colgan, bill cumbellich, jim delong, kevin dockell, betsy dwyer, tom enrico, chris fahey, tom gora, don jaspers, pat keefe, kathy kelly, bob kincaid, mike king, tim kochems, juan manigault, mike melody, leo j. mulcahey, mark nishan, kevin o'mara, bob quackenbush, pat roach, mary siegel, tim standring, sally stanton, theresa stewart, katy sullivan, bubby vespole, mark wenig / 'business: gus brown, jim hoban / art & photography: earl hawkey, michael lonier, terri lustic, don nollet, nan smith . 
illustrations: photographs on 8, ,-2, 13, 16 from files I rubber stamp on 19 courtesy of-Student Government/ drawing-on 23 by t. j. clinton 1/ photograph on 24 by arnold ,newman / drawings on 30, 31,-32, 33 by tim standring / 
_photograph on 7 by ro~ert verho_estra / photographs on 43, 44, 45 courtesy . of the OBSERVER. . ­
copyright@ 1973 ·scholastic / all rights reserve·d / ~one of the co~tents may be reproduced without permission 
editorial 
NOTRE DAME UNIVER~ITY 
SEPTEMBER 7) 1867 
SALUTATORY! 
We greet the friends at Notre Darne and -St. Mary's. 
It rnay be well to explain to thern the object of THE SCHOLASTIC . YEAR: 
It has been undertaken in order to give to parents frequent accounts of the institutions in which they have placed their children)· institutions in which the parents' hearts rnust be) so long as their children remain) and of which all who have visited it retain) we hope)·a pleasing rernernbrance. 
We wish to convey to parents) in a less -formal way than by the Monthly Bulletin df Classes _and Conduct) which is sent to the parents of each student) all the news that rnay concern their children. 
We shall give an account of all the arrivals at the College and Acad­emy) both of students and friends/ of the general and relative progress of the classes)· of those students who distinguish theniselves in class) in study, and athletic sports -and rnany other interesting items, which) though not of importance in the great world) are of great rnornent in the "STU­DENT-WORLD/) and will be extremely interesting to parents. They (the parents) will see la vie intime -"the Family Circle" -of the Col­lege, and can forrn a good idea of the Zife _their children lead. 
. " -;: 
Questions· concerning the _purpose and worth of the SCHOLASTIC are almost as old as ·the magazine it­self..However, they seem to have acquired an unprece­dented acuteness during recent months. Therefore, as we begin a new editorial year, we feel it necessary to make a public statement of policy-an elucidation of our view of the magazine, its future, and its role in the · university community. 
The SCHOLASTIC is tl1e forum, journal, and public record of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. One need only thumb througl).. the 106 years of back issues to discover an informal running history of -the univer­sity-its people, its problems, its weekly events, its moments of joy and sorrow. In this it is unique and invaluable. However, tradition is, in itself, a weak ~gument. There must be more concrete reasons why this public forum, this journal of ND /SMC, should continue. · 
There are reasons -many of them~ Most impor­tantly, a university, in order to fully reap the benefits of the_ endless search for understanding which goes on within its walls, must establish and perpetuate a public discourse, an ongoing consideration and examination of its goals, problems and needs. A university cannot real­ly accomplish anything unless it understands itself ­unless it attempts an appreciation of its purposes and its . limitations. This understanding can only be accom­plished through a public discourse. At Notre Dame, the SCHOLASTIC is the only possible focal point of that dis­course. 
Though it is the most important reason for the magazine, Lliis self-examination is by no means our only function. The. SCHOLASTIC must also address itself to in-depth examination and analysis of those events ­local, national and worldwide -which are of interest and importance to the ND/SMC community. In this it goes a step further than any newspaper. It analyzes and reflects upon . those events which newspapers only report. 
Aside from its journalistic function, though, the SCHOLASTIC is also of cultural importance to the com­munity. It is the only campus publication presently capable of examination and analysis of important artis-· tic,· literary and cultural events. It is the sounding board of the arts at Notre Dame. 
Admittedly, this is a somewhat idealized view. How­ever, it is important to stress that this is more· a state­ment of future policy than an examination of past per­formance. The SCHOLASTIC can and must be all of the above, if only a few problems can be ironed ou~ and a few misconceptions dismissed. 
The most damaging misconception we are forced to contend with is that the magazine is controlled, oper­ated and written by a small "inner sanctum," .a closed­minded clique. Though there has conceivably been some justification for such a view, we hereby publicly reject it as contrary to our very conception of the magazine. Though it is inevitable that actual prduction fall into the hand of a small group, the scope and quality of the magazine's content are regulated mainly by th~ input we receive from the university community at large.. We cannot stress enough the imp.ortance of input, feedback and cooperation from everyone. If the SCHOLASTIC is to be the voice of ND /SMC, then everyone must.be aware of and responsive to his own role in our common dis­course. 
A related misconception which is almost as damag­ing, in that it severely diminishes our ranks, is that the magazine's staff is a small group, of predetermined size, selected competitively. Membership on the staff is open to all ND /SMC students, and input, comments, and criticism are welcome from all members of the univer­sity community-students, faculty, administration and staff. 
We begin this new editorial year with a great deal of determination and a commensurate amount of hope. The magazine's few technical problems can easily and quickly be resolved. Its larger problem -the uncer­tainty of its future and the confusion over its purpose -can only be resolved if the entire university is recep­tive and interested. The SCHOLASTIC must stay. It must continue to question, to expose, to analyze, to announce, 
. to praise and to criticize, openly and without flinching. Its future, however, depends on all of us. 
Kerry McNamara Jim Purvis Greg Conti Jim Gresser Terri Phillips Jack Wenke Joe Runde 
APRIL 13, 1973 
montage 
Not Quite the Day To Go Skydiving 
TODAY is Friday the thirteenth of April. If you got out of bed on the left side, stumbled into your full­length mirror shattering it to bits, accidentally popped open your um­brella on your way outside and ran helter-skelter under a workman's ladder as you fled an oncoming black cat, you've accumulated at least thirty or forty years of bad luck. Even the South Bend police would consider that a valid excuse for in­ebriation, so why not head down to Nickie's instead of reading this article? 
Even the more fortunate among us are familiar with at least some of the above-mentioned superstitions. They have been passed on for gener­ations by word of· mouth and often appear in the culture's artistic ex­pression. But even though we all think twice before walking under a ladder, few of us could give an ac­count of how or why these supersti­tions got started. So we decided to do a little research and came up with the following explanations. 
Today the expression "I must have gotten out of bed on the wrong side" is not used so much as an omen of ill luck as it is an excuse for a bad mood. But originally it was meant quite literally. People firmly believed that the way they got up in the morning would affect their lives for the entire day. The origin of this feeling has been traced to two pos­sible sources. The first is that people felt that is was courting misfortune to rise on the same side of the bed as they entered. They could not dis­turb the order of the "magic circle" and therefore had to get out of bed on the opposite side. The second in­terpretation is more widespread and perhaps more plausible. It stems from the age-old association of the left side with evil or deceit. This as­sociation could derive from the com­mon experience of most people that the left hand is weaker and less dex­terous than the right. The ancient Romans identified the left side with evil (the English word "sinister" comes from the Latin word for left), and they considered it unlucky to enter someone's home with the left foot first. For this reason the nobility had slaves posted at the entrance to their homes to ensure that guests en­tered with their right foot first. This slave's office became known as that of a "footman," a title we still use today. The "evil left" carried over to the question of rising in the morning, and it was decided that no matter what side you entered on, when it came to rising the left side was defi­nitely the wrong side. 
The Romans may also be responsi­ble for the belief that stumbling is a forewarning of bad things to come. Cicero mentions a fear of stumbling as a condition of weak minds. Sev­eral centuries and several thousand stumbles later, Shakespeare referred to this superstition in the following lines: 
For many men that stumble at the threshold Are well foretold that danger lurks within 

Historical examples of ill-fated stum­blers abound. Tiberius Gracchus stumbled as he entered his home and died the same day. Napoleon's horse tripped during his invasion of Rus­sia. The General ridiculed the sign but considered himself above Fate and continued the invasion which ended in defeat. 
Mirrors were not always reduced, as they are in our own time, to such subordinate roles as props on Head and Shoulders commercials. The superstition regarding the breaking of a mirror began even with the first mirrors: lakes, ponds, and puddles of water. The images which appeared on these surfaces were seen as indi­cations of the viewer's fate. A dis­torted or broken image was interpre­ted as a portent of evil -an oppor­tune situation for an unscrupulous foe with a pebble and a good aim. Mirrors made of more solid material also became the receptacles of mys­terious projections. Primitive men believed that the mirror image was a reflection of their soul, and that if the mirror were shattered then so too was their soul. Another belief was that the "spirit" which dwelled in the mirror would be hurt if the 
mirror were broken and so seek re­venge on the perpetrator of the de­struction. The Chinese used mirrors over the idols they kept in their homes as a protection against evil spirits. If the mirror were damaged or destroyed so too was the defense against the forces of evil. Seven years' bad luck seems small punish­ment for the malevolent instigator of such a vile act. 
The warning against opening an umbrella indoors might seem a su­perfluous measure, but it is deeply rooted in a respect for the natural order of things and also the influence of magic. An umbrella has always been meant and used as a protective shield in the open air. Opening it in­doors was seen as an offense to the spirit of the umbrella which would naturally take revenge -another seven years to the bad. Then too, there was the ancient fear of having an unjustified cover over one's head. It was believed that each individual was surrounded by evil spirits but that these spirits were defeated by benevolent mystical forces that pene­trated the evil envelope with invisi­ble rays of radiation. An opened um­brella was feared as a barrier against these beneficial rays. 
It is also considered unlucky to walk under a ladder, and for more reason than a misdirected pail of paint. The true origin of this super­stition goes back to the pre-Christian belief in the sacred trinity. A ladder leaning against the side of a wall forms the perimeter of a triangle. To walk through this triangle is a dese­cration of the sacred power and an intrusion into sanctified space. Even more than a transgression against supernatural powers, walking under a ladder was considered a disturb­ance of the trinity's potency in ward­ing off evil spirits. Early Christian tradition added another element to this superstition. It pointed out that a ladder was used in the crucifixion and thus was closely associated with the forces of evil. 
An encounter with a black cat can bode well or ill depending on which part of the world you're in. If you happen to be in Egypt, don't sweat it, a black cat is a sign of good for­tune. The cat is sacred to the Egyp­tian goddess Isis. Bast, the daughter of Isis, was represented with the face of a cat. The cat grew to be such a sacred symbol that anyone who 
APRIL 13, 1973 
killed one, even accidentally, was put to death. Unfortunately for most of us, our cultural heritage is that of European civilization, and in that tradition a black cat is extremely un­lucky. In the Middle Ages cats were seen as companions of witches and it was believed that a witch often assumed the form of a black cat to hide her/his identity. A popular tale about black cats is told in Lincoln­shire, England. A boy and his father came across a black cat and were so afraid that they pounded it with stones. The following day they ran into a person who was commonly suspected of witchery. Her face was bandaged, and she died soon after­ward. 
The most common superstition of all is, of course, that of Friday the thirteenth. Fear of the number thir­teen is a world-wide phenomenon. In France no house exists with an ad­dress of that number. After 12 comes 12½ and then it continues, skipping thirteen. Italian lotteries, of which there are quite a few, never use the number thirteen. Even in the techni­cized United States many office build­ings skip the number thirteen when numbering the floors. Again the roots of the superstition go back to pre­Christian mythology but they are supplemented by Christian tradi­tion. Norse mythology tells the story of a banquet held in Valhalla, the Nordic Olympus. Twelve gods were in attendance but Loki, the spirit of conflict and evil, crashed the party increasing their number to thirteen. In the ensuing conflict Balder, one of the gods' favorites, was killed.The Christian tradition offers the story of the Last Supper attended by Jesus and the twelve apostles. Later inter­pretations saw this dinner which pre­ceded the crucifixion as an omen of misfortune and death. 
The second half of the supersti­tion concerning Friday the thir­teenth also has evil implications. The name Friday comes from the Nordic goddess Frigga, Woden's wife and goddess of fertility. Fertility of course is not a symbol of bad luck, but again the Christian mythology is responsible for Friday's evil por­tents. It was on Friday that Adam and Eve ate the forbidden apple (or was it cranberry?), and it was also on Friday that Jesus was put to death. The Church made Friday a day of abstinence from meat in honor of the crucifixion. The com­bination of the evil omens of the number thirteen and the historical and mythological occurrence of mis­fortune anq death on Friday make Friday the thirteenth the most feared as well as the most common superstition. 
There is also a superstition against talking, writing, or reading about superstitions, especially on Friday the thirteenth; a superstition which has not gone unheeded by the writer. If you will recall, this article has dis­cussed the origins of seven supersti­tions and the figure 7 has always been a symbol of completeness and good fortune. Good luck! 
-greg conti 
analysis 


Where Do We Go From Here? 
A look at the Placement Bureau, and the entire economic situation of 1973 Notre -Dame graduates, re­veals some surprising information, when compared to the past few years. 
First, according to Dr. Richard Willemin, the place­ment director, the jobs that seem to be in the most dEmand at present are engineering positions. With the release of engineers from many vital industries in the late 1960's and early 1970's, enrollment dropped drastically in the field as counsellors wisely directed students away from engineering. Now that the supply has grown shorter, it appears more positions are open­ing up for these people, and the College of Engineering expects a greatly increased enrollment in the Fall of 1973. Jobs are opening up in expanding industries such as plastics and pharmaceuticals, and these firms just cannot get the number of people they need at pres­ent. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that in 
· the next 5 to 6 years, the shortage of engineers could reach 25,000, due to a magnification of the current shortage. Chemical engineers· are the most in de­mand, followed closely by Electrical, Mechanical, Civil, and Metallurgical, the differences being extremely slight. Dr. Willemin reports that Notre Dame engineers have always done well finding employment, even dur­ing the bad years, and so it is no wonder that very·few engineering interviews remain as many of the Seniors have already found jobs, or will find them shortly in an improving economic environment. 
In the College of Business Administration, Account­ing once more leads the field, with more firms than ever before searching for good people. With industry ex­panding and new state laws requiring more specifically kept books, this was not unexpected. MBA's are second to accountants in demand, and the growth of the MBA department and enrollment at Notre Dame reflect this position. MBA students here at Notre Dame are having relatively little trouble finding employment opportuni­
ties, and the MBA department will surely grow as long 
as this intense demand exists. Other business majors 
who will graduate in 1973 should have an easier time of 
it, according to Dr. VVillemin, than their counterparts 
did in 1972. 
Arts and Letters people are most in demand in the 
Economics and Government fields. AL statistics are not 
very prominent in Placement Bureau interviews because 
of the overwhelming percentage of students that go on 
to graduate study in specific areas. 
Placement reports indicate that the bureau's usage 
has increased considerably over last year. The only no­
ticeable decrease in registration was due to the elimina­
tion of St. Mary's students after the merger cancellation, 
but their numbers are gradually being replaced by Notre 
Dame women. The heavy overall increase in usage is 
due to the improved economic outlook, and the reduc­
tion of the number of students seeking admittance into 
graduate schools. 
Most firms which interview at the Placement Bureau 
have introduced new work-study programs for the stu­
dent to continue his education. The firms found this 
necessary as an inducement to the student who might 
otherwise prefer graduate school to working and thus 
cut short his education. The fact is that now most of 
the Notre Dame students interviewed inquire specifically 
during the interview about any work-study programs 
the firm might have to offer. 
Placement has initiated a number of innovations for 1972-73 which warrant observation. They have con­tracted with an independent publisher to print, in addi­tion to their fall manual, a new revised manual in February. The new issue carries important changes and omissions from the first book. In addition, Place­ment is going to have a closer contact with Juniors in the future, to take the burden off in the fall semester, by spreading registration back into the third year. And finally, they are investigating the possibilities of sep­arate interviews for MBA students. This is largely an attitudinal problem, and is only in the planning stages of being solved. 
Dr. Willemin stressed that the Placement Summer Program has not been investigated by very many stu­dents thus far this spring. The program works through Student Government and the Alumni Association, and currently the list carries more jobs than there are appli­cants. Opportunities have been compiled from all over the country, yet some firms find themselves without applicants. Students who wish to take advantage of the Summer Job Program are urged to come into the Place­ment Bureau, in the Administration Building, as soon as possible, since the deadlines are very near. 
Firms continue year after year to recruit at Notre Dame, and Dr. Willemin attributes this to University admissions policies. As long as Notre Dame is admit­ting a high-caliber student, Notre Dame graduates of 1973 and of the future can expect good treatment in the economic sphere. Indeed, former Notre Dame people have obviously worked well for employers. These companies and many new firms are seeking as many graduates this year as they did in 1968, when conditions were not nearly as bad as they have been recently. 
Mark Wenig 
APRIL 13, 1973 
forum 

On University 
Governance: the Goerner Letters 
Dean Frederick J. Crosson College of Arts & Letters O'Shaughnessy Hall Campus 
Dear Fred: 

Enclosed you will find the check for one thousand dollars which is the material token of the Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching. I do not know wheth­er you can understand the depth of my sadness in hav­ing to say that I cannot accept the award. However, I write what follows in an attempt to make my refusal at least comprehensible to you and to the community. 
Shortly before the ceremony for the presentation of the award was to take place last fall, I telephoned you to say that developments in the revision of the Faculty Manual by the Academic Council made me think that I had better not accept the award. More specifically, I said that the Council seemed to be mov­ing in the direction of confirming the status of the faculty as a body of "Uncle Toms," a status that seems to be no good for either black men or professors. That seemed to be the direction the Council was taking in affirming a structure of University governance in which the University was to be ruled by officers to which the faculty did not consent. I did not see how I could participate in a celebration of teaching without speak­ing about the proceedings in the Council, of which I was a member, that were tending to the definition of teaching as a vocation to servility. I did not think that a seemly thing to do and so I asked you to let the whole award be quietly forgotten. 
So it was not without some irony and surprise that, the day before the Sheedy Award ceremony was to have taken place, the Academic Council accepted my motion to provide that the Provost of the University not be appointed without the concurrence of the elected mem­bers of the Academic Council. I thought to myself that my proud prejudging of the outcome of the Council's deliberations had been suitably punished oy my loss of the award. 
So it was with no small surprise that, shortly be­fore Christmas, I received a note from you including the check for the Sheedy Award. Thinking there must have been a misunderstanding, I returned it only to discover that you were off in India for a long stay. Dean Plunkett assured me that there was no mistake, that the award was to be given without the ceremony and he sent me the check again a few days later. It has lain on my desk since, while I wondered whether I could rightly take the money without having partic­ipated in the public celebration of teaching for which the money was intended. 
But irony and reversals were not yet over. On Tuesday, March 27, the Academic Council, at the urg­ing of Father Hesburgh, reversed itself, amending its text of the Faculty Manual again so as to eliminate the provision I mentioned. Once again the community of scholars can be ruled by officers that may be flatly unacceptable to it and the President thinks such a power to impose flatly unacceptable officers must be retained at the center of our public law. A community so governed is despotic. 
Well, if I, as a teacher of politics, ever taught any­thing worthy of being honored for it would include the proposition that honors conferred by despotisms dis­honor the recipient and whatever good or truth he stands for. Shall I deny that and celebrate servility by my deed in accepting this check? 
If I, as a teacher, ever taught anything about learn­ing worthy of being honored for it would surely include the :proposition that the life of learning can only be governed by men who live the vocation to such a life and not by men who, drawn to other lives and objects, delude themselves into thinking that their strong wills are suitable governors of a community's search for truth and love of wisdom. Shall I now, by accepting this award from a University so governed, affirm in deed what I denied in word? Such a teacher would be worthy of no honor at all. 
I know, Fred, that in some respects the Sheedy Award need not be seen as an honor from a despotic regime. You were right to point out to me that it was in fact the gift of a generous donor and was voted to me by a committee of faculty and students and not by a committee of trustees and administrators. And I wish, by this letter, to communicate to them (who they are I don't know) this explanation of my act. 
I wish the donor to know that I in no way scorn his intentions or the handsome and generous sum he gave. It is a great sum both in itself and to a man in my financial circumstances. And I am grateful to him for his having offered it. 
I wish those who voted it to me to know that I dearly hope they knew what sort of a man they voted it to. If they did, I can at least be glad to think they will understand my refusal. Perhaps they will even agree that, in the present circumstances of this place, the best celebration of teaching and of the love for the truth must be in a steadfast refusal of a degrading servility. If I can still teach anything in this matter, let it be by encouraging us not to be so embittered by the need for refusal as not to wish for, work for, and greet with joy, if it comes, a regime that a free man and a scholar can support without shame. 
Sincerely, 
E. A. Goerner Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C. 

Secretary, Academic Council 
Main Building 
Campus 
Dear Father Brown: 
My understanding of the vocation of a professor is that he is a searcher after truth and a lover of wisdom who recounts that search and witnesses that love to others. A university seems to me to be a community of such searchers and lovers and those who listen to and question them, thereby engaging in a like search and love themselves. The character of that vocation, as the character of its objects, seems to me to be such as not to admit that the search be governed by men who have not responded to that vocation, whether they attempt to govern directly or indirectly, by way of satraps. 
The Academic Council, by its recent action affirm­ing, at the urging of Father Hesburgh, the power of the Board of Trustees to govern the University by appointees who may be clearly unacceptable to the representatives of faculty and students, has defined itself as a body that rejects a conception of the Univer­sity as a community in a common search for truth and a common love of wisdom. It has rejected that in favor of a conception of the University in which that search and that love are to be subordinated to the purposes, however well intentioned, of others who have other vocations. But such a conception of the University makes no sense unless it implies the subordination of· the search for truth and the love of wisdom to some other ends. 
A body that so conceives itself necessarily excludes anyone who thinks as I do since we cannot be expected to deny by our deed of participation in such a Council what we take to be true and teach by our words. 
That being the unhappy state of affairs, I write you, as the Council's Secretary, so that the Council will understand that my failure to participate in its further proceedings results from these facts. 
Sincerely yours, 
E. A. Goerner 

APRIL 13, 1973 
On March 28, Professor E. A. Goerner of the Government Department, in an unprecedented but not unexpected move, officially informed Dean Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters of his refusal to accept the Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching, which had been aw~rded to him by a committee of faculty and students last fall. The award, which includes a $1000 cash stipend, is presented each year to an outstanding member of the Arts and Letters faculty. At the same time, he informed Father Brown, Secretary of the Aca­demic Council, that he probably would no longer par­ticipate in that group's functions. 
Both actions stem from a dispute in the Academic Council over the long-debated question of University governance. More specifically, the question at hand was the method of choosing the University Provost, and the faculty's role in that decision. Having originally approved a revision in the Faculty Manual proposed by Goerner, which would make the appointment of the Provost subject to that group's concurrence, the Coun­cil, at the urging of Fathe;r Hesburgh, reversed its decision, leaving the appointment of the Provost in the hands of the Board of Trustees. It was specifically this reversal, on March 27, which sparked Goerner's actions. 
Reactions to Goerner's moves were mixed. Prof. Rathburn of the English Department expressed support for Goerner, and hinted that the Notre Dame chapter of the AAUP, of which he is the president, might have a statement to make shortly on the matter. Prof. 
Norling of the History Department felt the event could be easily explained in terms of the natural hostility between those who give orders and those who take orders. This hostility, he explained, occurs in any organization-military, corporate, governmental, edu­cational -where there are levels of hierarchy and authority. Father Hesburgh declined comment on the affair, deeming it an academic matter to be discussed with Father Burtchaell. Father Burtchaell felt that it would be inappropriate to discuss the issue publicly at this time. He expressed the view that, in time, it would be realized that the affair was not urgent and that facul­ty opinion on the matter was much more diverse than many believed. 
This is by no means a recent issue. It has been the topic of much heated debate throughout recent years, reaching a peak last year with the "letter of the 31." Though numerous professors have expressed accord with and support for Prof. Goerner's argument, there still appears to be a great deal of variance and dis­organization of opinion on the entire issue of Univer­sity governance. The question will no doubt be bandied about for some time to come. 
The purpose for printing these letters, then ( one of which has already appeared in print), is to invoke a discussion of the entire question of University gover­nance, to invite all the members of the University com­munity to join in that discussion, and to offer the pages of the SCHOLASTIC as a public forum. 
The SCHOLASTIC 


Coming Home to Notre Dame: Some First Impressions 
.~:;:~·~· 
""' . ., ,
_, . 
..• t' . ." -~_, __,_ --____.,.
4, 

SOME weeks ago, in a letter to the Committee on Campus Honor which the Observer chose to publish, I remarked that there are "many things \Vrong with Notre Dame, many things which sadden me." Perhaps it is premature for a freshman member of the faculty to comment upon some of the problems affecting Notre Dame today, but if I did not care for this place and believe in its potential I would not be here, and these matters would neither concern nor disturb me. Hope­fully there will always be room for fresh perspectiv:es and constructive criticism. Hopefully too, our common commitment to scholarship and to a humane Chris­tianity will always permit us to discuss issues with courtesy and without polemic, "to talk about the prob­lems, not about the people who make them.." Even though I find much to agree with and much to admire in Professor Edward Goerner's public letter of March 28, I am not inclined to attribute Notre Dame's difficul­ties to a "despotic" administrators' plot. That answer is too simple, if for no other reason than the fact that it gives the administrators too much credit for the finesse and political savvy of their administration. In any case, as I remarked during the course of a public exchange with Professor Robert Rodes, a gentleman with whom it is possible to enjoy an uncompromising but polite debate, "I am too old and tired to believe in devil theories and conspiracies." 
As both a graduate of this University and as a recent returnee with seventeen years' worth of experi­ence and observations accumulated as a professional military officer, a graduate student and teacher in a secular university, and a priest, I am indeed both sur­prised and troubled by some of the things I find here, so much so that I continue to hope that some of my initial impressions are incorrect. Most striking and most troubling is an evident assumption, more or less prev­alent, that policies may be framed and solutions de­fined by means of deduction from absolutes, premises which themselves are not subject to scrutiny, to inquiry, or to discussion. This Scholastic approach may at one time have been suitable for the construction of aca­demic theologies, but it is not attuned to the realities of the contemporary environment. Employment of this method serves to inhibit confrontation with the real problems facing both this University and its stu-
APRIL 13, 1973 
the humanities are essentially existential 
dents, and prevails against the development of Notre Dame into a first-rate Catholic University, a matter which should concern us all. The problem is funda­mentally conceptual, involving our notion of a Uni­versity and our notion of Catholicism. 
Let me first off er some concrete examples. I will discuss one in some detail, and make observations concerning a number of others. 
i 

TOWARD the end of last semester, the Arts and Letters Dean's ,Committee on Collegiate Development circulated a philosophical statement designed to justify adoption of the 1-2-1 curriculum. While the College Council has continued to debate and refine the proposed curriculum, this statement remains the only rationale for the program published for faculty consideration. According to this statement, the Dean's Committee defines "the primary activity of the College, to which all others minister," as "instruction, the teaching and learning activity." While I am sure that something more than "instruction" is meant, the word itself con­
-notes the transmission of information and perhaps values by experts to receptive but essentially passive st1,1dents. If care is not taken, "instruction" may be misinterpreted in such a way as to imply "indoctrina­tion." Surely the aim of the College could be expressed more felicitously by the word "education," implying a self-directed and self-motivated enterprise in which scholars of varying experience, from full professors to freshmen, invite one another to share in the adven­ture of scholarship and encourage one another's cre­ativity, insight, independence, and intellectual matu­ration. The distinction between a high school and a col­lege should be the difference between "instruction" and "education." The use of the former term to denominate the goal of this College may involve commitment to a counterproductive academic philosophy, one which retards the process of intellectual growth. The Dean's Committee reflects a similar approach in its assumption that Science may not only examine material reality on its own terms terms which are
' 

inductive and nonteleological, but may also offer "itself as a wisdom through which man may interpret himself and the world." In a sense this is true, but only in the sense that Science can show a man how little he can know or prove about himself and the cosmos. Absolutes cannot be derived from the data of Science, and prop­ositions, laws, and models adduced by scienfists are useful only insofar as they help organize discrete data. If a world view is to be imposed upon the data of Science, that world view must be rooted a priori in philosophical, religious, or mythological preconceptions. If, on the other hand, justice is to be done to the mean­ing of the Scientific Revolution, even humanists must approach Science as a demythologized discipline based upon induction, insight, probability, and relatively interchangeable working models. The College can either respect the intrinsic character of the Sciences, or treat them as if they were handmaids to philosophy; it cannot do both. 
Similarly, the Dean's Committee asserts that the skill of dialectic and deliberative inquiry proper to liberal education restores "confidence in the vitality of rational dialogue on matters of right and wrong and of taste." It assumes also that there exist "methods which promise unequivocally conclusive results," referring, I presume, to methods other than those which are strictly intellectual, such as the response of faith to Divine Revelation. While agreeing that the restoration of confidence in the dialectic, deliberative inquiry, and rational dialogue is imperative, use of these techniques does not lead to unequivocally conclusive conceptions of such transcendent absolutes as right, wrong, and beauty. Any dialectic or deliberative method is based on premises, themselves undemonstrable, and if dialec­tic is not to be reduced to apologetic the relativity of its premises must be acknowledged. Further, the point of humanistic studies ever since the Renaissance has been to plumb into the mystery of Man, himself a con­tingent and ambiguous creature. ·The humanities, in particular literature, history, and the arts, are essen­tially existential; and even contemporary moral philos­ophers, apart from Kant and the neo-Scholastics, dis­play the same existential tendencies. While some of us may agree that it pertains to Man's nature to be "graced" and "divinized," as many of the Greek Fathers would have it, and that Man to be human must there­fore be in communication with the Holy, this is a confessional postulate not revealed to everyone and not intrinsically part of the methodology of humanistic inquiry. It may, and indeed must be at the root of one methodology employed by the humanists at a respectable Catholic University, and it may even be preferred by most of the scholars gathered here. But to assume that rational dialogue per se leads to tran­scendent values prejudges the issue and begs the ques­tion. 
Finally, the Committee proposes that the senior year should be used by students, under appropriate faculty guidance, "in synthesizing, deepening, evaluating [their] educational experience in different ways." But if a College education is to be an educational experi­ence, it should be an experience of self-directed libera­tion, a time of doubt, curiosity, inquiry, and wonder. It should be a time when one assimilates and tests the cultural and intellectual tradition within which he will function in preparation for the commencement of a life of adult maturity. Education can only begin in College. The real synthesis of a man's education is the whole of his subsequent life, the questions he con­tinues to ask, the problems he confronts and resolves the failures he suffers or endures, and the courses ' which he chooses to pursue in real situations and real dilemmas. Should the College attempt to impose a premature synthesis upon education, such an attempt may either abort a student's capacity for development or precipitate a subsequent disillusionment. The Col­lege should be satisfied to offer one element in the synthesis, an opportunity to explore and develop a mature comprehension of the tradition of Western civilization and thought. The graduate himself will have to test that tradition against contemporary needs and future visions, and no one but he can make his own synthesis. 
ii 

QUESTIONS about perspectives and priorities are also 
raised by the debates concerning the reconstruction of University government. Notre Dame may either be an institution for instruction or an institution for edu­cation. If Notre Dame is to be the former, then the pri­mary element in its constitution may legitimately be the administration and the spokesmen chosen to artic­ulate the administration's philosophy. But if Notre Dame is to be the latter, then the primary element in its constitution must be the community of scholars, in­cluding the faculty, those administrators engaged in scholarship, and members of the student body insofar as they have demonstrated scholarly qualification. The present distribution of constitutional authority sug­gests the former arrangement, and even the discussions about revision of the Faculty Manual promise no great change. While some people quibble about the size of the Academic Council or the need for minority faculty representation on the Board of Trustees, the Faculty Senate is moribund and no genuine provision exists for the faculty at large to meet regularly as an assembly constituted to vote on matters of academic policy, matters which should be within their competence. The rhetoric of "community" is too easily invoked to avoid constructing the mechanisms which would make a real academic community possible, and efforts to advance the erection of viable community structures are too often discouraged by mystagogical appeals to unreal­ized ideals. It is no wonder that a considerable number of scholars here-particularly among the younger faculty, whose opinions are seldom solicited and whose insecurity is compounded by ignorance concerning the norms used to determine promotion and tenure-dis­play little if any interest in the affairs and processes 
of University government. 
Even in social affairs, there is a tendency at Notre Dame to approach problems with a set categorical viewpoint instead of confronting the ambiguous realities that exist. Having lived for some time in a world in which it was taken for granted that the human race, including students, is composed of men and women, 
I may not fully understand the impact which this revelation seems to be having upon the Notre Daine population. Coeducation is too often approached as if it were a world-shaking event, something it has ceased to be elsewhere. We think of local custom as if it were an absolute, and of "Woman" as an abstract category. We then view that category either as an object of romanticization or as a threat to tradition. In defense, the ladies fight back, organizing their own categories and objectifying their own demons. If this is to be an institution for instruction, then women may be a distraction, a threat, or an object for study; we may properly make suitable arrangements to display them on campus while isolating them from the rest of the population. But if this is to be an educational in­stitution designed to invite young adults to explore and risk maturity, women are most properly full partici­pants in its life. The longer men and women here con­tinue to approach one another as if we were members of distinct and incommunicable species, the longer it will take to know one another as colleagues, individuals, and friends. 
The ambiance of abstraction and the desire for certitude which accompanied abstraction show up rather clearly in many of the written assignments I have thus far collected in class. My own discipline, History, is basically an existential enterprise, the study of the nitty-gritty of ambiguous human events in order to gain insight into men and their activities. The data of History alone are not adequate to construct induc­tively any universal world view; and the imposition of a religious, philosophical, or mythical metaphysic upon those data, without due acknowledgement that other approaches can be used to organize them, can suffocate historical inquiry. Numerous philosophers of History, from Eusebius and Augustine through Machi­avelli and Spengler and down to Hegel and Toynbee, have tried to universalize patterns in History, but the very proliferation of their divergent schemes suggests that any such universalization is undemonstrable. Yet to an unexpected degree, I find in class assignments an overriding concern for "right" answers, a positive dis­comfort with ambiguity and incomplete hypotheses, and a disinclination to question. The attitude appears common that there should be, not only in the con­fession of belief and in the solution to mathematical problems, but also in art, history, the humanities, literature, and life itself, some clear-cut, simple, true­and-false answers to everything. Impatience with the confusion of concrete detail may well be symptomatic of impatience with scholarship and impatience with reality, neither of which are very edifying in a Cath­olic University. The yearning for premature and sim­plistic certitude, the fascination with abstraction, the passive absorption of instruction, the inclination to 
parrot back instruction without digestion and evalua­tion, and the consequent scramble for grades can only iphibit thinking, either about the disciplines studied or the transcendent values which lie beyond them. 
History, for example, becomes a matter of vital concern only when we know enough of the details to realize that History proves nothing, while offering tentative insights into everything. History is a mean­dering discourse with the past, a way to stroll through varieties of existential reality while gathering and sharing the insights, opinions, and experiences of other men in other situations. Those of us who happen to be Christians know, in faith, that Our Lord took History seriously enough to give it form and purpose, and indeed to become part of it; and we share the Chris­tian call to bear witness to this belief. But because 'we are Christian scholars,· the least we can do is to emulate Our Lord by taking the ambiguities of History as seriously as_He did. We should know that only His radical intervention, and not our philosophical con­structs, infuses sense and meaning into History. We should therefore be the first to discourage misleading ideological presumptions and to provide an atmosphere in which both thought and faith may mature, in which scholars may be invited and challenged to explore all varieties of History, including the absurd versions from which Jesus is thoug~t to be absent. 
. iii 

IF some philosophical .frame of ~eference is imposed upon scientific or humanistic thought prematurely, the result among students, who are usually at an age when doubt, discovery, and probirig the unknown should be paramount enterprises, may be a curious lack of inte­gration, marked by a grinding commitment to school­work.combined with detachment from the matters studied and a dearth of personal concern about them. Too often, for many students-and every scholar here is a student!-real life seems to be something which occurs in the world outside the University, in the world of social, civil, and business intercourse, while this is . a place for jousting with words about eternal verities and for acquiring certitude about irrelevancies .. (Even 
the University encourages scholars to become active in community programs, as if the University itself has doubts about the pertinence of scholarship! ) Yet the younger students here are, before all else, men and women who will doubt, who will explore, and who will probe; they are young men and women who·are en­deavoring to come to terms with themselves and with the reality about them. If it appears to them that their instruction is trying to short-circuit their inquiry, they will find ways to reject that instruction, and to reject along with it the very traditions and values it hopes to impart. The same students who insist on giving "right" answers in class are pressing for open dorms and being raided at Nickie's. The same students who imagine that scholarship concerns itself with the con­struction and investigation of universals chose to elect King R. Calhoun I to office last year and ratified that choice again this year. The same students who pursue transcendence in academic assignments evidently avoid the Divine Liturgy in droves. However well they play the game of scholarship as they understand it, the young men and women at Notre Dame do find ways to express what they really think about the ambiance of imposed abstraction. Wisdom suggests that the rest of us should all begin to pay some atten­tion, and that all of us should learn to listen to one another. 
Since returning to Notre Dame, I have had occa­sion to participate in a number of Roman Liturgies here, and have encountered even in Liturgy, to some degree, evidence of the same disquietude. On the one hand, concern for abstraction and certitude tends to reduce Liturgy to that which can be immediately grasped and understood, and to precipitate repudiation cf a liturgical and sacramental tradition which en­deavors to articulate something more. On the other hand, in reaction, some prefer to reject the rational dimension in Liturgy and seek instead experiences to be felt here and now. In either way the Divine Liturgy, God's own substantive proclamation and recapitulation of the ultimate reality of death and resurrected life, of unity surpassing all exp1?rience, of holiness and the Spirit of Love binding Man to God forever in Jesus Christ, can all too easily be made pedestrian and trivial. In an effort to achieve intellectual certitude or present tangible experience, it is easy to miss the divine foolishness and holy play of Liturgy, to miss the mystery of God's Love for Man and thereby to make of Liturgy an exercise of no abiding interest. Perhaps if the atmosphere of premature absolutes were dissi­pated, and if every scholar here were invited to doubt, to explore, and to plunge into the real mystery of death and life, then Liturgy would become in practice the consummation of life.at Notre Dame. 
iv 

I mentioned that the problem here appears to be basically conceptual involving our notion of a univer­sity and our notion of Catholicism. Regarding our idea 
of a university, I do not mean to intimate that scholar­ship at Notre Dame should be so secularized as to be 
"value-free." No scholarship is ever "value-free,11 since scholarship is the preoccupation of human beings who have values, including commitment to the value of scholarship itself. But each of us must choose between the adoption of imposed values officially or customarily promulgated by some exterior authority, and the development of personal values which scholars of ev~ry rank and station can.freely discover for them­selves. The choice is between an external and artificial system of values, constructed, maintained, and pro­tected from dissent in such a way as to engender token conformity, widespread hypocrisy, and frequent per­sonal disillusionment, and values which scholars them­selves, according to their particular inclinations and gifts, may test, refine, nourish, express, and interiorize in the process of pursuing their several visions of truth. A university exists only insofar as the latter approach prevails. 
Nor do I advocate that this University become something less than Catholic. The pursuit of the vision of truth is preeminently a Catholic enterprise, for the Church has been given the foretaste of that vision in the revelation of Jesus Christ. But our notion of the meaning of Catholicism may demand, in present cir­cumstances, some reconsideration of method. The medieval illusion that Christendom exists is no longer an operative postulate, and the medieval method of Scholastic deduction no longer remains the only valid academic philosophy for Catholic scholars. There are respectable Catholic intellectual traditions which ante­date Latin Scholasticism. The scholars of those tradi­tions, such as Clement of Alexandria, Origen, Basil of Caesarea, and Gregory Nazianzus, often studied at the great secular schools of their age and refined their profound faith through disputation with the philos­ophers of the world. Yet the Fathers of the Oriental Churches found a multiplicity of ways, when con­fronted by concrete existential situations, to use the language of contemporary philosophies in order to transcend the limitations of philosophy and to assert their faith in Jesus as Lord. They were able to preach the Gospel to their world because they lived in that world, and knew something about it. Today, as the Church confronts the revival of such ancient phenom­ena as neo-Nestorian and neo-Monophysite Christol­ogies, pneumatic enthusiasm, gnostic intellectualiza­tion, social paganism, and even manifestations of magical superstition, what She needs before all else are men of faith who are both scholars conversant 
0 

with the world as it is, and mature believers who are truly and freely Catholic-not just Scholastic, not just medieval, not just Western, not just Tridentine con­servatives of post-Vatican II liberals, but Catholic. The Church needs Christians who are not afraid to think for themselves. 
Robert L. Kerby is an Associate Professor of History and Presbyter of the Metkite Greek Catholic· Church. 
APRIL 13, ·1973 
The Future of Liberal Education 
For some time now, Americans have been under­
going a process of conditioning. That process, aimed 
at instillation of the value inherent in the attainment 
of_a formal education, has nearly completed its cycle. 
Today, few if any of the indoctrinated would argue 
that education is not a viable means capable of being 
directed towards achievement of an established end. 
Insofar as this article is concerned, the means itself 
(formal education) is not in question. That unwritten 
premise which attaches to_ education some innate 
value seems plausible enough. Rather_ than the means, 
it is the end which warrants some debate. And, in 
light of one's interpretation of the end sought, the 
means may have to be restructured accordingly. 
At present, the United States has evolved into a highly industrialized, specialized society. Technological innovations have wrought innumerable changes in nearly every facet of human life, and these, in turn, have generated corresponding changes in attitudes. Since the advent of capitalism in medieval times, suc­cess has been measured to no small degree in terms of income, buying power, monetary status. With _the onslaught of the Industrial Revolution followed by multifarious advancements in technology, myriads of job openings were created for the skilled laborer. Thus, ­expected level of income grew in proportion to the de­gree of individual specialization. Shortly, reverbera­tions of this trend toward specialization and develop­ment of singular skills reached the ears of formulators of educational policy and the inevitable result occurred: college curricula were revised in according with the economic realities of the age. The traditional core of humanistic studies (philosophy, theology, literature, history), though never entirely abandoned, slowly be­came an intellectual discipline of secondary value. The reasoning behind the shift of emphasis is all too obvi­ous: in a job-conscious, utitarian-oriented society, only a marketable skill can insure the individual the possibil­ity of attaining an above-average income. 
To a point the reasoning is valid. It is impossible to argue with the facts, and one of the facts is that Americans have seldom shown undue respect to purely intellectual pursuits. On the contrary, intellectualism has been widely regarded as useless, and even, at times, suspect. Thus, the orientation of the average Ameri­can toward practical rather than intellectual goals is hardly surprising. Recognizing this, the question then arises as to whether or not, and if so to what degree, the educational system should participate in this trend toward practicality. However, that question cannot be 
dealt with until the answer to another is first ascer­tained. Toward what end is the educational system working? It seems doubtful that many educators would respond with what might be the expected reply. Few could be narrow-minded enough to reduce lofty educa­tional ideals to practical principles on the basis of which functionary citizens could be produced en masse. Yet present trends toward specialization in educational institutions would seem to belie the validity of any other response. Rather than the former reply, the majority of educators might posit a more idealistic, and indeed more humanistic, goal: the formation and development of responsible individuals. With the lat­ter end in mind, it is possible to postulate the com­ponents of a curriculum geared toward its attainment. Certainly, all practically oriented courses should not be stricken from such a program. Underemphasis is inherently as dangerous as overemphasis. Yet, a re­verse in the present drive toward specialization must be effected if educators hope to develop anything other than a single facet of the mind. The logical alternative lies in the establishment of an equilibrium between those disciplines which are career-oriented, and those which are intellectually focused. Because traditionally liberal education embodies a legacy of philosophical and theological ideas, it is the plausible tool via which that equilibrium may be created. The goal of liberal education is the liberation of the mind. It is not con­centrated on vocational training, nor is it directly re­lated to commercial fields. It attempts to let the mind flourish. by not restricting it to a single discipline, and encourages, through exposure to various modes of thought, the ability to observe, synthesize and evalu­ate a complexity of factors. Moreover, liberal education renews the possibility of communication between fel­lowmen, a possibility lost with the advent of increased specialization and singular interests. Ultimately, the aim of liberal education lies in the creation of a super­ior mind more flexible, sharp and precise than that generated by the more specialized programs of study. If an educational system purports to be, in any degree, 
a. powerful formative influence, it must perform a function which is beneficial to both the individual and to the society at large of which he is a member. No system developing only one of the multitudinous facets of the mind can pretend to be a viable means via which an end, much broader in scope, is to be attained. The scope of the means must ultimately be equal to the scope of the end. 
Terri Phillips 
This article evolved from a conversation with Dr. Bruno Sch"lesinger, Chairman of the Humanistic Studies Department, St. Mary's College. 
"That parti<Jular goo<ls be properly defended by par­ticular persons matters greatly for the common good itself." · 
-YVES R. SIMON 
* * * 

Scholastic: Do you believe that Student Government is really necessary? 
Smith: Yes. Most definitely. I believe that Student Government ordains a sense of the common good for the Notre Dame community. 
Etienne: Smith, I've been working all year to gain a derelict image in this office, and now you're going to blow ff all in one SCHOLASTIC article. 
* * * 

Scholastic: Is it important which constitution passes? 
Clarke: I'd rather see mine or have no government at all. 
CHAOS and parliamentary procedure -both ends of the political rope -have become tangled. The po­litical winds have become an unsavory mix of cross­currents and drafts, and who knows now what will end where? Indeed, it has been rather depressing. It seems of late that just about anyone can play Thomas Jef­ferson or John Adams. Notre Dame Student Govern­ment has been going through more constitutions than most Latin American nations go through governments. At last count, there are at least four constitutions up for consideration, identifiable to the layman as Con­stitutions A, B, C, D, .... 
The simple fact -with the risk of being branded caustic, sardonic, cynical and nonoptimistic -is that most students simply do not care to explore the vipers' tangle of rhetoric and complexity. There is an old saying -some may in fact say an old truth: When the dance seems to be very complex, it will remain apparently complex because very few will hazard the attempt. In short, our recent political developments have been a complicated mess. The constant barrage of verbiage on the pages of the Observer has suc­ceeded in "putting off" a number of students and ad­min_istrators alike. Dr. Robert Ackerman has described the whole show as "much ado about nothing.'' 
TJHE biggest question to be answered is whether or not Student Government is worth the trouble. It comes down to this: Why bother? Why, indeed? 
Dr. Ackerman, Assistant to the Vice-President of Student Affairs and Director of Student Ac­tivities, believes that Student Government"does have an important function to fulfill." While Notre Dame would certainly survive as a University if there were no Stu­dent Government, such an organization would be sorely missed. At present, according to Ackerman, students are "accepted as part of the enterprise." Ad., ministrators and Trustees are open to student opin­ions and questions. The role of Student Government as a means for channelling communications has been quite apparent. Commenting on the last three years Dr. Ackerman said, "Student leaders have been suc­cessful in opening up lines of communications to ad­ministrators and Trustees." 
Beyond this very basic philosophic foundation, a matter of profound importance can be seen in budget­ing such organiza~ions as Social Commission, Cultural Arts Commission, Caurse Evaluation, Student Union and other services. The present system of Student Government has proven to be an equitable avenue for distributing the $80,000. 
APRIL 13, 1973 
llif student government closed down, people would notice." 
There were: days, not long·ago, . when Stud~nt. Gov­ernment was of major importan.ce. to the students: Activism in the late sixties gave birth _to strong Stu­dent Government.·. Demonstrations-and burning build­mgs were once characteristic of the c.ollege campus; however, these· activities have died· an unmourned death. Student ·Governments all over the cou~try have lowered their profile and begun to carry 01;1 .their tasks beyond the glare of .burning libraries and police spot­
lights. . . 
w~H the ens¢ng.decline_in·p~blicity.the question has been raised' on many campuses•as to whether. it-is worthwhile to keep. Student Government. · Dennis Eti­enne, when.asked what' would happen if Student Gov­ernment ·we.re to be disbanded at Notre Dame, an.: swered, ''If Student_ Government closed down, people would notice. There would be fewer editorials in the Observer. · The quality _of concerts and social· life would · go down. There would be no voice for student inter­ests except· for. word .of mouth and impromptu: organi-:­zations.". Jim Clarke .said, "I think it would benefit the· students not to have a Student Government for a year." He went· on to say that the students then would be . · better able ~o determine~ they :r:ieeded,a _Studen{Gov­ernment. Such ideas are specious, at best. It has not, as 
--~ ' 
-
--, ,, --~ ;: --,-': ­
. _:::, .... -. ·. ~-. -<. ::::-. 

-,•._ ,. -_--' -_::_ ";'., , ---:1: -:: -,,.~ 7_ -·_: ' --~: ·-:_ ---\: ---.r._{ _: ,~,. .: ; -:_ .-,_:----·· .. :-~:~-. --;--<•, ::::C_· -~~---~--~~_.-; 
r 
--~ ---:--·~~ + , 

yet, been .demonstrated that the breakdown derives from. an inherent failure in the present ·system. Per­haps the· problems lie else\\1here and· can be corrected through means less 'than total ~evision.. To radi~ally restructure Student Government would be to invite the vacuous and the chaotic.· 
The_·function of Student Government, however, is clear-to anyone who may care to notice. The problem. has . not been in the type . of Student : Government; rather, the· problem now resides in _the relatively.small number: of people. who seek to change_._Student Gov:­ernment unnecessarily and are responsible . for the great amount of wasted time and printed words. Dr. Robert ·Ackerman, commentirig on the recent flux of constitution~, said that· they._are. "not _generally'r~~ acting to the needs of the comm~nity/'. buf rather a_re for the "benefits of individuals:" . , . 
. Why then the great to-do? The rn.1:1,ch ado? 
In function and philosophy .Student . Government has shown itself. to be a viable· program tor:· carrying through on student needs, thereby facilitating com­munication between the students, the administration· and Trustees. Could the problem be the pe_ople who · are involved? Could it be that the Oligarchy_ is failing at some point? Jim Clarke, a former candidate for Stu-. dent Body President and a principal in . much. of the · constitutional furor, . said, "Kersten promised · to do 
hish back home; face W. Mich. 
nothing and then tried to do something." Hence, reasons Clarke, his administration "failed." It is dif­ficult to divine· any profound dose of wisdom in this conclusion. 
Robert Ackerman, who has worked closely with Student Government in the last two years, said that individuals within Student Government have done a "really good job." Ackerman· cited the offices of Stu­dent Body Treasurer, Judicial Coordinator and Om­budsman to name a few. Also, he believes, Dennis Etienne made a great and successful effort to "keep it (Student Government') alive and respond to ·student needs." Ackerman emphasized that Student Govern­ment in the past year has been a "collection of people working together" an~ ·that it "has done a_·good job." What then is th~ trouble? The offices have been ably filled. Why the consternation? 
.ACCORDING .to Denni~ Etienne; "The basic problem has been lack of comintmication. Student Government has not been aloof. It is just that the media have not always complied." Student Body Treasurer, Mike Marget said that the Observer was often more con­cerned with hindering Student Government than with the students' good. Etienne added, "John (Abowd) ·tried to outpolitic us, but we refused to play his game. We kept things aboveboard. The Observer was an­tagonistic. It brought about an attempt to unseat us and facilitate the rise of (Fred) Giuffrida and (Ed) Ellis. John just didn't realize that we didn't play th_e normal game of politics.· We liked to have fun." 
Hence, Jim Clarke. Hence, Butch_ Ward. Hence, . the confusion. 
Cham~~dva:e ~7-~~ 
In Bengal Bouts §."?..:-~'::: 
-
==-==-=--:=-==~
i~:·-~­
---~=~----_--§:.~~~­
-----. -=--~~--:-= 
==-~.:-:-=-.;:
-----~ 
;_;~;~; 
---------
-=-=.... -~-----':.---=-~.:.:-·-=: 


STUDENT Government, with functions to fulfill and· communications to maintain, does not necessarily re­quire s_uch drastic surgical experimentation as has re­cently been suggested. Perhaps the most proper re­course lies in a more prudential mobilization of the structures at hand. The needs of the students suffer and orientation is moot while the energies of _student 
· leaders dissipate in misdirected constitutional explo­rations. 
joe runde 
jack wenke 
·t.·· j. clinton 
.. 

tom-enrzco 
pat roach 
APRIL 13, •197~ . 
week in distortion 

Constitution writing seems to be the vogue these days. The question we pose to you today is this: why should the field be'left to amateurs? Who knows, per­haps there's a potential Tom Jefferson in our midsL With that thought,Week in Distortion humbly presents: 
WRITE YOUR OWN CONSTITUTION 
All you have to do is to select the phrase of your choice. As an added bonus, you can use your choices to·calculate your place on the political spectrum: 
Article I A legislative assembly shall be made tip of: 
a) 
representatives of the students chosen by lottery ( +l5) 

b) 
elected representatives of the students ( +5) 

c) 
close friends (0) 

d) 
Hall Presidents (-10) 

e) 
Hall Presidents, their. appointees and lineal descen­dants (-15) 


Article II The head of Student Government shall be called . 
a) The SBP ( +10) . 
b) His Highness (0) 
c) The SAP (-10) 
d) The SOB (-15) e) "Boss" (-15) 
Article ill Nominations shall be made 
a) 
by a petition with 300 signatures ( +5) 

b) 
by consulting oracles (0) 

c) 
by vote of the Hall Presidents'. Council (-5) 

d) 
by official decree of the Hall ·President~•-Council · · 


(-10) 

Article IV To win an election you must 
a) 
gain a majority of the vote ( +5) 

b) 
gain a majority of blank ballots (0) 

c) 
gain a minority of two consecutive elections .(-10) 


Article V The Hall Presidents' Council shall 
a) 
mind the_h9-lls' business (+5) · 

b) 
mind its own business (O) 

c) 
mind everybody's business (-5) 


Article VI The organizational setup ·of student government 
a) 
will be contained in the next constitution ( +10) 

b) 
will be the same ( +5) 

c) 
will be ignored (0) 

d) 
will consist of. a SAP, a SAC, a SAEC, a SAT (the latter shall appoint_ a SUC) (-.5) 

e) 
will be dictated by the Hall Presidents' Council (-iO) 


Article VII · Hall presidents may· be recalled · . 
a) 
by vote of the members of their hall ( +5) 

b) 
by assassination only (0) 

c) 
PY a unanimous vote of the Hall Presidents' Council 


(-5) 

Article VIlI .. This constitution shall be approved a). by_ everybody ( +15) _ 
b) 
by a representative constitutional convention ( +5) 

c) 
by a small committee (0) 

d) 
five minutes before the next one (-5) 

e) 
by a 2/3 vote of selected hall councils ·(-10) 

f) 
after a dozen successive compromises, each closer to 


your own position (-15) . g) by proclamation (0) 
Article IX The student government fee shall 
a) 
be used to sponsor various activities ( +10) 

b) 
shall be returned, in pennies ( O) 

c) 
shall be used for the biggest An Tostal yet (-10) 


. To find your place on the political spectrum, just add up all the numbers in parentheses after the answers you chose. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

L ro ~LLIS 
g----AICH HUNTER_, 
JIIWI CLA~tcE , PAPIG ISO'tlV Hl')L&.. 

.. Co-.Mo,1it1sso 
~ .......---~=:=~:.!! 
.. -----­
1kl' OllStintVE''\
-
CONMoM •sro

_!,.____.Co,-, Pr\Oltl ISi" U" CoN~Tt1'\IT•~, 
~vc.. n»e,N. 


~ ..,____,_CALV•t.J ~ (t»..1061£ 
, You~ 

'"..,____..,. SEC.TION 
L-EAOtft~ 


H• NA"I ICS::•UTCN 
.____. r1111,1. w 
('fa11r o, 7) 

=....-----MIIC[ t"IE'$\ 
MA~GCr 
·----SOOIUIW\
... ,.,~ 

t-----T.C.~~~~NO~ 
::: 
k'U8f1C'; MASON, PM~IGAU&.1 

~.,_______.TH0"1A~ 
,a rrrrt\SON 
AoGC'I\T

.ao._____,Hr,Ha.r,N 





The Benefactor's Exhibit 
THE current show Bene/actors of 
the Art Gallery of the University of 
Notre Dame truly enforces the fact that Notre Dame's Collection is firmly established. Organized by Fr. Lauck and Dean Porter, the show represents the seriousness of the gal­lery to uphold the firmest qualifica­tions for the standards of work be­ing shown. Writing about the show is difficult. Obviously it is acknowl­edgment of the generous benefac­tors that have enabled Notre Dame to take pride in exposing its collec­tion to the community at large. To miss this event would be sad. To go to it with the intention of browsing is tragic. Art demands time, energy, but most of all feeling of and to the works themselves. It is not easy to arrive at the final conception of any art work, that being the comprehen­sive view of the art work itself made up of parts either of tangible ele­ments (such as technique, composi­tion, etc.) or of intangible concepts (such as art history and aesthetic views). It is proper, then, as a gen­eral guide, to point out some of the various genres represented by the works in the gallery. 
One of the primary genres in ·western art is the nude, or as I would like to develop here, the fig­urative element. The figures seen in the African, Greek and Etruscan bronzes, so strong in character and alive with magic, off er splendid com­parisons to the gallery's similar formed wood carvings, the small Henry Moore watercolor, or even the Picasso from the Stern Founda­tion. The primitive masks also may be placed in that camp. 
Coming from another expressive angle is the small Coptic (Egyptian) 
c. 7th cen. stone sculpture. The sim­ple religious spirit of the work, re­
inforced by its ascetic linear quality, is not unlike that seen in the more recent Paul Klee's works of the 1930's. It seems to have been a metope piece of frieze work on an early Christian sect's religious struc­ture. Inevitably it corresponds to the ideology of the Copts. The Nilean-in­fluenced figure incorporates Greek heritage, marked in the iconography of the cro\vn; and a reticent use of detail seems to have been drawn by the Egyptian-influenced economy of line. Purposefully. the artist's inten­tion was to suggest not the corporeal substance of the body, but rather a significant statement qualifying the essence of a being. 
In religious art of Ital?, the figure is well represented. The collection of­fers perfect examples of Italian art fitting into the many-faceted figura­tive genre. Anyone knowledgeable of Italian religious painting during the generic Renaissance era will recall the innumerable renderings of the Martyrdom of St. Sebastian. The gal­lery's representative is not, however, of Italian provenance but a splen­did Portuguese work of the 13th cen­tury based on Italian models. An evocation of pathos and a sense of realism were the clear intentions of the anonymous artist. Yet of a deeper level, the religious mystique and propaganda concept also make them­selves perfectly lucid; note the holes of missing arrows on the figure. 
Or consider the late Italian ba­roque contrapostoed figures of Francesco de Mura (1969-1784). It is quite evident that the grandilo­quent work, full of typically 18th­century Neapolitan lighting and transparent colors never steps into the rococo as some of his fellow art­ists did. The style is close to Fran­cesco Solimena's-indeed, de Mura worked awhile under his academy. Regardless, the work is a refreshing play of varied Italian traditions. The color recalls the Venetian painters, Titian and Tintoretto; the composi­tion, not unlike the central Italian baroque painter Guido Rini that was adumbrated earlier in da Vinci's py­ramidal construction of figures. (In this sense the figures create the space themselves; their bodies move into, around, and within the space they fill.) Finally, the fleshy texture of the skin in de Mura's frivolous Bac­chus is not unlike that seen in the mannerist Bronzino's figures. One other Italian "figurative" work is that by Jacopo Vignali (1592-1664), a Florentine baroque painter edu­cated under Matteo Rosselli. The work shows an almost pernicious synthesis of heavy baroque compos­ing with diaphanous Venetian color­ing. The painting, The FaJ.len Tan­cred, is successful, however, because of its pretentious Roman quality not unlike The Dying Gaul. 
Placing figures within a grandiose topographical setting has always interested artists since the great classical orientated landscapes of the Caracci and Poussin. Two 18th-cen­tury works, attributed to Hubert Robert (1733-1808), a French artist who worked 11 years in Italy with Fragonard and Abbe de Saint-Non, may well. be an apogee of this spe­cial genre. The artist, called Robert des Ruins because of his constant in­terest in antiquity, worked under the Italian Panninni and was much in­fluenced by him. Robert fabricated works either from topographical ac­curacy or a mixture of that and architectural drawings or his own "sanguine" sketches. Throughout his work, the figure is essentially a mark to denote the scale of the Roman buildings and perhaps the instrument of a didactic comment on man's re­lationship to his environment. The overriding theme, moreover, is the poetic quality that transcends the significance of both man and en­vironment; it is the poetry of har­mony in nature. The attributed works, Paysage D'ltalia (one scholar has given it to a Dutch painter), ex­press this poetical feeling that is often lacking in lesser talented painters of this genre. The stature of the Corinthian columns supporting the mass of entablature and arch­ing; monolithic and somewhat ghost­ly do indeed become a part of nature itself. Another world, new to the grand tourist, becomes in itself ex­citing, wondrous and enigmatic. Per­haps that is why, when Robert re­turned to Paris, he was met with great fanfare and success. He was installed as the first director of the Louvre and was designer of a num­ber of the King's gardens. 
A number of Madonnas, complete with Bambini, are well represented. From the Fisher Collection, one may note the Filippino Lippi (1457-1504), Madonna and Child with St. John; Jacopo d'Antonio del Polloiulo, attr. to. (1433-1502); the School of San­dro Botticelli; and the Andrea de Solorio and others from the Kress Collection. 

Others notable in the work of landscape painting are the Rest on the Flight to Egypt by Claude Gellee, called Loraine ·(1600-1682) and Jan Wymants' (1630 /36-1684) Landscape with Figures. The difference of vis­ual communication is excitingly clear in their modes of representation. Paramount in these works, regard­less of artist, is the careful treat­ment of integrating all parts of the picture into an integrated whole; a problem besetting all landscape painters. The weaving of figures, shrubbery, buildings, mountains, and sky creates the ideal miniature tap­estry of visual panorama. These works transcend not just visual per­ception and conceptualization of the outdoors, but nature itself. 
To return to religious art, one must consider the dictates of "prop­erness' as squarely defined by the Council of Trent (1563). One pas­sage of the decree states: "by means of the stories of the mysteries of our Redemption portrayed by paintings or other representations, the people be instructed and confirmed in the habit of remembering, and con­tinually revolving in mind the arti­cles of faith."1 
A veritable flood of literature was produced stating the "proper" ren­dering of religious art. The clergy was made responsible for the sur­veillance of the artist. Recommen­dations for appropriateness were listed under three headings: 1) clarity, simplicity, and intelligibility; 
2) realistic interpretation, and 3) emotional stimulus to piety. Perhaps now we can understand why the small Breughel painting l.n the col­lection was painted over to cover the genitals of the Christ child. 
Whether these rules may be ap­plied to all religious art centering near the late baroque era, one thing is clear: not all artists preferred to subject themselves to a clergy aes­thetician. On the other hand many preferred to remain status quo as many painted propaganda posters were placed, or moreover packed, into churches throughout Catholic Europe. Three works and others pro­claim the Church's fiat to guard against Protestantism; Sebastiano Conca's (1680-1764) Ail.orationof the 
APRIL 13, 1973 
1 
. 

~ ;_ 
} ~ 
. . 'I•
"""'-~~ •r 
..,-jj· 
~~ 
Magi; Francesco Trevisani's (1656-Subleyras (1694-1799), _Portrait of and will. Surely the still life objects 1748) Martyrdorn of St. Andrew and Pope Benedict XLV~ largely a work become subservient to the overall Andrea de Leone's (1610-1685) The . influenced by 17th-century por­two-dimensional design. Possessed Man. traiture of Van Dyck, but holding ·The work by Cornell seems anti­
The 18th century, one of the closer to an Italian flavor. The work thetical to the painting of Bonnard's. 
·strongest·periods represented in the of a French painter, Jean Bar:>tiste Sinc·e Cornell is working in Assem-· Collection is varied in genre, mostly Oudry (of which there seems to be blage with its trial and error ap­though in the genre of Portraiture. a complementary portrait. in another . proach, the process is ess~ntially dif­The historical painting by the Studio American collection), is a painting of ferent from the planned structuring of Gianbattista. Tiepolo (1696-1770) elegant stature enhancing the posi­of Bonnard. This statement holds does not give justice to that ·great tion of the sitter. It must be men­weak ground, however, since the two Venetian painter, but nevertheless is tioned that it was fashionable to worked arbitrarily by an inner feel­
. 
-

. an interesting, if not·amusing·work. show the pride in the game captured_. ing guided in the end by the dictates The unpersuasive, disproportioned The Gallery is fortunate to· have of the individual art form, in this figure of Cincinnatus-his meager. in ·its possession the other works. of case, assemblage and painting. head for so enormous a body-re­portraiture a.rtists such as Vigee'Le Initially the art of Assemblag~, calls the works of the 16th-century ·Brun, a confidant of Marie· Antio­states Elana Calas2, has emerged as Florentine mannerist painters.. One nette; Nattier and Torque; two art­a new· genre· in the twentieth c~n­such work fr~~ that tradition is the ists whose. works nicely complement· tury.· As an extension of the Sur­
. . 

Annunciation by· Giorgio Vasari. : each other. realist concept of objet trove the Every element in the work strongly . . From the 20th century, two w~rks assemblagist .has at his disposal a suggests · the mannered style that from many . deserve mention.. The~ large means of collecting new ob-Vasari's ·paintings are noted for. are Pierre Bonnard's (1867-1947) . jects; the .wastepaper basket was Figures .do not r~spond to gravity, Still Life with Fruit and Joseph Cor-· Schwitter's treasure·. box. Others they seem ethereal. Space is illogi­nell's (1903-1943) Video_. Ergo Sum. , hoarded back. yards, alleys, antique cal; the figures are not proportional : First a· look at the . Nabis ·. painter -shows and even new shopping con­to their plac_ement in ·it. It ·seems Bonnard. The Nabis, · a group of glomerates not unlike the K-Marta. that the painting 'may have been a ·French painters who were immensely The. objects are apt to have signifi­small study . ( designo) for a larger influenced by Gauguin, held to the. cance, either to the_ viewer or artist fresco seen at _cl higher level. In that aesthetic ot' allowing the ability of or both, independent of their obvious case. the painting would logically line and color to explain themselves, functional role..For example, the work. The spaces· seem to· convince . not' alone the: subject. matter.. Bon:­SI!lall ·stamp, placed.in Corn~ll's box if one looks.at the painting from a. nai::d, not· only ..a· painter, .but a no longer remains a stamp but a.part lower level_fuan it is _painted. Also, ..• draughtsman a~d. -lithographer, of .the overall visual, textural effect. speculation·has·it that the work is a learnedwellfrom Gauguin all:d. Japa­Unlike the·_Surreaµsts, by_ which copy of a lost Michelangelo painting. nese art forms. The collection's piece, Cornell was largely influenced-Max ·. But, returning to the 18th century, . a tour: de force of flat plan.ear design . Ernst .fot instanc~liis works .are one should certainly take note of-the . expresses unfailingly a feeling.· for ·not ·meant to shock but seduce. His . work·. of Belloto detto Canaletto; a harmony and delicate _ coloration . creations offer varied textural ob­broad venduta of Venice focusing in : throtigh flat planes and· simplified : j~cts~ 'movement'. facilitated by hand on. Santa Maria Maggiore, or• the forms. His -work is by instinct, _yet opera.tion; .repetition• of. forms: all varied portraits :by Pierre Hubert controlled ·remotely by intelligence reifying.the '~iniature world .of the 
. ~ ---, ~ 

.::.. . 

,_, 

. :-:.:.' -::-, .-,':. . ... '"~ 
piece as a whole. He seldom en­forces storytelling, such as a substi­tutional reverie of a past feeling and rather invites the viewer's own con­
.struction of an event out of the lim­ited assembled art piece. · The intimate quality of his art, so intriguing, so mysterious, so inviting 
. is essentially.what the piece in Notre Dame's collection elicits. The piece is reminiscent of · the 20th-century mind;· one full of dichotomies. It, by its title alone, asks for visual eJ1ergy, Video : Ergo.· Sum. :Assembled are pieces .of wood, a stamp, newspaper wr~ppings, a blue-painted cork-ball, 
a. lacquered table of-logs. and more. 
Now that the Collection is firmly established, Notre Dame can cer­tainly look forward to more excellent and varied. shows ranging anywhere from old masters to contemporary . artists. In order for. th!i,s level to con­tinue support is needed, not only in the obvious financial .and donation levels;· but also· in the realm of at­tendance of these fine exhibitions. The Gallery is located in O'Shaugh­nessy Hall and Q'Pen weekdays from 
9:00 to 5:00 and Saturday and Sun­day 1:00 to 5:00. 
1 Wittkower, Art and Arch. in Italy, 
/600-1750. 
,:! Icons and Images. 

:i The exhibition "Junk Art" at the Mart-ha Jackson Gallery in 1960 and "The Art of Assemblage" of the follow­ing year brought Assemblage into its own. It must be distinguished from the arts of painting, sculpture, mosaics and i·eliefs. 
-tim standring 

all·that jazz 
The fifteenth annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will take place in Stepan Center on the campus of the University on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, April 12, 13 and 14. Each year the CJF brings . some of the finest jazz bands in the country to Notre Dame to perform. Distin­guished professional jazz musicians. also come to the festival, and act as judges. Awards, including instru­ments, are presented to the musi­cians estimated by the judges most accomplished in their c;ategories. 
Among the judges at this year's festival are Hubert Laws, Joe Far­rell and Dan Morgenstern. Hubert Laws is a flutist and a Downbeat poll winner the past ~o consecutive years. He can be heard on many of his own solo albums and has served as a studio musician on such albums as Roberta Flack's Quiet Fire. Joe Farrell worked for quite a while with the Elvin Jones Trio. He plays all saxes and flute. A former Down­beat poll winner, he has backed up Lauro Nyro and was also present at the Quiet Fire session. Dan Morgen­stern is a noted jazz critic and the editor-in-chief of Downbeat maga­zine. 
Also judging at the CJF will be Alvin Batiste, Gil Evans, Jimmy Owens and Roy Haynes. Alvin Ba­tiste is the artist-in-residence '72­'73 of the New Orleans School Sys­tems and director of the Southern University Jazz Program. He was named fifth clarinetist in the Play­boy Jazz and Pop Poll and has served as director of the Multi-Ethnic Music Center. Gil Evans, a noted jazz arranger, composer and big­band leader, is best known for his work with Miles Davis, including the classic Sketches of Spain. Jimmy Owens is an outstanding y o u n g trumpeter from New York. One of jazz's most outstanding drummers, Roy Haynes is most famous for his work with the incomparable group 
C 


comprised of John Coltrane, Haynes, Jimmy Garrison and McCoy Tyner. 
The opening night benefit session includes performances by Cannon­ball Adderly and a CJF Judges Com­bo. Proceeds from this event go to charities through the local chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a national Black sorority. 
The collegiate aspect of the jazz festival gets under way at 7: 30 Friday evening. The Notre Dame Combo and jazz bands from the 
University of · Michigan, Massachu­setts Institute of Technology,· Mem­phis State and Triton College will be among those featured at this session. -On Saturday there will be two sessions. The first, at 1:30 in the afternoon, will include performances by the Notre Dame Jazz Band, Ohio University, Tennessee State, Texas Southern and others. The Modern Jazz Quintet of Indiana University and the Rat Pack of Indiana State University will headline the Satur-



day evening concert at 7:30. Also performing will be the jazz bands of Texas Southern University, Ohio State University and Malcolm X College. 
Saturday's activities will also in­clude a High School Jazz Band Con­test featuring seventeen bands from Indiana, New York and Ohio. The winner of this competition will be among those featured on Saturday evening. The high school competition will be held in Washington Hall be­tween 9:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. Admission is 50 cents. 
\ 

A CJF "first" this year will be the midnight jam session which will fol­low the presentation of awards Sat­urday night. Sponsored by the National Endowment for the Arts, this late-hour session will feature music by all the CJF judges with individual stars from the collegiate competition. 
Another program being initiated this year is the Collegiate Jazz Fes­tival Collection of American Jazz Music -Notre Dame. After each festival, beginning with this one, each of the judges will be asked to select five of his favorite jazz re­cordings. These recordings will then be donated by the CJF to the audio center of the Memorial Library here. The records will be available for stu­dent listening. The idea for the col­lection originated with Mr. James Phillips, associate band director and CJF faculty advisor. With this col­lection he hopes to familiarize stu­dents with jazz and to further the educational aspects of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
Tickets to festival events can be purchased at the Student Union Ticket Office or at the door. They are priced at $3 for Friday night, $2 for Saturday afternoon, $3 for Sat­urday night (including the midnight jam session), and $2 for the mid­night jam session alone. A $6 pass to all the events is also available. 

-tom enrico · 

APRIL 13, 1973 
and still n,ore jazz 
mental Techniques for the High School Stage Band Musician., A Man­ual for the~. Stage Band Trumpet Player and Building a Stage Band. . ·Father •wiskirchen's most promi­ne~t recognition, however, has come from his work with the Melodons of Notre Dame High School, which has been critically acclaimed by the New York ·Times., the Chicago Tribune., Do~beai magazine and by many jazz -artists. . Commenting on the Melodons' performance at the 1971 House of Sounds Festival at the Ken­nedy Center in Washington, D.C., the New York Times said: 
. ' 
The most adventurous program was _offered· by the Melodons, · conducted _ by the Rev. George Wiskirchen, who . has been leading the high school jazz group for fifteen· years. . . . More than the other three bands (Count .· Basie, Al Cohn, Towson State Col­lege), this high school jazz band showed ·an· awareness of what has been done, what is being· done and 
. what may be done. 

-Father Wiskirchen feels that the philosophy of jazz· education is anal­ogous. to that ·of a creative writing 
The Notre· Dame Jazz Band was couple of years for maturity, it could. course. Anybody can be taught to initiated in the fall of 1972 under be one of the best in the country." write correctly and, hopefully, clear­the direction of Father George Wis-Musi_c has been a big part of Fa-ly. ·He· feels ·that "you can teach kirchen, C.S.C. Often referred to as· ther Wiskirchen's life ever since his _mechan.ics, btit you can't teach crea­simply the NDJB, it is· intentionally high school years when he. was a tivity." There are,· for instance, many reminiscent of the once renowned · member of the· school's dance band. : good -(mechanically)' trumpet. play­ODJB, -_ the . Original Dixieland:·Jazz He received his undergraduate de-. ers,· but there is. only one Miles Davis. Band. This year the group consists gree from Notre Dame and.an M.A. : Father: ·-Wiskir~hen ·feels that his of a twenty-one-member big ·band in: music education at Northwestern_ guidance· of the University jazz group and an eight-member· combo. Next University. In 1956, Father Wis-:is··not fo~nialized teaching,_but pro­year, . however, Father Wiskirchen · kirchen became the Chairman of the : vides .a . for~m for. ·experimentation plans to organize some additional ac..: · Music Department , and : Director. of for)he· musicians. tivities,. ~uch· as -an· _iIIlprovisation · the Melodons (a jazz band) at Notre ·... Basic :to his role of "providing a workshop and?-r()ck'group. Dam~ High School hf Niles, ill: Some . space..fcir these guys to:play;" is the 
According to ·Father: W!s_kirchen,_ ·of -his :other ·achievements. include:_: ·notion: that,·wnat· distiriguish~s jazz "the present group has comE{aJong·. Dir~tor· of the Northwestern ·Uni-from other ·forms of =music· ·is· im-· way,and J. am ·more ;than satisfied.".-versity,Jazz Workshop, Instructor of _provisation._' There.is ·a rhythmic -f~l He feels,·-however, .thaLthere is -an_.· Jazz at the Eastman School of Music; ·or"syncopated ·rhythm th<;lt is essen­
. abundance. ol laterit :· talent ·at the. -J.'forthwestern . University:-·ani~ the tfaf to',jazz,:'but: it is ba.sically im"'.' University yet untapped. He_ hopes·:· University, of Denver.-· One.·of his· provisation·-which makes the differ­that more students will :turn_ out for: major achievements is the novelty of· · ence. According to Father Wiski:rcheri, the_ group: next~;year· and, cites lack, •.actually. teaching jazz. Father ·Wis-improvisation ·was used by Bach ·and of . communication . as the·_, primary. ; . kirchen has written . numerous arti-.. . other· Baroque· composers: After:the hindrance· t~ student .intere~t. _Sp¢ak-,:: cies on ·Jazz. Education-ir1 Downbeat_: -Baroque period,: however, 'improvisa.:. ing of. thee ~oup:s',_futureipossibili-.. ·_magazine. 0 He has also authored some tion ·vai:11s1ied from classical music. ties, .· Wiskirchen -· says, -·:. ':'Given · · a .. books',: on _music. education: -Develop-It'is. only ·recently that a few avant-
THE SCHOLASTIC 

garde composers have revitalized im­provisation. 
One possible theory for the origin of jazz is .that African rhythm coalesced with European melody. The blue note and the basic harmonics can be traced back to Africa. His­torically, jazz music developed around the 1890's in New Orleans, although the where and the how cannot pre­cisely be determined. The jazz move­ment theoretically spread from New Orleans up the Missis~ippi to Chi­cago and then to New York. 
In its embryonic stage most jazz followed a very ordered structure. The early jazz musicians played from a written composition which had a definite melody. In the course of a single melody the composer allotted a 12:-16-bar improvised solo for an· individual musician from any sec­tion (brass, woodwind, percussion, etc.). Although the improvised solo by each musician was spontaneous and relatively unplanned, each solo broke in at a definite point in the song. As jazz progressed through the ·"swing" era of the 1930's, the "bop" era of the-1940's and the "cool" and "hard" bop of the 1950's, the use of improvisation became · less formal and more flexible. The riffs . ( take­offs or tangents on the melo~y) or . improvisational solos became .more reflective . of · the indiviclual musi­cian's particular attitude or mood than of the ordered· format of the composer. With this increased flexi­bility in improvisation·came the in­ception of various -jazz styles by 
. \Vhich a. certain musician could be identified .. The emphasis seemed to turn here from who composed the piece to how it was played. · 
This evolution of improvisation in jazz brought an even looser pattern to the 1960's. The jazz of the 1960's gives more freedom :to the individual musician. It is characterized by a feeling of "interfeed" -whereby there is a free mutual action and interac­tion· among the musicians. This rio::. tion of '.'interfeed" possibly evolved from what was called "jamming" in the '40's and '50's. Jamming consisted of a few musicians informally play­ing without a . specific melody, · or even in · a specific sequence. Where 
' past musicians would play ·their im­melody and proceed by a sort of "col­lective unconscious" response to each other's improvisations. 
The direction of jazz today seems · toward something whichFatherWis­
. kirchen characterizes as a "cross­pollination between jazz and rock." Father Wiskirchen feels that the · music of Miles Davis over the past twenty years eminently embodies the progressive changes that have taken place in jazz. Father Wiskirchen also feels, however, that the older forms of jazz are permanent and will still -be heard despite the argumentations of future musicians. He feels that jazz will continue to be performed just as Shakespeare has been faith­fully read for hundreds of years. · bubb'y vespole & · ·jim gresser 

i provised solos at a particular pre-_ • 
I 
planned point in the course ·of -the song, the jazz musicians of the '60's 
often just begin with no planned
l I APRIL 13, 1973 
Byrds-Tailspin 
Byr<],S brings together the five talent"involved. Hillman founded the original Byrds for a much-publicized Burritos with m1ddle period Byrd­and long-awaited album. There's man· Gram Parsons, who provided Roger McGuinn, the group's leader the Byrds,-and McGuinn especially, since before "Mr. Tambourine Man," with the necessary country direction. a man who has gathere_d some im­"Other Burritos included Sneeky Pete, pressive musicians over_ the years, Chris Ethridge, and_ current Eagles' making some good music, so_me not_ lead guitarist Bernie Leadon. so good, but music that has never David Crosby -left the Byrds in really measured up to the talent:that · 1968, -ignominiously · fired by Mc­produced it. By and large, the Byrd _ Gtiinn, o·n1y· to return in_ great form. graduates have been generally more Crosby's -Byrd material -always re­successful than McGuinn's chamele--ceived less-than -it deserved, so it's onic Byrd lineups. not hard to ·understand the feeling 
Gene Clark, original-Byrd singer that· ·he -was -tlie Byrd ·bad guy. and occasional writer, · -has · been -Crosby is, _in essence, a solo artist making some fine inusic /over_-at first ·and foremost,-and that helps to A&M, but he was never really su~­explain his success with CSNY; they cessful on his own, _so he -_must in v:e:re four solo artists who merely part realize this collaboration as an_ .used ea<:h other as sidemen, and opportunity to further his own fledg­·that's why -Crosby's later work ling solo career. shines -and· his Byrd work doesn't. 
Michael Clarke, _drummer in-the The album opens with Gene Clark's original band, had _stopped playing -"]full Circle," a nicely done country completely, and now as before; he is flavored number with characteristic of little real importance. He plays Byrd twelve-string riffs and high competent drums, but that's about_ it. harmonies. Clark's lyrics are nicely 
Chris Hillman has enjoyed some done, in interesting circle images, fine times since leaving the Byrds as and they fit nicely with his slightly bassist. His first love has always nasal voice. been mandolin, which he played with Following this is "Sweet Mary" by other ex-Byrds and some solid Roger McGuinn and Jacques Levy, country musicians in the Flying one of the many songs they wrote Burrito Bros. Surely the finest pure around the time of the Untitled al­country band in recent years, the bum, and probably the best writing Burritos boasted a wealth of talent, that McGuinn has done. His lead which unlike the Byrds' country ef­vocal is overdone in false sorrow, but forts, was almost always successful the backing vocals and Hillman's at producing music that reflected the exquisite mandolin salvage an other-wise lackluster performance. 
Gene Clark's "Changing Heart" is again nicely acoustic, receiving a better vocal treatment than "Full Circle," his voice clearer and more convincing. 
Crosby follows with a Joni Mitch­ell tune, "For Free." Crosby is as good an interpreter of her material as anyone, having worked with her in her early period, producing her 
· first couple of albums. Unfortunately, the arrangement is a bit too stop­and-start (a Crosby trademark) to hold together effectively, but the vocals are good, as is the instrumen­tation. · 
McGuinn's "Born to Rock'n'Roll is the least convincing of. all the material; it doesn't rock enough, and besides, McGuinn isn't a real rocker anyway. Probably the worst cut on the· album, "Born to Rock'n'Roll" highlights the fact that McGuinn should stay away from rock. Coun­try stuff is more up his alley. 
Side Two opens _with "Things Will Be Better," by Hillman and Dallas Taylor. It has a nice rock feeling to it, but it's too restrained. A more up­front guitar chop and a tougher 
· vocal would help, but at least this song succeeds where McGuinn failed. 
Neil Young's "Cowgirl in the Sand" gets a ·pretty · decent treat­ment, but not up to Young's own version. It is nicely up-tempo, with some good harp by Gene Clark, but he sings in ~s lower· range, thus losing. the characteristic: loneliness that Young gives it. In this case, I doubt very ser~ously if anyone could improve on ·the original. , . 
.Crosby's "Long Live the King" re­ceives ·. the .. heavy-,handedness that characterized the treatment . of his material.when he was a Byrd way back ·. when. · Likewise "Laughing," which appeared· on his solo album in, better form there than here. In both tunes. his voice sounds forced, and· is cast against a background of too many guitars, which never seem to mesh properly. 
"Borrowing Time" by· Hillman and 
-Manassas · percussionist · Joe Lala ·.is one of the album's high points. ·It features Hillman's mandolin in a nice acoustic setting, and more sweet harmonies. It has that Latin bounce to it that Lala gives to much of Manassas' music, and is probably the best-realized song on the album. 
The album ends on a disappoint-
APRIL ·13, 1973 
ing note-Neil Young's "(See the Sky) About To Rain." Young himself has never recorded the song, though it is available on one of his many bootleg-albums that appeared in 1971. Gene Clark again sings the song, but like the earlier Young song, his voice lacks· the sweetness that Neil gives to it. The song ends in an interesting. coda, with McGuinn on Moog, but it would sound better if he actually played the part on the Rickenbacker twelve-string he tries so hard to imitate. 
Byrds, if taken as nothing more than an album by five musicians, can be enjoyable: There are thos_e lingering_ doubts, though, that these five Byrds could have produced some­thing a little more exciting and a bit more. deserving of their efforts. 
There was certainly a lot of ill feeling while the album was in pro­duction. There's the famous feud be­tween Crosby and McGuinn (when Crosby first played "Triad" in the studio, McGuinn reportedly fell on the floor laughing), and the suspi­cion that Hillman's involvement with Stephen Stills and Manassas was go­ing to sabotage the whole thing. The 
,That's what the Paulists are all about. · 
·For more information write: 
overwhelming impression that this album gives is that each of th~ four major musicians uses the others as session men. This kind of thing has been done before, but the tremen­dously obvious comparisons with. Deja Vu and some later Traffic stuff are also tremendously insensitive, so I'll skip them. The Byrds used to be McGuinn's baby, but he doesn't con­trol this album (hell, it's not even his band anymore), it's certainly not Crosby's album, and it's not Hill­man's either, though he is by far the most competent musician of the five. 
So what it all comes out sounding like is a sampler containing cuts from solo albums by Gene Clark, Hillman, Crosby, and McGuinn, with Michael Clarke as the common drummer. It also sounds vaguely un­inspired, which brings up someth.ing interesting about the pictures in the centerfold and on the back cover. Take a good look at Chris Hillman, who in days gone by was the real foundation of the Byrds. He looks bored. 
The camera doesn't lie. 
-kevin dock:rell 
mtio-ir~P.i~n4d~\ 
-IS IN .THE JOY_.OF :·: !_ }·.1 Giving . · -·· =~ 

Praying . Working ­; Sharing the joys··_ ·:: > the laughter -_. 
. the· problems i ·-: · , , the success-=-­i·and faiiure_s __ --.. 
knowing tha_t_ wher~:·=; there·is huinan:_Ii~ed ·: in·the cities,._· . . the_suburbs, .:-:~ ~---_-,\.: ·::: 
in parishes, _.-_.: :·_ -<:-_·. 
o·n campus: .-, · :,_ ··:;: ·,--:. 
the Pa~list 1~_the~;-:J-; 

_helping ·_. :; .----__ -, ·__:::.::,~ 
counseling .. :;_ ~: .. ... 

· ·Father Donald C. Campbell! -· rejoicing. _· _ _ ; . < Room_103. · -· 
in the-presen-cf}_:-:.-:·.' /ofthe good :··:, :-.-_-.. ::· -__ .:'-.t 

-and in --· _:.-· .-.-.>. _:._;
:-,.11aulistRtthei:& .. ·:.:.the -sig~i ofhhpe=:, :· _,:).
: 4i5West 59th Street.-·.... ·=Ne~York, N.Y.:io(}l~.---. ·_ .arour1 us·.. ·_.:·_·..\·:_:·._:_;_._:=._.'..-:~~~i 
~~.-~: ··=··, ~-:.... .• ;:•••·•. ··-•• ::: -•. :: ::= .... : ::... ::· ··..:· ·... : : .. . . . . ... . '.. . ...·.-. ·...·. 
Magical Mozart 
·-. 

An air of the artful and the magi-catcher, who, · when we first greet though the orchestra was,· at tinies, cal presided over O'Laughlin Audi-him, sings proudly of his love ~or not technically perfect, it was none­torium stage for the opening of "The catching birds. He even wears a bird theless ·an extremely well-wrought Magic Flute," Mozart's· comic opera. cage on his back which contains a perfcirmance. This operatic production successfully . few specimens for him to carry -Tamino; Pamina, and, in fact, all combines the talents of the ND-SMC about. Papageno, however, · is -'not -the singers handled the difficult aper­Theatre Department and the St. completely satisfied with his. voca-_ atic material extremely well. ·Yet, Mary's College Music Department. tion; he sings, "Pretty girls are . because of the. highly stylized me­While ·considered by many to be better." dium, a-slight problem was evident. Mozart's most humorous and enter~ In order to_ facilitate the rescue, In a ·few instances, members of the taining opera, "The_ Magic Flute" _the Queen of the Night (.Alici~ Pur-company failed to project the sound becomes even more accessible _to the _ cell), Pamina's mother, gives them · and enunciate as fully as the audi­contemporary _audience, thanks to both magical musical instruments. torium· demanded.· the new translation by Richard -Tamino gets a magic flute;. Papa-_It·is riot without great reason.th.at Bergman (Production Director) -and geno, magic bells. . . ''The Magic. ·!lute"_ is termed a Susan . ~tevens (Musical· Director). . ·They set ·out. to liberate the Priri-"co_mic' opera." In _short, the show Indeed, the movement of the action cess. After an ordeal, -they are sue:. is:· consistently~ funny without de­is rendered quite intelligibly, there-cessful. Tamino_ -and Paipina . ·join . seen.ding into bathos. Enough= heavy by incr_easirtg the layman's ·sensitiv-. hands in_ marriage; -Papageno -no--moments exist to balance the action, ity to the coaies~ence of music and, --longer ·has to' chase .birds around-~ -and yet, riot.inspire tedium. plot. . . . . . _the forest,.for he finds sq~eone -"just --The. humor _: often hil~ious ­
Although the plot. is not. utterly_, like him". and they :also . marry. . is -primarily a functicm of situation essential to· an appreciation of "The -Papageno's mate is· Papagena (Kit . and the rriannel_' in which the charac-­Magic -Flute," it 'is, nonetheless, -Birskovich), -the. feather·•-iady-_ ru:id. C ters respo~d . iri'-_ those situations. worthy of some consideration._ The bird catcher. Presumably, she(will •. :Many instances celebrate this truth. action resides-mainly in the attemp°f. chase birds:no longer~-·orie =merely' has to· recall the mo­of Prince Tamino (Bob Oppold) t_o -Plot or _·_story line·.-is -by.· no .···ment .that Paga.gene set his magic free the lovely Princess . Pamina' .. means the ·essential' el~m-ent inIIThe . bells' to work" when Monostatos (Carol Dzikowski) from the_ clutches·· Magic Fiute." The· _true magic. re~ · (Charles · Falcione) and-the slaves of the evil abductor, Sarastro (Bruce -sides _ultimately· in the music. It is -_-(Don Fischer and Jay !>arks) pre.:. Paulsen)._ Sarastro,. a .powerful and __in the singing, the hilarious and en-pare · to capture· · Papageno ·and imposing · _figure; -_ has_ kidnapped chanting anti~s · of the . distinctly Pamina. With the ringing of · the Pamina. -Tamino, · after being cap-. _ comic· characters, ,the excellent-see-bells, the pursuers are· ·enchanted tured by three.ladies in.the Kingdom ..nery,.-and the orchestra ·(James Mc-and begin to dance ludicrously. It-is of Night; is launched· ·on his noble -Cray, Condu'ctor) wher:e-we discover a grand effect. Nor can one, in'-good enterprise when·-he. is 'shown apie: the pearl; .. _,: conscience, omit Papageno's moment ture of Pamina. He· is utterly struck; : Little , need be said' . concerning of redemption as he prepares-to for­it is love at first glance; Tamino is the quality of Mozart's, score. The· sake life because of, an apparently all afire to fly to the rescue. Since• music is 'always sensuous and exhil-unrequited love. Just prior to·his'i·e­Sarastro is a force to be reckoned arating. Whether lively. and hearty lease, immediately before he leaps with, Tanilno does not go alone. He or soft and melancholy, the quality into the orchestra pit -a certain is accompanied by Papageno (Ralph-of the opera itself shines throtfgh death -Papageno is saved. The Bruneau), the feather,man and bird and enraptures_ the au,dience. Al--music is .bouncy, blith_e, rhythmic, 
-~ • ~---, H~ ~ >, < 
... 

and, then, the magic_ bells ring, Papagena returns. The joining of Papageno and Papagena -the two feather people -is . indeed very joyous as well. as riotous .. Only the hardhearted or the insane could fail to be moved when it is revealed that these two lovers will "share a cage together." 
The comic elements are effective because of the diversity of character and the fluctuatin.g moods. that are evoked as the action proceeds toward resolution. 
If mood and character· are by no means static,. there .exists, on tne other hand, a profound.uniformity in t~e quality of ·the set and the me­chanics of the staging. The set designs and stagi~g are artful, func­tionally economic,. and distinctly professional. The backdrops, for ex­ample,· are semi-transparent and, with ·the proper lighting, one can palpably sense the ethereal and the 
. airy. The lighting and the sets cre­ate a w.orld in which Shakespeare's Ariel would be glad to roam. The fly crew is also to be applauded for the graceful "flight" which they gave the Queen of the Night as she ar­rived on stage in Act I. 
The costumes for all the charac­ters are exceptionally fine. Indeed, they complement the personalities of 
. the · characters. It is for good reason that Tamino . and Pamina wear virgin-white flowing. gowns; the feather.· people are colorful and beautiful; their _wild costumes are most clearly extensions of their per;mnalities; even the men and women of the temple convey the sense of early · Church penitents in sackcloth without an •ash. ( A quiet nobility inheres to the cloth.) 
. After the show, at the St. ·Mary's Coffeehc;mse . snack bar, I had the fortune to wait behind an unidenti­fied member of the• company. It was · impossible not to · overhear the talk. 'J1le lady was speaking about a vari­ety of small -not necessarily mun­dane -technical failings during the show. Such complaints were excus­able coming from a member of the cast.. For anyone else, I thought-. _ even· Critics -the words would carry the smell of theatric pedantry. 
"The Magic Flute" is an ambitious undertaking and, to my senses, mis­takes were very few. indeed. Essen­tially, it is a production that should be seen and enjoyed. It is evident 
that the people involved spent long 
hours of work in order to succeed 
as they have. Perhaps a very simple 
and concise testimony of the essence · 
of "The Magic Flute" can be found 
in the concluding song of the opera: 
"The Power of Music and Love had · been saved." 
"The Magic Flute" will end its run 
on Friday and Saturday nights, 
April 13 and 14. It is fine entertain:­
ment and well worth attending. 
-jackwenke 


APRIL 13, 1973 
deep throat: 

They Call This Art? 
Near the end of February, ,.,ith fore entering and left the required base of her throat. The therapy required is obvious,
the SBP campaign getting under empty seat between us. way, rumors were running rampant The mmie began with a much­and the cure complete. Linda's final at du Lac. Everyone ,vas preparing needed e:x--planation of its philosophy moment-is depicted by bells ringing, for the nineteen seventy-three edi-complete with academic citations dams bursting, rockets b e i n g tion of muckraldng, character def-from Sigmund Freud. For the first launched, and a fireworks display amation, and slander in the name time we could remember credit was which would shame any Fourth of of student government. To add to given to a legal adviser, Burton July production. With thirty min­the excitement, "Hoosier Hysteria" Goldwater. Other names worth not­utes of film remaining, and no fur­,.,,·a.s in full s,ving, and the Cinema ing were those of the star Linda ther need of plot, the producers are Art Theatre had scheduled Deep "Deep Throat" Lovelace as herself, now free to add sexual fuel to th~ir Throat for an exclusive one-week Harry Reems as the lecherous male pornographic bonfire. And add they Michiana engagement. lead, Dr. Young, and his brother do; and add; and add. 
\Vith a serious desire to see our Ned Reems manning the_ cameras. Having found the way, Linda is names in print, and these three ob-The Herculean tasks of writing, pro­revealed as perhaps the first female scene events to choose from, we ducing and directing were done .by Don Juan in cinema history. Under faced a rather difficult decision. Jerry .Gerard. the guise of psychosexual therapy, Hoosier Hysteria? Far too exciting. As former connoisseurs -·of_ skin _ Linda exploits the weaknesses of Student Government elections? Self-flicks ,.,~e agreed afterwards that this numerous males in an epic series of abusive. \Vith fantasies of redeem-cne had a plot (a rare bonus in blue sexual contacts which are so numer­ing social value guiding us through_ movies) which could be ·extricated ous that the status of heterosexual the grey period of indecision, our from the quagmire of sexual gratui-:­relationships is lowered to that of journal:istic interests turned to the ties with a minimum of difficulty. masturbation. When love finally en­arts. What Notre Dame and the · After a brief -sexual interlude in­ters the film, and Linda's life, itis world needed most in these troubled volving Linda's roommate and a of apurely sexual nature. times was a serious and critical re-young man, :identifiable only by the What meaning, if any, and what view of Deep Throat. back of his head, we -were thrust redeeming social value, if any, has 
There were rumors of a massive into what is basically a sound plot: Deep Tll:roat? · Is it the victory Keenan turnout for achartered bus Linda,_ we're told in the next scene, for women's liberation that it is trip to the show, so we chose an has a sexual problem. Like count­reputed to •be? Is it an attempt to early performance. We started hitch-less girls across ·the country, she break down the sexual double stan­ing and ,v:ithin two rides found our-has ·never achieved total sexual grat-· dard by depicting the importance selves on :Main Street, Mishawaka, _ification. Out of sheer desperation, of female orgasm?· Is it simply a Indiana. There it was, lit up with Linda agrees to her roommate's sug­sexual -parody? As the film is pre­two -X's _(Two X's! We thought it gestion that they invite "a bunch· of sented, one would be giving far more was three.) 1Ve entered, displayed --guys" to a party featuring. the ob­credit than is deserved by answering our age, and paid the five dollars fo -yious form _of entertainment. The yes to any of these questions. The get in..You ·surely_ don't pay five next frft:een minutes of the film· are same plot, in the hands -of Woody dollars just to see any sixty-minute _ nothing more than pure sexual ex­Allen, might well have resulted in a film. You -know, they didn't even ploitati6n, a hard-core aside :which fine sexual ·parody. But what we have any photographs out in front lea~es Linda unsatisfied. are ·given by Vanguard Pictures is to lure-you :inside. What confidence . As a last resort in her efforts to quite ·simply pornography. To say and integrity! escape a life of total sexual frustra-that• Deep Throat has "redeeming 
Entering the auditorium, hardly . tion, _Linda seeks the help of Dr. . social value" is simply to -admit what one would describe as a "clean, •, Young. _After· five minutes of ex­that ·censorship no longer poses any well-lighted place," -we were ·care-haustive psychological questioning, threat to ·the movie industry. Miss ful, for obvious reasons, to _choose -Dr. Young determines that Linda's Lovelace is, in the final analysis, far seats which were close to the exit _· problem is physical, and proceeds to from liberated. -Rather, .she is ·an· and"in the dark shadows. Somehow give· her a thorough examination. absolute slave to her _own desires, the idea of being caught in a police· The examination reveals that Linda a victim of orgasmic tyranny. The raid on an obscene motion picture has been cursed from birth with a double standard of_ sexual roles is didn't appeal to us. We had been rare sexual deformity: her primary _simply reversed rather than: de-_ careful to remove· our raincoats be-:--.-erogenous ,zone is -located at the stroyed: 
If Deep Throat is a parody of anything, it is no more than a base insult to human sensitivities, a par­ody of all humanity. The entire concept of human emotions is care­fully and completely avoided, and love exists only as the result of mu­tual orgasm. What we are left with in the end is sixty minutes of ab­solute debauchery, a heaven-sent blessing for voyeurs, an erotic amusement park for sexual fanta­sies. As one critic said of lil_scape from the Planet of the Apes: "...no 
problem telling the chimps from the chumps in this one. The chumps are the ones in the audience holding the tickets." 
-jim bullock and 
'JXl,Ul colgan 

coming distractions 
FLICKS 

Catch Fellini's Satyricon at the Engineering Auditorium at 8 and 10 
p.m. on April 13 and 14. Another free evening? Don't miss Collegiate Seminar's Ma.rat/Sade at the same locale at 2, 7, and 9 :30 p.m. on April 
15. · Cinema '73 steals in "The Bi­cycle Thief" at the ever-popular Engineering Auditorium, April 28 and 29 at 8 and 10. 
MUSIC 
Collegiate Jazz Festival festivities at Stepan Center, 7 :30, April 13. The judges jam at midnight on the 14th in Stepan, closing the High School Competition held from 8 a.m: to 6 p.m. in Washington Hall. Chi­cago Symphony Trio appears at 8 :15 in said Hall on April 27 for only a dollar. Zena Schiff plays the violin for free at the Little Theatre, SMC, May 1 at 8. The Notre Dame Jazz Band and Combo's Final Concert is on May 1 at 8. Word forthcoming on its freeness. Check at LaFortune at 8, May 1. No question though on the Notre Dame Symphonette and Mixed Chorus Performance in Wash­ington Hall May 3. Bring only your ears. Going in circles? You'll iden­tify with Music in the Round with
l 
j Susan Stevens and Arthur Lawrence 
I APRIL 13, 1973 
at Stapleton Lounge across the road on May 6 at the ever-popular 8 p.m. 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
Interested in impressing your date? Take her (him) (it) to the Magic Flute, Mozart's comic opera on April 12, 13 and 14 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The curtain rises at 
8:30. Disney on Parade dances by at the ACC on April 13, 14, 15. Back to the Arts on April 17, with the New Arts Ensemble opening at Washington Hall at 8:15. Back to SMC for You're A Good Man, Char­lie Brown at the Little Theatre, 8:30, April 26, 27, 29 and May 3, 4, 6 at 8 :30 p.m., or April 28 and May 5 at 2:30 p.m. Be a kid again. Go partake in tug-of-war, pie throwing, 
_ and all the overall frolic included in An'Tostal weekend, the 26th, 27th, and 28th of April. Or be an adult and visit the Antique Show at Stepan, the Board of Trustees meeting, or pray for rain. Tired of Notre Dame? Try getting excited at IUSB Auditorium, Northside Hall, 8 :15, April 26, 27, 28 with Shakespeare's Twelfth Night. 

ARTS 
Keep up with Notre Dame's ex­cellent Art Gallery. Selected Bronzes 
from the Permanent Collection along with Very Small Paintings, Objects, \Vorks on Paper from the Mr. and Mrs. Wilke Collection. April 29, Students' \Vork invades this . Master's domain. 
LECTURES 
The Conference on the History of lUediaeval Universities brings in Prof. Karl Bosl, Munich; Leslie Do­montos, Youngstown State; Pearl Kibre, City U. of N.Y., to the Me­diaeval Institute, Library 7th floor, April 17, 9 a.m. to noon. The Mexi­can-American Lecture Series brings John Garcia to the Library Audito­rium at 7 :30, April 16; and Dr. Paul Taylor, same place, same time, April 
30. Don't forget Prof. Jerard Hur­witz in Nieuwland Hall at 4 :30 the same day, speaking on Biology and Cancer. Expand your spirit with Victor Turner, speaking on Pilgrim­ages From Within: \Vhat Holy Jour­neys Meant to Those \Vho Made Them; April 25, 8 o'clock, Little Theatre. Prof. Krier and Prof. Werge converge for "The Word: \Vord or Deed?" April 13, 7:30 
p.m. in the Audio Visual Theatre. That's all, folks. 
-theresa stewart 

f 

Dance for those who can't 
They dance for muscular dystrophy, don't they? 
Muscular dystrophy is a muscle­destroying disease which . afflicts over 250,000 ·persons, most of whom· are children. It is a cruel disease, hampering or prohibiting motion in an arin, a leg, or an entire body. An· unfortunate percentage of ~ose af­flicted will never -walk, never run, never dance. 
However, we can danc_e, ·arid the ND Student Government;_ in con.;. junction with the Muscular Dystro­phy Associations of . ~merica, : is · sponsoring a· "Dance Marathon for Those Who Can't:" .The .ultimate goal is to reduce that "unfortunate percentage" by raising money for re­search and treatment, so that some-. day, everyone ·suffering. from mus­cular dystrophy can have the oppor­tunity _to dance. The Marathon, scheduled for.the An Tostal weekend of April· 27-29, represents a total of 37½ dancing hours in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. 
Individual contestants must · be sponsored by a campus organization, but everyone can help, in turn, by sponsoring _t h e s e organizations, pledging a certain sum per . hour completed, or a single donation~ ·The '-'winner" of the Marathon is the or­ganization raising the mosf money~ providing that that group's couple is still mqving on the floor when the Dance Marathon ends. But in reali­ty, those who suffer from this crip­pling disease are the winners, and in the long run, vie all are the winners.· 

The 52-hour Dance Marathon is
. 
, 
only the finale of the MDAA drive which has already begun with_ a campus-wide canvass for pledges and donations. 
The MDAA-benefit Dance Mara­thon has proved to be a spectacular success on university campuses else­where; the first Dance Marathon was initiated in 1970.by students at the 
:University of . Maryland. Thirty­seven couples and organizations en.: tered that· first Marathon, raising over $15,so·o for.-muscular dystrophy research . and,. patiei:it-service pro­grams.· The winning· organization received a. 4-foot trophy, and a free ski weekend went to ·the win­ning couple. ­
The Notre Dame Student Govern­
. ment. is · off eririg . a _$300 first prize for this year's.Marathon. The event's coordinators pointed out that the prize represents a good opportunity for a club or campus organization to inake money, sponsoring a couple and then making arrangements for the distribution of the $300 prize. There will also be additional_ prizes for the runners-up. 
Next time you find yourself dancing, take a minute to remem­ber those who can't. If you can't dance·. for MDAA, then pledge your support for the fight against muscu­lar dystrophy; if you can't support this drive with your time, support it with a contribution. Good health costs so little.. 
-tam gora­
"They do not love .that do not ·show their love." 
William Shakespeare 
Choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee assures a oerfect· ­engagem~nt diamond of precise cut·and · superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. 

Rings from S100-S10.000 T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Co. 
:. ..· 
·\i:·­
i" 
.; .._:.,':!:.. 
-=-:::. 

(' HO;;-TO-PLAN YOU; E~AGEMENTAN;;;D~I~G·7 
I Send new 20 pg. booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding''. plus I I full color folder and 44 pg._ Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. ~-73 .· I
I . --I' 
·Name---------------------:_ I-. 
I  • 1 PJC'.uc Prinn  
I · -Address·  · .  ' ·, · :-.•'  
,,  :1 .1::city__________co· -I --, -, .~  I _ ---.-.·,·.•·,,~', 
1·(~~_:-St~t~­ ·  -~•,,  ip_·  :· i I·  

_ ; :, :......KEiPS,t\KE .DIAMP~~ -Ri?-fGS,,'B~~ ~o; :SYRACU~E:-:N.-.Y. :~~io~· :.~~ .'
1' 

--------------~--------------­
R. K. MUELLER, INC. ~ ~12sa.ke1' \;:;:;,/ REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS I -Downtown -233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  
PARTY STORE Liquor Beer & Wine Champagne Gourmet Foods if we don't have it-we'll get it U.S. 31 South, Niles Mich. 1 Block No. of Ind. Line 683-9875  
. ·YEAGER .MOTOR Co.J Inc. . BUICK--OPEL--VOL VO "Where customers send their friends" 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531 ~. _---_' - 

,_____;_______;__________...;,___ 
_..J 

APRIL -13, 1973 ... 
sports 

What's new 
for Spring? 
Spring is here and with it the coming of many different sports to the Notre Dame scene. Here's a short look at just a few of the teams to blossom this spring. 
Sailing 
Regatta sailing is exhilarating. Just ask the sailors. 
The Notre Dame sailing team has been in existence since 1937. Early this March they began their spring schedule, which will see them travel far and wide to compete in the New York, Florida and Texas areas, to mention just a few. Through the course of the semester they will race with over twenty different schools. 
A lot of hard and tedious work goes into mastering the intricacies of regatta sailing. The maneuvers which are involved can be likened to that of a war game. A set course must be followed with no specific time limit, the first boat across being the winner. The courses basically revolve around a triangle configura­tion, with markers placed in strate­gic positions to form the designated route. The races in which the team competes do not involve handicap­ping because all the boats are the same. 
To make their way through the courses the sailors use a number of different maneuvers. By sailing into the wind the boat follows a zigzag 1.rail. They may also use tacking which in effect is turning the boat windward so that the breeze whips around from the other. side. The wind is an important factor in all · sailing, and to take full advantage of it the crews adjust their sails accordingly. To perform a "jibe" is to make a turn in which the wind crosses the stern and the sail slams across the boat. The closer their turns at the markers the better their position for the next leg. Boats ~ay overlap one another to get the inside rights and thus have the privilege of turning at the marker first. The two-man team in the boat must be highly skilled and work together as a close-knit unit. 

In competitive racing other skills are used to come out victorious. Boats may crowd one another and use starboard tacking. The latter maneuver prevents the boat from being cut off. If two boats are on the same tack, the windward ship may cover the leeward boat giving it "bad air." In return the leeward boat can "luff" which forces the windward ship to cut into the wind and lose speed. 
In their first freshman icebreaker regatta, the Notre Dame crew came through with high-flying sails. The two-day match saw them compete in eighteen races against nine schools. The final tally showed the Irish edging runner-up Michigan State by a single point. The major objective of this regatta was to give valuable experience to the new and unskilled members of the team. 
The officers of this years club are: Al Constants-Commodore, Jon Makielski-Vice Commodore, Neil Barth-Rear Commodore, Rob Al­bergo-Secretary, Mike Dooley­Treasurer and Race Team Captain, Bruce Marek. 
The club holds parties for the op­position both before and after the meets. In this way a friendly sports­manlike attitude is kindled. The schools racing thus become very close to one another which makes the sport even more enjoyable. 
The team as a whole shows great competitive drive and their spirit continues to grow. 
Tennis 
The Fighting Irish Tennis Team, after losing only three matches dur­ing the 1972 season, dropped their first three this year to Memphis State, Tulane and L.S.U. Attribut­fog the losses to the lack of outdoor practice and collegiate inexperience on the part of the players, Coach Fallon expects the team to improve as the season progresses. 
The '73 season is one of transition. Crippled by the loss of last year's top three players, Coach Fallon is attempting to rebuild. Replacing Buster Brown, Chris Kane, a sopho­more, has moved from number seven to number one. Chris worked his way to the top by his impressive fall workouts and victories in the Cen­tral Collegiate Tournament. Behind Kane are juniors Mark Reilly, and Brandon Walsh, sophomore John Carrico, freshman Paul Reilly and senior captain Rob Schetter. Coach Fallon is also impressed with fresh­man Rick Slager of Columbus, Ohio. Rick, however, is a quarterback on the football team and his services for the '73 tennis season are in doubt. 
Basically, the '73 Irish squad is weak. There is no substitute for experience and experience is lacking. But it cannot be gained overnight. Rather, it can only be acquired only after a long and grueling season. 
Track 
The Notre Dame Track Team is in the midst of the 1973 outdoor sea­son. Led by head coach Don Faley the Irish are determined to improve their fall indoor record of zero and four. 

Distance events being the team's strength, Coach Faley is expecting strong performances from such trackmen as freshman Joe Yates who runs a blistering 4 :15 mile, sen­ior Dan Dunne (two mile), freshman Jim Hurt (mile-two mile) and senior John Duffy (880). However, the team is not without weaknesses. Plagued by injuries and lack of depth, Faley is less than optimistic about both the field events and sprints. 
APRIL 13, 1973 

-~:,:---~"'~•--~· '<!'"-.f~~~ -.._ ~
> 
-,_,,-_,. 
The outdoor season presents a particular challenge to both the team and Faley. Competing in the Kentucky, Ohio State and Drake Relays, as well as other single meets, the Irish will be tested against many of the best competitors in the nation. The results of these meets should prove invaluable in determining the future development of the team. Faley is definitely building toward the future. With the help of this year's already established trackmen, as WE;ll as next year's incoming freshmen, Coach Faley's hopes for the future may be realized. 
Golf 
Rain or shine, on the links of the 
Rockne course early in the dawn 
hours, the men of the Notre Dame 
golf team can be·seen sharpening up 
their skills for the upcoming spring 
matches. 
Already the team has played in a few tournaments beginning with the spring trip (March 8-18) to North Carolina. They played in a fifty-four­hole match_·against fourteen other universities. ·Although they, placed ninth it must be noted that it was their first competitive trial since last October. Since this tournament they have played"in Virginia and at other courses in North Carolina, each time showing marked improvement. 
Now in his twenty-seventh year as coach, Fr. Durbin feels the prospects for this season are much stronger than before.· He ·feels ·there is real competitive spirit within the team and that they are ready to put forth their finest· effort. · 

The team, led by their senior cap­tain Mike La France, looks forward to the opening of their schedule (April 11-13) ·at the University of Tennessee Invitational. Sixteen teams are slated to compete with the linksmen there. Afterward they will be travelling to Ohio for the Kepler Invitational, again to. Ohio for the Mid-American Invitational, and to the Northern Intercollegiate· Tour­nament at Indiana. They. -~nd up the season with the Notre Dame In.: vitational on May 7. 
The other team members jQining La France are seniors Marty Best, Chuck Voelker, junior Paul Betz, sophomores Jeff Burda, Mike Kistner and freshman Jim Culveyhouse. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


Baseball 
Now moving over into the inner 

confines of the Convo and some­
times, weather permitting, on Car­
tier Field we see still another spring 
team in practice. It is the baseball 
team under the capable leadership of 
Coach Jake Kline, now entering his 
fortieth year at the helm. 
The team went south to Oklahoma 

for their spring training trip and 
came back with an unimpressive 2-8 
record. There are many important 
factors not to be overlooked when 
examining this performance. First, 
the trip was meant to give the new 
and ·inexperienced players on the 
squad a chance to show their abili-­
ties. The Irish also suffered from the 
loss of their three top hitters from 
last year (Joe LaRocca-.352, Ken 
Rump-.347, Rob Reschan-.329). In­
juries also took their toll as four 
key players were disabled (Bob 
Roemer, Ken Schuster, Dick Nuss­
baum, Mark Pittman). The competi­.tion the Irish faced down South was topflight in Tulsa, Arkansas, New Mexico State, and Oral Roberts. The , team lost five times to Tulsa which ·currently is -ranked · fifth in the 
country. Coach Kline felt that with 
a few lucky breaks the team could 
have evened its record. 
The Irish schedule is quite de­manding, calling for fifteen double­headers and four single games. Kline feels this will give all his pitchers an opportunity to see action. 
The new home opener for the Irish (due to a rainout) is now April 10 against Michigan State. As of now the infield for the team shapes up as follows: first base -Mark Schmitz, second base -Peter Schmidt, shortstop -James Smith, third base -Tom Hansen & Pat Coleman and catching will be cap­tain Bob Roemer. 
The outfield has four candidates in Ed Lange, Nussbaum, Schuster and Howard Wood. 
The mound corps is led by Mike Riddell and Bob Eich. Showing prom­ise are Pittman and two freshmen, _ Bob Stratta and Mitch Stoltz. Kline also expects that Kevin Fanning and Mike Swallow will see duty. 
With good hitting and hopefully nice weather Coach Kline feels the Irish will be able to improve on last year's 14-16 log. 
-mare nishan 
daug kenyon 

APRIL 13, 1973 
the last word 
It's Friday night of my first week, and already I'm wondering if I wasn't crazy to ever apply for this god­forsaken job. My adrenalin has been flowing inces­santly for the last three days. Everything is happening so quickly that it all appears a blur. 
At last I have a few moments of peace. Everything's under control. The copy is down at the press, and any­thing that hasn't come in yet is due shortly. Things are loo.king up. A week from now all my friends, anxious to see "what I w~s going to do with the SCHOLASTIC" will have their answer. I think I'll be afraid to ask what they think 
The other night a friend very matter-of-factly declared that Notre bame will be a state school within eight years. I shudder at the thought. When we dig through the -hackneyed expressions, the timeworn cliches, and the romanticized preconceptions, there still is something special about Notre Dame. Though we seem to be far down the road of rigid institutionali­zation and academics aimed at futile utility, perhaps it still isn't too late to speak of Notre Dame as something special, as a sort of community. (I cringe to think how the term has been abused.) We seem to be at a turning point. We can take time out to examirie our -reasons for being here, and our somewhat undefinable unique­ness.-Or we can continue to concern ourselves mainly with productivity, careers, grades, and the future; in which case it really wouldn't matter much if we_ did become a state school, or any other type of school for that matter. The choice is clearly ours. 

Spring is here. With it come rebirth, rejuvenation, renewed strength and hope. With it also come a new self-awareness, and a consideration of new directions and goals. Many -people _have asked me if this job is worth all the headaches and effort involved. Of course it is. We've got to continue the ongoing discourse. We've got to continue to talk about ourselves -to examine why we are here -to attempt to understand what ND /SMC is all about. If we stop talking we be­come stale. We lose sight of_ ourselves and get lost in our preoccupations._ The SCHOLASTIC must remain an integral part of this self-examination. That's why I'm here tonight. And most nights. 
-kerry mcnarnara 

IF YOU HAVE AN UNUSUAL TALENT, YOU HAVE WHAT IT TAKES TO BEA BUDWEISER®WORLD CHAMPION! 
EARN THIS TERRIFIC PATCH, 7"X6", COLORFUL, WASHABLE, WITH SPACE FOR WRITING IN YOUR SPECIALTY. 
Breathe easy, Earthlings. Budweiser is doing something about the current short­age of world champions in the world. 
Budweiser is sanctioning five foolish events in which world-record setters can win prestige plus a handsome patch. 
In addition to the thrilling BUD,.. CAN TOTE, there are four others. Get details at your favorite beer store where you see the gaudy "Bud­weiser World Championship" display! 
Do one, beat the record, tell us about it on a postcard and get your marker pen ready for inscribing your particular specialty be­neath where it says "World Champion." 
TO GET YOUR BUDWEISER 1,,,ORLD CHAMPION PATCH (EVEN IF YOU DON'T SET A RECORD), JUST WRITE YOUR NAME, ADDRESS AND WHAT YOU DID ON A POSTCARD. 
This fine young man is doing the BUDWEISER CAN TOTE. So should you. Just tote a record numbe~ of empty Bud cons, balanced atop one another, without mishap, for a distance of 25 °feet and earn a dandy Budweiser World Champion patch. Record to beat is 4. (You :augh?) 

(Maybe you've detected that this is not an official, rigid-rules "contest." But it is a lot offun, even if you can't break the records. You can, though, can't you?} 
A sleek graceful sailing vessel glides across the sometimes green, sometimes blue Caribbean. The cargo: you. And an intimate group 
of lively, fun-loving shipmates. 
Uniform of the day: Shorts and tee shirts. Oryour bikini if you want. And bare feet. 
Mission: A leisurely cruise to 
re1note islands with names like Martinique, Grenada, Antigua-those are the ones you've heard of. Before the cruise ends, you '11 
know the names of many more. You'll know intimitely the enchanting ~ifferent mood of each...and its own beauty and charm. 
Life aboard your big sailing yacht is inf orn1al Relaxed. Romantic. 
There's good food. And 'grog: And a few pleasant comforts ... but any resemblance to a plush pretentious resort hotel is accidental. 
Spend 10 days 
exploring paradise. 

Spend ten nights watching the moon rise and getting to know interesting people. It could be the most meaningful experience of your life 
... and it's easily the best vacation you've had. 
A cruise is forming now. Your share from 
$245. Write Cap'n Mike for your free adventure booklet in full color. 
Come on and live. 

Name ____________ 
Add,ess ____________ Otv ______State ___z,p__ 
f'hOne,____________ 
P.O. Box 120, Dept Miami Beach, Florida 33139 

