iMHM
Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 20. 188S.	No. 40,
Silhouettes of Travel.
CHICAGO TO SAN FRANCISCO.
’	BY T. O'S., ’58.
{Conclusion.)
XVII.
Such was the active charity and evangelical poverty of the noble old Archbishop that, when through advancing years and growing infirmities he gave his spiritual charge into the hands of his Most Rev. Coadjutor, previous to his departure for the Dominican monastery at Valencia in Spain, all his worldly assets, if sold under the hammer, would not have sufficed to defray the expenses of the journey. It was only with much difficulty he was persuaded to accept,- as a token of then- love and esteem, a purse contributed by the clergy and laity of the archdiocese. And yet for thirty-one years he had enjoyed the highest of ecclesiastical dignities in a country where the precious metals abounded, and where generosity and liberality knew no bounds. But, like a true servant of God and a successor of the spiritually-minded Apostles, he laid up to himself “treasures in heaven”—the riches of good works and life eternal—“where neither the rust nor moth doth consume, and where thieves do not break through, nor steal.”
ARCHBISHOP ALEMANY, though past the term of years assigned to man by the psalmist, never for a moment relaxed the , austerities of the Dominican rule, which he ever followed as far as he could do so consistently with his episcopal office and multiplied duties. He was ever indefatigable in his missionary labors. Whenever any bf the city or suburban clergymen were unable to appear in the pulpit, on account of illness or other engagements, the
good old prelate was always prepared to “sow* the good seed of the word.” Though not as eloquent as Bossuet, he probably converted, more sinners and saved more souls than this-famous master of sacred oratory. His knowl- ■ edge of modern languages was such that he-might be called the Mezzofanti of America.. He could address every congregation in the diocese in its native tongue.
It is an old Spanish custom to have the Sacrament of Confirmation administered to children in danger of death. Many a night his Grace-was called upon, even at the most unseemly hours, to perform the ceremony, either in the-city or across the Bay. . Yet no murmur ever-escaped his lips. One Saturday evening, through press of business, he missed the train for Stockton, whither he intended to go for the purpose of giving Confirmation the following morning. The chancellor advised him to telegraph his mishap and return home; but the brave old man was determined to go, even if he had to ride a. burro all the way thither. He took a freight train,, and reached his destination after an uncomfortable all-night’s ride, just as High Mass had commenced, to the great relief of the anxious pastor. At dinner his Grace referred to his contretemps- . as a good joke.
He had all the charity of a St. Francis oE Assisi, or of a St. Elizabeth of Hungary’. He-never refused a kind word or a dollar to those-in need. Every Tuesday himself, or, in his absence, his chancellor, distributed money.to.ther indigent of every nationality or creed. Among the applicants for assistance on these occasions there are always at least from 75 to ibo, “old timers” who looked with indignation, contempt and jealousy upon any4new eleemosynary poor who joined their ranks, as much as to say: “What claim have you bummers and barnacles and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
lazy tramps upon the Archbishop’s bounty? We are his Grace’s wards, and he has no right to give the bread of the children to the dogs! Go o	o
and earn an honest living!” Let a cow churn'. and she will call it custom. Such is the power of routine, such the selfishness of human nature, even among companions in misfortune. The frequent impositions practised upon his Grace did not for a moment restrain his liberality. One sick or crippled baby was often employed by a dozen would-be mothers to soften his heart and open still more widely his purse strings; but the good man either did not suspect the ruse, or overlooked it. At any rate, he was often heard to express his astonishment at the large number of sickly and deformed infants in the city. Judging him by the moral standard of St. James— “If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man ’ ’—the Archbishop was an uncanonized saint; for no expression ever fell from his lips that clashed with the laws of justice and charity. He had such a perfect control over his emotions, that, like another St. Francis de .Sales, the calm benignity of his countenance was never obscured or ruffled by the slightest •cloud or breath of anger, no matter how great the provocation offered. And yet, notwithstanding the gentleness of his character, he could, when occasion required, be as firm as a rock.
The manifestation of Know-not hingism, referred to in a former communication, was directly occasioned by the Archbishop’s firmness in offering to comply with the dying request of James P. Casey, proprietor of the Sunday Times, who had shot James King, Editor of the Bulle-iin, in Mav, i8;6. While visiting Casev and Cora, the slayer of Richardson—both of whom had been condemned to the gallows by the Vigilance ‘Committee—the former asked his Grace for a solemn Requiem Mass prasente cadavere.
. On Corpus Christi, word was sent to the Archbishop that the victims of: Judge Lynch would be hanged at noon. He immediately sent Fathers Accolti and Maraschi to prepare . Them for death. Hearing that religious services were to be held at the cathedral over -Casey’s body, the rampant bigots of the city .sent a messenger to the Archbishop to tell him . .that unless he withdrew his promise to Casey, Ihis church would be battered with cannon and , laid in ruins over the heads of the worshippers. . He. firmly but deliberately replied that if. a . .	. thousand, cathedrals were to be blown to pieces,
. ?or offered up as a prey to the flames, he would never close the-doors of his cathedral against the remains of one who died in communion with the Church. The direst threats were uttered,
but nothing could shake his resolution. And yet he knew that some of the worst elements of the city had obtained admission into the ranks of the Vigilantes, and that this illegal body, together with the most violent fanatics in the city, held possession of all the arms and ammunition, except such as had been sent to the militia companies from Sacramento. Fortunately, the friends of Casey asked him to send a priest to the house where the remains of the dead man lay. There the funeral services were performed without any molestation, and thus the churches of the city, and probably the other religious institutions, were saved, and, perhaps, heavy loss of life avoided; for in all human probability, the party of law and order would have resisted the destruction of church property with whatever weapons came first to hand.
The Governor of the State, J. Neely Johnson, called, by the way, “Miss Nellie,” was a man of no backbone or character. Had he given General—then Captain—W.T.Sherman, in command of the military forces at San Francisco, orders to act, this determined man would have as easily vindicated- the majesty of the law as Napoleon did in front of the Tuilleries in 1795. The brave Admiral Farragut, who then commanded a frigate lying in the bay, only required the Governor’s warrant, and the headquarters of the Executive Board of the Vigilance Committee, as well as the jail of which they had taken forcible possession, would have been immediately bombarded and reduced to ashes. But “Miss Nellie’s” cowardice and love of popularity prevented, him from giving those orders, or issuing that warrant. The famous old flag ship of the naval hero, David Glasgow Farragut—the Hartford, which fought her way during the late unpleasantness up the Mississippi as far as Vicksburg with 32 shots in her hull and rigging—is now out of commission, and lying in the waters of the bay at Mare Island.
Again, in 1865, during the turmoil consequent on the news of President Lincoln’s assassination, his Grace showed his usual imperturbability and self-possession. The mob had demolished the forms, type and presses of the Monitor, the Occidental and, I believe, of the Examiner. As a savage beast that is roused to. fury by the taste of blood, so this blind and unreasoning hydra-. headed monster, composed of political and religious howling dervishes, was fired to further destruction and became eager for bloodshed. Some one in the rabble cried but : “ Let us tear down.the cathedral!” It took all the influence of one of the leaders of the Republican party to restrain the surging masses and prevent , the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	639
destruction suggested. A number of Irish Catholics hurried to the Archbishop to advise him of the impending danger. They found him engaged in the confessional. He told them go home, and that he himself would go out and address the wreckers from the steps of his church. He then returned 'to his work in the sacred tribunal as if nothing had occurred to give him alarm. The 3d Regiment (Irish), however, thought a few rounds of ball cartridge would be more effective than all the good man’s eloquence, and its members- accordingly prepared themselves for the fray. Fifty men were placed in a position to defend the church, until the excitement died out. “ Boys,” said the peaceful prelate, “ take the balls out of your cartridges. You might get excited and accidentally hurt somebody.”—“We’ll get ’em out quick enough, your reverence, when the thugs come round— fagh mar shin e—thigcn thu, Aspig agrah!”
So great was his Grace’s detachment from the things of earth that at the time of his consecration in Rome, in 1850, he was compelled to borrow a religious habit so as to make a presentable appearance at the ceremony. At his departure from San Francisco, in 1885, was compelled to have recourse to the donation then made him, wherewith to purchase a respectable travelling suit; the balance of the money, deducting the expenses of his journey, he deposited in bank to be applied to the establishment of a college in Spain for the education of clerical students for the archdiocese; and should this project not prove feasible, the funds were to revert to the benefit of home charities. Withal, he intensely loved the country of his adoption, and was an ardent admirer of its free institutions.
Travelling in Spain in 1862 before the canonization of the Japanese martyrs, he wore his white Dominican habit wherever he went. This was a violation of the law in that so-called Catholic kingdom, which has so sorely felt the wounds inflicted by Liberalism, Freemasonry and English antipopery ever since the Peninsular war. The officials of the country peremptorily ordered him to remove his ecclesiastical .dress. “Never,gentlemen 1 ” he replied; “I dress as I please in free America. I shall, as an American citizen, wear whatever clothes I choose in Spain, Russia, or China; look at my passport; there is my certificate of citizenship.”, He suffered no further molestation.
The exact measurement of the “ Dolores Mission Church ” is as follows: Main building, 150 feet in length, 30 feet, 8 inches in width; rear addition or sanctuary, 25x25 feet; total
length, 175 feet; thickness of walls, 4 feet, 8 inches.	■
XVIII.
The administration of ■	.	•
MOST REV. ARCHBISHOP RIORDAN	.
has been characterized by renewed activity in all the missions—the erection of new churches, the multiplication of parishes, and the establishment of parochial schools wherever at all feasible,. In all the larger congregations a special Sunday Mass has been appointed for • the school children, at which hymns, canticles, or portions of the divine service are sung or chanted according to the manner of congregational singing. His Grace has laid great stress upon the preaching of the divine word, not only at the Sunday or holyday morning services, but also at the afternoon Vespers, or evening Benediction. The diocesan finances -have been so ably and economically administered, that the credit of the Church to-day at San Francisco is well-nigh illimitable. By his affability, eloquence and business tact, the Archbishop has won for himself the love, es- ’ teem and confidence of all his subjects, both lay and clerical. Plis popularity with all the leading business or professional meh of the city, Catholic or non-Catholic, is unbounded. During his late illness, manifestations of the deepest sympathy were visible on even'side—in the public press, in the counting houses as well as in the privacy of the domestic circle. The good wishes of the Piute Indians of California and Nevada were tendered by Captain Sam, chief near Rerio, _ and by Captain Jo. Side, their principal tribal interpreter. A red skin may cover a grateful and loving heart. These Christian Indians, accompanied by their wives and children, came huh-dreds of miles to see his Grace and offer the homage of their affection to the Big Chief of the Great Father at Rome. Even the venerable head of the Episcopal Church, tile learned Dr. Kip, called more thah once atthearchiepiscopal residence to tender his sympathy.
A strange visitor came to the house one dav. This gentleman, mentally considered, is minus habeas, and is a freethinker to the extent that he regards himself as the czar or absolute monarch of North America. “How is: his Grace this morning?”—“Much better.”—“Glad to hear it: Church and.State should harmonize: Tell his Grace that his.Majesty, the ruler of the north-. ern portion of the Western: Hemisphere, presents his compliments, and that his Majesty is -ready to place at the disposal of his Grace a large army arid an iron-clad fleetagainst the
64o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago socialists. His Majesty’s generals, •jobbing, Surprise, Teaming and Washingdone frill command the land forces; Admiral T. Oshun, the navy.”
The Archbishop, like his fellow student, Bishop Spalding, has always been a strenuous advocate of
CATHOLIC EDUCATION,
whether primary, middle, higher, collegiate or university. He is also a generous patron of technical and industrial training. In his. efforts to comply with the provisions of the late Council of Baltimore, he has been ably seconded by the zealous clergy of the archdiocese, who are everywhere building or improving parochial schools for the accommodation of all,the children of their respective charges.
His Grace is of the opinion that there was never	'
AN EPOCH
in the history of the Church which demanded more strenuous exertions and self-sacrifice on the part of the clergy and laity than the present time in which the combat of the City of God with the city of the world fiercely rages, ' and in which we must strive to “bring into captivity every understanding unto the obedience of Christ.” The old forms of political, social, and, to a great extent, of religious life, are crumbling, or have alreadv crumbled into dust. • “The schoolmaster is abroad,” and intelligence, whether for good or evil, is borne on the wings of the press or by the electric current to the remotest corners of the globe. The triumphs of the physical sciences over nature have outstripped the feats of the fabled genii and the creations of the luxuriant imagination of the East. Everything in heaven and on earth is being questioned—the' foundations of every system laid bare. The cni bono of every institution, whether secular or religious, is asked. Where is the power to uphold the interests of , the soul, the truths of the supernatural order, the goods of eternity, amid the.worship of the finite, the deification of matter, which, according to Tyndall, has the promise and potency of every good and of every form of life? Where ' can we discover the well-spring of that authority which is necessary for the support of democratic as well as of feudal or kingly institutions? Where can we find that beacon light which can alone securely guide a sceptical world through darkness and doubt to certainty and truth?
. Only in the living Church, which>harmonizes reason with revelation, liberty with authority, rights .with duty, social progress with.immova-bility of justice! Who can conduct humanity
safely through this awful period of transition into the ways of order, peace, and solid happiness? Only that heavenly spouse of Christ that has been divinely commissioned for the “healing of the nations” and their indoctrination in all the principles of morality and truth!
There is, then, a vast and triple field of action for the Church in our age. She must defend the impregnable fortress of truth against all the assaults of modern assumption, sciolism, agnosticism and scepticism, and be prepared to combat her enemies with their own favorite weapons of fact and science. Through the solid Christian as well as secular education of the rising generation, she must recover whatever ground she has lost in the Old World or the New. She must achieve new conquests, not only among the pagans outside the pale of. civilization, but especially among the masses of unbelievers whose forefathers were seduced from the faith by the ignis fatuus of the Renaissance; by its daughter Protestantism with liberty on its lips, and chains both religious, intellectual and political, in its hands; by Rationalism with its Siren song of knowledge and its degradation of the man into the beast! The words,of the profound thinker Gorres are as applicable, if not more so, to our day and age than to the times in which he wrote:
,,-Drcinial prafbar iff bcr iKupigc in biefer bcbcutungb= bollcn 3dt. liberal! finb allc §ilfbinitfd bcr fortTdjrcitcnbcn Jtultur aufgeboten 3ur (sntfdjeibungbfdjladfr Scbc ©aat inirft fdjndlcr alb fonft 311? §rud)t unb (irntc—bic (sntfdufdjung, bit Uroftlopdjk'it beb SrdljninS, bcr falfdjen Sluffhirung ^aben bic .^efjen in befonberer SScifc fur bab 2id)t beb (Sl)riftcntl)unio cmpfdnglid) gemad)t; bid cblcb iUdall licgt 311m S^cbcn in bcr Xicfc beb anncn Ifrlfcb."
Well, too, has the late Bishop Ketteler written:
„22ao fonnten ibir fur bic (Sadjc Wottcb tljun, menu n?ir 311 cincni flcincn Jljcilc ben Gifcr batten, ben bic Wegner Wottcc* baben unb mit bein fie atljcmlob bic SBdt biirdjrcnncn, inn ifir ©ift in jebe ^uttc bincinjutragcn! 9iid)t blob bcr Alcnio, fonbern a!lc Planner, bic bab <Sl)riftcntl)uni licbcn, follcir in bcmfclbcn Wciftc ibirfen. $n bcr ^reffe, in ben politifdjcn SJcrfammliingcn, in alien Stdlungcn, huidje Wott fynon auf Grben angcivicfcn, folien pc fur bic grogen Slnlicgcn bcr iUenfdjbcit fampfen!"	’
The Archbishop laid the corner-stone of a
•	• NEW CATHEDRAL
in one of the finest and most central localities of the residence portion of the city May 1, 1887. The old edifice, though large and commodious, was no longer adequate to the wants of the immense congregation frequenting it. On the one side it is surrounded by the .Chinese quarters, which now occupy what used to be the centre of the. city in early days; on. the other, it is , hemmed in by streets in, which are conducted legitimate^ business transactions or their oppo-
THE NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.
site. It was time to erect an edifice that would be more in harmony with the growth of religion as well as with the architectural development of the city. The old building will, however,' ' stand for many years to come as a land mark of the “days of old,” and serve as a place of worship for hundreds of families who can still approach it conveniently.
The following is a description of the new cathedral: Style, romanesque; the general plan is in the form of a Latin cross; the nave has a clear width of 68 feet and a length of 128; the transepts are 62 feet long, 18 deep; width of chancel, 34 feet; depth, 18 from the arch to the end wall, but the sanctuary extends into the nave, making a total depth of 40 feet from chancel rail. Two towers will flank the front; the main tower will be 172 feet, the other 112 feet high. Two double doors, approached by a broad flight of steps, will form the main entrance. Over this will be placed a large wheel window, 18 feet in diameter, to be filled with .stained glass. Side entrances are arranged east and west of each transept with staircases to galleries. The vestibule in front is 14x40, connecting at the sides with the staircase in the main tower, and the baptistery in the smaller tower. The baptistery has a semi-octagonal extension. There will be wheel windows in transepts, 18 feet in diameter, filled with stained glass. An arched timber roof will spring from wall to wall of nave and transepts and reach a height of 60 feet. The ceiling will be divided by moulded rails and ribs of finely finished wood. The panels are to be plastered to receive fresco decorations. The ceilings of the vestibule, baptistery and transept galleries will be panelled in finely finished red wood. Pews will be built and arranged to seat 1600 persons. The chancel and side chapel windows, also the four large nave windows will be filled with highly artistic stained glass con-’ taining scriptural subjects. The basement story is 16 feet high in the clear, and extends under the entire church. All the exterior and interior walls are built of brick with facings of pressed brick, granite, and terra cotta trimmings. The shafts or columns at the main doorways are of polished red granite. All the gable and eave mouldings, pinnacles and crosses are of galvanized iron painted to the exact color of stone dressings? The roofs will be covered with.slate. All the walls, with the exception of the front wall, are built up to the height to receive the main cornice. The roof is being put on at the present’time, and will soon be finished. Estimated , cost, 3300,000. The main plan of the building was drawn by Mr. Egan, of Chicago.
Thos. Ji Welsh, Esq., a well-known architect and contractor of San Francisco, superintends its construction.
This splendid edifice will form another.lasting monument to the indefatigable activity of the Archbishop, as well as to the piety and generosity of the good people of the Queen City of the Pacific. Well may his Grace exclaim on the dedication of his new church: “Si monu-mentum quarts, respicc” And well can it be al. ready said of him :
“---His hand was known
In heaven, by many a tower’d structure high. Where sceptered angels held their residence.”
Donations towards the building have been very liberal: the fair held last September on its behalf in San Francisco realized the handsome sum of S6o,ooo.
The following
;	STATISTICS
will perhaps interest some of the readers of the Scholastic—now that Matter and Form have been Fitteingly disposed of—as indicating the ; status of the archdiocese to-day, and the immense progress which religion has made on the Sunset Slope in less than half a century in the face of so many peculiar obstacles incident to a new country that has been peopled byso many adventurous spirits—such as that individuality which chafes under the weight of authority; that comparative disregard of old traditions, public opinion and .moral restraint; that love of lucre which, St. Paul tells us, is to many the occa- . sion of moral perdition and the loss of faith. During the gold and silver eras, the maxim of Horace’s countrymen was well understood and practised by the masses:
“01 cives, cives querenda pecunia primum est, . Virtus post nummos.”
Churches, 126; chapels and stations, 25;. col-, leges, 3; academies and select schools, 25; technical schools, 1; hospitals, I; asylums, 3; priests, secular and regular, 165; clerical students, 30; orphans, 1200; pupils in parochial schools, 10,000; Catholic population of the city, 150,000; Catholic population of the archdiocese, 205,000.
The following religious orders or congregations are represented in the diocese: the Jesuits, Dominicans, Franciscans, Christian Brothers, Sisters of Mercy, Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, Sisters of Charity of. the Blessed: Virgin Mary, Sisters of the Holy Family, Sisters of the Sacred Heart, Presentation Nuns, Sisters of Notre Dame,Sisters of St.Dominic, and Sisters of the Holy Names.
The old cemetery, though now; lyingwithin the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTt'C.
city limits, is still used for burial purposes by those who have lots in it; although no new lots or graves are any longer sold. This “silent city of the dead ” contains over 50,000 bodies. Many of its tombs, vaults and monuments have been constructed by the millionaires of San Francisco at enormous expense. Some of the structures contain small chapels, and are adorned with statuary symbolic of hope and life eternal. They are built of various colored marbles, or of American or Scotch granites, and afford beautiful specimens of mortuary architecture. By the way, some of the city undertakers dub themselves “mortuary or funereal decorators! ” What nice gentlemen to put ^corpus mortiium in its silk-lined casket! and give the carmine-tinted dear departed a nice excursion to his little chateau in the country! No wonder the Philosopher of poetry should have asked, “What’s in a name?”
Grounds for a second cemetery, comprising 180 acres, and lying 8 miles south of the city, were purchased two years ago. Rev. George Montgomery, chancellor, has superintended the laying out of this new necropolis; and his taste ■ and skill must obtain for him manv friends ‘ among the souls in purgatory. He does not approve of the symbolic broken shafts or columns over the graves of the dead—they may be good enough for pagans who have but indistinct notions of immortality, but they are not suitable for Christians who look upon death not as a break in one’s true existence, but as a gio-rious evolution to the higher and endless life in eternity, just as the golden butterfly leaves the tomb of its crysalis, to sip the nectar of the flowers, and flit on gauzy wing in the joyous sunlight of heaven! Over 5CO dead bodies have been already laid to rest in this holy God’s Acre. Had Hamlet been there, while delivering his famous soliloquy, so trying to the nerves and lungs and arms of elocution classes, instead of being in the “nipping air” of cold and icy Denmark, he might have been tempted to “shuffle off his mortal' coil ” and escape “the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune ” in a ’ lovely spot that nestles between two mountains, and is bathed in almost perpetual sunshine. Here he could not only “burst his cerements” to “ revisit the glimpes of the moon,” but also, enjoy a glorious view of the-silvery bay on one side and of the sleeping Pacific on the other..
Every? individual1 has a place to fill in the world, and it is important in some 'respects, whether he chooses to do so or not. '
• Sailing Flight.
BY PROF. A. F. ZAHM.
(Conclusion.)
We have, then, two distinct kinds of sailing flight which are as different in their consequences as day and night, or as gain and loss. I shall, therefore, in this lecture employ the word “soaring” to express a gradual ascent of the bird, on outstretched, motionless wings, to a height greater than that due to inertia or acquired ve-locitv. The other kind of flight has no distinct name in any language; and-yet, to render it intelligible, we must carefully distinguish it from soaring. The sailing of all the birds in this region, and of all the small fliers in creation, resembles, in every respect, the coasting of men and quadrupeds. I shall, therefore, for want of a better word, call it coasting flight, and employ it to express that kind of flight in which the bird gradually descends to a lower level without ever ascending to an elevation greater than that due to inertia or acquired velocity. To put the matter roughly, I should say the soaring bird can ride upwards to an indefinite height; the coaster cannot ride upwards more than 50 or 75 feet, both kinds can sail downwards from any height and in any direction, so that a soaring bird is a good coaster, but the converse is not true. You may observe our birds here for months and you will never see them sail upwards 100 feet at a time, unless accidentally caught in a whirlwind. ’ Soaring, then, is nothing less than sleigh-riding .up hill, and up a long, long hill that reaches above the clouds; coasting is the riding down this hill. A little bird must flap and flutter to climb up as far as it wishes before enjoying the pleasure of riding down; a big bird is carried up by its servant, the wind, and then descends like the other. A bird in soaring typifies the man of fortunate circumstances who has the genius to mount.on them up to heaven; in coasting it typifies , the prodigal man of means who with or without opportunities sinks persistently down to the dust. . The chief and indispensable condition of soaring is a variable wind; coasting requires only an elevation, and is independent of wind or weather.
Having made this distinct division of the subject, let us study each part separately, choosing for. illustration the best typical models presented in nature. The coasting of birds, as 1 have before remarked, resembles that of man, the only;essential difference being this: that a 1 bird glides down the. atmosphere, while man has the choice of snow or ice, or of some arti
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	643
ficial track as in roller coasting. This kind of locomotion is practised by the otter, which amuses itself for hours by sliding- down a bank of sand; and by several other kinds of quadrupeds, such as the flying squirrel, lemur, and lizzard.
The flying of these animals has been very inappropriately called parachuting; but to apply the term parachuting to coasting is to completely misapprehend the nature and object of each. The object of a parachute, as its name and nature of construction imply, is a gradual, easy and direct motion downwards perpendicularly; the object of coasting, on the contrary, is great velocity, horizontal transference, and controllable route. The perfect parachute will, in a calm, go in a straight line to the earth; the perfect coaster will, if desired, execute a parade, and return almost to its original altitude, or sail down a long inclined plane to an indefinite distance. The purpose of the one is a minimum of horizontal transference, of the other a maximum horizontal transference. The design of one is hemispherical or conical, of the other plane or bird-form; in one the centre of gravity is far below the centre of resistance, and in the line of progression passing through it, in the other just beneath and not always in line. Take them both up in a balloon two miles above us on a still day, .and the parachute will come softly down at a regular speed and light within the grounds; the "other will sail at any speed in any direction at the will of the operator, and land if you wish at Ber- ■ trand or Mishawaka, or out beyond the brewery. I have constructed and tested dozens of ' these in small models, and they all behave as above described. Since, then, there is such an essential difference in the nature and purpose of these two modes of locomotion, it is becoming that thev be distinguished bv different names. .
We shall, therefore, regard the flying quadrupeds, not as living parachutes but as coasters, though they can act as parachutes when they wish to; so can all flying creatures, birds, bats,. insects, by holding their wings properly, descend in a vertical line. But the organization and habits of flying quadrupeds^entitle them to the distinction of coasters, as we shall see by a-hasty inspection.
The best known of all these are the flying squirrels which are found in all parts of this country and Europe. They resemble very much the common red squirrel when standing or running; but a close observer will detect the difference at once. They have big moon eyes which show that they are night animals; they run by
. a series of rather awkward leaps, and are always blinking about as if scarcely able to seebut their most remarkable characteristic is their adaptation to flight. For this purpose they are provided with a long flat silk tail of fine fur for steering, and beautiful velvet wings which consist of a membrane extending out from their flanks between their fore and hind legs. These wings, which are nothing more than the loose skin stretched out from their sides, can be drawn into the body so. as to be scarcely perceptible when not in use.. They can also be moved with great advantage during flight to assist in steer-' ing, but not as a propeller.
As these animals cannot beat their rudimentary wings, or rather sails, the only kind of flight possible for them is coasting, and it is necessary to obtain an elevation first. The whole performance is as follows: the squirrel climbs a tree or other elevation and surveys the place to which he wishes to leap; then, hanging himself down by the heels, he bobs out his head and shoulders in a springy manner just as a little boy swings his hands before making a long jump; then he leaps out in the direction in which he wishes to move spreads his sails and cocks his tail into position for steering. It looks very comical to see these little fellows sailing with their big eyes wide open and their legs extended; but you know they must use their legs as mast and boompole to keep the sail tant. The spring partly determines their course, as with all flying creatures; but, as their leap cannot much exceed two yards, it serves mainly as a starter in their longer flights and does not materiallv affect their course. The steering is done both by the wings and the tail, as it is among the birds.’
To understand how the squirrel manipulates . his organs of steering, suppose him sailing along horizontally; if he chooses to turn himself to the right, he must tilt himself to the right; if to . the left he must tilt himself to the left and glide down in that direction like a sheet of paper. This tilting, as with the birds, may be effected in two ways: (1) by partially closing one sail which will cause that side of the body to fall . faster; (2) by inclining one more than the other which will augment the pressure against it. The steering upward or downward is, I believe, effected entirely by the tail acting as a common rudder. They have many ways of alighting, not all of which accord with the rules of etiquette. The softest and most elegant way, when they leap from one tree to another, is to sail rapidly downwards; then, just before alighting,to ascend .in a curve tangent to the tree. When landing on a level surface the squirrel usually skims
644
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
along the surface until its velocity is spent. But in its more sportive moods it is not at all particular, any way will do—straight down, sidewise, or on its head. They are very bold and reckless in their movements, which is the cause of many ridiculous and severe falls.
The distance through which they can fly is variously described by naturalists as, wonderful, extraordinary, prodigious, marvellous, whatever that may mean. From a great elevation they, can certainly far outleap the other squirrels, but as a feat in coasting, their flight is ver}’- moderate, indeed, and, I believe, man, if he tried, could excel them. It is nothing to leap horizontally; one hundred feet from an elevation of I00-; feet. It would be nothing marvellous to coast from the top of the dome to a distance of four or five hundred feet down the avenue, and this is about the most a flying squirrel can do. As far as I am aware from observation they do not' pretend from an elevation of one to cover more than two horizontally, and are proud to reach-even one and a half. I had several of them practising every evening for some months, and the best one never exceeded twenty-five feet: from an elevation of 15 feet. It was obliged, it is; true, to sail in a curvilinear path, and might, in . a straight course, cover 30 feet; but this is only' moderate coasting. I have some artificial birds which can double this distance, and, I believe, i the swallow can more than quadruple it. :
There are several larger varieties of the flying; squirrel Tound in distant parts of the world.; There is in India a species known as the Tag--, nan flying squirrel which in most respects re-; sembles our own, but which measures three feet; in length, and is called by some naturalists the; flying cat. There is also a flying mouse to give; chase to the cat. The celebrated colugo, or fly-; ing monkey, has wings like a flying squirrel, but j his tail is like a monkey’s tail with a sail stretched i over it and glued along the hind legs.	;
It seems that at one time in Madagascar the | cats became very numerous, highly cultured and ? astute, and in their active pursuit of the mice | there was a good deal of jumpingand skippingto; be done; and, as a consequence, only the swiftest f mice survived the chase, and only the most-athletic cats could get a living, and none of J them fattened. And it was noticed, too, that J the best jumpers of both species were the flat- ■ bottomed ones, so that in the struggle for existence, and by the process of natural selection, both cats and . mice became exceedingly flat, and their, sides grew out into sails. And it is said that some of the poor mice were so terrified, and scramble^ so hard in self-preserycjtiop
that their fingers grew very long and a skin connected them together with the foreleg into a perfect wing, and their ears grew large from anxious listening, and their countenances wore a terrified expression; and they flew away and scattered over the earth, and since that day have been called bats. Singularly enough, we have at the present day animals answering to that description—they have the same skinny wings, the same long ears, the same terrified expression—a nd as this story of their origin completely explains and harmonizes many otherwise meaningless and unrelated facts, it must be accepted by all respectable scientists, in tune with the thought of the age, as established and certain.
There is found in India a flying dragon which very much resembles the,common lizzard, furnished with little membraneous wings. It is also provided with three small air sacs in its throat which it inflates during flight, in order, as some naturalists tell us, to increase its buoyancy, from which 1 conclude thev know nothing about it. An inflated gas bag attached to a coaster I As well talk of putting a ten-cent balloon into the mouth of a jay bird to enable it to sail farther.
This goes to show what confused ideas even the learned may entertain who have not studied the mechanical principles of flight. The same thing may be observed in all the hare-brained reports on aerostation which appear in the daily i papers. Not one reporter in a thousand knows 1 the distinction between the balloon and a flying .	■;
machine, notwithstanding the innumerable ex- ■ planations given, the animated discussions that have taken place between the two schools of aerostation and the acerbity which the partisans of one system manifest towards those of the other. The reporters will call a balloon an aeroplane which properly means a kind of kite, and maybe a hundred times heavier than'the air. And these judges are entrusted with the high mission of leading their fellow-men and of pronouncing on the merits of any project or invention.	. ,
There was one of them in Chicago recently who heard of a very ingenious contrivance,which he describes in serious, good faith. He said a level-headed practical man on the North Side	j
made himself a suit of sheet rubber, pants and	]
shirt all in one piece.. The man got into this	1
suit by stretching and crawling through the hole	|
at the top, which then closed up and fit air tight	|
around his neck, ankles and wrists. On the*.	j
breast there was something resembling a shirt	t
stud which in reality was like the mouth of a	\
football and enabled th© wearer tp inflate the	|
■ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
whole uniform with hot air or hydrogen. He went down street one evening with the thing well filled out, which made him look not unlike a great swell who had over-indulged a little, and his airy tread only added to appearances. Naturally enough, the faithful cop on duty thought fit to inspect the monster, and, finding him of a suspicious nature, attempted to seize him by violence,when,to his surprise, the fellow suddenly jumped across the street. But here unexpectedly encountering another policeman, he in his fright made a desperate leap over the stern cop’s head which landed him on a telegraph pole, much to the astonishment and horror of all the dwellers in that neighborhood. The reporter then continues to describe the chase of this fellow and the stories it gave rise to, and concludes by praising the invention, and foretelling its consequences with as much judgment and imagination as a reporter usually has to spare.
But this is a digression. What the functions of the flying dragon’s little air sacs may be, I should not venture to say; but I conclude on a priori ground that they are not for purposes of buoyancy. Such an organ could be used for steering in two ways: (i) as a rudder, by increasing or diminishing the resistance of that portion of the body; (2) as a ballast, by filling it with a liquid, thus displacing the centre of gravity. I have sometimes employed sand bags on this principle for attaining the centre of gravity in coasting apparatus. But the simplest explanation is the most natural; may not these little sacs be used, as in the frog, for musical purposes performing the role of a bagpipe?
I am sony that time will not permit us to study the higher order of fliers—the coasting and soaring birds—or to take a short glance at the history and philosophy of artificial sailing flight; but to do justice to these subjects would require a long series of lectures. I shall, then, close by presenting briefly what I believe to be the present possibilities of aerostation.
I do not believe that the time is yet ripe for the complete solution of this problem, and that all talk of revolutionizing the present modes of travel, of banishing the railroads and navigation is the expression not of knowledge so much as of faith and hope. We are prepared, however, to take one step in advance of our forefathers; we are prepared, I believe, to realize all forms of captive aerostation. The transmission of power is now effected by several methods, any one of which would fairly answer our requirements. The most promising of these is the electric motor —for two reasons: (1) because it uses the smallest and most convenient conductor for a given
645
amount of power; (2) because it is the only motor which can communicate with the generator while travelling to an indefinite distance. These two qualities render it far superior even to those motors which surpass it in effective delivery for a given weight. The electric-motor can be constructed to excel the birds in lightness, power and endurance. Some of the well-known commercial motors do not exceed forty-pounds per horse-power; and if desirable, this weight could be much reduced. -
We have then before us these possibilities: (1) dirigeable captive balloons, which may be retained above a given field and propelled with a fair speed in any direction, or driven- across the country above the conductor of power with which they communicate; (2) captive flying machines, which may be made to execute all the movements of birds and fly rapidly in any direction and to any distance.
We should endeavor to accomplish these results as rapidly as possible, not because they are of any commercial value, but for the immense ■ practical instruction to be gained by them, which would completely prepare us for the advent of an efficient source of power. The men of this generation should be animated with the spirit of our forefathers who labored so long and patiently with no hope of recompense other than the pleasure of study and the reflection that it is a grand thing to learn and to know, and to engage in a glorious work which will eventually bless the world.
New Publication.
Scales for the Violin for Every Day in the Week, By Hernan Allen, A. M. Lyon * Healy: State . and Monroe Streets, Chicago, Illinois.
The constant systematic and careful practice of the scales is essential to the acquisition of skill and proficiency in the playing of any musical instrument, as it is also the sole means whereby to attain the development and perfection of the human voice. This truth, which is a maxim with all musicians, is particularly applicable to the study of the first of instruments— the violin—which requires years of patient labor for its mastery. We commend the above mentioned book to our violin performers as a work which will prove highly useful and acceptable. The author says in the Preface:
“ What I have endeavored to do, in this work, is to present, under one cover, and in as small a compass as possible, every important variety of Scale passages, arranged in a form suitable for beginners, as well as for advanced students, and professional musicians.”
646
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.,
son WE
^ublwijch rfatrg Saturtan burtntj Errnt Eime at K. S. Snibtrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, June 20, 1888.
Staff.
D. Brewer. It is a declamation exceedingly difficult to render well, but Mr. Brewer proved himself equal to the task. The audience testified their appreciation by hearty applause. The Quartette of even voices, consisting- of Messrs. F. Jewett, P. Paschel, L. Orr and H. Hull, closed the first part of the programme ~ with'an enjoyable selection.
THE ORATORICAL CONTEST,
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson, ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’88,	Chas. P. Neill, ’89,
S. J. Craft (Lit.), ’88.
□p?he Forty-fourth. Annual Commencement.
These first three days of commencement week have been days beautiful and serene as far as Nature could make them; joyous and happy to the student body in the reception and entertainment of relatives and friends; gladsome, too, withal their regretfulness, in the meetings and celebrations of companions ere the final separation. A detailed description of all the proceedings must necessarily be deferred to our next number.
ON MONDAY EVENING, the exercises were opened by the University Orchestra with the rendition of a very acceptable overture, entitled “Enchantment,” after which Master Willie McPhee delivered, in his usual graceful and charming manner, a recitation entitled “Drifting.” The selection was a word painting, and was well.adapted to the speaker’s natural style. The sufferings of the heroic “Polish Boy” were dramatically depicted in a personation by Robert C. Newton. The piece was a difficult one, but Mr. Newton reflected credit upon himself and.his instructor in elocution .by his fine rendition. “The Angels of Buena Vista,” was given by Janies McIntosh. The speaker’s well-known and well-deserved reputation as a declaimed was fully sustained upon this occasion. His finely developed voice was used most successfully; The .piano duet; by Messrs. Reinhard and M. O’Kane .was a pleasant variation. ’ Mr. E. Berry next declaimed “True :Men,” and by his ; excellent rendition, proved himself To be the possessor of those elements'.which ’ serve. to constitute a good speaker. Mr. T. J. 0,’Regan followedfwith the. recitation, “ Life is a Game.” It was delivered .with ,well, commanded gestures, .and in a clear tone, of tvoice;which could be distinctly.heard in evety part of the Hall: - = 1 5; . f r f: ■ . yT^.lieLDjungVVlcheffi
of course, excited a great deal of interest, and the participants’ productions were listened to with close attention, Owing to the well-known ability of those who had announced their intention of entering , the contest, but three orators appeared—Messrs. E. Chacon, Ray Pollock and Chas. J. Stubbs.
Mr. Chacon was the first speaker, and his subject was “The Last King of Granada.” History is full of subjects that can draw eloquence from the coldest hearts as the wand of Moses struck water from the rock. We might speak of Greece setting fire to the shrine of. Priam or vieing with the gods for immortality; we could speak of Rome dragging the world in madness around her amphitheatres. We might speak of beauty poisoning the nations’ lores like sirens of mythology. But there are other themes more sublime that fill the mind with grand conceptions - and yet rend the heart with silent pain. We will speak of Boabdil a king as forgotten as he was unfortunate. Mr. Chacon then spoke of the last days of Granada’s last king, and the conflict between the Moors and Spaniards, and closed with a thrilling description of the king’s last battle. The oration was largely historical and was well delivered commanding the admiration and applause of many an auditor.
“The Sphere of Woman ” was the title of a somewhat flowery oration by Mr. RayC. Pollock. The sphere of woman is a Theme honored by eloquence and consecrated by song. .Woman’s first duties are found at home along with the members of the family circle, of which she is, as it were, the centre, for she inspires in the heart those fond feelings of love and affection which ever bind us to bur home. After dwelling upon this topic.for some time, the speaker spoke of the possible attainments of woman in fields which are properly open to her, and such as are. well suited to her capabilities. Instance's of fame acquired by women in literature and the arts were mentioned, and the speaker closed with an appeal for woman ftp strive to keep her proper, sphere. The. oratorsyoice was good, his gestures were; gracefuland hisif effort was received- with -gfea.V. applaud
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
After music by the String Quartette, Mr. C. J. Stubbs stepped forward and delivered an oration entitled “ Pope Leo XIII.” It was a fine piece of composition, abounding in beautiful periods, and was delivered in a style which could not fail .to impress the audience. Pope Leo XIII is one who cannot fail to excite in every one feelings of admiration and respect. Pie is a man of universal genius and renown, who in the fields of literature has won rare laurels; who is a master and teacher of philosophy; who among statesmen has scarcely a peer, and who is the foremost champion in the science of divine theology. After eulogizing the Pontiff for his many works and speaking of his widespread influence, Mr. Stubbs spoke of the recent golden jubilee of the Pontiff as indicative of Leo’s power o’er the hearts of men. The bells that rang-out for this joyous celebration of the Pope’s golden jubilee were heard in every land. The wind that rose with the sun in the distant dreamy Orient caught - up and bore abroad the glad refrain far over seas and mountains, and the pleasant valleys of civilization into the home of the South Sea Island missionary and the huts of his dusky followers, until the whole wide world rang with the cry: “Longum, longuin vivat Leo Papa, Rex!” Mr. Stubbs chose a grand subject for his effort, . treating it effectively, at times using his fine voice to advantage in the rounding of periods of commanding eloquence.
. -
On Tuesday Morning, at half-past eight o’clock, solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Luke Evers, ’79, New York, and Rev. J. F. Hogan, ’75, Lemont, Ill., as deacon and subdeacon. An eloquent sermon was preached by the Rev. John Fitzharris, ’68; Rector of St. Veronica’s Church, New York city.
Immediately after Mass, companies “A” and “B,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, held their annual commencement parade in front of the main building. During the parade. Privates McAllister and O’Kane received the medals awarded them in the competitive drills in their respective companies. Capt. Craig, of company “ B,” was . presented with the pennant won by his company in the Jubilee competitive drill. After the parade was dismissed, the boys gave an exhibition drill which was quite favorably commented on by the large audience.
At half-past eleven the regatta on St. Joseph’s Lake took place. The race between the “Blues” and the “Reds”/was- very exciting, and the victory of the former was greeted with inosten-thusiastic choer?.	'	.	'	.
In the evening, at half-past five o’clock, the premiums in the Senior department were distributed. At eight o’clock special exercises were held in Washington Hall, where the Alumni Poem, by Mr. W. H. Johnston, ’85, was read and the Oration of the Day was delivered by the Rev. J. F. Carr, the Editor of the Colorado Catholic. On Wednesday, the proceedings were conducted according to programme.
Local Items.
—Vale!	-
—“Will you be back next fall?”
—Examinations closed on Monday noon.
—“Stroke’s” last effort was a poetic gem.
—Cusack and Tarrant lead in the outfielders’ averages, o	-	-
—The“Blues” won the second nine championship in the Minims.
—The “Reds” stole but one base on Burns in the last three games.	'	.
o
—The “Reds” hold the second nine championship in the Juniors.
—Special trains are being run to-day for the accommodation of students.
—The new boat house elicited many favorable comments from visitors.
—H. Zieman won the medal given to the best drilled private in the Sorin Cadets.
—Pender has the highest batting average in the Seniors. O’Regan stands next.
—Two minions of the law have been rendering life and property secure at the lake.
—Springer’s pitching was the feature of the last two championship games between the Senior first nines.	'
—Among recent visitors to Notre Dame was Mr.T. C. Dexter, of Des Moines, Iowa, the inven tor of a machine widely and favorably known in the printing world as the Dexter newspaper and book folder.. The object of his visit was to superintend the erection of one. of his folders in our office. The machine has not yet been sufficiently long in operation to speak of its merits over similar devices, but there is every reason to believe that it will give the fullest satisfaction. Mr. Dexter is still under thirty, and until a few years ago was an employe of the Western Newspaper Union. It is a noteworthy fact that he had never seen a newspaper folder till he invented his own. The success of the machine has been remarkable. “Dexter” is now rurining in various places from Maine to California, and from Texas to Minnesota. Mr. Dexter.is. a.man of sterling worth, amiable and modest, and deserves all the success that can come to him. He made numerous friends during his stay at Notre Dame, who will not soon ' forget him, ..	.	:
648
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—L. Chute, in Company “ A,” and F. Chute, in Company “B,” were close seconds in the competitive drills.
—The Polish Cornet Band of South Bend grave a delightful open air concert at the University Sunday evening.
—Privates McAllister and O’Kane’ won the competitive drills; each was awarded a handsome gold medal.
—The examination averages were read out Monday afternoon. They will be published in our issue of next week.
—The “Blues” won the championship of the first Junior nines. They won the last game, played Monday afternoon, by a score of 13 to 11.
—The Light Guards have lately received from the State arsenal at Indianapolis 125 Springfield rifles in exchange for the Sharp’s rifles which had been in use here for some time. The new arms were utilized for the first time in firing salutes during the Feast of Corpus Christi. Thanks are due Col. Hoynes for his efforts in securing the new rifles, and the companies are under obligations to Governor Gray and Quartermaster General Shepherd, for their prompt action in the matter.
—Bv defeating the “ Reds ” in the fifth game of the series, the “ Blues ” won the championship. McHenry, who in past games has proved a puzzler to the “ Blues,” was readily hit and retired in favor of Smith. Springer and Tarrant occupied the points for the “ Blues,” and, with the assistance of excellent fielding support, they kept the “ Reds’ ” score down. The “ Reds,” beside being weak at the bat played a ragged fielding game, allowing the “ Blues ” to score as they pleased'.
Score by Innings:—1 23456789 Blues:—1 0252300 4=17 Reds:—o 3 o o o 1 1 o 0=5
—The exercises of the Forty-fourth Annual Commencement of theUniversity of Notre Dame began on Monday evening, June 18, with the Oratorical contest and closing exercises by the Euglossian Association. The programme was
as follows:
Part 1.	'
Overture—“ Enchantment ”.................Hermann
University Orchestra.
“ Drifting”—Word Painting (Recitation)... .W. McPhee “Polish Boy,” (Personation)..........R.C.Newton
“Angels of Buena Vista”..............Jas.	McIntosh
Duet—Violin and Piano........J. Reinhard, M.O’Kane
“True Men,” (Declamation)................E. Berry
“Life is a Game,” (Recitation).........T.	O’Regan
“The Dying Alchemist”.................. D.	Brewer
“Good Night"......................Vocal Quartette
. Messrs. F. Jewett, P. Paschel, L. Orr, H. Hull.
Part II.	—Oratorical Contest.
Oration—“Last King of Granada”..........E. Chacon Oration—“The Sphere of Woman” Ray C. Pollock Music—String Quartette.................Gavotte
Oration—“Pope Leo XIII”.............Chas. J. Stubbs
On Tuesday, June 19, the following programme of exercises was carried out:
'8,30 a.m.—Alumni Mass—[Sermon by Rev. J. Fitzharris
*	..............,,,, of New York, Class ’68.]
10 a. m.—Dress Parade, Companies “A” & “B,” H. L. G. 10.30“ “ ................-...............Regatta
12 m. ....................................Dinner
12.45 P-m...................Meeting of the Alumni
1.30 " “ —Exhibit in Dep’t of Mechanical Engineering 2.30 “ “ ............'...............Field Sports
5	“ “ .....Distribution of Premiums in Senior
...................and	Junior departments
6	“ “ .................................Supper
8	“ “ .............Exercises	in Washington Hall
PROGRAMME:
“ Reverie ”—Schumann...........University Orchestra
“ Legends ’’—Junior Vocal Quartette........
............................Masters W. McPhee, L. Monarch “ Rubenstein ” (Personation)....Mr. Charles J. Stubbs Overture des Marionnettes......University Orchestra Alumni Poem....................Wm. H. Johnston, Class ’85
“ ’Tis the Last Rose of Summer ”...........White
Vocal Quartette, Messrs. F. Jewett, Paschel, Orr, Hull Oration of the Day....Rev. Father Carr, Denver, Col
On Wednesday morning, June 20, the programme was as follows:
8.30,	Overture—“Lustspiel”—Keler Bela, University Orchestra.
Valedictory...........Mr.	Philip VanDyke Brownson
Conferring of Degrees, Awarding of Honors, Class Prizes - Certificates, Diplomas, etc. “Home! Sweet Home!”
—The “Blues” brought forward their reserve strength in the fourth championship game, and defeated the “Reds” in as exciting a contest as was ever witnessed at Notre Dame. Springer pitched a strong game, and the red batsmen were unable to hit him safely. The “Reds” scored in the seventh inning only, when, by a combination consisting of two hits and a handful of errors, they crossed the plate three times. O’Regan’s base running and batting, Preston’s catches in deep centre and Tewksbury’s batting were beauties of the game. Following is the o	o
score:
Blues.	t.a.b. r. lb. s.b. p.o. a.
O’Regan, s. s..............
Burns, c...................
Fehr, istb........;........
Springer, p................
Tewksbury, 2d b............
White, 3d b................
Clark, r. f...........-....
Cusack, 1. f..........   .
Tarrant, c. f..............
E.
I I
I O O o o o
403522 5	1	o	1	7	1
4	1	1	1	14	o
500016 413-102 410006 402000 300010 400020
Total......................
37 4,- 9 8 27 17 5
Reds. . t.a.b. r. i.b. s.b. p.o. a. e.
McHenry, p..................
Smith, s.s..................
Pender, 2d b................
Jewett, 3d b.. .7............
Gallagher, c................
Kelly, l.f.............  '
Mattes, r. f................
Bronson, 1st b...!..........
Preston, c. f...............
5 o 1 o 1 9 o 500'006 1 4021423 4010000 3 'o I o 7 4 I 3 y i o 1 o o 3 1 ‘ o o o o o 4 o o o 12 o o 3 I O O 2 I o
Total...................34 3 5 1 27 22 5
Time of game: 1 hour; 35 minutes. Base on balls: off Springer, 1; off McHenry, 3. Struck out: by Springer, 3; by McHenry, 7. Double plays: (Preston and Pender); (Gallagher ana Bronson). Passed balls: Burns, 2. Wild pitches: Springer, 2. Umpire: Fred. Jewett. Scorers: Arthur Leonard and John B. Meagher.
Score by Innings:—1 2 3 456 7 8 9
Blues:—o 1000002 1=4
’ Reds:—0 0 p 0003 o 0=3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
649
—The Archconfraternity.—On Monday, the 11 th inst., the members of the Senior branch of the Archconfraternity held their last meeting before separating for the vacation. Rev. President Walsh was present, and made an eloquent address to the members. He spoke at length of the many and great benefits to be derived from societies such as the Archconfraternity, and congratulated the Director and the associates upon the high degree, not alone of numerical strength, but more especially of piety and devotion which the society had attained. While on his recent trip abroad, he had been asked, he said, bv some of the leading' Catholic educators of the Old World, as to the results of the system of education in vogue at Notre Dame; and it was with pride that he could tell them of a society among the students, the prime object of which was the cultivation of devotion to the Mother of God, and under the banner of which no less than three-fourths of the students of the University were enrolled. The year of ’87-88 was one of unequalled prosperity in the history of Notre Dame. Gratifying results had poured in upon him from every department of the University. Yet, if he were asked what was it that most of all was a source of joy and pride to him and to the Faculty in general, and for what did he feel himself most indebted to God, he should truly answer, the Archconfraternity.
In conclusion, the Rev. President, placing in a conspicuous position a large and elegantly bound volume, presented it to the Archconfraternity as a souvenir from Father General of his Golden Jubilee, and as a souvenir, too, which might serve as a perpetual reminder of his love and esteem for the society.
The volume is a quarto edition of the Magnificat, printed in one hundred and fifty languages, and to say that it is a jewel of the first order would be saying the least that can be said of it. The binding is in red Morocco, and contrasts admirably with the golden-graven pictures and letterings that grace the covers. After the dedicatory page there is a representation, in gorgeous colors, of Our Lady’s Visitation. Then follows in Latin, French, Italian, Spanish, English, and German the account of the Visitation given by St. Luke. The praises of the Magnificat, printed in the same six languages, precede the sublime poem itself. The Magnificat is found translated and printed’ in thirty-one Asiatic, 59 European, 21 Africanic, 15 American, and 23 Oceanic tongues. On each page on the left is printed in natural colors some - flower emblematic of one of the virtues or qualities of the Mother of God, as, for instance, the amaryllis, emblem of the benignity of Mary; or, the orange blossom, emblem of her chastity. At the end of the volume, the various chants of the Magnificat which have been composed by the great Catholic masters are given. The typographical work throughout the whole volume, huve never seen equalled, much less excelled.
That such a gift could not but elicit the grateful admiration’ of the Archconfraternity, goes without saying.
The President of the society, Mr. J. Burns, in a few but cordial words, accepted the gift on the part of the society, and expressed the delight of his fellow members in being made the recipients of so handsome and valuable a present. Father Stoffel, being called upon, made a farewell address to the members, and spoke of the deep joy which their so religious fulfilment of the duties of membership had caused him as Director. After a committee had been appointed to pay a visit to Father General, and ' express to him the grateful acceptance of his gift by the society, the meeting adjourned.
{From the “ Catholic A »iericani\ Golden Jubilee.
Sunday, May 2.7, was a day long to be remembered by the students whose fortune it was to celebrate at Notre Dame the Golden Jubilee of the Ven'- Rev. Father Sorin, the Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holv Cross, and Founder of the University of Notre Dame. In order to secure proper accommodations for the large number of distinguished visitors who had signified their intention to attend the cele-bration of his Golden Jubilee, Father Sorin fixed August 15 as the date for that celebration: but the students could not allow the anniversary day to pass without a fitting commemoration on their part. And in order to in no way interfere with the date set apart by the venerable Father Sorin, the present was strictly a student’s celebration, and no visitors were invited to any part of the programme.
At four o’clock on Saturday evening a reception was tendered him, consisting of addresses 1	o
from the Senior, Junior and Minim departments, and some appropriate recitations and songs. After the entertainment had concluded an elegant carriage and team was presented to Father . Sorin as the gift of the students and Facultv of the University.
Sunday morning, at 8 o’clock, Solemn High Mass was sung by the priest of half a century, and a more solemn or impressive Mass has never been celebrated at Notre Dame. The celebrant, with his hair and long flowing beard of silvery whiteness, seemed like a veritable patriarch of the Old Law performing the ministries of the New. Had these been concealed, no one would have guessed that the erect figure and full, clear voice were those of an aged priest celebrating the close of the fiftieth year of a zealous, laborious priesthood.
At the conclusion of Mass, the corner-stone of the new Sorin Hall was laid—a building to be rapidly pushed to completion to accommoi
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
date the students in the higher collegiate classes of the University.
At noon, dinner was served in the Senior refectory, which had been artistically decoated with festoons, flowers, banners and appropriate designs in evergreen. The entire-main building and several of the auxiliary buildings were very tastefully ornamented; but these were as nothing'in comparison to the decorations in the refectory. Nor was’ the menu found wanting in its turn.
• The college orchestra dispensed its best music during the meal, and each one present received a souvenir of the occasion in the shape of an artistically prepared bill-of-fare. The top leaf contained a very finely tinted etching of the college building; the second a photo-gravure of -VeryRev.Father Sorin; the third gave the menu, and the fourth the toasts. These little souvenirs were the handsomest that could be designed, and were highly prized by all who received them.
The afternoon of Sunday was devoted to a competitive .drill between the two military companies of the University, and on Monday morning the celebration was brought to a close by a highly exciting regatta on St. Joseph’s Lake.
The event commemorated carried us back to a time when Notre Dame had not yet grown into reality, and the celebration marked an epoch in her career that will not soon fade from memory.
Father Sorin, though old in vears, has lost none of the vigor of his earlier manhood; none of his former zeal and energv, and none of the progressive spirit that has always characterized Notre Dame, and a peculiarly fitting commemoration of the fiftieth year of his priesthood was the laving of the corner-stone of the new Sorin Hall. This building completes the plan of the University buildings, and is, as it were, the capstone of this massive monument to energy, zeal and piety. It is to be four stories in height, with ground dimensions of 135x106 feet. In design it is of the Queen Anne style of architecture, with round towers at each corner. The building will be given up entirely to the more advanced classes in the collegiate and law courses. The students of these courses will each have private apartments in the new building, which will also contain lecture and recitation room's.
The erection of Sorin Hall is a fitting celebration of the jubilee year, as it is a step—and a very important one—in the advancement and progress that are so dear to the heart of everyone, both old and young, at Notre Dame. The students of the collegiate course .will now be enabled to enjoy all the accommodations that can be secured at any school in the country. The private apartments allowed to each student furnish him every comfort desired and every facility to put his time to the best possible advantage, whilst in matters of discipline, by being left to his honor and manliness, he acquires that . spirit of honor and independence that are char-
acteristic of the true American. Such an important step as this in keeping up with the wants and the spirit of the age goes far to prove that the years of jubilee will never find Notre Dame where she was at the beginning of the fifty years. Seldom is it given to-any one to see the growth to maturity of his early labors to such an extent as this; but of Father Sorin it may be said that in the year of his Golden Jubilee he has reaped the fulness of his harvest.
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adams, A.—2d Premium in English Literature; 2d Premium in Microscopy.
Brady, T.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Elocution.	.	,
Brennan, J.—1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Bancroft, J.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Beckman, A.—1st Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 2d Reading: 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Burke, P.—Premium in 4th Greek; 1st Premium in Geology.
Barrett, D.—Mention in English History; 2d Mention in Modern History; 3d Mention in English Literature; Premium in Essay Writing. •
Burke, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Burns, J.—Mention in Moral Philosophy; Premium in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek. '
Brownson, P. VD.—Premium in Moral Philosophy; Mention in 1st Latin; Mention in 1st Greek.
Brewer, D.—1st Premium in Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in English Composition; Mention in Type-Writing; 1st Premium in Elocution.
Becker, J.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Mention in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium in 1st Geography.	-
Baca, F.—1st Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in English Composition.
Burns, E.—Mention in Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography.	' "
Bombeck, J.—3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Premium in Sth Latin; 1st Premium in 4th Special German; 3d Premium in rst Grammar; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine. .
Bronson, R.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in Composition; 1st Mention in 2d German.
Ball, G.—4th‘Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Blessington, E.—3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium, in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in fst United States History; 2d Mention in Rhetoric; 1st Mention in 2d German; Men- • tion in Type-Writing; Mention in Christian . Doctrine.
Boland, W.—5th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 1 st Orthography; Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.	-
Brelsford, H.—Mention in 4th Latin; 1st Premium in Modern History; 1st Premium in Composition; Premium in 7th Greek. ;
Cassidy, J.—2d Mention in 3d Grammar.
Chacon, E.—2d Mention in Logic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine. .
. Cusack, J.—1 st Premium in Linear Drawing.
Crane, M.—4th Premium in 4th Algebra.
Craig, G.—1st Premium in Botany.
: Chute, L—Mention in Ancient History; 1st Premium for Piano.	..	-
Coady, T.—2d Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d=Premium in 1st Arithmetic. ’
Clarke, J.—3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doc^ trine; .	”	_ '	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	651
Cosgrove, J.—3d Premium in ist Grammar: 2d Mention in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Donelson, J.—3d Premium for Piano.
Desimoni, C.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Dore, M.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 3d Mention in 2d Algebra; Mention in English History; 2d Mention in Modern History; 1st Mention in Physiology.
Dulaney, H.—1st Mention in 1st Orthography.
Eyanson, S.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Elocution.
Ewing, E.—Premium in Mechanics; 2d Premium in General Physics.
Fitzharris, A.—1st Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Finckh, A.—2d Premium in 1st Geometry; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Fisher, J.—2d Mention in Microscopy; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Fehr, F.—Premium in 1st Special German; 1st Premium in Linear Drawing.
Fleming, R.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Goebel, T.—1st Premium in Logic; Mention in Criticism; 1 st Premium in 2d Chemistry; Premium in 2d Physics; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Elocution.
Gallardo, J.—1st Mention in Sth Latin; 1st Mention in Mechanical Drawing; 1st Premium for Piano.
Geisler, J.—1st Mention in 3d Algebra; .Premium in 1st French; Mention in 6th Greek.
Goke, E.—2d Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Orthography.
Griffin, T.—Premium in 3d Latin.
Garfias, M.—3d Premium in Linear Drawing.
Henderson, F.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Mention in 1 st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Higgins, H.—Mention in Special French.
Hobart, G.—Mention in Elementary Science.
Heinemann, J.— 1st Mention in Logic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hummer, S.—1st Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in Advanced Course of Phonography; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Hughes, B.—1st Mention in Modern History; 2d Premium in English Literature.
Hull, H.—Premium in 2d Special German; Premium in 2d French; 1st Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Howard, E.—Mention in Elementary Science.
• Houck, G.—2d Mention in Logic; Mention in Civil Engineering; Mention in Mechanics; Premium in Engineering Course of Drawing; rst Premium in General Physics.
Hepburn, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in rst Arithmetic; Mention in Elocution.
Howard, M.—2d Mention in 4th Special German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3dPremium in Elocution.
Inderrieden, C.—Mention in Elementary Science.
Joyce, A.—5th Premium in rst Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in rst Arithmetic; 4th Premium in rst Geography; 4th Premium in rst United States History; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Jacobs, N.—Mention in rst German; Mention in Christian Doctrine; 1st Mention in Penmanship.
Jewett, PL—Premium in Architecture; 1st Mention in 1st Geometry; 3d Premium in Physiology; 3d Mention in Microscopy; 1st Premium in Linear Drawing.
Jewett, F.—2d Premium in Type-Writing; 1st Premium in Vocal Music.
Jackson, O.—Mention in Elementary Science.
Kelly, F.—2d Premium in 4th German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Keating, J.—2d Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Mention in 1st Algebra; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing; rst Premium for Piano; 1st Premium for Guitar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Kehoe, E.—1st Mention in 5th Latin; ist Mention in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Kerwin, W.—2d Premium in 1st United States History; ist Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine. ■	'
Kelly, J.—Mention in 2d French; 3d Premium in ist Grammar.
Larkin, W.—2d Premium in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; rst Premium in English Literature; ist Premium in 3d French; Premium in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Leonard, A.—Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d Mention in Zoolog}'; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Luhn, H.—2d Mention in Physiology; Mention in 2d Physics; Mention in 2d Chemistry; ist Premium in Elocution.	.	.	.	-
Larkin, A.—ist Mention in Calculus; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistr}7; Mention in 2d Physics; 2d Premium in Geology.
Langan, J.—ist Premium in Astronomy; 3d Prem, in Christian Doct.; 2d Prem, for Plat in Surveying.
Larkin, E.—Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 5th Latin.
Louisell, M.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Pre- • mium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist United States History; ist Mention in ist Geography.
McGurk, Jno.—2d Premium in Type-Writing; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
McCune, T.—ist Mention in 3d Grammar; 2d Mention -in ist Reading; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Mattes, F.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
McDermott, W.—2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist United States History; 2d Mention in ist Grammar; ist Mention in ist Geography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Munroe, W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in 4th Special German.
Morrisspn,V.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Calculus; ist Premium in Mechanical Drawing; Premium in 5th Greek; ist Premium in Astronomv. Prem, for Plat in Surveying.
Morrisson,W.—2d Premium in 3th Latin; ist Premium in Surveying; ist Mention in Microscopy; ist Mention in Botany.
Mithen, J.—Mention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Maier, A.—2d Mention in Microscopy.
McAllister, H.—5th Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 4th Premium in rst Geography; ist Premium in ist United States History; 2tl Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Mulkern, M.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; Premium in Civil Engineering; Mention in Mechanics; Mention in Engineering Course of Drawing; Mention- in General Physics; 1st Premium in Elocution.
Meagher, L.—2d Premium in Surveying; ist Mention • in ist Algebra.
Meagher, Jno.—2tl Mention in Logic; Premium in Criticism; Mention in ist Special German.
McWilliams, J.—Mention for Piano; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Elocution.
McDermott, J.—ist Mention in Trigonometry; Mention in 2d Special German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium for Piano.
Mackey, J.—ist Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in ist Algebra; ist Mention in Rhetoric; 3d Men-’ tion in Penmanship. •
McCart, M.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; istPremium in ist Geography.
Mack, H.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Mention in 2d Reading; ist Mention in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in ist U. S. History.
Melady, E.—ist-Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine..	‘ .
Nations, J.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Mention in English Literature; Premium in ist French.
Nicholl, Alfred—3d Premium in Linear Drawing.
Newton, K.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Norton, Jno.—3d Premium in ist United States History; 4th Premium in Elocution.
Neill, C.—ist Mention in Logic; Mention in 5th Greek. . Newton, R. —2d Premium in 5th Latin; ist Mention in Calculus; ist Premium in Physiology.
652	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Nirdlinger, S.—ist Premium in ist Reading.
O’Hara, C.—2d Premium in 2d Geometry.
O’Regan, T.—2d Premium in English Literature.
O’Shea, J.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Phonography.
O’Brien,W.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in Composition.
Owens, B.—Mention in 4th Algebra.
Pollock, R.—ist Premium in Elocution.
Plato, A.—3d Preminin in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Men-tion.in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in ist Grammar; ist Premium for Violin; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Paschel, P.—3d Premium in Physiology; Mention in ist Special German; Premium in Special French; Mention in 2d Chemistry; Mention in 2d Physics.
Prudhomme, E.—2d Premium in Zoology; Premium in ist Geometry.
Prichard, H.—ist Mention in English Literature; Mention in Essay Writing; 2d Premium in Physiology.
Pender, T"—3d Premium in Phonography. •
Preston, L.—2d Mention in ist Geometry; ist Mention in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium for Guitar,
Paris, A.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; zd'Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist United States History; ist Premium in ist Geography.
Patterson, B.—2d Mention in 2d Grammar.
Rochford, W.—2d Premium in Logic.
Reynolds, M.—2d Premium in Surveying; 2d Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Botany; ist Premium in 4th German; ist Mention in Geology; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in Linear Drawing.
Rothert, O.—ist Premium in 4thAlgebra; ist Premium in Landscape Drawing; Premium for Violin.
Rudd, A.—5th Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist U. S. History; ist Mention in 3d German; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Reedy, D.—ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Read. B.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Reading; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Mention in ist U. S. History; ist Mention in ist Geography. .
Scholfield, W.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Phonography. .
Sullivan, J.-—ist Premium in Modern History; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Stephenson, E.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist - Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Suing, F.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Elementary Science.
Sawkins, E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist U. S. History; ist Prem, in ist Geog.; Mention in Elementary Science.
Smith, H.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Elocution. .	-	.
Springer, F.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 2d , Premium in ist Geography.	_.
Smith, M.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist U. S. History; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Silver, W.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in
Elementary Science. . •	:
Silver, R.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Phonography; 2d Premium in Elocution. . .	.
Tivrien, B —2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium: in ist Orthography; 5th Premium in ist Book- , Keeping; 3d;Premium in .Christian Doctrine; Premium for Organ. . ;
Tarrant, G.—ist ^Mention in .4th Special German; 2d Prem, in Phonography; ist Prem, in Christian Doct. .
..	Tewksbury, D.—3d‘Mention in; Microscopy ; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine. /	’	• \	;
, .Velasco,,R.—2d Premium in Telegraphy; istPremium, for-PianoE-?.; . .* C'NCC
Wilkin; F.^4th;Premium in 2d Grariimar; 2d Premium jn ist Anthmetic.y .	a-. V
Woodbridge, L.—ist Mention in Landscape Drawing;
'Mention in Elementary Science.	•
Webb, F.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Wall, J.—ist Premium in ist Reading.
Woods, H. ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d French; ist Premium for Piano; ist Premium in ist Grammar.	•
Welch, J.—ist Mention in ist United States History; 3d Premium in ist Geography.
Wagoner, P.—2d Premium in Elocution.	'
Waixel, I.—2d Mention in 2d German.
White, H.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Wilson, J.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in Elementary Science. ,
Whelan, J.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist United States History; ist Mention in ist Geography. '
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT..
Adelsperger, R.—Mention in 3d Latin; ist Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; istPremium in Physiology; ist Premium in Zoology; ist Mention in Linear Drawing; Mention.in 4th Greek.
Adams, R.—2d Prem. 2d Reading; 2d Prem. 2d Orthog.; ist Prem, ist Geog.; Mention in Elocution.
Anfenger, J.—ist Prem.ist Read.; Mention in Elocution.
Allen, W.—1st Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in Penmanship.	.
Berry, E.—2d Mention in ist.Geometry; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in Physiology; ist Premium in Microscopy; ist Mention in Zoology; Mention in 3d French; ist Premium in Elocution. <	.
Blake, W.—Prem, in Christian Doct.; Prem, for Examination; Mention in Latin.
Bombeck, C.—ist Premium in 3d German; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Bronson, H.—ist Premium in Sth Latin; Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in Phonography; 3d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in Elementary Science.
Boyd, R.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Mention in Penmanship. ? ~
Bachrach, B.—ist Premium for Flute; 3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention in Penmanship; Mention in Elocution.
Beaudry, U.—ist Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in ist Grammar.
Boldrick, R.—ist Premium in Sth Latin.
Burger, C.— ist Mention in 5th Eatin; 2d Mention in 2d Algebra; Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in Composition; Mention in 5th Greek.
Brannick, E.—2d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist United States History..	,
Bray, J.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Bray, H.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Brown, W.—ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; 4th Premium in United States History. . '
Brady, J.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in istUnited States History; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Elocution; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic.	’
Brown, L.—ist Mention in 4th Arithmetic.
Cunningham, J.—ist Premium in 4th Grammar.
Cauthorn’ .H.—3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mentionin 8th’Latin; 2d Premium in Composition; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Elementary Science.	-
Cooney, J.—ist Mention in 2d Reading; ist Mention in 2d Orthography; 5th Mention m ist Arithmetic.
Crotty,-F.—^d/Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine;;Tst Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in Elocution. . Connors, F.—3d -Premium in 3d Arithmetic. .
Connors, J.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 2d Grammar;72dPremium ih~ Christian Doct; 2d Mentioniii ist Orthog.; MentioninElementarySciehce.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	653
Carroll, H.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Christian'Doct.; 3d Premium] in Penmanship.
Case, R.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st United States History.
Chacon, L.—1st Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 2d United States History; 3d Mention in 1st Orthography.
Connelly, G.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Cavanagh, C.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; ist Premium in Type-Writing.
Cooke, J.—1st Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Ciarcoschi, S.—1st Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; rst Premium in Penmanship.
Carney, F.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Cartier, W.—1st Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Cartier, D.—2d Premium in Phonography; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Chute, F.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium in 6th Latin; Mention in 7th Greek; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar.
Delaney, J.—2d Premium in Physiology; 2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing; Mention in Practical Mechanics.
Daniels, A.—2d Premium in Penmanship; Mention in Elementary Science.
Doss, E—ist Premium in Figure Drawing; 2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Davis, L.—1st Premium in 1 st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Mention in Sth Latin; 4th Premium in 4th Algebra.
Devine, W.—4th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; 1 st Premium in Elocution; 5th Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in Mechanics; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Darragh, T.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Ebner, L.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 1st German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Mechanics.
Elder, G— 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1 st Premium in 2d Reading.
Fitzgerald, C.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium m 1 st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in rst Geography; 1st Premium in ist United States History; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Figge, H.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 3d Grammar; 1st Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Falvey, T.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Mention in 1st Orthography.
Fleming, S.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in "ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography; rst Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Fleming, P.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 4th German.
Fleming, C.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in rst Orthography.
Flynn, J.—2d Premium in 8th Latin; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; Premium in 7th Greek.
Flynn, F.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar. .	.	.
Freeman, G.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Mention in 1 st Arithmetic.
.Frei, G.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Mention in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 1st Reading; 4th Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Mention in 3d German. .	’ ■
Grossman, E.—Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 2d German; 5th Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in.Elocution.	’
Goodman, C.—ist Mention in 2d Geography; 3d Mention in 2d United States History.
Gray, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in Elocution.
Graham, R.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Green, J.—4th Premium in rst Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Green, T.—3d Premium- in 3d Grammar;' 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st United States History;.2d Premium in Composition; 2d Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Gale, G.—2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Gonzales, T.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in Penmanship.
Girsch, G.—3d Mention in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d U. S. History; 3d Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Grever, E.—ist Mention in Penmanship.
Henry, J.—3d Premium in 1 st Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Orthography; Premium in Speed Class of Phonography; 3d Premium in. ist Arithmetic.
Hoffman, L.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Hagan, F.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Mention in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in 6th Latin; 2d Mention in Landscape Drawing.
Howard, J.—ist Mention in 4th Arithmetic; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Healy, R.—ist Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Orthography.	-
Healy, P.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Reading; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Heller, E.’—ist Mention in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Geography.
Hall, H.—Mention in Composition; 2d Premium in Advanced Course of Phonography; 5th Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Elementary Science.
Hoerr, L.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Mention in United States Historv; Mention for Piano; ist Premium in Penmanship.
Hillas; E.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Reading: ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Hackett, W.—2d Premium in Telegraphy; Mention in 7th Greek.
. Hartman, W.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist United States History.	•
Hake, A.—Mention for Guitar.
Hayes, W.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Orthographv; ist Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hill, W.—ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist United States History".
Johnson, W.—Premium in Special French.
Jewett, E.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Josselyn, W.—ist Mention in 4th Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Jackson, J.—2d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Kinsella, J.—2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; 3d Pre-
. mium in 3d Orthography.
Kahn, H.—3d Mention in 2d Orthography; Mention in Mechanics.
Kehoe, L. . 2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in ist United States -History.	-
Lane, F.—5th Premium.in ist Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Grariimar; 2d Premium in Elementary’Science; ist Premium in. Practical Mechanics.
Lahey, W.—iSt Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium ;m ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Oitho°--raphy; ist Mention in ist, United States History; ist , Premium in Christian-Doctrine; 2d Mention in Penmanship. ■	. :	,	•
Leonard, H.—2d. Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Orthographv; 2d Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.	'	.	.	•	’
.Monaghan, G.—3d Premium in ist Reading; ist Men- • tion in ist Orthography; 4th Premium in ist.Geography.*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Martin, AV.—ist Mention in ist Grammar.
Munroe, R.—ist Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in Elocution.
McMahon, J.— 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d German.
McIntosh, J. 2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Figure Drawing; ist Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Chr stian Doctrin".
Mallay, H.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Pre mium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography.
Mallay, W.—ist Mention in 3d Grammar, 2d Division; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 41I1 Premium in 2d Orthog.
McCorn ick, J.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Mention in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McIvers, E.—ist Mention in 2d Ari hmetic; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; ist Men'ion in ist Orthography.
McPhee, W.—ist Premium for Piano; 2d Mention in 5th Latin; ist Premium in English History; ist Premium in Modern History; ist Mention in English Literature; 3d Premium in Microscopy; 2d Mention in Botany; 2d Mention in Linear Drawing.
Miner, H.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keoing; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; Mention for Violin; 2d Pre mium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Prem, in Christian । -oct.; 3d Mention in Penmanship.
McGrath, J.—Mention in Type-Writing; Mention in 6th Greek.
Mulqueen, J.—ist Mention in ist Reading.
McKenzie, W.—5th Mention in ist /Arithmetic.
Mooney, J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Book Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McNulty, J.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McCartney E.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in United States History; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in 4th German: 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Mayer, A.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 4th Grammar.
Monarch, L.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Pre mium in ist Reading; Mention in Elementary Science; Mention in Elocution.
Neef, F.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in Composition; ist Premium in ist German; i^t Premium in Christian Doct.; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Noud, P.—i-.t Premium in Christian Doctrine.
O’Brien, W.—ist Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in 3d Algebra; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in ist/Arithmetic- 4th Prem, in Penmanship.
O’Kane, M.—istMention in ist Geometry; 4th Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in Type-Writing; ist Premium for Piano.
O’Kane, B.—ist Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 2d book-Keeping.
Paquett, C.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; ist Mention in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium 2d Algebra.
Priestly, C.—Prem.in Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examination.
Prichard, T.—ist Mention.in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 2d Orthography; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in English History.
Pecheux, H.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra.
Peck, T.—3d Premium for Piano.
Peck, J.—ist Mention in Penmanship.	„ ..
Perkins, H.—ist Mention in 2d United States History.
Pfau, J.—2d Premium for Violin.
Quinlan, M.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in 7th Latin; Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Men- • fion in Penmanship.
Roth, E.-—2d Premium in 2d Arithmet’c; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; Mention in ist German; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing.	; •
Reinhard, J.—4th. Premium in ist .Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention'in Composition; 4th Premium in Phonography; ist Premium: for Piano ; 2d
Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Reardon, L.—Prem, in Christian Doctrine; Prem, for Examination.
Rose, I.—4th Premium in ist Geography; Mention in ist United States History; 2d Premium in 2d German; ist .Mention in ist Grammar.
Rose, S.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Type Writing.
. Ramsey, C-- 3d Mention in iat Arithmetic; Mention in Elocution.
Rowsey, W.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium-in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in ist United States His ory.
Riedinger, L.—ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 4th German.
Roby. C.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar.
Schillo, C.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doctr ne; 2d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in 2d German; 2d Premium for Flute.
Schillo, F.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist United States History; ist Prem, in 2d German; 3d Premium for Piano.
Stephens, B.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Telegraphy; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Spalding, R.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Shenk, F.—2d Premium in ist United States History; 2d Mention in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Elementary Science.
Senn, C.—3 1 Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Advanced Course of Phonography; 1st Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Sullivan, A.—3d Premium in 3d,Arithmetic; 3d Premium for Piano.
Sullivan, R.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Scherrer, L.—ist Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in English History; 2d Premium in Modern History; ist Mention in English Literature; Premium for Violin.
Scherrer, C.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Simpson, F.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Orthography.
Talbot, J.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Grammar.
Thome, L.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 3d Grammar; 2d Mention in Chri-tian Doctrine; ist Premium in 2d German.
Wile F.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic: ist Premium in 7th Latin; ist Premium in 2d German; Premium in Speed Class of Phonography; ist Premium in Grammar; 2d Premium in Elementary Science.
AVageman, H.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Walsh, AV.—ist Mention in ist Reading.
AArelch, AAr.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
AVeldon, R.—Mention in Elocution.
AVright, J.—Mention for Piano.
AA'illbanks, T.—2d Premium in Elementary Science.
AVood, P.—ist Premium in 3d^Arithmetic; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.	7.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Ayer, J.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 5th Premium in ist Geography; 6th Premium for Pjano; 6th Premium in ist Grammar. .
Bachrach, A.—-2d Premiumin ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 6th Premium in ist Grammari
Bachrach, S.;—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium for Piano; 2d Mention in 3d German.
Bachrach, H.—4th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Geography; 7th Premium in 4th Arith.
Blumenthal, M-—6th Premium in ist.Penmanship; 6th
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	655
Premium in 2d Geography; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Beckham, P.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Penmanship; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Barbour, J.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium for Piano; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Black, L.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1 st Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium for Vocal Music.
Black, G.—4th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 4th Reading; Premium for Violin.
•Blake, S.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Beerman, F. 1st Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium ' in Penmanship; 2d Premium for Vocal Music.
Bates, B.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium for Vocal Music.
Burns, T.—2d Premium in 5th Orthography; 4th Pre-•mium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Bradley, J.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar.
Boettcher, C.—1st Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; •6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Connor, C—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; .2d Premium for Piano.
Connor, W.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in4th Arithmetic.
Conners. E.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in ist Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st
Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th German.	,
Collins, S.—1st Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Reading.
Connelly, H.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium 2d Reading; 3d Premium for Vocal Music.
Cummings, W.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Reading.
Clendenin, R.—1st Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1 st Orthography; 1st Mention in 4th German.
Carlile, C.—3d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Reading; 7th Premium in 1st Geography; 7th Premium 2d Arithmetic.
Cudahy, J.—4th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium for Piano; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography; 7th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Creedon, W.—3d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Reading.
Creedon, F.—Premium for Good Conduct.	- , L ■
Cornell, F.—2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 6th Reading.
Crane, J.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Geography.
Campbell, A.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; ■6th Premium in 2d Reading.	.
Cohn, A.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Geography.
Carpenter, L.—2d Premium 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium .in 3d Orthography; 6th Premium in 3d Penmanship; Premium for Violin.	.
Durand, H.— 3d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading. .	’
Dunn, J.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Dunn, F.—4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 3d Geog-<raphy.	.	.
Dungan, Jesse—5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Reading.
Dungan, James—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Doss, L.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.	.
Dempsey, J.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Dempsey, L.—4th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 7th Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Mention in 4th German.
Dempsey, F.—1 st Premium 5th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 5th Reading.
. Dench, H.—ist Premium in 6th Orthography; 2d Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Dorsey, E.—6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Des Garennes, H.—4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 2d Geography; 7th Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Franche, G.—3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4thPre-mium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Reading.
Franche, C.—1st Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.
Flannery J.—ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 4th German.
Falvey, F.—3d Premium in ist Penmanship; 5th Premium in istReading; 6th Premium in ist Geography; 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Falvey, E.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium in4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Ferkel, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Grant C.—ist Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Griffin, 0.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th -Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Greene, A.—4th Premium in 4thOrthography; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Gerber, F.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Goodwillie, D.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 7th Premium for Piano.
Hinds, R.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.	•
Harlan, J.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hagus, J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium for Piano.
Howard, M.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography; 4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Hamilton, W.—4th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Orthog.
Healy, J.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 2d Reading.
Halthusen, W.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic: 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Haddican, J.—2d Premium in 6th Reading54th Premium in 5th Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic;
Jaramillo, V.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship. -
Johns, H.—ist Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Reading; 6th Pre; mium in Christian Doctrine. ,	.
Kerwin, T.—3d Premium in 6th-Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 6th Reading; 6th Premium in 5th Penmanship;
Kane, J.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Kehoe, V.—4th Premium in Christian ‘Doctrine; 4th

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Kutsche,W.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography; 7th Premium in 2d Geography; 7th Premium in 2d Reading.	„
Koester, C.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; Premium for Violin; 1st Premium for Vocal Music.
Keeler, S.—5th Premium in 6th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Keefe P.—2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Kinsella, H.—3d Premium in 2d Geography'; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4‘h Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Kaye. C.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in4th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in4th Penmanship; 7th Premium in 4th Reading.
Kitto, E.—4th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Lonergan, A.—1st Premium in • hristian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Lonergan, H.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; Premium for Elocution; 3d Premium in Christi m Doctrine; 3d Pre mium in rst Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Lansing, E.—4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premiumin 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Reading.
Mooney, H.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Morgenweck, A.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium for Vocal Music.	.
Marx, H.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Murphy, J.—4th Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 4th Orthography'.
Maternes, J.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Orthography; 6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
May'er, L.— 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Reading.
Mayer, G.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium for Piano; 5th Premium for Vocal Music.
Mott. B.— 6th Premium in 3d Reading; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium for Piano.
Marre, J.—5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Marre, A.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic;. 3d Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Minor, L.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography.’
McPhee, C.—1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 4th Orthography'.
Neef, A.—1st Premium in 3d German ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Geography'.
Neenan, T.—6th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography'; 7th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.	-	.
Nicholas, W.—2d Premium in4th Geography; 3d Pre’ mium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading.
Nester, A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Pre. mium for Vocal Music.	’
. Oppenheimer, H.—4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Penmanship. . .
O’Mara; J.—2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in German.	.
Perry', J.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 6th Orthography. .
Paul, L.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in«2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Pre. mium for Vocal Music. ,	;	. .	, _ .	.
' - Paulj C.—ist Prenlium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in : 6th Orthography; 7th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
. > iPlautz, H.^-ist Premium ; in 5th Penmanship.;. 4th Pre-, mium -in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium for Piano; 4th. Premium in .Reading/> - < :	. .
. Parker, F.^-th Premium in 1st Geography : 4th Pre- .
mium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Grammar; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography.
Quill, D.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography'; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4 th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Rogers, F.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st.Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 1 st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1 st Geography'.
Ricksecker, D.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography'; 2d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.	.	-
Sweet, G.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.
Savage, E.—4th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium for Vocal Music; Premium for Violin. _	.
Seery', J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium for Vocal Music.
Smith, F.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1 st Geography.
Smith, E.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Geography'; 6th Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in 4th German.
Stone, L.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography7. 5th Premium in 4th Reading.
Stephens, P.—2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Geography..
Spier, R.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; .3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship. .
Storey', W.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium, in 4th Geography; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Schmauss, W.—2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Seidedsticker, A.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Taft, C.—1st Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium’ in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium for Piano; 6th Premium’ in 2d Arithmetic.
Tomkins, T.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 6th Premium, in 1st Geography; 3d Premium for Vocal Music.
Toolen, F.—ist Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic;: 4th Premium for Vocal Music.
Trujillo, P.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d. Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Penmanship.
• Thornton, D.—1 st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography'; 6th Premium for Piano. -
Williamson, W.—1 st Premium in 1 st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 5th Premium in 1st Reading.
Williamson, W.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Geography'; 5th Premium in 3d Reading-
Wilson, W.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 6th-Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography.	’
Willien, W.—1 st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 1 st Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in Cliristian Doctrine 7 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Walsh, J.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premiumin 1 st Grammar; Premium in 1st Geography'; 6th Premium for Piano;.6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Walsh, W.—1 st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography ; 5th Premium in 4th Geography 7 5th Premium in 3d Reading. ~
Welch, A.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Witkowsky, A.—2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 6th Premium in 4th Geography; 7th Premium for Piano.
Witkowsky', S.—ist ’ Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d. Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Geography' ; 6th Premium for Piano.
; Young,W.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium for Violin; 3d Premium for Vocal Music; 1 st Mention in 3d German.
. . Zieman, H.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; .6th Premium in 3d Penmanship-
.Ziegler, G—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic. .	‘