GILBERTS
The Campus Shop
SWEATERS
$11.95 to $29.95
Sweaters are big news this year, and the Campus Shop is ready with the finest selection ever. You’ll find the popular bulky knits or lightweight styles . . . V-necks or crew necks . . . cardigans (buttoned or zippered) and slipovers . . . ski and alpine styles . . . bold patterns and solid colors. There are Orlons, pure wools, wool blends, Mohairs and cashmeres. Come in soon and look ’em over. We’re sure we have just what vou have in mind.
JULY
♦
^GILBERTS
JUNE
AUGUSTA
NO
CARRYING CHARGE
CHARGE IT
THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY
We invite you to select the items you need NOW, when you need them, and pay one-third in JUNE, one-third in JULY, one-third in AUGUST of 1964! You pay no carrying or service charges of anv kind for this convenience. The unique Campus Shop way to buy was designed to fit the university man’s budget. Stop in soon . . . account is open.
ONE
OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS

3
OnCamps W Shulman (By the Author of ‘‘Bally Round the Flag, Boys!” and, “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”')
HAPPINESS CAN’T BUY MONEY
With tuition costs steadily on the rise, more and more undergraduates are looking into the student loan plan. If you are one such, you would do well to consider the case of Leonid Sigafoos.
Leonid, the son of an unemployed bean gleaner in Straitened Circumstances. Montana, had his heart set on going to college, but his father, alas, could not afford to send him. Leonid applied for a Regents Scholarship, but his reading speed, alas, was not very rapid—three words an hour—and before he could finish the first page of his exam, the Regents had closed their briefcases crossly and gone home. Leonid then applied for an athletic scholarship, but he had, alas, only a single athletic skill—picking up beebees with his toes—and this, alas, aroused only fleeting enthusiasm among the coaches.
And then—happy day!— Leonid learned of the student loan plan: he could borrow money for his tuition and repay it in easy installments after he left school!
Happily Leonid enrolled in the Southeastern Montana College of Lanolin and Restoration Drama and happily began a college career that grew happier year
by year. Indeed, it became altogether ecstatic in his senior year because Leonid met a coed named Anna Livia Plurabelle with hair like beaten gold and eyes like two sockets full of Lake Louise. Love gripped them in its big moist palm, and they were betrothed on St. Crispin’s Day.
Happily they made plans to be married immediately after commencement —plans, alas, that were never to come to fruition because Leonid, alas, learned that Anna Livia. like himself, was in college on a student loan, which meant that he not only had to repay his own loan after graduation but also Anna Livia’s, and the job. alas, that was waiting for Leonid at the Butte Otter Works simply did not pay enough, alas, to cover both
* * *
You don’t need a student loan—just a little loose change— to grab a pack of smoking pleasure: Marlboros, sold in all fifty states in familiar soft pack and Flip-Top box.
loans, plus rent and food and clothing and television repairs.
Heavy hearted, Leonid and Anna Livia sat down and lit Marlboro Cigarettes and tried to find an answer to their problem —and, sure enough, they did! I do not know whether or not Marlboro Cigarettes helped them find an answer; all I know is that Marlboros taste good and look good and filter good, and when the clouds gather and the world is black as the pit from pole to pole, it is a heap of comfort and satisfaction to be sure that Marlboros will always provide the same easy pleasure, the same unstinting tobacco flavor, in all times and climes and conditions. That’s all I know.
Leonid and Anna Livia, I say, did find an answer—a very simple one. If their student loans did not come due until
they left school, why then they just wouldn’t leave school. So after receiving their bachelor's degrees, they re-enrolled and took master’s degrees. After that they took doctor’s degrees—loads and loads of them—until today Leonid and Anna Livia, both aged 87, both still in school, hold doctorates in Philosophy, Humane Letters, Jurisprudence, Veterinary Medicine, Civil Engineering, Optometry, Woodpulp, and Dewey Decimals.
Their student loans, at the end of the last fiscal year, amounted to a combined total of nineteen million dollars—a sum which they probably would have found some difficulty in repaying had not the Department of the Interior recently declared them a National Park.
© 1963 Max Shulman
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Vol. 105 November 1, 1963 No. 6
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager Mel Noel
. . . news editor Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor James Devlin
. . . features editor Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy Tom Keane
. . . circulation
John Souza
. . . advertising
Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography
David Barrett, Jim Callero, Jim Clare, Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
John Anton, Al Basso, Tom Bettag, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Ray Burke, Bill Cragg, Al Dudash, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Steve Stue-cheli, John Twohey, Rick Weirich, Joe Weiss, John Whelan
. . . staff
Cover photos by Brian Beck and Mike Hoyt
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC . is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 1:30-5:30,7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:305:30; Saturday, not open.
4
The Scholastic
EDITORIALS
Let’s Get Together
It is commonly agreed that more cordial and informal meetings between faculty and student members of the academic community are definitely needed. The arrangements which would facilitate this meeting have always left something to be desired. StudentFaculty coffee hours did not bridge this gap; they were noble attempts, but never were they well enough attended or possessed of the vitality necessary to insure their success. It is quite necessary that there be more than the mere exposure of students to faculty; there must be a real meeting. In previous instances each member of these two groups saw himself not as an associate with a special relationship to the other, but as an individual representative of his own stratum.
This means for overcoming this dichotomy is simply stated and yet difficult to effect. It is easy to say that faculty members and students both must work for a solution, that they must make a positive effort to breach the wall of division. It is more difficult, actually to do this. The faculty member may be reluctant to invite students to his home or to meet with him informally for fear of displaying actions which might be misunderstood as individual favoritism. There are also, unfortunately, those teachers who feel no responsibility beyond that which requires them to fulfill the terms of their contracts by spending a number of specified hours in the classroom.
Likewise, there are students who fear that some stigma will be attached to their names as ones who seek to improve their positions in their classes by “courting” their teachers. There are those who feel that their only responsibility is to attend the classes and do the work required for completion of the course. Those who extend this latter contention might have a valid point if one does not consider the fact that the total responsibility of the student is to take full advantage of every opportunity for expanding his educational perspective. This is why the student comes to the University and it is hoped that when he leaves he will have nourished this growth in an educational atmosphere which included more than mere classroom association with his professors.
We would also point out that this meeting will have a very definite value for the students in that it will enable the teachers to know better those men for whom they will be writing recommendations for admission to graduate schools and to firms for employment. Because the teachers will know each stu
dent as more than a seat number or as a certain average on the Dean’s List, he will be better able to extensively evaluate capabilities, rendering more valuable recommendations.
Important for the educational process is the free flow of ideas that can be present when faculty members and students can meet in a more relaxed atmosphere than can be present in the classroom. Because no established format for this exists, it is up to the student to take the initiative to meet faculty members. Much of the individual student’s reluctance can be alleviated if he is one of a group of invited students and comes with a pre-established topic of discussion. It is for the student to make the first effort himself, however, and not wait for the “officially approved structure” to be dropped in his lap.
Choo-Choo
Perhaps the most disconcerting action of the student Senate to date was the mishandling of the Joint Engineering Council budget appropriation. Requesting that this budget not be decreased as the Finance Committee had seen fit to do in committee, senators speaking in favor of the motion to amend had to do so without the benefit of the man at the meeting most qualified to inform the Senate of the need for a budget increase. Because Peter Clark is not a member of the Senate in any capacity, he may be permitted to speak only by unanimous consent of the body. This consent failed to pass because of the dissenting vote of Larry Beshel, treasurer of the Senate and member of the three-man Finance Committee. It looked very suspiciously as if the Finance Committee was quite interested in seeing little or no opposition presented that might possibly result in a decision not in keeping with the neat and efficient budget proposed by the committee.
The result of this action was that the Senate was called upon to vote while not completely aware of all sides of the issue. Repeated attempts by senators to have Mr. Clark speak were stifled at every turn, thus requiring the senators to vote in ignorance regarding the wishes of the Council and the reasons behind its request. All the voting members of the Senate were allowed to see was the neatly pared budget and some rather irrelevant and inadequate attempts to defend the request by other senators not sufficiently well versed in the needs of the Joint Engineering Council.
One might say that this looks a little too compact, a little too neat. As a matter of fact, it looks like railroading. If the Senate is to represent the student body effectively, they must make every effort to see that they vote on issues only after having as much information as is possible presented to them. The student senate must not submit to or participate in shoddy attempts to limit these sources.
November 1, 1963
5
Meet Gerald Bourland
Computer Systems Associate at WE
Gerald Bourland, B.S., Central Missouri State College, ’61, picked Western Electric because it offered many interesting and challenging opportunities in his favorite fields—automation and data processing. Gerald’s work here consists of writing, testing and documenting computer programs — each one a different and exacting assignment.
Also of great interest to Gerald when he joined Western were the Company’s numerous management courses and paid Tuition Refund Plan. He knows, too, that we'll need to fill thousands of supervisory positions within the next few years. And he’s getting the solid experience needed to qualify.
Right now, Gerald is working on a verification sub-system for maintaining production control. It consists of seven distinct computer programs that
operate as one routine which performs the function of tying together and verifying forecasted with actual customer orders.
If you, like Gerald Bourland, set the highest standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications we’re looking for—let’s talk! Opportunities for fast-moving careers exist now tor liberal arts, physical science and business majors, as well as for electrical, mechanical and industrial engineers. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a personal interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
Western ElectricMANUFACTURING
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities • Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S.
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. • Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark. • Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New York
6
The Scholastic
Letters ...
SEMANTICS Editor:
In a straight news report your weekly applied the adjective “controversial” to Professor Samuel Shapiro. This struck me as a graceless welcome to a visitor who has been here but a few weeks. In my experience the adjective is laudably applied to ideas, but invidiously applied to persons, often to their harm.
I doubt if we can have it both ways. Either we are going to have what the Scholastic acutely described as warm bodies with brief cases, or we are going to have humanists and social scientists who reason to positions which provoke argument.
Marshall Smelser
Professor of History
The adjective “controversial” was not used invidiously, but rather to indicate that Professor Shapiro has expounded argument-provoking ideas. (Cf. Webster’s Third New International Dictionary: controversial—subject to, relating to, or arousing controversy.')—ED.
I.S.O. PROBLEMS Editor:
Concerning your article on Gerri Corbin’s talk at the Oct. 10 meeting of the International Students’ Organization, I would like to mention that the American student also needs a lot of help in “bridging the gap.” The purpose of the I.S.O. is to help all students, hence the name International, overcome the barriers of ignorance and prejudice, making us all aware that in the final analysis, we are all human beings. So as to leave no doubts, the word international does include Americans. Many Americans have told me that they were not aware that they could join the I.S.O. Until we manage to convince more Americans to participate, we will not succeed in our purpose. How can anyone expect foreign students to carry home a just and well-founded impression of this great country if the Americans choose to remain aloof and indifferent? To illustrate this point, at our first meeting, Hernan Puentes, a Chilean student, gave a short talk on some of his poor impressions of the U.S. — so far, with the exception of some SMC ladies, no N.D. student has volunteered to give a talk pointing out what makes the U.S. such a great country!
Also, in response to the letter written in last week’s Scholastic by Robert E. Marquis and Mark Levandoski, I would like to inform them as well as the student body
that the I.S.O. is proud to have about thirty young ladies from SMC as members. Their contribution to the I.S.O. has been invaluable.
However, in this regard, a problem has arisen because of SMC’s regulation concerning the limited amount of 10:30’s the girls can take. While this does not interfere with our two monthly meetings at SMC, it does interfere with the other two monthly meetings held here at N.D. The regulation states that only the seniors will have unlimited permission to remain off-campus on week nights. The juniors are allowed six, the sophomores four, and the freshmen two 10:30’s (the frosh can only do so second semester) per semester. This means that on week nights, once they have used up their allowance, they must check in at their halls by 8:30. Of course, they then can no longer attend our meetings here on Thursday nights. We considered having the two meetings here at N.D. on Sunday afternoon, but it seems to conflict with too many things. Still, since some is better than none, we are happy that the young ladies will at least be able to contribute to two of our meetings.
Robert V. B. Tompkins Chairman, I.S.O. 233 Fisher
RECONSIDERATIONS Editor:
It appears that better use can be made of $150,000 than remodeling the red barn on Bulla Road.
It can be used for scholarships to capable students of low-income families of minority groups.
Any university, cognizant of the social problems of this country, realizes its responsibility, within means, to help solve these problems. Definitely, one of these problems is the lack of educational opportunities open to minority group members.
The future leaders of the developing nations need inexpensive university education, yet Notre Dame provides no direct scholarships to
THEATERS
AVON—Fellini's "8yi" week nights 6:15, 8:42 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
COLFAX—"A New Kind of Love,” 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
GRANADA—"Mary, Mary," 1:30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
STATE—"Johnny Cool," 2:40, 6:05, 9:30 p.m.; "Shock Corridor," 1:00, 4:25, 7:50 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
capable students of Latin America and Africa. Truly national universities know of their obligations here.
Yes, Notre Dame is not as wealthy as some universities which have large international student populations, but whenever funds are available, these scholarships should have priority over projects such as the red bam.
If the administration proceeds with the barn project, possibly, fees can be charged for the use of the bam by various student organizations and the profits used to create a scholarship fund.
This enables the student body to participate in a scholarship fund and have their red-bam fun at the same time.
Certainly, it is not for the good that the students and administration of a Christian university be uncharitable to their brothers in need.
Richard Giloth
LIBRARY EMPLOYEES Editor:
The students of this University are indeed fortunate in having one of the finest, if not the finest, library in the country. The advantages and facilities presented to the students by our Memorial Library are limited only by the individual student’s willingness to use them.
Unfortunately, the calibre of the library staff is not as high as that of the library. True, they are possibly not as well settled and adjusted in the new building as they will be in a few months, but my complaints do not lie in their service, which seems to be adequate. Their attitude and manners are deplorable. The library employees seem to be largely cast from the same mold; on the whole they are unpleasant and unfriendly, to the point of being rude and surly. As a student using library facilities or trying to get information I have been subjected to their bad manners on several occasions, and I have talked to many other students who have had similar experiences.
Joseph Lemon 219 Morrissey
LOUIE'S
Homecooked Italian Foods
Free deliveries to campus 937 SOUTH BEND AVE.
CE 3-0324
November 1, 1963
7
Ask your professor, tell your father, see for yourself; Rasmussen’s has the finest quality men’s clothing in northern Indiana. Rasmussen’s is also a friendly, courteous store. The young man and the mature man alike will find a quiet relaxed atmosphere in which to discuss their clothing needs. When you enter Rasmussen’s, notice the many quality brands there are to choose from.
You will find London Fog Rainwear, Robert Lewis Outerwear, Gant Ivy Shirts, and Tapered Shirts by Arrow. For casual wear you will choose from Thane or Alps sweaters, Levi pants, and Ivy sport coats and slacks. For a more dressed-up look, try a Cricketeer Vested Suit with an Ivy Repp Tie. Rasmussen’s also offer Jockey Underwear by Cooper, Adler Hosiery, and Swank Jewelry. When you browse through Rasmussen’s you will also see full lines of Pendleton Clothes, Norman Hilton Clothes, and Baker Clothes. If you want a hat, Rasmussen’s have quality hats by Lee. Finally for the mature man who wants the best, Rasmussen’s are the exclusive representatives in this area for Churchill Hats and Oxxford Clothes, the finest anywhere. When the northern Indiana winds start to blow cold, be prepared with winter coats and suits from Rasmussen’s— only iy2 blocks from the downtown bus stop.
See Rasmussen’s campus fashions in the Cypress Room. All NOTRE DAME MEN are invited to stop in and have a Coke at the Coke bar. See you soon at RASMUSSEN’S
130 West Washington St. CE 2-4839
FINEST QUALITY MEN’S CLOTHING IN NORTHERN INDIANA
Rasmussens
The Scholastic
“DOME” ALTERS POLICY
The Dome for this year will have a new outlook. The most noticeable changes will be in the underclass section. The Dome sent out a notice earlier in the year stating that there were three alternatives for this section: deletion, in favor of a better photo-essay coverage of student life; continuation of last year’s approach, casual groups scattered around campus ; continuation of the section in the form of a supplement that would be published in February and have traditional type photos taken in two locations. Students were asked to write in their opinions — about 40 replies were received. In the absence of any significant student interest, the editors have settled on the first approach. Deletion of the section will allow a more artistic book, with greater interest to the reader, and extra pages for an expanded description of the year.
The toted visual effect of the book will be much the same as last year. Static group pictures will be avoided; classroom pictures will be taken as in previous years, however. The photographers’ free-lance work will contribute most of the human interest in the book, and will be used in the form of a photo essay on student life and to break up the monotony of other sections. A minor technical improvement will result from an effort for better “skin tone” in the pictures — last year there were complaints that the pictures were too dark.
The increased pictorial “history” of the year will take the place of the editorializing which created so much controversy last year. This is not to say there will be no editorializing, but it will not be as controversial. Neither the editor nor his associate editors feel the Dome is the proper place for editorials.
Despite all the criticism, last year’s Dome won an “All American” rating (the fifth consecutive) from the As
sociated Collegiate Press, the highest rating in the country. This year’s staff hopes to keep this high quality while making improvements.
THEATER READIES VISIT
The University Theater’s first production for the 1963-64 season, Friederich Duerrenmatt’s The Visit, will be presented November 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, and 16 at 8:30 and November 10 at 2:30. Tickets will go on sale November 5, at the box ofiice from 4:00 to 5:00 daily. Student tickets are $1.00.
The Visit, which starred Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne on Broadway, tells the story of a wealthy woman who returns to her hometown after many years. The town has become very poor, and the woman promises to reopen the industries there, and contribute one billion marks to the village funds. What price must the town pay? The life of the man who jilted her during her adolescence is all the benefactress wants. The rest of the play shows how greed finally turns the townspeople against the man and causes them to sell his life in return for the promise of prosperity.
The role of the avenging woman will be played by Aphrodite Pappas, who has played many leads with the Presbyterian Players in South Bend. David Clennon, who appeared last year in Hamlet and Billy Budd, will appear as Schill, the man who jilted her. Others in the cast include Peter Flannery as the mayor, Sean Griffin as the schoolmaster, Al Dunn as the police chief, Pat Kelly as the woman’s eighth husband, and Michael Hartford as her butler. Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., is directing.
This year is a rebuilding year for the University Theater. The plays chosen for the season do not depend on any one character, as did last year’s Hamlet, but involve instead a variety of actors.
Next on the schedule for the theater is Moliere’s Tartuffe, followed by Harold Pinter’s The Caretaker. The final presentation of the season will be The Threepenny Opera by Bert Brecht and Kurt Weill.
SANDEEN — ON POETRY
A poet writes in his own voice, and it is good that his poems be heard in the voice in which they were written. Dr. Ernest Sandeen, professor of American literature at Notre Dame, read selections from his work last Wednesday night in the Art Gallery to an audience of students and faculty from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. The program was sponsored jointly by the Academic Commissions of N.D. and S.M.C.
Described as “all but entirely unappreciated critically” in an introduction by Professor John Hardy of the English department, who also expressed confidence that the former Rhodes Scholar eventually “will dine in select company,” Mr. Sandeen calmly and clearly read a selection of his poems that quietly revealed his significance, most of them written since the publication in 1961 of his second volume Children and Older Strangers.
Beginning with three brief poems from Children, and Older Strangers, Mr. Sandeen commented that he finds it hard to be interested in his earlier work. This is common among writers, he said, but his impatience with his earlier work is especially acute. He feels that American poets in recent years have lapsed into writing primarily for other poets and critics, and he sees signs of this in some of his own work. He now is making a conscious effort to get away from this, a conscious effort to be unconscious, in the sense of informal. For him the problem lies in “re-establishing the poem as an intimate affair — metaphorically a love affair — between the poet and his reader,” with “reader” understood as a literate, but not necessarily literary, human being. He said he hoped the selections to follow would illustrate his gradual change over the past three years.
His work evinces his deep concern about poetry in a scientific age. He says he is not antiscience, but that he fears that the world we inhabit, the world of sensible, common things, traditionally the poet’s world, is becoming less appreciated as science talks of the DNA molecule and moon shots. He conjures up the horror of a dance of leaves in the wind being mathematically verifiable, and speaks of “loveless numbers.”
Introducing a poem that he described as a “Joycean litany,” he says
November 1, 1963
9
Ian and Sylvia	New Christy Minstrels
that science asks of such a labor the sardonic question, “What of it?”
Ke is anxious for his children in a scientific age “having to doubt for your mind’s sake, yet having to believe for your very breath.”
And yet he feels, for all the hold science now seems to have over the imaginations of men, it will find no more satisfactory answers to ultimate questions than poetry has.
So, as a poet, he looks around him at the poet’s world, and asserts the value and beauty of common things. He speaks of a man and a woman smoking cigarettes in the night, and it is strangely evocative, seeming at once familiar and alien; of a man making incidental plans for the fall, and it is affecting, more so, somehow, than the DNA molecule.
Mr. Sandeen concluded by reading several of a group of poems with which he is presently concerned. Perhaps the most affecting, most arresting in their idea, and yet, in their way — their focus is distinctly human, not theological — reverent, of the night, these poems center on the human drama of people at Mass.
Mr. Sandeen said he hoped his appearance might be helpful in eliciting support for the remainder of the series, and especially hoped student readings might be heard and supported.
SMC FESTIVAL
Last Saturday’s St. Mary’s Fall Festival was highlighted by a hootenanny in the Stepan Center. Performers were the Four Winds of Notre Dame, A.B.C. television’s Ian and Sylvia and the Phoenix Singers.
Ian and Sylvia started the show with arrangements of “Lazarus,” “The Pride of Petrovar,” and “C. C. Rider.” Ian plays the guitar, and Sylvia the piano harp. They were accompanied by guitar and banjo.
Next Notre Dame’s Four Winds, Bob, Mike, Hilton, and Don, with
Jim Higgins on the bass offered “River Jordan,” “Biowin’ in the Wind,” and the satirical “Saga of the St. Mary’s Girls.”
Warner Brothers’ stars, the Phoenix Singers, were the last to sing to the folk-music addicts sitting around the stage on blankets. The trio, Ned, Arthur, and Leroy sang “Pick a Bale of Cotton,” “Judy” and “Goodnight, Irene.”
The winner of the St. Mary’s Bermuda trip for two was Beth Emge of St. Mary’s from Evansville, Ind. Beth and her roommate, Rosie Fox, will make the trip; they decided the night before to take each other if one of them happened to win.
St. Mary’s invited girls from three schools to their Fall Festival: St. Mary’s Academy, Holy Cross School of Nursing, and St. Joseph’s. The afternoon activities at St. Mary’s included dancing in the Reignbeaux, folk singing in the Club House with card playing, refreshments, and juke box dancing in the Social Center.
NEW DEAN APPOINTED
Thomas T. Murphy has been appointed dean of the College of Business Administration. Since last December, when Dean James W. Culli-ton resigned from the post to accept membership on the U.S. Tariff Commission, Mr. Murphy has been acting dean of the college.
At Notre Dame since 1946 he is a member of the American Economic Association and is the vice-president of the Midwest Economic Association.
HAPPINESS IS A HOMECOMING
The Notre Dame homecoming festivities will begin tonight at 7:00 p.m. when the marching band leads the students around the campus to begin the pep rally. The speakers at the rally will be Father Hesburgh, Coach Devore, and Jim Kelly. There will be no bonfire this year because of a lack of proper facilities.
The homecoming dance, “Cead Mile Failte” translated as a Hundred Thousand Welcomes will start at 9:00 p.m. The Stepan Center will be decorated as a typical Irish countryside, which includes a castle, a pub, and a homestead.
Tomorrow at 11:30 there will be a parade of nine floats, a kilt band, and the Army, Navy and Air Force drill teams. The parade will start behind O’Shaughnessy Hall and proceed to the stadium. The N.D.-Navy game will start at 1:30 but freshmen are asked to be in the stadium at 1:00 for the special pregame card stunts.
Following the game the New Christy Minstrels will give a concert at 8:30 in the Stepan Center. There are nine members in the group: seven men and two girls, each playing a guitar, banjo or bass. One by one they step out of the group to display individual talent, rendering vocal or instrumental solos.
The New Christy Minstrels are named after Edward P. Christy, who started a group which toured the South and Southwest in 1842 (the same year Notre Dame was founded). The New Christys have sung on the Andy Williams Show, in New York’s Latin Quarter and at Harold’s Club in Reno. They have cut three record albums.
SMC’s HEDDA GABLER
The Department of Speech and Drama at St. Mary’s College will present Hedda Gabler, a play in four acts, at - O’Laughlin Auditorium on November 2 and 3. The production will have a 2:00 p.m. matinee on November 3, as well as nightly 8:00 p.m. showings. Written by Henrik Ibsen in 1890, Hedda Gabler is the story of a woman who desires to structure her life so that all she touches becomes beautiful. But she is thwarted in her attempt to “create” beauty by several factors.
Although she wishes to make her
10
The Scholastic
I
I
i
I
I.S.O. Meeting
Dr. Shuster speaks in Library Auditorium
life a work of art, she is unwilling, in the process, to soil her hands. She longs desperately to be a “woman.” She desires love — passionate and physical as well as spiritual love. But she has an imposed moral code which cannot be reconciled with her desires. She wants to experience life but cannot. She is at war within herself because the morality that society has taught her is not the morality in which she truly believes. In short, she is a frustrated woman.
In attempting to appease her frustrated desires, she devotes herself to spiritually controlling the lives of others. Once she accomplishes her goal, since she cannot love, she despises the person.
Hedda is living a struggle between flesh and spirit. What comes out of that struggle when there is a willingness to love is a spiritual human being. What comes out of that struggle when there is no love is, as Ibsen states, “a farce which isn’t worth seeing through to the end.”
Robin Keyworth, a senior English Literature major, plays the title role, George Tesman is played by Tom Murphy, a sophomore at Notre Dame, Eilert Loerberg is played by Robert Parker, and Mrs. Elvsted is played by Joan Mikulka. William Cook appears as Judge Brack, Pam Gallagher as Bertha, and Elyse Nowak as Miss Juliana Tesman.
Mr. Bruce Sweet is the director of the production and is assisted by Marilyn Petroff, the student director. The stage manager is Caroline Hart, and Mr. William Wolak designed the lighting.
ISO CHANGES TACTICS
At last week’s meeting, the ISO (International Students Organization) changed procedure, with apparently worthwhile results. Usually, the ISO meetings have focussed on a lecture concerning some problem in student life. This week, however, Hernan
Puentes, a Chilean student, continued his previous comments on the American attitude and culture, after which the floor was thrown open to general discussion. Although the line of discussion rambled somewhat and some of the comments approached the pedantic (there was, for instance, a discussion of the vulgarity involved in kissing on the front steps of LeMans Hall), most criticism and discussion was sincere and constructive.
SHUSTER SALUTES ADENAUER
The new library auditorium was the scene Monday night of the student government-sponsored lecture “Adenauer, the End of an Era.” The speaker was Dr. George Shuster, a man of considerable experience not only in the field of German history and affairs, but in many other fields as well. Having been at one time or another a student and teacher at Notre Dame, the editor of Commonweal., the president of Hunter College, an American representative to Germany assigned to UNESCO and a special assistant to the president at Notre Dame, Dr. Shuster also added the personal touch to his lecture, for he was well acquainted with the chancellor of whom he spoke.
Dr. Shuster’s treatment of this grand old man of German politics centered around the five accomplishments which he considered Adenauer’s greatest: the establishment of the Christian Democratic Union and its resulting policy of a free economy, the realization of a European union, the accomplishment of a treaty with the United States as the first prerogative of German foreign policy, the initiation of German restitution to the Jewish people for Hitler’s war crimes, and leadership in writing West Germany’s provisional constitution.
Elaborating on these accomplishments, Dr. Shuster cited Adenauer’s political uniting of the Catholic and
Protestant elements in Germany to form the Christian Democratic Union, the party which has brought Germany along the road of reconstruction. With regard to the European union, it was Adenauer who was instrumental in ceasing the haggling over the Alsace-Lorraine territory by suggesting that, while the territory was to remain part of Germany after World War n, its resources were to be used by all of Europe in a pooling of the coal and steel resources of the continent. Adenauer’s third major accomplishment, acceptance of the alliance with the United States, involved sacrifice on both sides. The Germans had to accept rearmament (which they did not want at all) and American intervention, while the United States had to accept the responsibility for protecting West Germany and the Berlin corridor. But Adenauer with true foresight accepted this responsibility and signed the pact which, so far, has saved not only West Germany but also much of Central Europe. While not elaborating on Adenauer’s fifth major accomplishment, leadership in writing the provisional constitution, Dr. Shuster did say this was an accomplishment of which the chancellor could be justly proud.
But, Dr. Shuster believes, Adenauer’s greatest accomplishment, the one which will be remembered long after the others have been forgotten, is the beginning of restitution to the Jewish people for Nazi war crimes. But more than this Adenauer was responsible for a re-evaluation of the Christian conscience in this matter; for the stand of the Church had been that Catholics should help the Jews by charity but not by fighting for the justice of the Jewish cause. This Adenauer believed to be wrong and so worked for this re-evaluation which brought the Jews back to the first-class citizenship of which they had been deprived by Hitler.
(Continued on page 32)
November 1, 1963
11
on other eampuses
•	The Daily Aztec of San Diego State College is no longer a daily newspaper. Suffering a severe loss of revenue when tobacco companies decided not to continue advertising in college papers, the paper became a four-times-per-week “daily.”
•	In the new surge of the old crusade to end racial discrimination, college students are being called on increasingly often to take concrete action against bigotry.
Two African Negro graduate students at Northwestern University have been unable to find accommodations in Evanston, Illinois, where the university is located. “What shocked me most,” said one of the Negroes, “was that people rejected us in a most unsophisticated manner. They made no pretence and simply said they wouldn’t rent to a Negro.” A plea to city officials has brought no response. In an editorial, the Daily Northwestern told the Student Senate Human Relations Committee, and the administration, that this situation cannot be allowed.
An editorial in the Holy Cross Crusader has invited students to participate in a NAACP demonstration, in Worcester, Massachusetts, to picket chain stores whose Alabama branches practice segregation. The editorial op
poses “the spirit of glibness” which produces “shallow salutes to justice and love,” and calls for understanding at Holy Cross of racial problems and student action where it can be taken.
• At Goshen, Indiana, the president of Goshen College’s Peace Society, Alan Kreide, has stated: “We owe it to our Negro students on campus to find out just what is going on in Goshen,” and “After finding out the score, the Peace Society will discuss and act upon what the members can do here in Goshen.” The Goshen College Record hailed the stand of the society and called for “a serious and realistic attempt to register a vote for justice and equality” from individuals of the college and community.
• Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu, South Vietnam’s “Dragon Lady,” while in Chicago last week declined an invitation to speak at Northwestern University, but in an interview for the school’s newspaper she complained about the United States attitude toward her country.
“Vietnam is Kennedy’s best card,” she said. “I don’t know why he wants to throw it away.”
She explained that her nation wants a “personalized democracy” with close contact between the leaders and the
people. She attacked the United States saying, “Certain people in the U.S. administration seem to think that they can do anything because they have the money. But we need more than money — we need the confidence of the people. . . . This [the call for rebellion] can only raise greater suspicion of the aims of the United States government.”
Twenty Vietnamese students picketed her hotel with signs reading “Go Bar-B-Q yourself.”
• Coeds at Michigan State University have the benefit of a new organization to help them meet a variety of guys. The Mason Hall Dating Service, established by two sophomores, keeps a file of names of interested fellows and girls and of statistics necessary to make a proper match. Clients are accepted only on recommendation by another who is already a member. One of the organizers has stated that the Service has been “quite successful so far.”
• Columbia University was the scene of an “All-Purpose” Protest March last week. In the demonstration, which was sponsored by the Jester, hundreds of pickets paraded with signs declaring “Love Without Fear,” “Help Stamp Out Flaming Ducks,” “Shame,” and similar slogans.
Bugle accompaniment to a mass singing of “We Shall Overrun” and speeches calling for reforms to be effected “with the speed that the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy red hen” ended the rally.
feiffer
$0 i NA5 10 LOVE WITH THI5 W M I WAS TWO ({EARS THAN ANP HE WANTEP TO 6ET MARR1EP BUT HE WA6 STILL Him 10 HIS FIRST WIFE. 60 I WROTE TO REAR MW.
60 bil SROKl OFF. Ti^O W6 LAW I Fill IN LOVE WITH AN lim MAN WITH A milR. MH A6E WHO PIPNT WANT 05 TO 6ET MARRlEP- SO I ^OTl ro ANN LAIWR.6.
AHO AW LAWI& 6AIP IT WAS UNWISE.
50 WE PRONE OFF FIVE .
LATER I MET A MAN MH A6E EXACTLY ANP WE FELL IN LOVE BUT HE CAME FROM A AFFERENT FAITH. SO I WROTE 10 PR- FRANZ8LA0.
60 JbW IM NEARLY SIR. I'M ALONE ALL THE TIME ANP PONT KNOW WHAT TO CO WITH MW 50 I WROTE AMP A5KEP PR. BROTHERS.
SHE SAIP ISHOULP 611 OUT z/ ANP MEET mi.
The HiU STMnte list
12
The Scholastic
YCS STUDY WEEKEND:
Unity and the Individual
by Jack Rowe
WHAT J0Y^ what a flowering even in civil and social life, may be looked for by the whole world if we once have-religious peace and reestablishment of the family of Christendom.” This prophetic statement from an address by Pope John XXm is indeed a promise, but a conditional one. The fulfillment of that condition, that the world be reunited in faith, is the overriding concern of the present Vatican Council. Clearly the hierarchy has convened with the recognition of their obligation to the One Fold. But the joyous flowering of the world spoken of by the Holy Father will never come to be solely by the resolution of the bishops at Rome. Only with the realization by the Catholic laity that they are the Church and consequently, that its growth and strength are their responsibility, will the Mystical Body move toward the assimilation of the separated brethren in effective unity of purpose and action.
It was with these thoughts in mind that delegations from a number of Midwestern colleges joined last weekend in participating in a Study Weekend sponsored by the Young Christian Students. The theme of the convention, “The Ecumenical Council and the Layman’s Responsibility,” was highlighted in an address by Father John Hardon, S.J., a professor of theology at Western Michigan University.
In his keynote address Saturday evening Father Hardon reminded his audience of the purposefulness of the inter-Christian dialogue. The first purpose is the achievement of better understanding of one another’s point of view. American Catholics as a group know little, if anything, about the beliefs and practices of even the Protestant majority, though the lack of definitive expression of doctrine is no doubt partially to blame. No such excuse can be employed by the nonCatholic, however, since in the face of abundant opportunity for this knowl
November 1, 1963
edge, his conceptions about the Church remain largely a mixture of half-truths, the product of hearsay, fear, and ignorance.
The goal of mutual assistance should follow up on a gain in understanding. Without such co-operation, the present trend toward secularization of society will surely continue. Events such as the recent schoolprayer decisions reflect the success of the dynamic efforts of convinced secularists in opposition to divided Christianity.
To counter this influence, Catholics will need to abandon the defensive mentality of the past 400 years. The influence of the Church must be carried into secular institutions where co-ordinated Catholic and Protestant forces can reassert the Christian tradition.
The final — and most important — aim of the dialogue is the ultimate-reconciliation of non-Catholic denominations with the Holy See. No serious ecumenical efforts should be undertaken without this goal in mind. The open-mindedness of recent Protestant thought should serve as an encouragement to our hopes for full unity.
Throughout the weekend, discussions centered around this and other facets of unity — unity in the Liturgy, in the university community, in the work of the Lay Apostolate. The Lay Apostolate phase was particularly evident at the Sunday brunch, the last function of the weekend. At the conclusion of the speaking program, a number of delegates rose spontaneously in testimony of their commitment to the Apostolate. One stated that she had considered such a commitment “above and beyond my responsibility” and that only ;after becoming involved in an organization of the Lay Apostolate did she realize that “this is not something extra, but is what we all must do.” Another delegate expressed his appreciation for such an organization, because
“only here have I found Catholic students with such Christian concern that, knowing them, and with the grace of God — I have been able to keep my faith, even through eight years of Catholic education.”
The awareness to which he referred, and toward which the Y.C.S. hoped to direct the participants during the weekend, is perhaps best summarized in a prayer read by author Donald J. Thorman at the opening of the convention; it reads in part:
Lord, ivhy did You tell me to love all men? I have tried but noiv I come back to You, frightened. Lord, I was so peaceful in my house. . . . Now I am lost, Lord!
Outside, men were waiting for me. . . . They came streaming in without waiting to be asked. My ; house became very crowded. . . . Lord, they are getting in my way, taking all my time, hurting me. . . . O Lord, I can’t go on!
What is that you say, Lord?
"Have no fear," You say, "you have not lost all but gained all. For while men were pouring into your house, I your Frother} I your Lord, slipped in with them."
13
WSND:
EXPANSION FOR SERVICE
By John Gorman
Pictures: Above, 1. Station Mgr. Craig Simpson, John Kanaley, Terry Kollman; 2. John Murphy and John Moye; Left: Jim Kelly, Jack Gerken, Mel Noel; Right: Bob Summers and Pete Wanderer.
14
The Scholastic
IN the past year Notre Dame’s student - operated radio stations WSND and WSND-FM have made a number of improvements in their service to the student body and to the public. The most significant of these advancements is the recently announced acceptance of WSND as an educational affiliate of the Westinghouse Group W network. Group W is a chain of six radio and five television stations in such major cities as New York, Boston and Chicago. The affiliation was achieved through the efforts of Mr. Frank Goerg, news director of Group W station WIND in Chicago and Mr. Donald H. McGan-non, president of the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company, who is also a member of the University’s AB advisory board.
The main practical benefit of the affiliation will be participation in the Group W news service. Through this service, WSND has at its disposal the network’s newsmen in Berlin, London and Rome as well as in American cities where the network has affiliates.
The network does not send entire programs; rather, they send a number of news actualities and voice reports twice a day from New York. Approximately 25% of this is actualities, a term used to denote actual bits of news, for example, an excerpt from an important speech recorded as it is being delivered. The remaining three-quarters consists of voice reports from the network’s reporters. About twenty-five of these will be cabled to WSND every day where they will be recorded and integrated into the news shows. Used to complement the UPI reports, they will give the effect of a professional network newscast. The service will give WSND the most complete news facilities in college radio.
This striving for professional quality is characteristic of WSND. The station is operated entirely by unsalaried students. It operates under the Vice-President of Student Affairs, but is administered by a student station manager and twelve department heads.
WSND exists for the principal purpose of providing entertainment and information to the student bodies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College, and does this in a way that will give a number of students experience and develop their talents in communications. The station employs approximately one hundred students, very few of whom are enrolled in the University’s Department of Communication Arts.
WSND-FM works to provide excellent music not only for Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s but for South Bend
and the surrounding area as well. The FM station holds an FCC educational license which requires a certain amount of spoken matter and forbids commercials. The FM broadcasts are made from a special studio in O’Shaughnessy tower and many of its facilities are integrated with AM. The FM facility could easily be equipped to broadcast a stereo signal.
To whet the tastes of good-music lovers, WSND-FM also publishes a bi-weekly cultural music service. This includes a program guide, events calendar, and notes on the works of various composers. The Program Guide is also distributed separately and has a circulation of around 2,000.
The station’s studios and offices are located in O’Shaughnessy tower. The first level contains the station’s record files. There are 20- to 30,000 selections, including 2500 45’s; each selection is cross-indexed three ways, by title, by performer, and by LP number for albums. The news room houses the UPI wire over which the station gets its national news (including the business news), local news, sports and weather. WSND runs an average of twenty news programs per day in a number of classifications, including commentary, panel, and campus news shows.
Also on the first level are the broadcasting studios. All news shows originate from studio A, the largest one, which also contains the FM classical record library. Master Control has three functions: it provides the equipment for shows done in studio A, it acts as a studio itself since shows can
be broadcast from it (e.g., “Topsy”), and it coordinates and controls all the other studios through a switchboard-like device. Master Control also houses two tape recorders, one a new professional model Ampex which can record programs up to two hours long, and two cartridge machines operating according to the same principles as those used in the language labs. The hi-fi FM tuner monitors WFMF in Chicago to provide the allnight music on AM. The main console of Master Control is the largest in the station — it controls more microphones and tapes.
The second level of the tower houses the station manager’s office, the composition room where newscasts are put together and the technical department. The transmission equipment for FM is also on this floor. Here also the AM signal is converted to radio frequency and sent by wires through the steam tunnels to each hall where it is boosted by an amplifier so it can be picked up by radios connected to the hall electrical system.
Offices for the program, business, and sports directors have recently been moved to the third floor of O’Shaughnessy Hall. Program and production writing is done there also.
Altogether WSND broadcasts 28 hours a day on both AM and FM. Its AM station is one of the few college stations in the country with such a complete broadcast schedule. The station’s success can be measured by the fact that 72% of all the time Notre Dame students spend listening to radio is spent listening to WSND.
November 1, 1963
15
Lay Apostolate
by Philip F. O’Mara
VM7hat with Bishop Pursley ex’ ’ pressing concern about the presence of Notre Dame students in downtown Catholic associations this might seem like a poor time to discuss off-campus apostolic activity. However, the Midwest Study Day on the Apostolate, just held here under YCS auspices, brings the matter into a more adequate focus: apostolic activity is normal for each Christian, in all his circumstances from the beginning of maturity on.
The thesis of this article, as of the talk, given at the Study Day, is that college students have a place in apostolic work off campus because they are needed there and because they need what is there for them. In this connection one must recognize three separable aspects of a single, peculiarly modern predicament for the Christian. 1. Individual Christians are ill-instructed and poorly formed spiritually. They lack a proper sense of the apostolate and an awareness of their own deficiencies. Although
we need to belong to apostolic groups, the wrong group can do us more harm than good, and in any case almost all of us will have to sever our ties from such groups in the long run, and should; the formation of the members of any group must therefore include the development of personal initiative, personal insight into men’s needs and the sources for their satisfaction, a stable personal apostolic spirituality. The group must foster leadership in its members, the ability to form groups of their own, to influence others to Christian action and outlook apart from the organizational method, to take competent and Christ-witness-ing roles in secular societies of all kinds.
2.	There are a rather large number of specific religious needs not being met. College students are usually thought of for such activities as catechizing, hospital visitation, liturgical work, and social protest. But above all in its importance, and the model of all, is the work that is done
by the visit to individual homes, by the intimacy of private conversation. In every work, we must seek not for any merely human gain but for opportunity to serve Christ, but this in itself demands that we seek and learn to recognize and help with all the usual human needs. These needs, some temporary and some permanent (civil-rights demonstrations don’t come up as often as Confirmation classes), cry out for workers, and in large part file cry is unheard.
3.	The world as a whole, and every segment of it, every human society, is in increasingly urgent need of Christ, and He is not, to all appearances, reaching that world. There are seeds of hope everywhere — there is great new growth in social consciousness, political sophistication, popular understanding and respect for the Church, religious knowledge, availability of therapy for mental illness, material relief for poverty. But no one who looks honestly at himself, his family, friends, clubs, parish,
16
The Scholastic
school, town, nation, or United Nations can deny that a practical paganism, which would be perfectly materialist if it were not also superstitious and word-infatuated, prevails everywhere. Decisions at every level including the highest simply are not taken with Christ in mind.
Let us look at the situation sketched above with a view toward action. Can we mediate between the people who need help and those who need and are qualified for apostolic activity? Both groups may include ourselves. Can we do it in such a way that indirectly the growth of Christ in society as a whole will be fostered? This mode of questioning wholly avoids one issue: whether it is best to concentrate on work strictly intended for laymen or also to help take up the slack left by the shortage of priests and religious. The omission is deliberate. Provided that we direct ourselves to genuine needs, and that we undertake only what we can learn to do, it seems pointless to worry about who would do the work in a perfect world. The theology of the states of life, especially the layman’s and especially in relation to the apos-tolate, is so unclear and incomplete at present that in any case we have no reason to feel confident of our prescriptions. In fact, we do not really know how to explain or define “apos-tolate,” though we can point to examples sometimes. Every attempt at definition makes one sound either like a simplistic do-gooder, an unconscious secularist, or an arrogant know-it-all. But in line with the entrepreneur’s attitude which we are seeking to adopt, let us tentatively offer two divisions of apostolic activity. From the
worker’s point of view, an apostolate may mean providing a service for people which they know they need, or persuading them of something. This distinction, of course, must immediately be overcome: one can perform no greater service for anyone than making him aware of Christ, nor is any persuasion more effective than an unembarrassed and unpatronizing satisfaction of another’s real needs. On the side of the work done one may separate efforts to clear up and deepen interpersonal relations generally from the remedying of specific sore spots. But here again, no specific need is well satisfied unless by a friend. Once there is a subject of discussion and an object of activity, this distinction founders.
The vocation of college students, if they belong in college, is study. This vocation is only intermittently interesting and its value, though substantial, is not always immediately clear; and it entails chiefly operations on things rather than with people. For all .these reasons our situation is a good type of the layman’s predicament in today’s world. Most of his time is devoted to the world of things, or to associations with persons which are and must be mechanical, in which men’s personalities are suppressed entirely, or partly suppressed and partly exploited. Even in his leisure time — even in his family — chances for personal relationships are restricted. This is another aspect of the de-Christianized world. Thus it is plain that the advice, so frequently given, to carry Christ into one’s everyday work, play, and suffering, and to witness to him in the marketplace, is for most people sheer non
sense. Or if it means anything at all, it amounts to the same old narrow private piety which two hundred years of individualist confessors inspired in our ancestors. We are all asked to help with a Thanksgiving party at the orphanage, to be nice to the fellow in our dorm who has a prickly personality, to study hard and pray regularly. Let’s hope we do all these. But is this all we do? Is this the issue we seek in all our exhortations to the apostolate? The student vocation, some say, is so demanding in itself that it precludes greater activity, or indeed any work off campus at all. Such ideas derive from the false viewpoint which sees education as pursued only through course work and aimed only at some future time of preparedness for life, and, thinks of the apostolate as a kind of jacket over one’s faith, to be taken off when at work on something really onerous like getting a degree.
Still more foolish is the belief that college people should concentrate their energies on something called the intellectual apostolate. The intellectual apostolate is ordinary apostolic work, involving especially intimate personal contact, done by well-educated people with brains. It is in no sense specialized, erudite or exclusive, and it. can be undertaken quite as well at a migrant worker’s settlement as in a seminar room. The intelligent and sensitive know and express what all of us feel and suffer: that America today strangles the person in us. Every remedy for this is individual in application and calls for the best we have in us, but only most rarely
(Continued on page 30)
November 1, 1963
17
Brian Jorgensen.. •
Toys in the Attic
Despite the efforts of the production company’s self-titled “Exploitation Department” to misdirect viewers to their movie by advertising tawdry perversions of its screenplay, Toys In The Attic is a fairly good show. It is a little as if the themes that run through Othello, seeming to merge the characters into aspects of a single action, had come down to our own day in a new blending. Innocence and ignorance, truth and what is taken for truth, selfish and unselfish love mingle in each person rather than act as individual principles. The family assumes, to some extent, the role played by the army and the state in Othello. In the movie poisoned love leads to deceit, an innocent wife nearly strangles both her own and her husband’s life through an act provoked by jealousy. She is ensnared and encouraged by a woman whose hate springs from an inability to love properly. Evil, however, has no face in Lillian Hellman’s play. Whereas Iago, knowing himself to be evil and manipulating his world quite self-consciously, is ignorant only of the ultimate source of his hate; the two spinster sisters, Carrie and Anna, and their brother, Julian, are aware of the twisted love which motivates them, and comply with it by refusing to recognize themselves or one another, tacitly agreeing to act out blindly what they are unable to confront. This evil is essentially an incestuous love which makes of each of them spouse, parent, and sibling to the others. Anna, aided by the very jeal-
MOVIES
ousy of her sister which this relationship arouses in her, by her ability to see and scorn that part of herself which is in Carrie, finds the moral courage to accept the gifts by which her brother hopes to free himself. Julian’s desperately aroused desire to escape is consummated only when his love for his sister Carrie turns to hate, after the intrusion of innocence and of unselfish love has forced them to know themselves and each other. The movie ends with each of the main characters bruised or disfigured by the truth.
20,000 Leagues
If Jules Verne’s book 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea survives at all, it will be as a period piece, an antique embodiment of a mind both stimulated and stifled by its limitations, a curious kind of travelogue through possibility recorded by rather a small lens on film that registered little more than the blackest blacks and the whitest whites. Walt Disney’s Cinemascope technicolor adaptation of Verne’s story sent a cameraman with much the same attitude as Verne through the land of never-was-or-will-be. The movie, too, is showing signs of wear, and possibly will have even fewer revivals than the book.
Like Verne, who was perhaps one of the first to discover the power of numbers to numb disbelief, Disney deals better with certain sorts of things, such as mechanisms (submarines, squids, trained animals and typed characters), than with people. Like Verne, he is an expert public mind-skimmer, and knows how to whitewash a rotten cliche so that it seems to contain life. Finally, both know how to utilize, without really confronting, the intriguing aspects of the figure of Captain Nemo — by mis-shapenly stuffing him with what their age is most likely to take for granted. In the book he is simply a very mixed- . up philanthropist who distributes sunken treasure out of “immense charity . . . for oppressed races,” while in the movie he is somewhat like the bad-man hero of a psychological Western — some kind of nut whom it’s hard not to like after he’s wounded. Verne’s climactic vision of the captain, his summation of the great enigma, is this:
His breast was swelling with sobs; and I heard him murmur
these words (the last which ever struck my ear): “Almighty God! enough! enough!” Was it a confession of remorse which thus escaped from this man’s conscience?
Disney has the dying Nemo prophesy	,
that in God’s good time men will have f submarine boats, and,	presumably,	,
atomic power. There’s an	irony some-	i'
where.	'
Good things about the movie: James Mason, when he is not trying to matter-of-fact his way around impossible lines (as often as not lifted, lovingly unaltered, from Verne) or to hold a pose of melodramatic agony through mercilessly recurring close-ups, often suggests, by his gestures and appearance, the lineaments of what Nemo could be: a man who has found himself with a nearly absolute kind of power in his hands; who has created his own Utopia; who has made a thing of steel his mother, father, wife, and friend; who in a strange element lives a life of rural simplicity and cultural elegance. Kirk Douglas plays Kirk Douglas with such high spirits that most of the cliches he is asked to act or say seem uncomfortable accidents rather than boring essences. There is a good sequence when Captain Nemo, surrounded by an invading army who remind one of the faceless soldiers in Goya’s “The Shootings on the Third of May,” runs hunched like an animal toward the skiff of the Nautilus, then sits upright as he is rowed back to his ship. The interior of the submarine has character, and some of the underwater photography is good. I exclude in this last scenes where schools of little pink fishes are periodically released to scurry in front of the camera lens, bathtub shots of upright and foundering vessels, and sinking ships on which all humans aboard are apparently camera-shy, or afraid of offending someone by drowning on the screen.
A final comparison may serve to : set off the silly, yet not ignoble seriousness of Verne’s hack work against the flashy, not unamusing showman- *' ship of Disney’s. A “little communicative” Ned Land, “gradually acquired,” in Verne’s book, “A taste for chatting. He related his fishing and his combats with natural poetry of expression; his recital took the form of an epic poem, and I seemed to be listening to a Canadian Homer singing the Iliad of the regions of the North.” In Disney’s movie, Ned appears on deck with his guitar and sings to the assembled crew: “I got a whale of a tale to tell you, lads.. . .”
18
The Scholastic
The Defenders vs. Roger Staubach
he critical factor in tomorrow’s game against Navy will be the Notre Dame defense: if the Irish can contain the running and passing of Navy quarterback Roger Staubach, they have an excellent chance for victory; if not, it is doubtful whether Notre Dame’s offense can match that of the Midshipmen.
Staubach has directed the offense-minded Middies to a 5-1 record, while piling up 1350 yards in total offense. His five-game total offense has already broken the record for a ten-game season set by George Welsh nearly a decade ago.
Since he took over as the Navy starter in the Notre Dame game last season, Staubach has never been held to less than 147 yards; this season against William and Mary he set a new single-game Navy record with 297 yards, then promptly broke it with 307 yards against Michigan the following Saturday.
The Middy offense is built around Staubach’s now-legendary ability as a “scrambler.” Wayne Hardin’s most successful play has been “give Staubach the ball, send three receivers downfield, and see what happens.” Naturally, what happens is sometimes unusual — Jolly Roger once completed a 36-yard pass for a six-yard gain — but more often than not, the result is devastating to the opposition. Staubach has completed 80 of 111 passes for a 72% completion average, passed for four touchdowns, and run for five more himself.
Surprisingly, Navy’s leading scorer is a guard. Junior Fred Marfin has kicked 20 of 23 extra points, four field goals — including a 36-yard placement against Pittsburgh, and has scored a touchdown, for 38 points. At 5-10 and 194 pounds, Marlin is the smallest man on an offensive line which averages 211 pounds.
Staubach’s running mates in the backfield are Pat Donnelly, junior fullback who is averaging 6.2 yards per carry; senior John Sai, who is second only to Joe Bellino in all-time Navy rushing statistics; and Ed Orr, a junior speedster and defensive specialist.
Navy’s offense, obviously, is potent; it has not been held to less than three touchdowns in any game this season, and is averaging almost 30 points. It will provide a grave test for Notre Dame’s defense.
When Hugh Devore installed a new offense this spring, he also installed a new defense, less known to the gen-
November 1, 1963
eral public. Joe Kuharich’s basic defense was the 5-4-2 (five linemen, four linebackers, two safetymen); strong against running plays, the 5-4-2 is extremely vulnerable to the long pass because the two safetymen can be easily split, leaving an alley open for a receiver. This was the principal defensive difficulty under Kuharich.
Devore’s new defense is a 5-2-3 plus a “rover.” The structural advantage is that it is much stronger against the long pass, and while it would appear weaker against running plays than the 5-4-2, this is not necessarily so. The key to the new defense’s effectiveness is rover Bill Pfeiffer.
The name “rover” is a slight misnomer, because Pfeiffer is not a free agent in the way that George Saimes was, but has three specific assignments. He can play the strong side of the line (the side with two eligible receivers) or the open side of the field, or he can key on the running halfback. In any case, however, his assignment is decided before the play. By analyzing the situation Norm Nicola, who calls the defensive signals, can place Pfeiffer where the play is most likely to go, and thus the defense loses very little structurally against a rushing attack — a loss more than compensated for by the improved coverage against the deep pass.
Pfeiffer himself thinks the position is ideally suited to his particular talents. “I really love the position,” -he
says. “It gives me the opportunity to tackle and pursue, and I think these are the things I do best and enjoy most.” His 17 tackles against Southern California and 16 against Stanford bear him out.
Pfeiffer’s defensive backfield-mate, Tommy MacDonald, will play a big role in stopping Staubach’s passing; his blatant disregard of the seventh commandment has enabled him to pilfer 13 enemy passes in two-and-a-half seasons, and to tie Johnny Lattner’s all-time Notre Dame interception record.
MacDonald approaches the most difficult job in football with a combination of intuition and science which could break the bank at Monte Carlo, and may break the hearts of a few Midshipmen tomorrow. He attributes his interceptions to two factors: “I try to get an angle on my man, so it looks to the quarterback like he is open, but really isn’t. Then the quarterback will often be lulled into making a careless throw. The most important pass defense, though, is a good rush by the fine. If they put on a good rush, it makes my job easy — every one of my interceptions has been due to pressure on the quarterback. But if the passer has ample time to throw, it is almost impossible to prevent a completion.”
Roger Staubach, so it’s said, wanted to come to Notre Dame. By Saturday evening, he may wish he had.
—John Whelan
19
Saga of a Dangerous Man
IN football, as in all sports, the spotlight shines brightest on the stars — the hard-running back, the lineman who makes tackle after tackle, the pass-catching end. The Sunday morning sports pages herald their feats. Other players do routine jobs brilliantly, but remain largely unnoticed. One such is Notre Dame’s Dan McGinn.
It was Coach Hugh Devore who pinpointed McGinn’s value: “Whenever we’ve called on Dan, he has come through.” As a punting specialist, McGinn is sometimes spectacular, as he was against Wisconsin and Purdue; but always, he does the job well.
If high-school records mean anything — and in McGinn’s case they seem to — the 5-11, 180-pound sophomore has all the makings of a fine quarterback. He was captain of his Cathedral High School team in Omaha, Nebraska, and was voted most valuable player of the Nebras
ka Shrine game. His prep-school coach rates him high: “Good ability. Fine potential. Excellent desire.”
A groin injury sustained in preseason practice has kept McGinn out of action except as a punter, but Devore used him in the closing moments of the UCLA game as a defensive back, and still holds him high on the list of potential starting quarterbacks. As a punter he has averaged a booming 36.8 yards in the five games of the 1963 season, and even that falls short of his 41.6 yard high-school average.
There have already been indications that McGinn will achieve fame as a clutch player. He went in against Wisconsin in the closing seconds of the game, faked a punt, and fired a perfect strike to Jim Kelly after spinning from the hands of two Wisconsin linemen: a week later he jumped to get a high pass from center on his nine-yard line, rolled away from several onrushing Purdue linemen, faked
a pass, and got away a strong kick on the run.
Somewhere in Dan McGinn is a quality that makes him dependable in crucial situations; somewhere within him is the ability to do extraordinary things when only the extraordinary is good enough. Why this coolness under fire?
His philosophy of football is to approach a game not questioning how the task can be done, knowing only that it must be done. Of his faked punt against Wisconsin he says: “I really wasn’t nervous when I went in. I knew I was supposed to pass, I called the punt formation, and I threw to Kelly. It was only after I came to the sidelines that I got nervous. Then I wondered how I did it.”
Much of his poise in clutch situations comes from experience gained in a variety of high-school sports. He was outstanding not only in football, but in basketball and baseball, too; he earned eleven letters and was captain of all three teams as a senior. Pitching summer baseball against a number of semi-pro teams, he had a 13-1 record. He has been approached by several major league teams, and figures prominently in Coach Jake Kline’s plans for rebuilding his pitching staff this spring.
Though these are all factors in his clutch playing, McGinn himself has much to say for the influence of the Notre Dame student body. “You get out there on the field and see all those fellows in the stands,” he says, “and you do things you never thought you could.
“It is a good feeling to know the students are behind you, win or lose. It helped our morale a lot to have them so solidly behind us going against Southern Cal, when we had lost the first two games of the season. And then to have them meet us coming back from Stanford. . . . The students are as much a part of the game as we are.”
There is a player on the Notre Dame team who performs the specialized job of punting; he has proven himself capable, though most weeks he will just be doing a routine job well. He may not make the headlines on Sunday morning, but those who care will know that he can be counted on to do well always, and to perform extraordinarily when necessary. This player’s name? Dangerous Dan McGinn.
—Tom Bettag
20
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
Rugby: Invading Washington, D.C., the Irish ruggers demolished an Embassy All-Star team composed of New Zealanders and Americans. In the 23-3 battle, bearish Ken Stinson led the Irish scorers with two tries, while teammates Dick Bell, Harry Steele, and Pat O’Malley contributed a tally apiece; Tom Gerlacher scored on four boots. The twenty-three-point output seems sufficient indication that the Notre Dame Rugby Club has offensive power for the spring season.
Cross-Country: Frank Carver, blazing a quick trail, led the Irish harriers over athletic nemesis Michigan State last Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Wilsonmen, emerging as the Midwest’s foremost cross-country power, dominated the race as Carver, Bill Clark, Bill Welch, Ed Dean, and Mike Coffey captured five of the first six places. Today the Irish try for the Indiana state championship in a meet of Hoosier colleges at Indianapolis.
Soccer: With a covetous glance toward a possible NCAA at-large berth, the Notre Dame soccer squad edged Lake Forest 3-2. Mariano Gonzalez booted two goals against Lake Forest and Hugo Dooner added another. The Irish now stand 6-1 for the season, the only loss inflicted by St. Louis University — the defending national champions.
Interhall: In perhaps the greatest slaughter of interhall football history, Morrissey ravaged Badin, 42-0. Leading the Western Division with a 3-0 record, Morrissey is followed closely by Walsh-Alumni, whose 14-8 win over Sorin was its second victory against no defeats. In a defensive struggle, Off-Campus held Howard-St. Edward’s to a scoreless tie. Dillon drew a bye.
In the Eastern Division, Stanford rapped Breen-Phillips, 19-0, to gain the league lead. Second-place Farley trampled Cavanaugh, 16-0, and the Zahm-Keenan game ended in a scoreless tie.
SCHEDULE Cross-Country
November 1, Indiana State Meet at Indianapolis
Soccer
November 2, Marquette at Notre Dame (tentative), 10:00 a.m.
Interhall
Sunday, November 3: Breen-Phillips vs. Keenan, 1:00 p.m. Badin vs. Off-Campus, 1:00 p.m. Howard-St. Edward’s vs.
Sorin, 2:15 p.m.
Stanford vs. Farley, 2:15 p.m.
Zahm vs. Cavanaugh, 3:30 p.m. Alumni-Walsh vs. Dillon, 3:30 p.m.
November 1, 1963
Voice in the Crowd,
T)alo Alto, California, October 26 — Statistics do not always tell an * accurate story of the game, but they tell all too well the story of Notre Dame’s 24-14 defeat by Stanford here this afternoon. First downs: Stanford 21, Notre Dame 11; total offensive plays: Stanford 71, Notre Dame 57; net yardage gained: Stanford 343, Notre Dame 190; yards lost by penalty: Notre Dame 113, Stanford 81.
With a few exceptions — Bob Lehmann, Bill Pfeiffer, Charlie O’Hara, Jim Kelly, Tommy MacDonald — Notre Dame played a very bad game; Stanford played a very good game, and the combination was disastrous. It was not that the Irish were overconfident, not that they had taken the game lightly or broken training — it was just one of those dreaded days on which Notre Dame could do nothing right and Stanford could do nothing wrong.
There were several major reasons for Notre Dame’s poor showing: 1) The Irish were obviously flat. This was probably not so much a psychological problem or a lack of effort — they were trying — as a physical staleness brought on by two days of inactivity in a motel.
2) Stanford won the game on sweeps and halfback option plays by Steve Thurlow and Dick Ragsdale, which Notre Dame was never able to contain. Thurlow, in fact, had seven full seconds in which to throw his seven-yard scoring pass to Ray Handley, making it all but impossible for Irish safetymen to keep Stanford’s receivers covered.
Notre Dame’s wide men — ends, outside linebackers, and halfbacks — were unable to stop the Indians’ wide plays because they lacked inside support: there was almost no penetration or pursuit by the Irish interior line, which was either cut down at the line of scrimmage or picked off while attempting pursuit. Though Bill Pfeiffer made 16 tackles, many on plays directed away from him by audible signals called at the line of scrimmage, the wide defenders were by and large helpless in the face of two and three blockers — and the threat of the halfback pass.
And 3) Notre Dame could have won the game, despite Stanford’s inspired play, had it not incurred several key penalties. The Irish had the opportunity to take the lead on at least two occasions in the fourth quarter, one after Tommy MacDonald’s interception, but penalties stopped both drives almost before they began. It is utterly impossible for any quarterback to establish an offensive pattern when he is constantly in the hole, first down and 25.
Regrettable though it was, however, the Stanford game was but one of ten, and must be considered in that context: “We were gaining a little momentum each week,” said Coach Hugh Devore, “but now we’ll have to start all over again.” The Irish, to be sure, are in a difficult position. They enter the second half of the schedule with a losing record, and must win four of their next five games to finish with a winning season. Three of the five games are against teams — Navy, Pittsburgh, and Syracuse — which are ranked among the nation’s top ten; Michigan State has not lost to Notre Dame since 1954; and Iowa will be out for blood after being humiliated last season.
Saturday’s game with Navy, therefore, is assuming all the importance which the Southern Cal game had three weeks ago. Notre Dame had lost two in a row then, and another loss might have been fatal; it was a game which seemed at the time to be the make-or-break game of the season.
When the Irish won that game and the following game with UCLA, it looked like they were gaining momentum, and would gain even more momentum and a winning record at Palo Alto. But Stanford changed all that. Now Notre Dame faces another crucial, make-or-break game, this time against the Middies. The Irish will be up for this one, make no mistake. If they can stop Jolly Roger Staubach and Navy Saturday, they may yet attain a winning season; if not, the future looms dark.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
Rufus Rodgers was a worried man last Friday afternoon. As playercoach of Badin’s interhall football team, it was his duty to collect the players who were staying on campus for the weekend and get them out for a last-minute practice. There weren’t many around to collect Eleven men came out Friday afternoon and Rufus had them run quickly through their plays, then concentrated on punt and PAT formations.
Dick Zasada wasn’t so worried. He had coached Morrissey to successive 6-0 victories, while Badin was still winless. Badin would be without depth, he knew, since their captain had tried to postpone the game until Monday when his weekenders would be back. Zasada knew he had a strong club and that Sunday’s turnout would be the best ever. He had the team run through its plays. They were confident.
It was cloudy early Sunday afternoon and some of the Badin players began praying for rain. The game was due to start at 3:30. At 2:30, Badin’s thirteen representatives were tossing the ball around, waiting for their coach. About five minutes later he returned with two other players from Chicago, quickly dropped off his bags and led his team over to the playing field for calisthenics. The team was as ready as it could be, and he thought they had a decent chance to duplicate the unspeakable upset of Saturday afternoon.
It took about a minute for Morrissey to show Rodgers that it was going to be a long afternoon. Ed Hurley kicked off into the end zone, from where Badin returned to the five. Three plays later Badin went into a semi-kick formation. Rodgers thought they were going to pass, the center thought it was to be a punt, and the kicker thought there must be a better way to enjoy a Sunday afternoon than lying buried beneath three Morrissey defensemen.
A slight case of murder
This inauspicious beginning proved prophetic. It was the only time Badin managed to get the ball over any goal line, even its own. Morrissey didn’t have quite the same problem, as they pushed 40 points across the Badin line, and had observers wondering whether they were playing the same game (football) as the other interhall teams — who produced two scoreless ties in the games immediately preceding and adjacent to the Morrissey massacre.
Nappy Napolitano called the game “amazing.” Unbelievable is, perhaps, a better adjective. Morrissey certainly isn’t as good as the score indicates, nor is Badin that bad. Zasada thought, “things just went right,” and Rodgers remarked, not too surprisingly, “when you make a mistake on one out of every two plays, as we were doing, what can you expect? They got the momentum and just kept on going.”
The defeat dropped Badin to the bottom of the senior-league heap and
made Morrissey king of the mountain. With only two games left, they’re the team to beat, if indeed they can be beaten. What can you do against a team which scores three touchdowns on defense and three more on offense, a team which has a kicker who missed a 43-yard field goal by a foot and who boots extra points 40 yards. It remains for Dillon or Howard-St. Ed’s to find the answer ... if one is to be found.
Interhall football has profited this year from a tremendous increase in participation. Nappy doesn’t really know to what he can attribute this resurgence. “Everybodys wants to do something this .year. Even the touchfootball league has had a great turnout.” The 520 interhall football participants this year represent a 38% increase over 1962. All but three halls have fielded teams. Lyons apparently prefers hitting the books to hitting the backs, and Pangbom and Fisher have suffered because all their exhigh-school stars are varsity players.
Morrissey and Alumni-Walsh are the only teams with unblemished records; Stanford, the leader in the freshman division, has two wins and a tie in three outings. Alumni (2-0) has a chance to equal Morrissey’s 3-0 record against Dillon Sunday afternoon. Sorin, which was beaten by Alumni-Walsh last week, has the only other victory in the senior loop. Winless, but trying, are Howard-St. Ed’s (0-1-2) Off-Campus (0-1-1), Dillon (0-0-2) and Badin (0-2-1).
On the other side of the campus, Stanford’s 2-0-1 is tops, with Farley (2-1), Keenan (1-0-2), Zahm (1-1-1) and BP (1-2) all within shooting distance. Cavanaugh is winless in three tries.	—Joe Ryan
22
The Scholastic
TYLER JR.’S
PICKS OF THE WEEK
/ PITTSBURGH AT SYRACUSE: Stung by , defeat, the Panthers will be aroused :	and angry; softened by pushovers,
<’ Syracuse will be unprepared. With Paul Martha and Rick Leeson running, Pitt will win in The Game of the Week.
TEXAS AT SMU: Number one Texas, ' the nation’s only unbeaten major team, was unconvincing in its win over Rice; and SMU’s defeat of Navy may spook the Longhorns. The Mustangs have the rail position for the Upset of the Week.
\/PURDUE AT ILLINOIS: Illinois is spicing up its offense week by week; Purdue may already be overseasoned. Spunky lllini Sophs will beat Purdue’s Seniors.
V DUKE AT GEORGIA
TECH: Duke
hasn’t seen the likes of quarterback Billy Lothridge, and his versatility makes the Yellow Jackets a distinct choice over the Blue Devils.
WISCONSIN AT MICHIGAN STATE: In this Big Ten problem, Wisconsin’s Lou Holland and State's Sherm Lewis will cancel each other, leaving the Badgers with the passing factor, and a victory over the Spartans.
XAIR FORCE-ARMY AT CHICAGO:
e Army fathered the infant Air Force, but the ungrateful son flew the roost. Now the prodigal Falcons have returned, and will claw the Cadets at Soldiers’ Field.
OTHER GAMES:
Stanford over Oregon State
■^\Ohio State over Iowa
Dartmouth over Yale
Auburn over Florida
USC over Washington
Nebraska over Missouri
Last week: 8-4, 67°la.
To date: 41-18-1, 69%.	.
-November 1, 1963
23



ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typing errors never show on Corrasable. The special surface of this paper makes it possible to erase without a trace—with just an ordinary pencil eraser. Results: cleanlooking, perfectly typed papers. Next time you sit down at the keyboard, make no mistake—type on Corrasable!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and
Onion Skin. In handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.	i
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper


EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS.
HOW
TO SUCCEED IN PRO BALL!
Jerry Lucas, one of the all-time great college basketball stars, is now a pro. In the December issue of SPORT magazine, you’ll find out what Lucas (and every’ college star) has to learn to “succeed” as a pro, as his former roommate John Havlicek gives him inside pointers on the NBA and its stars... Plus the SPORT spotlight is on college football, with exciting photo reports on George Mira, the nation’s No. 1 college quarterback...Coach John McKay of USC and Mel Renfro of Oregon. SPORT covers college sports in depth, and you get behind-the-scenes coverage on all pro sports. In December SPORT you’ll also want to read “I Say Liston is Good For Boxing,” an exclusive article by Rocky Marciano. SPORT magazine keeps you apace of all events on the sports scene...with authoritative coverage, sharp analysis, informative profiles and action-packed photos... Get
December__
SPORT
Favorite magazine of the sports stars and the sports minded! NOW ON SALE!
ONE CENT RECORD SALE
OPEN SUNDAY 12 NOON TO 6 P.M.
SALE FOR ONE WEEK ENDING NOV. TOTH
Any L.P. Album From Our Huge Stock On Sale For
IQ When You Buy One in Same Price Range at Regular Mfg. Suggested List Price
DIAMOND NEEDLES $9.98 VALUE SALE Qfl PRICE > JeOO
SINGLE 45 R.P.M. 69'
• Columbia Records • London Records
• Capitol Records • R.C.A. Records
• MGA4 Records • Decca Records
• Mercury Records • Dot Records
• Kapp Records	• A.B.C. Records
• Verve Records	• Kiddie Records
.	• Comedy Albums • Sound Track Albums
SINGLE 45 R.P.M. 69'
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOP—214 S. Michigan—CE 3-4585
WEEKDAY STORE HOURS: MON., THURS., FRI. —9:30 to 8:30: TUES., WED., SAT.—9:30 to 5:30
24
The Scholastic
j Senate • • •
Rumors that Senate coverage will continue to expand at the rate of one column per week are totally un, founded. Last Monday’s Senate meet' ing was somewhat exceptional, how, ever, in a number of ways, hence the ! three columns. The meeting was specifically called to consider the entire year’s budget, and added to its exceptional character by displaying some of the grossest ineptitude in . parliamentary common sense yet set at Notre Dame.
In the Senate’s defense, perhaps, are the facts that this was the first full Senate meeting dealing with an important motion, and that the entire year’s budget is no mean task to handle. A positive factor, too, is the fact that there was a rather deep examination of the budget, and its special status in a year of “austerity.” Nevertheless, certain violations of Senatorial responsibility are inexcusable, and at least two of these were evident last Monday.
The president’s report initiated the meeting proper, and set a somewhat prophetic admonition before the Senate — to avoid “parliamentary tangles and mickey mouse discussion.” Both were present in varying degree throughout the evening.
From the Campus Clubs Commissioner came news that final arrangements are being made to include St. Mary’s students in ND campus clubs. Mention was made, however, that while the young ladies receive uncounted “lates” for evening lectures, they will not, under present SMC policy, receive them for such proposals as the coed discussion classes following the Cinema 64 movies — the conclusion being that they will not be permitted to attend club meetings without consuming their meag-erly-allotted 10:30’s. This will hardly be conducive to mass participation.
The Voice referendum found 1997 students favoring continuation of that paper, with 12 opposed. At the same time, while generally rating the Voice higher (news coverage, degree of “goodness,” etc.), voting on the question “Which do you like best?” showed 1287 for the Scholastic, 693 for the Voice. Indications are that
November 1, 1963
both will be around for some time to come.
The Blue Circle report indicated that the Honor System trial next fall will include the entire campus, not just freshmen as previously planned. Arrangements were also announced for a Circle-Senate football game Sunday the 10th, in which it is hoped that the Senators will show more proficiency than they have at times shown in the parliamentary arena.
Budget requests for 1964 had been pared down greatly by the Finance Committee, and frequent cries of insufficient allottments were heard during full Senate consideration. The net result of Senate action, however, was but one small increase on a specific part of the budget, with an over-all cut of an additional $945 beyond committee recommendations. The Academic, Social and Campus Clubs Commissions had their budgets approved with little or no change. Generally speedy yet thoughtful approval was also given to the Blue Circle, Hall Chairman’s Council, NSA, NFCCS, YCS and Commerce Activities Council budgets. Small grants were made to the Class of ’66, the AB Advisory Board, and the Science Advisory Board for their needs, and the CJF was budgeted for an expected profit of $835. Student Government administrative expenses of $3400 were approved with perhaps too minimal consideration (example: depreciation — $700).
The Voice budget of $4960 was passed with only a brief dispute over the business manager’s salary. An expected argument over cost and alleged duplication of the Scholastic failed to materialize, perhaps in light of the broad base of student support for both publications.
During debate on the Student Affairs Commission budget, the Senate displayed its worst side, after a freshman Senator attempted to make a motion regarding the budget. These Senators receive voting privileges at the next meeting, and accepted procedure has been that nonvoting members may not make motions, although the Constitution only stipulates restriction of voting power. When the chairman correctly ruled in accord with past practice, his decision was rightly appealed, in an effort to clarify the Constitutional ambiguity. However, ensuing attempts to define the proper decision, counter-efforts to “clarify” the issue and misuse of parliamentary procedure in general resulted in a quantity and a quality of discussion that would charitably be described as asinine. One hour was wasted, during which some uninformed soul even suggested the absence of a
quorum, which if upheld would have eliminated the entire evening’s proceedings (on second thought, perhaps not so bad an idea, if handling of this issue indicates the run of future deliberations).
The final disposition of this budget also left much to be desired. Months of work were perhaps relegated to the scrap heap, as the Senate decided to eliminate any further appropriations for the half-finished Student Handbook, in hopes that the Administration will now pick up the tab. Coherent investigation just might have provided a more sensible settlement.
Quite a lengthy debate was engendered by the Joint Engineering Council budget, specifically with regard to that group’s Open House. The originally-budgeted amount of $250 was finally approved, but only following 45 minutes of unnecessary haggling. What marks the issue as particularly important is the fact that for the first time in remembered Senate history, a student vitally concerned with an issue (Pete Clark, Open House Chairman) was denied permission to speak. Besides being totally unprecedented, the action led to disputes that might easily have been cleared up by a reasonable presentation of the chairman’s views, in contrast to the necessarily secondhand presentation given by sympathetic Senators.
The lack of any conceivable reason to refuse Mr. Clark permission to speak certainly indicates that the gentlemen who supported this action (and it was put to a full Senate vote) are unaware of the meaning of Senatorial investigation and decision. The refusal to admit pertinent information properly, not to mention the infringement on Mr. Clark’s right to speak on the matter, can only point to a rather shocking lack of competence on the part of the Senate.
The over-all disposition of the budget appears to be the best that can be expected in one year. If the elements of student government do not exceed their budgets, the deficit for 1963-64 will stand at $5331, down $5000 from this year’s largely inherited debt. Successful projects and consequent profits should reduce this debt much further, and the handling of finances by this year’s administration would then be very commendable, indeed. Nevertheless, it is hard to commend unbelievably inept parliamentary tactics and lack of Senatorial responsibility. And so the Senate continues on its contradictory path — virtually nullifying the value of its constructive action by parliamentary irresponsibility.
—Al Dudash
25
The Hiuil-llour Syndrome
by Paul Edward Egan
In the 30th minute before the Final Hour, a dining-hall queen claiming to be Cinderella, is fired for wearing glass sneakers in Ziggy’s Emporium.
In the 29th minute before the Final Hour, all tap water is changed into Drewry’s draft beer with surprising results.
In the 28th minute before the Final Hour, fifty freshmen run amuck on the freshman quad.
In the 27th minute before the Final Hour, the Dean of Students issues a directive enjoining them to curtail their activities else suffer suspension of weekend lawn permissions.
In the 26th minute . .. etc., a group of rowdies from Sorin vanish with the statue of Father Sorin.
In the 25th . . . etc., the Dean of Students admonishes the student body of the seriousness of their offense and places all residents of Sorin Hall under house arrest until the culprits are produced.
In the 24th . . . etc., reacting to this imprecation on their collective integrity, all residents of Sorin stage a Gandhi-style passive resistance. Some grow beards in protest while others shave for the same reason.
In the 23rd . . . etc., a Navy ROTC student on his way to class sights a Russian trawler on St. Joseph’s Lake.
In the 22nd . . . etc., the Sailing Club, unable to organize a boarding party, issues a strong protest instead.
In the 21st . . . etc., Father Sorin’s
statue is mysteriously returned with a brilliant luster attributed to Blitzcloth.
In the 20th . . . etc., “House arrest of all Sorin Hall residents,” the Administration declares, “will be lifted when a suitable patina again cloaks the statue.”
In the 19th . . . etc., all residents of Sorin unanimously re-name their hall Gandhi and sing “We Shall Overcome.”
In the 18th . . . etc., Charles Reyp-mott, a 73-year-old post-grad in physics, creates pandemonium when he claims to have discovered the significance of the number of pancakes eaten by Little Black Sambo, and refuses to divulge his secret.
In the 16th . . . etc., the Office of Admissions in a suspicious mood investigates Reypmott, finds that he never properly matriculated, and promptly declares him “persona non grata.”
In the 15th . . . etc., the furor is
Sikorsky Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now for an appointment.
Tuesday, November 12
26
The Scholastic
resolved when a group of irate and self-righteous post-grads in physics make an example of Reypmott by tar-and-feathering him before delivering him up to the gaping South Bend Police Dept, on charges of improper matriculation.
In the 14th . . . etc., the Chicago Club shows Boccaccio 70 in the Engineering Auditorium during a ROTC mid-semester exam being conducted on the same premises.
In the 13th . . . etc., Gandhi Hall announces that it has suspended diplomatic relations with the University.
In the 12th . . . etc., a mammoth, hitherto dormant, cockroach stirs beneath the foundation of Gandhi and lumbers off with the structure on its back.
In the 11th . . . etc., a “Crusade to Save Gandhi” is initiated by a group of imaginative freshmen, but they are immediately sold into slavery by an industrious group of upperclassmen.
In the 10th . . . etc., the University advises the students of its policy concerning the sale of freshmen: “Caveat emptor.”
In the 9th minute before the Final Hour, the old library, extremely allergic to mammoth cockroaches, hies off in the direction of Dujarie Hall.
In the 8th . . . etc., the University refuses to act on a petition requesting the use of the new library as an outdoor movie screen and states that the area has been leased for advertising purposes to a tobacco company.
In the 7th . . . etc., a well-knit collection of tradition-minded individuals resent such a travesty and, instead, paste a huge-full-color portrait of one Alfred E. Neuman on the available space.
In the 6th . . . etc., this is quickly replaced by the advertisement: “Treat Yourself to the Very Best, Chew Mail Pouch Tobacco.”
In the 5th . . . etc., an oblivious philosophy student unconsciously falls into the reflection pond and sidestrokes the rest of his way across.
In the 4th . . . etc., an observant campus cop tickets him and reminds the lad that swimming in the reflection pond is permissible only on football Saturdays and on the last day of each month ending in “r.”
In the 3rd . . . etc., the Jolly Roger is seen flying from the mast of the ship on the Commerce Building.
In the 2nd . . . etc., the Administration Building authors a consumptive cough and its fire insurance is summarily cancelled.
In the last minute before the Final Hour, the flagpole on the main quad becomes a giant sparkler which illuminates the campus for sixty seconds.
November 1, 1963
McDonald studio
Complete Portrait Service
SENIORS
GRADUATE SCHOOL AND JOB PLACEMENT PICTURES FOR APPLICATIONS 12 for $7.50 Choose from six proofs • 116 W. Colfax Ave. CE 2-2003
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
Longines and Wittnauer Bulova — Elgin Hamilton
★
106 N. Main St.	CE 2-1756
•Till
huekmuoio
round-up
eomssT
RULES AND PRIZES TO BE AWARDED WILL BE ANNOUNCED SHORTLY
SAVE YOUR PACKS
MARLBORO* PARLIAMENT* ALPINE PHILIP MORRIS*PAXTON
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAIHS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant
112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA
★ — 42 Rooms —
Phone: JAckson 3-4780
27
Freshman Year
On Tuesday evening, November 5, the Electrical Engineering Department will be host to all Engineering Intent freshmen for the purpose of describing the Electrical Engineering Program. Dr. Basil R. Myers, his staff and outstanding undergraduates in the Electrical Engineering Program will be present.
This meeting will begin promptly
at 7:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Following Dr. Myers’ talk, the students will be shown the Electrical Engineering Department of the College of Engineering and all of their laboratory and research facilities.
I just returned from a Deans’ Convention in Easthampton, Massachusetts, where representatives from over one hundred colleges from all
sections of the country were in attendance. At one of our sessions, it was the unanimous opinion of the deans that freshmen shy away from personal meetings with their professors. It seems almost as if they carry over into college the high-school cliche that to be seen talking to your professors is apple polishing. Nothing could be further from the truth.
I strongly recommend that each of you take a definite step toward getting to know your professors on a
Hamilton United
__	DIVISION OF
Standard Aircraft
Aerodynamics Combustion
Compressible Flow Control Dynamics Digital Computation Analog Computation EDP Systems/Procedures Electronics Electron Optics Fluid Dynamics Heat Transfer
Hydraulics Instrumentation
Internal Aerodynamics Kinematics
Magnetic Circuitry Mechanical Metallurgy Mechanics Metallurgy
Physical Chemistry
Physics
Quality Control Reliability
Servomechanisms Statistical Analysis Structures
Systems Analysis Thermodynamics Thermoelectricity Tool Engineering
Transistor Circuitry Vehicular Dynamics Vibration
On Campus for Interviews
Wednesday, November 13
OPENINGS FOR BS, MS ENGINEERS and SCIENTISTS
•	Mechanical
•	Aeronautical
•	Engineering Physics
•	Applied Mechanics
•	Industrial Engineering
•	Electrical
•	Metallurgical
•	Engineering Mechanics
•	Physics
AREAS OF APPLICATION
Space and Life Support Systems Engine and Afterburner Controls Air Induction Control Systems Advanced Lightweight Propellers Electron Beam Industrial Machines Ground Support Equipment Electronic Control Systems Overhaul and Repair Programs Bio Science Studies Industrial Valves
For interview see your placement officer, or write: SUPERVISOR COLLEGE RELATIONS / PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT Hamilton	United
__	DIVISION OF
Standard	Aircraft
WINDSOR LOCKS, CONNECTICUT An Equal Opportunity Employer
28
The Scholastic
personal basis. This is very easily arranged by asking your professor for an appointment in his office. Never discuss grades or academic problems with a teacher either before or after class. This can best be done in the relaxed atmosphere of his own office when both he and you have sufficient time to go into the problem in some depth. Without any shadow of doubt you will profit by these interviews.
The Freshman Brochure mentioned
last week is a publication of the Freshman Year of Studies Office listing every available major program in all of our four undergraduate colleges. A detailed course listing that mentions specific required courses and elective areas is outlined for each semester. It proved to be an excellent help to last year’s freshman group. As a matter of fact, the various department chairmen right now are preparing their programs for us for fall
publication. The distribution date we hope to meet is December 2nd.
May I strongly recommend that any freshman who is experiencing difficulty, come in to the Freshman Office and make an appointment with one of the seven faculty members who make up its staff.
William M. Burke, Dean Freshman Year of Studies
This is no weak-sister deodorant!
... it’s new
MAN-POWER
New Man-Power Deodorant has what it takes to do a MAN’s job. Gives you the stepped-up penetration power, the staying power a man needs. Covers in seconds...controls perspiration... stops odor. And it’s absolutely non-sticky. Try it...the new deodorant that does a MAN’S job. New Man-Power. 1.00 plus tax.
EXTRA BONUS — the clean masculine aroma of Old Spice I s h u l t o n
BLOCK BROS.
Jewelers
Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Faculty and Students for over 40 Years.
Featuring Fine Diamonds — Watches — Jewelry and Giftware.
CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED “fast service”
DR. M. MITTERMAYER
Optometrist
228 S. MICHIGAN
PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE features all types of musical instruments
GUITARS —$15.95 and up
also TENOR GUITARS, UKULELES BANJOS, MELODICAS
423 So. Michigan Street AT 9-4430
November 1, 1963
29
‘Apostolate’
(Continued from page 11) does it call for the learning we have acquired. Right now the real needs, perhaps, are these:
1.	The average Christian needs to broaden and deepen his experience: apostolic action should involve meeting and working with people many of whom he would never otherwise have known. That means both getting to know students with whom we have little in common on the surface and making and deepening off-campus acquaintanceships so that some at
least develop into friendship. It also means acquaintance with the varied institutions of our society, especially those chiefly for persons unlike ourselves. We should encounter not only the civic society and the political club but the hospital, the flophouse, the discussion group and even — most inaccessible of all — the local Protestant and Jewish congregations.
2.	Apostolic groups should normally include persons of different educational, economic and cultural levels, of every adult age and of both sexes. At least some of the specific work undertaken should also lead to meeting and forming friendships with
persons who but for the apostolic ideal we would never have met. Thus variety of personality within the group and extension of personal milieu for each individual therein, which necessitates a great variety among the apostolic works undertaken, will lead to the greatest possible ordered complexity, comprehensiveness, and enrichment. Specialization should work within this framework rather than against it: we may specialize our work or our membership but should never do both. A college student group should have some activities on campus and some in the surrounding area. A parish group
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer’s crisp, long-lasting aroma just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because of this effect.
How intelligent!
30
The Scholastic
should not refuse work that goes beyond the parish boundaries, and one or another of its activities should eventually reach every member of the parish, including children, non-Cath-olics, nuns and priests. The point of all this is that our society purifies our environment for us too much, reducing thereby both our development as persons and our Christian effectiveness. Homogenization is fine for milk but of no value for minds.
3.	Personal contact, the meeting at the level of friendship, is the sole essential apostolic activity. Often such work means a real death, the willing
acceptance of suffering, contradiction, humiliation and interference; but by that very fact it is fruitful for us, a discipline, a spur to prayer and reflection, an opportunity for growth and a source of grace. It demands and develops the kind of resourcefulness, humility, honesty and courage which the Scriptures show us in Mary and in St. Paul, and the divine Source of which they reveal. One might call this emphasis on personal contact “the granular approach to the apostolate,” as it seeks to act on society by concentrating on families and individuals. It avoids pressure, even indirect, and
relies on service, persuasion, and the gradual growth of the life of Christ in those worked for and in those doing the work. It is respectful of the person’s liberty: I may initiate the visit or the conversation but it is you who must, and only if you prefer to, invite me in or respond to my conversation. It may involve martyrdom, monotony, or miracle-working, but it necessarily means doing work. It is for us, as entrepreneurs, not only to undertake work of our own but to seek recruits for the work we cannot do; but that is matter for another discussion.
only your hair knows it’s there!
It’s invisible, man! You can’t see it. She can't feel it. Only your hair knows it’s there! It’s CODE 10 for men, the new invisible hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. Non-greasy CODE 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, infuriates inferior men I Be in. Let new CODE 10 groom your hair all day, invisibly.
November 1, 1963	31
h.i.s. ups your sartorial standing with this casual, patchpocket camel blazer. Smarter than a Phi Bete... great for extra curricular projects... $25. Complete your equation with wash ’n wear black flannel Piper Slacks; no belt, no cuffs, no inhibitions... $6.95. At stores flying the h.i.s label.
eyes on broad horizons? wear the 11 ■ I aS blazer
BL-JUST arrived
DELIVERY
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT TOO!
FASTEST &HOTTEST DELIVERY IN TOWN

Delivered on demand — PIZZA, HOAGGIES, \ PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
FRANKIE'S
1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue CE 3-1115
“Glance”
(Continued from page 11)
But now the era has ended. Adenauer has stepped down. The C.D.U. can no longer rely on a strong-willed old man to hold it together. Its leaders must unite in a democratic fashion under Chancellor Ludwig Erhard. If they do not, either the Social Democrats or Willy Brandt will take over or even worse may happen. Without Adenauer, Germany is rather unstable politically, for he has been in politics in Germany since the war. At the end of an era, West Germany must continue the old chancellor’s progress through the start of a new one.
BIRTH RATE DISCUSSED
The library auditorium was the scene of a lecture given at 4:30 Tuesday by Dr. Philip Hauser, chairman of the sociology department at the University of Chicago. Entitled “Population Perspectives,” the lecture was sponsored jointly by the biology and sociology departments of Notre Dame. Dr. Hauser is an authority in the field of demography and has served as director of the U.S. Bureau of Statistics in 1949 and 1950.
In order to point up the recent tremendous growth in population, Dr. Hauser cited four numbers: the world population 10,000 years ago was 10 million; at the dawn of Christianity the population was about 250 million; by 1650 the population was around 500 million; as of July 1, 1962, the world population was set at 3.1 billion people. At the present time the rate of growth is 2% per year, compared with a rate of 2% per mil-lenium 10,000 years ago.
With respect to the future, at the present rate 50 billion people will be produced within a period of 150 years. Man could maintain himself under these conditions if two very tenuous assumptions were met: man could control the solar system so as to make the cost of electric power negligible; man could exist quite sufficiently on a diet of manufactured yeast and ocean algae. But there is one problem which no amount of technological research could ever solve: the simple problem of exhausted space. At a growth rate of 2%, the population 650 years from now would allow one square foot of space for every person. Science, asserted Dr. Hauser, can never solve the problem of exhausted space.
To add to the problem, underdeveloped areas (Asiatic countries in particular) are reproducing at the
32
The Scholastic
। rate of almost 3% per year, with the ] population doubling every twenty j years. What has accounted for this amazing population growth? Within . the last century the world has experienced tremendous strides in death control, brought about by technological and cultural advancement, growth of environmental sanitation, and improvement of personal hygiene. At present, the life expectancy of an :	American male is seventy years, while
•	that of the “indestructible” American
J	female is seventy-six years.
:	What is the principal implication
; of this boom in population? Some way , must be found — and it can be done ,	— to find a spectrum of methods- of
• birth regulation broad enough to sat, isfy every group, including the Roman i Catholic Church. Oddly enough, stated ! Dr. Hauser, science is still in the dark concerning many factors which cause .	a human life. Dr. Hauser pointed up
-	the irony in the fact that a Catholic
President has been the first one to instigate scientific research to get a better insight into the phenomenon of ■ human conception, so as to eliminate problems posed by the fantastic population growth rate.
HESBURGH RECEIVES DEGREE
Father Hesburgh received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree last Saturday from Lafayette College, a Presbyterian-related school in Easton, Pa. The convocation was part of ceremonies opening the new Lafayette College Library. In conferring the degree, Lafayette President Bergethon praised Father Hesburgh’s “vigorous endeavors for the dignity and decency of all the people.”
Sharing the platform with Notre Dame’s President was Governor William Scranton of Pennsylvania. The Governor, a prominent figure in the upcoming Republican National Convention, was principal speaker at the convocation.
LIBRARY POLICY STATED
To clear up misunderstandings arising from a vague policy regarding student access to the library tower Mr. Victor Schaefer, director of the library, explained the policy to the Scholastic.
Due to the specialized nature of materials in the tower, undergraduate students are asked to use either of the first two floors for study and leave the upper floors free for the studies of graduate students. Undergraduate students will, however, be able to use the tower facilities in special circumstances: a teacher may write a note saying the student has exhausted College Library facilities or a librarian may give a student permission to get books from the stacks.
November 1, 1963
1. Now that I’m a senior I have to start thinking about my future. Will you marry me?
Will you be able to give me J	o
all the things I crave—like pizza pie and chow mein?
2. I’ve lined up a terrific job. There’s a choice of training programs, good starting salary, challenging work, and the chance to move up. That’s Equitable.
I agree—but what’s the company’s name?
3. Equitable—it’s Equitable.
It certainly is. It’s also fair, square, and just. But I would still like to know tlie name of the company.
4. We’re not communicating. I keep telling you it’s Equitable—and you keep asking what’s the name.
I keep agreeing your job sounds good. But you stubbornly refuse to tell me who vou’re going to work for.
6. I’d hate to lose you, but at least I’ll still have my job with Equitable—The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States.
Oh, The Equitable. Why didn’t you say so? We’ll have a June wedding.
5. Can it be you never listen to my words? Is it possible that what I thought was a real relationship was but a romantic fantasy?
Is it conceivable that what
I took to be a solid foundation was just a house of cards? That what I thought was a bright flame was merely an emotional flicker?
For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N. Y. ©1963
Tom Hoobler. • •
The Last Word
Tn 1930-31, famed Catholic Author A G. K. Chesterton was a visiting professor at Notre Dame. In the fall of 1930, the football stadium was dedicated with the game against Navy. The night before the game, Chesterton appeared (and was cheered) at the pep rally. If he spoke, no one recorded what he said. Later, he wrote a poem about his experiences at Notre Dame, which we are reprinting below. Notre Dame beat Navy that year 26-2.
The Arena
Causa Nostrae Laetitiae
There uprose a golden giant On the gilded house of Nero Even his far-flung flaming shadow and his image swollen large
Looking down on the dry whirlpool Of the round Arena spinning
As a chariot-wheel goes spinning; and the chariots at the charge.
And the molten monstrous visage Saw the pageants, saw the torments,
Down the golden dust undazzled saw the gladiators go,
Heard the cry in the closed desert Te salutant morituri,
As the slaves of doom went stumbling, shuddering, to the shades below.
“Lord of Life, of lyres and laughter, Those about to die salute thee, At the godlike fancy feeding men with bread and beasts with men;
But for us the Fates point deathward In a thousand thumbs thrust down-
ward,
And the Dog of Hell is roaring through the lions in their den.”
I have seen, where a strange country Opened its secret plains about me, One great golden dome stands lonely with its golden image, one
Seen afar, in strange fulfillment, Through the sunlit Indian summer That Apocalyptic portent that has
clothed her with the Sun.
She too looks on the Arena,
Sees the gladiators in grapple,
She whose names are Seven Sorrows and the Cause of All Our Joy,
Sees the pit that stank with slaughter Scoured to make the courts of morning
For the cheers of jesting kindred and the scampering of a boy.
“Queen of Death and deadly weeping Those about to live salute thee, Youth untroubled; youth untortured;
hateless war and harmless mirth, And the New Lord’s larger largesse Holier bread and happier circus, Since the Queen of Sevenfold Sorrow
has brought joy upon the earth.”
Burns above the broad arena
Where the whirling centuries circle, Burns the Sun-clothed on the summit, golden-sheeted, golden-shod,
Like a sun-burst on the mountains, Like the flames upon the forest Of the sunbeams of the sword-blades of the Gladiators of God.
And I saw them shock the whirlwind Of the world of dust and dazzle:
And thrice they stamped, a thunderclap; and thrice the sand-wheel swirled;
And thrice they cried like thunder On Our Lady of the Victories, The Mother of the Master of the
Masterers of the World.
“Queen of Death and Life undying Those about to live salute thee;
Not the crawlers with the cattle;
looking deathward with the swine, But the shout upon the mountains Of the men that live for ever, Who are free of all things living
but a Child; and He was thine.”
We received the following letter and poem and drawing from some of the senior art students:
Dear Hoobs:
We in the Art Dept, were very impressed by your little editorial in last week’s Scholastic on the Art Fair of the previous week.
We hope, however, that in the future, you will check the integrity of your “reliable sources” more closely.
Although the show had been planned in haste, most of the works were done before the show had been conceived.
We invite you to present your credentials as an art critic, since to all appearances, you are incompetent in that field.
Criticism is a necessary part of any artistic endeavor, however, knowledge should be a pre-requisite to judgment.
Regards,
Senior Art Students
P.S. The enclosed poem expresses our considered opinion.
onHicievr AW
Tuft*
op vMrstP uofr#
Axr&i’?...
We thank the senior art students for this example of their artistic competence.
We apologize to anyone who was wronged by our comments last week concerning the art. show, particularly to Sister Mary Leo. We are convinced that she had the best and noblest intentions in organizing the show.
The weekend of the Wisconsin game, a visitor to the campus left a valuable pair of binoculars in a first floor classroom of the College of Business Administration. He is offering a substantial reward for their return. Persons finding the binoculars should contact the Office of the Dean of Business Administration.
34
The Scholastic
i
Result: All 3-speed manual transmissions in
Ford-built cars with V-8’s now are fully synchronized in each forward gear
To get more “go" in low, Ford engineers were asked to upgrade the conventional 3-speed transmission to give drivers more control in all three forward gears— to make “low” a driving gear—and they tackled the problem imaginatively.
Their achievement, another Ford First, is the only U.S. 3-speed manual transmission with all three forward gears fully synchronized! No need now to come to a complete stop when you shift into low—and no clashing gears! It lets you keep more torque on tap for negotiating sharp turns and steep grades. It makes driving more flexible, more pleasurable.
Another assignment completed and another example of how engineering leadership at Ford provides fresh ideas for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
Shown: 1964 ford Galaxie 500/XL two-door hardtop
NDS-E
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which GT&E has built	;
its strength. Today, GT&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that	;
supply a substantial share of America’s e ver- gro wing communications needs. By conducting	\
our o wn research, manufacturing our o wn communications products and operating our o wn	'
telephone system, GT&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation. ;
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS !
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017	J
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states • General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories ■ General Telephone	.
& Electronics International - Genera! Telephone Directory Co. ■ Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric ■ Sylvania Electric Products	i