Vol. XXIV. * NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, July 4, 1891.	No. 42.
Theseus and Ariadne *
BY J. ELMO BERRY.
I.
And now the time had come when Theseus Was fain to raise the rock where lay concealed The mighty sword which wrought his father’s power. ’Twas from the gods it came, from Vulcan’s forge, And with its flash the air was filled with fire, That shot in tongues from off its tempered point; And ’neath the stone were hid the sandals old Of /Egeus his sire. Then on his feet He placed the musty sandals of his lord, And by his side he hung the magic sword; And, bidding fond farewell, he strode into The world to seek his father’s court, and try His mighty strength; for strong he was, alike To Heracles, with ribs of steel where 'twas A muscle’s place, and o’er his broadened chest In stony lumps they spread, like rocks beneath The silken skin. His mien was beauty’s choice; His heart was filled with pride, and bold his step; His form was like a pine, with noble look Of confidence upon his youthful face.
On every side fair nature’s wealth from hill And vale smiled on the boy with freshest love.
11.
At last to Athens came the youth, more strong From many fights, more pure with native worth; And there the king, great JEgeus, he found— His father—old and white. At Athens long He dwelt, the joy of /Egeus, the pride Of Grecian love; he won their hearts by truth. At last came ’round the time when unto Crete And Cretan King, the tribute lives were due, Which was of seven fairest maids and youths, To feed the Minotaur, the bull and man.
in.	.
The day had come and to the doomed young The populace in sorrow bade farewell;	_
The sails of black beat sadly on the mast, And through the cordage moaned the weeping winds',
* Class Poem, ’91, read on Tuesday, June 23.
As if the heavens knew all that filled their hearts And choked their swelling sobs. Of those to die Fair Theseus was one; and with no change Of face he knelt and rose before his sire, And smiled to all farewell! alas, perhaps, To meet on earth no more.
..	iv.
The ship ploughs on; its human food is bathed In tears. Before the burning Eastern sun, The Isle of Crete, as like a monster of The deep, rose up from out the wakening sea To greet the mom. Before the king they went, And from his cruel lips they learned their doom— “ To feed the Minotaur.” The first to die
Was Theseus. Beside the ivory throne Of Minos stood the fair and guileless maid, His daughter Ariadne, loved by him, The monster-hearted wretch. Her hair was like The robe of night; her eyes like stars amid! Its folds, and in her heart was truth and love, With faith and purity, and on her face Brave Theseus had cast his eyes, and love Had filled his heart; and she to him gave back The love that made him like a god.
v.
The night was fair with Luna’s gift, and in His cell brave Theseus, with naught of fear Within his heart, strode on; and then the cage Was filled with light more bright than smile of sun, For Ariadne stood before the youth
Who loved her more than life. To him she spoke With heart so full that on the quiet air He heard its quickened beat; and following fast He came with her into the court, and there, As ’twere a mass of ivy-ladened rock, He saw the labyrinth of Crete where lived The monster Minotaur, half bull, half man. And Theseus but whispered one farewell, And clasping in his hand the fragile cord, Along whose silken length two loves were joined, Two hearts were beating fast, and plunging in The dizzy ways of yonder labyrinth He soon was lost to Ariadne’s eyes.
Anon, the maddened bellows came to guide Him where the monster lay. At last upon The giant wretch he came, and drawing near, The brute roared out in hungry calls, and leaped
662
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
To catch the youth who plunged his sword into The monster’s side. And now ’twas life and death; The bull was roaring loud, and Theseus Was gaining fast and faster as he fought.
At last into the throat of Minotaur, He plunged his sword, and down the monster fell— A mass of lifeless flesh. Then back along The cord to Ariadne’s side; her hand He clasped in vice of steel, and, setting free His Grecian maids and youths, he leaped Above the waiting vessel’s side, and flying o’er The waves, he left the threatening shades of Crete Ere Luna made, her course. '
VI.
But ere he reached the Grecian shore, the fair And noble Theseus grew tired of love For Ariadne’s self; the fire which burned His heart in Crete was but a passing flame Which now had burnt itself away. Alas!
The helpless maid who braved her cruel sire For Theseus was left alone. Upon The Isle of Naxos, far from love and king, He placed the princess fair, and sailed away To Athens as its King. For years he ruled Beloved by all; but soon he lost his strength. No more like Heracles was he, and, too, Fair fortune ceased to smile upon his crown; He lost the love of Greece and sailed away To Syros, where he died, dethroned and slain. •
’	VII.
And now, my comrades dear, one word for you,— For you, before the clock has struck the hour To bid farewell. In this my myth there is A world.of wealth; the truest gold I give To you before we part—perhaps no more to meet. In Theseus are we—the young, the bold, The confident and strong; and as he strove To raise the rock, so we have worked to lift The stone of boyhood cloudiness. Beneath The rock he found a sword and sandals old, This sword to us is Knowledge keen and true; We gird ourselves with sword, and sandals on Our feet, we now do bid farewell, and walk Into the world to try our strength arid seek The Athens of our hope.
We have in Ariadne fair The symbol clear of truth, of virtue and Of faith. Personified in her we see The mottoes of dur victories, and we Should love her as brave Theseus, for while He loved, he vanquished sin and flesh and world; But when upon the barren rock of slight We cast our virtue and our faith, we fall As Theseus, beneath the hand of Hell.
’ Be true to all those throbbing hopes which urged Us in our fight. Be true unto those golden words That bind the heart in chains; and if unto Ourselves we’re true, we must be true to God.
It has been well said that the so-called “thoroughly practical” man who sneers at the college-bred citizen, is invariably one who never had a college training himself; whose proudest boast is that he is a self-made man, and who is a cordial worshipper of his maker.
■ . .College Men as Citizens.*
BY GEO. E. CLARKE, ’82.
Right Rev. and Very Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen:
This is an annual event; redolent of flowery perfume; rich it is in laurels of scholarship. This is a reunion of youth and age, of the episcopacy, the clergy and the laity, at an institution where man’s better nature is developed under the influence of higher education. To the young collegian this occasion brings pleasure; him of maturer life it thrills with memories that have again and again arisen before him. If, when as students here, we had trials or difficulties, we return to-night to testify that they have not left such lasting scars as those of later years. If, since graduation, our sunniest, happiest hours have early merged into a starless night, in.the gloom we thought of this home where all was tenderness, and where kindness and truth blended in sweet communion. Who could forget yonder temple with its chapels, its altars and its shrines? Who can forget these halls with their paintings and statuary? Who can forget Notre Dame with its music and its harmonies, its warm sunshine and its warmer hearts? We are not unmoved amid these familiar scenes. The study-halls, the lecture rooms, the lakes and the campus bring back thoughts that advancing days have tinged with the romantic. The hymns chimed by yonder bells we hear again, and we remember when first we heard the response of surpliced singers at the august Sacrifice of the Mass. Again we breathe the sentiment and air of the place. About us are the cherished memories that tended to lift us to exalted contemplation. Here truth is expressed in art. Here the finite does service to the infinite. And here, too, are taught the inestimable principles of human liberty. To-day we gazed with pride on the cadet companies that marched and countermarched in mimicry of war. We admired their manly forms as in martial step they passed through the picturesque order of the drill. But know you that this sight reminded some of the older alumni here to-night of the great passion play. They recalled a certain morning in their lives when on this spot a band of their classmates dropped their, text-books at a nation’s call. Memory again invested them with the sight. Again they saw their companions form in line
* Alumni Oration,' delivered at the Forty-Seventh Annual Commencement, Tuesday, June 23.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
with eyes to the front and shoulders squared, addressed by priestly lips. They hear the command, and see those gallant youths giving the college cheer, wheel out of the shadow of yonder Virgin statue, and on to battle, or to blood-deluged fields, on to death and to glory,—students of Notre Dame, willing sacrifices on their country’s altar. Happy institution! fortunate country, whose young defenders are so early taught to render unto God the things that are God’s, and unto Csesar the things that are Cassar's!
However, many contend that schools like this should be enjoyed only by the select few; that classical institutions can be enjoyed only by the affluent or by those whose aim is to be professional men. That to read a chapter of Thucydides or an. ode of Horace, one’s calling must be in the regions of speculation. No idea could be more un-American. The responsibility of American citizenship is sufficient reason for a superior education. To live under a government the very best ever put on trial, and to labor to make that government a success is incentive enough for the best development of the mind. Properly to appreciate our trust, to maintain it inviolate, and to transmit this heritage intact for those to come, needs most intelligent care. As years of study and hours of prayer and meditation are necessary for sacerdotal training, so are years of preparation at college advantageous for the tremendous responsibilities of American citizenship. Let literature become effeminate, let science be neglected, let art deteriorate, let philosophy be eliminated, and let history, the best guide of all, be omitted, and this free government retrogrades. Higher education gives a stamp to character and dispels prejudice. It is tolerant of«the opinions of others.
It gives breadth to the man. It makes him invulnerable to infantine acquiescence or credulity. Its resources are many. Its powers are overwhelming. Its enthusiasm is indomitable. Its altitude is above foreign contagion. Its possession will give distinct thought, language, literature, and thus make permanently triumphant every hope and aspiration of the American. De Tocqueville says, on the examination of the Constitution of the United States which is the most perfect federal constitution that ever existed: “One is startled at the variety of‘ information and amount of discernment which it presupposes.” Why not then equip ourselves thoroughly by the advantages of a collegiate education? The professional men are not the only voters in a republic. All the people vote and select their officers from among themselves. Then the people, all the people, should, have
the best training for the proper discharge of so important a responsibility.
A despotism is the simplest of all forms of government, a monarchy less simple, but a Republic is the most complex. The powers of the municipalities, of the counties, of the states and the nation, and their great machinery of relationship have given birth to questions some of which were settled at the dearest sacrifice, and some of which still puzzle the clearest of intellects. To preserve the equilibrium—not to speak of the affinity of the millions of inhabitants— their issues, their interests and their passions, and to counteract the countless forces, needs guides than whose wisdom there is no better. The choicest that philosophy, history and religion can do must blend to commensurately equip such citizens for the proper and comprehensive conception of their commission. In the early days, of the nation higher education, was considered one of the greatest in' erests of the state. Harvard’s officials for the first seventy years were paid by the general court. Yale, too, received a like nourishment. William and Mary, and the College of Charleston in South Carolina, and other higher educational institutions were made prosperous under state aid, and in turn contributed the early statesmen of our history. No more dominant, masterly or accomplished American ever lived than Jefferson. A classical scholar himself and an-official of vhe University of Virginia, he was the author of a complete system of collegiate education! His last public labor is a proof of his zeal in that direction, and a recommendation of the advantages of collegiate training. After first trying his talents at newspaper work Hamilton entered college and there received the inspiration that gave the world the greatest champion of federal government. Because of his education he laid down principles on which succeeding statesmen cannot improve. His re-establishment of the public credit and the fiscal system he created control our treasury department to-day. His commentaries on the ends and aims of the federal constitution and its true interpretation are to that instrument what Blackstone is to the common law. The wisdom of his doctrines as to the necessity of establishing a national government so powerful and influential as to subordinate state governments is best illustrated and emphasized by the fact of our national existence to-day, a free, a united, a progressive people, able to transmit to our successors the inheritance of one flag waving over one common country. Webster says that classical learning inspires natural talent, assists a good understanding,
664
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
adds polished armor to native strength, and renders its possessor, not only more capable of deriving private happiness from contemplation and reflection, but more accomplished for action in the affairs of life, especially for public action. Let the college-bred man then concern himself in public action; not shrinkingly, but actively participating in it. Not obscuring himself, not keeping away from the polls, but aggressively, if he will, let him do his duty as a citizen whether the question affects him either in a local or national sense.
The questions that agitate the public mind to-day, and that greet the young man as he crosses the threshold are not to be satisfactorily adjusted by the specialist, rather by him whose training- in a school like this has embraced the consideration of problems, educational, industrial, social, religious or political. Our condition has naturally changed with the change of a population of a few millions into the society of a great populace and wealthy Republic. Pessimists claim that we have lost our ancient virtue; ' that the march of civilization has destroyed the simpler virtues of a less complex society; that private liberty, personal responsibility and non-paternal government are no more; that symptoms of disease, of decay, of dissolution have manifested themselves. Be this as it may, we cannot deny that there are problems to-day , that are busying economists and exciting the solicitude of philosophers.
Different times are entrusted with different problems for solution. As to our political future, how are we going to raise the standard of political and commercial integrity? how are we to check the tendency to the absolutism of state, to the concentration of wealth, to the intense unrest of the masses, the proper education of youth, the settlement of questions by arbitration rather than physical force; the restriction of corporative power, syndicates and trusts, capital and labor? How are we to silence the demagogue and cheap fame; how correct failures in the administration of the law? how are we to get jurors impervious to bribery and sensitive to the duty of punishing crime by speedy and legal methods? Is every comer to our land to be clothed in the panoply of American citizenship? Is the body politic able to digest this indiscriminate immigration? These are some of the questions for consideration that menace our institutions today. They involve points that not common judgment but the highest ground of thought . can discuss and regulate. Higher education familiarizes the citizen with the records and results of the past, with the experiments of
every phase and nature; therefore, the higher the voter is educated the better is he able to calculate as to measures for his own country. But you ask why these alarming national questions, when every town, hamlet and cross road has its alleged college ? One of the reasons is that these feeble institutions, with their low standard of admission, have lowered our appreciation for them; and the other reason is that for some cause or other college men seem to eschew politics.
If good citizens to-day look with anxiety at the assaults on free institutions, if they have grave apprehensions of their permanency, we have two classes who are the cause. One is the base and mercenary whose vote is purchasable, and the other is the conceited college-bred who thinks it too vulgar to vote. I know of no study in a college course that chills the feeling of humanity which is the essence of our government. But it is a fact that many college graduates view themselves as a kind of priestly order above the common herd. They leave the voting power to others. Omission is as much of a sin as commission. Nonfeasance or nonperformance or the neglect to do what one is bound to do is punishable in many instances, and it should be doubly so in him who enjoys the opportunities but fails to exercise the right of suffrage. If a person knows that treason is being plotted against his country he should make it known; and if he'does nothing to inform the government he may be found guilty of misprision.
Of a like crime is he guilty who does not vote.
It is he who is the cause of the reign of the caucus king. He is the applauder of the ranting histrionist and malodorous hero. It is he who permits popular government to deteriorate into utter failure or miserable wreck. Such a character is a pitiless miscreant; he holds his manhood cheap. In time of war he would have a substitute, and in time of peace envy Iscariot who sold Christ. We have national evils because of our nonparticipation in the formation of a wiser policy. Politics are corrupt because of our neglect. The highest of human ambitions is in the domain of politics. Paint the politician as black as sin, decorate him with cap and bells, or with hoofs and cloven feet, still the business of the genuine politician is the most exalted of earthly affairs. Of all worldly callings the con- . cerns of the politician are the most important.
Is not love of country next to love of God? Politics mean not the interest of the individual, but the people; not a particular ward, but the nation; not the fame of cackling aidermen, but i the fate of your contemporaries and the coming 1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
665
generations. Him that much is given to, of him much is expected. The scholar must enter the arena of politics and contend with a vigorous, impassioned and glowing spirit. With enthusiasm and audacity he must take hold of the questions of the hour, overthrow the demagogue, and leave to those to come a larger liberty and a higher civilization. The place of the scholar is at the polls just as much as at the shop, the bench, or the office. With the ballot we can overthrow the putrid Gehenna and guide the ship of state clear of the Scylla of anarchy and the Charybdis of centralism. The possibilities of citizenship we know because we have taken our tasks and drawn instruction in a sphere like this. To have been taught by men who practise self-sacrifice rather than self-indulgence, humanity rather than vanity, equality rather than privilege, we have had before us the ideal citizenship.
V aledictory. *
BY C. T. CAVANAGH.
Friendly partings are far from pleasant, and final farewells are hard to say. Nature has prescribed that friendship should dread and shrink from separation; but when the leave-taking is surrounded by such circumstances as those of-the present hour, the adieu is most reluctantly, most regretfully spoken. But a short time now remains before the Class of ’91 will have taken its place in the ranks of the Alumni of Notre Dame; but a few minutes more and the student life of that class will be a thing of the past; they will be scattered far and wide throughout the land. For years they have worked and waited for this day; it was the power that inspired all their efforts, and it was the goal towards which their ambitions trended. Individually and collectively they have toiled for the prize of graduation, and the progress of time has seen but an increase of that effort. Now that the time has come and the momentous day is here, we pause pained and bewildered. The prize we sought is won at a cost we ne.ver counted, and the pride of success is mingled with the regret and poignant sorrow of a farewell!
As we stand upon the threshold of our college home, about to leave the familiar walls and venture out on a new, far different career, more and more deeply do we feel conscious of our
* Delivered at the Forty-Seventh Annual Commencement, Tuesday, June 23.
loss. We look back through the grounds we are soon to leave behind us, and the scene deepens our regret and tempts us to postpone our departure. Memory awakes, and in delightful retrospect our college career lies unfolded before us. From the time of our first arrival until the present when we are about to pass out of that door for the last time, memory shows but an epoch of careless ease, clouded here and there by the shade of a petty trial. The old familiar spots, the campus, the lecture hall, the class-room, everything, in fact, makes us long to delay the departure and linger still amid the well-loved scenes.
When we take farewell of our Alma Mater we are saying farewell to childhood and youth. Graduation marks the time when youth, after years of preparation, assumes the cares of maturity, and it announces the advent of newcomers into actual life. Hoary old Time in his passage from year to year has seen many such events, and their number has in a measure dimmed their significance in the eyes of the world; but to the actual participants—to the graduates of to-day —the full meaning is as manifest as it was to the graduates of years ago. They realize that their youthful days will soon be past, and that life is before them—life with all the allurements of pleasant uncertainty, with all the dread of possible grief. Within the confines of the college home the future has been scorned and the past ignored; but now, when the vast vistas of the coming years stretch out before our eyes, the situation is realized, its solemn importance is felt. The contemplation of life is always attractive, always fascinating; but it has a multiple charm for those who for the first time realize its full import and significance. A lottery it has been called, and a lottery in a degree it is; but a lottery that is decided by industry, and whose prizes are awarded only to merit. Time alone can tell what will be the ending of those lives which will begin actual existence to-day. They may be unfortunate and gloomy, or they may be successful and culminate in the realization of all earthly ambition; but we can rest assured that if the precepts of Alma Mater are carefully cherished the eternal reckoning will be in their favor. Mental training and moral culture could have but this one effect, and after-life will be what college days have made it. .
Notre Dame has indeed been an Alma Mater— a fostering mother. Her care and solicitude for her children has been as tender as that of a parent. She has prepared them for the contest of life; she has pointed out to them the rich and abundant resources of knowledge, and she
666
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
has given them every opportunity to make men of themselves and models of their futures. Whether our lives will be worthy of her or not, it will always be our proud boast that we are her children; and as long as we live that boast will be a consolation in misfortune and a pleasant reflection in success. We feel proud and honored to become members of the Alumni of Notre Dame—members of that body of men who by sterling integrity and eminent abilities have spread the fame of their Alma Mater throughout this broad land. They have preceded us and are now scattered far and wide; they have reaped reputation, honor and glory in almost every walk of life; and while the Class of ’91 rejoices to be received into their ranks, we would be still prouder, and it would be a just pride, if we could, even in a slight degree, imitate their manly worth and pre-eminent qualities. That shall be our aim; and if we succeed, even in part, we shall have achieved a successful, well-spent career.
Reverend Fathers and gentlemen of the Faculty of Notre Dame, farewell! To you we owe our education, and it shall be under the guidance of your precepts that our lives will be directed. Our indebtedness to you is boundless and our gratitude will never be chilled by time. We say farewell in the hope that at some day we may be able to prove that your labors with us have not been in vain, and that we may show you how highly we appreciate your efforts in our behalf. Again, farewell!
We say farewell to you, our fellow-students,— to you who have been our comrades in the gladsome days of college life, and who have shared with us the toils and pleasures of the past. We have been close friends in days gone by, and many happy hours have we passed together. Now that the parting is at hand, let us hope that the bonds of friendship which have held us together while at Notre Dame will not be broken by separation. Though we may be miles apart in after-years, and though the cares of life weigh heavily on our spirits, let us all remember our dear old college home and the happy times we enjoyed within her hallowed precincts. Many of us may never meet again; but in memory let us often review the past and remember each other as comrades at college—companions in joy—farewell!
Classmates: Recollections of the past, the seriousness of the present, and the vastness of the future, must excite in each of our breasts to-day feelings which it would tax the ingenuity of language to express. The story of life has been repeated time and again; its many varied
aspects have been depicted in most stirring colors; but never has it been clothed in such significance as at the present time. It is natural that to the ambitious eye of youth the future should seem bright and promising; but already do we feel the direful influence of the cynic’s sneer and the pessimist’s groan, and now the contest is almost dreaded by those who should be most eager for the fray. It devolves upon you to throw off the fetters of such disheartening views, and set out with a firm and confident step to try at least to win if possible. The future may be obscure, but it is not totally dark. Our way will be illuminated by the bright light of ambition, and difficulties in our path will always yield to the overwhelming force of perseverance. Let us make that journey successful; let us accomplish something while on the way, and, bearing in mind the inspired words of the poet —that “ the grave is not our goal,”— let us aim for something higher than mere human glory. This separation may be final, and we may be looking upon one another for the last time; but though our paths in life are different, let us all live with the common purpose that when fleeting years have brought the days of old age we can . look back o’er our career in the world, lay down our work, and sink to rest proud in the consciousness of duty heeded and labor well performed. Farewell!	.
And now, my friends, the time has come and we must depart. We regret to leave, and . we hope that in the days to come we shall not be entirely forgotten. Our college days have been bright and pleasant; we have passed happy years together and in after-years, let us trust, we shall meet again at Notre Dame. We shall begin life with the resolve that the teachings in class-room and in church will guide our progress; and as college days have been called the sunshine of life, let us hope that their rays will brighten and cheer the future, and that the warmth of college boyhood will endure even to old age. It is with this hope that we take up our part in the drama of life, and it is with the fond expectation that friendships born at Alma Mater will join us again in loving bonds that the Class of ’91 says to all—farewell!
One truth that the clever young man would do well to .impress thoroughly upon his consciousness is that unexerted powers gradually dwindle into non-existence. He who can do great things if only he would, practically cannot do them.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	667
Books and Periodicals.
—The July St. Nicholas is a veritable treasure trove for the young folk. Its table of contents comprises thirty items, and there is variety enough to please the most fastidious youthful reader. “Rescued by the Enemy” is a story of marauding “whaleboat men” in revolutionary days. “Douglas Jerrold” is a charming paper written by Walter Jerrold, the grandson of that literary celebrity. “Storm Bound Among the Clouds” is the suggestive title of a thrilling story of adventure. Walter Storrs Bigelow contributes two more “Swimming-Hole Stories” which will win the unqualified approval of the genuine boy, be he in knickerbockers or in swallow-tail; and besides these, there are bright sketches in prose and verse, handsome illustrations and all the good points that have made the St. Nicholas a favorite monthly visitor.
—Scribner star July is as appetizing and enjoyable an issue as one is accustomed to look for when he takes the wrapper off that old favorite. The following varied table of contents, ranging from tender poesy to hardest, scientific fact, presents numbers that cannot fail to suit the taste of every magazine reader: “To Faunus,” Frontispiece, “Speed in Ocean Steamers,” “Horace,” Book III., Ode XVIII.—to Faunus, “A Matter of Fact,” “Starting a Parliament in Japan,” “Two on the Terrace,” “ Izard Hunting in the Spanish Pyrenees,” “Corban”—a Song; “The Chimes of Walletikon”—a Swiss Story; “Outlawry on the Mexican Border,” “An Old Danish Town,” “The Haunts of the Black SeaBass,” “My Uncle Dick,” “Training a Tropic Torrent,” “ Mrs. Manstey’s View,” “Landor Once More,” “ The Point of View.”
—On the bright green cover of Donahoe's Magazine for July is an attractive literary menu of pieces grave and gay, social and theological, moral and political. This periodical appeals strongly to the sympathies of all Catholics, and especially to Irish-American Catholics, and it must be admitted that its editor serves up an excellent meal. The current number is, as usual, of varied interest, and will well repay reading. In an article on “Irish Journalism,” Peter Mc-Corry devotes a paragraph to each of the great Irish papers, and says of the Irish Catholic: “ .... It is very carefully edited, and contains not a line contrary to the highest literary taste in prose and poetry.— Its religious sketches and stories are unequalled, for beauty and originality, by any other publication in the British dominions.” Perhaps Mr. McCorry may not be aware that the Irish Catholic is largely a reprint of other periodicals whose sketches and stories it publishes with the most unblushing effrontery and without credit. Its editor is a journalistic pirate whose ideas of literary honesty are singularly distorted, and he assuredly does not merit the generous notice given him by Mr. McCorry.
—A Portrait of Horace Greeley forms the
frontispiece of The Centwy for July to accompany a hitherto unpublished address by Mr. Greeley on Abraham Lincoln. The address was written in or about 1868, and is printed from the original manuscript. The paper in the California series this month is an account by Mrs. Virginia Reed Murphy of her experience as a girl in making the trip “Across the Plains in the Donner Party” in~i846, the only narrative published by a surviyor of the ill-fated party. Dr. Albert Shaw, in his series on Municipal Government, describes the government of Paris, which he calls the “Typical Modern City,” and which is treated of in all the prominent relations of the city to its people,—the police administration, the gas and electric light supply, the trams and omnibuses, the sewerage, the water supply, etc., etc. A paper by Joseph Pennell, illustrated by himself, gives a picturesque description of Provencal Bull Fights, in which, as the author says, there is much sport and little, if any, cruelty. Major G. W. Baird furnishes a paper on “General Miles’s Indian Campaigns.” Prof. Edward S. Holden of the Lick Observatory is the author of a paper of popular astronomy, entitled “A Lunar Landscape.” The fiction and poetry of the number are of the usual high standard, as are the series of papers in the editorial department. On the whole, the Century ably sustains its brilliant reputation.
—With the first number of Vol. XXXIII., the Ave Maria dons a handsome'dress of new type, and so becomes additionally attractive to the lovers of typographical neatness. In no case more than in that of our local contemporary is beauty of form more happily allied to intrinsic excellence of matter; and it is therefore gratifying to learn that its prosperity knows no waning. Twenty-three thousand is unquestionably a large circulation for a purely Catholic magazine in this country, and that is the number of copies in the current edition of the Ave Maria. It would be difficult to eulogize too highly the influence for good exerted in a multiplicity of directions by this journal of Our Lady; and Catholics who have watched its growth and development from the crude periodical of ’65 into the “ideal publication” of to-day, can readily believe that the celestial Queen, in whose honor it was founded and whose cult it has never ceased to propagate, has blessed in an especial manner its purpose and its progress. All Catholic students should be regular readers of our contemporary. Apart from the literary excel-lence.of its poetry and prose, especially valuable to young stylists, familiarity with its pages will ensure a knowledge of the best living Catholic authors that no text-book can supply; while its department of “Notes and Remarks,” and its special articles contain a fund of information, as to living questions, of which no educated Catholic can afford to be ignorant. If. all the students of Notre Dame would take a course of the Ave Maria, both they and their organ, the Scholastic, would be the gainers.”
66S
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
49ubltsfjeb r&trj Saturljag Suring Etrm Stmt at N. B. Hnibersitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, July 4, 1891.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC is entering upon the twentyfifth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old - friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Lit erary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
-	Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Vol. XXIV. of the Scholastic closes with the present number. The Index is now preparing, and bound volumes will be ready in the course of a few weeks. Our usual midsummer number will appear in August.
—From a letter received this week by Very Rev. Father Corby, we learn that Very Rev. Father General is at Mondorf, near Luxemburg. His health is improving, and he purposes starting from Havre, in company with the Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C., on the 18th inst. The return voyage will be made on the new steamer Touraine. Father General sends cordial greetings to all his friends.
—We devote considerable space in this issue to a detailed report of the Commencement exercises at St. Mary’s Academy. No educa-. tional establishment in the country graduates more thoroughly accomplished and really educated young ladies than does Notre Dame’s sister institution; and we extend our cordial congratulations to the Sisters of Holy Cross on the exceptionally brilliant success achieved during the academic year just concluded.
—We beg very cordially to congratulate our Eastern friends of St. John’s College, Ford
ham, on the splendid success which crowned the celebration of their triple festival of the 24th ult. The magnificent work effected by this famous institution, founded only fifty years ago by Archbishop Hughes, is a source of legitimate pride to the whole Catholic body in America; and we trust that its second half century may be even still more productive of good to the Church and the Republic.
—A most enjoyable reunion was that at the Professed House on the 27th ult., the occasion being a special dinner provided by Father L’Etourneau in honor of the name-day of the Very Rev. Father Corby. All the Fathers of Notre Dame and South Bend, with a number of Brothers, attended and testified not only their esteem for the Provincial, but their appreciation of the menu. On behalf of the Community, Father Spillard made a short address, to which Father Corby replied in a speech both happy and practical. The 27th should have an octave.	*
—It would savor of ingratitude on our part not to acknowledge with thanks the kindly notices received from the press, Eastern as well as Western, on the occasion of our forty-seventh Commencement. Like every other enterprise dependent on public patronage, Notre Dame benefits by the widening of her fame and the consequent increased enlightenment as to the advantages she offers to those who seek a sound and comprehensive education. While adverse to all charlatanical pretence, we recognize the efficacy of legitimate publicity, and duly appreciate the worth of the complimentary paragraphs which frequently appear in the columns of our contemporaries. Perhaps we will be pardoned for adding that we recall no eulogy of . our University that has not been at least approximately merited.
—“ One of the two gentlemen who have just been made Doctors of Law by the queenly Notre Dame is set down in the reports as ‘ Patrick Cronin of Buffalo.’ Surely this can be no other than our stalwart and reverend colleague of the Catholic Union and Times, in which case we beg leave to congratulate—the aforesaid Notre Dame University. Any school in the world might be proud to bear Father Cronin on its roll of honor.”—Catholic Home.
Gracefully said, Home, and we accept your congratulations. Allow us in return to make you acquainted with the other LL. D., Dr. James Jeffrey Roche, of the Pilot, author of “ Songs . and Satires,” biographer of John Boyle O’Reilly
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
669
sometime President of the Boston Papyrus Club, fete., etc. Know him, Home, and acknowledge our discrimination in paying a merited tribute to one of the most eminent Catholic litterateurs in
the country.
—The map of Notre Dame and the accompanying sketch recently published by the Ave Maria have suggested to the Ypsilanti Sentinel a parallel between our University and the Ann Arbor institution. In an appreciative and extended editorial, our esteemed contemporary contrasts the rise and progress of the two universities, “the one founded ‘to the greater glory of God,’ and the other for the material interest of the state.” From such a contrast, so levelheaded an observer as the editor of the Sentinel could naturally form but one judgment—that the honors are ours. The pressure on our columns this week prevents our reprinting the Sentinel's editorial in full; but we cannot refrain from giving the concluding paragraph:
“In some respects Notre Dame excels the Michigan University and falls behind in none, except in the number of its students, which is not wonderful when we consider that almost its entire dependence for students is on the Catholic Church, while the latter draws from all churches and the world besides. Yet, bigotry and prejudice aside, no thoughtful parent, regardful of the safety and future success of a son, when well informed, would send him to Michigan in preference to Notre Dame.”
—The year just closed has been a notable one in many respects; in none more so than in the matter of entertainments. To say nothing of the dramatic exhibitions given from time to time by the various societies, the public debates, concerts, etc., there have been a number of extremely interesting entertainments furnished by eminent visitors from the outside world. Our readers have not forgotten the elocutionary treat provided for them by the Rev. D. J. Stafford, nor the insight into many well-known passages which they gained from seeing his masterly interpretation of Shakespeare.^Still less likely are they to forget the lecture on “ Oratory” by one so thoroughly capable of treating that subject as the Hon. Daniel Dougherty. The so-called “talk” of the Rt. Rev. Rector of the Catholic University will also remain long in their memories, as will the discourses of Bishop Keane’s scholarly and eloquent brother prelate, the Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding. To listen to such men is a privilege that the young do not always value at its proper worth, just as to breathe the atmosphere of cultured society is unconsciously to acquire little graces which in
the aggregate make a polished manner. It has been a source of gratification to us to see that many of our young elocutionists have profited by the lessons in delivery and gesture given by these exceptionally eloquent speakers; and we indulge the hope that ’91-92 will witness in Washington Hall full as many enjoyable lectures as did its predecessor.
—We trust that all those students of ’qo-’qi whose industry and attention in study-hall and class-room have throughout the year been such as to warrant favorable reports, have already entered upon the enjoyment of a vacation as enjoyable as they can wish for. They deserve a relaxation from brain-work, and it would be false economy not to take it. The young man who during ten months has conscientiously devoted to intellectual labor all the time allotted to it at Notre Dame will not be making a very grievous mistake if he allows his text-books to remain packed until September. Nay, if he has been one of those who are known as “hard students” in the praiseworthy sense of that phrase,—if he has perhaps infringed on his hours of recreation in order to prepare his recitations, write up his notes, or polish an essay or poem, he should leave his books untouched. What he needs most is entire cessation from fatiguing mental exertion, light reading, if any, and an abundance of fresh air and bright sunshine and excursions with gun or rod and frequent attendance at “match-games,” and boating, fishing, swimming ad libitum. The average student may perhaps do a little brain-work even during vacation without any probable risk of serious danger. If he has loafed somewhat during termtime, he may, as a compensation, study a little during the holidays,—may, and sh'ould, but probably will not. As for the idle student—the *boy who has notably wasted his time during the scholastic year, who has failed to apply himself seriously to study—such a student deserves no vacation, and we hope he will enjoy none. If we had a son whose lack of industry while at college was a subject of remark, who, especially if he were in his sixteenth year, or older, frittered away his time during the session, we would see to it that vacation should mean for him two months of manual labor. We hope, however, that no parent who reads the Scholastic has a son who merits such drastic treatment; and, in any case, we are safe in wishing the great majority of the boys of ’91 the very happiest possible vacation.
670	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Obituary.
It is with genuine grief that we chronicle the accidental death, on the 25th ult., of a promising young student of St. Edward’s Hall. Master E. M. O’Connor, of Chicago, was enjoying a drive with his father, on the evening of that day, and was left alone in the carriage while Mr. O’Connor entered a store. The horse, taking fright, ran away, and Eddie was thrown out. He survived his fall only three hours. The deceased was a bright, good boy, twelve years of age, and was popular both with the Minims and their teachers at Notre Dame. We extend our most cordial sympathy to the afflicted parents, whose joy in the home-coming of their son was so soon replaced by the poignant sorrow of his loss. Nothing can assuage their grief so effectually as the consideration that their boy was taken while yet his white robe of innocence was unsullied by contact with the world’s defilements. In St. John’s Chapel, on the morning of the 26th ult., a Solemn Requiem Mass was offered for the repose of his soul. R. I. P.
Personal.
—Mr. C. C. Connelly, of Chicago, has attended all our Commencements since ’61.
—Father Stoffel, although still quite ill, is, we are happy to state, improving.
—Fathers Molloy and Thillman, of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, arrived on the 30th ult.
—Father Mohun went to Chicago on the 27th ult. to attend the funeral of Eddie O’Connor.
—Mr. J. A. Burns, C. S. C., is taking the Summer Course in Chemistry at Harvard University.
—Mr. J. M. Kelly (Com’l), ’90, is in business with his father in St. Paul, Minn., and is doing excellently.
—A. A. Cooper, Jr., ’87, is the efficient manager of his father’s extensive wagon works at Dubuque, Iowa.
—Brothers Emmanuel and Paul, prefects, spent a few days last week in St. Paul and Chicago respectively.
—No lady visitor during Commencement was more cordially welcomed than Mrs. Monarch, of Owensboro, Ky.
—Mr. P. Shickey, of South Bend, accompanied the Rev. P. O’Connell, C. S. C., in a trip across the Atlantic this week.
—N. A. Duff, ’69, President of the First National Bank of Syracuse, Neb., was a welcome visitor on Wednesday.
—F. Upman, ’66, is the proprietor of the Briggs House, Chicago; and Wm. Campbell, ’86, is his popular night clerk.
—Dr. Berteling’s mother, of Cincinnati, and his mother-in-law, Mrs. McCabe, of Milwaukee, were visitors during the week.
—The arrival on the 2d inst. of the Rev. W. J. Kelly, C. S. C., ’84, of Montreal, was hailed with delight by his many old friends.
—Mr. Geo. E. Clarke, ’82, has taken up his residence in South Bend, where he will practise law in partnership with Hon. L. Hubbard.
—Revs. President Walsh and Director of Studies Morrissey attended a session of the Catholic Educational Commission in Chicago on the 1st inst.
—The Rev. F. Reuter, C. S. C., and C. Sztuczko, C. S. C., will be elevated to the priesthood at Fort Wayne on the 13th and 14th inst., by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger.
—Mr. Wm. P. Breen, ’77, has kindly consented to deliver a series of lectures next year before the Law Class. We congratulate Prof. Hoynes on this late acquisition to the faculty of law.
—Mr. Mark Boland, a Commercial graduate of Sacred Heart College, Watertown, and the winner of two ’91 medals, is visiting his brother, the affable Vice-Rector of Holy Cross Seminary.
—Revs. A. T. Bourque and B. Garand, of the Canadian Province of Holy Cross, are expected at Notre Dame shortly. They will accompany Fathers Adelsperger and Langelier to the Bengal Mission.
—The Rev. Messrs. Beucler, McDevitt, Ryan and Prof. Bourget, Music Doc., of St. Viateur’s College, Kankakee, spent a few pleasant days with the Rev. F. Reuter during Commencement week. They expressed themselves as delighted with all they saw at Notre! Dame.
—Bishop Kilian Caspar Flasch, of the diocese of La Crosse, has been brought to Milwaukee in a dying condition, suffering from cancer of the stomach. Bishop Flasch was born in Bavaria, July 9, 1831, and came to this country in June, 1847, when his parents emigrated from their native land, going directly to Milwaukee on their arrival. Four years later the future Bishop entered Notre Dame, and after completing his classical course here, went to the Sale-sanium for the study of theology. He was elevated to the priesthood in 1859, and consecrated bishop in 1881.
—The lay members of the Faculty are dispersed throughout the Union. Col. Hoynes is in Chicago; Prof. Edwards is sojourning with friends in the blue grass region; Profs. John and Neal Ewing have sought the home of Mc-Kinleyism; Prof. Gallagher is revelling in the' matchless beauty of the Hudson; Prof. McCue is seeking relaxation on the rolling prairies of Illinois; Prof. Liscombe is making a tour of Eastern Canada; and Prof. O’Dea, while still in the Hoosier State, contemplates spending some weeks in the World’s Fair city, where business and conversation and life generally move at the “ one hundred and fifty to the minute rate,” so thoroughly congenial to his electrical nature.
—There is a special fitness in the conferring of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
honorary degrees by our Catholic colleges on literary men, who must, to remain consistent Catholics and in the literary “harness/’ have hard battles to fight. No better candidate for the degree of Master of Arts could have been chosen by Notre Dame than the Rev. John Conway, of St. Paul, editor of the Northwestern Chronicle and the author of an excellent and popular work, “ Rational Religion.” The other candidate for this degree was the Rev. Arthur B. O’Neill, C. S. C., late of Canada, who is so favorably known to our readers as a poet and prose writer. The gentlemen honored with the degree of LL. D. by Notre Dame are likewise most deserving. They are the Rev. Patrick Cronin, of the Catholic Union and Times; and Mr. James Jeffrey Roche, of the Pilot. We are sure that no reader of the Ave Maria will refuse to applaud the discrimination of the University of Ottawa in conferring the same degree on Maurice Francis Egan.—Ave Maria.
Local Items-
—Dr. Bobolink!
—C. B. is a tramp.
—Defense d'afficher!
—We are freakless.
—’Rah for the Fourth!
—The “surprise” was good.
—“Lemo” is a thing of the past.
—The Seminary has a new quartette.
—Frizzelle got there “with both feet.”
—“Dars a lock on de boat house door.”
—There are about thirty boys still here.
—Did he give you any message for me?
' —It sprinkled a little Thursday evening.
—“ Don’t blame the cellarist.”—“ No danger!”
—Never mind, Pat, you get your revenge today.
—That California present was very much admired.
—A summer alliteration:—“Please, pass the peas.”
—The rooms in Sorin Hall have all been painted.
—“Let’s go swimming, Joe.”—“Can’t, I’m smokin’. ”
—Garryowen has in press a key to the “ ready ” made jokes.
—Payne at Commencement is always received with pleasure.
—J. W., Watertown: Leave your latch-string out about the 20th.
—The retreat for the Community begins to-morrow evening.
—We had a spread eagle orator engaged, but he failed to materialize.
—“Dusie” is looking for a lantern. Can’t some one accommodate him?
—The weather of the past week has been very cool and pleasant.
—The ghost of Monday night came, not from the grave, but from South Bend.
—“Your are my greatest succor,” said J. G., as he shook hands with a mosquito.
—“Oh, for a lodge in some vast wilderness!” What’s the matter with the campus?
—Poor little piggy—Eh? Hi, yi! Get out? Great Scott! My Heavens!! H-e-l-p!!!
—Croquet differs from lawn-tennis in that the former can be played without a racket.
—Freedom from work is a luxury,—so say our friends; but not being in it, we reserve our judgment.
—Prof, (to pupil in Geologv):—“What kind of plants produce phosphates?”—Bright Boy: —“Guano.”
—F. M. McKee should have been credited in our last issue with a First Honor Medal. Better late than never, Frank.
—The singing of the choir Sunday was “away up”—or, as one of the choristers put it, “it seemed to be off its bass."
—The Mission Brothers are coming in very fast. Sorin Hall is used as a hotel on the European plan to accommodate them.
—“Diamond Dick,” Wood, McGonigle and Daniels will spend their vacation with gun and rod among the Rocky Mountains.
—“Jim Fitz” was sadly handicapped in the race for the Mason Medal, but he made “Eddie” hustle for the prize just the same.
—Selected from juvenile reading: Does the Secretary want shoes? The Sec. does want shoes. Then the Sec. must have a bill.
—It is rumored that Michael A., late of B. Hugh’s “Invisibles,” will cover first for the Rockford “Rovers” during the summer.
—Several of us have tried night fishing with lanterns; but from 8 p. m. to 12 we got no bites except from the festive Hoosier mosquito.
—The Band of Father Czyzewski’s parish, South Bend, has been mustered in as the Military Band of the Third Indiana Regiment.
—When we tell a man that it would be small loss if he were drowned, and he informs us that he knew that we would say that, we feel hurt.
—If the kleptomaniac who abstracted our copy of Wendell Phillips’ “Speeches” is through with that book, we would like to see it again.
—The Seniors of wandering habits will be expected next year to teach the Geography classes all about the famed city of South Bend.
—As an acrobatic kicker, he can give points to a Texas mule; but as an all-round athlete, he can’t compete with an irate porker of the female persuasion.
—Disciples of Izaak Walton cover every available stage and landing on the shores of the two lakes; and the mosquitoes and horseflies are having a continuous picnic.
672	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—Among the welcome quests who arrived at o	o
the University yesterday are Judge Prendergast of Chicago, and Messrs. Fitzsimmons and Quigley of Providence.
—Somebody blundered last week, and as a result, our report made no mention of the Sorin Elocution Gold Medal, awarded to Master James O’Neill, of New London, Conn.
—The punishment that inevitably follows misdeeds is well exemplified by the evident judgment that has fallen upon the individual who made so free with the oranges and bananas.
—As we go to press, we notice the arrival of Father Coleman of Watertown, and Brothers Benjamin, Urban, Daniel, Ferdinand, Engelbert, Remigius, Barnabas, Hilary, Albert and Hilarion.
—Late advices from Chicago say that “ Count Otto von Bismarck” did the town by sitting out in front of McCoy’s, morning, noon and night. Otto should be something of a physiognomist at present.
—That photographer should have known enough not to put two such handsome St. Cecilians as “Shonny” Ayer and “Leftenant” Schillo together. They would hypnotize a dozen cameras.
—As an instructor in the art of diving, Father Regan is a howling success. In two minutes (with a riding whip) the other day he taught “Diggy” more than that youth had learned in the previous two weeks.
—To ride or to sup, that is the question. Whether it is more soothing to the frame to sup at Nickel’s and then to meander home on foot, or to forego the pleasures of the feast and to ride luxuriously home with Shickey.
—“Diamond Dust or Spherical Sketches” is the title of a neat little booklet by Girsch, Hill and Des Garennes. It contains, among other things, the history of the Juniors’ fourth nine, while Captain Girsch was at the helm.
—With a little encouragement from the admiral of the fleet, and a judicious use of one of the boats that are just aching to feel the “thrill of life along their keels,” some good material could be developed for the various crews of next year.
—The Chicago papers, as a rule, contained good reports of the closing exercises. ’Twas rather inordinate, however, for an esteemed contemporary to make one spare Professor fill the space of three. The Professor is righteously indignant.
—The members of the First German Class, with their genial Professor, the Rev. F. Reuter, C. S. C., were photographed by Father Kirsch a short time before Commencement. These pictures are said to be the best that have yet been taken by local artists. .
—Mr. L. Cass, a distinguished savant, who attended the Commencement, was indignant to find the “King-fisher” still in use. He purposed making this paper the vehicle for unpleas
ant comment, but his proposition was kindly though firmly declined.
—Charlie Fleming is expected to write, during the summer, twenty-five stanzas, of anapestic tetrameter, rhyming alternately, on “What I Know About Prosody.” Fritz Kellner and Pat Gillon will, if communicated with, help him out in adjusting difficult rhymes.
—That article on “Conjectural Obediences” is spicy; and were it not for a prudential fear that its publication might disastrously affect our own billet for the coming year, we would print it. It would surely make a hit; but said hit might prove to be of the boomerang variety.
—There is nothing we prize more highly than good fellowship; and we look upon those that are anxious to share their happiness with others as bright spots on this darksome earth. But the man that will call his friend at midnight to join him in a social game is one shade too bright for us.	.
—In “Howto Swim” John Kearns has given to the world an invaluable work on the most popular of recreations. Although John generally uses a log or a heavy plank in his natatorial experiments, he has the theory all right, and those whom it is his design to help can surely furnish the practice.
—What the boys are doing: Syl. has gone home for a short vacation; Brady is in the “Ave” office; Dusie puts in most of his time at the lake; Whitehead tries to play pool; Combe and “Sport” dream of future base-ball victories; King and Cassidy have joined the local Farmers’ Alliance; Casey has his old job, and Des Garennes munches peas.
—What promised to be an exciting game of ball between the “Anglo-Maniacs” and the “Atlantics” of the M. L. S. was recently brought to an ignominious end when Master “Diggy,” of the, “Maniacs,” in a frenzy of excitement, swallowed the ball while trying to catch a “high fly.” To prevent such accidents in future a “Rugby” will be used.	.
—Somebody has said that piscatorial pursuits are conducive to mendacity. We think this saying should be modified. A friend of ours went out the other morning at 3 a. m., and when we met him on his return he told us that he had caught sixty-three bass, fifty-two perch and ninety-seven sunfish. We know he told the truth, for he had a two-quart pail half full—that is, grass and all.
—Among the Commenceftient visitors, whose names escaped our reporter last week, were Mr. and Mrs. Curry, St. Paul, Minn.; Mr. and Mrs. Guthrie, South Bend; T. McGrath, Springfield; E. Thome, Mrs. Thornton, Mrs. Hoffman, and Mrs. P. Boynton and son, Chicago. An error as regrettable as this omission was that of assigning to A. A. Ahlrichs an average of 85, instead of 96.
—The valedictory address to the graduating class of the University of Notre Dame was de
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	673
livered by Mr. Chas. T. Cavanagh, of Chicago, who also received the Quan medal, which is awarded to the student who stands highest in the curriculum of studies. Mr. Cavanagh gives promise of attaining great distinction in the legal profession, which he intends to follow, and no doubt will reflect honor upon his Alma Mater. —The Calumet.
—We are pleased to acknowledge the receipt of an invitation from one of the pioneer Catholic educational institutions of this country— the University of Notre Dame, Indiana—to the Forty-Seventh Annual Commencement which will be held on the 23d inst. In returning our cordial thanks we desire to express our sincere hope that the future of this renowned institution of Catholic learning will be as bright and prosperous as its past has been successful and useful.—The Cause.
—“To see that wonderful establishment (Notre Dame) one must go there and stay there for a full week, and employ every hour of every day in walking through it — we dare not say around it.. There is no other such establishment on this continent.”
The Michigan Catholic man who writes thus evidently knows a good thing when he sees it; and such bacteria as infest his organism must be infinitesimally diminutive. When you get a week off, Catholic, come and see us, and we will drive you around the whole place.
—Monday last, being the patronal feast as well as the ordination anniversary of the Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., that veteran missionary and ex-army chaplain was the recipient of many congratulations. In the morning he was waited on at the Professed House and presented with a beautiful address and souvenir; while at 6 p. m., a complimentary supper was tendered to him at the University. The Scholastic joins his myriad friends in wishing him imdtos annos, • and accelerated progress with the great book.
—The famous Catholic institution at Notre Dame, Ind., held its Forty-Seventh Annual Commencement on Tuesday, the 23d ult. This occasion has now become one of the “events” of Western progress, and has been so fully and sy m-pathetically reported in the daily press that our account would inevitably seem stale. Wecannot fail to exult, however, that a Chicago graduate, Mr. Charles T. Cavanagh, carries off the chief honors of his class, and as a part of our Catholic chronicle we give the full list of graduates and the degrees that were conferred on them. —Catholic Home.
—South Benders take no small degree of pride in Notre Dame and St. Mary’s—those splendid institutions of lea rning that have grown up from such humble beginnings right at our city’s borders. The growth of the city and of its neighbor Catholic centres of education has been going on apace in all these years, and in each instance is their rise and prosperity due to deserved effort to merit that rise and prosperous condition. From the wilderness have they arisen to a commanding position in the world—one as
a busy, growing manufacturing city, the others as the centres of Catholic education. May the prosperity of each grow on with each succeeding year, is a wish in the expression of which we feel that there is every hope of realization! —South Bend Times.
—The sporting editor of the New York World discourses thus of “our Harry: “The annual field meeting of the Alleghany Athletic Association, held at Exposition Park, Alleghany City, June 6, was notable for the good performance of Harry Jewett, of the Detroit Athletic Club. He won the 100-yard run in 10 1-5S. He also won the 220-yard run and the running broad jump, a very good afternoon’s work for this young and promising all-round athlete. On June 15 he did even better at the Buffalo athletic meeting. He won the 100-yard run in 10s, and the 220-yard in 3Bs. Judging by his Buffalo performances, Jewett should make it interesting to Luther H. Cary in the championship sprints this fall. I am of the opinion that he is not only a good sprint runner, but one of the best all-round athletes of his age this country has ever produced. If he takes proper care of himself, and does not overdo athletics, I am firmly convinced that he will in time be the all-round champion athlete of America.”
—The last number of Vol. I. of the Seminary Journal appeared on the Feast of St. Aloysius, June 21. The efforts of the editors to render this issue worthy of the Tercentenary of their sainted patron cannot be too highly praised. Their success, too, in producing a notable number was beyond question. The first page bore a picture of St. Aloysius, and beneath this was the dedication of the number to Father Corby. There were poems in English, German, Polish and French, and the rest of the literary department was taken up by a sketch of St. Aloysius, an essay of rare grace and thoughtfulness on “The Earth, a Cinder,” and an amusing and highly artistic bit of poetic reminiscence, entitled “A Fragment” which the author with singular modesty declined to father. The leaders are timely, and carefully done, and the local “hits” are abundant and well considered. We congratu— late the young gentlemen upon this further evidence of their love for their patron and their no mean skill in the art of journalism. We hope, moreover, that next year will find as competent and as zealous a band of editors for the Journal.
Premiums.
SORIN HALL.
Ahlrichs, A.— 1st Premium in Logic; ist Premium in 2d Latin; 4th Premium in 2d Chemistry; ist Premium in 2d Physics; ist Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Surveying.
Burger, C.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; ist Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Criticism; ist Premium in Geology; ist Premium for Piano; Mention in ist Greek.
Berry, J. E. —Mention in Moral Philosophy; Mention in Geology; Premium for Vocal Music.
674	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Blackman, W.—2d Premium in-Literature; Premium for Vocal Music.
Bachrach, B.—2d Premium in 3d Latin.
Brelsford, H.—Mention in Moral Philosophy; Mention in 1st Latin; Mention in Astronomy; Mention in 1st Greek.
Cavanagh, C.—1st Premium in Moral Philosophy; Mention in 1st Latin; 2d Premium in Astronomy; 3d Premium in Geology; 2d Premium in 1st Greek.
Du Brul, E.—Mention in 2d Latin; 3d Premium in Botany; Premium in Church History. '
Fitzgibbon, J.—1st Premium in Logic; Mention in 5th Latin; Mention in Criticism; 3d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Premium in Church History.
Gillon, C.—1st Premium for Execution in Surveying.
, Hackett, W.—1st Premium for Vocal Music.
Hummer, S.—Mention in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Criticism; 2d Premium in Modern History; 2d Premium in 2d Physics; 4th Premium in Botany.
Hoover, E.—Mention in Civil Engineering Theory; Mention in Civil Engineering Execution; Premium in Analytical Mechanics; Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Herman, L.—Mention in Moral Philosophy.
Murphy, P.—Mention in 4ft* Latin; 1st Premium in General Geometry and Calculus; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 4th Premium in 2d Physics; Mention in Geology.
Neef, F.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in General Geomety and Calculus; Mention in Criticism; 4th Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Premium in Geology; 1st Premium in French.
O’Neill, H.—3d Premium in Logic; 2d Premium in English History; 1st Premium in Church History.
O’Brien, W.—Mention in Criticism.
Paquette, C.—Premium in Civil Engineering Theory; Premium in Civil Engineering Execution; 1st Premium in Criticism; Premium in Engineering Drawing.
Rothert,O.—Mention in Geology; Mention in Zoology;
1st Premium in German.	-
Schaack, E.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium for Vocal Music.
Sullivan, O.—Premium in Descriptive Geometry; Mention in General Geometry and Calculus; 1st Premium in 2d Chemistry; 3d Premium in 2d Physics; 2d Premium in Physiology; Premium in Industrial Drawing; 1st Premium for Execution in Surveying.
. Sinnott, N.—Mention in Logic; 3d Premium in English History.	.
Sinnott, R.—Mention in Logic; 5th Premium in Literature.	•
Scherrer, E.—4th Premium in Ancient History; Mention in Zoology; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Sullivan, J. B.—2d Premium in Criticism.
Vurpillat, F.—2d Premium in Logic; 4th Premium in 2d Chemistry. *
BROWNSOX HALL.
Aarons, H.—Mention in Penmanship.
Ahlrichs, E.—2d Premium in 5th Latin; Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in 1 st Geometry.
Blameuser, E.—Mention In 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Zoology ; 1st Premium in French; 1st Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in Industrial Drawing.	.
• _ Brown, E.—2d Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in Composition.	.	•
Correll, W.—Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in 1st Algebra; Mention in Christian Doctrine; Premium in industrial Drawing.
Combe, J.—Mention in Botany; 2d Premium in Biology; Premium in Cytology; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium for Piano.
Carr.oll, H.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Industrial Drawing.
Corrigan, E.—3d Premium in Composition.
Cahill, J-—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in. Spanish; Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Type-Writing.	.
Chilcote,J.—Premium in Telegraphy; Mention in Penmanship.	'
Dechant, C.—2d Premium in 6th Greek; 2d Premium
in Analytical Geometry; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra; 2d Premium in Literature; Premium in Industrial Drawing; 1st Mention for Execution in Surveying.
Dacy, A.—Mention in Trigonometry; 3d Premium in Literature; 2d Premium in German.
Doherty, J.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Devanny, J.—Mention in Ancient History; Mention in Zoology; 2d Premium in 1st Geometry.
Dunlap, W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Reading; Premium in French
Frizzelle, R.—1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in Advanced Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Composition.
Flanagan, J. M.—Mention in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Flanagan, J. A.—1st Mention in 7th Latin.
Franks, E.—1st Premium for Violin.
Green T.—2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship.
Hawthorne, R.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography.
Heard, C.—1st Premium in 8th Latin.
Hauske, W.—2d Premium for Piano.
Houlihan, P.—Mention in French.
Hubbard, L.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; Mention in Penmanship.
Johnson, J.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship.	.
Joslyn, M.—Mention in Analytical Geometry; 2d Premium in Literature;- 1st Premium in English History; 2d Premium in Surveying; 1st Premium in French; Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Kearns, J.—Mention in 5th Latin; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry.
King, J.—Mention in 3d Latin; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Greek.
Karasynski, A.—Mention in 1st Geometry.
Keenan, F.—-3d Premium in Penmanship.
Krembs, F.—1st Premium in German; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Kelly, M.—3d Premium in Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Lorie, P.—Mention in Literature; 3d'Premium in Zoology; Mention in German; 2d Premium for Piano.
Lanagan, K.—Mention in Trigonometry; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Lancaster, G.—1st Premium for Music.
Myler, R.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Mozier, M.—Mention in Penmanship.
McGrath, M.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
McCabe, J.—4th Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Composition.
Manly, J.—1st Premium in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Mug, J.—1st Premium in rst Book-Keeping; Mention in xst Orthogtaphy.
Mitchell, S.—4th Premium in Literature; 3d Premium in Botany; 2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium for Execution in Surveying.
Monarch, L.—3d Premium in Modern History; Mention in Christian Doctrine.	'
Maurus, E.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Premium in Analytical Geometry; 4th Premium in Literature; 2d Premium in Botany; 1st Premium in Physiology; Premium in Industrial Drawing; 1st Premium in Church History; 2d Premium for Execution in Surveying.
Magnus, A.—2d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st United States History.
Murphy, H.—2d Premium in 2d Physics; 2d.Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McKee, F.—Mention in 1st Algebra; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
McKee, J.—3d Premium in Trigonometry; 1st Premium in English History; 3d Premium in Botany.
McConlogue, T.—Mention in Logic.
McErlain, E.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Murphy, F.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
McCallan, J.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship.
Newman, J.—3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping.
Norton, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Oide, H.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
O’Shea, J.—Mention in 3d Latin; 2d Premium in Physiology ; Mention in 3d Greek. .
O’Brien, G.—1st Premium in 2d Chemistry; 1st Premium in German; Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Otero, A.—Premium in Artistic Drawing.
O’Brien, S.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium for Piano.
O’Kane, B.—2d Premium for Piano.
Phillips, D.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention in German; 1st Premium for Violin.
Priestly, C. S.—Mention in Physiology; Mention in Zoology. ±	'
Richardson, L.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1 st Reading; Mention in 1st Orthography.
Rebillot, J.—2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic; Mention in French; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Rudd, C.—5th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Robinson, A.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Stanton, W.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Sullivan, J. F.—2d Premium in Literature.
Sanford, L.—1st Premium in German; 3d Premium for Execution in' Surveying.
Smith, J.—Mention in 1st Orthography.
Soran, E.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Singler, C.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Tracy, J. B.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st Arith.
Vurpillat, V.—4th Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Biology.
Vidal, E.—2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Vital, G.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
White, B.—Premium in Type-Writing.
Wood, H.—2d Premium in Rhetoric.
Weakland, J.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in English History; 2d Premium in French; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Yenn, W.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar ;_ist Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry.
Zeitler, C.—Mention in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in German; 1st Premium in Instrumental Music; Mention in Penmanship.
CARROLL HALL.
Anson, G.—Mention in 4th'Algebra.
Ayer, J.—2d Premium for Piano.
Bergland, O.—Premium in Telegraphy; Premium in Type-Writing.
Burns, W.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Ball, E.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d German; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium for Piano.	.
Bates, E.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Bates, B.—Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Brady, T.—Mention in Penmanship.
Bachrach, W.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Browning, R.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in 1st Orthography.
Boyd, R.—Mention in Analytical Geometry; Mention in English History; Mention in Botany; 2d Mention for Execution in Surveying;
Browne, J.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar.	.
Bower, C.—Mention in Penmanship.
Casey, D.—Mention in 1st Geometry.
Chassaing, E.—2d Premium for Violin; 2d Premium in 1st Reading.	.
Carney, F.-—2d Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in Modern History; Mention in Physiology; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Rhetoric.
Coe, H.—Mention in Spanish.
Connelly, H.—3d Premium in-2d Arithmetic; 3d Pre mium in 2d Grammar.
Co lin«, C.—3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Connors, E.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in 1 st Arithmetic.
Cummings, F.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Corry, C.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar.
Clarke, L.—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Des Garennes, H.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st French.
Drumm, E.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Dorsey, E.—Premium in Industri d Drawing.
Delany, J.—1st Premium in 1st Geometry; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in/Advanced Arithmetic; Mention in 1 st Algebra. •
Dierkes, W.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; Mention in Penmanship.
Dolan, P.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography;
Eagan, H.—Mention in Christian Doctrine;
Farrell, J.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; Mention in 1st United States History.
Funke, Arthur.—Mention in 2d Algebra.
Falvey, E.—Mention in Penmanship.
Fales, T.—2d Premium in 2d History; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Gilbert, G. —3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Gibson, N.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Grammar; Premium in Telegraphy;
Girsch, J.—2d Premium in 1 st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; Mention in Penmanship.
Gerlach, W.—2d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st United States History; Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Type-Writing; 3d Premium for Piano.
Gifford, B.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; Premium for Vocal Music.
Greene, J —1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.	-
C5 reene, A —Mention in 2d History; 4th Premium in.
2d Geography.	_
Grund, O.—Mention in Penmanship.
Hagus, J.—Mention in 2d German.
Hahn, G.—2d Premium, in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in German. x .
Hack, J.—2d Premium in Penmanship. ’’
Hannin, N.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Jackson, L.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention in Advanced Arithmetic.
Jewett, E.—Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Keogh, T.—Mention in Modern History; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Latin.
Kearney, J.—Mention in 5th Latin; Mention in Modern History; Mention in Physiology; Mention in Zoology; 1st Premium in 4th German; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.	-
Kick, J.—Mention in 2d Reading.	- '
Langevin, L.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Leonard, A.—Mention in 1st Geography; Mention in 1st United States History.
La Moure, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1 st Orthography.
Mitchell, H.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Chi istian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Mitchell, E.—4th Premium in Composition,
Martin, H.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; Mention in 1st United States History; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Marr, W.—Mention in 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Miller, J.—Mention in 1st Orthography; Premium in In
676
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
dustrial Drawing; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium in 1st Geography.
Murphy,. J.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Minor, M.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Miles, R.—3d Premium in 2d History; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
McCartney, E.—1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in 1st Orthography.
McDonnell. W.—1st Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Premium in 1st Geography.
Nester, A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium for Piano.
Neef, A.—Mention in 1st Grammar.
O’Neill, W.—1st Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in 1 st United States History.
O’Rourke, F.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium in Spanish; 1st Mention for Piano.
Palmer. R.—Mention in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in Zoology; Mention in 3d French; Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Prichard, M.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Pope, C.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium for Violin.
Quinlan, M.—1st Premium in Literature.	’
Renesh, A.—Mention in 2d Grammar; Mintion in Penmanship.
Roper, F.—Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Regan, A.—Mention in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Rend, J.—Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Slevin, R.—Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Scallen, J.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Smith, E.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar.
Sutter, L.—Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Scheuerman, J.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Sullivan, V.—Mention in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d History; 1st Premium in 2d Geography.
Scheiffele, C.—1st Premium in 2d History; xst Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Tong, J.—2d Mention in 7th Latin; 2d.Premium for Piano.	-
Teeter, C.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.	.
Thornton, D.—Mention in 2d Geography; 1st Premium for Piano. .	-
Tod, E.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; xst Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; Mention in 2d History; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Thomas, A.—Mention in 2d History; Mention in 2d Geography.
Wolff, E.—2st Premium in 1st Geometry; 3d Premium in Modern History; Mention in Zoology; 2d Premium in 2d German.
Welch, A.—2d Premium in 2d Book Keeping; 3d Premium in 1 st Arithmetic.
Schillo, F.—Premium for Vocal Music.
Yingst, H.—Mention in Sth Latin.
Zoehrlaut, C.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Weinman, G.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Ayers, J.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; xst Premium in 4th Penmanship ; 3d Premium.in 4th Orthography.-
Allen, W.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Brown, F—4th Premium in xst Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in xst Grammar ; 3d Premium in xst Reading ; 2d Premium in xst Orthography ; 5th Premium in xst Geography ; 6th Premium for Piano.
• Brown, O.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 2d Pre
mium in 2d Grammar ; Premium in Piano ; xst Premium in 2d Geography.
Bixby, G.—xst Premium in xst Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in xst Grammar ; 5th Premium in xst Orthography ; 2d Premium in .xst Geography ; 3d Premium in 1 st. Reading.
Blumenthal, W.—xst Premium in 2d Grammar ; xst Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; Premium in'Piano ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.	1
Burns, T.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Blake, S.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; Premium in Piano ; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Crawford, W.—2d Premium in xst Grammar ; xst Premium for Piano ; 3d Premium in xst Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in xst Geography; xstPremium in xstReading.
Crawford, A.—1st Premium in xst Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in xst Grammar ; 3d Premium in xst Reading ; 2d Premium in xst Orthography ; 3d Premium for xst Piano ; 4th Premium in xst Geography.
Coquillard, A.—xst Premium in 4th Penmanship ; xst Premium in 4th Geography ; xst Premium in 4th Orthography.
Coquillard, J.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in Orthography ; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Cornell, F.—xst Premium for Piano ; xst Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; xst Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Coon, B. - 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography ; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Curry, J.—2d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 5th Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography ; 3d Premium for Violin.
Crandall, W.—2d Premium in 4th Geography ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 3d Reading ; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Chapoton, E.—2d Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography.
Cross, F.—xst Premium in 4th Reading ; xst Premium in 4th Penmanship ; 4th Premium in 4th. Geography.
Croke, F.—2d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Crepeau, F.—4th Premium in 5th Reading ; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Crepeau, 0.—3d Premium in 5th Reading ; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Christ, E.—xst Premium in 5th Reading ; xst Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; xst Premium in 5th Orthography ; Premium for Piano.	'	"
Corry, J.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; xst Premium in 5th Orthography ; xst Premium in 5th Reading.
Drant, C.—xst Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Donnell, L.—2d Premium in 4th Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Donnell, S.—xst Premium in 4th Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.	.
Durant, H.—xst Premium for Piano ; 3d Premium in xst Arithmetic ; xst Premium in xst Grammar ; 3d Premium in xst Orthography ; 5th Premium in xst Geography ; xst Premium in Reading.
Ezekiel, E.—xst Premium in 2d Grammar ; xst Premium in 2d Orthography ; xst Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; xst Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine. '
Enerest, A.—xst Premium in4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Freeman, B.—xst Premium in 5th Orthography ; xst Premium in 5th Reading ; 4th Piemium in 5th Arithmetic.	'
Furthmann, E.—xst Premium in 2d Penmanship ; 3d Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 4th Premiixm in 2d Grammar.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	fa
1	Fuller, W.—2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium
in 4th Geography ; 3d Premium in 4th Penmanship ; Premium for Piano.
Furthmann, C.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar ; Premium for Piano ; 2d Pre-। mium in 2d Geography. .	-
i	Fischer, A.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship ; 3d Pre-
j mium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Reading ; j Premium in German.
i	Fossick, L.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar ; 5th Pre-
| mium in 4th Aiithmetic ; 3d Premium in 2d Penman-| ship.
|	. Funke, G.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Pre-
mium in 1st Grammar ; 4th Premium in 1st Orthog-| raphy ; 4th Premium in 1st Reading.
i	Francis, E.—3d Premium in 5th Reading ; 4th Pre-
\ mium in 5th Arithmetic.
;	Finnerty, T.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 1st Pre-
| mium in 1st Orthography ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1 1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Finnerty, W.—2d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Pre-j mium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthog-:	raphy ; 2d Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Freeman, J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 2d PreIl mium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; 5 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
I	Girardin, W.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 4th
Premium in 1st Grammar ; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography ; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
Gavin, W.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 1st Premium in 4th Geography ; 3d Premium in ’ 3d Reading.
Girsch, C.—1st Premium 2d Reading ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Griesheimer, F.—ist Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 3d Reading.	•
Hoffmann, W.—1st Premium in 4th Reading ; 1st Pre-■ mium in 4th Penmanship ; 1st Premium in 4th Geography ; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
• Hathaway, H.—Premium for Piano ; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d German ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Hamilton, W.—1st Premium in 1st Reading ; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar ; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography ; 3d Premium in ist ' Geography ; Premium for Piano.
Higginson, F.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Reading.
Howell, M.—1st Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Healy, J.—3d1 Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 3d Reading ; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Jonquet, E.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography. •
Jones, H.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; Premium in 4th Geography. .
Kinney, G.—2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 4th Geography. .	Krollman, C. -Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in
,	2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 3d Pre-
mium in 2d Orthography.
Kuehl,-E.—2d Premium in 3d Reading ; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
King, E.—1st Premium in 2d Geography ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Kern, C-— 1st Premium-in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 3d Premium in 3<TReading. \	.
’ Keeler, S.—2d Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
. Loomis, B.—Premium for. Piano ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium • in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Lonergan, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Pre
mium in 2d Reading ; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Loughran, L.—4th Premium in 5th Reading ; 5th Premium in 5th' iVrithmetic ; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography ; 4th Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Levi, M.—2d Premium in 1st Reading ; 4th Premium in Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in Grammar ; 2d Premium in Orthography.
Lounsberry, J.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Lowrey, G.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Lowrey, T.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Langevin, E.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Langley, C.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Lee, G.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography ; 4th Premium in 1st Geography ; 3d Premium in xst Reading ; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar.
La Moure, W.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Reading.
La Moure, E.—ist Premium in 5th Arithmetic; is.t Premium in 5th Reading ; 1st Premium in 5th Orthography ; ist Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Londoner, H.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 1st Premium 3d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; Premium for Piano. ’	’
McPhee, C.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 1st Geography ; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography ; 1st Premium for Vocal Music ; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
Maternes, J.— 1st Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 2d Penman^hip 5 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
McIntyre, R.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 5th Penmanship.
McPhillips, F.—4th Premium in ist’Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Geography ; 5th Premium in ist Orthography ; 4th Premium in ist Reading.
Mestling, H.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship ; Premium for Piano.	'	.	'
Mestling, E.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Reading ; -Premium for Piano.	.
Marre, J.—ist Premium in ist Geography ; ist Premium in Orthography ; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic ; ist Premium in ist-Grammar ; ist Premium in ist Geography.
McGinley, J.—ist Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 3d Arthmetic; ist Premium 2d Christian Doctrine ; Premium for Piano.
McLeod, K.—ist Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ;
3d Premium in 3d Orthography.	•	-
McCarthy, R.—ist Premium in 5th Orthography ; ist Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Penmanship.	■	...
Nichols, C.—ist Premium in 4th Orthography ;• 2d Premium in 4 th Christian Doctrine ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; Premium for Piano. '	•
O’Neill, J.—ist Premium ist Grammar ; ist Premium ist Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in ist Orthography ; ist Premium in Geography.	■	•.
O’Connor, E—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Grammar ; ist Premium in 2d Penmanship; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d'Premium in 2d Orthography.
Otero, M.—2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Pieser, J.—ist Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Preminin
67S	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthograph}’.
Platts, F.—2d Premium in 3d Reading ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography.
Pcllenz, J.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar ; 2d Premium in 1st Reading ; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography ; Premium for Piano.
Patier, W.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 3d Premium in 3d Reading.
Ransome, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premiums in 2d Geography ; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship. *
Ronning, A.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography ; Premium for Piano.
Rose, W.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Roesing, F.—1st Premium in 1st Reading ; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium for Piano.
Russell, C.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Stephens, P.—1st Premium in ist Reading ; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography ; 4th Premium in 1st Geography.
Steele, F.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Scherrer, G.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 3d Reading.
Scherrer, W.—1st Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine ; Premium for Piano.
Stone, L.—1st Premium in 1st Geography ; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 4th Premium in 1st Reading.
Trujillo, P.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Penmanship ; Premium for Piano.
Trankle, P.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 1st German ; Premium for Piano ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Thomas, H.—2d • Premium in 4th Reading ; '2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic. .
Vorhang, H.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Wolf, F.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 4th Premium in xst Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 1st Reading ; 3d Premium in ist Geography ; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography ; Premium for Piano. •	•
Wilcox, D.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship. .
White, B.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship ; 4th Premium in 3d Reading.	.
Warburton, F.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 5th Penmanship ; 2d Premium in 5th Reading.	’
Washburne, V.—ist Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; '2d Premium in 1st Geography ; 3d Premium in 1st Reading ; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography.
Windmiller, A.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.	•	,	.
Young, L.—3d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography.
Zoehrlaut, G.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in ist Grammar ; 3d Premium in ist Reading ; ist Premium in ist Orthography ; 5th Premium in ist Geography ; Premium for Piano.	.
St Mapy’s flsademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Attending the Commencement exercises were many pupils of former years, among whom were Miss A.Shephard, ’87; Miss M. F. Murphy, ’88; Miss M. Kearns, ’88; Miss A. Donnelly, ’89; Miss K. Gavan, ’89; Miss M. Clifford, ’90; Miss B. Snowhook, ’88; Miss E. Balch, ’89; Miss M. Sullivan, ’88; Miss C. Dempsey, ’90; Miss M. Ryan, Hancock, Mich.; Miss M. Hutchinson, Miss H. Nester, Marquette, Michigan; Miss E. Wright, Chicago; Mrs.M. Morse Clarke.
—The absence of Very P_ev. Father General from the Commencement exercises was greatly regretted not only by the pupils, who remember with gratitude his kind, encouraging words during the year, but also by his spiritual children and old-time friends to whom his presence in the past was a source of pleasure. However, from across the sea comes the cheering news of his returning health and vigor which soon, we hope, will restore him to his western home and affectionate children.	,
—The tercentenary anniversary of the death of St. Aloysius was observed with Solemn High Mass, celebrated by Rev. L. L’Etourneau, C.S.C., assisted by Rev. Father Scherer as deacon and Rev. J. Reuter as subdeacon. The sermon, by Rev. Father Hudson, bore chiefly upon the text: “What shall it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose his own soul?” and was a last touching appeal to the pupils to be true to the teachings instilled at St. Mary’s, and, indeed, it was a discourse that could not fail to awaken the noblest aspirations of each soul.
The Thirty-Sixth Annual Commencement.
While yet the air was laden with the perfumed breath of roses and during the brightest and balmiest of days occurred the Commencement exercises of St. Mary’s Academy for the year ’90-91. Without smiled the bluest of skies upon inviting stretches of green sward, above leaf-embowered arbors and over the silvery sheen of the winding river, while delightful breezes swayed the limbs of many a stalwart oak, and agitated the leafage of the tremulous aspen. Within was a widely different scene, where sat the large audience of St. Mary’s friends and patrons, watching the graceful entrance of the pupils, as with the poetry of motion they kept time to the ringing notes of the grand entrance march. As they came forward to greet the assembly with a graceful courtesy, the beautiful simplicity of their white costumes was a subject of favorable comment to those who recognized the fact that youthful charms need no foreign aid. Then by the happy, smiling actors, whose hearts beat high with sweet anticipations, was performed
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*>79
the last act in the drama of the school year. The programme on Monday was as follows: “ Gipsy Chorus ”.......................Schumann
Vocal Class.—Accompanied by Miss S. Ludwig.
Essay—“The Folio of our Years”......M.McFarland Essay—“Duty, the Pole Star of Life”.C. Hurley
“Grand Valse Caprice d’apres”.....Strauss-Tausig
■	Miss C. Gibbons.
Essay—“Noth entwickelt Kraft”..........G. Lauth
‘Ave Maria”...........................Marchetti
Misses Horner, Balch, Wile, Murphy, Hughes, Bassett, Eisenstaedt,
McFarland, O'Brien, Howe, Allen, Buck, Johnson, Dority, Hurley, Gibbons, Hutchinson and Hamilton.
Essay—“ Bonds of Sympathy ”............O. O’Brien
Essay—“Fruit Blossoms”.................H. Morse
Violin Solo—“Air Varie en La”..........De Beriot
Miss G. Bogart.
Essay—“ La reconnaissance est la memoire du cceur ” Miss K. Morse.
Essay—“The Spirit of Unrest”...........I.	Horner
“Toccata and Fugue” in D Minor.........J.	S. Bach
J. Dority.
Essay—“I Have Eaten Thy Bread, Shall I now Forsake Thee?”.................................K.	Hurley
Poem—“Of Thine own Country Sing”.......G. Clarke “Annie Laurie ”—Harmonized for four voices.
Misses Horner, Murphy, Johnson and Hughes. Harp accompaniment—E. Nester.
Essay—“This too Shall Pass Away”.......J. Currier
Poem—“Auld Lang Syne ”.................T. Balch
“Grand Polonaise”—Opus 22................Chopin
O. O’Brien.
“ Let Their Celestial Concerts all Unite ”.Handel Vocal Class.
Tuesday, June 23.	.
March..............................Wagner-Bulow
Pianos—Misses O’Brien, Gibbons, Dority, Ludwig, C. Hurley, Me Farland, Hughes and Nickel.
Harps—Misses Nester and DuBois.
Chorus—“Ring out Wild Bells”.............Chopin
Vocal Class—Accompanied by Miss Ludwig. Distribution of premiums, Junior department.
“L’Invito Alla Danza”.................Von	Weber
I. Horner—Accompanied by O. O’Brien.
Preparatory Department.	'
Poem—“Youth Speaks to Age”.............M. Hurff
Senior Department.
Sextette from “Lucia”..................Donizetti
Misses Horner, Balch, Wile, Murphy, Bassett, Hughes
Accompanied by Miss J. Dority, “A World’s Affair”............Juniors and Minims
Reminiscences of “ Norma”—for three pianos.Liszt
Misses O. O’Brien, Dority and Gibbons.
Canto and Chorus........................Rossini
Canto—I Horner. Chorus—Vocal Class.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in Academic Dep’t Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in Conservatory of Music.
Distribution of Crowns of Honor in Senior, Preparatory and Junior Departments.
Valedictory.......................R. Van Mourick
Closing Remarks.............Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding
Retiring March.......................Hans	Huber
Pianos—Misses Nester, Ryder, Currier, H. Morse, Ryan,
Tormey, Wurzburg and Quealey.
On Monday, June 22—known as “Concert Day,” interspersed with vocal and instumental music of a high order—were read the essays of the Graduating Class. These literary productions evinced much talent and depth of thought on the part of the writers, and—as regards the poetic efforts especially—even a classic taste. They were well received, and by competent judges pronounced of unusual excellence, thus speaking well for the literary culture achieved by fidelity to the course. The musical accents of France were heard to fine effect through the reading of the French essay by
Miss K. Morse, while the ease with which Miss G. Lauth pronounced the strong and sonorous sentences of the well-writen German essay showed a reader “to the manor born.” Miss M. Hurff’s essay was in the form of a poem— “Youth Speaks to Age”—which she recited in the graceful manner characteristic of all her elocutionary efforts, thereby winning favorable criticisms from her auditors.
The representation, “A World’s Affair,” by the Juniors and Minims was loudly applauded, abounding, as it did, in many hits and strokes of humor relative to “the powers that be.” It represented the various nations in conclave assembled discussing the pros and cans in regard to the coming World’s Fair,-their contemptuous opinion of these United States changing in the end to abject submission in the presence of the Stars and Stripes. The whole was of a mirthprovoking nature into the spirit of which those taking part heartily entered, thus acquitting themselves in a creditable manner. Then followed the rewards in the form of crowns of honor and premiums for laborious hours spent in the study-hall and class-room as well as for efforts to acquire a right to the title of “true gentlewomen.” The diplomas and elegant gold medals awarded the members of the Graduating Class were received from the hands of Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding, the happy recipients being as follows: The Misses T. Balch, Omaha, Nebraska; J. Currier, Almont, Mich.; G. Clarke,Algona, Iowa; C. and K. Hurley, Franklin, Penn.; I. Horner, Topeka, Kansas; M. Hurff, Elmwood, Ill.; H. Morse, Grinnell, Iowa; M. McFarland, Wapakoneta, Ohio; O. O’Brien, Topeka, Kansas; R. Van Mourick, Houghton, Mich.
The Valedictory, read by Miss Van Mourick, was in the form of verse, in which touching reference was made to the happy hours of school life, the address evincing a keen appreciation of its advantages and sadness at the severing of school ties. The effect of the pathetic lines was enhanced by the gentle and modest demeanor of the valedictorian, who, with evident reluctance, said farewell to teachers, companions and friends. As its last words were pronounced then came forward the orator of the day—Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding. His eloquent voice, ever lifted up in advocacy of education, again rang out in a stirring plea for that cause which lies so near his heart. In burning words he declared that education is emancipation, and that the untaught mind is imprisoned— education unbarring the door and setting the prisoner free. That he who would secure ease, grace and poise of mind, heart and hand, must
I
6So	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
receive these through that boon—education. That ignorance is enslavement, and that no womanly beauty can suffer hurt from a cultivated mind. With fervid eloquence he showed that the meaning of high civilization is the freedom of woman; and that, gifted with the same endowments as man, equal privileges should be hers. But to convey an adequate idea of this magnificent burst of eloquence would be impossible; fully to appreciate its glowing words, they should be heard as they came warm from the lips of this most magnetic of speakers. Hence it would seem that when so chivalrous an advocate as this distinguished prelate hesitates not to break a lance in the cause of higher education and of woman, forever silenced should be the ignoble fling that o	o
the Church fosters ignorance.
Among the clergymen present at the Commencement exercises were Right Rev. Bishop Spalding, Peoria, Ill.; Rt. Rev. Bishop Grimes, New Zealand; Very Rev. Father Corby, C.S.C.; Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau, Scherrer, Cooney, Zahm, French, O’Neill, Spillard, C. S. C.; Rev. Fathers O’Gara, McShane, Griffin, Muldoon, O’Sullivan, Mooney, Gillen, Byrne, Dunn, Van de Laar, Chicago; Rev. A. Lambing, Pittsburgh, Pa.; the Rev. Fathers Crowley, of Laporte; O’Reilly of Danville, Maher of Grand Rapids, Dinnen of Crawfordsville, Evers of New York City, Oechtering of Mishawaka, Bleckman of Michigan City, and Baroux of Michigan.
THE MUSIC AT COMMENCEMENT.
Monday, Concert Day.—On this day the programme consists of the Graduates’ essays— English, French and German, interspersed with instrumental solos by the Music Graduates, sextettes, concerted pieces, and choruses by pupils selected from the vocal department. As a synopsis of literary work is given elsewhere, we confine ourselves to a few remarks on the musical selections and their performance.
The opening was Robert Schumann’s brilliant “Gipsy Chorus,” which cannot be too often heard, so expressive is it of the gay, wayward, indolent life of the poet’s imaginary Gipsy. The vocal class entered fully into its merry, reckless, spirit, giving forth their voices in cheery tones. Miss Ludwig’s effective accompaniment to this and other numbers throughout the two days'showed her to be, what is unfortunately, too rare—an accomplished accompanist.
Miss C. Gibbon’s piano solo was a difficult “Valse Capricen ” d'aprcs the old J. Strauss, arranged by Carl Tausig. It is piquant and dashing in style, at times elegant in its sim-
e (
plicity, and yet full of the strict exactions of technical skill. This perfect success as an undergraduate shows what, another year will produce when she will receive the highest reward in the First Course of J^usic—the gold medal.
The next number on the programme read “Ave Maria,” a semi-chorus by Marchetti. To speak candidly, I dreaded to hear the selection, having often heard such productions rendered in the flippant, bravura parlor or concert show songs—derogatory both to the subject and the holy name, once pronounced so reverently by the Archangel Gabriel to the humble Virgin of Nazareth. The first few melting-soft harmonies at once awakened the slumbering echoes of religious sympathy in the charmed audience. Such an “Ave Maria ” needs no praise; it was truly sound sanctified!
Miss Bogart next appeared, and gave a pleasing rendition of “ Air Varie en La,” by Ch. de Beriot, on the violin, accompanied on the piano by Miss O. O’Brien. Though very timid, Miss Bogart showed careful work in the difficulties of bowing and execution. Obedience alone could have produced such happy results during the short time she has been under her gifted teacher, Prof. Seidel—known in Chicago musical circles as an artist among artists.
“Toccata and Fugue in D Moll,” by John Sebastian Bach, was next. We dare not speak of the brain creations of a man whose soul, it has been so aptly said, “contained the germs of all future art.” Every day corroborates this saying; the world now is but beginning to realize the God-given genius possessed by the “old Bach” of 1685. Any young lady might feel honored to be entrusted to interpret such vast ideas. Miss Dority felt the importance of her task, and, in trembling obedience, conquered.
“Annie Laurie,” arranged in quartette form— the parts being taken by the Misses Horner, Murphy, Wile and Hughes, accompanied on the harp by Miss Nester—gave a grateful variety to the programme. All old Scotch songs are charming, being the essence of simplicity and truth to human nature. The heart never grows old, and responds to the universality of music’s language—which needs no dialect, but her mystic sounds.
The last instrumental solo was played by Miss O. O’Brien—Chopin’s “Opus 22”, well known, it is true, but ever exhibiting new beauties under the refined touch. One may speak of the content of a composer’s work, but how few can cause others to hear the indivuality of his subject! To fully realize this grand “Polonaise”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
681
one should read Liszt’s description of this ancient national dance of Poland, and then make it vivid to the eye and audible to the ear. For the time being one should be a Polish patriot— a Chopin. Then his wondrous weavings of interlaced gorgeous hues become but the foldings and unfoldings of strict science and beautiful aesthetic art, apparently so easy and yet so difficult to' interpret. All were delighted with Miss O’Brien’s success, especially those who heard her last year, and predicted that she would certainly become a credit to herself and St. Mary’s. It was easy to recognize those prophets by their self-satisfied looks and nods which said plainly “I told you so.”
The best number from the vocal class was reserved to close in a fitting manner this memorable day of pure pleasure. G. F. Handel’s grand chorus “Let their Celestial Concerts all Unite” was the choice selection. Rendered by the fresh, youthful vocalists, in a spirit unheard and unfelt elsewhere—that of gratitude and thanksgiving—which their faithful guardian angels might well present at the throne of God.
TUESDAY, JUNE 23.	.
The entrance march this year was one of Richard Wagner’s earliest efforts, dedicated to his staunch friend and patron “SeinerMajestat Ludwig II. Konig von Bayern”; and this composition embraced in embryo many of his ideas developed later on in his vast works. The pealing tones of the “Huldigung” sprang to life under the powerful touch of the Misses O. O’Brien, C. Gibbons, J. Dority, S. Ludwig, C. Hurley, M. McFarland, M. Hughes and L. Nickel on the pianos; while the Misses E. Nester and L. Du Bois presided' at the harps. There is always a peculiar ring about an entrance march—the harmonies must be full and clear-cut. No pedal to be used to cover defects, or, what is nearer the truth, to be their cause. The time must be invariable. All these requirements were observed. So much praise lavished on former occasions leaves but one congratulation to express: that this year’s performance was equal to the days of yore. By some it was regretted that the new hall was not ready. Others rejoiced to graduate from the precincts of the old beloved one, around which were so many holy recollections of events and persons gone.
“ Ring out, Wild Bells ” was the first chorus on this day’s programme, adapted to the melodies of Chopin’s famed Funeral March. The effect was striking as the fitful strains rolled on, at times sombre and gloomy, then in short, gushing bursts of brighter sounds creating a pleasing variety. The vocal class did justice to this unique
selection, although under the intimidating ordeal of singing before somewhat nervously anxious parents, and the many connoisseurs among the large audience. Miss Ludwig was admirable as an accompanist, and will develop greatly her versatility.
“L’lnvito alia Danza,” by Von Weber. Owing to the unavoidable length of this day’s exercises, but one solo could possibly find space. This bravura descriptive song brings vividly to mind a ball-room scene which is expressed so clearly that it cannot fail of recognition. All is there— lights, music and playful badinage. Miss Irene Horner seized the idyll thought, and gave it wings, soaring to the highest point—E flat in alt—and fairly playing with other difficulties. Her progress since last year is remarkable for one so young; when her voice strengthens by more culture she will take a place in society among its favored cantatrices. Miss O’Brien shared the honor of this piece by her dialogistic accompaniment.	*
The celebrated sext&tte from “ Lucia”brought forward other fine voices, forming a bouquet of different registers. Among these musical color shades, Miss M. Hughes’ low, velvety tints were prominent in tone and legato training. Miss J. Dority accompanied in her own graceful manner to the perfectly blended melodies into delightful harmonies.
“ Reminiscences of Norma,” concerted in style, was played on three separate pianos by the Misses O’Brien, J. Dority and C. Gibbons, who portrayed the pathetic pleadings of “ Norma,” the obdurate spirit of her father, the Druid Priest, the conflict between his duty and parental affection. The martial music of' the Roman cohorts, and the rage of the people, demanded every form of uncommon technic to make pianos ring as brass. The introduction leading to a lovely concerted passage, which suddenly burst into the famous march wherein is heard the prancing cavalry steeds, the glisten of armor and the clashing ring of metallic lances and long swords,—passing on to other scenes of liquid melody, broken by the tumultuous shouts of the enraged multitude, who could no longer be held at bay—and the piece closes by this fearful onslaught of human passions in maddening velocity. The three players rose from the instruments amidst prolonged applause, having proved that they fully merited the awaiting reward.
After this, in strong contrast, came Canto and Chorus, “Inflammatus” from Rossini’s “Stabat Mater.” The canto was taken by Miss Horner in dulcet tones, and sped zephyr-like, while the chorus, in subdued, sighing, sobbing accents,
682
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
made one’s heart throb, to which a gentle crescendo 'was a relief. 'Again arose a melody of hidden grief, and the chorus following brought tears to many an eye. These two last renditions were ample proof of the power of music for evil or for good.
After all was over, the Misses Nester, Ryder, Currier, H. Morse, A. Ryan, Tormey, N. Wurzburg, and Quealy took seats at the pianos, and “Huber’s March” for retiring gave out sparkling, joyous strains as each pupil made her final salutation. It was interesting to note the expression of mingled joy and regret on their candid faces. “ May we have the happiness to meet and hear them again!” was the unsung refrain of the distinguished and well-pleased audience.
THE ART EXHIBIT.
Always an attractive apartment, the Studio this year proved no exception to the rule, and thither went all lovers of that art which has been rightly called “silent poetry.” Here the most aesthetic taste found gratification amid gems in oil, water-colors, crayon and pencilling, all seeming to challenge admiration. While it is difficult to choose amid work so well done, yet it would seem that the palm of excellence must be awarded to certain exhibits deserving special mention. Thus among the pieces in oil, the Mater Dolorosa showed no small share of talent, meriting praise for faithfulness of execution and pathos of expression.
Chief among the water-color exhibits was a study in books, representing several volumes lying upon a table draped in glowing red, near to which might be seen the red plush back of an easy chair. One book stood open, revealing a charming picture of the Annunciation, with the heavenly messenger Gabriel bent in homage before her “ full of grace.” One feature particularly noticeable was the number of shells reproduced, showing that to the artist these delicate and curiously-shaped objects are darling themes for the pencil and brush. A collection of these among the water-color paintings, deserves special mention for fineness of touch and blending of colors, the iridescent hues of the mother-of-pearl being faithfully reproduced. Pencillings were in profusion; graceful sprays, flowers, shells of various, fanciful forms, and, in particular, two studies in blocks showed the light and delicate touch of the gifted workers. &	&
The work in crayon was well represented by the busts of Apollo and Diana; but the exhibits around which lingered the largest circle of admirers were the arm, with its background of graceful drapery, and the “Immaculate Con-
ception” with its crown of stars. The display of ornamental needlework was unusually fine, and the apartment was bright with dashes of color combined with delicate taste into the various fanciful forms devised by lovers of the beautiful. Artistic skill was shown in the exhibit of Roman embroidery well calculated to delight the heart of the modern housewife. In the centre of the room was a table, upon which stood a bewildering array of jewel cases, toilet sets, and the score of dainty trifles that skilful fingers fashion from ribbons, silk and lace. The gorgeous plumage of the peacock and bird of paradise seemed to glow with the colors of a tropical, clime, all reproduced with a fidelity that showed the needle’s growing importance as a rival with the brush.
Valedictory.
The thoughts of ages gone ring out to-day,
With all their old-time power the heart to thrill,
And words, attuned to Truth’s sweet voice, are still, Obedient to her heaven-appointed sway.
The ever-fleeting cycles bring decay,
And buoyant life must nature’s law fulfil;
But simple truth, unversed in worldly skill, Lives on unchanged, while all else pass away.
Adown the years from every land and clime, Upon the streams of thought that towards us roll,
Has come the truth, made consecrate by time:
“ This life is as a voyage to a goal
Of beauty unconceived by thought sublime, A vessel outward bound is the young soul.’’ .
The builder of the ship that launches out
Upon the gleaming waters of the sea,
The toilers who have worked so faithfully
With patient skill, that every part about	•
The craft should be of timbers staunch and stout,
Look on, and when, her moorings all cut free,
And pennants waving high in jubilee, She glides away, fond greetings long they shout.
And yet across their sunlit hopes there creep
Dim fears of sweeping tides and rock-bound shore, Of dangers lurking low within the deep;
And thoughts of argosies that came no more
To land. The golden sunset’s fringes keep
The future of the bark a hidden lore.	.
And we, to-day, with friends and parents near,
Are outward bound upon the sea of life,
Whose glancing waves with heavenly tints are rife, - . And from whose depths, low lutes sing sweet and clear.
“ Sail on before the breeze, away with fear!
Thy prow shall cut the way, a two-edged knife;
' With sun-kissed foam and spray thy only strife, And water-nymphs thy vessel safe shall steer.”
But, ’neath the song we hear a minor tone
That sings, too, of life’s sea unto the heart;
It tells us that the distant breezes moan, . When from youth’s moorings we have cut apart;
And wrecks oft bring the tale, and wrecks alone, Of death and ruin to many a longed-for mart.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
’Tis true, our hearts are joyous, yet we know That in life’s voyage we will dangers find; . The sunlight has^not made our vision blind To shadows dark. Deep under currents flow Beneath the waves that brightly gleam and glow We feel. But, guided by a Pilot, loving, kind, We'fear not waves, nor storm, nor adverse wind, And full of hope, we bravely seaward go.
For years our Alma Mater hath been true Unto her trust; and she hath formed our souls .
To sail the sea ’neath leaden skies or blue;
Tho’ storm-clouds lower and deep thunder rolls, With faith, the beacon, ever full in view,
Our bark shall safely pass life’s dangerous shoals.
But e’er we leave the harbor where our days Of happy, care-free, youth-tide have been spent, Where thoughts have been to virtue’s sweet form ,bent,
We pause, upon our school-life once to gaze, And swift our grateful hearts and voices raise To God in warm and glad acknowledgment, • That we were by His guiding power here sent, To learn the wondrous wisdom of His ways.
And now we turn unto those friends most dear— The friends who bear that sacred name in truth;
The friends whose words of counsel and of cheer Wove gleams of sunshine in our days of youth;
Their names we’ll cherish, be we far or near, In days of joy, or in dark days of ruth.
Right Reverend Bishop Spalding, unto you We offer words of welcome most sincere; In presence of the friends assembled here, We gladly pay a tribute richly due For service in the cause of all that’s true.
Your name we shall for evermore revere
Close bound with those by sacred ties made dear, And when life’s waves bear sprays of bitter rue, We’ll turn unto these happy, youthful days, And pondering well the words you have addressed
To-us, our hearts to noble aims shall raise, And bending powers to the soul’s behest
We must succeed. ’Tis true, across life’s ways New friends may sail; we know “the old are best.”
s
To Very Reverend Father General, we Would fain our heartfelt gratitude express; We fain would kneel that he might once more bless
Our lives; but far away across the sea
We send our farewell greetings. Prayer is free As swift-winged bird, and where the waves caress Fair France, ’twill bear our thoughts of tenderness, And for remembrance a sweet pleader be.
Our Chaplain dear, the guardian of our soul, Who for our need hath broke the bread of life,
Your name is graven deep in memory’s scroll; And your kind words, when evil powers are rife, Shall guide our bark in safety to the goal Where holy peace shall hush the voice of strife.
The name of “ Mother ” bids the heart chords swell; And there are tnose to whom that sacred name ' We give in grateful love. Unknown to fame, The holiest memories round them ever dwell;
The records writ above alone shall tell
Their glorious deeds, illumed by seraph’s flame. Dear Mothers, in our sorrow we can frame
A thousand thoughts, and but one word—farewell!
Of you, ’dear Mother, who have taught our hearts The truths of science, and the only lore
That gives to science worth, the art of arts, ■ The way to God,—we ask one kindness more,
That we may be, tho’ time so rudely parts, Your children ever, as in days of yore. '	.
Loved Prefects, you will not forget to pray
That o’er life’s treacherous sea our bark may sail In safety, and that light may never fail—
The light of Heaven to guide us in our way.
The sun of joy may hide from us his ray;
The star of happiness wax dim and pale,
And dangers gather round our vessel frail, But there is One whom winds and waves obey. . And you, who have been ever kind and true, Will not forget us, though we may be far
Away. Our souls shall oft in thought renew The memories of our youth, which, like hope’s star,
Shall lead us on, until before our view There breaks eternal light, “beyond the bar.”
My cherished classmates, we have labored years Together, and sweet friendship’s silken ties Have bound us close; but now before us rise
New duties' calling verging ways. And tears Proclaim our grief as time of parting nears.
A friendship born of Heaven never dies,
It lives eternally beyond the skies; ' If such the love that heart to heart endears.
In this our class, O let us pledge to-day A union true of souls! and you, our friends,
The schoolmates we have met upon our way, To each the Class of ’91 extends •
The hope that all your future school life may Be rich in joy—the joy that Heaven sends.
St. Mary’s: Ah! thy very name is fraught
With loving memories. Alas! no more
Shall we traverse thy halls. The days are o’er, Forever flown, when we with little thought The holiday, the idle day, oft sought. -
The future, what hath it for us in store?
* What lies between us and the Heavenly shore? By Time alone can time’s hid ways be taught.
But this we know: where’er our footsteps roam— In city streets or in the woodland dell,
In foreign lands across the ocean's foam— Where’er in future years we chance to dwell,
St. Mary’s shall be cherished as our home, The home to which we bid a sad farewell.
The time draws near when to the open sea
Our bark must turn its course, and sorrow’s tears At parting from the home of childhood’s.years, Make dim the joy our laurels bring. To thee, O “ Stella Maris,” do we come with plea	..
. Of children to a mother dear! Our fears
Thou canst allay. The hour of parting nears, Do thou safe guide us to eternity.	..
O Alma Mater, bless your children true, Who ’neath your hallowed roof no more shall dwell!
Loved teachers, ’tis with tears we turn to you, And yet, our lips cannot our heart throbs tell. - .
Dear classmates, schoolmates, let us now renew. Allegiance firm, sealed by the word “ farewell ”!
Rose Van Mourick.
684	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“This too Shall Pass Away.”
We stand on the bank of a rapid river, and watch its turbulent waters rushing away to meet the sea. In it are mirrored the hosts of stars—reflections ever changing and restless as the swift waters hurrying onward to the ocean. Life’s mighty river is sweeping on and on, bearing Time to Eternity; its surface shadowed here and there by the lives and works of men, the joys and sorrows of the world—that world of which St. John says: “It passeth away.” But what is Time ? It is change—a change rapid and inevitable; yet, borne on in its very current, we are often unconscious of its speed. As in the dreamy languor of a summer’s day, lulled into forgetfulness by the song of the waves, we have held in our half-shut hand the sand of the seashore, and watched it slipping away through our fingers, so do we see, without heeding, the moments of time slip from the grasp of Life, bearing with them the hopes and fears of youth, the aims of manhood, and the disappointments of old age. It is on the tombs of yesterday that we build to-day, and to-morrow’s generation will rise from out our dust. But why should we weep that all things pass away? If the works of yesterday were the works of to-day, if time made no changes in the human heart, if the stains of iniquity grew not dim ’neath the tears of age, then, indeed, ’twere cause to weep. “The . pleasures of the world are as transitory as the running waters,” says the prophet of sadness, but the law of change whispers to us in hours of grief: “This too shall pass away”; agonies of pain find surcease in time, and in their passing, the soft light of endurance they shed throws a tender radiance over life.
There is a deep fascination in peering into the future. There is a delight in hours of anticipation that blinds us to all thoughts save those of joy, and realization alone teaches us that, as the shadows mark the hour on the dial, so pain, not pleasure, marks our steps until time for us shall be no more.
But must Time forever bring change? Is naught exempt? In all the works of God around us, is mutation inevitable? Surely, this powerful intellect with which Almighty God has endowed man must find something to which it can hold, something that will withstand the ravages of years and remain firm and unyielding throughout the long cycles which mark the world’s age.
In answer, Science, the faint reflection of God’s omniscience, opens wide her portals and bids man enter and explore her domains of evervarying phenomena. A Kepler, a Newton, a Herschel and a Franklin have wandered there and sought to reveal her hidden mysteries. Their theories have revolutionized the world; yet later ones, clothed in the vesture of novelty, have claimed attention,and new names stand side by side with theirs on earth’s calendar of renown.
But does Art hold nothing immortal? Have
the famous masters of old left nothing that will defy the devastating hand of Time ? A Raphael and a "Michael Angelo lived their day and died, and Time forever rushing oh will bring the moment when not one vestige of their glorious labor will remain, save that which was traced by angel hands on the Eternal roll of fame.
Surely, the poet has wrought in the expression of his soul’s thought something of the Divine. Thought is immortal; and is there not in the singer’s masterpiece one idea so pure, so noble, that it will speak to the hearts of humanity until the end of time? Ah! there is nothing new under the sun; and the thought which we claim as our own has echoed in every clime and among every people. New form it may take, and beautiful may be its changing garb, yet never so new or strange but that other minds have called it forth, and other hearts beat quicker in response. And it passes on and away like a bird on the wing, and again we are forced to exclaim: “This too passed away.” Speak not of change to royalty enthroned in purple and environed by the strength of empire! Yet the sands of life are running as fast in the hour-glass of king as in that of peasant, and “Earth will claim her own to be resolved to earth again.”
We cast one yearning glance on the ruins of trust in science and in art, in crowns and in sceptres, and turn to that which the heart builds in obedience to Heaven-born impulse. Friendship rises before us and we feel sympathy, love and devotion welling up in the soul. ^Ve lay at its shrine our all of confidence, and bow before it; our very being is offered in its sanctuary; the world with its hollow mockery is shut apart from sight and hearing. Fearing no deception, we live only in the present. But the day comes when we awake to find our shrine desecrated and our dreams passed; our idols lay shattered in the temple of experience. Even this passed away!
Slowly the shadows of regret gather about us; sadly we part with the phantoms we have fondly cherished, and into our darkened intellect softly there steals the dawn of the divine truth, that “The earth holds nothing worthy the consecration of an immortaTsoul.” We cannot repel it and escape there is none; our will is at last passive in the hands of its Maker.
Prophecies have failed, tongues have ceased and knowledge has vanished away; but while the hope of this new dawn grows brighter around us, the endless river of Time still sweeps on, bearing the deeds of the children of men and laying them before the throne of God, there to be judged by a merciful Father. Out from our dead hopes rise new pleasures and joys, and from the life that has been given must come the justice due the Creator; for, “three score years and ten ” is the allotted time of man and, be he great or lowly, of his life must he say— “This too shall pass away.”
Jennie C. Currier.