This book is not- te token	the Library
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cfs. a Copy $3.00 the Year
February 12 19 3 2
TONIGHT in the Notre Dame Gym
THE
II BOXING SHOW
The Greatest Intra-Mural Sporting Event of the Winter Season
With Proceeds to the Bengal Missions
And BERNIE HEITZ, of Sorin, Meeting JOHN PERONE, of M	Corby, In The Local Battle of
The Century ......
Keeping ahead of the second hand
To keep telephone service in step with the swift pace of American life, Bell System men tackle many an absorbing problem, find many an ingenious solution.
For instance, they decided that precious seconds could be saved by a change in . long-established operating routine. The operator used to repeat the number called by the subscriber—now she indicates that
she understands by saying, “Thank you.” To appreciate the importance of the second thus saved, just multiply it by the 40,000,000 conversations handled by operators on the average day.
In the telephone business, major improvements that save the subscriber’s time and give him better service often result from just such apparently minor changes.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
Two
The Scholastic
Administration Building
«/
The Dome of Notre Dame . . .
Ever Traditional,
Ever Inspiring,	J
A Beacon Always for Notre Dame Men.
February 12, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	hk I g	I I g ■ Entered as second-dasa
lished weekly at the Univers- I	I 1	matter at Notre Dame. In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- ■ llw> ■	11	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	„	JT. . v	n nr •,	in9 at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section nos, October 3.1917, cations Office, Main Building.	.	tt t. t- t. ,	-	authorized June 25, 1918.
r<JUNUr«Dlobo	•
Neil C. Hurley.
Editor-in-Chi ef
William W. Corr, Managing Editor
James S. Kearns, Assistant Managing Editor
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM C. BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN.............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA ROY SCHOLZ MITCHELL TACKLEY JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND	PAUL FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors . JAMES CARMODY..............The	Week
JOHN PICK..............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES E. McFEELY........Sports Edtior
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JOSEPH KURTH	PAUL HOST
JOSEPH MORPER
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON........Features Editor HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O'BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER. Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. Jr.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’S Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY-... Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
FEBRUARY 12, 1932
Number 15.
SU MM AR Y
NEWS
The Scholastic Bengal boxing show will attract record crowd__________________________________ a
“The Insect World,” subject of Father Wenninger’s speech over WSBT______________________________ 5
Grid coach Anderson returns from the south with tales of fish and fishing--------------------- 6
Three hundred to attend annual football banquet; election of 1932 grid captain to take place--- 7
Brownson debaters chosen as campus’ best; receive the Lemmei- trophy____________________________11
Father Carroll writes of Irish life again in “Mich-aeleen,” his latest novel---------------------13
FEATURES
New John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering represents a complete Notre Dame effort------------16
Rare books in the library are rarely used; copy of Dante’s “Inferno” has prints dating to 1481---17
SPORTS
Billy Magarrall announces complete card for Bengal boxing show____________________________________20
Alex Wilson gains permanent possession of Wanamaker trophy by winning second Millrose “600” title ___________________________:_________________21
Notre Dame stages second half scoring spree to beat Syracuse 26 to 18 22
Interhall track meet plans announced by Charles Weiss______________________________________________26
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, February 12—Boxing Show, Notre Dame Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—Scholastic staff meeting, room 222, Main building, at 6:30 p. m.—Concert Orchestra Practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, February 13—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Western Reserve at Cleveland.—Indoor Track, Notre Dame vs. Iowa at Iowa City.—Paulist choir, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, February 14—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.
MONDAY, February 15—French club meeting, Room 1, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Bookmen meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Italian club meeting, Room 2, Main building, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, February 16—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—A. B. Lay Faculty meeting, Dining Hall, 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Concert Orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, February 17—International Relations club meeting, Journalism room, Library. 7:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, February 18—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, seminar room of the Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Patricians’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.
• Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
■ N spite of everything we must concede a point and present some sort of palm to Messers. Finneran and Ebert. They may have been a little autocratic in their methods and still sophomor-ish in their actions, but they did throw a swell dance. Every junior we talked to said so, anyway, between puffs of a long, black cigar. Credit must be given to the chairman of the decorations committee, we think, for his novel arrangement of the lounges, and the popularity of those same pieces of furniture, even if the palms looked a bit moth-eaten. Neil Ebert qualifies for a rating somewhere in the class of Houdini. We saw him tearing his hair in the wake of a big bucket of suds along about seven o’clock, while intelligent men with mops were swabbing each other’s shoes and tipping each others buckets over with unusual stolidity. Then he showed up around ten-thirty, shaved and combed and looking almost as good as his photo, with no intimation that he had just before that been dashing about on a pork-chop strewn floor. The only accomplishment that ever beat that was Bert Mottsett’s swallowing of a good portion of tack s and living long enough to enter the seminary. But then Bert was a senior at the time, and had been swallowing odds and ends for a long time before his masterpiece. As it is, there are still splendid opportunities for Neil to come through with a bang after getting such a knock-out start.
❖	❖ ❖
This Friday night there is no soft music nor shaded lights, but the glare of arcs and the hanging of heads on the boards of the ring— for tonight the boys battle for school and country, and medals, and good old Bengal. To most of the contestants Bengal is a place noted for tigers which they missed hearing about the time they were sick once in the eighth grade, but
their energy will be in no way restricted by that lack of knowledge. If it is true that their consenting to bang at each other entitles them to exemption from the Bengal collections on Sunday, then they will be unusually vigorous, prompted by the memory of Sundays when they had only a lone car slug to send off to the wilds. And tonight, don’t forget, Bernie Heitz, not to be outdone by any Bengalese animal, will teai’ out of his retreat to beard the Corby lion in his well-known den, bearing on his hairless chest the banner of the Sorin Aggies. Whether Primo Perone will keep the record of the Corby School of Expression still overbalanced on the defeat side will be history—it’s in the making tonight, and for a quarter 1 By the way, The Scholastic is running the bouts, in case the editor hasn’t made it plain in the news section.
❖	❖ ❖
E dodged around the end of the corridor the other evening to have a cigarette and bumped right into two other fellows with whom we had made a pact not to smoke, at least for forty days. After we had finished the cigarettes we all decided that candy was much more injurious than tobacco. Nor are we alone in this. Every nook and cranny these days holds sheepish smokers, and the cry is “Just one little drag —it won't count!” Luckies seem to have a fatal attraction, and the only way to overcome it is something which we are going to try and which we recommend to you. There is a doc in the Bend who will- for three dollars paint your throat with such an evil-tasting tincture that a good drag will leave your mouth in that inside-of-a-motorman’s-glove situation. You won’t sneak around corners any more, and after the stuff wears off Lent will be a plazhure. You can get the three bucks easily, too, if the lasterine ads are to be believed.
February 5, 1932
Five
BOXERS READ Y FOR GONG
FACULTY MEMBERS TALK ON SCIENCE OVER WSBT
Capacity Crowd Expected as Fighters Wind Up Drill for Notre Dame Titles
Father Wenninger and Prof. Reyniers First on Radio.
By Mitchell Tackley
Using as his subject, “The Insect World,” the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, opened the series of radio talks sponsored by the University of Notre Dame, Monday evening over WSBT, South Bend. Professor J. Arthur Reyniers, also of the College of Science, spoke Wednesday night on “The Story of the Bacteria.”
Insects Deserve Attention
Father Wenninger opened his speech with an interesting incident concerning General Count Dejeau, of Napoleon’s army, who had a mania for collecting insects. He explained the interests of such enthusiasts or bug hunters.
Father. Wenninger said: “Insects deserve attention for many reasons: first of all, because of their wide range of distribution.” He then went on to tell of the millions of specimens and their species in comparison with the small number of mammals. He continued: “for insects abound everywhere — on land and water, in field and forest, on the mountain and in the plain, even in and upon other animals and man.”
Food Value of Bugs
“The economic relation of insects to man is worth considering,” spoke Father Wenninger. The annual destruction to crops caused by insects amounts to millions of dollars. However, only one species in a hundred is harmful, he said.
Next he enumerated a few of the peculiarities of insects. The house fly and other domestic species were mentioned in particular. He also pointed out how certain insects had employed the use of scientific discoveries long before they were used by men. The food value of some insects in different parts of the world was also explained.
“The contributions of insects to
(Continued on Page 10)
Three Debates Are Scheduled For Next Month
Arrangements for debates with three prominent universities have been completed during the past week
Walter Johnson, William Kirby Clib tongues; sharp wits; mainstays of the forensic squad.
according to Professor William Coyne, in charge of varsity debating. The institutions with whom the negotiations have been made include the universities of Michigan, Illinois, and Florida, whose teams will appear on the Notre Dame campus during the month of March.
Unless some other school proposes a February debate with Notre Dame, Michigan will open the season here on Monday, March 14. Next comes the’ University of Florida on March 22, followed by Illinois on March 31. A dual debate between the two insti-tions takes place that evening, with our affirmative team opposing the II-lini negatives in Washington hall, and with an opposite situation prevailing at Urbana.
The question for discussion this year, as has been previously announced, is “Resolved, that the United (Continued on Page 10)
Show Tonight Will Be Greatest Intra-mural Event In The University’s History.
Billy Magarrall, boxing editor of The Scholastic, gives the card for tonight’s boxing show on Page 20 together with his personal comment on the various matches.
• By Neil C. Hurley
The largest crowd ever to watch a boxing match at Notre Dame is expected to pack into the gymnasium here tonight to witness sixteen student boxers clash for the University fistic crowns.
Plans were completed this afternoon for the handling of a capacity crowd. Additional bleachers were erected about the ring and a corps of ushers received final instructions on seating arrangements.
Called by athletic leaders as the greatest intramural sporting event in Notre Dame history, the affair will unquestionably soar to the peak of the undergraduate winter athletic program.
Advance ticket sales in South Bend were unusually heavy, while practically all of the student ringside seats were purchased in the first days of the campus sale.
Boxers w’ound up their month’s training yesterday afternoon and were scheduled to spend this afternoon resting for their opening battles.
Helen Musselman, co-ed at San Jose State College, California, last year, has been chosen by the Radio Digest as the national queen of radio beauties.
Sir:
The Scholastic
“Hunk” Anderson Returns Home From Florida Trip
SUPREME AGENT PAYS N. D. KNIGHTS A VISIT
“FISHING IS GOOD”
Tuesday Was Just One Meeting After Another for Fox.
Declares That Spring Practice Will Start During First Week In March.
By Patrick Corcoran
Ruddy with the tan of the southern sun, Head Coach Heartly Anderson returned to Notre Dame this week after a brief vacation in Florida.
“We drove by automobile from here down to Boca Grande, on the west coast of Florida,” he said, as he sat behind his desk in the Athletic Office. “There, each day, about all we did was to play golf in the morning and spend about four hours on the beach in the afternoon. Then, we’d have dinner around five o’clock.
“Lots of sunshine helped me to build up plenty of good health while there as the guest of Mr. E. J. Fleming of Chicago.
“Did you have any experiences that might be of interest to the fellows here?” I inquired.
“Well, we went tarpon fishing every day. It’s a great sport—one of the finest ways of fishing. In a motor speed-boat you float with the tide while waiting for a bite, and when a fish is caught, the engine is started. It usually required about three-quarters of an hour to land one. They provide plenty of fight. Those caught by members of our party ranged in weight from 50 to 125 lbs.
“We were on an ideal spot—Cas-parilla Island, in the Gulf of Mexico. It is named after an old pirate of the seas who maintained his rendevous there.
Asked what is to be next on his program of activities, “Hunk” turned to look at his calendar, and replied:
“If the weather permits, spring practice will begin either March 1 or 7. Next Tuesday, of course, the annual football banquet will be held, a high-light of which will be the selection of next season’s captain.”
Six hundred teachers in Palestine schools, unwilling to accept salary conditions, have gone on strike.
Snootier Set Are Target of
Juggler Satire
The Funny Fellow put his hands on his stomach this week, tilted his head back far, and let loose an up-
Joseph Dempsey His jokes are funny.
roariously loud laugh. Reason: the ultra-funny parody on the snootier set.
The Juggler High Brow number will make its campus appearance this week, according to Editor Robert Gorman and his mates. And, say they, the issue will be filled with different motifs, new themes, and foreign departments.
A pre-view of the magazine discloses the fact that the Juggler is making a bid for local fame with specially designed features to attract student interest.
The cover is done by Joe Lopker, ' whose artistic drawings are a highlight of every issue. It represents, furthermore, an innovation in the Lopker style and is carried out in striking color effects.
Joseph Dempsey, brother of the 1931 Funny Fellow, occupies one of the Juggler honor seats this issue, with a bevy of short and long remarks that are ballyhooed as some of the Juggler's best.
The exact publication date has not been announced, but indications point to the latter part of this week, probably on Thursday or Friday evening.
William F. Fox, supervisory agent of the Supreme council, was the guest of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus last Tuesday.
Fox began a tour- of the local organization early in the day and wound up the afternoon with two meetings, followed by an evening session in the local council chambers.
At one o’clock Fox gathered in the business office to confer with trustees. Although no definite action was taken it is understood that the building fund was the subject of discussion. Professor William Benitz, chairman of the committee, reported on the financial condition of the project.
An hour later officers and chairmen of standing committees gathered at the same office, where a rather lengthy meeting was held. Campus plans and work were discussed and the conversation was interspersed continually with suggestions by the supreme agent.
The business day for the K. of C. visitor was ended that evening when a group of the ordinary Knights drifted into the local chamber for the postponed Monday evening meeting. Fox, in an address to the group, told of the fifty scholarships given by the national group, also mentioning his own experiences in Siberia, China, and Japan.
Because of his activity in public affairs Fox has been made a Knight of St. Gregory.
Initiations for the first degree have been tentatively set for February 29, and the second and third stages for March 6. Announcement will be made to Notre Dame Knights at the next meeting.
The “depression” initiation fees, which were started this year as an incentive for candidates to join, will be prolonged until the time of the next meeting, it was announced.
Two pages of photographs will be found on pages 20 and 21 of this issue, showing the boxers who will trade punches tonight to aid the Bengal missions.
February 12, 1932
Seven
NOTRE DAME MEN TALK TO WOMEN OF Y.W.C.A.
1932 Grid Captain Will Be Chosen Tuesday at Banquet
International Relations Club Opens Discussion of Topics.
300 TO BE PRESENT
The International Relations club were guests of the International Club of the Young Women’s Christian Association of South Bend last Wednesday evening. Dr. Paul Menge, faculty
“I’ll Win, ” Heitz Declares; “Says You,9 9 Cries Perone
Entire Coaching Staff Will Be In Attendance; Other Notables To Speak.
President Tighe Woods
. . ire must mix in foreign affairs.”
advisor, opened the meeting- with a short talk on the group’s purpose.
Charles Hitzelberger, head of the Presidents’ Council, spoke on “A College Man Looks at the League of Nations.” He stressed the inability of the league in its present form to cope with questions of international importance and gave suggestions as to methods he thought would eliminate these defects.
James Simmons, speaking on “The Necessity of a Strong Air Force for National Defense,” traced the development of modern fighting aircraft. He pointed out that oui- natural ocean barriers were now only a slight inconvenience to any nation bent on attacking us from the air.
“The Myth of ‘No Entangling Alliances’ ” was treated by President Tighe Woods, who looked at the matter from an economic viewpoint. “Our economic interests are so varied and widespread that we must mix in foreign affairs,” he declared.
The Notre Dame speakers were called to the floor frequently by the South Bend folks to defend their statements, especially on such delicate subjects as the League of Nations and American enterprises in foreign countries. The speakers were ably assisted in the open forum which followed by Paul Hallinan, Patrick Burns, Arthur Cavender and John T. Casey.
Bernie Heitz, perspiration dripping from his face, tossed his glove into a comer of the boxing room last night, and began a trot around the dirt track.
“You can tell them that I’ll win by a knockout,” he shouted over his shoulder, as reporters pressed about for information. “I’ve never felt better—and that means the canvas for Corby’s John Perone.”
Pete Streb, stocky trainer of all Sorin athletes, following his fighter from the room, turned to the newsgathers with a hurt expression.
“Bernie always was conservative,” he declared. ”He might have added that the K. 0. will probably come in the opening round.”
But while Sorin rooters were accepting bets from Corby followers at 5 to 4 odds, John Perone was winding up his month’s preparation for the battle by running about St. Joseph’s lake. Followed by Gene Connelly and half of the inmates of the School of Expression, the dark - complexioned little Blue Circle leader was all confidence.
“I’ll take his measure,” he maintained, amid cheers from Corby followers. “I’ll have his head resting on the canvas before the second round. (More cheers.) And Corby’s honor will once more be vindicated at the expense of the Sorin aggies.”
Thus with both Heitz and Perone in perfect readiness for the Notre Dame battle of the century, Sorin and Corby halls were a flurry of excitement today. Both sections are almost totally filled as rooters from both Senior halls prepare to turn out en masse to watch a killing.
And once again, customers, may the warning be wide-spread—Don’t attend the Boxing-Show this evening if you are afflicted with a weak heart. That, or a weak head, is the only possible reason for staying away.
The 1932 football captain will be elected Tuesday night in the Notre Dame Dining halls, it was announced this week by Manager John Grams.
The occasion for the election will be the annual football banquet, which had been postponed since the grid season closed last December until the present date.
Over three hundred persons are expected to be present at the affair, although it is strictly invitational. The entire team, together with managers, reserves, and freshmen players will be feted.
Jesse Harper, “Hunk” Anderson, and the three newly appointed coaches for next fall will be among the principle speakers, while all University athletic authorities will be in attendance.
The announcement of captain will climax the evening’s program, after the balloting in the earlier portion of the evening.
Each retiring grid player will be called upon for a short talk, while several of those who will be here next year are expected to make addresses.
Chemist Smoker a Success
The Chemists’ club held a smoker in the Carroll hall recreation room Wednesday evening. Fifty members of the club and ten faculty members and graduate assistants attended. Edwin Lopker was the chairman of the entertainment.
Progressive bridge was played during the evening. First prize of one year’s dues was awarded to Edward Donohue, a junior chemical engineer. The winner of the second prize, a half year’s dues, was Romeo Allard, a graduate student. Refreshments were served after the card playing was concluded.
Seventeen states and one territory now have old age pensions. Five states adopted the pension in 1931.
Eight
The Scholastic
MEDAL TO BE AWARDED FOR PHILOSOPHY ESSAY
Seniors in A.B. Are Eligible For Dockweiler Gift,
Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and head of the department of philosophy, announced the conditions j ester day of the annual competition for the Dockweiler medal for philosophy.
The gold medal is awarded to the senior of the college who presents the best essay on a philosophical subject. In previous years, excellent work has been submitted, according to Father Miltner. He expects more students to compete this year than last because of the many seniors who are majoring in philosophy.
The Dockweiler medal was founded by Mr. Isadore B. Dockweiler of Los Angeles, California, in memory of his deceased father, Henry Dockweiler. The conditions and rules of the contest are as follows:
1.	The subject treated in the essay must be strictly philosophical in nature and preferably one in which there is current interest.
2.	The essay should not exceed 2500 words in length.
3.	Typewritten copies must be presented to the head of the department of philosophy on or before May 1.
4.	Announcement of the winner of the medal will be made only on graduation day in June.
5.	The department of philosophy reserves the right to withhold conferring the prize in case no essay meets with the approved standard.
A. B, Faculty To Meet
Faculty members of the College of Arts and Letters will hold their regular meeting next Wednesday, February 16, at the usual time and place, according to an announcement made by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the college.
Various items of interest to the faculty will be announced, and the specific problems of ways and means of improving college training will be proposed for discussion. A full attendance of the faculty members is anticipated.
Students Can Purchase Good Seats At Gate
A large supply of tickets has been reserved for the Notre Dame student body for the Bengal boxing show this evening, it was announced today by Neil C. Hurley, editor of The Scholastic.
The seats that will be sold to the undergraduates at the North and South gates this evening will all be in desirable sections and will give a close view of the proceedings in the ring, it was declared.
This afternoon the Publications office,- on the second floor of the Main building, will hold on sale a supply of ducats, which can be procured by students.
“Not only because the proceeds are going to the Bengal missions, but because we want every student to witness the event tonight, we’re taking special care that all undergraduates are seated - in vantage points,” Hurley stated this morning.
Badger Legislature Wants a Winning Grid Team, It Seems
By Intercollegiate Press.
Madison, Wis., Feb. 11.—Whatever anyone else thinks about the importance of football, the Wisconsin legislature thinks the University of Wisconsin ought to have the best teams in the country, and has said so with no small voice.
Two reforms have been suggested by the legislature. They are:
1.	Employment of the best athletic coaches the university is able to hire.
2.	An entirely new athletic council.
Despite the fact that the state assembly adopted a resolution asking the university’s board of regents to refuse George Little’s resignation as athletic director, the board did accept the resignation along with that of Glenn Thistlethwaite. Little was offered the position of director of intramural athletics.
Prof. J. M. Luck of Stanford University has discovered that protazoa, the most primitive form of animal life, have just as marked tastes for balanced diet as do human beings.
PAUUST CHORISTERS HERE
Famed Choral Group Presents Campus Program Tomorrow.
The Paulist Choristers will give a concert tomorrow evening in Washington hall at eight o’clock. The scheduled movie has been postponed.
The concert will consist of a variety of songs, with both church and secular music dotting a well balanced program.
The Reverend Thomas O’Malley is director of the group. Under his tutelage the choir has gained a nation-wide reputation that now marks it as one of the finest in America.
Boys under the age of sixteen will make up the choir personnel. They were selected after strict competition because of the excellence and quality of their voices.
The choir will reach the campus about three o’clock Saturday afternoon. Then they will be taken on a tour about the school. A light lunch will be served at five o’clock in the cafeteria.
Dr. N. M. Butler Tells His Idea of What Education Should Be
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 11.—Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia university, defined education here today as follows:
“Education is a gradual adjustment to the spiritual possessions of the race, with a view to realizing one’s own potentialities and to assisting in carrying forward that complex of ideas, acts and institutions which we call civilization.
“Those spiritual possessions may be variously classified, but they certainly are at least five-fold. The child is entitled to his scientific inheritance, to his literary inheritance, to his esthetic inheritance, to his institutional inheritance and to his religious inheritance. Without them all he cannot become a truly educated and a truly cultivated man.
“Progress based upon culture is surely progress. Without culture and all that the word is here held to signify, progress is only an empty world.”
Dr. F. R. Wulsin of the University of Pennsylvania has found a buried city of the bronze age, 3,000 B. C., in Persia.
February 12, 1932
Nine
FR. DONAHUE IS SPEAKER
Superior-General Opens Forty Hours* Devotion.
Choosing as his text the words, “Thine aid supply, Thy strength bestow,” from the hymn, “0 Salutaris,” the Very Rev. James Donahue, C.S.C., Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, delivered the sermon to the Notre Dame student body in Sacred Heart church last Monday evening.
Father Donahue spoke of the two types of courage, of the physical kind that appeals to the youth, and that steels a man to suffer on the battle field. Continuing, he spoke of another and more important type, moral courage, which is superior to the physical kind and is a quality of the soul.	,
“We refer to moral courage,” Father Donahue said, “as that quality of soul which enables a man to meet opposition and danger with calmness, intrepidity, and firmness in the performance of what conscience tells him God wants him to do; the courage that enables a man to be true to God’s law no matter how his lower nature may plead or complain, no matter how Satan may scheme or attack, no matter how the world may smile or sneer.”
This is to be found, Saint Thomas Aquinas tells us, in the words of the hymn, “0 Salutaris,” which is sung during Benediction. It is the kind of courage that is impressed upon us by God, and that transforms us from weak, cowardly humans into true soldiers of Christ, according to Father Donahue.
He concluded his sermon by exhorting his listeners to make every effort to attend the sacraments daily during the Lenten season, and to avoid all occasions of sin.
Yale to Study R. R. Situation
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 11.—In an attempt to render scientific aid to the railroads in their economic problems, Yale university is to study their situation. Prof. Howard A. Boardman of the graduate school has been appointed to do research work under the endowment established for that purpose by Plimmon H. Dudley, consulting engineer for the New York Central lines.
Here 9s Dope On How To Enter Gym To-Night
Students who have purchased ringside seats for the boxing show this evening are requested to enter by the South gymnasium door.
Those who are planning to purchase their ducats this evening may secure them at either the North or the South gate, where they will find ample seats to take care of the entire student body.
Downtown spectators will, as usual, use the main entrance, or may enter by the North door.
Corby hall will use the North entrance, while Sorin rooters will find their seats by using the South portal.
Winters Just As Cold Now As They Were Back In 1900
By Intercollegiate Press.
Albany, N. Y., Feb. 11.—Folk who think all winters are milder- than years ago have the wrong kind of memories, Gustave S. Lindgren of the United States weather bureau declared here today.
He considers this winter an exception, but he asserts that over a long period records show no climatic change.
“When I went to college,” he says, “the daily task of breaking the ice in the water pitcher to wash sent chills down the spine. That was enough to make the weather seem cold the rest of the day. Now we have warmer houses and better clothing and food. Furthermore, we are more athletic and are not so aware of the cold.”
Magarrall to Fight To-night!
Billy Magarrall, winner of the Chicago Tribune’s South Bend division of the Golden Gloves tourney last year, and boxing editor of The Scholastic, will fight a three-round exhibition match tonight against Jack Gallagher.
The battle will appear in the middle- of this evening’s card.
Movable type for printing was invented in China in the tenth century, in Europe in 1438.
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL PASSES A FEW RULES
Now Clubs Must Meet Twice Each Semester.
President Charles Hitzelberger met the members of the Presidents’ Council last Sunday morning to formulate plans whose purpose it will be to
Charles Hitzelberger “To keep their charters they must be active.”
promote more active campus club functions.
1.	Every campus organization must hold at least two regula,r meetings during a semester or forfeit its charter.
2.	Beginning in September, 1933, no city or state club will be permitted to function unless it has an alumni club organized at home.
The point of the first enactment, according to President Hitzelberger, is obviously an effort to impress the fact upon campus clubs that they exist for some other purpose than that of promoting a Christmas or an Easter dance. The second new ruling is an attempt to further a certain amount of mutually beneficial co-operation°between Notre Dame undergraduates and alumni.
Plans for a Presidents’ Council banquet to be held in the Lay Faculty dining room some time during the week of February 28 were also discussed at the meeting Sunday morning.
John Ryan, in charge of the arrangements at Notre Dame for National Catholic Student Tours, gave a short talk to the Council on the itinerary of this summer’s European trip, which will include a stop at the Eucharistic Congress in Dublin, June 23-26.
Ten
The Scholastic
COMMERCE MEN HEAR ADVERTISING LECTURE
O’Shaughnessy Gives First Talk in Commerce Series.
James O’Shaughnessy, former advertising manager of “Liberty” weekly, and founder of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, addressed the student body of the College of Commerce in the lecture hall of the new Commerce Building, Wednesday afternoon.
His topic was “Advertising.” In the course of the lecture he pointed out the mistakes which many men make in advertising and showed how human nature was the basis of the whole profession. “Unless your advertising causes the reader to form in his own mind a favorable impression of your article, your money is wasted,” the speaker declared in illustrating his assertion that offensive advertising not only does no good but actually harms sales.
The talk was full of the philosophy of selling and contained many observations on human nature. The speaker gave as an example a firm which relied entirely on a form sent through the mails for credit sales to the consumer. The loss on bad debts was less than two per cent allowed for it.
“It is essential,” said the speaker, “to choose a trade mark or brand which cannot be copied easily, but which carries with it a good impression.” In conclusion he pointed out that one who works hard in advertising and who is eager to learn will always succeed.
The talk was the first of a series to be given for the students of the College of Commerce. Next Wednesday, a representative of the General Motors Corporation will speak on “New Tools For A New Age.”
Cooley Speaks to Rotary
Members of the Rotary club of South Bend heard Professor Edwin J. Cooley, instructor in criminology and social pathology of the University, discuss “Crime and Its Remedy” Wednesday evening. Professor Cooley is at present head of the training school for probation parole workers and prison executives at Notre Dame.
AUTHOR
Louis Brennan, last year’s editor of “Scrip,” who is rapidly gaining an enviable reputation as a short story writer and play-wright.
Laboratory Explosion Burns Illinois Student
By Intercollegiate Press.
Champaign, Ill., Feb. 10.—A. E. Knauf, a post-graduate student from Salem, O., was severely burned and a considerable amount of equipment was irreparably damaged here today in a powerful blast in a chemical laboratory. Knauf was making an experiment at the time.
The injured student, who is assistant to Professor Roger Adams, head of the chemistry department, was at a loss to explain the explosion.
In a statement issued later in the day, university officials declared that it was only the second major accident in the sixteen years Professor Adams has been at the head of the department.
DEBATE SCHEDULE IS OUT
(Continued from Page 5)
States should adopt a compulsory nation-wide plan of control and distribution in the major basic industries.” The personnel of the Notre Dame team now includes, William Kirby, an outstanding member of last year’s group, Walter Johnson, William Darrow and Arthur Cline, also of the 1931 team, James Meehan, William Murphy, Joseph Becek, Arthur Sandusky, James Boyle, Thomas O’Meara, Roger Brennan, and William Fitzgerald.
TALKS ON RAD10 BEGIN
Discusses the Insect World and Its Value to Man.
(Continued from Page 5)
the world commerce are not unimportant,” said Father Wenninger. The “lac” is used for shellac, the “Spanish fly*’ for medical purposes, the “galls” for ink, the “silk worm” for textiles, and the “honey bee” for food delicacies.
In conclusion, Father Wenninger the radio audience that the story of insects goes on indefinitely.
“Upon bacteria rests the civilization of the world,” spoke Professor J. Arthur Reyniers of the College of Science, on Wednesday evening of this week. “The Story of the Bacteria” was the subject of his talk.
“Humap life, and indeed any life, would be impossible without their presence and on the other hand often becomes impossible because of their presence,” he said. He went on to show how so many people were ignorant of the benefits and harms of the insects to certain savage tribes was also explained.
The story of bacteria can be traced back to the time before Adam. They featured in the formation of the earth’s ingredients. Later when plants and animals came into existence, the bacteria moved themselves into the bodies of animals, a process which was to result millions of years later in a deluge of gargles and mouth washes.
Comparing all living matter to a ladder and each form to a rung, bacteria can be said to be seated at the bottom, he said. “We are at the starting point of life, down where life dimly sets out to be something, plant or animal, tree or elephant.”
Prof. Reyniers next explained what bacterium looks like. He described their characteristics and peculiarities, as well as their means of locomotion and living. The bacterium takes food into its body, he said, through its membrane, utilizing all kinds of food and flesh.
He concluded his speech by telling the audience how important bacteria are to life. He also told of the endless material that could be covered in a talk on bacteria.
A vote of the men students at the University of Akron is to be held to determine their views on compulsory military training.
February 12, 1932
Eleven
BROWNSON PRESENTED WITH DEBATING TROPHY
Thomas O’Meara Makes Presentation at Banquet.
Brownson hall were officially acclaimed inter-hall debating champions last week, when the Lemmer trophy was presented at a banquet given in their honor. Thomas O’Meara, secretary of the Wranglers, made the presentation in the absence of President Neil C. Hurley.
Before some thirty Wrangler members and interhall competitors, who were gathered at the Rose Marie tea room, O’ Meara traced the growth of the competition.
“It is a signal honor to be awarded this trophy,” he declared. “And the Wranglers are happy that it is going to as fine a group of speakers as the present group.”
James O’Shaughnessy, chairman of the event this year, likewise went into the historic tradition of the cup. He also explained the Wrangler organization and went into detail concerning its activities.
At a meeting held later in the week Neil C. Hurley, president during the past year, tendered his resignation to the club. The election of his successor will be the 'principal business of the organization next Thursday.
Lopker on ‘Santa Maria’ Staff
Joseph Lopker, Juggler, Dome, and Scholastic artist, is to add another campus publication to his list this year. He will do a portrait of Christopher Columbus for the frontispiece of the Santa Maria, yearbook of the local K. of C. council. This will be the first time Lopker has drawn a historical portrait for a campus publication. The Columbus portrait will head a group of other celebrities and cap and gown pictures of all graduating member of the K. of C.
- NOTICE!
All those interested in the Washington, D. C., excursion are asked to see Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor in politics, who is arranging the trip, on or before Wednesday, February 17, in Room 105, Commerce building, between 4:05 and 4:20 p. m.
Announcement has ben made of the discovery of many gold Inca relics in the mountains of Ecuador.
SCHOLAR
Ray Kolb, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, who was recently awarded the Roger Sullivan scholarship.
N. U. Frosh Suspect Hell Week Revival
By Intercollegiate Press.
Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11.—It may be that the freshmen at Northwestern university here are mistaken but they have a strong idea these days that the ancient fraternity “Hell Week” has come in for a revival.
Their upperclass brothers are busy assuring the standing army of frosh that the traditional paddle period is dead but the yearlings’ postures of anguish have been enough to bring a faculty investigation.
The traditional “Hell Week” was banned at Northwestern two years ago and an “induction week” substituted.
Elect New Pharmacist Officer
The Pharmacy club met last Tuesday evening in Chemistry hall. The principle business of the evening was the election of Alfred Panella to the recently vacated post of treasurer.
Panella, after his election, presented one of the most practicable papers of the year. It was entitled “The Ethical Code of the Pharmacist,” and dealt with the “do” and “don’t” points with which every pharmacist, should be familiar and which he should endeavor to practice for the benefit and assurance of the public which he serves.
PHOTO WINNERS CHOSEN
McGann, Durkin, Lacey Win ‘Dome’ Snapshot Contest.
The winners of the Dome snap-shot contest for this year’s publication were announced yesterday by Leslie Raddatz, editor.
First place was awarded to George McGann, of Sophomore Hall. The second prize winner was J. A. Durkin, of Lyons Hall, Morrissey Hall placed a winner in the person of John Lacey, who received the third prize.
In making the announcement of the winners, Raddatz declared that the prize-winning picture was one of the best specimens of amateui* photography ever to be printed-in the Dome.
The judges were James Clark, business manager; Paul J. Halliman, editor of the 1931 Dome, and Leslie Raddatz, present editoi- of the annual publication.
Late Boxing Bulletins
At 10 o’clock this morning Coach Heartly Anderson renewed his offer to be present as head judge tonight.
“It will be a pleasure to be on hand for The Scholastic’s tourney,” he declared. “I want to get a line on the boxers here at school anyway.”
Billy Magarrall late today announced the addition of a special match to the evening’s card.
Al Culver, tackle on the 1931 grid squad, will wrestle Clarence Tomasi in the best two out of three falls. The event will be placed in the middle portion of this evening’s bouts.
Jerry Heffernan, boxing coach at Loyola university, stated in a telephone conversation with Editor Neil Hurley late this morning that he will arrive at 3:10 p. m. on the New York Central.
James S. Kearns, Scholastic sports editor will meet him at the train and escort the referee for tonight’s battles to the campus, where a round of activities has been planned.
John Grams, president of the Managers’ club, issued instructions this morning for all members to be at the gym this evening at seven o’clock to aid in the ushering of the expected crowd. •
Tivelve
The Scholastic
PROF. COOLEY JOINS CRIMINOLOGY GROUP
Only Member in the Chicago Academy Not From Illinois.
Professor Edwin J. Cooley of the Department of Sociology was elected a fellow in the Chicago Academy of Criminology at a meeting of the Academy last week. It is believed that Professor Cooley is .the only member of the Academy from outside of the state of Illinois. He is recognized as the world’s greatest authority on Probation. His election to the Chicago Academy of Criminology is a signal honor.
In the words of Dr. Meyer Solomon, Secretary, the Academy is “an attempt to bring together in one organization the various specialists who are working on the problem of crime in order that they may secure a better understanding of each other and more easily develop cooperative research programs.”
The members of the Academy will study problems of probation and parole, mental hygiene, psychiatric studies, school, home and neighborhood relations to delinquency, and other aspects of criminology.
Scientific papers in monthly meetings will be the principal activity, but it will also attempt, according to the announcement, to encourage the development of scientific work in its field in every possible way.
Ann Arbor High Observes Leap Year Traditions
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ann Arbor, Mich., Feb. 5.—The student council of the Ann Arbor High School, in keeping with the good old tradition of Leap Year, has decreed that next week shall be “sponge week,” and that the members of the allegedly weaker sex shall be expected to make all dates, pay all bills, and, if possible, furnish transportation for all social activities.
Principal L. L. Forsythe, commenting upon the action of the council, declared it to be an interesting experiment. Another member of the faculty said that it would afford an opportunity to the fair sex to live up to their old cry that it’s the woman who pays and pays.
Campus Opinions
Question: “What do you think of the boxing show to be held in the gym Friday night?”
John F. Stecker, Freshman hall, freshman: “Perhaps there has been no other minor sport event that has attracted as great attention on the campus as The Scholastic boxing show to be held Friday night. In my opinion any fellow that misses these bouts will be doing a great injustice to the Bengal Mission as well as to himself.”
Art Mueller, St. Edward’s hall, sophomore: “If you don’t think that the boxing show sponsored by THE Scholastic Friday night is to be a bang-up affair, just drop around to the work-out room any evening and you’ll be convinced that everything is on the ‘up-and-up’.”
John F. Cramer, Freshman hall, freshman: “I think the boxing show is a splendid idea, worthy of the support of every Notre Dame man. The cause is surely a worthy one and the show should be well worth the quarter spent.”
Maurice Curran, St. Edward’s hall, sophomore: “The Scholastic boxing show, with its two-fold goal this year, should have everyone in the school behind it. First, the Bengal Mission is a most worthy cause, and second, the effort to arouse more sportsmanship on the campus is to be admired. I hope the show will be a real success.”
Daniel L. Madden, Freshman hall, freshman: “Aside from the excellent purpose of helping the Bengal Mission, the boxing show cannot help but increase the students’ interest in minor sports. Boxing is one of the more beneficial ways for students to forget class worries and should enable them to attack their studies mentally refreshed.”
Dr. E. E. Free, science lecturer at New York university, declared this week that college research expenses could be cut at least 75 percent without any bad effects. It would force better planning of work, he asserted.
N. D. PRIEST IS LAUDED
Fr. Sigmar Praised For Gift to Aid German Swimmers.
“Der Schwimmer” (Leipzig), the official organ of the All-German Swimming Association, recently praised highly the Reverend Julian Sigmar, of the Notre Dame philosophy department, because of his donation towards enabling the German swimming team to participate in the Olympic games this summer.
The paper, giving the wording of Fr. Sigmar’s letter, calls notice to his intention that the gift should be considered as a hearty invitation to join in the important world-wide contest in Los Angeles. “. . . for there are few educated to such sportsmanship and just evaluation of the genuine achievements of other peoples as the American nation.”
On another occasion Fr. Sigmar contributed to the international esteem held for Notre Dame when he had published an article in Germany’s leading educational magazine. In this article on the “Meaning of the Period of Enlightenment and the Development of Educational Ideals” he stressed the important influence of the American “declaration of rights” on the European thought during the following centuries.
Fr. Sigmar is well known all ovei* Germany both as an exponent of the sport of swimming and as philosopher.
1436 Schools in Penn Relays
By Intercollegiate Press.
Philadelphia, Feb. 11.—The University of Pennsylvania announced today that they have invited 1,436 institutions, including colleges, preparatory, high, parochial, elementary and junior high schools, to participate in the Pennsylvania relay carnival April 29 and 30 this year. The relays are especially important this year because of the Olympic games to be played at Los Angeles next summer. Notre Dame university was among those invited to participate.
The 1931 Nobel prizes were awarded as follows: chemistry, Carl Bosch and Frederick Bergius, of Germany;	।
medicine, Otto Warburg, Germany;
literature, Erik A. Karlfeldt, Sweden; peace, Dr. N. M. Butler and Jane Addams, United States.
February 12, 1932
Thirteen
G.O.P. CONVENTION APED
And Oberlin Boys- and Girls Pick the President, Too.
By James Thompson
Intercollegiate Press staff writer.
Oberlin, Ohio, Feb. 11.—To those who spent youthful years absorbing the Puritan-Republican atmosphere of this seat of learning, surrounded by a citizenry which pretty generally praised God and the Republican party exclusively, information that the Oberlin College quadrennial mock convention to be held here in May ' will, in all probability, be non-partisan, comes like a punch in the jaw.
The pool’ Democrats here have had a tough row to hoe. It has ever been quite a precarious position for them. The Munson boys hitherto were wont to sit in front of their little grocery on South Main street of a bright sunny after-noon. And they were practically the entire party.
As for the mock convention, it was always called the Republican national mock convention. It was called that ever since 1862, when the first was held and Abraham Lincoln was nominated. So whenever the boys and girls became a bit liberal, they had to seek within the Republican party for their heroes.
But Dr. Ernest Hatch Wilkins, president of Oberlin, is known as a liberal, and he is known to favor a mock convention which will give all the liberals a chance.
Eight times since the convention was begun here, it is recalled, the Oberlin nominee has later been nominated and elected by the Republican party. Perhaps Oberlin thinks its chances are better if the Democrats have a place in the nominations.
Then again it is entirely possible that Oberlin might go socialist.
Oberlin’s mock convention is run exactly as a national presidential convention. It lasts two days. The first is given over to the adoption of a platform, the second to the nomination of a candidate. Student delegates are picked to represent the various states. As a rule a national figure is invited to act as chairman of the convention, and in 1928, when the convention nominated Herbert Hoover, most of the proceedings were broadcast over the radio.
Students run the entire affair.
Corbyite Leads Sorin’s Cagers Against Corby
By William W. Corr
While Bernie Heitz and John Perone were pulling their fistic equipment out of the mothballs this week, Dick Bohnsack of 310 Corby was coaching Sorin hall’s cagers to beat his own hall mates. Sorin’s basketball team will meet the Corby basketeers Sunday.
Bohnsack has been coaching the Sorin battlers to a point where they will be at their peak when they take the floor against Father Cavanaugh’s boys. In an interview the other day Bohnsack said: “We’ll trim these Corby cagemen. My only regret is that Willigan and the ‘Doc’ aren’t on the team that faces my boys next Sunday.”
The Corby team has threatened to completely wipe out the Sorin aggregation. One of the big red team stated: “It isn’t the fellows on the Sorin team; it’s that coach they have that makes them so poor in their games.”
Prom Oriental Is Acclaimed By Three Hundred Juniors
That the Prom Oriental was in every sense a success, seems to be the unanimous opinion of the members of the class of ’33 and their guests, who attended the dance last Friday, February 5, in the University dining halls.
Ingenious lighting effects planned by Art Becvar, aided by a clever and artistic decorative scheme, helped to create,a realistic Arabian atmosphere. An artificial oasis on the dance floor likewise served to maintain the illusion.	-
“In Araby,” this year’s prom song, sung by Jerry Roche, accompanied at the piano by John Beljon, its composer, made a real hit with the 350 couples present.
The dinner dance the following Saturday evening at the Oliver Hotel was also a well managed affair. Music was furnished by “Doc” Perkins and his Mad Internes.
FR. CARROLL SCORES AGAIN WITH NOVEL
“Michaeleen” Is Name of Book By Notre Dame Priest.
By Walter Kennedy
The release of a new book, “Michaeleen,” by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., was announced today by the Ave Maria Press. It will unquestionably be given a high ranking in the literary accomplishments of the
Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. His fourth fiction book is a success.
author, who has previously scored well-deserved hits with past novels.
The setting is laid in Ireland and its theme is concerned with the life of one Michaeleen Carey Enright, who was called by his Christian name for the sake of convenience.
The story is typically Irish in its aspects, as are most, of Father Carroll’s books, and brings out pleasing little incidents relative to the nature of every-day life on the Emerald Isle.
“Michaeleen” is Father Carroll’s fourth venture into the field of fiction, his others of this kind being “Round About Home,” “Memory Sketches,” and “Patch.” Other books he has written include two poetry editions, “Songs of Creelabeg” and “Heart Hermitage,” and “The Man God,” dealing with the life of Christ. The latter book has been used by the University religion classes for many years.
2
Fourteen
The Scholastic
MENGE SPEAKS TO PROFS
A Man About the Campus - - Frank O’Malley
j
Talks on German Student Life to A. B. Lay Faculty.
By Roy Scholz
The state of Massachusetts, the town of Clinton to be exact, claims Frank O’Malley.
His primary education was obtained at St. John’s parochial school from which he graduated with the highest honors. Frank then entered Clinton High School and here his literary ability first manifested itself in the editorship of a school pub-3 lication called “The Student,” and later a similar appointment on the year book.
He was president of the Historical society and a member of the Dramatic club. During this time he ranked among the very highest of his fellow students, and at graduation received testimonials of efficiency in History, English, and Latin.
In considering a college Frank demanded a school that was cosmopolitan rather than provincial and which exemplified Catholic thought. Notre Dame, as an exponent of all these points, was selected.
Maintains 97 Average
During his freshman year he participated in interhall debating, and succeeded in obtaining a ninetyseven percent average for the year. In the meantime at the suggestion of Father Hebert plans for a Classical club were formulated.
Morrissey hall was O’Malley’s home for his sophomore year, the thought of which brings memories of an occasional dawn patrol. In this hall a group of Latin students, including Frank, grouped together informally in order to study Latin.
Out of this gathering the Patricians really had their beginning. It was organized as a classical society whose purpose was to stimulate an interest in classical arts and literature, and to give the members an acquaintance with methods and results of classical scholarship. This year was also marked - by Frank’s election to membership in the Scribblers.
Writes Essays for “Scrip”
The next year finds our scholar a junior in the same hall. O’Malley was elected vice-president of the Patricians, and succeeded in having.
several of his essays published in Scrip. In the spring he was appointed to the board of editors of Scrip, a position which he still holds, holds.
His present residence in Walsh hall
.appears at first glance to be a li
brary, great stacks of books neatly arranged in
Frank O’Malley
.4 Patrician with a 97 average.
various parts of the room. An inspection of these volumes yields titles represent a tive of science, poetry, p h i 1 o s ophy, novels, modern and otherwise, books of essays, and literary criticism. This is the atmosphere in which the president of
the Patricians lives.
Upon graduation there
are hopes of
entering the Harvard Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences, to major in English and then perhaps a career as a literary critic.
Prefers Barry to O’Neill
Frank has pronounced tastes in all of the aits. He plays a piano and enjoys music of the old masters, especially that of Liszt, Richard Wag-ner and Ludwig Beethoven, to the fullest extent. He also enjoys the compositions of Edward McDowell among the moderns.
In the field of dramatics he admires Oedipus Rex, the work of Sophocles as an excellent example of the ancient art. Although admitting Eugene O’Neill, in technique at least, is the most original and powerful of modern dramatists, Frank prefers Phillip Barry because the latter’s plays are more human and genuine in emotion and expression.
His favorite modem novelists are Willa Cather, Thorton Wilder and John Galsworthy. And for periodicals—Commonweal, Midland, Harpers and Forum.
Dr. Paul J. Menge of the Department of Foreign Languages delivered a talk entitled, “Student Life, Past and Present, in the German Universities,” before a meeting of the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters last Monday evening.
At this meeting a committee on entertainment was appointed consisting of Professor Rufus W. Rauch, Chairman, Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, and Dr. Menge. Professor William J. Coyne was named as chairman of the publicity committee.
In his talk, Dr. Menge discussed the aims and problems of the German student, his method of study, and the relations existing between the faculty and student body. He also discussed the stress laid upon seminar work.
By means of upwards of a hundred stereoptican slides, he illustrated many salient features of the social, athletic, recreational, and scholastic activiites of German students both ancient and modem. There were likewise pictures of important Universities and libraries.
This was followed by a general discussion of American standards and methods as compared with those of Germany and other countries.
At the next meeting which will take place the first Monday in March, Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, will be the principal speaker.
Co-eds Look For Brains, Wit
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 10.—“A cultured gentleman who is a facile conversationalist, not particularly handsome, but at home with books and thoughts.” That was the verdict rendered by 100 Barnard college co-eds here when quesitoned about their ideal husband. Many of the co-eds added that the “cultured gentleman” must also be moderately successful in business. A sense of humor was rated as being particularly on a par with the “culture.”
A group of 482 Columbia university men countered with their selections of the most desirable feminine attributes. Again culture, cleverness, sensitiveness, and a sense of humor led the balloting.
February 12, 1932
Fifteen
FLAG TO BE PRESENTED
Seniors Will Wear Caps and Gowns in Public Soon.
The traditional senior exercises commemorating Washington’s Birthday will be held on the campus the morning of Monday, February 22, beginning at ten o’clock, according to Jerry Conway, Chairman of the committee in charge.
As is the custom, the flag will be presented to the University by Eugene Connelly, president of the senior class. It will be received by the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University with appropriate ceremonies in which the seniors, garbed in cap and gowns, will participate.
A speaking program has been arranged and will be along lines that have been adopted to accord with the national observance of the two-hundredth anniversary of Washington’s birth which takes place this year.
The complete program will appear in The Scholastic in next week’s issue.
“Waka Political Interest In the Colleges/* Pleads Editor
By Intercollegiate Press.
Atlanta, Ga., Feb. 11.—A plea that American colleges and universities take a more active interest in aiding good government was made this week before the Atlanta chapter of the Emory university alumni association by Dr. Dumas Malone, editor of the dictionary of American biography.
He urged that institutions of higher learning develop unselfish and outstanding leadership and bend their efforts to “solving the riddle of happiness for the masses instead of aiming at a selfish goal.”
“Signs of an intellectual awakening are apparent in every university in the land,” he declared, “and from the chaos and moral anarchy of a disillusioned generation a new morality is arising, carrying with it a stronger sense of public responsibility.
“Accordingly, it seems that the university of tomorrow will play a larger part in the vital affairs of the nation. The social scientist, dealing with persons rather than things, and the humanist and philosopher, glorifying the mind and spirit, will come into their own perhaps at the expense of the scientific technician.”
‘Scholastic* Staff Notice
All members of the Notre Dame Scholastic staff are required to be present this evening at 6:30 in the Publications office to make a report of the amount of tickets sold. Both money and left-over tickets should be presented at this time. There will be no seven o’clock meeting.
O’MALLEY TREATS LIVY BEFORE PATRICIANS* LAST NIGHT
“The Historical Accuracy of Livy” was the subject of a discussion presented at a meeting of the Patricians’ last night. Frank O’Malley declared in his paper that to modern ideas one of the most provoking things in Livy is his failure to realize the true historical character and value of old documents.
“Livy, too, had the bias of cramping patriotism that rendered him ungenerous towards his country’s enemies,” said the speaker, “but in all fairness other considerations have to be reckoned with. It is unreasonable to judge Livy by standards of modern research. It is necessary to take his own aim into account. In any case his work must be appraised as literature no less than as history.”
At next week’s meeting, Edgar Mel-chione will read a paper on “The Cosmology of Lucretius,” and Raymond Geiger will discuss “Plato’s Theory of Art.” Nominations for membership will also be considered at the next meeting.
Pre-Law Club Picture!
A group picture of the Pre-Law club will be taken for the Dome on Monday, February 15, at 4:15 p. m., in the south room of Walsh sub. All members are requested to be present. Coats and ties must be worn.
The regular meeting on Tuesday has been postponed.
Professor Cuts Own Salary
By Intercollegiate Press.
Richmond, Va., Feb. 4.—Governor Pollard, the college professor executive of . Virginia, has cut his own salary 10 percent, an act which the General Assembly could not have accomplished during his term of office. The cut amounted to $1,000 a year.
S.AC. HEADS ATTEND MIDWEST CONVENTION
Kramer and Gerund Represent N. D. at Knoxville, Tenn.
John Kramer, president of the Student Activities Council, left the University Tuesday for Knoxville, Tenn., where he is attending the Midwest Students’ conference convention which began yesterday and will continue
John Kramer
The S. A. C. sends him to Tennessee.
through Saturday. James Gerund, secretary of the S. A. C., accompanied Kramer.
The purpose of the convention is to discuss the numerous problems of student government and plans for promoting student initiative and scholarship among the colleges and universities in the midwest.
The discussions will be open forums each led by an authority on education. Some of the problems and the those leading the discussions are: “Relative Value of Types of Student Government,” C. E. Christian, Penn State university; “Obligations of University Men of Today,” Clifford Barbour, Ph.D., University of Edinburgh.
Other topics of discussion will be:-“Methods of Developing and Manufacturing College Spirit,” “College Students and the Higher Standard of Living,” and Closer Relations Between Students and Faculty.”
In the invitation circular sent out by the University of Tennessee, which will act as host to the convention, there is a pledge to maintain the tradition of southern hospitality. A banquet, a dance and trips to the Blue Smokey mountain sections are features on the program of entertainment. ’ The new Andrew Johnson hotel will be the headquarters.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Here’s a Room by Room
Story of Engineers’ Hall
By Byron Degnan
The new John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering is rather austere in its winter setting. Usefulness artistically fashioned gives the structure its predominant impression.
Significant is the fact that the new edifice marks a complete Notre Dame effort. The donor, John F. Cushing, whose generous gift of $350,000 made possible the achievement, was graduated from this University in 1906 with a degree from the department of Civil Engineering. And the architect who conceived the project is Francis W. Kervick, head of the department of Architecture in the University.
Conforms With Campus Tone
In general appearance the new structure conforms favorably with the architectural scheme of the campus. Though it combines such diverse elements as shops, laboratories, and various classrooms, the marks of modern gothic mullioned windows, pitched roofs, and an occasional buttress stamp it with a sharp distinction.
At the eastern end of the building is a projecting bay enriched with buttresses and an elaborate niche containing a statue of St. Thomas the Apostle, patron of builders. In the spandrels between the first and second doors are carved borders alternating with the names of Catholic scientists and engineers: de Vinci for mechanics, Marconi for wireless, Sanmichele for fortifications, Agricola for mining engineering, Volta, Ohm, and Galvani for electricity, and some fifteen others of note.
Grotesques representing various trades and professions connected with engineering are also apparent.
The main entrance is marked by a high gabled projection, having an arched doorway with an oriel window above. Directly inside is Memorial hall, faced with stone, massive piers and arches. The floor is paved with hand made tiles of red and brown. Brilliant tones of blue, green, and red with gold enrichment color the beams of the ceiling. .
Marble Tablet Impressive
Impressive in the hall is the gray marble tablet treated in gold and blue colors in the manner of an il
luminated manuscript. Light reflections spread from beneath the words: “With honor and gratitude Notre Dame cherishes the name of John F. Cushing, whose sympathy with the ideals of the University and generous
John F. Cushing, ’06
A far-sighted graduate fulfills a need.
interest in the high purpose of scholarship are enduringly recorded in the gift of this building for the service of learning and the greater glory of God.”
Directly in front of Memorial Hall is the assembly room which will seat 500 persons. It will provide a unique center for the various communal activities of the engineers. A stage with provisions for illustrated lectures and a huge skylight are tlife features.
The department of metallurgy with its extensive library, small rooms for thermal treatment, X-ray and head measurement illustrations, dark room, and laboratory is housed in the eastern section of the first floor.- Adjacent to it is the department of mining engineering. Here are found a mineralogy and geology laboratory combined with a large classroom, a balance room containing two gold balances of an especially precious nature, and a furnace room for the heating of the sundry ores in the ex-
(Continued on Page 26)
HALLINAN AND FALLON TALK TO SPECTATORS AT LAST MEETING
Two talks, one on “Special Educational Problems” by Paul J. Hallinan, and othe other “Should Wages Be Lowered?” by Francis X. Fallon, featured the meeting of the Spectators held in the Law building last week
Hallinan delivered an interesting discourse on certain of the peculiar problems which confront present-day educators in the way of child training. In solution, he elaborated manners and methods of dealing with them, laying particular stress on the importance of establishing a healthful sex environment for the adolescent.
In answering the question: “Should Wages Be Lowered?”, Fallon largely concerned himself with the dilemma in which many business men find themselves today: Which has first claim,—Capital or Labor?
A spirited open discussion ensued in which attention centered upon the ethical aspects of the issue. It was generally admitted that the employer’s first duty is to himself, and that in order to provide himself with a reasonably decent living, he should first attend to his own interests. After that, he must decide between the conflicting demands of his stockholders and employees according to his conscience, since the contributing factors affecting one case render it different from the next.
McCabe Promises New . Issue of “Scrip” Soon
While Joseph A. McCabe, editor of “Scrip,” does not deem it advisable to issue any definite statement at this time, he found a scant moment yesterday to promise another edition of his magazine.
“It is likely that a few strange names are to be seen under the ‘List of Contents’,” he declared, “and the magazine as a whole will be much larger.”
He renewed his call for more contributions, but added that they must he submitted shortly.
Educational Group to Meet
There will be a meeting of the Educational Confraternity next Tuesday in the Law building.
February 12, 1932
Seventeen
DR. MENGE TO ADDRESS FOUR CHICAGO CLUBS IF NEXT MONTH
Library Boasts Several Editions Of Rare Books
Four different clubs in Chicago will hear Professor Menge of the department of modern languages during the next few weeks. Gerhart Hauptmann, the modem German dramatist, will be treated in the first talk on February 19, at the Bismarck hotel. This lecture will be under the auspices of the German Literary Society.
Two days later he will make a memorial speech before the United Military clubs of Chicago at the Eighth Street Theatre. German student life will be his topic before the Engineers club on March 3. The Y. W. C. A. will hear Dr. Menge about the middle of March when he discusses the social position of German women since the World War.
Co-ed Hypnotized, But She Fails to Wake Up As Planned
By Intercollegiate Press.
Meadville, Pa., Feb. 11.—When one of two co-eds placed under hypnotic influence at Allegheny College here failed to come out of the spell for some time, Miss Adalene Bowie, dean of women', placed a ban on further-experiments of the kind at the college.
The demonstration, with Miss Marion Sleeman as a subject was conducted by David Whitsett in a psychology class. When he attempted to bring his subject out of the trance he failed to do so for three-quarters of an hour.
Phelps Announces His Choice of 1931’s Ten Best Books
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 11.—Prof. William Lyons Phelps of Yale university, famous lecturer and critical writer, today announced the following as his selections for the best books of 1931:
Shadows on the Rock, by Willa Cather.
The Good Earth, by Pearl S. Buck.
The Grass Roof, by Younghill Kang.
All Passion Spent, by V. M. Sackville-West.
The Lady Who Came to Stay, by Robin E. Spencer.
Mary’s Neck, by Booth Tarkington.
Maid in Waiting, by John Galsworthy.
American Beauty, by Edna Ferber.
Unfinished Business, by John Erskine.
Westward Passage, by Margaret A. Barnes.
Unnoticed among the 134,000 books in the University Library are numerous volumes cherished by book lovers. Rare editions included in special libraries are known only to the majority as numbers in the Dewey decimal
classification system, — used by the library. They are on the shelves, valuable in themselves, but read by few.
Prominent among these special libraries is the Dante Library, collected by the late Dr. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., a former teacher at Notre Dame.
There are 2,800 volumes, including works in forty languages. Mr. Paul Byrne, head librarian, assures visitors that the collection is rich in incunabula and post-incunabula editions. Speaking with him further, one learns a number of interesting facts concerning this Dante collection.
The Notre Dame copy of Dante’s “Inferno” is one of the earliest and most important of Florentine prints, dating back to the time of Boticelli in 1481. On this immortal artist Baccio Baldini based his designs, of which 33 were started and 19 completed.
The finest copy of Dante’s work is now in the Riccardi Library, in Florence, Italy. It boasts 23 illustrations, as compared with the three engraved in the local copy. The latter, however, has the added distinction of being the second book to be illustrated with copper engraving. Seemingly inconsequential details such as these cause arre books to become priceless.
Stacked high upon the shelves in Mr. Byrne’s office are hundreds of first editions, rare printings, and books enriched with the personal signature of the author. Among the first editions, “The Argonauts of ‘Forty-nine’ ” stands out prominently.
Written by David Rohrer Leeper, it relates the adventure of five youths who left Notre Dame to try their luck in the gold fields of California.
Leeper, himself a Notre Dame man, alone returned from this expedition, wrote the account, and presented the initial printing to the University.
Another book which graces the walls of the little back room is “Through the Brazilian Wilderness,” written and autographed by the late Theodore Roosevelt. The signed copy was presented to Father Zahm, who accompanied the Rough Rider on his South American “River of Doubt” Expedition.
Several rare first editions aid in producing one of the best special libraries in the Middle West. Among the better known are Francis Thompson’s “Sister Songs,” and the “Ballad of Reading Gaol,” written by Oscar Wilde under his prison name, or, to be more explicit,—number.
All these are in the gray stone structure over by the side of the lake. Moreover, there are others, the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, for instance, and all are obvious essentials of a well-balanced library.
Utica Club Members
Hear Financial Report
Members of the Utica club heard a financial report at their regular meeting last Monday night in the club rooms in Walsh hall. Plans for a summer dance were discussed with particular attention being paid to the choice of an orchestra.
Refreshments were served to the • eighteen members who attended. The meeting was presided over by Charles Hitzelberger, president, and president of the President’s Council. The next meeting will be held the first week in March at which time definite announcement will be made regarding the summer dance and also the possibility of a special bus home for the Easter vacation.
A new type of microscope has been developed at Princeton University by Dr. E. Newton Harvey by which biologists will be able for the first time to observe changes taking place within living cells, when they are whirled about at speeds between 10,000 and 12,COO revolutions a minute.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE IALALI
Ballyhooing Education
Everything is ballyhooed these days, and education is no exception. Dadyn S. Pearson, writing for the January 20th number of the Outlook and Independent points out some of the more insidious forms. Advertising for private schools, and educational methods employed in the public schools come in for a little exposure at his hands.
“ ‘The School with the Personal Touch’ reminds us irresistably of that fabled skin one loves to touch! Another is a ‘Maker of Men’ teaching ‘How to Learn, How to Labor, and How to Live.’ That’s a full-size order for any organization.”
These, and worse, are the sort of advertising appeals which are used by secondary schools advertising in the magazines. Some of these schools offer courses in “Servant Problems,” and one advertises “Eight separate sorority houses, each completely furnished from living room to kitchen.” One claims to be “In the Heart of Old Southern Aristocracy.”
These appeals are based, of course, on snobbishness. Mother wants little Willie to go where he won’t have to associate with the hoi polloi, mainly so that she can talk about it. This is what is known as having “advantages.”
The use of ballyhoo in the public school system is, however, worse. The private school does have the advantage of smaller classes and closer attention to health, and its ballyhoo is to get pupils so that the school can keep open.
The public school is the victim of publicity artists who are mainly interested in keeping their jobs.. There are superintendents, principals, and supervisors, and they must create nice little results so that their work will look important. The results may be non-essential and trivial, but it they look important, that is all that counts.
These men are “demons for statistics, intelligence tests, standardized measurements, the work of course being placed on the sloping shoulders of the already overburdened class
room teacher. Then the awe-inspiring sheets of tables, intricate graphs and conclusive summaries which prove nothing are used by the supervisor to stun the principal. Mayhap the principal then lets the superintendent see them to prove what a wide-awake modern system the principal is running.”
This mania for testing, standardizing, and measuring serves often for no more than an excuse to irate parents. “Isn’t it wonderful to be able to say, ‘Mrs. Doe, we’re all most sorry about Willie’s work, but you see his intelligence quotient is only 112, and he is doing as well as can be expected.’ Perhaps Mrs. Doe after recovering her breath, says, with a dazed expression in her eyes, ‘But Johnny acts cleverly enough around home. He can get into all kinds of mischief; he is interested in half a dozen good hobbies; he runs a paper route that is making him several dollars a week, and he’s a keen little business man. You don’t suppose, Mr. Principal, that the teachers may not be a bit at fault?’
“The Principal, with a resigned look of toleration, glances at his Doctor of Education degree on the wall. Mrs. Doe looks at it, and begins to shrivel at her boldness.”
More Extravaganza
The same Professor Shaw at New York University who claimed that whistling was a sign of a moron now comes forth with the statement that a Phi Beta Kappa key is useless and that pants are a sign of patriotism.
For Peace
At Purdue university ten Chinese students have withdrawn from school to return home to help repel the attacks of the Japanese. More students will leave later, it was announced by Purdue’s colony where there are about 30 Chinese students. Their expenses are being paid by the Chinese government from the indemnity it received after the Boxer uprising.
February 12, 1932
Nineteen
eihoit iaci
YO-YO! THE DEATH KNELL
No more will undergraduate clubs lapse into the spell of inactivity. No more will Scholastic editorials be written crying against the latent city and state groups.
For now all is changed.
Last Sunday morning the Presidents’ Council laid down the law. Stringent methods were imposed on all student organizations. Definite rules were passed to keep the territorial bands knitted closer together.
They must now, you see, hold two meetings twice a semester to keep their charter. Not one, but two. Critics of the Presidents’ Council during the past week were inclined to believe that the martial measures were a bit too strong; that'this will result in the down-fall of too .many campus groups.
But the Presidents’ Council is firm. They said two meetings a semester, and that’s what they meant. They’re out to get club activity and they’ll get it, by gum. Yes, even if they have to force every group on the campus to meet twice a semester.
Some leniency was granted however to the distraught presidents of the local groups, for there is no time clause in the new ruling. They can hold their meetings for an hour if they care to. Or they can just take enough time to appoint a chairman for an Easter dance, or take up the ballots for next year’s election.
At last the death knell has been sounded and The Scholastic editorial staff, relieved that the situation has been capably handled, can return to their old stand-by and open fire on the Vigilance committee once again.
President Charles Hitzelberger of the Council, however, has tried earnestly to provoke
activity among the clubs; The fault lies not with him, but rather with the system with which he is working.
$ <•
LIBERAL EDUCATION
In America, of late, a decidedly liberal policy in education is coming into vogue in several of our major universities. The influence of the much flaunted “Oxford System” is only too apparent when one peruses some of the catalogues that a few prominent institutions have receritly formulated.
No reasonable educator doubts for a minute that the only real type of education is that which is self exacted. Anybody who has had anything to do with collegiate work admits , that it would be ideal to have a situation such that there would be no necessity for “cuts,” and “quizzes” and other items of a similarly compulsory nature.
But, and here is a question that ought to be applied to every experiment, would such a plan be workable in our country ? Is our high school system capable of turning out the rather finished product necessary for the proper functioning of the liberal method ?
Hasn’t a goodly amount of utilitarianism and emphasis upon the practical crept into American educational philosophy with the result that it will take more than “system” to eradicate it ?
Undoubtedly it is necessary to start at the very bottom and work up if we intend to reform existing evils. And then in the process it would be essential to touch other fields besides the educational one to effect an efficient and workable instructive policy. J
Twenty
The Scholastic
THEY’LL AID BENGAL MISSION FUND
Lenn Dunn prepares to risk his light-heavyweight crown.
Trade punches for “sweet charity".
Jerry Duwan gets ready for Fitzpatrick.
—Photographed by Joe Steffel Scholastic staff photographer.
BOXING SHOW PROGRAM LISTS NINE GREAT BOUTS
Director Bill Magarrall Closes Arrangements For Fine Card.
THE CARD
John Fisher vs. Joe Ciavirella Bill Malloy vs. Ed. Gaussland Jim Krause vs. J. McLaughlin Art Cline vs. Nick Cartan Johnny Perone vs. Bernie Heitz How. Waldron vs. Phil Purcell Len Dunn vs. Frank Gaul Jerry Duwan vs. J. Fitzpatrick Billy Magarrall vs. J. Gallagher (exhibition)
By Billy Magarrall
At eight-fifteen tonight the gong will clang on the opening bout of the Bengal boxing show as sixteen students strive for the eight university titles. After several weeks of intensive training, every entrant is prepared to go the limit in an attempt to gain the local boxing crown, and this same determination points to a particularly sizzling trio of scraps in three of the classes.
Each bout has ben carefully arranged so as to avoid both unbalanced ability and “fraternal waltzing.” It is assured that each match is going to produce sufficient action to keep those present from becoming indifferently interested.
For example, there’s Art Cline, well conditioned and a better than ordinary boxer, and his opponent Nick Cartan with a left hook as snappy as is seen in amateur circles. This may end with the arm of both being raised signifying a draw . . . unless one or the other connects flush.
Frank Gaul will be lacking in height and reach when he squares off with Len Dunn but you won’t find Frank breaking ground no matter how viciously Len wings that right in there. ,
Howdy Waldron and Phil Purcell are probably the most perfectly matched pair on the card. Howdy is shifty and elusive while Purcell stabs out a sharp left and crosses with his right when an opponent is advancing too aggressively.
The heavyweight bout looks like a toss-up. Jerry Duwan may give Jack Fitzpatrick a lot of trouble with his
(Continued on Page 30)
February 12, 1932
Twenty-one
WILSON RETAINS 600 TITLE AT MILLROSE
N. D. RING TITLES AT STAKE TONIGHT
Notre Dame Star Whips Great Field; Relay Team Loses.
Alex Wilson, Notre Dame middle distance ace, retained his championship in the classic Millrose “600” at Madison Square Garden last Saturday night. Bernie McCafferty, Holy Cross, was second, and Eddie Roll, Newark A. C., third. Wilson’s time was 1:12.6.
The victory was the second in as many years for the slim Canadian speedster and gives him permanent possession of the Wanamaker trophy.
McCafferty Sets Pace
A bit of jamming at the first turn send McCafferty, Wilson, and Roll to the front in that order. George Bullwinkle, running for the New York A. C., and Laszlo Barsi, heralded Hungarian runner, held down fourth and fifth positions.
McCafferty continued to lead through the early stages of the race with Wilson content to lay back in second place at the Holy Cross star’s heels.
Last Lap Sprint
Whirling into the final lap in second place, Wilson uncorked a blinding burst of speed that carried him to the front after a brief struggle with McCafferty. Continuing his drive the Notre Dame entry had a three-yard lead over his closest rival as he snapped the tape.
Roll followed McCafferty across the line and Bullwinkle and Barsi were fourth and fifth by a wide margin. The time was almost a full sec. ond faster than the mark made by Wilson in winning last year’s race.
Relay Team Loses
The Notre Dame mile relay team finished third in its race with Penn and N. Y. U. The Quaker team, holders of the world’s indoor record, copped first honors in 3:23.2. N. Y. U. took second place and the Notre Dame team of Kelly, MacBeth, Obergfall, and Wilson ran third.
Two of this evening’s scrappers swap a few punches in practice.
“You’ll eat those words,” sneers Heitz to Perone.
Percy Williams, Olympic 100 and 200 meter champion, has been selected by the Amateur Athletic Union of Canada as the Dominion’s outstanding athlete for 1931. He is the first holder of the Morton P. Crowe Memorial shield, to be awarded yearly hereafter.
Two of the fighters take a work-out on the bag.
—Photographed by Joe Steffel Scholastic staff photographer.
Twenty-tivo
The Scholastic
Crippled Irish Cage Squad Whips Syracuse Quint 26-18
FOULS MAR GAME
N. Crowe, Krause, Lead Notre Dame; Phillips Stars In Orange Cagers’ Attack.
By T. Edward Carey
ONTINUING in the role of the imperfect host, Notre Dame treated the invading Syracuse basketball team to a welcome Wednesday night that could hardly be termed enthusiastically hospitable.
As a result, the Keoganites carried off the verdict in a rather grim cage contest by the healthy margin of 26 to 18, and thereby removed their victory record up to the peg marked “tenth straight,” avenged a defeat at the hands of the Orange suffered last season, and proved that no matter how many first string players were holding down beds in nearby hospitals they could still present for competition a rather capable quintet. All in one night.
Officials Busy
A pair of extremely observant officials, one of them wearing a blatant black and white striped shirt, the tails of which provided a decided freshly-painted-park-bench effect beneath some flimsy knickers, called an unusual number of fouls which slowed the game considerably and kept the boys from becoming too winded at any particular time.
Big Ed Krause and Phillips of Syracuse staged a foul shooting contest at intermittent intervals throughout the game which placed both lads at the top of their respective scoring columns. It took the big fellow three or four shots to get into the spirit of things, during which time the Syracuse team ran up a lead of 8 to 5, mainly through’ the efforts of the hawk-eyed Phillips, but once the Moose got under way he did right well and ended up with ten points, six fouls, and two field goals. Phillips missed only the last of eight free
throws and connected once from the floor for an aggregate of nine points.
Crowe Snatches Lead
The first half of the game was extremely slow. Syracuse scored one lone field goal, but was leading 9 to 8 until Captain Norb Crowe sank a beautiful field goal from well out on the court just as the gun ended the first half, leaving Notre Dame with an advantage that it never relinquished.
Close guarding featured the play of both teams, and the boys of neither-side found much opportunity to measure the basket before shooting. The difference in the score represents Notre Dame’s superiority in hasty shot-making.
The Fighting Irish increased their lead to five points early in the second half and maintained a margin of at least that much during the remainder of the game. Notre Dame stalled successfully during the last six minutes.
Four Out On Fouls
Both teams lost two men on personal fouls during the second half; all of which affected the quality of the playing not a little. Captain Crowe put on his own little exhibition in the final period, sinking three baskets in rapid succession, and causing the Syracuse outfit to take time out to regard the scoreboard with a rather skeptical eye.
Illness kept Ray DeCook, star forward of the Keoganites, out of the lineup.
Summary:
Notbe Dame (26)	g	f
Newbold, rf ..................2	0
Alberts ......................0	0
Voegele, If ..................1	1
Schumacher ...................0	0
Krause, c ....................2	6
N. Crowe, rg..............•.	.4	0
Burns, 1g ....................0	1
Johnson ......................0	0
Totals .......................9	8
Syracuse	(18)	c	' f
Bock, rf ..............,......1	2
Armstrong,	If ..............1	0
Beech ........................0	0
Elliott, c ...................0	0
Taggart, rg,	c...............0	1
Vogel ........................1	0
Phillips, 1g	................1	7
Totals........................4	10
p
4 0
1
0
2
0
4
1
12
1
4 0
4
3
2
1
15
Referee — Risley (Colgate) : umpire — Lane (Cincinnati).
KEOGANITES ON ROAD FOR NEXT TWO GAMES
To Meet Reserve at Cleveland Tomorrow; Butler Friday.
Coach George E. Keogan will take his sharp-shooting Irish cage squad on the road twice within the next week in search of Nos. 11 and 12 in their victory string. The first of the two contests is slated for tomorrow night in Cleveland against the formidable Western Reserve five.
The second game will take the Keoganites into southern Indiana for their only invasion of the so-called basketball hot-bed. Coach Toby Hinkle’s Butler Bulldogs will play host to Notre Dame next Friday evening.
Reserve Dangerous
The clash in Cleveland tomorrow marks the first meeting in many years of Notre Dame and Reserve teams. The Cleveland outfit seems strong enough to push the Irish to the limit but on the basis of records to date, the local cagers are favored to win.
Don Berwald, an elongated pivot man, will be the Reserve nominee for the job of stopping Notre Dame’s high-scoring Ed Krause. Berwald has a bit of a reputation of his own for effective under-the-basket work when his team goes on offense.
Pair of Ed’s.
Supporting the lanky center are Ed Charilo, a forward, and Eddie Finnegan, guard. These two namesakes have been prominent all year in the Redcats’ play. Charillo is heralded as one of the best floor men of the year.
The chief feather in the Cleveland squad’s hat is a victory over a well-thought-of Yale five early in the year. Michigan State nosed out Reserve by a single marker since then which makes Notre Dame look a bit stronger in view of the trimming given the East Lansing Spartans.	.
Lineup That Faced Syracuse
It is probable that Coach Keogan will start the same team that started the Syracuse game Wednesday night. Ray DeCook, veteran forward, is still not in the best of shape and it is very doubtful that he will see service.
Joe Voegele, long-armed sophomore forward, will probably be used in place of the missing DeCook with Captain Crowe, Burns, Krause and Bill Newbold completing the lineup.
February 12,1932
Twenty-three
TRACK TEAM TO FACE IOWA IN FIRST MEET
INTRODUCING a Alex Wilson
Clash at Iowa City Tomorrow; Close Competition Expected.
Captain Bill McCormick will lead his track charges into their first dual meet of the current indoor track season, tomorrow, against Iowa at Iowa City.
From all reports the Hawkeyes have the strongest team that they have had in years and Coach John Nicholson was wearing a worried look today when his men stepped aboard the train. The lowans, with the exception of Saling, a hurdler who has obtained national fame, have no outstanding men but instead have almost sure point winners in every event.
Alex Wilson, twice winner of the Millrose “600” will be pressed to the limit in the half mile by two or three good middle-distance men. Whoever Coach Nicholson decides to run in the quarter will have to break 50 seconds in all probability to beat Skawbo who has ben credited with that time.
The Notre Dame weight men seem slated for a setback when they compete against a crew of veterans. Joe Kurth and Charley Finkle, weight tossers, have yet to compete in their first college meet.
McCormick should win the dashes and Gene Howrey is favored in the two-mile, but outside of those events Notre Dame apparently will be hard pressed for first place points.
Famous Painting Transported
By Intercollegiate Press.
Winter Pk., Fla., Feb. 10.—Among the oil paintings to be loaned to Rollins College for an exhibit of the works of George Inness, Jr., is a large landscape which is fixed in the wall of the administration building of Southern College, Lakeland, Fla.
The picture will be removed from its permanent placement and taken to Winter Park by special permission of Dr. Ludd M. Spivey, president of Southern College.
After a run on Urbana, Ill., banks as a result of the closing of two banks in the city, Mayor Reginald C. Harmon issued a proclamation closing all business houses in the city for five days, in order to allow the public to become “level headed.” Urbana’s largest “industry” is the University of Illinois.
Now that everyone is all excited about the Olympic games, bobsleds, and the doing of collegians in said Olympic games, it seems like a good idea to tell you something about our
Alex Wilson
“. . . my real ambition is an Olympic championship.”
own Olympic star; Gentlemen, meet Alex Wilson of the Notre Dame track team.
Wilson comes from Montreal, Canada, and holds almost as many records in that -country as he does in this. Previous to coming here he had two years of competition under the tutelage of Coach Nicholson while running for the Montreal A. C. Came time for the Canadian Oylmpic tryouts and Wilson breezed through to the finals in his pet event, the 440, and thus got to represent that country in the 1928 games.
He won his title as British Empire
champion for the 440 in the subsequent British Empire — American games at Hamilton, Ontario. In this meet he also was anchor man on the winning one mile relay team. Then Nicholson came to Notre Dame, and says Alex, “I intended to go to college anyway, so I came here.” And his deeds as a star performer for three years on the Notre Dame track team are pretty well known.
He holds the gym record for the 440 and the half mile and at one time or another has run on practically every kind of a relay team that
• Notre Dame has had.
Winning the Millrose ‘600’, classic event of the Millrose games held annually in New York City, last Saturday night for the second successive time is considered by Alex as his biggest thrill in many years of racing. He tied the meet record for this event and defeated a brilliant field.
His immediate ambition is to win a national championship, and hopes to do so in the National Indoor meet which takes place a week from Saturday. “But like every other track man my real ambition is an Olympic championship.”
Wilson is a senior in the physical education college, lives in Walsh, and intends to coach after graduation.
Graduate Wins Notable Case
Robert P. Galloway, an attorney at Silver Creek, New York, who graduated from the Notre Dame College of Law with the class of 1922, sent to Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the law faculty, a copy of the New York Settlement, dated November 17, 1931. The publication contained an interesting decision of the Chataugua county court on the real property rights of the Seneca Indians. Mr. Galloway acted as attorney for the Seneca Indians and achieved a notable victory for them.
William J. Neville, a member of the graduating class of 1925, has just assumed the office of District Attorney of Genesee County, in Batavia, New York.
Joseph Daignault, of the class of 1929, of Chicago, was a visitor at the Notre Dame law school last week.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Thousands Cheered As Gus Desch Broke Hurdle Record
This is the first of a senes of articles by Tighe Woods, Scholastic staff writer, on the great events in Notre Dame sporting history. .
By Tighe Woods
There is no thrill like that which accompanies the crowning of a new champion. In any field of sport, no matter how partisan the spectators may be, some mysterious emotion causes them to rise as one man and acclaim the new king.
Franklin field in Philadelphia has seen many champions crowned, but none will soon forget the beautiful duel in the 440-yard low hurdles between Gus Desch of Notre Dame and Lou Hill of Ohio State.
Exceptional Entries
The Annual Penn relays are to track what the World series are to baseball and the Tournament of Roses to football. On that day the eyes of the nation, and of the world, are turned to Phil
adelphia to watch the cream of the American track stars compete.
The year 1921 was especially blessed with a wealth of wonderful cinder men. Both England and France had entered crack mile relay teams and a score of unbeaten stars from all over this country were assembled to compete against each other.
The 440-yard low hurdles was expected to be one of the best races of the day. Both Desch and Hill had been receiving nation-wide notice but until the Penn Relays they had not met. Both men had perfect builds for hurdlers. Desch was lean and lanky with finely muscled legs and long arms that helped him keep perfect balance.
Spectators Eager
He could do the century in ten flat and he ran the two-twenty in twenty-two. He was also one of Rockne’s better halfbacks. Hill was built along the same lines as Gus but he was’ a little shorter.
When the announcer gave the last call for the 440-yard low hurdles little ripples of color seemed to sway the massive stadium as people edged forward on their seats. There was a definite tenseness in the air as if
the spectators wanted it to be over and yet were afraid to have it begin. The sun seemed to play geometric tricks with the chalk lanes and white hurdles. Shimmering heat waves made the lines wave and twist and converge where a tiny white tape stretched across the finish line far down the course.
Get Set
The six runners pranced up and down and busied themselves measuring their starting pits. A few loped down the track and took the first hurdle in an easy, confident stride.
The starter called the men to their marks and the huge stadium became a silent, tense jury. “Get set!” could be heard at the far gates. The crack of the gun released six springs, and six men, bent low, came one and took the first hurdle as one. A mighty motion, like an incoming tide, and forty thousands people rose as Hill and Desch drew away in front.
Closing Sprint
Clop, clop, clop, clop, four feet left the ground and returned to grip spikes into the hard cinders. Hill was a little ahead and holding his position, but the terrific strain of that recordbreaking pace was beginning to tell. Desch took his last three hurdles easily and gradually closed in on his rival.
Gus rose to the last barrier just an eyelash ahead of Hill, and then came the second that left the stands speechless. Desch, with a magnificent Z' stride and the form of a fresh sprinter, took the last twenty yards of the straight-away and finished five yards ahead of his rival to a new world's record! He had clipped 2-5 of a second off the old record held by Watt of Cornell.	•
A half-million dollar anthropological workshop,- for the study of the early days of mankind, has been opened at Santa Fe, New Mexico.
University of Heidelberg scientists have been studying a man with gill slits in his neck, together with a rudimentary gill, believed to be a “throwback” from the evolutionary long ago.
Name Washington Committee
The committee for the Washington’s birthday exercises was named yesterday by Eugene Connelly, president of the senior class. Gerald Conway is chairman, and Clayton Duerr, Jeremiah Reidy, Raymond DeCook, and Eugene Calhoun are the members of the body.
This group is organized to assist the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., and the deans of the various colleges in preparing for the annual celebration of Washington’s birthday.
IN YOU'RE HAVING YOUR FORTUNE TOLD
And the Cards Say You' re Going on a Long Journey
Phone the South Shore Line ticket agent, 3-3111, and have him make reservations f or you. He’ll probably arrange it so you can have a few hours between trains to look around Chicago — and you won’t object to that.
50UTH^ORM
Every hour on-the-hour to	<
Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago.
4
February 12, 1932
Twenty-five
CAGERS WIN SECOND GAME FROM Pin,26-19
Chance to Win Game Gave Norb Crowe Tensest Moment
Krause, Newbold Lead N. D. Scoring; Free Throws Win.
Notre Dame scored its second victory over Pittsburgh this season when the Fighting Irishmen conquered the Pitt Panthers, 26-19, at Pittsburgh last Saturday night. Superiority in free throws accounted for Notre Dame’s victory.
Capt. Lawry of Pittsburgh opened the scoring with a goal from the field after which Bill Newbold of Notre Dame countered with two free throws and two field goals to give the visitors a lead which they maintained throughout the game.
Personal fouls counted heavily against Pitt for the Fighting Irish converted fourteen of their eighteen chances from the foul stripe, an advantage that Pittsburgh found too great to overcome even though they outscored Notre Dame from the floor by seven to six baskets. The Panthers fought hard, and their fighting tactics cost them the loss of three men on personals, but the Pittsburgh substitutes played well enough to keep the game reasonably close throughout.
Krause headed the scoring column with ten points, one field goal and eight fouls. Newbold was next with seven points, followed by Lawry of Pitt who scored six.
Summary:	'
Notre Dame (26)	c	f	p
Newbold, rf .................2	3	7
DeCook, If ..................0	0	0
Krause, c ...................1	8	10
N. Crowe, rg.................0	2	2
Burns, 1g ...................2	0	4
Voegele, If .................1	0	2
Schumacher, rf ..............0	1	1
Pittsburgh (19)	g	f	p
Lawry, rf ...................2	2	6
Wroblewski, If ..............1	0	2
Brown, c *...................1	1	3
Smith, rg ...................2	1	5
Hughes, 1g ..................1	1	3
W. Kowallis, c ..............0	0	0
Ochsenhii-t, c ..............0	0	0
McCamant, rg ................0	0	0
Grid and Cage Games Are Bad Physically, Doctor Says
By Intercollegiate "Press.
Pittsburgh, Feb. 12.—College football and basketball are doing students irreparable damage physically, according to Dr. Philip H. Kruescher, Chicago surgeon here for the American College of Surgeons convention.
Youth of today, he said, is living too fast, staying out too late at night, and attending too many parties and dances.
This is the third of a series of interviews by Paul Host, Scholastic staff, sports tvriter, in which he describes the tense moments of Fighting Irish athletic stars.
By Paul Host
It was on a dark, sullen night in January, 1929, that Coach George Keogan brought his Notre Dame basketball quintet through an inky rainstorm to the basketball capital of the
Norb Crowe
“. . . I wouldn’t want to live it over.”
basketball state, Bloomington, Indiana.
Notre Dame was out to win, and there were no two ways about it for the year before Indiana had administered a thorough trouncing to the Irish forces at South Bend.
It seemed as though all Hoosier-dom was crammed in every nook and comer of the Indiana fieldhouse to witness the clash between two of the strongest teams in the middle west, and their reward was a basketball epic.
Indiana Favored
The “Dead-Eye Dicks” of the Indiana team, McCracken, Zetter, and Strickland, matched basket for basket with the Irish for the first half. A flurry of “buckets” (so-called in Southern Indiana) as the second half
got under way sent the Notre Dame score soaring, and Coach Keogan settled back for the first time that evening.
■ He had reckoned without Strickland for the Hoosier stylist suddenly found his “spot” on the floor and cut the Notre Dame lacing successively until the score read, Indiana, 29; Notre Dame, 28.
Newbold Out
With but three minutes of the game remaining Bill Newbold left for the showers tainted with four personals and Norbert Crowe, sophomore forward, went in to take his place. In a vicious mixup under the Indiana basket Crowe was fouled in the act of shooting and awarded two free throws with sixty seconds rapidly ticking away. If you don’t think that was being “put on the spot” Norb says you are all wrong for:
“Here I was playing before what might have been termed a home crowd for the first time with the chance of becoming either the hero or the goat of the game. One free throw would tie the score, both would win the game. .My throat felt dry, my arms weak, and my first toss failed to hit the rim of the basket.
“There was still a chance to tie up the game when the ball was returned to me for the second try. It’s hard to describe the thoughts that ran through my head just at that moment. All I can say is that I wouldn’t want to live it over.”
Indiana, 29; Notre Dame, 28
The next attempt tilted crazily upon the edge of the basket, then dropped off the side into the hands of an Indiana guard. The score still read, Indiana, 29; Notre Dame, 28.
Crowe didn’t say just what emotions he experienced when a few moments later he took a long pass from Ray DeCook to sink the pot shot which won the game. He was satisfied that he had already undergone his tensest moment in sport.
There are 71,693 employed in the civil service in Washington, and 616,834 in the country as a whole. The White House employs 43.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Gift of John J, Cushing, ’06, Is Now In Daily Use.
(Continued from Page 16) tensive collection. One of the finest specimens of radium ore in this part of the country may be seen here. The wood working shop and recreation room complete the scheme of this section.
To Study Hydraulics
Between the north and south parts of the building is a kind of court housing several laboratories for the study of hydraulics and road materials.
To the south are the machine shop, the huge testing laboratory and the two story high tension laboratory. The high tension laboratory forms part of the electrical engineering department on the second floor, where we have the general laboratory taking 4,000 volts from the St. Mary’s sub station and cutting them down to< 220 for use in the laboratory. A room for battery storage power is now nearing completion.
The department of civil engineering is also centered on this floor: an instrument room, a map room, offices of the faculty.
On the third floor are the draughting rooms, a model room, a print room and several classrooms. The department of mechanical engineering is located here.
The complete effect of the building is an efficient use cf space for accommodation. The lighting is superbly arranged, the departmental connections and the equipment nearly complete. All in all the building itself is a worthy symbol of Notre Dame engineering.
Plan For National Event
Plans for the traditional exercises held at the University on Washington’s Birthday, February 22 are now being made, according to Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
Since the present year, 1932, marks the bi-centennial of the birth of Washington, the observance will be conducted along those lines appropriate to the occasion, according to present plans.
The new Canadian census shows the Dominion has increased in population by a million and a half in the last ten years. The population of Canada is now over ten million for the first time.
INTERHALL NOTICE
The interhall basketball practices scheduled for tonight have been cancelled because of the Bengal boxing show. The regular schedule will be in force following tonight.
CONSTRUCTION IS UNDER WAY ON OLYMPIC ROWING COURSE
By Intercollegiate Press.
Los Angeles, Calif., Feb. 11.—Construction of boat houses, floats and other equipment necessary to complete preparations for the rowing events of the games of the tenth Olympiad, which are to be celebrated in this city from July 30 to August 14, is now under way, according to the Organizing Committee for the Games.
The races will be held in Long Beach Marine Stadium, 40 minutes from Olympic Stadium, for five days beginning August 9. Events include four-oared shells with coxswain, pair-oared boats without coxswain, single sculls, two-oared shells with coxswain, four-oared shells without coxswain, double sculls without coxswain and eight-oared shells.
Long Beach Marine Stadium comprises a fresh-salt water course of sufficient length to contain a splendid 2000 - metre straightaway course. More than 100,000 spectators can view the races from the bordering shore, and grand stands to accommodate 10,000 more, are being built. Construction work now going on includes also dressing rooms, containing lockers and shower baths for the oarsmen, as well as lounges and dining rooms.
‘Depressions Good/ Says Prof.
By Intercollegiate Press.
MONTREAL, Feb. 11.—Economic depressions such as the world is now experiencing are necessary for the progress of civilization, Prof. E. G. Conklin, head of the biology department at Princeton university, said this week in a lecture here.
“Some of the weaker, according to the law of nature, will naturally die under stress of the times,” he declared. “Others will not propagate their kind. The strong and hardy will survive and reproduce, and .thus the human race will be strengthened?’
PLANS ANNOUNCED FOR INTERHALL TRACK MEET
Preliminaries Slated for Feb.
18, 25; Finals March 8.
Charles F. Weiss, director of interhall athletics, yesterday announced February 8 and 25 as the dates for the preliminary interhall track meets. The meets will be held in the field house.
Eight halls are to compete in the first meet this Thursday. They are Lyons, Morrissey, Sophomore, Dillon, St. Edward’s, Badin, Corby, and Sorin.
The men who are entered by these halls will compete in ten events, consisting of the 60-yard dash, pole vault, high jump, shot put, broad jump, 65-yard low hurdles, 440-yard run, 880-yard run, mile run, and the three-quarter mile relay.
Winners of first, second, and third places are eligible to compete in the final meet scheduled for Tuesday, March 8.
All members of the varsity squad and those freshmen who achieved numeral time, in the frosh-varsity meet held last Saturday are ineligible. The ineligible freshmen are: R. Armstrong, S. Cavender, Davis, J. Edwards, J. Foy, William Freshie, R. Jassoy, C. Landmesser, J. Shiels, T. Walsh.
Coaches have been appointed for the halls to give special instruction. These coaches will post their own notices of when they will meet their candidates.
Ex-Convict Is Prison Trustee
What is believed to be an innovation in prison reform methods was the appointment by Gov. Pinchot of Pennsylvania of a former inmate in the prison to be a trustee of Eastern State penitentiary. The appointee was Henry G. Brock who served three years after he pleaded guilty to killing three persons in an automobile accident. During his term he established shops in Philadelphia where prison-made goods were sold and the proceeds, about $40,000, were turned over to the convicts.
The tempo of American life eventually will result in the shortening of words in American speech, according to Richard Borden, professor of public speaking'at the New York University College of Arts.
February 12, 1932
Tiventy-seven
No Thrill Ever to Equal It!
A year in the making! Such a drama of love, of thrills on land and' in the skies, such tense tragedy stepping on the heels of laughter, as the screen has never shown!
WALLACE BEERY
CLARK GABLE
IN
"Hell Divers"
With Dorothy Jordan - Cliff Edwards
Special 5-Day Engagement Only
AT THE
OF COURSE:
v/ Leap Year Paradox!!!!
Announcing the second debut on the campus of the
1931 Official Football Review
of the
University of Notre Dame for the exclusive attention of students (bt the attractive price of fifty cents.
Starting today, copies of this limited edition may be purchased at
45 Sorin Hall
354 Sorin Hall
Campus Candy Store ,
Notre Dame Cafeteria. News Stand
(The Review comprises cl vivid picturi-zation of Notre Dame’s valiant march on the 1931 gridiron and intimate pen pictures of Knute K. Rockne.)
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Conclusion of the second week of interhall basketball finds that the leadership of the two groups and leagues is divided among a number of the halls. Sorin is the only hall that is undefeated in both the lightweight and heavyweight divisions.
Sorin, champions in the heavyweight class last year, is tied with Sophomore and Morrissey for the lead in Group I of the heavyweight division. The Sorin lightweights are tied with Badin for first place in Group I of their league.
In the heavyweight class of Group II, Freshman and Off-Campus are at the top of the ladder, and the two dormitories, Brownson and Carroll, lead in the lighter class.
Tobin, right forward, scored nine points for Howard but his efforts failed to prove sufficient to win the Howard-Off-Campus game, for his hall, for Off-Campus was victorious by one point, the game ending 14 to 13. Vitt and Rodiquez led the “Daydog” attack. Jackwich, right guard,
aided Tobin in scoring the points for Howard, Jaskwich scoring the other four points by virtue of two field goals in the second half.
Freshman, led by Burke, right guard, who looped in three field goals in the second half, downed Brownson’s heavyweights 20 to 9. Arm-heitei- and Frye also played well for the winners. Lyons starred for Brownson.
Alumni’s heavyweights gained their first victory in interhall basketball competition when, led by Clark and Ryppe they downed Carroll, 17 to 13, in a rough and fast fray. Caldwell, Carroll left forward, shone for the losers.
Lyons won their game with Corby in a contest that was marked by the inability of either team to find the hoop very often. Vettel, Lyons left guard, was the individual high point man of the game and he scored but four points. Dorschel, Hall, Vettel, and Sandura all played well for Lyons. Conti was the outstanding senior.
Felts and Cavender, Sophomore forwards, scored 15 points together and enabled Sophomore to win their game from Badin, 19 to 11. Sexton, Badin right guard’s floor play, was one of the outstanding features of the game.
Chudenski, Brest, and Pogue had little difficulty in finding the basket and Morrissey’s heavyweights won their second straight victory over Dillon, 19 to 7. Cushing, Dillon center, who scored six of his team’s points, was the Dillon star.
' Bernie Heitz (yes, the battler), was plenty hot, and in four field goals led the 1931 champs to their second consecutive win over a fighting St. Edward’s five, 19 to 11. Christman and Baldwin also did some fine work for Sorin. Kane, Jehle, and Mueller played well for St. Edward’s.
Although Johnnie Perone was saved for his coming fight Friday night, Corby’s lightweights won their game from Lyons, 16 to 9, in rather easy fashion. Dunleavy was the big gun behind Corby’s victory. However, he received wonderful aid from Brennan and Dolsey. Bontempo,' Lyons center, and his teammate Sauseville also played well.
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
1
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Tweet Hogan
and his Drake Hotel Orchestra
Favorites of WGN and the N. B. C. Network Stations.
Sunday, February 14 Tickets on sale at Palais Royale and Oliver Hotel.
Advance Sale, 75c At door, $1.00
And Don’t Forget ISHAM JONES and his Brunswick Recording Orchestra Geo. Washington Party, Sun., Feb., 21
Palais Royale
February 12, 1932
Ttuenty-nine
Badin was forced to the limit to win their lightweight fray from Sophomore and only succeeded by one point, the score being 17 to 16 when the final whistle blew. Thomason led the Badinites to victory while Roark and Johns of Sophomore starred in defeat.
Dillon, led by Tourek, won their first game from Morrissey, 16 to 9. Tourek scored seven points and was the individual high point scorer of the game. Hendrick and Stritch were the Morrissey luminaries.
Sorin’s lightweights had a bit more trouble with the St. Edward’s team they faced, than did their heavyweights but managed to win, 16 to 15. Burris, with eight points, was the star for Sorin. Asman and Colville played good floor games for the winners. Buckley and Piontek starred for the Minims.
Carroll’s lightweights remained undefeated by downing Alumni, 12 to 8. Thole again was high point scorer for his team, counting seven points. Shaughnessy, Alumni center, played a good steady game for the losers.
Brownson had things their own way in theii- game with Freshman and downed their first year rivals, 26 to 6. CoOgan, Morper, and Carrico led the
winner’s offense. Burns was the only player that displayed any brand of good basketball on the Freshman team.
STANDINGS
GROUP I
Heavyweight	Lightweight
w l	w L
Morrissey .....2	0	Badin .........2	0
Sophomore .....2	0	Sorin .........2	0
Sorin .........2	0	Corby .........1	1
Lyons..........1	1	Lyons .........1	1
St. Edward’s __X	1	Sophomore .....1	1
Badin .........0	2	Dillon ........1	1
Corby .........0	2	Morrissey .....0	2
Dillon ........0	2	St. Edward’s____0	2
GROUP II
Heavyweight	Lightweight
w l	w L
Freshman ......2	0	Brownson ......2	0
Off-Campus ....2 0	Carroll .......2	0
Alumni ........1	0	Howard ........1	1
Walsh..........1	0	Off-Campus _____1	1
Brownson ......0	2	. Alumni ......0	I
Carroll .......0	2	Walsh .........0	1
Howard ........0	2	Freshman ......0	2
GAME SCHEDULE February 14
Group I—
8:30 a.m.—Lyons vs. Badin
9:30 a. m.—Sophomore vs. Dillon
10:30 a.m.—Morrissey vs. St. Ed’s
1:30 p. m.—Corby vs. Sorin
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Alumni 3:30 p. m.—Howard vs. Freshman 4:30 p.m.—Carroll vs. Walsh. Off-Campus—bye.
Basketball On Ice!
By Intercollegiate Press.
Champaign, Ill., Feb. 9.—It may or may not be the beginning of a new college sport, but there’s no denying it’s novel, this game they’re playing at the University of Illinois.
Not content with playing basketbool on a slippery hardwood floor, two teams of basketball and football stars have taken to playing the cage game here, with skates.
There have been 4,308 lynchings in the United States since 1885. Of this total, 1,050 have been white persons and 3,248 Negroes.
Phone	’ Xray
Office 2-1067 Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY Feb. 13-14-15
5	ON OUR STAGE	ggg
BIG ACTS
< VAUDEVILLE J
The Famous Musical Comedy Star
JEiN BEDINI
(IN PERSON) .
•	and
HARRY EVANSON in “The Smash-Up” with
ROY ARTHUR, NAN BEDINI, MYLES BELL, FLORENCE BROWER
ON OUR SCREEN
POLA.
fNIGRI
Harry Savoy
Mayor Goopher of Goof Falls
Frankie Finn
’Huckleberry’s Singing Cousin’
R K O
Sherman & Vaye
“It’s a Surprise”
Les Elicks
“The Enchanted Forest’
(Doman ©nn^nds
BASIL RATHBONE I ROLAND YOUNG I You will be 'thrilled when you
hear talk her
Pola Negri and sing in first talking Picture!
1Y
Thirty
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
BOXING CARD COMPLETED (Continued from Page 20)
By James S. Kearns
CARLSON EXPLAINS
Following the two recent setbacks accorded his Panthers by the Notre Dame eagers, Doc Carlson loosed a nice explanation to the Pittsburgh press. It doesn’t seem to have been in the way of an alibi—merely a recognition of ability.
“It’s probably the greatest Irish team I’ve ever faced,” said the doctor. “This boy, ‘Moose’ Krause,” he added, “is one of the best centers I have ever seen. He’s the backbone of their offense. . . .”
That’s quite all right with us, Doctor, we’ve thought the same things for some time now.
UNDERSTANDING AND
GOOD WILL
The old myth about the “spirit of good will and understanding” resulting from international athletic competition suffered another of its rather regular explosions during the past we e k. Protests, counter-protests, threats of withdrawal, a bit of snivelling, and a lot of juvenile pouting have featured the winter Olympics as prominently as even the flashing blades of Jack Shea and Irv Jaffee.
It has occurred to us several times while the chorus of “unfair,” and “won’t skate” was echoing back and forth across the ice at Placid that it is about time that a standard style of speed skating be adopted by the authorities in charge. Official acceptance of either the American or the European style by the rules committee should end the wailings that invariably accompany the carnival.
With an assured knowledge that no matter whether the games were at St. Moritz, Lake Placid, or Oslo, the manner of conducting would be just the same, the competitors would have something definite to work on. There would be no need of a change of training systems or mental poise each time the Olympic year rolled around.
Naturally any such attempt at final settlement would cause a championship outburst from all the nations. Even one such uproar would be more bearable than the constant haranguing no win force.
Our vote, (who said we got one?) would go to the American style. It seems unquestionably more fair: the skaters use the ice at the same time and in the same condition. It adds the element of contact so necessary from the spectator’s point of view.
It may, it is true, discount perfection of form and skill to some extent, but it places a premium on judgment of others’ as well as of one’s own pace. It makes the races contests between men; not the matching of a human machine against a stop watch.
We have high hopes that the petty quibbling will have worked itself out before the track and field games this summer. If it hasn’t, there will probably be a universal mobilization of big brothers to take up the cudgels of complaint.
BEG YOUR PARDON
When we were extolling the potential excellence of the Millrose games last week, we seem to have overlooked a few people. It didn’t bother Mr. Venzke, apparently, for he stepped off his record-smashing mile in a decisive fashion. 4:11.1 was good enough to deprive Ray Conger of his fourth Wannamaker cup victory but then it should have been: it was good enough for a new world’s indoor record.
Should Venzke maintain his form and condition, he seems slated for the number one position on the United States’ 1,500 meter squad at Los Angeles in July.
Also at the Millrose games, George Spitz.high jumped six feet seven 5-8 inches for another new record. Spitz’ performances in the past have indicated that he reaches his peak rather early in the indoor season and then goes into a gradual decline as the year wears on. Should that hold true. this year, his value to the Olympic team will be well below his potential rating at the present time.
bobbing methods but Jack’s right is dangerous for anyone carelessly maneuvering without some definite purpose.
Duwan bobs usually to feint his opponent off balance and this sometimes leaves him dangerously exposed. It is believed that this final bout of the evening is going to set off the show in a fitting manner, since it indicates a number of likely endings.	T
Jim Krause and Jack McLaughlin are paired in what likely will be an interesting study of contrasts. Krause is rugged, speedy, and a vicious counter-puncher, while McLaughlin stands coolly erect, carefully and adeptly piling up points and avoiding those of his opponent.
Bill Malloy and Ed Gaussland should offer a pleasing three-round session. The former has an aggressive attack which seldom fails to break through an opponent’s defense while the latter is strictly a counter puncher, one who makes it miserable for those who lead carelessly or too wide open.
John Fisher may have some trouble with Joe Ciavirella because of the latter’s crowding, forcing attack. John, however, may offset this aggression through his knowledge of boxing technique.
I don’t know how to pick the Per-rone-Heitz affair. Neither has been willing to work out in the boxing room with the others for fear of disclosing his style. Those who have seen Perone work say he takes a southpaw stance, but others say that is used only for the purpose of baffling Heitz.
The writer will box a three-round exhibition with Jack Gallagher.
Don’t fail to see this “Carnival of Clout.” Besides the more serious angle of determining the university championships there are also going to be one or two novelty. numbers associated with boxing.

February 12, 1932
Thirty-one
BASEBALL STILL RULES THE SPORTING WORLD, A. P. SURVEY SHOWS
ED KRAUSE TAKES SCORING LEAD
(Including Syracuse game.)
By Intercollegiate Press.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, Feb. 5.—A survey made by the Associated Press for its members by sports writers throughout the country on the most popular sport shows that baseball is still king of the American sports world, although it is being closely pushed by football, the collegiate game.
Other popular sports were found to be favored in the order:
Golf, boxing, basketball, horse racing, fishing and hunting, track and field, ice hockey, tennis.
The survey also showed golf to be the sport requiring the most skill. It was followed in the order by: baseball, tennis, billiards and boxing.
Sports requiring most strength or stamina were in the order: rowing, wresting, boxing, football, basketball, distance running.
Sports involving the most luck were in the order: golf, baseball, horse racing, basketball, football.
	* G	rG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT	PTS
Krause	12	22	30	20	20	.600	74
Newbold	14	27	19	31	13	.594	73
N. Crowe	14	26	5	22	9	.357	57
DeCook	12	23	8	14	8	.500	54
Baldwin	9	17	5	14	5	.500	39
Voegele	12	13	6	11	10	.375	32
Burns	14	8	10	28	6	.625	26
Davis	11	11	3	11	. 2	.600	25
L. Crowe	9	10	1	6	2	.333	21
Schumacher	9	4	3	3	1	.750	11
Johnson	9	1	1	7	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.coo	2
Schrader	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	1	0	.000	0
	—	—	—	—	—	—	—
Totals	14	163	91	170	81	.530	417
Opponents	14	96	96	143	93	.508	288
* G—games ;	FG—field	goals:	FT—free	throws:	PF—personal	fouls; FTM-	—free
throws missed ; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PTS—total points.
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
SURPLUS STOCK
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
Men’s High Grade
Double Tap Sole-Iron Heel
FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was $3.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO'S
330 S. Michigan St.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
Let’s smoke a MAN’S SMOKE!
Her smoke— a cigarette!
WHEN the girls begin to cut corners in our cars and do back somersaults in our planes and borrow our cigarettes— then it’s time to take to a pipe!
Call it the last stronghold of masculine defence—or the one pet diversion our little friends keep their fingers off. Call it what you will— there’s something downright satisfy
ing, understanding, companionable about a friendly, mellow, MASCULINE pipe! It’s a real man’s smoke!
And a pipe’s at its best when you fill it up with Edgeworth. There’s a rare, mellow flavor to the Edge-■ worth blend of fine burleys that simply can’t be touched. It’s cut long—to give you a cool, slow-burning smoke. And
you’ll find it the favorite with smokers in 42 out of 54 colleges.
You can get Edgeworth wherever good tobacconists sell smokes. But if you’ve never tried it, we’d like the fun of treating you to that first satisfying pipeful. Just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
A pipe's a man’s smoke
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge* worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReady' Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15 £ pocket .
package to $1-50 pound humidor tin.
On Down the Line
Old CLARENCE MITCHELL, the only left-handed spit-ball pitcher in the National league, has returned his signed contract to the Giants . . . DAVE SHADE, veteran New York middle-weight, has fought in 405 ring encounters . . . TWENTY GRAND, acclaimed the champion thre year old, was beaten in two out of three starts by A. C. Bostwick’s MATE . . . ERNIE NEVERS, Stanford football star of a decade ago, is looking for a coaching job.
DON HOFFER’S U. of Chicago gymnasts have won the Big Ten conference title nine out of the last eleven years . . . Hoffer claims his team this year is the strongest in history . . . WILLIE HOPPE started playing billiards when but five years eld ... He was world’s champ at eighteen . . . ART “THE GREAT” SHIRES, Boston Red Sox rookie played and starred in baseball at four different universities . . . ELLSWORTH VINES and Mrs. Helen Wills Moody were selected as United States’ first ranking tennis players . . . incidentally they are both native Californians.
Spring football practice at Harvard this year will be INFORMAL . . . When GENE TUNNEY decisioned Jack Dempsey at Philadelphia, it was the first time that the heavyweight title changed hands without a knockout . . . PERKINS will not play for England in the Walker Cup matches ... he has applied for United States citizenship . . . JIM LONDOS, the world’s greatest necker is a WOMAN-HATER . . . Babe Ruth has taken to PING-PONG to improve (?) his batting eye . . .
LAKE PLACID, a village of 3,500 has expended $1,500,000 to make it the winter sports capital of North America .. . Statistics reveal that it costs seven dollars per day to keep a race horse in training . . . More than 100 freshmen have reported for the yearling crew at SYRACUSE U . . . By winning both games from Pitt and Northwestern, champions of the East and Big Ten respectively, NOTRE DAME stamped itself as the leading team for National honors . . . Despite a 20% cut in salary, JIMMY PHELAN, coach at Oregon U., now receives as much as M. Lyle Spencer, president of the university.
YOVKOLD SUIT!
Spruce up and have that old suit cleaned and pressed.
It will look like new if done at Notre Dame.
Further—
WeWasKo
’fear Worries and Iron outgroup Wrinkfes When We LAOA^AY
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
Bruce Barton writes:
And that’s why The SCHOLASTIC enjoys the favor of many advertisers, local and national. Week after week it is read closely by more than three thousand men at Notre Dame.
Week after week the alert merchandiser tells his selling story. Certainly it pays to talk to this parade. Proof: few of our advertisers cease talking in our pages, once they’ve gained that student ear.
The Scholastic
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
I was afraid Grandfather
would be ^hocked..
THE (DIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMD?iIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
* Wrapped in DuPont No. 300 Moisture-proof Cellophane ... the
THEY TASTE
BETTER
1932, LKC8TT * MriaS TOMCCO Co.
THEY’RE MILDER • • THEY’RE PURE
"Music that Satisfies.” Hear
Nat Shilkret’s brilliant
Network... 10:30 E. S.T.
"TTFS rather a bossy old dar« 11 ling, and I didn’t know how he’d like the ideaofmy smoking.
"The firsttimel lit a Chesterfield in front of him, he sniffed like an old war-horse... and I braced myself for trouble. But all he said was, 'That’s good tobacco, Chickabiddy?
"You know Grandfather raised tobacco in his younger days, so he knows what’s what. I don’t, of course—but I do know that Chesterfields are milder. It’s wonderful to be
able to smoke whenever you want, with no fear you’ll smoke too many.
"And it doesn’t take a tobacco expert to prove that Chesterfield tobaccos are bet. ter. They taste better.. .that’s proof enough. Never too sweet. No matter when I smoke them .. .or how many I smoke... they always taste exactlyright.”
orchestra and Alex Gray,
soloist, every night except
Sunday...entire Columbia