
March 9 March 10 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 fvlarch 15  ·The 1980 Sophomore ·Litera1·y Festival John Barth....................... ·•· .................Library Auditorium, 8:00 PM John Auerbach.· ..........................: ..........Library Auditorium, 4:00 PM . David Hare...........................................Was~ington Hall, 8:00 PM Jayne Anne Phillips .................................Library Auditorium, 8:00 PM · John Cage..........................................Library Auditorium, 8:00 PM Roy ~ischer........ ~ ................................Library Auditorium, 8:00 PM Louise Gluck. ......... ..............................Library Auditorium, 8:00 PM . & Charles Simic · Scott Spencer.......................................Library Auditorium, 4:00 PM Receptions afterward in the Library lounge.  

FIRST ANNUAL 
SCHOLASTIC.. 

-. . . . . 

PHOTOGRAPHY 
$10 

CONTEST 
Top. Prize 


-. . . 
•Winner & 5 Honorable Mentions Printed in March 21 Scholasticlssue 
Contest Rules: 

-Limit of 2 black and white prints per entry 
(include name, address, and phone # with entry) 
-Any printable subject matter accepted · 
-Slide entry under Scholastic Office door, 3rd Floor, LaFortune in envelope 
marked "photo contest" ··. . . ' . 
--,-Entry deadline -Wednesday, March 12 . 
Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Managing Editor 
Bob Southard 
Art Director 
Jim Hofman 

Production ·Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 
News Editor 
Lisa Hartenberger 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 

Copy 'Editor· 
Chuck Wood . 

Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 
Sports Editor 
Tom Westphal 
St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer 

Layout Editor . 
Clay Malaker · 

Photography, Editc'.'r. 
Ken McAlpine -. 
Business Manager 
Pahl Davis 
Advertis'ement Manager 
Kevin Murphy . 

Distribution .·Manager 
Jerry Murphy 
Staff 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, · Mary Leavitt, · Donna . Teevan, Cathy Wisniewski, ·· Pat ·Worklan,. Jim Sommers, Michael . Diaz, Ken. Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradley, David N. Randall, Keith Caughlin, Steve Burkart, Rick Keppel, Brendan Brown, Dodee Carney, Michael Meisch, Ed Wimmer,; Rich Marcelloi •Tim Tedrik, Lee Smolen, ·Tom• Krueger, Ann Bridget Clark, CeceJia·susan Labriola, Betsy Spinelli, Tom O'Toole, Phyllis Washington, Kevin Paulson 

Photos: .. ·· 
p. 
3, Eileen· O'Meara; p~ 7, Brendan Brown; 

p. 
8, Scholastic Archives; p. 11, Theresa Rebeck; p. 12, Eileen O'Meara; p. 13, Ei­leen O'Meara; p. 14, Augie Jennewein; 

p. 
14, .Ken McAlpine; p. 18, Ken McAlpine; 

p. 
24, Greg Solman; . p. 27, University Arc~ives; p. 30, Ken McAlpine~ .. 


Illustrations: 
p. 21, Paul Monardo; p. 25,.:Jim Hofman. 
Front Cover: Eileen O'Meara 
Back Cover: Scholastic Archives 


Advisory Board 
Jim Winters, Mario Pedi, Edward Fischer. .\ FEBRUARY 22, 1980 



SCNOLASTC 
Vol. 121, No. 6 February 22, 1980 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES  
6  Tenure on Trial  Christopher A. Stewart  
12  And Justice for None  Marcia A. Weigle  
13  A Long, Long Way from Home  Janice Crook?  
18  Teeth and Smiles  Kari Meyer  
25  Power to Persuade  Francis J. Browne  
26  The Great Adventure .  Mary Beth Dakoske  
REGULARS  
· 4  Perspective: The Draft  · ,Bob So.·uthard  
5  Perspective: Big Brother?  . Gregory Sof '!1an  
10  ·Perspective:' No Laughing Matter ·  Theresa Rebeck  
14  Recent Works by Doug Kinsey  Tom Masterson  
15'  Gallery: ..  Theresa Rebeck  
19  Evita: IINo Superstar''  Mark Hinchman  
20  Fiction  Tom Balcerek  
23  Books: Human Rights  Mike Onufrak  
24  Music: Pops Goes the ACC  
29  In Retrospect .  
30  Last Word.  ·... Dave Satterfield.  


The opinions expressed h1 Scholastic are those of the·authors•and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the. University of Notre Dame, its administration, .faculty, or the student 
body. · · . . . 
T~e. magazine is represe~ted for. nation~! advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly .during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 ·a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright© 1980 Scholastic/ all rights reserved /'none of the contents may be repro­duced without p~rmissio!l. · 

I see that the world's superstruc­ture is creaking. Trembling in spots, and restlessly twitching in others, man's political, social, and economic framework is about ready to con­vulse. The signs are unmistakable: there will be a war. 
This will not be a new event. No one should· delude himself or others by trying to ascribe some sort of uniqueness to the upcoming horror; exactly the same thing,has happened every two or three decades for thou­sands of years. The next war will be just as bloody, ·just as awful, and just as pointless as every single conflict which preceded it. Men · will live; men will die. A government will call itself the winner; a government will be , 'named loser. There will be parades; there will be torture. There will be heroes and medals; there will be paraplegics and quadriplegics. There will be speeches; there will be dead children. 
The · sloganeering and rhetoric, which always accompany the de­scent into insanity, have begun, and even it is age-old; Caesar had to spur his men into falling across an entfre continent, the French noblemen had to bring their · retainers to the butchery at Agincourt, and an entire generation had to be convinced to die in the trenches of the Western Front. Don't fool yourself, · don't dare fool yourself about the "nobility" of the next war by listening to the glib arguments and impassioned orations beginning around the globe;·it has all been said before, and with the same result: men kill men. 
I have no stomach for those who loudly, or quietly, use the drumbeats of "patriotism" and "Right" to add fuel and justification to the war efforts; that is the rhythm of obfus­cation, the rhythm which has swept every nation, every society, at one time or another, into the position of having to slaughter and be slatigh~­tered · on some field ·of "honor." . It is sad, too sad to even be ludicrous: those. in power, on both sides of every· war which has. ever been or will ever be,· used or will use the same sentiments to brainwash their tribes into battle. The structure per­severes, and men are manipulated into killing other men-with sharp • objects, with · planes, with bare hands, with chemicals,. or with ob­scure heavy metals. Nothing changes; that is the point. The only thing that varies at all is the lan­guage, or dialect, with which as­sorted groups of human beings are coerced into murdering each other on large scales. 
And it seems that only one entity , feeds on the aimless exercise of war, that only one thing is stabilized in this cycle of historical brutality,: the machine. I hold no paranoid· vision of conspiracy, no hallucination of cold premeditation by the world's sundry governments, and there is no need to; the brittle, hierarchical structure in which man has . been trapped, this machine, leads hu­manity to war and pereptuates the mentality of conflict just as surely as water flows to the sea. The superstructure is economic, . theo­retical, artificial; it is certainly no longer human. And only such an in­human machine could, time after monstrous time, bring one costumed man to murder another. 
Man is trapped in a massive and largely unconscious struggle with the death force of this global struc­ture.· There is no· life, no humanity, in war; only sickness. This sickness has lain dormant for,a while in the world, but its time seems to be com­ing. The superstructure is feverish, and just beginning to toss about; war will result, · and men will be forced to kill men. 
Simply do not · fall into the trap and believe that the next war will be somehow "lofty," somehow fought for the "Right'.', and the "Good" be­cause you happen to be on the.cor­rect side. It will be like every war since the beginning: only broken skeletons and crushed lives. It will be no different.· It will be for nothing. 
Right now; in the Unite_d States, the government is preparing to take 

by Bob Southard 

an inventory of its tools. I am con­sidered one of those tools. Every Notre Dame student, in ,all likeli­hood, will be considered in the same way. We will be asked to register for the Draft, to give the officials an idea of how many warm bodies they have to draw upon if· the killing·. starts. 
It is time to put an end to this.It is time for a revolution. The revolu­tion should start here, can start any~ where, and must start in the minds of everyone affected by the structure of a world gone mad. 
The language is dramatic, but the movement can be simple and star­tling: reject war, and reject the or­ganizers and organizations that bind humanity into madness. I know that no balanced person accepts killing,or seeks destruction, but it is time we all take it one step further. It.is 
time to say "No." ,,. · 
We are supposed to be the intel­lectual elite, the shining vanguard of our society. What good are we if we comply, willingly or reluctantly, with what we obviously know is in­sanity? What are we worth if .we perpetuate the mortal irrationality of the world? .What claims can we have on integrity .· if we ·blindly march, leading with examples of unthinking muteness, into what we know is another bloody and wicked absurdity? If we don't raise our voices, if we don't denounce the trap, if we don't pledge ourselves to an attitudinal revolution, then we are 
nothing. · 
It is time for Notre Dame to,take astand. It is time for every admin­istrator, every professor, and cer­tainly every student to. come out against registration and against the Draft. It is time to take an open and harsh look at a world order which locks humanity into a cycle of end~ less destruction. It. is. time for 
changes.· ·· · · · We have the intellectual base. We have the moral base. We have no excuses. It is time. Will we do it? .· 
:. SCHOLASTIC 


by Gregory Solman 
I can only hope that the some-highly denounced previous to its ap-never finished. There is also an at.: times nondescript seventies haven't parent rebirth now. tempt to codify on the federal level lulled you into a false sense of com-But wait, there's much more. If a general conspiracy. offense, which, placency (historians should entitle enacted, S.1722 would allow the gov-according to the National Council their chapters on that decade of ernment to appeal sentences it may on Repressive Legislation, is tanta­American history, "Much Ado About deem "too soft." The American Civil mount to bringing back the "Pinker­Me"). Just when you might be Liberties Union, the American Bar ton Doctrine"..:_an effort to nab co­thinking that it's safe to go back to Association and the Business Round-conspirators of crimes that might the crew cut, break out the· letter table are reportedly up in arms about not have been argeed to. sweater and wave the "Team Amer-this, and indeed, they should be: ·this Think about it. The theoretical ica" pennant again, along have come · clause blatantly defies_ the "double. · implications alone are staggering. some very sixties-like issues that: jeopardy" clause within the ,Fifth -: , S.1722 might already have passed warrant your concern-and, possi--Amendment. I wonder_ which sate!--by the time you read this article bly, -your outrage. · · lite country beamed this one to Cap-(its sponsor is none other than Ted 
Take the draft, for instance-no, itol Hill? Kennedy.... Didn't he use to be a take that back (literally). That's a Another section is devoted to'''Ob-liberal champion?). The defender of subject on which ample has been structing a Government Function by H.R. 6233, the House version, is said. No mumbled words from this Fraud." Translation: Where before Father/Congressman Robert F. Dri­corner can· inspire you -to put up you had no obligation to cooperate nan, also of Massachusetts, and it is your idealistic dukes for another with a covert FBI investigation of reportedly better than S.1722 (it 
round against that still undefeated you, Section 1301 will make it a could doubtlessly be· worse outside American heavyweight Reggie Stra-Federal offense to avoid surveillance Stalingrad). H.R. 6233 -is far from tion-that is, if the smelling salts of by the FBI (which could include, I perfect, either. In fact, both of these Afghanistan haven't already_ aroused imagine, anything from ducking bills come from so far out in right frorri· you. your bellicose · best. I'm into a theater if you felt you were field, I doubt that they have the legs . just wondering how many rounds being followed to shutting your cur-to make it to the plate. Regardless,' tµis · one's gonna go .. :: . tains when you catch _a telescope in-the mind-set of the authors astounds 
~'Let's.take; instead, something that vading your privacy). It would also me .. :;;·· and stranger things ·have you may take for granted ... say, be a Federal offense to rip an FBI happened in Washington.;. your civil liberties. How _would you wiretap off your phone· should you -This bill is not at all bad,· mind feel if they were suddenly attacked? find: one ' (assuming -· that you . are you. It repeals the Smith and Logan How would you respond if you found· able to distinguish an FBI wiretap Acts,·. and, has provisions p·rotecting out that Congress is attempting.-to from one ofBig_Brother's). · the press from "gag" orders. There bulldog through a bill that in one . Section 1343 increases the power are reportedly tougher civil rights fell' swoop would reverse the «double of the police -by making. it a federal and sex discrimination laws; as well; jeopardy" clatise'in the Constitution, offense to make a false oral state-But articles of late spearheaded by provide for.:..:.cand this is really Or~ rnent to a lawenforcement official. Hentoff of the Voice, and followed 
w_ellian :__-"pr_e_vent_ative deten_tiori," S --bl -h h up iri The Detroit Free Press and the
ounds reasona e enoug at t e St. Louis Post-Dispatch indicate that_ and frighteni_ngly incre_ase both po-. t t b t 1·· k ·1 1· d 
. ou se , u oo --more c ose y an the bill -will go to committee' and 
lic_e arid_FBI power? · · · •11· fl d th t th· · · t b · · t t-­you n a IS IS no · a ou es-some version will pass. It would take-Re-'ady-_·to-,_-__-break out your__ boxing tI·mon·y under oath thI·s ap·plies to ---:--blind optimism and sheer political
gloves?,".Jt's _called Kl722, the new the _.streets.· The only. C'evidence"· naivete to assume that the bill will Criminal' Code Reform Act ·which, needed to actually arrest someone not be compromised '.in conference 
if enacted, . will have· .wid_esp·read for '_'lying'.' is "corroborating evi--_
--committee to include at least some--:--: 
ramifications, notthe least of which dence''-which need be only from if not_ all-of the aforementioned are · the serious encroachments on another policeman within earshot-infringements on civil"liberties. established civil liberties. provided that the suspect lied. · Meanwhile, ··Alan Dershowitz, afor in.the Bill of Rights. -.• -. ----Nat Hentoff, the sterling reporter Harvard Law Professor and one of 
·• Let's ,look at some specific:'s. , One for The Village Voice, aptly_ sum-S.1722's boosters, writes in defense, section provides for. a form_ of pre-marizes, "That's the best present law "This is one ·case where the perfect ventative detention. Though clever-: enforcement folks have been given is the enemy of the better.'' · . ly disguised. of late with ''party~ since tear gas.'' _ __ Sounds like "newspeak" -to. me; line" rhetoric, it_ amounts to -this: -This is not the•place for aline-by.:. here, the "better" is. extremely -du­if . enacted, S.1722 would bless '. all line denunciation of other parts of bious at best. I simply can't agree judges with broad, unprecedented the bill, but suffice it to say that with that kind of legislative mas­discretionary power to deny the ac-S.1722 contains a profusion of such · turbation; if there are grave prob­cused bail.before trial (even if there. insalubrious legislation, including a !ems within the new code, they can is .no. evidence. thaLhe..will skip shady provision to protect nuclear and should be corrected now, not town); -power ·plants, which, when trans-left for the Supreme Court to strike 
Irinocerit until proven ;guilty..:,_un-lated from «legalese" appears to be down at a later date. · · ti1 now. Less than two months into· an effort to give the FBI an excuse· And are there· problems? Suffice the .Eighties,. we're already getting to infiltrate and investigate anti-_ it to say that -William 0. Douglas our first glimpse of-1984. Arid this is _--nuclear protest groups even when a -· has· rested ·easier since •his death only.one. of the flaws in-this bill-· crime hasn'fbeen ,committed. ·-n -than he is now. Meanwhile, J:Edgar the -progeny of, I'm told, Nixon's· centers around the ~•inchoate crime" Hoover, wherever he'. is, couldn't be S.l~•_an even_worse attempt:that,was _-.-:.an offense that was "started'' but . happier._ · · · ; D 
FEBRUARY: 22, 1980 5 

In the past year,the tenure issue has . become a significant campus concern for a large number of stu­dents and other members of the community. It has reawakened con­cern on the part of the faculty mem­bers, · insofar as the fairness and equity oLthe tenure process has been called into question by a ma­jority of.the staff. · 
Yet, at the same time, the tenure process appears. to be a fairly thor­ough one, whereby individual can­didates are judged worthy or un­worthy of plying their trade for the next 30 or 40 years at the institution where they are working. 
What exactly is· tenure?· -What does it guarantee? Ken Goodpaster, assistant . professor of philosophy and chairman of the Senate Faculty, had this to, say., "Tenure is · a con-, tractual obligation entered into by the University and its faculty mem­ber. This·. agreement promises the faculty member: .that he will not be dismissed except for . specifiable causes. The purpose of tenure is to guarantee academic freedom. Tenure is not granted until after. some pro­bationary period (usually 6 years)." 
One department chairman,· David Burrell · of .·Theology, emphasized scholastic . maturity . and personal compatibility within a department. "Tenure involves· __ a process of· some maturing to the point where one can 
_ claim to be . a responsible voice in his field, where one can show .prom­ise of genuine distinction.· It also has to _do .with associating a person with 
a faculty for the 'rest of one's life. So it's a very big step." · Iri · addition to citing academic freedom, Provost . Timothy. O'Meara added yet another key dimension to the tenure process: security._ "Ten­ure originally. was conceived to en­able academicians to speak· freely, without the! fear of losing their jobs. But as it exists ·today, it is also coupled with job security. In' es-· sence, once a persori is granted ten­ure, .he is granted security for life~ barring · some unseen change in character." · . ·: · 
What,' th·en, ·are the chief require­ments for attaining tenure? The big three · are . excellence· in teaching,' scholarly·research and service to the community. Service to the commu­nity is also understood to mean com­patibility with the goals of the in­
. stitution. . · · Another · factor is the Teacher Evaluation Forms.·. When · queried 

. about the real value of· the TEFs; one·. non-tenured professor: · re,; marked: • "The · Teacher . Evaluation Form was originally :introduced as an. aid to the.· teacher. But then it became an administrative require-. ment. Itis virtually the only quanti­tative measure :Of a teacher's class­room.. effectiveness.. It would · seem to carry ..weight, especially. in com­
. parative judgments." 
. What, . then, is the actual tenure process? It begins.when a professor. asks .the department chairman to be considered. for tenure..The can­didate supplies-all:the necessary ere­
...,-, . 


by Christopher A· Stewart 
dentials, documents and publications 
to the chairman, .who then refers the 
matter · to the departmental Com.;. 
mittee ·: on Appointments: and Pro­
motions (CAP). CAP personnel are 
elected. by secret ballot · by all full~ 
time members of the department for 
a term of 2 or 3 years. . . . 
A candidate is also· asked. to sub­mit four outside · evaluators. They are relatively well-known people in. the . same, ·field.· as the . candidate. · These . outside evaluators assess the promise, merits and expertise. of the . candidate, _and then send thei. 'sum­
mations back to the departme. t. ·A 
primary reasonwhy their opinion is 
sought is for· a: detached, profes_. 
sional perspective which is not pro­
vincially limited by. a local,· univer­

sity setting.; : . . . . .. . ·cAP members review the, candi­date's dossier, arid make one ·of five judgments:-. strongly. approve;. "ap­prove, abstain, disapprove or strong:. ly·· disapprove. Minutes ·are kept · of an·-CAP meetings. .. . The Chairman · then reviews the CAP'sevaluation, and adds his own recommendation.' This . information is then forwarded to the Dean of the college,·· .who likewise reviews the accumulated data, makes his · · ·r~ marks· and recommendations,· 'and forwards it to the Provost. The Pro­vost normaily confers with the so-·· called. Dean's .Committee, which is composed·:of_ deans from. the. sev­eral colleges within the University.. This committee. advises the ·Provost,·_ who then makes . his · own ~.recom-
ScHOLASTIC ­

mendation and · forwards all in­formation to , the President. The President has ultimate veto power. 
· Regarding the independence and integrity of each evaluative· level, there are divergent . · views as ••to whether· this· process · is actually judging a candidate beyond· the de­partmental'1evel, or merely· rubber­stamping earlier decisions reached at the CAP and department chair­man levels. 
One professor sees it. this way. "Most frequently, the recommenda­tions are unanimous. It's a bit mis­leading to suggest that unanimity entails an enormous amount of sep­arate communication. By and large, the judgments made early on in the process ·are ·rubber-stamped on the way up." · 
The Provost has a slightly differ­ent view. · '.'Tenure is a matter of checks. and balances, a .matter of monitoring. Individuals involved in this decision-making process have proceeded with hard work. All of them are .people of integrity; no rub­ber-stamping· is involved.''.• 
This entire process . girds itself on the academic pillars of confidentiali­ty and collegiality. The.tenure pro­cess necessitates a. sharing of infor­mation . between colleagues about colleagues being. considered for per­manent employment. The power in the committee is demarcated equal­ly, so that, in theory; no person can dominate a decision. .·· · / 
However, there are some problems with confidentiality. On ·the one hand, the entire system relies upon critical decisions rendured under the cloak of confidentiality. Should that decision be negative, and the indi­vidual, whose· life/reputation/job is in flux, seeks to know what· the crit­icism . was and :Where it originated, then there is a problem. Where does a person turn if they want to ascer­tain the nature of the criticism? 
Usually, thisrole of explicator and comforter rests with the department . chairman. Konrad Shaum, head · of Modern and Classical Languages, comments about when a teacher is 
· denied tenure. "Usually, ·the chair­man will point out to the candidate which aspects of the evaluation re­ceived the most negative input.... However, under no ordinary circum­stances can personality reviews or names of reviewers be made acces~ sible to the candidate." The only . time any material would be divulged. is in the case of1egal action. . ·Another department: .. ~hairman puts it this way; "The chairman can .. relay reasons for rejection to the 
.candidate orally. You don't· put it down on paper because it leads to needless litigation. . . . I tell them the reasons; the reasons never sat­isfy the person, but I do tell them why the judgment was made. If. it's a committee vote, I. don't tell them who voted which way, because I don't know. But I'll tell them that the decision was made at the level of the department."· 
Department chairmen are not re­quired to divulge any particulars in the decision-making process to the candidate. Since the vast majority of decisions are rendered at the de­partmental level (CAP/Dept. chair­man), it is very unlikely that a deci­sion will be reversed later in · the process. For a dean or a provost to reverse a consensus decision would mean that sufficient grounds existed for doubting the decision of sub­ordinate colleagues. -Although "tech­nically" a decision may be reversed beyond _the departmental level, this is rarely the case. 
If a person feels. wronged by the system, what can he do? At present, very_ little. At Notre Dame, there is no formal appeal process. One ad­ministrator, .who considers tenure C'theoretically a just system,'.' never­theless believes that it "is too secre­tive a procedure." The administrator believes that an appeal system is needed to improve the quality and stature of the tenure _process, stat­ing· that "anyone who feels discrim­inated against should pursue it 
Dr. Kenneth Goodpaster · 
through every possible channel." 
Another administrator, when asked for an opinion,· refused com­ment altogether about .the appeal process. 
-One_ professor, active in the com­munity, had this to say. "Strictly speaking, there is an appeals process for cases of jeopardized academic freedom. Those cases are rare. For the great bulk of cases which don't affect academic .freedom as a tech­nical, legal category, there is no ap­peal process at the moment. The consensus at the University_ is that the Administration prefers to keep it as it is.... Since it's such a multi~ faceted process, I think that the Ad­ministration feels that that is suf­ficient to guarantee justice." 
.The professor went on to mention that ". . . the faculty, by and large, have been satisfied with the justice of the process. In the last year, there was enough of a jolt to the Universi­ty sys.tem that faculty began to think twice about the. absence of an ap­peals procedure." 

.In the faH of 1979; the Faculty Attitude Survey results were tabu­lated. Seven hundred twenty faculty members were surveyed, with 420 responding (58.3% ). Fifty questions were posed to, seven select groups: Arts and Letters, .. Business, Engi­neering, Science, Law,-Library, and other. 
With regard to the question ofa formal appeals procedure, a re-

overall economic situation. One· de­partment chairman in Arts and Let­ters · summarized the' present plight faced by the expendable professors. "Eight years ago, academia was ·in a totally different situation. There was an easy job market, plenty of jobs, and few graduates to qualify for the openings available. That's. all changed. Now there's a crunch, 
a.glut on the market, and jobs are scarce." · . . · Another professor concurred. "For· a university like Notre Danie which wants to improve its national image, the present nature of the academic 
marketplace is extremely good. It's 
a buyer's market." This professor 
felt that significant shifts. in peo­
ple's own goals and · horizons were 
likewise taking place. People who 
in the past opted for the rnost pres­
tigious universities,.· like·. the .. Ivy 
League schools, are now becoming 
more available to schools like Notre. 
Dame, schools which aspire to na-· 
tional greatness, but have not yet 
realized ·their potential.. Therefore; 
this tightening of ·. staridards and 
qualifications within the acadernic 
world adds a whole dimension of 
acute academic rigor in the process 
. of choosing the finest people from . among a large flock of very talented 
8 
SCHOLASTIC 

sounding· 86.3% of .the · faculty agreed with question #18: "A for­mal appeal · procedure should be made available for faculty denied promoUon, tenure or renewal." 
Question #19 states: "I believe that tenure decisions have . largely been consistent and are in line with the standards set out in the Faculty Handbook." Here, 50.8% · dis­agreed; 
Question #27 sheds further light on the lack of clearly defined pol­icy by the Administration toward its· own faculty. To the statement, "At present, administrative policy is clear with respect to the central cri­teria for promotion and tenure," 63.6% responded negatively. 
In light of these statistics, it . is apparent that a sufficient number. of faculty members lack essential faith in the Administration. If this faith continues to erode into skepticism or worse yet, cynicism, then the overall effect would be a· ·souring of the collegiate' atmosphere,. a diminu­tion of the academic· caliber of the University, a stifling intellectual en­vironment, and smoldering resent­ment on the part of the faculty to­ward . a seemingly heedless, unre­sponsive. Administration. 
Another very important factor in understanding the problematic na­ture of tenure at Notre Dame is the Ph.Ds. 
In reality, some choices for tenure come down to a matter of .degree, whereby decision makers want the optimum candidates for their school. This makes for ferocious competition in an era of diminishing expectations and academic retrenchment..Only a handful of schools, ·among them Notre Dame, will be insulated from the severe economic shocks that many experts are predicting for in­stitutions of higher· learning in the 80's and 90's; 
Another critical element in the tenure process at Notre Dame is the school's Catholic· character: Being a Catholic school, Notre Dame has developed a · reputation for being staunchly conservative.· Persons· in­terviewed ·for this article were asked if· they felt that because of Notre 
. Dame's overriding religious ·and political conservatism,· some profes­sors might have difficulty attaining tenure if their personalities or politics :were different from the pre­vailing ethos. Most agreed that those involved in the decision-making pro­c·ess strove diligently to exclude any personal differences cir idiosyncracies frorn being major . concerns·• iri · con­sidering a person for tenure. The consensus was: if the person could do the job, and meet all the_ criteria, the person would get promoted. 
· When questioned as to whether a 
certain type or. mold of professor 
was preferred at Notre Dame, one 
pedagogue chuckled.; "It's•· possible 
that a person's outspokenness and 
degree of advocacy of certain issues 
could affect his . prospects. How 
much of an effect, . I ·can't· say. . I 
think most of the parties to the deci­

sions take every effort .not to· allow · 
things like that to co_unt. But people 
are people. . . . This Administration 
is constantly criticized for sexism by 
certain · outspoken · persons, and finds 
itself publicly:on the defensive. It's 
going to be a lot.harder for the per­
sons who are involved to be objective 
when an outspoken . feminist • comes 
up for tenure... Yet, I don't think 
an institution is going to live long if 
it subverts dissent from within: by 
firing people [different from the 
mainstream]." 
One. significant cause for. concern 
regarding Notre Dame's tenure sit­
uation is the problem of institutional 
sexism. At present, there .are: two 
outstanding class action.· suits. pend­
ing • against the University, both 
charging sex discrimination in. em-· 
ployment practices. These two suits · are slated for trial in the fall; 1980. Judge Allen Sharp of the 'Northern Indiana Federal District· Court certi­

-----------------------------------------· 
fled the class action suits on behalf 
of tenured female faculty, the Ford 
suit, and nontenured female faculty, 
the Frese suit. The Equal Employ­
ment Opportunity Commission was 
allowed to intervene in Dr. Ford's 
case. 
The tenure process is a difficult . one at best, but especially so for 
women. This problem is particularly 
acute at schools that have long t_radi­
tioris of being all-male, like Notre 
Dame. However, Notre Daine is not 
alone in its painful awakening to the 
historical versimilitudeof sexism. · 
Princetori recently celebrated its 
10th anniversary of coeducation.. It 
also shares a n·otoriously 'poor repu­
tation for hiring women. Of its 390 
tenured faculty members, only 10 
(2.5%) are women. At Harvard; the 
situation is not. much better. It has 
364 tenured faculty o{which 12 are 
women (3%). A nationwide report 
in 1978~79. by the. American Asso­
ciati_on . of University Professors 
(AAUP) stated that nearly .70%. of 
ali male professors in the ·United 
States have tenure, while less than 
half· of female professors have at­
tained·that goal. 
Closer to home, in 1971 · Notre 
Dame submitted its first Affirmative 
.Action plan to the government. This 
plan predicted· that 100 · women 
~acuity would be hired by 1976. This 
would amount to 15% of the faculty. 
In 1976, only 74 women were on the 
faculty. At present; the Administra­
tion claims 99 women on a faculty 
of. 815, which, if the' figure is accu­
rate, is still less than 12%. And the year · is 1980, not ·1976. . · Similarly, aUniversity Report on Coeducation in .1977 showed a 10% annual turnover rate for male fac­ulty · members, compared to 26% animal female turnover. The same report listed 86% of the male faculty felt they had ·a professional future at Notre Dame, while. only 68% · of the · female faculty held similar expectations. · .· · · · · 
Notre Dame hired its first woman 
in 1966. ·In the s·ubsequent 14 years, 
out of all the woinen who have been 
hired, 6. have been granted tenure. 
Of these 6, one female faculty mein­
ber who was denied tenure was later 
rehired on a part-time tenured oasis. 
The number of women who hold full 
professor rarik: one'. 
The Faculty Attitude Survey re~ veals that 55% of the predominantly male Arts and Lettersfaculty believe that sexism is a problem in the hiring and promotion of females. Overall consensus of the faculty does not'believe .that sexism is a •major problem iri . hiring and >promotion 
FEBRUARY 22, 1980 
procedures. 
The problem of sexism in the over­all tenure picture compounds an al­ready difficult situation. There are already a great many strains. within the University-some good, some questionable-due to its aspirations for national prominence. Notre Dame is attempting to become a powerhouse in the graduate fields, while shoring. up weak undergrad­uate · departments. To become a ma:/or figure in the graduate field means, quite simply, research. Re­search leads·. to publications, publi~ cations to visibility, visibility mearis money, fame, and fame in the long run, means money. And money·· is the bottom line. 
To maintain hopes~r illusions....:....: of becoming tlie Catholic. Harvard requires priorities, chief among them being scholarship. To be the best in education, the best minds and scholars are needed. . . . . . . 
The best scholarship ·. requires many ·. things, . chief among them, money; money for research facilities, libraries, and, mostimportant of all; salaries, No one in his right mind is going to come to a nice Catholic school that wants to play educational hardball but finds itself incapable of paying big-league salaries.· Which Notre Dame cannot, either now or in the foreseeable future. 
·. Also, to attract tlie best scholars, an atmosphere must exist ·whereby hindrance or interference of their intellectual life is verboten. This translates itself into a possibly irreconcilable problem with the Church:· Although the Catholic Church enjoys a rich personal his-. tory it also has acquired a history of belligerence and gross antagonism toward absoluteintellectualfreedom. A completely free intellectual atmo..: sphere ·allows .for unrestrained thought where even the most out­rageous· and scandalous matters rriay beopenly · discussed, even · encour~ aged. As •1ong ·as Notre Dame' re­mains in. the bosom of the Cath­olic Church, is it realistic to aspire to the intellectual peaks of a Yale or a· Harvard? .. 
· The fact that Notre Dame is Cath~ . olic, therefore, means · that most types of unusual, bizarre or vaunted 
.. creative thought may be proscribed from emerging in the . first place; Even Provost O'Meara . criticized his . own university. recently, railing against the anti-intellectual lethargy permeating Notre Dame.' In an arti­cle in The Observer 2/13/80, he . stated: "We are not'fostering intel­lectual curiosity in our students. We .. are' getting tliem into medical school. 
But are we producing Catholic intel­lectuals?"' To ask the question im­plies an awareness of .the answer. At present, . the answer is absolutely not, at least not to the degree that Notre Dame is capable. 
We must begin to understand the incredible complexities that accom­pany the kind of growth, be it spu­rious or real, that this University seeks to achieve for itself: The cost of this . growth is, indeed, great, financially as well as humanly.· One female administrator summed it up best. "I think there is a lot of human suffering on this· campus right now, particularly among women. It is a human tragedy. By tragedy, I mean people who are torn apart inside be­cause other people are not talking to them. People who are hurting be­i;ause they ·are categorized one way or another. People who are avoiding one another, are avoiding running into other people because of things they have said or positions they have takeri.' This suffering is particularly intense righf now,'' Obviously, trag­edy prevails . for many faculty at Notre Dame in light of the tenure decisions and the sex discriminatiori suits. 
Are there alternatives to the pres­

. ent · tenure system? A few sugges­tions included implementation of an effective appeals board, comprised of apanel of the candidate's peers only. Another idea proffered the extension of the sixth year "do or die" dead-·· line · on tenure decisions, to include an additional three-year "tenur­
. able· . . . but not yet" period. One professor suggested short-or long­term· contracts. Yet. another, com­petence· review boards every five years. Still another, . unionization. 
Too many questions and too few answers about tenure and the cri­teria for granting it remain .. "Occa­sionally, people are . turned away wlio may well respond to the genu­ine needs of· the institution better than the institution itself even re­alizes," : · one professor commented. "Those are the tragic.cases." · · 
· To alleviate·future tragedies from· 
. transpiring, some· soul searching is required-by the •· Administration, faculty and · students. If done faith­fully and with integrity, Notre Dame's future will be bright indeed. If not,· we'll all realize ·that the dream of becoming the Catholic Harvard was mer_ely a chimera. 
The author would like to thank Mike Meisch, Keith Caughlin, Joe Pfeifer, and Ken Scarbrough·for their assis­
tance' on this article. , .. 
9. 


One day. last semester, I got my­self out of bed at 7:30 in the morn..: ing and made it over to the South Dining Hall for hot breakfast. No mean feat. Just as I was beginnin·g to dig into my scrambled eggs, how­ever, a young man.at the next table decided that 7:30 a.m. was. prime time for obscene jokes, and he' began screaming them ·at the top .of his lungs. Well, maybe he was just talk­ing loudly, but it · was obnoxious nonetheless. I couldn't believe it; it was only 7:30 in the morning, and the jokes weren't even funny. They were just stupid and , obscene. I suppose I could have confronted the guy-asked him to keep his voice down, told him that he was offending me-but I didn't want to hassle with the accusation of "prude'' at the time. I switched tables. 
But while I was sitting there, star~ ing at my cold scrambled eggs and listening to this idiot two seats away from me shout out his crudeness and stupidity to the world, I began to feel a sort of rage. The feeling was not a riew or unique sensation; it·. was not the, first time I felt that way, and I'll venture to say that I am not the only person on this campus who has felt. that way at one time or another. I felt that way last year when I read an article en­couraging the women of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's comm.unity. to "put out" more. I feel that way every time I read such . articles in The Observer or Scholastic; unfortunately, these articles appear with dismaying fre~ quency. I feel that way every. time I find . myself at .an overcrowded party .or bar, when I realize that I and every other woman in the room are being rated by many of the men in the room, men who are trying to determine through. five . minutes of conversation a) if I'm good-looking enough, b) if I'm mindless enough, and c) ·how difficult it would be to get me . in bed. (Or perhaps the young man in qttestion is just look­ing for some heavy necking. Some are less bold than others.) 
I have felt rage in these situations; I know many other women and men who have also felt rage in these situ­ations.. I do not feel rage because I am a prude or any sort of dogmatic 
by Theresa, Rebeck 
. . . 

Catholic. I feel rage because I recog­involved me or one of my acquain­nize that in these articles, at these tances, and I'm sure every woman parties and bars, I have been reduced on campus could add her own little to· a subhuman being by the fact of scrap of evidence to the. garbage my womanhood. I have. been turned heap. I don't want to dwell. on the into a thing. evidence, however. I simplY, want to 
. Perhaps my language is a little too dispel ariy insistence that "there's strong here, but· perhaps it is not. really no problem here." There is a In the past four years, I have studied problem here, one that has been at Notre Dame,. I have lived in a treated far too flippantly; This is dorm, I have eaten in the dining not the battle between the sexes; this halls, I have gone . to the football is a question .of human dignity. games and basketball . games and The problem is one of ignorance: I 
Mardi Gras and An Tosta.I; like any­don't believe that the men . and one else here, I've had my share of women of the . Notre ·Dame/St. the Notre Dame experience. And I Mary's· community · actually think am going to .assert .that my_ experi­that "women are less human than ence of Notre Danie and the experi­men.'' 'certainly no one would ever ences of many. of my friends· have come out and say such· a ;thing. In taught me· that a women-are-less­their actions and.attitudes, however, human-than-men mentality exists at such a belief exists; it exists without Notre Dame. . . the community even being aware of 
I am.not going to insist that every it. It is· only ignorance which makes male here subscribes to this mental­a young nian say,."Don'tworiy your ity, nor am I going to insist that it pretty ·, little head about it" to a is just the men who subscribe to young woman.....:he certainly would such a mentality. As ,far as I can never say that to. the guy down the see, inale and ferna:Ie alike work to hall-and it never occurs to him that sustain the· image of woman· as a a young woman might be as offended slightly subhuman human at Notre by such a remark as any young man Dame. I don't want to make blanket would be. He doesn't think that such generalizations, as I said--,-1 don't a remark is an affront· to the· young mean to insist that every man and · woman's intelligence because he has woman here believe that women are never been trained to think of her less human-but I will venture to intelligence. A woman who exhibits say that the. majority of them do~ a high amount of intelligence is only 
..I realize this is ·a serious accu­"a little too smart," because intel­sation; I do not make it lightly or ligence is not seen as . a . womanly without evidence. The · evidence is virtue. .The. womanly virtues are-­not hard to find. Evidence is a smug well, we all know.what the womanly premed ·major telling· his date for virtues. are. . , . . . the evening that she doesn't have to The problem is, simply, that no "worry her pretty little head'' about one· is thinking about what his something or other; it .is an out:. actions are saying.. It is a problem raged undergraduate refusing . to of ignorance, ignorance not in the work on a committee because a sense that we refuse to see the prej­woman heads it up; it is the angry udice, but that we have never been accusation that a woman is prissy taught. to recognize )ts symptoms. or prudish· because she did not find And the symptoms are evident in our the infamous "Sex at Notre Dame'' actions. What does it say wlienwe, broadcastsamusing.·.Evidence is the as a community, perpetuate a tradi­young women who take their lives . tion of sexual. harassment and in· their hands by wearing high heels mockery in our publications? What and skirts on snowy·afternoons be­does it say when we, as a commu­cause "the guys like it"; it is the nity, perpetuate and support tradi­women who wiil giggle and llplay . tions like. the panty raid?. What do dumb" because it makes the guys administrative policies say, policies feel smarter and "it's a good way to which severely limit the number of get what you want." women who are admitted to Notre 
Every_ <>ne of these inst~nces has. Dame, · policies that · i_nsist •that 
SCHOLASTIC 

women do their . own laundry while · the men have theirs done by a pro­fessional service? · 
These actions are not deliberate attempts to "make the women feel inferior,'' they are simply part of the Notre· Dame way of life. • No one thinks about these traditions, habits, and policies, and .I don't think they are going to _change in the near future. But I do think we had better start looking at them, see what they say-and they do say that women are second-class citizens .at Notre Dam~then try ·to discourage the attitudes behind them. In the dorms, in the. publications, in the class­rooms, such attitudes ·must be dis­couraged. 
_ Such attitudes are nothing but an infringement on the freedom of every man and woman . who are members of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community. They are an im­position on my, or anyone's search for · personhood, a search :which should be the most important aspect of our lives during the four years we spend here. I should ·never have to feel that anyone sees me as less of a person simply because I am a woman. No one should ever have his or her personhood questioned, but especially not at this time, and especially not on the basis of what his or her sex is. 
When we graduate from Notre Dame, our "personhood," our values and ideals are probably set for life. None should have to "go out into the world".wondering if they are less human, or thinking that someone else is, because they never learned to see subtl~r, not so subtl~ sexual prejudices and recognize them for what they are. This is a problem, it is an issue, and one we have to begin taking seriously. D 


didn't consciously create-but maybe we should feel guilty about the way 

. . things will be if we refuse to become aware of the problems. · 
We have to be realistic about an attempt to instigate just measures into an unjust structure. We can't all go out and single-handedly revi­talize the social order. This is a theoretical abstraction as well as a physical impossibility. But we can develop an awareness ·in 'our own lives as to the realities o_,f the injus­tice that·surrounds us. Ignoring the situation, thinking · that the world consists only bf the exigencies of our own individual-·lives is as· much a propagation 'of injustice as_ the rich boardinghouse owner who pilfers an old man's Social Security checks· to buy a fancy car..· · · 
.The problem is we've. become so geared toward~merely surviving that we tend .to lose 'motivation for the establishment'of just change. We find ourselves looking for jobs that will pay the most money so that we can enjoy the luxuries that make up 

A narrow dilapidated grey house the victims of something, they know our concept of the good life, ·so that stands out from among the row of ·not what. And whether or not we we can raise a family comfortably old stone homes on a street in down-created the system; we are part of it. _ and give our children what our town Philadelphia. On the top floor And whether we believe in it or not,. parents gave. us, .and so can. live a window is broken, the shutter flail-we know that it's there. The injus~ reasonably well when we retire. It ing in the wind, a.door is boarded up, tice stems notonly from the realities is natural for us to want to "get by," the paint is peeling. Inside there are of the social and economic situations to just make it through, so that we thirty-five old people too poor to live. but-from a blind acceptance of them. can make it through, so we can make in a private home, too alone to have We should develop a. perspective a life for ourselves .. · But this ·is not anyone take care of them. Parked in our own lives. To commend the enough. For in gearing our lives outside this boardinghouse, standing rich and powerful for their hard toward survival we have . uninten­amidst the trash iri the street, is the work and determination while con-tionally lost any interest ii-!': the need sparkling new. white Cadillac· of. the deriming the. poor for their laziness · to move our lives in: the direction of owner. and. ineptitude is.a comforting ra~ justice. We somehow fear the move 
What does this scene, a character-tionalization for a person looking out toward · social change· because it. is istic example of the disparities of the the window of a Cadillac at a broken-a threat to the stability we seek in economic order, say for the concept down old house. What is . missing such · an unstable, unpredictable of justice? It makes justice look like here is the idea of opportunity. This · · world. • By. suggesting so_cial change an ambiguous catchword seized notiori might be true for people in and questioning institutions we are upon by .the· overly ·: idealistic our position who are given the op-. only .admitting that we have to dreamers who are either too opti-portunity to learn, to attend univer-· change the structures tha.t are_ built mistic or too blind to face up to the sities, to use the methods and tools around tis-to tear down the only hard realities of life. If situations that will let us make something of vestiges of stability we know. like this make justice seem like. a ourselves and be what we wantto be. But justice is not mere acceptance; theoretical ·dream. and a realistic.im-But· there ·are those who from the. justice is not simply surviving within possibility, then we've lost hope right moment they are born do not have existing structures, even· if the sur­from the start. Yet, we should not enough to eat, do not have anyone viva! is morally pure in itself. Justice accept such situations as the harsh to care .if they have enough to eat, wilLentaiLa. constant questioning of realities· of an unchangeable social do. not have . anyone to·. send them to the structures· aro_und tis'· and an order. We must dare to transcend schools or find them jobs.· For these ·awareness of_ our lives as they exist this stagnating structure of injustice . peopl~ the opportunity was never not simply in and of themselves, but to mold a direction of justice for the there, and they lost from the start. as part of _the whole system. future. · The injustices here stem not from Justice does not necessarily. in­
. Does this sound like a nice, Chris-any conscious effort to delegate priv-volve answering a.IL the questions. tian, but simple-minded stance to as-· . ileges or .to .take ·advantage of the Justice involves asking the questions. sume, with a _lot of theoretical but· poor.· Rather,. the injustices stem Intelligence is not our problem; no practical ramifications? Obviously from the unequal instances of oppor-our problem is: ignorance. We have · we are engulfed in a social order that tunity that might alleviate some of shown that we have the intelligence 
-works to the advantage .of a privi-the systematic problems: We can't to know that the questions exist, but leged minority and to the disadvan-feel guilty about the way things we have also shown our igriorarice tage of the poor majority who are are-we are part of a system .we inthat we will not ask them. O 
, $CHOLA~TIG 




A Long, Long 
Way From Home 
The doors open at five,· dinner will be served soon, and overnight accommodations will be taken on a . first-come basis. Promptly at five o'clock the· guests arrive and wait to be served. · 'Many warm their hands around a. cup of coffee while · chatting about the day's events to 
the closest person. 
This scene describes a normal sit­
uation, a· typical restaurant/hotel 
atmosphere, so. why bother writing 
about it? I write -because it is here 
where the lonely, helpless, poverty­
stricken and determined survivors 
of the ghetto have dinner. It is a 
shelter named Rosie's Place estab­
lished for. the poor women of ;Bos­
ton whom:r visited during my urban 
plunge in Roxbury, Mass. Roxbury 
is known to. many as .the ghetto of 
Boston where . poverty and crime 
reign. It i.s where . despair brings 
drug· addiction and crime and where 
anger lea.ds .to militancy and vio­
lence. It is a place where many 
people are forgotten or cast. aside as 
threats , to . our . middle-.and upper-
class society. . . 
. I was filled with very mixed emo­
tions as I entered Rosie's and re­
alized th~tI had entered an oasis for 
the poor; a ·single. ray of hope for 
them after a long..cold day of_ the 
street life. The women come from all 
walks of life-the poor . · ... the lone­
ly . . . · the alcoholic . . . the profes~ 
sional ... the la.borer ... the mother 
. . ; the daughter. · Tuey came from 
park .· benches; . from . burned-oul: 
rooming. houses and from .broken 
homes. They have the common bom1 
of being homeless. They have come 
to .Rosie's . Place for a decent meal, 
a dry . bed, and'·a .safe environment. 
Rosie's . Place . is a . home _. where 
women become· gentler, andtheter­
rible pain of inner-city isolation is 
made more tolerable through to-
FEBRUARY:· ~2, 1_980 
getherness and an occasional smile. 
Rosie's was established seven years ago and is a completely in­dependent shelter surviving· on· do­nations from individuals, founda­tions,· and companies. Each evening, between forty and fifty women come in for supper and companionship. Thirteen remain overnight; Approx­imately fifteen to thirty people are turned away nightly because of the lack of space, consequently forced to sleep in abandoned buildings, or lie among the dead in the city's burial grounds. •. 
The government programs of mental health care, Social Security, Medicaid,. senior citizenship, welfare and unemployed have not worked for these women..Many. have. given up on the social pressure or are un­aware of the government aid avail­able to them. Rosie's itself has also abandoned government aid in. order to be free from the stringent regula­tions connected to federal charity. 
Rosie's Place works for a variety of· .reasons. The guests are not told why they_ are there, rather, Rosie's prides itself on telling people why it is there..·_ The volunteers give. the women what they ask for, whether it be ciga.rettes, food, or a friend. With the large number of women wh,o enter Rosie's, the limited sup­
. ply of goods is depleted quickly. · As mentioned, previously, Rosie's is home. to many women; Warmth, fresh flowers and hot food comfort the women during the day; unfortu­nately, the cruel reaUty of ghetto life sets in for. many. of the women when, because ·of _the very limited space. and ._ beds; . they are turned away.. _. . Experiencing Rosie's had a tre­mendous impact on my life. I will never forget the faces and the ex­pressions of the women; their empty 
by Janice Crooks 

stares, which came alive in anticipa­tion of food and safety, the crack of their smiles at a warm room and a cup of coffee were their luxuries and my habits. Their wide-eyed deter­mination .for survival was their hope, my life. 
. At first, I was very surprised to hear that Rosie's Place does not ac­cept government aid for its work with the less fortunate because of the red tape involved. -It, like many other organizations, and their pat­rons, have · given up on the strin­gent regulations set forth by what many of us believe to be the best government-aid system in the world.­They, .like many of their associates, attempt to make it on their own. In light of this I tend to question much of the government propaganda that is . presented to. me . and others who do not have the experience· of witnessing poverty firsthand. I feel many people whether poor or-rich, man or woman, Republican or Dem­ocrat tend· to turn. their backs on the problems of society and . leave them solely to the government to solve, thus · creating a . system vs. nonsystem society. · 
. I feel that we, as comfortable up­..per~middle-class students, . tend to· · ignore the horror of inner-city problems. I strongly feel that it is time for us to review John F. Ken­nedy's inaugural address where he 
_ states, "Ask not what your country can do for you,:but what you can do for your country." I think it is only when these words are recognized by all Americans and particularly the young, the leaders of toinorrow, will it be possible:for us to work as one within the system, thus creat­ing a better America and world for all. And. maybe then, Rosie's doors. can remain open to all. . 0 
13 


· 
_by Tom Masterson· 
. Doug Kinsey of the Notre. Dame Art Department has been exhibiting since January 20 a show of his re­cent work at the O'Shaughnessy branch of the Snite Museum. It is a nicely .. compact show, comprising two rooms of Professor Kinsey's paintings with a large selection , of his work in monotype. · 
This is an especially enjoyable op­portunity because few. of his mono­types have been shown here before. Monotype, a much-neglected art form, -is a process that transfers a painted image from a metal plate to a. paper surface. Unlike etching, though, only one impression can be made. Only in the last two years has it become a recognized and appre­ciated medium. -Kinsey is one of a handful of · recognized artists who have been working in monotype for years. 
And. he·. is a master of the form. His work is both pleasurable and disturbing. · , 
He is pleasurable when concentrat­ing on the formal; he ·fully uses many black and ·gray shades with an appropriate spontaneity in the brushstrokes. In the ambiguities of his subject matter, though, Kinsey is disturbing; His Delirium series, titled and executed after aprolonged illness, is mysterious, frightening, sometimes funny-a dreamy jumble of animals and humans. · The series bespeaks anxiety. Kinsey is expos~ ing on paper a part of himself and, ultimately, ourselves, that we often try to forget. 
Sensuality and conflict, and · more comforting themes are constant throughout the monotypes. His se­
--ries of wrestlers has overt· sensual, as. well as straightforward, competi­tive a~d masculine overtones. 

~he ~rt of tM'!notype7 9lecent_'{fi)orks bj(;J)9ug ~insey 
"My painting contains people but 
not stories," explains Kinsey, who 
is a figurative painter. · This show 
is about people relating-and failing 
to relate--to . each other and ·their 
surroundings. Often he creates a 
deep psychological presence in a fig­
ure with a minimum of means, with 
but a few brushstrokes. 
Kinsey is also· partially Abstract 
Expressionist in his·· emphasis on the painting's surface as beautiful in itself. His surfaces are-built up on many layers of paint: 'iiglit pene­. trates the layers down to the can­vas ·and ·reflects up to produc_e. a glowing surface composed· of many colors. He displays a real freedom; too, using different types ·oi · sur;;, faces and brushstrokes in one paint­ing. For instance, a. plain back­ground· may highlight the com­. plex brushwork of a figure. Another work of a standing man· arid asit­ting girl is a veritable catalogue of painting · techniques. The different techniques and surfaces are tied to~ 

gether within a geometric composi~ · 
tiori of squares and rectangles. Kin-. 
sey also loves beautiful patterns; 
and one sees them throughout _all his 
media. · · · 
One major theme riot mentioned so far . is ."the · picture within the picture" motif and'how it relates to, arid ·comments ·on, ·the· main figures. In ConsoT,atwn: II, for instance, the background picture ·. has taken pre­cedence over the "real life" figure; Also,· in a-few of his ·moriotypes; Kinsey breaks down ..the generally flat quality of his paintings ( due to his emphasis on surface and geom­etry) and reaches back·.·into space. In one example, he produces a nice tension with a figure which· at first appears to be next to .a foreground figure ... but, it is actually in the background, parallel to · the fore­ground. It is close to the sudace-:­and then back. . . 
This is. a rich show, full of many themes arid complexities, only a few of which I have mentioned. We can all experience the beauty 'of his painted surfaces and his painterly brushwork.· Yet much of Kinsey's work is not "easy art.JJMany of his subjects are not readily understand­able· or easily accessible: Many are not enjoyable or comforting, but are anxious and unnerving. · However, .it is,. above all, a show weli worth the 
effort to see.  .  .  .  .  
.....  ,.  
.  '  - SCHOLASTIC  







that the play, was "Not poetic or fanciful, it doesn't have that so to


Teeth and Smiles 
add dirty words to that would just 

The advertisements read, "Teeth 
'n' Smiles . . . it's a different 
thing," and it sure is! The play 
"Teeth 'n'·Smiles" is . definitely not 
"Hamlet," nor is it "Mouse Trap";­
what it is, is.a direct unabashed play about survival. "Teeth 'ri' Smiles;" written by the young English play­wright, David Hare, is the third . major production of the St. Mary's and Notre Dame Theatre. this season. This play . offers the SMC­ND Theatre and its audience some­thing new, out of the ordinary, and 
definitely different. · 

The play is about the dissolu­
tion of the rock era at the end 
of the sixties. It exposes· a second­
rate British rock band's faults and 
failures. There are no good guys, 
no bad guys; justice does not pre­
vail, and there is no happy 
ending. As ·Jake Morrissey;· who 
plays the role of Arthur in the 
play, states; "It is a story about.sur­
vival, where people· don't live, they 
just getby." One of the musical" se.: 
lections .from the play, . "Maggie's 
Song," seems to ·say it all, · 
I only want to tell you · 
That you have my sympathy 
But there has to be a sacrifice 
An~ it isn't going !'? be me.. 

. . . . 
"Teeth 'n' Smiles" offers a unique opportunity because the play will be performed while. the. playwright, David Hare, is at Notre Dame to par­ticipate in the Sophomore Literary Festival. :-An opportunity to per­form before the playwright is a great opportunity indeed, and the cast is proud to have the opportuni­ty; but as Adri Trigiani, the assis­tant director of the production, said, "We'll still be out there· hustling even if David Hare doesn't come." 
by Kari Meyer 

Hustle they do! The· roles in "Teeth 'n' Smiles" require great amounts of energy and a willingness to act without convictions. The roles are hard-hitting and· gut level.. . They·offer the SMC-ND community of actors and actresses a chance to show. their versatility. Trigiani be­· lieves -that "theatre at SMS-ND should be versatile" and "Teeth 'n' Smiles" offers that.versatility. This is riot a play that evecy other uni­
. versity ·in the nation will be per­forming. · ·Not only is the play itself differ­ent, the _cast is composed of niany· new and different faces.. These· new people . on the drama scene enhance the play's·honesty and aid greatly in the musical roles involved· in the play. Another singular aspect of· the play is the set. The action of the play involves backstage scenes as well as on-stage scenes. The stage, designed by senior Mark Hariss, enables·_the acdience to see both back and front stage.· The set·revolves, allowing for continuous action as the play moves ·from backstage conversation to-the actual·• rock concert. · 
be too much for this audience. The power of the action in the play is more forceful and important than the actual' dialogue. The play is ac­tion based so you don't really need the dirty words." Much of the play has been cut and other parts changed, but ·basically the play is intact and conveys the entire meaning. 
When Dr. Jensen said that she was going to direct "Teeth 'n' Smiles" at · ·· St. Mary's and .Notre Dame, the · :responses were mixed. Jensen re­lated, "People would read the play and say, 'You're going to dci this at· school! My God!' " It·seemed to Jen­sen . that people just didn't want to . hear the language used in the play. "There's a disjunction between what they know and what they do, but we've worked very hard to make this play as palatable as possible." What the play involves are the issues con­cerned, not ·the language used. 
For all its uniqueness, yciu will not leave this play humming the songs. · ·You will not leave feeling happy or terribly sad. You will leave with questions . 
What are your values, you may ask yourself. ·What are the values of a culture that ,_,idolizes rock musi-

Due -to ,the exciting and unique nature-of the play, sonie equally ex­citing -and. unique problems . have arisen. The '.play was written in a very _.· "true-to-life" dialogue style. 
. Many of the words and references could be catagorized ·as filthy or pornographic.· _The play was edited by Dr. Julie Jensen, the director,. in · ·order for it to be performed here at St. Mary's and Notre Dame. SMC­ND Theatre has generally been con­servative with respect to the type of plays performed ·here; "Teeth 'n' Smiles". is a bit: on the wild side.-. Jensen spoke of losing the audience because of the language. She said 
cians? What do we do to people and what do people· do to· themselves? The play will offer no answers, those are yours to find.·. . . 
"Teeth 'n' Smiles ... it's a differ­ent thing." Is it? is it any different from the harsh realities of life? Is • what happens in "Teeth 'n'Smiles" really any.different ·from what hap-.. 
-·. pens during a rock concert in the -­ACC? "Teeth_ 'n' Smiles" is a differ­ent play · because it exposes these realities and brings them to the stage. It is especially different bring­ing theinto the St. Mary's and Notre 
Dame stage.  . .  
Vive la difjfffence!  .  
SCHOLASTIC  



Evita -No Superstar 
by Mark Hinchman 

Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim could succeed so could the poor. For live performance does not equal the Rice, lyricist and composer, made this reason the poor did not criticize excitement in the real pictures of musical history with Jesus Christ her opulent life-style which was Eva. The play opens with one of Eva Superstar. Their subsequent project grander than the aristocracy's life-Peron's actual movies, and through­was an attempt to recreate the sue-style which she criticized. The pub-out the play pictures of Eva Peron cess Jesus Christ Superstar enjoyed. lie blindly adored their beautiful are flashed onto two giant screens. Evita, an opera based on the life of queen .in her $1,000 Christian Dior No actress could recreate the elec­Eva Peron, opened September 25 dresses and diamonds from Har-tricity· present in a photograph of at the Broadway Theatre to a 2.5-rod's. But the aristocracy and the the real Eva Peron speaking to two million preopening sellout. Emta military knew where her money million of her frenzied worshippers, was in the black before its first per-came from. After World War II, crowding the. streets of Buenos formance. Argentina's gold reserves were sec-Aires to catch a glimpse of the most 
Why an opera of a first lady of · ond only to those of the United influential person in Latin America. Argentina, a role that has interested States; after Eva, Argentina was Evita was altered considerably in Barbra Stn~isand, Medyl Streep, bankrupt. the transition from the original Faye Dunaway, Ann-Margret and Evita is no glamorization of Eva studio album to the Broadway stage. Karen Carpenter? Eva Peron, un-Peron; it is, rather, a highly critical A ridiculous and distracting in­precedently and affectionately called look at her. Eva unfortunately could vented subplot regarding an insecti­"Evita" by her masses, was a fas-not forget her background, and de-cide developer was wisely left out. cinating, though ruthless woman. voted her life to wiping out anyone This provides a tighter story concen-· Eva Duarte was the youngest of who had ever snubbed her: anti-· trating more on Eva. The second five illegitimate children who lived Peronists quietly disappeared, and · major alteration was in adding a with their mother in a one-room tin newspapers were silenced while the Latin flavor to the Broadway ver­shack in Junin, Argentina. In 1934, new journals followed Eva's travels, sion. at the age of 15, Eva latched onto meetings with Franco and the Pope. Although three years old, the Lon­a forgettable tango singer, Agustin . The creators of Evita, Webber and don production album still holds up Magaldi; through Magaldi she was ·•Rice, discovered with Superstar an well. Casting Emta for the New introduced to the glitter of Buenos innovative way of introducing a York production invol\'.ed finding Aire;, ' the largest city · in South work to the theater. They couldn't singers who were also actors and Ame::."~ca. Magaldi was the first of finance a theatrical production, so dancers, and who bore resemblances her many lovers. After bleaching her they recorded the album before it · to their historical counterparts. ' hair and sleeping with photogra-was ever staged.· Robert Stigwood Evita is no Superstar, which is phers and other men prominent in (incidentally the owner of Evita's both its downfall and its saving the entertainment industry she be-movie rights) similarly prereleased grace. It is admirable that Webber came a famous model; radio broad-his Saturday Night Fever sound-and Rice did not rely on old themes caster and screen actress. However, track, using the album's success to ·and chords borrowed from Super­in 1944 Eva Duarte met Juan Peron, catapult the movie to prominence~ star. Evita relies much less on rock; a ·promising politician. A similar tactic was tried with · the score is very wide in its range. 
Eva abandoned her career and Evita to somewhat less success. The : Che Guevara, an Argentine stu­concentrated on the political arena, album was popular .all over the. dent rebel, is a commentator pushing her husband into the presi-· world, except in the United· States, · .throughout Evita. Mandy Patinkin dential palace and establishing her-where it bombed, and in Argentina, plays him so well that his presence self· as one of the most powerful · where it was banned. But its· ade-alone carries the Broadway play. women the world has ever known. quate popularity helped get the Lon-Bob Gunton looks like Peron, but In this Cinderella rags-to-riches _don stage production going, ,.which uses a fake Argentine accent-dis­story, Eva made many enemies on · · became such a hit, starring Elaine tracting, as rione of the other char­her way from her family shack to Paige, that· she is still playing· to acters do: the Casa Rosada. Her two biggest Standing Room Only· crowds. This Evita failed once in the United enemies were the military and the prompted the Broadway version, States, but with the New York play aristocracy, powerful opponents, but which opened· to mixed reviews. and such a hit, it should achieve· the at­no match for her · descamisados the largest preopening · sellout in . tention it deserves. It's not as fine a (the shirtless ones) who strongly Broadway's history. work as Jesus Christ Superstar, but supported her; The masses adored The success of Evita· is greatly it appears to prove that the success her; after her death of cancer at due to its main character and not of its creators, Andrew Lloyd Web­the age of 33 she was nominated ·. the play's representation of her. The ber and Tim Rice, was not a one­as a candidate for sainthood, quite most interesting moments of the chance 'lucky break. Evita is unfor-. a feat for a girl who started her ca-Broadway musical Evita are the real tunately a less· impressive showcase reer as little better than a prosti-photos of Eva Peron. Evita is a mas-of their talents. What's next in what tute. Because she too had been poor terpiece of audiovisual techniques. appears to be a musical series on she was a symbol of hope; if she · But one of Evita's faults is that the charismatic leaders?. Adolf? . 


fCTOn 
·~ear rlCbe ~oof '1.&ff ~be ,~m:ker 
(with apologies. to .Ovid) 
...-·. ' 

"Can you hear me 
·Singing' this song·. to. you? If you can hear me sing You better come home like.you're 'sposed'to." 
-Jimi Hendrix . 

:I want to tell you this story about this dude named. ·.· "Let nie up,· man,'' lie said. "Some snake in the 
Donald Orpheus Jones (everybody called him Orfy). He grass done put. a fix on my lady. An' I'm gonna get 
was mauled by a bunch of hookers about two-three .· .. hei: back." Then Orfy took off like a fool; runnin' cross 
weeks.ago down on Huey Street. Them bitches whaled . the schoolyard an'jumpin' over the fence. on him good; They cut him four ways: long, wide, deep "Where you goin'?" I hollered, "DeeCee's all right." and '.repeatedly;· rippedoff his head and threw it}nthe· He··stopped, looked at me real funny and said, "She's river. when ,they was through. -They found the head dead, .man." · .. · . ·. . .· .· · . · last week and lotsa dudes been sayin' how:he stiH had .· . About an hour later Orfy came back with a couple 
his_ blues harp between .his teeth. Soine dudes said tabs 'of acid and a bunch of sweet~lookin' dudes with he was stiH playin' it-when they found him.,· Them saxophones, trumpets an' shit. ·One dude had a .whole dudes toke ·up a lot of weed. an' shit, soI didn't really drum set tied to his back. In the meantime the. news believe them. Anyway, when the boys .from the news~_ ·· ,was flyin' around about.how DeeCee got hit by a Cobra paper got a hold on it they played it up real big, y'know, . .down on· Sam pie Street.. Some white dude clipped her every day. They, ~as sayin' how ·orfy was heavy iritq_ right ,about th~ time Orfy started gettin' crazy. _Orfy· drugs an' shit. But, man, y'know, he would toke up a . was really flipped out about it. He handed nie. a tab little reef now and then to get into his music, ..but that, of acid and said, "Take .this, man. We're goin' . on a 
,vas about it. He only -took some serious drugs once ·,-.trip." I never did no acid before so I:played it cool and 
and. I was with him. Let me tell you aboutit. •·· · · put it in my pocket ·while Orfy was runnin'· around , iWe was playin' hoops down at the schoolyard like tryin'. to organize the band. "Get on it, brother;'' he· usual and Orfy was sittin' under a tree playin' his harp hollered, "like this, man." Orfy took his tab and popped like usual when all the sudden he started yellin' and .it into his mouth and shook his head all around yeHin', rollin' around on the ground an' shit. So we all went "Dig it, dig it." . . . . ·... I over to check him out. He was swattin' at the air like The dude was crazy, but I took the aci_d anyway. I bees or flies was tryin' to get at him or somethin'. So, was his best friend and I wanted to be with him, you I_ said, "Orfy,. what's up man?'' Me, Donny and Eagle understand. You could tell the band was trippin' already had to hold him down 'cause he was really flippin' out '.cause they was playin' some wild music Hke. I never an' screamin' shit about angels.. I_ was gettin' ready heard before. The sax player .came dancin' by, tootin' to slap him in the.face or somethin' when he finally got on his horn and said to me, ''Hey cuz, jazz is.not dead, his shit .together. Then the dude started cryin' an' it just smells funny." The acid started kickin' in and I sayin' somethin' about DeeCee, his lady. I said, "What started laughin' like I couldn't stop'. I had _tears comin' are you on, man? DeeCee's all right._. I just saw her out rriy eyes an' shit. It got crazier. from there 'cause on_ the corner by the hardware store." pretty soon Orfy got real serious and .started tellin' 
, SCHOLASTIC 


everyone to get ready. Then he pulled'out some more acid and we all took another hit. · 
After that, I'm not sure what :happened. Orfy started playin' some real :wild stuff on his harp that put me right out. But that's nothin' new; the dude's done it before. ·1 be.drinkin' some wine, you know, and gettin' real mellow an' Orfy be playin' his harp an' puttin' me right out in never-never land like the wizard of oz or somethin'. Next thing I know, it's the next day or somethin'; But this time, on acid, man, I was trippin' my brains out. Everything got cloudy like we was actually in the clouds and all's I could ·hear was Orfy an' · his boys jammin'. They was really gettin' down, better than _Funkadelic or' any of them dudes. · I was tappin' my toes but I wasn't hittin' nothin', like my 
~J 
, ~ 
•,'<· 
feet was goin' through the clouds. I remember askin' Orfy, "Who are these dudes?" 
"Tower of. Power," he said, "this is serious, man." 
"Dig it," was all I could say. Then we started zippin' through the clouds like we was in a jet or somethin' and the band kept on playin', gettin' tighter the faster we went. It was 'the best jam·I ever heard an' I didn't care what was happening 'cause I was totally into it. Pretty soon Orfy comes up to me and hands me an electric bass. · 
"We're here, man, get ready to jam," he said.· 
I said, "I can't play· this thing." Orfy just looked at me and smiled an' I knew what he was talkin' about. 
"Dig it," he said. · 
"Dig it," I said back to him. I was puttin' on my strap an' I looked an' holy shit, man, we was up in heaven or somethin' 'cause there was angels flyin' around an' we was comin' up on the pearly gates, an' St. Peter was standin' there with the big book, an' I said to myself, "I ain't dead, am I?" But, couldn't be, man, could not be, 'cause I was jammin' like a fool an' the horns was bobbin' an' Orfy started in to singin': 
"I can't get down 'cause I gotta go up Flyin' through the sky, struttin' my stuff I'm lookin' for my lady an' I know she's here 'Cause she ain't done nothin' that would send her down there." 
Then Orfy jammed on his harp like never before. We played a steady rhythm for him for about a half an hour while he jammed. There_ was sweat in my eyes an' pourin' down my face an' shit, but I thought I saw Peter lay down his book an' start to boogie. Then the angels came down an' formed a chorus singin' the oop oops and the wa was. An' I remember thinkin' to myself that we was gonna be in trouble if the Main Man came down. Then, Orfy started singin' again: 
"I'll tell you right now, I want to see the Main Man I wanna take my boys into the holy land I wanna get down, I wanna get funky I let my backbone slip an' act like a monkey." 
The pearly gates opened up an' we cruised in. Ghosts were peekin' out from behind the clouds an' pretty soon everybody was dancin'. An' I looked up an', shit man, there was DeeCee, boppin'. to the beat.. Ody kept on singin': 
"Baby, baby, baby, where for art thou, huh? 
Maybe, maybe, maybe, you're givin' up the funk 
I boogied up here to take you .with me 
An' I ain't leavin' 'til you are set free." 
Everybody was into it, man, I couldn't believe it. The ghosts was formin' two lines an' puttin' their hands together, an' then here come · DeeCee truckin' through the middle like she was on Soul Train or somethin'. An' then St. Peter started in to singin': 
"Hey, my man, listen, be cool I'm gonna tell you somethin' like you was in school I'll give you back your baby but there's just one stipulation: You can't check her out 'til you get past my station." 
Right then· the band started to really crank it out an' Orfy started doin' the limbo under my guitar singin': · ' 
"Tear the roof off the sucker 
Tear the roof off the sucker." 

But that dude wasn't too cool 'cause soon as he thought St. Peter wasn't lookin', he turned his head around real quick like just to catch a glimpse of. DeeCee out the corner of his eye. That's when the shit hit the fan. DeeCee got sucked back like she was goin' down the drain or somethin' an' all the ghosts closed up the gap 
22 

singing 'somethin' like, .''Hey lonny lonny, hey lonny lonny," or somethin'. We all stopped playin' seein' what happened an' all. But Orfy kept on jammin' 'til he noticed somethin' was wrong; all the sudden we was on the outside lookin' in: So Orfy tried to rush the gate, an' right when he got there St. Peter smacked it closed. Elam! It hit him on the nose an' knocked him back. Pretty soon we was all fallin'. through the clouds an' Orfy wanted us to keep on playin' so's maybe .we could start flyin' again. But all the instruments was soundin' real goofy and the drummer Jost half his set on the way down. 
You wanna talk about one bummed~out dude, man, when we hit _the ground Orfy started cryin' and never stopped. There was saxop}:lones and trumpets layin' all around ·an' everybody was rubbin' their eyes an' shakin' their heads an' shit. An' Orfy kept cryin' an' sayin' somethin' about how DeeCee had to die twice. It was a bad scene, man. 
After that, Orfy took off an' nobody knew where he took .off to. I was basically concerned with getting my head together 'cause I knew I wasn't gonna be takin' no more acid. I kept havin' these flashbacks or some­thin', man, like I could hear Orfy playin' his harp when I was takin' a shower or eatin' dinner or somethin'. It was drivin' me crazy. An' then I was talkin' to some other people an' they said they could hear it too. Man, I didn't know what to think. 'Cause I knew it was Orfy, man. 'Cause he was playin' the blues like he did when he was really down an' depressed. An' I mean these blues was blues. . 
An' all the ladies downtown was-gettin' on me. "Where's Orfy?" they be sayin' to me all the time, "you seen him last." "Where's Orfy, where's Orfy?" They was drivin' me nuts. Christ, the dude lost his lady only two weeks ago, an' these bitches were after his ass already. Of course, Orfy always was cool with the ladies, you understand. He be playin' some sweet music on his harp an' all the ladies be comin' around sayin; 
. play me this one or play me that one. DeeCee had her­self a fine catch when she landed Orfy. Lotta jealous ladies floatin' around after that one. · · 
I never told .'em I heard Ody playin' blues from my apartment, so somebody else musta told 'em 'cause then every day I'd see 'em creepin' around lookin' for him. They was callin' him like a dog, "Orfy! Orfy!'' They musta heard him too 'cause. eventually there was so many ladies down here lookin' for him that dudes would come all the way from downtown to cruise. an' try to pick 'em up.. · · · 
Well, it wasn't long before these ladies found him hidin' in a ventilatiori duct up on the roof of my build­ing. But the dude would have nothin' to do with thein. He told 'em that he'd sworn off women 'til he could be with DeeCee again. They didn't· like that noise too much so they .chased him around an' harassed him all the time. They be callin' him a faggot an'. shit. An' I seen the dude once after they flushed him out. He was nothin' but skin an' bones. I think he was tryin' to starve himself ·or somethin'. But them bitches wouldn't _let him alone, they stayed on him 'til they finally got him. · · · 
I just wanted to set the story straight, 'cause you can't always believe what you read in the papers, you understand. Like, there was more to the story, you · 
~w? . 
SCHOLASTIC 
\ ,1
1.'I 
cCDK/ 
Human Rights and American Foreign Policy Edited by Donald P. Kommers and Gilbert D. Loescher 
University of Notre Dame Press 
by Mike Onufrak 

In strife-ridden times like our own, 
to include sincere ccmcern for human 
rights as . a main tenet of a contem­
porary nation's foreign policy may 
seem anachronistic. Yet, with the 
election of Jimmy Carter in Novem. 
her, • 1976, this country inherited an 
idealistic 8;flministration seemingly 
intent on doing jtist that. Human 
Rights and American Foreign Policy, 
edited by Notre Dame professors 
Donald P. Kommers and Gilburt D. 
Loescher, is a collection of thirteen 
essays which-explicate and analyze 
this phenomenon and its subsequent 
effects on the course · of world 
politics. · 
The book is the product of the 
international symposium "American 
Foreign Policy and Human Rights" 
held by the Law School Center for 
Civil Rights at Notre Dame in the 
spring of 1977 .. Professor Kommers 
is director of the Center for the 
Study of Civil Rights at Notre Dame. · 
· Published by the University.· of Notre Dame Press earlier this year, . the book is an intelligent and com,­prehensive presentation of concern for human rights in today's world.· Organized into seven parts, the book opens with a brief summation ofthe human rights situation since World War II, follows with the presenta­tion of several conflicting arguments on what the nature of American and worldwide . human rights policy . should be, and concludes with spe­cific criticisms · regarding present American human rights policy. Each __ of the seven parts is preceded by a concise, explanatory introduction written by the editors as an aid to the reader.. 
Perhaps the most important essay contained within Human Rights and American Foreign Policy is the opening essay, IIHuman Rights: A Global Assessment," written by in­ternational lawyer and diplomat Arthur H. Robertson. Robertson, at present a professor of law at the University of Paris, is charged by­the editors with the difficult task of 
FEBTIUARY. 22, 1980 
tracing modern human rights history throughout the world. Robertson, most likely because of his vast inter­national experience, successfully meets this challenge by delivering an informative scholarly work easily comprehended by the average intel­ligent observer of world politics. The success of Robertson's essay is im­portant to the overall reception of 
. Human Rights and American For­eign Policy f_or two reasons: First, his essay lends an authoritative, in­ternational tone to the book. Second­ly, the essay can be judged as read­able both by political scholars and a reasonably informed political ama­teur. 
These two aspects, an interna­tional focus and comprehension by the intelligent observer of human rights, seem to be two major goals of the editors. Certainly they are important to the symposium format which inspired the book. The degree to which these · goals are attained varies from author to author­Robertson being an example of one writer who definitely succeeds on both counts. 
In his essay, Robertson contends that there "are probably more coun­tries .where human rights and civil liberties are systematically violated than there are countries where they are effectively protected." This dis­couraging pronouncement may seem to_ be a sorry indictment of our times. · Upon closer inspection, how,­
. ever, this· does not prove to be the case. Robertson sees many positive steps being taken worldwide to eradicate this situation-including various United. Nations Covenants, the 1975 Helsinki Conference and resultant agreement (the subject of a second Robertson essay in part four), and the formation of various international bodies such as Am­nesty International. 

Robertson• contends that much of the progress made in the field of human rights is the result of reac­tions to the atrocities of the Second World War. This is particularly true of European states which, according to Robertson, have the most effective international organization for pro~ tecting human rights in .the· Euro­pean Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Besides international organizations, Robertson -sees the evolution of the ''ombudsman" as a political institution, as being -ari efficient weapon in the battle for human rights. Robertson views the "ombudsman" as a type of govern­ment watchdog who exists indepen­dently of any other branch of ·gov­ernment with the single task of in­vestigating alleged human rights violations. Such institutions have been implemented in many foreign countries and are· even present in several American cities. 
(continued on pg. 31',) 






ruse 

Pop Goes the' ACC 
., 

Last month at the ACC, the.Bos­ton Pops· Orchestra made its • first area· appearance ever surely a mem­orable one indeed.. 
For their conductor, John .Wil­liams, it must have been a little bit like . being on · trial. The multicity tour on which he had just embarked was in many ways an effort to justify to his critics his existence as a serious enough musician to replace the revered Arthur Fiedler. 
. "We're very happy with the way things· are. going at this point," -re­marked Pops· · Associate Director. Harry Ellison, drinking in the enter­tainment .from the .third row. ·"I think John Williams is going to work out just fine." 
Indeed, . the evening proceedings seemed to bear him out on that fact. Widely associated with Fiedler. and their rendition of the 1812 Overture played along the banks of Boston's Charles River,· the Pops performance was decidedly . different and clearly 
· dominated by Williams. The distinc­tive Pops flavor was heard _most readily through· -second-half selec­tions from Williams' . scores for the hit movies• "Star Wars," "Close En..: counters of.the Third Kind," "Super­man" and the new film, "1941." 
Through it all, however/there was still something left for· the purist­in· the person of Emmanuel Borok, the highly• regarded violinist who played with apparent · ease Saint­Saens's relatively ductile piece, "Con.;, certo No. 3 in B Minor." A usual "Pops" crowd applauded, even be­tween movements ... but then, these 
·are concerts· for funlovers as well as aficionados. . . 
The people's response was, · in many _ways, an answer to_ many who. have recently expressed.concern over the direction of the ;'Pops" sirice the implementation of. their new con­ductor.· · 
·.. That night, ·a rather large and often enthusiastic crowd responded with· a · vocal vote .of confidence for whatever djrection that" might be. 0 
· · · ·· -Gregory So1J1!8,n 
. 24 

Lobbying in America: 
Power to Persuade 

Immediately after the assassina­
tion of President Kennedy, a U.S. 
senator reported that 60% of his 
mail • favored gun-control laws. 
Within three weeks, 80% of this 
same senator's mail expressed strong 
opposition to gun-control laws. This 
sudden reversal of opinion had been 
caused by the National Rifle Asso­
ciation, · one of the largest lobby 
organizations in Washington. · 
Lobby organizations have become 
one of the greatest influences on 
legislation in. the United States. A 
lobby can be ·small,. relatively un­
organized groups . of . citizens, or, 
large professional · organizations 
representing powerful interests. The 
object of the lobby is to produce 
legislation favorable to the interests 
of a group. Lobbies attempt to di­
rectly convince members of. the ex­
ecutive or legislative branches of the 
government to vote in their favor ori 
key issues. They may. try to influ­
ence• a vote by. appealing to a legis­
lator's personal values; by creating 
popular support for issue, or merely 
a semblance of popular support.. 
. Supporters of. a lobby effort pro­
vide the . financial . resources, and 
often the expertise and work. power, 
necessary to organize an effective in­
terest group.. Thes·e large interest 
groups are made up of many smaller 
groups or individuals with similar 
interests. The efforts of. a lobby are 
limited by the financial backing, 
available manpower, and ethical 
standards of a particular. _lobby 
rather than by any legislative regu­
lation. 
Lobbies· influence legislation most effectively by methods other..than direct . election . of representatives. Lobbies have at their disposal vari­. ous direct and indirect methods of obtaining support for their interests. 
Direct methods include personal in­
terviews,· social functions, testimony, 
and . '.'calling-out-the-vote." Indirect 
methods include letter~writing cam­
paigns, media blitzes, and direct con-·· 
tact with personal friends of a legis~ 
lator. 
by Francis J. Browne 

A professional lobbyist realizes the 
value of approaching a lawmaker 
personally. First and foremost, a 
lawmaker wishes to represent Jhe 
will of the people; a lobbyist 
attempts to appear as if he repre­
sents the wishes of a lawmaker's 
constituency, rather than the wishes 
of the lobby. A well-organized 
argument in the context of a per­
sonal interview or a passing com­
ment introduced into a conversation 
during a social function can have a 
lot of .influence. 
·Another· direct method of lobby­ing · involves giving testimony be­fore Congress. .Dramatic demon­strations of a point and well­picked witnesses affect Congressional . opinion immediately before the vote. 
Another tactic to influence the. Con­
gressional . vote is to "call-out-the 
vote." A lobbyist may note from the 
gallery which representatives are 
present and which are absent with 
an eye to contact those missing who 
favor the interests of the lobby. A 
few votes may carry the day for the 
lobby. Direct lobby of the Chief 
Executive may influence a veto. 
The general intention of indirect 

lobbying is to appear to drum up 
"grass-root" support while hiding 
the tracks of the lobby in the effort 
to influence Congress. This tech­
nique proves . to be effective with 
Congressmen who are open to public 
opinion but wary of the views 
espoused by vested interests. Letter­
writing campaigns and media blitzes 
make the.lawmaker believe that his 
constituents universally support a 
particular view. Personal friends of 
a legislator have great influence with 
a Congressman; these friends can 
often be induced to speak to his 
friend in Congress concerning a cer­
tain subject. Ex-legislators, well 
acquainted with the lawmaking pro­
cess and respected by their peers are 
highly influential. Although unable 
to speak during votes, they. are per­
mitted access to the floor. and the 
lawmakers at any time. 
Strategic use of the various direct 

and indirect methods of lobbying is 
of prime importance to the profes­
sional lobbyist. Tact and expertise in 
presentation of an issue, critical tim­
ing of efforts, and the coordination 
of the multifaceted campaigns seem 
to be the way to influence Congres­
sional opinion. 
Are there any restrictions on these 

lobbies, one may legitimately won­
der? The ·Federal Regulation of 
Lobbying ·Act of 1946 ·is· the only 
legislation ·affecting· lobby action in 
the United States. Unfortunately, the 
Act· is so broad that· it does very 
little to regulate lobbying. It merely 
asks that lobby groups register and 
file a quarterly report. The latest 
attempt at regulating the actions of 
lobby groups has not passed Senate 
action; knowing the influence of 
lobbies, one wonders if such a piece 
of legislation ever will. · · 
The rise of the modern lobby marks the development of an extra­constitutional political force unfore­-seen by the · Founding Fathers. Lobbies work outside· the frame of the govermnent· with few restric-· 
tions. No branch of the government 
cari directly check lobbies according 
to their right of freedom of spee_ch. 
None of the checks found within the 
government apply to lobbies. 
.. Lobbies, generally, violate major­
ity .rule. Support . drummed up .by 
(continuedon pg. 31l) 

Father John -Cavanaugh: 
The Great Adventure 
During those days when the cam~ pus is hushed and empty, when Notre Dame belongs, -in a special way, to the Holy Cross community, Fr. John Cavanaugh's long years of suffering ended in the place he had come to call home. Fr. John J. Cav­anaugh, Notre Dame's 14th Presi­dent, died at 8:15 P.M. on Friday, December 28. Within moments after his death, the dome lights were ex­tinguished and a single . bell was tolled _from Sacred Heart Church. Fr. Cavanaugh went home to God. 
I came to 'know Fr. Cavanaugh about ten -years ago through his sister Ann, who lived in a nursing home in Detroit. My visits with Ann Cavanaugh were often spent talk­ing about her brother John. She de­lighted in. telling me humorous sto­ries of his prankster days. When I met Fr.. Cavanaugh for the first time, I realized -how accurately Ann had_ described him. He had that wonderful Irish art of storytelling; his blarney· always was a boost for my morale. But I think I will re­member Fr. Cavanaugh for his con­viction that "life is a great· adven­
ture." -· · That adventure began in. an ob­scure village on the · outskirts of Owosso, Michigan. With his sister Ann, and his brothers Mike and Frank, John Cavanaugh grew up in a two-room house in a rural com­munity. His father died when he was very young, leaving only sketchy memories. But his mother was . a powerful influence. A few months before his death, Fr. Cava­miugh told me about his mother's blend of sweetness and strength. He pointed to her photograph and said, "She was a sweetie, but she was also a ~ou·ghie. People had to be in those 
26 

by Mary Beth Dakoske 

days because times were pretty He would gaze out the window of his 
tough." One of his favorite memo-room. For a moment he would seem 
ries of his mother used to be the -to be miles· and years away. Once 
time they would share every Sun-_ with sudden candor, he looked at 
·day evening at exactly seven o'clock. nie intently and said: "You know, 
First, his mother would arrange two priests are all lonely people." I kriew 
rocking chairs facing each other. that he was -not -talking only about 
She would sit in one, he in another~ the priest from Owosso. · · 
Then they would pray the Rosary Although John Cavanaugh had an 
together as they rocked. This was early intuition about: the loneli_ness ­
his time alone· with his mother-a of the -priesthood, he -finally came 
time when he felt very close to her. to. embrace it as his vocation.· un~ 
It was a time he often spoke about like most young men of his time, 
as a turning-point iri his life. On John Cavanaugh had a: wide range 
those Sunday nights with his moth-of experience before he entered the 
er, he began to develop an enduring seminary. He worked, travelled, fell 
devotion to the Mother of God. -in love. Life was an adventure! But 
When he would speak _of· the· be-" the idea of becoming a priest re­
ginnings of his religious vocation, mained strong. The priesthood was 
Fr. Cavanaugh would remember a to become -the -"great adventure." 
certain parish priest in his home-_ With a wink and his characteristic 
town. John and his brother Frank Irish wit; Fr. Cavanaugh would ad­

would awake to "an inner alarm mit, "i went into _this thing with 
clock" at 4:30 A.M. i:n the dark my eyes wide open!" 
morning hours, they would walk the · Coincidentally, the priest who five miles to St. Paul's Church to . most · influenced· John Cavanaugh -serve Mass. -Before they would-head _ was also -_ named-John Cavanaugh. 
down the road to the parish school, Iri. 1916, _Fr. Johri W.· Cavanaugh John and Frank used to sit on the was President of -Notre Dame at front porch of the rectory and have the time. John· J. Cavanaugh of -their breakfast with the parish -Owosso, -Michigan, .was at----Moreau priest, The breakfast was to be their Seminary ·with his brother Frank. reward for serving Mass. But the John J. Cavanaugh had been work­breakfast came to be a ritual, a ing as a clerical assistant in an auto­continuation of the Eucharist, and motive company in Detroit. But his the beginning of Fr. Cavanaugh's greatest dream was to come to Notre own sense of ministry. "Our parish Dame-not to enter the seminary, priest was a lonely man. He was but to go to college. Tuition was a born in Ireland and all his people problem, but not as big a problem were over there. We'd sit on his as the fact that John Cavanaugh front porch, and each our breakfast had never attended high school. At and talk to him. Sometimes we were seventeen he was not about to join even late for school! We'd talk and a class of thirteen-year-olds either. talk and talk! And I think we made On an impulse, he wrote to the _him unlonely for a while." A long President of Notre Dame, Fr. John silence would follow as Fr. Cava-W. Cavanaugh, to inquire about col­naugh would be telling me the story. lege entrance requirements. The 
SCHOLASTIC 

------'-" 

coincidence in names intrigued the President, and the letter also showed spunk and initiative. Fr. John W. Cavanaugh. invited John J. Cava­naugh to come to Notre Dame, for a visit.: When they met, it seemed to be one of those rare meetings of kindred spirits. It happened that the .· President's secretary had just gone· off to war. Fr. John W. Cavanaugh needed a qualified assistant immedi­ately. He hired John J. Cavanaugh for that position. Impressed, by the skills and enthusiasm of his young apprentice, Fr. John W. Cavanaugh became a mentor for John. J. Cava­naugh, tutored him in. the Classics, and administered the · entrance ex­aminations himself .. John J;· Cava-­naugh proved, to be not only a con­scientious worker. but a ,bright and eager· student. Being a ·"college man 
FEBRUARY 22, 1980 
at Notre Dame" was no . longer a dream; it was a reality. 
During his · college years, John worked as secretary to the Presi­dent. The ·young John Cavanaugh found a father in the University president. Notre Dame began to feel more and more like home. Through­out h.is life,. he remembered his mentor with affection: "He was like a father to me-the only father I ever knew." Fr. Cavanaugh liked to recall his . first experience of this father/son re1at ions hip: "One Christmas · I was going home to Owosso for the vacation. I had been working in the President's office and I'd taken off my coat and hung it over a chair. He ·[Fr. John W. · Cavanaugh] must have come along when I wasn't looking and slipped a twenty-dollar bill in my coat 
pocket. I discovered it when I was · on the train. 'Oh boy! Twenty dol­lars!' What a thrill that was. But of course, it wasn't just the money. That was the kind of thing a father would do. I felt' like I had a father." 
· Whether it was the coincidence 
in their names or the recognition of 
mutual needs, the two John Cava­
naughs shared a bond of affection 
that gave them both a sense of fam­
ily. The young John Cavanaugh was 
to become his mentor's protege in 
a way neither of them could then 
imagine. But before his life took him 
in that direction, John J. Cavanaugh 
had other interests to pursue, love 
being one of them. , 
He completed his course of studies 

in foreign commerce, receiving the 
degree of Ph.D. from Notre Dame 
in 1923. When Fr. James Burns re­
placed • Fr. John W. Cavanaugh as 
University president, John J. Cava­
naugh took a position with Stude­
baker Corporation in South Bend. 
He moved into a little white frame 
house on the St. Joe River. He drove 
a shiny, black Studebaker, traveled 
quite a bit, and dated a girl who was 
to play an important role in his life. 
During his senior year at Notre 

Dame, John met a St. Mary's girl, 
a ''Southern · belle from Augusta; 
Georgia." For a year or so after 
graduation, they "kept company." 
Their dates were often spent "talk­
ing and talking," always one of 
John's pastimes. In. their talks, 
it developed that they were both 
thinking about the religious life. 
The young woman confided her 
dream of becoming a . mission­
ary •in India. When she joined 
the Holy Cross Sisters, John's own 
vocation to the priesthood seemed 
more and more · certain. Finally, 
growing restless with the work at 
Studebaker, he thought to himself 
one day, "I don't care if Studebaker 
ever makes another.car." A greater 
adventure was on the horizon for 
him; John Cavanaugh entered the 
seminary in 1925 and was ordained 
a priest in the Congregation ofHoly -Cross on June 24, 1931.. : . 
The young . wonian went on to 

India shortly after her profession, 
serving in the missions for seven 
years. By the ;time she returned to 
St.-Mary's, John ,Cavanaugh was a 
newly. ordained · priest at Notre 
Dame. For many years, .they were 
only a road apart. They,-never met. 
It was a time in the. history of the 
Church when discretion ruled. Fr. 
Cavanaugh, would ·re~ember that · time wistfully: "I knew she was there, and she knew I was here, but we never crossed the road." Fr: Cav­anaugh had memories of that girl from Georgia, memories that spoke of the fullness and richness of his life. 
Over the years, Fr. Cavanaugh anl I shared a lot over cups of. tea. Somehow our talks always led to his favorite question, posed with a wink, "Are you _in love?" I learned not to avoid that question because it inevitably led to stories of his own loves. Although he talked about the "road not taken," he always came back to the path he had chosen, to his life as a priest. From this celi­bate. man, I learned a great deal about love, · about commitment and fidelity. . 
Fr. Cavanaugh received a master's degree · in English literature from Notre Dame in 1927. He also did graduate work in theology at Cath­olic University in Washington;. D.C. He later studied philosophy at Gre­gorian University in Rome. From 1933-1939 he served as Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame, a position comparable to the Director of Cam­pus Ministry today. In 1940, he was elected to the office of Vice-Presi­dent of the University, a position which led quite ·naturally into .the 
. presidency. In 1946, John J. Cava­naugh was elected the fourteenth President of the University of Notre Dame. The Owosso farmboy's dream of "going to Notre Dame" was ful­filled and surpassed; John J. Cava­naugh had become his mentor's pro­tege in a way. that even· surprised him sometimes; ~. · 
Fr. John J. Cavanaugh served the University as president for six years, 
_from 1946 to 1952. During.that brief period, he raised the standards of the University to a level of.academic excellence that established Notre Dame among. the nation's great universities. Research .and scholar.:. ship were: accelerated · and presti­gious faculty: were recruited. . 
Fr.. Cavanaugh's.transition out of the presidency was· extremely grace­ful. There is a story told about this transition that captures Fr. Cava­haugh's · chliracteristic · sense , of humor... The · deliberations · with. the . Board of·Trustees over the appoint­. ment .of his successor were being held at ·a Denver resort. A woman at· the resort· recognized Fr. Cava:·.:. naugh: and ·asked him for his auto­. graph, saying: ·'-'I'd just love to have 
the autograph of the president of 
Notre Dame." Fr. Cavanaugh turned 
to her and said: "See that guy in the 
plaid swimming trunks? He's the 
president now. Go ask him." "The 
guy in .the plaid swimming trunks" 
was, of course, Fr. Hesburgh. Fr. 
Cavanaugh ~ad chosen the promis­
ing thirty-five-year-old priest as his 
successor and the Board of Trustees 
had honored his choice. Fr. ·Cava­
naugh welcomed the new adminis­
tration eagerly, supporting his sue­
cessor with enthusiasm. 
From 1952 to 1960, Fr. Cava-. 
naugh served as Director . of the 
Notre. Dame Foundation. During · 
this same period, he developed a 
close and· lasting relationship with 
the Kennedy family. He had come 
to know and admire Ambassador 
Joseph P. Kennedy, who was on _the Board of Trustees for Notre Dame. Fr. Cavanaugh became Jo­seph Kennedy's spiritual director as well as a trusted friend to the entire Kennedy family. In the 1950's and early 1960's, he would often accom­pany the Kennedys on their travels abroad. Fr. Cavanaugh's years with the Kennedys were eventful years, filled with the family's accomplish­ments and uncertainties, victories and defeats, joys and sorrows. When President Kennedy was assassinated in November, 1963, Fr. Cavanaugh · was called to Hyannis Port to be·· with Joseph Kennedy. As a_spiritual director and trusted friend, Fr. Cavanaugh stayed with Joseph Ken­nedy throughout ·that long and· anguished weekend. The Kennedy family gratefully continued their friendship with Fr. Cavanaugh with letters and phone calls up to the last days of his life. · 
In 1965, Fr. Cavanaugh returned 
to· teaching. His course in the Clas­sics . was ·a popular elective in the Collegiate Seminar Program. From 1969 to: 1974 he served as chaplain at SaintMary's College, living first at Le Mans Hall, later in the Presby~ tery. Failing health forced Fr. Cava~ ·naugh to limit these activities and he came home -to Notre ·name to live at Corby Hall ... Several times ·after serious · illnesses, · Fr. Cavanaugh bounced back with amazing resilien~ :cy. ·At seventy~four years of age,· he was teaching a course in the Classics .to ,senior ·citizens at· the Forever · Learning Institute in South Bend. ::.Frequent· lapses of healtn and pro~ longed stays . in the. Infirmary prompted his retirement to . Holy 
Cross ·House. Moving to Holy Cross House was, at first, a difficult transi­tion for him. The· man who had moved so eagerly through the stages of life on his "gr~at adventure" from Owosso to Detroit,. to South Bend, .to Hyannis Port, to distant points all around the world, and home. again to Notre Dame, found that move to Holy Cross House the hardest move ·of all. It seemed at the time to signal 
·the end of his own ministry. Being "ministered to" never came easily to a man like Fr. Cavanaugh. 

In ways that he probably never · knew, his ministry continued dur; ing his years at Holy Cross House. From the day he moved in, life on the second floor of Holy Cross House was never the same..While he was there, he renewed his friendship with his brother, Fr. Frank Cava­naugh, who has lived there for s~v­eral years. Two years ago, under the care of his favorite nurse, Sue 
· Barany, Fr. Cavanaugh traveled to Detroit to visit his sister Ann before her death. He could ta:lk happily and gratefully about that last visit with his sister. Death was not a topic he avoided, having lived life so.fully. 
.Thirty years ago, Fr. Cavanaugh delivered a eulogy at the funera:l of a close friend. When ·he spoke 
:about· death, • he inevitably . spoke about life. For the man of faith, life and death are not separate. Fr:. Cav­
. anaugh's words thirty years ago . about his friend's life seem to de­scribe his own life so well. 
'.'There are, after all, only two ways of living: the one that leads to God, and the one that leads away . from Him. The way that leads to God js not hard to find. · ... Knowledge of it and love of · it· can come quietly, naturally at a good mother's. knee .. ; . Then ·one discovers that this way is; as Christ taught us, His way when He said: 'I am the way, the truth, 
· · and the life.'" · •~;: 

, Eveni in his suffering, life·.. was, for John.. Cavanaugh,· a '.'great ·ad-. venture."· . Those · of. us who •. knew and \JovecL: him . suspect_ that · the greatest .parf of. that adventure .has just begun; · ..•,; ·, :,· '. · D 
.J. :! . ·Mary. Beth Dakoske is: a doctoraJ, candidate in , the ·.Department ·of ·English. ·•·:She · teaches. ,. Freshman Composition and· Literature cis well 
·as a Freshman Seminar;• . •· · 
SCHOLASTIC 

--~ 





lnBetrospect..• 
On December 12, 1941, Scholastic ran an interest­ing· column, re'J)rinted verbatim below. We· thought it might interest ·our readers, particularly at this politically disturbing_ time. · 

, ,Ted l\lcDonald, Sorin Hall: "Jerry Killegrew and I.were at my home in West Lafayette. We had just returned with our dates and· we weren't concentrat­ing when, war· was ,declared.. But afterwards, when the girls had left, it really hit us. We still can hardly
believe it." . . . . .. , Jack Crahan, Badin: <'l was home on a week-end ·and.at the time of the declaration, I was driving to see mfgirl, when my car.·radio announced that Japan 
/ had attackedHawaiL I was really' stunned: I didn't 
1
thinkthey could be that dumb.n . . . . . ·, 
. Joe, Tracy; ,Howard: "I: had just returned from taking ashower. When I heard the·news of thewar, I was·so shocked:thiitTahnost h'ad to'go back for another shower to revive myself." · ·· 
. Sfan Litizzette, .Alumni: "!was inChicago over · 
. theweek-end staying at a friend's house. ·.we were . downstairs talking \Vhen . his brother· rushed down from the upstairs radio to tellus the shocking news.'.' 
Frank Lavelle, Walsh: "At the time'ofthe decla­ration, I waswriting home planninga nice Christmas vacation when the war broke. But despite the.Japs .· and Hitler and Mu·ssoUni I still :.intend ,to. take my vacation.'' . ·.· •..·. : ; ... , . . > . c: ..··· .... 
Ray Wilmer, Dillon: ''At'the time of the outbreak ·· of the war I was with a friend afthe concerfat John. 
· Adams. It wasn't until. about' six o'clock when' we · .were changingto'the NotreDame bus that'wesaw ' : newspaper boys' with the extras carrying the stun~ . ning, news. .So we enjoyed the . concert in . blissful 
. ignorance while the Japanese bombed Honolulu.",.'.. Jerry He_irilen, _W'alsh: "Iwas at ho_me -with· iny family at G~'r~ett, li;tening t,i'th.e radioat the ti~~­Wheri we heard t_he news we were immediately saddened. My brother is in the Navy, so my mother was in tears at the. riews. My· mind seemed• to go blank; I cari · still hardly ccmvirice myself 'that we 
are at wa·r.'' .·· · · , · ... ' ·. · . : · Ja,ck Sprague; Howard: "We had JackRels' radio . strewn all over his room fixing ,it when we. heard . Brother Columba talking about the ,declaration of war out in the hallway.. I was quite dismayedabotit the war because·! have an adopted brother who.is. Japanese and I don't know just how the war will affect him.'.' . · · . · .l\lurray ()'Toole,. Walsh: ."Some fello~s-·rushed •.. into: our· ·rqom Suridayafternoon arid spent half an· 
hour trying to convince us that war had been declared by Japan. ·.Then we heard the griin details on the :radio.". , : •• . . ·.· . . . . 
Bob 1\lilford, Badin:. "I was driving my car at · home when the riews came over the car radio. My ' folks were deeply shocked. I have a brother 23 years old in,the Army." .· · .·· ·.. · ·.· . 
Jini,Godfrey, Howard :UI was asleep inmy room ' at the.. time when my roorrirriate burst in shouting ' the.news:of the war at me. I certainly was shocked.· 
into'horribie;reality." . . .. . 
.;) ...~:'; . -' ' ' . :: ;_·,~ ~· 


What are you going to .be doing when WW Ill starts?. The editorial. board of. Scholastic lwpes _to . be resting in· eternal peace before that· question is .. · 
a,sked. . · , · . " · .· . , . ·' . · · . · ' : ' ... 
TMl LAST w:J[J 
In this magazine, we have confronted issues which we believe demand immediate attention. We have confronted issues which deal with right and wrong, good and evil, problem and solution. Tenure, human rights and the possibility of a draft are problems which directly affect our daily lives. The solutions to these problems are difficult, if not impossible. But as long as these issues remain problems, we must strive to solve them. 
Often, to resolve problems, we must understand both sides of a position, evaluate each side and either condemn one side or compromise between· the two. Before doing so, we must know and understand the people we are dealing with. Time does not always permit us to personally confront people, so we must have -some method of quick identification. I propose­the stereotype. 
The word "stereotype" has always been considered a derogatory word. I disagree. Stereotyping is a convenient, mindless method of categorization. If a friend asks me who the 6' 7", 350-lb. specimen is who's eating four double Huddle-burgers for breakfast, I simply reply, "He's a jock.'' Immediately, my friend knows· that this person rarely attends classes, spends much time in Goose's, owns six sweatsuits and has a vocabulary of76 words, the most important of which is "I." .. 
Stereotypes;• · like business majors, can be. found everywhere at Notre Dame. I shall give afew examples: 
Dorner: male, dresses like Ivy Leaguer, attends· every home football and basketball game, has collection· of Vail and Ft. Lauderdale T-shirts, studies on second­floor library, depending on wallet size he drinks either Heineken or Miller beer, regularly works out in Rock or A.C.C., gets car from parents in middle of sophomore year, knows lyrics to every Springsteen song, rarely dates and thinks Notre Dame girls are ugly: 
Smick Chick: owns more monogrammed sweaters than Calvin Klein· Jeans, owns stock in Revlon, lives to touch the letter jackets of as inany football players as possible, went to St. Mary's for the "security,, of ·an all-girl school, prays that Laura on "General Hospital"· will straighten up her act, would rather get pregnant by the Shah of Iran than be drafted and thinks Notre 
Dame girls are ugly; · · · · 
Notre Dame Girl: self-proclaimed feminist, backs Title IX and believes competitive sports are animalistic, . thinks all smick chicks are shallow, selfish and stupid. 
The Business Major: well-dressed, blown-dry hair, hand 
is usually in back left pocket or purse, prays each 
. -night to William Blumenthal, goal in life is to exploit some untapped mass, argues about statistics in bars, chuckles at Arts and Letters students, needs dictionary . to find the meaning of "ethics." · · 

by·. Dave Satterfield 

The Scimice and Engineering Major: glasses, greasy -hair, never socializes until senior year, when he/she 
flocks to Senior Bar and argues about war games. 
A personal favorite, The General Program Major: loves to carry around both editions of complete works of Plato and Aristotle, argues about dialectical materialism and nonbeing at football games, receives man at LaFortune, believes that poverty and simplicity are virtues .because that will be his/her postgraduate condition, constantly attempting to grasp his/her·· essence. 
Actors; Architects and Art Majors: Strong odds he/she is "gay," nocturnal animal, freely experiments with drugs, main-lines Maxwell· House , freeze-dried, and thinks all Demers are ugly. . . . 
The Townie: wears faded, dirty blue jeans with either 
Ted Nugent or REO Speedwagon T-shirt, has lcirig, 
dirty, blond hair, does hard drugs, looks like rapist to 
most college girls, and probably knows more about 
life than every Domer; smick chick, business major 
and GP'er put together. . · 
Of course,. I have not covered every stereotype. · I could speak of Holy Cross priests, Notre Dame adminis­trators, cheerleaders, Republicans, Democrats, ROTC's, Scholastic editors and many, many more. Every · direction we turn, we can find a stereotype. I doubt that there's a method in which we can avoid being stereotyped. I guess you could enroll at St. Mary's, transfer to Notre Dame, have a sex change operation, enroll in the business college, change to GP and realize that school is worthless, drop out of school, live in South Bend and realize that life is worthless and kill , yourself. Or, you could not worry about it and try to be unique. Try to be yourself. 
SCHOLASTIC 
,,
____.... 
(cont from pg. 25) 
factions· often throws a cloak over the true public sentiment. Large in­terests tend to dominate lobby poli­tics. Small interest groups cannot compete with "big money" interests, such as organized labor, industry, and corporate interests. This in­equality comes from the lack of financial ·backing that plagues smaller groups. As a result, large lobbies very rarely encounter opposi­tion from rival organizations in their efforts· to influence legislation. 
On the other hand, lobbying gives an opportunity to voice opinions which might not normally find ex­pression through majority rule. Lobbying, for example, . directly brought about Civil Rights legis­lation in the 1960s. 
The government, then, through these lobby groups, is now being shaped by the i~terests of powerful factions. The majority of American 
·people have lost direct contact with their representative in government. The representative now voices lobby opinion, not necessarily that of his constituents .. The lobby system· has become an extra-constitutional power center which can effectively form laws according to the will of a few. And these few are those who can afford to support a professional lobby group. D 
Francis J. Broume is a General Pro­gram/English major. This is his first contrib.ution ·to Scholastic. 
. (cont. from pg. 23) 
Not all of the remainder of the essays are as interesting or as read-:. able as. Robertson's-but in fairness it must be noted that the other 
essays deal ·with specific human rights policies with which the reader is probably less familiar.. The editors are aware of this and their introduc­
··· tions serve as excellent outlines en­capsulating each author's argument. The introductions are so explana­tory, in fact, that the scholarly or more-informed . reader might find himself ignoring them so as to for-. mulate his own, unprejudiced. judg­n:ents from the articles alone: For ­the casual observer, however, the introductions are a help for discern­ing the . complicated arguments. pre-. sented in the book's final six parts. D 
FEBRUARY 22, 1980 

Help Develop Tomorrow's Energy Business Today! 



Go & Grow with 
AMERICAN NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 
Leaders in Energy Sources Exploration! Become lnvo!~ed in Dynamic Projects Related to... 
• Natural Gas Exploration • Processing • Trans­mission • Distribution to Users Through Over 50 Utilities• Coal Development & Mining• Coal Gasification 
Investigate career. opportunities now in the following disciplines: Bus. Admin. • Economics 
M.E. • C. E. •• Computer Science • Geology Finance~ E.E. • Ch.E. • Accounting• I.E.• Basic 
Engineering  .  
Contact  your  College  Placement  Office  to  
arrange an appointment.  ·  

We'll be on yourtampus Monday, March 10 · 
AMERICAN NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 
ANG Coal Gasification Company · American Natural Gas Production Company 
ANR Coal Company · ANR Freight System~ Inc. ANRStorage Company · 
@

American Natural Service Company Great Lakes Gas Transmission Company Michigan Consolidated Gas Company Michigan Wisconsin Pipe Line Company . 
ONE WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 An Equal Opportunity Employ~r M/F · 

' 
~ . 




