THE NOTRE OAME
SCHOLASTIC
----:---NCTCE CAME. INC.—
★	Graduate School Offers New Degree
★	V-12 "Frolics" Commence Tonight
★	Lt. Leahy Leaves for War Area Tomorrow
Photo by Renaud
The SCHOLASTIC calls on Mr. Leahy to talk business—and stays to meet the entire household—Frank, Jr.;
Mrs. Leahy, holding Jerry; Lieut. Leahy holding Flossie, and Sue. (See page 7.)
Vol. 83. No. 10
Jan. 26, 1945
“The Gilbert Label” means Quality—Quality that means “years of wearing pleasure”
Home of DOBBS HATS-HICKEY-FREEMAN, SOCIETY BRAND, BURBERRY, ALPAGORA EAGLE and BRITISH-R CLOTHES
Exclusive with this Quality Store > -
THE MODERN
GILBERTS
&HJZ- Af&et- TMt
813-817 S. MICHIGAN Street *
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
JANUARY 26. 1945
No. 10
N.D. Graduate School Offers New Degree

Awards Advanced Degree of "Master of Science in Education" to Those Wishing to Teach.
At the present time, the casualties number 169 dead, 35 missing in action, and 27 prisoners of war. The following are latest reported:
+	★168 Lt. Walter Henry Bar-
ton, ex. ’44, Cicero, Ill., was killed in action over Hungary on Dec. 26, 1944, on a bombing mission.
★ 169 Lieut. Jeremiah John Killigrew, USNR, ’42, Hobart, Ind., previously reported missing in action, now dead.
Missing in action are:
Lt. Leo Joseph Fomenko, ’35, South Bend, Indiana, has been missing in action since Dec. 16, 1944. He was with the field artillery.
Robert McBride, ex. ’43, Lancaster, Ohio, missing in action on the German front as of Dec. 21, 1944.
Lt. Charles Seward McKelvy, ex. ’44, Atchison, Kans., missing in action on a Thunderbolt bomber out of England.
Sgt. Roger Paul O’Reilly, ex. ’45, New York, missing in action according to word received by Father Craddick.
Paul Robert Tait, ex. ’45, South Haven, Mich., also reported missing.
Pfc. John Lawson Wiggins, ’43, Chicago, Ill., missing in action in Holland since Nov. 2, 1944. Jack was senior football manager in his last year at Notre Dame.
John Keyes Wolff, ex. ’44, Raleigh, N-. C., missing in action.
Flight Officer Charles Joseph Farrell, ’41, Plattsburgh, New York, previously reported missing in action, is now a prisoner of war.
Pfc. Garland V. Funk, ’43, of Muncie, -Ind.- is reported missing over Belgium.
—Harry Siemonsma
Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, has just announced that the University has instituted a new advanced degree for which
Rev. Philip S. Moore. C.S.C.
students will register for the first time in the coming Spring semester. The new degree will be known as Master of Science in Education. Heretofore the Graduate School has conferred, on the master’s level, only the Master of Arts and Master of Science degrees.
No Language Requirement
What distinguishes the new degree from the older master degrees is that neither dissertation nor foreign language will be among its requirements. On the other hand, the course requirement will be greater—thirty semester hours being required. On the course work candidates for this degree will have to stand a thorough comprehensive examination.
Any field of study in which graduate
programs are offered at the University may be chosen as major subject, and one or two related fields may be taken as minor sequences. The same college preparation in any given field, as prerequisite to advanced study, will be required for the Master of Science in Education as for the other master degrees.
Qualifying Examination
A qualifying examination will he administered to students on entrance and they will also be urged to submit the results of the Graduate Record Examination, given by The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
Among the students of the Graduate School a large number are preparing themselves for teaching in primary and secondary education. It is for these students that the new degree is designed. It is rightly to be regarded, therefore, as a teachers’ degree, in contradistinction to the Master of Arts and Master of Science which are research degrees.
This is why the dissertation and foreign language are not among its requirements. For this reason, too, the new degree is a terminal degree, toward which students looking forward to the doctorate may not work.
For Those Preparing to Teach
The presence of two sharply defined classes of students—those preparing for primary and secondary teaching and those preparing for university teaching and research—in our graduate schools has long presented a problem to graduate administrations.
In instituting a distinct degree for the first of these classes, while preserving the integrity of the older degrees for the second, Notre Dame feels that it has found the best possible solution to this problem.
3
‘-She ZNotre Qbame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
■	FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
. ..By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Nervy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager AL KUENZLI ----- Advertising Manager
BELATED NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS
Come to us from the St. Bona Venture.
I firmly Resolve:
Never to smoke anyone else’s cigarettes but my own. (Optimist).
Never to handshake any of the profs for marks, etc. (Pessimist).
To study all year long so I won’t have to cram for the exams. (Breathes there a man with soul so dead who never to himself has said, “Ibid.”)
To read the books I write reports on for English class.
Not to fall asleep in any of my classes.
To insist that somebody take over a class when the regular professor is indisposed.
To hand in all my assignments on time.
To do them myself.
To be good to my roommate.
Not to ask for any money over and above what I get from home.... and at this point the nightmare became unbearable. The student awoke with a start, wiped the perspiration from his brow and whispered, “Boy that was close! 1!”
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER ------ The Green Banner HARRY WALTERS -	-	-	- The College Parade
GEORGE KRAUSER -	- Splinters from the Press Box
ART WAGNER ------ Swabbies Log
AD OF THE WEEK (For Sale)
Choice selection of all popular brands: Luckies, Chesterfields, Old Golds, Camels. Obtained from refined neighborhoods. Slightly used. Various sizes.—Boston U. Neivs
CONTRIBUTORS
HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR FRANK GRIMALDI TACK McGRANE
ENRIQUE LULLI BOB COCHRAN JACK MILES TOM McNALLY JIM CAREY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH TOE BRESLAW JOHN FEENEY
QUOTE OF THE WEEK
“This is the sixth time this week you have failed to do the assigned work,” stormed the professor. “What have you to say for yourself?”
“I’m glad it’s Saturday, sir,” meekly replied the youth.
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
FRANCIS GUIDO
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
TRICK OF THE WEEK
The bookmakers were given a severe jolt in New York when Coach Nat Holman of C.C.N.Y. ordered one of his players to decline a free throw in the C.C.N.Y.—Syracuse game. Coach Holman explained it by saying that if the free throw had been good the bookies with six to eight point odds on City College would have made a clean sweep because C.G.N.Y. would have won the game by seven points. As it was, the betters and bookies broke more or less even and City College won anyway.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. tHB SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
4
CRIME OF THE WEEK
Students have been spoiling .the sugar in the sugar bowls by putting salt in them, causing a shortage at the University of Kansas.
Winter Frolics Begin at Nine Tonight
Vaughn Monroe to Highlight Opening Feature; Ball, Tea Dance, Show, All on Program for One Week-end.
Tonight, after weeks of preparation and anticipation, the V-12 “Winter Frolics” will begin with the presentation of the formal Regimental Ball in the navy drill hall.
Miss Helen Week
V-12 seamen and guests from throughout the Middle West and the East will turn out in strength for the musical aura created by Vaughn Monroe and his outstanding orchestra embossed against the nautical surroundings and decorations of the Drill hall. Featured vocalist with the Monroe orchestra will be Marilyn Duke with Vaughn adding his baritone on the ballads.
Miss Helen Week, of Chicago, and the University of Illinois, guest of Generalchairman Edward Brown, has been chosen by the committee to reign as queen of the military ball.
Miss Lillian Kearney of Marshalltown, Iowa; guest of Chairman Eugene Diamond and Miss Nancy Frankel of Peoria, Ill.; guest of Chairman Edward Gunn, have been designated as guests of honor.
Captain J. Richard Barry, USN., commanding officer of the Notre Dame Naval Unit, and Mrs. Barry will be in the receiving line as will the members of the V-12 executive officers staff and their- wives, including Lieut. Commander Clarke Olney, executive officer for the V-12 unit; Lieut. S. L. Beatty, Lieut. J.
H. Northrup, Lieut, (jg) Bradford Lam-son, Lieut, (jg) Carey Brewbaker and Ensign Byron Hummon. The entire officer personnel of the station, as well as the faculty of the University, have been invited.
Guests of other committee members include Miss Betty Manning of Albany, N. Y., guest of John Cahill, housing; Miss Jean Hahn of Mount Pulaski, HL, guest of W. H. Comstock, finances; Miss Elsie Jean Bills, guest of S. J. McCon-aha, transportation; Miss Betty Lou Brown of South Bend, guest of David Caplan, tea dance; Miss Arlene Zimmerman of Iowa City, Iowa, guest of Robert Carter, favors; Miss Lana Morelli of Chicago, guest of William Kornblum, music; Miss Mary Cadigan of Superior, Wise., guest of Ray Michols, tickets, and Miss Jo Anne Swarzell of South Bend, guest of J. N. Kays, checking.
Dancing will begin promptly at 2100 and all must be in attendance before 2130. The reception line will form soon after- the start of dancing and the grand march will take place midway through the evening. “Racing With the Moon,” Vaughn Monroe’s closing theme will bring the ball to a close at 0100. Approximately 500 couples will attend.
The regimental ball will constitute the first feature of the week-end for this, the winter semester. Tomorrow, Satur-
Miss Lillian Kearney
day evening, trainees and their guests will reconvene in the Drill hall for the presentation of “Sailors on Parade,” consisting of a floor show and informal dancing. Highlighting the floor show will
Miss Nancy Frankel
be the appearance of the Royal Hawaiian orchestra, supported by a varied program of entertainment supplied by talent from the unit.
Sunday afternoon, the “Winter Frolics” will move downtown to South Bend for the tea dance in the Servicemen’s center. Music will be provided by Ted Gallagan and his band, outstanding among local musical organizations. Train time on Sunday evening will mark the end of the “Frolics.”
The week-end will serve as a fitting and memorable farewell for all engineers, deck candidates, and pre-meds who will be departing for duty elsewhere at midshipman’s schools, medical schools and base hospitals.
Fr, Connerton Speaker
The Mass club will hold the fifth in a series of informal talks on Liturgy at the Rockne Memorial lounge at 7:30 Monday evening. Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. will talk on “Liturgy and Music” and a discussion will follow.
Knights of Columbus Boll Highlights Semester:
Civilian Affair, Feb. 9, Features Ted Phillips
The call has gone out—by telephone, mail, telegraph, even by smoke signal— and all the “my one-and-only” are all lined up for the social event of the semester at Notre Dame—the Knights of Columbus Ball in the Rockne Memorial on Feb. 9.
The leading newcomer to the ranks of
Leader Ted Phillips
good dance bands in the Middle West has been contracted; the music provided by this aggregation headed by clarinetist Teddy Phillips is reported to suit every taste. Although much of the program will be smooth numbers, there will be a sprinkling of hot jive to keep the jitterbugs happy.
Bids have gone on sale this week at $3.60 and the committee has assured the students that such a price is in no way inflationary. That makes this ball outstanding in more ways than one—not only will it be a memorable occasion on the N. D. social calendar, but it will be one of the least expensive ever held.
Although the ticket price is low, the decoration committee has planned to transform the Rockne into something that will make a Mardi Gras look like a feeble attempt at camouflage. The committee is going all out to provide dancegoers with an atmosphere of enchanting beauty.
In the Orchestra World recently this comment appeared concerning the ability of Teddy Phillips’ band, “The band is
6
well-balanced and much smoother than most new outfits. Presenting itself to the public as the band with ‘GO’ and ‘Music Designed for Moderns,’ the band lives up to its claims.”
Plans are being made to air a part of the ball over a local station, probably from about 11:05 to 11:30. This action shows well the regard which professional music followers have for this new band. Every music critic who has heard this band has given it favorable notices, and every indication points to the fact that the dance chairman, Ben Mammina picked a really good band. Sale of tickets is limited to 350.
Professor Thomas Greenwood to Lecture;
Philosophy of Mathematics to be Subject
Under the auspices of the Department of Philosophy, Professor Thomas Greenwood, M.A., D.SC., D.PhiL, of the University of Ottawa, will begin next Monday evening, Jan. 29, a series of lectures in the Philosophy of Mathematics. At 8:00 o’clock on Monday, Wednesday and Thursday evenings, Prof. Greenwood will deliver private lectures of a technical nature to which, however, all who are interested are invited. These lectures will be held in the Moot Court Room of the Law Building.
At 8:00 o’clock on Tuesday evening, Jan. 30, he will give a public lecture in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The subject of this lecture will be “The Significance of Mathematical Philosophy.”
In addition to these lectures, Prof. Greenwood will hold private conferences
Student Council Informal
Notre Dame civilians and their guests will gather tomorrow night in the Rockne Memorial for the second of the Student Council sponsored informal dances. Music will again be provided by Tony Bristol’s “Cavaliers.” Decorations and arrangements are being handled by a committee of Breen-Phillips hall students under the direction of John St. Germain.
Every indication points to the success of the dance. Arrangements have been made to handle an even larger crowd than was present at the initial dance of this series. Ticket sales so far have been successful, therefore a large number is expected to fill the hall.
In general, regulations governing
Roundtab/e Offices Filled
The Economic Roundtable elected officers for the coming semester at a regular meeting held Thursday evening, Jan. 18.
Michael Garry, junior commerce student from Fairmont, Minn, was elected president.- Mr. Garry was also appointed regional commissioner of the International Relations Clubs of N.F.C.C.S. A former vice-president of the Student Council, and an officer of the Commerce Forum, Mr. Garry has been prominent in campus activities. He succeeds Jim Clynes.
Harry Walters, junior commerce student from the Bronx, N. Y. was elected secretary and treasurer, succeeding Louis Barsotti.
Mr. William Downey, faculty moderator, complimented the retiring officers on their successful administration.
with interested students and members of the faculty each morning from Tuesday through Friday from 9:00 to 12:00 in Room 108 of the Main building.
Professor Greenwood received his education at the Universities of London, Paris and Vienna. Since 1930 he has been lecturer at Birbeck College, the University of London, but has spent a great deal of his time as visiting professor at a number of universities in Europe and in America. He is the author of several books and a great number of articles.
His most recent work appeared in 1944 and is entitled The Nature of the Transfinite. Besides his specialized work in philosophy, Prof. Greenwood has long taken active part in Catholic Action, and has devoted, a great part of his time to this movement.
dance-goers will be the same as were in effect at the first dance with the exception of the time of the dance; dancing will begin at 8:30 and will continue until 11:30. Dancers must arrive by 9:00 and may not leave until 11:00. Hall residents will have 12:30 permissions and Saint Mary’s girls attending will have 12:00 permissions. Only civilian students in attendance at the University and their dates will be admitted, and no stags will be allowed.
The committee has planned more elaborate decoration of the hall, and a collegiate theme will be carried out. Tickets will again be sold at the door and refreshments will be available.
cholastic oralis on the ^eahys
Lieut. Leahy Returns to War Area Tomorrow; Reporter Interviews Coach at Home.
Lieut. Frank Leahy will leave South Bend tomorrow for further duty in the Pacific. For the past two weeks, he has been on official navy business which allowed him to visit his family here.
Because of his manifold activities it was difficult to contact Lieut. Leahy, but a reporter and photographer from the Scholastic finally managed an interview in his Miami street home. In the living room the reporter found the geniality and friendliness so typical of the coach.
It was just Saturday night, two weeks ago, about eight o’clock that Frank Leahy, Jr., aged eight, answered the telephone. At the other end of the line, in Chicago, was Frank Leahy, Sr., Notre Dame’s famous football coach, now on leave from the University while serving with the armed forces.
Leave a Complete Surprise
Lt. Leahy had received a brief leave from Navy duty and was on his way to South Bend. No one was more surprised than Mrs. Leahy when Frank, Jr. related the good news. The word spread rapidly among Notre Dame followers. It came as a complete surprise to all.
Since then, he has been rushing back and forth from Chicago on Navy assignments and has had very little time to devote to his family on this short leave.
The Scholastic found his Sunday afternoon at home surrounded by Mrs. Leahy, Frank, Jr., and Sue, Flossie, and “Small Fry.”
When questioned on the matter of Notre Dame and football, Frank, Jr. appeared to have made up his mind. He wouldn’t commit himself as to whether he will play or coach, but he did mention that he had certain aims toward the stadium. Although “Small Fry” was unable to speak for himself, Frank, Jr. made a decision similar to his own for him.
Sue and Flossie remained in the background during the interview for as Sue explained it, “We don’t like football. It’s too rough.”
Explains Work
Lieut. Leahy then told us of his work in the Navy. He is directly connected with the commander of the submarine forces in the Central Pacific area. His duties are to provide suitable recreation
programs for the submariners, and especially those who have just returned from voyages.
Explaining these duties, Coach Leahy told how the men spend an average of
Lieut. Leahy. Before Entering Navy
60 to 70 days at sea. The cramped quarters of a submarine do not allow too much motion, therefore there is an extensive lack of exercise and sunlight. Because of this condition, special recreation programs must be planned which will not be harmful to the submariners. A certain amount of rest is required; therefore they have to be worked into athletics slowly and gently. There is inter-boat competition and spirit runs high as the various crews strive to outdo each other.	'
Shows '43 Film
Coach Leahy traveled all over this Central Pacific area to such famous battlegrounds as Pearl Harbor, Kwaja-lein, Tarawa, Majuro, Guam, and Saipan. Everywhere he went, “The Highlights of 1943” went with him. He told of the interest with which the sailors regarded the showing and of the discussions which were held afterwards. As Coach Leahy put it, the sailors liked it because they saw the greatest football squad of ’43 in action. The officers liked
it because it featured the offensives of Notre Dame and her opponents, which partially served as a lesson in strategy for the men.	•
On Midway, Leahy showed the picture at least 20 times and he says that although he has almost memorized the picture, he has never tired of it, for it has kept him close to Notre Dame and to his many associates here.
Praises Fighting Men
Coach Leahy had much to say about our fighting men and was extremely free in his praise of them. He spoke of their courage and loyalty. He considered their outstanding quality their complete willingness to “make great sacrifices for one another.”
Then the discussion shifted to the government’s proposed plan to draft athletes. He told of the boys who would get up at all hours (due to the difference in time) just to listen to a football game, and how much sports meant to the average serviceman; that even if they could not attend the games, merely listening to them bolstered their morale tremendously.
He recalled his meetings with a number of former players such as Matt Bolger, Lou Rymkus, and of amusing incidents with Tom Brock and Angelo Bertelli.
Tom Brock Incident
Tom Brock (Fighting Irish of ’40, ’41, ’42) went through the Guam campaign without a scratch, but in a dummy scrimmage, was hit by shrapnel. In the time preceding the scrimmage, Brock and his buddies were cleaning the island of Japs and on their tour, had gathered together a number of chickens. So for some time they had fresh eggs for breakfast and occasionally a chicken dinner. After Tom was placed under medical care, his one worry was, not the injury, but whether his chickens were still there.
Modest Bertelli
Lieut. Leahy met Bertelli on Guam, during his travel between the islands. When he showed “The Highlights of ’43” before Bertelli’s group, he almost placed the “Arm” in a difficult situation. He asked the “Rifle” to narrate the film, (Continued on page 18)
7
Pop Concert Scheduled
Eddie Stone's Band Plus Novel Decoration
Members of the Notre Dame band conducted a poll of most of the V-12 and Chilian students of the University last Monday evening to determine the program for their next concert. This affair will be presented especially for members of the student body and their guests. It will be an informal affair in the manner of a “pop concert.”
The presentation is being designed to afford the students a good time before the final scholastic “plunge” of the semester. It will be the last band presentation of this term, and Mr. Hope intends to make it one of the most memorable. The accent will be upon enjoyment, with belly-laughs not only tolerated but also encouraged.
Varied Program
The program as selected by the students, will include a little refined music for relaxation, several modern numbers for all-’round enjoyment, a few popular selections for the “listenin’ pleasure,” a novelty or two for diversion, and possibly a little slapstick on the side. Then too, there will be a review of the student’s favorite marches, styled to please the most fervent exponent of the military beat.
Probably one of the most popular aspects of a good music group is its ability to break loose, as the occasion demands, with all the force and fury of an east coast hurricane. Little need be said concerning the electrifying sensation produced when the depth instruments of a band start to shake down the thunder.
Balanced Band
The University group is far from lacking in the power sections. The men of the blow and blast department (eight trombonists; three baritonists, and four sou-saphone players) are quite capable of producing all the volume desired. In their past performances they could have been outdone only by a sudden eastward march of the Rocky Mountains.
On the other extreme, seamen Lusted, Parrott, and Taggett have established themselves as one of the finest flute and piccolo sections in the history of the band. From them come the soft breezes, the birds, the dawn, and the light and lilting strains which so effectively contrast the pomp of their more bulky cousins.
This, of course, is far from the entire unit. It is rather a little side-light into the complex organization of an efficient concert group. It is the harmonious and rhythmic cooperation among all sections which produces the polished product.
Theme Assure ROs Successful Ball, Feb. 9
The NROTC Ball, which is billeted to come off two weeks from this evening, is a major- undertaking with a success guaranteed. With the signing of Eddie Stone as the band, the Walsh hall contingent has procured what might be called the “dance-effortless” band for its big event.
Stone has a deft touch in winning friends and “swing - fluencing” people, and has as much fun as the crowd while
Leader Eddie Stone
leading the band, playing the violin, singing and cavorting about the bandstand.
Recognized as tops on the violin, Eddie also does an occasional vocal in addition to fronting his band. His “Pebbles,” .a six-piece band within the band, is a newly developed Dixie - Land combination which plays alone and also with the entire organization.
Vivacious Judy Blaine adds eye and ear appeal to the band with her smooth vocals on both popular and swing tunes. Piano honors go to Floyd Bean with his sensational keyboard style, while “Snozz” Dunn amazes the crowds with his terrific trumpet.
Appearing in a few movies as “Seven Days’ Leave,” “Stage Door Canteen” and “The Hit Parade of 1944” and emceeing the show for a while in the Hollywood Restaurant of New York City rounded out Eddie’s experience, and then he organized a band of his own. His rise in popularity has been phenomenal, so outstanding that critics in Chicago, where
he has been playing the famous Aragon Ballroom, have singled him out as “one who will go a long way, and fast, in show business.”
Decorations—Par Excellence
Heading the decorations committee, Jack Cassidy and John Kramer can find no superlatives to use other than colossal, stupendous, and gigantic—and that still doesn’t do justice to the setting planned for the evening. The secrets that are deep within their minds, concerning the scenic atmosphere of the Service Mens’ Center the night of the Ball, well, only they will know until curtain time, Feb. 9. But from a partial inkling thrown this way, the ballroom’s enclosure with it’s face lifted, will be well worth the price itself.
Letters Honor War Victim
This week the University received confirmation that another Notre Dame student died in action. Lawrence P. Leonard, Jr., was killed in action in Holland.
A number of letters have been received by his parents paying a last tribute to him. His Chaplain, Milton E. Berg, 413th infantry, writes, “You have the deepest sympathy of the officers and men of this organization in your bereavement. Lawrence was held in high regard by all members of the command. He was a splendid soldier and of outstanding character. His loss will be deeply felt by his many friends.”
“Our words, we know, are of little help in your great sorrow. May our Heavenly Father’s assurance of resurrection and eternal life ever be your solace and a source of comfort.”
His commanding officer from the ROTC unit at Princeton university wrote highly of him: “His high grades and his actions were an indication of qualities of maturity and stability in your son and I hope that this will be one more reason for your justified pride in him and his Army career to temper- the grief which you must feel at his loss.”
But the climax can be seen in one*of his own letters to his parents. He said, “You have guided us (two other brothers) in choosing a way of life that we know is unbeatable—the Catholic life. We may lose what earthly possessions we have but never can we be compelled to renounce our faith which you have instilled in us.”
“At present, in a world that is a nightmare, we are all doing something that is necessary so we may return to our former life.”
8
V-12 WINTER FROLICS BEGIN TONIGHT
Yes, at long last, the eventful, extended and traditional V-12 Ball weekend has finally rolled around, and this evening the Ball itself, at the U. S. Navy Drill Hall, begins the unfolding of many weeks of careful planning. If the sailors have ever scrubbed their stripes for a Captain’s inspection, those stripes will be white tonight; and the girls will look theii' “darlingest” (this is definitely a borrowed word).
And this is only the beginning of the super-week-end. Tomorrow afternoon all sorts of things might happen, tomorrow night there is to be a program, “Sailors on Parade,” and an informal dance with music by Morris and his V-12 Commanders, then Sunday trainees and their guests either begin to rest up or are left to their own device—but you’ve heard all this many times before—echoes nicely, doesn’t it?
Some of the secondary results that aren’t so terribly hard to take with a smile either are the extra liberty, the brief escape from the reality of those books, and for some it means a chance to see the “girl back home” again—could be the girl from South Bend too.
A couple of weeks ago the noon muster announcement read: “Six men wanted for snow party—snow or no snow” and I got to wondering about a similar statement concerning the ice show and ice skating party originally planned for tomorrow afternoon: “... ice or no ice, water’s fine, fish are .biting, let’s go swimming” (no, I’m not crazy—if only those bells would stop ringing in my head).
There were quite a few who didn’t plan on going to the Ball, but who quickly volunteered to be Captain’s Aides, ticket takers, coat checkers, anything; just to see all the “purty” girls—and decorations that some E.P.D. boys won’t appreciate.
Well, have a good time during the “Winter Frolics”; be seeing you there.
SO YOU DON'T GET THE JOKE—
Last week there was a little hole in this column; our number one cartoonist had his hands full with a civilian dance and all the pleasant problems which necessarily accompany such goings on. Two weeks ago (and this is far back into history as we intend to go) there appeared in this column a cartoon of a sailor sewing on a watch stripe: “I’ve got to get into full colors for the V-12 Ball.” Well, it so happened that the aforementioned hole and this aforesaid cut were just about the same size; and since this gob seemed to be having a lot of trouble with his handicraft anyway, we decided to give him a little more time and add a new cut line: “Yes, I know that I was here last week, but this job is taking me longer than I thought it would.” The intentions were o.k., because many didn’t quite get the drift the first time due to the “colors”; but then the second time we give the guy laryngitis and he can’t say his piece—so now you know.
Art Exhibit in Library
Recently the University Library established a number of exhibits under the general direction of Mr. Paul Byrne, head of the Library. The present one consists of a series of photographs taken in the sunlight.
E. Allen Freiwald, the amateur photographer, whose photos make up this exhibit, comes from Detroit, Mich., and is enrolled in the V-12 program here at Notre Dame. His pictures were taken in New York City. Mr. Freiwald has had one and a half years of experience with his hobby. Among other pictures that he has taken there are a few shots of campus sites done with great skill.
This exhibit varies every two weeks and their purpose is to stimulate the students in art work of different kinds, including collections of antiques and relics.
Any student who wishes to show some collection of his own may do so by contacting Mr. Byrne at the library.
Service Center 4sks Aid
The room reservation department at the Service Center, under the direction of Mrs. Speer, which has been of so much aid to trainees in need of accommodations in private homes, on week-ends and especially during periods before and after large Naval social functions, has appealed to trainees for cooperation in simplifying the contracting and scheduling of advance room reservations.
Considerable difficulty and embarrassment has been caused by mix-ups caused by trainees who reserve rooms usually distributed through the Service Center through personal or other channels.
For instance, Mrs. Speer gives a room reservation to one of the Navy men. He tells one of his friends about the room and the friend calls the person renting the room and reserves the room for the following week. Meanwhile, Mrs. Speer has rented the room to someone else and one of the men must be disappointed. The point to be made is that all room reservations should go through the Service Center. Arrangements are being made to have room owners cooperate to that end.
Lt. Bob McBride Missing
Lt. Bob McBride, football monogram winner in 1941 and 1942, and regular guard on the 1942 team, has been reported missing since Dec. 21. He was on
Bob McBride as a Player Here
duty on the Belgian front at the time he was reported missing.
Word was received here in a letter from Bob’s family at Lancaster, Ohio, written to Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
It was said of a tightwad: “He had everything that credit could buy.”
—Bits Out Of Life
9
orin Hall, Oldest Student Resi<e
College traditions do not pass away with the men who gave them form. Instead, they remain to guide, to encourage, and to inspire those that come afterwards. It is so with the traditions of Sorin hall.
Rev. Peter P. Forrestal. Rector
legiate Hall,” as it was called when started, and on May 27, 1888, Father Sorin blessed the cornerstone as part of the student celebration of his Golden Jubilee, and the hall was thenceforward named after- him.
Edward Frederick Sorin, was born on Feb. 6, 1814, in the little Commune of Ahulle, France. He was of an outstanding Catholic family. As a child, he was recognized by his teachers and fellow students as an extraordinary pupil. He ■ had a wide knowledge of Latin, and as a result understood the liturgy of the church very well. At the age of about 16, Edward Sorin entered the seminary at Precigne to study for the priesthood. Thence he went to the major seminary at Le Mans. On May 27, 1839, he was ordained a priest.
Several years later, Father Sorin was appointed director of a group of six Brothers who were to establish a mission in the United States. On Sept. 13, 1841, Father Sorin and his group arrived in
Opened in January, 1889,1^1 to House the "Politicians';1
BY BOB MOLNAR an
RRRI
America. In October, they arrived in Indiana. After working at St. Peters, Vincennes, a year, Father Sorin and the Brothers left for South Bend, arriving in November, 1842.
By Jan. 15, 1844, by legislative act, Father Sorin’s mission school became a University and three buildings had been completed; they were the Old College, the chapel, and novitiate. This was the beginning of Notre Dame, the beginning of a simple institution, but yet a powerful instrument to be used in Catholic education in America. Father Sorin served for a time as the first president of Notre Dame, and years later after great success at Notre Dame, he was
elect gati( of IS
In to t; year Noti 1893
Sc on b turn mas Cha] said Sori sane
The oldest student resident hall on campus, Sorin still manages to lead the rest of the campus scholastically. However, because of the seriousness of senior and junior subjects, and the drastic limitations of time, the lead in the athletic field can no longer be claimed exclusively by Sorin.
One proud honor it still maintains is that no other hall houses so many campus “celebrities.” Within its walls live the majority of campus leaders of clubs, organizations, publications, and busy “men about the campus.” Out of these campus leaders will come men that will be heard of in years to come. It is in this way that traditions grow and mature; it is so with the men of Sorin hall.
In the early 1880’s, Father Walsh proposed the idea of building a resident hall, which was unheard of in those times. Tradition then called for the open dormitory and the open study hall. Previously, a few private rooms had been offered in the main building, but there arose such a demand for such privacy that it became necessary to provide a resident hall. As a result the ground was broken in the spring of 1888 for “Col-
10
’	* 5
Sorin Hall, the home of “men about the campus
;i<ence, Still Leads Campus Activity
39 LFather Sorin, it Continues 5ns'' Notre Dame's Campus.
n fiRRY SIEMONSMA in an
in jrs, the ing
let, e a een :ge, the ing 3W-olic >rin ent ‘ter vas
elected Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, in the spring of 1868.
Opened in 1889
In 1889, Father Sorin left Notre Dame to take up his duties in Rome. Several years later, Father Sorin returned to Notre Dame where he died on Oct. 31, 1893.
Sorin hall was opened to the students on New Year’s day, 1889, when they returned to the campus aftei' the Christmas holidays. Father Sorin blessed the Chapel of Saint Thomas Aquinas and said the first Mass in it on Jan. 11, 1889. Sorin hall was of the French Renaissance style. When first built, the hall
was used for several purposes. Besides the 60 student rooms and the rooms of the rector and his staff, it housed a chapel, the lecture room and chambers of the law department, bathrooms, and a well-equipped reading room.
Sorin hall chapel where students gather for prayer.
sorts; a group picture of the National Champions; newspaper headlines of various happenings are wedged between odds and ends which are tacked or pasted on the walls.
The rules governing old Sorin hall
The student rooms were “large enough to encourage study and at the same time small enough to discourage visiting.” Only deserving students were allowed in the hall. Admission to the hall depended entirely on the merit of the applicant. He had to be of the ‘elite’; mere cleverness without corresponding seriousness and good conduct would not gain the coveted honor for him.
No Clubhouse
To quote from the Scholastic files of 1890: “A desk, chairs, a bookcase, a bed, and other necessary articles are provided by the college; the rest of the garnishing of the room is left to the taste of the student.”' Even in those days the students went in for aesthetic embellishments. They were not to be blamed. Adornments consisted of “baseball gloves quartered, as it were, with a physiological chart, nestling among the back numbers of the Scientific American, all shaded by curtains sent by some loving mother; there is a photograph of Cardinal Newman perched on a volume of Tennyson over which were pasted some football scores.”
Today, latest copies of the Post, Colliers, Liberty, and Life are sandwiched between duties and textbooks; photographs of this girl and that—maybe the girl; autographed pictures of various
were not many, but they were rigidly enforced. As there was a commodius common room, visiting in the rooms was not allowed; lights had to be out at a fixed time; noises were prohibited; in fact, every reasonable restriction conducive to decorous behaviour and the formation of an atmosphere inductive to study was insisted upon. Those were the times when a Sorinite had too much respect for his standing to forfeit his privilege. A clandestine visit to town—were it possible—would mean expulsion; and there were no expulsions!!
Traditions Live On
Gone is the reading room. The clubhouse atmosphere replaces the dormitory. Students go from room to room without even the formality of a knock, which may or may not be a form of the much-discussed Notre Dame democracy.
A casual visitor in Sorin finds himself glancing at various tin-types and photographs of the Scholastic and Dome staffs of previous years.
When the question what intrinsically constituted the real Sorin was asked a Sorinite, he ironically replied: “Tradition and spirit.” It has been our observation, however, that where one can kill spirit, it is awfully hard to do away with traditions.
11

LA DANCE
The country club atmosphere is returning to Notre Dame. The socialites are in full bloom; one can’t even see the bulletin board anymore since the dance posters have gained popularity. The gaffer’s gaze is first attracted to advertisements for the ‘•'Casey” Ball with Teddy Phillips and “all the lads” given top billing as “the Band” from the Windy City. As a result the boys are taking their tuxes out of moth balls and Grand Knight Sadowski, grand maestro of the nobility, is again angling for Brother Meinrad’s cape.
Second on the hit parade: the boys from out Breen Phillips way will sponsor the second of the popular informals in the Rockne tomorrow night; and these we recommend highly. Incidentally a great deal of credit goes to Johnny St. Germaine and his committee for doing a masterful job in the line of publicity. Their timely advice to the local “solid steppers and Jacksons” reads like Maureen Daly’s Sunday Edition and should really put the dance over the top.
Last but not least all sorts of congratulations go to the gals from Holy Cross headed by Ruth Clifford for their successful dance last Friday. The Juniors and Seniors turned out in surprisingly good numbers. George Haley and Johnny Roscher headed the “May I cut in” committee, and anyone who was lucky enough to dance with the same girl for more than one chorus got a prize of cupcakes and an extra coke.
Add to all these social activities the Saturday afternoon tea dances sponsored by Red Gutowski and Pete Berez-eny for guests from Gary, with musical recordings that would put Make Believe ballroom to shame, and you have Notre Dame at its best.
❖
BRIDGE PORT
Have you ever listened to a bridge tournament? Well, we have—have you ever tried to write term papers during a bridge tournament, well we have— simply because John Dockweiler (the only man who would stay up all night and play bridge under a street lamp) is our roommate. You have heard the proverb “Come into my web said the spider to the fly.” Well, John rearranged it so it now reads “Come into my room said the shark to the. fish.”
Condolences to Tommy Burns and Nick Comissa. Between Dick Ames singing I Dream of You and Nero fiddling
on his violin while Sorin burns on Saturday morning, it’s no wonder Tom and Nick have those travelling bags so close to their eyeballs.
HERE AND THERE
It is with profound regret that we recall the most recent issue of the Chicago Tribune‘s Sunday rotogravure section, showing two pages of typical American college girls—and not one selection from the neighboring doll factory across the Dixie. How sad! Mundelein creeped in for one vote, but no Barat (why not, Miss Herlihy?) nor Rosary; nor the Woods! Aren’t people mean? All of which proves once more that there’s no accounting for some tastes on this campus. . . . Big blows for the Chimes which came out in the most recent edition in what virtually amounts to technicolor. ... It is our firm conviction that Washington Hall could stand a good job of fumigation, and we refer to the possible extermination of those very “funny” people who sit in the rear of the hall on movie nights and make supposedly humorous remarks during the showing of a picture, thereby annoying neighbors who have the decency to sit quietly and who would prefer to listen to the picture. These remarks emanate not from Freshmen, mind you, but from those who should know better and yet insist on violating this fundamental of good breeding. To top it all off, nothing funny ever comes from these stupid unofficial performers. Please, do what you can to shut them up. ... By the way, is there anyone who isn’t going to a dance? We can’t remember a time when
there were more social affairs in the offing. ... We don’t know how true this rumor is, but there are those who insist that the U.S.S. Walsh will step out soon, escorting the entire disbursing office, thus making it a closed U.S.S. Walsh affair. Obviously, no other hall on campus “can make this statement.” . . . Speaking of quaint customs at schools for growing girls, there’s the one at Rosemont which permits the young ladies to write one letter per semester. That’s why we’re waiting for February and the coming term—who knows, maybe a letter from Barbara, if it fits in with her schedule!
THE TOILERS
Johnny Fleaka (Mr. Dining Hall of 1945) took his co-workers up to the Stadium for the double header last week. All the meal ticket men who incidentally look like unsuccessful income tax collectors, were sharpened up to give the city slickers a big treat. Doc Gillespie was silent when asked where they went before and after the games, but good authority has it that they were at the (censored) and the (censored) and then got so lonesome for South Bend they went to the biggest Walgreens store in Chicago and stood on the corner waiting for the Bendix day shift to get out. Coming out of their stupor—I mean sleep, three days later, they hustled back to Ziggie and, when last heard from, Frank Linehan was taking meal tickets and saying, “Step right up, gentlemen; for one measly green ticket you can look into the eyes of these lovely young ladies and eat food fit for a king. God Save the King!!!” Gallup polls will soon conduct a survey as to who the king might be who could swallow such stuff. Seeing the Dining Hall’s Sunday Special, Blaze, Faye Emerson’s bull mastiff, turned up his nose and flew to California for supper. Said Clashmore Mike, “True, you might see me in the Huddle; but around the dining halls—Never!”
12
Hugh Burns Comes Home to Tend Wounded After Five and One-Half Years'Absence
BY JIM REGAN
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
Hugh Leo Burns, a worthy successor to Eugene “Scrapiron” Young as trainer of the athletic teams of the University, is a pleasant young man who has had much experience in the field of spoils as a player, coach and trainer.
Born in Seattle, Wash., Burns was graduated from St. Mary’s High school of Michigan City where he was a three-letter man, participating in the so-called three major sports, baseball, football and basketball, in the last-named of which he was captain. He entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1935 and received his B.S. in P.E. degree in 1939.
After his graduation he specialized in orthopedics in New York City until he became head trainer and backfield coach of football at Xavier University of Cincinnati in 1941. He retained this position until he entered the Marine Corps in March, 1943. He served for 18 months in this country and received an honorable discharge in August, 1944. After receiving his discharge he became the head coach of football and basketball at Roger Bacon High School in Cincinnati until he was appointed trainer at Notre Dame early this month.
While at Notre Dame Hugh was a member of the track and baseball teams, although he did not win a monogram. For three years, however, he was a student assistant to “Scrapiron.” One of his more memorable athletic experiences occurred while a student-assistant to the trainer. In one game against Washington University of St. Louis, two Notre Dame players received brain concussions while another suffered a severely ripped nose and eye. Hugh was kept continually on the move that afternoon from the stadium to the field house; from the field house to the stadium; from the. . . . etc. The players all managed to survive; Hugh survived; and Notre Dame won the game 14 to 6—Hugh learned some time . after the game was over.
Besides assisting the trainer- when he was attending Notre Dame, Hugh also was somewhat of a “politician.” His specialty was promoting various candidates for office. As a student promoter he also seems to have been a success, for his man usually was elected.
Besides playing the sports already mentioned, Hugh also is a good swimmer. He swam the 100-yard backstroke for the Michigan City YMCA state champions several years ago. He also plays golf in the low—one-hundred’s—on a good day.
Photo by Jim Ferstel
New Trainer at Work
Hugh is a happily married man and has one son, who bears the fine Irish name of Michael Patrick Burns. “Mike’ is now two years of age and Trainer Burns is looking forward to the day when he will take his place in the starting lineup of one of Notre Dame’s teams.
Playing such a variety of sports, the writer believed that Hugh might care to state for which sport he had a preference, but he stated he liked all sports equally well with no one sport standing out for him.
Having attained the position of trainer after the relatively short period of five and one-half years after graduating from Notre Dame, one would think that Hugh would be free from any sports’ ambitions for some time, but this isn’t quite true. For like many another member of the athletic depai-tment’s personnel, Hugh has one secret ambition—to beat Father Thomas Brrennan at handball. Who knows? Perhaps he’ll be the one to do it.
Crowemen Seek No. 10
Against Kentucky Quint
A record of nine wins and three losses hovers over the Fighting Irish eagers presently, having annexed a most emphatic victory over Great Lakes last Saturday, 55-51. Now, a new’ and formidable club becomes the opposition for Clem Crowe’s lads as they make the jaunt to Louisville tomorrow to take on one of America’s leading quintets, the Kentucky Wildcats.
The eleventh meeting of the two teams, a series that began back in 1928, finds both clubs ranking high on a nation-wide basis. Adolph Rupp’s Kentuckians have won three games in this series while the Irish have tucked away seven contests. But Notre Dame has gone hungry in its last two encounters with the boys from the Blue Grass state, losing by a 60-55 score in 1943 and then missing the nod by a 55-54 count last winter.
This will be the thirteenth game of the current season for each club, Notre Dame having nine and three while Kentucky holds to an eleven and one record, incurring their first loss last Saturday in the way of a heartbreaking upset to Tennessee, 35-34.
Louisville’s Armory wall again be filled to capacity to see two teams that have provided thrillers year after year. Both risk prestige but likewise in the balance hang’s one of country’s top spots for the victor.
N.D. Books Pitt for Grid Contest There Oct. 20
Head Coach Ed McKeever announced this week that Notre Dame has signed to play Pittsburgh again this fall, Oct. 20, at the Steel City.
This one-year contract thus makes it three years in succession that the Irish have been the guests of Pittsburgh. Making their initial appearances of the 1943 and ’44 seasons at Pittsburgh, the Irish gained 41-0 and 58-0 victories respectively, to go on and win the National championship in the former year.
In the all-time series of 13 games that began back in 1909, the Blue and Gold have copped the laurels seven times, Pitt has come out on top five times with one tie resulting.
13
Handymen in Final Prep Tomorrow for Feb. 3
BY JACK McGRANE [ "Scholastic" Sports Writer
In preparation for the first meet of the indoor track season with Marquette and Western Michigan, February 3, Coach Elvin Handy conducted intrasquad trials last Saturday. These events were preliminary, however, and the finals will be held tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 p. m. in the fieldhouse with the public invited.
This year’s squad, though younger and less experienced than previous teams, is well-balanced and ambitious to make a record worthy of its predecessors. Six returning monogram winners and several other members of the 1944 squad form the.backbone around which “Doc” Handy will mold this year. George Sullivan and Joe Kelly veteran shot-putters, joined by “Scotty” Scott, a freshman, appear to be a sure one-two-three in every meet.
Dave Murphy and Fred Jones, mainstays of last season’s crack mile relay quartet, are back again stronger than ever. Bill Tully, a half-miler, promises to be one of the best in this section. Lending strength to Notre Dame’s thin-lies are Vince Laurita, O’Neil and Lindahl. In the distances, Ken Muening should prove outstanding.
The results of the preliminary trials last Saturday were:
60-yd. dash—LeBrau, Brennan, La-Boute, Caplan.
60-yd. Io hur—O’Neil, Entrikin, Hos-bein, Laurita, Lindahl.
60-yd. hi hur—O’Neill, Walsh, Entrikin, McConville, Lindahl.
1-mile—Tully, Clark, Nisi, Daniel, Mahoney, Spillane.
880-yd—Tully, Slovack, McCarthy, Colver.
440 yd—Jones, Provost, Murphy.
220 yd—Jones, Provost, Schreiner, Re-kophf, Todd.
2-mile—Muening, Proshe, Donnelly.
Hi Jump—Hull, Majors, Struble.
Br Jump—Duarte, Struble, Majors.
Shot-Put—Sullivan, Kelly, Scott.
Pole-Vt—Struble, Brennan.
“Even when she praises me, she bores me,” said a man when talking of his mother-in-law.—Bits Out Of Life
ntroducin
BY JACK MILES
A transfer student from Georgetown University, Bill^ has stepped right into a starting spot on the Irish court squad. A wonderful ball-handler, he is also a fine set shot.
Bill was born in New York City, and when he reached high school age, went
BILL HASSETT
4 to LaSalle Military Academy. There he earned four letters each in baseball and basketball. In spite of the fact that both his brothers had been basketball captains at Manhattan college, Bill broke the tradition and went to Georgetown in 1941. After two years there, he quit school for a year, then transferred to Notre Dame. A second semester sophomore, he plans to major in History.
His favorite orchestra, he says, is “anyone but Sammy Kaye.” Reducing this vast field to a single band, he chose Vaughn Monroe as King of Music. Like Gilhooley, he likes steak, rates Bing . Crosby tops in the entertainment field, and would like to play big-time baseball. One of his brothers, called Buddy, was quite successful with the Yankees a few years back, if you will remember. This , brother, by the way, is Billy’s sports idol. His most enjoyable pastime is kidding John McHale and the aforementioned Gilhooley about everything in general. His biggest thrill — one which sent chills up and down his spine — was being introduced to the home town crowd in the NCAA finals at Madison
Civies Enter Playoffs
In Basket Tournament
BY JACK MILES "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Interhall basketball ceased operations last Monday night, except for those teams which will enter* the double elimination tourney to determine the campus championship (civilian version).
The Characters secured the Tuesday section championship by trampling the Raiders, 48-35. Larson and McNally each racked up 12 points for the champs.
Wednesday’s action decided no titles, the Falcons decisioning the Harps, 36-32, and the Joyboys winning a forfeited match from the Termites.
The Tigers grabbed the Thursday night diadem with a 30-20 victory over the previously unbeaten Mustangs. Bockheim personally accounted for 12 of those 30 points. In what was to have been the finale, the Carrol Blues forfeited to the Zahm Blues.
Five lads representing N. D. T. C. showed their vast superiority over the rest of the Friday entrants in trouncing the Commandoes, 80 - 34. Kronbach notched 29 tallies and Harman followed close behind with 27. The Raiders snatched an easy 46-10 decision from the Joyboys to wind up the night’s proceedings.
The Monday crown hung in the balance as the Rocketts and the La Raza club took the floor. The Rocketts tipped the balance in their favor, however, with a score of 59-37. Cisczon walked off with high-scoring laurels as a result of his 25 points, while for the losers the brilliant Rolando Duarte sank ten baskets and a free throw. In the anticlimactic final, the Zahm Golds eased by the Lawyers, 49-43.
The final standings for qualification in the play-off:
Monday section	Wednesday section
		Sarin		3	0
Rocketts	4	0	Dead Eyes	2	1
La Raza	2 .	2	Falcons	1	2
Lawyers	2	2	Harps	0	3
Zahm Golds	2	2	Thursday section		
			Tigers	3	0
Shamrocks	1	3	Mustangs	2	1
			Palookas	1	2
Tuesday section			Zahm Green	0	3
Characters	3	0	Friday section		
Raiders	2	1	N. D. T. C.	3	0
			Zahm Blues	2	1
Joyhoys	1	2	Commandoes	1	2
Termites	0	3	Carroll	0.	3
Square Garden in his sophomore year at Georgetown.
His experience has been invaluable in the molding of a fine quintet here under the Golden Dome. He is welcome as long as he wants to stay here, and I believe we speak for the whole student body.
U
Irish, Trailing at Half Time, Come Back to Sink "The Lakes," 55-51, and Even Things Up
BY JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Striking back with the indomitable spirit for which they are famous, Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish roared from a six point disadvantage to even the season’s and all-time series with the Great Lakes Naval Training Center basketball five by out-scrapping and out-pointing that touted juggernaut, 55-51 before a frenzied, near-capacity gallery in Chicago’s huge Stadium last Saturday night. The game, played as the second part of a dual-billing which also featured De Paul’s 45-41 win over Hamline, marked the Sailors’ first setback in 18 tilts, avenged Notre Dame’s earlier 58-59 loss to the Gobs, and sent Clem Crowe’s lads away with a record of nine wins in 12 outings.	-
The rangy seamen, whose accurate passing game is said to be the finest developed in recent years, initiated the rapid scoring as big Walt Budko found the hoop foi’ a close-in bucket. Johnnie Dee, who feinted and raced beautifully all evening, countered for the Irish and things were under way. It was give-and-take all the way to the midway mark, neither team leading by more than four points at any stage. Dee was the chief howitzer for the winners, driving home 16 up to this time as Warren Ajax and Mickey McGuire divided honors for “the
Photo by Jim Ferstel
Frank H. Gilhooley going up for a shot in last Saturday's Great Lakes-Notre Dame encounter in the Stadium which the Irish won, 55-51.
Lakes” with eight digits each as Great Lakes led, 31-30.
Then Came the Storm
Chief Specialist Forrest Anderson’s Bluejackets caged the first five points in the final period with Ajax contributing a fielder and a charity pitch added to Randie Clark’s two pointer. Vince Bory-la shortened the gap with a push-in and George Ratterman followed with another to edge the collegians to within two of the Sailors’ total, 34-36. Ajax, who hit six free tosses in seven attempts,’ dropped in his last two. Then the deluge came.
Dee and Ratterman slipped in close for four points to be followed by Boryla’s netter from outside. “Bullets” repeated this seconds later and then dropped in a sensational third consecutive long heave. These proved to be the turning point of the contest and gave N.D. a 44-39 margin which it never relinquished. Clark and McGuire kept banging away, however, and together with sub Jim Ove, enacted a thrilling though futile finale that had the mammoth gathering in an uproar.
Laurels are difficult toward any indi- vidual N.D. player. All performed well. Little Johnnie Dee approached the stadium scoring mark with ten field goals
and three gratuity efforts and George Ratterman, one of the two non-civilians on the squad, ranked second with an aggregate of 14. Special note is due “Big Chief” Boryla who not only hit dead center for 13 but, in addition, limited the lankier and more experienced Budko to a single fielder after the latter had opened scoring with his only other swisher. Bill Hassett, although he notched only three points, anchored the defense and once more proved his brilliant ability as a playmaker. Frank Gilhooley and Paul Gordon, the others who saw considerable action, also were instrumental in thwarting the Sailors.
As in the first engagement between the rival clubs, Mickey McGuire was the big gun for the GLNTC with 16 counters. Ajax and Clark trailed with 14 and ten respectively.
V-12 Basket Tourney
About Ready for Finals
By Monday night, three winners will have emerged from the V-12 basketball round-robin tournament. Walsh, Dillon and Alumni halls will all have proclaimed a company winner.
In Dillon, where companies A, B, C, D, E, and F reside, the competition is still going on with companies E and F looming as the potentates of the barracks. In Alumni, the four team competition of companies G, H, I, and J have resulted in J and I still very much in the running for the hall crown.
Walsh has sent company 2, of its four units, through the • competition without defeat and they have already cinched the RO laurels. Scoring an average of 45 points per game while holding the opposition to a mere 26 point average, the sailors from Walsh have the highest scoring average in the tourney. -
Playoffs will begin next Tuesday with games scheduled for 1515 (5:15) on the Rockne courts. Each of the three winners will play each of the other teams twice, thus causing each team to play four games. The period of play will extend over a half dozen days. The winner will come from the club who wins the most of its respective four games and will play the civilian champion.
Gurion fo Address Group
Sunday, Jan. 28, Professor Waldemar Gurian will deliver a talk to the members of La Raza club.
Dr. Gurian, professor of politics at the University and editor of the Review of Politics, will talk on some of the aspects of Russia’s foreign policy and will discuss Russia’s efforts toward the formation of spheres of influence in Europe.
15
AIR WAVES
ARCHIE SPEAKING
“Duffy’s Tavern” rides the air waves tonight with Ed Gardner and Eddie Green. Listen in for the craziest show on the air at 7:30.
“WALTZ TIME"
Is on at 8:00 with Frank Munn, radio’s most popular tenor and Evelyn MacGregor. Background is furnished by the Amsterdam Chorus and Abe Lyman’s orchestra.
TIBBETT AND EDWARDS
Radio’s newest duo bring listeners the top songs of the week on the broadcast of “Your Hit Parade” Saturday at 8:45. Mark Warnow conducts the orchestra and Lynn Murray directs the “Hit Pa-raders” chorus.
STATIC
The “Unhappy Postman” on the “George Burns and Gracie Allen Program” reported that it was his wife’s birthday. “I’m going to the store to send some china to my wife,” he explained. Then added sadly, “I wish there were a store that would send my wife to China.”
❖
JACK BENNY SHOW
Sunday night at 6:00, Jack Benny reigns, with the help of Mary Livingston, Rochester, Phil Harris, and his orchestra and Larry Stevens and Don Wilson.
❖
TWO COFFEE GRINDS
Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy and other dummies are on at 7:00 Sunday with Don Ameche, Joan Merril, and Ray Noble and his orchestra.
❖
THE FIRESTONE TELEPHONE
Beginning at 7:30 with the “Voice of Firestone” and continuing until 8:30
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS
• E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
with “The Telephone Hour,” we have one full hour of some of the air wave’s finest music for Monday night.
CLASHMORE MIKE—TAKE NOTE
Arthur Treacher told Jack Carson that Jack’s St. Bernard dog was chasing street-cars all over town.
“Don’t worry about it,” soothed Jack, “All dogs chase street cars.”
“Yes,” agreed Treacher, “but they don’t all bring the cars home with them!”
COMEDY
Those two favorite clowns of the screen and radio, Fibber McGee and Molly are on at 8:30 Tuesday with their usual quota of gags. Between the fun there are “The Kings Men” and Billy Mills orchestra.
MORE COMEDY
The ail- waves outstanding program and the favorite of 30,000,000 radio listeners is on at 9:00. Bob Hope with comedians Jerry Colonna and Vera Vague, songstress Frances Langford, and Skinnay Ennis’ orchestra provide what you know is an interesting half hour.
BRUGGNER'S NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington St. "In the I. M. S. Building"
for those you want to remember: MOTHER, DAD, SISTER, BROTHER ... and that girl you sort of go for.
CORNER HOUSE RESTAURANT
Main at Colfax, Telephone 3-0956
JUST OPENED for your EATING PLEASURE
Plan to dine at our brand new establishment. You'll be amazed at the fine food and the quick service. Come in today!
QaaiiiaaaiaiaaaaiiitiiuiaiiaiaaaiiiHaaaiiiiiaiiaaiiiiaaaiiiiaiaiiinuiaaiiaQ
I	Remember	]
i	Your Date	1
|	for
I CAMPUS DANCES J
:	Let us help	:
:	you in making a	:
:	wise selection.	:
| WILLIAMS |
:	West of the Oliver Hotel =
|	PHONE 3-5149	|
f*laa»itiiiiiaaaaaaaiaiiiiiiiiaaaaiaiaiuiiiiaaiaiaiiiniittaaiitiiiiiataaitiitifg]
16
>14NT£DS
_g FRO/A THE
■fcPRCSS BOX
By GEORGE KRAUSER
When Billy Hassett, Notre Dame’s All-American guard candidate, dropped in 22 points against the Marquette Hilltoppers in their recent meeting at Notre Dame, he broke the scoring record for Irish guards. Previous to Billy’s performance the best scoring effort turned in by a guard was made when Bob Rensberger of the 1942-43 squad netted 10 baskets for 20 markers against NYU in Madison Square Garden in 1943.
The Irish broke another previous high when they sent 79 points through the netting against Marquette. Besides this, they also set new scoring marks when they scored 91 points against Loras; 58 against Great Lakes and 89 against Kellogg Field.
This year’s edition of the Fighting Irish basketball team is the highest scoring quintet in Notre Dame’s history. In 12 games, Coach Clem Crowe’s team has poured 744 points through the nets, an average of 62 points a game. The 1942-43 team, which established a new season’s scoring record with 1,071 points, had a total of 563 points after 11 games, which was 126 points less than this year’s five. The 1908 team scored 1,095 points in 29 games played, but the record is not officially recognized because of several of the scores not being verified.
Please give us 3 days’ notice
When you're going formal.
You will find the solution to your tuxedo problem for the dance at Parker-Winterrowd’s.
FORMAL ATTIRE FOR RENT
Tuxedo, Shirt and Tie.........$6.50
Tails, Shirt and Tie....I.....$7.50
Vince Boryla continues to set the pace in Irish scoring with 189 points which is an average of almost 16 markers per game. Close on his heels is Johnny Dee with 155 tallies and a 13 point-a-game average. In the No. 3 position is George Ratterman who has counted 116 times in his twelve appearances.
For the swimming enthusiasts an interesting sidelight comes from Coffeyville, Kansas, where Billy O’Connell, 17, swam a distance of 22 miles, more than the width of the English Channel at Dover, in a non-stop marathon two weeks ago. He made 1,936 consecutive laps of his high school pool in 16 hours and nine minutes, starting in the morning under the direction of his swimming coach.
Big George Mikan of De Paul continues to outdistance his rivals in the na-
Valentine Cues for Cupid . . .
JEWELED PINS BRACELETS COMPACTS LOCKETS
Come in and let us help you make a wise selection!
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
YOUR
VALENTINE
If you're looking for "just the right gift" for her this Valentine's Day, George Wyman & Company has the right answer. ■ You'll find many lovely gifts to choose from ... or, if you want help in suggestions, call on Joan Navarre, Wyman's Personal Shopper. She will be glad to shop for you.
Here are a few Valentine gift suggestions:
Woodhue perfume and
cologne ensembles ....$2.50* ’
Ziegfield plastic compacts __________________$1.95*
All wool skating socks_____$1.25
Rayon crepe floral head scarf ___________________$5
* plus tax
Call 3-5101 and ask for Joan Navarre ... or, in the store, ask for her at any counter.
PAKrEK-WINTEKKCWC
South Bend's Oldest Established Tailors
115%-117% N. MAIN - UPSTAIRS	SOUTH BEND, IND.
PHONE 3-6318 FOR APPOINTMENTS
WYMAN'S
17
tion’s scoring race. In 13 contests this year he has tallied 290 points, that is over 22 a game, and has brought his two and one-half year total to 1,047.
When the Irish meet the Wildcats of Kentucky in Louisville tomorrow night they will be going up against a team that is fresh from its first defeat of the season. Last Saturday, Tennessee took the Wildcats’ measure, 35-34, and Kentucky proved far less efficient than they were before the loss of their star center to the Army.
Hall Situation Explained
According to an official announcement by Miss Anne Stroyna, acting director of students’ accounts, six residence halls will be occupied by civilian students next semester.
Freshmen will be housed in Zahm and Breen - Phillips; sophomores in Cavanaugh and the first floor of Alumni; juniors in St. Edward’s, and seniors in Sorin. Ex-servicemen will be given rooms in both St. Edward’s and Sorin.
Contrary to rumor, no navy students will he in Alumni hall. The second and third floors, will not be open, but will be closed for renovation.
V-12 and NROTC students will be housed in Dillon and Walsh, and the V-7 midshipmen will continue to occupy Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, and Badin.
LEAHY CHATS WITH "SCHOLASTIC" (Continued from page 7) but since it featured offensive plays, Bertelli was in and out of the picture constantly. Modest Bertelli refused the invitation, but he did comply by answering all the questions that were thrown at him after the showing.
Leahy said that after speaking with a number of chaplains in this area, their
reports come out with excellent remarks as to the conduct of Notre Dame men in and out of battle.
Praises Present Coaches
When asked about last season, Leahy had only praise for the University’s coaching staff. He remarked, “Ed McKeever did an incredible job. Winning eight out of ten games was amazing to me in view of existing circumstances.”
Lieut Leahy remarked that he had heard every play of the Army game and was proud of the way the boys continued to fight, even until the final gun. When asked to compare the Army of ’44 with the Irish of ’43, he explained that Army will go down as one of the greatest foot-
Appropriate GIFTS for VALENTINE'S DAY February 14th
ball squads of all time, but that naturally, he was prejudiced toward his own squad of ’43.
He plans to return to Notre Dame after the war, “for a long time,” he said.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3*1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-620 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS 4O6-4OS TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
7	Specialising in the ex-	J
Y	amination of the eyes.	Z
? Dr. E J. Cain Z
? OPTOMETRIST $
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
"T" SHIRTS
(Monogram and Plain)
v Prompt Lens or Frame Repair A Y service in our own laboratory. 6
Z 212 S. Michigan St. &
S Phone 44251 t
18 .
THE HUDDLE
Swedish Invasion Begins;
No Track Competition
After severing bonds of incidental restrictions and clearing channels, spokesmen for the Amateur Athletic Union have finally confirmed the impending arrival of two of Sweden’s most successful speed merchants, Gunder Haag and Haakon Lidman to compete on board and cinder ovals throughout the United States.
Publicized as a test of relative international merits, the importation actually stems from an anxiety on the part of the A.A.U. to resurrect what now appears as a very unsensational indoor track season, conspicuous for the dearth of competition of even representative caliber.
Long outstanding in Olympic track and field competition, the United States now finds itself devoid of the type of talent that makes for record-smashing, with little hope of a great post-war upsurge that will insure the return of lost prestige. Since the early 1920’s, American sprinters and marathon runners have held an inexorable monopoly over every world mark in the record books.
The decade from 1925 to 1935 became a golden epoch which saw virtually every existing competitive distance negotiated in sub-record time by such Yankee, .standouts as Paddock, Wykoff, Peacock, Metcalf and Owens in the sprints; Borican, Eastman, Elroy Robinson, Woodruff, and Burrows in the middle distances and Cunningham, Lash, and Fenske in the extra-furlong grinds. After the late thirties, a decline began which was interrupted only by the work of Greg Rice, Grover Klemmer, Hal Davis and Cornelius Warmerdam, who toyed with long-standing records and accomplished marks which might have been better had not la guerre interrupted their practice sessions.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
Since then, Anderson and Haag, a fireman and a school teacher from Sweden have purloined every mark above 1,000 yards from the American archives including the coveted mile and two mile marks and have placed the track superiority of the U. S. in serious jeopardy.
The arrival of Haag and Lidman will probably prove little more than the display of weaknesses among our collegiate and amateur competitors. Whereas previous invaders like Nurmi, Maki, Britt, and Wooderson have found American competition a little too swift for their liking; it is hardly likely that milers the likes of the 4:15 Hume brothers will trouble Haag or that the hurdlers’ ranks, minus the “big four” of Woolcott, Wright, Hlad, and Dugger will step over the high sticks far ahead of Lidman. Only the return of Gil Dodds to active competition could attach real significance to the Swedish invasion.
The sole hope for the maintenance of the clock-defying traditions of American track seems to lie in the hope that
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Phone 4-1481
Business and foetal success depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained graduates examine your hair and scalp ...treat the real cause of receding hair'ine. Free examination, treatments
HARPER METHOD MEH’S SHOP
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
young runners like Claude Young, Charlie Parker, Ollie Hunter, Virgil Alston, and Frank Dixon will return after the war still able to fulfill the great expectations of which a long period of inactivity may, or may riot, deprive them.
—Gene Diamond
Traditionally .
The place where Notre Dame men meet
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations

601 I.NILES
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display. .
Use our lay-away plan.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
SOUThmsehorE
19
Chesterfield
Here you sit
and in I walk and say


And that’s a mighty happy picture. Chesterfields never fail to fit in with your plans ... to add to your pleasure.
Chesterfield’s exceptional Mildness, Better Taste and Coolness are built ou the only foundation you cau depend ou iu a cigarette ...
RIGHT COMBINATION * WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Mteks Tobacco Co.