LETTERS
PAGING J. A. O'CONNOR!
Dear Editor:
I don’t know who the person was who wrote the letter concerning the Vets’ Club funds in the last issue, but I consider it to be an interesting item under consideration. Since the associate editor, Mr. John A. O’Connor, was also the treasurer in the spring of ’47, I consider the situation ideal for a financial report to be published in the Scholastic for the satisfaction of all the interested members. There were approximately 3800 vets in the school last semester, and if half of them belonged to the Vets’ Club, that would come to about $1900, not counting the many non-vets in the club. True, we had a smoker and a beer party, but usually this didn’t entail so much money in expenses. If this item isn’t taken care of, I think that the editor will find his desk heaped with correspondence from other members interested in the organization.
Calvin J. Benning Cavanaugh Hall
Dear Editor:
At the risk of having this letter referred to as “whining, weasel-worded,” I humbly inquire: What happened to the money in the Vets’ Club fund?
It is Treasurer O’Connor’s duty to answer that, and it is Editor O’Connor’s duty to print it if it is a good story.
Concerning last week’s exchange of letters on the subject, I would like to know why you printed the letter by “ExMember,” if it is your policy not to print anonymous letters; it is probably unkind to think that it was printed merely to give Editor O’Connor" an opportunity to hurl withering blasts of adjectives (among them, “whining” and “weasel-worded” about the letter which, oddly enough, was neither whining nor weasel-worded). It it true that there was no reason why “Ex-Member” should not sign his name, but isn’t it likewise true that there was no reason why he should?
Frankly, I am not especially interested in what happened to the money, but I am always eager to hear a good story. So, let’s hear it, Mr. O’Connor; it is now, I think, your move.
Bob Layden
For only one reason did Scholastic print “Ex-Member’s” letter, Mr. O’Connor’s reply and this week’s correspondence on the subject — to bring to the open, as Mr. Layden expresses it, “a good story.”—Editor.
THE "PHENOMENAL" SCHOLASTIC
Dear Editor:
After three years of the Scholastic in my humble life, I am convinced that you should burn each copy as it comes off the press.
From last week’s issue, I culled the pregnant fact that the staff disliked ankle-length dresses—nothing else, just that.
This may astound you, but a weekly cannot print news! Your existence is phenomenal.
J. Sullivan
Scholastic, with the humility befitting the “leading college nezvsmagazine,” never considered itself “phenomenal.” But thanks, anyzvay.—Editor.
Arrow Shorts\
$1 to $1.50
There's not a squirm in a carload of Arrow shorts with the patented seamless crotch that can’t bind, can’t chafe.
Arrow gives you four different models to choose from —elastic side, adjustable tie-side, elastic all around and French back—in white or stripes.
See your Arrow dealer for Arrow shorts. Every pair is Sanforized-labeled (Can’t shrink more than 1%), and comes with grippers or buttons. SI to §1.50.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
---—- _ ——----- . ■ ■—
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
BARRACKS-LIKE BROWNSON
Dear Editor:
“An old barracks-like hall now occupied by offices.” Surely this is straying too far in referring to a former home of many students and alumni. Brownson will be remembered as “The Cradle of the Great” long after you stop collecting social security. .
Sincerely,
Eamon D. MacDevitt
Let Mr. MacDevitt be rocked in the “cradle of the great.” No offense to Brozzmson, Notre Dame’s great leveller, zvas meant; barracks-like still applies. Scholastic’s Featzire Editor long ago ceased collecting Social Security.
(Continued on Page 26)
... make your sittingroom comfortable
3
nttn



PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!



PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
s MP MOURIS
TRY A PACK. ••TODAY
TOP OF THE WEEK
“Just tell your mother that I’m a Notre Dame man, honey.”
PASS THE BISCUITS, MIRANDY
President Truman looked into the national cupboard this week and found nothing but an old box of K-rations. Europe was in worse shape. Across the pond, a dining hall meal would have brought cheers from the starving millions instead of the. customary tears usually provoked at 7, 2, and 5. Last Sunday night the President appealed to the nation to start a drastic voluntary food conservation program. The Truman plan listed three main points:
1. The government will call on the distilling industry to declare at once a 6-day emergency shutdown.
stick lassies have weekend dates in Chicago . . . The fems are lucky, though; ole “Mas” has several big advantages over other girls’ schools. The big advantage, of course, is ourselves. Might just as well give them the second choice . . . With the first home football game coming along everyone is excited. The freshmen are memorizing the players’ numbers, the sophomores are memorizing the players’ numbers, the seniors are memorizing phone numbers.
A CHANGE OF HEART
From the deep dungeons of the philosophy department comes startling news. Rufus Witherbrain, the logician who can prove by reason alone that the
Grand Canyon is an unreplaced golfer’s divot, has further proof that he is a man among beings. Said he: “I have established beyond a shadow of a doubt that the heart is not the center of love; the center of love is definitely in the cerebral spinal nervous system.” Zounds! Think of getting a valentine from your one-and-only with a cerebral spinal nervous system on the cover. The popular song companies might just as well close their doors. How would Frank Sinatra or Eddy Howard sound singing, “ . . . it’s your cerebral spinal nervous system, cerebral spinal nervous system” instead of “ . . . it’s love, love, love.” Witherbrain told us we couldn’t print this news unless we published his latest poem. His “summa” follows:
“You’re my substantial form, My prime matter too.
You’re my accidents; They inhere in you. You’re my essence, my existence, My reality;
My idea of perfect substantiality.”
To Aristotle, St. Thomas and Edgar A. Guest, “The Week” apologizes.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
“I did-------!!!”
2.	All citizens were asked to save a
slice of bread a day.
3.	The nation was asked to observe meatless Tuesdays and poultryless Thursdays.
What effect will the new program have upon campus mid-sections, was the question ringing in everyone’s ears.
The “holiday” in the distilling industry should have about as much importance here as the death of a fish in the Atlantic ocean. The other points, however, will no doubt force oui‘ pork chops, beef cuts, and ham out of circulation. Already, “Ziggy” has built a steel cage around the bread basket. You have to show your identification card and be able to prove your age to get a slice of day-old bread. The last time we saw Mr. Ford he was singing, “ ... to market, to market to buy more beans; home again, home again to make the boys scream.” What with meatless Tuesdays, eggless Thursdays, and fish (less) Fridays fellow inmates will soon be moaning, “Praise the Lord, I’m getting malnutrition.” There is a little consolation, though. In another two weeks the coffee will be strong enough to sing the “Victory March.”
OVER THERE, OVER THERE
St. Mary’s girls are getting ready for the first Victory dance. Most of the lip-
“Boy! Do these kids make my life miserable if I forget the Dentyne Chewing Gum! I can’t blame the little shavers, though. I’m as keen as they are on that refreshing, long-lasting flavor. And Dentyne helps keep their teeth white, too.
Dentyne Gum—Made Only by Adams
“If I don’t bring home Dentyne Chewing Gum they attack!”

5
Scmho^^ Seat
by WdcM
There was an old man with a beard, Who said, “It is just as I feared.”
—Old Rhyme
Last week’s rag had a long harangue in which the Scholastic examined America’s latest eighth wonder, the New Look. Comes now the announcement that those old noseys, the G-men, profess to see something amiss in said Look. Could it be, muse the G-men, that there has been a conspiracy to foist the Look on the lady? Forsooth, could it be indeed? Methinks it could. What’s more, methinks it is. The clothing designers and manufacturers have never been renowned for their reticence in plumping for a new style. In other words, ladies, replace your wardrobe with the New Look or dress in a form-fitting barrel. And the cost? Three guesses. To New Looker Dior, designers, myriad retailers, sundry females attired in the Look, Vogue, Mademoiselle, and other insidious propaganda organs, a one-way ticket to Bhutan.
NEITHER SEEN NOR HEARD DEP T.
One of the best, and most daring magazine articles in a long time was Marion Hargrove’s “Farewell t o Margaret O’Brien” in the September “47,” The writer risked mayhem or murder at the hands of millions of matrons by stepping forth and baiting that darling of the screen, the child movie star. He seemed particularly piqued by the sweet, simpering, brogueish girlette who wins, after many trials, the heart of the crusty old codger. This mincing moppet has been due for a dusting for lo, these many years. From Mitzy Green to Margaret O’Brien it has been the same story. Doesn’t the M-G-M lion ever get hungry?
Speaking of female children, the “new” tabloid Chicago Sun got off on the wrong press when it began a series of articles on a new baby, which series, apparently, it will continue daily until the child attains her majority. Fie, Sun! There’s little enough room in a tab for legitimate news, without running a sentimental series which, if I don’t miss my guess, will alienate almost every male reader in Chicago and environs after about a week.
COMES THE MILLENIUM ...
It’s seldom that I find myself in agreement with journalism’s enfant terrible, Westbrook Pegler. But occasionally he comes up with something I wish I’d written with my own little Royal. He did that last week, when he wrote an article about the phony New York-Holly-
Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
NO PIN UPS
Pins are a topic of current conversation (see Scholastic of last week on the L.B.K. Club) but the ones that hold our interest aren’t Mabel’s, they are maples. We refer to the proposed InterClub Bowling League. A few letters chanced our way, disturbing the spiders which tenant our mail box, displaying interest in the bowling league. On the strength of these letters a meeting will be held, Tuesday, Oct. 14, in Room 104 of the Law Building. Time 7:30 p. m. One representative from each club interested in the league should be present. The league is still a tentative proposition. A good turnout will further the league’s progress immeasurably. Notices will appear on all bulletin boards in case conditions necessitate a change in the meeting plans.
PHILLIES FIRST
Not to be confused with the Athletics, the Philadelphia Club was the first to appoint a representative to the InterClub Bowling League meeting. Other activities on the club docket, President Art Coughlan informs us, are—Universal Notre Dame Night—representation in the Bengal Bouts—basketball—and a Communion breakfast. The Philadelphia Club is open to all students living within a 75 mile radius of the city.
The Camel Riders, sometimes known as the Syrian-Lebanese Club, elected officers for the new semester. Richard Abowd came off with top honors, grabbing the presidency. Faris Monsour is the new vice-president. Ted Mansour is slinging the ink; and the key to the
wood-Miami society, which numbers, among other characters, assorted leading lights in the movie industry and the underworld. While I can’t subscribe to all of Mr. Pegler’s conclusions, it’s a fact that what that particular set needs is a good tidal wave. Something ails a society in which the biggest wigs are ■ touts, thugs, hatchet men, racketeers, and adulterous screen “idols.” Some of these screen actors and actresses re-
(Continued on Page 26)
coffer was given to Fred George. All Notre Dame men of Syrian or Lebanese descent are invited to join this club.
SMOKE	*
The Met Club held its version of the “tea dance” at American Legion Post No. 50 in South Bend last Friday. The soiree was billed as the Met Club Smoker, a warm-up for things to come in a new, fast-moving Met Club.
There was smoke at the last meeting of the St. Louis Club. This emanated from a hotly contested election. The title of “chief smoke eater” went to Bob Concannon, president. Tom Dooley is his assistant. All future smoke will be recorded by Al Motzel. Any excess smoke will be kept in the treasury by Ward Driscoll. The club will hold meetings every other Monday night. Main topic for the next meeting will be the annual Christmas dance. Harry O’Connell informs us of all St. Louis Club doings.
"VAS YOU EFFER"
Bob Alfers, our Cincinnati Club reporter, gave us the dope on the “Cincy” election. Officers for the coming year are, Jack Cronin, president; Jack Sanders, vice president; Jack Favret, treasurer; and Bob Alfers—breaking up four-of-a kind—won the secretary’s post.
Bengal Bout Champ, Jim Sullivan, sends us the Boston Club news. There were 41 members present at the first meeting. Elections brought only one new face to light. Raymond Chamberland became the new secretary. George Sullivan held on to the .presidency, Arthur F. Brady to the vice presidency, and James Gorman was re-elected treasurer. A Christmas dance will be the big event of the year. Mass will be offered on the morning of the Army game for Boston alumni and friends. A bowling team, and a club party, will fill out the year.
We have it on rumor that the Chicago Club is in for a new deal under Tippy O’Neill. Shades of Kelly-Nash?
Cy Trotter, Paul Costello, Jack Murphy, and Tino Sierra are forming a Florida Club.
(Continued on Page 22)
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867 iiiiiimitaimiimaitiiinttimHitiiiiimiiiiimmiiaiiiiiiiaanauiiiMiiiiiimiitimaiimaaaBiaamtiuatiaaiitti
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER  Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN  Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK ______________________ Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL  Photographic	Editor
DONALD BIRREN  Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN _____________________________  Art	Editor
ROBERT KOPF _____________ Circulation
JOHN CLARK  Circulation M. E. VARGA__________________________ Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN  Faculty Moderator
Cover by Jim Ferstel
Regis College art layout by E. A. Cordesman
uiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiiiimiiiiiuimiimiiiiiimiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiti
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Meet the Editor
From his position as associate editor, Edward J. Snyder, of Warren, Ohio, cracks the whip that sends reporters scurrying to their assignments, and broods over the compositors in their task of setting up the magazine. A
tireless worker, Ed rides herd on the entire staff, supplying that great big jab of benzedrine that keeps the publication on the peppy side.
Ed is only a sophomore, but he’s had four years of professional newspaper experience. This past summer he worked on the copy desk of the Detroit' Free Press. All through high school he was a reporter on the Warren Tribune-Chronicle.
Edward J. Snyder	A Navy vet> Ed edited
the Great Lakes Bulletin and later was chief of the editorial
department at Fleet Hometown News Center.
CALEHDAB
Oct. 10 JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Eleanor Steber, Metropolitan soprano, warbles for the South Bend Civic Music Ass’n. Should be a very entertaining program. This young lady never goes too long-hair, so all should find it a nice evening.
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL. School Field, John Adams vs. Plymouth. Saturday night—same place, Riley vs. Washington.
COLFAX, Wild Harvest. Alan Ladd, despite his salt-shaker stature, proceeds to beat the livin’ tar out of a dozen hulking extras while Dorothy Lamour squeals with joy. Robert Preston does his usual good job.
Oct. 11 NOTRE DAME vs. PURDUE. We can pass over that Pitt scare by assuming the Panthers had too much anthracite dust in their eyes to read our advance notices. Surely the Boilermakers won’t attempt to refute the pre-season predictions. Or will they? Nice question.
Oct. 12 RIVER PARK, Pursued, with Robert Mitchum and Teresa Wright. This is a nifty thriller, and when you consider the Bugs Bunny cartoon it looks like a good deal.
GRANADA, Copacabana. Groucho Marx clowns through this one with a background of lavishly costumed, heavily rouged Copa girls. The second feature is titled Born to Kill. The producer is marked euthanasia fodder.
Oct. 13 FOUNDER’S DAY. No classes. Yipee!
Oct. 14 STATION WHOT, Notre Dame’s own radio show, Campus Carnival. One-half hour variety program starting at 8:30 p. m. Chuck Perrin is the program director. You’ll hear fellow Notre Darners on the air.
Oct. 16 COLFAX, Song of Love, with Kate Hepburn, Paul Henreid, Robert Walker. The life of Schumann, with plenty of music thrown in.
PALACE, Love and Learn, with Jack Carson. Second feature, Desperate. You have to be, to see this one.
STATE, The Hucksters, plus Brasher Doubloon. Clark Gable has made two pictures since returning from the Eighth Air Force. Both have been disappointing. Better the aging Gable should have perished in the blitz.
IN THE FUTURE
Nov. 3 EDWARD TOMLINSON, “Democracy vs. Totalitarianism”; Central High Sckocl Auditorium, 8 p. m.
Nov. 11 QUINCY HOWE, “Return of Power Politics”; Central High School Auditorium, 8 p. m.
Nov. 21 CHICAGO OPERA BALLET, “Page-Stone”; Central High School Auditorium, 8 p. m.
Nov. 24 NORMAN THOMAS, “The Price of Lasting Peace”; Central High School Auditorium, 8 p. m.
7
fyuMn Ute	,
The Tarnished Silver Screen
There is more than one ghost in Washington Hall. One might say that a ghost arises every week, on Saturday, to stumble across the Washington Hall screen uttering shrieks that sound very like the gobbles of an ancient turkey. The appropriateness of showing San Quentin at Notre Dame might be bandied about by the staler wits on the campus, but the fact remains that the fare shown weekly in Washington Hall is both ancient and second-rate. But the horse we are looking in the mouth is not exactly a gift. Notre Dame students pay an entertainment fee, for which they can reasonably expect to obtain a modicum of entertainment. Nobody except the most sanguine Hollywood press agent would call San Quentin, Criminal Court, et al. entertainment.
The position of the University entertainment authorities is not without merit. By arrangement of long standing with South Bend, pictures cannot be shown at Notre Dame until Messrs. Balaban and Katz have squeezed the last full measure of devotion from South Bend’s long suffering movie fans. Notre Dame does not get a movie until it has played S.B. two or three times. To say that nothing can be done about this is to refuse to attempt to remedy a remediable situation.
There are many movies that never reach South Bend at all. Many of them, particularly fine foreign films that avoid South Bend as if it had the plague, are first rate and would make excellent programs for Washington Hall. Yet, they never reach the campus. There are a number of foreign films which would make better screen entertainment than Washington Hall has seen since its steps were new.
A Vote of Thanks
The student trip will not be a quickie; it will be as long as the individual student desires.
That piece of news, released this week by the Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c., clanked to a halt the rumor machine which for the past few weeks has been polluting the campus with talk of a so-calledJ “jet-propelled visit” to Cleveland come Nov. 1 and the Navy game.
Through the efforts of Father Barry’s Office of Student Activities two types of trip have been arranged to suit the wallet of the individual student. He can return from Cleveland Saturday night or stay until Sunday night. The difference is $4. An innovation in this year’s trip is the decreased price of tickets. Tickets to the game normally sell for $3.60, yet students are able to procure them for $1.20 thanks to the generosity of the Navy Athletic Association which freely allocated 2,500 of the 3,000 available ducats.
The trip isn’t a long one. Sufficient seats are available for all students desiring to attend the game. The Cleveland Club has planned a victory dance after the game. All in all, it shapes up as a very entertaining weekend.
However, lest it be forgotten, student trips are not hashed up overnight. This one, like last year’s and like all of those in the past, is the product of much tiring work. It is often too easy to forget the men who do the dirty work. That’s why we’re delivering a vote of thanks, here and now, to Father Barry, the Rev. Joseph Kehoe, c.s.c., The Cleveland Club and all others who are helping to turn the student trip into the kind of trip the students want.
Aunt Martha—or Miss Hollywood?
Last week some poster agency in the east announced that after this they would picture Uncle Sam’s wife, Aunt Martha, along with the traditional bearded gent on posters featuring the American cartoonist’s symbol.
But get this: Aunt Martha, or Mrs. Uncle Sam, or whatever you want to call this hypothetical biddie, is to be a composite of several Hollywood movie actresses.
The whole thing sounds like a publicity stunt, but in case it isn’t, here’s our say. Since when is Mrs. Uncle Sam the physical, moral, financial, or social composite of such a group of unrepresentative women?
If artists are looking for Mrs. Uncle Sam they can go to any American home and find any American housewife, and she will be more typical than the lot of glittering movie dames and all their make-believe charm.
Let’s leave the jaded Hollywood chorines to their kleig lights and present husbands, if they can find them.
Mrs. America can come from any Iowa farm or Flatbush tenement. She can be Irish or Danish or Slav or anything. She can be married to a mechanic or a grocery clerk or a corporation lawyer. But don’t let her be from Hollywood!
8	"
TARNISHED BY AGE
(Cartoon by Don Birren)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. •
VOL. 89. NO. 3	OCTOBER 10, 1947	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
t
Turner Wins Student Council Presidency
Legality of Election Questioned by Many
Dark-horse Larry Turner upset all the dope sheets early this week when the 27-year-old senior and grand knight of the Knights of Columbus was named to head the Student Council for the ensuing year, in a Council session marked by hectic confusion.
Bob Uhl was left as sole candidate for the position early in the meeting when John McCormick, the only other announced candidate, was ruled ineligible under the Council constitution, which requires its president to be a senior. With nominations officially closed and confusion reigning in regard to the lack of an opponent, Uhl announced that he had no desire to be the sole candidate. Turner was thereupon nominated, without, however, the formality of re-opening the nominations having been observed. The Council proceeded to put him in office by a vote of 12 to 9.
Highlight of the elections involved the generally bewildered state of the parliamentary procedure, which accounted for tumultuous conduct of the session. As an aftermath, the legality of Turner’s election has been questioned, although no formal announcement of remedial action has been forthcoming from the Council.
In the contest for Council vice-president, Ralph Thorson, 25, a Chatfield, Minnesota Biology senior, defeated Uhl by an identical margin, 12 votes to 9.
McCormick, though ineligible for president of the Council, emerged from the election as secretary. Hugh Glasheen of Belmont, Mass., a 20-year-old junior in Accounting, was named treasurer.
Chosen to the executive council, composed of a senior, junioi* and sophomore, were: Bob Uhl, Alumni Hall freshman in the College of Law; Jack Guion, 23, a junior in Business Administration from Dallas, Pa., and Howard Hall; and Maurice Mahon, 22, a pre-Law sophomore from South Bend.
Much of the presidential election tu-
DINING HALLS HIT BY MEATLESS DAY
With the United States faced with the problem of feeding Europe this winter, President Truman took to the airways Sunday evening and requested all Americans to tighten their respective belts with a voluntary rationing program which includes these points:
1)	No meat on Tuesday.
2)	No eggs or poultry on Thursday.
3)	One less slice of bread per day.
Mr. D. C. Ford, director of the University Dining Halls announced that the local beanery would operate in conformance with the President’s request.
In regard to the rationing of the bread, Ford stated than an entirely voluntary system would be followed. He emphasized that there is an approximate 50% wastage of bread in the dining halls, which a student can prove to himself by simply observing a few tables before the scraps are picked up. If the students simply take only the bread they can eat and not walk off with a half a loaf, only to eat the centers out of the top two slices, the savings at Notre Dame would more than meet the President’s request.
Aside from this latest problem, the much maligned dining hall has had its difficulties with the rising cost of living. Flour is double in price over the wartime cost. Meat has gone up 35% over June of this year. Prices and wages are up all down the line, with the result that the dining hall budget is a shambles. Student cooperation with the program of voluntary rationing will be Notre Dame’s bit in the effort to keep the wolf away from the door of Europe’s starving millions.
mult centered around the question of the status of men in the College of Law. This dispute was finally resolved in favor of Law students being considered seniors for purposes of constitutional interpretation.
3,000 Seats Available For Navy Game Trip
Plans for the student trip to the Navy game at Municipal Stadium in Cleveland were announced by the Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c., Director of Student Activities, after the Student Council decided on almost final arrangements Monday evening.
This year’s trip will give the students an option as to whether they wish to spend one or two days in Cleveland. Leaving time from Notre Dame has yet to be decided upon, but will be at either midnight Friday or six o’clock Saturday morning. Details of leaving time and food arrangements will be announced later.
Those students wishing to return to South Bend Saturday night may do so at a cost of $10.00, which includes a ticket to the game and a round trip train ticket. In order to insure procurement of a train for this one day trip 300 students must indicate a preference for it. Bulletins will be posted in all the halls, and those interested are asked to sign for it.
Those who elect to remain in Cleveland overnight and return to South Bend Sunday night may do so at a cost of $14.00. This includes no more than is granted to those staying for one day, but is necessary in compliance with the Interstate Commerce law which deniands that a special train running under a special rate must leave and return yrith-in a twenty-four hour period. In either case, the train tickets will not be ^alid on any but the trains chartered for student use. This covers those going on both the one and the two day trips. .	.
Father Barry declared that this is a student trip and as such will not cover arrangements for wives.and children of married students. There will be 3000 tickets available, 2500 of them freely alloted to Notre Dame for student use by the Navy. The additional 500 will be paid for by all who make the trip. This
(Continued on Page 25)
9
New President Plans Sophomore Cotillion
“We are doing all we can to bring the class of 1950 the best Sophomore Cotillion in the history of Notre Dame.”
With that statement Sophomore President Robert Lanz officially announced plans for the Cotillion to be held November 21, the eve of the Tulane game, at the Palais Royale in South Bend.
Committees Formed
In charge of the dance are President Lanz, Vice-President Jim Reis, Secretary Bob Lowrey, and Treasurer Jim O’Connor. They have appointed an eager committee which shares the optimism of Chairman Lanz, and, has already begun work on the affair. Committee heads are as follows: Bids, Bill Sahm; Orchestra, Verne Kelley; Football Tickets, Jim Black; Program, Harry Patterson; Refreshments, Nat Cavaluzzi; Patrons, Bud Romano; Publications, Joe Herrington; Decorations, Bob Bosler and John Ryan; Publicity, Jim Hearn; Arrangements, John Brennan and Bob Mulloy; Rooms, Jack Courtney and Tom Klug; Table Reservations, Tom Roney; and Chaperons, Steve Du Brul.
Two managers, Jim Groves and Jim Padgett, have been selected to assist the officers with details; the Rev. Joseph Barry, c.s.c., is advisor; and an alumni committee is to designate the budget which the chairmen are to follow.
Seek Elliott Lawrence
Even in the short time the committee has had following their appointment it has accomplished much. For instance, rooms in South Bend hotels have been reserved for the dates of the students, tickets for the Tulane game have been set aside, and several orchestras have been contacted to provide the music for the big event, namely, Elliott Lawrence, Claude Thornhill, Vaughn Monroe, Stan Kenton, Ray McKinley, and Randy Brooks. The chairman of the band committee expects one of these to be available for the November 21st dance.
No price has been announced as yet, but one thing is certain—students may buy a combination of bid, football ticket, and Victory Dance ducat, or may buy the bid separately. Another thing, any upper classmen may attend. The only qualifications are that he pay for the bid, bring a girl, and go to Notre Dame. If you are eligible under all three of these categories, contact one of the Sophomores on the committee and he will gladly relieve you of your money.
FOUR MINDS WITH ONE THOUGHT
New sophomore class officers, left to right: Vice President James Reis, President Bob Lanz, Secretary Bob Lowry and Treasurer Jim O'Connor talk over plans for the forthcoming Sophomore Cotillion.
Rhinitis Rides Roughshod Over Campus Leaving Sniffles, Sneezes, Coughs in its Wake
Rhinitis roamed the Notre Dame campus last week, striking without deference to precaution, and spreading sniffling misery in its wake.
“Rhinitis” is the medical term for the common head cold. With the coming of autumn’s first chill nights the head cold took up its quarters in the sinus passages of a great, even alarming portion of the Notre Dame student body.
At the University infirmary long queues awaited the coming of the physician. Then, throats swabbed and loaded down with mucous cough medicines, they returned to their rooms to snort and snuff and hope for relief.
At the bookstore drug counter, cold tablets sold like Army tickets. The shelves were gleaned of Vick’s and Men-tholatum. Lip ice for chapped lips and inhalers for clogged nasal tunnels were gobbled up like popcorn during a cowboy thriller.
Classrooms and residence halls echoed with boreal sneezes and rattling coughs. Sunday sermons had to be lofted above and power-dived through the rasps and barks of rhinitis victims.
For all the nostrums offered, Notre Dame men oft times found their own cure, or at least gave it a try. For since
science has been unable to check this scourge, many attempts have been made, but some have proved surer than others. The one favorite among students everywhere is to hit the sack right after classes end, and stay there and sweat it out.
Several agents can aid in this solution. A little brandy, or a slug of spirits helps to fire the boiler. Of course, these items are out of the question here. Grandma’s hot lemonade, in copious doses, together with aspirin, helps the system throw off the curse. Some people even swallow a gob of Vicks, but these are the more rugged ones. The general idea is to burn the germ out of you, and by swallowing as much liquid fire as you can, tanking up on all the water you can hold, and hitting the pad rolled in ample blankets, some kind of results are guaranteed. You may explode, but the cold will disappear.
Most advice on the matter sounds something like this: drink lots of liquids, most of all water, and grapefruit juice, if you can get it; get plenty of sleep; don’t get run down from too much exercise or study, and don’t stop eating just because you can’t taste anything.
If the cold persists, see your doctor. In fact, see him anyway.
10
"Action Ticket" and "The Ticket" Gird For Battle to Elect Junior Officers
By PHIL SHEA
After an apparent slow start and definite lack of knowing what it was all about, the Junior Class finally managed to get two tickets to run against each other for the coming election of class officers. However, the tardiness does not detract from the situation since a good out-and-out battle for the class offices is underway.
“The Ticket” versus the “Action Ticket” are the contestants, the former headed by Chuck Connor and the latter by Pete Brown. “The Ticket” intends to develop and stimulate some of the old-fashioned class spirit traditional at Notre Dame, while the boys on the Action party bring their extra-curricular backgrounds to the fore, in the attempt to emphasize the need for experienced men in handling class affairs.
It is the purpose of “The Ticket” to instill into the class a higher degree of interest in activities pertaining to itself since due to the war, college campus life has been disrupted to a great degree.
The boys of the Action party, on the other hand, claim the war was a catalyst in the return to normalcy in campus activities. They place Pete Brown for president, Chuck Russ for vice-president, Jim Butz for secretary, and Leo Barnhorst for treasurer.
“The Ticket” is seeking the welfare of the class and not itself, and claims its members have no axes to grind. Chuck Connor, Alumni Hall, is up for president backed by Charlie Roult, St. Edward’s, for vice-president, Jim Presley for secretary from Cavanaugh Hall and Jess Fitzpatrick of Lyons for treasurer.
The Action platform reads: A for Ac-
STUDENT ARMY TICKETS
Student tickets for the Anny game will be in the same sections as the athletic books. Each student will not receive the same seat that his athletic book calls for. but his seat will be in the same vicinity.
This move was made in order that there can be an exact accounting of the tickets used by students for the Army game. The dates that the tickets are to be picked up are printed on the inside cover of the athletic book.
tivities, C for Competence, T for Teamwork, I for Initiative, O for Over-all Ability and N for Nifty Prom. The members of this party had an active part in last year’s Cotillion and crave the privilege of putting on this year’s Prom, which they promise to be the best yet.
The inevitable retort from “The Ticket” guarantees an excellent band and a stupendous Prom such as has never been seen before.
Active campaigning started last Tuesday and the elections will be held on Wednesday October 15.
Thespians To Give Three Productions
The University Theater, under the direction of Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., has announced its plans for three productions this year.
In late November it will present Gilbert & Sullivan’s famous light opera, “The Pirates of Penzance.” This show will be under the direction of Professor Cecil E. Birder.
Then, in January the student thespians will give a revival of an old American comedy, “To the Ladies.” This early play, written by George S. Kaufman and Marc Connelly, achieved notable fame throughout the nation and
promises to be a tremendous success here at Notre Dame.
The final presentation in the University Theatre’s program this year will be an opportunity for a student production. Last year “Meet the Missus,” a play written, directed, and produced by the students, was a smash hit. This year’s play depends entirely upon the students’ ability and hard work to put out another great show. If a student play cannot be worked out by late next semester, a substitute production will be given.
—John H. Janozuski
Interhall Debates Resumed On World Government Topic
Interhall debating at Notre Dame is being revived this year, with the first intrahall elimination contests scheduled for next Friday at Farley and Breen-Phillips. Varsity debaters are ineligible, and the two members of the tournament winning team will receive Notre Dame blankets, inscribed with their names and year of graduation.
** All interested in representing their halls in the tourney are advised to contact their own hall chairman, whose name is listed on the bulletin board, along with an official announcement of the contest. Members of last year’s varsity debating team will act as judges in both the intrahall and interhall verbal battles.
The debate question, also the ’47-’48 national collegiate topic, is: “Resolved: That a Federal World Government Should Be Established.” A limited amount of reference material on the subject can be obtained from Professor Leonard Sommer, varsity debate mentor, who is acting as general chairman of the tournament.
In announcing the return of interhall argumentation battles, Professor Sommer revealed that the performance of debating candidates in these tests would aid in his selection of this season’s varsity, to succeed last year’s national championship team.—Joe Dukert.
St. Francis College Is Host to NFCCS
The feasibility of continuing all of the present regional commissions will probably highlight the discussions this Sunday at the semi-annual council meeting of the Fort Wayne Region of the NFCCS (National Federation of Catholic College Students). St. Francis. College in Fort Wayne will be host to the meeting, which will begin at 10:00 A. M. and continue until the business is finished.
In addition to the above, topics that will be discussed include: Analysis of Duties of Regional Officers, Local Unit Organization, Finances, Student Relief, • and Plans for the next Regional Congress. Although only council members may vote on the issues, regional president Mary Bishop of Nazareth College has invited anyone interested to come and take part in the discussions.
Notre Dame is represented on the Regional Council by Frank Keenan, local head of the NFCCS; Tom McCaffrey, national chairman of the Commission on Veterans’ Affairs; B. J. Bedand, regional chairman of the Commission on Catholic Action; and Tom Murray, recording secretary for the Fort Wayne Region.
After the council meeting adjourns there will be a meeting of the Regional Commission on Family Life, at which plans will be made for the coming year. Notre Dame is represented in this commission by the Rural Life Club, and all nj^pbers are invited to attend this ing.
11
Scholastic Polls Student Political Opinion
With the approach of the 1948 conventions and elections, the chaotic conditions in the U.N., tense labor-management relations, pessimism over the possibilities for a lasting peace, and a nearhysteria over rising prices and falling standards of living, the people of America have taken a new interest in politics and politicians. Debate and controversy over the policies which the United States should adopt concerning national and international problems has reached a new high. Here at Notre Dame, students, like everyone else, are wondering about a world which seems to have too many problems. They are thinking about these problems; they are arguing and discussing them. By no means are they in agreement. From the most violent unreconstructed “rebel” to the waftiest pinko, they all have their own ideas in regard to how America should meet the problems that face her domestically and abroad. In an attempt to reach a cross-section of student opinion, the Scholastic sent canvassers all over the campus to feel out opinion.
Four Questions to Answer
For its political sampling, the canvassers put four questions to the students interviewed. These questions were general, although they varied from canvasser to canvasser:
1.	What, in your opinion, is or should be the most outstanding point of American foreign policy?
2.	What do you think is or should be the most noteworthy point of our domestic policy?
3.	Whom do you want for the next President? Why?
MOCK STUDENT NATIONAL CONVENTION IN 1940 From unreconstructed rebels and wafty pinkos .. .
4.	Would you vote for a military man?
Notre Dame men were not reticent in expressing their opinions. William Halpin, who canvassed Morrissey hall, had this to say: “Cracking students’ supposed mental inertia was not the impossible task I had supposed it to be. No one threw books (dusty) at me when I posed the questions; I wasn’t laughed at, tarred and feathered, or bathed in the cool waters of St. Mary’s Lake. As a matter of fact, I was treated with the utmost affability and the respect of intellectuals about to impart profundity to the great unwashed. Everyone was eager to answer and I could have used a photographer, as many assumed hasty airs of distinction in keeping with the line of interrogation.”
H. E. Monahan, who interviewed the men of Lyons, reached the same conclusion. “Contrary to the belief that Notre Dame men live in a vacuum of unconcern on the problems and controversies which beset our nation, the men in Lyons were able not only to give clear, concise answers to the questions raised in the survey, but also proved that they could be forceful in confirming their arguments. The problems chosen as critical in foreign and domestic policies were not obscure quibbling details, but were the poignant matters now giving our top-flight diplomats some sleepless nights.”
A Strong Foreign Policy
The most unanimous agreement on the entire poll was found in answer to the first question. Obviously, the number one bear baiting our state department is RUSSIA. Many tied in the pressing
problem of European relief with the Russian question, professing to see the need for a full Europe in order to stave off the rising feeling for Communism.
Stanley Bienkowski, of 238 Lyons, echoes the general opinion. “The Marshall plan,” said Bienkowski, “is our most important foreign policy feature. We must use it in the struggle of Democracy vs. Communism. When the people are hungry they go for Communism, so we will have to keep them from starving.”
No Overnight Solution
Robert H. Karl, of Howard, was cautious. “We need a great deal of patience and understanding of foreign peoples’ ideas and temperaments. We can’t expect to solve a problem overnight which has been in the fore for so many years.”
The importance of a positive policy in Europe was stressed by Gene Vanden Boom, of Morrissey. “We should concentrate on meeting Russian economic and political aggression in Europe . . . We should take firm steps to help the right people get on their feet. We can sacrifice money and food now rather than our country later. This is the turning point in a war against divergent ideologies which cannot co-exist on one globe. As Catholics we should heed the Pope’s alarm for active participation in the fight against Communism by backing Americanism in Europe.”
But there were dissenters, particularly on the get-tough-with-Russia school of thought. Fred Friend, of Cavanaugh, who thinks Henry Wallace should be President, said, “I’m in favor of lending money to the weaker nations of the world to help them out of their financial difficulties, but I do not favor our policy of wholeheartedly supporting the British Empire.”
There were some who did not favor extensive aid to Europe. Bill Eggers, of Zahm, was one. Said he: “Our foreign policy should be to be tough on the foreigners, meaning those nations who are living off us.”
John Harm, of Morrissey, was also wary. “Stop Russia,” Rehabilitation of Europe ... we can’t do it all. They have to meet us half way.”
Bob Migely, of Farley, felt that the displaced persons were America’s biggest problem. “All the ruin and disorder of Europe has set wayward people shifting from one place to another.” He feels that the younger generation of Europe is being forced into idleness, crime, and corruption, and that future leadership is being destroyed.
12
More cooperation in feeding Europe on the part of European countries was advocated by James Patterson, of Dillon. “I think we should restrict the amount of food we send to Europe. Russia should assume a share of the burden. I believe France can contribute more than she admits.”
There was also general unanimity on the second question. The spectre of spiraling price tags obviously haunt Notre Dame men, as practically all of them felt that the inflation threat was our greatest problem at home.
A large portion of those interviewed sighed for a return of OPA. Gene Bollt, of Alumni, felt that the politicians did it to death without cause. “In our domestic economy, politics plays too big a part. This is illustrated in the pressure exerted on Congress to abolish the OPA, of which we are now desperately in need.”
Taxes and Production
Taxes, as they affected prices and production and the national debt were also a big item on the lists. Many students felt that the high taxes should be continued so as to control inflation and cut down the national debt, while others thought that they stifled “free enterprise” and production.
The Taft-Hartley Bill came in for its share of opinion. One who thought that it helped labor was Lou Keifer, of Alumni, who said, “Here at home, I think the tendency to give a break to the Unions, particularly to the locals, is important. I don’t think the Taft-Hartley Act is too hard on labor; it is simply an application of the Wagner Act to all.”
Bill Conroy, of Breen-Phillips, thinks that labor has too much power. “The Taft-Hartley Act is a right stick in the wrong hands. Unions were originally
POSSIBLE 1948 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES . . . profundity to the great unwashed
necessary for the working man, but they are too unruly at this time.”
But nevertheless ,the prime emphasis was on prices. Jim Fritsch, of Lyons, said, “I believe that price controls are our most important problem here at home. The government will have to be careful about bringing back government controls. The people are still fed up with the restrictions they had during the war. I think we should build up our own economic standards before attempting to build up those of Europe.”
Richard Cullen, of Cavanaugh, was pessimistic. “The most noteworthy point of U. S. domestic policy is the tact that the government has done nothing constructive in holding down prices.”
But Not Norman Thomas
Practically everybody and his Aunt Miranda were suggested for president. Truman, naturally, had a large following, and next were Marshall, Eisenhower, Dewey, Stassen, Taft, and many others. Even unsuspected lurkers in the political shadow like ex-governor McNutt of Indiana were endorsed. Most of these interviewed were content to express their choice for President without giving any lengthy reasons for them. The Truman men based their endorsements mostly on the fact that they think that the President has “done a good job.”
General Eisenhower was suggested on the basis of his “understanding and capacity for administration.” He was suggested even by those men who had objections to military men. General Marshall was endorsed on his record in the State Department and as a diplomat generally. Of Marshall, Bob Lynch, of Alumni, said, “I would like to see George Marshall in the presidential chair, not as a military man but as a leader.”
Governor Dewey, unsuccessful presidential candidate in 1944, as also favored
by many students. His record in New York was cited by several as their reason for supporting him.
Senator Taft was a strong candidate because of his “capacity to handle labormanagement relations,” and because he was “willing to listen to advice.”
Some, of course, endorsed out-of-the-way dark horse candidates. Owen Layden, of Zahm, came up with what may well have been the prize nomination. He selected none other than the Sage of the Tribune Tower. “I’d vote for Col. Bertie McCormick, editor of the Chicago Tribune, because he puts out a paper which is far inferior to other publications but yet outsells them. Anyone who can fool the public to that extent should be a politician.”
But perhaps another, and still darker —or lighter, depending upon how you look at it—horse was that old warrior from Mississippi, John Rankin. His nomination came from Van Bristow, of Breen-Phillips, who said, “After John Rankin, I’d vote for MacArthur.” .
Gamer and Wallace Named
Among others who also received endorsement was Texas’ “evil old man,” the erstwhile Vice-President John N. Garner. Former Vice-President Wallace also got the nod here and there.
The question about military men was not hotly debated. Despite the fact that Army veterans were queried, not more than 20% were flatly opposed to military men, most of those opposed citing the gloomy record of past military presidents as a horrible example. Those in favor ' felt that strong leadership was needed at this time “with a war pending.” Most of those interviewed, however, felt that presidential material was not dependent on military rank or the lack of it. Nevertheless, many students expressed fears of a growing military power.
13
Regis College
A New Scholastic Feature Is Initiated With This Beautiful Weston, Mass. Women's College
The murmuring groves around Regis College are mellowing under autumn’s transforming breath this time of year. The rust-spangled palette of Indian Summer has dabbed the wooded campus of this Weston, Massachusetts women’s college with burnt gold, amber, carmine and brown.
Regis College for Women is a little more than a mile from Weston, Massachusetts. Like Notre Dame it is set down in a thickly wooded area. The grounds are spacious and beautifully kept.
The lawns are broad and verdant, splotched with gnarly oaks, fir, and dusty blue spruce. Regis College girls in their bobby-sox and saddle-oxfords, plaid skirts and sweaters, stroll, like Chesterton, down poplar-lined lanes between campus buildings.
Regis College girls seem just like any other collegiennes. From fine families, they have come, mostly from New England, to further their education and to grasp the little part of living that seems so important, college life. Here they study under the direction of the Sisters of St. Joseph, of the Archdiocese of Boston.
It’s a modern college. The girls get their share of history and political science, sociology and the works of literature. Most girls graduate from the Arts College. But there’s plenty of opportunity for specialization, too.
In the Home Ec school the girls pick up the artistic, as well as the practical, threads of clothes-making and designing. Each year they have a fashion show. In sprawling, red-bricked College Hall, the main building on campus, the girls have opened a fashion spot, known as “Milady’s Shop.” Here advanced students of tailoring and clothing advise shoppers on the New Look.
But everything is not so mundane at Regis. Our Lady’s Sodality is active on campus, the fairest of its members crowning Mary’s statue after the traditional May procession. The French Club carries on correspondence with young people in France, while the
<-------------------------------
THE GIRLS — Center. May Queen Helen McLaughlin and court; top. Anne Brady; lower left, Elinor O'Neil; lower right, Dorothy Homig.
German Club studies great works of German writers.
Regis finds little of interest in nearby Weston, the village down the road.
Decked out in their spike heels and natty suits, Regis College girls head for Boston, miles away, via the thumb. No busses roar up to the hilltop cluster of red-brick buildings, or belch their oily fumes on the pine-scented air. The girls have to get to Boston someway, so they hitch-hike, bags in hand, to the bus depot in Weston.
In Boston it’s the Oval Room of the Copley-Plaza, or the Cafe Vendome. Nothing proletarian about these chicks. Other hangouts include Sandy Burr's, The Town Club, and the Terrace Room of the Statler. Some might even amble on down to the Union Oyster House, but this would be strictly in a search for atmosphere and good food.
What do they do for men? Well, they seem to like the boys from Boston College, and Holy Cross too, for that matter. But the sharp lads from Dartmouth and Harvard, sporting the latest corduroy coats and crew cuts, seem to have things their own way once they blow into town.
Plenty of exercise keeps the Regis figure slim. They have a nifty gym, and cavort in little bloomer-type garb on the basketball court and hop around behind the ping-pong tables. Out on the archery
REGIS SENIORS MARCH TOWARD DEGREES -From bobby sox and saddle shoes into caps, gowns, and heels
range they loft arrows at the fat targets. Now and then they hit. Oft times they bicycle to nearby Weston, but this is tiring, and only the rugged survive.
Horseback riding is one of the favorite outdoor activities. Every spring doting parents and friends from all over the countryside gather for the annual athletic day. The horse show is the main event. Derby-topped and breeches-clad, the equestriennes trot out to go through their paces before the proud and awed spectators.
One event on athletic .day stirs keen interest, not to speak of bold rivalry. It’s the hoop-rolling contest, in which cap-and-gowned seniors race the length of the grassy athletic field, rolling ahead of them gaily-decorated hoops< Tradition, entrenched at Regis, as at Notre Dame, says the winded winner will be the first to marry, y •
Come examination time and the fun ceases. Behind locked doors, with towels covering transom windows, Regis beavers bear down on the books through lengthy night hours (for as long a consecutive time as three days) relying on pilled benzydrine to keep their eyelids open and blow away the intellectual smog. Actually.	...
But are they good-looking? Ask the boys from Boston, and brace yourself for a resounding YES I	.
15
MAN
About the Campus
They say when Tom McCaffery walks into a room, the whole place lights up. It might have something to do with the cheery Irishman’s roseate complexion. At any rate the personable Californian is one of the most glowing personalities on campus.
NEW OFFICERS OF STUDENT COUNCIL
Left to right: Treasurer Hugh Glasheen, Vice-President Ralph Thorson. Father Barry, moderator; President Larry Turner, and Secretary John McCormick.
tom McCaffery
Beneath the moaning pines
CATHOLIC THEATRE GUILD SEEKS MEMBERS
Tom is 26 years old, and a Commerce senior. A gunner with the 13th Air Force, he saw service at Guadalcanal and Australia, even survived his bomber’s destruction at the hands of Jap gunners. He came through, thanks to a life raft, with a broken back and busted leg.
Ever since this strenuous adventure Tom has been taking it easy. He spends more time in the caf than Mr. Ford, and sups oceans of coffee. But coffee isn’t what gives him that plum-cheeked cherub’s face.
Around Notre Dame Tom is the campus Barney Baruch, sort of an elderberry statesman. He parks on a bench out in front of his residence, Walsh Hall, and there beneath the moaning pines discourses on current world politics, social problems, and sports.
McCaffery has held office in just about every organization he’s joined. Just about, that is. He just resigned as National Chairman of Veteran’s Affairs for the NFCCS. He has been a vice-president of the ND Vet’s club, and is a councilman for the local Knights of Columbus. Bight now one of the local machines is trying to draft the sage of Vallejo for a senior class officer post.
He thinks his hometown, Vallejo, Cali-
Notre Dame students and faculty members have been invited to participate in a new amateur dramatic group, the Catholic Theatre Guild of the St. Joseph Valley, to be formally organized at a meeting at 8 p. m. next Tuesday, October 14, in St. Patrick’s School Hall, 308 South Scott Street, South Bend.
Try-outs for the Guild’s first production, “The Joyous Season,” by Philip Barry, also will be held at that time. This play, which has a Christmas theme, will be produced early in December. Besides persons with acting experience, the Guild also invites those interested in the technical end of the theatre—stage designing, lighting, costuming, make-up,
fornia, has a great future. It’s an agricultural center, and known for nearby Mare Island Navy base. But Tom himself is no farmer or navy man. He intends to enter law school in San Francisco upon leaving Notre Dame. Like other active thinkers, he appreciates the ominous menace of Russian communism and even foresees a shooting war within a couple of years. Bight now he is joining with a group of similarly interested students of the situation to form a study club that will pore over the machinations of the communist ideology.
etc., to attend the meeting.
Membership in the Guild is open to all, regardless of creed. Tentative plans call for the production of a cycle of public plays this season chosen from outstanding stage successes. The Guild also plans a series of informal workshop plays, together with lectures and demonstrations in directing, acting, staging, lighting and other phases of the theatre, for members and their guests at frequent intervals.
Nine persons with directing experience in the theatre, including several from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, have accepted membership in an Advisory Committee to the Guild. A guest director will be selected for each production, and all permanent officers will be elected when the Guild is formally organized.
Principal purposes of the Guild are these: to provide entertainment and instruction in all phases of drama for members; to present popular theatrical productions in keeping with Catholic esthetic principles for the entertainment of the public; to help improve the moral tone of the stage; and to help train competent directors, actors, technicians and other theatre personnel and encourage . the best among them to try for careers in stage, screen or radio.
16
Scholastic Sports
42,000 Fans to Jam Purdue Stadium Just for Look at Irish
By BOB HOLLOWAY Sports Editor, Purdue Exponent
Gridmen Wary of Fighting Boilermakers; Look for Battle at Ross-Ade Tomorrow
By BOB LEANDER
Although there’s pickled Panther in the pantry, Moose Connor and his cohorts aren’t walking into tomorrow’s Boilermaker clash like so many puffed pigeons. There were several sobering thoughts accompanying the squad on its journey west from Pittsburgh. Of prime importance seems to be the opposition’s inability or reluctance to read the nation’s sporting columns and magazines. Pitt was scheduled to fold up its uniforms and steal away in the smog at the sight of Notre Dame’s green and gold, when as a matter of fact it required three quarters and as many Irish squads to convince the scrappy Panthers to get into the act. Coach Milligan’s boys just hadn’t read the script. Maybe Purdue has a better’ literature course.
Then there was the Irish ground attack which never did get into high gear. Terry Brennan picked up yardage consistently, finally loping over right tackle for the first Irish tally; Lank Smith skirted wide and fast around right end and scored the final marker, but in between times there was little to cheer except Coy McGee’s slithering dash as the backs netted only 209 yards from scrimmage, far below the fabulous
400-yard figures of last season. Meanwhile, Purdue was racking up 365 yards against Ohio State, and only once during the afternoon was a Boilermaker back dropped for a loss. Pitt broke through several times throwing our runners for a total loss of 34 yards.
Much of the Panthers’ yardage was picked up over the left side of the Notre Dame line. This apparent weakness should receive much bolstering with the probable return of Capt. Moose Connor for tomorrow’s fray.
Purdue’s Bob DeMoss is labeled as a fine passer, better than anything the Pennsylvanians had to offer, and unless the local pass defense is tightened, he could cause a whale of a lot of trouble. Several times Panther receivers shook loose only to find their passers sailing the pigskin far overhead. DeMoss isn’t often guilty of such miscalculations.
Add to this the fact that Notre Dame won going away, while the Boilermakers were forced to pick themselves up twice and come from behind — the mark of a rugged, courageous team — and it’s plain to see that all may not be milk (Continued on Page 25)
LAFAYETTE, Ind.—All 42,000 seats in Purdue’s Ross-Ade Stadium will be filled when Notre Dame’s Ramblers move into town Saturday afternoon. The fans won’t be expecting a Boilermaker victory— they’ll be on hand to watch the Irish, one of the most powerful teams assembled in the past decade. They’ll be there to watch a weak, but scrappy Purdue squad try to hold the score down, and to watch them try to make a good showing before the largest crowd ever to witness a football game in Lafayette.
Stu Holcomb, head Riveter mentor, knows plenty about Notre Dame. He coached Earl Blaik’s ends at Army for three years, so the appearance of Frank Leahy’s team here won’t be a new sight for him. But Stu won’t have a certain Mr. Outside and his partner, Mr. Inside, to help the cause this season. He’ll have only a fair passing combination and a relatively poor running game on which to rely.
Purdue fans like to talk about the early games of the grid series with Notre Dame, especially the first game. Purdue won the opener, 28-26, but we have been unable to put the clamps on the Irish squad since ’33 and we’ve met the Irish four times since then.
Purdue doesn’t have a team that’ll (Continued on Page 25)
OOPS —TOO HIGH
Pittsburgh’s Jim Robinson gathers in a mere handful of air as the pass intended for him sails by out of reach. Strohmeyer and Wendell, at left, move in, just in case.
HEADIN’ FOB PAY DIRT
Lancaster Smith lugs the mail past the astonished eyes of Pitt Halfback Bob Lee on a 17-yard touchdown jaunt in the fourth period. (Photos by Jim McLaughlin)
17
Murphy Takes School Cross Country Title
Jim Murphy, the diminutive runner from Providence, R. I., won the Notre Dame championship last Sunday, covering the three-mile distance in 15:45. Second place was taken by Cornie Sty-ers, the famed two-miler, and Bill Leonard and Jim Kelly tied for third. Kelly was running his first race since 1945, when he won his monogram as an Irish two-miler.
The Irish harriers will meet the Purdue cross-country team tomorrow morning at 10:00 on the Boilermaker course in the first distance run of the season.
Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy will pick the seven-man squad from among the winners of last Sunday’s University Championship run. Purdue does not have the depth of the Notre Dame team, but has two strong runners in Ashwell and Gillman.
Jim Kitell finished fifth, Bob Mitchell, sixth; Tom Maguire and Merle Fleming tied for seventh and Leo Paradise won the ninth medal awarded. At the end of the first mile, Kelly led followed by Murphy and Leonard in a group. The time
KING OF THE HARRIERS
Jim Muzphy coasts across the finish line to capture the University cross country championship.
		
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Wilk Pete

For two weeks I have’ been sitting here to the right looking at the invitation which tops this column. Much as it hurts, I must be perfectly truthful with you. I have never been over a goalpost, so that makes my invitation to you to join me in that awkward position very empty.
This lack of knowledge about the sub
ject made my reporter’s blood boil. I tried to convince my conscience that it made no difference, but my curiosity joined in the fight, and I was lost.
Since the flying wedge has not been in use in a great many years, there was no individual of my acquaintance who had physically experienced the sen
Pete Brown
sation. That left but one outlet—a foot-
ball.
Here again I was at a loss as to what to do. Among the swine family, I had no intimate friends to ask about the matter. At this point, I was about ready to give up. It then occurred to me that there was a man around that might have the answer to my problem. That would be Fred Earley, the man who propels the spheroid over said piece of wood for the Irish varsity.
of the first mile was five minutes. Murphy spurted to first position on the second mile and was followed by Styers, Leonard, and Kelly in the same order as they finished. The second mile was covered in five and one-half minutes, making the time to that point 10:30.
A special feature of the race last Sunday was the arrangement enabling spectators to see the finish of the first, second and final miles from a point near the Grotto.
Next Saturday, the harriers meet a strong Wisconsin squad here, and the following week run into strong competition from Iowa and Michigan State in a triangular affair here. A special run for freshmen will be held over the University course within a few weeks.—Jim Howard
Off to Cartier Field
It was about 3:30 one afternoon when my reasoning powers had come to the conclusion that Fred Earley was my man. Immediately I darted across the campus to Cartier Field to catch Earley while he was in the act of kicking some answers to my question.
As I walked into Mr. Leahy’s factory, I saw Earley and Chuck Connor strolling towards one of the goalposts with their arms full of footballs. I rushed up to Earley to ask him my question, but before I could open my mouth, he said, “Pete, go over to the other side of the goalpost and throw these back.”
Being a frustrated football player, what could I do? Here was my chance to show off my marvelous kicking and passing skill.
I decided that passing was the most important thing to show first. After returning five of his kicks with bullet-like passes, I found that my arm was hanging about ten inches out of the shoulder socket. It no longer responded when I tried to lift it. However, the worst blow came when I noticed that Leahy was not even watching. How does he ever expect to discover another George Gipp?
A Futile Effort
After completing 15 in a row from 10 yards out, Earley started to move back. Now my chance had arrived. I drop-kicked those. I had just kicked my third when I discovered that the nail on my big toe was no longer' a member of my body. At that time I pulled out my handkerchief and signaled surrender.
By this time Earley was so completely lost in his work, that he did not notice my signal. There was but one thing to do to break his trance in order to ask him the big question. I rushed madly in and blocked his next attempt. It was such a surprise to him that he had no idea of what to do. By the time he had regained his senses, I had him cornered.
I asked him the question. He gave me a very queer look and started to walk away. But I was not to be deprived of my answer. I demanded an answer. His second look was queerer than the first. However this time he answered, “You jerk, that’s a stupid question. How am I supposed to know?”
There ain’t no justice.
18
THE "ROCK" OF LYONS
By WILLIAM LYMAN
No, the spirit which made interhall sports flourish at Notre Dame didn’t die with World War II. That spirit has merely been drowsing — drowsing through dark, confused years. There is, however, at least one Notre Dame man who has been consistently working to awaken the old interest in interhall competition before Rip Van Winkle proportions are reached.
Ray Chamberland fulfilled a childhood ambition in the Spring of 1945 when he came to Notre Dame as a student. Back home in Taunton, Massachusetts the kids around Coyle High knew Ray as Coach Chamberland, their red-faced classmate who had spent so much of his spare time in junior and senior years pounding the fundamentals of football, baseball and basketball into prospective home town athletes. At Notre Dame Ray was just another Phy-Ed major with big ideas— ideas of going back to Coyle High as head coach, working his way up to a place on the Notre Dame coaching staff and even of taking over Leahy’s job some day. That was like dreaming of some day becoming President of rhe United States to Ray.
“But they can’t put you behind bars for dreaming,” he says.
When Ray came back to school in November of 1945 after dropping out for a time, they told him that he couldn’t
COACH CHAMBERLAND (IN CAP) AND HIS LYONS ELEVEN Get the meatier boys out, then add .. .
take Phy-Ed any more because of a physical disability. Sociology dealt with people, so he took that instead. His old dreams, however, were still hanging in the back of his brain. A slight limp in the left leg wasn’t enough to prevent at least one more stab at the job he enjoyed most—coaching. And, he didn’t have to look far for a place where his talent was needed. His own hallmates elected him head coach of Lyons, a unanimous selection, since the situation in Lyons was no different from that which existed in other halls—nobody else cared much about being head football coach.
A handful of would-be players turned out for the first practice session dressed in everything but formal clothes; a handful of would-be players went home tired and dirty, but that wasn’t enough. Chamberland explored the hall roster and found the names of bigger, meatier prospects. He went and talked to them personally and acquired their services, but still it wasn’t enough. What good was a football team without spirit behind it?
Ray remembered the stories Jim Burns, his high school coach, had told about the tremendous spirit and rivalry when he had played interhall football at Notre Dame. “There’s no reason in the world why we can’t get some of that old fight into oui* first game with Morrissey,” Ray told Father- O’Connell, then second floor prefect of Lyons. “What about
PRE-GAME PEP TALK . . . Fight songs and rallies
staging a Lyons Hall pep rally the night before the game?”	.
Plans were made. The men of Lyons caught the spirit. A huge sign reading “BEAT MORRISSEY” was hurriedly constructed by the Art majors in the hall. Two Journalism men set right to work composing a hall fight song (When Lyons Hall Is Winning to the tune of When Irish Eyes Are Smiling). Economics aspirants handled the purchasing chores — doughnuts, cider, paper cups, etc. Others acquired tables, trash barrels and benches. The South Shore Line generously provided railroad torches to brighten the evening.
Then, at 10:15 p. m. on the Friday night before the Morrissey game, the pep rally swung under way with a parade of some 200 Lyons boosters around the quadrangle in front oof Morrissey Hall. The Official Lyons Hall Band (composed of actual University of Notre Dame band members dressed in outra- . geous Mardi Gras styled costumes rather than the traditional Postal Telegraph type uniform of the main organization) took the lead of the caravan as it marched boldly under the shadow of Morrissey singing the Notre Dame and Lyons -fight songs in such rousing-voices that . three children in Goshen are said to have been awakened.
The parade was climaxed by the raising to the top of a flagpole of a dummy dressed in football gear and tagged MORRISSEY HALL. The throng then
13
adjourned to the patio behind Lyons where refreshments were served and speeches were given from the platform under the archway. When the team members had finished talking and the esteemed rector, Father Kelly, had given his best wishes, little Ray Chamberland stepped up and told the crowd that Lyons Hall would have “a representative team.”
Ray was no liar. The next day Morrissey fell 14 to 0, and the following week a big Alumni team was upset 12 to 0. St. Ed’s, the Eastern Champion, was the only obstacle in the way of the title—it fell 12 to 0. The Lyons Hall players walked off the field with the championship in their possession and the coach on their shoulders.
What was Ray thinking about that Saturday afternoon as he rode back to Lyons on the shoulders of his players? “I was thinking about this year,” he admits. “I was thinking about putting Lyons Hall in the Stadium for the title game. We’d have played St. Ed’s in the Stadium if it hadn’t been for rain and a touchy groundskeeper.”
This fighting spirit gave Ray his nickname. When things were going badly in the Alumni game, he called the entire team to the sidelines. “Don’t come back to the hall if you don’t win this game or go down fighting,” he spurted.
The team came back with a win and a nickname for Ray. From then on he was “The Rock.”
Well, the Rock meant what he said about putting Lyons in the Stadium. He has nearly the same team back to defend the championship. “But, there isn’t a man on the squad who can be sure of a starting position,” he says. “We’ve got some new blood out this year, and besides, past performances don’t mean a thing with me.”
Before the notices announcing interhall football schedules were even printed, before freshmen knew they played interhall football here, even before Sorin Hall bull sessions were treating the subject of interhall football, Lyons was practicing. The second day of school The Rock was on the tennis courts behind Lyons shouting directions and giving instructions.
That day a new man walked up to him. “When do we scrimmage, coach?” he asked.
Ray looked at him hard. “There’s two things that win football games,” he said. “A complete, knowledge of fundamentals and good conditioning are more important in my book than any premature scrimmages.”
The new man returned to his place in line and resumed calisthenics.
Despite his appreciation for fundamentals, however, Ray recognizes the value of good hard scrimmaging. But, he also maintains that a man has no
INTRODUCING...
By TOM McNALLY
When Dr. William Fischer unleashed his jet propulsion theory of football to an awe-struck crowd at the Pitt game rally last week, not a few of his admirers were quick to classify it as football’s first progressive step since the “T” formation! The theory, you will remember, went as follows: As a jet plane intakes air, its speed increases and as its speed increases it takes in more air and as it
takes in more air its speed increases and as its speed increases . . . and so on. Then, by analogy, the professor proclaimed that, in football, as the student body cheers, the team plays harder and as the team plays harder the student body cheers louder* and as the student body cheers louder the team plays hard-
BILL FISCHER
Abstract Talker — Concrete Player
place on the field unless he’s in good physical shape and knows what he’s doing. He believes preparation should precede body contact work (copies of the plays Ray intends to use in the coming campaign were mailed to the squad for study this summer).
“Yes, I admit we have a start on the other halls,” says The Rock. “We’ll have good running backs again with Paul Lane, Don Buseck and Walt Mahanna back from last year. The line will be strong, too. Lou Sampson and Tom Mus-catello are back at the ends, Tom Hani-fin and Bob Singer return at tackle and Jim Quigley and Jess Fitzpatrick are back to contest their old positions at guard and center. And there’s a healthy crop of new men who’ll try to plug the holes left by Daly, Dennis, Trotter and Colletti gone from the championship team.”
WiUtoHi 'Afoote'
er, etc. etc. etc. After dropping his bombshell, he then calmly stepped down from the platform and was seen no more, leaving behind him a spellbound audience.
His flight into the more abstract aspects of the game might have proved a shock to some of the men who have played against the “Moose” in the last two seasons. Generally, their principal recollection is that of a belligerent water-buffalo charging and smashing and grinding them deeper and deeper into the ground on each succeeding play.
In fact, last year, he and Capt. John Mastrangelo (Fischer considers him the finest guard he has ever played against) made up one of the most impressive Notre Dame guard combinations in years. As proof of this, both were named to All-American teams, Fischer making Paramount News’ first string. Then, last spring, Bill steadily improved and won a Hering award as the best blocking guard in the 1947 spring practice, and the season opener found him back in his accustomed spot with such running mates as “Bucky” O’Connor, Marty Wendell and Joe Signaigo.
Of course, it didn’t all happen in a day. Bill served his apprenticeship at Lane Tech in Chicago where he was rated a fine prospect at tackle, winning three letters and captaining the team in his senior year. Then, in 1945, his first year- at Notre Dame, he remained at tackle under the tutorship of Lou Rym-kus who is now holding forth for the Cleveland Browns. Rymkus took Fischer under his wing, worked hard with him and taught him a tremendous amount about the game. By way of showing his appreciation, “Moose” learned his lessons well enough to have a good season at tackle and to rack up his first Notre Dame monogram. Then, last year the “Moose” was shifted to guard and promptly moved in as a first stringer, an honor which he considers to have been the greatest thrill in his life up until now.
But that’s only “up until now,” for Bill has this season and the next to prove further to everyone that he deserves to rank with outstanding guards of the past few years like Crimmins, Filley and Mastrangelo. And after that, perhaps a little pro ball ... or maybe a coaching job where he can continue to confound the world—and his own players—with new theories and scientific phenomena about this crazy game of football.
20
EX-IRISH SHINE IN PLAY-FOR-PAY RANKS
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Just for the sake of the record, let’s check and see what this year’s crop of Irish backs did against Purdue in last year’s 49-6 affair.
“Pep” Panelli, fullback, paced the Irish, picking up 118 yards in nine efforts and scoring one touchdown . . . Mike Swistowicz, halfback - fullback, added 45 yards to
Notre Dame’s total in his eleven attempts . . . Cor-nie Clatt gained 26 yards in four carries and scored one touchdown . . .
Terry Brennan, , left halfback, made his ten carries good for 46 yards and also caught a 28-yard touchdown pass from Lu jack . . . Johnny Lu-
jack, quarterback, lost three yards on his only rushing play, but he tossed six aerials, completed four for 56 yards and two touchdowns . . . Lancaster Smith, left halfback, scooted four times for 13 yards . . . Floyd Simmons, fullback, ran for 50 yards in only four attempts . . .
Bill Gompers, right halfback, galloped 21 yards in two cracks at the Boilermaker line . . . Frank Tripucka, quarterback, tossed three fruitless passes . . . Jim Martin, left end, snared one of Lu-j ack’s heaves for an eight yard gain . . .
A few years ago if you looked into the rosters of the pro teams you would have had to look both long and hard to find a former Notre Dame man on any of the lists. Today the story is quite different; in both the new All-American Conference and the old National League there are only four teams that do not have at least one former Notre Damer. In fact at the present time there are more Notre Dame men in pro ball than athletes from any other school.
Wayne Millner was one of the first former Irish stars to make good in the play-for-pay circles. He made the allleague team quite regularly while playing for Washington. Steve Bagarus also made good with the Redskins, when two years ago he grabbed almost all of the offensive honors. He was the leading pass receiver, ground gainer, and scorer that year.
Last year* another former Notre Damer, Elmer Angsman, playing for the Cardinals, took the National League ground gaining honors, averaging 6.8 yards per try. Bagarus again ranked high in this department, along with the receiving and kickoff return departments.
the Irish punting averaged a shade under’ 30 yards per boot in five attempts . . . Purdue, it might be noted here, amassed 136 yards by passing even without the capable Bob DeMoss doing the pitching. With DeMoss clicking tomorrow, the Boilermakers may very well repeat last year’s performance—which is all right with Irish rooters, as long as the score is repeated . . . Notre Dame fumbled no less than seven times last year against Purdue, losing the ball twice.
In the All-American Conference last year Steve Nemeth placed fourth in the scoring column, piling up fifty-nine points, all via the toe. Lou Zontini and Steve Juzwik both were well up in that column with Nemeth. Vic Kulbitski and Juzwik ended high in the rushing department. The latter make the second all-conference team last year. Back in the National League John “Tree” Adams grabbed the first-string tackle spot, with Jim White garnering second-team honors.
This fall the pros have been flooded •with Irish. The Buffalo Bills lead with
six. Buffalo, being a strong Notre Dame
town, likes the idea and the Bills | are playing them up big. George Ratterjman has been given the title of Mr. Football and is packing the stadium. Along with Ratterman at Buffalo are Juzwik, !£ul-
bitski, Julie Rykovich, George Vince Scott and Lou Zontini.
Tertep,
The Rockets are next with five' ex-
Irish: Dippy Evans, Angelo Bertelli, Herb Coleman, Bob Dove, and Joe Ruetz. Los Angeles’ Rams and Boston’s Yanks both have three. The Ram alumni are
Bagarus, Jerry Cowhig, and Jack Zilly. Jim Mello, Harry Wright, and Boley Dancewicz are the Boston representatives.
The Giants have White and George Tobin,. Green Bay has Tom Brock and Bob Skoglund, the Browns own John Yonakor and Lou Rymkus. The Dons have Bob Kelly and Steve Nemeth; the Baltimore Colts own Luke Higgins, while the Yankees hold Chuck Riffle’s contract. The Cardinals possess Angsman; Detroit has Frank Szymanski; “Tree” Adams plays with a Redskin uniform; and Pittsburgh starts John Mastrangelo at guard. They total thirty-three former fighting Irish.
LEFT TO BIGHT: GEBBY COWHIG, JIM WHITE, STEVE JUZWIK, AND DIPPY EVANS Former campus gridiron luminaries blaze trails as members of professional elevens
21
Qli£ne4ffi Ckalle/L
By JOE CHENEY
Smoky Pittsburgh with its cute hatcheck girls, shapely elevator girls, and tip-happy waiters welcomed the Notre Dame football party with an 85-degree temperature and police escort.
After arriving at the William Penn hotel, the team was ushered up to the seventeenth floor where breakfast was served in a large dining room. On the same floor Hollywood celebrities who were in Pittsburgh for the premiere of “Unconquered” were nraking ready for their three-hour parade through the main part of town.
Someone tipped Ziggy Czarobski off about the Hollywood delegation so he gulped down his coffee and excused himself. Ten minutes later unpredictable Ziggy stepped into the dining room with his arms around producer Cecile B. DeMille, Lizabeth Scott, and Hedda Hopper.
“Fellas,” sounded off broad grinning Ziggy, “I’d like to have you meet some friends of mine. They’re new here in town too, so I thought it would be neighborly to invite them in for coffee. This is my good friend, “Liz” Scott. The gal with the hat is Hedda Hopper and this guy is “Cec” DeMille.”
By this time the dining room was filled with loud laughter and the Hollygood guests looked as human as the rest of us. Photographers’ bulbs splashed blindingly as Lujack and Hart, the two Pennsylvania squadsters, posed with “Cec,” “Liz,” and “The Hat.” The breakfast party broke up minutes later because of the parade, but Ziggy and “Liz” made a tentative date in December for the Southern Cal game.
After breakfast the squad members were given their room numbers but excited Ziggy picked up the wrong key. With a mild blush, Ziggy walked up to me in the lobby and asked if I had seen Larry Ryan, head football manager. Just then Larry passed by and Ziggy nailed him.
“Say, Larry, I got a room with a married couple in it. I just went up to it, opened the door} and there in my room were a man and his wife.”
After checking the squad list and room numbers, it was discovered that Ziggy had picked up the wrong key at the desk. Winking at the elevator girl, Ziggy hopped aboard with the hope of catching a little shut-eye before dinner.
Ten minutes later Ziggy was back downstairs looking for the barber shop. Finding it, he paraded down through two long lines of barbers shaking hands
with them and asking each how many shaving nicks they had on their records. He wanted a clean shave but no blood on his new multicolored sport shirt.
Oh yes, Ziggy also got a manicure!
Hollywood Male Embarrassed
The William Penn Hotel lobby was filled with autograph hunters all weekend. A one-bell actor was making his X’s when Lujack, Connor, Martin, Sig-naigo, Urban, and Brennan walked by. The bobby-sox brigade screamed wildly, “There’s some Notre Dame players.” The actor was immediately deserted as the drooling gals surrounded our guys. He slowly shuffled toward the nearest exit.
Maker of Cupcakes
When tackle Ted Budynkiewicz was asked what his name meant in Polish, “Bull” made the mistake of telling the truth. “Maker of cupcakes,” laughed “Bull.” So the fellas have tagged him “Cupcake.”
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 6)
OUT TOLEDO WAY
More than 40 members of the Toledo Club recently elected officers for the com-ving scholastic year. Elections were held during the meeting conducted by out-going prexy Tom Francis, and the new officers include Mike Hoeflinger, president; John Wright, ice-president; Jim Resting, secretary; and George Korhumer .treasurer.
The club is planning a wiener roast and hay-ride in Toledo this coming Sunday evening.
The Toledo Club basketball team is interested in playing other city club teams any afternoon or evening. Arrangements can be made by contacting
There will be an organizational meeting of the Freshman-Sophomore Science Club on Tuesday evening, Oct. 14, at 7:15 p. m. in 108 Science Hall. All freshman and sophomore Mathematics and Physics majors are urged to be present.
The first meeting of the new-forming Italian Club will be held next Tuesday night, at 7:30, in the Law Building. So far no officers have been elected; however a steering committee will be formed at this organizational gathering to lead the way in forming, building and expanding the club.
All persons interested in Italian culture, whether from the lofty heights of Dante to the culinary art of concocting a rich spaghetti sauce, are invited to come.
Future N. D. Players Gain Experience Fast
With a full month’s practice under their belts Coach Bill Vangen and his assistants, Marty Brutz, Jack Fallon, Joe Yonto, and Bill Heywood, have expressed satisfaction with the performance of their freshman football squad. In accordance with Big Nine rules the Frosh do not play a schedule and so must gain all their experience against the varsity. Vangen had special praise for the improved defensive play of the freshmen during the second half of the varsity-frosh game two weeks ago.
In another scrimmage game the varsity reserves who did not make the Pitt trip whipped the Frosh 20-0. With the exception of the forward wall from tackle to tackle the freshmen defense was weak and the offense spotty.
Outstanding prospects among the frosh include centers, Phil Yanochick and Jerry Groom, guards Dick Kuh, Bill Higgins, and Frank Palmasanta, tackles Dean Thomas, Jim Mahoney, and Vince Ste. Marie, ends Jack Murphy, Marty Hayes, and Ben Kupnich; quarterbacks Tom Carter and Bob Williams, right halves Len Croll and Lisle Person; left halves Leo McKillip and Jack Landry; and fullbacks Dick Cotter and Red Dietrich. Dietrich because of his aggressive play may be switched to tackle.
Coach Vangen is looking for these men to lead future Notre Dame teams.
University Soccer Squad To Face Engineers Sunday
The University soccer team will make its debut this Sunday afternoon when it travels to West Lafayette to oppose Purdue University. The team has been practicing five days a week since the start of school, and, according to Coach Maxwell, “looks very promising.”
The probable lineup for the first game is as follows:
Left Wing ........ Villavicencio
Left Inside ......... Samaniego
Center- .......... Rey de Castro
Right Inside...........  H.	Ibanez
Right Wing.............. J.	Pinto
Left Halfback........... Company
Center Halfback .... (Capt.) Duarte Right Halfback .......... Parise
Left Fullback .......... F.	Pinto
Right Fullback.........R. Ibanez
Goal Keeper ........... L. Pallais
Coach Maxwell also announced that a soccer league is being organized on the campus so that all soccer enthusiasts on campus can get a good chance at competition in the sport. Anyone interested in playing on one of the several teams should see him in the Rockne Memorial building.
22
School Authorities Plan To Review Band
Notre Dame Foundation Is Key Feature Of Record Breaking Alumni Program
In an announcement last week by Professor H. Lee Hope, director of the University Band, it was revealed that the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, will review the marching band tomorrow, Saturday, Oct. 11, at 1:00 p. m. on Brownson Field, located between the Chemistry Building and the Field House.
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., and; Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., are scheduled to accompany Father Cavanaugh at the ceremony. Invitations have been extended to the Deans of the various schools.
The Band is prepared to present their new uniforms for the first time, besides performing some of the marching capers for the distinguished spectators. For the past two weeks the organization has been rehearsing under the leadership of Mr. Hope and Drum Major James Kress for this first appearance, as well as for the first home game, Oct. 18, against Nebraska.
Director Hope exudes confidence when queried about the progress of the group. As he said, “I am greatly pleased with the showing of the fellows so far this year. They have proved that they will work hard to make results, and I’m sure by the time of the first game they will present a representative show.”
The “representative” angle should mean something here, too.—Verne Kelley
Radio Club Perks Up, Bill Three a Week
Notre Dame will be hearing quite a bit from the Radio Club this year. With three programs a week the club expects to be too busy to even listen to the radio. The programs thus far planned are: Bill Halligan’s “Streamlined Sports,” Thursdays at 4:45 on WSBT; “Notre Dame Dedicates” with Frank Venner and Bob Galvin, Tuesdays at 4:30 on the same station; and the new half hour show, “Campus Carnival,” Tuesday nights at 8:30 on WHOT.
The new program will be directed by pep rally chairman Chuck Perrin. Plans are to feature drama, music, and comedy. “Campus Carnival” will stand for a while at least as the tentative title.
First meeting of the year was held last week, with fifty-five old and new members attending to hear Father A. M. McDowell, c.S.c., moderator, outline plans and possibilities for the semester, and introduce Don Kiene, president of the organization. Ambitious ideas are afoot among the radiomen this year.
New quarters in the old Carroll Study Hall are just a symbol of the growth and development of the Notre Dame alumni program which now represents a recordbreaking high performance.
Foremost in activity in the new program is the University of Notre Dame Foundation. Harry G. Hogan, national alumni president, is serving as chairman, and James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, is the executive vice-chairman of this new foundation. The volunteer field force of the foundation is also alumni staffed.
There are foundation governors in all states, who are alumni, and the bulk of the city chairmen appointed to date are alumni civic leaders. When the field organization is complete, Notre Dame will have foundation governors in the 48 states, in at least 15 foreign territories, and will have 2,500 alumni and friends working on local city committees in every city of consequence.
As a result of the Board of Directors meeting September 26-27 on the campus, the Alumni Association is promoting a number of major projects in addition to the foundation program.
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, on Dec. 7, will find 100 Clubs observing the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, with a patriotic theme associated this year to commemorate Our Lady as patroness of the United States, and the coincident anniversary of Pearl Harbor.
The 25th Anniversary observance of
PARKING LOT FOR CONVERTIBLES (STORK MODEL)
Scholastic Photographer Jim Ferstel caught this interesting camera study outside Sacred Heart Church last week during the baby blessing ceremony far VetviRe's ever-increasing infant population.	.	’
Universal Notre Dame Night will be held in Philadelphia on April 5, to commemorate the founding of the night in 1924 by the late John H. Neeson, Philadelphia civic leader and then president of the Alumni Association.
The offices of the Alumnus, Notre Dame graduate magazine, and the Alumni Association Vocational Counseling Service, both under the direction of William R. Dooley, will be moved into the Carroll Hall quarters. Carroll will also house the Foundation staff, and the Department of Pubic Information.
—John E. Armstrong.
"Mainstream" Offers Prizes For College Prose, Poems
The Editors of Mainstream, the new literary quarterly, which will complete its first year with the appearance of its Fall, 1947, number, announced today a series of annual literary awards under the sponsorship of the magazine.
Four awards of 8150.00 each will be offered. Two of these awards will be presented for the best unpublished short story and poem or group of poems submitted by students in American colleges and universities. The other two awards will go to the best story and poem submitted by members of trade unions.	,
Manuscripts should be addressed to the Mainstream Awards Committee, 832 Broadway, New York 3, N. Y., with accompanying return postage.
23
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Notre Dame names do make news and in view of that Macy’s of New York have asked for permission to make the following ad:
“The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame didn’t get that way overnight and neither did Sackville suits. Notre Dame’s pigskin pedigree goes back to the roaring twenties—back to the grid-glories of the Rock and the Four Horsemen—back to that period when Macy’s introduced the first Sackville suit to the thrifty New York man.”
With Extra Labor
A hero of the Philippine Army during World War II, MAJOR BLAS A. ALEJANDRE, has finally achieved an eighteen year ambition by enrolling this fall in the Graduate School at the University of Notre Dame. Major Alejandre, who lives in South Bend with his wife and three young children, is a native of Baguio, the summer capital of the Philippines. Last August he was selected by the Philippine Government to take graduate work at a leading university in the United States and he chose Notre Dame, where he is now studying for his master’s degree in mechanical engineering. . . . The Bishop John F. O’Hara fellowships awarded to outstanding advanced graduate students in the liberal arts field annually were won by the following seven men of the 1947-48 school year: REDMOND J. ALLMAN, Boston, Mass.; JOHN J. GLANVILLE, Buffalo, N. Y.; JAMES J. GREEN, Mt.
MR. AND MRS. O'HALLORAN From lace and Lohengrin .. .
Clemens, Mich.; REA W. GWINN, Bristol, Mass.; VINCENT P. HOGAN, Port Angeles, Wash.; JOURNET D. KAHN, Cincinnati, Ohio; and MARTIN M. McLAUGHLIN, Portland, Oregon. . . . Two other graduates of the University of Notre Dame are included in the four recipients of the 1947-48 Hearst Graduate Fellowships in American History at Notre Dame, it was announced by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c., Dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame. The Fellowships were awarded to: RICHARD P. NOONAN, of Saratoga Springs, N. Y. and Holy Cross College; CHARLES R. POINSATTE, of Fort Wayne, Indiana and Notre Dame; Earl A. Breault, of St. Paul, Minn., and the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul; and ROBERT C. REINDERS of Appleton, Wis., and also of Notre Dame. . . .
Come New Pursuits
In his home state of New Mexico this summer, JIM HENRY, of Alumni Hall, reverted to the days of the wild and woolly West in more ways than one. Besides the distinction of having shot and killed a grizzly bear, Jim is accredited with having won the Intercollegiate Broncho Busting title in the elimination held at the University of New Mexico. . . . Professor WALTER M. LANGFORD, Head of the Department of Modern Languages, has been selected to deliver the Cervantes Quadricentennial Anniversary Lecture, commemorating the four hundredth anniversary of the birth of the famous Spanish writer, Miguel de Cervantes, at Mundelein College in Chicago on October 9. He will be introduced by Miss Mary Margaret Doyle, president of the Student Activities Council at Mundelein. . . . JIM O’HALLORAN, of Chicago, Illinois and Miss Eleanor Mahoney, also of Chicago, were married on August 23, 1947 at St. Barnabas Church in that city. Jim is a junior, a Business Administration major, and a speedy Notre Dame basketball star. . . .
And Then Renown
On October 3, a former Notre Dame student returned to the University as a guest lecturer upon the invitation of Dean James E. McCarthy of the Commerce School. He is JAMES F. MULCAHY, Merchandising Director of the National Confectioner’s Association. Mr. Mulcahy explained to the students of “Business Policy in Marketing” how through the “Balanced Selling” program the confectionery industry plans to es-
JIM HENRY
. . . to bears and broncos
tablish a two billion dollar retail candy business in America within the next few years. . . . Visiting at the University this week is His Eminence CARLO CARMELO CARDINAL de VASCONCEL-LOS MOTTA, Archbishop of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Cardinal Motta came to Notre Dame from the Eucharistic Congress in Buffalo, N. Y.
And over in the Football Publicity office CHARLIE CALLAHAN caused a minor furor by dropping a lighted cigarette in the waste paper basket. A small conflagration developed and caused a little excitement, but fortunately it was confined to the basket.
CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS
A general call will be posted in all the halls for potential cheerleaders. Those interested are asked to sign up on the blanks provided. A tryout will be held in the gym shortly thereafter to determine this year's staff.
24
Varsity Players Star In Interhall Baseball
Lyons Hall advanced to the semi-finals of the interhall fall baseball toui-nament October 6 by defeating Alumni Hall, 6-4. Lamere, Smullen, and Koblosh formed the winning battery, while Parise, Langley, and Kluck worked for Alumni.
In earlier games Alumni won a 6-4 decision from Farley, St. Ed’s forfeited to Lyons, Morrissey thumped Breen-Phillips, 11-2, and Howard won by default from Zahm.
Each team must lose two games to be eliminated from the tournament. Losers of only one game are placed in the consolation tourney, the winner of which will meet the winner of the Lyons and Morrissey-Howard contest in the final game.
The tournament is under the direction of Mr. Ernest Szekeley of the Phy Ed department.
The interhall football season will open Tuesday, October 14, Mr. Dominic Napolitano, in charge of the program, has announced. Schedules are being drawn up this week by student coaches of the squads taking part. The teams have been drilling extensively in preparation for the season on the athletic field, located behind the tennis court.
An intra-campus soccer’ schedule, comprised of players from the La Raza Club, the Phy Ed department, and the seminarians of Dujarie Hall will be established this semester. Mr. Francis Maxwell of the Phy Ed department is planning to develop a varsity soccer squad to compete with other colleges.
—Tom Adams
Victory Dances to Begin Tomorrow Night at 9
The first of a series of Victory Dances will be held at the Navy Drill Hall tomorrow night from 9:00 to 11:30. A new policy of entertainment provides for Victory Dances to be staged on the campus, whether the team is playing at home or not. These dances will be staged much the same as last year. However, many of the criticisms of the students concerning last year’s affairs are being worked out, and a much smoother1 program is anticipated.
Tickets are limited to Notre Dame students and will cost $1.50 per couple. Bus service for those students dating St. Mary’s girls will be available. The same time restrictions are in effect again this year. No one will be allowed in the Drill Hall after 9:00, and similarly no one will be permitted to leave before 11:00.
Student Trip
(Continued from Page 9) will be done by adding a cost of $1.20 to the train fares of $8.80 and $12.80. In the event that some of the extra 500 tickets will not be used, any excess funds will be used by the Student Welfare Board to take along extra band members and cheerleaders, and also to cover any damages done to the coaches enroute to and from the game. It’s to be understood that no refunds will be issued on tickets sold, as there will be plenty of time to arrange for the trip. This is necessary to prevent anyone from cashing in his train ticket and selling his game ticket at a handsome profit.
The Cleveland Alumni Club has arranged a Victory Dance for Saturday night, and dates will be supplied by three colleges in the city, for those desiring to attend. Special privilege has been granted to the local campus Cleveland Club to leave here early. This is the only group who will receive this privilege. They are to help the Alumni Club in a rally to be staged in Cleveland on Friday night, and also to lend their services in the final planning of the Victory Dance.
Three trains, red, white, and blue will leave from the St. Mary’s siding at a time to be specified later. Tickets will be issued in three corresponding colors, and the holder will be obliged to ride on the designated train, to avoid crowding in any one particular coach.
For the benefit of those students wishing to remain in Cleveland overnight, the Alumni Club has announced that hotel reservations are not to be had. Anyone staying over will have to arrange lodgings for himself.
Furthei- specific data on this trip will be announced at a later date.
South American Students Exhibit Ecuadorian Art
Currently appearing in the catalogue room of the University Library is an art collection from Ecuador which was presented to the Library by Notre Dame students whose homes are in South America. The collection is housed in three glass-top tables, and, besides its historical significance, is very picturesque.
42,000 Fans—Holloway
(Continued from Page 17) look spectacular at any time, but if the opposition is caught napping, Purdue will surprise someone some Saturday afternoon. Notre Dame is THE name in football for ’47, but Purdue has always been known to spring an upset now and then. -
“Travel by air” will be the Boilermakers’ motto for the day. Bob DeMoss,
accurate-throwing junior from Kentucky, and Kenny Gorgel, sophomore stalwart, will be held responsible for the tossing end of the passing combine. Three ends—Capt. Ned Maloney, Bob Heck, and Clyde Grimenstein—will usually be found on the receiving end of Boilermaker passes. The end positions are the strong points in the Purdue line.
What hopes Holcomb has for a running attack will rest on the shoulders of four sophomores, Norby Adams, George Papach, Jack Milito, and Harry Szul-borski. Adams and Szulborski are halfbacks and Milito and Papach alternate at the fullback spot.
Holcomb uses the T formation—Army style. In front of his T machine Phil O’Reilly, Ray Stoelting, Pete Barbolak, and Lou Karrass are the choices for action as tackles. Earl Murray, Abe Gib-ron, Tom Hard, and Art Haverstock get the call at guard. Angelo Carnaghi and Bill Sprang alternate at the pivot spot.
The starting Boilermaker line averages slightly better than 210 pounds and the backs average 193.
Gridmen Wary—Leander
(Continued from Page 17)
and honey at Ross-Ade Stadium tomorrow.
On the other hand, the team returned from Pittsburgh in approximately the same shape in which it left, an extremely rare occurrence for rough and tumble college gridiron clashes. Johnny Lu-j ack’s passes were little short of superb, and never short of his receivers. Twice, with the pressure hard upon him, he hurled with devastating accuracy, a feat in which the line contributed much in the form of airtight protection. Such passing tomorrow will add measurably to the invasion. Too, the ends looked very good against Pitt, refusing time and again to be turned in. Bill Wightkin charged through to block Pitt’s only chance for a point after touchdown. Bill Walsh played a fine game subbing for Bull Strohmeyer, and was called upon to start the second half, which began to look like an entirely different ball game as Notre Dame reserve strength began to tell on the tiring one-string Panthers.
With another wek of scrimmage under their belts and Father Norton’s first step taken, the squad should settle down to the precision play that characterizes all Frank Leahy teams. The first game is always a crucial melee for it is during that opening contest that the team proves to itself exactly what its capabilities are. Six times it offered evidence last Saturday, and odds are Moose Connor will take his case to the jury tomorrow.
25
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3) Dear Editor:
After having established an INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE BUREAU, I—on behalf of members on my waiting list—take leave to apply to you. May I request you to put me in touch with readers of your paper interested in friendly correspondence?
Having been secluded from the outside world these long years, and yearning for a real democratic enlightenment and a personal contact from man to man across borders, my members would only too gladly welcome and answer letters from abroad. Most of my members (among them scientists, students, experts, businessmen and other well-educated ladies and gentlemen, and also hobbyists, housewives and even young boys and girls) have a fairly good knowledge of English, but would also be pleased to write in German, if desired. I am sure my members will try and give their pen-friends every satisfaction.
Individuals and groups of persons may communicate with me direct stating their particulars and interests. All letters will be attended to and all applications linked up. If possible, two or three reply coupons should be enclosed to cover expenses, and also—to save time—an introductory letter to future pen-friends over here will be appreciated.
Pen-friendships are a step towards tne creation of that international friendship and goodwill that is so essential to understanding and peace, don’t you think so?
Yours hopefully, (Miss) Anna-Maria Braun, (13b) Munchen 15, Lindwurmstrasse, 126/A Germany—Bavaria— U.S. Zone
P.S. Restrictions do not allow me to make remittances from this country. So
Mrs. R. W. Kiley, 441 Cottage Grove 4-0750
1 DOUBLE BOOM
Notre Dame students will share double room. Close to bus. Large closet. Share the bath.
mWHIMGMFOMAnON
Stag M MH 32-me Ms Ifo. 16

what can I send you in return for your kindness to have this letter published? Please, let me know!	AMB
Dear Editor:
May I make three suggestions? 1. That November 8th be made Rockne Day (date of Army game); 2. That the band parade the campus in the same or similar manner on the days of home games before entering the Stadium as it does for pep rallies to create a greater spirit; 3. That the school hymn be played more often by the band at games. Any reaction, fellows?
Jerry Heberlein, 302 Alumni
The Scorner's Seat (Continued from Page 6) ceive salaries so high, as Mr. Pegler points out, that they endeavor to make less, so as to avoid Uncle Sam’s long arm. All of which is the best argument I can think of for confiscatory taxation.
OF HUMAN FOIBLES:
Why is it that the veriest duffer on the golf links always has advice to offer his fellow in woe? More than once have I, who shoot 200 on good days, been pulled, pushed, twisted, and assaulted by self-appointed teachers who seem to know just how it’s done. The teachers then proceed to the tee, from whence they drive the ball, with great force and violence, into the ground, about ten feet away. None of this advice is consistent with any other, of course. A hundred doctors, a hundred remedies. The pile of motes that should be cast from the eyes of helpful golfers would cover the fairways.
FOREWARNED, FOREARMED DEP T:
It has come to my ears that certain profs over in that utilitarian bastion of modernity, the College of Commerce, have been making snide remarks about the Scholastic. And this, mind you, to a very impressionable group of nice young men. Howsoever, I met a witch last night in the moonlight who told me how to turn obdurate professors into toads.
THE NEW ARMY
The United States Army, which, in this time of tension and strife, is attempting to lure all kinds of farm boys under its company street lamps, persists in throwing mud. in its own bloodshot eye. To the surprise of nobody, one General Lee, who was exposed last summer by Scripps-Howard’s Robert Rouark, has been “cleared” by an InspectorGeneral sent to Italy. ’Tis said that the name of Gen. Lee still strikes terror into the heart of any E.M. who came close enough to be blinded by the brilliance of
his stars. But still he goeth forth, full of truth, light, and exoneration, duly smiled upon, officially, by the Army. Yes, men between 18 and 35, you’ll like Uncle Sam’s new Army.
N.D. Class Ring Privilege Reserved for Seniors
Acting upon the recommendation of the Blue Circle, the Student Council has announced that, effective immediately, the purchase of Notre Dame rings is reserved to senior undergraduates of the seventh and eighth semesters only. In most of the colleges and universities of the country, the class ring is a longstanding tradition. Class rings are a means of identifying Notre Dame men after leaving school, and signify an upperclassman in undergraduate days.
Before the war, Notre Dame partially held to this tradition, but during the war years the restrictions were relaxed because of the demands of men who were leaving for service and would be absent for several years.
The Student Council feels that now is the time to re-establish this tradition to build up the prestige of the class ring for its own sake and for its use in uniting and identifying the men of Notre Dame in the years after graduation.
Class rings may be ordered at the Bookstore on the presentation of identification cards. As soon as lists are available, juniors of the sixth semester will also be permitted to purchase class rings.
It is the desire of the Student Council to encourage the purchase of class rings by eligible upperclassmen and to make the possession of this ring an honor and a privilege.
La Raza Club to Celebrate Birth of Latin America
El Dia de la Raza (Columbus Day) will be celebrated by the University La Raza (The Race) Club again this year at its annual banquet commemorating the date. This holiday is of special significance to La Raza Club in that the club’s name is derived from the name of the holiday. Latin Americans, however, celebrate this holiday for a different reason: because the Latin American race was “born” on the day Columbus discovered America.
Speakers for the occasion, which will be tomorrow evening in the Blue Room of the Oliver Hotel, will include Frank Gross, leading industrialist from Milwaukee; Jose C. Corona, professor of Spanish at the University; and Jaime Velez, teaching fellow of Spanish and graduate student in philosophy.
26
((Ill(t DADADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
JUST THINKIN'
Ohio State University has a new rule prohibiting radios at football games . . . strange, outlawing a device that was actually invented, or created in the Garden of Eden when Adam’s rib was fashioned into the first loud speaker . . . but radio has come a long way since then . . . the radio is now within the reach of all . . . and it’s a wonder more of them aren’t smashed . . . and these radio announcers ... we won’t mention any names but many of them who are on the ether should be under it.
game on Nov. 8, our junior partners from King’s College in Wilkes-Barre are taking up the cudgel. They play the Army plebes at West Point. Ex-GI’s in the King’s line-up are said to have good memories.
An entomology prof at Minnesota tells us that beeswax is used in lipstick. Don’t get stung, men.
He also says a law in aerodynamics
claims that bees can’t fly. These engineers! They give everybody the word except the bees . . . and after hnzzing around all these years they’d just love to know that they’re not supposed to fly . . . according to the engineers, that is.
SEND-OFF TONIGHT
In place of a rally there will be an informal send-off tonight at the Circle at 8:45, as the football squad leaves for Lafayette, it was announced by the Blue Circle.
READ IT AND WEEP . ..
The social calendar at Minnesota U. over a two-day period reads: student picnic, sport and style show, barn dance, football frolic dance, graduate students' dinner, new student dance, football pep fest . . . and their University Theatre this year is presenting “Lysistrata.” “Oedipus the King,” “The Wild Duck,” “Arms and the Man,” “Tom Sawyer,” “Macbeth,” “Heidi,” and “Beggar on Horseback.” . . .
ON FOREIGN FIELDS . . .
The St. Louis University News gave quite a blow to ND’s Marty McLaughlin for his recent article in America concerning the dismal attitude of Catholic college authorities toward students. We advise everyone to read this article.
The Biology Department at Ball State has completed a new book entitled “Trees on Ball State Teachers College Campus" . . . now we hear that as his thesis, a student here has been ordered to compile an epic entitled, “Blades of Grass on the Notre Dame Campus."
Even though Notre Dame and Army are severing athletic relations with that
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS CLUB
All students interested in joining the International Affairs Club of the University of Notre Dame are invited to attend the meeting Wednesday, Oct. 15, 7:30 p. m.. Room 104, Law Building.
You’re the man most likely to succeed!
" Van Hensen shirts
You’re the star wherever you go in Van Heusen Shirts. You’ll like the smart sewmanship, the low-set collar models, the action tailoring, figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Fan Heusen Shirts. 53.25, 53.95, $4.50. Phuxips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
27.