apr i: ’33
'tea-*
Scholastic
$3.00 THEYEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
MARCH 17
1933
p,	p 1°®“ 4-5661 °	| Residence 3-4041	X-ray
DR. E. S. LUCAS	
■■	D e n t i s t	
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel	South Bend, Indiana
Office Phone 3-3309
Res. Phone 5-1343
DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan
U (10 to 12 Hl.
Hours _
/3 to 5 p. m.
South Bend, Indiana
Office Phone 3-2574
Residence Phone 4-6354
Corrective Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg.
South Bend, Ind.
„	(10 to 11:30 a. m.
Hours	_
/z to 4 p. m.
DR. H. BOYD-SNEE
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
716 J. M. S. Budding
South Bend, Indiana
Space Reserved
Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.	
	
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST Dentists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building	( (
	-
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street	c
	c
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.	€
	
Space Reserved	
March 17, 1933
One
"THE LINNETS"
Present "THE VAGABONDS" A ROMANTIC COMIC OPERA
.	Under direction of	.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Director of Music
Cast of 17 Male Voices	Orchestra of 13 Pieces
THE CAST:
John Ryan	Jerry Roach	Mark Finocchiaro	George Wenz
Jack Egan	Bob Nesbit	Lindsay Phoebus	Bob Butler
George Menard	Bill Casazza	Richard Shiels	
Justin Thompkins	Ned Quinn	Maurice Quinn	
John Henry	Dan Rolfs	George Wolf	
March 29-30-31	Admission 25 cents
Notre Dame’s Mementos of America’s Fighting Irish
At top: “Absolution Under Fire” by Paul Wood—showing Very Reverend William Corby, C.S.C., giving general absolution to Irish Brigade at Gettysburg, July 2, 1863. Lower left: Left to right—swords of Brig. Gen. Thomas F. Meagher, Brig. Gen. W. S. Rosecrans, Major Gen. Shields. Lower right: Flag of Irish Brigade.» All originals are in Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at Notre Dame. (Story on page 16)
March 17, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	hk I	^^^k	1 I	Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Vn:vers- I	I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I 11^^ I	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to ,	,	.	_	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos. October 3,1917.
cations Office, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865	authorized June 23, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns.................
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors	
F. GRANGER WEIL	WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE	■	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM	DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.....Assistant Netos Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI.......ROBERT	ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL	WIEDL
JAMES A. HART
Desk Editors
PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS.................The Week
ROGER BEIRNE .............Theatre Talk
ROGER MCGOVERN...........College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL............Staff Artist
• Sports Staff
FRED Macbeth	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.________Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH............Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER...........Circulation Manager HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
MARCH 17, 1933
No. 20
S UMM ARIES
Ed Butler takes two firsts in S. A. C. swimming meet;
is high point man of meet....................!
NEWS
New University Regulations on .Board and Tuition An-
nounced this Week................................ 5
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 24............... 5
Lawyers’ Ball Set For April 28..................... 5
Author of “The Vagabonds” Writes to N. D........... 6
“Absurdities” now called “Monogram High Jinks”...... 7
University Theatre Presentation Tonight............ 7
Girls’ “Juggler” In Making......................... 9
Symphony Orchestra Concert Next Week...............11
FEATURES
Charles Fiss in “Man About Campus”.................. 8
“Voice of Campus”.................................... 9
Sullivan writes on Irish Architecture................12
Famous Orators of Ireland in Retrospect.............13
“The Irish Brigade” by Joseph Petritz...............16
Significance of the Gold Standard...................17
SPORTS
' Metcalfe sets world’s record in 60 yard dash at C. I. C. track meet at which Michigan Normal displaces Notre Dame as Champion................................20
Baseball candidates hold first practice; to shift workouts to Cartier field soon.......................20
Morrissey, Lyons, and Dillon tie for lead in interhall
. Group I ................-........................21
Notre Dame eagers defeat Minnesota in final game 31-27 ...........................................21
Northwestern places two men on all-opponent team; Fergus of Carnegie Tech is given captaincy.......22
Review of basketball season.............................  23
Introducing Clyde Roberts..................................24
Splinters From the Press Box............................  25
On Down The Line..................................    ...132
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, March 17.—“Where There’s Women There’s Trouble,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.; The Scholastic Editorial board meeting at 6:30 p. m., Editorial Rooms; general staff meeting, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 18.—Movie, Washington Hall, “Once in a Lifetime” with Jack Oakie.
SUNDAY, March 19.—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00, a. m.; Knights of Columbus Community Breakfast after the 8:00 o’clock Mass in the Lay Faculty Dining Room; Benediction at 7:00 p. m. for upperclassmen; 7:30 p. m., for freshmen and students of Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls.
MONDAY, March 20.—Symphony Orchestra Practice, 6:30, Washington Hall; Dr. J. L. Wilson of South Bend will lecture on “Appendicitis” at 8:00 p. m. in the Law Building auditorium.
TUESDAY, March 21.—Meeting, Economics Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Meeting of the Patricians Club, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 22.—Meeting of the Wranglers, Professor Richard Seidel directing, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.; Meeting of the Spectators, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 23. — Symphony Orchestra concert, Professor Richard Seidel directing, Washington Hall; Meeting of the Spectators, 8:10 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
^^TUDENTS who watched the entrants in the Central Intercollegiate meet qualify last Friday night were disappointed in Ralph Metcalfe. The wiser ones who realized that stars seldom exert themselves in qualifying rounds, were not disappointed when the new “world’s fastest human” sprinted to a new world’s record Saturday night. The rise of this star has been sensational from the night when, as a Chicago high school boy, he stepped out ahead of the best British Empire and American Olympic stars to win the special hundred meter dash. Marquette must be proud of him.
▼
HE novena for a happy marriage now in progress has given the senior halls new grounds for discussion at the inevitable sessions. Some of the questions brought up are decidedly materialistic. One aspiring benedict furnished figures to prove that a college man could get married as soon as he was earning a hundred and fifty dollars a month. He itemized the expenditures as follows: rent, thirty-five dollars; food, sixty dollars; luxuries, twenty-five dollars; clothes, thirty dollars; savings account for necessities, twenty dollars. Another one in the group said it couldn’t be done on less than three hundred dollars a month. But then he’s the kind that would spend five dollars on a Prom corsage and wear sport shoes in three feet of snow. (Please address all remarks to the “Voice of the Campus!”)
V V E wish that the campus would get this first robin question settled. Each hall has its own sharp-sighted champion, but some of the stories should be ruled out. There ought to be a time limit of some kind. Any robin seen before the middle of February should have his amateur standing taken away. Think what it does to campus morale. Students begin to yawn suspiciously in afternoon classes, and mashies and midirons are polished. Then we get another one of those March blizzards! Those robins ought to realize that their style is cramped terribly when the thermometer is around zero.
OR the first time in many years, tryouts were held for a fencing team last Monday at Notre Dame. If you will look at some of the pictures of Notre Dame track teams in the days when handlebars were not the exclusive right of bicycles, you will see fencing equipment conspicuously present. Of course in those days the track team had to do everything from throwing a beam to tugging rope. Anyone that has ever seen a fencing match will realize that it is a sport in every sense of the word. It involves everything except brute strength. It shows faster footwork than boxing, it is more individual than tennis, and the most falsely slandered of any sport. Watch the team work out some time, you will get a pleasant surprise.
„ OST of you probably have seen Leo (Hurry-up) Keating rushing around the campus. He will probably calm down now. His basketball days are 'finished. . Leo used to do most of the suffering for the team before and during a game. He took basketball seriously. Whether on the bench or in a game he was like a jack-in-the-box of steel wire. With Johnny Baldwin, he worried his last at Minnesota Saturday night. But Leo will always worry. After he worries about the monogram initiation he will worry about getting his degree. Cares are Leo’s dissipations.
The SCHOLASTIC last week wisely announced the preregistration dates. The juniors and seniors of next year should take the hint and begin looking over a catalogue now. There are many interesting things in the catalogue besides a list of classes. The University offers many prizes at the end of each year. The wise ones start working for these prizes in their junior year or before. The Director of Studies does not advertise these prizes on the bulletin board, but fifty or a hundred dollars in gold coming at Commencement wouldn’t make any one sad right at this time, or at any other time.
March 17, 1933
APRIL 28 IS DATE OF LAWYERS’ ANNUAL BALL
Universal N. D. Night Will be Celebrated By
Alumni on April 24
Five
STUDENT EXPENSES FOR 1933-34 ARE PUBLISHED
Admission Will Be Cut, Says Law Club President.
The Lawyer’s Ball, annual formal sponsored by the Law Club of the University, will be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom on Friday evening,
Joseph Deeb
The lawyers know the times.
April 28, according ot an anounce-ment made early this week to The Scholastic by Joseph Deeb, president of the club.
While no definite price has been set on the tickets to the affair, it is understood that the lawyers will cut the three dollar admission of 1932 to a figure more in keeping with present campus capital. Said Deebs in regard to the ticket topic: “Cutting the price of the Ball will mean doing away with a lot of little things, but we are determined to give an economical dance this year.”
The chairmanship of the Ball and the various committees will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.

Columbia Group Finds
“Spectator” Was Wrong
An investigating committee which was set to work to find out about athletics at Columbia University after the Spectator, student newspaper had charged over-emphasis, last week reported that not only was there not too much athletics at Columbia, but that not enough students there were being given athletic training.
Universal Notre Dame Night will be observed throughout the country on April 24th, according to an official announcement made this week. The detailed program for the annual celebration has not as yet been completed.
Universal Notre Dame Night is of special significance to every local alumni club of the University. It is the one night of the year above all others when the officers and members of the club meet and plan some activity. A national hook-up planned for this year, was cancelled because of economic conditions.
Tenth Celebration
The annual affair has been observed for nine years by the alumni clubs. One of the most important things to be stressed this year by these organizations is the exertion of every possible effort to bring to Notre Dame only the best prospective students.
Each alumni club of the University will make definite plans for the night. The University this year is taking special pains to cooperate with the clubs in securing speakers. As far as possible, they will be sent from the Notre Dame campus to nearby districts.
Bengal Boxing Show Nets
Foreign Missions $144.23
The following report of the Bengal Boxing Show was submitted this week to the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion:
Total attendance_______________1,377
Total Paid attendance__________1,267
Total gate receipts____l_____§334.15
Expenses:
Referee’e expenses__________§ 6.90
Acc’t Berman’s Sport Co_____ 24.73
Ticket Printing_____________ 7.50
Placard printing____________• 11.96
Erection and dismantling of boxing ring (twice)_________ 12.60
South Bend Clinic___________ 18.00
St. Joseph’s Hospital_______	8.50
Prizes ____________________ 87.00
Miscellaneous______________ 12.73
Total expenses_____________§189.92
Net receipts
§144.23
Semester Bills Will Range From $343 to $401.50.
The following announcement regarding 1933-34 student fees and expenses was made to The Scholastic early this week:
The fees to be paid to the University are: A matriculation fee of §10 —payable once only on first entrance of the student.
A tuition and general fee of §343 for each semester—which entitles the student to instruction for the semester; meals in the University dining-hall; laundry, to extent of normal requirement ; dormitory space in Brownson Hall or in Carroll Hall; the use of the general Library and the department libraries; admission to the lectures, concerts and entertainments in Washington Hall; attendance, dispensary service, and medical attention in the students’ infirmary in time of sickness; the use of the gymnasium, the athletic fields, and the University golf course; admission to the athletic contests at Notre Dame; a copy of the Scholastic each week during the schoolyear; and a copy of the Dome in the second semester.
Residence Arrangements
For the student desiring it, there is available a private room in one of the eleven residence halls of the University at a tuition and general fee varying as follows:
For the Freshman—In Freshman Hall at §379 the semester; in Dillon Hall at §401.50 the semester.
For the Sophomore — In St. Edward’s Hall at §388 the semester; in Morrissey Hall at §397 to §401.50 the semester; in Lyons Hall at §397 to §401.50 the semester.
For the Junior—In Badin Hall at §361 to §388 the semester; in Howard Hall at §388 to §401.50 the semester: in Alumni Hall at §401.50 the semester.
For the Senior—In Corby Hall at §361 to §388 the semester; in Sorin Hall at §361 to §388 the semester; in Sorin Hall at §361 to §388 the semester; Walsh Hall at §379 to §401 the semester.
Any student not living with his parents in the vicinity of the University is required to live on the (Continued on Page 11)
The Scholastic
Author of “Vagabonds”: ‘Good Luck to You, Lads’
ANNUAL POLITICS TRIP SET FOR APRIL 23-27
TICKET SALE NOW ON
“The Linnets** is Name Chosen For N. D. Operatic Players; Rehearsals Progress.
By James Byrne
“The Linnets,” for that is the name by which the organization which is staging the operetta, “The Vagabonds,” is henceforth to be known, are
Rev. Charles McAllister, C.S.C.
Technical Director of operetta.
the recipients of the best wishes of Arthur A. Penn, author of the musical comedy. In a letter addressed to the president of the Rhode Island Club, the composer says: “I wrote the playlet in an ancient T-Model on Block Island, and found it a very comfortable and delightful way of passing a few hours in the warmth of those summer days. When the imitation leather on the seat got too hot to sit on comfortably, I just went inside to a more or less discouraged piano that I had hired for the month from somebody in Providence who certainly soaked me an outrageous rental for it, and ground out the tunes that now constitute what I euphemistically call the ‘score’ of the piece.”
“I wish I could be among those present on the occasion. That being out of the question, I shall hope for a further favor in the shape of an unvarnished and truthful report as to the
First Shipment of *34 Pins Arrives on Campus
During the Week
The difficulties surrounding the gold embargo legislation having been cleared up, the Junior pins have at last arrived. The first shipment, which was due a week ago, came this morning.
Many orders have already been taken by the class representatives. The committee intends to fill the orders immediately with this first shipment. As the remaining applications for pins come in they will be shipped from the manufacturer. The pin committee, composed of Joseph Condon, president of the Junior Class, Francis O’Hara, chairman, and George Melinkovich, Joseph Clark, John Brennan, Hugh Devore, Cappy Smith, and Ray Troy, committee members, are taking the orders.
success or otherwise of the performance. Good luck to you, lads. Go to it, and I hope you knock ’em dead out in front.”
Of the several suggestions offered for the name of new campus organization, “The Linnets,” was chosen because it is the name of a particular song bird of the finch tribe which, though common in the Old World, is symbolic of song, poetry, and romance in Ireland.
Fr. McAllister Directing
The operetta is under the direction of the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., who is acting as technical director, and Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, musical director.
The ticket sale for the comic opera is now under way. While there will be no reserved seats, there is only a limited number of tickets available. There will be no standing room on any of the nights of the production. Tickets are limited to the seating capacity of the hall. The students are being given the first opportunity to purchase these tickets. The fee is twenty-five cents; the profits go to the Bengal Missions. The operetta is to be given on the evenings of March 29, 30, and 31, in Washington Hall, at eight o’clock.
Rate of $32.75 Will Include Fare, Meals, Hotel, etc.
By Thomas Proctor
All aboard for Washington, D. C.l At least that will be the cry of the financially blessed present and exstudents • of American Government who join Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor in Politics, on the annual Washington Tour of the Politics I classes next month, April 23rd to April 27th. The price of the tour will be $32.75.
This unusual figure, which covers every expense of the itinerary, fare, meals, hotel accommodations, sight- • seeing, and all such necessary expenditures, was quoted by both the Penn- ' sylvania and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroads. It has not been detemined as yet just which road will be given the supervision of the trip.
Tour Branches Out
Students fortunate enough to make this tour will see the Capitol City at a time when history is in the making. Under personal escort, furnished by the railroad from the moment of departure on Sunday, April 23rd, until the day of return, Thursday, April 27th, the group will be taken to Washington, D. C., Annapolis Naval Academy, Mt. Vernon, and Fort Meyer, Virginia.
While in Washington the group will cover every nook and cranny of the historic city. They will view the White House, capital building, congressional library, department building, and others. They will see and hear the senate and house of representatives in session, and with them the judicial branch of our government, the Supreme Court.
From the capital the tour will . branch out to include visits to Mount j Vernon, majestic ancestral home of George Washington, historic Fort I Myer in Virginia, and Annapolis J; Naval Academy, the cradle of United ; States naval power.
If the trip were to Washington alone, there would be enough to observe in the way of buildings and celebrities, and enough to hear while attending legislative and judicial sessions to make such a trip a lifelong remembrance, says Mr. Bartholomew. Any interested student is invited to make the trip.
March 17, 1933
Seven
REHEARSALS BEGIN ON ‘MONOGRAM HIGH JINKS’
Twelve Acts to be Given by Monogram Men.
“The Monogram High Jinks,” in twelve fast-moving acts, is the pres-■ entation of the Notre Dame Monogram Club for 1933. The show, filled with snappy skits and a comely chorus, is under the direction of Joe Kurth. The dates set for the production are May 4 and 5.
Nick Lukats will act as Master of Ceremonies and will introduce the various numbers in his best cosmopol-. , itan manner. The entire theme of the presentation is based along the lines of a musical revue, but all attempts at farce and slapstick have been eliminated.
Novel Endings Planned
► ' An innovation appears in this production. Instead of having a curtain at the end of each act, a unique method of “fading out” at the finish of each scene will be employed.
The ladies of the chorus are as follows: Charles Jaskwhich,“ Kitty” Gor-* man, Jack Robinson, “Butch” Pivar-nik, “Moose” Krause, Fred MacBeth, Hugh Devore, Joe Fagan, Al McGuff, Herb Christman, and Phidell Osborn.
Professor Joseph Casasanta, and his musicians, will appear in the show and their program will be composed - of several novelty arrangements.
Fr. Nieuwland’s Name Listed in Science “Who’s Who”
The fifth edition of Biographical Directory o f American Men in Science as compiled for the year 1932, includes the name of Father Julius Ar- . thur Nieuwland, C.S.C., head of the Department of Chemistry of the University.
By a purely objective selection, supervised and collected by J. McKeen Cattell, 250 names of men eminent in science in America, comprise the list. The Directory, established over 30 years ago has become a recognized authority in its ratings.
The distinction tendered Father Nieuwland follows closely his election to a fellowship in the British Chemical Society, and marks another achievement in his brilliant career.
Stage Is Set For Greek Play Production Tonight
Mitchell Playwriting Contest Open; Deadline
For Manuscripts, May 1.
Announcement is made of the William Mitchell Playwriting contest sponsored each year by the University to all students interested in the writing of drama, by Professor Charles Phillips, Department of English.
All manuscripts must be in the hands of Prof. Phillips by May 1.
They must be typewritten in triplicate copy and either sent or brought up to Room 3411, Sorin Hall. The prize for the best play submitted is $50 in gold. Announcement of the award is made at the Commencement exercises in June.
Good Plays In The Part
Several plays written by students in past years for this contest have won national recognition. Last year, “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop” written by Robert Sullivan, ’31, was produced by the University Players. “Where There’s Women, There’s Trouble,” to be presented tonight in Washington Hall, while not a prize play, was submitted by Charles O’Malley in 1930 for the Mitchell award.
What Price Education?
The increase in the bill for education in the United States has been forty times doubled in as many years.
In 1880 it cost $78,094,687 to see 15,065,767 pupils through the three “R’s” or a little more than $5 per head each year.
In 1914 the cost had risen to $555,-077,146 for 26,002,153 pupils, or $21.34 a head.
With a proportionate increase in numbers, the figures rose to a billion dollars in 1920, two billions in 1926 and the present three billions. The cost per pupil is then close to $100 as against five dollars in 1880.
These figures, considered in the light of results obtained and the present condition of the public treasury, make Commissioner Cooper’s plea for a Federal Subsidy look like the little boy crying for jam when he already has butter and sugar on his bread.
CURTAIN AT EIGHT
University Players Will Give One Performance; Play is Laboratory Project.
By Mitchell C. Tackley
When the curtain rises in Washington Hall at 8 o’clock tonight, the audi-! ence will be exposed to the interior i of a tent ’midst a typical Trojan bat-
Tighe Woods
Will irear the armor of Achilles.
tie. The tent will be draped with costly silks and will be furnished with the splendor known only to the heads of the ancient Greek armies. Contrary to previous announcements, the play, “Where There’s Women, There’s Trouble,” will be given at only one performance, that of tonight.
Six members of the University Theater comprise the cast of characters. The leading role, the part of Achilles, is played by the versatile Tighe Woods. Around him is woven the plot of the story. This plot follows closely that of the classic “Iliad.”
By Mitchell C. Tackley
The drama is being produced as a laboratory project. The script was written by a student of Professor Phillip’s class in playwriting last year. Members of both Prof. Phillip’s class in “Dramatic Technique,” and Prof. Kelly’s class in “Acting,” have been auditing the production of the play. The results obtained from the performance tonight are to be used for study by the students of drama.
(Continued on Page 10)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
NJ. IS DEBATE WINNER OVER NICIIGAN STATE
By J. D. Porterfield
We thought a piano in a Dillon Hall room was strange, but a sofa in a Walsh Hall room seems to fall in the same category. Has anybody seen a bicycle in Sorin? Nevertheless, we thought Walsh 225 was rather a nifty treat in the way of rooms.
Having cast an appreciative eye over the photographs and such, we turned to the business in hand and greeted an old campmate of ours, Charles Fiss by name. It is a well-hidden fact around the campus that Charley is a consummate actor. Ask him some off day after the beer bill is passed, no longer a topic of conversation, about the time he played the part of an accident victim and broke his leg so realistically that it ached for weeks afterward.
Oshkosh, Wisconsin, a peculiar town in songs and on overall buttons, but one of the prettiest towns in the country in reality, is Charley’s home and headquarters. And unless you have an hour or so to spare, never mention beautiful Lake Winnebago to him.
Economic Major
An A.B., majoring in Economics, Charley has picked the right time to be a Senior. When he goes out into the depression next June there should be plenty of material for his talents. But despite the material mind of an economist, he proves the exception by being very much interested in philosophy, so much so that he would like very much to teach it, if possible. He is firm in his resolve never to become an undertaker, although he has worked several summers in that profession, and has even become so morbid as to write his thesis on the subject of the problems of the American Undertaker from an economical point of view. (Say, Mr. Funny Fellow, couldn’t we make a joke out of that?)
All evidences to the contrary notwithstanding, Charley reads Time and even indulges in his roomie’s New Yorker when the weather is dull. He is silent on the subject of Willa Cather, but modifies ths negation by admitting he has never read knowingly two books by the same author.
One of the local Knights of Columbus, Charley is lecturer for the Notre Dame Council. This sounds like it must take quite a bit of work, but we wouldn’t know. Other Knights ad
mit, though, that Charley is one of the best.
Speaking of golf, Chuck is very enthusiastic about tennis and someday hopes to make par on the clay courts.
Charles Fiss '
His thesis: Undertaking.
A heritage of his high schools days at St. Peter’s, basketball has always interested him. Charley was a member of the team that competed for Oshkosh in the State Catholic Tournament at Milwaukee his Senior year.
Jig-saw Specialist
Very appropriately, at this point, the roommate chimed in with the information that Mr. Fiss is to the jigsaw puzzle game, what Mr. Culbertson is to bridge. His time on any puzzle has never been beaten. And if that isn’t the sign of a good eye, you try sitting up some night until two hunting for the piano leg in the left hand corner.
We could go on, telling events of the K. C. Ball and other things, but we see the look in his eye and are quelled. Gentlemen, we nominate for your approval this week, Charles Fiss.
Art Lecture Postponed
Mr. F. M. Ludevig’s next art lecture, originally scheduled for March 23rd, has been postponed until April 6th. The reason for this change is that Professor Richard Seidel will present his Symphony Orchestra concert, March 23rd.
Brennan and Baer Get Two to Nothing Decision.
Roger Brennan and Max Raer, representing the University of Notre Dame in forensic competition, argued themselves to a victory to launch successfully the varsity debate season last Friday night by gaining a two to nothing decision over Michigan State College.
The question debated was, “Resolved: that at least 50% of the state and local revenues of Indiana and Michigan should be derived from sources other than a tax on tangible property.” A large audience heard this contest, which began at eight o’clock in Washington Hall.
Five Points Considered
Professor J. M. McBurney of Michigan University, the critic judge, awarded his decision on the basis of five points: analysis, argument, evidence, refutation, and delivery. He gave the negative of Notre Dame a slight advantage on both argument and refutation and called the other three points of judgment a “toss-up.” However, Professor McBurney did say that the analysis of the negative was not systematically refuted by the affirmative, and based his decision largely on this general fact.
In commenting on delivery the judge said, “All four speakers seemed to me to be ranting in delivery. Perhaps a less bombastic and more sincere style would have been impressive.” Nevertheless the audience affirmed that it was greatly in sympathy with the humorous turns often taken by the bombast.
Strong Affirmative Side
Paul Kindig and Robert Hurley did an excellent piece of work for the affirmative side of the debate. Kindig’s method of dealing simply with his material was effective, and Hurley made probably the most clear-cut analysis of the issues involved in his rebuttal speech. Hurley also proved himself to be a very convincing speaker.
In constructive argument the affirmative presented points to the effect that there are inherent and unchangeable defects in the tangible property tax, that taxes are not distributed equitably, and that the tangible prop-(Continued on Page 32)
March 17, 1933
Nine
M’CABE TO TURN TABLES IN GIRLS’ “JUGGLER”
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Next Number to be His Eulogy On Women.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
Girls may wear men’s trousers this season but they’re still a bunch of softies, and not much use all around according to the Juggler. It has been a custom of many years standing to request the darlings to provide contributions for an issue, and then to .dedicate it to them with pretty pictures and accompanying words of praise for the contributions, and a beaming smile on women in general.
Well, the Old Scripper has had enough of this. He says it may mean the dissolution of home ties (his mother and sisters are women) but he’s going to tell what he thinks of them. Take love for instance: It has its good points but look at its drawbacks. Only a few of the very fortunate result in a broken romance. And it’s much more economical to nourish a broken heart than a family —or two families, if you marry a financier’s daughter.
' Pulchritude, Too
For those who like pretty faces the Old Scripper promises a few drawings in that vein. But although he has strained every nerve it has been rather difficult to obtain written humor from the other sex. However, there are a few contributions from the thinking element, and if these can be forgiven the rest of the book will be up to standard.
Becvar, Doyle, Singson, and the other artists have labored faithfully, and the editorial staff have been unusually kind in donating. Hats off to the ladies!
Prize Essays Must Be
Turned in By May First
All those who are writing Prize Essays are warned, in a recent announcement by Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., that their work must be in by the first of May in order to eligible for the judging.
Movie Tomorrow Night
Jackie Oakie in “Once in a"*Life-time” will be shown in Washington Hall tomorrow night. Vincent Lopez and his orchestra will be seen on the same program in a short subject.
Bulbs
Editor of The Scholastic
Sorin Hall
Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Editor:
A few weeks ago a point was raised in the “Voice” which, to my mind, was well made and demanding of consideration. Some one complained about the lighting in Sacred Heart Church on Sundays—particularly during the sermons. It has the surest way to get a headache to keep one’s eyes on the individual giving the sermon. The bulbs are blinding. One either thinks of them constantly and gets his mind off the preacher, or shuts his eyes and does the same. Must we get up a petition to have something done about this?
G. G. M.
Philanthropist
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
I am very much in sympathy with “M. C. T.” about the lights in the church. I have weak eyes, and I like to see the preacher. The lights are bad and the fixtures are ugly. But instead of suggesting that something be done about them, why not for once change the formula to “let us do something about them.” I have five dollars saved up for something else which The Scholastic can have as soon as it wants to open a subscription for fixtures that will suit the beauty of the church and lights that will not blind us. How about it?
J. P. M.
Funny Fellow
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Ed:
After attending several track meets and noticing how often the spectators are imperiled by the shot-putting event, I discussed this subject at my table. All agree that a cure should be and could be effected. And here is ours:
Why not have the entrants in this event take their positions approximately twenty feet from the south wall of the gym and propel the shot against that wall? The wall would be marked off vertically in feet and inches by which to mark how high
above the ground the shot strikes the wall. According to consulting engineers, Brinker and Joseph, the height at which the shot strikes the wall together with the depth of the impression so made can be used to a certain degree to ascertain how much farther the shot would have traveled had the wall not been there. Of course, we realize the shortcomings of our suggestion but in the words of Bob Thune, who stands head and shoulders above the average student, “Such an innovation would go far to revolutionize the event.”
Feeling that in view of public welfare a change is warranted, we know that by placing our suggestion in your responsible hands it will. . . .
Sincerely yours,
Table 104.
Ph.B.
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
Two weeks ago I was released from my “executive” position. My last pay check just came on the day when the banks were ordered closed, so we use it for a book-mark.
This depression has certainly been a period of great educational value to the plodders who make up the bulk of our population. Aside from the traditional truism that experience is the best teacher, and that this generation at least will never again be duped by the philosophy that marked the 1921-29 era, just think of the great mass of non-scholastics who are just now beginning to learn the intension and extension of gold-standard, over-production, under-consumption, branch banking, holding companies, inflation, deflation, R. F. C., revaluation, distribution of wealth, commodity prices, communism socialism, distributism, collectivism, federal control of industry, the end of the laissez faire era, etc, etc, to say nothing of 3.2 beer.
But this is what I started out to say: I thought the issue of The Scholastic which you sent me the best I had ever read. There was something to it besides the dreary monotony of a note-book or a weekly weather report.
. . . ’31.
Ten
The Scholastic
ACCOUNTANTS CLUB TO HEAR CHICAGO PROFESSOR
Eminent Accountant Secured by New N. D. Club.
Professor Howard C. Greer, Chicago University, will give a talk on “Cost Accounting in the Meat Packing Industry” in the Law Building auditorium next Wednesday evening. He is the foremost man in the country on this subject and has supervised the installation of most of the cost systems in the industry. The newly formed Accountants Club secured him to give the talk.
Demonstrations Arranged
Mr. Greer, as well as being professor of accounting at the University of Chicago, is also a director of the Accounting Institute of American Meat Packers. He was formerly professor of Accounting at Ohio State University. Prof. Greer has written several books on accounting. Among them are Problems in Cost Accounting and Hoic to Understand Ac-counting. He is also a member of the executive committee of the American Association of University Instructors in Accounting.
The meeting is open to all Commerce men. The professional accountants of South Bend will be guests of the club.
The Accountants Club has arranged a series of four demonstrations by the Burroughs Adding Machine Company. These demonstrations will be given within the next thirty days and are on the adding machine, the calculating machine, the bookkeeping machine, and • the general accounting machine. The club is trying to arrange demonstrations by five other companies.
GREEK PLAY TONIGHT
(Continued from Page 7)
Others who will appear in the cast are Miss Charlotte Mourer as Briseis, Thomas Stritch as Promachos, Joseph McCabe as Ulysses, John Finneran as Patroculus, and James Boyle as Ajax.
All members of the audience are invited by the University Theatre to submit criticisms or suggestions concerning the production, direction, and general impression of “Where There’s Women, There’s Trouble.”
“Italy’s Aim For Peace” Is Discussed at Italian Meet
“Italy’s Aim For Peace” was the title of a paper read by Andrew Maffei to members of the Italian Club at a meeting held Tuesday evening, March 14. Maffei outlined the plan of the Fascist Council which dwells principally on three points:
First, the declaration of the Grand Council that the Italian foreign policy is guided by the firm intention not to disturb peace and to collaborate in the political, moral, and economic reconstruction of Europe. The second is that the disarmament conference-■will prove a failure unless it accepts the Italian proposals which were submitted at Geneva by Dino Grandi. The last point, after revealing with satisfaction the growth of movements similar to Fascism in various countries outside of Italy, urges all Fascists to collaborate and spread the Fascist spirit throughout the world.
The club’s enrollment was increased to thirty-six members with the addition of two new applicants, Joseph W. Schmidt, a sophomore in Commerce, and Anthony Sargi, a freshman in the Arts and Letters School. The next meeting, including a smoker, will be held in Walsh hall next Tuesday evening, March 21 at 6:30 o’clock. Other papers will be given and further announcements concerning the club skit will be made.
Library Has Three Famous Bible Editions on Display
On display this week and next in the file room of the University Library are three famous editions of the Bible.
“The Nuremberg Bible,” printed in 1483, was the first work to be artistically executed and richly illustrated after the art of printing was invented. It is translated into German and has an elaborate first page, with one letter done in gold leaf. “The Rosen Bible,” named after an error made in translation, is a copy of the “Douay Bible,” printed in 1610. “The Breeches Bible,” printed in 1608, boasts of several hand - embroidered silk illustrations.
These editions, distinguished by their errors, are important as examples of early attempts to lend an artistic touch to book illustrations.
TRAVEL NUMBER OF N.D.
“ALUMNUS” IS OUT TODAY
University and “Ave Maria” Press Save Publication.
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, has succeeded in publishing another issue of the Alumnus. This time the delay was partially caused by the editor’s absence from the University. “This issue of the Alumnus represents another vote of the faith in things, not as they are, but as they will be,” explains Secretary Armstrong in his editorial.
“So many announcements are of interest and concern during the next several months that it is extremely inadvisable to suspend the medium by which everyone can be reached. And through the courtesy of the University and the Ave Mama, we shall probably not be forced to this contingency,” continues the Editor. “But please do not confuse it with prosperity. And please try to make the already heavy burdens of the local institution as light as possible,” asks Mr. Armstrong.
Tribute To Rockne
The March number has as its theme —travel. The editor amplifies this theme with an interesting editorial on the educational and recreational benefits of travel and a pleasing account of his recent eastern trip.
“In Memorium,” an impressive tribute to Knute Rockne, “Greatest of Sports Leaders,” who died two years ago this month is included in this issue. An Associated Press despatch points out that 41 out of 50 newspaper sports writers and editors listed the late coach as “the sports leader of the last decade.”
“Notre Dame’s All-American Captains,” by J. Ray Hunt, ’28, is an interesting feature of this number. In reviewing the deeds of great Notre Dame captains of the past, he tells of such games as the one in which Adam Walsh played against Army with two broken hands.
“The Alumni” and “Personals,” two columns pertaining to the success, etc. of the alumni, should prove interesting reading for the graduates.
Most of our troubles in America today are due to our departure from the principles of Jefferson. — Claude G. Boivers.
March 17, 1933
Eleven
NEW REGULATIONS ON TUITION FEE ANNOUNCED
(Continued from Page 5)
campus and to take his meals in the University dining hall. No exception to this rule is permitted.
Thus the minimum expense of the full-time resident student for tuition, board, laundry, dormitory space, and the other things specified above under tuition and general fee, is §343 for a semester, or §686 for the schoolyear. The maximum expense for tuition and general fee for the student who takes a private room is §401.50 for a semester, or §803 for the schoolyear. There are a few rooms with private bath for which there is a small extra charge. The total expense, including clothes, books, laboratory fees, and incidentals, varies, according ot the course taken and the optional expenses of the individual student, between §800 and §1,000 for the schoolyear.
Pay Student Fees
The tuition and general fee for the day student is §150 the semester— which entitles the student to instruction for the semester and the other things enumerated above under tuition and general fee for the resident student, with the exception of board, lodging and laundry. For the day student requiring board and lodging at the students’ infirmary in time of illness there is a charge of §12 a week.
The tuition fee for the part-time student is §9 for each semester hour of instruction, and there is for such student an additional general fee of §25 which entitles him to the other things enumerated above under tuition and general fee for the resident student, with the exception of board, lodging and laundry.
. Additional Tees
The diploma fees for the several degrees conferred by the University are: for the degree of bachelor, §10; for the degree of master, §15; and for the degree of doctor, §25—payable before the conferring of the degree. There is a fee of §5 for any professional certificates given with a degree.
There are special fees for the use of laboratories in certain courses of science and engineering, and special tuition fees for some of the courses in music and in art, as specified in connection with the particular departments and courses, in this Bulletin.
(Continued on Page 14)
Catholic Women’s Council Acts Against Obscene Movies
In close co-relation with the campus movement sponsored by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, is a recent protest by 25,-000 Catholic women against the obscenity of the current motion picture productions.
That large number is represented in the protest sent to leading movie producers by the Dubuque (Iowa) Archdiocesan council of the National Council of Catholic women, protesting against immoral and obscene films. The protest is signed by 15 deanery presidents and has been forwarded individually to nine producers.
The stand of the Catholic group is best explained by the closing paragraph of their protest:
“We offer this protest in all good faith, realizing that a producer gives the public only what he believes it wants. In the name of approximately 25,000 members, we ask you to give consideration to our plea for cleaner films. We cannot countenance longer the type of film sent us in the past; and should they continue, we must make our protest felt at the box office.”
Professor Manion is Speaker On Indianapolis Program
Professor Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law was one of the principal speakers at the Fifth Annual St. Patrick Communion breakfast of the Ancient Order of Hibernians held last Sunday morning at the Claypool Hotel in Indianapolis.
The topic of the day referred to the reports of communism and crumbling of the U. S.’s structure. On the same program with Prof. Manion, were Governor Paul V. McNutt of Indiana, Meredith Nicholson, and Mayor Reginald H. Sullivan of Indianapolis.
Commerce School Gets Maps
The Department of Foreign Commerce of the College of Commerce has announced the receipt of ten new maps covering the important commercial areas of the world.
Among them is a 9 foot map of the Mediterranean, reported to be one of the best examples of cartography in the world.
CONCERT PROGRAM WILL INCLUDE LIGHT CLASSICS
Symphony Orchestra to Play Thursday, March 23.
Presenting a concert of the lighter classics the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidel, will play in Washington Hall next Thursday evening at 8:15.
The program will open with “The Merry Wives of Windsor” a popular overture by Nicolai. The Piano Concerto No. 1 by Mendelssohn will follow and will feature as soloist John Sharpe, who appeared with the. orchestra last year and received much acclaim for his interpretation and technique.
A March by Halvorsan and “The Suite Tyrolienne” by De Stefano will open the second part of the program. The latter consist of three parts, “In the Forest,” “At the Inn,” and “The Wooden Shoe Dance.”
Program Is Varied
From the pen of Ketelby the selection “In a Persian Market” follows which is a delightful descriptive number with oriental background. It depicts the approaching of a caravan to a Persian city, the market, with its beggars and charmers, its princess and finally the departure of the caravan.
The program will be concluded with the ever popular waltz “On the Beautiful Blue Danube” by Johann Strauss.
The present symphony is the outgrowth of a string ensemble which formerly was the sole musical organization on the campus offering classical numbers only.
The program:
PART I.
I.	Overture—“The Merry Wives of
Windsor” ...............Nicolai
II.	Piano—Concerto No. 1 ..Mendelssohn Soloist—Mr. John Sharpe.
PART II.
III.	March .................Halvorsen
IV.	Suite “Tyrolienne” .....di	Stefano
V.	In a Persian Market .....Ketelbey
VI.	On the Beautiful Blue Danube..J. Strauss
Professors at Boston University have found that they can make the most satisfactory lantern slides out of the transparent wrappers of cigars, and thus make, the slides at a cost of about one cent each instead of 50 cents which the old method cost.
The Scholastic
Twelve
Ireland Takes Her Place
Among Great Arthitects
By John Sullivan
“CATALYZER” RELEASED BY CHEMISTRY STUDENTS
Article On “Albertus Magnus” Features February Issue.
Ireland has a very special place in the history of Architecture. In this modern, twentieth-century world it will probably be considered a very humble place, but that is not strange or unusual and detracts nothing from the service Ireland has performed. We Irish cannot claim honestly, as some of our countrymen have vainly sought to do, that Ireland possessed any unequalled antiquity or beauty in Architecture as compared with works of ancient art in other countries. Our pardonable pride on the contrary, lies in the fact that owing to circumstances, the remains of a great number of monuments belonging to the period between the Sixth and Twelfth centuries of the Christian Era have survived. These monuments have been untouched by both destroyer and restorer and thus possess immeasurable value today. In these monuments we can trace a gradual development from an early and rude beginning to a very beautiful result. One style flows into another until an Irish form of Romanesque Architecture grows into perfection.
Monks And Architecture
The first knowledge of Ireland and Irish Architecture came to Europe in the Sixth century when the monks came to Christianize the Island. The monks adopted the native forms of Architecture in building their monasteries and churches, using the same materials and methods that the Irish had for centuries previous. In consequence some confusion has resulted in dating Irish remains. The first missionaries took over existing Irish buildings for their use and later built to suit their changing needs. Thus there is a tendency to mistake the native architecture with that later adaptation of it employed by the monks. A careful study by capable men has determined which of the existing ruins are to be placed before the advent of the missionaries. From the Sixth century onward the architecture developed rapidly due, no doubt, to the contact with the continent established at that time.
The Irish monuments, previous and subsequent to the Sixth century, are the only European examples of that period that have survived. Elsewhere the great European architecture of
the Twelfth and Thirteenth centuries either destroyed or incorporated the existing architecture. In this way Ireland has enabled archaeologists to trace European architecture directly back for ten centuries or more which cannot be done anywhere else.
First Buildings Without Cement
The first existing examples of Irish architecture are the pagan forts and dome-roofed sepulchres, built without the use of any form of cement, and showing the same ignorance of the principles of the arch which is common to the primitive structures of all countries. The use of cement was adopted about the Sixth century and other changes and improvements began to appear. Attempts at tooling the stone used, and a suggestion of a set of mouldings were introduced. At the same time the gradual introduction of ornament to the structures is apparent. It would seem that this ornament was applied without reference to gaining any effect or to add any beauty to the interior or exterior of the buildings. Such ornament was scattered about in no set way and we are now at a loss to understand its significance or appeal to the ancient builders. Some archaeologists attempt to explain this inconsistancy by stating that the ornament was added by other builders after the buildings had been completed, but this has been proved false. We know that the ornament was the work of the original artists and it still remains a mystery.
Trouble In Dating Ruins
As I have suggested previously, much trouble has arisen from attempts to date existing ruins in Ireland. There is a marked similarity between the mouldings on Irish ruins and those on ruins on the continent and in Britain. Impetuous archaeologists immediately seized upon this similarity as a means to date Irish ruins by comparison with buildings in other parts of Europe. There is no justification for this theory at this time. Before the Christian Era there were schools of Celtic decorative art in both Britain and Ireland, and it is quite possible that the two were quite similar for some time. But by Continued on Page 14)
A eulogy of “Albertus Magnus, Medieval Scientist,” by James Dan-ehy, senior in the College of Science, a review of the active graduate work
James Danehy
. “Albert broke the chains.’'
in the Department of Chemistry, and an editorial, Chemical Engineering, by Francis Jenny, editor, feature the February number of The Catalyzer, edited by the Chemists club and published by the Department of -Chemistry, University of Notre Dame.
In his estimate of Albertus Magnus, or Albert the Great, scientist, theologian, and saint, the author begins with the early life of the man, pointing out his rapid rise as a “shining star in a dark age.” Albert practically exhausted the knowledge of his o time,” says Danehy, “and wrote nothing but that which he had experienced.”
“It was Albert, together with Roger Bacon, who revivified the spirit of Aristotle and founded the inductive method of reasoning, three centuries before the birth of Francis Bacon, who has been so universally credited with its introduction.”
Regarding some of the scientific contributions of Albert, that is, in the field of natural science, the author says, “Albert broke the chains that kept natural science in the hands of unbelievers and vindicated it against the more timid persons of his times who were afraid of it for fear of its
(Continued on Page 32)
March 17, 1933
Thirteen
STATIONS OF THE CROSS PLACED IN DILLON HALL
Statues Carved by Oberamagau Passion Players.
A set of carved wooden stations were placed in the niches in the walls of Dillon Hall chapel last Friday afternoon. This set and a companion set, will be here in a month for the Alumni Hall chapel, which are gifts of friends of Notre Dame.
The stations were designed and carved specially for Dillon Hall by the Passion Players of Oberamagau. The wood used is a German pine which grows in Bavaria. Each station is carved from a single block of wood and the figures are carved in high relief. The stations have been treated with a bronze stain.
Work Is Realistic
Of special note are the I, II, XI, XII, and XIII stations. In the first station “Jesus condemned to death” there is absolute majesty in the figure of Christ as He stands before Pilate. In the second station the artist has pointed out very strikingly the lesson of the Cross. It is a very dramatic station. Christ’s arm is pointed forward and He seems to say, “Come, take up thy cross and follow me.”
The eleventh station “Jesus is nailed to the Cross” is very realistic. The twelfth station “Jesus dies on the Cross” is a Calvary exquisite in detail. The thirteenth station “Jesus is taken down from the Cross and laid in Mary’s arms” is perhaps the best of the whole group. It is a Pieta that compels meditation.
Dr. Wilson, South Bend Surgeon To Lecture Here
Dr. J. L. Wilson, South Bend surgeon, will be the speaker at the meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science to be held next Monday evening, March 20th at 8 o’clock in the Law Building auditorium.
Dr. Wilson will speak on “Appendicitis.” This topic is of unusual interest because of the large number of cases occurring at the present time.
Although this meeting is primarily for students of the College of Science, an invitation to attend is extended by the Academy to all members of the University.
Erin's Orators—The Men Who Freed Their Country
By Janies J. Boyle
“The Irish have had their minds directed backward toward a glorious past that never existed, and forward toward a glorious future that is distinctly problematical,” wrote an Irishman last summer. As he “exploded the Irish Myth,” I wondered whether he had considered the orators of Ireland; the men who freed the Irish. I asked myself whether he had heard or read of O’Connell, Emmett, Grattan, Meagher, Parnell, Flood, Curran, and a host of others. Probably he hadn’t.
Irish Orations Outstanding
“Ireland is a land worth fighting for,” said Thomas Meagher. This terse statement sums up the battle for Ireland’s freedom. Her soldiers lost; her orators conquered. Persistently fighting the English—who have never voluntarily softened their stern policy toward Ireland — the island’s orators have brought a world opinion to bear upon England. Even yet, as is apparent, the work has not been completed. Without her orators, the isle would have been just another of the many small countries that have been oppressed; but for them, the world would not respect and honor her..
Henry Flood Stirs Nation
In the eighteenth century Ireland had a parliament in Dublin; a parliament filled with men pensioned by England. Anthony Malone and Doctor Lucas battled for her while the people slept on their rights. The fifth century virility given Ireland by St. Patrick was gone. Then came Henry Flood. Perhaps, he was not as loyal to his fellow patriots as he should have been, perhaps, he even betrayed his cause, but in the beginning of his career he awakened the nation to its humiliation; he waged war upon the corrupted legislators; he let loose the cry of freedom which ever since has sounded against the walls of St. Stephens across the channel.
Tossing aside the easy life of a country gentleman—playing Macbeth to Henry Grattan’s Macduff — he threw himself against the English, denounced the Viceroy, the Marquis of Townsend, and finally organized 100,000 armed Volunteers to add force to his oratory.
“I never will be satisfied as long as the meanest cottager in Ireland has a link of the British chain clanking to his rags; he may be naked, he shall not be in irons. . . though the public speaker shall die, yet the immortal fire shall outlive the humble organ that conveyed it, and the spirit of liberty, like the words of the holy man, shall not perish with the prophet, but survive him,” said Henry-Grattan. He was the paternal leader of Ireland “who stood by its cradle and followed its hearse.” He was the first Irish leader to stand for Catholic emancipation. Grattan aroused the Irish with his eloquence, made them conscious of the Dublin Parliament, and forced the English in 1782 to grant them legislative independence.
England And Ireland Unite
Then followed the deliberate bribing of the members of the Irish Parliament • by the prime minister of England, William Pitt. Corrupting them one by one, he soon had a sufficient number to vote in favor of a union with England. This perfidy of the English government was brought about despite the terrific efforts of Henry Grattan. He openly denounced the English government. He defied and insulted his own weak parliament. He begged the Irish people to understand what was taking place. Nevertheless, in 18C0, the union was consummated; Ireland had lost what little freedom she possessed.
Curran Rises To Defense
In 1798, realizing that the union had almost come, Ireland rebelled. Like all of the Irish armed protests, this one was speedily put down. In the series of famous state trials that followed, a new orator arose to the defense of his nation. That speaker was John Curran. He attempted to secure the acquittal of such men as Peter Finnerty, the editor who, in speaking the truth, had libeled the government, and William Orr, who was tried solely on the evidence of a paid informer.
His efforts were in vain; the jury - was packed; the verdict of guilty was decided upon even before the case was tried. Orr went to his death. When the jury, furnished liquor by ("Continued on Paere 15)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
NEW REGULATIONS ON TUITION FEE ANNOUNCED
(Continued from Page 11)
In some courses there is required, in addition to a laboratory fee, a deposit to cover the cost of materials, breakage, and other damage to equipment. If at the end of the semester there be a balance of this deposit in favor of the student, a refund is made. All such fees and charges are payable monthly, as billed.
The University maintains a drycleaning establishment, which the student may patronize, at current prices. The cost of dry-cleaning for a semester amounts in most cases to about $10. The student who wishes to avail himself of this service must make for the purpose a deposit of $10 at the beginning of the semester. A refund is made in case there be a balance in his favor at the end of the semester.
Books, stationery, clothing, and other articles for sale on the campus must be paid for in cash.
No Refunds
All fees are to be paid and required deposits to be made in advance, at the beginning of each semester, in September and in February. There is no reduction of fees on account of the late entrance of a student.
Of the tuition and general fee for the undergraduate student, $150 is accepted as an entirety and is not refunded in whole or in part, unless the student withdraws from the University within ten days from the opening of the semester or is later obliged to withdraw on account of protracted illness. In such case a proportionate refund of the entire tuition and general fee is made. In all other cases (including that of dismissal for violation of University regulation) the $150 is not included in calculating the proportionate refund. A refund is computed at the rate of five per cent for each week between the date of withdrawal or dismissal and the end of the semester.
A refund, when due is made only to parent or guardian of the student, unless the University be instructed in writing by parent or guardian to make the refund to the student. No refund is made on a check or draft until fifteen days after the deposit of it by the University.
It is suggested that the student before leaving home be provided with
PROF. PHILLIPS LECTURES ON “DIVINE COMEDY” TO PATRICIANS.
Professor Charles Phillips, of the English Department, gave an illustrated talk on Dante’s “Divine Comedy” at an open meeting of the Patricians Tuesday evening. To accommodate an audience of several hundred persons, the meeting was held in the auditorium of the Law building.
“Dante,” Mr. Phillips said, “wrote his poem—as an expiation of sin.” The “Divine Comedy” is an allegory of human life, the poet’s vision of life beyond the grave. It is also a warning to the wicked and shameless— Dante’s attempt to convert a corrupt society.
Philosophy Of Aquinas
The philosophy lying behind this awe-inspiring epic Mr. Phillips declared to be simply that of Aristotle and Aquinas expressed in the language of grandeur and beauty, for, in spite of the personal and political diifficulties of the poet, his attitude on all questions was that possessed by all Catholic and medieval gentlemen of scholarship and devotion.
Mr. Phillips in the greater part of his lecture explained much of the significance of the famous illustrations for the “Inferno” drawn by Gustave Dore, reproductions of which were shown to the audience by means of special slides brought from Paris.
Anthologist Asks Contributions
Warren Bower of New York University is preparing an anthology of student writing and invites college students to submit manuscripts before April 30. Any form of prose, with the exception of novels, will be considered.
money orders, bank drafts on New York or Chicago, or traveler’s cheques for an amount to cover his tuition and other expenses at the University. Remittance of money intended for the University should be made payable, not to the student, but to the University of Notre Dame.
A student will not be registered for any course in the second semester if his account for the first semester has not been settled. No degree will be conferred, or transcript of credit given, or report of grades made for the student whose account with the University has not been settled in full.
IRELAND'S PUCE IN ARCHITECTURAL RANKS
(Continued from Page 12)
the fourth century all traces of native art had been lost in Britain owing to the long occupation of that Island by the Romans, whereas the Irish decorative art continued on until the Twelfth century. For this reason it is quite possible that Twelfth century Irish art could be confused with Second century British art.
Monoinent Dates Unknown
Cautious scholars are still reluctant to commit themselves as to the date of those Irish monuments known to have been erected before the Sixth century. The earliest building the date of whose erection is definitely established is the church and belfry of Tomgraney, in what is now known as County Clare. It was built in the year 965 by the abbot Cormac O’Cul-lene who also built a church at Clon-macmois in the same year. In the years from 996 to 1008 great impetus was given to building in Ireland by the great Brian Borunha. Through the efforts of this king peace was brought to Ireland for some years. The Danes who had harassed the country for centuries were driven off and a truce maintained. With external trouble temporarily disposed of, attention was given to rebuilding those monuments that had been damaged or destroyed. King Brian brought a measure of prosperity ot Ireland and will be remembered as a patron of Architecture as well as a warrior and ruler.
Importance Of Monuments
It is true that the Irish monuments that I have been discussing are not, at first glance, an inspiring sight today. All that appears to the casual observer is a pile of stones scattered about the hills and fields, but the study of such remains is of wider import than most people realize. To an Irishman, it may minister to his self respect to feel that he belongs to a race that could originate and develop to a point of great excellence and beauty, a native school of art. To the student of archaeology these buildings serve a wider and more practical use. If the remains are enough, as they are in Ireland, he can trace, step by step, the progress of a style (Continued on Page 30)	■
March. 17, 1933
Fifteen
SAVIORS OF IRELAND: HER MASTER ORATORS
(Continued from Page 13)
the government, had sobered up, they held Orr not guilty. Little did that mean to England who cared nothing for law, for human rights, or especially for Irish rights. Curran defended not only each individual; he defended the nation.
Emmett Attacks Castle
After the state trials were over and the patriots were convicted, England would have reversed the cases; she would have given anything to erase from history the words of Curran— words that showed her true policy toward the isle. Curran was one of the long line of Irish orators w’ho ultimately freed the nation; he was one of those men of eloquence who wrote the black pages of a respected government’s treatment of another.
In 1803 a small insurrection occurred in Dublin. The Castle, the seat of government in Dublin, was attacked by a small group of patriots led by Robert Emmett. The attack failed but it gave to history an Irish • martyr whose short but noble career thrills all posterity. While a student at Trinity College, Emmett denounced the wrongs of Ireland until the mighty English government paid him the high tribute of sending a mature man of much ability into the Trinity debating society in order to answer him. Finally, he was forced to leave school.
Emmett Seized
After the revolution of 1798, this 20 year old patriot was exiled to France. Five years later when he returned—perhaps by the connivance of the English government, as some historians claim—and his ill-timed rebellion had failed, he could easily have escaped in a sailing vessel. Instead, he went back to Dublin to persuade the girl he loved, Sarah Curran, the daughter of the tribune, to elope with him to America. He was captured.
The English government, as it had done in so many other cases, issued the order to give him a trial and have him hanged. When asked why sentence should not be passed upon him, Emmett calmly walked into the dock in front of the bench and delivered the most memorable address ever (Continued on Page 31)
TWENTY TURN OUT FOR FIRST PRACTICE OF FENCING TEAM.
Twenty musketeers of the old order turned out with arms for the first practice of the Notre Dame fencing team in the gymnasium Tuesday afternoon. Professor Pedro de Landero, coach of the team, spent the afternoon in organizing and drilling his swordsmen in the fundamentals. He intends to hold regular drills every Tuesday and Thursday at 1:30 in the boxing and wrestling room of the gym.
Need More Sabre Men
Almost all of the members of the squad have had experience although a few are just taking up the sport. Many of them have already ordered new foils for the ensuing season season. The task of filling the sabre assignments will fall to two men unless more sabre men are uncovered by Coach de Landero. The pair skilled in sabres are Harold May and Don Madden.
Coach de Landero expects about 15 of the members to form the nucleus of his team. Although no schedule has yet been arranged, several meets meets have received consideration. Some of the other more promising candidates for the team are: Arthur and Robert Wieile, Charles Bragg, Bob Ward, George Mallet, Phillip Singson and George Menard.
Newspaper Displaces Texts Books in University Classes
The political activity that the United States has seen within the past fortnight has had a direct influence on the method of conducting classes on the campus. The banking legislation, the economy plans, the beer bill, and similar topics are being discussed with more than a passing note.
Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor of Political Science told his classes; “Why talk about mere theory when there are practical examples all around us of the way the theories actually work out?” Mr. Bartholomew is supplanting the text book for the daily newspapers, as a source of information for his students.
The rulers of the exchange of mankind’s goods have failed through their own stubbornness and their own incompetence.—President Roosevelt.
LITERARY CRITICS ARE DISCUSSED DY H’COLE
Bookmen Club Hears Talk On American Tactics.
In analyzing and criticizing the literature, and particularly the novel of the American continent, Professor Camille McCole in his talk before the Bookmen last Monday evening, attributed the scarcity of a truly American product to the lack of a national school of criticism that is forceful, aggressive, and uncompromising.
A consideration of the critics who have won popular acclaim, beginning with Randolph Bourne and continuing through such men as VanWyck Brooks, George Jean Nathan, and H. L. Menken, showed that their impressionistic criticism does little to encourage a judicious literary standard, said Prof McCole. These men often let personal elements enter into their criticism, taking slurs at one another or having their little joke at the expense of the public.
“Weak And Straddling”
Humanists of Harvard and Yale have made sporadic attempts which have been unsuccessful chiefly because no humanism divorced from religion can be effective. Scholasticism is the highest form of Humanism, continued the speaker. Other faults pointed out were their natural arrogance, their treatment of themes that have long ceased to be discussed, and their language which is too grandiose for the ordinary reader.
Mr. McCole discussed individually some of the leading critics of the day, but gave as a general characteristic a weak and straddling position. Stuart Sherman was pointed out as one American who showed promise of strength, but his early death deprived him of any superior position.
Expensive First Editions
Literary advertising was given as one of the general causes for the condition of criticism in America. Books are published in expensive editions, and critics feel that a financial injustice would be done a publisher were a book criticized too severely. This condition doesn’t exist in Europe where all first editions are in paper binding, and the failure of a book entails no great financial loss, concluded the speaker.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
The Irish Brigade: What It Means to Notre Dame
By Joseph Petritz
St. Patrick’s Day and the “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame!
This combination, in the opinion of more than 1,000 of Notre Dame’s 2,659 students, should be cause enough for a free day. More than one-third of the students at the University, whose athletic teams battled to make “Fighting Irish” a praiseworthy nickname, are Irish.
But the Feast of St. Patrick is more than an occasion for students, Irish and non-Irish, to exhibit shamrocks and green neckwear and wish for a free day.
This year, July 1 to 3, will mark the seventieth anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg. Many priceless relics of the Civil War, and particularly of the Irish Brigade which fought so valiantly at Fredericksburg, Antietam, Chancell orsville, and Gettysburg are among the treasured possessions of Notre Dame.
The recent death of Senator Thomas J. Walsh of Montana recalled the presentation of the sword of Brigadier General Thomas F. Meagher, leader of the Irish Brigade, to Notre Dame. It was Senator Walsh who . made the speech of presentation, March 4, 1914.
A Sacred Weapon
Meagher’s exordium on the sword was recalled by Sen. Walsh that night: “Be it in the defense, or be it in the assertion, of a people’s liberty, I hail the sword as a sacred weapon.”
Meagher it was who escaped the guillotine in Ireland, when fighting for Irish freedom, and fled to America to fight for another oppressed people and for the preservation of his adopted country.
The swords of General W. S. Rosecrans and Major General Shields, with Shields’ epaulettes, hang in the Wightman Memorial art gallery at Notre Dame, one of the finest private collections of original paintings in America.
The coat worn by General William T. Sherman on his historic march to the sea, hangs in the Notre Dame museum of American History. Sherman, whose family lived on the campus during the Civil War, was a frequent visitor here and was once the
commencement speaker. His two sons, William Jr., and Thomas, were both graduated from Notre Dame. The former was interred here. The latter became a Jesuit.
But even more significant to Notre Dame than any of these other things is Corby hall, residence hall for seniors. This hall, in which the late Knute Rockne lived as a student, when he was fighting on the football field for Notre Dame and learning the -lessons which were to make him the world’s greatest football coach, was named for the Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C., chaplain of the 88th New York volunteers and president of the university.
Blessed Irish Brigade
A statue of Father Corby, his hand raised in blessing, stands before the hall, surrounded by pines. It is a replica of the statue erected in 1911 on the battlefield at Gettysburg. It commemorates his giving of general absolution to the soldiers of the Irish Brigade the morning of the second day of the Battle of Gettysburg, July 2, 1863.	--
The Irish Brigade, decimated by its previous battles — at Fredericksburg the five regiments forming the brigade approached within 20 yards of the Confederate fire, and the bodies of all the dead soldiers near the Confederate works bore shamrocks on their blouses, coats — came back for the Battle of Gettysburg, inspired by this brave action of Notre Dame’s fighting president.
The event is further commemorated at Notre Dame by Paul Wood’s canvas, showing Father Corby giving absolution to the soldiers, packed kneeling before him.	.
The Reverend James Dillon, C.S.C., president before Father Corby, was also a chaplain in the Irish Brigade. His name has recently been preserved in the new residence hall, Dillon hall, in which there is a shrine to St. Olaf, patron saint of Rockne’s native Norway.
The very colors under which the Irish Brigade fought are preserved at Notre Dame in the art collection. Lying in a glass-topped table, the flag of the Irish Brigade occupies the cen-(Continued on Page 31)
PROF, mm SPEAKS AT LAY FACULTY DINNER
Talk, Round Table Discussion Feature Meeting.
“The Criminal Syndicate” was the topic of a talk given by Professor Edward A. Huth, the speaker of the evening, at the monthly dinner of the
Professor Edward A. Huth
Scored Unscrupulous Politicians
Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club of Notre Dame, Monday evening, March 14th. The affair was held in the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend.
Professor Huth emphasized the large scale organization and specialization in the crime industry under the stimulus of illicit liquor business profits. He stressed the point that the responsibility for the success of such operations was directly traceable to unscrupulous and unpatriotic politicians.
Concludes Talks
The talk given by Professor Huth was a summary and conclusion of a series of talks on sociology, criminology, and penology. At previous meetings of the club this year, other members of the faculty have presented speeches on these assigned topics.
Following the conclusion of Professor Huth’s talk, a round table discussion was carried on by the other members of the organization. Professor George Wack, newly-elected president of the club, presided at these discussions.
Professor Jose Corona acted as general chairman of the evening’s entertainment, and introduced the speaker.
March 17, 1933
Seventeen
REILLY TELLS WRANGLERS
OF “BUNK” ADVERTISING
Advocates Control by Pure Food Commission.
By Louis Hruby
George Reilly presented the Wrangler Society with a resolution which he believed would curb untruthful advertising and misrepresentation of facts in nationally advertised products for personal use. The Society met Monday evening, in the Law Building.
“Bunk Psychology”
Prefacing his resolution with a detailed explanation of the methods used in advertising, such products, he showed many examples wherein “bunk psychology” could lead to injuries of the health of the American consuming public. “A well-known brand of toothpaste, contracted an advertising agency to put their product before the people,” he said. In the course of writing the copy for that advertisement, the writer came across the phrase “mucin plaques,” a dental term. Deliberately, and without attempting to discover its meaning, he substituted the word “film,” and claimed that the particular toothpaste in question did remove film from the teeth.
Calls For Legislative Control
Reilly continued with a few remarks concerning a cream, advertised as a “sure thing” for removing freckles, but in time would actually eat into the skin, destroying the tissue.
The plan, as advanced by Reilly would call for legislative control over all forms of advertising for any product affecting the public health, and to set up a commission that would function in its operation as do the Pure Food Laws in effect at the present time.
Seeking to improve on the plan of the speaker of the evening, it was suggested that the Pure Food Commission be given the power to act in this regard because of the existing contact the Commission now has with the various concerns producing such articles. It was also thought that an educational .series of advertisements would do much to acquaint the buying public not only with the content of the compound they purchase, but also the satisfactory methods for its application by them.
The Topic of The Hour: Gold Standard of the U.S.
By Robert Gelhaus
Gold. It’s just so many grains to the miner, so many carats to the jeweler, a narrow band at a wedding, and so many metal disks or paper notes to the rest of us. Gold, the coin, has become virtually a myth. They tell us the Federal Reserve notes are forty or more per cent gold; that the backing of the National Bank notes is five per cent gold; and that only gold certificates are secured to face value by bullion. Yet, the actual metal is rarely seen. It is locked away in the Government’s keep, acting as foundation of our currency and maintaining the dollar in foreign markets.
Usefulness Of Money
Our highly developed life demands the exchange of commodities between individuals. One person cannot hope to produce all the articles required for his existence, so he is forced to trade the surplus of his creation for the necessities, the surplus creation of another. If commodities are to be passed from individual to individual there must be some standard, some measure of the relative usefulness of the items exchanged. A pound of sugar and a ton of steel are to be traded for a can of sardines and a fountain pen. To bring their vastly unrelated values into accord a third commodity having value common to both is introduced. The pound of sugar is worth so much of this common commodity; the fountain pen is equal to another amount of the medium. When so valued, the sugar and the pen are on equal footing; their unrelated values have been stated in one common term making the exchange process much simpler.
Why Gold Is Used
In world history the commodities used as the medium of exchange include copper, iron, stone, shells, silver, and gold. Within the past fifty years the world almost universally has accepted gold as its standard.
This has been due to certain virtues inherent in the metal to a greater degree than in other commodities. However, the purely physical traits such as hardness, ease in handling and general recognition have lost their import since gold is no longer actually circulated. The one real ad
vantage is said to be its relative stability compared with that of other possible media of exchange.
Stability
If a commodity is to be nationally oi’ internationally accepted as a standard by which values of all goods and services are to be qouted, it must be capable of maintaining within itself the same value over a period of years. Likewise, our credit system requires a very fixed standard of deferred payments. The creditor wishes to receive just as much purchasing power in five years as he parts with today; he demands that his hundred dollars buy the same number of bushels of wheat in five years as it will purchase at the present time.
Gold had this required stability according to the economists and financiers of a half century ago. So they set up the gold standard and their system, embracing the free coinage of gold and gold alone, the redemption of all other money forms in gold, and the recognition of gold as the only full legal tender.
Gold Standard Difficulties
That half century has passed. The tidal wave of the World War drove most nations from the standard though they all returned by 1925. September, 1931, finds England again abandoning gold for paper and carrying her Dominions and Scandanavia with her. The economists and financiers are skeptical. Only France and the United States have comfortable supplies of the coin or bullion. And even with four billion dollars worth (one-third of the World’s supply) in our vaults, President Roosevelt has been forced to decree our temporary abandonment. The economists and financiers should be skeptical of a system that is subject to indictments of instability, shortage and poor distribution.
The value of gold is not stable, despite claims of the theorists. No commodity can be free of fluctuations in value, because the forces of supply and demand are never still. Upon the price of gold these had little effect until prominence as the medium of exchange and the basis of national (Continued on Page 30)
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
COLLEGE JOURNALISM
Much has been written recently concerning college publications. The writers blatantly declare that they are an unnecessary expense, a waste of the student’s time, that they give “no fundamental news writing experience to any of the students,” and that “their advertising departments make nuisances in the business communities.”
If the censors of our student publications would thoroughly investigate the conditions of our local, collegiate (and we might add high school) journals, they would find convincing rebuttals to their arguments. They would find that the college publication presents one of the few profitable, extra-curricular activities, both educationally and financially, on the campus.
Student papers may not give “fundamental news writing experience to any of the students,” as one writer says, but, strange to say, there are many alumni of college journalism who are’ enjoying successful careers in that field.
None of the advertising in our college papers is solicited as the business man’s favor to the school. Students provide a live market for the products of modern business and wise business men seek their patronage through the closest medium—the school paper. National advertisers contact the college man and woman through agencies whose exclusive interest is collegiate.
College journalism is not a fad nor a product of adolescent frivolity but an established institution with an enviable record of achievement.—Duquesne Duke
required to exercise for a few days by picking turnips. A large field of the homely vegetables was going to waste near the campus, and the students were asked to pick them for the benefit of the unemployed.
HELP WANTED: MALE
The following appeared in a recent issue of the Boston University News.
Are you dissatisfied with your present girl friend ? Is that argument on Saturday night getting to be a weekly affair ? If this is the case, Al Welch has a very attractive offer for three Boston University males—whether you have a nagging g. f. or not.
Here’s what Monsieur Welch has to offer: (He terms it as killing two birds with one stone).
There are three . . . er . . . girls at Emerson College who would like to have a corresponding number of Boston University men escort them to the B. U.-McGill track meet, March 11, at the Boston Arena, with the dance as the added attraction afterward.
No questions asked; No door-bell ringing. No previous experience necessary. No investment. No selling ability required.
All eligible males who are interested are asked to trot up to the office of Mr. Welch, 675 Boylston street, as soon as possible. Further information may be obtained at this point. Absolutely no strings attached. Opportunity for promotion.
EDITORIAL PREFERENCE!
A University of Missouri editor in a recent speech stated his preference of a cow to a saxophone, because in addition to making the same noise, the cow gives milk.
EASY PICKING!
Instead of taking regular gym work, students of Antioch College in Ohio were recently
HERE AT TROY THEY CALL IT M-mmm
This from Southern California:
“Young man, have you O-ooo?”
That’s the new college slang word for “it,” when applied to a male student.
The Agawan, humorous University of Nebraska publication, introduced “O-ooo” on the campus today. Editor Francis Cunningham explained the term meant “general seductiveness.”
March 17, 19 J J
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
VALUES
They are at it already. They had that smile under control around semester time and the party ticket planned the first of March. Now they are working on the student directory. They have the best group of fellows that have ever had their names on a blotter. The campus will be shown in a few months just what clean politics can do. If you are smart you will cast your ballot for a new regime in Notre Dame statesmanship.
Thus has our patience and our love of fellowman been abused by four years of unmitigated nonsense. We know as well as does anybody else that the urge to become a politician is something that is rooted deep in a lot of human constitutions, but we cannot see why such petty business as goes on here has such a grip on the student body.
What does climbing the pinnacle of campus electioneering amount to that it takes two or three hours a day in March to achieve it in May ? The distinction or adulation that goes with a class office? How many people right now can name for you the chairman of this year’s Cotillion? Is it the contacts that a position affords — when the same acquaintances can be made outside of political life on a much saner and more natural level? Is it the “experience” that one gets in handling the details of a class dance? Ask somebody who has managed a formal how much more of a man he was after he had rented the Palais Royale for an evening, printed some tickets and got his picture in The Scholastic.
We would not for the world advise that class presidencies and dance chairmanships be done away with. We simply say that they have a hold on people that is vastly out of proportion to their worth. When a man’s collegiate career is ruined because he didn’t get by an S. A. C. primary in his sophomore year, one is safe in saying that just a shade too much of importance is attached to an S. A. C. primary.
Our whole point is perfectly crystallized in the attitude of the average, successful, senior politician. He will tell you quietly that it wasn’t worth it, that there is as much spontaneity in a Notre Dame class election as there is in a Republican convention in Pennsylvania, and that if you’re wise you’ll spend your April afternoons on the golf course, instead of in a room packed with wild-eyed children, each of whom wants to be chairman of the patron committee.
MARCH 17
The trouble with St. Patrick’s Day often is . that there is a little too much talk about the Irish and not enough about St. Patrick. March 17 is invariably a signal for every son and daughter of Erin to wave the green and grow wistful about the glories of the old country, and the magnificent battle she has waged for her independence. The young missionary who came back to the home of his kidnappers, a marauding group of Celts, is sometimes passed by.
March 17 is more closely the day when St. Patrick died in Ireland over fourteen hundred years ago, when a dazzling, splendorous light encircled his bier and almost blinded the throngs who came to see their liberator. Too many biographies of the saint give the impression that he had the throng thus at his feet the greater part of his life. Too frequently is painted the picture of a vigorous priest who only walked into a strange land with an eloquent tongue and completely disarmed the populace.
The truth gives a different setting. We see Patrick living in a rain-soaked cave in the mountains where he sleeps on a pile of rocks and eats a few handfuls of berries. His life constantly hangs on the end of the sword of some enraged Druid whose followers are being led away by the young man of the kindly demeanor and the omnipresent prayer. We see a life of rigid asceticism and unmixed devotion to a people he loved more than he did his own life. That is why we have St. Patrick’s Day.
Twenty
The Scholastic
<
| ATHLETICS ~[
1
Metcalfe Sets World’s Record
Clips 1-10 Second Off 60-Yd. Mark: Michigan Normal Wins C.LC. Title
BASEBALL CANDIDATES HOLD FIRST WORKOUTS
Ypsi Team Scores 31^2 Points; Michigan State Second, Marquette Third.
By Edmond L. Moriarty
Michigan State Normal College of Ypsilanti, Michigan, successfully challenged Notre Dame’s six year reign as indoor champions of the Central Intercollegiate Conference, by amassing a total of 31 points, barely shadowing their nearest rival, Michigan State, who finished second with 28 1-3 points. Marquette, as was expected, annexed third honors, with Western State of Kalamazoo beating out Notre Dame for the fourth place by a scant two-thirds of a point.
The Hurons presented a well-balanced team, and their barrage on the honors in the pole vault and hurdle events proved sufficient to ward off the challenge of Michigan State, a constant threat until the near end of the meet.
Normal Nearly Missed Trip
The Normal athletes were almost forced to forego their bid for the C. I. C. title when the banking situation prevented their receiving any financial aid for the trip from the school authorities. Either pure confidence or grim determination enabled them to overcome this obstacle however, and by paying their own expenses they were able to be on hand for the competition. If they had any such feeling of confidence, it was ultimately justified.
Three new records went down in the books, including a new world’s record by Ralph Metcalfe, and two ■ new conference records. Leroy Dues, gainly Negro from Detroit City College, bettered his own mark by almost a foot in the shot put, with a great heave of 48 feet 7% inches.
C. I. C. Table Of Points
Michigan Norm...31% |Butler ............7%
Michigan State ..28 1-3|City Coll. Detroit. 5
Marquette .......14	] Pittsburgh .....4
Western State .. .11 2-31 Armour Tech ...3
Notre Dame.......11	|Hillsdale........3
Loyola (Chicago) .................2
The other record-breaker was Ray Swartz, Western State’s great miler, who set up a new mark of 4:21.5 in his specialty, and beat an excellent field to accomplish this feat.
Easily the outstanding performance of the afternoon was Metcalfe’s shattering of the existing mark in the 60-yard dash. The Marquette Meteor, who finished a shade behind Eddie Tolan in both Olympic sprints, was clocked in :06.1 by five watches, three official and two supplementary ones.
Watches Correspond
Two of the watches read six seconds flat when the final checkings were made, so there is little question as to the record-breaking performance. The old mark, established by Loren Murchison, has stood since 1923, although it was tied several times by others including Jack Elder and Bill McCormick of Notre Dame and Metcalfe himself.
Vince Murphy was the only Notre Dame man to garner a first place, and this was in his favorite event, the high jump. His winning mark was 6 feet 4% inches, although he missed a new record by a hair’s breadth, when he just barely grazed the bar on three unsuccessful attempts at the six foot six mark. Notre Dame’s other points were collected by Young in the two mile, Francis Murphy in the 60, Roberts in the 880, Finkel in the shot put and a third in the relay.
Michigan Normal presented the
(Continued on Page 24)
To Move Outdoors Soon; Nine Monogram Winners Back.
With the coming of warm weather Coach George Keogan has turned his attention from the hardwood to the diamond, where he has been sending his baseball proteges through daily workouts in preparation for the coming season. Practice started last Wednesday in the gym, but Coach Keogan has hopes of shifting the daily workouts from the field house to Cartier field as soon as the weather permits.
Although the dates for the diamond encounters have not yet been arranged such teams as Chicago, Purdue, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Iowa and Michigan State will face the Irish nine this year. The season will formally open at the Chicago field on Easter Saturday, April 15.
Nine Lettermen Back
Coach Keogan has nine monogram men from last year’s squad on which to build his team for this season. Those players who won their monograms last year are the following: O’Neil, catcher; Summings, first base; Seidl, second base; Kane, short stop; and Pahnanisini at third make up the infield, while Cap’t McGrath and DeVore in the outfield remain from last season. Banas, Rascher, Smith, Golden, Huisking and Leonard, although lacking in experience, have shown plenty of speed and control in the last few practices held indoors.
Graduation has robbed the team of two mainstays in George Kozak, a heavy hitting outfielder, and Denny O’Keefe, former captain and third baseman of last year’s team. However, Bill Powell, leading hitter, and . Kane, leading scorer, of the past season are back in uniform this year.
March 17, 1933
Twenty-one
THREE TEAMS IN TIE FOR LEAD IN GROUP I
Cagers Defeat Minnesota 31-27 In Season's Final
Morrissey, Lyons, and Dillon In Three-Way Battle.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Sunday’s games in the interhall league brought about but one important change in the group standings.
1	The alteration appeared in the heavy-
weight standings of Group I. Morrissey, previously on top by itself, now finds there is a three-way tie for* the title in its section. This was brought about by victories of Lyons and Dillon, the two halls which are
1	now on an equal basis with Ray Mor-
rissey’s crew.
Sorin’s failure to make an appearance caused this game to be forfeited, and gave Lyons the game without a struggle. Dillon, on the other hand, was forced to the limit before it up-
•	set the strong Corby five, 24 to 23.
The freshman bunch was not counted on as a contender until they nosed out the seniors Sunday to tie with Lyons and Morrissey for the lead.
Free Throw Wins Game
,	This contest, by far the outstand-
ing encounter of the week, was a nip and tuck affair all the way with Corby holding a 12 to 11 advantage at the intermission. In the second half Dillon stayed right in the game, and the regular playing time ended with the teams deadlocked. A free throw sunk by Belden of Dillon in the overtime proved to be the winning toss.
Opponents of the Walsh hall teams had a field day Sunday. The lighter senior crew forfeited its game to Brownson, and the Walsh heavyweights played the entire game with Brownson without registering a point. The final outcome was 20 to 0. The Carroll lightweights increased their lead in Group II when the third forfeit of the day was chalked up with the failure of Off-Campus to show up.
*	St. Ed’s Lights Keep Going
The St. Edward’s lightweights continued to set the pace in Group I with a 21 to 12 victory over Badin. .	At the same time, the heavy Minims
were winning their second game of the campaign from Badin, 17 to 12.
•	Off-Campus protected its high posi-
tion in Group I with a triumph at the expense of Carroll. It was the Day Dodger’s fifth win and Carroll’s third loss. Freshman maintained its place
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDING
l__________________________
Heavyweights
GROUP I.	W	L	Pet.
Morrissey .......... 4	1	.800
Lyons .............. 4	1	.800
Dillon ............. 4	1	.800
Corby .............. 3	2	.600
St. Edwards ........ 2	3	.400
Badin .............. 1	4	.200
Sorin .............. 0	6	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Off Campus ......... 5	0	1.000
Freshman ........... 4	1	.800
Brownson ........... 3	2	.600
Carroll ............ 3	3	.500
Alumni ............. 2	3	.400
Howard ............. 1	4	.200
Walsh .............. 0	4	.000
Lightweights
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
St. Edwards ........ 5	0	1.000
Morrissey .......... 4	1	.800
Lyons .............. 2	3	.400
Corby .............. 2	3	.400
Badin .............. 2	3	.400
Sorin .............. 2	4	.333
Dillon ............. 1	4	.200
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Carroll ............ 6	0	1.000
Alumni ............. 4	1	.800
Freshman ........... 3	2	.600
Howard ............. 2	3	.400
Brownson ........... 2	3	.400
Walsh .............. 1	4	.200
Off Campus ......... 0	5	.000
imemdiately behind the leaders with a 15 to 7 victory over Alumni. Other games saw Sorin defeat Lyons 19 to 18, and Alumni beat out Freshman, 19 to 15. These contests were in the lighter weights.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Brownson 20, Walsh 0
It was a basketball game despite the fact that the final score seems to suggest football. Perhaps the stately seniors would have fared better on the gridiron against the Brownson team, but on the basketball court where the contest actually was played, they were hopelessly at bay during the entire game. Sheer lack of co-operation and not any super defense on the part of the freshmen accounted for the absent total of Walsh buckets.
To make matters more peculiar it may be mentioned that the twenty (Continued on Page 26)
11TH STRAIGHT WIN
Gophers Lead at Half, 22-15; Voegele, Krause, Baldwin Head Irish Rally.
By John D. Carbine
The Irish of Notre Dame closed their basketball season last Saturday night with a 31 to 27 victory over Minnesota at Minneapolis.' The victory was the sixteenth of the season and the eleventh straight for the*' Keoganites.
The victory over Minnesota, however, did not come as easily as was expected. Captain Brad Robinson and his bosom friend Joe Licht were playing their last basketball game for the Gophers. Minnesota had gone through a disastrous season losing 15 out of 20 games, and Robinson and Licht were determined to make their final game a brilliant surprise victory over the highly favored Irish.
Roberts And Licht: 15 Points
All during the first half, first Robinson and then Licht would lead a determined attack against the Notre Dame basket. They collected 15 points between them and were the chief factors in the gathering of the 22 to 15 lead which the Gophers held at half time.
The Irish offense, in the first half, was weak and spotty while the defense was loose and easily punctured by the Minnesota forwards. Time and time again the Irish would work the ball through the Gopher defense only to miss the shot, and time and time again Minnesota would slide through the Notre Dame defense with an ease which no other team has been able to show this season.
Irish Defense Holds
But the second half was an entirely' different matter. The Irish defense tightened to such an extent that the Gophers were able to score only five points during the course of the entire period. Notre Dame’s offense, on the other hand, while far from its peak, functioned as well as it did in the first half and the Irish were able to outscore the Gophers 16 to 5 in this
(Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Northwestern Places Two On All - Opponent Team
FERGUS IS CAPTAIN
Carnegie Star Lauded for Work In Game Here; Marquette, Butler Men Named.
By Al McGuff
The 1932-33 All-Opponent basketball team has been picked by Coach Keogan and myself after several weeks of careful consideration of every team on the schedule.
“Red” Fergus of Carnegie is placed at guard, and because of the wonderful teamwork and coolness he showed in that thrilling game on our floor he was given the captaincy of the mythical team. His accurate passing in that game was, perhaps, the most outstanding feature of the contest for either team. He kept his team in the running throughout the entire game with his ability to get passes to his forwards who w’ould break down the floor, usually having two men to one on N. D.
Johnson Is Center
Cribbs of Pitt is placed at the guard position for the second time. He lines up at center for Pitt, but plays a guard position on the offense and defense. His great height and long shots kept Pitt in the running during both games.
Although not a very large fellow, Baird of Butler made himself seen and heard in both thrilling contests with the Irish. Needless to say he was the key in Butler’s offense when the downstaters defeated the varsity on our floor. And with the 13 points he collected in Indianapolis he was given high scoring honors for his team.
Many great centers were seen this year: Johnson of N. U., Hosket of Ohio State, Proffitt of Butler, and many others. “Tip-Offs,” together with Coach Keogan, believes that Johnson of Northwestern was the most outstanding center we played against this year. He is, perhaps, the finest “feeding” center from the pivotal type of play today. He is the main reason Reiff was twice high point man of the Big Ten.
Morstadt, clever sophomore of Marquette, is what every coach dreams of
ALL - OPPONENT BASKETBALL TEAM 1932-33
First Team
Reiff (Northwestern) ...Forward Morstadt (Marquette) ...Forward Johnson (Northwestern) .Center Baird (Butler) .........Guard
Fergus (Carnegie)....(C.) Guard
Second Team
Robinson (Minnesota) —Forward Davis (Butler) ........Forward
Hosket (Ohio State) ......Center Cribbs (Pittsburgh) ......Guard Smith (Pittsburgh) .......Guard
when he takes a sleep pill for a good forward. During the season he has been Marquette’s scoring ace, and he reached great heights when he collected thirty points in two games against us.
It was his basket that tied the score forcing the Irish into an overtime period and defeat five minutes later in the first game. He has two more years of competition, and if he improves like wine—I pity the Irish guards.
Robinson Comes Close
Joe Reiff is claimant to the title of the finest basketball player in the Big Ten. Needless to say Joe was his team’s high scorer against us this season as he was against any team they played. Much credit is to be given Reiff for taking the duties of carrying a team through to a Big Ten Championship with only one other experienced man to aid him— Johnson.
He was a wonderful piece of machinery to watch in action, and his shot,s very seldom missed their mark. Reiff graduates this June and takes with him many honors. He defeated Notre Dame single-handed in his first year of competition, and since then has defeated them twice. That is more than any other player who’has competed against the Irish can point to.
Robinson of Minnesota was picked on the second team as forward. He played a marvelous game here as well as in Minneapolis. But we feel that Reiff was much the better forward, (Continued on Page 31)
ED BUTLER HIGH POINT MAN IN S.A.C. SWIM MEET
Wins Diving and 40-Yd. Dash Free-Style; 100 Compete.
By Nick Connor
■Ed Butler, who won first places in the diving and in the 40-yard free style, captured individual honors in the annual swimming meet that was held last Wednesday evening at the South Bend natatorium.
Competition in every event was keen, for about one hundred contestants were on hand for their favorite events, and the judge found it necessary to run off a series of trial heats in each event in order to cut down the field to the five finalists.
There was but three-tenths of a second’s difference in the finals of the 40-yard free style that was won by Butler; he was followed by Moore and Harrington. Lacey and Baker went at a neck and neck pace in the forty yard back stroke, the former won, however, by a few inches.
Butler Wins Again
Baker was again nosed out in the finals of the breast stroke by Sexton. In the one hundred yard free style Dan Moore found little trouble in pulling away from the rest of the field. His time was 1:01. Eddie Butler won his second event of the evening by monopolizing first place in the low board diving.
A lengthy inhale and a mighty plunge won that event for Burns who coasted through the water 56 and a half feet. The medley relay composed of Lacey, Sexton, and J. Burchell won that event in one minute and fifteen seconds.
The summary:
LOW BOARD DIVING—Won by Butler. Gibb second; Higgins third.
40-YARD BACK STROKE—Won by Lacey. Baker second, Bech and Teneily tied for third. Time, :26.9.
40-YARD FREE STYLE—Won by Butler, Moore second, Harrington third. Time, :20.8.
60-YARD BREAST STROKE—Won by Sexton, Baker second. Gerund third. Time, :45.
100-YARD FREE STYLE—Won by Moore, J. Burchell second, M. Burchell third. Time. 1:01.
PLUNGE!—Won by Burns, Burke second, Lenord third. Distance, 56 feet six inches.
160-YARD FREE STYLE—Won by Higgins, J. Burchell, Harrington, and Sullivan. Time 1:28.
120-YARD MEDLEY RELAY—Won by Lacey, Sexton, and J. Burchell. Time 1:15.
I
March 17, 1933
Twenty-three
N. D. Grad Is Appointed As Assistant To Farley
Ambrose O’Connell, ’07, has just been appointed to the position of special aid to Postmaster-General James A. Farley.
O’Connell was assistant treasurer of the Democratic National Committee, working with Frank C. Walker, also a Notre Dame graduate.
While at Notre Dame, O’Connell was president of his class, business manager of the Dome, president of the Iowa club, a track man, and correspondent for six newspapers and services. He also participated in dramatics.
Since graduation from Notre Dame, he has become a member of the New-York and Federal bars. He received his law- degree from Columbia, where he was a member of the legal fraternity of Phi Delta Phi.
Next “Santa Maria” Will Be Out About April 3
April 3, will be the next publication date of the Santa Maria, young, bustling news organ of the Knights of Columbus.
Says Editor Becklenberg about the coming issue: “It will be four pages bigger—making nine in all. The favor that the first sheet met with has given us genuine confidence.”
The first 1933 Santa Mana, it will be remembered, was sent to 3,000 councils of the Knights of Columbus.
KRAUSE TAKES POINT SCORING HONORS
(Season’s Totals.)						
Player	SFG	FT	FTA	PCT.	PF	PTS.
Krause, c			77	59	115	.512	55	213
Voegele, f 			74	50	94	.532	52	198
Baldwin, g 			45	13	27	..481	49	103
Jordan, f 			35	18	37	.486	28	88
Crowe, g 			20	30	45	.667	41	70
Alberts, f			13	5	12	.417	15	31
Keating, f			 7	1	5	.200	4	15
McGuff, f-g			 6	0	1	.000	8	12
Newbold, g			 1	3	8	.275	12	5
Fehlig, g			 2	0	0	.000	3	4
O’Neil, g		2	0	0	.000	0	4
O’Kane, f			 1	0	1	.000	0	2
Mettler, f-g			 1	0	1	.000	3	2
Angsten, f 			 1	0	0	.000	0	2
Ferris, f-g-c			 0	0	1	.000	7	0
Holland, c			 0	0	0	.000	1	0
Totals 			285	179	347	.516	278	749
Opponents 			219	181	333	.544	269	619
5FG—field goals ; FT—free throws; FT A—free throws attempted ; PCT—percentage of free throws made: PF—personal fouls; PTS—total points.
Courageous Comeback of Irish Features Cage Year
By Howard Waldron
The past basketball season w-as marked principally by the finish of one winning streak and the starting . of another. Once again a Notre Dame string of victories was burst by the Boilermakers of Purdue. Seven consecutive times the Irish have tried and failed to take a victory train past the Boilermakers, but never yet have— they been successful. Last year Purdue was the final team to beat Notre Dame; this year they were the first team. They snapped a nineteen game string of wins by a score of 36-31.
Win First Three
With Captain Johnny Baldwin at the throttle, ably supported by “Big Ed” Krause and Joe Voegele, the -Notre Dame basketball team had rolled serenely by Albion, 41-20; Illinois Wesleyan, 24-12; and the Wildcats of Northwestern, 28-25; but that old derailer of Irish basketball teams, Purdue, was next. Playing roughly and shooting accurately, the Boilermakers, true to form, wrecked the snappy Irish outfit who were playing without their stellar leader, Baldwin, at Lafayette.
Crippled by injuries to Baldwin and Crowe. The .Irish set out for Columbus to begin with a victory over Ohio State. But their winning
finesse and victory co-ordination were lost, and they departed chastened by a 30-24 defeat. Northwestern, again, and another defeat, 33-29:
Patiently and arduously Coach Keo-gan worked to get his crippled team back in shape and on the right trail again. Marquette was too big and tough and won 35-32. Finally Michigan State was trounced by a likely-looking team of Irish by a score of 36-19. Were they on the trail to Victory Town again? Not yet. They lost to Butler 27-25, but they won over Minnesota 30-22.
Victory String Starts
The Panthers of Pittsburgh clawed out a close victory over Notre Dame, but the Panthers must have struck too deeply, for the next contest found a newly aroused team on the floor. It was a team that wouldn’t be beaten and a team that couldn’t be beaten. Toledo was the first victim falling, 42-14.
Were they finally on the right track again ? Carnegie Tech went down 37-35, beaten by a last minute field goal by Ed Krause. Chicago fell 39-26; but Pittsburgh was next in a return game. Joe Voegele returned to form and put a new life into the now Fighting Irish and, with Johnny-Jordan arching shots in at crucial points, the Panthers were downed 38-31.
The clever passing offense of Notre Dame was now clicking, and the rest of the teams succumbed in order. Penn was beaten, 36-24, in their own Palestra, and the hard-fighting Red Cats of Western Reserve fell by a score of 40-35. Michigan State lost a return match, 30-25, and Butler dropped a return game, 42-41, in the overtime when Jimmy Newbold, reserve guard, pulled a Frank Merri-well. Wabash went down 43-29, and Marquette lost a close return game, 36-34. The Gophers of Minnesota were beaten, in the season’s finale and return contest, by a 31-27 score.
749 points to 619; victories over four of their six conquerors in return contests; a team that came back fighting after six losses to win eleven straight games; a season’s mark of sixteen wins and six losses. These figures best explain the story of one of Notre Dame’s greatest basketball teams.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Clyde Roberts
METCALFE SETS RECORD (Continued from Page 20)
By John D. Carbine
One afternoon last fall Clyde Roberts, the star of the Notre Dame cross country team, was leading the field in a meet between Michigan State and the Notre Dame harriers. As he reached the field adjacent to the St. Mary’s campus, Clyde attempted to jump a small brook. As he landed on the other side, the tape which had been supporting his injured leg, broke, and as Clyde puts it, “so did the leg.”
But a little thing like a broken leg didn’t bother Roberts; he finished the remaining two miles of the race. Ten runners passed him during the final two miles but it was against his code to give up. With tenacious courage, he stuck in the race and finished in eleventh position. At the end of the race he dropped helpless to the ground. When he was moving around again, it was on a pair of crutches.
No High School Experience
Like his teammate, Eddie King, Roberts did not run in high school because his school, De La Salle of Joliet, Illinois did not have a track team. He did, however, play basketball, football, and tennis. Two moments stand out in Clyde’s high school athletic career: the time when as the opposing halfback he was fiercely tackled by Big Ed Krause, then playing for De La Salle of Chicago, and the time when, playing against Mt. Carmel of Chicago, he ran ninety yards for his first touchdown in competition, only to have the play called back because of an offside penalty.
He played basketball against the schools of many present day luminaries, but did not meet any of them in actual competition since he played in the lightweight class.
16 Points In Interhall Meet
Roberts came to Notre Dame in 1930. Since he had never run in high school, he went out for interhall rather than for freshman track. In the Interhall Meet of that year, he swept to victory in the hundred yard dash, the two-twenty,, the half-mile and placed third in the high jump. He was the high scorer of the meet with sixteen points, and attracted Coach Nicholson’s attention. “Nick” urged Roberts to join the freshman squad, and Clyde signed up as a high jumper.	.
But it soon became painfully apparent that Roberts would never be a great high jumper. He seemed able to reach the five foot six inch
QOQCpTS
mark easily enough, but was unable to go higher. “Nick” urged him to desert the high jump for the halfmile and, seeing the obvious truth, Roberts agreed.
In the fall of his sophomore year, Nick advised Roberts to go out for cross country in order to develop his stamina. But Clyde stayed out for only one day. He ran six miles on his first day out and was unable to walk for the next two weeks. That was enough cross country for one year.
Member Of ’32 Relay
During last year’s regular season, he won the half mile events in the Butler and Pittsburgh meets and, along with Young, Wilson, and King, was a member of the sensational relay team which broke the Drake Relay record, running the fastest collegiate two mile of the 1932 season. He also ran the mile and placed in several meets.
This year Clyde’s leg injury, received during the fall cross country season, is bothering him considerably especially on the turns in the gymnasium track. Consequently he is not up to his form of last year although his time of 1:59 in practice the other night points to an early return to form. Clyde expects to be himself again during the outdoor season
cream of the pole-vaulters in McKinley and Lowry who were tied for first place at 13 feet. The same institution and Michigan Sate dominated both hurdle races, when Captain Ted Bath and Liberty of State and Simmons and the Negro star, Beatty, from Normal shared all the points in these events. •
The relay was decided according to the best time made, and the quartet of Cobb, Hovey, Warren and Keast of Michigan State took first in 3:26.9.
Summary:
POLE VAULT — McKinley and Lowery, (MN) tied for first; Schram and Roark. (Mar.) and Holcomb (MSC), tied for third. Height. 13 feet.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Metcalfe, (Mar) ; Schatte (MN), second: Colletti, (Loy), third: F. Murphy (ND), fourth. Time, -.06.1. New world’s record.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Swartz (WST) ; Hurd (MSC), second: .Zepp (MN), third: O’Neil (Mar), fourth. Time, 4:21.5. New C. I. C. indoor record.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by Bath (MSC) ; Liberty (MSC), second; Beatty (MN), third: Simmons (MN), fourth. Time, :07.8.
SHOT PUT—Won by Dues (DCC) ; Davis. (Hills), second; Trost, (Mar), third; Finkel (ND), fourth. Distance 48 feet 7^ inches. New gym and C. I. C. indoor record.
440-YARD DASH — Won by Mullins (WST) ; Keast (MSC). second; Tierney (Mar), third: Kellar, (Pitt), fourth. Time. :50.8.
HIGH JUMP—Won by V. Murphy (ND) ; Glickert (MN) and Cosgrove (But), tied for second; Salter and Mallard (WST) and Klein-heksel (MSC), tied for third. Height 6 feet 4% inches.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Zepp (MN) ; Ottey (MSC). second ;. Geissman (Mar), third; Young (ND), fourth. Time, 9:35.3.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Beatty (MN); Simmons (MN), second; Liberty (MSC), third; Bath (MSC), fourth. Time, :08.4.
MILE RELAY—Won by Michigan State, (Cobb, Hovey, Warren and Keast) ; Pitts’-burgh, second: Notre Dame, third; Western State, fourth. Time, 3:26.9.
where there will not be as many curves to bother his injured leg.
Roberts was one of the very few Notre Dame men who were able to gather points in last week’s Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet. He placed fourth in the half mile with his best competitive time of the season, 2:00. He might have done better if he were not the victim of crowding at the finish.
Clyde’s best time is 1:56.8 which he made in the Central Intercollegiate Conference outdoor meet in Milwaukee last spring.
March 17, 1933
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
THE BASKETBALL SEASON
When the Irish eagers downed Minnesota at Minneapolis last Saturday night, they completed a season that, judged on any standards, was a large-scale success.
Winning 16 out of the 22 games they played, the Keogan-. ites finished the year with a percentage of .727, a mighty high mark, especially when the injuries of early season and the class of the opposition is considered.
Striking an average from the total scores of 749 for Notre Dame and 619 for the opponents, it develops that the Irish won their average game by a score of 34.05 to 28.14, a comfortable margin.
The box score of that average game would show Notre Dame with a total of 12.95 field goals, 8.14 free throws, 15.77 free throws attempted, and 14.64 personal fouls. The average oppon
ent would have 9.95 field goals, 8.43 free throws, 15.14 free throws attempted, and 12.23 personal fouls.
Playing in 21 of the 22 games, though he was in only a few minutes of the Illinois Wesleyan game, “Moose” Krause rolled up an average of 10.14 points a game. If the Wesleyan game be ignored, the big center’s average climbs to 10.65 points.
Joe Voegele was the second high scorer on the Irish squad with a total of 198 points. His average for the 22 games of the season stands at exactly nine points a game.
Krause led the squad in every department of the game except in free throw shooting, where Leo Crowe made good 30 of 45 attempts for first place with a .667 average. Krause scored 77 field goals, 59 free throws, had 115 free throw attempts, and 55 personal fouls.
KEOGAN VS. LAMBERT
The question of the outstanding Indiana college basketball coach has long been a favorite discussion among Hoosier cage fans. After this year there can be little doubt, for George Keogan has definitely outstripped Piggy Lambert of Purdue, his chief challenger.
In the ten years he has been at Notre Dame, Keogan has directed his teams in 206 games. Of those he won 157 while losing 49, to give him an average of .762.
Lambert, in 15 years of coaching, has won 120 games and lost 51 in Big Ten competition for a conference average of .701. If all the Purdue games in that span are considered, he won 186 and lost 68 for a mark of .732.
In either case Keogan has a wide and decisive margin on the Boilermaker mentor.
In the basketball season just closed, Ed Krause and Joe Voegele of Notre Dame led all Indiana collegiate eagers in point scoring. Krause, with 213 was first and Voegele, with 198 was second.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday!
ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
ROUND TRIP
*	South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.	„
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
O. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
s	Catering to	£
NOTRE DAME MEN
? for over thirty years < '
Complete Dinner * - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 21)
Brownson points were entered on the books in the first half—no points being scored in the second half. Paul and Hawley were the leading scorers with five points apiece. Logan and Still wagon dropped two buckets apiece and Dewy bagged one field goal to complete the scoring in this freak game.
Freshman 15, Alumni 7
By defeating Alumni last Sunday
morning the strong Freshman quintet kept its place as second best .in the Group II standings. Through the efforts of Krause, Freshman center, who scored four points and played a heady floor game, Alumni was on the bottom of the heap at the half, 9 to 2. Pogue sank the only Alumni basket in the half. He hit the mark again in the concluding frame to chalk up four points for himself and lead his team in scoring.
The second half was closer with Freshman accounting for six points and their opponents, five. Andy Pilney dropped one shot in this pe
riod and was helped along by Kearns, . a forward, who carried off high scoring honors with three baskets. Reese with a basket and Pallman with a free throw accounted for the remaining Alumni points.
St. Edward’s 17, Badin 12
In another game that was slowed up by fouls — fourteen of them — St. Edward’s triumphed over Badin, 17 to 12. Four men were tied for high scoring with five points apiece. They were “Schnozzle” D’Amora, Matthew, Jahr, and Burchill. Only two field goals were made during the first
An Opportunity for Rich Spiritual Rewards ... in your
HOLYYEARfe
Choose the smooth SOUTHERN ROUTE to all EUROPE and the HOLY LAND via the Mediterranean
REX	Conte di SAVOIA
AUGUSTUS ROMA Conte GRANDE and Cosulich Liners
VULCANIA	SATURNIA
ROUND TRIP FARES from $162.50 (Third Class)—depending on accommodations and ship selected.
ROME
HOLY LAND
In his recent proclamation, the Holy Father emphasized the rich spiritual rewards to be granted those who visit Rome during rhe Holy Year. No Catholic who is in a position to go should hesitate to take advantage of this opportunity.
By going via the smooth Southern Route, the voyage can be made on ships providing unequalled facilities for religious, devotion at sea . . . many with beautiful chapels—all with facilities for hearing Mass. This distinguished fleet, headed by the new super-liners "REX" and "Conte di SAVOIA" offers direct service to Italy and Rome with connections for all Europe and the Holy Land.
HOLY YEAR PILGRIMAGES
To supplement this service, the Italian Line is also offering a series of Holy Year Pilgrimages embracing Italy, Egypt and the Holy places of Palestine. Complete information and detailed itineraries will be sent upon request.
Apply local tourist agent or One State Street, New York, N. Y.
@ ITALIAN UNE
AdNo.G-7439
March 17, 1933
Twenty-seven
half; one by D’Amora for the Minims, and one by Burchill for Badin. Six personal fouls were called on Badin during this round, and four on St. Ed’s. The result gave Badin a six to five lead at half time.
In the second half Jahr and Burchill went to work and scored six points, the only points garnered by Badin in this half. St. Ed’s chalked up twelve points during the same time. Matthews hooked two shots into the cup and dropped in a free throw. Lord and D’Amora marked up two field goals between them, and Red Darcy completed the scoring with one from the floor and another from the free throw line.
Dillon 24, Corby 23
Dillon sprang an upset on Corby last Sunday and as a result went into a three way tie for the lead in Group I. The feat was not accomplished, however, without plenty of work. The final score of 24 to 23 was reached when Belden made good on a free throw in the overtime period. Corby led at the half, 12 to 11.
The game was marred by the officials who called eighteen fouls, seventeen of which were marked against the seniors. This was the deciding factors in the outcome as Dillon made fourteen attempts from the free throw line count ten points while their opponents were making only five. ■
Cannon led the scorers with ten points, eight of them being made in the first half. Corby succeeded in bottling. him up in the second half and allowing him only one field goal but in doing so they left O’Neill and Belden open. Between them these two marksmen hooped three shots and McNally one.
Mahoney led the seniors in scoring efficiency, scoring three times from the floor and once from the free throw line. Behrman was close behind with three buckets and Rapier ran a good third with four points.
Off-Campus 18, Carroll 13
A smooth running Off-Campus team held to its lead in the Group II heavyweight class with an 18. to 13 win over arroll last Sunday. The final outcome was never doubtful. Led by Marbough, rangy center who controlled the tip off and play under the basket, the red clad boys went to town.
At the half Carroll was trailing 10 to 6. Marbough sank two of his total of five buckets in this period. Vitt and Palmer helped him out with a basket and free throw apiece. For the Freshmen, Wibby Hughes was the big gun. His efforts netted him two field goals. Geruzzi dropped another through the rim for Carroll’s six points in the first period.
Marbough scored his remaining three baskets in the second half and Vitt registered another to give him runner up position in scoring.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
St. Edward’s 21, Badin 12
St. Edward’s lightweights took their fifth straight game Sunday afternoon, turning back Badin 21 to 12. During the first half the score seesawed back and forth, but two field goals by Podraza in the last minute tied the score 9 to 9.
Collins opened the scoring for St. Edward’s in the second half with a long shot from the center of the floor. Brilliant work by Collins and Coogan gave St. Edward’s a 15 to 12 lead at the quarter.
Dillon 18, Corby 9
The Dillon lights showed unexpected strength to defeat Corby 18 to 9, the victory over the seniors being their first for the season. Dillon led all the way, Giragi and Conley putting them out from in the first few minutes of play, with two field goals each. The score at the half was 10 to 6.
Sorin 19, Lyons 18
Robinson’s field goal in the last minute of play gave Sorin a 19 to 18 victory over Lyons in a closely contested game. The game was hard fought throughout with never more than a few points difference at any stage. The score was tied 12 to 12 at the half, Jaeger’s six points keeping Lyons in the game.
Alumni 19, Freshman 15
McNichols, Wenz, and McCormack ran wild for Alumni in the second half of the game with Freshman scoring 16 points and enabling the Juniors to win 19 to 15. Freshman led 13 to 3 at the half and seemingly had the game clinched. But in the second half their scoring efforts were limited to a long shot by Joe Nigro, Freshman forward. Freshman’s inability to score was due to the work of the Alumni guards "who broke up the Freshman under basket shots.
Brownson 2, Walsh 0
Carroll 2, Off-Campus 0
STRAT1GON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD" 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money. ’
“Where Noire Dame
Students Meet”
Open 24 Hours. __________________________
Two lovely performers break bottles and lamp chimneys before the eyes of the audience,and throw the jagged pieces into a box already filled with broken glass. They step barefooted into the box and do an Oriental dance in the glass without in-* jury.
TtX FUN TO ft jFbozED
*	*	*	e	*

~ "ft "T "
EXPLANATION:
The performers toughen their feet in a strong solution of alum water and thoroughly rub them with pulverized resin before they appear. They throw the freshly broken glass around the edges of the platform. The glass on which they actually do dance is very thick, heavy, and filed or ground so that the sharp edges are rounded off. The girls just pretend to dance on the sharp glass.
Source: "Magic Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions’' by Albert A. Hopkins, Munn & Co., New York.
Copyright, 1933, B. J. Boynolds Tobacco Company
NO TRICKS
JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
One of the tricks of cigarette advertising is to pretend that “Heat Treatment” is an exclusive process,making one cigarette better than any other.
EXPLANATION: All cigarette manufacturers use heat treatment. It is a routine process of manufacture. The first Camel cigarette ever made was manufactured under the heat-treating
process. Every one of the billions of Camels produced since has received the necessary heat treatment.
Harsh, raw tobaccos require intensive processing under high temperatures. The more expensive tobaccos, which are naturally mild, call for only a moderate application of heat. Heat treatment never can make cheap, inferior tobacco good.
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
This is the most important statement ever made in a cigarette advertisement. Weigh its words. Consider what it means. Then try Camels.
Camels are fresh ... in the air-tight, welded Humidor Pack.
Thirty
The Scholastic
IRISH ARCHITECTURE
(Continued from Page 14)
from the simple source to the present time. Contemporary designers might take a hint from this fact. If they merely intend to copy work that has been done before, that is one thing; but if they aim to beget new beauty and make their work part of a living growth, not an imitation, then no work of ancient art, including Irish architecture, is too humble for study.
Real Value Unknown
The study of Irish Architecture is a comparatively recent possibility. As we know, the last seven or eight centuries have not been conducive to studying anything Irish. The Irish themselves have been too busy in striving for political freedom to appreciate the architecture left to them by their ancestors. Certainly the British government has not gone out of its way to encourage the study of Irish Architecture among other nations. We know that the remains of buildings in Ireland are important but probably do not realize just how valuable they are at this time. Fortunately many legends have grown up about these ruins and have been handed down to us despite all discouragements. . It will be some time before scholars can make allowance for the typical Irish exaggerations and superstitions in these stories and get down to the basic facts, but the material is there to work on. Fortunately Irish Architecture has been miraculously preserved just as the Catholic faith and the Gaelic language have been preserved in spite of almost insurmountable obstacles.
Present Trends
It is significant that the value of Irish Architecture to archaeologists is negligible after the Twelfth century. At this time the great Gothic architecture was making its appearance in Europe. There never was an Irish Gothic architecture to follow the Irish Romanesque, as was the procedure in other European countries. During the Twelfth century England took possession of Ireland politically and has managed until very recent times to overshadow any attempts at native culture. We can only speculate as to what Irish Gothic might have been, and what it might have meant to the world. Certainly the continuity with the native school of art that flourished until the Twelfth century has been broken.
Whether Ireland can ever establish
another native style of architecture based on the ancient art is rather doubtful, for there is no native art today. Most of the existing buildings in Ireland are distinctly British in character as were most of our American buildings until twenty years ago. America has developed for the first time towards a native school of architecture through the so-called “modern” trends in design. Ireland, too, is experimenting with modern architecture but at present is greatly influenced by British and American trends. Not enough is known at this time of the significance and possibilities of the ancient school of architecture in Ireland, and until the facts are known there can be no contact between the ancient and modern Irish art. In the meantime we cannot expect Ireland to mark time in her building program until the proper sources are at hand. Undoubtedly the building will go on, influenced by British and American design until at some future date an independent Irish government, free from external troubles, will be able, like Brian Bor-unha, to give its attention to an encouragement of all forms of Irish native art, including Architecture.
CAGERS WIN 11 STRAIGHT
(Continued from Page 21)
period and thus chalk up a 31 to 27 victory.
The game marked the final appearance in a Notre Dame uniform of Captain Johnny Baldwin, the steady, cool-headed and dependable Irish guard.
The victory gives Notre Dame a record of 16 victories against 6 defeats in a 22 game schedule.
The score:
Notre Dame (31) Alberts, f ...........
Voegele. f........... Krause c ............
Crowe, r .............
Baldwin, r ...........
Jordan, f ............
O'Kane, r ............
Newbold, r ...........
FG FT FTA PF Pts. 1112	3
4	3	5	0	11
4	13	4	9
0	2	2	4	2
10	2	12
1	0	2	2	2
10	10	2
0	0	0	0	0
Totals ..............12	7	16	13	31
Minnesota (27) Robinson, f ....... WriRht f '..........
Norman c............
Licht r ............
MacMillan, r ....... O’Connor, r ........ Sochaki, R .........
FG FT FTA PF’ Pts.
4	3	4	2	11
112	0	3
1	5	9	4	7
3 ' 0	0	2	6
0	0	0	3	0
0	0	0	1	0
0	0	0	1	0
Totals .............. 9	9	15	13	27
Referee, Kearns, DePaul.
Umpire. Schoemer. ChicaRO.
U. S. GOLD STANDARD
(Continued from PaRe 17)
currency added impetus to their force. With a price level variance of from 80 to 225 since its universal acceptance as the standard, the power to purchase residing in gold has continually changed. The whole economic system is made only more unstable by this uncertain value standard. Debtors and creditors are not giving or receiving the same values as when they made or accepted loans. Prices vary, production is affected, and depression follows.
Gold Becoming Dearer
Within the past decade the new gold produced in the world had averaged from one to two per cent of the existing supply, according to J. M. Keynes, English economist. In the same period he finds that the annual rate of increase of the world’s wealth due to normal expansion in economic life is estimated at three per cent. Gold production is lagging. Such a shortage can result only in an increased demand for gold. Per ounce, gold is becoming dearer. More pounds of cotton and more tons of coal are needed to purchase the gold dollar. Man still covets gold, and to gain it he will produce commodities until he has the purchase price. The price of gold increasing, more of the commodity is required; fewer dollars being in existence in respect to the commodities, the markets will become glutted and all of this; can foster only over-production, depression, and unemployment. The process is slow but certain, and can be counteracted only by newly discovered gold supplies.
Standard Is Faulty
A third and final charge is directed at the standard. It appears to be guilty not only of instability in price, and shortage in production but likewise of maldistribution. Gold, being the basis of national currencies and the balancing item in international trade, is in demand for both purposes. It follows that concentration for one of these phases in actual withdrawal of this sum from the other phase. The forty per cent gold reserve behind our Federal Reserve notes is of no use in world trade. Such a practice and others resembling it have led to the hoarding of the metal by some nations, leaving others with an insufficiency. They can’t support their credit structures and they can’t main-
March 17, 1933
Thirty-one
tain a balance in their world trading. Because such a state goes off the gold standard does not mean that it has embarked upon inflation? No. It has simply refused to consent to the continual struggle for gold. For the moment it has lost out in the game.
In these three general phases the gold standard has failed to fulfill its appointed economic function. Shall we scrap it? Shall we remedy it to better serve our needs ? Shall we substitute remonitized silver fiat standard, the compensated dollar? These as well as other suggested and necessary reforms will be considered later.
IRISH BRIGADE
(Continued from Page 16)
ter of one room in which Notre Dame has placed priceless paintings of the Mother of God and the Prince of Peace, among them de Credi’s madonna valued at more than $150,000.
Twenty-two of Notre Dame’s priests and brothers, all now dead, belonged to the Notre Dame post of the G. A. R. Colonel William Hoynes, Knight of St. Gregory, dean emeritus of the College of Law, and the oldest professor on the campus, is also the only surviving member of the G. A. R. on the faculty. He is a member of the South Bend post.
ALL OPPONENT TEAM
(Continued from Page 22)
and so had to place the Gopher captain on the second squad.
When Baird of Butler was not hot, Davis was. Davis is a tricky and clever player and was always difficult to handle. He had an excellent shot and although he didn’t play both games as well as Morstadt of Marquette, he can be rated as a twin to him.
Ohio State, .co-champions of the Big Ten, had a fine center in Hosket. He was not as great a “feeder” as Johnson of N. U., but his jumping power and ability to retain the ball kept his team in the running during our game in Columbus.
Because of the wonderful game Smith played at Pitt we found it necessary to make room for him. Had he played the same type of game here he would have been on the first team but he failed to do so. He was the key man in the Pitt offense, and when paired with Cribbs they were a hard outfit to whip.
IRISH ORATORS
(Continued from Page 15)
given by a man about to die. “I wish that my memory and my name may animate those who survive me, while I look down with complacency upon the destruction of that perfidious government which upholds it domination by the blasphemy of the Most High,” he said in voice that rang through the courtroom. The brutal execution followed, and another patriot had given his all for Ireland.
O’Connell The Beloved
“I do not think I exaggerate when I say that never since God made Demosthenes has He made a man better fitted for a great work than Daniel O’Connell. . . . Daniel O’Connell was listened to because all England and Ireland knew there was a man behind the speech—one who could be neither bought, bullied nor cheated,” declared Wendell Phillips.
O’Connell was the greatest of the Irish Orators. He is the most loved, the most respected. He never wavered from his purpose. He gave everything for his land. He did what no other orator had done; he organized the Catholics of Ireland as the Irish Nation. With his eloquence, he awakened the Catholics; he injected courage into them; and finally on April 13, 1829, he gave them Catholic emancipation.
The King’s Reaction
The king of England as he was signing the bill which O’Connell had forced upon him said, “The Duke of Wellington is king of England, O’Connell is king of Ireland, and I suppose I am only dean of Windsor.”
O’Connell was firm in his convictions. He hated despotism so much, he refused to give his autograph to the czar of Russia. He never permitted jealousy to override his judgment concerning men. Richard Shiel, who opposed O’Connell in the beginning, and Charles Phillips, who was a non-Catholic, along with many others, were gathered round him in his fight as put it for “God and our nation.” But when once aroused he knew no bounds.
Benjamin Disraeli once insulted him in the House of Commons. The “liberator” arose to his feet and in a thunderous voice hurled one insult after another at Disraeli. Even the usually complacent Disraeli became
excited when O’Connell ended by referring to him as, “the heir-at-law of the blasphemous thief who died upon the cross.”
The “liberator” has shown that one genius can pull an entire nation out of despair. He never could have accomplished much by appealing merely to the people’s patriotism. To love of Ireland he joined religion and gave the land something that was unconquerable; something that was displayed when President De Valera and ex-President Cosgrave marched side by side to the communion rail; something that will carry forward the Irish. This is what O’Connell, the man, with all his eloquence gave Erin.
Parliamentary Life
No Catholic was permitted to take a seat in the English Parliament. O’Connell ran against a member from Clare. He delivered several passionate addresses to the people and won by a vast majority. When the English Parliament refused to let him take his seat after the Catholic Emancipation, he went back to Clare and was reelected without a contest. He entered the Parliament as a world figure. During the election of their king, the Belgians had given three votes for him.
O’Connell then organized the Repeal Association. He unified the people by holding huge mass meetings throughout the island. At Tara, on a Sunday in August, he addressed an audience of a million. This tremendous crowd, the total of which is a conservative estimate, reveals the appeal he had for his country. Daniel O’Connell made Ireland a nation.
Other Greats
Add to these illustrious orators such men as Burke, Sheridan, Plunkett, Tone, Phillips, Sullivan, Sheil, Butt, Davitt, Dillon, Redmond Meagher and Parnell, and one immediately differs with the writer who exploded the myth by referring to the Irish as “Servants all!”
Many believe that the Irish orators are of the past. The. eloquence of the Irish orators is not only of the past but is of the future. Perhaps, one of Notre Dame’s contributions to history will be a group of men who will right some of the many wrongs in this country; men who will bring about greater results by eloquence than could be achieved by any army.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
N. D. WINS DEBATE
(Continued from Page 8)
erty tax is not fiscally sound, and then advocated a system of graduated income taxes for the states whereby the burden on tangible property might be reduced. The affirmative seemed to depend in the main on the argument of the “ability-to-pay” theory which their tax would heed and which the present tax system is ‘disregarding.
Baer and Brennan advanced the argument convincingly that tangible property is not bearing as much of the tax burden as the affirmative maintained and that it “should” bear at least 60%. In addition to this point the negative argued against the plan proposed by the affirmative. “The income tax is a good horse, but let’s not ride it to death,” said Brennan, second negative speaker. The negative “harped” a great deal on the idea of involving the Federal Government tax problem in the issue and succeeded w’ell in doing so, this argument being barely touched upon by the opponents.
Contradicting Figures
A great mass and maze of figures was presented by both teams in the course of the debate. On one point the figures contradicted directly, and the debate took an amusing turn while each team tried to firmly establish the validity of its own authority.
Baer and Hurley gave the best performance in refutations. Finally the debate narrowed down to a few important arguments, chief of which were the fiscal adequacy of the property tax as opposed to that of the income tax, and the failure of the property tax to touch intangibles.
Professor Lewis Buckley of the Economics Department acted as chairman for this debate.
Law Notes
Joseph L. Wetli, ’31, writes that he is having success in his law practices in Toledo, Ohio.
Arrangements are being 'made by the Law Club to entertain Judge William Watts, of Dixon, Illinois, who will address that body the last week of this month. Judge Watts is a member of the Illinois Board of Examiners and was at one time a teacher of Dean Konop. .
On Down The Line
By Fred MacBeth==^=l
CHINESE OUTFIELDER LEE GUM HONG will try for a position on the OAKLAND (Pacific coast league) baseball team this season . . . the BRITISH LAWN TENNIS ASSOCIATION has ruled that accepting free racquets from a sports firm constitutes a violation of the amateur rule ... an 18-hole muncipal golf course is being built in SAN MATEO (Calif.) as an aid to relieve unemployment . . . only workless citizens are eligible to work on the undertaking . . . BOBBY JONES engaged a “pro” when his wife got the golf craze ... he believes husbands do not make good instructors . . . for their wives.
THIRTY-THREE NATIONS are challenging FRANCE this year for the DAVIS CUP . . . that equals the record total of 1928 . . . BILL TILDEN says KING GUSTAV of SWEDEN IS THE BEST TENNIS PLAYER OF HIS AGE IN THE WORLD . . . the ruler is 75 years old and plays three or four afternoons a week . . . never less than three sets and often four or five . . . girls at OLIVET INSTITUTE (Chicago) have taken to basketball on roller skates . . • HONUS WAGNER (age 58), who starred at shortstop with the PITTSBURGH PIRATES in the “old days,” has been appointed coach of his old club . . . Wagner started major league baseball at a salary of $80 a week . . . towards the end of his career he managed to draw $10,000 for a season. . . .
4
FRITZ POLLARD, JR., son of the famous negro halfback who starred for Brown nearly two decades ago, plans to enter HARVARD next fall . . . YOUNG POLLARD captained the SENN HIGH SCHOOL eleven last fall (Chicago) . . . his father defeated HARVARD almost single-handed in 1916 . . . the son of PAT McDONALD, who was once the WORLD’S GREATEST WEIGHT THROWER, is now a freshman at HOLY CROSS COLLEGE . . . TRACK COACH BART SULLIVAN saw in this 235 pound freshman shades of his famous father and induced him to forsake football and train for the weight events ... already he has shown promise of greatness.
The PRINCE OF WALES is quite an all-around athlete ... in school he was a varsity man in soccer and rugby football ... at present he plays polo, rides in steeplechase races, plays squash and tennis and shoots an honest 81 on the golf course ... in setting a NEW WORLD RECORD FOR THE 60 YARD DASH AT THE CENTRAL CONFERENCE MEET, RALPH METCALFE of MARQUETTE was caught in 6 seconds flat by two watches, while three others showed 6.1 .. . this seems proof enough that he really made the time . . . METCALFE’S record of 6.2 for 60 metres is possibly the fastest running ever done by a human.

<
<
“CATALYZER” REVIEW
(Continued from Pajre 12)
t
abuse.” He disproved the transmutation of metals through Alchemy and brushed aside the belief that malignant spirits caused the deaths of men descending into deep mines or entering large caves.
“Albert expressed the belief that the earth was habitable south of the equator, and demonstrated the sphericity of the earth more than 200 years before Columbus.”
Danehy also treated the contributions of Albert in many other fields and listed the most important of his treatises.
A review of the graduate work in the Department of Chemistry points out that there are 19 students work- • ing for advanced degrees in this department, 11 of whom will deceive the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. An attempt to determine the endurance limit of malleable cast iron (in co-operation with the Malleable Iron Research Institute), studies in heat transmission, determination of the film coefficient for hydrogen by absorption in water in a wetted-wall tower are but a few of the papers being prepared.
In an editorial, Twenty-Five Years of Organized Chemical Engineering, Editor Jenny traces the development of this science and the gradual increase of such departments in colleges and universities.
Meeting reviews, a list of the department publications, and Personals complete the magazine. Of interest to the student body is the Personal item that Dr. E. G. Mahin, Department of Metallurgy, was recently granted a patent involving the use of a modified carburizer.
t
<
«
c
After College WHAT?
Advertising?
Frederick C. Kendall, editor of Advertising SC Selling, says, "Advertising is still young. Yet ■ it is already a vital part of every important industry. The professional advertising man must be not only a thoughtful student of human nature, but also a student of all American business.”
"QPARKING” ideas are the life O blood of advertising. That’s why advertising men, as well as college men, turn to a pipe. For a good pipe with the right tobacco is man’s first-aid to clear thinking and wisdom. As for the "right tobacco” — that’s Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.*
Just one puff will tell you why. It’s that truly individual blend of fine old hurleys—a blend you find only in Edgeworth. Once you try Edgeworth, nothing less will do. Want to try before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 2zd St., Richmond, Va.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.'Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
It takes resourcefulness . ..
Time and again, Bell System engineers have demonstrated their pioneering bent in working out unusual telephone construction problems.
For example, they laid a huge conduit under the Harlem River. They dredged a trench in the river bottom, lowered enormous sections of iron pipe, sent down divers to join the sections, encased the finished tube in concrete. Through this they ran telephone cables forming one of New York’s main lines of communication. Across the Gila River in Arizona they constructed a catenary span 2373 feet long. To bridge oceans, they developed radio telephony. They have built telephone lines over mountains, across deserts, through swamps.
Their resourcefulness in getting through, over or under natural barriers makes possible telephone ser vice that is practically world wide in reach.
BELL SYSTEM
____| SAY “HELLO” TO MOTHER AND DAD I______________ I ...RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER 8:30 P. M. I
SMOKERS notice a certain “ touch” in Chesterfields that comes from having just enough Turkish tobacco in them . . . a spicy, aromatic flavor that’s much the same to a cigarette as seasoning is to food.
Foronlybyblendingandcross-blending the right amounts of
mild Domestic tobaccos with the right amount of Turkish can we get the flavor and aroma that Chesterfield smokers enjoy.
Next time, ask for “The Cigarette that Satisfies”. . . you’ll get Chesterfields, with Milder, Better Taste.
THEY TASTE BETTER
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
THEY’RE MILDER
lesterfidd
4