Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Patronize Our Advertisers
FLV «OME FOR
Have the prescription of your glasses filed with us. It will serve in an emergency.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
XMAS!
• Take a number! The number of days you have for Christmas vacation, for instance. Well, we’ll give you exactly that number of days AT HOME—by flying you there OVERNIGHT in a 200-mile-an-hour plane. Or leave in daytime and be home the same evening.
This means you, if you live in Cleveland, Chicago, Twin Cities, Omaha, Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle! Reservations: any United Air Lines Ticket Office, Telegraph Office, Hotel or Travel Bureau. UNITED AIR LINES
Lighten Their Climb Back to Health-Buy Christmas Seals!
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
Marriage in college—a problem not so prevalent in this university as in others—is, nevertheless, worthy of our attention. Investigations have been conducted in several universities to determine the relative success of student marriages while the parties are still in college and after graduation.
According to an article in the Indiana Daily Student, leading universities have various attitudes toward the question. Most co-ed schools give full sanction to student marriages regardless of whether the parties are self-supporting or not, regardless of whether they are living together or not.
“In Vassar,” says Dr. H. N. McCracken, “the basic principle in dealing with students is to confer on them the privileges of maturity. Thus the question of marriage is entirely incidental. . . the college regards it as a matter for the family to decide.” This attitude is representative of that taken by most college officials today.
Dean of Women Agnes E. Wells, of Indiana University, finds that student marriages make no apparent difference in scholastic ability, and that most of the student marriages “have been happy ones.” The dean of women at the University of Minnesota expresses a similar opinion.
The University of Notre Dame is in accord with the majority in permitting married students to continue at the University. The question is properly left to the discretion of the more mature students but should be subjected the guidance of proper authorities. Since such a tremendous majority of college students are unmarried, the institution seems out of place in college.
—o—
From the University of Minnesota student directory come the following phenomenal names: Gee and Golly, Long and Short, and Best and Wise. They also have Light and Arey, Wilde and Wooley, and, ‘Lastz but not Leitz’ (lousy pun quoted), Stein and Beer.
—o—
FAMOUS SPEECH
“James Fenimore' Cooper was a goon.”—Professor Nichols in a Minnesota American Literature class.
—o—
An assignment at Utah State required students to hand in a report on the Middle Ages. One student submitted a review of Life Begins at Forty.—Daily Californian.
Two
The Scholastic

CALENDAR
Friday, December 6
Scholastic Staff meeting, Editorial Staff 6:30, General Staff 7:00 p.m.; German Club meeting, Carroll hall Rec., 7:45 p.m.; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, December 7
Basketball, Double - header, Notre Dame versus St. Joseph and James Milliken at Studebaker Gymnasium, first game 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, December 8
Student Masses 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Communion breakfast for the New Jersey, Philadelphia, and Memphis Clubs after 8:00 o’clock Mass, Lay Faculty Dinnig hall, Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., speaker; Meeting of Officers of Knights of Columbus, Walsh hall clubrooms, 10:30 a.m.
Monday, December 9
Philippine’s Day Observance, convocation for conferring honorary degrees, 2:30 p.m., Gymnasium, no afternoon classes. Broadcast of ceremonies and President Roosevelt’s address by NBC and Columbia chains,
2:30; Lecture by Dr. Frederick Kinsman, Washington Hall, 7:45 p.m., “Calvinism.”
Tuesday, December 10
Dr. Frederick Kinsman lecture in Washington Hall at 7:45 p.m. entitled “Anglicanism.”
Wednesday, December 11
Basketball, Notre Dame versus Washington University at St. Louis; Lecture by Dr. Frederick Kinsman on “Catholicism, the Home of Faith, Hope and Charity,” Washington Hall, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting of Campus Radio Group, Engineering Bldg., 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, December 12
Lecture by Christopher Hollis, “English Capital in America,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Piano Recital by Hugo Melchione and Arthur Davidson in Washington Hall.
speaking terms with the sky
F1AR above the clouds, on all the leading airlines, your pilot is always within hearing and speaking distance of airports—via Western Electric radio telephone.
This equipment, made by the manufacturing unit of the Bell System, is helping the airlines to set a notable record yr '
for' , safe transportation. Teletype—another Bell System _xvice—speeds printed weather information to airports. Long Distance and local telephone facilities, too, play important parts in airline operations.
Bell System services reach out in many directions to the benefit of industry and commerce.
RADIO CALENDAR
Monday, 3:15—The Man Who Knows.
Monday, 7:00, p.m.—Faculty lecture.
Prof. Froning (WSBT-WIND).
. Tuesday, 3:15—Musical program.
Wednesday, 3:15—The Bookmen Program.
Thursday, 3:15—Jack Robinson’s Sport Talk.
Friday, 3:15—The Scholastic of the . Air.
December 6, 1935
You can home by telephone, in
a couple of minutes. Why not do it
Three
Drawn especially for The Scholastic by Art Editor William Ellis
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX	December 6, 1935	No. 10
PROGRAM COMPLETE FOR PHILIPPINE DAY
Many Notables Will Participate in Ceremonies; Roosevelt and Romulo to Receive. Degrees
Mundelein Will Preside
By John A. Gillespie
On Monday, Dec. 9, the University of Notre Dame will observe Philippine day in a program which will commemorate 400 years of Catholicity in the Philippines as well as the birth of the infant republic, which has just inaugurated its first president. Carlos P. Romulo, Manila publisher and independence worker, and President Franklin D. Roosevelt, will be awarded honorary degrees.
His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, of Chicago, Governor Paul V. McNutt, of Indiana, and the Hon. James E. Farley, postmaster general, will be among the notables present, as will Governor Henry Horner, of Illinois, and Samuel B. Pettin-gill, congressional representative from Indiana.
The official program, arranged by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., to take place in the gymnasium at
Carlos P. Romulo
2:30 o’clock, will open with “The Stai-Spangled Banner,” played by the University band; this will be preceded by “Hail the Chief,” when President Roosevelt appears on the stage. Next, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will announce the purpose of the convocation and Father Carrico will read the citations for the honorary degrees to be bestowed on President Roosevelt and Mr. Romulo.
Moreau Choir to Sing
The Filipino national anthem, “No Mas Amor,” will be chanted by the Moreau seminary choir, after which Mr. Romulo will deliver a short address. His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, presiding officer of the convocation, twill then introduce Mr. Roosevelt, and the program will close with the “Victory March,” played by the band.
Because of the limited seating capacity in the gymnasium, the actual attendance has been restricted to 9,000. Two national radio networks, CBS and NBC, as well as Station WSBT, will broadcast the entire proceedings, starting at 2:30 o’clock.
Arrangements for handling a crowd of at least 125,000 persons have been made by a civic relations committee headed by Bernard J. Voll, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and Mayor George W. Freyer-muth, of South Bend.
Noll, McNutt To Be Hosts
To afford them an unobstructed view, 25,000 school children of South Bend will be assembled in Leeper park. As many South Bend and St. Joseph Valley residents as possible will be admitted.
Bishop John F. Noll, of the Fort Wayne diocese, will be the religious host, and Governor Paul V. McNutt, as the highest officer in the state of Indiana, will act as the civil host.
President Roosevelt and His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, who will make the trip from Chicago together, will be met at the station and escorted through decorated streets to the University entrance. All mili
tary units of the area have been mobilized for service along the route, and school and service bands will be stationed at intervals.
After the ceremony, the president will make a tour of the University grounds, and then will leave immediately for Washington.
All arrangements were approved by Col. E. W. Starling, who personally supervises all details where the president is to make an appearance.
A special platform has been built along one side of the gymnasium for the newsreel cameras which will make a permanent record of the impressive program.
Some additional guests will be: Thomas J. Courtney, state’s attorney from Chicago; Sister M. Benita, president of Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois; Harold E. Rucavado, of Chicago, Consul of Republic of Costa Rica; August Rontoux, Latvian consul, Chicago; Dr. Jerome G. Kerwin, official representative of the University of Chicago; S. E. Thomason, publisher of the Chicago Daily Times; S. C. Yoder, president of Goshen College; Victor Kleisrath, of the Bendix Corporation, and Walter J. Cummings chairman of the board, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co.
His Eminence, Cardinal Mundelein
Five
December 6, 1935
FOUR VETERANS AND FIVE NEWCOMERS TO COMPRISE VARSITY DEBATE SQUAD
Chicago Club and Alumni To Hold Joint Smoker
Question Is Now Selected
By Louis Da Pra
Prof. William J. Coyne, varsity debating coach, announced recently the selection of the 1935-36 varsity debating squad, upon the completion of the elimination rounds held in the Law building, Monday and Tuesday of this week.
The coach selected a squad of nine men, including four returning veterans and five new-comers. Thirty-one men reported to Coach Coyne when the initial call for candidates was issued.	'
The veterans from last year’s suc-
Debater John Heywood Returning veteran.
cessful debating squad are Robert Schmelzle, senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Freeport, Illinois; John Heywood, freshman lawyer from New Richmond, Wis.; Eugene Malloy, senior in the College of Commerce, from Chicago, Ill.; and Richard Meier, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Faulkton, S. Dak.
The newcomers to the squad are Arthur Sandusky, Law 3, from Sheridan, Wyoming; David Flynn, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Geneva, Hl.; Robert Burke, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Louisville, Ky.; John Mar-bach, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from White Plains, N. Y.; and John Schemmer, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, from Colby, Wis.
Earlier in the year Coach Coyne had announced that he would select a squad of 12 men. Up to press time it was not known whether the remaining three men would be selected from those eliminated in the final try-outs or from a list of interhall debaters.
The question for debate this year
S i x
WRANGLERS . . .
At the regular meeting of the Wranglers, Tuesday evening, December 3, it was decided that the admission of new members into the society should be held next week.
All students who have participated in any forensic activity on the campus are eligible to apply for admission. Acceptance will depend upon the preliminary interview by the membership committee and the subsequent vote by the active members of the club based upon a short extemporaneous speech delivered by the applicant at a meeting of the club.
Robert Weaver has been appointed Chairman of the Membership Committee, and will be assisted by John Heywood and James Burke. Candidates for membership should mail their applications to Robert Weaver, 202 Corby Hall. These applications must be received not later than Saturday evening, December 7.
Interviews with the applicants will be arranged by the membership committee for next Monday. Successful applicants will then be privileged to speak to the Wranglers on Friday evening, December 13. A vote by the club will determine the men to fill the existing vacancies.
At the meeting of December 3, Joseph McGrath gave the main address of the evening, a talk upon the necessity of the United States upholding, with Great Britain, the economic sanctions, against Italy in her present war with Ethiopia. International cooperation was the central theme of the speaker’s topic.
CENTRAL NEW YORK CLUB
In a recent meeting the club decided to hold its annual Christmas dance at the Osborne Hotel in Auburn, New York. Several novel ways of advertising and entertainment at the affair were decided upon to make the dance more than the usual success. Ten new members were introduced into the club.
is: “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override, by a two-thirds vote, a decision of the Supreme Court holding an act of Congress to be unconstitutional.”
The 1935-36 debating schedule will be released soon. Dual meets have been arranged with Michigan State and Creighton and participation in two outstanding Midwestern debate tourneys.
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame and the alumni club of Chicago will hold a combined smoker in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall on the evening of Thursday, Dec. 12, it was announced this week.
The affair, which will be free of charge to members of the Chicago club, -will feature a program of speakers and entertainment, along with refreshments. Tentative plans include speeches by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., John Scallan, president of the alumni club of Chicago, Jack Elder, of football fame, and James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni association.	•
“The smoker has been planned with a view toward closer cooperation and friendly contact between the student and alumni organizations,” President Luke Tieman said this week, “we hope for a large attendance foi' this
President Luke Tiernan The cigars are on the house.
affair—the first of its kind sponsored by the club.”
The committee is composed of James O’Keefe, Andy Pilney, Hank Pojman, Edward Dunn, Bert Baur, Bill Steinkemper, John Wolf, and John Anton.
The annual formal Christmas dance of the Chicago Club will be held Dec. 27 at the Mediriah Athletic Club.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
The Knights of Columbus, at their regular meeting last Monday night, heard Rev. Eugene Moriarty continue his discussion of the persecution of Catholics in Mexico. Father Moriarty upheld the general attitude ’ of the Knights of Columbus toward the situation, and commended their activities in attempting to remedy the situation.
During the business meeting which preceded Father Moriarty’s discussion, several important measures were passed the contents of which should be learned by those members who were not able to be present at the meeting. The program was supplemented by a sparkling exhibition of boxing given by Detillo and Kanaley, Chicago C.Y.O. champions of the 135 pound class.
The-Scholastic
Dr. Kinsman to Conclude Lecture Series Next Week
OPENING NIGHT FOR 'THE WORLD WAITS'
CHANGED TO SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14TH
By Louis Da Pra
Before one of the largest audiences of the current season, Dr. Frederick Kinsman, Jr., famed lecturer and former bishop of the Protestant Episcopal church of Delaware, spoke on “The Tone and Temper of Religious Discussion from the Agnostic, Protestant, and the Catholic Point of View,” Monday evening, in Washington hall, inaugurating a series of lectures.
Dr. Kinsman, who resigned his bishopric in 1919 to enter the Catholic church, explained that the aim of the lectures is to relate and compare the three points of view from which Christianity is usually regarded.
Concerning the temper of those involved in discussions of this sort, the speaker asserted:
“A right tone temper is required: a use of intelligible terms, but more essential a just and generous temper, for serious matter should be dealt with gravity. There is no argument stronger than patience and kindness. All such speech calls for reverence, truth at its highest, and men at their best.”	'
Dr. Kinsman illustrated how the three views are reduced to two, as Protestantism tends to become identical with Agnosticism, thus leaving a non-Catholic view antagonistic to the Catholic.
• He pointed out the uncertainty which exists outside the Church. . The uncertainty of Revelation, the absence of authoritative interpretation, which leads to the impossibility of taking religion very seriously. The result of this is. a .sordid realism accompanied with a tendency to do away with the Catholic view of family life and marriage, and to unrestricted gratification of the sensual instincts.
Dr. Kinsman spoke Wednesday evening on “Agnosticism,” and last night on “Lutheranism.” He concludes the series next week with lectures on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.
VACATION DATE CHANGE
Making one of its rare departures from the regular calendar year, the University will close school this Christmas on Wednesday, December 18 instead of Thursday, December 19 as announced in the annual bulletin.
This is to compensate for the half day of classes next Monday morning before the Presidential convocation. Originally, there were to be no classes on Monday at all, but the Director of Studies, Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., announces a half day session.
December 6, 1935
BACKSTAGE DIRECTOR
Professor Frank Kelley
Is there an electrician in the house?
ATTENTION!
Graduate students and seniors in all colleges of the University will march from the Main Building to the Gymnasium at 2:00 p.m., Monday, Dec. 9, for the convocation and awarding of degrees during Philippine Day observance.
Places of assembly for the various groups are: Graduate students, room 118 Main bldg.; Arts and Letters seniors, Brownson study hall; Science seniors, room 117 Main bldg.; Law seniors, 116 Main bldg.; Engineering seniors, 123 Main bldg.; and Commerce seniors, Carroll Hall study hall. Students are to report at these places at 1:40 p.m., Monday.
Seniors are to secure caps and gowns for the ceremony in the basement of Walsh hall from 10:00 until 12:00 o’clock Monday morning. Those having classes during those periods will be excused from the 11:00 o’clock session. There will be a fifty cent charge for the gowns.
Regular- classes for all students in the University will be dismissed on Monday afternoon but morning sessions will be held as regularly scheduled.
The University faculty will attend the convocation ceremonies in a body, the lay members in cap and gown. They will also take part in the procession.
Other Performance Dec. 15
Saturday evening, December 14, will be the date when Notre Dame first nighters will throng to Washington Hall to witness the production of the play, “The World Waits,” by the University Theatre players. The change in date was necessitated because of a scheduled basketball game with Northwestern on Monday, December 16.
The second performance will be given, as originally planned, on-Sunday evening, December 15.
With the time for the presentation of the play rapidly drawing near, strenuous efforts are being put forth under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle in order to make this play one of the finest ever staged at the University. The enthusiasm and spirit shown by the actors during rehearsals give evidence that the play will be a success.
Backstage assistants are still wanted by Professor Frank Kelley of the speech department. Professor Kelley announced Monday that there will be a meeting Sunday morning, December 8, at eleven o’clock in Washington Hall of all those who desire to work backstage during the production of the play.
“We need experienced men to work backstage because of the intricate settings and lighting effects used in the play, Professor Kelley said. “However, we would like to see all those who are interested in doing this kind of work attend the meeting whether or not they have had- previous experience.”
CLEVELAND CLUB
The Cleveland Club’s annual smoker was held on Tuesday evening, Dec. 3, in the Lay Faculty Dining hall. Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C., club chaplain, and Mr. William Dooley, graduate manager of publications, headed the speaking program.
Moving pictures of the Notre Dame Army game of this year were shown and explained by George Wirry, senior manager of football.
The smoker was under the direction of Chairman Ralph Kaiser, who was assisted in the arrangements by James Byrnes, James Dubbs, and James Callahan.
The next regular meeting of the Cleveland organization will be held on Monday, Dec. 16 in the Carroll hall recreation rooms. The meeting, which will mark the election of Freshman representatives for the year, is scheduled for 8:00 pun.
Seven
Here's How Footballers Rate the All-Americans
Catalyzer Makes Second
Appearance This Semester
This is the ninth in a series of snap-shot interviews with students about Campus topics. This week the reporter chose several football men and asked for their All-American choices.
“Sunny” Church, Walsh:
C. Jones, Ohio State; L.G. Shuey, Southern California; R.G. Montgomery, Princeton; R.T. Detzel, Pitt; L.T. Saino, Fordham; L.E. Millner, Notre Dame; R.E. Shuler, Army; QB. Grayson, Stanford; L.H. Shakespeare, Notre Dame; R.H. Berwanger, Chicago; F.B. Jankowski, Wisconsin.
“Mike” Layden, Sorin:
Ends, Millner, Notre Dame and Mo-scrip, Stanford; Tackles, Widseth, Minnesota and Lutz, California; Guards, Michaels, Villanova and Weller, Princeton; center, Jones, Ohio State; Q.B. Wilson, Southern Methodist; H.B. Berwanger, Chicago, and Shakespeare, Notre Dame; F.B. Grayson, Stanford.
George Moriarty, St. Edward’s:
L.E. Millner, Notre Dame; L.T. Pfefferle, Notre Dame; L.G. Wetzel,
George Moriarty
Picks three N. D. All-Americans
Southern Methodist; C. Robertshaw, Navy; R.G. Smith, Ohio State; R.T. Widseth, Minnesota; R.E. Moscrip, Stanford; Q.B. Grayson, Stanford; L.H. Wilson, Southern Methodist; R.H. Shakespeare, Notre Dame; F.B. Berwanger, Chicago.
COMMERCE FORUM
Representative Samuel Pettingill, Indiana Congressman, addressed the Commerce Forum in the law auditorium Nov. 27 on the subject of trusts. Congressman Pettingill gave a short history of the trusts and a discussion of the future of trusts and monopolies under the new efforts toward government regulation.
A social meeting was held by the club in Brownson “Rec” on Dec. 4. There was no business discussed. The evening was given over to entertainment and refreshments.
“Whoopee,” alleged by-word of the. dear old “collegiate” days, has been revealed as just another word of British origin.
Eight
’about the camPys
William P. Gillespie, senior manager of basketball... Although there seems to be some doubt in his mind as to this, since he was in charge of football equipment for half the season. . .
He’s a Long Island boy who came home for the Army game amidst the plaudits of the home gentry. .. Fixed
up members of the band and the managers organization. . . Much to the embarrassment of Andy Helmuth...
Bill is, of course, best known for Iris trip managing ability. .. Took classes to the State Pen and the Insane hospital and luckily returned from both places with all members... ... He once threatened to whip the managers organization single-handed . . . This caused no little concern among some of the members ... It all started over Bill’s coat being found in a trash can. . .
Being from a sea-shore resort he returns each year with a real tan... Worked last summer as a beachcomber, handling a rake in this capacity . . . Would like to be a lawyer after taking his A.B. . . Has changed majors and halls a couple of times and at present is in economics and Sorin. . .
On his first football trip this year —that to Navy, he was accidentally locked up in Uncle Sam’s mail car and rode with the mail an extra 50 miles before he could convince Sam’s men it wasn’t a hold-up. . .
Looks like the man to keep Coach Keogan’s nerves quiet and George on the bench. . . Never rattled, he will keep watches from stopping when we are ahead. . . Incidentally, he visits N. Y. again in Feb. . . This will give him first place among the managers in miles covered. . .
Editor Paul Doyle announces that the second issue of The Catalyzer, the chemical magazine published by the Chemists’ Club of the University, will make its appearance either Friday or Saturday of this week. This issue revives an old tradition in that the articles it contains are all the work of students. For the past few years the magazine had been devoted to the research papers of the professors of the Department of Chemistry but this year it resumes its function as a student publication.
“Poisonous Laboratory Gases,” is the title of an article contributed by Arthur Baum, a senior in Chemical Engineering. Baum discusses the relative toxicity of common laboratory gases and has for his purpose the fostering of a new respect on the part of the student for these common gases.
Another article by Donald McKay, a senior in the pfe-medical school, is entitled “The Culture of Whole Organs.” McKay discusses the method used by Colonel Charles A. Lindberg and Professor Alexis Carrel, who co-laborated in a recent research experi-
Donald McKay
Discusses “New Hearts for Old.”
ment in which they succeeded in keeping an animal heart alive artificially over long periods of time. McKay predicts that this technique will find wide application in the fields of physiological chemistry, physiology, and pathology.
“Gasoline by Polymerization,” an article in the field of petroleum chemistry, deals with the recently discovered process by which the hitherto worthless gaseous by-products of the distillation of petroleum are converted into a gasoline of extremely high quality. This process is important not only because it produces a small amount of superior gasoline but because it should lower gasoline prices and help to conserve the supply of oil.
CONDOLENCES
The Scholastic wishes to extend the sympathy of the student body to Custode A. Crisci, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on the recent loss of his father who died suddenly Wednesday morning.
The Scholastic 8
I
Gary Station to Handle Weekly Campus Program
PRESIDENTIAL TOUR DETAILS IRONED OUT THOROUGHLY BY SECRET SERVICE
Rumors of Revival Stir
Remnants of Met Club
By Gregory Byrnes
Station Director Joe Mansfield announces that beginning Monday, Dec. 9, and for thirteen weeks thereafter’ Station WIND, in Gary, as well as WSBT, South Bend, will carry the regular Monday evening lecture by members of the faculty. These lectures may be heard every Monday evening at 7:00 p.m. The addition of the Gary station with its coverage of
Prof. Henry Froning
Inaugurates WIND broadcasts.
the Chicago area as well as parts of all the neighboring states will more than double the audience for these programs. The lectures are to deal with various non-technical aspects of science, history, and literature. Professor Henry Froning, head of the Department of Chemistry, will give the first lecture next Monday night.
Mr. Clarence Menser, executive in charge of production for' the National Broadcasting Company, addressed the Radio Group last Wednesday night in its regular weekly meeting. Mr. Menser gave a very instructive talk regarding his work as production manager. He has produced such successes as Grand Hotel, and The First Nighter programs.
Everyone interested in the production of Radio dramatics is urged to attend a special meeting to be held in the studio in- the Engineering building Sunday morning at 11:00 o’clock. It is felt that this hour should be convenient for the majority of those interested and a large turn-out is expected. Previous experience is not necessary and everyone is invited. Two half-hour dramas have been selected, and it is expected that the cast for these will be chosen on Sunday morning.
Mr. Ned Raglin, Program Director for WSBT, has gone to Station WJJD " in Chicago to carry on his radio work there. Ned has worked for the last year here at Notre Dame, helping student announcers in the campus radio studio. Those students who have /worked with him will miss his kind assistance. Ned has already been succeeded by Mr. Bob Barker.
November 2 9, 1935
By Anthony O’Boyle
The arrival of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt on the campus next Monday will mark the conclusion of a trying week of work by Col. Edward W. Starling, the head of the SecretService men who are assigned to act as the Chief Executive’s bodyguard.
Local officials have been fully instructed as to their duties and the militia assigned to act as the president’s honorary escort has had its final instruction. The time element plays a most important part in these presidential visits and Col. Starling’s duty is to see that everything goes ahead as planned so as not to delay the president after his visit has been completed.
Changing an ancient political axiom to “as Roosevelt goes, so goes Starling” is, perhaps, the best way of describing the activities of this select group of Secret Service men. Fulfilling the responsibilities of this position he has safeguarded the president while the latter has crossed the continent, sailed the New England coast, travelled South two or three times, voyaged on the North Atlantic, motored the entire Hudson river valley, gone vacationing on the “Nourma-hal,” and addressed the American Legion Convention in Chicago.
Intensive Preparations
The daily routine of protecting the president while he is in Washington is hard enough but the difficulties become infinitely more arduous whenever Mr. Roosevelt decides to take a trip. Differing from his immediate predecessors, under whose administration White House attaches, newspapermen, and secret service men were accustomed to a regular schedule for travelling, President Roosevelt is apt to decide practically overnight to make a journey and when this occurs Col. Starling is required to be ready immediately.
Few people fully realize or comprehend the minute details and preparation that are behind every presidential journey. Before the president or the first lady of the United States can take a single step away from the White House every mile of track must be tested, every switch spiked, every employee instructed, and, in some cases, duplicate trains are sent ahead in place of the president’s special to take the brunt of anything unpleasant that might have been planned against the chief executive.
Municipal police and state troopers, no matter what their records of efficiency might be, must be carefully prepared before time in their duties of restraining the enthusiastic crowds (Continued on Page 23)
Although the meeting of the Met Club were long ago tolled to a peaceful death, there threatens to be a classic piece of resurrection, if the twitchings and squirmings in its Manhattan, Westchester and Long Island members are any indication of life.
Bob Cavanaugh says: “My idea is that all interested in foi-ming a new club for the New York City areas agree to pay about a dollar apiece to rid their district of debt. When they
. James Sherry Westchester is faithful.
agree, the S.A.C. will do what it can to aid re-organization.”
Jack Skelly still covets a signed petition from last spring of more than 40 Long Island boys who want to form a Long Island club. Whether they will accept their proportion of debt or not the petition doesn’t say.
Jim Sherry not only has a list of faithful Westchester men who will support a Westchester Club, but has the assurance that they will shoulder their portion of the debt.
Howard Cusack, as president of the Senior class aloof from petitions and such, committed himself to say: “Over 150 New York boys without a club! Tsk, tsk—that’s a shame!” But Cusack, Manhattanite, doesn’t see the point in breaking up the metropolitan area into district clubs. “It would not harmonize with the Alumni organization,” he points out. Cusack, too, would like to see everyone join in with their dollar or two to pay off the debt.
But what is the debt? Theoretically, the debt was “substantially reduced,” from reports of the old officers of the Met Club last spring. But substantial evidence of reduction has yet to reach the hands of the S.A.C. In a S.A.C.. file in Walsh hall lies a scrap or two of yellow paper in Andy Maffei’s handwriting (Andy Maffei was president of the Met Club last year) which condemns the spirit of Notre Dame — students, administration, and alumni alike—but fails to clear up the substance of the substantial reduction any more than to enumerate a long list of broken promises and to promise a “detailed report” in a few weeks. Two or three S.A.C. letters signed Bob Cavanaugh, chairman of
(Continued on Page 11)
Nine
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT ACTIVE AS EDITOR, ATHLETE, AND CLUB LEADER IN COLLEGE
By Harold A. Williams
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s early schooling consisted of private tutoring, traveling abroad for three or four months every year, and two summers at the public school of Nauheim, Germany.
At the age of 14 he entered exclusive Groton preparatory school. The scholastic work was easy for him
President Franklin D. Roosevelt His “Crimson” scooped Yale's “News”
so he had sufficient time to participate in football, baseball, rowing, crosscountry, and tennis. He established the school record for the high kick at eight feet, six inches. The high kicker lifts one leg high in the air above his head, then brings it down quickly as he shoots the other in a swift scissors motion and lands on the left shoulder and arm.
While he was still at Groton the Spanish-American War broke out. Franklin Roosevelt and two companions were determined to enlist in the Navy and had connived with a tradesman to take them from the school on the following Sunday. On the Saturday night before their departure Franklin and his two friends came down with the measles and were sent to the infirmary, thus ending the plan for enlistment.
In 1900 Franklin D. Roosevelt entered Harvard at the age of 18, despite the fact that he had earlier wanted to attend Annapolis. He specialized in history and government.
Ernest K. Lindley, a biographer, says “Roosevelt’s contemporaries at Harvard seem to remember more than anything else his vigor, his enthus
iasms, his charming personality, his ability to get things done and to win the loyal assistance of his fellowstudents. Possibly there is a clue in the fact that he completed his undergraduate work in three years, -without exhibiting any marked tendency toward either laborious studiousness or originality of thought along academic lines. He won none of the formal academic distinctions awarded by the college.”
Classmates say that he was not in the least bit snobbish, but rather argumentative and somewhat radical in his views of social and political questions. As a sophomore he started a drive to send aid to the Boers.
He played on the Harvard freshman football squad, and rowed on the freshman crew. He was on the varsity rowing squad for two years but never made the first eight.
Franklin Roosevelt’s main ambition while at college was to become editor of the Crimson, the six page, four-column tabloid Harvard undergraduate daily. He clinched a position on the staff in his freshman year by scoring a scoop on the arrival of Vice President Theodore Roosevelt to the school. In his junior year he executed a journalistic feat which is still talked about by the Harvard undergraduates: To beat the Yale News to the streets in the football extra for the Yale-Harvard game, the Crimson took over a small printing shop at New Haven where the game was played. As soon as the game was over the score was flashed to the improvised Crimson office and soon boys on bicycles were at the field with Crimsons before many of the spectators left, beating the Yale News to the field by five minutes.
In the following spring he was elected managing editor, and was also campus correspondent for two Boston papers. Completing his undergraduate studies at the end of his junior year, Franklin Roosevelt decided to return for a fourth year mainly because he had been elected Editor-in-Chief of the Crimson. For his last year at Harvard he took graduate work in government, history and international law.
During the autumn of 1903 the Editor wrote all the editorials; they were directed at the student body for lack of cheering at football games and at the freshman class for not supporting their football team. At the conclusion of the football season the Editor began to direct his editorials against campus politics, the lack of board walks on the campus, and the benefits to be derived from attending
From Files Of The Scholastic
December 23, 1893.—That searchwarrant surprised a number of the boys Wednesday.
January 13, 1894. — The Notre Dame football team, while being entertained at the residence of Mrs. Edward Roby, was tendered a dinner and reception by the hostess which was a very brilliant affair. . . . The favors were exquisite, and the table groaned beneath the weight of many substantial viands, as well as the delicacies of the season. The evening’s festivities were interspersed with music both vocal and instrumental, also recitations from the college boys, assisted by the Misses Beck. The gem of the evening was a recitation from the ever-willing hostess, entitled “Mary, the Household Minstrel,” which was enjoyed by all.
February 3, 1894. — The Orphesus Club enjoyed a sleigh ride last Sun-
day. The trip was enlivened by songs interspersed with snowballs.
February 17, 1894.—Wanted: Ten clever versifiers. Apply at “Staff” office. Spring poets with long locks are warned off the premises!
March 17, 1894.—The organ in the church should be attended to. Nearly every Sunday it breaks down, to the great discomfort of the choir.
April 28, 1894.—Some of the boys have already begun to study in bed every morning.
lectures on public affairs. His most famed crusade was a sensational attack launched at the university authorities for the lack of proper facilities in case of fire.
Mr. Roosevelt belonged to many clubs: the Institute of 1770, the Political Club, the Social Service Society, the Memorial Society, the St. Paul’s Society, the Hasty Pudding Club, the Yacht Club, the “Fly Club,” and Alpha Delta Phi.
At the end of the first semester in his fourth year he left Harvard for a South American cruise. On his return in the fall he took up law at Columbia University in New York City where he received his law degree two years later.
Ten
The Scholastic
Welfare Group To Run .. Campus Travel Agency
Mr. Francis W. Lloyd, Comptroller of the University, has announced that the Greyhound Bus Line ticket concession was delegated to the St. Vincent de Paul society on November 25. Previous to that date, Mr. A. G. Jacobek, of Chicago, representative of the Greyhound Bus Lines, consulted with Mr. Lloyd about an or-ganiaztion on the campus to which the concession might be given. The comptroller immediately suggested the society. On the twenty-fifth of last month permission for acceptance of the concession was granted to the society by the University Administration. The profits taken in by the society will aid the organization in carrying on its charitable work in . South Bend.
At present the society is to have the concession only before the Christmas holidays. After a conference with Mr. Jacobek, Vincent McAloon, Jr., executive secretary of the organization, revealed that on December 2, the Greyhound representative announced that all Christmas rates on the Greyhound Lines will be a fare " and a half round trip. These rates will be in effect from December 15 to 31. McAloon is now making efforts to have the rates go into effect on December 12 or 13. Announcements will be made early next week relative to places where tickets will go on sale. The organization hopes to secure the basement of the University Dining Halls for the sale of tickets. Any desired information may be obtained from the offices of the St. Vincent de Paul Society at 10 Lyons Hall.
FACULTY CAPS AND GOWNS
Caps, gowns,and hoods, for faculty members desiring to rent them will be distributed at 1:45 p.m., Dec. 9, in the Conference Room, ground floor, t	Main Building (opposite Discipline
office), by a representative of the E. R. Moore Company.
MET CLUB
(Continued from Page 9)
THE WEEK
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
The snow fall reminded us that we might have a white Christmas; and the thought of a white Christmas brought to mind the fact that Christmas vacation-let’s take another look at that calendar-is only 13 days, 7 hours, 20 minutes, and a fraction of a second away. Subtract two hours for eastern standard time, and add an equal number of hours for western standard. We gath
er from all the talk that’s making the rounds that everybody’s going to have the gayest time of his life during the holidays. Well, we might have a swell time, too, and then again we mightn’t. You see it all depends on how much time we can spare from writing a thesis, six or seven term duties, and reading an innumerable number of texts. We college fellows have all the fun.
Well, the fourth year men can have no doubt now about their status as seniors. When the University starts measuring the boys of ’36 for caps and gowns-and what’s more charges them three dollars—then they can be certain that Notre Dame du lac has at last decided to recognize them as her very own seniors. We’re very proud to be among those so honored and can hardly wait until next Monday to show off before President Roosevelt in our newly acquired robes of dignity. Maybe, however, we’d best not strut after all. Unaccustomed to the strange habiliments, as no doubt we’d be, we’d probably trip on the skirts of our outfit if we tried cutting up. It might be a good idea to get a few pointers from one of our friends among the local clergy.
cause they were all over the local landscape Monday, hopping about like fleas, getting into each others way, and frightening the squirrels. If anyone will, the 1936 Dome should profit from the fruits of their labor.
Yoiks, yoiks! Once again the old hunting call rings across the Indiana fields and meadows as a group of lads and lassies of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, respectively, do their part in reviving a tradition inaugurated last year by the Sorin Hunt and Saddle Club. Taking advantage of the Thanksgiving holiday a week ago, said lads and lassies denied themselves the privilege of whiling away the hours of a bitter cold morning in a snug, warm bed—that’s one thing we can’t understand — and betook themselves to the wide, open spaces to indulge in a little, innocent game of hounds and hare. Cute, what! The St. Mary’s hares lost to the Notre Dame hounds—no insult meant, fellows—but the hounds lost out in the end when they had to buy refreshments for the hares. Looks like it’s the hounds that always pay in the end.
Another fellow came late to class. Said the professor reprovingly to the tardy student, “You should have been here 15 minutes ago!” Wherewith answered the flippant sophomore, “Why, what happened?”
Touring the' corridors of the residence halls, a South Bend news boy attracted attention by repeatedly yelling, “United States in war!” A gullible and inquisitive senior bought one of the boy’s papers and sought the front pages in vain for the exciting news.
“Say,” he called after the boy, “I thought you said that the country has gotten into war.” .
campus clubs committee, have rattled over the rails to New York, as two or three months have passed slowly by, but not another word has come from the ex-president since the letter in the early fall.
The S.A.C. says “Agree to pay the debt, and we’ll get going on new plans.” Westchester, Manhattan and Long Island are of the public opinion that the debt should be paid. But what is the debt? Someone, somewhere in the East knows, but he won’t tell.
December 6, 1935
Hundreds of week-enders returning from Chicago got off the train, took one look about them, and announced almost with one voice, “While Chicago has perfect weather, Notre Dame had to get herself right in the middle of a blizzard.” Some were relieved that it wasn’t “raining anyway.” All had to admit, though that the fresh raiment of white gave the campus a new and rare beauty that almost, if not quite, equalled the loveliness of Notre Dame in the spring. The local amateur cameramen seemed to realize that fact, too, be-
Never so much as turning as he continued on his way, the newsy answered over his shoulder, “Not now, but she’ll be in it sure next week.”
Eleven
<
■N THE JUGGLER VEIN
C A F SMOKE .
“Hello, St. Mary’s? Have ONE DOZEN GIRLS ready to accompany ONE DOZEN NOTRE DAME fellows on a turkey hunt.” This large order was given by Joe “MASS PRODUCTION” MacDonald of Sorin. Bill Steinkemper claims he lives 20 stories above an EMPTY LOT. He must be what one would term a builder of
‘Fifty cents? And we only use them for half a day?”
‘BOSS’ McARDLE, DOOMED IN DILLON, is wearing black for a certain ■ somebody who no longer lives (for him) across the way. . .
Our tender sympathies are respectfully tendered to those youthful sophs, campused because they made the infantile error to presume that the BELLES OF ST. MARY’S were
Football Fables
For three long years sat Jimmy Dench Amid his blankets-on the bench.
At last, at last arrived his chance— “Hey Jimmy!, give Spitoonsky your pants.”
What Sons of ’39 Did Upon Arriving
Politician’s Son—Passed out cigarettes.
Celebrity’s Son—Wrote home asking his famous father to autograph a check and send it to him.
Racketeer’s Son—Went to the comptroller and tried to corner the concessions.
Lawyer’s Son—Cross-examined his roommate.
Pawnbroker’s Son—Begins loaning money on the tenth of the month at 20%.
Real Estate Man’s Son—Tried to lease an entire wing of Dillon Hall to sublet at his own discretion and his own terms.
Druggist’s Son—Priced the sandwiches in the cafeteria.
Professor’s Son—Made friends with the correctors.
It was irony, perhaps, that “Green Pastures” was the most popular play of the drought year.
Standout
There might have been more pathetic figures in the history of time, but the most pathetic Freshman was the one who strutted up to the desk at which the class cards of his class were being distributed and began to tell the one in charge what classes, hours, and professors he had decided to elect.
castles in the air. Alumni’s Ed Lyn-augh has a strange penchant toward solo soirees. Thanksgiving night he received a belated permission from home and took off for CHICAGO-ALONE at 11:00 p.m. The visit lasted several days and temporarily embarrassed the financier of the unchaperoned hope, one STEVE CONWAY, also of Alumni, who finally recouped his financial forces and joined Ed in the Loop.
Father Hl was writing on the board “SCHUTZENGRABENZERSTORUN AUTOMOBILE” (a tank to youse what is ignorant), when Lyon’s BOB PICK, queried: “And what’s her last name, Father?” .... Soph’s class treasurer, BILL BRANNIGAN has a girl friend who plays the piano in the Colfax foyer where she’s assured of another audience beside Bill... BUCK
running Morrissey, Lyons and Badin (too bad boys, see ya at HOOK’S XMAS). . . Bob Gehres, the RODEO MAN from California, craves silence for his Pre-Med studies. He couldn’t get it in his Alumni wing so he ups and moves to Lyons sub in QUEST OF QUIET. Latest info reports he is satisfied, but doesn’t say how long it will last. . .
TO ALL THOSE (BOTH OF THEM) WHO DISLIKE THIS COLUMN WE HOPE YOU’RE FLUNKING NOT MORE THAN FIVE SUBJECTS AND CAN’T POSSIBLY GRADUATE BEFORE 1952. WE ALSO HOPE THAT WHEN YOU DO PUT ON THE CAP AND GOWN THE FORMER IS SIX SIZES TOO SMALL AND THE LATTER FOUR FEET TOO SHORT, SO THERE!!! —The Funny Fellows.
- Did You Know • • • ,
The only person thus far who found “Love and a Dime,” is F. W. Woolworth.
To tell the truth we think that these he-was-so-dumb-that-he-thought jokes are pretty dumb themselves, but we really have to tell you about Rodney, the literary freshman, who thought that BLACK BEAUTY was the latest book in the wave of Negro literature.
)
The favorite University Laundry game is “Button, button, who’s got the Button?”
She may have been the cashier’s daughter but she always rang true.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
, The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C...............Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN ........................... Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST .................. Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman_________________________In the Juggler Vein
William V. Ellis________________________________Art Editor
Netos Staff
Paul Foley____________________________________Neros Editor
Robert L. Grogan_____________________Assistant Netos Editor
Clifford F. Brown Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie__________________________Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker___________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley_________________________James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett__________________r__________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride___________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
twenty graduate students are receiving support from the N.Y.A. in their efforts to secure education. No other president has shown such an active interest in the success and welfare of the nation’s youth as has President Roosevelt. The charge that the N.Y.A. is merely an attempt to “buy” the support of the country’s younger intellectual group has been hotly debated ever since the student aid function of the N.Y.A. was proposed. Whether or not these charges are true, the youth of the nation has tremendously benefitted from this much needed help at a time when help was urgently needed. Undoubtedly it is better to give the college man the aid he needs to finish his education than to throw him into an already surfeited labor market where he is not prepared to compete with the manual laborer nor educated enough to vie with the trained executive.
In addition to the student aid program, the N.Y.A. has other programs which will, all told, aid nearly three million young people. The gigantic scope of the N.Y.A. shows that President Roosevelt has recognized, more than any of his predecessors, the importance of the youth to the nation. This significant movement should- not be debased by political mud-slingers, nor limited because of party lines. It should be carried forward, regardless of what political group reigns on Capitol Hill.
Truly, the N.Y.A. will stand as a monument to the foresight of the man who has extended the helping hand to the youth of America — to the man who determined that the nation’s youth should not suffer for the chaos induced by an older generation—Franklin D. Roosevelt.
William R. Dooley. '26________________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
DECEMBER 6, 1935
ROOSEVELT AND THE YOUTH MOVEMENT
N -
EXT Monday Notre Dame will commemorate the long struggle for freedom and the granting of independence to the inhabitants of the Philippine Island. It is appropriate that President Roosevelt, Carlos Romulo, Cardinal Mundelein, and other dignitaries should gather at Notre Dame for the occasion since the University has been so closely linked to the Philippines through its many past students. • To the Island Republic which has lately launched out for itself, we extend our best wishes for a successful voyage through the stormy and war-torn sea of world politics.
Monday will be a memorable day in the history of Notre Dame, for it will mark the first official visit paid to the campus by a President. Mr. Roosevelt’s visit to Notre Dame will enable him to get a first hand view of the splendid work being done by the National Youth Administration among the nation’s colleges and universities. Notre Dame is one of the one thousand six hundred and two institutions of higher learning benefitting from this collegiate relief program, which is being carried forward in every state of the Union. The tremendous scope of the N.Y.A. program can be partly grasped from the astonishing statistics which reveal that 109,001 students are receiving a monthly grant of ?1,638,945.00—a staggering sum indeed.
‘ In Indiana alone, thirty-eight institutions are being aided by the Federal government. Coming closer to the . campus, three hundred and sixteen undergraduates and
December 6, 1935
CRITICISM AND THE S.A.C.
O NE of the most prevalent indoor sports at the moment seems to be criticizing the Student Activity Council. We, on our part, have been the object of some mild censure for not taking a definite stand against the somnolence of this group. .Our answer has been, and still is, that we will take such a stand when someone proposes a rational, workable plan of activity for the organization.
Two weeks ago, The Scholastic, through its campus opinion column, attempted to discover what a representative group of students would do were they directing the affairs of the S.A.C. Some of the replies, which, owing to lack of space we could not print, were rather surprising. A number of sophomores were even ignorant of just what the S.A.C. was supposed to do. Of the printed replies, several were openly censurious, while only one declared the organization was really living- up to its name and its constitution.
Perhaps the best suggestion offered was that the S.A.C. should promote more class and club smokers in an effort to stir the campus clubs out of their perpetual lethargy. We are definitely in favor of this proposal, especially that concerning smokers, as under the present arrangement, members of the same class never really get together during their four years at Notre Dame. .On a campus as closely knit as this one, it is rather surprising that class mokers are not a definite, established tradition.
We offer this proposal for more smokers to the S.A.C. Meanwhile our columns are open to all those critics who like to put their feet up on the desks, dangle cigarettes from their lower lips, and rip the S.A.C. to pieces. If you can find a workable cure for the organization’s illness, we will be glad to print your letters . . . and the council will probably erect a tablet to the- one who can save it from extinction.—J.S.M.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
IRISH WILL MEET ST. JOSEPH AND MILLIKEN
STUDEBAKER GYM, SCENE OF SECOND TWIN-BILL OF SEASON FOR KEOGANITES
Notre Dame Trounces
Albion For Easy Win
4
Milliken, Conqueror of Iowa
By Gene Vaslett
The Notre Dame eagers will play their second and last twin bill of this season at the Studebaker gymnasium in South Bend tomorrow night with the St. Joseph and James Milliken teams as their opponents. The fieldhouse will be undergoing a metamorphosis in preparation for the visit of President Roosevelt and the basket-eers are being ousted from their training camp until the chief executive has made his visit. Coach Keo-gan was in a dilemna as to where to stage tomorrow’s games until the Studebaker- company came to his assistance and offered the services of their gymnasium.
Tomorrow’s games though considered mere warmups will be far from that. The Keoganites have chosen a tartar in James Milliken and realize that fact now. This team electrified the Big Ten last week when it upset the Iowa University team in their opening game, 33-29. The victory was so decisive that there was no doubt as to whether Milliken had luckily de-
Co-Captain John Ford
Ray DeCooke
George’s former pupil turns rival.
feated the lowans or not. The Scientists have been turning out consistently good teams for the past three years and this year is expected to be their best. The first string line-up presents five seniors who have been playing together for the past two years without interruption and are reported to have perfect coordination in then' team work. Last year they averaged 42 points a game in their contests, a thing that Notre Dame has never done in its 19 years of basketball history and Coach Keogan is justly wor-
(Continued on Page 20)
The Notre Dame basketball team flung open the doors on a new basketball season last Saturday night with an impressive 62-26 victory over Albion. Twenty members of the Irish squad looped in a total of 25 field goals and 12 fouls to completely overwhelm the future teachers.
The game was a typical opening game, with both teams lacking that certain finesse of mid-season form. From the very first minute when Johnny Moir cut in to take a pass from Novak and sink the first bucket of the game the Irish quintet was never headed. In a very few minutes it was evident that it would be a walk away for Keogan’s charges, and at the half the score for those who were interested read 37-10. The game did, however, give the Irish mentor a chance to get a line on how the boys react under fire.
The work of two sophomores, Meyer and Moir, equally shared the spotlight, along with Kroeze of Albion. Meyer’s outstanding all around floor play was one of the treats of the evening. Playing in his first collegiate game he gave a fine exhibition of passing, shooting, and defensive (Continued on Page 20)
Co-Captain Martin Peters
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Cross-Country Team Wins
Chicago C. Y. O. Meet
NOTRE DAME’S CAGERS OVERWHELM ST. MARY’S AND KALAMAZOO QUINTETS
Swept in by a mile a minute gale and the desire to get out of the 20 degree temperature, the Notre Dame cross country team seized five of the first seven places in the annual C. Y. 0. cross country meet in Chicago.
Johnnie Francis, the most consistent runner all season, shook off his nearest rival in the last mile and romped in a winner. When he crossed the finish line the four other members of the Irish squad were in sight. A Chicago hopeful took second place and was closely followed by Leo McFarlane and the sophomore flash, Gormley. Somehow or other another competitor managed to nose in and then the remainder of the Notre Dame , thinlies, Herbie Kenyon and Arch Gott, came in out of the cold and as- . sured another Irish victory.	•
Loyola and other local colleges were represented. Among others of high talent were the winners of the different park races in Chicago, a marathon runner from Boston and several
. A.A.U. Boys. The meet was held over a flat, wind-swept 5,000 meter course, or three miles and 188 yards in length with a field of high class competitors.
Leo McFarlane
“We should go to the Olympics.”
The Irish hares all received gold medals in addition to a beautiful trophy that was ■ presented to the winning team. The meet was held under the direction of Athletic Director of C.- Y. O., Jack Elder, a former Notre Dame grid star.
CHEVIGNY PROTESTS
John McCauley, of Rice, stiff-armed a would-be Texas University tackler in the annual game at Austin. Jack Chevigny ran out on the field and asked that big John be penalized for slugging. McCauley smiled a lazy Texas smile.'
“Mistuh Chevigny,” he drawled, “if you want to go out on the field and play in this game, why don’t, you suit up? Come on, please suh, we are having lots of fun.”
Laughing, Jack withdrew his protest. ’
CAGE MENTOR
Edward Krause
Predicted great things for Irish.
MILLNER AND SHAKESPEARE ALL-AMERICANS
"Whenever football experts picked then* All-American teams during the past decade or so, the name of at least one of the “Irish” of Notre Dame was at the top of the list. This yeai' is no exception and two wearers of the Green have been given recognition for their fine play by being placed on the mythical eleven of football honors.
Christy Walsh’s All - American Board, considered the All-America of All-Americans, has put Wayne Millner, of Salem, Massachusetts, and William Valentine Shakespeare, the “Pride of Staten Island,” on the first team. Boasting such names as Pop Warner of Temple, Frank Thomas of Alabama, Elmer Layden of Notre Dame, and Howard Jones of University of Southern California, together with the chairman, Christy Walsh, the Board has recognized the Irish stars as the class of the country at their respective positions. .
Although the names of the other members of this team won’t be released until Sunday, official notice of Millner and Shakespeare’s selection was received Wednesday. The end play of Wayne Millner has been sensational all year both on defense as well as offense where his great “money” catches stamped him as one of the best pass receivers in the country. Bill Shakespeare, as the “Merchant of Menace,” was the most consistent back in the gridiron world. Besides being the greatest kicker in collegiate circles, he passed, blocked, ran and tackled with the best.
Hopkins, Moir Lead Scorers
By Mike Crowe
Notre Dame basketball fans were introduced to something new Wednesday night when Coach George Keogan’s team (or rather teams) played and defeated both St. Mary’s and Kalamazoo. The Irish mentor was forced to do this so as to observe his veterans and inexperienced men in warm-up encounters before plunging into the suicide schedule that awaits this year’s quintet. St. Mary’s, coached by Ed Krause, former Notre Dame star, put up a stiff battle before going down to a 45 to 22 defeat. Kalamazoo, the team that usually gives the Irish a stiff tussle, was walloped 63 to 17.
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s played on even terms for the first ten minutes. Krause’s team played clever ball during the entire first half. Hopkins made four beautiful shots from the floor which were mainly responsible for the 19 to 11 lead held at half time by Keogan’s team. St.
John Hopkins “Hoppy” 17 ; St. Mary's 17.
Mary’s tired quickly after the second half got underway and as a result, Notre Dame began to increase their lead.	.
For Notre Dame, Hopkins lead the scorng with 17 points. Ford, Jordan, DeMots and Wukovits all played good defensive ball and made their share of the points. Scully was the outstanding threat for St. Mary’s.
The Kalamazoo game developed into a rough and tumble affair. With Moir hitting hook shots, Myer and Nowack scoring from underneath and Ireland and Wade hitting from out on the court, the Irish led the Kalamazoo team at half time 44 to 8. A new team was substituted at the beginning of the second period. They also outscored the visitors, the game ending 65 to 17. Moir, sophomore-forward, rang up 17 points in the opening period.
December 6, 1935
Fifteen
Athletes Minus Shoes
INTRODUCING
Make Excellent Punters
By Cy Stroker
Brightest among the stars in Coach Keogan’s 1935 edition of the Irish basketball team is right forward and co-Captain Johnny Ford. Sharing
|rOR»
13
CQ-CAPTAIN AND FORWARD
with Marty Peters the directing of the Notre Dame squad on the court this winter, Ford is ending up a three year net record which already has proved him worthy to be listed among the Irish basketball great. Although he is officially a forward, Johnny’s most spectacular playing is on the defense.
Ford is a product of Indianapolis where he was born 22 years ago and where he attended Cathedral grade school and- Cathedral High. In high school his principal sport was football in which game he played quarterback. In his senior year he captained the football team and was president of his class. It was in high school, too, that Johnny got his start in basketball and was a member of the team that reached the semi-finals of the National Catholic basketball tournament in Chicago. ,
On his entrance to Notre Dame in
1932, Ford reported for Freshman basketball and made so good a showing that he was made an alternate for Joe Voegele on the varsity squad next

season. His amazing ability to take the ball away from opponents made him an established part of the team that won national prominence in the season of 1933-34.
Last year Coach Keogan was great-
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Albuquerque, N. Mex.—If you’ve never' seen a Hawaiian football player booting the ball in a neat 50-yard spiral, you don’t know what can be done with the bare foot, says Bill Baker, University of New Mexico student and player of the island game.
According to Baker, barefoot football in Hawaii is the starting point for all boys who play football there and sometimes those who play the shoeless game elect not to graduate into regular football as practiced in America with shoes and other equipment.
To a new fan, Baker says, the game is astounding. Imagine a boy taking a pass from center and booting a 50-yard punt. That’s a common performance. But to see a Hawaiian run and dig his toes into the ball on a kickoff, sending it over the goal for a touchback—there you really have something.
The game of barefoot football is faster than the regular shoe-clad game. Cutback plays are usually avoided because the shoeless wonders can’t hold the ground for shifty work. The passing attack must be fast for the thrower is usually hounded by a pack of fast charging linemen.
ly troubled by the light weight and short stature of his team on which Ford had now become a regular. But Ford paired up with Joe O’Kane to make the “Speed Twins” and the combination soon dried Keogan’s tears. Although the Irish met many big, heavy teams during the season, the flashy playing of the “speed twins” made up for their lack of size. Ford also played championship ball in the fatal. Pitt game in which the Irish nosed out a victory over the Panthers but an error in timing gave the Easterners a chance to reverse the score and thus maintain their victorious record over Notre Dame.
This year Johnny Ford is counted on to get the Notre Dame team out of many tight spots by breaking up opponents’ scoring plays and to add to the Irish score with some shots from the right side of the court. He no longer has his running made, O’Kane, with him but with the aid of Peters, Ireland, et al., Johnny should come through in his usual style.
Off the basketball court Ford is a very sober-minded young man, majoring in Economics as taught in the A.B. School. He lives as far up as he can get—the fourth floor—in Howard hall and confines his campus activities to the Indianapolis club. Occasionally he takes time out for a game of handball, a round of golf, or several rounds of ice-skating.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
FENCING ...
IRISH GYMNASIUM DEDICATED IN 1898,
SWEPT BY FLAMES AND DESTROYED IN 1900
These extremely tough schedules seem to be a habit at Notre Dame, from evidence of the past football season, the present basketball card, and the oncoming fencing program.
Coach Pedro de Landero’s proteges have been practicing for the last month in preparation for their initial meet against Purdue on Jan. 25, at Lafayette. The opponents that Notre Dame will encounter this winter are virtually the same as those of 1935, with the exception of Illinois and Chicago. In combating five Big Ten outfits namely, Northwestern, Ohio State, Chicago, Purdue, and Illinois, the Irish will engage the “cream of the crop” in college fencing. Every indication gives promise of much harder opposition than any that has yet been attempted.
Cincinnati and Washington (St. Louis) will both be seeking to avenge a defeat, which they suffered at the expense of the Gold and Blue, previously. Although a few of the matches still have their dates pending, nevertheless they will be carried through. It is proving to be quite a task for Coach de Landero to replace Grosso and Caresio, lost by graduation, but he will depend to a great extent on Bob Seco, Snooks, and McAuliffe. The Irish attack will be centered on CoCaptains Kehoe and Carlos de Landero, and T. de Landero. Other men from the reserve squad include Vic Mercado and Pierre de La Vergne. Tom Doody and Morrow, from the ’35 freshmen contingent are striving for varsity berths. Two new candidates that exhibit unusual promise are Frascati and Jack Zerbst.
The schedule is as follows:
Purdue, Jan. 25, there.
Purdue, Feb. 29, here.
Ohio State,'Feb. 14, here.
Illinois, Feb. 21, there.
Washington U., Feb. 22, there. Chicago, there (date pending). Cincinnati, here (date pending). Northwestern, here (date pending)
SCRIBE'S AMAZEMENT
“Vanderbilt did not cover punts well, was completely befuddled as to where the Georgia Tech attack would strike next and what to do when it did strike—Tech simply made the big Commodore’s look bad—Tech’s defense was the sort of defense Vandy had never met — Tech’s offense was slicker than Vandy had expected or had ever seen—That is why the Commodores looked so futile,” etc., etc.
All of which appears under the name of an Atlanta critic with headlines proclaiming the fact that Van derbilt won the game.
By John Cackley
With only two short years intervening from its dedication the Notre Dame gymnasium caught on fire November 9, 1900, and was completely-demolished. While excited cries rang out over the campus, students rushed from three o’clock classes, and the University hose and ladder contingent sped to the scene with full equipment. Soon four steady streams of water were being poured upon the blazing inferno, but the flames steadily gained headway. In desperation three alarms were sent to South Bend, and 15 minutes later an engine arrived for action, but the gym was doomed.'
Gradually the roof caved in, and the walls crumbled. In some unknown manner the fire had originated on the basketball court, and in a short time had spread to every section of the building. The catastrophe continued until the structure, with its 13 lap track and 40 yard straight away, was but a twisted blackened mass of steel. Trophies of previous athletic contests were utterly destroyed, leaving but a fond memory of the early victories garnered by Irish warriors.
Its wreckage left a championship track team minus a place to practice, and the students without a gym for physical exercise. Having the interest of the school foremost in mind, even before’ the ruins had stopped smouldering, the Rev. Andrew Morris
At Height of Gym Fire in 1900.
sey, C.S.C., President of the University, had called a meeting and the erection of a new and greater fieldhouse was discussed.
So rapidly did the work progress that in less than three months from the tragic incident the final stone was
The New Gymnasium of 1901
laid and we have what is now the present and historic Notre Dame gym —a truly fitting landmark for Fighting Irish traditions.
Ceremonies characterized its inaugural on February 8, ’ 1901, in an interhall track meet. Incidentally it might be well to mention that the new building • is fireproof in every way. Throughout its entirety iron and brick have replaced the old style walls and roof that were previously composed of plaster and wood. Improvements were made on the oval path and an additional fifty feet were added. Coach Nicholson’s proteges annually display their wares on this
■ (Continued on Page 22)
December 6, 1935
Seventeen
THE "FIGHTING IRISH" OF 1935 WAS THE
Football Men Pick
GREATEST COMEBACK TEAM IN FOOTBALL
Star Opponent Team
By Jim McMullen
A casual review of the 1935 football season at Notre Dame answers one great problem for this country’s football conscious. “Will the Irish ever come back?” Gone are the “Doubting Thomas’,” those pessimistic sort of “guys” who saw in the death of the immortal Rockne, the death of the Notre Dame spirit, that something that Rock himself made to live forever.
Early this spring, the future members of the ’35 squad met, and elected for their captain a great footballer, Joe Sullivan. Soon after that, Joe left this earth for a far greater mission. Upon the squad’s return in the fall, Coach Elmer Layden announced the loss for the season of Bill Smith, veteran guard and great little scrapper. The Irish had been hit and hit badly, and it was with a full realization of that fact that the boys lined up against Kansas.
Fred Carideo led the charge through the startled Jayhawks. Two years before, the Kansans had held a far more promising Irish eleven to an unsatisfactory 0-0 deadlock. But this time, a sterling defense headed by Johnny Michuta turned the ball over to the Irish backs, who spottily, but steadily rolled up 28 points to the Jayhawks’ 7. Notre Dame had a good team.
Don Elser
Then came Carnegie Tech and the Badgers of Wisconsin. Displaying a tendency that was to later stamp them as the “minute men,” the Irish spotted the Tartans a 3-0 advantage at the half, and then came back to score twice and win 14-3. Bill Shakespeare loomed as an All-American. Johnny Lautar and Harry Becker made it six men in the Tartan backfield. At Madison in old Wisconsin, the. Irish won and lost. A 27 to 0 victory was numbed by the loss of big Johnny Michuta. Another mark for the Notre Darners in the early season calculations had been erased, and the powerful Pitt Panther was on hand.
Although crippled and revised, Notre Dame looked ahead of the Panther
into the great stadium at Ohio State. They . were setting a background, painting a picture that should not be spoiled by the brush of defeat. Fifty-two thousand crammed the home stadium that day to watch the downfall of the Pitt Jinx, and the superlative efforts of Linesmen Peters and Pfef-ferle. With only a few moments left in the game, Peters gave the throng
Fred Car'Deo
the fieldgoal, and their first big thrill of the season, 9-6.
The Navy was swept aside as Pil-ney, Gaul and Layden ran wild. A game Middie team stubbornly held the Irish to 14-0 and sent them into that stadium of the Scarlet Scourge, an undefeated, underdog eleven. Ohio State had been hailed as the wonder team of the past 20 years, the team that couldn’t be beaten. But the Irish wanted to complete that picture and complete it they did, in the most nerve racking demonstration of the Rockne Notre Dame spirit seen in many years. Andy Pilney ran wild, Wayne Millner established himself as an all-American, and the Irish three deep were a great team. A last quarter splurge sent an 18-13 victory rocketing to Joe Sullivan. Pilney, Carideo and Pfefferle limped home.
The Northwestern game produced a great upset, an initial defeat for Notre Dame, and Pepper Martin. This guard that had stepped into Harry Becker’s shoes, led the Irish in the heartbreaking attempt to do that which appeared not humanly possible. Northwestern 14,-Notre Dame 7.
Over in New York, Shakespeare climbed to greater heights, and Ken Stilley distinguished himself, as the Irish again fought from way back to knot the score at 6-6 in the waning seconds of , play. Home for the last game, Quarterback Wally Fromhart. starred and led his senior- team through an amazing closing rush to def eat the Trojans 20-13.
In the short space of two seasons Elmer Layden has succeeded. Notre Dame is definitely “back.”
Notre Dame All-Opponent Football Team
Wendt (Ohio State) .—Left End Matisi (Pittsburgh) ..Left Tackle Tangora (N.W.) ......Left Guard Jones (Ohio State) ..Center Smith (Ohio State) ..Right Guard Harre (Ohio State) Right Tackle Stromberg (Army) ....Right End Davis (So. Cal.) ....Quarterback . Meyer (Army) ................Left Halfback Jankowski (Wis.) ..R. Halfback Duvall (N.W.) ......._Fullback
By Gene Vaslett
Irish gridders cast their votes for All-Opponent players last week in a poll conducted by The Scholastic and the results clearly showed the attitude of the footballers toward the teams that they played during the past season.
Ohio State, Northwestern, and Army garnered the largest number of players on the team. Ohio State placing four, Northwestern, two and Army, two. Ohio State was without a doubt the greatest team Notre Dame has played this year and the players realized the fact and acknowledged it by giving Wendt, Jones, Smith and Harre a place on their All-Opponent team. All four of these men were in the race for All-American honors with Jones, the captain and center of Ohio State, practically assured of a position on that team. Jones played a great game in the contest with Notre Dame and did much to stave off Irish threats during the first three quarters of the thrilling battle at Columbus. It was only when Jones, playing roving center on defense, was pulled out of position that the Notre Dame backfield men were able to gain yardage through the line and complete passes. Smith, right guard on the Buckeye team, was one of two men to be picked unanimously in the poll of Notre Dame players and is slated for All-American honors as well.
Tangora and Duvall, of Northwestern, represent the only team to defeat Notre Dame this past season, and are representative of the caliber of the Wildcat gridders. Tangora’s value can be appreciated by the fact that Notre Dame was unable to score any first downs while the scrappy guard was in the game. Duvall played the greatest game of his life in the Irish battle and was the mainstay of his team on offense and defense, paving the way for'both touchdowns and kicking both extra points, to turn back the powerful Notre Dame football machine for the first
(Continued on Page 20)
Eighteen
The Scholastic
By Joe Prendergast
RULE CHANGES
The “lost in the fog” attitude seemed to be prevalent among the majority of students at last Saturday’s ball game in the fieldhouse in regard to the whys and wherefores of the officiating. Since the last net season was brought to a close four important rule changes have been put into the rule book of basketball.
The first of these is the three second rule. No member of the offiensive team is supposed to be inside the six-
teen foot circle enclosing the foul line for more than a three second interval. This is supposed to do away with the advantage that a huge straw-like center had on the pivot play. George Keogan, Irish mentor, in reference to this change says, “There isn’t an official that ever lived that could enforce this rule.” Dr. Keogan then goes on to point out the folly of any official trying to count three every time a member of the offensive club happens to run through this restricted circle. Another new rule concerning this same territory on the court was enacted so that a dead ball underneath the hoop is brought out to the foul line as it always has been but the two opposing players who are to jump for the tap are the only participants who are allowed to be inside the sixteen foot circle enclosing the foul line. Everyone else outside of the official must remain out of this circular zone. This mandate was put into the rules to do away with the crowding and shoving that was bound to take place at this point. Coach Keogan believes that a rule of this sort is a step in the right direction but can see no reason why the rules committee vetoed the proposition of having a sixteen foot circle drawn around the center tip-off zone and enforcing the same thing on a center jump ball.
In the case of a player attempting one personal foul and making good in his attempt, this year, the ball is still in play but is taken out of bounds by a member of the opposing team. No man of the club that has just made good the foul can touch the ball until it has been taken outside and passed (Continued on Page 22)
COACH NICHOLSON’S TRACKMEN SPEEDILY ROUNDING INTO SHAPE FOR COMING MEETS
INTERHALL .. .
Mr. Scannell of the Physical Education Department, who is in charge of the hall hoopsters, issued a statement this week to the effect that nothing much would be done in the way of organizing teams until after the Christmas holidays. Owing to the general confusion in the gym during the next two weeks Scannell has been prompted to postpone the resumption of activities but he is confident that the league will be in full swing as soon as circumstances permit.
No schedule has been compiled yet but as in the past all league games will be. played on Sundays. The first contests will undoubtedly be held off until after the semester exams thus avoiding interference, as well as to provide ample time for the proper organization of the various teams. Students in the Phy Ed. Department will later be appointed as coaches and they in turn will inform the members of each hall when the gyms will be available for practice.
The' league will be divided into lightweight and heavyweight divisions the former embracing those weighing up to 150 pounds and the latter including all others. Each player will be judged by the amount he weighs at the start of the season. Regarding hall regulations, a man is eligibile to play only for the hall in which he was residing when the season began. In past years these regulations have often been the cause of much useless dispute and it is to be hoped that the prospective members of teams will study them thoroughly so that there will be no misunderstandings. Officials for the games will be additional men of the Phy Ed department who have not the time to spend on actually coaching the teams. The lightweight tilts will occupy the smaller upstairs gym.
Interhall basketball has always been a big feature of the sports calendar at Notre Dame and it provides an excellent opportunity for some dandy games during the cold winter months. Any one in any hall is eligible to compete and notices will be liberally posted all around as soon as hostilities are to begin. Suitable equipment will be alloted to each hall probably right after the vacation. The fellow who said that the spirit of Notre Dame existed even in interhall circles must have been a constant visitor at interhall basketball games because there is more action and thrills in a half hour than is staged in a week at a three ring circus.
By Arch Gott
Indoor track has really taken over the gym for the past two weeks. Spikes have been flying in all directions as Coach Nicholson puts his charges through their paces every afternoon from 3:30 to 5:30. Plentiful are the sore legs and tight muscles after the first few workouts and the boys are using up loads of Scrapiron’s
Eddie Boyle
An Irishman from Minnesota.
rubbing alcohol to ease that painful feeling. As one well-known half-miler put it the other afternoon before practice,” You see me? I’m stiff all over, even my hair is stiff to the very ends!”
Owing to the ceremonies attendant to the visit of President Roosevelt, Coach Nicholson has been forced to call a halt to practice for a week but next Thursday he will again swing his crew into motion.
During his sessions, up to date, Nicholson has spent most of his time looking over the candidates in the high jump, the broad jump, and the hurdles, the rest of the men requiring a longer period to get into shape for serious work in the running events. So far in the pole vault, Gene Ely, Dan Gibbs, and a veteran of last year, “Boots” McCarthy, are the outstanding candidates. Frank Quinlan in the high-jump has come into shape quickly as has Eddie Boyle in the dashes.
The indoor schedule has not been made up yet but the first meet will probably be held close to the first of February. Because his team meets many Big Ten outfits, Coach Nicholson is forced to wait until the Conference has issued its schedule each year so he can plan his accordingly with schools in that group -and avoid any conflicting of dates. There will be at least five dual meets and finally the C. I. C. classic which is held every winter in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. In addition there are many relay carnivals held throughout the country which may be attended.
Nineteen
December 6, 1935
ALBION DEFEATED
(Continued from Page 14)
work, while his close following of the ball broke up many would be Albion plays. John Moir, although only in the game for a short time, was the high scorer of the evening with a total of 11 points. Moir demonstrated an utter lack of favoritism for any particular shot by dropping in long shots, short lay ups, and even jumped off a mass of struggling players to counter with a tap in shot. Kroeze garnered eight points for the boys from Michigan and lead them in all around offensive and defensive play. Wade put up a steady defensive game for the Irish.
Coach Keogan showed a trick of the trade by mixing up the new sophomores with the experienced players. The team representing the Irish on the opening tip off was made up of three sophomores and two experienced back court men, Wade and Ireland. Novak at center, Meyers and Moir at forwards were the newcomers in the starting -lineup. When this quintet retired they had piled up a commanding lead.
The next team to take the floor was a reversal of the first. On this batch of hoopsters the forward wall of De-motts, Ford and Hopkins, were all men of previous varsity experience. The back court was ably taken care of by two newcomers, Wukovits and Jordan, brothel- of last year’s captain. This aggregation, with co-Captain Ford and Hopkins working together in their regular smooth, speedy manner, gave a more polished exhibition of the Keogan offense. Wukovits showed himself to be a fine passer and a classy playing guard.
The next team sent on by the Irish coach was arranged with three sophomores steadied by two experienced back court men. Don Allen, a monogram winner of two years ago, and Jack Bonner, last season’s reserve, guard, were teamed with Moritz at the jumping post and Carson and Crowe at forwards. The final five players to see action were for the most part ex-footballers.
The lineups:	.
Notre Dame FG FT P	Albion	FG FT P
Moir, f	4 3 2	Prettyman, f 2 2 2
Hopkins, f	3 2 0	Santini, f	3 0 2
Crowe, f	10 1	Merrit, f-c	 2 11
Borowski, f	1 0 1	Field, f	0 0 2
Meyer, f	3 0 0	Kroeze, e-f ..323
Ford, f	2 10	Rouman, g „ 0 0 2
Carson, f	0 0 0	Loye, g 	 0 0 1
Gleason, f	10 0	King, g	0 10
Novak, e 	 0 0 0	Vail, g	 0 0 1
DeMotts, c	0 0 0	—— — —
Moritz, c	 2	2	0 O’Connor, c	0	3	0 Ireland, g	1	- 0	0 Jordan, g	2	0	0 Allen, g	■ 1-0 0 Sweeney, g .	 10	0 Wade, g	2 10 Wukovits, g	0 0	0 Bonner, g	0 0	1 Jackowski, g.„	10	2 25 12 7	10 6 14
ON DOWN THE LINE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
It’s rumored that the skinny guy, with contours and flying coat-tails of ICHABOD CRANE, who wraith-like came out of nowhere to take his place on the left side of DARTMOUTH’S line as the BIG GREEN eleven sought to stave off PRINCETON’S touchdown drive almost on its oum goal-line, will become a unanimous choice for 1935 All-American. He flung himself into the scrimmage and disappeared under the mass of players as the PRINCETON ballcarrier was brought down—on his side of the line!—Somebody sug-
gested that the aforementioned hero, whose intercollegiate affiliations have been disclaimed by both schools, was a former Harvard player who, having participated in so many glorious goalline stands, felt an irresistible impulse to fight and die once more.—Eight members of the great LAFAYETTE freshman team are either out of college, ineligible, or on the ragged edge —ED MICHAELS, great guard of VILLANOVA, is being carefully investigated by studious ALL-AMER-ICA selectors. If he played for one of the bigger names he would be sure fire according to those who have followed his plav-—Football players are known as “ROUGHNECK ATHLETES” at the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. It is gentlemanly to box, however. — GAYNELL TINSLEY, Louisiana State end, the only unanimous choice on MANHATTAN’S allopponent team, is crashing all the reputable all-Americas — PRINCETON has a star double-baton twirler in JOHN A. STRAZZA Jr., of Bloomfield, New Jersey. STRAZZA can halt, reverse and march, while still twirling a baton in each hand, in addition to being able to throw one 30 or 40 feet in the air and catch it behind him on the down swing.—DR. EDDIE ANDERSON, coach of a fine HOLY CROSS team and HEARTLEY “HUNK” ANDERSON, mentor of NORTH CAROLINA STATE, were teammates for four years at Notre Dame, from 1918, Rockne’s first year, through 1921, when Eddie was captain.
SO THEY SAID:
“Minnesota, starring George Roscoe
ALL-OPPONENT TEAM (Continued from Page 18)
time this year. Ed Jankowski was placed on the All-Opponent team by a unanimous vote. Notre Dame players stated that he was one of the greatest backfield men to play against them this year, and with a stronger line in front of him would have gained national recognition from all parts of the country.
The All - Opponent line - up is a “dream team” that any coach would desire to have playing for him. With Darts, a scrappy little quarterback who reminds one of “Cotton” Warburton at his best, calling signals for Meyer, Jankowski, and Duvall, all triple threat men, this lineup would be able to sweep through all competition offered by the best teams in the country today.
IRISH PLAY TWIN-BILL (Continued from Page 14)
ried about the outcome of the game.
The second tilt of the evening will find St. Joseph’s College of Renssa-lear, Indiana facing the Irish. The St.. Joe team is coached by a Notre Dame man, Ray DeCooke, who was a member of the basketball team from 1929 to 1932. DeCooke played center on these teams and was one of the highest scorers on the team. During the 1930-31 season he amassed 131 points to lead the team in points and tomorrow night he returns to try and show his old coach and the 1935 team how he has taught his St. Joseph charges to lead the Irish in points for one game.
in place of last year’s spark plug, Pug Lund, is the surprise team of the ‘Big Ten’.”—what a surprise! “Earl Blaik, Dartmouth’s -coach relays word to Fritz Crisler that he will have to
choose between winning the Dartmouth game or the Yale battle. He cannot have both, says Earl.”—Guess the Princeton coach is piggy! “By the way if you get to see Jock Sutherland or Elmer Layden, whisper into their ears to take it easy with Howard Jones’ novices at Southern Cal. I ask this in the interests of charity and also for self-preservation.”—I think it would be better if somebody shouted the names of Davis, Langley, Shuey and Co. in the ears of Sutherland!
' The Scholastic
Twenty
Another Story About The Early Forward Pass
Whenever a Yale alumnus speaks of the greats of former days like Hinkey and Shevlin, the name of Colonel John Kilpatrick of the Madison Square Garden corporation creeps into the talk. After he went to Yale he captained the freshman team and discovered that he could pass overhand, as they do now. They used to fling the ball sidearm. In a game against another freshman team he faded back to the 50-yard line, and when one of his ends galloped down across the goal-line no one paid any attention to him because no one thought anybody could throw a ball that far, but Kilpatrick raised his arm ovei’ his head and sent it sailing into the receiver’s hands for a touchdown. The coach then made the freshman come over to the varsity field and show the backs how to throw the ball in that manner.
COLLEGIAN A
Best-known trick play in history was pulled by the Carlisle Indians in 1903, Pop Warner coaching. The ball was carried 105 yards through Har
vard tucked under a player’s jersey.
From 1906 to 1910, football fields were marked like checker-boards into five-foot squares.
St. Mary’s college, famous for outstanding football teams, faces a financial crisis. Bondholders may foreclose on their §1,370,000 investment.
CO-CAPTAINS FORD AND PETERS IN THE NORTHWESTERN GAME, 1934
December 6, 1935
Twenty-one
GYMNASIUM DESTROYED (Continued from Page 17)
during the indoor season.
The seating capacity also was increased so that now approximately 6,000 persons can be jammed into the bleachers, balcony, and regular tiers. The Scholastic at thetime of dedication wrote that “hot and cold water may be obtained in the showers at the simple turn of the handle.”
Over the winter months Coach George Keogan’s championship cage squads perform on one of the finest floors in the country. For those who have pugnastic inclinations, a boxing room is maintained in the basement. This room is also used by the fencers in preparation for their various encounters.
FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT
All interhall football equipment must be turned in on or before Friday, December 13. Those failing to do so will have the cost of their equipment charged to their account at the Secretary’s office.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists .
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 19)
in. If the foul is missed, the ball is a free ball just as has always been the case.
If a man fumbles the ball while in the act of dribbling he may recover, this season, and still continue his dribble without the official calling the tactics, double-dribbling. Another change from last year’s rules says that a player who is fouled while in the act of shooting for a basket may follow through and attempt the basket if he has kept his equilibrium. If his shot is good the basket counts and he is given one free try. The rule last year was practically along the same identical lines except that much was left up to the discretion of the official. By the new ruling if a man
is set to shoot and is fouled before he shoots but still he attempts the basket and makes it the official must call the basket good and then allow the one personal foul to be tried.
All these rule changes were demonstrated and thrashed out by Coach Keogan and official, Nick Kerns of Chicago, last Saturday afternoon in the round-table basketball clinic held in the gymnasium. Coach Keogan and Nick Kerns differed on the interpretation of many rules but as Dr. Keogan said, “The only way that many of us will know how some of these new rules are to be interpreted will be by the rulings of the officials.”
Tomorrow night at the Studebaker gymnasium in South Bend the Irish netmen will stack up against St. Joseph and James. Milliken in a twin engagement. Not much is known of this St. Joseph quintet but there is plenty known and more to be known of the James Milliken aggregation. Last Saturday evening they knocked off the highly favored Iowa combine of Big Ten circles. They receive our
ANNUALS <• BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY AN NOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
vote as a fine team by this performance alone. They are a hot ball club and Dr. George will have a very busy evening in trying to subdue both of these teams.
SPORT SPLINTS
There may be better sport cartoonists in colleges but the Scholastic’s Bill Ellis will be backed by this correspondent to cop the blue ribbon. . . His drawings of the football men were metropolitan stuff and in this issue of the “world’s greatest collegiate weekly” he has a fine likeness of F.D.R., gracing the frontispiece as well as his first bit of work on the basketball series for Introducing. . . Notre Dame’s All-Opponent team as selected by the players and computed by sports scribe, Gene Vaslett, deserves a nick of your time on page 18. . . One can see by the players’ selections who was who as for toughness and general ability amongst the opposing elevens.
You can also wager your last ear of corn that Wayne Millner and Bill Shakespeare both made the All-American Board’s first team . . . They’re in to roost with the many other Notre Dame immortals . . . Cold weather, flashing blades and whirl - winds of action—that’s hockey, and if we have anyone on the campus interested in playing hockey this winter at Notre Dame, get in touch with Charlie Boyle in the basement of Sorin. . . Andy Pilney and Wally Fromhart sort of frowned on the idea of professional football after graduation when quizzed on that subject by Quin Ryan last Tuesday evening over the radio .... Here are the directions for getting down to the Studebaker gym tomorrow night to see Dr. George’s surging horde in action. Take trolley from Notre Dame to Michigan Street, get transfer and then take the Miami or Michigan car going south. Get off at the first stop after you go under the railroad bridge and the gym is a block down to the right. . . .
Southern Methodist over the Indian in the Bowl or as the stalwart colonial New Englander would say “Two by air and one by land” with the Texans tallying those two by air. . . Jim McMullen’s review of the past football season in this issue deserves gondolas or Winchellite orchids for a magnificent article. . . Remember when comparing Jack Robinson’s All-American with the one that will appear this Sunday that the final list of players receiving merit cards had not been published when Sorin’s Robbie selected his. . . Notre Dame, it is rumored, received four bids for post season games. . . Holy Cross turned down the Sugar Bowl tilt in the hope that the proposed contest on the Pacific coast for the Catholic title of the U. S. would become a reality. St. Mary’s is expected to be the opponent of hte Hoyas if the dream becomes a reality. . . Let’s hear from you hockey enthusiasts as to suggestions for organizing a school league etc. . .
The Scholastic
Twenty-two
SECRET SERVICE (Continued fi-om Page 9)
that invariably strive to catch a glimpse of the president and his wife. City streets must be patrolled and the site of the president’s visit must be especially examined for any possible flaw in the seating arrangement and the selection, if possible, of the audience at all times has to be kept under supervision.
No matter how short the visit or for what purpose it is made, no matter whether it is a brilliant dinner, an important conference, or merely the opening day game between the Washington Senators and the Philadelphia Athletics the president must be protected. And one of the hardest aspects of the entire job is that all these precautions must be made with the greatest possible tact for fear of offending some sincere but misguided body of admirers of the president.
OLD GOLD CONTEST
The winners of the recent Old Gold Cigarette contest run in conjunction with The Scholastic were announced this week. First prize of §10 for guessing the nearest score of the Notre Dame-Army contest and three other games played on Nov. 16 went to Ernest Howard, who is employed in the Notre Dame Cafeteria. Second prize of five dollars in cash went to J. R. Callahan, 123 Lyons, while Clay Murray, 306 St. Edward’s, took third place and two dollars for his entry.
PHILOSOPHY SOCIETY
Will those students interested in the formation of a Philosophy Society please meet on Tuesday evening, Dec. 10 at 7:45 in the Commerce library of the Commerce Building.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
Prominent speakers from South Bend firms, trips to industrial plants, and a program of student papers have made up the year’s activity for the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
The members of the local branch of the Society have made two inspection trips this year, one in which they toured the plant of the Bantam Ball Bearing company, and the other when they were the guests of the Bendix Aviaiton Corporation.
The last meeting of the group was marked by the appearance of Mr. K. L. Herrmann of the Bantam Ball Bearing Co., who gave a talk on the problems of bearing design. Two student papers were also presented, one by Richard Delaney and the other by Robert Schramm.
December 6, 1935
Three Campus Clubs Plan Joint Communion Breakfast
Immediately following the 8 o’clock Mass this Sunday the members of the New Jersey, Memphis and Philadelphia campus clubs will hold their first combined Communion breakfast. Sponsored by the New Jersey club this breakfast, according to those in charge, promises to be one of the largest gatherings of its kind during the current semester.
The Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., will be the guest speaker and the respective club presidents, Julius Rocca, Bill Fay, and Connie Byrnes will also address the assembly of club members.
SERVERS CLUB
The Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., last Tuesday night addressed an informal meeting of the Servers’ Club. He chose as his subject the Dooley Papers written by Findley Peter Dunn.
These papers were written over 30 years ago about the life of the Irish on Chicago’s South Side. They first appeared weekly in Chicago papers; later they were syndicated throughout the English speaking world. They have since been published in book form several volumes of which may be found in the University library. They were homely satires on topics of such general interest as the grippe, Lenten resolutions, church bazaars, and music.
Father Burke read several of these to the Club in Irish dialect. The meeting was concluded with refreshments.
LIBRARY
The University library has recently acquired a dower chest of Italian origin called a “cassoni.” It was presented to the library by Mrs. Alice Wickett to be added to the Wickett collection. The chest once was the property of Mrs. Edith Rockefeller McCormick.
The chest is hand-tooled, covered with gold leaf and highly ornamented. It was made in Milan in the Sixteenth century. One end of the chest bears the painting of a bride and the other of a groom. The front is decorated with a landscape scene.
GERMAN CLUB
The German Club will hold a meeting at 7:45 p.m. Friday evening in Carroll Rec. Both former and present students of German classes are cordially invited to attend. Father Hugo Hoever, O.Cist., will give a talk on “Catholic Persecution in Germany.” Refreshments will be served for which each person will be taxed ten cents.
DAVIS LECTURES
Professor A. E. Davis of the Commerce department inaugurated an educational program for the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend Tuesday evening, Nov. 26 when he delivered a lecture before 50 officers and employees on current economic problems as they relate to banks. Mr. Davis will continue his series throughout the winter months and arrange a program of special topics to be covered by visiting bankers.
It’s No Secret!
. . . The cheapest and quickest Way to Chicago is via SOUTH SHORE UNE
Now it can be told! Actual comparison of the cost of driving an auto between South Bend and Chicago as against South Shore Line riding proves “hands down” that the latter is much cheaper. 2c per mile . . . that’s South Shore Line cost! From 4c to 8c a mile . . . that’s auto cost! Get the South Shore Line habit and you’ll be money ahead. It’s faster and safer, too.
S0Wehor[
Twenty-three
JJB. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, NOTRE DANE, IND.
C?he aromatic Turkish tobaccos used in Chesterfield
give them a more pleasing aroma and taste . . .
Every year we import thousands of pounds from Turkey and Greece
The Import Duty alone is 35 cents a pound—but Turkish tobacco is necessary to a good cigarette.
The right amount of Turkish
tobacco, blended with our mild, ripe home-grown tobaccos helps to give Chesterfields more aroma, helps to give them a more pleasing taste.
Chesterfield—a blend of mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish : tobaccos