9
i
Live the Tradition Together
Subscribe to
Scholastic
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name ______________________________________________________________________________
Address___________________________________________________________________________
City State Zip
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
Enclosed is a check for $25.00x years = $
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
The Chicago Getaway
Cover art by Jeanne Naylor
ENTERTAINMENT 7 Music
Dream Academy Daniel Ash
10 Movies Spinal Tap
NEWS
10
The Job Search
As the nation tries to resurface from a recession, the senior class is faced with a bearish job market
COVER 12 The Chicago Getaway The Windy City has much to offer Notre Dame students in need of a road trip
SPORTS 15 The Recruiting Game A look at the rules and process of recruiting from the women's perspective
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editorial
3
On Other Campuses
4
Week In Distortion
6
Behavior Modification
19
Coming Distractions
20
Final Word
FEBRUARY 28, 1991
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Mitchell Chosen as Scholastic
Editor in Chief for 1991-92
Vol. 132, No. 16
February 28, 1991
Disco Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael C. Wieber
MANAGING EDITOR
Derik T. Weldon
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Ian Mitchell
NEWS EDITOR
Trad Taghon
SPORTS EDITOR Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR/ DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Dave Holsinger
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Mari Okuda
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Dave Raedy
Ian Mitchell has been elected Scholastic editor in chief for the 1991-92 school year by majority vote of the editorial board. He will assume his duties following Spring Break.
A junior American Studies major from Tucson, Arizona, Mitchell has been working at Scholastic since fall 1988. He was Features (now Campus Life) section editor during the 1989-90 school year, and was named executive editor in March 1990. He spent last fall abroad in the Arts and Letters London Program, and returned to the magazine this semester, resuming his post as executive editor.
“I look forward to leading Scholastic, Notre Dame’s oldest student publication, into its 125th year of serving the students,” Mitchell said. “As the university celebrates its sesquicentennial, Scholastic’s long history of covering the campus will give the magazine a unique perspective on events.”
Mitchell replaces graduating senior Michael Wieber, an Accountancy major from Waukesha, Wisconsin. “Mike has done a great job at the magazine, and his presence will definitely be missed by everyone at
Scholastic,” said Mitchell. “In the coming year I hope to build on the solid foundation laid by Mike and Derik. (Derik Weldon is the outgoing managing editor.) All the graduating staffers will be hard to replace, but I am confident that next year’s staff will be up to the challenge.”
Mari Okuda
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli
BUSINESS MANAGER „
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods al the University ofNotreDame,Notre Dame,IN,46556andprintedaiThePapers,Inc.,Milford,IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00lyear and back issues are available al $125 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Not re Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leiters to Scholastic must .be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone num her. Un iversity st udents should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. Alllettersmusl besigned, Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libe lousor obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to;
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
Dr. Seuss and Scott Baio Hit the Lecture Circuit
Dr. Seuss Lectures At Yale?
The Observer has a section on the back page called “Lecture Circuit” but somehow they never seem to have very catchy titles. Usually they run along the lines of “The Unilateral Atomic S tructure of Plutonium and Its Relation to Early Medieval Pottery” or “What Unalloyed Magnetic Syllogisms Mean to the Average Ward’s Zebra.”
At Yale University, however, students have been able to look forward to similarly titled lectures with an interesting twist. The promotional posters named both Scott Baio and Theodore Geisei as lecturers.
Baio, of “Joanie Loves Chachi” and “Charles in Charge” fame, was supposed to tell Yale’s Elizabethan Club about “18th Century Basque Cultural artifacts from His Unique Private Collection.”
Geisei, whom we all know better as Dr. Seuss, was scheduled to deliver a Med School lecture called “How the Snorklewacker Caught the Feared Flubby-Flub Thnub: Child Rearing in the 1990s.”
Surely Yalies wouldn’t fall for such an obvious hoax.
WRONG!
Students who showed up at the appointed time and place found only a roomful of researchers listening to a real lecture about “The Effects of Psychotropic Drugs on Human Erection and Ejaculation.”
No-one knows who is responsible for the fake posters, but similar ones showed up last year, advertising candlelight vigils for Mister Rogers (who isn’t even dead) and actor Alan Hale of “Gilligan’s Island” (who is).
Don’t Bare It All
If you’re heading to Palm Springs, CA for Spring Break, make sure to take your entire bathing suit with you.
Hoping to help control annual riots and rowdy behavior by visiting collegians during spring break each year, the Palm Springs City Council adopted a series of measures that make it a crime to wear string bikinis, to bare breasts or expose one’s buttocks in public.
The ordinances will give police the power to make more arrests and get rowdy partiers off the streets.
Better think twice, girls and boys. How would you like to get thrown in jail with bare buttocks?
FEBRUARY 28, 1991
Safety First
Dateline: Friday, February 8, Coral Gables, FL
The Miami Hurricane reports that Roy Mui, a student at the University of Miami who fired a machine gun at computers in the engineering building last semester, has been indefinitely suspended.
His roommate was charged with possession of the weapon and has also been suspended.
Dean of Students William Sandler seized the opportunity to remind all students that weapons are illegal and strictly prohibited from campus, even with a permit.
For those students who were unclear on what constituted a weapon, the UM Student Handbook defines them as any item designed to inflict a wound, cause injury; or incapacitate another person; any item used to harass, threaten, intimidate, assault or batter; or any item the University deems dangerous.
Don’t you think Miami students other than these obviously disturbed individuals are insulted to be thought capable of illegal actions?
Angels Under Our Dome
Stanford University students recently participated in a sexual attitudes survey that produced some interesting — to say the least — results.
The College Press Service reports that to a male student, going to a date’s room often means his companion is willing to have sex with him.
It doesn’t mean that to most female students. (Well, knock me over with a feather.)
The Rape Education Project, which did the study, gave 2,500 students a list of behaviors, including going to a date’s room, kissing, French kissing and taking off one’s clothes and asked to what extent the behavior indicated a person’s willingness to have sex.
In every case, the men thought the behaviors were more indicative of a desire for intercourse than the women did.
Here under the chaste Golden Dome, no one, not even the men, would ever have such thoughts. They’re against DuLac, after all.
And when’s the last time anyone around here had a date? □ edited by Traci Taghon
3
Laura Matthias turns the tables on
ON WOMEN
I’d always thought Mary had such an attractive personality, but now that I had a better look at her legs, my priorities were changing. She had a beer in her hand. That was good. Itmustbeherthirdorfourth. Two more and she’d be flying. A SMiC tip like that might help me out of a bind some other night. O.K., are those shorts or one of those skirts with a crotch? Hmmm, might have to get a little closer. Oops. Can’t have her catch me looking at her. I have to check out the lay of the land first
Of course she’s surrounded by a six pack of fat chicks. She must know I’m watching her, the walrus next to her is whispering and giggling and looking over here. Oh, her we go, the laugh/hair flip — she knows I’m scoping now. I’ll just hang here by the keg, flip through CDs, and look sensitive until she comes over for a beer. Chicks always think guys who sorta like new wave music are sensitive, they dig that Plus, Mary’s an English major, so we have something in common. Once she read a paper out loud in class with some lyrics from a Pink Floyd song in it, so I’ll spend a long time messing with the Floyd collection. At least Mary has some taste. Last Smicker I scammed with wouldn’t listen to anything but Depeche Mode.
She’s coming over for a beer. O.K., here’s my chance. I’ll wow her with my music
knowledge. God, she looks pretty good in that skirt, or shorts dr whatever. I wonder if her laugh is gonna bug me, she kinda explodes in repeated spasms instead of just, you know, laughing. Hey, I think she has on a black bra. I wonder if it does up in the front or the back. Here she comes. Time to look sensitive, but not wimpy, you know, just kinda quiet and intuitive. Maybe I should smoke or spit or something. Don’t wanna look too sensitive.
ON BEER
There’s nothing better than a cold brew. Except a cheap, cold brew. No, a free cold brew. Or better yet, a free, cold brew and football — maybe a chick or two, like the babes on the Bud commercial in the white swimsuits. Of course, you got your different kinds of beer. Miller Genuine Draft, Miche-lob Dry, Longnecks, Corona if you’re loaded, Meister Brau if you aren’t. Or good old Bud as a standby.
Can’t have a weekend without a brewski. Hell, can’t have a weekday without one. Great thing about them is they’re portable. You can unglue the labels and stick them on people, you can win favors with the tabs, can crush them on your head, you can even recycle them. God, what an underrated thing, the aluminum beer can.
A beer is a glass of class. It’s carbonated like champagne and foamy like whipped
cream. Only I hate it when you have too much of a head on your beer. A Bud is just about perfect. Plus, it leaves you with less of a hangover gut in the morning. Best way to cure that is to take four Advil before your party and two more before you crash for the night, and always drink lots of water. My friend Meat always eats a bunch of slices of bread before he drinks, “To act like a sponge.” He’s never hung over, just sleeps real late. He’s a football player.
Girls get real hung over. Must be something to do with their hormones, or their period or something, ‘cause they can’t walk sometimes the next morning. I’ve seen some ugly wipe outs in the dining hall from sleepwalking Domer chicks with a bad headache.
Mary’s some kind of lightweight. She looks like she’s had one too many. Maybe we’ll have to stick her in the loft for the night if she can’t make it home. Typical SMiC.
Butaboutbeer. Hey, why have a can when you can have a keg? I guess you can’t crush them on your head, but you sure can drink till you stink. Plus, you can get people to pay for a cup, and the beer stays cold. Plus the dude with the tap always meets the chicks. I knew a guy in Zahm who joined the Avon Ladies to meet chicks. What a fairy. My theory is: Be the keg master. You’ll get the babes and still respect yourself.
4
SCHOLASTIC
typical Domer attitudes
ON FOOTBALL
What a weekend. It’s the Michigan game. Fifty thousand people in the stands for one reason—to see the Irish wipe out Michigan. Four hours of party hardy, yelling and cussing and drinking and brawling. You can always find afightafter the game, unless you run into those crowd control fags.
Lou’s a god, I mean, he’s my personal hero. What a guy—he’s ugly and scrawny, but when he so much as blinks, people haul ass to do what he says. And the team. Fifty different two-hundred-eighty-pound giants rushing for that end zone and moving like a bulldozer in fourth gear.
Rocket’s in my Econ class. I guess he wants to be an accountant if the draft doesn’t work out for him. I don ’ t see that happening, though.
Some people say that the players are dumb rocks who don’t belong at college. Isay, where’d we be without them? If Notre Dame had no football team, where would all the money for remodelling Sacred Heart come from? Who would pay for the gold on the Dome, or the golf course? Without the team there would be no school pride, no fight song, no Irish guard. What’s the good of a university where you can’t get involved in sports? Academics and athletics go hand in hand. Play ball to test your body and read books to earn money.
Chicks never understand football. They
FEBRUARY 28,1991
sometimes play powderpuff, but this is a man’s sport. Mary always asks questions and bugs people during the games. I think she just does it to act sorta helpless and flatter guys’ jock egos. Actually, that’s a pretty good idea, but I’d notice if a girl was really dumb or just acting dumb, and the actors really bug me. I guess the idiots can’t help it
ONSCHOOL
As a baby, I wore T-shirts that said “Baby Domer.” I was destined for Notre Dame, like my father, my uncles, and their father and his brothers. My dad didn’t let my older sister go here cause he said he could only pay for one of us. She was really mad, especially when he suggested St. Mary’s to her. She went off to Deep Springs Utopian Community on a weaving scholarship just to spite him. They still don’t speak to each other.
Dad’s a businessman at the Bluitt and Golden corporation downtown, and there’s a spot waiting there for me as soon as I graduate. So I’ve gotta finish up some fairy philosophy and theology requirements and get down to those money making classes. I can’t figure out why those long-haired, weed-smoking hippies waster their time in advanced glass blowing when they could straighten out and get a practical education.
It’s all about success. You make a plan for your future. Life is like a pie graph: a small
slice for women, a medium to large slice for beer, a big slice for football, and all the rest for money. Kep that in mind and don’t let anybody mess with your priorities. Dad wants me to spend less time on chicks and kegs, and more time on class, but he knows he was just the same way when he went here.
Some people think we’re conservative at Notre Dame, and I guess we are. But I’ll be anything you want for a National Championship and a $50,00 a year job right out of school. I could spare some of the rules and church stuff, but I can get into dorm mass and “Notre Dame Our Mother” and all that. Plus, who wants to look like a geek or a gypsy when you’re under the dome. As far as I’m concerned, Alex P. Keaton leads the way for guys like me.
Mary, hey, she wants that beer now. What, she’s askng what’s the lineup for the Purdue game. How the hell should I know, that’s in two weeks. Why can’t she ask a typical girl question, like what sort of music I like? Do I have a ticket she can buy off me? What do I look like, Cherokee scalper chief? Does Meat have tickets? Sure, he’s a tight end. Wait. What?! She wants his number! Great, O.K., call Meathead. That’s right, drink my beer and scam a ticket with that braindead steroid sucker. Typical SMiC. All they care about is football.	□
by Laura Matthias
5
Rflffo Maaaaasirs ©££@irs
a<dlwi<e® ©m sUsejpSiag dltmffimg <§Hass
Dear Mr. Manners:
What’s the official DuLac policy on marital aids on campus?
Ed L., freshman, Pangborn.
Ed, please note that Mr. Manners has resisted the temptation to call you Mr. Ed. But on to your question.
Why are you asking about marital aids when you cannot be married and still live on campus? Are you thinking of breaking the sacred rules of DuLac?
Ed — may I call you Ed? Sit down a minute and let Mr. Manners counsel you. The rules of the University are intended to save you from yourself. You, my perverted little friend, need to heed them. Now... for those of you who may be reading Mr. Manners’ column and are married and wondering about the propriety of using marital aids, I suggest you contact Dr. Ruth or her illegitimate cousin, Dr. Xaviera.
Dear Mr. Manners:
Suppose a friend falls asleep in a small discussion group class. Is it one’s duty to wake them?
Vince P., junior, off-campus.
Vince, I’m glad you asked that. (I’ve always wanted to say that) First, Mr. Manners must remark that it is appallingly bad etiquette to fall asleep in class. If you are tired, stay at home in bed. It’s the polite thing to do.
If, however, one of your boon companions impolitely comes to class and falls asleep, you do not have to wake him up.
But you may.
There are several ways to do this. You can collect the drool of the slumbering idiot in a cup and throw it in her face. This may be difficult if you don’t have a cup handy, and collecting in your own hand is a bit too messy for most.
Hang on, I’m going to be gender-inclusive.
If he has his head thrown back and his mouth open, you might want to drip some caustic chemicals down his throat and watch the slime writhe in pain... oh, excuse me. I think I had better take a little break. I’ve been working too hard lately.
Dear Mr. Manners:
What should I do when fr iends of my roommate call very, very late at night? I come from a family where no one calls after 16:00
p.m. unless it is a dire emergency. I am really honked off about these late night disturbances.
Mary Y., junior, Breen-Phillips.
Mary, Mary, Mary. Where is your sense of compassion? Have you ever stopped to ask said callers if it indeed is an emergency? I suggest that you adjust your attitude right now, young lady. Honestly, if there’s anything I can’t stand, it’s someone who thinks he knows it all.
And may I remind you that Mr. Manners is not at all concerned with your family background. Etiquette is for everyone, not just the privileged.
Dear Mr. Manners:
Can you please suggest a polite answer to the question “What are you doing next year?” This infernal inquiry is popping up everywhere seniors can be found. I am not employed, I show no signs of being employed in the near future arid I have not applied for any service projects. I am reduced to stammering and stuttering when this subject comes up. Help me out, if you can.
Lawrence S., senior, off-campus. ■
Lawrence, my boy, here’s the answer to your question.
But first, how dare you insinuate that the great and powerful Mr. Manners might not be able to answer your question. lean. I always can. And I will, although I am tempted not to because you doubt me. THE ANSWER:
1)	Look them in the eye with a sneer on your face.
2)	Say, “What do you think. I’m doing?”
If this is not enough to make them quiet down, you are on your own. Now, Lawrence, Mr. Manners has a question for you. What kind Of a loser doesn’t know what he’s doing by this time in his senior year? Sheesh, looks like your life is one big mess?
Remember, if you have a question for Mr. Manners, he can be reached at the following address:
Mr. Manners, C/O Scholastic, 303 LaFortune; Campus Mail.
Letters should be written in any color ink exceptred (I don’t like red because it reminds me of childhood test traumas), or laser-printed (dot matrix will be accepted reluctantly). Be sure to use gender-inclusive language and don’t swear. Enclose your letter in a standard, business-sized envelope and make sure that you leave a little space unglued at the top of the flap so that I can more easily use my letter opener.	□
6
SCHOLASTIC
Th® [W®©^
0©T®@h [DBffi©?©^ B^B^ ©ff W©©^©^ h @(s]©qp@T© tatt hw(®hg gt)© g^©w gmoo^
- a	■ $ ^Ar
Dream Academy A Different Kind of
Weather
Remember “Life in a Northern Town,” that nostalgic psuedo-60’s song with the catchy chorus and the line about John F. Kennedy and the Beatles? Well, the gurus of retro lite-rock pop, Dream Academy are back with their third album, . A Different Kind of Weather. After a second album, Remembrance Days, which did not quite reach the
FEBRUARY 28,1991
heights of their first, despite production by former Fleetwood Mac guitarist Lindsay Buckingham. The trio of Nick-Laird Clowes, Kate St. John, and Gilbert Gabriel have once again teamed up with the producer of the first album, David Gilmour of Pink Floyd.
. The album begins with what may become a pop masterpiece in the long line of hippie peace/ love/freedom-with-the-unmis-takeable-dance-beat anthems that seem to be spontaneously generating out of Manchester these days. The Academy’s cover of John Lennon’s “Love” is a perfect combination of that early 70’s idealism that en-nabled people to sing “Love is you, love is me, love is everyone,” without grimacing in embarrassment, with an upbeat 90’s motivation in an era that is screaming for such a dreadfully simple message. The humpback whale-like sounds, Kate St.
John’s backing vocals, the infective dance beat and the hare krishna chants all contribute to make Dream Academy’s “Love” a pop icon that could give Deee-Lite a bitof combination for masterful mass-media international pop songs.
The rest of the album, however, isn’t quite as exciting, but is still relatively tolerable as neat little lite-rock compositions. Clowes’s usual nostalgic storytelling song-writing style hasn’t changed much, as evidenced by songs such as “Gaby Says,” and “Lucy September,” which deals in a typical Dream Academy theme, the end of a metaphorical summer. Songs such as “Mercy Killing” and “Twelve-Eight Angel” make it almost impossible not to compare the band’s slightly overproduced, happy sing-along style to fellow Brits Prefab Sprout. Occasionally, Dream Academy has the ability to produce genuine feeling, as in
“It’ll Never Happen Again,” a cover of an acoustic 60’s tune, featuring a very recognizable guitar solo from David Gilmour, and Kate St. John’s oboe, characteristic of Dream Academy’s use of alternative instruments to produce pop music, or the slightly melancholic acoustic end-piece, “Not for Second Prize.” The Dream Academy sometimes is even capable of a bit of their former power, as in the traditional sounding “Lowlands.”
The Dream Academy certainly are not in the business to challenge their listeners, but merely to entertain and perhaps bring people into a more positive feel-good attitude of the sixties and seventies. The orchestration, the alternative instruments, and the sometimes cheesy backing vocals all make Dream Academy’s third effort, though not a great album, an enjoyable one all the same.
7

continues the long string of solo projects from former Bauhaus members
Daniel Ash
Coming Down Fast
Although Bauhaus is long gone and its influences are felt in mostly gothic rock circles, its members, namely Peter Murphy, appearing in Dali’s Car and solo, and the trio of Daniel Ash, David J and Kevin Haskins, which would become Love and Rockets, have continued to exert their musical influence. While David J joined Jazz Butcher for a brief stint, and attempted a few solo efforts, Daniel Ash and Kevin Haskins have joined forces on the most creative of the projects, Tones On Tail, which has recently re
leased a self-titled greatest hits CD. Now, Ash and Haskins are again working together without David J on Daniel Ash’s first solo album, Coming Down. Combine some of the elements of the psychedelic Love And Rockets, as in their third album, Earth, Sun, Moon, some of that band’s recent developments in the three chord blues rock riffs, demonstrated in their fourth self-titled album, a touch of the weirdness of Tones on Tail, and some new elements of a dance-influenced sound and the result is an old-new sort of style that Ash develops as his own.
Songs like “Coming Down Fast” and “This Love,” the album’s first single, blend the basic three-chord combination used so often by bands like The Ramones, the Jesus and Mary Chain, the Velvet Underground, Love and Rockets and almost any band with blues rock influence. Although the melodies and riffs are nothing new, Ash adds an element of a motivating dance beat, a minimal sound
with noisy guitar, and reverb/ distortion effects. “Closer to You” does the same thing but in a much mellower way, with neat little bits of snapping fingers, whistling and an echoing guitar one usually encounters in run down blues clubs, all producing a sound that David Lynch would love and use for midget dancing. “Walk This Way” and “Blue Angel,” in fact, use this sort of lounge sound Joe Jackson experimented with in “Night and Day,” complete with Brazilian percussion, jazz piano, vibes, and female harmonies contributed by collaborator/keyboar-dist Natacha Atlas. Ash and Atlas’s well-balanced vocals work the best in an effective cover of the Beatles’s “Day Tripper” by using the same mellow style apparent in most of the album. Other highlights include “Candy Darling,” a song that sounds the most like Ash’s Earth, Sun, Moon days with Love and Rockets, and the slower version of “Coming Down Fast,” entitled, appropri
ately enough, “Coming Down.” Here, as in “Little Liar,” Ash gets a bit off-center and not as straightforward as the other tracks. However, the weirdness completes the album with the wide range of Ash’s styles.
Although Ash does not deal with subjects of Nirvana as early Love and Rockets, he docs have many continuing themes that seem to subtly celebrate life in very simple, “I like you, baby” fashion. Some lyrics are repeated, as well as bits of songs, and older themes such as having the blues are readily apparent No lyrical depth here, but Ash doesn’t seem to need it. In fact, the mere simplicity of lyrics and melodies provides a perfect contrast to the just slightly strange mood produced by the album. In fact, Coming Down is just that sort of album that one can come down to on a late night, a mellow finger-snapping, whistle-along good time.
by Jason L. Winslade
SCHOLASTIC
This is...
SPINAL TAP
“ROCK AND ROLL, CLEVELAND!”
This is Spinal Tap. A fictional rock and roll band, plagued by the excesses of rock and roll, bad management, bad distribution, a severe shortage of talent and the occasional outbreak of cold sores. A band so bad that no one will book them for a gig — except maybe the local zoo.
Spinal Tap may never have existed in reality, butRob Reiner’s classic spoof bf the “rockumentary” genre, This Is Spinal Tap, (showing Thursday, February 28 at Cushing Auditorium) has remained the definitive spoof of the biz. Rock bands can’t help comparing themselves to Spinal Tap (a notable comparison was made by singer Ian Astbury of the Cult, who compared his bands succession of drummers to that of Spinal Tap). Bands are even starting to cover Spinal Tap’s songs (Soundgarden does a great version of “Big Bottom”). This movie has been so much in the minds of the rock biz in general since its release in 1984 that the soundtrack was recently re-issued on Polygram Records.
In the movie This is Spinal Tap, writers
Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and Harry Shearer manage to send up every rock and roll clichd imaginable, both in the band’s music and in their extracurricular activities. The band’s driving creative forces, David St. Hubbins (McKean) and Nigel Tufnel (Guest), are engaged in a Lennon-McCartney-esque struggle for creative control from their earliest days together. This creative tension, aggravated by the presence of a Yoko Ono type pushy girlfriend, lead the band into a disastrous American tour. Along the way, cancelled gigs and bad promotion lead to eventual disaster, and a ton of laughs. Chris Guest does an absoutely hysterical acting job as dimwitted lead guitarist Nigel Tufnel, a man so dumb that he can’t figure out how to put lunchmeat onto bread. If you haven’t seen the “These amps go to 11” scene, you haven’t lived. As Tufnel, Chris Guest gives credence to the stereotyped brain dead rock star, and comes up with some hilarious parodies of Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page’s experimentations a la The Song Remains the Same and has a rather amusing encounter with conflicting frequencies on his guitar’s wireless. Tufnel’s foil, the stereotyped rock and roll pretty boy David St Hubbins (Michael McKean), is a composite personality of every heavy metal lead singer in existence. His affinity for eastern religion, his pushy girlfriend and his blasd attitude are all part of the rock and roll archetype which this movie shows so well.
Where Spinal Tap really succeeds, though, is in pointing out cliched musical styles. Every one of the songs included on
the soundtrack is aperfectly designed spoof, and many of them are aimed at one band in particular. For example, the flute solo, daffy mysticism and power chords of “Stonehenge” are a dead-on parody of Jethro Tull. Other bands that get hit up are Rush (without Geddy Lee’s screech) in “Rock and Roll Creation” and the heavy blues bands like Cream and Led Zeppelin in “Heavy Duty.” From time to time, one can also hear echoes of bands like Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd and even The Who in Spinal Tap’s soundtrack. Scenes in the movie manage to accentuate these musical parodies better than the album does. The best example of this is the scene in which Spinal Tap does a blues version of their own “Gimme Some Money,” a scene which parallels the scene in The Kids Are Alright where The Who perform a cover of Barbara Ann. In fact, these scenes are so well done that Spinal Tap’s set for this scene even matches the one in The Kids Are Alright.	.
Whether you get the musical satire or not, Spinal Tap is still a hilarious movie on purely comedic terms. Lines like, “You can’t really dust for vomit” (from the description of one of their drummers’ demise) and “What’s wrong with being sexy? Not sexy, sexist, you idiot!” will leave any viewer rolling with laughter. Watch for the little things, too. This is a movie that bears repeated viewing, because there are so many funny lines that you probably will not catch them all the first time. Spinal Tap is definitely a movie that has earned its rightful place in the worlds of both film and music.
by Dave Holsinger
FEBRUARY 28, 1991
9
THE JOB SEARCH
AS THE NATION TRIES TO RESURFACE FROM A RECESSION, THE SENIOR CLASS IS FACED WITH A BEARISH JOB MARKET
■gr, our years is not a very long time to r come to terms with what you want to do with the rest of your life. Not only is it necessary to pinpoint the career field that is best suited to your interests, education and talents, but the location of the job is important as well. Benefits, opportunities for moving up and salaries are all factors. As if these life-changing decisions weren’t enough, this year’s graduating seniors are faced with a country that is in an economic recession where jobs are scarce. Once they make these difficult choices about who to work for and where to live, they might be forced to compromise or settle for a second-rate position due to the fact that in today’s economy, the ideal position may not be available.
Understanding exactly what consititues a recession is sometimes very complicated as there are many factors at work. Edward Trubac, Associate Professor of Finance and Business Economics explained, “We’re in a recession and that means a lot of things. It means that in two consecutive quarters, the GNP (Gross National Product) has incurred a loss. This was the case in the last quarter of 1990 and it looks like thatwillbethecase
10
again in the first quarter of 1991.1 see things beginning to improve with the next quarter in 1991. This is very positive; however, the change into growth and the growth will be very slow—slower than normal, in fact.”
Professor Trubac points to two reasons that the country will recover so slowly: one is the housing market which will not experience the high rate of growth to which it is accustomed, and the other is the slow down in the American automobile industry. The war in the Persian Gulf region is also a factor. “The housing market is directly responsive to the declining interest rates. Banks are reluctant to lend money because of the bad loans they’ve made in the past (careless, impetuous decisions about unrealistic investments and building that ultimately failed during the 1980’s) and because of the fact that in many parts of the country, especially the Northeast, the value of homes is down. The home serves as a main , source of collateral in a loan and as their values are depreciating, banks are going to be less willing to give someone a loan. Because there are no loans, there will be less building and it just creates a cycle. Also feeding into this cycle is the war. This
conflict has depressed consumer confidence. That is to say that they are not sure of the banking system, nor of the economy in general, therefore, they are not buying houses or investing their money. I’m hoping that the war ends soon because that would provide a needed boost for . the economy.”
According to Trubac, this means good news and bad news for the graduating class as students look for jobs. On one hand, the country is coming out of a recession into a period of growth. On the other, the growth is going to be very slow, discouraging companies from hiring many people or expanding to create new positions, right away. “When the country comes out of a recession, firms are reluctant to hire many new people. They adopt a cautious attitude. Although this years seniors might have a slow start out of college,.it is going to be a good year for juniors (when they graduate),” Trubac concluded.
As seniors look for jobs in this bearish market, the career and placement office located in the basement of the library offers help and guidance. They assist students in determining what job areas they would be
SCHOLASTIC
best suited for and then aid in placing them in those jobs. They have an understanding of what markets are being hit hardest by the recession and thus, where the openings in the job market occur. With these “limitations” in mind, they are able to help students realistically hunt for a job. “The career and placement office serves a twofold purpose,” Kitty Arnold, director of career and placement said. “The first thing we do is provide individual career counseling. Regardless of the market, we help students make career choices. The biggest problem that I feel students face is uncertainty about what kind of work is entailed in the jobs that they are interested in. We provide them with information to make a confident choice.” The career and placement center also has and extensive library full of information about companies and jobs.
Even though the services that career and placement provide are not changed by fluxuations in the markets, the number of companies that come to campus to interview has dropped considerably. “We usually have 9,000 to 10,000 campus interviews per year. This year, we are only going to have about 8,000,” Arnold said. “The drop is not industry specific. We can’t point to a specific major or
fieldand say ‘Here’s where thedropoccurs.’ The decline is hitting all areas.”
Companies that are coming to Notre Dame to interview have scaled down their recruiting efforts and offers of employment. They have not, however, changed their criteria. What makes a student attractive to a company remains the same. “We look for leadership in students—for example, officer positions in student organizations, or in fraternities or sororities,” Robert DeGange, vice president of Owens-Corning Fiberglass, and a recruiter at Notre Dame said. “Another thing we look at is meaningful and relatable summer job experiences. In other words, jobs that are relatable and applicable to your area of
study. We look for analytical skills, excellent oral communications skills, and people skills.”
DeGange furthered by stating that a student at Notre Dame generally has a lot of leadership skills due to his involvement in community and campus activities. “Another thing that is really appealing about a Notre Dame graduate is that he has been taught by a high level of professor throughout his college career. Instead of teaching fellows or assistants, classes are run by qualified, full professors,” DeGange said. Looking at the school as a whole,
DeGange felt that in regards to the business school, Notre Dame suffered from a lack of a national reputation. “Notre Dame is competing with schools like MIT, Wharton, the University of Chicago, and Stanford. It just doesn ’ t have the reputation that these other business schools do.”
A consolation to some perhaps, is the fact that grade point average is not the determining factor in many cases. “Unless we are hiring for a specific discipline, like finance or accounting, GPA is much less important than leadership skills or work experience. We are assuming that students that go to schools like Notre Dame have high intellectual abilities because they’re surviving at a top-ranked school,”
DeGange reassured.
Since the recession began, Owens-Coming, like other firms, has cutback on job offers. “We just don’t have the demand for people that we’ve had historically, because we aren’t enjoying the same kind of growth that we have in the past,” DeGange said. “The war has shaken consumer confidence. They are anxious and uncertain; therefore, they aren’t buying and investing. Needless to say, our business is affected negatively by this. Assuming the war ends reasonably soon (in a 30-60 day period), I think we can expect the economy to realize some fairly significant growth in the second half of the year. Interest rates are down, and despite the savings and loan problem, money is readily available; therefore, companies can expand.”
Although companies say that they are hiring less people, some students are entirely unaffected by the cutbacks. “I’ve been actively pursuing a job for about three weeks now,” Tom Sessi, a graduating senior said. “I went into my first interview not really knowing what to expect. I was ill-prepared and didn’t do very well. Since then,
I’ve been formulating answers to every question I can imagine a future employer asking. I don’t think I’m being affected by the recession at all. I’m good enough, and I’m cocky enough.”
Whether personally affected by the cutbacks incurred by the war and the by the declining economy or not, the recession is a reality for many companies and for many graduates who are emerging in the job market. Hopefully, with the end of the war in sight, the economy will recover and the job market will be kind to those newly out of college, trying to establish themselves and make their way in the world.	□
By Scholastic Staff
FEBRUARY 28, 1991
11
IVT otre Dame students who do not hail 1 ^1 from the Windy City may only know Chicago from images in movies like The Blues Brothers, The Untouchables, and Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Yet, to stay sane on the Notre Dame campus as spring approaches, Domers might consider becoming better acquainted with America’s second largest city through a weekend road trip.
Getting to Chicago from South Bend is easy. Just hop on the Indiana Toll Road (I-80/90) and head west. After paying the $ 1.75 toll at Portage, continue west on 1-90. As this road curves through the aesthetically appalling scenery of Gary, open your car window and take a whiff. Ethanol in South Bend is perfume in comparison.
Two tolls later, totaling $2.25,1-90 will swing north and combine with 1-94. This is the Dan Ryan Expressway and will lead you to Lake Shore Drive as you approach downtown. Follow the signs for Lake S hore Drive and head north. Most of the best attractions in Chicago are easily accessible from here.
Driving in the Chicago area can be a bit dicey at^imes, especially on busy sidestreets and on Lake Shore Drive. Suggestion: Do NOT let your well meaning, but very rural roommate from Nebraska drive in the busy areas. Better to recruit someone with real city driving experience than to risk it. Also, bring a map and follow it very closely if necessary. If one takes a wrong turn on either the south or north side of the city, the neighborhood will likely be extremely rough.
NIGHTLIFE
DIVISION STREET AREA
The biggest cliche' ever uttered by a student headed for Chicago is “We’re going for good pizza then to Mother’s.” Good instinct with the food, poor when it comes to the choice of bars. Mother’s is located on Division Street, which claims to be the center bf reputable nightlife in Chicago. Quite simply, it’s not You’ll have more fun watching AboutLastNight than visiting the bar whose name it uses. And no, they did none of the inside shots from the movie inside Mother’s.
On the positive side, Kronies (Bellevue Place, three blocks south of Division) has a
smaller, more homey feel than most meatmarkets in the area. They are famous here for their upside-down drinks and excellent free popcorn. Pizza, foosball and a pool table are also available. The front windows of Kronies are also perfect for scoping out the action on the sidewalk in front of the building. This is a favorite of Notre Dame students and recent graduates.
Another idea is F/X, which features good, not Top 40 fluff, music and a hard wood, elevated dance floor. Get there late because business people from the area frequent F/X early in the evening.
12
SCHOLASTIC
LINCOLN PARK
When Domers leave Chicago and enter the work force in Chicago, they often choose to settle Lincoln Park, an area on the north side centered by the comer of Halsted and Armitage. For bars that combine a fun crowd and amiable surroundings, this is the area to try. To get to Lincoln Park, just take Lake Shore Drive north to the North Avenue exit (1600 North). Go west on North Avenue to Halsted, then north on Halsted to Armitage. Sidestreet parking is available in this area, just keep looking and dust off those parallel parking skills—- you’ll need them.
Once at the Halsted and Armitage comer, try Beaumont, a great bar if you enjoy dancing. The music leans toward the overly trendy, but what the heck. Two doors down from Beaumont on Halsted is The Store, an ordinary looking place from the outside with a fabulous jukebox. Both are worth a look.
A couple blocks west on Armitage is one of the best bars in Lincoln Park, called Kincade’s. The building is all brick with bars both upstairs and downstairs. Beer is served by the pint, a classy touch, and prices are not out of line. Their free popcorn is truly gourmet and action on the pool table remains competitive any time of the day.
WRIGLEYVILLE
The area around the “friendly confines” of Wrigley Field is affectionately known as Wrigley ville.: If you find yourself in the area for a Cubs game or just want a change of pace, give some of these bars a chance.
The Wild Hare (3530 N. Clark) features exclusively raggae music and is a fun choice for Domers who are bored with the South Bend bar scene. Surroundings in The Wild Hare are very dark: The only things visible on the walls are Jamaican flags and an occasional Bob Marley poster. But don’t fear because the dreadlocked Rastafarians will make you feel right at home.
Right across from Wrigley Field, you will find the Cubbie Bear Lounge on the comer of Clark and Addison. Good live music, boisterous Cub fans, and an occasional visit from Hany Carey make this bar a favorite. A third nightspot to consider is the Cabaret Metro (3930 N.Clark), a concert/dancebar. Underground and college music is featured here, and best of all, you can get into some shows if you are 18.
FEBRUARY 28,1991
MUSEUMS & ART GALLERIES
A trip to Chicago should certainly include some culture, so try to work in a trip to one of the superior museums or art galleries located conveniently close to Lake Shore Drive. Like most attractions in the city of Broad Shoulders, the museums and galleries in Chicago are almost oppressively large, so plan on staying a while at any of them.
The Museum of Science and Industry (57th Street and Lake Shore Drive) is one of the Midwest’s leading tourist attractions and houses nearly 2,000 exhibits. Features of a trip here include the Apollo 8 spacecraft, a full-sized captured German U-boat, a walkthrough model of a human heart, an Omnimax theatre, and a simulated coal mine. Admission is free, but there is a charge for special attractions. This musuem is entirely hands-on and may provide a relaxing diversion from classroom tedium.
The Art Institute of Chicago (Michigan Avenue at Adams Street) features one of the world’s finest collections of French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist masterpieces outside of Europe. If these paintings aren’t your cup of tea, you can check out modem American works like “Nighthawks” on the museum’s lower level. Itis especially fun to be obnoxious with friends at the Art Insti
tute. Just think back to Ferris Bueller’s Day Off for good ideas about how to be strange without getting kicked out
Shedd Aquarium (1200 South Lake Shore Drive) is the world’s largest indoor aquarium and home to more than 6,600 aquatic animals. Visitors can enjoy a coral reef exhibit and the new Oceanarium housing whales, dolphins and other animals native to the Pacific Northwest coast. If you visit Shedd Aquarium, stopping by the Adler Planetarium is convenient because it is right next door (1300 South Lake Shore Drive). Attractions here include the Sky Theatre, which gives visitors a breathtaking view of the heavens. In addition, the Planetarium includes exhibits on astronomy and space exploration.
Across Lake Shore Drive from Shedd Aquarium, the Field Museum of Natural History (Roosevelt Road and Lake Shore Drive) is also worthy of a visit. It was founded in 1893 and is one of the world’s four greatest natural history museums. Some parts of the Field Museum are currently being renovated, but this will not detract from your visit “Traveling the Pacific” and “Inside Ancient Egypt” are excellent exhibits.
13
I
SPORTS
FOOD
Unlike any other big city in the nation, Chicago fields strong teams in every pro sport. With baseball season right around the comer, a weekend getaway could involve a trip to the new Comiskey Park (35th and Dan Ryan Expressway) for a White Sox game. Not only are the Sox a team on the rise, and the best pro baseball team in Chicago for that matter (sorry Cubs fans, it’s true), but Notre Dame students can become a part of history by being among the first in this new multi-million dollar facility. Opening day at Comiskey is April 18 versus the Detroit Tigers.
Wrigley Field, home of the Cubs at 1060 W. Addison, is a must see on the north side. Ivy on the outfield walls, Harry Carey, and a unique urban setting make a visit to Wrigley Field a one-of-a-kind baseball experience, topped in charm only by Fenway Park in Boston. If you plan to go to a game, leave well in advance of the starting time to avoid inevitable traffic difficulties.
Winter sports continue to be strong this year with the Blackhawks and the Bulls, both of whom play at Chicago Stadium (1800 W. Madison), atop their divisions. The Stadium’s seats are all relatively close to the playing surface so views of the action are good. There is constant talk about tearing down this ancient facility in favor of something more functional so be sure to see some a game here before it is gone.
Tickets for many sporting events in Chicago are available over the telephone through Ticketron: (312) 902-1919 and Ticketmaster: (312) 598-1212.
14
Students on a road trip are often not interested in dressy, gourmet restaurants. Luckily, Chicago offers some of the America’s finest pizza to keep hungry students going as they prowl the urban landscape. Just like any restaurant, it is better to visit these places during non-peak hours like late afternoon or later evening. Waiting lines can be long, but the rewards are delicious.
Gino’s East (160 E. Superior Street) has the Chicago style pizza ranked #1 by People magazine, and it does deserve the praise. They keep theirrecipeasecret,buttherumor is that they put beer in the dough for their crust Itdoesn’tmatter. Just bring a pen (you
Aside from pizza, two restaurants down- statement back here on campus.) town deserve mention because they provide	A better alternative in this same area is Ed
perfect atmospheres for getaway dining.	Debevic’s,justwestoftheHardRock. Ed’s
For the future yuppie hipster, the Hard is a Fifties style diner with excellent ham-Rock Cafe (63 W. Ontario) feature Ameri- burgers, cheese fries and other junk food, can style food and loud music. Also avail- The waiters and waitresses try their best to able are Hard Rock t-shirts and sweatshirts, be obnoxious here, so be prepared. Valet (And those things are so rare, too. Wearing parking is available for cheap — use it. □ one of those would sure make a fashion	by Derik Weldon
can add your John Hancock—ouch, bad pun—to the graffiti-covered walls) and your appetite. A convenient time to dine here is during a shopping trip to Water Tower Place (835-845 N. Michigan) or a sightseeing visit to the John Hancock Center.
Bacino’s Stuffed Pizza (2204 N. Lincoln Avenue) features a similar Chicago style pizza. Its main selling point is its'location, putting it within walking distance of the aforementioned Lincoln Park bars. And like Kronie’s, the front windows at Bacino’s are perfectly situated for observing the Windy City wildlife.

Looking at the rules and process of the recruiting game from a different perspective ... the women's
By Steve Watzke
Athletic recruiting runs like a clock.
There simply is no end to it The young, prospective athlete is always waiting to replace an older, more established one. Sometimes, it seems that recruiters will do whatever it takes to lure that athlete to play for one school or another, and these means have become increasingly illegal by NCAA standards. ;	.
Recruiting violations have been committed all over die country. What is at the root of this growing problem?
“The biggest concern regarding collegiate recruiting today is negative recruiting,” says head women’s basketball coach Muffet McGraw. “Schools lie about other schools and say things they believe to be true that aren’t really true because each school wants to improve its respective position.”
Even at a school like Notre Dame, whose rich athletic tradition has been praised for the clean way it has run its programs, other schools will try very hard to tarnish the Irish image. The allure of the Notre Dame tradition is a boon to recruiting and is a main reason that Lou Holtz and the rest of the football coaching staff attract the very best among high school recruits.
The smooth, legal approach to recruiting
FEBRUARY 28, 1991
that an institution like Notre Dame follows has specific guidelines and processes. For women’s basketball, recruiting begins at the start of summer camps. Assembled there are some of the country’s best players and all major university recruiters attend with their “wish lists.” Each list includes 20 or 30 recruits based on individual talent.
“What we do is go to Blue Star,” says Robinson. “Coaches have a priority list of current high school seniors and underclassmen.”
Athletes also begin to initiate personal contact with friends. Coaches will make contact (a verbal exchange of more than a greeting) with prospective recruits as soon as possible.
Recruiters use written contact, such as questionnaires, mailings, handwritten notes and greeting cards to get the ball rolling. Verbal contact occurs weekly before big games via phone calls. Once the initial breakthrough is made, the recruiter can invite his prospect to other summer camps and to sporting events, or write home to the recruits’ parents or his high school coach.
Definitive rules and regulations accompany a home visit by the recruiter to a potential signee’s home. The recruiter has a
maximum of three available contacts while the recruit has five. A typical schedule of events for a home visit includes a meeting with the high school coach, a review of the recruit’s academic file and a film-viewing session.
“Football deals mostly with film,” says McGraw. “We only use film when we know that we’re not going to keep a player.”
“We rely mostly on first-hand observation,” adds Robinson. “If a personality fits in with the team, then you go with it because personality really comes out in person, not on film.”
A recruit who wants to make an on-campus official visit has a lot of rules to remember as well. Heorshemustremember to make only one paid visit, only visit a maximum of five schools, leave campus no later than 48 hours after arrival, have any relative’s transportation paid for and make sure the host receives twenty dollars for meals and admission into athletic events.
For home and campus visits alike, four recruiting periods exist in both men’s and women’s sports. In person, off-campus visits for contact purposes are allowed. During the evaluation period, coaches can evaluate theacademic standingand physical
15

By Sara Liebscher
Bunny skies and warm weather came to town; Norm from Cheers had the JACC in stitchesf The football team decisively sent the ‘Canes back to Miarrii. It was not a typical October weekend in South; Bend.' A? ' A '-A;?-.)	c,
Thank goodness for Coach Muffet
McGraw’s sake... -.	A /...;
■.- The head women’s basketball -coach could not have beeri' happier, for it was that weekend Michelle Marciniak came to campus bn an official recruiting visiL Marcih-iak was not just another recruit.■" The’ 5’9”; senior,from Allentown, Pennsylvania, has been touted as this year’s best high school player.. For Coach McGraw, the chance to land a player of Michelle’s caliber was an opportunity of a lifetime. Marciniak could be a franchise. elevating the program to hew heights; - W.; > W-:	' ■' ■ ■ 4
; • The official: visit is bne of the many components of recruiting. and often, the most important; In fact, it is the deciding factor, for many- prospects. Although for Michelle this was not the case, her on-campus visit definitely helped tosway. her decision. : : & A W. WW	WW
For 48hours,MichelIe experienced life - :alasting impression on Michelle. Compet-•	• ingwitomore eslablishedandpowerful
programssuchas TennesseeandPenn State, wehadallgonethedistancetomakethe difference
as a student-athlete at Notre Dame; She attended a! class,; toured cariipus,-.met with academic: advisors,: tailgated :on Green Field; and cheered toe football team on to -yictory (she loved the two-handed “Lou” cheer). Shewas officially hosted by Karen Robinson, a senior bri the women’s basket-baU team: Butalthough that meantshe slept
Weekend
in Karen’s dorm room; Karen was by no means alonein“showing her the ropes.” It was a team effort. ■ u••AV2.
The first night, Michelle and her parents dined with Coach McGraw and her- assistants at Pat’s Pub., For the rest of the weekend,the coaches continued to entertain her paraits, but placed Michelle entirely in our hands, y On ow
-played Pictionary with Michelle, took her to the pep rally, and then partied after the victory. The coaches believe thatbri-cam^ pus official Visits, are a time for the players to get. to lotow the recruit : and whether her personality and values are: compatiblcwi ththctearit’s.No matter how: talented a recruit is, she is not a valuable asset to our program if she does not “fit in” with theexisting teamchemistry. ; A' : ? MicheUe fbund her niche; amo team, in no time, making our job as hosts much easier;-In fact, as r shared timealone with Michelle: at Burgcr King,:I felt as : though I was laughing and reminiscing with anoldfriend. Ihadknownhcrfhowever, le^ thhn 24 hours. ":£ ■	■; WtW;
It wasimportant for the weekend to make
Norm bcforbjhe pep rally, a shamrock with her nariie ph itwas placed above a locker in our Ipcferrwni, arid in that locker hiin^ a :jersey^^
It is ironic that I was chosen to write this article, .considering that: in my four: years at Notre Dame, I was a miserable 1-for-5 with recruits. In fact, l am lucky to kriowanytoingaboutMichelle’svisit,for with such a miserable, recruiting track 0&or||:Gbach® even have me around. Yet, thanks to the most ideal October weekend in South Bend — the unusually warm weather, the trouncing of die ‘Canes, and Norm—and ultimately, thanks to Michelle, the future for Notre Dame women’s basketball is bright. ,-v. .o:	:	; C-
And thank you Michelle for redeeming:
□ :
my recruiting record!-

V-Ai'	A?' Paul Webb.;
the big recruit In Marciniak. ;: " ?; ■
ability of its recruits but they cannot make personal contacts. “At Notre Dame, admissions play a big role,” says Robinson.
Following evaluation is a dead period in which both official and unofficial visits to the campus are not permitted. After these three periods , there is a quiet period when no campus contact or evaluation is allowed for the remainder of the year.
16
Recruitment receives most notice in November, December, January and February. In May, however, according to NCAA rules, up to nine coaches from each college can visit high schools a full nine months before athletes can send letters of intent to colleges.
Once the national letter of intent has been signed, no benefits can be offered to the
recruit or his/her relatives. Such benefits would entail any cash, loans, gifts, free housing or any accomodations or jobs for a recruit’s relatives or friends.
There is a possibility that some athletes get into college even though they can’t read or write. In essence, a recruiter hires an athlete to come, to his school, not for his brains but for his brawn. In turn, the univer-
SCHOLASTIC
place."
□
they’re paying for?
McGraw worries that negative recruiting may be
getting out of hand.
Paul Webb
how can athletes use the millions they make in their sport if they can’t even read what
based on how big of a box-office draw they	dollars to sign contracts.
sity uses the money which the athlete draws into the box-office to finance other sports that fans won’t pay to see. It’s a business deal, but an unfair one because the athlete isn’t properly compensated. Those athletes who finish four years of college, who haven’t made it into the professional ranks and who haven’t earned their degree are essentially employees.
So, shouldn’t they be paid a given salary
are? Robinson disagrees, “If a student can’t handle the work, they shouldn’t be there in the first place.”
“I don’t agree with that,” says McGraw. “We’re giving athletes a good education here and the tuition and room and board is a good deal.”
The players often have many sources to
FEBRUARY 28, 1991
Robinson says "... If a student can't handle the work, they shout d not be there (in a major college or u n I ve r-sltyjinthe first
Nek Spangler
get money. The. Lloyd Bloom/Norby Walters fiasco demonstrated one of the many avenues which players can pursue to get money. This pair was indicted during Au-, gust 1988 and then convicted in April 1989 of compromising eligibility of college football players with thousands of
Their charges included racketeering, mail fraud and racketeering conspiracy at the University of Michigan, Purdue, Temple and here atNotre Dame, among other schools. Bloom and Walters signed 58 athletes from 32 schools, 50
of which still had eligibility.
One of the signees was Ronnie Harmon, a former running back at Iowa who was supposedly put on academic probation before his senior year. His 1.92 GPA topped Iowa’s minimum good standing of 1.85, but in an ensuing court case, the defense portrayed the school as seeking only athletic talent to make millions of dollars and accused the school of allowing their athletes to take mindless courses. The defense, representing the two agents, lost the case and Bloom and Walters were sentenced to 55 years in prison and fined $1.5 million.
Since recruiting is such a vital cog in the workings of an athletic program, it must be done right The whole idea of making millions of dollars is increasingly detracting from a college’s main purpose- to provide an education. Athletes and recruiters should both remember this academic mission of the American universities. After all,
Willie Clark: Clark, a freshman from Wheatland, CA, provisionally qualified for the NCAA Indoor Championships in the 55-meter with a time of 6:27. Clark also qualified for the IC AAA A meet in Princeton in the200-meter run with a time 21:26.
Shana Stevens: Stevens, a junior from Mission Hills, KS, captured a first place finish this past weekend at the MCC championships held this weekend at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Stevens won the 200-yard backstroke and placed fifth in the 200-yard butterfly.
□
1990 Scholastic Football Review Issues
can be picked up by off-campus students at 303 LaFortune Hall from 3-5 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
Extra copies of this issue are available for $5.00 at the same times
c
BudgetEEr jnotorinn
$2595
SINGLE
1-80 at Exit 77
52825 US 33 N.
South Bend, IN
272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦LAUNDRY
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
18
SCHOLASTIC
MOVIES
SPINAL TAP: the greatest rock and roll spoof ever, this classic by Rob Reiner manages to poke fun of everything that’s clichdd ; in rock and roll. Spinal Tap will be showing i at Cushing on Thursday, February 28 at 8 ! and 10:30p.m.
MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL will be held at Cushing Auditorium on Friday, March 1.
s ; DICK TRACY will be S.U.B.’s feature film on Saturday, March 2 at Cushing Auditorium. Showtimes are at 8 and 10:30 p.m.
THE LITTLE THIEF is the featured movie this Friday and Saturday at the Snite. Showtimes are7:30 and 9:45 p.m. both nights.
AT THE SNITE: On Tuesday, March 5, Breathless will be shown at 7 p.m., followed by Last Year at Marienbad at 9 p.m. On Wednesday, March 6, The Exorcist will be featured at 7 p.m., followed by Blow Up at 9:30 p.m.
SPORTS
BENGAL BOUTS: the final’s of this year’s Bengal Bouts will be held at the JACC at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, March 1.
LACROSSE will face Canisius at Moose Krause Stadium on Saturday, March 2
WWF is making yet another incursion onto our campus on Sunday, March 3 at the JACC.
THEATRE
THEATRE GROTTESCO will perform Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory at Washington Hall from Wednesday, February 27 through Sunday, March 3. Showtime is at 8:10 p.m. except for the Sunday performance, which is at 3:10 p.m. Sponsored by the Departement of Communication and Theatre. Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk.
CONCERTS
THE NOTRE DAME CONCERT BAND will present its Spring Concert on Tuesday, March 19 at 8 p.m. in the JACC. Admission is free.
MISCELLANEOUS
THE WINDY CITY SHUTTLE will leave for Chicago at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday, March 2.
FEBRUARY 28, 1991	19
A Father's Final Word
In a letter to Senator Paul Simon, Jack Lanan expresses his concerns about the safety of his sons, and all military personnel, involved in the Persian Gulf conflict
Several weeks ago, Jack Lanan sent this letter to Senator Paul Simon, a democrat from Illinois.
Deas Senator Simon,
I am writing to you as a deeply concerned American citizen and parent. My concern is over the ongoing situation with Iraq. To date ;	53 (possibly more) of our fine people in the
;	military have died because they were sent to
this area. This should serve as a warning in itself as to what will follow if the shooting ■	begins.
।	Why are we over there? Who of us would
i	evenknowofKuwaitifnotforthis situation.
I am convinced this country is only interested in two things in regard to this area. Oil and money. All this talk of defending against aggression is not to be believed.
With all the money being spent why haven’t we been researching and manufacturing alternate types of fuel. How about Ethanol made from grain? If we were using this type of fuel we would not ever again have to depend on oil in such vast quantities. । Our farmers would be helped out of their | financial difficulties. I believe we should ' concentrate heavily on the use of grain fuel. ; . We have been blessed with some of the j	finest soil on earth but we are not using it to
its fullest potential. I am not a farmer in case it appears that way.
This country needs to put heavy pressure on Israel to give back all of its occupied territory now. This is the major issue with all the Arabs. There is no difference between occupation by Israel and Iraq except one is more recent
’ It would be devastating
- not only to me but to the rest of the family if
• ■ something happened to : them when it need not
Our family has two sons in the military right now. We all understand the need for our country to maintain a strong position militarily. The rush by our president to draw a defensive line in the sand to protect Saudi Arabia has been accomplished. It is time to stop. We do not need another monument like the Viet Nam Wall. The memories are
still too fresh from that not so long ago. Perhaps, you have some memories yourself.
To sacrifice our young people when this country is in no peril is wrong. When I see our president on the news he always seems so belligerent. It seems that he wants military action. Why not tone down a bit and give a little or is this a sign of weakness? I would hope we never start a war over someone’s ego.
I am very close to my sons. From the time they were able to walk we have enjoyed the outdoors. They learned about hunting and fishing and the right way to live. It would be devastating not only to me but to the rest of the family if something happened to them when it need not be.
Please act on my belief and let my feelings be known. Hopefully all of us will see a peaceful solution before it’s too late.
As sincere as I can be, Jack Lanan.
P.S. Has anyone looked at the suicide rate in our armed forces? • It is happening but never heard about.	. □
Jack Lanan was a U.S. Marine. His sons, now members of the Corps, are stationed in Saudi Arabia and the Philipines. The son in the Philipines is awaiting a likely transfer to Saudi Arabia.
20
SCHOLASTIC
05-	toN Policy
A 1AL£ OF LOUSY URBAN PLANNING BY TeW^ |
W STARTED INNOCENTLY ENOUGH.
VENTURE CAPITALISTS, EAGER TO IMPROTE SALES OF THEIR LATEST GIMMICK, PERUSED RECENTLY DECLASSIFIED GOVERNMENT REPORTS. SOON, IHEP WERE ABLE ID GOTO MARKET WITH THEIR ANEW IMMHWtMENT ON THE FAMILIAR CVDOIY DENIZENS OF IA1E-NI6HT TELEVISION’ 8«m'o'WD"
HERE, SWEETIE. THIS BEAUTIFUL, FAITHFUL in-cost companion will provide vou md HOURS OF FuN AND FRIENDSHIP WHILE W MOTHER AKDI WORK THE WIE Hl6HT SHIFT Down at THE )NM6ttAL WWARE LAB/
wflc? its run 5UT DAY AFW DAY... Jlisrm V® AMD ENJOY/ (no perverts ^seLZ^
HUNDREDS OF INNER CITY PARENTS, UNABLE TO AFFORD MORE UPSCALE LIVE PETS, COMMITTED $1« each ID GET THE ADORABLE, DEHYDRATED CHIAS FDR THEIR CHILDREN.
■ W, FATHER. MJ 1	'
Niiiawu’‘roBEAmmtf ^<1 YWWWH)lOWE*MlpfcE CLASS AWLT| Wtt TO THIS
/mommy, yk/ANO |to
HUMAN F1£SH C<W BY A Wim OF Polyester.
WSHj
Eventually, of course, the
INEVITABLE HAPPENED...
CHIA’S
icky!
PONTWW.to , W ROXRIBU THiHd
wwiBowyou AWWtt!
5AY, ARTIE, AIN'T THE T TRAIN SUPPOSED TO « IN ANOTHER H5 MINUTES? ARTE?.. ARTIE?
THE ENORMOUS C H-LA.S PROWL THE NETViORK OF SEWER UNES AND SUBWAY TUNNELS BENO THE CITY. BAILOONINGTO FANTASTIC PROPORTIONS, MZIfO IN THEIR constant search for their ONLY ACCEPTABLE SOURCE OF NOURISHMENT—
...THANKFULLY, ALL THE VICTIMS HAVE BEEN SUBURBANITES.
YES-BUT FOR HOW LONG? FOR HOW long?
THE FORMER CHI A CHUMS FOUND THEMSELVES DEEP IN THE BOWELS OF M ANCIEMT CITY SEWER SYSTEM, WHERE PEELED LEAD LINING FtOM OLD PIPES, YEARS OF TOXIC WASTE DUMPING AND AN ENDLESS SUPPLY OF WATER CONSPIRED TO TRANSMOGRIFY THEM INTO SOMETHING VERY DIFFERENT...
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. IN
Permit No. 10
