Dotrc Dame Scholastic
i * 'DISCe-QVASI-SSniPCR-VlCTVRVS- •VIVG-9VASi-CRAS-MORITVR\/S’
Vol. XXXIX. .
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 31, 1906.
No. 24.
DR. FRANCIS J. QUINLAN, Laetare Medallist, 1906.
394
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Laetare Medallist 1906.
CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, ’06. _____________
HERE always hangs about the ^ie Laetare Medal a mystery similar to that shroud-
I ' ing the election of a pope. Not that the two events are even 3- remotely alike in nature, dignity or importance; but they are similar in the popular conjectures they start and the uncertainty they involve as to who is to receive them. The spirit always breatheth where it listeth. This year the recipient of the Laetare Medal is Dr. Francis J. Quinlan of New York City. The analogy of the papal * selection might here be applied still further. This year’s recipient of the Medal is perhaps as little known to the western section of our country as the Patriarch of Venice was to the Western Hemisphere before his election to the pontificate, but this is entirely due to : the fact that reputation is seldom synonymous or coextensive with worth. A few years ago the giving of the mid-Lenten honor to such national and international figures as Dr. John Gilmary Shea, Augustin Daly and Charles J. Bonaparte drew attention to the Medal, while it may now happen that the Aledal draws attention to the man. Again let us say that the reason for this ;4s that all the deserving Catholic laymen live*, not in the strong light of public notoriety, and if the Medal help bring them forward,, so . much the better'for the public.	■
Dr. Francis J. Quinlan was born in New. York City, Dec. 24,1853. “His early school;, days,” we quote from the Catholic News, “were spent with the Christian,Brothers, first at the parochial school of St. Francis Xavier’s Church, then at the old Alanhattan Academy in West Thirty-Second St. where he remained some years. Finally he entered the College of St. Francis Xavier. He spent some years teaching school, and then took up the study of medicine in 1874 at the Medical Department of Columbia University, graduating in 1878. He entered St Vincent’s Hospital, but having been appointed’to a position in the United States service he took up his residence in Dakota. He remained
there four years among the Sioux Indians and soldiers of the frontier, serving with honor in the positions of trust assigned to him in the government service.” In 1S91 he received the honorary degree of A. Al. from St. Xavier’s College, New York, and four years later the degree of LL. D. from the same institution.
All this time Dr. Quinlan was busy at the duties of his state, doing all in his power to cancel the miseries of the world,—physical suffering by his professional skill, moral evil by the illuminating and strengthening example of his own clean, self-sacrificing life. Nature had marked him, it seems, for the perfect physician,. while he had made himself the man God wanted him to be. Blessed, first of all, with talents of exceptional power and moved by a true zeal to help his fellow-man, he applied himself with earnestness to the particular kind of diseases that has become his specialty, affections of the throat and nose. The result of Dr. Quinlan’s effort is that he stands to-day at the top of the medical profession in our country, being President of the County Medical. Association of New York, an organization made up of some of the most worthy, representatives of medical science in the world, President of the New York Celtic Aledical Society, member of the State Medical Association, of the American Aledical Association and of the Academy of Aledicine. Besides holding these positions of honor and responsibility, the Doctor is visiting surgeon to St. Vincent’s Hospital, New York City, to the New York City Hospital, to the Foundling Hospital and St. Joseph’s Hospital, Yonkers, N. Y. He is professor of Laryngology and Rhinology in New York Polyclinic and . Laryngologist and Otologist to St. John’s 7 Hospital, Long Island City. Besides, he is a valued contributor to the medical journals that represent his specialty and a notable ~ figure at the medical conventions. All this ! is but an index of the man’s professional ability and a commentary on the value of personal industry and effort. Yet it is not for this alone that Notre Dame would bestow upon him the highest honor within her giving. Professional success is all right, but more than, this she looks to in the man on whom she confers the Laetare Medal.
In the first place, the winner of this honor
NOTRE DAME,
must be a man of signal personal worth, of unusual force of character, a powerful influence for good in the communitv in which he lives. He must be a Catholic who knows and loves his religion, carrving it with him through the-details of his daily life to the honor of himself and the Church. He must be a man whose efforts have benefited his fellow-man in some large wav, bv private work or civic usefulness; in fine, a man and a Catholic who needs no such honor to keep his memory alive in the hearts of his grateful fellows. Such a man Notre Dame, and with her all New York, feels confident she has found in the person of Dr. Francis Quinlan, President of the Catholic Club of New York.
A Modem Tragedy.
It had been a terrible day, this last day of March, and still more terrible was the night. Not even a star appeared in the heavens to force a ray of light through the thick darkness which hung everywhere. The wind shrieked incessantly among the trees that grew so abundantly in the vicinity of a certain little cottage.
Dr. Brown sat in his study, a small room at the front of the house. He was somewhat apprehensive lest he should be called out into this fierce night. Yes, there it was; he half-cursed himself for having a ’phone in the house. A patient of his who was very sick had suddenly become delirious, and his services were needed immediately. He jumped into his coat, snatched up his hat and satchel. and was off, not waiting to summon his carriage. All thoughts of having to face the bitter storm had been dispelled by this call to duty.	..
He had scarcely passed out of his. own. gateway when a masked figure jumped out from behind a clump of bushes and levelled a revolver at him. “Hold up your hands,” demanded the figure. The doctor was astonished, to say the least; but he faltered, “ How am I to know you are a real burglar ? ” The figure smiled, a safe, sinister smile, in the fitful moonlight and drew from his pocket a slip of paper. “ The ---Life Insurance,” groaned the doctor; “go ahead, take all you find.”----------------T. A. H.
SCHOLASTIC.	395
Varsity Verse.
limericks.
A grocer who lived in Toulouse, Found it hard to collect all his dues;
His profits all went	.
To his landlord in rent,
Till he had no more money to lose.
There was a young man from Marseilles
Who used to distribute the mails;
' Now he’s tending a bar o
• For a rich Mr. Marr
And successfully serving Marr’s ales.
The boys call him “Buff,” for you know.
He comes from the great Buffalo, When he meets an old friend	-
His big hand he’ll extend,
As his comrade savs, “Heigh, Buff, hello.” '	J- P.-L
A fellow by name Mr. Noof
Spent his days and his nights on the roof;
When people passed by 'He would mournfully sigh
“ From my neighbors I must keep aloof.”
He clipped his dog’s tail and was jailed
By a judge who at cruelty railed;
“When in prison,” said he,
“I’ll have scant liberty,”
Ouoth the jailer, “You’ll have that curtailed.”
A quarrelsome youth once was knighted
Whose pugnacity soon was requited;
As he fought for a prize	.	.
A knight knocked out his eves
And the vouth cried, “Sir knight, I’m delighted.”
'	Junior Epigrams. .	'
A pitcher in time saves the nine.
You can drive a woman to bargains, but vou can’t make her buv. -/ ■ , -
Nowadays a man is judged by his cents.
A diamond ring represents a double engagement—one with the girl, the other with the jeweler.
It’s a wise client that knows his .lawyer.
The first degree of fame is to hold oneself wise; the second to have some one else profess it.
• Only the bald deserve the hair.
Nothing succeeds like gossip.	'
The more waist the less 'chest. * .You may lead, a tramp to water-but you can’t make him wash.	y
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
396
A Prayer.
IX MEMORIAM, FATHER MOLLOY.
mai; angels twine a wreath around thjr brow; On heaven’s peaceful hills repose be thine;
Let those who loved thee and lament thee now Join in the supplication that is mine:
“O Lord, to him eternal rest allow, And let perpetual light upon him shine.’’
W. C. O’B.
A Memory.
JOHN F. SHEA, '06.
Back in mv childhood davs, in the bright warm davs of summer, I remember him, and the memory is as sweet as the perfume that floated across the June meadows and as tender as the warm southern breeze that fanned my youthful cheek and lingered caressingly on his silvery hair. How often did we roam through the cool woods until we came to the rustic bench which we had fashioned by ourselves; and there amid the fragrance of the still pines we talked and laid our plans for the morrow, the beautiful morrow of cloudless blue skies and golden o promises.
The best recollection I have of him is as he was here. I can vividly recall his dark blue uniform and the insignia of the Grand Army on his coat lapel. He was proud ot that little bronze button; and it was one of the few things he ever denied me, though in the perverseness of youth it was the thing which I most desired. Then, there is the memory of his kindly face, of the clear gray eyes; eyes that must have grown steely in the wreck and carnage of battle; eyes that were often dulled by the pain of the old wound, but eyes that ever gazed on me most gently, and never, even under the provocation that youth so often gives, kindled in anger.
On his curly locks of silver rested a dark felt hat, a knotted braid of gold, badly frayed at the ends, encircling the crown. Often I sat by his side on the old bench and listened to the stories of the little drummer-boy, of the trenches before Richmond and of Sherman marching to the sea. I would place his hat on my head and
picture myself as the bold comrade who captured tobacco for the mess, or the drummer-boy who died with the old flag to his lips. Then as the soberness of the picture overcame me, it was his merry voice that sang me back to my customary cheerfulness. Generallv on the conclusion of the stories he would fill his old pipe, while my ever-searching fingers never failed to wander into the depths of his inviting pocket, and seldom indeed it was that some sweet, or other childish delight, failed to be hidden in the old blue coat. After a while in compliance with his custom ary, “Sonny, we must be going,” I would take his dear old hand, and together we would wander slowly back as we had come. ’
To-day after long years of absence I am back at the little village of mv bovhood home. The sweeping elms still line the wide old-fashioned streets, and nature still blesses as in the old days. I have met the boys who are boys no longer, and many of the older faces that time has dealt with kindiv greet me again.
I have tasted the early apples and found them as sweet as ever, and even the old trout which resisted the worms and bent pins of my day, still sport in the deep pool below the dam. Yet I was not satisfied, and slowly I walked along the shady, needle-strewn path through the pines. -1 thought with a sad happiness of the walks I took here long ago when I was not alone. In time I reached the rustic bench, our old bench, but no one claimed it with me. The shadows of evening slowly approached, but no one said, “Sonny, we must be going,” and so I lingered. In the mellow twilight I could see the old initials he had carved, and then it was that the sad melody of the lost past seized my soul, and falling on my knees by the old bench .1 sobbed alone for the days that were gone from me forever. As I journeyed back my heart was still touched with a strange sadness, for the old voice that sang “Dixie” was hushed forever.
The coon that blushes is not black as soot.
Don’t hunt for knowledge—she’s not a. criminal.—Junior Epigrams.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
397
Dujarie Hall.
REV. JAMES J. TRAHEY, C. S. C.
HERE is real sentiment and there is beautv of detail in the Psalmist’s verse: “The Lord rule th me.... He hath brought o me up on the water of refreshment.” These words, once sung
bv David centuries later made melodv in the breast of another man of God, Father Edward Sorin. When this knight of the Blessed Virgin stood for the first time on the shore of St. Mary’s Lake and beheld the
history. The forest primeval that greeted ’ Father Sorin on November 26, 1842, has disappeared, and the spot whereon he and his six Brothers first stood is now surrounded by the stately edifices that constitute the University of Our Lady- of the Lake.
A few days after Father Sorin arrived at Notre Dame he wrote to his superior in France: “ . . . We came to Notre Dame du Lac, where I write you these lines. We made haste to inspect the various sites on the banks of the lake, all of which have been so highly praised. Yes, like little children, in spite, of the cold, we went from one extremity to the other, perfectly enchanted with the marvellous beauties of
THE “INDIAN CHAPEL” (RESTORED).

stainlessness of his Lady reflected in a mantle of snow, he thought within himself, as he afterwards wrote: “There I could willingly exclaim with the prophet, ‘The Lord ruleth me.... He hath brought me up on the water of refreshment.’ ” These sentiments of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame du Lac were shared in their fullest extent by his six heroic companions, Brothers Vincent, Joachim, Francis Xavier, Lawrence, Gatien, and Anselm.	.
The recent improvements made on the site that marks the founding of Notre Dame recall many a cherished page of unwritten
our new abode.” A decade later, he addressed the following reflections to his brethren in religion: “Only ten years have elapsed since Providence first brought the sons of Holy Cross to a wild and deserted spot in the north of Indiana. Before they arrived at their destination the memorably long and severe winter of 1S42-43 had set in with alarming rigor. A miserable old log-, cabin, well-nigh open to every wind, was the only lodging they found wherein to rest themselves after their . long journey.”
Suffering and admiration, mingled joy. and sorrow were not, however, the motives that
398	NOTRE DAME
allured Father Sorin. and his “six beloved Brothers” to the frozen shores of a little lake in Northern Indiana. No, he had come hither with the invincible purpose of laying the foundations of a great Catholic educational institution. They' could not be laid at once, owing to the severity of the winter weather, and even when the cold davs had gone and the April winds had prepared the ground for excavation, the lack of . funds prevented the immediate realization of Father Sorin’s cherished hope. In a letter of this period he said: “I am-tempted to complain, dear friend, that our Lord sends me no other suffering than to see my dear children suffer- around me, usuallv without the power to assist them. Lately one of our good Brothers had his foot frozen, and another one of his toes; I had just fifty cents, not much, yet enough to permit me to show that I was not insensible to their sufferings. We have at present but one bed, and they insist that I shall take it. They themselves sleep on the floor, just as thev did for three weeks at St. Peter’s (Vincennes, Indiana). To-morrow I shall give up my room to Brother Marie (afterwards known as Brother Francis Xavier), to be used for his shop.”
The lodgings thus referred to were those furnished by the “miserable old log-cabin,” • of which mention is made in the letter of 1852 already quoted. This log-cabin, better known to the pioneer members of the Community as the “Indian Chapel,” was built in 1S31 by Father Badin, who made the present site of Notre Dame the centre of his missionary activities throughout Northern Indiana and Southern Michigan. Father Badin was the first priest ordained in the United States. He came to the St. Joseph Valley at the earnest solicitation of the Pottawattamie Indian Chief, Pokagon. The log-chapel that he erected on the south edge of St. Alary’s Lake was the first Catholic sanctuary’ in St. Joseph County, or, for that matter, in Northern Indiana.* It was a story and a half high, forty feet long and twenty-four feet wide. The loft was reached by a stairway from the inside. .Within the walls of this rustic chapel and before this humble shrine there knelt at times a motley congregation,—the Miami,
* The “Indian Chapel’’-was burned, down in-1856.
SCHOLASTIC.	i
•	’	I
Chippewa, Pottawattamie, the Frenchman,	g
Irishman and German.	1
Father Sorin, in the letter quoted above,	>
speaks of one room and. one bed. The	>
former (attached to the northeast corner	B
of the chapel) was about eight feet square;	W
the latter consisted of two rough planks.	B
The Brothers lived in the garret of the	g
log-chapel. Their table was a block from	g
the forest, and their beds were bundles	g
of straw. Still the zealous priest and his	g
devoted companions were perfectly happy.	S
He occupied the room of his saintly prede- W cessors, Father Badin and Father Deseille;	g
his brethren lived above the tomb of the 8 latter’s precious remains.	W
The story of Father Deseille’s death is a g Christian idyl of fascinating interest and g perennial charm. While still young, healthy B and vigorous, he was called rather suddenly ® to his reckoning with God. Now, ‘the soul	B
is a verv lonelv thing when it is getting	B
ready to go away; ’ and as there was no 8 priest near to prepare him for his journey -w to eternity, he had himself carried to his	B
little chapel. There, supported by a white	K
settler of his mission, and surrounded by « his sorrowing Indians, he gave himself B Holy Communion and then passed peacefully B away at the foot of the altar. At this B same altar. Fa.ther Sorin’s immediate prede- B cessor, the apostolic Father Benjamin Petit, 1 had stood in his youth* and innocence to	II
offer the Holy Sacrifice. How fair this altar	1
and how majestic this chapel to the Indians
’ of whom Father Petit wrote: “At sunrise the first peal was rung; then you might see the savages moving along the paths of the forest and the borders of the lakes; when they were assembled the second peal was rung.”
In the spring of 1843 Father Sorin and • his Brothers erected a brick building, forty feet square and three stories high, which stands to-day on the southeast shore of St. Alary’s Lake. For many years it has been known as the first college. Strictly speaking, this name is not precise, but is thus far appropriate, that the first students * received by Father Sorin were sheltered and taught within its walls until the University of Notre Dame du Lac was chartered and
* Notre Dame’s proto-student, the first to enter her portals, was the late Alexis Coquillard, of South Bend.
t
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
399
completed in the June of 1845. Originally, however, the brick building was intended for a community house.
Just here may appropriately be given some details necessary for the complete setting of this brief narrative. Looking back in after years upon the trials of November 26, 1842, Father Sorin wrote: “The kind offices of two or three Sisters would then have been most acceptable.” In his letter of December 5, 1842, to his Superior in France, he had said: “Once we have the Sisters—whose presence is much desired here—they must be prepared, not merely for domestic work, but also for teaching.” Toward the close of the same letter, he
downstairs for their refectory and kitchen. They had a kind of cloistered chapel for themselves, an alcove on one side of the sanctuary, where they could see the altar, hear the priest, and receive Holy Communion. Their meals were brought from the college kitchen by a Brother. The Sisters took charge of the clothes-room, and did the work connected with sacristy, infirmary, dairy, and laundry.	-
An interesting memorandum, dated May, 1845, of the Sisters’ respective occupations has been preserved: Sister M. Circumcision in charge of the Priests’ and Brothers’ clothes-room; Sister M. Calvary in charge of the students’ clothes-room, and sacris-
reminds his Superior: “One priest, two Brothers, and three Sisters.* I forgot to tell you that one of these good Sisters is necessary'- for the Indian mission.” Evi-dentlv Father Sorin had from the first considered the Sisters indispensable to the successful accomplishment of his missionary plans in the New World. They came to his assistance in the early summer of 1843.
On the 6th of June, 1843, Rev. Fathers Cointet, Alarivault,
Gouesse and Brother	Dujarie Hall.
Augustus sailed from France, accompanied : by three professed Sisters of the Holy Cross, Sister M. Sacred Heart of Jesus, Sister M. Calvary, Sister M. Bethlehem, and a novice, Sister M. Nazareth. They arrived in New York, July 16, 1843,, bringing with them a beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin, the first image of our Lady to adorn her new home in America. The Brothers had moved from the loft of the log-chapel into their new Community House shortly before the arrival of the Sisters. The latter took possession of the loft or garret vacated by the Brothers, and occupied it as a dormitory. .They used a small room, adjoining the chapel
tan; Sister M. Bethlehem in charge of the dairy, chickens, and geese; Sister AT. Providence, in charge of the college infirmary, and Sister AI. Alt. Carmel in charge of . the laundry. .	.
In June, 1845, the few - students who
* The following information regarding the share of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in the founding of Notre Dame has been taken partly from the unpublished “Reminiscences- of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in America,” dictated some ten years ago by Mother M. Compassion, and partly from a-brief account, dictated by Sister. M. Euphrosyne, of Father Sorin’s second trip from France to America. Mother Compassion still enjoys length of days at St. Mary’s; and Sister M. Euphrosyne died’there only a-few’ days , ago, March. 16, 1906.	,	- ",	.
400
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
had been accommodated at the brick building—the Priests’ and Brothers’ Community House,—were transferred to the first college erected at Notre Dame, and chartered under the title of the Universitv of Notre Dame du Lac. In the course of the following year the brick building was given to the Sisters to be used as their dwelling-house. They continued in these more spacious apartments the good work they had begun under trying circumstances. Theirs was still the care of the clothes-room, the dairy, the laundry, and the sacristv. Thev had, in the attic of their new home, a small chapel where the Blessed Sacrament was kept at times and in which Holy Mass was occasionally celebrated. Their refectory’ was on the first floor, as was also the clothes-room for the Priests, Brothers, and students. The second floor was taken up by a large dormitory, and two private rooms. The bake-shop, in charge of Brothers Joseph and Vincent, occupied the west side of the- basement. In the two rooms at the east side of the basement lived a lay couple. The washhouse, a rickety shed, was built on the edge of the lake so as to facilitate the rinsing of the clothes. Sister Mt. Carmel and her corps of cheerful workers did the washing and ironing. The wintry atmosphere that chilled their bodies and the frosty water that benumbed their hands were tempered by the glowing love of the “valiant woman.” Thcj’ worked in the silence of heaven,— “ singing in their hearts to God,” and echoing the words of the Angel, “Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee.” “Many a time of a windy day,” wrote the late Rev. Dr. Kilroy, an early alumnus of Notre Dame, “ I heard the melody of fervent ‘Hail Marys’ alternate with the splashing of rinsing waters and the murmuring of the little sea.” Brother John the Evangelist kept up the fires, put out the clothes to dry, brought them back to the clothes-room, and made the soap.
On Monday, May 17,1852, Father Sorin with one priest, one seminarian and four young women postulants for the Sisterhood, sailed for this country from prance, on board the American Union. The voyage lasted forty-four days. To quote from Sister Euphrosyne’s vivid account of the arrival at Notre Dame: “On arriving at
South Bend we were met by Brothers v Vincent and Lawrence, each the driver of a wagon. Father and his companions w^ere taken into Brother Vincent’s wagon, the postulants into Brother Lawrence's; and the party proceeded to Notre Dame. Father gave orders that the wagons should stop at the ‘little white house’ on St. Mary’s Lake, occupied by the Sisters, from whom we received a most affectionate welcome. When the Fathers had taken their departure, we postulants were introduced to each of the Sisters and conducted through the house, in every room of which poverty reigned supreme. We can never forget Mother Saviour’s touching exclamation, between tears , and smiles: ‘Oh, my children, what are you going to do here?’ We were particularly impressed with the immaculate cleanliness of the refectory, the dormitory, and the clothes-room.	.
“In the evening a reception was tendered to Father in the College, and we postulants were invited to be present. Messrs. Copney, Kilroy, Gillespie, Flynn and Vagnier, all of whom became priests later on, took prominent parts in the play—‘William Tell.’ Next morning, Sunday, we assisted at High Mass sung by Father Sorin. After dinner Father Superior called at our little convent and -gave instruction for us postulants to be taken to the Novitiate at Bertrand.”
The Sisters continued to occupy the “little white house” on St. Mary’s Lake until the spring of 1854, when they moved to their new home near the College, on the site of the present Infirmary of the Sisters’ convent at Notre Dame.
For a number of years after the departure of the Sisters, the entire basement of the brick house -was used for a bakery. Brothers Vincent, Michael, Augustine, and . John the Evangelist, are names associated with this primitive bake-shop. They were holy men and respected the traditions of the Sisters regarding vocal prayer during work. Bro. Augustine’s partial deafness often contributed to the edification of his fellow-religious.. Many a time he was detected kneeling on the brick floor before the oven, praying like Benedict of old for the blessing of God and the multiplication of the loaves.
A new bakery was built in 1880, and from that date until last summer the brick
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
house, or so-called first college, was used alternately as a dwelling for some of the Brothers and for the hired men in charge of the farm at Notre Dame.
. The scene has been transformed. A few months’ improvements have completely changed the aspect ’of the “little white house’s ” environments. The barns, stables, and sheds that stood near by have been moved away, and their site is now a charming landscape. The “old Indian Chapel,” burned down in 1856, has been replaced by a facsimile. The brick house has been thoroughly repaired, and in fact practically rebuilt. A handsome monument, surmounted by a statue of St. Joseph, has been erected at right angles with the house and the logchapel. The latter was built last fall under the able superintendence of Mr. William Arnett of Kentucky.* It is forty feet in length by twenty-four in width and has five windows. Beneath the chapel, near the altar, will repose Father Badin’s remains, under a marble slab inscribed thus:
D. 0. M.
II IC IACET
R. R. STEPHANUS THEODORUS BADIN
'	GUI- PRIMUS
IX FOEDERATIS STATIBUS AMERICAE	'
SACERDOS ORDINATUS
INGENIO CLARUS ZELOQUE ARDENTISSIMUS MISSIONARIUS
CUM LX AXXOS CIRCUMIENS
REGNUM DEI ET CATHOLICAE ECCLESIAE
FELICITER PROPAGASSET
AXXIS MERITISOUE GRAYISSIMUS
IX DOMINO 0BD0RMIVIT.
XATUS AURELIAE IX GALLIA 17a DIE IULII 1768
OBIIT CINCINNATI IX AMERICA 19a DIE APRILIS 1853
CUIUS CORPUS CUM QUINgUAGINTA AXXOS IX CINCINXATENSI CATHEDRALI IACUISSET, TAXDEM XOSTRAM DOMIXAM
TRANSLATUM EST.
. '	R. I. P.
On the . chapel’s north wall a bronze
■* Builders of the genuine old-style log-cabin are becoming rare in the Middle West. Considerable inquiry was made before a competent architect could be secured in the person of Mr. Arnett who. although a slave grown to man’s estate in the days before the war, still wields .the broadax as vigorously as a man of fifty. Apropos of the broadax. neither South Bend nor Chicago could supply that species of tool; but old settlers near Notre Dame had two of the implements, and kindly loaned them for the occasion.
tablet, with the following inscription, will perpetuate the saintly missionary’s memory:
IX GRATEFUL MEMORY
OF
THE VERY REV. STEPHEN THEODORE BADIN
BORX AT ORLEANS, FRANCE, JULY 17, 1768. DIED AT CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 19, 1S53
RECEIVED HOLY ORDERS FROM BISHOP CARROLL AT BALTIMORE IX 1793.
THE FIRST PRIEST ORDAINED IN THE UNITED STATES
MISSIONARY FOR SIXTY YEARS IN THE MISSISSIPPI
VALLEY
BUILDER ON THIS SITE IN 1S31 OF A CHURCH OF WHICH	'
THIS STRUCTURE IS A REPRODUCTION. .
HIS REMAINS TRANSFERRED FROM THE CATHEDRAL OF CINCINNATI .
NOW REPOSE HERE BENEATH THE SHADOW OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
FOR WHICH HE DONATED THE SITE AND
OF WHICH HE WAS
A LOYAL FRIEND AND CONSTANT BENEFACTOR.
“ Praise we now the men of renown, onr fathers in their generation.”
The log-chapel stands at a distance of about twentv-five feet from the brick house. The graceful monument alreadv mentioned is ten feet square at the base, tapering to four feet, and rests on a concrete foundation. The statue of St. Joseph is eight feet high, is equipped with electric lights, and will be illuminated on the evenings of the Saint’s festivals. On the eastern and western faces of the pedestal are two granite slabs; one bears the verse of the Psalmist: “He made him head of his house, and ruler of all his possession.” On the other is inscribed: .
IX MEMORY
OF	.
THE FOUNDERS OF XOTRE DAME FATHER EDWARD SORIN BROTHERS	'
VINCENT	■	JOACHIM
’	GATIEN	ANSELM	‘
FRANCIS XAVIER
AND	"
LAWRENCE .	.
WHO STOOD ON THIS SPOT NOVEMBER 26, 1842.
Both the statue of St. Joseph and its pedestal are gifts from generous friends of the University. This stately little monument was not put up merely to perfect the symmetry of the immediate surroundings.
4°
NOTR^ dame scholastic.
There is a deeper significance attached to its erection. Father Sorin, in the first letter he addressed from Notre Danie to France, emphasized the fact that his new home was “in the County of St. Joseph, on the banks of the River St. Joseph, and not far from the city of St. Joseph.” The log-cabin and the “little white house” quickly became another Nazareth, with its resident Holy Family. The Saviour had His representative there, Mary had hers, and Joseph his,— Priests, Sisters and Brothers. In this veritable reproduction of the holy household of Nazareth, St. Joseph was constituted the ruler. The residents were convinced that he was the subject of his royal ancestor’s prophecy: “He made him head of his house and ruler of all his possession.”
And yet, though the priests rightly regarded St. Joseph as a precursor in their sacred ministry, though the Sisters looked to him with Mary as to the guardian of their sacrifice, the Brothers filed a lawful claim when they invoked him as their special patron. They had been founded as the “Brothers of St. Joseph.” Their dauntless hearts and willing hands made possible, and even called into existence, the present home of our Lady of the Lake. Father Sorin recognized this fact when he paid them the following just tribute: “To clear the ground the Blessed Virgin called from beyond the Atlantic, the Brothers of St. Joseph, rich only in faith and confidence in her protection.”
The. Brothers of St. Joseph were the first to cut their way through the forest to the south shore of St. Mary’s Lake. They were the first to build a dwelling-house on the edge of its frozen waters. They were the pioneers. It is therefore eminently fitting that they should again take possession of the spot whereon Notre Dame du Lac was founded sixty-four years ago. And this they have just done (March 19, JL906) through the young candidates for the teaching Brotherhood, who will henceforth make their studies within the venerated walls of the “first college” on the edge of St. Mary’s Lake. The brick house will hereafter be known as Dujarie Hall. The appropriateness of this name is due. to the fact that the Founder of the Brothers of St. Joseph (now Brothers of Holy Cross) was the saintly
Father Francis Dujarie, the holy man of Ruille. Furthermore, the Brothers of St. Joseph, as originally established by Father Dujarie, were exclusively a teaching body. • Dujarie Hall is to-day a quadrangular structure forty feet square, and stands at a distance of fifty feet from the water’s edge. There are two main entrances: one from the east, opening upon the first story; the other' from the north, giving direct entrance to the basement. On the first floor there is a hall-way with stairs leading to the basement and to the second story. On this floor there are also a class-room sixteen feet wide and twenty feet long; a study-hall sixteen by twenty-four feet, facing the lake on the north side and opening on a pretty portico; and to the right of the entrance a library room twenty - four feet long and twenty feet wide. At the head of the stairs leading to the second floor is a quaint-looking waiting-room — a kind of roofed Roman atrium—ten feet square. To the left of the stairs are the Directors’ Office and private apartments. The students’ dormitory is fortv feet bv twentv, and overlooks the lake. To the right of the waiting-room, at
O	O’
the head of the stairs, are the lavatorv and bath-rooms. The half of the basement that fronts the lake will be used as a recreation room. This cheerful and comfortable portion of the building is provided with a commodious veranda,—a place of refreshment in summer and a vantage-post of peculiar interest at all seasons. -
On the whole, the youthful aspirants to the Brotherhood of Holy Cross, who have just taken up their residence in Dujarie Hall, are to be congratulated on the manifold advantages of their new home. Apart from the material comforts generously provided for them therein, the historic reminiscences of which the verv walls are redolent are a privilege and a blessing for which to be deeply thankful. The atmosphere of cheerful self-sacrifice, joyous poverty, whole-souled devotedness, and hymn-accompanied daily toil that invested it six decades ago with something of the charm of the Holy House of Nazareth still permeates its whole interior from basement to attic; and habitually to breathe such an atmosphere at the inception of one’s training for the religious life is almost in itself a pledge
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for the acquisition of all religious virtues.
A not uninteresting detail of .the opening of the new hall is the appointment, as its first Director, of Bro. Leander, C. S. C., known to Civil War veterans as Colonel McLean, and at present Commander of the local Grand Army Corps and Aide-de-Camp of the Governor of Indiana. Ever since their establishment in the United States in 1842, the religious of Holy Cross have steadfastly evinced the genuine patriotism which puts country and its welfare second only to God and His glory, have uniformly been diving evidences of the truth that the best Catholics are the best Americans. A critic with special knowledge of the military history of the period from 1861 to 1S65, Archbishop Ireland, has publicly stated that in those critical davs Notre Dame’s great founder, Father Sorin, “saved the honor of the Church.” “There were other priests and other Sisters in the war,” says-the patriotic’ prelate of St. Paul, but “those of Holy Cross made up the greater part of the roster; none excelled them in daring feat and religious fervor; no other order, no other diocese, made for the purpose sacrifices such as did Holy Cross.” It is not strange, then, that after the war not a few of the disbanded soldiers and officers found their way into the ranks of the Community, the. heroism of whose members they had admired on the field and in the hospital. From year to year their number is diminishing; but the Director of Dujarie Hall is still an active and vigorous veteran, whose word and example may be counted on to instil into the minds and hearts of the youths entrusted to his care, not only the virtues proper to the exemplary religious, but the enlightened love of country that adorns every good citizen, be his station what it may.
Words from the Wise.
The world
The humble humility is.
Foolhardiness is characteristic of the cautious fellow.	,
thrives on bad examples, man does not know what .	H. B. McC.
* *
Some wills destroy all ways. Silence is sometimes brazen.
4°3
In union there is strength, but water weakens whiskey. "	.	.
Some men omit to-day what they ought to have done yesterday, and continue the omission to-morrow.	E. F.
Be a mere Christian rather than a devout crank.
Excelsior is higher than the. highest round on the ladder of ambition. ’	.
Every man can be a loafer. W. C. O’B.
* & ■
Old men are still young if their youth was old age.
The stronger the light, the darker the -O	O J
shadow.	.	.
’Tis not what we appear that makes us what we are.	.
Light brains often make heavy hearts.
We are what life makes us, just as life .
is what we make it.	.
Be wise.
Seem not; be.
Dream not; live. ’
Muse not; work.	.
Read not; think.
Speak not; do.	.
Weep not; smile.	.	•.
Hate not; love.*
You can never get a second penny if you don’t keep the first. . A. E. B. .
-as- *	.
Man comes into the world rich and leaves . it richer still.	:
Happy he who can look through the clothes of a man into the man himself.
Now that we are gentlemen we need not be gentle.	C. D.	.
The man who is most slow in promising is most likely to keep his word. ;
Where law ends tyranny begins. J. L.:
To be conscious . of no fault is the : greatest fault.	.	’	>
Fewer men are drowned by water than . bv wine.	.	'
We that live to learn must learn to live. ; ’ Take your time,—it is economical. ■	> ; : J
Deeds are the words of men, words the \ deeds of women.	-W. J. O.’D? \
404
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, March 31, 1906.
Board of Editors.
		
CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06	JOHN F. SHEA, ’	0 6
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS	EUGENE P. BURKE,	’06
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07	. JOHN M. RYAN, ’	06
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07	JOHN C. MCGINN, ’	06
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07	LEO J. COONTZ, ’	07
CORNELIUS HAGERTY,’06	EDWARD F. O’FLYNN,	’07
WALTER J. O’DONNELL, ’06.		
—The Supreme Court which wields such an enormous power in our government has now become a subject of comment quite as fresh as when that court was first established. It is said that so far the President has made no record so poor as his selection of members for that court and the Interstate Commerce Commission. Both these courts need men of the highest standing at the bar, and the President, at the suggestion. of Secretary Taft, is about to take up the matter and select the best lawyers to fill the places of the resigning men, ignoring political considerations altogether.
—The decisions reached by the Supreme Court in the tobacco trust and paper trust cases may check some of that' audacity manifested by corporation officials when on the witness stand. Managers of trusts will have to come out of the dark and be ready to lay open their business to the searching glance of the jury. Reports of rebates, secret agreements, etc., must be produced in the courts, and the agent of a corporation may no longer refuse to answer questions concerning the workings of the business on the ground that he might incriminate himself. Justice. Brown in his report of the tobacco
trust case declares that “The right of a person under the Fifth Amendment to refuse ; to incriminate himself..... was never intended to permit him to plead the fact that some 1 other person might be incriminated by his testimony.” This decision closes a loop-hole • through which the trusts have so often j escaped the law.	j
*** . |
—The intense interest now manifested in I $ debating should create and foster a more	I
lively enthusiasm for oratory. The oratorical	|
final takes place about nine months hence.	|
Our orators should go in with the intention	1
of vanning the State -Contest and getting	!
the Breen Medal as an incidental bit of encouragement. Nine months is not long to prepare for such an event. By this time the men should have their subject chosen, be doing the heavy reading and getting a well-defined point of view. Our representatives have done well at Indianapolis, yet it surety can not be uncomplimentary to them to say that they might have done better had their preparation been more prolonged. At a certain great school, which we know, the men work a year or more to prepare for the oratorical contest, and often use the same oration two or three consecutive years before they finally win out. During all this time they have been patiently perfecting. their manuscript and their delivery. This is the kind of spirit we must arouse before we can hope to acquire a habit of winning contests in oratory as pronounced as our habit of winning debates.
—Arrangements have been completed for the debate with Georgetown Law School. The contest will be on May 10 in Washington. Colonel Hoynes, Dean. of the Law School, has deemed it expedient to pick the team outright, doing away with the delay attendant on the system ‘ of preliminary contests.
Messrs. Farabaugh, Cosgrove and Malloy have been chosen to represent Notre Dame. This choice meets with the hearty approval of , the law students. The question is: Resolved, that Labor and Capital be compelled to settle their disputes through legally. constituted boards of arbitration. Notre Dame has the affirmative side of the question.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4»5
Dr. Monaghan at Notre Dame.
Dr. Monaghan, who lectured here on Thursday and Friday of last week, is Chief of Consular Reports at Washington, and as an orator is noted for the fire of his manner and the deep philosophy of his utterances. His first lecture on the opportunities we enjoy in America was full of instruction and profoundly interesting.
After showing us from the actual lives of three representative pessimists what the creed they profess leads to, the eminent speaker made clear how many opportunities we reallv have. He showed us bv statistics and comparisons with European countries how vastly we exceed them, not only, in actual wealth, but also in mineral and agricultural resources. With burning eloquence and soulful earnestness he exhorted us as students to take advantage of this our greatest opportunity. He admonished us to be always grateful for these divine favors which many a man would make any possible sacrifice to attain. Opportunities are always being pressed upon us, but it is only he who takes advantage of them that succeeds. Success, according to Dr. Monaghan, means the taking advantage of your opportunities and working hard and always. It means a struggle to be the best in your line, whether you be blacksmith, shoemaker or lawyer. In fine, it means to be manly, honest, upright, and above all, industrious. This was Dr. Monaghan’s exhortation, and by his pleasing manner and forcible delivery he thoroughly impressed it upon all who heard him. ..
* #
On Saturday last Dr. Monaghan again addressed the student body, taking for his subject Holland and Ireland. In making his study of these countries the Doctor did not travel inland by rail as is the custom, but used a bicycle which enabled him to reach those parts and people from whom he expected to learn most. Holland, the land of milk and honey, he found in a most prosperous condition. The great flower-beds which stretch out for miles supply every part of the world with the finest’ and rarest flowers.
The people of Holland are progressive and
happy. This the Doctor ascribed, first to the fact that they owned their own land, and second, because they could destroy their land and property whenever they so desired. This fact is known to foreigners and prevents their harrassing or molesting Holland; for if an invasion were made these heroic people who have snatched a country from the sea and maintain it by a system of dykes, could, b}r destroying these dykes, give back to the sea its own. An interesting fact to be noted, savs the Doctor, is that Holland, with its leaden sky and flat and monotonous country has given a school of painters to the world, whereas Switzerland with its blue sky and picturesque scenery has given none.
Ireland is not so progressive as Holland and this because the people do not own the land they live on. Every hour spent in the bettering of a piece of land is an hour spent for an absent landlord who is never satisfied with what he gets but is ever demanding more. Were Ireland a little more careful in the shipping of her exports, her total exports would be much larger than they are to-dav.	•
The penal laws were touched upon as the most infamous ever conceived by man. They have done much toward the depression of Ireland. The hospitality of the Irish race was touchingly shown by an experience of the Doctor’s. In other countries where he travelled, pay was always expected for lunch or fare no matter whether it were in inn, hotel or private cottage. In Ireland he expected the same to hold true. But when in answer to his query how much for his meal, he saw tears come to his hostess’ eyes and heard her say he took the good out of it by asking to pay for it, he knew he had been mistaken in his surmise. After enumerating a few of the great men that Ireland has given to the United States, to France and other countries, the Doctor made a most fitting close to his lecture which in many respects proved the most inspiring of the session.	.
Dr. Monaghan, mentioning the name, of Emmet, said he had many interesting things to say about that illustrious family, and would be glad to tell them to us some time. We shall wait eagerly therefore for his next visit which we know will bring a great deal of instruction and pleasure.
406
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Final Debating Contest.
The final preliminaries were held in Washington Hall, Wednesday afternoon, with the result that Mr. Cornelius Hagerty, ’06, received first place, and Mr. William Bolger and Mr. AVesley Donahue, both of the Junior class, tied for second; these gentlemen, all of Holy Cross Hall, will compose the first team and meet Iowa in debate at Notre Dame, April 27. Mr. Patrick Malloy, heading the second team against De Pauw, will be supported by Mr. Joseph Boyle who received fifth, and either Mr. J. Cunningham or Mr. T. Burke, who tied for sixth place, with Mr. W. Corcoran as alternate.
The contest was not the liveliest ever witnessed here, yet it was spirited in spots. All of the men had the question well in hand, and hence the rebuttal speeches were especially good, though some smelled of the oil. Despite the fact that several of the contestants were prevented by colds from doing themselves justice in speaking, nevertheless there was little to object to on the score of form.
Air. Hagerty, who won first place and the prize of $35, is not new in forensic activity at Notre Dame; yet his performance last Wednesday was far in advance of anything he has hitherto done. A careful thinker, he has a ready command of language and a splendid voice. There are, however, a few crudities to his delivery, but these a week of Professor Reno’s direction will eliminate.
Air. Bolger, who captained last year’s first team, came up in fine form again this season, with the same masterful manner and the same powerfill argument. Both in his case and in Mr. Donahue’s the opinions of the judges -varied greatly, the markings presenting differences it is not easy to account for.	-
Air. Donahue was the small target toward which the negative speakers directed their sharpest shooting. Air. Donahue, however, returned the fire with such keen precision and deliberate force that he was, probably, the general choice of the house for. first place. ;	; . /	.
r-As for the other men, especially those with less experience, their showing was remark-.
ably good. Mr. Malloy was not quite equal to himself yet, even so, missed tying with the two ahead of him by only one point.
Mr. Boyle’s speech was lucid and strong, but his delivery was impaired by a severe cold. Air. Burke was clear and emphatic, but perhaps a little strained in manner; Mr., Cunningham had a good argument and did some clever work in his rebuttal, while Air. Corcoran, for a new man, made a very creditable showing.
On the whole, the lookout for the two teams is very hopeful. Prof. Reno expresses himself pleased with the decision, and is full of the same confidence and push that helped the men so far toward success last year. All the men who entered the debates have reason to congratulate themselves on having done so, the final winners most of all. The Scholastic takes proper pride in calling attention to the fact that the first team is composed of three members of the staff, and abundant pleasure in wishing them success.
The judges of the contest were, the Hon. Benjamin Shively, Air. Stoll and Air. Fish, all of Soiith Bend. Their markings are as o
follows:	Stoll	Shivelv	Fish	Total
Cunningham	1 6	1	5	|	7 I	18
Donahue	1 2	1 1 1	s 1	11
Hagertv	1 1	1	2	|	3 I	6
Bolger	1 3	1	7	|	1 |	11
Malloy.	. | . 4	1	3	|	5	|	12
Corcoran	1 7	1 § |	4	|	19
Burke	1 §	1	|	<5 1	IS
Boyle	1 o	1	6	|	2 I	13
The Dumo Concert Company.
The concert of the Durno Company might have been enjoyable had not a certain coarse humor entered in to mar.whatever was good otherwise. Some of the tricks performed by the magician were amusing, but . a want of propriety in the selections of the ventriloquist was anything but pleasing to. the audience. Mr. Karl Hermann was no musician, but some of his imitations were well done. Perhaps that of a southern camp-meeting was among the best, but we believe that his own remarks, punctuated by a few “Amens,” would have supplied the imitation quite as accurately as did the violin.
Hotre dame
I
Athletic Notes.
Perhaps the defeat of South Bend High ; School in the meet with Corbv last Saturday was due in part to causes the city lads scarcely would consider as such. The principal reason was, of course, Corby had the better team, but what nerved them to their best effort and brought overwhelming victory their way was the presence of the very supporters who were expected to be the greatest spur to the South Bend students themselves,—the fair feminine element of the :	neighboring city’s High School.
Not one, or one dozen came, but half a hundred, arrayed in flying draperies and !	colors for the occasion. When the contest:	ants stepped up to	toe the mark, there
[	before them appeared	the mass of ribbons,
?	laces, and colors of	every shade. What
\	chance could the city team expect? To them
I	the stimulus was faint because of their
familiarity with the vision presented. It was not so with the Corby bachelors. They were used to a masculine Gvm, but now the sight before them was a link between Christmas and June; it brought up other faces and other ribbons and scarfs, and they ran to the cheers of other voices that no one but themselves heard, but which the cheers of their opponents were in great part responsible for. The final score was 69 to 13.
Long John Scales, the fat man of Notre Dame, tore over the low. hurdles like a wild man, running within one-fifth of a second of the world’s record.
! “Wide-awake” Strauss stepped over the bar ; in the high jump at 5 feet 4 inches (previous I record 3 feet). Hutzel ran around the track ■ for three laps after he had finished, and in the end won his race. He simply refused to be tired while that audience looked down at him. Altgelt ran away with himself, and from every one else and won . the quarter mile. (He never ran before.)
Callicrate won a place in every event he was entered in and'around his head shone “the star of the afternoon.”
“No one to blame but yourself, John.” The High School lads should have sung- it all the way home. , They have a good -little team and some very promising men in
SC^OZASE/C.	407
Williams and Solarek, but they should have known what the result would be.
The smallest man by many inches and pounds in the meet was Solarek of South Bend, but what he lacked in size and weight he made up for in nerve. His race against Callicrate in the mile run was easily the best race of the day. Callicrate set the pace, and for ten laps had things his own way. Turning on the last lap the little man- who had been trailing showed such a burst of speed that for a moment it looked as though he would surelv win.
Side by side they turned into the stretch; Callicrate won by about two feet in one of the best finishes seen here in a long time.
Magnis’ performance in the 220 was good, and he and Roach look to be coming Varsitv material.
Williams was South Bend’s star and shows promise of developing into a good all-round man.
40-yard dash—Roach (C.) 1st; Keach (C.) 2d; Martin (S. B.) *3d. Time, :04 4-5.
440-yard dash—Altgelt (C.) 1st; Arnold (C.) 2d; Haeske (S. B.) 3d. Time, 58 2-5.
880-yard run—Hutzel (C.) 1st; Callicrate (C.) 2d; Crepe (S. B.) 3d. Time, 2:20 1-5.
40-yard low hurdles—Scales (C.) 1st; Williams (S. B.) 2d; Harris (S. B.) 3d. Time, :05 2-5.
Broad jump—Williams (S. B.) 1st; Magnis (C.) 2d; MacDonough (C.) 3d. Distance, 19 feet 1 inch.
220-yard .dash—Magnis (C.) 1st; Roach (C.) 2d; Arnold (C.) 3d. Time, 25 1-5.
12 pound shot put—Callicrate (C’) 1st; Hutzel (C.) 2d; Strauss (C.) 3d. 38 ft., 4in.
High jump—Strauss (C.) 1st; Scales (C.) 2d; Williams (S. B.) 3d. Height, 5 feet 4 inches.	-
One-mile run—Callicrate (C.) 1st; Solarek (S. B.) 2d; Haeske (S. B.) 3d. Time, 5:34 2-5.
Relay race won by Corby. MacDonough Keach, Hutzel and Altgelt.
* * *
Corby’s track team are trying to arrange a dual meet with some Chicago High School and it is probable that a meet will- be arranged with Hyde Park to be held' at . Notre Dame in- the near future. .......
4o8	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Card of Sympathy.-
"Whereas in His infinite wisdom Almighty God has seen fit to call from this earth the soul of Mrs. W. J. Brady, we, the undersigned, desire to extend to our friend and hall-mate, James T. Brady, our heartfelt sympathy.
Daniel L. Madden
.	Clayton C. Golden
John Worden
, Stephen F. Riordan.
Local Items.
—Important Notice: The Scholastic is requested to remind parents and students that according to a long-standing regulation of the University there is no Easter vacation. Classes continue uninterrupted until Easter and resume promptly Easter Tuesday.
—The "barber, ha! ha!
—Spring is here but not the fever. If you do not believe this, watch the “Dome” staff.
—The Catholic students of the University will make their Easter Duty on the First Friday, April 6..	.
. —Leslie’s Weekly has presented the University with an. exquisite portrait of the late Pope Leo XIII. by Mr. T. Dart Walker.
—If you wish to appreciate Shakespeare visit the Senior Latin class when they are translating him into the Ciceronian tongue.
—There is a well-founded rumor that we are to have a lecture from the Rev. Dr. Stafford, of Washington, before the end of the school year. A lecture by Dr. Stafford is a treat to' be thankful for.
—A difficult problem has been solved by the Dean of the English course: How to get practical work'from' a class of theorizers. They are placed under the influence of their industrious, elder (?) brethren.
—With the opening of spring the laboratory of Mechanical Engineering will be transferred to the rooms formerly occupied by some of the shops. This will afford mechanical engineers aspacious laboratory. The equipment is also to be considerably increased.	. .	:
—The Rev. W. A. Moloney, Director of Studies in the University, was elected Vice - President for Indiana of the North Central Association of Colleges and pre-.paratory schools. The other Vice-President for lndiana is Dr. Bryan, President of the University .of Indiana.
—Last Wednesday evening St. Joseph’s Literary and Debating Society held its usual meeting. Messrs. T. Gaulfe, J. F. McMahon
and W. P. Galligan were selected to debate the question with Holy Cross: “Resolved that, the senators be appointed by the direct vote of the people.” Owing to the excellent showing made by the former president and honorary president, Mr. Malloy, and by the present president, Air. Cunningham, great enthusiasm was displayed throughout the entire meeting. After a lengthy discussion of the question for debate with Brownson the meeting adjourned.
—A series of public discussions rivaling in their logical exposition and sparkling wit the famous Lincoln-Douglas deljates is now in progress between Ralph Monroe Madden and John Coontz of Vandalia. The last discussion was held Thursday evening in the famous left corridor, and was on the respective merits of eau de quinine and herpicide as a restorer of the hair follicles. Mr. Madden upheld the merits of herpicide and had the advantage over the Vandalia ’ orator until the latter in his brilliant peroration electrified the audience and utterly confounded his opponent by challenging him to remove his hat and. leave the decision to the common people. As it was, John won only by a hair’s breadth.
—A meeting of the Browning club was held last Wednesday evening in the club’s palatial rendezvous. A paper on “The Value of Original Research” was read by Mr. McFarland and at its conclusion discussed at some length by the club. In spite of the reader’s earnest appeal the club decided that the system was premature, and decried the introduction of a system that was so evidently Teutonic in origin. After the discussion a popular voting contest was held to decide on. the favorite poems of the club. The following poems are enumerated in the order of their popularity which was determined by ballot. The School House on the Hill (unanimous), Evangeline, That Old Sweetheart of Mine, Casey at the Bat, Dante’s Inferno, .
—If one may judge by the enthusiasm which is being displayed at present, the , coming baseball season-will witness a most interesting contest between the different halls for supremacy. Corby has been prac- -tising in the gym on rec days for many weeks and already has her infield practically decided upon. Brownson has also staited in with excellent prospects, and nearly forty -candidates are practising under the direction of. Cook and Bonan.of the Varsity. Brownson appears to be particularly strong in the box with Heyl, Zeigler and Williams trying for places and Eggeman receiving behind the bat. Sorin; St. Joseph and Holy Cross have not yet appeared on the.scene, but when they do Corby and Brownson may well look to their laurels.

I

