^he cNotre Q)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON
Associate Editor, Marines
AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Circulation Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY . -LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -	-
JIM HECK -	-
EMMETT HASSETT BLAIR NATTKEMPER PETE BROWN	-
HARRY LEBIEN	-
ARNIE SKLARE -
- Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner
•	- Introducing
The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters
- The Periscope The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
EDITORIAL
DON MURPHY fack McCarthy fohn butler tom DINGES UM CAREY DICK GORMAN JACK CAHILL DICK MELLETT JOHN MORRIS TOM McNALLY FACK MILES FAMES KEENAN GEORGE DESPOT
GEORGE KRAUSER R. L. VOSBERG RONALD BYERSMITHTOM SHANAHAN FOHN FEENEY BILL LESSARD HARRY SEIMONSMA RM FOY
GREG HALPIN ROBERT MOLNAR GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIN FOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL F. S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS
L KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. HERGSTEIN C. STONEBARGER BILL OVER FIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEORGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Birth of a Season
This is the time of year when a cool crispness fills the air, and the sharp odor of burning leaves is everywhere. This is Indian Summer, when leaves whirl through cold bright air, and everything is color. This is the season of contrast.... the contrast of daily quiet prayer and the noisy activity of a football game. This is the season of warm bright sweaters in daytime and cold rumpled sheets during the long quiet night.
This is the season of change and activity. It is the season of bright blankets, eager stadium crowds, tasty hot dogs, anxious cheers, and pompous band music. This is the football season, bringing with it all its color, its activity, its thrills...
Tomorrow it is born again for the Fighting Irish.
Football is an American legend, and football has come to be associated with the name of Notre Dame. The “Victory March” has became a song known somehow in all parts of the world, and the name The Fighting Irish has been applied to Irish, Italian, Pole, Swede, French, Hungarian alike— and appropriately—for Notre Dame’s teams have carried throughout the years the name and strengths of all the peoples of the long lay of America.
Spirit of "Oneness"
Driven on by the fire of the Notre Dame spirit that flamed to white heat in the Rockne era, the Fighting Irish will begin another season against Pittsburgh tomorrow, and will then continue to roll through another tough schedule. Laboring under handicaps never before encountered, the men of Notre Dame have sweated under hot summer and fall suns. With most of them garbed in the green of the Marine Corps and blue of the Navy, less time than ever has been devoted to the grasswork of Cartier Field. Afternoon classes, early supper, added scholastic pressure and ineligibility has stirred the gridiron caldron to a foam of uncertainty. In spirit, however, the team is solid rock, marines, civilians, sailors— all lose uniform distinction on the gridiron, and merge into a spirit of cooperation, a spirit of “oneness.” It is the spirit of these men of Notre Dame that is the spirit of America. It is the spirit of a champion.... win or lose!
Win or Lose
To beat Notre Dame is the goal of every team the Irish play, and this makes the schedule always extra-dangerous. Notre Dame has won many hard-fought football games and many spectacular ones; she has lost closely-contested ones, and many she deserved to lose. But Notre Dame was never destroyed by a loss, because that which makes her football is in the training of religion and life which is part of every man that pridefully calls himself a Notre Dame Man. That is also why Irish football players are not separated from the other students by the breach common in most schools. Only by their special abilities do they represent the spirit of Notre Dame in athletics, but they are not the spirit.
The spirit is in the win or lose enthusiasm of the teambackers: the Religious, the faculty, the students, the alumni (fancied and real) and the kids throughout the land rooting for old N. D. It is a spirit that will not be beaten this season, no matter what the outcome of the game on the field may be. It is the spirit of the Fighting Irish.—Al Lesmez
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
®Wol. 82
SEPTEMBER 29, 1944
No. 11
Little Symphony Orchestra to Play Here
Casualties
The Notre Dame casualties revealed this week are as follows:
Lange Group in Washington Hall, 8 p.m., Oct. 5
BY DICK MELLETT
1 Lt. Gordon Andrew Love (jg), * ex. ’41, 365 Huntington Ave-
nue, Buffalo, N. Y., lost at Saipan. Gordon was with a torpedo bomber in a Pacific Squadron. He was the first pilot
to land on the captured strip when he had difficulty with his plane and couldn’t land aboard ship. A few days later he was killed.
Col. Charles Duncan Jones, ’32, previously reported missing in action in April over Italy, was recently reported a prisoner of war in Germany according to word received from his family.
—Harry Siemonsma
Mr. Pedtke on Program
“The Sign of the Cross,” a new radio program on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4:15 p.m., features an octet made up of members of the Notre Dame Glee Club in its theme. A 15 minute show, the major part of its time is devoted to a talk. Speaker for this week and next is Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, who will discuss the role of music in the church.
❖ All civilians who can represent ❖ ❖ themselves at the Tulane rally with ❖ ❖ the most interesting poster-placard, ❖ ❖ bill-board sign, sandwichman dis- ❖ ❖ play, or other novel means, will be ❖ ❖ awarded prizes.	❖
❖ The award is to be given at the ❖ ❖ rally for the most original "cam- ❖ ♦♦♦ paign sign" designating each hall.
❖ The Student Council representative ❖ ❖ of each hall is in charge of the dis- ❖ ❖ play. All those interested are urged ❖ ❖ to see him as soon as possible. ❖
Notre Dame will have the honor of having one of the first concerts ever played outside New York, Chicago, and St. Louis, by the Hans Lange Little Symphony, whose personnel is composed of 16 of the finest players from the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Special arrangements were made to have them
PROGRAM I Symphony in E Flat Major __________Johann Stamitz Allegro. Andante, Minuet, Presto II Concerto for Violin and Violincello
with Orchestra_____________John Christian Bach
Soloists: John Weicher. Violin; Miss Yensko
Slcbos. Violincello
III Scherzo in G minor _____________Felix Mendelssohn
From the Octet Opus 20. (Arranged for Chamber Orchestra by Remi Gassman) Intermission
IV Tarantella for Flute and Clarinet, Opus S Camille Saint-Saens Soloists: R. Johnson, Flute; Leonard Schaller, Clarinet
V Suite for Children’s Comer ________Claude Debussy Serenade for the Doll; The Litle Shepherd; Golliwogg’s Cake Walk
VI Chamber Symphony Ermano Wolf-Ferrari Soloist: Jane Anderson, Piano
Allegro Moderate, Adagio, Vivace con spirito —Allegro, Finale
come here on Oct. 5, immediately prior to the opening of the Chicago Symphony season, which comes on Oct. 10 this year, for their fiftieth anniversary.
Hans Lange, associate conductor of the Chicago Symphony, and former conductor of the New York PhilharmonicSymphony Orchestra, born in Constantinople of German parentage, started the study of the violin at five, and at seven had given his first concert. At 11 he was admitted to the Prague conservatory where his teacher was Professor Ottokar Sevik; at 17 he was graduated with highest honors.
His debut, the following year, was made as soloist with the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, and was in every respect a triumph. There followed concert tours through most of Europe, and two years later he was invited to become concert master of the Frankfurt Museum Concerts under Willem Mengelberg. He stayed there for a number of years, not only playing the violin, but assisting Mr. Mengelberg conduct concerts of the Museumgesellschaft and directing the Frankfurt Bach Society for three years. In his spare time, he toured with his own string quartet and as soloist, besides concertizing extensively with such personalities as Reger, Strauss, Fauce, and Pfitzner.
The superb artistry of his performances and his growing fame soon brought him many honors. The Sultan of Turkey decorated him with the Medallion for Art and Science; in Germany he was awarded the title of Fuestlich Lip-pischer Hofkommervirtuose and many courts of Europe found him a frequent and welcome guest.
He first come to the United States in 1923, and shortly afterwards, entered the New York Philharmonic Orchestra as principal of the violins. It was not long before he decided to make America his home, and, accordingly, in 1928 he was awarded his final papers of citizenship. Three years later he was engaged as a regular conductor of the New York Philharmonic-Symphony Orchestra. Soon a favorite of the New York public, not only as a conductor of unusual and outstanding programs, but as the founder of the “Hans Lange Chamber Music Concerts,” he also headed at this time an organization called the PhilharmonicSymphony Chamber Orchestra of New-York.
After a very successful guest appearance at the Ravinia Park Concerts in Chicago in 1936, he was invited to join
(Continued on Page 19)
3
Fr Cavanaugh Blesses Eric Gill Press as it
Within the talk was found the reason why the Eric Gill Press was so named,
Begins Work for Catholic Action Students
and why they are using his life as a model or pattern.
BY GEORGE DESPOT
The formal dedication of the Eric Gill Press was held last Sunday, Sept. 24. A distinguished group consisting of members of the faculty and administration, and student guests gathered in the auditorium of the Law building for the ceremonies.
The press was presented to Catholic Action students two months ago by a friend. It is a Colt's Armory hand-fed platen press and is approximately 40 years old. But its size and age are no indication of its capacity for it has, in addition to many other qualities, a complete ink-coverage and heavy, direct impression. As Mr. Harold Berliner says, “It is a little press with a high ideal; it is a good press that can and does do good work.”
Following the principles of its patron, Eric Gill, the press will use but one style of type in various sizes.
Mr. Harold Berliner has been appointed to control the operations of the press. He is an expert printer in his own
right and deserves much of the credit for the establishment of the Press.
Those associated with the Press are looking forward to its future with enthusiasm. It has already been announced that the printing of the Movement and the Catholic Action Students’ Lenders Bulletin will be done by the Eric Gill Press.
Three talks were presented at the dedication. Mr. Berliner gave the introductory speech in which he explained the necessity of having a basic philosophy in a printing office.
Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., then spoke on Catholic Action and education, and why Catholic Action students have sponsored the Press.
The highlight of the evening was a talk by Mr. Rufus Wm. Rauch. He presented a few facts and anecdotes of Eric Gill's life as an explanation of his character and ideals. He then explained Eric Gill’s philosophy of life, and in particular his philosophy of work.
“This is the deeper significance of the Eric Gill Press, small and unpretentious as it is materially,” explained Mr. Rauch. “Disinterested, unselfish work, dedication to the object for its own inherent value, whatever that may be in the whole scheme of things, is the mark of the true Christian.”
In the printing- office there was an exhibit of many of Eric Gill’s works. There were on display a number of his books, printings, wood-cuts, and illustrations of his sculpture. Also on display was his four volume edition of the Canterbury Tales which has been acclaimed by many authorities as the finest example of printing in the Twentieth Century.
The entire group gathered in the printing office following the talks and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University blessed the press.
Mr. Berliner then put the press into operation and each guest was given a copy of “Prayer for a Christian Worker’’ as a souvenir of the occasion.
With all of the ceremonies completed, tea was served by Miss Pat Gilroy and Miss Jean Roberts of St. Mary’s.
Mammoth Show to Precede Saturday
Night V-Twelve Dance in Drill Hall
The “planning committee" whips the show "Anything Goes" into its almost final stages in preparation for the big night to come. Saturday will witness a fun-fest of hilarity as the trainees strut their stuff before a crowd that is expected to fill the Drill hall.
Civil Engineers An Active Club; Plan New Projects
With the election and installation of new officers, the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers is planning for the greatest activity in the history of the club. At a meeting held late last month, Robert Coyle was elected president, James Schoen vicepresident, William Berk secretary, and Richard Deeb treasurer. Immediately after their installation the officers sparked a membership drive that swelled the active membership to well over 20 students, and filled the treasury to capacity.
The annual picnic was held two weeks ago at Hudson Lake, and was attended by more than 20 members and five professors of the Civil Engineering department—Mr. Shilts, Mr. Schubmehl, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Driscoll, and Father Smith. The affair was highly successful —and complete—with song-fest, swimming and softball, and refreshments.
Permission was obtained from naval authorities for members of the club not on restricted lists to attend a lecture and movie on “Futuristic Lighting” sponsored by the Engineering club of South (Continued on Page 19)
V-12 "Weekend Maneuvers" Begin Tonight
Mammoth Show, Military Review, and Church Services To Highlight Weekend.
BY BILL BYINGTON
This semester’s V-12 Ball, scheduled for this evening-, will highlight the social activities of the whole term. The Ball itself is to be a gaily decorated affair, centering on a nautical theme. The backdrop behind the orchestra is based on a scene aboard a battleship. Blue Barron's orchestra will play for the Ball. This organization, known for its sweet, smooth style, will provide suitable, danceable music for the Ballgoers and their guests.
In the receiving line for the Ball will be Captain J. R. Barry, USN, command-
Miss Jaye Keating
ing officer of the unit, Mrs. Barry, Commander W. S. Gabel, USNR, executive officer, Mrs. Gabel, and Major Ernest Jones, USMCR, Marine officer-in-charge. Guests of honor will be Miss Dorothy Hayden, South Bend, escorted by Nelson Boswell, Ball Chairman, and Miss Jaye Keating, Chicago, escorted by Weekend Chairman John Schneider. Robert Merz, Transportation Chairman, will have as his guest Miss Mary Murdock of South Bend; Howard Savitt, Orchestra Chairman, will escort Miss Zelma Zonenberg, South Bend; David Caplan, Program Chairman, will be with Miss Joan Breskin, also of South Bend. Other South Bend guests include: Miss Rose Ann Hurwick, escorted by Pvt. Larry Smith, Chairman of Executive
Committee; Miss Agnes Haney, guest of Pvt. William Over, in charge of Nites and Daze show; and Miss Joan Yohn, guest of Ticket Chairman Ray Michols.
Ah! Talent
That’s right Mac, the big show goes on Saturday night, Sept. 30 in the Navy Drill Hall. If upon entering the drill hall something, not necessarily human, takes your girl and coyly hits you in the face with a hand painted skillet, you will know you are in the correct place. To assure everyone of a good time men have been stationed throughout the hall with laughing gas to be released in case of necessity.
When writing of such a show one usually starts at the very beginning, but this show has no beginning, it’s just there! Lieutenant Commander Waage was suspicious, when he found an old Joe Miller joke book in one corner of the drill hall, but little did he dream that it would one day grow to such mammoth proportions as the “Anything Goes” show.
The Cast
The cast as nearly as can be determined, from reports from the Burma front follows along the commonplace, unorthodox line. The production is under the master direction of Seaman Jack Schneider. The majority of the show had its foundation when Schneider was a patient at the Great Lakes Naval Hospital. So that the situation may be well
iimiiiiiiiiiiut 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Maneuvers Time Table
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
V-12 Ball. 2100-0100 — Liberty to 0230 Blue Barron and His Orchestra — in the drill hall
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 Reginmental Review, 1330 — on drill iield V-12 Movies — to be shown continuously through the afternoon in Law Building “Anything Goes" Show, 2000-2130 — in drill hall	■
Informal Dance, 2130-2300 — in drill hall — Liberty until 0700 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1 Church Services — at South Bend churches and on Campus Tea Dance, 1430-1700 — Rotary Room, Oliver Hotel
UUllUUIUIIIIUIIIUIIItUIIUIIItllUIIIUIIIIIlUUIIIUllllillllllUIIIIIIIU
in hand, Private Bill Over of the marine corps is first assistant in charge of production.
Headlining the show will be the V-12 band, The Commanders, under the leadership of “Dutch” Crask. A new feature has been added (and it is not Apple Honey) to the band with the addition of a female vocalist, Miss Agnes Haney of South Bend. Sinatra was to have been on hand to handle the swoon numbers but at the last minute he was unavoidably detained, and now the vocal honors will be divided between Seaman Fuss, and Private Over.
Miss Dorothy Hayden
Fuss, being a versatile fellow, will also emcee the show, and his subtle humor, coupled with his baseball bat will have the audience in the aisles, screaming.
To provide entertainment for the V-12 trainee and his guest, has been the aim of each V-12 Ball, and the subsequent week-end. Following along these lines a dance for the trainees and their guests has been planned for Sunday afternoon Oct. 1 to be held in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel.
Music will be provided by Myron Walz and his orchestra, and dancing will be continuous from 2:30 until 5 o’clock.
No admission ticket is required, and everyone is welcome. However, there will be no stags admitted. •
5
Plans for Civilian Week-end Completed;
Chuck Cavallo's Band to Make Movie
picture on the wartime activities of musicians in defense work. Cavallo and his band will make apt subjects of such a movie, for all of them “double” in a sense unusual in the musical world.
“Plans for the Student Council’s Autumn Ball have been completed, and ticket sales will close early in the week of the dance,” General Chairman Jim Casey said this week. Decorations Chairman Jim Better and his committee have been hard at work and have come up with some fine ideas. Casey also announced that the use of automobiles on the night
—Photo by Renaud
Out Details of Civilian Week-end.
Committee Chairmen Working
of the dance will be permitted, and permissions are for 2 a.m.
Outline Procedure ior Ticket Distribution
All those who wish to go to the dance ■with the exception of football managers and those who will not make use of their regular student tickets at the Tulane game, must sit in the section reserved for those who attend the ball. Students who intend to go to the ball must not dispose of their Student Athletic ticket distributed to them through the mail by the
Athletic Office this week, but must turn them in to Emmett “Buzz” Hasset in his -room, 101 Sorin, and they will be given two tickets admitting them to the special section. Hasset, chairman of the committee on football tickets, will post notices on the hall bulletin boards advising stu- . dents when he will be in his room to dis- . -tribute the tickets.
Publicity on Chuck Cavallo’s band has been hampered by a fire at the Douglas , plant which destroyed all the records of -the band, including pictures of the vocalist, Marin Hardtke, but Jack Bussell,
Chicago agent well known for his excellent services in handling bands for Notre Dame in the past, assures, the council that the band will live up to all advance notices. Cavallo is now considering signing a contract for a motion picture on the activities of musicians in the war and featuring his Douglas Airs.
Sophomore Joe De Lia got his refresh
ment committee together this week and promises to take all steps to procure “the mostest of the bestest.”
So, as the ball draws nearer, advances bid sales indicate that this affair wall outdo the very successful Summer Law Ball, as the members of the council are most anxious to insure the success of all council activities.
Chuck Cavallo and his Douglas Airs, who wall play the Student Council’s Autumn Ball, may soon be headed for Hollywood, there to be featured in a motion
Program for the Student Council Week-end
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6: -	- Pep Rally — Notre Dame Fieldhouse, 7 to 8 p. m.
'	Semi-formal Dance — Rockne Memorial, 9 'til 1
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7:	.
. Football —NOTRE DAME vs. TULANE, 2:30 p.m.
" ■ ;. ' r'- Campus-wide Victory Dance, Indiana Club, 8:00-11:00. Bids $1.20.
Besides holding down full-time jobs in one of America’s greatest aircraft companies, they hold daily lunch time jam sessions for the rest of Douglas’ thousands of employees. J. C. Buckwaiter, plant manager, and Col. A. B. Holladay resident representative of the Army at Douglas, are outspoken in their approbation of the morale building efforts of the band, which daily displays that musicians can provide war production manpower and still retain their musical skill.
Ten minutes before the plant lunch whistle blows, the boys in the band leave their posts and report to the band stand, there to set up in a hurry and start the music going. Chuck Cavallo, who leads the band from his seat at the piano, is major domo behind all of the Chicago plant’s social life and athletic activities, and his men are spread the length of the huge plant’s area. Sax man Gene Yates, former member of Eddy Duchin’s reed section, moves over from his post in the tool and die department for his daily stint with the band, while Fred Bedi, who played with Bobbie Samos, leaves his duties as inspector in general assembly.
The brass section is varied in present Avar duties as it is in musical background. Lead trumpet man Tony Kupka, alumnus of Clyde McCoy’s organization, is an inspector, while Marvin Wetzel, formerly with Henry Busse, and Cliff Beinhardt, Johnny Jones stylist, are foreman and riveter, respectively; Vocalist Marin Hardtke spends most of her day in the sheet metal department.
Signing of the Hollywood contract has been held up because the band recently suffered the loss of its scrapbook in a fire at the plant, but screen tests are now being processed, and the band may pull out^or the West in the near fututre. The present activities of the band fit them especially for the honor, and they are confident of success in this field unknown to them in their present organization.
American Chemical
Society to Meet
“Penicillin and Its Commercial Production” will be the topic of an illustrated talk by Dr. Ralph E. Bennett of Commercial Solvents Corporation, Terre Haute, when he addresses the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society at its 186th meeting. Because of the wide-spread public interest in penicillin, all interested persons are invited to hear this talk which will be given on Thursday, Oct. 5, at 8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Penicillin, which is formed by the growth of a mold known as Penicillin notatum, was discovered in England in 1928, by Dr. Alexander Fleming, and was studied there for several years by Dr. Fleming and others, who first showed its great usefuless in treating many types of infections. When, however, it was decided to undertake large-scale production of penicillin, in 1941, the project was moved to America to escape the “Blitz.”
The production of penicillin by any process is difficult, and involves processing large amounts of fluid under sterile conditions. The original process used for making penicillin was a surface culture. The nutrient medium was placed in bottles of one to two quart capacity, and inoculated with the mold, which was allowed to grow for several days before the culture was worked up for its penicillin. To make large quantities of the drug in this way requires literally millions of bottles, and a tremendous amount of. labor.
Dr. Bennett received his scientific training at the University of Michigan and the University of London, and has had several years experience with the fermentation industries. He has been associated with the Commercial Solvents penicillin project since work was started on the plant a year ago.
Alumni Association
Meets in Detroit
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., and James E. Armstrong will represent the University at a meeting of Notre Dame alumni in Detroit Tuesday night, Sept. 26, honoring the past presidents of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, Thomas F. Byrne, Cleveland, president of the Alumni Association, is also a guest speaker at the meeting.
Father Cunningham, director of faculty and secretary of the University’s committee on post-war problems, will talk on education in Mexico, from which country he recently returned.
Hold Everything, Boys-NROTC Week-end of Luxury is Only Seven Days from Reality
With but a week as the barrier to a three-day spree of grand and glorious festivity, the NROTC unit is anxiously awaiting the lilting strains of Hal McIntyre and his nationally celebrated orchestra who will play for their Sixth Naval Ball, Friday, Oct. 6, at the Servicemens’ Center in South Bend.
McIntyre, the genial maestro who began with Goodman and then spent five years with Glenn Miller before forming his own band, becomes a new high in the light of RO social doings—but McIntyre would be a boon to any type of entertainment.
By special arrangement, Hal McIntyre and his band will be heard over a coast-to-coast hook-up direct from the Service Center over CBS from 11:05 to 11:30 (CWT). The local outlet, WSBT, which has broadcast past RO doings will have its station dialed right in on the CBS hook-up in order that the program will
Hal McIntyre and His Band
7
come to those in the local area.
Co-Chairmen for the affair, Herb Dai-ker of Utica, New York and Bill Grant, Rochester, N. Y., have been busily working, getting together final preparations for the dance on Friday evening. Rudy Anderson, chairman of the decorations committee along with Dick Bateman, is arranging something new and novel for the cadets and their guests but he’s not divulging anything at this time. “It’s half the thing if you can keep it a secret,” says Anderson.
Besides being invited to the Pep Rally on Friday night prior to the dance, the ROS and their dates will be perched on the seats between the 40 and 50 yard lines on the east side of the field for the Tulane-Notre Dame game the following day.
If ideas and effort are any criteria, the Walsh Hall trainees are in for the biggest and best week-end in their lives.
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. I. BEATTY, USNR
1.	On Reduced Quota: The reduction of the Notre Dame quota of V-12 men will be accomplished chiefly by two means: (1) no new men from the Fleet or from civilian life will be sent to this Unit, and (2) there will be continued the normal transfer of men to midshipman school or to other V-12 schools’ upperlevel specialty quotas, as they complete their original number of scheduled semesters in the program at Notre Dame. It will not be accomplished by separating men from V-12, except as they fail academically or prove themselves unfit officercandidates. Approximately 135 upperclass engineering and deck candidates are completing their scheduled number of semesters in V-12 and are to be transferred this 1 November to midshipmen’s schools if they continue to succeed in their studies. A number of pre-medical men who are completing their studies in V-12 will be transferred to medical schools or to Naval hospitals while awaiting the opening of their medical classes. There are 130 men now in their second-semester of college, who have not failed a course the first semester, and are entirely regular in their curriculum, who will be screened to upper-level specialities by the Bureau of Naval Personnel, and be transferred to V-12 specialty quotas at other Units on 1 November. The men in their second semester who are irregular through having failed a course the first term or through having entered last July with one semester of advanced standing but without one: of the prescribed courses of the first semester, will continue at Notre Dame until they complete the normal number of semesters for their particular classification. The Marine engineers will be transferred to Cornell University, and the. Marine line candidates to Colgate; those who have completed their scheduled semesters in V-12 will of course be sent to Parris Island 1 November.
2.	On New Men to Arrive: There are. three groups of new men to report here 1 November: (1) 75 NROTC men entering from V-12 Units their second year of college; (2) 50 seamen assigned to up-, per-level aeronautical engineering (20 to. engines and 30 to structures) from V-12 units; and (3) a few former V-5 men Vfho elected to transfer from flight training to V-12 to prepare themselves for
8
midshipman school. This last group will be very small, probably fewer than 12. On 1 November the total maximum quota for NROTC locally is to be 247 men; of their 75 new men there are 50 assigned to engineering and 25 to general.
3. U. S. Once Owned Land in Bonin Islands: Commodore Perry purchased for the United States in 1853 a section of land in Chichi Jima in the Bonins, planning to maintain a Navy coaling station there. The Bonins are thought to have been discovered by a Japanese navigator, Ogasawara, in 1593.
"Bonin" Means "No Men"
Because the islands were uninhabited the name “Bonin” meaning in Japanese “no men” became associated with the -islands. There were no permanent settlers until 1830, and among these was Nathaniel Savory of Massachusetts, whose descendants live today on Chichi Jima, the largest and most important island in one of the three groups which are called the Bonins. This island is a center of naval and seaplane activities of the Japanese today. It is one of the chain of volcanic islands beginning at the entrance to Tokyo Bay and stretching south for about 700 miles, which the Japanese call their “one thousand unsinkable aircraft carriers.” These rugged islands lie in a direct line between our forces on Guam and our target Tokyo. Unlike some other links in the fortified islands- of Japan’s mandated groups, the Bonins cannot be by-passed, according to Naval authorities. Their rocky heights, encircling the main harbor, offer considerable shelter for Navy units and are an ever-present danger in the flank of • any major air and sea-born assault on •' Japan. Possession of these islands would . bring Japan’s capital cities into easy A reach ..of long distance bombers. Japan took possession of the Bonins in 1862,
..Afbut because of civil war in Japan no .■ permanent settlement was established Jf. until 1875, at which time the United f States renounced all claims. On our way : / .back to the Bonins now, U. S. planes sC^ften bomb those islands.
. ■ - 4. News: A new U. S. S. Block Island, T:-'< carrying on the name of the first and i^pnly U. S. aircraft carrier lost in the Atlantic thus far in the war, will be . launched this year, according to an. riouncement.	■
Organization of New Clubs Gets Under Way
By AL BROTEN
“Here is the story, fellows, straight from the shoulder. There is a problem to be solved and we are the only ones who can do anything about it. There is Joe up the hall....”
That is the manner in which the V-12 Unit’s latest campaign got underway recently. Conceived in the minds of a dozen earnest seamen in the various Navy halls, it was a drive to organize and stimulate new clubs of all sorts on the Notre Dame campus for the purpose of capitalizing on latent ability and interest for the benefit of the entire unit.
On Tuesday morning of this week, the actual steps in the organization of campus clubs began by the men in charge. The “committee” set out to contact those men who in an earlier questionnaire had intimated their desire to take active part in the formation of a certain group.
The spadework is yet going on, although the questionnaire was the initial step. Recently these were distributed by men in all of the Navy dormitories to determine what clubs the men of the Unit were interested in and in which ones they had special abilities. The results were overwhelming, and therefore the future steps in the organization process have been started.
Unit Officials Approve
Officers of the naval unit have given their full support to the idea for campus clubs. In addition, several professors have expressed their desire to give as much aid as possible in making the movement a success.	‘
The largest number of men, 335, expressed their interest in the formation of a rifle club, -with 264 in favor of an organization to sponsor dancing instruction. Not far behind are the 260 trainees who want to join a bowling club, for the winter months. (These figures are taken from returns determined from questionnaires circulated in Alumni, Dillon, and Cavanaugh Halls.)
Other suggested organizations which have been met with interest include flying, riding, roller skating, ping-pong, music appreciation, languages, hockey, flag and semaphore golf, and photography. Although these groups appeared to be the most popular as the result of the questionnaire, the “promoters” insist that there has been sufficient demand for the other groups to make their formation a potentiality.
Commerce Forum Holds Social-Business Meeting
The Commerce Forum held a combined social-business meeting, Thursday evening. Harry Walters, Commerce Junior, presented a paper on “The Railroad Industry after the War.”
In his address, Mr. Walters stated, “One of the most important problems which will require much advance thinking and preparation is the rehabilitation of the railroad system as a basic transportation agency adjusted to the postwar economy.
“The railroads will face three main problems: The first will be that of replacing worn-out equipment because of the heavy demands of railroads during the war, the second, the declining traffic volume, and finally, the rebirth of competition. Standing in the way of a rapid adjustment of these problems will be the fiercely competitive structure of the industry, the obsolescence of the physical structure and the poor credit position of the carriers.”
In conclusion, Mr. Walters stated ' that the government would take a great part in the reconversion of the industry by removing certain restrictions, and by ■	providing financial support.
During the discussion which followed, i	refreshments were served. Elections for
'	officers for the coming winter semester
’	were held.
Economic Roundtable
Hears Mr. Wm. Nelson
The Economic Roundtable was addressed last Friday by William Nelson, who spoke on “Future Economic Policies of the United States.” John Kelly, marine sociology major was chairman for the evening.
Mr. Nelson pointed out that one of the most difficult tasks in the post-war adjustment period will be to arrive at a compromise between groups whose ideas are opposed but at the same time are in themselves good and legitimate. If we are to attain any social or "econoomic • goal, we must realize that the general welfare must overshadow individual welfare.	.
In conclusion, Mr. Nelson stated that if we base our foreign economic policies on these principles and at the same time make economic security the goal of our domestic policy, we will find ourselves with an economic program that will be unified. It is evident that our future economic policy requires a great deal of careful planning if we are not to sacrifice some of our foremost objectives for the sake of others, and if we are to avoid conflict between our domestic and foreign policies.
Dr. Baldinger Speaks to Pre-Medicals on Aptitudes and Qualifications of a Doctor
By ROBERT MOLNAR
At a general meeting of the pre-med-ical students in the College of Science held recently in the Auditorium of the Engineering building, Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, outlined the general qualifications of a good pre-medical student and the general requirements for obtaining an acceptance to a recognized medical school.
At the meeting, Dr. Baldinger reported on the Symposium on Pre-medical Education, which was ’held in Cleveland recently in connection with the annual meeting of the American Association for
Dean L. H. Baldinger
the Advancement of Science. The principal speaker at the Symposium was Dr. Victor Johnson, secretary of the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals of the American Medical Association.
Dr. Johnson outlined the various qualifications which the pre-medical student must have and these were elaborated upon by Dr. Baldinger at the local campus meeting.
The doctor of today must be a good citizen and as such must know something about the history of medicine, of his own country, and,of other professions. For that reason, the pre-medical student-should include in his undergraduate' work, courses in sociology, anthropology -history, and literature. To serve as a < proper background for his medical train- ■ ing, the pre-medical student must have sound courses in chemistry, physics, and . biology, and must learn to integrate ini the various courses in science which he
is required to take. It is quite important that he learn to appreciate the importance of physics, of biology, and'to be able to correlate the phenomena of biology with thore of chemistry. Dr. Baldinger stressed the fact that the doctor must have a research spirit and proper attitude toward science. Too frequently the medical practitioner is motivated by mercenary inducements and has but little appreciation for the research and investigation which has advanced medicine to the position it now holds. Dr. Johnson pointed out. that good correlation between different subjects will help to foster the proper attitude.
The doctor must be conscientious of the responsibility of his profession. He must be cognizant , of the principles of social security, group practice, socialized medicine, rehabilitations, etc. He must be able to help medicine progress hand in hand with society and its problems. For that reason a student should elect courses, in- economics, sociology, politics, and the humanities in general. To these requirements Dr. Baldinger added two more. He stated that the doctor must be motivated by Christian principles, must know and respect the rights of the individual. Students at Notre Dame are fortunate in being able to acquire their premedical training under conditions which foster that spirit.	■
As a last requirement it was pointed ' out that a doctor must be a gentleman, must present a good appearance and that he must possess a sense of responsibility. Dr. Baldinger pointed out that it is quite necessary for the doctor to be able to express verbally or in print, hence the necessity for courses in speech and English.
With ; regard to medical school entrance requirements, it was pointed out that no immediate change is contemplated, by the medical schools. At the present time the pre-medical student who has satisfactorily completed four or .five' semester may make application for entrance to a medical school. At the close of the war, however, it is anticipated . that medical schools will return gradu-' ally to the pre-war requirements, from : -six'to. eight semesters. It was announced ' that medical schools expect to resume •" ..the practice of accepting one class per - year 'starting in September 1945.
For information concerning the medi-- cal schools, Dr. Baldinger announced that the Educational Issue of the American 'Medical Association Journal for August 12,1944, is available in his office.
9
Engineers: "Looking to the Future.."
By ROBERT MOLNAR
The College of Engineering, under the acting deanship of Mr. Raymond J. Schubmehl, M.S., M.E., was established as a distinct unit of the University in 1897, though courses in civil engineering had been offered as early as 1873. Courses in mechanical engineering were provided in 1886. These courses constituted the first department of engineering at a Catholic institution in this country. The Department of Electrical Engineering was established in 1897, the Department of Architecture in 1898, the Departanent of Chemical Engineering in 1908, the Department of Metallurgy in 1933, and the Department of Aeronautical Engineering in 1935. The College has, from the beginning, experienceed a solid and steady growth, culminating in the erection of the new Engineering Building, made possible by the generosity of a distinguished alumnus of the University, the late John
F. Cushing, C.E., ’06.
Civil Engineering	' -
The Department of Civil Engineering, headed by Mr. Walter L. Shilts, C.E., M.S., provides instruction and practical experience to prepare the student for efficient discharge of duties as an engi-, neer in an office, in the construction and operation of public works, or in professional practice in any of the branches of civil engineering. At the present time there is a grand total of over 53 students . enrolled in this department; this includes both navy and civilian students. The. total of civilian students is 21. The purpose in the program is, of course, to give fundamental instruction in structural engineering, including both the analysis and the design of steel and concrete structures, and in the two large . fields of public works—the construction of highways and sanitary engineering. The first two years of the courses are devoted to the study of mathematics, physics, chemistry, surveying, and fundamental theory; the third and fourth year to courses of applied science, with a great deal of work in the laboratory and in the field.
The Department of Mechanical Engineering headed by Mr. George. C. Rohr
1C
bach, B.S. in M.E., who is the acting head; Mr. Carl C. Wilcox, M.E. in E.E. who is the engineer on the oil project in Alaska will return in November to take over his original position as head of the Department. Now enrolled in this de-
Acting Dean of the College of Engineering, Raymond J. Schubmehl
partment is a total of 77 students, which includes 27 civilians.
This department offers courses leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering. The work of the first two years is made up largely of the fundamental studies of mathematics, physics, chemistry, shop work, and drawing, as foundation for the more advanced specialized courses in the junior and senior year. The program of courses provides a thorough training in the . properties of engineering materials, ma. chine design and related subjects. Heatpower engineering, laboratory practice, field work in industrial engineering, and thesis—to prepare the student for the practice of any of the branches of .mechanical engineering. The elective courses provided for in senior year must be approved by the head of the department, for the individual student.
, Electrical Engineering
-The program of courses provided by the .Department of Electrical Engineer- ing - aims’ to give the student a broad training in the fundamental principles of jelectrical engineering, with as much w<jrk.7,in. specialized courses in science as:seems.advisable. The first three years are givsn almost entirely to training the
student in the fundamental courses in science and engineering, with much attention to mathematics and physics. In the senior year the student is allowed considerable latitude in his choice of special courses. He may complete his work in either the field of electrical communication or the field of electric power. In special cases a combination of courses in the two fields may be approved for the individual student.
The department is headed by Mr. John A. Northcott, Jr., B.E., and enrolled in this course are 99 students which includes 22 civilians.
Chemical Engineering
The Department of Chemical Engineering, headed by Mr. Ronald E. Rich, B.S. in Ch.E., M.S., offers a four year program of courses for the degree of bachelor of science in chemical engineering, to train men who may be able not only to develop and improve methods of chemical engineering
but also to deal with the problems of construction and maintenance in chemical industry. This ability necessitates a broad knowledge of the effect of chemical action on materials of construction. Since the students in this department, which includes 30 Navy and 34 civilians, must master thoroughly the general principles of engineering as well as those of chemistry, they must be capable of more than ordinary diligence and sustained effort to complete successfully the prescribed program of courses. In conformity with the recommendation of the American -Institute of Chemical Engineers, the program includes some laboratory instruction in the unit operations.
Architecture
At Notre Dame architecture is regarded as a profession which requires a technical knowledge of engineering united with the artistic background of the fine arts. The student who enters upon a course of study for this profession must have a latent talent and an aptitude for painstaking study. Architecture in this age involves a knowledge of design, if the structure done by the architect is to be beautiful and the requirements of the owner are to be satisfied. It is the aim of the program of courses in architecture (Continued on page 17)
LETTER OF THE CENTURY
We received a very interesting letter last week. It was written by one Farnsworth Flooke to his friend Xavier O’Malley. It describes a visit made by the former to the ruins of old Notre Dame in the year 2084. We received the letter in a very strange way, but as we have already strained our imaginations too much on this, you make up some way of actually getting it yourself.
“Dear Xavier:
“No doubt you recall my having been appointed to the staff of archaeologists who were to investigate the ruins of the old University of Notre Dame. We have unearthed some extremely interesting remnants of tliis strange example of civilization of the 20th century, and I thought that you might be interested in hearing of some of them.
“Only a few buildings remain standing on the campus. One of these, by the name of Walsh, has been converted into a rest home for retired store keepers of the Navy. Here they can take it easy for the rest of their lives, in an atmosphere of comfort and luxury. The reason they chose this place in particular, I am told, is because it was so well suited for the purpose. The place has not changed, they say, since 1944.
“A very unique memorial statue was uncovered the other day. They are still trying to discover its significance. It consists of a sculptured figure of a Sailor in his bed. Underneath the inscription reads: The V-12. Born July 1, 1943. Died Physics II, Average 49.
“As I was walking about the ruins yesterday, I stumbled across a bent and very old man. He was wearing a faded green outfit, and he clutched a battered book under his arm. On a torn little tag he wore, the name Arnie Sklare could barely be made out. From questioning it was determined that he was taking Physics for the 98th semester. He claimed that ‘it took some people longer to catch on than others.’
“Just a little off the actual campus propel* they have discovered what they believe to.be an ancient burial mound.
Each day they unearth new bones and relics. For example they discovered a complete skeleton with its hands around a rotting rope. Walls and strange obstacles of wood have been found. It could have been a place of torture, but we are not quite sure.
“One of the quaint customs still retained by the few remaining students is ‘Schloomp Day.’ This event dates back so far in the school’s history that they have forgotten just what it stands for, and what it is. On this day all the students take a little time to knock their heads on a wall. The significance of this is undeterminable.
“There isn’t much left to say, except that a perfectly formed piece of meat in the shape of a ball was discovered resting next to a decayed hunk of chrome steel. Its powers of preservation are amazing, and chemists are attempting to discover just what makes it able to last so long.One man claims they used to eat the stuff, but of course they weren’t that crazy in those days.
“Sincerely yours,
Farnsworth.”
First Pep Rally of
'44 Season Held
The first pep rally of the 1944 football season was held last Wednesday night in the Field house under the direction of “Buzz” Hassett, Student Activities Council pep rally chairman, a corps of nine cheer leaders, and the University band. The members of the team and coaching staff were introduced to the assembled student body by acting head coach Ed McKeever. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., was the speaker of the evening, and impressed upon all present the importance of the famous Notre Dame Spirit to the team, the coach, and the students.
Outstanding on the program were two cheers led by the band, which consisted in three or four phrases by the band, each punctuated by a cheer from the student body. Judging from the enthusiasm shown in those and the other Notre Dame cheers, the west stands of . the stadium will rock and reel when the student cheering section cuts loose come . the Tulane game next week.	;
Architecture Students Win Beaux-Arts Awards
By DICK MELLETT
Several Notre Dame students in the Department of Architecture recently received awards from the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design for solving specific problems..	-•
Ray Cusick received a second medal for his drawing of a State supreme court building in the Middle South. The adjacent buildings included the state capitol, constructed on a rise of ground, or mall. On either side of the mall, at suitable distances, were public buildings, including the state office building and others. The new supreme court building was to be placed on a site about 300 feet, square on the east side of the mall near a secondary street which approached the mall at right angles from the west. With these and additional instructions on the spacing of the building, the contestants were given five weeks to complete the problem. The site and position of the building did not necessarily imply any fixed tradition. Careful consideration had to be given to the southern climate, to the position of the structure in a packed area, and above all, to the determination of appropriate character for a public building of this nature. .
Joe Cardenas received “first mention”? Charles Lugton received “mention”; and Bill McNeil received “first mention” on their drawings of a bus station. The problem data consisted of background information, and numerous building space requirements.
The building was to be placed between public buildings on one side and the business section of the town on the other. This was given as the general plan of a mid-western town of 10,000 population. Careful consideration had to be made for the entrance and exit of passengers, service access for different things, and the traffic problem.
Tom Culver , received “one-half mention” along with Joe Cardenas for their respective drawings of a zoo for children in a large city. The site was a tract of approximately .400' x 400', within a large park’ and adjacent, to the animal quarters of the? Zoo proper. It was to be developed so that a few animals could be turned but from their regular quarters in the. zoo to sections of the children's area as though they wandered naturally at given points. The character was to be intimate, the purpose being to bring the children into close contact with the animals so that they might be able? to observe them easily and study their? habits. A building containing a ■ lecture room for 100, projection booth, (Continued on page 19)
11
Fighting Irish Start Another Grid Season With Fruits of 41-0 Victory Reminiscent
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
The master Ed McKeever has laid his tools aside and tomorrow he invites upwards of 60,000 spectators to look at his molding. His work which he entitles “The Fighting Irish of ’44” will be unveiled in Pittsburgh. Critics who have watched Ed go through the stages of formation agree that he was very careful in making his moves but they too will be more convinced when the first test is made tomorrow against another masterful bit of artistry from the hands of Clark Shaughnessy, the man who calls his bit of work, “Pittsburgh a la ‘T.’ ”	.
Shaughnessy, the man who brought a discarded formation into collegiate football a few years back when he held the reins at Stanford University—leading them to two Rosebowl contests—will be trying to outwit the newcomer to the head coaching ranks, the Texan who practices his profession with a bunch of youngsters called “Fighting Irishmen.” The phenomenal offensive success of the “T” has made it almost imperative for colleges to use it if they desire to cori-, tinue winning against a team that did employ it. The boom days of the “T” are here and tomorrow finds both clubs aiming their guns at each other with the same style but it will be the individual craftsmanship that will eventually judge ' the winner.	/ .
It’s an open and shut case of “TNT.” Will Dancewicz sufficient!}' fill the cleated-clodhoppers of Bertelli and.Lu-jack? How weak is our line in the middle? Will Notre Dame’s lack of experience be an overwhelming factor in determining the status of ’44? Questions like these will and can be answered only through the process of testing.
New Faces Aplenty :
After disposing of names like Kelly, Dancewicz, Sullivan, and Filley as starters, the latter’s status being a bit dubious even at this moment, there' is nothing else to do but insert newcomers in the lineup for the Irish. Bill O’Connor, a receiver of some repute at the left end position, looks pretty good. Nex to him is old-timer George Sullivan, counted on as being one of the nation’s outstanding tackles this fall. As understudy to Jim White last season, he found it difficult to invade the lineup but when he was afforded the opportunity, he did remarkably well. If Pat Fil
ley, captain-elect of this year’s squad, doesn’t hold down the left guard spot at game time, then a fellow named John Mastrangelo probably will—he too another fresh visage on the Golden Dome scene.
After working around with the center spot, it seems as though a dark horse has appeared on the scene and will take over the pivot duties tomorrow, Ralph Stewart. Fred Rovai, a man who has been shifted from fullback to center to guard will take care of the other guard spot. It is at the guard holes that a mass concentration will be greatly needed, yes — they’re weak there. Big John “Tree” Adams is a fixture at right tackle and his two year experience as a squad member, having done much to help last season’s cause as an understudy to Ziggie Czarobski, will abet the squad no end. Bob Skoglund finishes up the line as a newcomer to the Irish way of things as a fine defensive right end.
Frank's At Home Now
“Old Reliable” Frank “Boley” Dancewicz, who has waited a long while for his big chance will see it become reality tomorrow as he takes over the field-generalling for the Blue and Gold. Having been subjugated to the authority of Bertelli and Lujack last year, he now peeks his head above the huddle and is able once again to assume a normal course. With an amazing air of accuracy, he’ll be flinging ’em against Shaughnessy’s lads. And if our scouts are any criterion, there’ll be room for plenty of aerials.
Bob Kelly, undoubtedly one of the best backs in America, will not only be (Continued on page 16)
Action Starts Tomorrow
Creighty Miller Returns r to N. D. Scene As Coach ;
America’s No. 1 back of ’43, Creightor
Miller, will return to the Irish campus on Monday to assume duties in a new
capacity. Rather than carry on as th( elusive speedster at the left half post, he; will conduct the backfield activities ir the roll of assistant coach.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control oi athletics made the announcement this week. Miller thus becomes the first oi the assistants to devote time solely to the developing of the backfield, McKeever having been tutoring the boys in this line along with keeping tab on the rest of the club in an earnest effort to pro
duce a formidable lineup for the game tomorrow.
Pitt
rish
des. :
Miller’s three year ability with the
M H M M M	LIN	XXX
M M M M M M	NOTRE DAME O'Connor	t
M M M	Sullivan	
H M M	Mastrangelo	-
H M M	Stewart	
M M M	Rovai	1
M M M	Adams	i
M M M	Skoglund	
M M M	Dancewicz	
M M M	Maggioli	
M M M	Kelly	
M H M	Angsman	
H M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M H M	Coach: Ed McKeever OFI Referee: Rollie Barnu Umpire: Russ Finstei Field Judge: Dave E Head Linesman: D. J 1	<LS: Zisco (Sy ese | ibsor
ft' 1		XXXI
12
rish needs no introduction in grid cir-
the
des. It was last year that he culminated (Continued on page 14)
PITTSBURGH
Peyton Defrank Mattioli Hammond
Ranii Roussous Zimmovan
Freese Kalminir
Itzel
DF!
mu stei
Coach: Clark Shaughnessy
<LS:
/isconsin)
(Syracuse) ese (Denison)
j ibson (Northwestern)
M H M M H H H M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M H H M M M M M M H H M M M M M M M H M
M M H M M
i
M M
Pitt. Revived From the Doldrums of '43, Promise Hard Tussle for Irish Tomorrow
BY MAX SCHERB
"Pitt News" Sports Editor
PITTSBURGH, Sept 29. —Some 16 holdovers reported for spring practice last summer. To these Shaughnessy added some 45 freshmen, stirred well, worked hard, and baked for- six weeks under a ninety degree sun. Afterwards he dressed them in red, trimmed with white, tested successfully against West Virginia and on Saturday, September 30, he will serve as the main “piece de resistance” against Notre Dame.
The Panthers who will take the field tomorrow are a far different team from that which opened against Notre Dame in 1943. The cun-ent Pitts differ not only in man power in as far as personnel is concerned but in all around appearance. They are bigger and older than last year when seven 17-year-olds started, to now where there are only two. They are guard George Ranii who was declared 4-F in November and back Tom Kalminir, now awaiting call from the Army Air Corps. There is an air of confidence that prevails about the squad which was not in evidence last year when only one letterman was in the entire lineup. This year there are 16. They have mastered the “T” a little more firmly than a year ago and have begun to understand it. Furthermore they will not have to face the star-studded lineup which ran through their predecessors of a year back.
Strong At Guard
Although not particularly impressive in the manner in which they defeated West Virginia, the Shaughnessy-men showed that they had potentialities of a better than average team. The blue and gold, currently the red and white, were never in any trouble but when any threatened, the line led by Frank Mattioli, tightened and held. This line is the largest in recent Pittsburgh football history and averages 205 lbs., but only because of the ends who fall well below the 200 lb. mark. Fran Mattioli is the oldest from the point of service, this being his third year as a member of the varsity. All of them were as a starting left guard. He is expected to be an AllAmerican this year, and Saturday played the most brilliant defensive game on the field. “Matt” will captain the team for the second straight year against Notre Dame. This will also be
sophomore George Ranii’s.second chance against the “green clads of South Bend.” He and Mattioli are celebrating their second year together and if they should happen to be running mates next year they are expected to be the greatest pair of guards that ever came out of this section., Mike Roussous, the big right tackle, was an “all-state” lineman in his high school soph. jr. and sr. years and was picked the most valuable player in western Pennsylvania. He performed yeoman service Saturday as did-his mate Joe DeFrank, until he was removed because of a cramp in his leg in the second quarter. DeFrank is a sophomore and saw much action last year. Kelly Zimmovan, a freshman end from Uniontown, Penna., is expected to be one of the outstanding offensive pass receivers in the country^ Left end Jake Peyton, a marine discharge, has shown plenty of form during, practice and should prove a fine end. Center Ralph Hammond, a senior letterman, started at center and was supplemented in his duties by freshmen Ralph Coleman and Owen McManus. '	-
Variety of Backs
Good quarterbacks are priceless in a “T” system and Pitt is fortunate in having three. They are Buddy Freese and Paul Rickards both freshmen from ’ Wheeling, W. Va., and Joe Kielb. Freese did most of the field generating Saturday and his debut was successful. Paul Rickards must be given the edge as a passer though his neighbor is the better field Judge. For .variety there is “Lefty Joe” Kielb, a senior from Pittsburgh. Joe did not see too much action against the “Hill Billies” but is noted for his trouble shootings and reviving running attacks which have bogged down. Tom Kalminir and Mike Sprock fit the system to a “T.” They are a pair of pony backs with Kalminir at the left and Sprock on the other side. Reserve halves are Bernie Snisciak, leading Pennsylvania schoolboy scorer last year, and letterman Don Matthews. Matthews was especially impressive in his initial appearance this year. Kalminir scored two touchdowns after ripping off long gains to put the team in scoring position. Jack Itzel is a workhorse fullback and is noted for his backing-up ability. A‘ new back is Gene Gaugler. Gaugler played quite a bit last week and will be a lot of help to the team.
.	13

Company K—Resplendent With Rah Rahs For Morale-March to Service Softball Crown
BY AL BROTEN
SPldNTEPS
Jr A	FROM THE
. JLjm^ppcss box
Ten “old and tired men” walked off the diamond last Monday afternoon and headed dejectedly for Zahm Hall. They had just been defeated for the softball championship of the V-12 unit by Company K, the favorite sons of the third deck, Alumni Hall.
With a rabid cheering section in the background the ten Kayites played their game of games to cop the grand finale of the softball season, which had begun early in August of this semester. It was their fourth straight victory in the final play-offs, which got underway on the campus Monday, Sept. 18.
The Zahmbies took the initiative in the championship tilt as they tallied three unearned runs in the early frames to assume a safe margin. However, getting the psychological boost from their company boosters, the Men of Mazar picked the last of the fifth as their comeback inning, chalking up -a necessary four runs for victory.
Monday’s game was a no-hit masterpiece, hurled by Jim Mazar, captain and pitcher for the new champs. During the four games of the championship playoff, Jim had allowed a total of only 12 hits.
In the initial game of the playoff, Company K trounced the befuddled Marines of Company B 4-2, although the boys from Cavanaugh presumed they had victory on the mound in the person of Bill Nelligan. William, it seems, folded up under a verbal barrage delivered by Co. K’s own personal cheering section, and Ken Manarik didn’t help any by piloting a homerun out of the reach of the fielders to score two men ahead of himself. (Gabby Gizmo still cawn’t see how a bunch of jitterbuggers could decision his Marine fighters.)
Good Record ‘..	-
Other games of the playoff found George Bodnar’s company softballers dumping Company F by the shutout tally -of 5-0 and the R.O.’s on the third deck of Walsh Hall, 13-2. Throughout the entire season of play, during which the champs of the various halls and the champs of the unit were decided, the
14
Kayites had won eight games and lost but one. Lost was one tilt to Company I by a close count of 11-10.
In commenting on the great campaign, the Company K Publicity Planners report that according to official count, the composite scores rolled up by Company K and their opponents throughout the season was 49 for the champs and 20 for the losers.
Members of the winning aggregation are Keith Wells, sc; Ken Manarik, If; Frank Kaufmann, 3b; Jim Mazar, p; Don Rumley, c; Jerry Poniske, 2b; Eldon O’Brien, cf; Bob Gesler, ss; Pete Powell, lb; and Art Prigge, rf. Substitutes included Jim Kennedy, sc; George Bodnar, rf; and Ken Kennard, cf.
There is a possibility that Company K may return to the softball diamond soon to play off for the University championship against the winner of the civilian league.
MILLER RETURNS
(Continued from page 12)
a trio of seasons by being voted the outstanding back of the year along with his almost unanimous All-American rating by the various football experts.
Bringing an acute knowledge and insight of the “T,” played the Notre Dame way, Creighty will become a great asset to Coach McKeever and the Fighting Irish. Renowned for his speed and cool-headedness on the field, he will attempt to expose a few of the Blue and Gold backs to the same style—and it will be the Irish who will benefit if some of the ball toters pick up his technique.
Miller’s last appearance in football was in the All-Star game, August 30, in which the Stars were defeated by the Chicago Bears, 28-24. Miller scored the first touchdown for the Collegians on a pass into the end zone from Glenn Dobbs. He also carried the ball for gains of 10 and 15 yards on the pair of tries that were provided him.
After a deliberation between signing a pro football contract with the Brooklyn Dodgers, making a movie in Hollywood, or going to Law school, he has finally decided to return to his old alma mater, having received a degree in June, to help prepare the Irish for the grid wars of ’44.
By PETE BROWN
Now that we have baseball off our minds (at least most of it) we can get down to the king of all sports, football. After looking at their respective players during the summer and first fall drills, the coaches of the nation’s top teams claimed they didn’t think they would win more than half their games. It should prove to be an interesting season if all their predictions come true. None of them planned to beat the service teams.
Last Saturday’s games had some spectacular plays that have not been seen nor heard of since Hollywood gave up sports movies for war pictures. Jim Youel, Great Lakes man of the hour, had his hands in two of these plays. The first came at the end of the half when Purdue was leading the Bluejackets 12-7. With 15 seconds remaining he pitched a do or die pass 39 yards to Don Mangold, substitute halfback, in the end zone. That score pulled the Lakes into the lead. In the fourth quarter when Great Lakes was leading by a slim two points, he took a Boilermaker punt and returned it 93 yards for another score.	•
The second of these movie finishes took place in the land of movie finishes. Substitute right halfback Johnnie Toesch of UCLA pulled his alma mater out of the hot coals of the short end of a 13-0 score to tie USC 13-13. He did all this in the last three minutes of the game. With three monutes to go he scored from the USC 34 in two plays to make the score 13-6. After the Trojans got their hands on the ball they puttered around for two minutes and then decided to punt. Toesch took the punt on his own 34 with five seconds to go and raced 76 yards for the score. During his run the gun went off ending the game, but the score counted because the play started while the game was still in progress. End Russ Tauscheek tied the score with a place kick that hit the cross bar and then fell over. I wonder if Mr. DeMille was in the crowd.
Notre Dame’s opponent tomorrow, Pittsburgh, has a tough schedule to look forward to. They play Army, Hlinois, Carnegie Tech, Ohio State, Indiana and Penn State on successive Saturdays with the exceptiion of Oct. 28. That’s a lot to look forward to. They are no better off than anyone else.
| INTRODUCING I
By JIM HECK
GEORGE TERLEP
At the left half slot this year for the Fighting Irish will be George Terlep, 21 year old V-12 trainee from Elkhart, Ind. George earned eight letters while pastiming at Elkhart Hi—four in football and four in basketball.
Being the lightest back on the squad doesn’t hamper George’s ability at all; he is one of the best broken field runners on the team and his presence in the tailback position will be a valuable asset this fall. On the squad in ’43 George was groomed for his present position on the first team.
George, who weighs 162 and is 5'8" tall, lives in Zahm Hall where he rooms with Bob Kelly. This is his fifth semester at Notre Dame, and his fourth in the V-12 program. He expects to be sent to a midshipman school in November. At the present time he is majoring in business administration.
George likes to spend his spare time in some form of outdoor athletics or dancing with one of his many feminine admirers. His sports idol is the former Illinois great, Bed Grange. His biggest sports thrill came when he intercepted a pass and ran 96 yards for a touchdown while he was in high school. He likes the good old music of Glenn Miller, especially his recording of “The Shrine of St. Cecilia” and he can always go for a Swiss steak.1
George has hopes of some day being a business exec or a coach of a big college eleven.
BOB KELLY
The hardest driving back on the field —that’s Bob Kelly. Hailing from Chicago, Bob earned three letters in football, three in track, and one in basketball at St. Leo’s High.
On the ’43 squad Bob alternated with Julie Rykovich at the right half position and it was in the Army game last year that he showed what a superb player he is. His punt returns will always be in the memory of Army’s coaches.
This year Bob is handling all of the punting chores as well as kicking the extra points. His speed and drive along with his pass snatching and punting ability will play a major role in making (Continued on page 16)
Students Pick Notre Dame By At Least Two Touchdowns Over Pitt; Season Opener
BY PAUL WOOD
Three touchdowns over Pitt is the average score predicted for the opener tomorrow. Last year’s score of 41 to 0 did not influence the answers optimistically. All agree that Pitt has a better team than last year, and since this is our first game of the season, there will be plenty of opposition for the Irish.	,
Here are the views of the students.
John Adams, Civilian Senior from Charleston, Ark.: “Ed McKeever has the squad in very good condition, both physically and mentally. The score will be close, Notre Dame 14 and Pitt 12.”
Joe Gish, Midshipman from Brooklyn: “Notre Dame over Pitt 19-7. Notre Dame, even though it has a relatively inexperienced team as compared to last year, will more than match Pitt’s dynamic power.”
George Schneider, Navy V-12 Freshman from Queens, N. Y.: “There should be no doubt as to a Notre Dame victory in the contest. From past performance, Pitt has a very poor passing defense. Therefore our passing attack will bring us an easy victory over the Panthers. Score 33-7.”	*
Richard Martin, Civilian Junior from San Diego, Calif.: “Notre Dame will display a slashing air and ground attack to over-power Pitt by a score of 26 to 7. Pitt will show much improvement over its other ’43 eleven, but Notre Dame’s speed, drive, and deception will be comparable to last year’s National Champs ■ and will assure a hard fought margin of victory.
Roy Rademacher, Marine V-12 Junior from Mt. Carmel, Chicago: “I choose _ Notre Dame because of the good coaching staff and the “Fighting Irish” spirit at Notre Dame. Score, N.D. 33; Pitt, 12.”
Bob Snee, NROTC Junior from Masil-lon, Ohio: “Notre Dame should win; the score 27-13. Pitt showed some strength last week but they are still handicapped as to players. Filley, Adams and Kelly will give us the necessary experience and confidence to top Pitt. Pitt’s coach has done a great job however with his all civilian team.”
John Mayer, civilian Freshman from Pittsburgh: “Pitt has a much better team than last year and it isn’t going to take this game sitting down. Although the team is mostly freshman the spirit is high and everyone is out to beat Notre Dame. The score will be Pitt 26, Notre Dame 20.”	•	-
Vance Maloy, Navy V-12 sophomore from Los Angeles, Calif.: Notre Dame 36-Pitt 13. With a little support from the linemen, our backfield should be able to ran and pass circles around the Pitt eleven. Dancewicz will undoubtedly pass many times during the game.”
J. P. Shenfield, Midshipman from Bronxville, New York: “I pick Notre Dame to beat Pittsburg by at least three touchdowns, 30-6. Notre Dame lacks experience, but has weight and speed that will overpower Pitt, which showed itself to be out of Notre Dame’s class in its game with West Virginia.”
Paul Salcido, Navy V-12 freshman from Los Angeles, Calif.: “Although Pittsburgh made a good showing in their first game I predict that Notre Dame will knock out a 27 to 6 victory. The Irish should put this one away in great style.”
John Arcadi, Civilian junior from Whittier, Calif.: “The score will be 52 to 6. With the snappy and lithe backfield that we have, paced by Dancewicz and the powerful line, there is no other conclusion.
George Finn, NROTC- sophomore from Montrose, Pa.: “Of course most of last year’s team is gone but with all the new freshmen who seem so proficient (and so big) I think Notre Dame should have a very good team this year. Also Pittsburgh hasn’t had a very good team in the last couple of years and without the help of the Navy V-12 should not have any Rose Bowl outfit.”
❖❖❖❖
❖	NOTE	♦
❖ If you have any opinions and score ❖ ❖ predictions on next week's home ♦ ❖ game, submit them, as in above
❖ form, to Paul Wood. Room 49 Sorin ♦ ❖ hall. .	♦
❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖
15
Eugene "Scrap-Iron" Young-The Man Who Keeps N. D. Athletes in Fighting Trim
Truly essential to athletics but usually overlooked by the general public is that group of faithful men known as trainers —those masters of the tapes and oils and liniments who condition their charges so as to avoid injuries and who alleviate those ubiquitous aches and pains so disconcerting to athletes. Of this group Notre Dame’s Eugene John Young, better known as “Scrapiron” or just plain uScrap,” is one of the best.
Young, who probably knows intimately and has been acquainted with more Notre Dame grid, track, diamond, and court stars during the past two decades than any other person, first came to N.D. in 1922 and has been here ever since. He
graduated cum laude with a degree from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1927 and in the same year was the recipient of the Kanaley Award, emblematic of the highest academic average to be maintained by a varsity monogram winner. During his undergraduate days Young excelled in track, his time of 4:27 for the mile run being his most noteworthy achievement. The two-mile run and crosscountry were also his specialties and for a period of two years he was undefeated in the latter event. He held the Indinana State championship his senior year.
Even before graduation, however, “Scrap” began his career as a trainer, working under Knute Rockne with the great Irish elevens of the 1920’s. 1927 saw him take over the full-time job which he still holds. All these years not only the football performers have had the benefit of “Scrap’s” skill and experience but also the aspirants for N.D.’s other varsity squads. Consequently the tasks are many and varied, all of which he handles with cheerfulness and efficiency. One must see him at work to appreciate fully his usefulness.
“Scrap” is married and lives with his wife and two sons in South Bend.
When asked to name the best all-around N.D. grid greats of the past 20 seasons, “Scrap” declined to choose a team of eleven players but did cite a number of standouts at each position. As ends he named Bob Dove (’40, ’41, ’42), All-American Chuck Sweeney (’36, ’37), Roger Kiley (T9, ’20, ’21) and Wayne Millner (’33, ’34, ’35), famous as the receiver of Bill Shakespeare’s touchdown pass in the fabulous Ohio State game of 1935. His selection of tackles include Ted Twomey (’28, ’29), John McManmon (’24, ’25, ’26) and All-American Jim White (’42, ’43). The guards picked were Bert Metzger (’29, ’30), Heartley (Hunk) Anderson (T8, T9, ’20, ’21), Bernie Crimmons (’39, ’40, ’41), Joe Kuharich (’35, ’36, ’37) and Joe Ruetz (’35, ’36, ’37).
Young rates the last two as the greatest pair of guards he has ever seen in action. Bud Boeringer (’25, ’26) and Tim Moynihan (’27, ’28, ’29) were his choices as centers. In the backfield he preferred Frank Carrideo (’28, ’29, ’30) and AllAmerican Angelo Bertelli (’41, ’42, ’43) as quarterbacks and Owen (Dippy) Evans (’40, ’41, ’42), Marty Brill (’29, ’30), Alfred (Dutch) Bergman (’ll, T3, T4) and the incomparable George Gipp (T7, T8, T9, ’20) as halfbacks. Named as fullbacks were Joe Savoldi (’29, ’30) and All-American Creighton Miller (’41, ’42, ’43).
As is apparent from the players he selected, Young considers Rockne’s 1930 aggregation the best Notre Dame has produced, although he ranks the 1943 club high on the list of all-time teams.
As the outstanding games he has witnessed, Young recalls three illustrious Irish victories; those, namely, over Army in 1929 (7-0), over Southern California (27-0) in 1930 and over the Iowa Pre-Flight School in 1943 (14-13).
Many amusing incidents have provided plenty of humor for “Scrap” during his long tenure at Our Lady’s School. One happening in particular he remembers well. It seems that during a practice session a few autumns ago a young Freshman was jolted quite severely. Two student managers carried him into the gym where “Scrap” started to analyze the extent of injuries, if any. Young asked the lad his name and the dazed reply was “Check.” He repeated his question and again received the same answer. That decided it. The boy was hurt; “Scrap” ordered him taken to the infirmary. It wasn’t until later that he discovered that the kid’s real name was Pete Check.
INTRODUCING (Continued from page 15) the Irish National Champs again this year.
Nineteen year old Bob is in his fourth semester of V-12, but he was here one semester as a civilian. He keeps his 5'914", 185 pound frame in Zahm Hall during his idle moments. “Kei” is enrolled in the College of Commerce and majoring in business administration.
Bob’s favorite pastime is to go out with “Chick” Maggioli to coach the Mishawaka High eleven. Judging from the Mishawaka scores they are doing a great job. His sports idol is “Dippy” Evans, former Notre Dame All-American. His biggest sports thrill came when he started the Notre Dame-Army game. Chicken, “Oh, How I Miss You Tonight,” and the music of Jimmy Dorsey are tops among his likes.
His ambition is to get his law degree from N.D. and then play pro ball for a few years and later coach. Judging from his ability on the gridiron, we are sure that he will accomplish all three.
IRISH START SEASON (Continued from page 12) the ball toter deluxe for this year’s machine but he will do the kicking-off, do the punting, and among other things, try for the extra point via the crossbar. At the other flank, left half will be Marine Chick Maggioli—definitely a speedster.
Elmer Angsman, who was with the squad last season but did not win a monogram, will start at full. Spectatori-al comment arising over this lad’s ability in practice have nothing but praise —in fact, if he continues to be aggressive, the Irish may have another AllAmerican in the making.
And Reserves. You Say
Helping out the backfield quartet in case of emergency will be Joe Gaspa-rella at quarter, a 17-year-old sensation, who has plenty of advance billing to live up to. Then at the halves there is George Terlep, a letterman from last season, Steve Nemeth, and Frank Ruggerio. Defensively potent, Rudy Krall, will be the stand-by at fullback.
End reserves include Mike Davlin, and Tom Guthrie. At tackle, the ranks will be supplemented by Joe Kelly, Pete Berezney, Boh Welch, and John Glaab. The guard spot will be strengthened by George Martz, John Fallon, and Jim Dailer. Finishing off at center are Art Statuto and Johnny Ray.
The critics won’t be able to judge this portrait at first glance but it may turn out to be a lot better than stew, the way the Irish intend to make it with Pittsburg as the main ingredient.
16
ENGINEERS
(Continued from page 10) at Notre Dame to give this training, so that the students may become efficient architects.
The architecture library, which is one of the best in the Middle West, contains all the material needed for research in design, in history, or in construction. The leading American and foreign periodicals in the field of architecture are available in connection with contemporary work. There is also a display room for traveling and local exhibits, a collection of building stones, and other ma-teriols of construction, and a lantern with a collection of 5,000 slides, for the illustration of lectures on painting, sculpture, and architecture.
This department is headed by Mr. Francis W. Kervick, B.S. in Arch., and the enrollment totals 18 students, which includes 10 civilians.
Metallurgy
The Department of Metallurgy, headed by Dr. Edward G. Mahin, Ph.D., provides a four year program of courses for the degree of Bachelor of Science in metallurgy. Students in this department receive an excellent training in theoretical and applied subjects. Graduate courses are offered for those who wish to work for advanced degrees, and facilities for research are provided in connection with both the undergraduate and the graduate work. There are 16 students enrolled in this department with six civilians included. Its reputation is well-earned. Within its small boundary it houses the nation’s leading metallurgy school and library.
Aeronautical Engineering
The Department of Aeronautical Engineering offers a four year program of instruction, for the degree of Bachelor of Science in aeronautical engineering. The constituent courses of this program may be classified in three groups—preparatory, secondary, and technical. The technical courses are to be regarded as essentially basic, specialized though they are, since the specialization lies chiefly in refinement of general engineering practice. This Department has the largest enrollment of all the other departments with a total of 165 students, which includes 39 civilians. This department is headed by Mr. Frank M. N. Brown who is assisted by Mr. Robert Eikenberry; Mr. Edward Kavanaugh carries the subjects of internal combustion engines, stress analysis, etc. to supplement actual aero subjects.
Engineering Drawing
The last department in the College of Engineering is the Department of Engineering Drawing, which is headed by
St. Mary's Tea Dances Prove Big Success;
Civilian Band Highlights Sunday Programs
With the first signs of autumn came the renewal of traditional St. Mary’s— Notre Dame social life. Yes, the tea dances are again being held on Sunday afternoons with Notre Dame men taking the stroll across “Dixie” to the “Rock” in the interests of better relations.
Last Sunday’s dance, intended originally as a strictly civilian affair, was thrown open to the entire campus personnel because the St. Mary’s Student Council deemed it a necessary move because of the failure of the Notre Dame civilians to indicate the number of those who would attend, and to organize the afternoon program.
Hereafter, according to Student Council representatives of both schools, a system of coordination among various Notre Dame groups will eliminate the necessity of inviting both civilian and service groups at one time.
Judging from the interest manifest in the first two “mixers,” any such programs in the future will be highly suc-
—Photo by Renaud
The newly organized civilian dance band which has made such a hit at the Sunday afternoon tea dances at St. Mary's. This musical aggregation under Ted Tannehill will continue to play for civilian events in the future.	■
Mr. William W. Turner, M.Arch. This department has a service department which includes service courses only, but does not issue a degree at the completion of the course. It provides the instruction and the practice in projection drawing, machine drawing, and structural drawing needed by the prospective engineer as part of his technique.
The programs of courses offered in the
cessful, and will provide a very enjoyable way to spend Sunday afternoons.
The attraction these Sunday afternoons has not alone been the pulchritude and symmetry of the St. Mary’s femininity, but an added attraction has been the music of the Notre Dame civilian band. Lead by Ted Tannehill, this musical aggregation’s output shows no effects of any manpower shortage as they swing into fast numbers such as “Swamp Fire” and “920 Special,” or come out with mellow ballads like “I’ll Get By,” and “Elegy.”	*
The civilian dance band boasts an array of excellent talent in such members as Jim Butler, Pat Wagner, Joe Garbarini, and Bob Sincavich on the sax line; and “Doc” Wolford, Bill Orr, and Bob Hudson on trumpets, with Garry Bolger and Jim Doyle holding down the trombone section, and Fred Blackhurst, piano; Tony Bristol, drums; Ted Tannehill, leader, on the string bass round out the personnel in the rhythm section.
various departments of the College of Engineering aim to give the student a good knowledge of the fundamental facts and principles involved in engineering work with as much attention as possible to the cultural subjects which help to prepare the graduate for the duties of a well-trained executive and for the cultured life of a college man.___“teaching him not only how to make a living, but how to live.”
17
gxnxmxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxK THE GREEN BANNER	i
BY JIM CASEY	J
axxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^
CHIME MARCHES ON
Well, the band has been assembled for the marching season on the gridiron. (Did you hear that, varsity backfield, “marching season”? Well, remember it!). Thus far, since the characters are so well known, informal uniforms are the order of the day, and fairly startled the little audience the other day. This crack (ed) marching outfit proudly and loudly meandered out on the field playing an uncensored version of “Anchors Aweigh.” Well, the majority strove for that number anyway. We don’t know who the drum major was, but we are quite sure he was the first to sport a Covert Cloth ensemble on the field. The rest of the civilians appeared in a “come-as-you-are” outfit of the peg leg, drop stoop variety. It was a terrifying sight to see the famous Notre Dame band marching in their traditional stagger-step (some say it looked more like a flying wedge; we just couldn’t hold the tubas back). Clashmore Mike proudly reviewed the boys (with closed eyes). When interviewed after McKeever’s men went through their session, one of the band members was heard to mutter: “Boy, did the team look sloppy.”
NOW GET THIS STRAIGHT, EDGAR
It pains us considerably, at times, to observe the total lack of a sense of humor among some of our readers. They aren’t of the “gentle sex,” either; on the contrary, they are precisely those who have never taken out the time to realize the purpose of this page—which is, if we may be so bold as to say so, an attempt to laugh at ourselves—to see ourselves as others see us, to parade our
Be quiet, children. Your father never enjoyed the Notre Dame game either.
own foibles and shortcomings, to laugh and to forget. We are much too sensible to attempt to hurt anyone. Our sense of charity forbids intentional unkindness. We should not, for the world, want anyone to take offense at our remarks, because no offense has ever been intended. We have no enemies; we have no grudges. What’s more, we intend to cultivate none. Whatever we write is intended as a jest. Hence, we endeavor to choose only those subjects that are wholesome and worthwhile. As a good example, we offer St. Mary’s, as fine, if not the finest, group of young ladies we ever hope to meet. They are so obviously first rate in every way that we sometimes resort to quips and exaggerations in order to create a humorous situation. Only a campus “goof” would take us literally, and fail to see the caricature. St. Mary’s is not only high in our estimation, but very much on our minds and a part of our life. There, Edgar, is the humor of the whole subject—the very opposite of what we say is the literal truth. Now do you understand? We haven’t heard that St. Mary’s complain, largely, we believe, because they have a sense of humor adequate to the occasion. And that’s another reason why we believe they are tops—they -have a sense of humor.
GET READY FOR THE DANCE
Thanks to the Student Council, an excellent dance is in progress for the civilians. The affair is being planned with a remarkable eye both to the pocketbook, to the decorations, and to the week-end enjoyment of all. Cars and buggies will be permitted. There is an
abundance of eligible dates at St. Mary’s. The occasions present the first big week-end in a long while. Nothing remains but for the civilian student body to get behind the dance committee and make the venture a success. Hurry, Philbert; the ticket men are canvassing the halls, these evenings, and the Rockne Building is being reserved “for your dancing pleasure” as the man on the radio would say it. And you may “come as you are,” which ought to mean something to your comfort. Permissions till two o’clock ought to be incentive enough for anyone to take in the shindig.
YOUTH WINS THE DAY
The Sorin softball aggregation, as rare a group of athletes as we have been privileged to meet in many a moon, fell by the wayside this week insofar as they lost the championship to the sturdy young upstarts of Can-oil. But what can you expect, what with Jim Clynes with his mind' still on golf, Tommy Burns trying to pick up fast ones and get them over-to first base without removing his boxing gloves, Ace Purcell sprinting around the bases without ever having hit the ball (Carroll just wouldn’t count his laps as runs), and Johnny O’Rourke substituting a hard ball whenever the umpire nodded. Oh, it was a sad afternoon. However, we should like to state here that rumors to the effect that Sorin had broken training regulations are entirely unfounded. That’s one point on which the team is adamant—training and more training. Ask George of the Arcadia—he prescribes for the ailing members, and speaks with authority.
TOMORROW THEY'RE OFF WITH A BOAR
Before another sun goes down, the “Fighting Irish” will have launched another eventful season. And while we won’t be in Pittsburgh, we’ll be at the radio with the others who study on week-ends, pulling and cheering and digging for the youthful aggregation. For some of the boys, we know, it will be their first trip to the East. Undoubtedly, they will enjoy themselves; but will Pittsburgh? We don’t think so. We hope it isn’t so smoky that Pitt comes out with miner’s lamps. We’re not worrying about our crowd, as there are several shining lights scheduled to put in an appearance, and possibly blind the Pitt group. (Do you get it, Egbert, “lights”?). And with the return of the team from Pittsburgh comes a new ■ backfield coach to Notre Dame, in the person of our old chum, Creighty Miller. You remember him, played a little football, made the traveling squad, too; was named on one or two All-American selections? Anyway, Creighty, welcome back to the fold of Notre Dame.
18
New Liberty Ship Honors Father of N. D. Students
This afternoon, in Jacksonville, Fla., the St. Johns Shipbuilding Company and the Maritime Commission will memorialize the Foley family, when the S. S. Jerry S. Foley, newly completed Liberty Ship, is launched.
Mr. Jerry Foley was the father of Harold, Lester W., and Joseph M. Foley, all students at Notre Dame in recent years, all of whom will be guests of honor on the platform at the launching ceremonies.
LITTLE SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Continued from page 3) .
forces with Frederic Stock and became the associate conductor of the Chicago Symphony. Besides his many guest appearances with major symphonic organizations, he has for the past five years conducted the summer concerts of the Saint Louis Little Symphony, and has gone on tour with the Chamber Orchestra which he founded two years ago in Chicago. This Chamber Orchestra is composed of solo players of the Chicago Symphony.
This is a big part of the semester’s entertainment program and should prove very enjoyable and entertaining to all. Remember, he will appear here in the Washington Hall Auditorium on Oct. 5 ■with his “Hans Lange Little Symphony.”
CIVIL ENGINEERS CLUB (Continued from page 4)
Bend. A trip to the rolling mills at Gary is planned for the near future, as well as movies and lectures as a part of the bi-weekly club meetings. At the last meeting last week “The Formica Story” was shown in the auditorium of the engineering building. Proving to be interesting as well as informative, the picture gave visual evidence of the extraordinary properties of this new material called Formica. It detailed many of the present vital uses and future possibilities of Formica in the fields of aviation, electronics, industrial equipment, and architecture. Later in the meeting the picture was reviewed by Edward Mueller.
5H525H5H5a5BSH5a525a5asa5a5a525B5asa5H5a5H525aS25a5HS2SH5E5a5HSa52SaS2SaS2S25Sj
! ATTENTION V-12 MEN! |
®	PARKER-WINTERROWD, South Bend's old established tailors,	are	g
W	now prepared to render	a tailor-made service on blue middies	and	rj
“j	white middies. A varied	selection of material from which to choose	g
3	your tailor-made suit.	fj
At present the club is engaged in establishing a permanent true North-South line just east of the Engineering building. Professor McCarthy is assisting in the project. Many other projects are planned for next semester, including the construction of model bridges and dams. Club members believe that promotion of group activities will bring about a closer student - professor relationship and in turn increase the interest for both student and instructor, thus a source of greater practical knowledge for the student.
The club’s next meeting will be held in the Engineering building Oct. 4. All who are interested in the club, especially those in civil engineering, are invited to attend.
ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS (Continued from page 11) small office, storage space, and a small library was also to be drawn.
Barney Slater received a “mention,” Bob Englebreckt received a “one half mention”; and W. W. Semith received another “one half mention,” respectively, for their drawings of a children’s Library and Exhibit Building, in a small city. This city had grouped its school buildings within an area of seven or eight blocks square near the center of the residence district, and the Board of Education had persuaded the Public Library to establish a children’s library and exhibit building convenient to the school.
The two principal elements required were the Exhibit Room and the Reading Room. Additional information was given concerning the drawing of these rooms. In the design of the exterior there had to be borne in mind that the existing school buildings were of various types of architecture, so that no specific stylistic approach was desirable; however, the building was to be gay and charming rather than dignified and important. Further data was given on the drawings required.
j PARKER-WINTERROWD. Ine.
j	115V2 So. Main St., North of the Oliver Hotel
i5a5252525EK5252H5H5a5a525a5ara5a5e5a5252525H5R525aja525aS2525S52SE52E
How’s your stripe 1.0.?
One smart way to bone up on stripes is to visit your Arrow Dealer.
You’ll find shadow stripes, tape stripes, candy stripes . . . every kind of a smart-looking stripe among the new Arrow Shirts. Give ’em the once over today. $2.24 up.
ARROW Striped SHIRTS
19
Greeting Cards
* Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co.
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street (Across from the Frances Shop)
JUMPING GYRENES
Augmented by their usual initiative and creativeness, some of the Marines here provided entertainment for the MOM’s club in South Bend last night. •‘Mah boys'’ were exceptionally anxious to perform at this meeting of the Mothers of Marines club, the ladies organization which in the past has sponsored such marvelous social affairs for the Notre Dame Marines. Those fellows who contributed to the scintillating program were: Kelly, Twardzik, Eggbeer, Can-zona, Mowry, McMaster, Kress, Latham, Watt, Velgnth, Moon, Schultz, Larsen, Sloyer, Moody, Sprague, Blair, Thornton, Kinney, Fitzpatrick, Gillogly, Ferguson, Hillmer, Arnold, and Opela.
So gratified was everybody with the downtown performance, that now formative plans are to stage a complete Hap-py-Hour-of-Marine-Talent for the regular all campus crowd to witness in Washington Hall. The extravaganza promises to be unprecedentedly hilarious and jam-packed with genuine talent. The fellows in charge of organizing the circus are John Kelly and Jim Kress (with the Gizmo somehow involved) and there should be uncounted surprises for the audience if all shapes up well. Tentative dates are either for 11 or 18 October, but definite word will come later. Watch for it!	❖
ON THE QT
Just where and when did Corporal Flaherty misplace a certain article of clothing, and what’s the story behind it? Also, 'where is his lady-friend these days?—Any Marine able to answer these questions, had better not!
IN BLACK AND WHITE
While inspecting a swabbie company last week, Lieut. Collins experienced an aesthetic shock. The fellows were told to raise their “bell-bottoms” so that Mr. Collins could check on their wearing regulation Navy stockings. He found about half the group had white stockings, and the other half wore black. But demerit cards didn’t begin to' fly until one old sea-horse was discovered wearing a white stocking on one foot, and a black one on the other. However, this sailor passed physics the first time he took the course, and so it’s understandable.
20
QUOTING A QUOTATION
From October’s Reader’s Digest comes this quote: “On Tinian, and before that, on Saipan, Japanese civilians were told by Japanese military authorities that the Americans were barbarians. “In truth,” they were told, “the Marines are the worst. Each Marine recruit, before his enlistment is accepted, must prove that he has murdered either his father or mother.” The Gizmo would like to dispute this statement. He murdered his grandmother, and younger sister, gouged his uncle’s eyes out, and cut out his brother’s heart, while only beating his mother with a lead pipe, and stabbing his father 60 times; and still, the Marine Corps accepted his enlistment! Why anyone can plainly see that he belongs in the Navy!

BIG NITE
Well, tonight is the V-12 Ball and Cavanaugh is buzzing with activity. Anxious to be their always carefully groomed selves, the gyrenes have been shining shoes and buckles all week, pressing blouses, and generally getting into tip-top shape. Most of the imported dates have already arrived, and it looks as if the favored South Bend ladies will have some neat competition. Unfortunately, the author of the “Periscope” was unable to get himself a date for tonight. The lady gorilla from the SB zoo whom he has been seen leading around town of late, has accepted another swabbie’s invitation for tonight, and that leaves the Hairy-One, also called “The Brow,” with only his calculus book (with which, they say, he is now going steady!)
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
$14.75
(Tax included)
?	OFFICER'S ■ PAK
z
X	Navy or Khaki
X Weight under 6 Pounds
EMPTY TOILET CASES Genuine Leather $1.00
Han
Rintbscn
"SCHOLASTIC" PREDICTIONS FOR THE WEEK
Notre Dame over Pittsburgh Illinois over Great Lakes Navy over North Carolina Pre-Flight Dartmouth over Holy Cross Army over North Carolina Georgia Tech over Clemson Northwestern over Wisconsin Michigan over Indiana Purdue over Marquette Ohio State over Missouri Minnesota over Nebraska Texas over Southwestern California over U. C. L. A.
Southern Calif, over Col. of Pacific
From V-12 to West Point is Hope of Seaman Toth
From the Navy’s Notre Dame to the Army’s West Point may be considered an impossible jump, but the transition may in the near future be made by Richard E. Toth of Company G, who last week saw public announcement of his appointment to the U. S. Military Academy on the Hudson River.
Congressman Robert A. Grant of this district announced Toth’s good fortune in connection with the appointments which are to fill vacancies which will exist in the Naval Academy at Annapolis and in the Military Academy.
Before he is finally accepted into training as an army cadet, Toth must pass a mental and physical examination next March, possibly at Fort Sheridan, Ill. If he successfully passes these, he will be ordered to West Point prior to the beginning of the school year there in July, 1945.
Seaman Toth, who goes under the aliases of “Dynamite” and “Ears,” graduated in August, 1943, from Riley High school in South Bend. He entered the V-12 unit at Notre Dame in March, 1944.
Under an oath of confidence, Toth, who is now 18 years of age, admits that he “wants to go” to West Point. Although he likes, Notre Dame, the prospects of success in the Military Academy are too great to be ignored.
“Dynamite,” incidentally, last week fought in the preliminaries of the Bengal Bouts and—lost to Gorman in the 175-pound class. Of course, his roommate, D. P. McCarthy, who is a character in his own right, still has lost none of his admiration for his roommate.
—Al Broten
Samson Annexes Open;
Play For Interhall Title
Striking with the power and skill that marks him as the best in intercollegiate tennis circles, Charley Samson captured one more tourney crown by winning over Jim Griffin in the finals of the Notre Dame Open Event tournament. Charley ran the race to the top in three straight sets of 6-4, 6-1, 6-4. NROTC man Griffin, one of the top men on the Irish tennis squad, won his finals berth by virtue of steam-rolling over Sandy Warshawsky, 6-3, 6-0 in the semi-finals.
This week-end will also see the culmination of the Zahm-Walsh battle for the title in the Interhall League. In the two singles matches that have been played, Zahm has triumphed over the R.O.’s. Ron Bontsema, Zahmbi captain, defeated Tom Mulhern, the leader of the Walsh outfit, 6-1 and 6-2. In the other singles play Dave Caplan took a point for Zahm at the expense of ROTC man Bill Bracken.
The interhall play has been a rough and tumble affair from the start and the final match between Zahm and Walsh promises to be one with another unpredictable champion.—Jim. Carey
Have a Coca-Cola=Soldier, refresh yourself
... or a way to relax in camp
To soldiers in camp, from the Gulf Coast to the north woods, Coca-Cola is a reminder of what they left behind. On “Company Street” as on Main Street, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes. Ice-cold Coca-Cola in your icebox at home is a symbol of a friendly way of living.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
»oaa The C-C Co..
21
By BLAIR NATTKEMPER
Nelson J. Boswell, otherwise known as “Boz” to his buddies, is the main factor behind the V-12 Ball which is to go off this evening. Although he doesn’t know how he got the job, “Boz” was chosen chairman of the forthcoming event by Lieut. J. J. Collins.
A native South Bender, “Boz” will escort Miss Dorothy Haden a junior at the University of Michigan, who will have the honor of being Queen of the Ball. Mr. Boswell and his orchestra committee secured Blue Barron to play for the V-12ers and their gals.
This interview with “N. J.” interrupted decorating preparations for the dance. The Navy drill hall interior after its completion, will be bedecked and be-ribboned to look exactly like the deck of a battleship. “It’s going to look so real, stated “Boz,” “that all persons susceptible to seasickness are advised not to come.” Somewhat over nine weeks have been spent in complete preparation and “Boz” has had to contend with the trials and troubles of over a dozen odd committees.
“This room has been like Grand Central Station for the past few weeks,” stated “Boz“; “more fellows want tickets than we are going to be able to sell.” Although the dance will be followed by other festivities on the following Saturday and Sunday, the Ball, featuring Blue Barron, will be the main event of the Navy weekend.
“Boz” attended John Adams High school in South Bend before entering N. D. as a ci vie in February, ’43. In July, ’43, the Ball chairman donned the Navy blue and continued on at Notre Dame as a member of the V-12. This is Boswell’s fifth and last semester here, for in five weeks, he will enter Middie school; “preferably Harvard, if I have anything to say about it,” stated “Boz.”
In the College of Law, “Boz” has five more semesters before his completion and then comes the gilded sign “N. J. Boswell, lawyer” on a door of some office in the downtown Chicago area. The Ball chairman is also interested in politics and besides his law work, is also a major in accounting.
“Boz’s” favorite food and pastime is to dig into one of his mother’s nice thick juicy steaks, whenever he gets leave to go into South Bend. As for the favorite
22
beverage, “Boz” said “Once in a while I can be talked into drinking a bottle of beer, but the age limit has put a decisive stop to this habit.” His hobby is undoubtedly “sleeping!"
“Boz,” and his committees have been
GOLF CLUBS BASEBALL GLOVES BASEBALL BATS
Goldsmith and Spaulding Distributors SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP 121 West Colfax Avenue
Rliiiiiiittiiitiiniiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiilttiuiiiiuiuiiiiitiituiuutuuiumuuiiuimtniiniu.<l»l.....l......,..,^
* Stationery	* Bookends
with your insignia	* Notre Dame Jewelry
* Toilet Articles	* Souvenirs
* Greeting Cards	* Pillows
I ~ I
AoAe 2>a#ie BaakdiMe.
B a d i n H a 11
IttllUIIIIMIlllllMI till till.lllll*""lllllll|llllllllllllllllllllltliltllllllll|lt|||||||||tt||||llt||||||t||tlllllUllllttltllltlllltl«tUllCltU*tUttlttlltltl[£]
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
working hard on this dance to make it one of the biggest and best projects for the V-12 for a long time to come and it’s a sure bet that the sailors are going to have one “swell-elegant” time in store for them when 2100 rolls around tonight.
SOFT BALLS AND BATS TENNIS RACQUETS FISHING TACKLE
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
525PSBSH5B5BSZ5H5B5B5BSB5B5HSZ5H5H5K
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Letter From Alphonse:
15B5E5B5H5H52525EH5E5H5E5HSR52SH5H5ES
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
BY SEAMAN JOE HAMMOND
Dear Fellows, .
After almost a year here in the states, I find that here is one of the most favorable places anyone could be. Yes, it was just about a year ago that I pulled up anchor out there in the islands, and began a new chapter of “Alfonso in the Navy.”
A lot has happened since I shipped aboard that homeward bound vessel and informed the skipper that he could hoist anchor because I was ready and raring to go. As I look back now—as we often do when we wish to get away from -the things of the present — I am stricken with fascination at the routine business of just being back home.
I can remember now that first step back on “home soil.” When I boarded the trolley to ride across the Oakland bridge into Frisco, I felt like a small boy taking his first ride.
My first glimpse of a real “honest-to-goodness” hold my hat, fellows; I’m going to faint—white girl was one of awe and of admiration. I was content then just to stand around and watch them. Things have changed now, yet I find that one is better off if one continues to do nothing more than to give an occasional glance at the feminine public.
Back here, where one is easily subject to the thought that one is just along for the ride as far as the war is concerned —(many are finding that such is a loose thought), there is an unlimited opportunity for the telling of “Sea Stories.” You may be certain that I have told my share and I suppose there are those who doubt the truth in them.
Truth is a wonderful thing. To be more exact, truth is precious. Because it is so precious, I am of the firm conviction that we should be economical with it.
Remember how we used to talk about how we would spend five minutes at home if we could only be there for that time. How times have changed for me! Now I “kick” vigorously because I can’t go home but once a month.
I hate to bring this to an abrupt halt, but this is liberty afternoon and the streets, and other places, down town are crying out for my presence.
Youi- old Shipmate,
ALPHONSE
Phone 4-1481
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUSINESS ANO SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE GF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
"Q. 1" M,x
70 / VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-Bx-B, (G)-C-Bo
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will ^Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
_* Each, small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains— • AS MUCH “A”
as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D”
as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bt”
as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be
AS MUCH “Bg” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE
as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH *‘E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS-™ *3.50
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. ,M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.
M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
FHONE 3-2374
23