/ L
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
/
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
MARCH 3 1933
Coal. .. silk stockings ... meat
—and the telephone
Keenly aware of the problems of business, large and small, Bell System commercial men are constantly devising special telephone plans to custom-fit service to the user’s needs.
For example, a plan they worked out for a coal distributor helped him to contact 50% more dealers. A manufacturer, using a telephone selling plan, sold 700 dozen pairs of hosiery through one Long Distance call. A great meat packer handles complex sales and distribution problems efficiently with the aid of planned Long Distance and private wire services.	.
Systematic telephone plans are helping many users to build business—cut costs—handle collections—unify nationwide organizations — increase profits. And Bell System men are seeking still other ways to make the telephone more useful.
BELL SYSTEM
I TELEPHONE HOME ONE NIGHT EACH WEEK |
I . . . LOWEST RATES AFTER EIGHT-THIRTY |
March'S, 1933
One
Tonight at 8
THE BENGAL BOXING SHOW
Sponsored by “The Scholastic”
A knockdown in last year’s shore, February, 1932.
7 Championship Fights
FOR UNIVERSITY TITLES
In the N. D. Gym
With TUFFY GRIFFITH Refereeing
25c . . . and it’s for Charity
I
Two
The Scholastic
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p, (Office 4-5661 ne I Residence 3-4041	X-ray
DR. E. S. LUCAS	
Dentist	
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel	South Bend, Indiana
Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted
Service	- at Moderate Prices
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians
Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM ’	Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Shetland Building .	Jefferson and Michigan Hours f *0 1° m- |3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana

Office Phone 3-2574	,	.	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST
D e n t i s t s
Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
„	(10 to 11:30 a. m.
Hours (2 to 4 p.m.
DR. H. BOYD-SNEE
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician
Office at	. Hours:
University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
Space Reserved
-	Space Reserved J	-
		. - - - '
March 3, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	• hk -I	■	I I	Entered as second-class
lished week y at the Unvers- I	1	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- | I	I	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to ,	.	rr- , rr- ri .	•	^ng a* special rate of postage.
the scholastic, PubH- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section 1103, October s. 1917.
cations Office, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865	authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE.......Assistant News Editor
THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI	ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART	JOHN McELLIGOTT
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL	WIEDL
JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors TIGHE WOODS..............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ..........Theatre Talk
ROGER McGOVERN.........College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.........Staff Artist
Sports Staff FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.. .Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
MARCH 3, 1933
No. 18
S UMMARY
Great closing rally enables eagers to beat Butler 42-41
NEWS
Fourteen Boxers Will Take Part in The Scholastic
Extravaganza for Bengal Missions Tonight...... 5
Joe McCabe, Master of Ceremonies, Introduces Tuffy
Griffith .......................................-■ 5
University Theatre Will Stage Three-Act Comedy in
Washington Hall, March 17 and 18............-7
Debating Team Will Argue on Taxation with Michigan State Monday................................ 8
Art Lecture in Washington Hall Last Night Attended by Many Students................................11
Richard V. Murchison, Chicago Architect, Tells Engineers of World’s Fair Preparations..............12
Probation List for Second Semester Announced......13
Band To Give Special Concert Tomorrow Evening.....16
FEATURES	-
Francis Fogarty, all-around Commerce Man, in Man
About------------------------------------------8
Abbey Players Reviewed in Theater Talk___________9
The How and Why of the Notre Dame Bell System_____14 Stirring Letters in this Week’s Voice_____________15
Problem of Red Recognition by United States________16 Notre Dame Actually Had Bathing Regulations in ’60_17
SPORTS
Wabash game tomorrow to close home basketball season; Johnny Baldwin’s last game.................20
Dunnigan scores 20 points in skate race.........20
Track team ties Ohio State 52-all in upset......21
in overtime ......................................22
Freshman wins Interhall track championship..........22
Tom Conley to return as assistant coach.............23
350 Report at opening of spring football........... 23
Introducing Joe Young...............................24
C. I. C. track championship to be held here next Friday and Saturday...............................   27
Keoganites to seek revenge on Marquette in Milwaukee Tuesday ...............................    27
---------❖❖-----------
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, March 3.—Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial offices, news, sports, features and editorial board, 6:30 p. m.; Bengal Boxing Show, Gym, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 4.—Basketball: Varsity vs. Wabash, Gym, 8:00 p. m.; Band Concert, Gym, 7:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 5.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Interhall basketball games, Gym, 9:30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m.
MONDAY, March 6.—Wrangler Meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Debate: Varsity vs. Michigan State, at East Lansing, Michigan.
TUESDAY, March 7.—Economics Seminar, 6:30 p. m., Law Building; Pre-Law Club meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.; Patricians’ meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.; Basketball: Varsity vs. Marquette, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
WEDNESDAY, March 8.—Lenten Services, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 9.—Spectators’ meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
1 HERE is something about the Junior Prom that makes the most cynical sophomore forget to sneer for a moment and begin wondering who she will be this time next year. It is not because the motion pictures build their most touching scenes of college life around the Prom, nor is it because the juniors give an elaborate party at Notre Dame. There is something intangible about it, something that makes a smile seem sweeter, and a whispered promise ring more true. Some day a student of the collegiate mind will try to reduce this atmosphere to scientific pigeonholes and then this glamor will be gone. Until then — play Mister Band Leader, and may we have “Day and Night” once more?
V
J HERE is a story of Jake, the great Jake Bowers. One of our more widely-read sports writers once said, “There are two extremes in athletics—flagpole sitters and intercollegiate two-milers ! Jake is a two-miler, but more than that, Jake resolved that he would stick to the two mile until he won a mon-gram—even if he had to beat his own grandson to the tape. Now he has it, and we feel it will mean more to him than the same token would mean to a man who won on some break or fluke. For five years Jake has tried— we hope the reward is as sweet as the anticipation.
V V E may be stretching an ethical point by giving space to such a materialistic paragraph as an athletic challenge, but we are going to take our chances on arousing the editorial ire and issue one. The five brave men and true who almost win for the Orange and Black of Walsh Hall on the basketball court every Sunday have become desperate. They long for a victory! They graciously admit that they are worse than any hall on the campus save Sorin. Some Sorinites question this, so Walsh Hall takes this opportunity to issue a formal challenge to Sorin Hall to meet them on the hardwood court. An acceptance or a rejection of this challenge must appear on the Walsh bulletin board within forty-eight hours.
AR too many students observe the season of Lent in substance but not in spirit. You have all heard of the fellow who is going to give up cigarettes because he wants to get in condition for spring football, or the one who is going to give up shows so he can save money. These are praiseworthy motives in themselves, but why make Lent the excuse? Lent is a season of repentance and mortification, spiritual as well as physical. If you are merely giving up cigarettes to see how much weight you can gain by Easter, you are mocking one of the most beautiful and hallowed practices of the Church.
NDIANA weather has been so satisfactory this week that our brethren from east of the Alleghenies have taken to griping about the amount of newspaper space devoted to sectional, regional, and the state basketball tournament. Gentlemen, please! Razz a Hoosier about anything else save his basketball, and he will merely give you that well-what-are-you-doing-here look, but for the sake of peace leave that sport alone. Don’t try to break into arguments concerning the relative merits of Washington High or Columbus High or the dirty deal given to Anderson. They will calm down after this week is over, but right now we of other states are all aliens. Speak lightly of Indiana basketball at this time of the year and you are mocking an institution as sacred as the home itself. For the good of the local homicidal death toll, keep off that topic!
I HE scripts are being passed around and the University players are at it again. This time it is going to be a Greek play, written by a former Notre Dame student, to be given in modern English. This presentation should pack Washington Hall again if for no other reason than to see some of the University Players in their gracefully flowing drapes. Even if the cast fails to come up to their fine showing in “Charley’s Aunt,” the audience will be well compensated by a 'sight of George Allingham as a black-browed, scowling Achilles in a Hart, Schaeffner & Marx lion skin.
March 3, 1933
Five
14 BENGAL FIGHTERS READY
INTRODUCING ‘TUFFY’ TO N. D.’S BOXING PUBLIC
Finalists Are On Edge For Notre
Dame’s Biggest Fistic Tourney
McCabe Tells You What He Knows About Griffith.
By Joe McCabe
Gerald Ambrose Griffith is a mild, retiring person with a quizzical mien and a terrific punch. He is a perfect gentleman and an admirable Catholic; yet for two years large dexterous gentlemen have expressed abhorrence at the thought of meeting him. One of them in particular was cajoled into it a few evenings ago—Otto, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Von Porat—and left at the end of the evening without speaking to anyone, until he reached a near-by hospital. Mr. Griffith expressed his regrets at his guest’s indisposition, but there was some doubts as to his sincerity. One can’t go on being rebuffed for two years without feeling some indignation.
Friends Go To Sleep
This thing of leaving Griffith without saying so much as a good-bye was at one time quite a habit among his business associates. So much so that Gerald was forced into leaving Sioux City — his home and original site of business—and moving to Chicago. At one time twenty-four acquaintances in a row ended the evening by leaving with scarcely more than a grunt. “They go to sleep on me,” Tuffy onc= told a friend bitterly. “It’s getting so no one wants to meet me any more.”
Once he arrived in Chicago, Tuffy sought a former patron of his brother Buzz when the latter had been in the hook and sigh business — one Handsome Jack O’Keefe. Mr. O’Keefe then made it his business to see . that Tuffy should meet the best people. One after another our hero met well-known persons. However, his tendency for discomfiting guests continu-ued until there were very few left to meet in his circle. It was his particular misfortune that his weight increased along with his acclaim; it was only this that prevented his becoming a champion in three classes—welter-
Tonight’s Card
Flyweight Ed Nerad vs. Russ Torrell.
Featherweight
Hal Gooden vs. Dominick Varraneto.
Lightweight
Billy Mallory vs. Joe Ceiaverello
Welterweight Nick Carton vs. Jim Byrne.
Middleweight Frank Schiavone vs. Bart McKer-man.
Light-heavyweight Phil Purcell vs. Frank Gaul.
Heavyweight
John Michuta vs. Reno Zaranton-ello.
weight, middleweight, and light heavyweight. It was while in the latter division that he met and conquered Leo Lomski — Mr. Lomski staying upright and awake only because of his solicitude of even Tuffy’s broken right hand.
Not A Large Heavyweight
Since joining the heavyweight division Tuffy has been facing almost insuperable handicaps. His opponents are invariably heavier and much bigger. Yet even under these odds he has had difficulty in engaging the attention of certain top-notchers. Particularly the imperturbable Mr. Shankey, whose supreme unawareness to a dangerous rival is equalled only by that of the Blue Book to Shankey’s predecessor, Mr. Tunney, who seems destined to always remain number 401 in the social rating.
Other renowned engagements of Tuffy’s were with the late Ernie Schaaf and Willie Stribling. Both these dicisions were against him, and after each of them there was an enforced fumigation of the battle site. It is worthy of note that he has beaten recently rejuvenated rubberman Risko three times.
(Continued on Page 10)
Bouts Begin at Eight O’Clock; Championships at Stake; Griffith on Campus.
Weeks of intensive and assiduous training will' show their worth tonight in the Notre Dame gymnasium when fourteen boxers, the best in the University in their respective classes,
Joseph McCabe
“Ladies and Gentlemen. . . .”
match their punching ability before the refereeing eyes of “Tuffy” Griffith, renowned heavyweight.
The Bengal Bouts, sponsored by The Scholastic in behalf of the Holy Cross mission fund, will start punctually at eight o’clock. Students who have already purchased their tickets will enter the gymnasium from the side entrance on the south. Those without tickets up to the present time may purchase them at the main entrance at the special student rate, upon presentation of an A. A. book or a dining hall card. South Bend spectators will use the front entrance to the building.
Ticket sales, beginning slowly the first part of the week, picked up briskly Wednesday and Thursday. A large gate sale is expe^ed this evening which should boost attendance (Continued on Page 10)
Six
The Scholastic
Tonight’s Card Brings Champions Together
BOXERS EXPERIENCED
Golden Glove Winner, State Champs, S. A. C. Victor, in
Line-up.
By Howard Waldron
1932 Lightweight Champion
“From the sunny shores of California to the rockbound coast of Maine,” from the Canadian line to the placid waters of the Gulf, from far and near has The Scholastic Boxing Board taken their carefully selected contestants for tonight’s show. Fourteen conditioned, smooth-fighting men are prepared to stage the finest exhibition of fisticuffs which Notre Dame has yet seen.
The boxers have reached their sound physical condition by intensive training since Feb. 1. They all have one aim in mind: to win a University championship and receive the sweater emblematic of the award. Fight fans can rest assured that these bouts will produce 21 rounds of hard, clever, dynamic fighting.
Michuta Golden Gloves Champ
In the heavyweight division final, Reno Zarantonello, a fighting product of Thornton, Ill., stacks up against
Johnny Michuta, the Golden Glove ■ champion of Detroit. Reno is a shifty-weaving, feinting type of fighter with a fast left jab and a short right hook that will score many points for him. He depends on his boxing more than his slugging ability. Michuta, on the other hand, is a big, husky hombre with dynamite in either hand. He does very little leading, but counters with a terrific blow whenever his opponent begins to throw jabs at him. On occasion, Michuta can box very well, having acquired experience in many Golden Glove battles.
The lightheavyweight class finds Phil Purcell, from Salt Lake City, Utah, and Frank Gaul, the pride of Waterville, Maine, matched. Phil is a tall, rangy lad who combines boxing and punching ability very well. Frank, rather short for this class, rough and ready, is the boring-in.irresistible type of boxer. If he can
(Continued on Page 10)
Prefect of Discipline Forbids Use of Golf
Course Before Opening
Campus golf enthusiasts who insist on opening their divot-digging with the first warm breeze were warned this week that any further premature play on the University golf course would result in disciplinary action. ' In an official announcement from the office of the Prefect of Discipline, all students are forbade the use of the course until it is officially opened. A bulletin will be posted to announce the opening date.
The restraining action was necessitated by the damage that the golfers were doing to the turf of the fairways and greens.
HEAR YE! A “GRUDGE”
As an added attraction to the card of bouts already arranged for tonight, “Siggy” Sluzska, S. A. C. Middle weight champ in 1931, a wild-swinging, hard-hitting boy from Hempstead, L. I., will fight a grudge battle with his mortal enemy, Dutch Knappman, of California. The two have been quarreling for weeks over the championship of St. Edward’s first floor and now will have a chance to decide honorably the better man and rightful title claimant.
The men who are boxing for Bengal tonight: Left to right, front row: Torrell, Nerad, Ciaverello, Goodin, Varraneto, Malloy, and Len Dunn, director. Back row left to right: Byrne, Gaul, Carton, Zaran-to'nello, Purcell, McKernan and Schiavone.
rR.NIEUWLAND ELECTED
TO BRITISH SOCIETY
Named Fellow of Worldwide Chemical Association.
Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Ph.D., Sc.D., has added another set of letters to the increasing list behind his name. The latest addition was made possible by his election to a fellowship of the British Chemical Society. He received this notification during the past week.
The British Chemical Society is an organization grouping together the foremost chemists of Great Britain, and the honor conferred upon Father Nieuwland brings him to the foreground in the ranking chemical society of the world. The society is composed of Fellows and Honorary Fellows, Father Nieuwland being a member of the former group.
He was elected to the Fellowship chiefly on the basis of his eminence in the field of chemistry.
W. O. Hanley Dies Here
The University maintenance department suffered the loss of a valued workman the past week in the death of W. O. Hanley. Foreman of the tinshop for many years “Bill” knew neither time, weather nor danger when there was something to be done for Notre Dame. “Honest, devoted, loyal” was how Father Finnegan described him at the funeral service.
March 3, 1933
Seven
SENIORS WILL BANQUET THURSDAY, NARCH 16
George Rohrs Will be General Chairman of Dinner.
The Senior Banquet which was talked about at last week’s class meeting in Washington Hall is no longer a mere plan. It will be held in the Lay Faculty dining room of the University on Thursday evening, March 16, announced President Francis Werner yesterday.
George Rohrs will be general chairman of the affair and will have assisting him the following committee: Roger McGovern, Maurice Mulville, Donald Wise, Robert Flint, Roland Bunch, Jim Ross, and Ed Stephan.
Definite announcements as to the price of the dinner, speakers, program, etc., will be printed in The Scholastic in the near future.
Sociology Graduate Gets Position in California
'Max Friedman, who was graduated at the semester in Probation work in the Department of Sociology, left South Bend Thursday for Los Angeles, California, where he has accepted a position with a Jewish Social organization. Mr. Friedman majored in social’ work while at Notre Dame.
It is interesting to note that since the beginning of the work in probation here in ’29, every graduate has been located in a position.
Barnard College of New York has bought a ten-acre tract of land in Westchester County for use as a summer camp for its students.
U. Theater Will Present
Comedy March 17 and 18
Club Is Formed by Fr. Dolan to Handle Usher Details at Sunday Mass
Most recently organized group on the campus is the Church Ushers’ Club, which has been created by the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, for the purpose of handling student seating during all religious services in Sacred Heart Church.
The personnel of the club is as follows: Anthony Andrioni, president; Ray Rieuland, Mike de Lay, Frank Werner, Andy O’Keefe, John Cahill, John Cary, and Jim Gerend.
The first four men above will usher at tonight’s Lenten services and at the nine o’clock mass Sunday. The last four will work at the seven o’clock mass.
Priests will no longer be needed in the back of the Church during services to care for the several details they have formerly handled. The ushers will give out and collect at-' tendance cards, take up collections, tend to the doors and keep the rear of the Church cleared at all times.
NOTICE!
All members of THE SCHOLASTIC staff will meet in the Editorial Rooms, “Ave Maria” building, at 6:30 o’clock tonight.
WRITTEN BY GRAD
“Where There’s Women There Trouble,” is Title of Satire.
By Joseph Bucci
The next regular production of the University Theatre will be, “Where There’s Women There’s Trouble,” a comedy in three acts written by Charles P. O’Malley of Scranton, Pa., Notre Dame ’30.
The play, a satire on the Trojan war, reveals how a Trojan maiden set the Greeks to fighting among themselves. The chief character of the play is Achilles who quarrels with Agamemnon, commander-in-chief of the Greeks at the siege of Troy,-because of the said Trojan maiden.
Nearly Won Mitchell Award
The satire was runner-up in the annual contest for the Mitchell Playwriting Award in 1930, and came within one point of a tie with the winning play, “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” by Richard T. Sullivan of Kenosha, Wis., Notre Dame, ’30. According to Professor Charles Phillips of the Department of English and member of the script staff of the play, “Where There’s Women There’s Trouble” is one of the best works ever written in his drama class. The famous actress Margaret Anglin, Lae-tare Medalist, 1927, read O’Malley’s Trojan satire and praised it highly.
The production will be given Friday and Saturday evenings, March 17 and 18, and will be under the direction of Professor Frank E. Kelly of the Department of Speech.
Roosevelt 31st or 32nd?
Three fast bouts this evening: Left to right: McKernan and Schiavone, Gooden and Varraneto, Ciarerello and Malloy.
Because Grover Cleveland served two terms not in succession, it has been a controversial question whether Franklin D. Roosevelt is to be the 31st or 32nd president of the United States. The inaugural medals have settled the matter. They call Roosevelt the 31st president, meaning that Cleveland was one and not two presidents of the United States.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
SOCIOLOGISTS DISCUSS “PRISON REFORM” TOPIC
By William Kennedy
Francis Joseph Fogarty, “Mike” to some, started off here as a lot of them do—in Brownson. Turned Gold-Coaster in his second year, he forsook the simple life, and was seen around Morrissey and Howard for a while. He is now coming down the home stretch in Walsh.
This might sound like a success story, “From a Cot in a Dorm to a Single in Walsh,” but it isn’t. Dime novel heroes very seldom go to college, and when they do, they take Law—never Commerce. They come from little villages, and not from places like St. Joseph, Mo. Mike Fogarty, however, does. He tested the patience of the Christian Brothers for four years in class, and he acted in plays outside of class. Then he came North. That’s> where you and I come in.
Heads Commerce Forum
Mr. Fogarty is President of the Commerce Forum, the aims of which are the furtherance and better understanding of the course and matters relating to the course. At the next meeting, he plans to introduce what practically amounts to an innovation.
The members will be asked to “express their views and defend their viewpoints,” as he so very concisely puts it. His recent Movie Survey is another example of the progress his club is making. The results of this survey were widely praised by the foremost motion picture companies. Now he’s at work on another one. He calls it “The Survey of Student Buying Habits in Regard to Clothing.” This he intends to present to the national manufacturers and local retail dealers as an analysis of the student market.
Mike gets the Saturday Evening Post for the advertisements in it. Looks at the cartoons in Straub’s New Yorker, but doesn’t read the thing. Has a cactus plant in a little green bowl on his dresser. ’ Says it wasn’t his idea, doesnt’ know where it came from, and that “somebody else” comes in once a week to water it. Admits quite readily that he is a letter-a-day man.
Athletics do not bother him, and he doesn’t bother them to any great extent Had a deuce of a job to pass his freshman swimming exam. Has no hobbies, he remarks rather hap
pily, but can go for an occasional tennis or bridge game. Doesn’t particularly care about being interviewed, and vents his feelings in the
Francis Fogarty
He's always dressed up.
matter on the leather handle of a celluloid letter-opener, which he unconsciously rips to shreds.
His “pals,” although pressed for time, cheerfully agreed to stay and help Mike remember things. Mike said “Thanks,” but it didn’t sound at all convincing. Nevertheless Bill Kenny and Walt Straub let go with both barrels:
“Mike was serious when he was a freshman but he changed . . . He prefers the Buick. . . he has a Buick. . . He’s always dressed up.
Reads Economic Books
See? Look at him now—he’s got a vest on! .... Reads a lot, too. . . Yeh, all economic and “Around the Corner” books. . . . But he’s always the gentleman. . . . He broke a perfectly good tradition of his own the other night when he visited St. Mary’s for the first time. . . Did you see the letters he gets? Here, look! Letters from Metro, Paramount—all the big shots. . . I think he’s trying to hit them for a place in Hollywood . . . I have it! Put “would like to have a job” under his picture. . . . that’ll sound swell, and it might help . . . And you might put this in fine print. . . . that despite all his courses in banking and investment, he still
(Continued on Page 11)
Ackerman and Krantz Are Principal Speakers.
By Michael Wiedl
“Prison Reform” in all its phases was the topic of discussion given by Ferdinand Krantz and Edward Ackerman, senior majors in Sociology, at a recent meeting of the Sociology Club.
Krantz opened his talk with a complete history of the prison from the days of its birth up to the present time. He presented all the revolting and evil practices of its growth from the dungeons of Western Europe and the torments of the Orient to the prison in the United States today.
In describing the prisons in England, Krantz referred to the Penton-ville Prison where the use of a treadmill for men and women alike was most common. England has been the model of all prisons throughout Western Europe.
English Prisons
“In England,” stated Krantz, “no thought was given to the idea that the prisoner might some day be returned to society. Prisoners were thrown, sometimes naked, into dungeons, dark, damp, filthy, and often partly filled with stagnant water, swarming rats, and vermin. There was no segregation in prisons of this nature, and the morality under such circumstances can well be imagined.”
Massachusetts instituted the first prison in America. An old mine was leased and filled with implements of torture. Finally it was condemned by the state. Pennsylvania next established a prison. It was under the direct influence of the Quakers, who were peaceful people, and who did not sanction punishment such as was used in England. Here segregation and sanity were the items of most importance.
Ackerman took up the thread of reform from here and spoke on the prisons of today. He stated, “Old retaliatory methods failed in the past, neither are they beneficial at the present time. The prison has wallowed long enough in corruption. It is now time for reform measures to be introduced.
“Crime theorists now claim that crime is a disease. If this is the case our prisons are not fitted as they
(Continued on Page 32)
March 3, 1933
Nine
DEBATING TEAM WILL MEET MICHIGAN STATE
THEATRE TALK
-Ry Roger Beirne	-
Taxation Is Subject To Be Argued Monday.
With the question and time changed at the request of the Michigan State coach, Notre Dame University’s affirmative debating team will travel
to East Lansing Monday, March 6, to argue on taxation. Hugh Fitzgerald and William Kirby will represent Notre Dame against the negative of Michigan State.
Early this week, William J. Coyne, director of Notre Dame debating, re
Hugh Fitzgerald
ceived notice from Professor J. D. Menchhofer of the Michigan school that he would debate Notre Dame on the question of taxation, with certain modifications. Mr. Coyne agreed; and the question has been limited in its scope to include just two states instead of the entire nation. It reads thus: “Eesolved, that at least one-half of the state and local revenues of Indiana and Michigan be derived from sources other than tangible property.”
Originally the question referred to the taxation problems of each of the 48 states. By thus limiting the proposition the affirmative’s problem is greatly simplified; and the negative has by far the more difficult side of
Like the March lion, the Abbey Theatre players came into the mousequiet Chicago theatre. The arrival is an outstanding event, for a change. These happy descendants of the National Irish theatre (the name was changed in the honor of their endowed Abbey theatre) are as welcome in the American household of drama as their forebears were with and without “The Playboy of the Western World.” Time makes so many changes—some were wary that the Irish lion might have been a leopard when it came to this country years ago and so, susceptible to a change of spots. But the present players have retained all that original mastery of their indigenous technique that made the first visit a success. Nor is there any danger of a metamorphosis into the timid hare of outgoing fame, for there is one thing, unusual and precious in this day and age, that characterizes the Irish workmanship, namely, a certain stability that comes of a fundamental certainty of ability and limitation. The Irish lion stalks the dangerous theatrical jungles without falling into the snares and traps of the commercial theatrical hurly-burly. For this reason, its charming simplicity, there will be no shooting of deers in the Chicago theatre’s balcony.
Repertorial System
The repertorial system is the Abbey Players’ way of showing their versatility and presenting both old and new plays. A repertory bill that stretches over a full week and two matinees with two one-act curtain raisers gives the players ample time to set forth the concentrated stability of the Irish National theatre. Nothing pretentious in scenery or in costume but a constancy of excellent acting and the music of their lilting voices give evidence of their satisfaction in their heritage. All the way from Dublin, by way of a few months tally in New York, they come to Chicago to exhaust all dramatic appre-
the debate. At the time of these negotiations, the day scheduled for the debate was changed from Thursday, March 2, to Monday, March 6.
The affirmative team from Michigan State will debate Notre Dame’s negative couplet here next Friday, March 10. Decision will be given on both contests.
ciation except the discipline of the pocketbook patronage. The players are at the Harris theatre, and there are good seats at the Harris for one dollar. It is well worth the time to go up for a matinee. Anyone of the plays carries one to a far-off sod, peopled with a tumble-down, quaint folk who assert their immortality by their imaginative tongues.
Yeats Prominent In Irish Drama
Through the inspiration of Lady Gregory and William Butler Yeats, there came about this theatrical movement in Ireland that has succeeded in establishing what dll the affluence and autocracy of the American theatre has failed to, namely, a nationally representative drama. But it was no magic-wand task. The -presto of the accomplishment came from the insistent lips of the Irish idealists who believed in the peculiar quality of the Irish voi"e and the natural worth of truly “Emerald Isle” drama. One, Edward Martyn, in his conviction on the adaptation of the cosmopolitan drama and the star system almost won his cause. Through the voice studies of the Fays the native diction was formulated into a standardized assonance and this which gives the musical discipline to the retained racial identity in the voice for concert with the artistic and representative notes of the plays.
The celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the McDowell Colony at Peterboro, New Hampshire does not allow an evaluation of the consummate worth of this Colony to the artists who have taken the advantage of working there. Its total, .bmu-mi value will always be undeterminable. That it has been the successful realization of the great American composers vision of a haven where artists could find peace to work in and have communion with creative workers in other than their own fields is one way of measuring its merit. L'^wence Gilman writes in the Herald-Tribune that it is “one of the most bravely idealistic, sagely realistic and wholly treasureably enterprises our American civilization has known.” Artists who have worked there have testified to the accommodative benefit of having their meals left on their small eottage porches until they found a breaking away moment, or to the inspiring landscape of “the real monu-(Continued on Page 11)
Ten
The Scholastic
CHANPIONS TO MIX IN BENGAL BOXING SHOW
(Continued from Page 6)
evade Phil’s left hand, he should make this a very interesting fight.
The middleweight scrap should, be the battle royal of the show. In this class two husky punchers, Frank Schiavone, from Buffalo, N. Y., and Bart McKernan from Chicago, are pitted against each other. Both of these men throw caution to the winds and substitute punches for discretion. Bart is probably the better boxer of the two, but Frank is the faster on his feet.
Science vs. Slugging
John (Nick Carton, from Chicago, meets Jimmy Byrne, of Cleveland in the welterweight final. Nick has an edge on Byrne in three important departments— he is the better boxer, he has the reach, which, with his left jab, should prove very annoying to James, and he is the superior in ringcraft. Byrne, a rough, aggressive fighter, will attempt to make up for these deficiencies in boxing skill by using a plunging, weaving, boring-in attack. His style is aptly suited to make this a very good, close, fiercely-contested battle all the way through.
Two former Scholastic champions clash in the lightweight class when Joe Ciaverello, from Chicago, tangles • with Billy Malloy, from Flushing, L. I. Both men are in good shape and about equal in punching and boxing ability. It will be a dandy bout because these men are so evenly matched and equal in the different departments of fisticuffs.
Golden Gloves Champ
The featherweight class finds two very good little fellows paired. Harold Gooden, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the Oklahoma State featherweight champion, meets Dominick Varraveto, Jr., of Chicago. They are about equal in boxing ability, although Dominick is the shiftier of the two, but Gooden holds an edge on the punching side packing T. N. T. in either glove. Var-raveto’s shifty, circling attack should give Gooden some real worry this evening and make an exciting scrap.
The first bout of the program finds Ed Nerad, of Berwyn, Ill., bracketed against Russ Torrell, of Perth Amboy, N. J., in the flyweight finals. The styles of these two men are quite similar. Nerad is the better boxer but Torrell hits the hardest blows; the
(Continued on Page 11)
WRANGLERS HEAR PLAN FOR CUT IN PUBLIC SCHOOL EXPENSES.
Thomas O’Meara, a member of the Wrangler Society, spoke to that organization last Wednesday evening, at the regular weekly meeting. His topic centered about the high cost of operation of state and local governments, and he stressed what he believed was one of the principal reasons, namely public school education.
Characterizing education he said, “it is close to the hearts of all educators, but at the same time, necessarily, is of vital importance to that class of people who look upon it in view’ of effecting economy.”
O’Meara pointed out that ■whereas in 1880 the cost of educating a student per year was five dollars, at the present time that cost is considerably more than twTenty times as great. He admitted improvements have been made since that time, but “have they been bettered twenty times as much? Does the increased cost justify itself,” he asked.
Showing some of the ways in which the cost of education has been greatly magnified he cited w’hat he termed, “the unnecessary expenses incurred by the installation of athletic, equipment, such as tennis courts, golf courses and the like. Then too, every educator with a new idea, is allowed to put it into practice, practical or not, at the expense of the taxpayer.”
Outlining these items of unjustifiable expenditures of the citizen’s money, he included the teachers’ salaries. He claimed that for the most part, and in view of the fact that other citizens have experienced depreciated incomes, teachers should be subjected to a substantial cut in salary.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 5)
figures to a par with those of last year’s show
Third man in the ring tonight will be, as The Scholastic has repeatedly said, the Chicago heavyweight, Gerald A. Griffith. Another individual who will hop in and out of X the ropes will be Joseph “Funny Fel-low” McCabe who will do the announcing for the evening in his habitually Humorous fashion.
A story of the men who are participating in tonight’s bouts will be found on page 6.
CAMPUS SINGERS CAST IN FRESHMAN OPERETTA
“The Vagabonds,” Musical Play to be Staged Soon.
Three weeks remain before the freshman operetta, “The Vagabonds,” will be presented. The cast and directors of the play are working diligently on this first musical attempt on the part of Notre Dame students. The operetta will be given in Washington Hall on the evenings of March 29, 30, and 31.
Ryan Will Sing
Two of the most outstanding baritones on the campus will have roles in the plav. John Ryan, Glee Club / soloist, noted particularly for his singing of the new, “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” will play the part of Adolf,, the Crown Prince of Nonsenia. He sings several selections in this role.
George M. Memard, also of the Glee Club, known for his solos at the basketball game concerts and for hi singing of the Junior prom theme song, “Close to Me,” at the dance last week, will portray the part of Noe- x tall, Prime Minister and advisor to the King.
Members of the publicity staff are working on campus bulletins which will be distributed among the halls next week.
“TUFFY” GRIFFITH
(Continued from Page 5)
In summary Tuffy Griffith is one of the best and most deservedly popular men in the ring. He is acknowledged to be the fastest and most clever heavyweight extant. His left hand is perfection—he can both hook and jab with it—and his right is deadly. Were it not for his lack of height and weight we might now have in him a fighting heavyweight champ.
He has always been a Notre Dame rooter. For his kindness in offering his services in such a cause as the Bengal Bouts we wish to assure him that from now on Notre Dame will be a loyal friend and fan of Tuffy Griffith, the fighting gentleman.
I think that the reason so many are willing to lay down their lives for their country is that their country has never made their lives sufficiently attractive.—Arthur Branders, economist.
e
March 3, 1933
Eleven
ACCOUNTANTS ORGANIZE NEW CLUB DURING WEEK
J. A. SULLIVAN ADMITTED TO NATIONAL SOCIAL WORKERS GROUP.
FIRST OF SERIES OF ART LECTURES GIVEN
Art Cavender Made President of Commerce Group.
The list of campus organizations was increased during the past week, when a group of commerce students organized what is to be known in the future as the Accountant’s Club.
At the first meeting of the club, held recently, officers were elected as follows: Arthur Cavender, president; Stewart Osborn, first vice-president; Joseph Churchman, second vice-president: Paul Kane, secretary; and Frederic Meyer, treasurer.
Mr. Chizek, who sponsored the origination of the club, and Mr. Price, both members of the Accounting Department, will serve in the capacity of faculty advisers.
The purpose of the club will be to present three nationally-known practicing accountants, all specialists in the three departments of the occupation, namely, as a profession, cost accounting, and income tax accounting. Further than this, various business machine concerns will be invited to demonstrate their various products to the students in the club.
There will be instituted the Accountant’s Club award, given annually to the student, who in the opinion of the faculty, is most likely to succeed in future life.
The original enrollment totaled ninety-three students, and according to the rule of the organization, only those students who are members of the advanced accounting classes, usually restricted to Juniors and Seniors, will be admitted.
CHAMPIONS TO FIGHT
(Continued from Page 10)
fans can decide tonight whether the hitter or the boxer is the better fighter.
Dr. C. C. Hyde, of South Bend, is donating his services and -will be in attendance to examine all the contestants at 7 p. m. in the varsity locker room.
The few fights during which Griffith will rest will probably be handled by John Van Hyck, lightweight champion of Michigan.
Judges for the evening will be “Hunk” Anderson, Jim “Red” Noonan, who will make the trip to Notre Dame with Griffith and Van Hyck, while he is not refereeing.
Professor John A. Sullivan of the Department of Sociology has recently been admitted to the American Association of Social Workers. A senior membership, the highest conferred, .. was granted to him.
Membership to the association is only obtainable after at least two years of graduate work and a year’s experience, or the equivalent in active social work. Thereupon some active member of the association must present the name of the applicant before the board which either accepts or rejects the application.
Professor Sullivan took up social work in New York City after he completed his graduate studies. He joined the faculty here in September.
Composed of the leading social workers throughout the country, the members of the American Association of Social Workers aim to place all social workers on a professional standard, similar to that of other professions and at the same time render aid to the solution of the national and international social problems.
In most of tthe larger cities, a member of this association is to be found; whether the city of South Bend has either a junior, or senior member, is not known.
THEATRE TALK
(Continued from Page 9)
ments to the ages” instead of the noisy steel and mortar canyons of the cities.
Those who have worked there are famous and obscure. Among the outstanding names are Edward Arlington Robinson, Thornton Wilder, DuBose Heyward, Willa Cather, Ruth Draper, Padraic Colum, Julia Peter-kin. Peterboro is quiet and with such a mixture of crafts as represented in the few names listed above McDowell, through the McDowell Association and his widow, Mrs. Edward McDowell, has given a wonderful opportunity for the infant American ■ culture to try its legs.
There have been many famous .works composed there besides the ‘--' eight Pulitzer Prize awards hut greater than these there must have been many ideals germinated there and spread from there.
Frank M. Ludevig Talks on the Practical Side of Art.
By Tom Proctor
“How shall -we judge our modem skyscrapers?” This theme was developed by Frank M. Ludevig of Columbus, Ohio, last night, in Washington Hall as the first of three lectures on an appreciation of art. The purpose of these discourses is to arouse an appreciation of art by exploring it from a practical point of view.
In the main the speaker dwelt with architecture. Mr. Ludevig is qualified in this field because as son of the president of the F. A. Ludevig Company, an outstanding architectural firm of the Middle West, as. a professional in this vocation and aided by extensive travels, he has had actual contacts with the subjects involved.
Outlines Progress Of Art
Mr. Ludevig began with an outline of the progress of art, pointing out that the sense of the artistic and the beautiful has been inherent in all mankind throughout all ages. Then, by means of many and varied slides, some of which for sheer beauty drew audible appreciation from his audience, the speaker described the great Cathedral of Notre. Dame in Paris, which was completed in the 13th century. Mr. Ludevig pointed out the organic composition of the Cathedral, synonymous with nature, the flying buttresses, verticality, gargoyles, and other points of interest in this great triumph of Gothic architecture. The lecture was concluded with a comparison between this' medieval architecture and our modem skyscrapers. “Does modem architecture have the soul of the medieval?” asked Mr. Ludevig.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 8)
has faith in certain midwestern institutions, Y’know. . . .”
“Mike, tell him how you started for the Army game last Fall and suddenly found yourself in Eastern, Pa. . . Sure, sure, we know you saw the game. . . Sure you did. . . sure. . . . And don’t forget your trip from coast to coast. . . . Whaddayamean. that’s nothing?. . . .And in a Ford, too. . Isn’t that something?”
Twelve
The Scholastic
EINSTEIN AND PRIEST ONE ON FUNDAMENTALS
Science and Religion Never Antagonistic—Lemaitre.
By Louis Hruby
When the famed Einstein, heard the explanation of Abbe Lemaitre’s theory of the expansion of the universe, as offered by the French priest, he was led to make the following comment: “This is the most beautiful and satisfactory explanation of creation to which I have ever listened.” In a word, Einstein was endorsing the Abbe theory.
In a bare classroom of the California Institute of Technology, Lemaitre was discussing that ever-existent topic of the conflict between religion and science.
Bible Not A Text
“This conflict, where is it? Here we have this wonderful . . . universe. When we try to learn more about it . . . what are we doing? Only seeking the truth. And is not truth-seeking a service to God?”
Continuing his discourse, Lemaitre pointed out the heart of the misunderstanding between religion and science. “It lies,” he said, “in the fact that many scientists'believe the Bible pretends to teach science. When they find the Bible’s scientific references wrong, they repudiate it utterly. Should a priest reject relativity because it contains no authoritative exposition of the doctrine of the Trinity?”
Bible For Salvation Only
Abbe Lemaitre said the lesson of the Bible is one showing the way to salvation. “The Bible says that creation was accomplished in six days. There is no reason to abandon the Bible because we now believe that it took perhaps ten thousand million years to create what we think is the universe. Genesis is simply trying to teach us that one day in seven should be devoted to rest, worship, and reverence, all necessary to salvation.”
In attempting to show the unimportance of errors in the Bible Lemaitre said that since such subjects as immortality and salvation are concluded to be true, people are prone to
“NEWS” EDITORIALIZES ON THE JAZZ ERA AND ITS EFFECTS.
The Chicago Daily Neivs, in its issue of Feb. 25, carried an editorial entitled, “The Cult of the Crude and Rude.” The comment was prompted by a proposal, provoked by a campus incident, that a course in courtesy should be included in every college curriculum.
There is mueh to admire in modern college youth, but assuredly the admirable is not to be found in the technique of their social contacts, or in their attitude toward their elders. The old deference of man to woman, of the young to the mature, has almost disappeared. The amenities of intercourse have been discarded. It is as if that consideration for the feelings of others which is the very wellspring of courtesy had dried up; as if a cult of rudeness had been developed deliberately.
An effort is made to rationalize and defend the new style of behavior on the ground that it is less hypocritical than were the old social graces. Frankness, supposedly, is the distinguishing virtue of modern youth. Any subject may be discussed, any language may be used. Yet being flippant and cheap in speech and gesture is not necessarily an evidence of sincerity.
There is something in the spirit and tempo ot our age which seems to have jazzed the manners of the adult generation no less than those of the younger. We are in too great a hurry to be polite. We crowd and jostle, tramp on one another’s toes, obstruct one another’s passage, monopolize more than our share of space in public conveyances, and often without apology. That does not make life easier. Everybody is rubbed the worng way. Neither more nor better work is done.
It would seem that we might learn from our mechanistic era the wisdom of using ball bearings and lubricants for human relations no less than for machines.
accept the fallacy that historic and scientific facts in the Bible are also true. “This,” he said, “is a common fault of people who have an incomplete understanding of why the Bible was given to us at all.”
“The real cause of conflict between science and religion is to be found with men, and not in the Bible or the finding of physicists. When men were told that they had a right to interpret the Bible’s teachings according to their own lights, naturally some were bound to decide that its science was infallible, and others that it did not agree with the modern instrumental measurements and was proof of opposite doctrines.”
CHICAGO ARCHITECT SPEAKS TO ENGINEERS
Discusses Preparation Method For World’s Fair.
By Edward F. Mansfield
“The Century of Progress Exposition and Its Architecture” was the title of a lecture by Richard V. Munson, Chicago architect and volunteer speaker for the Exposition, at a meeting of the Engineer’s Club Monday evening.
“The story of the evolution of our industries will be told at the Exposition. ... Not only scientific advancement, but changes in our social and political life will be demonstrated, and the federal and state governments will tell their stories,” Mr. Murison said in outlining the scope of the Exposition, or “World’s Fair,” as it is commonly known.
Will Defend Machine
“Science and industry, if they are -on trial, as many would strive to make us think, will have their greatest opportunity to defend themselves and prove their real status during this Exposition,” stated Mr. Murison in answer to those who advance the theory that machinery and invention are entirely to blame for our economic plight.
“The Century of Progress will aid immeasurably in showing that the machine age is going ahead wonderfully for the aid of all in the future,” the speaker continued.
Passing from the general background topic of the Exposition to the details of the project itself, Mr. Murison presented an explanation of the architectural features of the principal buildings, using colored lantern slides to illustrate the points brought out.
Not “Modernistic”
“ ‘‘Modernistic* applies to the bizarre, the weird, the grotesque in buildings which have been designed in an attempt at the modern manner. Our new architecture is not modernistic, when in the right form, but is a symbol of the spirit of the times, a reflection of the new attitude and new outlook of man,” the lecturer explained regarding the structural form of the Exposition buildings.
“Designed expressly for the electrical illumination effects to be produced, these buildings are innovations in contrast to structures which are
(Continued on Page 14)
March 3, 1933
Thirteen
SOUTH BEND PHYSICIAN
TALKS TO SCIENCE HEN
PROFESSOR RIPLEY, NOTED ECONOMIST, RESIGNS FROM HARVARD.
168 STUDENTS PLACED ON ’33 PROBATION LIST
Medical Practice is Topic of Dr. McMeel’s Address.
Dr. James McMeel, prominent physician and internist of South Bend, addressed a meeting of the Academy of Science last week on “The Medical Practice of Tomorrow.”
The speaker stated that “the great hue and cry of people today is raised in protest against the high medical fees.” He then proceeded to describe the old practitioner who had very little equipment with which to treat his great number of patients. It was pointed out that ninety-five per cent of the cases requiring medical attention were cared for by the family practitioner.
Patients Bring High Fees
In the first decade of the twentieth century the period of specialization v began. Along with this came such devices as the X-ray machine and other elaborate diagnostic apparatus. From this time on a great number of the patients preferred to consult the c specialists for medical care. “Thus,” the speaker stated, “the patients bring the high medical fees upon themselves by their high demands for the specialists and their costly equipment, although a great number of such cases could be successfully handled by the practicing physician.
“In 1927,” Dr. McMeel said, “a committee was appointed to investigate this question of medical costs, and it was not until November 1932, •	just a few months ago, that the final
report of this body was filed.” The findings of the committee were presented in a majority report, sponsored by insurance companies, social workers, lawyers, economists, and other business men; and a minority '	report submitted by the practicing
physician.
Minority Ask Readjustment
This majority report favored the establishment of medical centers to which the medical patients could ap-* ply for treatment. The minority report advocated a readjustment of the fees for medical services, but was opposed to the plan for centralized medical practice.
Cambridge, Mass.—The resignation of Wiliam Z. Ripley as professor of political economy at Harvard University, which will become effective March 1, removes from active teaching one of the nation’s leading economists.
The resignation has been prompted by poor health. Dr. Ripley will become professor emeritus at Harvard.
Following the announcement of his resignation, the New York Times said of him:
“He has won international renown in his field. His studies and pronouncements on many important problems and phases of the nation’s economic life have produced profound impression and have influenced legislation.
Transportation Problem Expert
“An authority in two distinct fields, anthropology and economics, Prof. Ripley is best known in this country for his knowledge of the problems of railway management, transportation and distribution of goods. In recent years he has been active in researches in modern corporation development and has been a leading advocate for control of holding companies and adequate protection of the interests of stockholders. . . .
“Best known among his works are “Main Street and Wall Street,” “The Financial History of Virginia,” “The Races of Europe,” “Trusts, Polls and Corporations,” “Railway Problems,” “Railroads — Rates and Regulations,” and “Railroads—Finance and Organization.”
Numerous other phases of this plan as well as the attitude of the medical practitioner as a whole were enumerated. Throughout the talk it was stressed that this problem of the commercialization of medicine will be met with by the medical students of today when they begin the practice of medicine.
In conclusion Dr. McMeel stated, “What the answer to the question, ‘What will be the medical practice of tomorrow?,’ is, I must say that I do not know. I am confident, however, that the problem, if left to the medical profession, will be solved in an efficient, satisfactory manner.”
Percentages According To All Colleges, Halls Given.
Through the bulletin issued from the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, the following statistics are available for inspection.. The students who are on Probation in the second semester of
1932-33 are listed according to Colleges, Years, and Halls. Percent
Enroll- On pro- on pro-
College	mei}t bation bation
Arts and Letters ____1104	63	5.7
Science ............. 226	22	9.7
Engineering ......... 387	39	10.0
Law ................. 159	2	1.2
Commerce ............ 723	42	5.8
2599	168	6.4
Graduate ............. 60	00	0.0
2659	168	6.3
Percent
Enroll- On pro- on pro-
Years	ment bation bation
Freshmen ............ 730	78	10.6
Sophomores .......... 718	54	7.5
Juniors ............. 549	25	4.5
Seniors ............. 432	9	2.0
Law ................. 159	2	1.2
Graduates .. ••....... 60	0	0
Special .............. 11	0	0
2659	168	6.3
Enroll- On pro- on proHalls	ment bation bation
Sorin ............... 140	2	1.4
Walsh ............... 173	4	2.3
Corby ............... 160	2	1.2
Howard .............. 146	4	2.7
Alumni .............. 208	13	6.2
Badin ............... 144	4	2.7
St. Edward’s ........ 185	9	4.8
Morrissey ........... 234	15	6.4
Lyons .............   170	25	14.7
Carroll .............. 42	3	7.1
Dillon .............. 245	19	7.7
Brownson ............. 91	10	10.9
Freshmen ............ 170	22	12.9
Off Campus-.......... 392	-	25	6.3
Moreau ............... 79	6	7.5
Holy Cross .......... 21'	3	14.2
Brothers ............. 48	2	4.1
Priests and Sisters__ 11	0	0.0
Fr. Soph. Jr. Sr. Law T’l
Arts and	letters. 25	25	10	3	—	63
Science ..........16	4	1	1	—	22
Engineering _____ 25	8	5	1	—	39
Law.............. 12	17	9	4	2	42
78	54	25	9	2 168
The declaration of war is the proof of the diplomat’s inability to cope with the stupidity of big business, the waging of war is the proof of the people’s inability to cope with the diplomats.—Arthur Franck, historian.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
FENCING TEAR PLANNED BY OFFICERS’ RESERVE
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.	.
Prof. De Landero to Act as Coach of Team.
CHURCH LIGHTING
Editor of The Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Editor:
During the sermon at the nine o’clock Mass Sunday before last in Sacred Heart Church, I found that the lights suspended from the pillars are so bright that it is impossible to see the pulpit without an almost blinding effect.
My suggestion would be either to use a more limited amount of light or else raise the lamps so as to make them free of the line of vision. As they are, there is a great tendency to look away from the pulpit, and in this manner miss half of what is said.
Sincerely,
M. C. T.
’34 PINS
Dear Editor:	.
This seems to me to be the right place to complain of the high price that has been set on the junior class pins this year. In previous years when the price has been fifteen dollars, there wasn’t many complaints,
1933 GLEE CLUB
The above picture includes the present personnel of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, (in the center) is director of the group.
Bottom row: Jahr, Scanlon, Butler, Fefferman, Corrigan, Adamson, Professor Casasanta, Devaney, Gervasio, Sheilds, Meeker, Reuland, Fromm.
Second row: Casazza, Wade, Egan, Gill, Menard, Hart, Dozens, Dockenr dorff, Wenz, Cavender, Carnes, Scholz.
Third row: Nesbit, Tompkins, Ryan, Butler, Murphy, Roach, Brett, Gerend, Quinn, Cahill, Lennartz.
Top row: Schlueter, Ayres, Brice, Flynn, Coady, Corduro, Ryan, Geoghegan, Marohn, Kelley, Rolfs, Chouinard, Dwyer, Stemper.
but it seems to me that in view of the financial status of a majority of the juniors, something should be done about reducing the price.
With the lower prices in evidence on other commodities, why shouldn’t the prices of these pins be lowered? Is it because the pins this year are of a superior quality to those of past years and hence the same price? If so, the quality needn’t be any better than that of previous years. In my estimation most of the fellows would be satisfied with pins of the same quality as our predecessors.
Such a move would have the sanction of the entire junior class, I know, and would enable those of us who cannot afford to buy one at the present high price to do so.
Sincerely,
M. W.
LOST!
A black overcoat and a green hat in the Oliver Hotel last Saturday night during the Junior dinner dance. A reward will be given if the finder returns the clothing to the owner in 235 Sorin.
If present plans of the Officers’ Reserve Club go into effect, Notre Dame will have a fencing team in the near future. Although nothing definite has met with their full approval as yet, they have pledged their support to the project.
Professor Pedro deLandero of the University, a skilled master in the gentlemanly art, will probably act as coach of the team. Membership on the team will not be limited to the Officers’ Reserve Club, as any able fencer in the University may try out. During the past few months several fencing matches have been staged on the campus, which have met with the approval of the students and have shown the presence of. considerable skill in the participants.
ENGINEER’S LECTURE
(Continued from Page 12)
constructed without regard for lighting effects, having the illumination arranged after the building has been planned.”
“Aluminum color, or silver as it is commonly termed, has been used in these Exposition buildings because it is the best color for the new lighting to be used, both inside and out,” the architect said, “and there are no windows in the building because they would make impossible the ‘painting’ with light which is to be used for interior and exterior decoration.”
After the illustrated part of the lecture, Mr. Murison remarked in closing:
“Those men who have carried on with vision and courage in planning the Exposition will be rewarded by public acclaim when we all realize that they will have produced the greatest exposition of all time.”
To duplicate the light of the sun on the earth’s surface, it would be necessary to cover the sky with an almost solid canopy of electric light bulbs. To produce the equivalent of sunlight it would be necessary to suspend thirteen incandescent lamps over each square foot of the earth’s surface.	'
Ma/rch 3, 1933
Fifteen
BOOKHEN CLUB HEARS TALK BY FATHER WARD
Need of Personal Standards in •	Literature is Topic.
Reporter Finds Out Why N. D/s Bells Never Miss
By George Leyes
By Lloyd Teske
The Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., of the English department addressed the Bookmen at their meeting last (	Monday evening.
Opening his talk with a short discussion of criticism, Father Ward showed the necessity of establishing personal standards of values in the reading of contemporary literature. This led to a consideration of essays, .	both critical and personal. Among
the British contemporary essayists J. B. Priestley and Max Beerbohm were cited by the speaker as being leaders in the field, the latter being absolutely unique in his extremely personal writings.
*	American Authors
Of the Americans writing this type f	of literature Charles S. Brooks was
mentioned as the modem exponent of the Lamb essay. Father Ward also gave considerable discussion to the works of Louise Imogen Guiney, who, *	though not well known, is a highly
significant writer, especially of the critical essay and the personal letter.
In the field of fiction Father Ward considered Mark Twain as the most typical writer of rugged American spirit. Only recently has the simplicity, clarity, and muscularity of his prose received adequate notice. Stephen Crane was also mentioned chiefly as a lesser known writer who has influenced one who is quite generally recognized, Joseph Conrad.
After this talk on contemporary literature and its background, the general discussion at the close of the meeting naturally led to modem novelists. Such extremes as Sinclair Lewis and Sigrid Undset, received consideration.
NOTICE!
The time limit on payments of Campus Club assessment to the Dome has been extended to Saturday, March 4th. All clubs that wish to be represented in the Dome must have the fee of $10 paid in to the Publications Office by that time.
Punctuality is regarded as one of the greatest virtues. Notre Dame tries to inculcate this virtue into her students by a bell system which is said to be one of the most modem and up to date in use.
Brother Irenaeus is in charge of the electrical department, and has been on the job for some thirty years. He goes about his business in the same methodical and precise manner as the bells themselves. Even interviews are taken automatically by him. When the inquiring reporter asked about the mysteries of the bell system. Brother Irenaeus got busy on the typewriter and punched out the following paragraphs:
Those Days Of Yore!
“In the good old days,” he says, “when halls were scarce and students not so numerous, class bells were few and far between, in fact, the one in the Main Building constituted the official signal for action. The other halls depended upon their rectors to ring up the joyful tidings to their respective students; consequently a diversity in attendance was the rule, so extensions were made from this one central point to the other halls. Additional halls meant additional extensions, and shifting prefects between clashes in the Main Building caused shifting operating moments, and consequently, confusion, so something had to be done. The final step was the installation of an automatic master signaling clock announcing system, and the regulation in class notification, thus eliminating much grief in the Prefect of Discipine’s office.
New System In 1928
“It was in the Spring of 1928 that the automatic master signaling clock was installed. It was purchased from the Self Winding Clock Company of Brooklyn, N. Y. It is a synchronized, self-winding movement, equipped with a 24 hour single fixer program attachment, and six circuit relays arranged to actuate the bell circuit, invar steel pendulum and winding batteries.
“Previous to the Spring of 1928 all hall and class bells were controlled from the Main Building by means of manual switches, although each hall could operate their own bells sep
arately for their own purpose. To improve the accuracy of the bell system, as stated above, an automatic signal clock was installed. With this system, barring accidents, all bells ring on the dot for a specified number of seconds. Radiating from the central point, the system is divided into several circuits or groups of halls and the ringing of the bells in all the circuits is simultaneous. To simplify and improve the system, relays are installed out along the line, their purpose being to save current and to expedite repairs.
Bells! Bells! Bells!
“The bells throughout the campus are on an open circuit system, and are of the double gong type. The operation of the bells is quite simple and effective when free of truant hands. Rain or shine, hot or cold weather, they are on their good behavior. There are between 90 and 100 bells in all that are controlled by this one clock. The clock itself contains relays from which the several circuits are distributed throughout the campus. It is in turn connected to the Western Union clock, and is corrected hourly for accurate time. In case of clock trouble, a manual switch is provided to manipulate the bells, while the necessary repairs are made.”
Before leaving Brother Irenaeus we queried, “I bet you have some interesting stories to tell. regarding the bell system.” “They might be funny to the students,” he replied laconically, “but any trouble that interferes with the regular functioning of the bells is not funny to the electrical department.”
Clark University Professor
Lists Anti-Catholic Books
Ray Allen Billington, instructor in history at Clarke University, Worcester. Mass., has compiled a list of antiCatholic books, pamphlets and periodicals circulated in the United States between the years 1800 and 1860.
Nearly two thousand titles are listed and among them are George Barrow’s The Bible in Spain, Walter Savage Landor's Popery. British and Foreign, and four books by Samuel F. B. Morse, the inventor of the telegraph.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
To Recognize The Red or No? U. S. Faces Dilemna
By James Fitzpatrick
FINAL BAND CONCERT OF SEASON TOMORROW
Marches, Popular Selections, And Solos on Program.
The recent movement on foot within the ranks of the Democratic party to recognize Soviet Russia once again brings this perennial question to the fore. Added to this is a petition signed by 268 colleges and £09 college presidents and faculty members which w a s presented t o President-elect Roosevelt in which the signers urge the recognition of Russia. This question has to vie with many others for a position of paramount importance, what with prohibition, war debts, technocracy, and other bugaboos facing the American public.
Implications Of “Recognition”
There is no uniform definition of recognition as applied to foreign countries. It generally implies, however, that a certain state is an independent nation with an organized government and free from domination by another nation. It also implies, obviously, that the state possesses a definite territory and that a population inhabits this territory. Recognition as regards the United States also consists of diplomatic relations. Diplomatic relations may be curtailed if the state’s own interest is concerned, if international good will is endangered, or if honorable intercourse between states is jeopardized.
United States And Russia
Russia might be recognized as a de facto government, which would mean simple admission of the fact that a government with power to enforce its mandates in a civilized manner exists. De Jure government defined in Jurisprudence means “a government established according to the constitution of the. state, and lawfully entitled to recognition and supremacy and the administration of the state.” If the United States recognized Russia, she would have to exchange ambassadors unless she wanted to establish a precedent in statecraft. The recognition of Russia rests with the president of the United States, and he may allow economic, political, and moral factors to influence his decision.
The three alleged reasons which America uses for refusing to recognize Russia are: (1) the Third International, (2) repudiation of debts, (3) refusal on the part of Russia to
restore confiscated American property. The Third International or Communist’s Party is the bogey man that makes us the most leery of Soviet Russia, althoi’gh there is no official connection between the United States of Soviet Russia, and the Third International. Stalin, and most of the other Soviet officials are leaders of this organization.
The Soviet Treasury does not contribute to the Communist Party—at least not openly. After the French Revolution the United States was flooded with propaganda, advocating the cause of the radical and sanguinary government which was instituted, but this had no elect upon our recognizing the feeble French nation. Since the fear of the spread of Communist doctrine is the foremost stumbling block in the path of recognition the United States should feel that it could cope with this admitted evil much more effectively if the two countries were on open diplomatic relations.
The Debt Question
As regards the repudiation of debts the stand of the United States is not consistent with previous positions taken in regard to other countries. Spain, Roumania, Portugal, and Greece have defaulted on large amounts of their debts in the last one hundred years. Several other nations have as much as told us recently that they will not pay. A large proportion of the debts which we claim Russia owes us were contracted for Esthon-ia, Latvia, Finland, and Poland which have since been taken away from Russia. To offset the $330 000,000 worth of American property seized by the Soviets, damage estimated at sixty trillion dollars was done to Russia by allied troops who enter Siberia and Russia proper and sacked property, although a state of war did not exist between the Soviets and the allies. When Russia cabled a note to President Coolidge after his first message to Congress in which he laid down the terms for recognition, she stated that she was ready to open discussion. Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes hastened to reply that “there would seem to be at this time no need for negotiations.” Such a (Continued on Page 30)
The University band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, will conclude its program of regular weekly concerts in the gymnasium tomorrow evening at the basketball game. A selected program will be pre~ented. The concert begins at 7:30 o’clock.
Throughout the basketball season at Notre Dame this year the band has been present. The program arranged for tomorrow includes the standard marches of Sousa and Goldman, as well as several popular selections.
In addition to the playing of the concert numbers, George M. Menard ' and John Ryan, Glee Club soloists, will be featured in several selections. Menard will sing “My Wild Irish Rose,” and “Let Me Call- You Sweetheart.” Ryan will sing the popular “OF Man River,” and “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling.”
Most popular among the numbers this year played by the band are “Semper Fidelis,” “On The Campus,” “On The Mall,” and “Goofus.” Several attempts at community singing have been made by Professor Casa-santa with little results.
There are seventy-two members in the University concert band at present. The first public concert of the spring season is planned for April 5, in Washington Hall.
Constitution for Military Club Drawn up at Committee Meet
A committee of six men representing as many military schools held a meeting Thursday evening, February 23, at which they drew up a constitution for the campus military club which is composed of graduates of military schools and men of equivalent training.
P. T. Osborne, chairman of the committee, said that the constitution and the plans ‘ for the club are subject to the approval of Professor H. J. Bott and Mr. R. B. Riordan, faculty advisors, and members of the club. _
There was a meeting of a commit- -tee consisting of P. T. Osborn, M. J, Scanlan, G. T. Grimes, H. W. May, J. C. McDevitt, John Flynn, and Geore Ireland last Monday.
March 3, 1933
Seventeen
NEW SUPPLY OF BOOKS RECEIVED BY LIBRARY
De Kruif, Sandberg and Belloc Most Popular.
A complete list of new books obtainable at the circulation desk of the University Library has recently been released by Miss Marie Lawrence of the Circulation department. M e n Against Death, by Paul Henry De Kruif is one of the most popular. Three other books in demand are Mary Lincoln, Wife and Widow by Carl Sandberg, Napoleon by Hilaire Belloc, and Shakespeare’s Tragic Heroes by Lily Bess Campbell.
Other noteworthy books of recent addition are as follows:
Literature: The Twentieth Century Novel—by Joseph W. Beach, A Tale of Troy—by John Masefield, and All is Grist—by Gilbert Keith Chesterton.
History and Description: Interpretations, 1931-1932—by Walter Lippmann, People of the Serpent — by Edward H. Thompson, and The History of the Russian Revolution— 3 vol.—by Lev Trotskii.
Fine Art: The Etching Hobby—by William D. Cox, and A Woodcut Manual—by Julius J. Lankes.
Biography: Our Foreign-born Citizens—by Annie E. Beard.
Commerce: Modern Foreign Exchange—by Escher Franklin.
Ethics: Spectatoretis—by Joy B. Nash.
Anthropology: Social Anthropology —by Paul Rodin.
Professor Casasanta Is
Father of Nina Pound Girl
Coincidentally, as Professor Joseph Casasanta and his University Band were playing “Babes in Toyland” at the concert given in the gymnasium Saturday night, Feb. 11, he became the father of a nine and one-quarter pound baby girl.
The new baby, baptized Maria, is the second child of Professor and Mrs. Joseph Casasanta, the other one being a son.
Tayes Snowden, 74, noted professor of history and “grand old man” of the University of South Carolina, died last week.
Hear N. D. Bath-House Rules In The Gay 60’s!
By Louis Giragi
When Justinian thought about formulating his celebrated code of laws, Notre Dame did not specifically enter into his mind, but one thing is certain—the rules and regulations of the University in 1860. or thereabouts, followed the famed lawmaker even to a greater extent than he himself believed any citizen ever would.
Interesting to note, among the rules of the University in the sixties, re: a few which in our day seem very strict and decidedly queer:
Bathing Regulations
It was a common-place thing to see a group of young collegians frolicking and splashing in the cool clear waters of St. Joseph’s Lake. However, they did not do it of their own volition, but these young men were merely conforming to one of the regulations that read: “Students are required to bathe in common, twice a week in St. Joseph’s Lake.” This was the rule during favorable weather.
But the winter held less terrors for the students, for during this season it was compulsory that they wash their feet every Saturday at 4:00 p. m. Now, the rest of the week! . . .
Recreational Wednesday
These were the “bath house” regulations during the years 18C0-1865. In around the year 1865, when bath tubs with hot and cold water (running) were available, ears and feet were always clean, according to a rule which included “a bath once a week.”
The student who took that “bath” on Wednesday was ready to spend a pleasant afternoon of recreation. According to the rule, a student had money in his pocket on that day for, “no student shall possess any money, except what he receives weekly from the Treasurer on Wednesday, at ten o’clock.” What a Wednesday afternoon that must have been!
As we read further down the list of rules we understand that the student was required to write to his parent or guardian on^e a month. And he could be assured that he c" show the home folks that he was “learning something,” as far as grammar was concerned, for all letters were presented to the Secretary of the Faculty for correction before they were mailed. Also, all letters
sent or received were opened by the President or Vice-President!
One thing, however, in those days a student did not have to be an invalid to sit at a table to have orange juice and muffins at every meal. Two honor tables were provided, located on each side of the President’s table —the center of attention of all students and visitors. To sit at one of the distinguished tables a student had to be high ranking in scholarship and in disciplinary observance.
Reading At Meals
While mentioning meals, the “reading” procedure at the meals is recalled to mind. At the noon and evening meals, appointed readers took their turn reading during the meal. After the dinner was finished, and the reading ended, any student in the dining hall was responsible to answer questions asked based on the matter that had been read during the course of the meal. Imagine some reader trying to make himself heard above clanking plates, crashing trays, etc., in our dining halls today! Of course, he could use the microphone, but then, —who would be interested ?
St. Vincent De Paul Society Connected With Holy Cross
The Notre Dame students who are volunteering their services to the South Bend conferences of the St. Vincent de Paul Society are simply renewing an old connection between the Holy Cross and the Society. This relationship began soon after both societies were founded.
According to a translation from the French of the Annals of Holy Cross the students of Holy Cross college in Le Mans inaugurated a conference of the St'. Vincent de Paul Society on February 22, 1844. This conference was affiliated to the conferences at Le Mans. At first all alms the students collected were given to the Conference of Le Mans. Later only a set sum was given the conference and the rest the students themselves gave to the poor. They also distributed clothing. In 1847 they gave a considerable to the starving people of Ireland, and in 1849 they contributed to Peter’s Pence from their treasury.

Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
SAY IT ISN’T SO!
LEST THEY BE TULATE!
According to tests made by a professor at Radcliffe college all men would prefer one million dollars to a perfect love affair, while 92 per cent of the girls would prefer the love affair.
Coeds at Tulane must wear bedroom slippers when they descend for a cigarette during the night to avoid waking other coeds who have definitely retired for the night.
SHEEP SHEARING.
The traditional rolled sheepskin signifying the completion of a college course is a victim of the new era of economy at DePauw. A pocket-sized diploma in a leather case will replace it.
MISERY LOVES COMPANY!
A fraternity named “Flunk, Dammit, Flunk” has recently been established at the University of Alabama. The purpose of the organization is to create a feeling of brotherly love among those lesser lights of the institution whose grades prevent them from joining the different fraternities at the University.
PROBLEM-ATICAL!
A math student at Carnegie, stuck with a calculus problem, sent out an appeal for help on a short-wave transmitter. In a short time he received the answer from a fellow at the University of Texas.
MIRABILE DICTU!
Students at Oxford are perfectly free to converse with their neighbors and ask them for information during an examination.
THAT’S SOMETHING ANYWAY.
Jig-saw puzzles measure general ability, challenge skill, intelligence and persistence, according to a professor at Drake.
A FOUR YEAR LOAF?
An investigation by the Columbia Spectator brought to light the indisputable fact that five out of six men on the street consider college students to be loafers. Why should a man be considered a loafer because he attends college ?
Probably the greatest factor in determining such an opinion is the education of the man expressing his ideas upon the subject. An honest opinion of the industriousness of a college student can hardly be expressed by someone who has never attended a college or a university. Only 23 out of every 1,000 adults are college graduates. In other words only 2.3 per cent of the people are qualified to express an opinion on the matter.
That a college education is still classed as a luxury is probably the greatest reason for many of the erroneous ideas retained by Mr. Average Citizen. The football games, the dances, the fraternities, the commencement exercises, and other gala occasions are the only glimpses the public receives of college life. They don’t understand the hours of study necessary in most . courses, they don’t realize that the college student puts in his eight hours a day, and they cannot conceive of working hard for anything that has to be paid for.
The working man does not understand how the Saturday afternoon football game is comparable to his Friday night poker game, or his Sunday afternoon game of golf. He does not know that when his work is done at five o’clock, the student is just settling down to some real hard work. People do not stop to consider the inconsistency of acquiring an education while enjoying the proverbial four-year loaf.—Lehigh Brown and White.
March 3, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
TODAY’S DOLLAR
A contributor to this week’s “Voice of the Campus” seems to have a point in his letter that is well made. In 1929, when everybody was convinced that life was a bowl of cherries, the junior class decided on a pin for their following year which cost them fifteen dollars. Today, when a man has to have fifteen hundred dollars in the bank to take out fifteen, the boom price level is, to most individuals, nothing but one big, impossible dream.
Nevertheless, we understand that the junior class has decided that the depression is all in the mind. Fifteen dollars, which is the equivalent of about twenty-two in prosperity, will be the price of this year’s pins. M. C. T. in the “Voice” says that if there is any justice the 1934 jewelry should be the best yet. And yet, he holds, in these days it might be more logical to get something not quite so elaborate. This time next year the juniors will be about three months away from the real value of the dollar—and they’ll wonder what pins are all about anyway.
DISILLUSIONMENT ?
Last minute check-ups show that the ticket sale for the Bengal Bouts tonight is below expectations. Because of the undeniable caliber of this year’s contestants The Scholastic felt that it was not too presumptuous in anticipating at least an equal of last season’s attendance.
If you enjoy boxing the slightest bit, have twenty-five cents in your trousers, and miss tonight’s show, you are doing yourself an injustice. Lenn Dunn and his colleagues, the boxers themselves, and The Scholastic staff have labored tirelessly to make the 1933 tournament the most representative kind of collegiate exhibition.
We have an idea that the gym will be well filled this evening at eight o’clock. Notre Dame men have a habit of not “letting down” on something that is Notre Dame’s.
PRIEST AND SCIENTIST
The recent conversation between the Abbe Lemaitre, shrewd French priest-scientist, and Mr. Einstein, renowned German relativist, is refreshing to anyone who has watched the well-nigh endless battle that science has fought with religion since the eighteenth century. Reasoning men have long held that there is no antagonism between the two if they explore their proper objects, that truth is on whether it be in an atom or an angel. Some scientist have taught and held otherwise.
Anyone interested in the question might well spend a few minutes on an article which appeared in the last Sunday magazine section of the New York Times. It has to do with Einstein and Lemaitre. The two talked and talked and seldom argued. The Abbe gave his stand on the original expansion of the universe, spoke of the seven day’s creation, and interpreted the Bible. Einstein listened, engrossed.
Then the German scientist told what he thought of such things as cosmic rays and curved space—and the priest was attentive. The amiability that permeated their little session could be permanent for all relations between religion and physical science if the latter were content to consider the things of the world as they are, and not attempt to tell us the whence and wherefore of the universe, as many chemists and physicists and geologists have often tried to do.
It is elementary logic to say that we can expect. progress of physical science only if it is interested in physical phenomena, and if it has a genuine respect for what lies beyond them.
THANKS
The Scholastic takes this opportunity to extend its appreciation to Doctor C. 0. Hyde of South Bend for his generosity in examining gratis the participants in this year’s Bengal Show. The boxers themselves commented on the thoroughness of the physician’s work. He has been one of the many reasons why promoting the exhibition tonight has not been such a burden after all.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Home Cage Season to Close
Irish Battle Wabash Tomorrow;
Johnny Baldwin’s Last Appearance
DUNNIGAN SCORES 20 POINTS IN SKATE MEET
Leo Keating Also to Wind Up Career; Last Game Against Indiana Opposition.
By Howard Waldron
Tomorrow night a hard fighting quintet from Crawfordsville, Indiana, representing Wabash College, will make its last appearance of the current season when it meets the Irish of Notre Dame in the 1 ocal gym. Wabash is another one of the famous Indiana small colleges with great basketball teams. Their teams are always tough and they go on fighting till the final whistle has blown; they never falter or take things easy when they once set foot on the hardwood court.
Is Oldest Rivalry ’
The Notre Dame-Wabash rivalry is the oldest in Irish basketball history. Starting in 1908, the meetings continued in an unbroken succession until last year, when no game was played. Tomorrow’s contest will be the 48th meeting of the two squads. Notre Dame has won 25 and lost 22 of the games.
This will be the final home game for Notre Dame, and will mark the last appearance of two veterans bas-keteers of the Irish squad—little Leo Keating and Captain Johnny Baldwin.
Captain Baldwin has been a regular on Notre Dame’s basketball team for the past three years, and seemed a sure bet for All-American basketball honors at guard last year until taken ill with pneumonia. But this year his work has been even greater than the flawless play of last year.
He has been the spark-plug of the Notre Dame attack with his superclever passing and accurate long shots. The present winning streak of the Irish is due in no small amount
to the heady leadership and sterling court play. It is a safe statement to say that Johnny Baldwin is one of the cleverest blocking and passing guards in the country today.
Captain John Baldwin
After three years—his last game.
Leo Keating, former flash at Atlantic City High in New Jersey, has been a peppery, slippery, little player for three years, but it has only been in the last year that he was given a chance to prove his worth, and since he has been Notre Dame’s sixth man. Keating is a fast floorman and a very accurate long shot.
Places Second In Thrilling 440 Race; Falls Twice.
Notre Dame’s one-man speed skating team, composed solely of James John Dunnigan placed third in the Midwest Intercollegiate Championships at St. Louis last week-end with 20 points. Illinois, with 90, led the college field, and St, Louis university scored 70 points to finish second.
Dunnigan broke into the scoring in the first of the three events in the series. Tailing the lead early in the 440-yard event, the small Irish entry led to the final turn where Wilbur Marks Manne of Illinois, twice winner of the North American intermediate crown, slid past to win by inches.
Crashes On Turn
Returning to the ice after the sprint championship event, Dunnigan faced practically the same field in the half-mile race. For four laps of the six-lap journey he stayed up with the leaders, but in an attempt to move up on one of the narrow turns, tangled with a competitor and crashed into the wall.
A similar accident forced the Notre Dame skater to finish out of the many in the mile race. On the ninth lap, Dunnigan again went into the wall on a turn, but scrambled back to his feet and closed the gap between him and the leaders.
About 150 yards from the tape Lamar Ottsen of St. Louis, the ultimate winner, went into his final sprint and Dunnigan, weakened by the fall and the efforts of overtaking the leaders, was unable to match the winner’s pace.
Ottsen won both the mile and halfmile of the collegiate series and accounted for several points in the open division.	.
March 3, 1933
Twenty-one
CAGERS WHIP SPARTANS FOR SEVENTH STRAIGHT
Krause and Voegele Head Irish Scorers in Close Battle.
By John D. Carbine
A fighting Michigan State basketball team which refused to admit defeat until the last minutes of the game gave the Irish of Notre Dame a terrific struggle last Friday night before succumbing to a final rally which gave the Keoganites their seventh straight victory by the score of 30 to 25.
The peculiar Michigan defense hurried the Irish forwards in their shots and made most of them ineffective. The Notre Dame defense functioned perfectly and it was only through phenomenal and seemingly impossible shot that the Spartans were able to keep the score close. McCaslin, the Spartans’ high scoring forward showed a special ability to make these sensational shots from all corners of the floor.
Jordan Leads Rally
The game itself was a seesaw affair with first one team and then the other doing most of the scoring. The Irish would run up a six or eight point lead, the Spartans would rally and almost overtake them whereupon the Irish would spurt to another six or eight point lead.
After being at the short end of the score for the greater part of the game, State finally, with but seven minutes left to play, managed to tie the score at 25-all. But here, Johnny Jordan, who seems to possess an uncanny ability to score when his team needs points, dropped in a beautiful long shot from the side. It remained for Big Ed Krause to put the game beyond the reach of the hard fighting Spartans. Moose took a neat pass from Jordan, pivoted and flipped in a one hand shot. Van Fassen fouled Big Ed while he was shooting and the Moose converted his single free throw to give the Irish a 30 to 25 lead which they protected during the final twoSninutes of the game with a fast passing stall.
Irish Take Lead
Michigan State jumped out into an early four to noting lead. Krause fouled Van Fassen, the Spartan center, and he made his free throw. A moment later, Jordan fouled Kircher
Thinlies Upset Dope To Tie Buckeye Team 52-All
who also converted his free throw. McCaslin raced down the floor and split the twine with one of his phenomenal hook shots.
The Keoganites, evidently surprised at this rather unexpected opposition, took time out to talk things over. They apparently arrived at a satisfactory conclusion for during the next seven minutes they outscored the Spartans 13 to 1. Crowe started the Irish rally with a long shot. Voegele followed with a not shot to Ve the score at four all. Krause fouled Van Fassen and the Spartan center converted to give State the lead for the last time.
State Shows Power
Johnny Baldwin neutralized Van Fassen’s free throw by making one of his own and Joe Voegele popped in a field goal from the side to give the Irish a lead which they he’d till the 25-25 tie. Krause flipped in two more and Voegele added another to give the Iri^h a 13 to 5 lead before State was able to score aagin.
McCaslin was fouled while shooting and converted one of his two free throws. Voegele made his fourth basket for Notre Dame, but a Spartan rally led by Riordan and Kircher reduced the Irish lead to 15 to 11 as the half ended.
In the first moments of the second half, the Spartans gave evidence that the 35-19 rout of early season was not to be repeated. Vanderost started things off with a long shot, and after Leo Crowe had tossed in a free throw, Van Fassen flipped in a one hand shot to reduce the Irish lead to a single point. Krause now went on a scoring rampage to score five points in less than three minutes. Voegele added a neat field goal to Krause’s endeavors to give the Irish a 23-16 lead.
State Attack Fails
Having fallen seven points behind, the Spartans started to click once again. McCaslin made two field goals in rapid succession and Kircher made one. Krause made another field goal but Van Fassen converted a free throw and McCaslin made a field
(Continued on Page 32)
RELAY DECIDES MEET
Ohio State Runner Drops Baton to Give Irish Long Lead;
King Wins Mile.
By Edward Van Huisseling
A piece of wood cost the Ohio State tracksters a fortune in the meet here last Saturday. Eleven events had been completed and the score read 52 to 47 in favor of the Buckeyes, with the relay remaining to decide whether the visitors would go east with a win or a tie. If Ohio State won the stick event it was her meet and if she lost the race the final outcome would be a 52 to 52 tie. A disheartening niece of bad luck lost the relay for the Big Ten crew and the final score read a deadlock at 52-all.
Gilfoil and Bloor were matched in the first quarter mile of the relay. The Irish runner trailed his opponent by a few yards until they hit the home stretch where he lengthened his stride and finished close to Bloor, who reached out to hand the baton to Lewis, colored lad, who was fading down the track as his team mate came upon him. •
Lewis Drops Baton
At the same time, Gilfoil slipped the stick to Paul La Frambois. The Blue and Gold runner turned to run and accidentally bumped Lewis who, in waiting for the baton, had wandered into La Frambois’ lane unknowingly. The resulting jar caused Lewis to drop the baton. Before he was able to recover it, Paul had taken a forty yard lead. At this point it looked like the Irish team would coast to victory.
However, this belief was soon discarded as each Buckeye man lessened the gap. The climax came on the back stretch where Teitlebaum, anchor man, running desperately, made his last bid for the lead and failed. Several judges at the finish demanded to see “Nick’s” rabbit foot but he wouldn’t allow it to be displayed.
The entire meet was one surprise after another. Eddie King’s showing in the mile, the dazzling speed of Bennett and Kellar, the renewed injury to Johnny Wonsowitz’s leg, the amaz-(Continued on Page 24)
T iventy-two
The Scholastic
Keoganites Gain Revenge On Butler Five, 42 to 41
FRESHMAN BALL WINS INTERHALL TRACK MEET
Triumphs Over St. Edward's In Last Two Events of Meet.
GREAT FINISH WINS
Irish Rally to Tie Score; Win In Hectic Overtime Period; Krause Scores 18 Points.
By John D. Carbine
Coining back in a sensational manner after all seemed lost, the Irish of Notre Dame swept to thrill-packed overtime victory over Butler University at Indianapolis last Wednesday night by the score of 42 to 41.’-/ It was a revenge victory for the Keoganites, who were still smarting from the sting of the 27-25 reverse which Tony Hinkle’s Bulldogs had pinned on them earlier in the season.
Butler Takes Long Lead
The score at the end of the first half was Butler 18, Notre Dame 14. With the beginning of the second half, the Bulldogs, paced by their accurate shooting forwards, Davis and Baird, sprinted to a ten-point lead which they held successfully until three-quarter time.
Here the Irish seemed to regain their form. They cut down the Butler lead bit by bit until with about four minutes left to play, the score stood Butler 36, Notre Dame 34. At this
point, Krause, at his pivot position, -took a neat pass from Jordan, turned and shot. As the ball left his hands, Baird, the Butler forward, came crashing into the Moose knocking him on his back. The rebound from Ed’s first shot came back into his hands and while stretched out on the floor, Moose flipped in the shot that tied the score at 36 all.
Baldwin Out On Fouls
In the overtime Baldwin fouled, Parrish and the Butler guard converted his free throw to shove the Bulldogs into a one point lead. The foul was Baldwin’s fourth and he was forced out of the game to be replaced by Jim Newbold, who turned out to be the Irish man of destiny.
Newbold immediately tied the score at 37 all by converting his free throw after a foul by Parrish. Krause scored his seventh field goal on the (Continued on Page 31)
TIP-OFFS
By Al McGufl
What a ball game that was at Butler! The score was tied twelve different times during the regular forty minutes of play, and three times in the over-time.
The most outstanding play of the game came with just one minute to play when Notre Dame was trailing by two points. Krause took a shot from the foul line and was knocked on his back by Baird who also fell in the effort to stop the shot. The ball hit the backboard and came directly into Ed’s hands as he lay flat on the floor. Without moving he shot the ball from his prostrate position and tied the score.
Was there much of a crowd there? You said it—12,000 people. The field house holds 15,000, and the people were standing in the aisles, but the official check only accounted for 12,-000. Must have been plenty of comps.
After “Moose” had made the basket to tie up the score, with a minute to go, Voegele came through with an-' other hooper from the middle of the floor. But Baird of Butler duplicated his feat and tied the score, 36-36.
In the overtime period the Irish drew first blood. On the second center jump Newbold and Crowe slipped up and allowed Baird to score from the tip. And right after that he missed an easy set-up that would have won the game.
With the score 39-38 against the Varsity, Jim Newbold broke loose on his fast break and Miller fouled him as he shot. Jim missed the basket altogether on the first attempt, but made the second one.
—At this point both teams were fighting frantically for possession of the ball, and many wild passes were made. One of them resulted in a (Continued on Page 31)
By Nick Connor
The inter-hall track crown for 1933 wentto Freshman Hall as a result of their victory in the final meet held Wednesday night. Freshman's margin of victory was only gained in the last two events of the evening. The St. Edward’s thinly clads were leading the freshmen by a half of a point up to the running of the last two events, the broad jump and the high jump.
Jack Frawley of Freshman hall was the high point man of the meet with ten points. He secured first place in the 60-yard dash and in the broad jump. Frawley was the only entrant who secured points in more than one event.
Rowan Wins 440
Rowan of Morrissey barely nosed out Siddal of Brownson in the first event, the 440 yard dash. Else of Badin won the mile run from Went-worth of Brownson and Lee of St. Ed’s, the latter two ran a neck and neck race until a final sprint by the Brownson man took second place.
Huisking, the left handed shot putter from Alumni, took the weight event with a heave of 40 feet 3% inches. Pons of Lyons won the 65-yard low hurdles in the fast time of :07.6.
The most exciting event of the evening was the three-quarter mile relay won by Freshman. The freshmen obtained the lead at the start of the race and increased the lead with each circling of the track. Davis of St. Ed’s as anchor man ran a fast lap giving the sophomore hall second place.
The points scored for the ten competing halls was as follows:
Freshman, 23%; St. Edward’s 21; Brownson 10; Morrissey 8; Lyons 7%; Badin 5%; Alumni 5; Dillon 4%; Off-Campus 3; and Carroll 2%.
The summaries.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Frawley (Fr) ; Jassoy (St. E.), second: Aug (Fr), third. Time :6.5.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Rowan (M) : Siddall (Br.), second; Kolka (Fr.), third. Time :56.1.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Else (B) :	j
Wentworth (Br.), second; Lee (St. E.), third.
Time 4:58.5.	'
(Continued on Page 31)	J
March 3,1933
Twenty-three
UPSETS NARK SUNDAY’S INTERHALL CAGE PLAY
Off-Campus Clings to Lead in Group IL; Tie in Group I.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Three distinct upsets marked the play in the interhall basketball championship fights this week. The Group I heavyweight standings showed the biggest changes when two underdogs, Corby and Dillon, rose and spanked Morrissey and Lyons. The victory of Dillon over Lyons was a thrilling spectacle. The Freshmen held on to the heels of the Lyons crew by three or four points from the opening gun and then, with but twenty seconds to go, the sophomore defence fell apart, enabling O’Neill to scoot under the basket and drop in the winning toss.
Corby’s surprise victory over Morrissey was equally nip and tuck. In this fiesta the lead changed hands five times before Cooley took the lead into his hands with a basket for Corby. Badin’s victory over Sorin con-/ eluded the heavyweight activity in this division.
Off-Campus Wins Again
Off-Campus held on to its lead in the other division with a 21 to 6 win over a floundering Walsh team. The boys from down the street look good enough to be on top when the season ends. •
Brownson took the measure of Carroll in the Main Building feud. The Carroll team, which appeared to be the stronger before last Sunday’s encounter with the men from across the hall, were unable to penetrate the Brownson wall which functioned as well as the offense which netted it 24 points.
The Prom took its toll in the interhall league by making it a physical impossibility for teams from Howard and Alumni to play their games. They will be played off at a future date.
The third big upset came in the lightweight division when Morrissey took the measure of the previously unbeaten Corby five to place them- — selves in second place behind St. Edward’s and drop the seniors to third place. Lyons evened up matters for their hall with a win from Dillon’s > lights. Badin won its lightweight’ game from Sorin, making a clean sweep against Sorin for the day.
Carroll lightweights kept their
(Continued oh Page 26)
350 Football Candidates Report For Spring Drills
Tom Conley, 1930 Grid Captain, To Return To N. D. As Assistant
Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 Notre Dame national championship football team, this week signed a con-
Tom Conley
In a new Irish football role.
tract to return here in the capacity of assistant football coach.
Conley, one of the outstanding athletes ever produced at Roman Catholic high school in Philadelphia, won three football monograms while a member of Knute Rockne’s ’28, ’29, and ’30 teams. He also played on the Irish basketball varsity.
Since leaving Notre Dame, Conley has been head football coach at LaSalle college in Philadelphia. His place there will be taken by Marty Brill, all-American halfback with the 1930 Notre Dame team. Brill acted as assistant coach to Conley last fall.
The new’ Irish assistant is expected to come to Notre Dame within the next few wrneks to aid at spring practice.
No body of men in the United States works harder than the Senate, or with more intelligence. — Prof. Felix Frankfurter, of Harvard Law School.
SCRIMMAGE IN WEEK
Start Work of Rebuilding Line For Next Year; Veterans Help With Coaching.
By James S. Kearns
Approximately 350 varsity football aspirants reported to Coach Heartly Anderson last Tuesday as the annual spring practice session opened. Daily practice has been held since then, and is expected to continue for a six-week period.
First Scrimmage Next Week
Facing the problem of replacing five regular linemen and of filling big holes in his backfield strength, Coach Anderson plans to make the spring session as productive as possible. He expects to hold the first of the regular scrimmage series a week from tomorrow at the earliest.
Captain Paul Host, Ed Kosky, Joe Kurth, Norm Greeney, Jim Harris, Chuck Jaskwhich, and Mike Koken are the first string men from last season who have completed their playing careers. In adition to that group, Ben Alexander, Bill Pierce, Mike Ledding, Emmett Murphy, Laurie Vejar, and Joe Sheeketski, have also wound up their span of eligibility. Many of these veterans are turning out daily to help Anderson coach the new material.
Two Regulars In Line
Replacing those men will be the principal problem to be solved during the spring drill. A special amount of work will be needed to bolster up the line where Jack Robinson, center, and Ed Krause, tackle, are the only hold-over regulars. Krause will be unable to report for spring work for time, as he is occupied with basketball at present. Robinson has been devoting most of his time to shot putting with the track squad.
Several outstanding gridders from last year’s reserve ranks and a number of good freshman prospects should shape up well enough to make competition keen for the open berths.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Joe Young
THINLIES TIE BUCKEYES
(Continued from Page 21)
By John D. Carbine
Last spring a Notre Dame relay team raced to a sensational victory at the Drake relays. It was discovered, when the timers consulted their watches, that the Irish two mile team had broken the Drake Relay record and, upon a little more research, it developed that the Blue and Gold quartet, with its remarkable time of 7.48, had run the fastest collegiate two mile of the year. Along with Wilson, King, and Roberts, Joe Young. Coach Nicholson’s sensational two mile star of this year, was a member of that record-breaking quartet.
Prominent At Prep School
Young began his career at Seton Hall Prep of South Orange. New Jersey, where he was a member of the track and cross country sauads. He won the New Jersey State Cross-Country Run for two years in succession, and captured both the indoor and outdoor State Championship half miles in 1929.
Joe came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1930. and immediately went out for freshman track. He reported the next year for Varsity Track as a half miler. But Notre Dame’s crafty track coach, “Nick” Nicholson saw in the diminutive half miler the making of a fine two miler.
So Nick shifted him—first to the mile, and finally to the two mile. The wisdom of Nick’s change has been demonstrated this year by Young’s sensational victories in the Purdue and Illinois meets. He won the Purdue two mile in the remarkable time of 9:54.2 after holding a commanding lead all of the way. In the Illinois meet he sprinted to an unexpected victory of 9:46.2 which is his best time to date.
Injury Halts Joe
Last year Joe did not get into active competition until the end of the season because of a leg injury received while tobogganing in Pennsylvania during the Christmas recess. When the leg healed, he returned to the squad and became a member of the championship relay team.
Young who weighs but one hundred and twenty-two pounds, is the lightest man on the track team. He is also the lightest man ever to receive a
Notre Dame monogram—a distinction of which Joe is justly proud.
Track is not the only field of Joe’s athletic endeavors. He plays an ex
cellent game of golf, and shoots the local course in the high seventies. Joe is a fine swimmer, and goes in for horseback riding when he has the money.
Being an athlete and an outdoor man, Joe is naturally interested in that hero of the comic strips, Dick Tracy. Last Sunday he wrote a letter to Dick beseeching him to return to Tess Trueheart. Young and his cronies are still impatiently waiting for the answer.
Earl Walsh, ’22, To Assist Jimmy Crowley at Fordham
Announcement was made this week that Earl Walsh, ’22, of Des Moines, Iowa, has been given a contract at Fordham university as assistant coach to Jimmy Crowley, ex-’25.
Walsh won two football monograms at Notre Dame in the falls of 1920 and 1921. Since his graduation he has been head coach at Des Moines Catholic College.
During the past few years he has served on the Board of Control of the Iowa Catholic high school athletic association. He was secretary of the organization for some time.
ing outcome of the 440-yard dash, Gough’s sensational finish in the broad jump, and the breath-taking relay race were the outstanding.
The much discussed relay event kept the Notre Dame stick crew’s record clear with four wins and no losses. The time in this attempt was a new low for the quartet. The timers clocked them in 3:29. Vince Murphy also registered victory number four in the high jump. The big sophomore won his event at five feet, ten inches without bothering to remove his sweat clothes.
Kellar Takes Hurdles
Jack Kellar did the expected when he walked away with the two hurdle events. In the hop over the high barriers, the Olympic runner tied the gym mark of :07.5. The performance of Jimmy Fagan cannot go unnoticed. — His form was beyond question the equal of that of Kellar. His grace in clearing the hurdles was remarkable.
Johnny Wonsowitz, the Big Ten pole vaulting champion suffered a renewal of an old leg injury and was forced to be content with a tie for first place with Jack Edwards at 12 feet. Had he been able to continue,	1
there is no doubt he would have im-	|
periled the field house mark because f his last jump before the injury sent I him over the cross bar by more than i a foot. His best jump on record is	|
13 feet 10 inches, which is much bet-	f
ter than the local gym mark.	i
Eddie Gough put on a brilliant fin- 'z' | ish in the broad jump to win the	|
event. With two trys remaining, Ed-	|
die’s best attempt had only assured f him of second place. Then the lid f blew off and Gough hurled himself at < the pit for a distance of 22 feet, 8%	1
inches—again missing the gym rec-	fe
ord by a fraction of an inch, but	|
bringing him the Notre Dame indoor | record by three-quarters of an inch.
Irish Gets Two Firsts	I
Two more firsts were chalked up for the Irish in the half mile and two g mile runs. Shields followed Brown of State for three laps before passing him on the back stretch and putting on a whirlwind finish to win the 880.	«
Bower and Young had things as they liked them in the two mile jaunt, lead-	4g
ing the field to the finish by a safe	J
margin.	g
Willey and Teitlebaum took the 3
(Continued on Page 30)
March 3, 1933
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
CAPTAINCY
Much of the noise last week-end, gentlemen, was the crash of a fine old Notre Dame tradition. There are to be no more captains elected for the Fighting Irish football teams.
Thus the long list of grid leaders, not all chosen because they were the greatest players, but because they commanded confidence and because they represented the fine things of football, is ended.
The captaincy chapter opened with Henry Luhn in 1887-88 and closed with Paul Host in 1932. But between these years, such names as Ed Prudhomme, Frank Keough, John I. Mullen, John F. Farley, Lou Salmon, Shag Shaughnessy, Cap Edwards, Knute Rockne, Freeman Fitzgerald, Jimmy Phelan, Eddie Anderson, Adam Walsh, Fred Miller, and Tom Conley were written into the pages.
Personally I’m sorry to see such an integral part of Notre
Dame’s football tradition done away with.
C. I. C.
Next weekend the big indoor track show of the year comes oif in the Notre Dame gym. To those of you who have never seen one, we would say not to miss the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet. It has been the best track entertainment in these parts as long as we’ve been around.
Notre Dame’s chances of retaining the indoor crown that has been here since the conference was organized are slimmer than ever before. But they’re not entirely out of sight.
Right now it looks imperative that the Irish win the 880 and place high in the one and two-mile runs. It will take almost super-human effort to accomplish that.
But having seen Clyde Roberts run a 1:59.6 half Wednesday night, and having noted that Ed
die King is finally looking better, we think that Nick’s squad has a sizable chance. In the two mile will be Joe Young, which is to say, one of the gamest, headiest, most effective runners ever to put on Notre Dame spikes.
Murphy should win the high, jump; Gough will undoubtedly place well up in the broad jump, and there should be some points available in the shot put. But the 880 and mile look mighty important. -
Roger Kiley ’22, Elected
Aid..of 37th Chicago Ward
Roger Kiley, ’22, former star athlete and three-sport monogram winner at Notre Dame, was elected aiderman of the 37th ward in Chicago’s municipal election last Tuesday. Kiley ran on the Democratic ticket.
While at Notre Dame Kiley won football monograms in 1919, ’20, and ’21. He was named all-Western end by many critics at the close of his final season.
In addition to his football activities, Kiley won monograms in basketball in 1920 anti ’21. He won a single baseball monogram in the spring of 1921.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday!
ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
. One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
ROUND TRIP
$ A South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Morrissey And Lyons Beaten, Off-Campus
Wins In Heavyweight Interhall Leagues
Corby 17, Morrissey 15
In a nip and tuck battle in which the score was tied and the lead
(Continued from Page 23)
commanding lead in the Group II lightweight race with a 20 to 18 victory over Brownson. It was the only game played in this division in the lightweight class.
The standings, as a result of the recent melees, find Lyons and Morrissey tied for first place in Group I heavyweight competition with St. Edward’s leading the pack of lightweights with three victories and no defeats. Off-Campus in the heavyweight category, and Carroll in the lighter class, lead Group Il’s teams. Neither squad has been defeated yet. Off-Campus is credited with three and Carroll with four victories.
HEAVYWEIGHT
Brownson 24, Carroll 10
Completely outclassed by their neighbors, a group of Carroll basketball players were defeated by Brownson last Sunday morning.^24 to 10. Through the efforts of Hawley, tall Brownson center, the east wing men were in possession of the ball after practically every jump at center. The victors registered nine points before Carroll scored and then went on to lead at half time, 12 to 1.
Yerly, who later added a field goal and free throw to his total, registered the only point for his team in this period. Paul, Brownson guard, played a fine game and walked off with seven points in the first half and the high scoring honors. Stillwagon marked up two baskets in the first frame. In the second half Carroll began to take a few more chances and consequently registered more points. Stillwagon and Paul led Brownson with eight and seven points, respectively.
Off-Campus 21, Walsh 6
Off-Campus maintained its lead in the Group II race with a crushing 21 to 6 win over Walsh. The score at half time showed the Day Dodgers in front by the count of 11 to 0. In the third quarter, Palmer of Off-Campus accidentally tipped the ball into the wrong net, giving the seniors their first two points.
It was not until the fourth quarter that Walsh scored through her own power. During this period, Draper, scored the only field goal, and Joyce . and Eckert sank free throws. The
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
STANDING I
Heavyweights
GROUP I.	W L Pct.
Lyons ............. 3	1	.750
Morrissey .........’.3	1	.750
Corby .............. 2	1	.667
Dillon ............. 2	1	.667
St. Edward’s....... 1	2	.333
Badin ............. 1	2	.333
Sorin ............. 0	4	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Off-Campus ........ 3	0	1.000
Freshman.............2	1	.667
Carroll ........... 2	2	.500
Brownson ........... 2	2	.500
Alumni ............ 1	1	.500
Howard ............ 1	2	.333
Walsh ............. 0	3	.000
Lightweights
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
St. Edward's ...... 3	0	1.000
Morrissey .........3	1	.750
Corby .............. 2	1	.667
Lyons .............. 2	2	.500
Barlin ............ 2	2	.500
Sorin ............. 1	3	.250
Dillon ............ 0	3	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Carroll ............ 4	0	1.000
Howard ............. 2	1	.667
Freshman ..........2	1	.667
Brownson .......... 1	2	.333
Alumni ............ 0	1	.000
Off-Campus ........ 0	2	.000
Walsh ............. 0	2	.000
heady playing of Vitt, Sickmyer, and Boehn were important factors in bringing about Off-Campus’ third consecutive victory. Sickmyer was high scorer with six points, and Boehn was close behind his teammate with five.
Dillon 17, Lyons 16
Trailing 8 to 1 at the half, a seemingly hopeless cause was turned into a victory for Dillon. The Gold Coast squad led all the way only to have a win snatched from them with twenty seconds remaining to play. ✓ O’Neill pushed in an under the basket shot that settled the feud at 17 to 16.	.
Shay and Vairo scored baskets for / Lyons in the first half, and Crossen -registered two and Olson one in the second chapter. Dillon failed to hit the hoop until the second half when Belden and O’Neill sank two, and " Cannon and Meyer tallied one apiece. i
The defeat did not move the Sophomores out of the tie for top honors for Morrissey was also beaten.
changed hands five times, Corby subdued Morrissey 17 to 15. Three free throws by Sullivan, one by Felts, and > ' a swishing basket by Cushing from midfloor put the Sophs ahead 6 to 3 at the end of the first quarter. Mahoney, with a bucket, and Harry Behrman, with a free throw accounted for Corby’s total.
At the opening of the second quarter Freeman knotted the count at 6 all with a field goal and free throw. Mahoney continued the march with a basket only to have the lead ■wiped out by the sharpshooting Cushing of Morrissey. Rapier and Cushing concluded the scoring in the first half with free throws, bringing the score to nine apiece. A bucket by Cush- / ing and a free throw by Herron of orby were the only points registered in the third frame. ’
Mahoney dropped in a free throw to open the fourth quarter and tied the score again. Baskets in quick succession by Thune of Corby and Cushing raised the total to 13 apiece. Cooley and Rapier then proceeded to put the game on ice with field goals. Albregh of Morrissey concluded the scoring with a basket as the gun sounded.
Badin 21, Sorin 13
Badin won its first game in the current race from Sorin last Sunday, 21 to 13. It was the fourth defeat for the Sorinites. Badin showed an even scoring team in the first half and led at the intermission, 8 to 2. Largely through the ability of Burch- V" ell to dump them in from all angles, the Juniors kept astride with the fast coming Sorin boys in the second half. Burchell scored four baskets to win high scoring honors. Burke and Ken-\__ < nedy led the Seniors in scoring with four points each.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Carroll 20, Brownson 18
Carroll Hall edged out Brownson 20-18 in a closely contested game to retain their lead in the lightweight league. It was Carroll’s fourth straight victory.
_ The game was hard fought all the way, the elad see-sawing back and forth in each quarter. Nevilles of :1 ‘ Brownson made a long shot at the - end of the half to tie the score 13-13.
In the second half Deely and Kum- -her sent Brownson into a lead which they held until the closing minutes.
(Continued on Page 30)
March 3, 1933
Twenty-seven
IRISH CAGERS TO PLAY MARQUETTE TUESDAY
Improved Squad Seek Revenge For Earlier Defeat Here.
Notre Dame’s basketball squad will take to the road again on March 7, when they invade the Milwaukee Auditorium to meet the Hilltoppers of Marquette in the semi-final game of their basketball schedule. The Irish will take on a team which has won a victory over them this season in an over-time contest, by a score of 35-32.
It will be the second time this year that Notre Dame has faced a team boasting a record of twelve wins and two losses, and, strangely enough, both teams had beaten the Irish in their first encounter. But Notre Dame beat Pittsburgh in the second game, and may spring an upset by downing the powerful Hilltoppers.
Notre Dame Improved
The Irish have made great progress since this previous losing streak and now boast a record of thirteen wins and six losses. Eight of these victories have been won in succession. Marquette has won her last six straight since the Creighton defeat. The previous victory of Marquette over Notre Dame was their first ■win over the Irish in thirteen games played.
The Marquette men are big, fast, smart, and rough. In the previous game, they out-roughed and outplayed their smaller opponents from Notre Dame who were, with the exception of “Moose” Krause, dwarfed by the powerful opposition. Marquette also used, in this previous game, a high looping pass on the offense which was beyond the reach of the shorter Irish players.
Ronzani, A Great Guard
In the previous game with the Irish, Ray Morstadt, regular right forward and star of the Marquette outfit, sank four field goals, and six out of eight foul tries for an evening’s total of fourteen points.
Co-captain Gene Ronzani, football captain and ace shot-putter, who set a new record against Notre Dame’s track team a few weeks ago in this event, is a cool, heady, accurate-shooting guard. It was his four baskets at crucial points that won Marquette the previous contest.
Kukla, center, is a great player and well able to give Ed Krause a very
KOZAK AND PALMISANI WIN HANDBALL CROWN IN DOUBLES MEET.
By Al McGuff
The doubles championship of the University Handball Tournament went to Kozak and Palmisani. They defeated Dwyer and Daignault the first three games in a five game match, 21-4, 21-19, 21-15.
In winning the title the champs defeated some of the best teams in school. Oitzinger and Levins, the favorites, Giorgio and Messina, Emmer-ling and Morrissey, and Melinkovich and Allen.
When the tournament started the winners were to receive a pair of handball gloves. But since neither of the men use them a watch chain medal for both will be given.
Singles Deadline, March 7
The dead line for the singles will be March 7. All entries must be made to McGuff or Scrap-iron. Write your names on paper and hand them in. If your name is not on this list, sign up.
F. Messina, E. Massimine, L. Beau-, laurier, B. Smullen, J. Oitzinger, Levins, V. Murphy, Daigneault, Dwyer, Emmerling, Canale, Kozak, Palmisani, Gru, T. Grady, N. Lukats, D. Allen, Bowes, Mahoney, D. O’Keefe, La-Borne, Jaskwhich, B. Devine, J. Begley, S. Banas, Schaffner, R. Lyons, H. Jeffers, E. Young, J. Jordan, A. McGuff, J. Neubeauer, Fredericks, An-nar, Giorgio, V. Fehlig, Morrissey.
tough evening. While he was in the game in the previous contest, he garnered six points before leaving via the personal foul route.
Gorychka holds down the other forward berth and, with Zummach at right guard, completes the great Hilltopper cage team.
That the teams are both very good and very evenly matched can be best proven on a comparative score basis. Against Michigan State, Notre Dame won by a score of 30-25, and Marquette won by a score of 28-21. The contest should again prove a tough one, a rough one, and very well-. played one.
It is always easier to liberalize our theology than to religionize our lives. —Dr. Charles Gilkey, of the University of Chicago.
C. I. C. TRACK MEET TO BE HELD NEXT WEEKEND
Annual Conference Carnival Slated for Local Gym.
The Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor track meet, annually the climax of the local indoor sport season, will be held for the seventh time in the Notre Dame gym next Friday and Saturday, March 10 and 11.
Entries for the meet will close tomorrow. It is expected that at least ten schools will be represented. The list of assured entries includes Marquette, Michigan Normal, Michigan State, Western State Normal, U. of Detroit, Detroit City College, Butler, Loyola and DePaul of Chicago, and Notre Dame.
N. D. Won ’Em All
In the six meets held since the organization of the conference in 1927, Notre Dame has captured the team championship six times. But none of the victories were secured without a and this year’s meet finds the Irish in the ‘-field” class when the favorites are picked.
Michigan Normal, led by Eugene Beatty and Red Simmons, hurdlers, looms as the most serious threat. In last year’s classic the Ypsilanti school finished just four and one-tenth points beind the winning Irish.
Michigan State and Marquette shape up as the other outstanding teams. Marquette, holding a dual meet decision over the Irish, claims considerable attention as a championship possibility. Tierney, Schram, Metcalfe, and Ronzani should roll up more than a few points for the Hilltoppers.
Six Champions Return
Six individual champions from last year are scheduled to appear in defense of their titles. The list of defending titlists includes Ray Swartz, Western State, mile; Ralph Metcalfe, Marquette, 60-yards; Ken Bath, Michigan State, high hurdles; Red Simmons, Michigan Normal, low hurdles; Leroy Dues, Detroit C. C., shot put; and McKinley, Michigan Normal pole vault.
Two newly crowned national A. A. U. champions will appear in the persons of Metcalfe and Dues, brilliant colored stars. Metcalfe won the 60-meter dash in :06.2, tying the world’s record and Dues won the shot put with a heave just short of 50 feet.
Look at this remarkable lady ... with three lovely and perfect heads... all attached to a normal body. She appears to sit on the stage, with the lower part of her body concealed by flowers. She can wink, smile, and nod. She can talk, laugh, and sing—all at the same
It’s fun to be fooled
time. Thousands of people have seen this feat of magic it a wonderful sicht! _
it’s more fun to KNOW
EXPLANATION:
Audiences used to pay an extra fee to go behind the scenes to see how this trick was worked. They discovered that the three-headed woman was merely a reflection in a mirror. The glass showed the heads of three girls but the body of only one. The other two were cleverly hidden so that only their heads showed in the mirror.
Source: "Magic Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions" by Albert A. Hopkins...Munn & Co., New York
Copyright, 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
KEPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK

This “three-headed woman” trick goes ’way back to the early days of magic.
Also old is the suggestion that protection for your throat and freedom from coughing can be achieved through some magic trick.
THE EXPLANATION*. The easiest cigarette on your throat is the cigarette that is made from the choicest, ripe tobaccos.
Cheap, raw tobaccos are, as you would naturally expect, harsh to the
throat. Ripe, costly tobaccos are mild, mellow—gentle. The question is whether a cigarette is made from cheap tobacco or the more expensive grades.
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
American men and women have smoked more billions of Camels than any other brand because of the appeal of more expensive tobaccos and matchless blending.
Won’t you stack up your own experience with a cigarette made from milder, costlier tobaccos...against magic claims about “cigarettes and your throat”?
Try fresh Camels—in the air-tight, welded Humidor Pack that seals the freshness and coolness, the mildness and flavor of Camels...inside.
KO TRICKS
JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 26)
RUSSIAN RECOGNITION
(Continued from Page 16)
THINLIES TIE BUCKEYES
(Continued from Page 24)
Then Sherry of Carroll tied the score with a push shot from the foul circle, Clark then adding the winning points by a field goal from the center of the floor just before the game ended.
Clark with 7 points and Sherry with 6, led the Carroll attack, while Number and Shores were outstanding for Brownson.
Lyons 32, Dillon 20
With Yeager and Bucci scoring 26 points between them, Lyons outscored Dillon, 32-30. Yeager’s two field goals '' sent Lyons into a lead which they held throughout the game, leading 1611 at the half.
During the second half Bucci and -Yeager went on a scoring spree, dropping points from all parts of the floor, while Dillon’s scoring was confined to long shots by Wynn and Sheehan.	.
Badin 21, Sorin 10
Badin found little opposition in Sorin, and completely outplayed them as they ran up a 21-10 victory.
Pointeck, Podraza, and Ward put > Badin ahead in the first half, 10-4. Sorin was held scoreless until the last minute when Robinson broke away from two baskets in succession.
In the second half Badin again kept possession of the ball for the greater part of the game while Sorin found it difficult to break through Badin’s defense. Piontek, Podraza, and Ward were the high scorers for Badin, while Robinson with 6 points was outstanding for Sorin.
Morrissey 18, Corby 16
Morrissey came from behind to tie Corby, and then went on to win in an overtime period. Trailing Corby 1214 with three minutes left to play, Pogue’s shot from the middle of the >
statement was not only narrowminded but entirely un-American.
It is none of our business how the Soviets settled their international obligations with other countries because even in American civil courts the law has no jurisdiction or right over privately settled debts. Economic advantages to both countries offer a positive argument for recognition. American exports to Russia have increased over 200 per cent under the burden of non-recognition. In 1930 Russia bought $7 worth of our goods for every dollar’s worth we purchased from them. Likewise, in 1930, Russia was our sixth best foreign customer and we were their second best. From the above material it is not difficult to see how political and economic benefit would result from official rela-, tions between Russia and the United , States.
Religious Argument Strongest
There is one argument however that overshadows all others against Russia, and that is the religious one. When Russia opened her warfare on ' God she automatically became a menace to Christendom and to all Christian nations as well. If the Church r recognized Russia it would mean that she sanctioned the atheism so rampant there. Recognition by a country does not necessarily imply this. Farsighted Christians can rely therefore upon the Church to oppose with vehemence any recognition until such time as Russia sees fit to curtail her non-religious policy.	'
Opposition to recognition is well organized, while the protagonists are not. The American Federation of Labor, the National Civic Federation, the group led by Hamilton Fish, Jr., and many ex-socialists work together „	(Continued on Page 31)
first two places in the 440 yard dash. Captain Fred MacBeth finished third and Jim Bowdren, who couldn’t seem to get going, wound up out of the scoring in fourth.	•
Neal proved to be the class of the shot put with Finkel and Freschi close behind him in second and third places.
Eddie King turned in his best performance of the current campaign when he showed great improvement and won his first mile race this year. Don Bennet and Stapf captured the first two places in the 60 yard sprint with Dilling running a good third.
The summary:
ONE MILE RUN—Won by King (ND) : Bloor (OS), second: Roberts (ND), third. Time, 4:32.	.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Bennett (OS) : Stapf (OS), second: Dilling (ND), thrid. Time, :06.3.	.
POLE VAULT—Wonsowitz (OS), and Edwards (ND), tied for first; Cavender (ND), and Howard (ND), tied for third. Height, 12 feet.
SHOT PUT—Won by Neal (OS) : Finkel (ND), second; Freschi (ND), third. Distance, 45 feet, 4% inches.
440-YARD DASH—Won my Willey (OS) ; Teitlebaum (OS), second; MacBeth (ND), third. Time, :52.3.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Kellar (OS) : Fagan (ND), second; Johnson (OS), third. Time, :07.5 (Ties Gym record).
• TWO MILE RUN—Won by Bowers (ND) ; Young (ND), second; Warner (OS), third. Time, 9:57.3.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Gough (ND) ; Johnston (OS), second; Vejar (ND), third. Distance, 22 feet, 8'4 inches. (New N. D. indoor record.)	-
880-YARD RUN—Won by Shields (ND) ; Brown (OS); second; Smith (OS), third. Time. 2:01.7.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Kellar (OS) ; Fagan (ND) ; Richards -(OS), third. Time, :07.3.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Johnston (OS), second; Richards (OS), third. Height, 5 feet, 10 inches.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Gilfoil, La Frambois, MacBeth, and Bowdren). Time, 3:29.
floor sent Morrissey into a tie. Howard then put Morrissey ahead with a sensational one-hand shot. With 30 seconds left to play Lasurdi of Corby i sunk one from the sidelines sending the game into an extra period.
In the overtime period Pogue did the only scoring with another long shot. The game was extremely close throughout with neither team ahead - by more than four points at any time. Pogue and Graves were Morrissey’s leading scorers with five points each, while Healey and Montgomery featured for Corby.
00
PHOTOGRAPH
Aven
u e
110 West
Any size up to 11 x 14 inches
March 3, 1933
Thirty-one
IRISH BEAT BUTLER
(Continued from Page 22)
evening with a long shot and the Irish had apparently won the game when Davis went on a scoring rampage to score two field goals in rapid succession and give Butler a 41 to 39 lead with about a minute of the overtime period remaining.
Baird fouled Newbold’while he was shooting, and, with the crowd in an uproar, Jim converted one free throw but missed his chance to tie the score by failing to make the other. Having failed to tie the score, Newbold now set out to win the game with a beautiful long shot from the center of the floor which split the twine and gave the Irish a 42-41 victory.
The game was played at the Butler University Fieldhouse before a capacity crowd of ten thousand.
The victory was the eighth straight for the Keoganites who seem to have hit their stride after a bad mid-season slump.
Notre Dame (42)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voege’.e, f	;		— 5	1	4	2	11
Jord'.n, f 		— 1	1	1	1	3
Alberts, f 		— 0	0	1	0	0
Krause, c		-	—. 7	4	8	2	18
Crowe, g 		— 1	3	5	3	5
Baldwin, g 			— 1	0	1	4	2
Newbold, g 				— 1	1	2	0	3
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals		-...16	10	22	12	42
Butler (41)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Miller, f 		2	0	0	2	4
Davis, f 		— 4	5	8	1	13
Proffitt, c 		— 0	0	0	4	0
Reissner, c 		— 1	0	0	1	2
Demmery, c 		2	1	1	4	5
Baird, g		.... 7	0	2	2	14
Parrish, g 			 1	1	2	3	3
	——	—	——	—	—
Totals 			17	7	13	17	41
Glee Club Will Give First					
Public Concert on March 26
RUSSIAN RECOGNITION
(Continued from Page 20)
on common grounds to prevent recognition. The Catholic faction is headed by Father Edmund A Walsh, of Georgetown University, who was papal nuncio in Russia for several years. Father Charles E. Coughlin, of Detroit, another priest who is actively engaged in this work points to Henry Ford, The Chase National Bank, and the J. P. Morgan Co., as internationalists who aid Russia intentionally or otherwise in carrying out nefarious schemes of world wide revolt.
The people desiring recognition are for the most part liberal minded republican leaders, although there has been a movement in the Democratic party in this regard recently. Borah, Brookhart, Wheeler, LaFollette, Norris, and Johnson are the most prominent men advocating diplomatic relations with Russia. To pursue our present policy toward the Soviet government we must have faith in the Catholic church to fight recognition and do what we can to aid. Despite their lack of unity the opposing forces are powerful.
Most Catholics utilize the Third International argument as a supplementary reason why Russia must not be recognized. Although many people contend the extent of Communistic propaganda has been exaggerated a great deal, John LaForge, S.J. echoes Catholic opinion when he says “only an irreligious State could be expected to adopt a policy of attack against the world.”
FRESHMAN WINS MEET
(Continued from Page 22)
TIP-OFFS
(Continued from Page 22) ■
basket for Butler. Then “Moose” through with a free-throw. On the next tip at center Butler gained possession of the ball and proceeded to stall as there was less than a minute to go and they led, 41-40.
Miller had the ball on the side of the court, and at that point Voegele wrapped his long arms around him and forced a bad pass which Jim Newbold intercepted, and dribbled the length of the floor to sink a shot just as the final gun went off, and gave Notre Dame it’s eighth straight victory.
If the team goes through and wins the three remaining games it will obtain a .730 average. And that, is some average when you consider they dropped six games early in the year when old man injury was at the door.
The way the remaining teams on the schedule have been playing the Irish are certainly of no easy mark. Wabash is probably the weak sister of the three, but will give the best they have, and it is plenty.
Marquette beat the Irish earlier in the season, and since then have dropped only one game. They felt so hot that they challenged Northwestern to a game and then they erased an early defeat by that team. Minnesota is coming around to its best form, and by the time the team arrives in Minneapolis a tough team will be there to meet them.
The Notre Dame Glee Club will make their first public appearance of the season in Washington Hall March 26 to present a concert. The club, at the present time, has a membership of fifty students. This represents several cuts in the personnel that have been made since last September.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Notre Dame singers, will make the final cut of the year shortly before the first of April. The personnel will be cut to forty stu-fr dents. This group, referred to as the “Traveling Personnel,” makes the trips to various sections and presents the concerts that have been so popular in the past with the students and the people of this vicinity.
SHOT PUT— Won by Huisking (A) ; Kav-alier (Fr.), second; Pocius, (Fr.) and Kennedy (B), tied for third. Distance 40 feet 3% inches.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Pons (L) : Payton (OC), second; Gorman (Fr.), third. Time :07.6.
8S0-YARD RUN — Won by Landmesser (St. E.) ; McDevitt (M), second; Hackner (D), third. Time 2:14.5.
POLE VAULT—Won by Mahoney (Br.) and Coogan (St. E.) : Conlon (St. E.), third. Height 10 feet 9 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Frawley (Fr.) ; Alsasto (St. E.). second; Martin (St. E.), third. Distance 19 feet 6 inches.
HIGH JUMP—Saffa (Fr.), Torribio (Cr.). Flatley (L) and Hunt (D) all tied for first. Height 5 feet 4 inches.
THREE-QUARTER MILE RELAY—Won by Freshman ; St. Edward’s, second; Dillon, third. Time 2:58.9.
Squash Racquets Squad To Meet Purdue Here Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s first intercollegiate squash raeqets match will be played in the local courts in the gym tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 o’clock when a five man team will meet a squad from Purdue. The match is being sponsored by the Physical Education departments of the two schools.
Plans for the match call for two doubles and three singles encounters. The Notre Dame team will include four juniors, Art O’Neill, Don Brice, Don Dugan and Luce Daigenault, and one sophomore, Tom Moran.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
IRISH BEAT SPARTANS
(Continued from Pape 21)
goal to tie the score at 25-all. Jordan then stepped in to shove the Irish into a lead which the Spartans never overcame.
The score:
Notre Dame (30) Voegele, f ........... Jordan, f ............
Krause, c ............
Alberts, c ...........
Crowe, g .............
Baldwin, s ...........
FG FT ‘ FTA PF Pts. 5	0	3	3	10
10	12	2
6	2	2	4	14
0	0	0	0	0
1110	3
0	110	1
Totals ..............13	4	8	10	30
Michigan State (25) Herrick, f ...........
Van Roest, f .........
Patchett, f ..........
McCaslin, f ..........
Van Fassen, c ........
Dekker, g ............
Kircher, g ...........
Von Dette.............
Riordan ..............
FG FT FTA PF Pts. 0	0	0	1	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
5	3	5	1	13
1	2	3	2	4
0	0	0	0	0
13 3 15 10 0 12 0	1111
Totals .............. 8	9	12 G 25
STRAT1GON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD” 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
i
On Down The Line
Fred MacBetls^=^=^
GENE SARAZEN, British and U. S. open champion, during 1932 shot 45 rounds over some of the country’s toughest courses . . . his average was under 72, considered par on the average course . . . NORVAL BAPTIE holds most of the professional ice skating speed records . . . hockey goalies wear leg pads that have an average weight of SIXTEEN POUNDS . . . the champion ATLANTIC CITY SEA GULLS hockey organization consists of sixteen players . . . one was born in the UNITED STATES, one in NORWAY, and the rest of the membership are CANADIAN-BORN.
ART NEHF pitched in the WORLD SERIES four years in a row . . . WEE WILLIE KEELER went to bat 700 consecutive times (1895-96-97) without striking cut . . . back in the ’80’s baseball players wore uniforms of different colors to distinguish them . . . the score cards of those days told of the uniform combination . . . called balls were put in the rules in 1863 . . . and in the same year base runners were compelled to touch every base . . . WALTER JOHNSON went through the entire 1919 season without allowing a home run to be made off his delivery . . . and he pitched 290 innings.
CHARLIE PADDOCK, once the world’s fastest human, ran 50 yards in five seconds flat . . . but EVERETT McGOWAN, speed skater, reeled off the same distance in four seconds . . . PADDOCK tore through 60 yards in six seconds flat and FRED ROBSON, PITTSBURGH speed skater, just equalled this time to set a world record on the blades . . . TITLE-HOLDING SPEED SKATERS COULD RUN AWAY FROM SPRINTERS AT EVERY DISTANCE EXCEPT 60 YARDS . . . pole vaulting for distance was once a keen event . . . PEGGY DUNCAN, fifteen years old, swam seven miles from ROBBEN Island to CAPETOWN. SOUTH AFRICA, through shark-infested waters, in ten hours and five minutes . . . she was protected by men with guns in motorboats. . . .
LIEUT. A. H. METTEE, U. S. ARMY, made a 27,000-foot parachute jump . . . figure it out in miles! . . . the fastest billiard scorer is
CHARLESPETERSONofST. LOUIS ... he made 100 points in 26 seconds and counted 1000 points in four minutes in a speed endurance test . . . MANAGER BILL KIL-LEFER will take but 25 ST. LOUIS BROWNS to FLORIDA for SPRING TRAINING ... in ILLINOIS (1932) there were 669 AMATEUR BOXING SHOWS staged as compared with 125 professional cards . . . NEW YORK leads all other states in number of golf courses with 152 . . . ILLINOIS is second with 385 and MICHIGAN third with 298 .. . BULL-FIGHTING, the national sport of SPAIN, is on the wane ... in 1930 there were 302 “coridas” . . . 1931 saw 249, and the season just ended shows a drop to 215 . . . one writer suggests music at PROFESSIONAL WRESTLING SHOWS . . . NOTHING LIKE MUSIC TO PUT AN ACT OVER.
SOCIOLOGISTS DISCUSS
(Continued from Page 8)
should be. If crime is a disease it must be treated injthe proper manner; therefore our prisons should be modeled into hospitals for crime. I do not mean ‘hospital’ in the literal sense but rather in the limited reformatory sense. Let us consider the means of such reform.
“The county jail must go because it offers no constructive good to the inmates housed therein. It can be used only to advantage for the temporary housing of criminals. The county penitentiary may be classified only by the term ‘lousy’! The food and treatment received here are unimaginable.
“The state prisons should afford education to all. In some this is the case. These, however, are very few. An education would aid the prisoner to face the future on his own resources when he leaves the cell to again take up his home in society.”
Anthony Sicuranzo, discussion leader, and general chairman George Meyers brought up interesting points for comment.
Professor John A. Sullivan, faculty adviser, spoke on the prison reforms and advanced some personal views on the matter.
The Sociology Club, composed of seniors majoring in Sociology, meets weekly during the second semester, and considers topics of scholastic importance. All students taking courses in Sociology are invited to attend the meetings. Reverend Raymond W. { Murray, C.S.C., head of the Sociology department, is in charge of all sessions.
After College WHAT?
LAW?
Former Federal Judge Edwin L. Garvin says: "A keen mind, sound judgment and unflagging industry are required to digest the volumes of laws and decisions facing the practitioner today. The young lawyer can no longer practice by ear and intuition. The science of the law is exacting and difficult.”
ONLY "a keen mind” can absorb the volumes of information which must be at the finger tips of the young lawyer today. Perhaps that’s why in this profession, as in our leading colleges, a pipe is the favorite smoke. You see, it helps a man concentrate . . . clears cobwebs from his brain.
Try a pipeful of Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco—rhe favorite smoke among college men. *Notice how that blend of fine old hurleys really helps you think out a difficult problem.
Edgeworth is distinctive . . . that’s why you’ll like it. You’ll know — after your first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Just write to Larus 8C Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Virginia.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgewonh Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
Treat yourself to a month of
sunny living
YOUR health influences your reaction to undergraduate life. You need plenty of vitality to make good in the classroom, and in the various activities of the school.
Too often common constipation is permitted to undermine health and energy. Overcome it by eating a delicious cereal.
Try Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN for a month, and see how much better you feel. Two tablespoon-fuls daily will promote regular habits. ALLBRAN supplies “bulk,” vitamin B and iron. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating-clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kelloggs Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
WHEN smokers keep buying the same cigarette day after day. .. it’s a pre tty good sign that they’re getting what they want... mildness, better taste*-a smoke that’s always the same.
So we’re going right on making Chesterfields just as we always have... selecting choice, ripe	'
tobaccos... ageing them... blending and crossblending them... making them into cigarettes in the most scientific ways that are known.
If you smoke, why not find out about them? > A package or two will tell you “They Satisfy.”
THEY'RE MILDER—	|
'"■’“"■""V^hestcrheld
© 1933,Liggett&Mye»s Tobacco Co.	‘