THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
803
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,
Leo McIntyre, Richard Parrish, Richard Elfers, John V. Hinkel,
■ - News Editor Asst. News Editor Literary Editor - Sports Editor
Editor-in-Chief
• Business Manager
J. F. Mahoney, - - - - The Week Cyril J. Mullen, The College Parade Arthur Stenius, - Music and Drama John Bergan, - - - Club Editor

!
William Craig Bernard Garber
!
David Saxon George McNally
ADVERTISING
J. T. Bonner, - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H. J. Noon, - Local Circulation Mgr.
D. M. Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
NEWS
R. W. Munz ‘ John DeRoulet George a. Kiener Raymond Drymalski
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	H. O’Bryan
C. M. Ashman	E. J. Carlin
W. E. Burchill

I
I

VOL.-fc¥L
APRIL 27, 1928
No. 26
1872
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1928
The Week.......................
Next Week’s Events........-....
Campus Personalities..... Music and Drama.......... The College Parade ...... Editorial ... Hobnails............ Currents of Life (A Story)—.... Simple Bitterness (A Poem)..... Beards.........................
The Moving Window.............. On Cheerful Rising............. Not Even Women Are Different Sport News.....................
J. F. Mahoney
Cyril J. Mullen
..AllanrOrDale______ ..Robert M. Dinkel ..Richard Elpers ... ..Vernon J. Knor,... .Jasper Brent ______ ..Paul J. MacAvoy ..Rasper Dent_______ ..John V. Hinkel ...
804
805
807
809
814
815
816
817
821
822
822
823
824
825

<
i
m SCHOLASTIC to publiobed weekly At the Lnlverrit/of Notoe	**
oddrmed to THE SCHOLASTIC or to room* SM or 4M Morrtooer HalL
u -*rr- wetter at Notoe Dam*. Isdiono. Acceptor. tor rosOhw at «poeU rate
The Advertiser! in Notre Dune Pubfitalions Deserve the Pitronage of AD Notre Dune Men
804
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
The complaint has reached our ears, evei' sensitive to campus complaints, that Sorin' hall is no longer the holy of holies it once was; that that venerated castle is daily invaded by a numbei’ of youths who have no business there; that underclassmen in general, and Freshmen in particular, grab the best seats on the front porch, holler out the windows at other’ underclassmen, and in sundry other ways render themselves unwelcome; that saucy sprouts from less favored halls pass by there without so much as a salaam to the noble traditions; that youngsters with little knowledge of affairs hereabouts become privy to certain mature conversations and discussions, and, to make it worse, proceed to spread the information thus illicitly obtained to the far corners of the campus; that the hall is being desecrated by these same bold underclassmen, who were not reared with a proper respect for the best and proudest of residence halls; and that, unless something is done about it, Sorin will eventually lose all ts graundeur and its distinctive air. John Igoe can remember when Freshmen used to crawl by' Sorin with eyes downcast, and those whose apparel or attitude earned the scorn of the porch critics sneaked around in back.for three years afterward. Which is as it should be. Sorin hall deserves a better* fate than to be the hangingout place for anyone who cares to drop in, regardless of his age or class affiliation. It seems to us that a revival of the old-time goofing parties would serve to warn away those who now profane the hall and would at the same time restore its prestige as the hall among halls.
Notre Dame men the world over filled their jimmy-pipes Monday night and basked in the glory that is hers. We who are not yet (and may never bej alumni, sat down to a first-rate meal and paid due homage to the responsible parties by eating everything in sight. Whether we were here or in China, the most important thing to remember about the Fifth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night is that
Notre Dame is biggei’ than any of us and that she is probably the most beneficial influence (save our homes,) in our lives. The undergraduate tendency is to regard the alumni as old fossils who get the best seat's at football games and write checks for building funds. They are nothing of the sort. They are loyal gentlemen who are proud of their Alma Mater and are intensely interested in everything Notre Dame does: they are responsible for a good many of the privileges we now enjoy, and it should be our desire to be as good and faithful servants as they have been.
One of the most hilarious, of the pastimes that generally come into vogue at this season of the year is called Douse the Passer-by. It consists in throwing water out of a third story window on those walking below; the more dignified their mien and the more exalted their bearing, the better the sport. After the sidewalk has become' so wet as to warn prospective victims of the fate in store, a recess is called while the evidence evaporates. As a variant, we suggest that gasoline, closely followed by a flaming torch, be thrown. This should make the game really good, because it would stimulate accuracy in the Dousers and resistance in the Dousees.
Heresy continues to crop out, even in this fine Spring weather, when men’s souls should be at peace. On a wall in Science is scribbled the query, “How can a member of the Notre Dame football, basketball, or baseball teams pass his classes? Or a member of the Glee Club?” And the quite logical answer is written below, “No member of these organzations is as stupid as the map who wrote this.” In another place is written: “5 to 1 Holy Cross beats Notre Dam^' and a proud Yankee replies, “Don’t be go conservative—it should be 10 to 1.” Follows a table quoting the odds against Notre Danie when she meets those Eastern colleges which, according to the confession of then* support* ers, know how baseball should be played.
—j.F.M. '
THE NOTRE n A.
B DAME scholastic
805
,< NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS ♦ > ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ 0 4	$ *
Friday, April 27—The k- of C. Spring Formal, sponsored by Notre Dame Council, dumber 1477—Palais Royale ballroom— 9:00.P. M.
. BASEBALL—University of Notre Dame vs. Wabash College—Crawfordsville, Ind.
Trench Seminar—Community House— 8:00—9:30 P. M.
Saturday—Movies—“Tillie’s Punctured Romance,” starring Conkling and Fields-Washington hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Baseball—University of Notre Dame vs. Butler University—Indianapolis.
Sunday—Masses — Sacred Heart Church— 6:00, 7:00 and 8:30 A. M.,—Students; 10:15 A. M.,—Parish Mass.
K. of C. Initiation—South Bend Council’s home, starting at 12:45 P. M.
Benediction — Sacred Heart Church — 7:30 P. M.
Meeting of the Wranglers—University Library—7:45 P. M.
Banquet, undei’ the auspices of Notre Dame Council, K. of C.—Oliver Hotel— 7:00 P. M.
^doy—Lecture, given by Mr. Frederick— "American Literature of the Middle West” —Washington hall—8:00 P. M.
. German Club—Hoynes hall—6:45 P. M. Tuesday—Meeting of the Scribblers—Pub-•lications’ building—8:00 P. M. (Mr. Frederick, editor of “The Midland” and critic the American short story, will address .the club.)
■•^Meeting of the Villagers’ Club—Lay faculty dining room of University Dining 6:15 P. M.
o?;Baseball—University of Minnesota vs. iW Of Notre Dame—Cartier* field—3:30 ^M...
Jweeday—Spanish Club—Hoynes hall 12° M.
Scholastics—University Library B5P.M.
l^y-r-Lecture, by Dr. Coulter—“Forest
Con«rvatW_Washfaglonhall_8:0o F«2T,lv;#'K‘ Vir»nia u. vs. u.
French J™C~Oart,er field—3:30 P. M. SlOfiXo P™'?-00™^ H°““ -
Saturday—Baseball—West Virginia U. vs. P Mf Dame~’Cartier field—2:30
Movies—“Partners in Crime,” featuring Wallace Beery—Washington hall —6:30 and 8:30 P.M.
-------—.
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER DISTINGUISHED SOLDIER AND LAWYER William J. Donovan, first assistant United States attorney-general, who will deliver the commencement address at the eighty-third annual graduating ceremonies held here June 3, is recognized as one of the greatest and most courageous soldiers in the country today.
Mr. Donovan is one of the two men to receive the three decorations, the Congressional Medal of Honor, the D. S. C., and the D. S. M., for extraordinary service during the World War. He is also a member of the Legion of Honor and received the Croix de Guerre from France and the Croce al Merito di Guerra from Italy. He rose to the rank of Colonel while serving with the A. E. F., and he was wounded three times.
The commencement speaker is a lawyer of recognized ability. He is a graduate of the Columbia University School of Law. Following his graduation he spent some time practicing his profession in which he soon distinguished himself. In 1922 he was appointed U. S. district attorney of the Western District of New York. More recently he be-came first assistant attorney general of the United States.	.
The Rt. Rev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C., bishop of Helena, who will sing the baccalau-mass on the morning of the <—«-is a former vice-president of No-ment day, is a	left here last
tre Dame.	at Helena. The
year to assure:	s preached by the
RTwZm B. Martin, D.D., of New Ro-chelle, N. Y.
■R
806
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SENIOR BALL ARRANGEMENTS APPROACH COMPLETION
May eleventh, the date of the Senior Ball of Nineteen twenty-eight, grows in importance daily with the announcements by Jim Shocknessy, general chairman, of further details concerning the affair. If present indications may be taken as a shadow cast by the coming Ball, it should be the outstanding social event of a year notable for* the Chicago Club’s celebrity banquet, extremely successful class dances, and other important enter-'tainments and banquets.
TICKET SALE LIMITED TO 250
More than two hundred men have already signified their intention of attending the Ball by paying the required deposit of five dollars on their ticket reservations. 'Only two hundred and fifty tickets will be sold, Shocknessy has decided. Consequently, men who plan to attend the Ball and have not made their deposits should buy their tickets immediately. It is now too late to pay the five dollar deposit fee, and tickets can be obtained only by paying the total amount, thirteen dollars and fifty cents, before Tuesday, May 2. Monday is absolutely the last day of the ticket sale.
That the Ball tickets will be completely sold out is now a certainty. The rest of the tickets will go to the men making the first applications. Others will be out of luck when May eleventh rolls around, two weeks from today.
SENIORS AND GRADUATES ONLY TO ATTEND
The report recently circulated that all classes will be allowed to attend the Ball has been denied. Seniors and alumni only will be allowed to attend the dance.
By arrangement with Messrs. Coon and Sanders, leaders of the Nighthawks who will play that evening, the favorite dance numbers of the men attending will be rendered. Requests for special selections should be made to members of the music committee.
DECORATIONS
W. Hudson Jeffreys, recently appointed valedictorian of the class, and chairman of the Decorations committee promises a com
plete transformation of the familiar Palais Royale on the night of May eleventh. The George P. Johnson Company of Detroit, nationally known decorators at social functions will have charge.	’
Mr. Shocknessy requests that seniors present the names of their guests when making their final deposits on tickets. He also asks that Ball posters be allowed to stand until after the dance.
Invitations are now ready and may be secured by men who have paid their deposits.
-------'
FATHER CARROLL READS PAPER AT MARQUETTE
The Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, read a paper entitled “Tendencies of Modem Education” at Marquette university Monday, April 23. The article is published in the current issue of the magazine America, under the title “Educa-tionalism.”
Father Carroll’s paper was one of a number read at the inauguration of President Magee of Marquette. It is a commentary on modern educational methods. The educator of today is “the personification of formalism,” in the opinion of Father Carroll. He declares that “American business methods have entered a world where souls seek freedom and light.”
Credits and degrees are the criteria by which the student and the professor are measured today, said Father Carroll. In the same manner there is a deplorable tendency to rate the college by equipment, rather than by accomplishment. The number of teachers, the degrees of these teachers, the number of students, the size of the endowment fund, are the measures by which the school is classified.
--------$--------.
NOTRE DAME LAWYER OUT THIS WEEK
A sixty-four page issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer was presented to Notre Dame’s po* tential barristers this week by Joseph P. McNamara, the editor. A new department: “Notes on Recent Legislation” is a feature. It is the first department of its kind in any law magazine.
T H E NOTRE DAME
«❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖<• * **<..:.* .> * .j. $ *
♦ CAMPUS PERSONALITIES ♦
John W. Cavanaugh, a senioi* in the College of Arts and Letters, comes to Notre Dame from Highland Park, Illinois. His principal activity has been dramatics and
JOHN W. CAVANAUGH
public speaking.
For four years Jack has been, a member of the University theatre. During this time he has taken part in the various productions, the most recent being Murray Young’s biblical drama, “A Sign and a Wonder,” probably the best staged and most pleasing play of the group.
He played also in “The Old Man” by Harry McGuire, and in other plays written by Mr. Phillips, Joe Breig, and Linus Maloney.
In his sophomore year Cavanaugh won the University Theatre prize for the best dramatic reading. Last year he was awarded first place in the University oratorical contest.
The Memorial Day exercises for the past three years have included Cavanaugh as a representative student speaker. He also gave the Washington Day address in the annual celebration of that day by the Senior class.
Jack spent last summer with the Rice Players, a stock-company at Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts. He played Horatio, in Hamlet (play named for sake of minority group of readers), and leading parts in dramas by Barrie, Shaw, Wilde, and George Kelly. Mr. Rice gives readings and recitations annually at Notre Dame.
Cavanaugh is an instructor in public speaking at the University. This informative write-up should please the members of his classes; for students always like “to get the dope on the prof.”
INDIANA’S FAVORITE SON
ADDRESSES STUDENT BODY
The Honorable James Watson, senior senator from Indiana, and a prominent Republican presidential candidate, addressed the student body of the University Wednesday afternoon in Washington hall. Judge Dudley G. Wooten, a former member of Congress, and professor in the Notre Dame College of Law, introduced the senator to the audience.
Senator Watson in the course of his talk expressed himself as an advocate of liberal education. He is opposed to the modern tendency toward utilitarianism in education which stresses technical or vocational rather than cultural training. He further decried the present governmental practice of investigating any and everything without provocation.
METROPOLITAN CLUB’S SMOKER SUCCESS
“The Charity Smoker,”—the proceeds of which go to the furtherance of the Bengal Missions in India—was held Wednesday evening, April 25, in the lay faculty dining room of the University Dining Halls. The affair, which proved to be as successful as the club’s Christmas dance, was given under the auspices of the Metropolitan club of the University.
There were plenty of smokes for everyone and the usual attractive assortment of physical resuscilation.
The entertainment was of the best, according to reports and helped greatly toward making the evening a very enjoyable one. Jim McShane exhibited some clever ballroom steps, which were followed by several selections from the Varsity Quartet. In addition, Bob Sullivan’s “Hunchbacks” furnished some snappy music throughout the evening and Anthony Kopecky favored those present with his fine tenor voice.
Chairman Edward F. Cunningham and his assistants Walter Donnelly and Harley McDevitt wish to express their thanks to Paul Gilbert of Gilbert’s Clothing Store and Leon Livingston of Livingston’s Store for their kind contribution of the smokes, for the affair.
808	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
♦ OUR CONTRIBUTORS *
There will be no lack of literary material for the Scholastic next year if the great number of men who have made their first appearance recently pursue the advantage of their introductions.
■ The three prose contributions in this issue all bear names that are new to these pages. Robei*t Dinkel is a Clevelander in his second year of Pre Law, which is also the school in which Vernon Knox is a freshman. The other essayist, Paul Mac-Avoy, is another first-year man, in the college of Arts and Letters.
The versifiers are familiar to you. Jasper Brent’s “The Moving Window” is perhaps occasioned by his approaching graduation. “Simple Bitterness” is one of the poems selected by the judges in the recent Ssrib-bler Contest, and not published in the Poetry Number of the Scholastic.
NOTRE DAME CHEMISTS AT ST. LOUIS MEETING
Two members of the faculty of the department of chemistry attended the 75th Meeting of the American Chemical Society at St. Louis, Missouri, on April 16th to 19th. This was a national meeting of the society and representatives from all sections of the country were present. Papers were read on subjects in every field of Chemistry.
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C. S. C., Professor of Organic Chemistry, spoke before the Division of Organic Chemistry on “The Catalytic Condensation of Acetylene with Phenols; 1. Resorcinol.” In this paper the research work of Sister Mary Aquinas, S. N. D., was reviewed. Father Nieuwland is widely known for his researches in the reactions of acetylene, and is particularly noted for his work during the World War, in this branch of chemistry.
Dr. E. G. Mahin, Professor of Analytical Chemistry and Metallurgy, addressed the division of Chemical Education on “The Technic of Conducting the Introductory
College Course in Quantitative Analysis.” Dr. Mahin has taught quantitative analysis for more than a score of years and is not only an authority but also the author of several text books on this subject.
----- <?♦—- ■
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT FITTINGLY OBSERVED
Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 23, was fittingly observed on the campus for the first time by a special dinner in the new dining halls, by the distribution to the students of a message from the Alumni association, and by a banquet held by members of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni association in the faculty dining room.
The local celebration of Notre Dame Night was but a small factor’ in a celebraton that was world-wide in scope. Alumni meetings were held in 54 American cities and in six foreign countries. Special entertainments and programs were given at these meetings, and at least one of the programs was broadcasted.
The enduring bond between Notre Dame and her alumni was stressed by James Armstrong, alumni secretary, in the message to the undergraduates of the University. Mr. Armstrong, who was largely instrumental in this the first local observance of Notre Dame Night, explained how every student and former student is Notre Dame and how the celebration of such a Night stimulates the graduate to accept the responsibility of fittingly representing his Alma Mater.
The dinner served the students in the dining halls met with unqualified approval. The menu was as follows: Fruit cocktail; celery; olives; chicken a la king; baked stuffed tomato; au gratin potatoes; asparagus tip salad, viniagrette; coffee; and strawberry ice cream and assorted cakes.
A remarkably entertaining, program was the feature; of the St. Joseph Valley club banquet. The program was arranged by Bernard Voll and Clarence Manion served as master of ceremonies. The speakers included A. R. Erskine, Knute K. Rockne, the Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C. and Coach Otto Klum of Honolulu. Abe Livingston of South Bena was elected president for the coming year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
809
♦ MUSIC AND DRAMA ❖
When George Dasch, conductor of the Little Symphony Orchestra of Chicago, took his final bow in recognition of the graciously given applause in Washington hall last Friday evening, the concert season of Notre Dame had terminated; but surely, everyone who heard the program will say that the end was in every sense the climax of a year which has brought to the campus many notables in the field of music. As has been the case in the past year’s when Mr. Dasch has brought his orchestra here, the program was splendidly balanced, ranging from that light, simple bit of MacDowell, “To a Water Lily,” to the third movement of Rimsky-Korsakow’s symphonic suite, “Scheherazade.” Howard Preston, the assisting soloist for Mr. Dasch, was splendid when giving the prologue to “Pagliacci” and “Danny Deever,” and if applause may be used as a standard of judgment, the concert was more than a mere evening of entertainment. The program follows.
PROGRAM
Overture to “The Secret of Suzanne” Wolf-Ferrari From Symphonic Suite, “Scheherazade” (Opus 35)
-------	- Rimski-KorsaJiow
Third Movement:
“The Young Prince and The Young Princess” “To a Water Lily” ----- MacDowell “Scherzo” from “Sonata Tragica” - - MacDowell Ballet Suite, “Suses d’Amour” -	G lazou.no w
Arranged for The Little Symphony Orchestra by George Dasch
I.	Introduction
II.	Grande Valse
IIL	Grand poa des Fiances
Duet for Violin and Violincello
by Herman Felber and Theodore Du Moulin IV. Finale: “La Fricassee”
INTERMISSION
Prologue to “Pagliacci” -	-	- Leoncavallo
Song-Ballad, “Danny Deever” -	-	- Damrosch
Mb. Preston and the Orchestra
Spanish Dance -	-	-	- Granados-Rasch
Tambourin Chinois -	-	- Kreisler-Dasch
Overture to “Mignon” -	-	-	- Thomas
“The King of Kings” which began its return engagement at the Oliver Theatre yesterday afternoon, continues with matinee
and evening performance today and tomorrow at 2:15 and 8:15 respectively. To ask anyone who has seen the picture as to its worth is to be told that the failure to see it is foolishness, for it is, indeed, doubtful if any producetion has been produced more per-fectly. H. B. Warner, playing the part of Christ, portrays the Savior in such a manner that one almost feels as if a bit of the spiritual was injected into the producton. That “The King of Kings” is a sermon cannot be doubted, but it is a living sermon and therefore something which may not be had upon every desired occasion. To say that it is highly worthwhile does not do it justice.
--------*--------
NOTED EDITOR TO LECTURE WERE * ON SHORT STORY
A treat of an unusual kind will be given the student body next Monday evening, April 30, when John T. Frederick, Editor of “The Midland,” will lecture in Washington hall on “American Literature in the Middle West.” The lecture will be at eight o’clock. All students are invited.
Besides giving the Monday evening lecture, to the student body in general, Mr. Frederick will spend two or three days on the campus as the guest of the English Department, visiting classes and giving informal conferences on creative writing.
Mr. Frederick, who is the founder and for fifteen years has been editor of “The Midland” magazine, is the author of two well known novels, “Druida” and “The Bush,” as well as of a text book “A Handbook of Short Story Writing.” He ranks among the keenest literary critics of the time, and has made “The Midland” one of the foremost and most widely quoted magazines of a purely literary nature in this Country. According to H. L. Mencken it is "probably the most important literary magazine ever established in America.
Reports from Indiana State University, Ohio State, Cornell, and other institutions where Mr. Frederick has lectured and given conferences, are to the effect that in every case his appearances has been highly stimulating to the student?.
810	THE NOTRE DAMESCHOLASTIC
LAWYERS CONVICT HUGH SWIFT;
ET AL	'
It was all Chief Justice William J. Coyne’s fault! It was he who sentenced Hugh Swift, et al, a group of musicians from the city of Chicago, who were indicted for maliciously entering the-Palais Roy-ale and driving the blues away. And, indeed, they were rightly sentenced. Before the last chime of the town clock told the hour of twelve, the entire Blue family, including their cousin Mr. Gloom, had been driven from the midst of the Lawyers’ ball due to Mr. Hugh Swift’s varied attacks with such instruments as saxophones, pianos, drums and what not.
' At nine o’clock the court crier announced that the lawyers were to open court. The defendant, Mr. Swift, was immediately brought before Judge Coyne who, after hearing his case, sentenced him to thre hours at the hard labor of syncopating popular tunes for the four hundred and thirty couples who gathered to attend the Lawyers’ annual ball.
Court de Palais Royale was decorated for the occasion with flowers, a garden, and various colored lights. The court program, listed on a blue leather cover, was most attractive. In fact, it seems that president Sporl and general chairman of the ball committee, William Daily, did not spare either time or expense to assure that those gathered to witness the Court proceedings would not be disappointed. It goes without saying that they were not. Others who were accessories before the fact were chairman Reuben Monsen, James G. Cowles, Robert Mohlman, Edward McGuire, Edmund McClarnon, V. Don O’Meara and Joseph P. McNamara.
-------9-------
CHICAGO CLUB TO HOLD ELECTION FRIDAY
President Dick Halpin of the Chicago Club has set the election of next year’s club officers for next Friday, May 4. All regular members are requested to attend.
FATHER ELLIOTT PASSES AWAY IN WASHINGTON '
The Rev. Walter Elliott, C.S.P., a former Notre Dame student, who was known as the “grand old man” of the American Mission Field, passed away Friday, April 20 in the Apostolic Mission House in Washington. Father Elliott was well known here and was honored with a Doctorate of Letters by the University some years ago.
Father Elliott spent the most of his active life in missionary work; Shortly following the Civil War, of which he was a veteran, he joined the Paulist Fathers. Eventually, he became rector of the Apostolic Mission House in Washington and assumed the task of preparing classes of diocesan missionaries. He is the author of a number of religious books and was a frequent contributor to “The Missionary/’ the organ of the movement he sponsored.
--------$--------
FATHER MILTNER RE-ELECTED VICEPRESIDENT OF CATHOLIC PEACE ASSOCIATION
The Catholic Association for International Peace held its annual convention in Washington, D. C., April 9, 10, and 11, and reviewed the works accomplished by five outstanding committees.
The university was represented at the meeting by Father Charles Miltner, C. S. C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and vice-president of the association, and William F. Roemer, professor of Philosophy at the University.
Both men were signally honored by the association: ’ Father Miltner being reelected vice-president for the ensuing year, and professor1 Roemer’s paper on the present day weaknesses of the League of Nations elicting much favorable comment from officers and members of the association.
--------(
Today at midnight the Schibblers^ short-story contest will close. All manuscripts, to merit consideration, must be su mitted to John T. Cullinan, 107 Sorin han, at or before this time.	'

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME COUNCIL HOLDS ANNUAL SPRING FORMAL TONIGHT
WILL INITIATE LARGE CLASS SUNDAY AFTERNOON IN SOUTH BEND COUNCIL’S HOMP,
Banquet In Rotary Room of Oliver Hotel To Follow Initiation.
Notre Dame Council, No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, tonight will be seen promenading over the polished hardwood of the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend’s best and most exclusive temple of Terpsichore. The word “promenading”—taking a walk—is used advisedly; for general chairman McKeown of the formal’s committees announced last Tuesday that every available ticket for the affair had been bought up. To quote McKeown : “Every ticket for our eighteenth annual spring formal has been sold. It is gratifying to me to know that I possess so many dear friends, many of whom I had never seen, either down town or on the campus, before* the sell-out occurred. Four hun. dred couples are all we will accommodate. Any cases of men attempting to scalp tickets to the formal should be reported to me immediately and? the scalpers will be dealt with summarily.”
Benson’s Blue Jackets, one of the best of the Benson bands, will supply the “spring” ' for the Council’s annual spring formal. The Blue Jackets are directed by the famous “Johnny” Mullaney, who has supplied the impetus for dancers in all parts of the world, to wit, India, Asia, South America, Africa, Europe, Canada, the United States and Chicago. The grand march will be led on one flank by Grand Knight Howard V. Phalin with his guest, Miss Evangeline Petersen of Chicago and on the other by general chairman Peter Edward McKeown, accompanied by Miss Romona Schroeder of Milwaukee.
FINAL DEGREES TO BE GIVEN
Sunday afternoon at 12:45 a class of seventy candidates, who successfully passed the first degree Tuesday evening, April 24, will be given the second and third degrees, again in the chambers of the South Bend Council. The conferring of the various degrees of
knighthood upon this, Notre Dame Council’s third class for the present year, will establish a piecedent. For, so far as it is known, never since its inception in 1910, has the Council initiated three classes in one scholastic year.
TO HONOR CANDIDATES WITH BANQUET
A banquet, in honor of the successful candidates, will be held in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel subsequent to the exemplification of the degrees.
A ten-course meal has been arranged for and many speakers of note will be in attendance. An orchestra, a vocal quartet and several vocal soloists have been secured to fill the chinks untouched by both the meal and the speakers.
The next regular meeting of the Notre Dame knights will be held Tuesday evening, May 8, in their chambers located in the basement of Walsh hall. At this meeting the prizes, won in The Santa Maria’s recent short-story contest, will be presented to their respective winners by Grand Knight Phalin.
RESERVATIONS FOR 1928 IN ORDER
A reservation fee of twenty-five dollars must be paid at the Students’ office by all students of the University save the outgoing members of the Senior class and a receipt presented to the registrar at the time of spring registration, according to Father William A. Carey, C.S.C., the University’s registrar. This fee, in order to facilitate matters and avoid trouble, should be paid now.
Present members of the Junior class may reserve rooms for next year Friday and Saturday, April 27 and 28. This year’s crop of sophomores may reserve rooms Monday and Tuesday, April 30 and May 1 respectively. Freshmen have May third, fourth and fifth to secure quarters in residence halls for next year’s battle with sophomoritis.
In pursuance of the policy, adopted two years ago by the University, all students who intend to return next year, must deposit a registration fee of twenty-five dollars at the Student’s office and registei’ with the registrar before May 15.
812	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GLEE CLUB CONCERT AND DANCE TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK
The South Bend-St. Mary’s club and the Notre Dame alumni of St. Joseph Valley will present the, university Glee Club in its annual concert at the Palais Royale, on Monday evening, May 7. Following the .concert, a dahce will be held in the Palais Royale ballroom.
Permission has been secured by the alumnae of St. Mary’s for the attendance of the students of that institution. Arrangements have been made with the department of discipline and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., for a special permission for the students.
Tickets for the members of the student body are being distributed by the Notre Dame Villagers, under the direction of a committee headed by Burton E. Toepp, the club’s president. A canvass of the residence hall will be made in the near future, and tickets will also be placed on sale with the rectors of various halls.
The first annual concert of the Glee Club under the combined auspices of these clubs was held last year, and its success warranted its continuance as an annual affair.
The committee:—Chairman, Burton E. Toepp, Charles Cashman, Raymond Hertle, William Konop, Chester Frankowiak, Robert Holmes, Norman Hartzer, Jack Shively, Francis Jones, Jack Worden.
-------$--------
“DOME’’ MAKES FIRST APPEARANCE MAY 11.
The “Dome of 1928” will make its first appearance on the campus the morning of Friday, May 11, the date of the Senior Ball, it is announced) by Franklyn E. Doan, editor of the year-book. About four hundred copies of the annual will be brought here for distribution among the members of the senior class on that day. Tuesday, May 15, is the date set for the issuance of the book to the remainder of the student body.
CLASS ELECTIONS BEGIN MONDAY-ALL OFFICES TO BE FILLED '.
Nomination of officers for the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes for the coming year will be held on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, April, 30, May 1, and May 2. The offices to be filled are as follows:
1.	Sophomore Class:
President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, one one-yeai’ S. A. C. man.
2.	Junior Class:
President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, two two-year S. A. C. men, one one-year S. A. C. man.
3.	Senior Class:
President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer. Representatives to the S. A. C. from the following colleges: Arts and Letters, Commerce, Law, Science, Engineering, Off-Campus.
Representatives to the S. A. C. from the Sophomore and Junior classes will be nominated at the same, time as are the class officers. Nominations for representatives from the Senior Class will take place by colleges as follows:
Thursday, May 3—Nominations in Colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce and Law.
Friday, May 4—Nominations in Colleges of Science and Engineering.	'
Monday, May 7—Nominations and final . election of Off-Campus representatives.
Final Elections of all class officers and S. A. C. representatives, except off-campus representatives, will take place on Wednesday, May 9.
--------$------- '
SPALDING PRESIDENT OF ATLANTA BAR ASSOCIATION .
Jack J. Spalding of Atlanta, Gai., the Laetare Medalist for the current year, was recently elected president of the Atlanta Bai* association at the annual meeting of the organization. Mr. Spalding, who is considered the most prominent Catholic layman of the South, has been a leading, member of the Atlanta bar for 46 years.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
r-
SCHOLASTIC’S HISTORY REVIEWED
Editor’s Note—Beginning with this issue, the Scholastic will print a series of feature articles recording the histories of the Notre Dame publications., The next article will be devoted to The Dome.
BY GEORGE McNALLY
Father Sorin was a master of English and it was his fertile brain that developed the idea of a school publication at Notre Dame. His chief aim was to offer a medium for the publication of student writings and the result of his plans was the original Scholastic, called “Progress” at the time.
' THE FIRST STAFF
Those whose efforts were combined to plan and issue the first number of “Progress” were the Rev. C. Bigelow, John Collins, Benjamin B. Barron and John H. Flemming. They had first compiled a paper called the “Notre Dame Literary Gazette,” but the only copy turned out was accidentally destroyed.
One evening every two weeks was immediately set aside by the faculty for the public reading of the new paper. The students were gathered in what was then the Sorin Hall study room and the latest literary efforts of their fellow students were read to them. Aside from the few copies used in this manner, circulation was limited strictly to the literary inclined fellows of whom it seems there were few.
PAPER PRINTED ONLY ONCE
All manuscripts at this time were written out entirely by hand by John H. Fleming, Horatio Colvin, George F. G. Collins, Lucius G. Tong, Orville T. Chamberlin and a few others noted for their penmanship. Only once was “Progress” ever subject to the printer’s art. In 1860 a single copy was printed in Chicago and read by James B. Runnion to the graduating class as a feature of the exercises.
Due principally to a lack of interest the .little publication languished and in its place came, to quote a writer on the period, “such surreptitious publications as the ‘Olympia Gazette’ and the ‘Weekly Bee.’ ”
813
REVIVAL OF PUBLICATION.
In 1866 the Rev. Father NeaDH. Gillespie, vice-president of the University and a former backer of “Progress,” returned from France and installed a printing press. Upon Father. Gillespie’s request, Father William Corby, president, sanctioned a college paper to replace the old one.’ The “Ave Maria” was well under way and the war over, a literary era set in. With the assistance of the Rev. Father Lemmonier, the “Scholastic Year” made its appearance. Father Gillespie was editor of the “Ave Maria” and so printed both magazines, aided by a picked staff. The first number was issued September 7, 1867, as a fly leaf of the “Ave Maria.” In March, 1868, the sheet had reached sufficient proportions to branch out for itself once more and with Father Lemmonier in the editor’s chair the first independent copy was in circulation.
CHANGES
The idea having been well established, now progress was rapid and improvement began. In 1869 the name was changed by Father Lemmonier to the “Notre Dame Scholastic.” In September the title was modified by Father Brown to “Scholastic," but lack of color caused it to be given its former title of “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
Among the early editors are found the names of Frs. Neal H. Gillespie, A. Lemmonier, M. B. Brown, F. C. Bigelow, Brother Stanislaus, James Rogers, Thomas McNamara, John A. O’Connell, W. A. Maloney and James French.
As founded by Father Sorin, the Scholastic has always been a willing and ready medium for student efforts and as such has received high praise and recognition from contemporary college periodicals throughout the country. In 1875 there appeared in the “Portfolio” of Wesleyan College, Hamilton, Ontario, the following: “Of the Notre Dame Scholastic what shall we say? If there be one paper devoted to college literature that pursues the even tenor of its way, heedless alike of the smiles and frowns of its contemporaries, it surely must be the Scholastic.
814
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE COLLEGE PARADE
By Cyril J. Mullen
A somber post-Lenten reflection in The Daily Princeton:
I think that I shall never see A thing as lovely as a fish
For fish is always savory Especially as Friday’s dish.
I like fish because its wet Because it swims all washy-wishy;
I like it as a household pet;
I like it most because its fishy.
This could continue endlessly, But such a thing is not my wish.
Poems are made by fools like me.
But don’t let anybody tell you that a taxidermist is the only guy who can stuff a fish!
—«—
My philosophical integrity has received an extreme test in the form of a magazine called Evolution, gotten out, as it says, “to combat bigotry and superstition and to develop the open mind. . . .” To avoid contamination, I closed my .eyes and read it very carefully. The cover is attractively done after the photographic school of art, with a large represensation of a tree sprouting skulls in their various stage of development, from the “Primitive Primate” to “The American.” The genial skulls remind one of a somewhat radical dentifrice ad, but the interior of the book leaves no doubt as to the magazine’s purpose. Loosely speaking, its thesis is that Rosie O’Grady and the Colonel’s Lady are monkeys under the skin. When I was finished reading I absent-mindedly almost reached for my cigarettes with my tail, and then remembered that I have been deprived of the luxury of that appendage, only by the interval of some million-odd years. It is, I suppose, the price of prayers.
—<.—
“Old Time Dances Delight Students” chortles The Watch Tower, of Mary-Grove Col
lege. The article goes on to tell how the old fashioned dance is being exhumed under the patronage of Mr. Henry Ford—the same Henry, I take it, that owns the canning works in Detroit.
Although it is a heartening sign to see that virtue, which is synonymous with anything old fashioned, is back at its business of conquering all, I fear Mr. Ford has made a grave, error. Scientific reformers have pointed out that the modern dance, like the movies, and the modern novel, is one of the innumerable causes of contemporary evil. Well, we can abolish the cinema, return to the long-distance prancing of 1890, and for reading matter, revive an interest in biographies of Horace Greely and other poor boys who became famous and grew whiskers. But the automobile, someone has whispered, is another root of all evil. If we are to be logical, then, we must also bring back, the horse and buggy. Henry had better either stop this old-fashioned revival, or go into the wagon business.
—<■—	'
I take it that there is a nature colony at Utah Agricultural College. On scanning Student Life, I found the following invitation: “Look forward to the fun-filled, free frolic Saturday night after the game. You don’t need a partner, you don’t need clothes, you don’t need money. Alley Oop!”
Editorial heading in The Daily Cardinol: “Almost 500 students dropped from school —all because of sloth.” . \	.
A sound moral warning, but wrong again. It was all because of speed.	,
—$— •
The Wisecracker in St. John Colleffian says: “It is rumored that several new fra-, ternity men are arranging suicide pacts-Death will be accomplished by drowning m Pond’s Cold Cream.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAS.T I C	815
i THE EDITOR’S PAGE =^1
THE ENGLISH MAJORS AND THE PUBLICATIONS
There is a move on foot to pi'event men who are majoring in English from working on campus publications. As such a step, if brought to completion, would in our opinion, be a handicap to the Dome, the Juggler, and the Scholastic, particularly to the latter as the campus literary magazine, the Scholastic takes this opportunity to utter a cry of protest in self-defense.
The argument used against allowing the English majors to take part in the production of the two magazines and the annual, concerns itself with the supposition that a man who labors on publications has not sufficient time to do his class work properly. The supposition, in our belief, is wrong. We are unable to speak on behalf of the Juggler and the Dome, which could probably show similar figures, but there are nine editorial workers at the Scholastic’s mast-head, and the general average of these nine workers comes slightly over eighty-seven per cent, an advantage of almost five per cent over the general average in the University. The evidence seems conclusive in favor of those men who are doing laboratory work in the writing of English.
Of all the men in the University who would normally be considered as capable to fill the classes of those majoring in English, the Scholastic believes that the publication staffs should come first rather than last. We are writing. We may not be doing as much theorizing as some of our less active brethren, but we are doing the thing that one would naturally believe an English major should do. It is possible that not all of our sentences are . periodic; we may even make an occasional “only” error; but at least we are trying to learn to do by doing, not by sitting in an easy chair in oui’ 1'espective quarters and thinking about it.
Furthermore, if discrimination must be made, it is unfair to single out the staff members. Athletes, S. A. C. men, and secretaries are all required to do outside work, most of which has nothing to do with writing. Give the publications a chance. —j.a.m.
THE CAMPUS POLICE
Probably the most notable change that the students noticed upon return from the varied relaxations offered by Easter Vacation was the presence on the campus of a squad of uniformed policemen. The police were observed with a wide diversity of feelings—changes are usually observed with a diversity of feelings—but any men who thought the uniformed gentlemen might be brought into contact with the student body were mistaken.
The new squad, under the command of Chief Kennedy, is here solely for the protection of property belonging, to the students and to the University. Their uniforms now act as direct discouragements to automobil-ists along the Dore road, which have been a menace both to unwary and famished students on their way to the Dining Halls, and to unwary and satisfied students returning from their meals. With two officers acting as traffic regulators at meal-times, there is little danger of repetition of the accidents which have occurred so far this year. If they are not sufficient warning to hurrying drivers, another gentleman fitted out with a star and a motor-cycle will be present daily for purposes of pursuit.
In addition, the officers will guard such campus treasures as the master-pieces in the Art Gallery. They have been put on watch for strangers loitering around the residence halls, a precaution which has been necessitated by the rifling of student rooms in recent years. In brief, they are here as a help rather than as a hindrance to the undergraduates, and should be treated with the respect their positions deserve.	J.A.M.
816
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
REALIZATION
Isn’t it sad to awake from a dream—
Just to find you’ve been dreaming again; • To find dreamland’s pleasures, The girl and the treasures—
Were rainbows, but now—only rain?
Don’t you feel blue when morn steals aivay, Every scheme that you trusted was real;
To find all the floivers
Just bloomed for dream hours— When day calls you back to the ivheel?
Don’t skies seem grey when you find you’re the same,
After dreaming that you atoned the moon-And now with the dawning, The day finds you yawning—
Too bad that you woke up so soon!
—BALTIMORE LASSIE
THANKS, BUT HE’S A GOOD KNIGHT NOW
Dear Allan: While perusing Mr. Webster’s latest publication I came across the name of Allan-a-Dale. My curiosity was aroused and I looked further. Here is what I found:
“In English ballads a youth who (aided by Robin Hood) breaks up the wedding of his sweetheart and marries her himself."
In selecting this cognomen who influenced you? You surely had some motive behind it, am I right? Let me know who this mean old knight was or is and I will rush to your aid.	—robin hood ii.
WANDERLUST AND LOVE
(As Seen From a Snowbound Pudka) Ivan the Terrible roams these tvoods tonight. A Tartar tribe sweeps through the pines—the fight! A herd of hoofs that dash toward the foe; A stow retreat across the bloody snow.
Orion rushes up from Oral heights, Scattering his hounds among auroral lights . . .
We are alone,
The pass is blocked—well I knew it.
No oxen team will answer us till morning.
You cannot cross these drifts; so cease your scorning. You are cold, I fear.
Lean close and feel the subtle electric currents That fill me when you are near.
A myriad of kisses, for just one night, Give to me—I, with my heart-ache sore Will be.healed and bother your life no more.
—GEORGE ROBERT CONNORS IL
RECIPES (Concerning Pineapples) Crushed Pineapple—(To July).
She passed—like a red rose
Dying young, Like a beautiful song
Left unsung.
She carried to her grave
The undying past;
Of all her kin on earth
She was the last.
Alas, Poor kitty 1
Pineapple Highball.
All right,
Go ahead!
Tell me you don’t love me.
I guess I can love someone else
.4 s well as you.
Frappe.
With sorrow my heart should be laden For the love of one I had, For that beautiful rose-lipt maiden, Who walked off ivith another lad.
I thought she was mine forever, She wasn’t at all, you see;
The bonds of our love she would sever,
And note, thank God, 1 am free.
Souffle.
People don’t know it, ' But I’m not a poet ....
I couldn’t write verse if I. had to.
If you have expectation Of a great publication, Pm sorry 1 had to deceive you. Canned.
Do not let any man read this verse it is for no one
And after that no.one and his descendants
The time comes when our hearts sink	'
utterly, when we
Remember reading better things and lift i our eyes from this. •
—THE UNHAPPY .ENDING.
Oh, the magnolias are putting out buds—The worms are putting out their little heads—the robins are putting out the worms—the gardeners are put-ting out tender seedlings—the gardeners’ daughters . are putting out on the greens—and the weather- ' man is putting out snow-bulletins. Spring has come
—tra-la! Spring has come— hey! hey!
—ALLEN-A-DAUS.
*
' , , A ' ‘/A 'Adm
Currents of Life
One Man s Meat is Another Man’s Poison—German Proverb.
ROBERT M. DINKEL
IN the heart of the city, standing as an intruder upon the activity of the business district, there is a plain two-story building, square and of no pretensions. Surrounded in front and on its two sides by a high picket fence, it fits snugly into the little niche so condescendingly afforded by its neighbor skyscrapers. Its only entrance is a side one, to which a cement drive leads from the street. Two windows face this street. They are large and are well curtained with oriental materials, the like of which are never seen except in the most prosperous of establishments. From the street, one sometimes notices an elderly gentleman with sparse gray hair, gold-rimmed spectacles, and a dignified appearance reading a newspaper, his chair pulled close to a window to get as much of the daylight as possible.
Strangers comment upon this building— it is so obviously out of place. Upon inquiring, they are informed that it is the Union Club, a club, it is said, in which to secure membership, an application must be put in at the time of birth. It is familiarly known as the “Millionares’ Club.”
Thq sombreness of this building had no effect on the bright April day. It was such a day as winter memories like to dwell on— a shining sun serenely giving out rays of warmth from a background of pale blue sky. The softly stirring breeze had no other effect than to make one conscious of the cool freshness of the air.
The people of the street expressed their thankfulness for this April day—with animated faces they jauntily walked their ways, swinging their arms to give vent to the surging spirits of spring energy that possessed them.
From the steady stream of the avenue
traffic, Jim Wraydon disengaged himself, and slowly followed the cement drive to the entrance of the Union Club.
When entering, he observed by the tall “Grandad” clock over the desk in the north end of the room that he was early for his luncheon engagement. He turned to his right and entered a side room.
The lounge into which he came was in sharp contrast with the drab outside of the club. While plainly furnished, everything in it was not only of the best qualify, but also in the best of taste. On the four walls hung oriental draperies, whose surfaces absorbed some| of the light given off by the beautiful glass chandelier suspended from the center of the ceiling. A thick rug lay on the floor; among other purposes, it preserved quietness by making inaudible the steps of those who entered the room. In the center of the lounge there was a mahogany table, the top of which was littered with the latest periodicals. Scattered about the room were many inviting lounges and chairs.
It being shortly after the noon hour, Jim had no trouble in finding an unoccupied chair. Immediately, his thoughts turned to the man for whom he was waiting. He could still vividly remember Joe Bradford rushing into his room in Brown Hall to tell him, “Jim, old man, I’ve just met your twin. Come along, I want you fellows to meet each other.”
Ed Marshall and he certainly did look alike, but, Jim reflected, what a big difference in their lives! Jim himself, ever since his parents had died nine years ago, had worked hard—during his four years in high school, he had helped “Dad” Jenkins every afternoon in the grocery store; at college, he had waited on tables in the dining hall, and
818
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
had helped in the library; and even after finishing college, there had been no change —the firm that employed him demanded intensive work from their junior engineers. Ed’s parents also had died some time ago, but on theii’ death they left him an estate of two million dollars, the income from which had made it unnecessary for him to work an hour in his whole life; everything he wanted was his. Small wonder that Ed had made the golf team since he had been able to play from the time he was large enough to swing a stick.
Their introduction at Wisconsin University was the beginning of a friendship which lasted not only through their four years in the engineering course, but which was now, a year after graduation, being kept alive by their weekly luncheons.
Jim looked up to find his friend standing at the side of his chair. He arose and momentarily grasped Ed’s hand.
“Shall we eat now?” he inquired, “I’m nearly famished.”
“Yes,” answered Ed,” but wait until I hang up my topcoat. I don’t know why I wore the thing; it’s such a warm day.”
On entering the dining room, Ed beckoned a waiter, who led them to a table, took their orders, and, before he left, saw to it that everything was satisfactory.
Having eaten, the two lingered over their coffee. "You know, Ed,” remarked Jim, a shadow of a smile flittering across his face, “I was thinking how fortunate you are in not having to work.”
Ed paused in the act of lighting a cigar. “How’s that?”
After a minute’s hesitation, Jim went on, “You have enough money to do as you please, your time is all yours, and you have everything you want. Look at me, now, I have to work or starve.”
“No,” protested Ed thoughtfully, "of the two of us, I would consider you the more fortunate. You are doing the work of a man, accomplishing something that is' worth while. Don’t you find satisfaction in that?”
"If there’s any satisfaction in that, I haven’t had it yet,” retorted Jim, making a little grimace. “What I call satisfaction is
being able to sleep until eleven, ringing for breakfast, then a round of golf, or, possibly, a matinee.” Jim seemed contemplating such a life, for a smile of contentment spread over his face; but his smile of contentment turned to one of derision at Ed’s quick rejoinder.
"You’d soon tire of that. Why, man, 1 have the toughest time in the world trying to pass away the hours; I don’t know what to do half the time. You, now, surely must have happiness in doing honest-to-goddness work, in doping out the problems that confront you, in controlling machinery, in—”
“Bunk, pure bunk!” declared Jim vehemently, no longei’ able to restrain himself. “You don’t know how well off . you are. The only happiness comes from being able to do what you want.”	'
“But Jim, you can’t imagine how tiresome life is for me. I’ve often thought of making > it impossible for me to use my money for a time, and then getting a job.”	,
“Say! That gives me an idea.” Eagerness shone out of Jim’s face. “If you think you’d like to work, I’ll fell you what—let’s change places for—for, say—a year; you can do honest-to-goodness work, dope out problems, and control machinery—there’s plenty of that down at the plant.”	.
Ed was startled. It hadn’t occurred to him exactly in that way before. But, judging from the way his eyes sparkled, Jim’s suggestion wasn’t far from his desires. After a minute the sparkle disappeared, and he started to reply, "It can’t—”
"Oh yes, it can,” insisted Jim, sensing the objection; “we look alike, don’t we? You’re as good an engineer as I am, aren’t you? The question is whether you want to do it.”
Clouds of smoke from Ed’s cigar as he took swift and deep puffs. He said at length.
“I would like to—no doubt of that; but you stand the chance of losing your job.”
"Never mind that,” pressed on'Jim eagerly ; "I have an offer from some firm out west; besides, as long as the plant is running all right, I’m never bothered by any of the higher-ups. My two assistants started working just last week, and they’ll never know the difference. If you want to, it can be done easily.”
THE NOTRE DAME
Ed looked at Jim and then back at the ash tray on the table. He flicked his ashes carefully, and continued, to stare at the tray. Suddenly, he put out his hand.
“Shake, Jim. That’s a go. Here, pull your chair closer; we’ll have to arrange this.”
Twenty minutes later, they pushed back their chairs and got up, curious little gleams of anticipatory satisfaction in their eyes.
“That’s settled then,” said Ed as they were leaving the club; “it’s for a year, and we can’t change back. Don’t forget,. we’re to meet here every other month.”
Up the steps of the Union Club hurried Jim. He was a few minutes late for the first of the bi-monthly meetings agreed upon by Ed and him, and he didn’t want to keep his friend waiting. But Ed had just arrived too, for he was checking his straw hat as Jim, upon entering, caught sight of him.
Ed, seeing Jim, waited.
“How’s the boy?” was the greeting he gave.
“Pretty good, Ed,” answered Jim as he handed his hat to the check girl. “I was afraid you would be waiting for me.”
“No, just got here. Let’s eat right away;
I’ve only an hour.”
“Find a table then; I’m with you.”
Their meal finished, they both lit cigars. After taking an initial puff, Jim concernedly asked, “Been fired yet?”—a question which had been uppermost in his mind for some time. Mistaking Ed’s silence for reticence, he continued, “Go ahead, spill the dope. I’m anxious to hear what’s happened.”
His fears were dispelled by Ed’s response.
“No, not the least suspicion. Everything is running, smoothly; in fact, so much so that I’m beginning to believe that we’re going to be able to carry our plans through; but tell me how you’re enjoying yourself.”
“I’m having the time of my life—up at eleven, breakfast, and then out to the Country Club. I’ve told your friends that I’ve met there that I’m your brother. They noticed the resemblance and asked me about it •—at the time, it was the best explanation I could thing of.”
SCHOLASTIC	819
That’s all right,” hurriedly put in Ed, smiling as he said it, “as a brother you could be a bigger disgrace.” Jim being silent, he went on, “By. the way, do you remember the “B” dynamo that wouldn’t run?”
“Yes.”	.
“I’ve fixed her up, and she’s going as smooth as a top. I’ve given her half the load of “S” plant, and will shift the whole of it to her as soon as I’m sure she’ll stand the strain.”
“Good work, Ed. I’m glad, though, that you’re the one that has to worry about dynamos. Right now, I’m interested in this golf game. Charley Bray—a friend I’ve picked up at the Country Club—is giving me the low-down on the technique. Do you know Bray?”
“A little.”
“Well, he tells me that he’ll have me driving two hundred yards before next month. I’ve met his sister, too, and she’s invited me to the dance she’s throwing next week. Not so bad, eh?”
“Gosh, Jim,” said Ed looking at his wrist watch, “It’s after one! I didn’t realize that we had been so long in eating. We’ll have to cut this short; I have to get back. Is there anything yon want me to do for you?—it’ll be two months before I see you again.”
“No,” replied Jim getting to his feet with Ed, “I’m all set. How about you?”
“Same here. See you later then.”
Four months had made a difference in Jim. It was noticeable as he and Ed were lunching for the second time since their agreement to change places. He was nervous and fidgety—he showed it when he ate, alternately playing with his spoon and making bread balls. It irritated Ed, and he frowned slightly as he finished his desert. .
“How’s the job coming along,” Jim said; finally breaking the silence in which they had eaten. “I’m wondering if you had any trouble with that “B” dynamo. You probably—”
“Some,” interrupted Ed, his frown becoming more perceptible, “but don’t let’s talk of dynamos. I have to think so much of them as it is that it’s a wonder I don’t dream about them; in fact, I did dream last night
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
820
of one that wouldn’t run. Tell me of that dance you said you were going to. How was it?”
“Rotten 1” replied Jim, making a wry face. “I hope that girl never invites me to another.”
“Why? What happened?” .
“Well, in the first place, she goqs around with the silliest crowd—not a bit of sense in the bunch; all they want to do is dance, dance! I’ve had enough dancing to last me for years. When I started to say something about the new power plant—”
“Ha! Ha!” Ed laughed heartily for a few seconds. “You don’t mean to tell me that you said anything about a power plant?”
“Yes, but I didn’t get far. Hey!” exclaim-, ed Jim, with a look of bewilderment. “What’s the big idea?” he asked when Ed continued laughing, “I don’t see what’s so funny.”
“All right, then,” Ed said, controlling himself, “I’ll talk about golf—that oughtn’t to irritate you. I’m just aching to do nine holes; but I’ve no time for it. How’s your drive by now? Getting two hundred yet?”
“Nope,” answered Jim shortly.
“What’s the difficulty?”
“Haven’t played for a month. I’m sick of chasing miles after a golf ball—hope I never see one again.”
Ed looked at him in amazement. “I can’t imagine anyone getting tired of golf. Boy! The thrill of a three hundred drive—there’s nothing like it.” He paused, his fingers clenched as if gripping an imaginary driver.
Jim evidently wasn’t interested, for, at Ed’s pause, he abruptly changed the subject. “Did you put the whole load of “S” plant on that dynamo?” he asked.
"Oh, can it!” Ed scowled fiercely, and stared straight ahead. “Didn’t I ask you to stop talking about that stuff,” he grumbled. “Good Lord! I’ll dream about it again tonight; that is,” he added, “if I get any sleep.” ’
“What’s up?”
“Nothing, except that I’ll have to work untill two o’clock to-morrow morning. Work! Work! Work! No time for anything else. I wouldn’t mind telling the superintendent either—the big goof; he thinks that I’m able to get along with two assistants. The next
time he says something—”
“No! No!” broke in Jim, raising his right hand in a forbidding gesture.” The intenseness of Ed’s voice had alarmed Jim. "Don’t do that—Whew! Ed!—you scare me. I surely wouldn’t want to lose that job; there are possibilities—”	1 „
“Yeh, possibilities of work,” returned Ed, his good humor coming back at seeing Jim’s anxiety. “I’ll be good though,” he promised. “How are the servants?” he asked, thinking it a safer topic to discuss.
“Servants!” Jim uttered the word as if a wave of suppressed feeling surged over him at the mere mention of it. “It’s a wonder you don’t fire the bunch of them,” he added. “Whenever they’re around, I feel like a silly ass.” Seeing Ed’s look of surprise, he explained, “They don’t let a fellow do a thing. Only yesterday, something went wrong with the electric heater, and when I tried to fix it, one of them insisted on getting a man from the company. He thought it terrible for me to even pick up the monkey wrench.”
“I’ll bet that was Dan Grady,” interrupted Ed, smiling. “Good old Dan—always was careful of me. He’d have a fit if he knew what I’m doing now; he’d think it a disgrace to the ancestors.”
“Well, I had to let him have his way—it seemed to be a crime, the way he acted. But I did want to fix that darn thing. I haven’t had a tool in my hands for ages. I’ll go crazy if I don’t do some work—”
"Ed!” There was a startled look in Jim’s eyes as he sat bolt upright. “Ed!”
Without waiting for an answer, he continued, slowly, as if searching for the right words, “I’m sick of the whole business. Will you—” he paused, not knowing how to go on.	।
“What is it, Jim,” inquired Ed quietly.
At the sound of Ed’s voice, he blurted out, “I can’t do it any longer!” he paused again,, his eyes anxiously searched Ed’s face—what he saw there gave him courage, and he managed to ask, his voice husky, “Ed, I’ve had enough; will—will you—change again?”
“Jim! Do you really mean jt?” Ed also sat upright. “Why, surely, I’ll do it—I„was just about ready to ask the same thing.”'
THE Notre dame, scholas^c
821
f

I had found a new friend—I who have so few.
I must make a present; good friends always do.
I have scanty substance, my estate is slim;
Not too slim and scant, though, to have one gift for him.
One consummate offering for that friendly lad; .
I must give it up noiv; it was all I had.	.
All my inner heart was in this little book.	.
Oh, the years of living that its writing took!
All my breathless dreaming, all my constant fear, Every shy elation—all, all were here.
That was what I gave him, knowing he would love it. Seeing half my heart go, making little of it.
• I	,	,
Oh, my foolish loving, making much of men;
Ah, but I will never be a fool again—
Never let the new years soothe the pang that smote My heart at hearing scoffers quote the words I wrote,
/ Never forget the horror of that fellow’s laughter, Never trust another, never—after.
. —RICHARD ELPERS.
=>16^9^

822
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Beards
Back to Nature and Mustache-cups
VERNON J. KNOX
WHY have men given up wearing beards? That is one of the unsettled questions of facial fashion among men. Beards today are, of course, not rarities ; they are not so uncommon as to frighten babies, or even to attract the attention of small boys. Yet in the cities they are unusual, and even the farmer generally shaves on Sunday. Why?
The Civil Wai’ was fought mostly by men under twenty-five, but they all wore beards. Our soldiers in France were likewise mostly under. twenty-five, but nearly all of them shaved, even under difficulties. Yet a beard has its advantages.
. A beard in the first place is a badge of masculinity. Women can vote, attend dances unchaperoned, smoke cigarettes, drink, and wear trousers. They have practically crowded us men out of our superiority, but we can still sit in the underbrush of a beard and they can’t. Now and then a formidable female cultivates a trifling mustache, but a beard—no.
Beards are inexpensive, from the point of view both of first cost and of upkeep. They are less unresentful and more sanitary than
woolen underwear. But the great advantage of a beard, properly developed and tended, is the sense it gives of emotional privacy. Behind a beard a man may feel as he likes without the self-consciousness that comes from knowing he has to control his features. A beard is a sort of a private office, into , which the owner may retire when he wants to be himself with no restrictions.
Why then don’t all men wear beards? Probably on account of egotism, or on account of the dominating factor in modem life—the influence of women. Still it may be that every man suspects that to grow a beard on his'particular face would be to deprive the world of something pleasureable.
However, it seems that the real difficulty in having a beard arises from the finicky attitude of women. 'Women boss us in everything outside.the day’s work, and women do not like beards; and the moment when women assumed the stage management of modern life they declared thumbs down on the masculine scenery.
“ ’Tis true, ’tis a pity, And pity ’tis, ’tis true.’’
The Moving Window
Friend after friend, they come, they pass away. What sadness, what thin bitterness is here That steals the brightness of another year, That dulls the stinging color of a day When two had come together? What nets way Will open for a parting ? Now I fear All is a moving window on the sere Prairie tvhose rare, keen beauties will not stay. 0 dark tomorrows and bright yesterdays, This I have learned from you: if th&y must go, All these I love, and into cold, grey stone Will come warm memories of all the ways I travelled with those others, then I know That it is better to go on alone.
—JASPER BRENT
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
823
On Cheerful Rising
There Should Be a Law
PAUL J. MAC AVOY
IT was only with great difficulty that I was recently restrained from committing murder. I had a friend of mine as a guest, an otherwise good fellow, who rose cheerful. On the very first morning of his visit he turned on the bath and an aria from “Aida” at the same moment. I am a reasonable being, and do not object to cleanliness before coffee, but I do object to singing before breakfast.
Breakfast itself is an odd meal, and the laxity allowed is an admission of the normal state which precedes it. “Luncheon at one,” or “Dinner at seven thirty,” we say. But, “come down to breakfast any time you feel like it.” At luncheon or dinner, too, a guest is expected, and expects, to eat what is placed before him. Not so at breakfast. His individual tastes are carefully consulted, and no two ever concur. One has tea, another coffee. One has cereal, another never touches it. Some quaint appetites demand meat. Now and then comes a kindred spirit who understands the art of dipping doughnuts into a coffee cup. But at breakfast one and all must be allowed to get into a rut of habit, as if the day could not be begun unless that initial track were taken as indeed, it probably could not be.
Why should this not be so? To spring lightly out of bed, wide awake and cheerful, is an act only for characters ip stories. What task is more difficult than getting up
in the morning—unless it be getting to bed at night? Who can blame anyone for not being cheerful before breakfast, arid wanting to be left alone, to drink one’s coffee in in silence, and thus slip into the chains of habit? .	■ '	'
It is not lack of hospitality which makes me dread the coming of visitors; it is the fear that some of them may be sincerely, or politely, pleasant before breakfast. What is harder to endure than the guest who comes beaming down the stairs with a cheery, “Well, how are you all this lovely morning?”—unless it be the guest who actually goes out' of doors before coffee, and comes in to tell you how perfectly heavenly everything is with the dew fresh upon it— as if it were not much fresher at eight o’clock the .previous evening! Even the guest who discusses Bolshevism at breakfast is preferable to this sort, because nobody is' cheerful on this subject, either pro or cori.
I have a thought that I believe would save much trouble for people. It is this. Place prominently somewhere in the house a neat sign reading to the effect, that guests are requested not to be cheerful before breakfast. I really believe people would be grateful for this brave abolition of the social tyranny of politeness. The mere fact of their being told they could be glum, I believe, would have the effect of making them cheerful at the prospect.	_
824
THE NOTRE DAME S C H O.L A S T I C
Not Even Women Are Different
A Page From a Diary
RASPER DENT
(The following page was found in the effects of an erstwhile sophomore. He attended Siwash way back in 1909 and it seems that not even women are different. It -is a relic of those days when a man kept a diary in the hope that it would some day be a beautiful autobiography ... a monument to his life.) '
ANUARY 31,1909.
Well, diary, old chap, I guess women are hypocritical after all. I never thought
my Eloise would be . . . but listen to this letter I received this evening:
Dearest Tom,
I was pleased to see your letter on my secretary after a very pleasant week-end spent at Cambridge with Winnie. I shall not attempt to tell you of the sights I saw ... Bunker Hill, the old South Church, Longfellow’s home, and Harvard College. The young gentlemen at that institution are, it seems to me, very well-behaved and not at all the vandals the periodicals would try to make them out to be.
By this time you are wondering why I wrote immediately, since that act is very unladylike, but you must have guessed from the salutation that there was something amiss.
Tom, I beg of you not to think of me, but a very nice young gentleman from Harvard College has turned his affections full upon me and I am forced to respond in some degree. I met him at dear Winifred’s home and he is a member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. He affirms stoutly that it was I who attracted his eye in Rector’s the last night we were there and so it must be, since he
described to a “T” the dress I wore andyqu, who were my escort. The other young men at the fraternity house say that they are glad to think he has met me since that will cause him to discontinue his mad ravings.
You know I’m not conceited. I’m telling you this because YOU are YOU. He asked me to wear his little pin and I could but take it. In return he is wearing my little Castle School pin. I feel unclothed without the little thing and told him that if I might obtain my ring from MY SISTER I would give it to him.
I think you have had the heavy old thing long enough and if you return it to me I shall send you my portrait soon. The ring doesn’t mean much to me and it is not nice enough for you. Someday I shall send you a little token by which you may always recall my appreciation for the sympathy, love, and understanding that have carried me over many difficult situations.
I do love you, Tom, dear; you’re the sweetest, best-hearted person that ever lived.
My best love always,
Yours Eloise.
Well, Diary, what can a fellow do? I sat down and wrote the hypocrite just how badly broken up I was. I think all women are terrible hypocrites, Diary, so when I finished the letter I sprinkled water judiciously over the surface of the paper to cause her to think I had cried over her. Ruth is announcing our engagement to-morrow. Diary, I am the happiest man in the world. '

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Western State Defeated In Biting Cold; Score, 13-11
FIELDING OF BOTH TEAMS ERRATIC— . McCarty and Olendorf Clout Honors
The Western State Teachers who have been regular Spring visitors in this vicinity for a good many years, spent another afternoon on Cartier Field with the Blue and Gold as their playmates last Tuesday. Over a thousand death-defying fans watched the two teams performing lethargically in a seesaw contest in the bitter cold. The Teachers took the lead several times during the frigid encounter, but the Irish took the ball game with a hectic 13-11 score.
Weather conditions which were ideal for ice hockey prevailed throughout the battle, and were, in the main, responsible for the mediocre exhibition of baseball put up by . both combinations. Errors of both commission and omission, together with the wildness of the pair of hurlers trotted out by each team, served to make the engagement one of the most listless and loosely played contests ever staged on the Cartier Field diamond.
It was the occasion of Bob Walsh’s mound debut for Notre Dame and after five innings of toil he was excused in favor of Joe Jachym, with the count standing at 7-all. Costly home runs by McCarty and Olendorf of the opposing nine, and mediocre assistance rendered by his supporting cast behind him, were the main factors involved in his removal. Jachym, too, seemed to be affected by the cold and proceeded to mix brilliant pitching with eratic wildness during the four innings he worked. He managed to get along safely, however, until a threatening ninth inning rally by the Teachers almost sent the contest into extra innings.
Western State too, had recourse to a relief hurler, Hagan relieving Maas in the seventh.
WESTERN STATE SCORES FIRST
The outfit from Kalamazoo lost no time in settling down to work off the slants of Walsh, an error, a base on balls, and a single being productive of two runs in the initial inning. Notre Dame got these markers back in the same frame, however, and in addition assumed a one-run lead. Schrall’s single, Maas’ error on Sullivan’s grounder, Poliskey’s sacrifice loft, and Colerick’s triple manufacturing three counters.
The scoring then seesawed back and forth with neither team possessed of more than a one run advantage over the other until the seventh, when the Irish batsmen got down to effective business off the slants of Maas. Two were down when the fireworks started. One-basers by Lordi and Colerick, Schrall’s lusty two-bagger, two free tickets to first, an error, and two stolen bases chased five runs across the rubber for Notre Dame before the side was retired.
The visitors died gamely and would not accept defeat until they had dented the plate with three more runs in their last turn at bat as a result of the same number of hits, a walk, and an error.
Leo Schrall and John Colerick solved the Western State hurler for three safe blows a piece out of five official times at bat. Colerick also carried off the Notre Dame fielding honors with several sensational stops of hard hit balls.
Nestor, with a pair of hits, McCarty, and Waters carried the brunt of the Western State attack.
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC
826
Score by innings:
Western State Normal...210 311 003—11
Notre Dame ............302 201 50x—13
Summary:
Errors: Schrall (29; Poliskey, R. Walsh, Jachym, Muma, ' Olendorf, Cornell, Waters, Maas, (2). Home runs—McCarthy, Olendorf. Three base hits—Colerick. Two-base hits—Schrall, Lordi. Sacrifice hits—Niemiec (2). Bases on balls—Off Maas, 4; off Walsh, 4; off Jachym, 4. Struck out—By Maas, 4; by Walsh, 4; by Jachym, 6. Wild pitch—Walsh.
ELDER WINS 100 AT KANSAS RELAYS
The brilliant performance of Jack Elder, Notre Dame sprint star and Olympic prospect, who captured the 100 yard dash from a fast field, was one of the shining accomplishments in the annual Kansas Relays held at the University of Kansas at Lawrence, Saturday, April 21.
Elder easily outclassed some of the finest dash men in the Middle West and South in annexing his triumph. Off to a fair start, the Blue and Gold ace took the lead at the half way mark and materially increased his advantage the last thirty yards or so to the tape. His time was ten seconds flat. Easter of Nebraska, Parks •of Drake, and Alf of Doane College, finished behind the winner in the order named.
Notre Dame was also represented by a two mile relay quartet composed of Stephan, Lahey, Bill Brown, and Quigley, in the competition, but in spite of determined and courageous efforts, it did not succeed in placing.
ARMY LEADING ROUND ROBIN ENTRANTS; HAS MAINTAINED CLEAN SLATE.
With all but eight of the scheduled thirty games comprising the Round Robin Tournament being played by teams composed of candidates for the 1928 Rockmen already run off, both the tournament and spring training are rapidly near
ing their end. Approaching hand in hand with this finis is the increasing interest of the student body in the tournament and its probable winner. At the present writing, the powerful Army eleven with three wins and no defeats or ties,	'
is leading the field but has hard going	;
ahead of it as the psuedo cadets have not ■ met either the Wisconsin or Southern California aggregations which are as yet, undefeated. Both have been tied once,; this blemish on their records alone keeping hem from making first place a three-way tie. The remaining three teams having already played the leaders and having yet to win a game are, barring some miraculous happening, quite out of the running for the steak dinner, as their future contests will be played among themselves leaving not one of them even a fighting chance to gain a commanding percentage. As things shape up now, the winner will be either Army, Wisconsin, or Southern California with the odds in favor of the first named due to its present commanding lead.
As it was the contests of the past week that created the fireworks, a short resume of each game seems appropriate:
WISCONSIN 7—CARNEGIE TECH 0.
A steady march down the field that could no more be stopped than onrushing water contributed the only action and likewise the only score of an otherwise listlessly played game. The Wisconsin aggregation from somewhere within its shell brought forth a tremendous amount of power, scored its touchdown, kicked goal, and then replaced it to show it no more during the fray.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 12—NAVY 6.
Navy though outclassing their opponents, were denied the breaks and emerged on the short end of a score which should have, in justice, read the other way. The affair was marked by hectic scoring—Southern California scoring- once on a sixty yard run by Acers and again a few minutes later on a blocked punt. The Navy’s lone score came as the result of a recovered fumble.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
827
ARMY 7—NAVY 0.
A beautifully executed forward pass as subtle as its designer, spelled disastei’ for the Navy after the defensive power of both teams had apparently precluded all scoring. Evenly matched, neither team could gain either around ends or through the line, so the cadets, being more resourceful, took to the air, with the result that an apparently hopelessly deadlocked game blossomed into a Mule victory.
GEORGIA TECH 7—CARNEGIE TECH 7
Too evenly matched for either to gain anything but a momentary advantage, the game see-sawed back and forth; the final whistle finding the ball in midfield.
WISCONSIN 0—SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 0
The old story of the irresisible force and the immovable object best illustrates this game. Both teams several times threatened to break the tie, Southern California being stopped once on the one foot line, and Wisconsin also making serious threats to score.
ARMY 12—CARNEGIE TECH 6.
A pass snatched out of the air and a recovered fumble followed by a thirty yard dash, turned what was to have been a Tech celebration into a Tech wake. Scoring early, Tech players held their advantage till the last quarter when the events narrated above deprived them of the fruits of their toils.
ROUND ROBIN STANDINGS
Won Lost Tied
Army ________________________________3	0	0
Wisconsin____________________________1	0	1
Southern California------------------1	0	1
Georgia Tech_________________________0	1	*
Navy_________________________________0	0
Carnegie Tech_______________________-0	$	1
—j. h. Zuber
FINAL FRESHMAN-VARSITY CUT MADE
Coach Culhane has made the final cut in his Freshman-Varsity baseball candidates, and has officially announced that the following men will comprise the pei-manent squad; Beaupre, Ouelette, Bartley,
McNerney, Askew, Callahan, Maloney, Cushwa, Jordan, Brazell, O’Connor, Kosky, Davis, Deegan, Nash, Maggerall, Manix, Smith, Lisicki, Romanin, Starchak, Wallace, Connelly, Carrideo, and Salmon.
Uniforms have been issued to each of these players and practice will continue as usual on diamond No. 1, south of the gym. This playing field has been put in tip-top shape, and with the recent erection of a suitable backstop compares favorably with the regular varsity diamond.
INTERHALL BASEBALL DIVISIONS SWING INTO ACTION SUNDAY
Notre Dame will have organized Interhall baseball competition for the first time in several years this Spring. The various halls have been evenly divided into two divisions, and play will start in each next Sunday, April 29th. Freshman, Carroll, Brownson, Walsh, Howard, and Off-Campus will be represented in one division, and Badin, Sorin, Corby, Sophomore, Morrissey, and Lyons in the other. The winning teams in each division will meet for the Interhall championship at the close of the season.	.
A complete schedule has been drawn up for both divisions and competent umpires will be assigned for each game from the Physical Education Department of the University. Twelve diamonds have also been made available for practice by the various halls.
The schedule, and the assignments to the practice fields follow;
INTERHALL BASEBALL SCHEDULE
APRIL 29th—
Freshman vs. Walsh-------Field No. 6
Carroll vs. Howard-------Field No. 5
Off-Campus vs. Brownson--Field No. 4 Sophomore vs. Morrissey--Field No. 3 Sorin vs. Badin----------Field No. 2
Corby vs. Lyons----------Field No. 1
MAY 6th—	„ „ „ _
Freshman vs. Carroll-----Field No. 5
Walsh vs. Off-Campus------Field No. 4 Howard vs. Brownson------Field No. 3 Sophomore vs. Sorin -----Field No. 2
Morrissey vs. Corby------Field No. 1
Badin vs. Lyons-----Field No. 6
828	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MAY 13th—
Freshman vs. Howard_________Field No. 4
Walsh vs. Brownson__________Field No. 3
Carroll vs. Off-Campus______Field No. 2
Sophomore vs. Badin_________Field No. 1
( Morrissey vs. Lyons_________Field No. 6
Sorin vs. Corby_____________Field No. 5
MAY 17th—
Freshman vs. Off-Campus_____Field No. 3
Walsh vs. Howard____________Field No. 2
Carroll vs. Brownson________Field No. 1
Sophomore vs. Corby_________Field No. 6
Morrissey vs. Badin_________Field No. 5
Sorin vs. Lyons_____________Field No. 4
MAY 20th—
. Freshman vs. Brownson__________Field No. 2
Walsh vs. Carroll___________Field No. 1
Howard vs. Off-Campus_______Field No. 6
Sophomore vs. Lyons_________Field No. 5
Sorin vs. Morrissey_________Field No. 4
Badin vs. Corby_____________Field No. 3
NOTE.—All games will be played at 2:00 P. M.
THE FOLLOWING FIELDS ARE AVAILABLE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
South of Gym	 East of Law Bldg.	 South of Chemistry	 South of Chemistry	 South of Cartier _ _		Freshman Varsity 	Sorin and Corby 	Off-Campus 	Brownson _ __	  TTnwnrH
South of Cartier	 South of Cartier	 South of Cartier		._ —— ....
South of Cartier		
Front of Badin		
West of Lyons	 West of Lyons		
PLAYGROUND LEAGUE UNDER WAY
Spirited action has marked the first few games played in the Playground League competition sponsored by the Chicago Club. Each attraction has been run off as smoothly and as orderly as possible, and from present indications has tended to prove, that the unique venture of the Windy City group is well worth while.
Scores for the several games played at the time of this writing follow;
INTER-CLUB LEAGUE DIVISION A CHICAGO LEAGUE THURSDAY, APRIL 19—
Howard 14; Corby-Sorin 13. 1
Badin 5; Freshman 2.
Sophomore 6; Walsh 5.
Morrissey 5; Off-Campus 3 Lyons 7; Carroll-Brownson 5.
FRIDAY, APRIL 20—	. .
Akron 11; Pittsburgh 10
Monogram 12; Rochester’ 10	'
Calumet 17; New Jersey 6
Buffalo 14; Band 6
Metropolitan 12; Iowa 5
Tennessee 7; Cincinnati 5
DIVISION B
Cleveland IQ; K. of C. 1
California 10; Toledo 8	'
Grand Rapids 12; Badger 10
Detroit 9; Boston 4
Connecticut 9; Engineers 0
The remainder of the schedule for both League follows;
STATE CLUB LEAGUE
DIVISION A
FRIDAY, APRIL 27—
Field
Pittsburgh vs. Iowa----------------8
Tennessee vs. Rochester____________9
New Jersey vs. Minnesota__________10
Band vs. Monogram--------•----------11
Law vs. Akron---------------------12
Buffalo vs. Metropolitan__________13
Calumet vs. Cincinnati____________14
MONDAY, APRIL 30—
Pittsburgh vs. Metropolitan---------1
Iowa vs. Rochester__________________— 2
Tennessee vs. Minnesota_____________3
New Jersey vs. Monogram_____:-------4
Band vs. Akron_____________________5
Buffalo vs. Cincinnati_____________6
Law vs. Calumet__________________  7
TUESDAY, MAY 1—
Pittsburgh vs. Cincinnati---------12
Rochester vs. Metropolitan________12
Iowa vs. Minnesota________________14
Tennessee vs. Monogram_____________1
New Jersey vs. Akron_______________2
Buffalo vs. Calumet________________2
Law vs. Band_______________________4
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2—
Pittsburgh vs. Calumet_____________8
Cincinnati vs. Rochester___________8
Metropolitan vs. Minnesota.______—10
Iowa vs. Monogram___________________
Tennessee vs. Akron________________12	'
New Jersey vs. Band_______________I8
Law vs. Buffalo___________________14
FRIDAY, MAY 4—
Pittsburgh vs. Buffalo______________:
Calumet vs. Rochester_______________$
Cincinnati vs. Minnesota  __________8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Metropolitan vs. Monogram Iowa vs. Akron__________
* Tennessee vs. Band___________ Law vs. New Jersey_____________
MONDAY, MAY 7—
Pittsburgh vs. Law______ Buffalo vs. Rochester___:. Calumet vs. Minnesota___ Cincinnati vs. Monogram _. Metropolitan vs. Akron__ Iowa vs. Band___________ Tennessee vs. New Jersey .
Field ___4 ___5 ___6 ___7
. 8 . 9 10 .11 .12 .13 .14
STATE CLUB LEAGUE DIVISION B
FRIDAY, APRIL 27—
Cleveland vs. Missouri_________ California vs. Detroit_________ East Penn vs. Engineers________ Badger vs. Toledo______________ K. of C. vs. Memphis___________ Grand Rapids vs. Indianapolis , Boston vs. Connecticut_______
MONDAY, APRIL 30—
Cleveland vs. Indianapolis- California vs. Missouri-- East Penn vs. Detroit---- Toledo vs.' Engineers --- K. of C. vs. Badger------ Memphis vs. Connecticut-- Boston vs. Grand Rapids —
1
2 4
3 5
6 7
. 8 . 9 .10 .11 .12 .13 .14
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2— Cleveland vs. Boston__________________ California vs. Indianapolis___________ East Penn vs. Missouri________________ Toledo vs. Detroit____________________ K. of C. vs. Engineers________________ Badger vs. Memphis____________________ Connecticut vs. Grand Rapids
THURSDAY, MAY 3— Cleveland vs. Connecticut_____________ California vs. Boston_________________ East Penn vs. Indianapolis____________ Toledo vs. Missouri___________________ K.. of C. vs. Detroit_________________ Badger vs. Engineers__________________ Memphis vs. Grand Rapids —
FRIDAY, MAY 4—
Cleveland vs. Grand Rapids — California vs. Connecticut — East Penn vs. Boston _________ Toledo vs. Indianapolis —_— K. of C. vs. Missouri_________ Detroit vs. Badger ___________ Memphis vs. Engineers_________
MONDAY, MAY 7— Cleveland vs. Memphis________________ California vs. Grand Rapids . East Penn vs. Connecticut Toledo vs. Boston ___________________ K. of C. vs. Indianapolis____________ Badger vs. Missouri _________________ Detroit vs. Engineers________________
829
Field
1
2 3
4 5
6
3
4 5
6
7 8
9


. 8 . 9
.10
.11 .12
.13 .14
1 2
3
4 5
6
7


PHONE 3-1354
DR. J. M. S1NGLER DR. E. A. PROBST
DENTISTS
261 ASSOCIATES BLDG.
■’XATET” and “Dry” have changed ** their meanings bo many times recently that one hesitates to use them—nevertheless, we risk the danger of being called old-fashioned and herewith submit this statement: Sawyer’s Frog Brand Slickers will keep you dry.*
•Original meaning.
Sawyer's Slickers are obtain-able at men’s stores, haber-dashers and department '	stores.
Get yours — TODAY
.N.SAVYBR&SONS
830
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Go One Way—Return Another
Louisiana J Texas :
Nev Mexico . Arizona
California ■ Oregon	'
Nevada
Utah	I
TODA Y’S westbound traveler makes the most of his trip by going one way, returning another and seeing all the scenic wonders of the Pacific Coast while there. Southern Pacific offers you four great routes .with a vast network of connecting lines reaching out to all the scenic attractions of the Great Southwest and Pacific Coast. For complete information and illustrated literature, write, dep’t. X.
Southern Pacific
E. W. CLAPP, Traffic Manager, 310 South Michigan Blvd., Chicago, Ill.
CARL D. LOVE, Mgr. :: H. CL1ZBE KING
THE
Little Dutch Cleaners
Campus Representatives
Have Your Tux Pressed and Cleaned for the Ball .
Hotel LaSalle :: Telephone 5687
TOWER'S FISH BRAND VARSITY SLICKERS
The most stylish and practical rainy day garments for college men and women.
ASK FOR FISH BRAND
SUCKERS BY NAME ? J
YOUR DEALER HAS THEM

THE GENUINE WATERPROOF OILED CLOTHING
VARIETY OF STYLES AND COLORS
, A. J TOWER CO. BOSTON MASS
PaySummer Expenses Have Liberal Surplus Taking Orders from Housewives
if. pleasant easy work. No □erience d.Women
for
KLEANEZY
The New SelfWringer Mop with the Broad Steel Plate
recognise Jn*
Ecl'S.W®®
Mop. Our men takeorim for 50 to 100 weekly-^®} means a nice sum for you during your vacation, nwy help solve your problems oi XcSSonVTbtfnoPSg stooping. backache.. rauKg .tram nnd all the wontaol .crabbing. Ban. wiled r*W£ tom band, — avoid; handling dirty mop water.
JUST TURN THE KNOB and It Will Wring Out Dollar* A child's tiny finsera can wring this Mop drier ww ri man's strong hands can wring tn? common Price is low, demand enormous. Hs the cation work you can find, work at Home, lay College Town or Travel. You can take omen ANYWHERE. Tour the country, «S’ Ideal, making expenses and a big	re*
We supply complete selling outfit—no cap*** quired, us you simply take ordera. K1. ^ANEZYJflOPCO^M&'fiofe "send"this CO UPON FOR FULL DETAILS KLEANEZY MOP CO., Dept. 3518, Delp“».u-Send me immediately. fulldetsUsofyoyjjtt p taking orders for KLEANEZY Mope. J make vacadon and school expenses ctsuy coming vacation.
Name..................
Addrcw................  ..•••••.......
Town.....................................