

November 22, 1974 


'Before~ choose' acareer, ' 
consider what's not in it for you. 
The ladder of success doesn't neces·sarily !ead where . you really want to go. . 
. Instead of climbing over the· heads of competitors at the ._ office, maybe you'd be happier sharing in the joys of humble·. families or cheering lonely old folks or bringing 'consolci-, tion beyond words to the afflicted in thei_r moment of grief.: 
.A growing number of'young people-today are more . attracted by a lifework than a lifestyle. -. Find out cibout the good things that are happe'ning around the country._Let us mail you·our free newsletter for._ 
• young people interested in social action and religion. · · · Just send your name and address to Word One, Room 
133, 221 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60606. In our kind of work; you start at the top. 
The'Claretians 
A ROMAN CATHOLIC COMMUNITY OF PRIESTS AND BROTHERS 

··CARLOS· 
CASTANEDA 
As surprising, mysterious and powerful as Castaneda's previous books have been, Tales ofPower goes far beyond them. It is don Juan's · final statement, the fulfillment of Castaneda's marvelous and unique opportunity to open "the door 
. · to the unknown." 


TAlESOF 

. l 

Editor James Gresser Art Director Bill Weyland . Production Manager John Phelan Managing Editor Sally Stanton · · News Editor Jane Thornton Arts Editor Katy Sullivan ,.;· . Sports Editor Bill Delaney · . Assistant Art Director Thomas Waldoch Business Manager Sarah Bartzen Advertising Manager 
D. C. Nokes. Circulation Manager Paul DeBacco 
~ff . . 
Mike . Karels, Steve Slater, Jean deSmet, . Dave Beno, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Karen Higgins, Tara Carey; Mark· Lupino, John Kenward, .Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, Connal McGee, Don Pausback,. Laureen Goers,· John · Harding, Mike West,· Mik'e Sarahan, Mark Hopkins, Larry Stanton,· Regina Fink, John. Whalen, Mary Digan, Tom Birsic, Eileen O'Grady, Jim Wiehl, Michael Casey, Sue Rohn, Jack Pizzolato, Bill Gonzenbach, Bill Brink,· Frank Coughlin, Neil Gillispie, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Deborah DeLorenzo, L; Bums,' Kathy ·· McElroy; ·Dave Miller, Andy Winiarczyk, · Jorge Lopez, Mike Zengel, .Dan Adler,: Gil Zachary, Theresa Stewart, Annemarie · . ·· Sullivan,Rick Odioso, Tom . McHale, Josy Robb, Tom Moskow; Bob Kisselt. Art & Photography . , . Mike Madden, Ed Brower; Ted Keriri, Bill Foglia, Joe Kuspin, Tom Burke. :, · The opinions expressed In the SCHOLASTIC · · · are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame; its administration, faculty or the student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind . .46556. ·The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, :. · New York, N.Y. 10017; Published fortnightly during the school year except•during vacation and examination periods; the SCHOLASTIC , is printed at Ave Maria Press; Notre Dame, . ­Ind. 46556; The subscription rate is $5.00 a year;and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, No.tie Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the··= property of the SCHOLASTIC.. · copyright © 1974 Scholastic i all rights reserved / none of the contents may ·be re­produced without permission. 

Vol~me ll6, N~. 6 November 22, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS · · · 6 C~education '~t N~tre: Dame An analytical look at the difficulties and benefits. of Notre Dame's switch from all-male. 
8 Women iu. Academics. 8 The Physical Readjustment. 10 SMC: Coop.erati~n and Coeducation. 11 Editorial -. Coeducation. requires an· active and positive role on the part·ofthe students . ._ · 
FEATURES 

4 Reunion at Notre Dame -. Educatioii· and growth never really stop after you leave these hailowed halls.'.: . ' . 
18 -Chile -.. -Brutality. and terror· characterize the rule of the Junta after its takeover in September 1973." 
20 ·A.rchitecture -_A photo-essay on ·the unique,and.abun~ dant sculpture and architectural forms around: campus: 
27 Bullock What makes ND's most' punis~ing n.uirier 
.. . t. _,·.-·... -.. --•
.run? ·••REGULARS 
14 
. Book Review .. 

15 
:P~opltfa~ ND/ 16 , , People Behind ND. 


22. · Week.in'Distortion. 


28 From: the Sidelines. 30 · Last Word. 
i1 


Illustrations: Photos on 5, 12, 23 by Dill Weyland / All other photos by' Ed Brower / Cover and artwork by Weyland. 
Bert G. Hornback, Associate En­glish Professor at. the University of Michigan, graduated · from Notre 

. Dame in 1957. He taught English for three years here and has written three books: The Metaphor -of _Chance, : _Noah's· Arkitecture: a Study of-Dickens' Mythology, and King Richard the Catsup. _ _ _ -. Old College;': The marker on t~e back side, away from the lake, says it was-originally built in 1854; .and last "reconstructed" .in i912,-when it became· the headquarters of the Holy Cross Mission Band. On ·the ground floor, facing ·the. lake, .two bedrooms ('.'for female snorers," a notice says); abath;·a large kitchen, and a dining room with an old piano and a table fifteen feet long. On the second floor, four bedrooms, a huge parlor, and another bath. Room fortis big peopie to sleep he~~: Tom and Patsy Shehan, Jack and Ginny Moy­nahan; Art and Nancy Johnson, and me. On the third floor five more bed­rooms, and a bathroom that doesn't work. The three Shehan kids (Pat­rick couldn't come), the four Moy­nahans, Cindy Johnson (her broth­ers are at camp), and my three children, borrowed from friends in New York, can live here. "It makes Sorin Sub look pala­tial." We all say it -and then laugh at what our parents must have thought when they saw that place our junior year. * * * * * Tom and Jack and Art and I all met Freshman year at Notre Dame, 
.Our Education Continues
. . . 

in the fall of 1953. We all met Patsy -Mullikin the· next year, and Ginny _, Thomas. -Nancy _Quicke appeared when Skip was in medical school 
-at .!'forthwestern, in 1959. The last time all of us guys ·were together was_ at Tommy's wedding, in 1958. _ Since then we have seen each other occasionally, and have_ written even less than that. But we've stayed friends, and when we have gotten together it. has been for more than _just backslllpping and drinking and remembering. ·We've talked -and argued/'and shared, and planned. -So :last~: summer we decided we _needed to get _together. A regular 'Notre Darne reunion didn't seem right. We wanted·_ all of us to get together -whole families --' for something more like ·a retreat .than a reunion. There were things we -wanted to talk about: whatwe had learned _at Notre _Dame, and Ii.ow that learning h_-ad -served us; how we had changed over twenty years, and how the world had changed, and how · we .now:·_ matched the new --world; \V'hat_.we expected of the fu­fore,· for ourselves and for our ; children.: I wrote to Father Hesburgh, and asked·:fr' we· could come back to Notr_e Dame. Heliked the idea, and passed it along to Jim Cooney, who made .alr the arrangements for us. We were on for the last week in July, 1973. * * * * * My kids and I arrived on Saturday about 4:30. I picked up the key to 
by Bert G. Hornback 
Old College, and got ·the dead bat out of the kitchen sink w~ile Michael and John and Mary Beth moved us in. Then we went shopping. By Sun­day afternoon there would be seven­teen of us to be fed; and as South Bend is still dry on Sunday, I had been instructed to stock the bar; 

· The Shehans arrived first -on Sunday afternoon, complete -_ with Phoebe, their monstrous black Lab­-rador retriever. Tom is district man­ager for -Connecticut General Life ·Insurance_ Company in Pittsburgh; Patsy is -involved in a-number of 
-socialwork projects, including meals­on-wheels, hospital work, and home­wife-mother work:· Jennifer,_ Katie, and James were.with them. -. Then Art· and Nancy came, with Cindy. Skip:•is, i partner. in an in­-ternal medicine clinic in La Jolla, California,· and Nancy_-'-a nurse by profession :--has been wo-rking a lot with their parish school lately as well as working as full-time mother· to Cindy and her two brothers, Art and 
-Matt: Ja~k aiid Ginny Moynahan drove 
·in just as we were ready to eat. They _brought all four kids ·with them -Laura, Mark .T... P., Tricia, 
and Kate, -but left Maggie, their black dog, behind.. Jack is a· re~ gional vice-president for Metropoli­tan Life Insurance Company in New York; Ginny llas a houseful of ere-: . ative things going for her children, and· also teaches in a Darien CCD program._ 
I'm an English profes~or at the 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


University-;, of Michigan' ;iri _Ann 
Aro~r.-_rni single-~ which 'is 'why 
I borroweif•Micliaei ~nd John .and 
Mary Beth ·. from;. Bill '~mi Claire 
Doyle in New .York. . ' . . 
. * ~-*· '*--* 

:_,Odd:' Aft~r din~er; ;ith the kids 
eithef:outside:exploring or \ip irt'"the 
parlor' 'playing, we seven."sit around 
~he. big. ~able -~<?;.v.nst~irs _:_:_and. ~t~~-­.· talking about'•. old ·age. Partly: 'it comes from our asking each other about our own parents -about what and how they're doing -but also it comes straight from us. We . begin our week talking about not 
clusions. First, we all agree that we want a truly "open" society, a so­ciety which doesn't isolate or alien­ate anybody. ,We have to learn .to appreciate differences better, how to respect different roles. Kids are kids 
· -"newer· people," the button says -and have a right ·to be kids; the old are "older people," and have rights 'and -roles. Middle age ~ where we are -seems to be the anxious age, and also the power age; and maybe the clue for us is in the fact that anxiety and the assertion of power come-together. Middle age is perhaps: a ·twenty~ or thirty-year identity crisis. '.we know what we've been '._ kids: -and: what we're going to be -old. But what' are we now? · Whatever ·we are, we want to stay together, .to' stay whole. From . talk­ing about growing old we ·start to .talk about the 'idea of.family. The 
. nuclear family isn't enough. H dis~ cards its elders ""7"" who will soon be us. And given' that each generation knows that it will be discarded in its turri, the· nuclear farnily creates not love· but ·competition. · We want to:learn to live together again: may­be ·not in one i>Jace, but in one life. And this goes not just for the John­sons as Johnsons and the Moyna­haris as Moyriahans and the she-: bans as Shehans ._ arid me? -but for the Johnson-Moynahan-Shehan~ Hornback . family as ' weu: .· Friends are a family. A. comrilunity. . _ comrnuri_ity )s what·exists amorig communicants, and the· idea of com­munion gets us ·around_ ~o the church. That we are all so honest 
wanting to ._ become irrelevant;-·. or -so quickly, without any. hedging, obsolete: · maybe ··proves· that . we are still 
.: Sittirig there in Old College, twen:. friends: . communicants. We four ty years on from our· first college guys _aU acknowledge . our various days,· and eleven kids _-'-our kids _;___,. drifts away from the · organized inhabiting· the_ dark out there or Church, the ·catholic Church as we beating on the floor over our heads:· knew it and belonged _to it at N:otre all of the~. closer in .age ·to college Dami; and the three girls explain than we are. Ghosts, pushing us· on. where they. stand; too, · Ginny mak~ Maybe that's why we begin, not with ing ·. clear her position within . the memories· ·of when we were seven­traditional Church. · . teen or eighteen or twenty-one, but I don't even know if we are sur­with worrying about growing old. prised to find ourselves all in pretty 
"Growing old" brings up lots of much the same place. Maybe we ex­things, and as we sort the problems pected to be, or ·. assumed we would out we come to some tentative con-( continued on page 12) 
NOVEMBER 22, 1974 
Coedl.lcation at Notre Dame 
In th_e fall o~ 1972, after negotia­
tions with. SL Mary's failed to pro­
duce a merger, Notre. Dame admitted 
its first women students under a 
multiyear plan to become coeduca­
tional. In the twenty-six m~nths 
since that occurrence, the matter of 
integrating women into a .male-dom­
inated university has been an on­
going problem, shown most dearly 
this fall. _By administration _plan­
ning, "the process of coeducation is 
completed this year with. the trans­
formation· .of · the · fifth and last 
dormitory into girls' quarters. How­
ever, it is becoming" painfully obvi­
cms that ~he process of. coeducation 
is only beginning: Furthermore, the 
success or failure of this transition 
may be the most ·significant chapter 
in the history of the' Notre Dame 
community._. ·· _ . _ . . . 

Statisticaliy,: the undergraduate student body has. an overall ratio of six men to, every one woman (1138 out of 6820 are women). Adding the St..Mary's enrollment makes _the count 5682. men and approximately over 2800 women, a ratio of almost 2 to i. _The largest number of girls is in· the Notre Dame sophomore class (425). Over one-half of the eritire female enrollment at Notre Dame is in the College cif Arts and Letters.. Obviously there is a. ques­tion cif numbers; but it has been stig~ gested that the ratio is not the real problem.· Dr. Sheridan McCabe, di­rector of the Notre Dame Counseling . Center, •·states that the · difficulty which the Universitiy · is undergoing 
by Dave Dreyer 

in this regard is not a ratio difficulty at least a couple of hundred peo­but a matter of attitudes; "When· ple." Of the cases that do concern the decision was made," says' Dr: -coeducation at the _Center,· the most McCabe, "to make this place coed, articulate and well-defined as well as it was with the intention of improv-numerous are women; These women, ing the -quality of education here. says Dr. McCabe, feel l~ke_ they· are, However, what we see now is that · "females on a, male campus." A to make this improvenierit means problem like this certainly-will'not inore than just laying aside five_ change· if ·the ratio is made to be dormitories and bringing al,out· the fifty~fifty. · A transitiori of'attitudes abrupt presence of women..Whatis. and social mentality, .to ·say .the abrupt is the need to see ·ourselves least; is necessary to .begin moving as really coed, that ·women are real-. in the right direction. • Of course, the ly essential here. We inustincorpo-problem is at least as· difficuk for rate this :whole new view and from. women as for men. The Counseling that process coines the educational · Center initiated last spring .a_pro~ 
value." . . · -. . . . · ... · gram: of Male-Female Comrmmi-
With the immature· maie-female : cation Groups to deal with the i>rob­controyersY, triggered by a .Doones-· lem and they seemed to be quite bury comic strip last inonth (not to successful. Spec;ifically, they·volun~ mention.the tirade.during last year's .tarily brought males and females· Mardi Gras), one wonders if student together to share· honest feelings attitudes don't need careful exami-and, most of all, . communicate ·:be­nation. The questions that need to be · yond the superficia( If nothing eise;. asked are:· What makes coeducation these groups serve as a· model for successful? Is it successful now? .what can ·and ·should be happening On the most -part, . how ina1es/fe-·. on the community level.. . males typify the opposite sex at· .. So what is needed for coeducation Notre: Dame.-Is-it altogether· a ·. to be successful? Dr. McCabe thinks healthy ·environment? According to that besides the basic,' with honest Dr. McCabe, the situation does not commtinication''a~d the preoccupa­seem to be a major factor in' the tion with the ratio,. there are' no . cases· he treats at :the Counseling ideas i>r progressive sociai life; that Center, but only because he feels students have not progressed much the Center is not well-known. "We beyond the "mixer." The success or get .the really serious cases -of failure of coeducation, it would seem, course, but the person we can really might be. the _progression. of our help I think is the person . who is social manner. "The niixer~merital~­just riot too comfortable here; can't ity has· to be changed,'; he says. Psy~ fit in or has problems relating to the chologically speaking, ·_.·.. everyone, social scene: 'l;~is·takes in, I suspe~t, male or. fema,le, has a_ role_ to per~: 
. · THE SCHOLASTIC 
"' 

form which can be a severe re­striction on .interpersonal relation­ships. In addition,. there is the rit­ualistic behavior of dates with all its ex·pectations and pressures that lead an individual to feel easily frus­trated. But according to Dr. McCabe, there is some remedy for this prob­lem. "Campus Ministry is doing a wonderful job in ,this regard," he says. "Bulla _Shed is one of the best places on campus to get out of. the syndrome. It's a_place that fosters the kind of, relationships we sorely need here." As well as Bulla Shed, Dr. McCabe credits the ·Nazz and Dar:by's Place..a~d insists that ad­ministration-· .~nd __ .faculty support these and similar'projects. 
·Is the Notre Dame environment a healthy one? Needless to point out, we have to become coed to continue 
. . . , ' 
growing. If the environment is un­healthy because.of coeducation then we are failing but we cannot go back. There is nothing we can do but continue trying.. And as was mentioned before, the real problem does not seem -to be numbers but attitudes. Students are not so per­plexed. by the fact that they may or may not have a date but ratherhow to deal_ with the opp6site sex. This poirit _. is no· clearer than as shown in the Dooriesbury fiasco. There are vast . generalizations permeating everywhere of what St. Mary's girls are Hke, .what . Notre Dame · guys think about aUgirls, etc., which dis­play a totally childish as well as un­derdeveloped. sociar element in. the student body. "We have to know how to use the skiUs we have to relate," says Dr. McCabe. If they are not there then we must recognize that ·. and. develop .them. beyond the super­ficial to.the'casual, the intimate, the real. What we should aim to become is humarts together· and not males and females apart.. The learning value of coeducation ·will have to be the experien~e of learning to accept 
each other as integral individuals in the same community.. 
Last year's Dome included a very appropriate comment by Thomas Merton _on the male/female contro­versy: 
"Man is most human and most .proves his humanity (I did not say his virility) by the quality of .his relationship with women. This obsession with .virility and con­quest makes a true and deep re"la­tionship impossible. Men today think that there is no difjerence between the capacity to make con­quests and the capacity to love. Women respond accordingly, with the elaborate deceit and thinly veiled harwtry-the role assigned 
to women by f ashion--and there is a permanent battle between the 

. sexes, sometimes covered over with the most atrocious and phony play acting. 1n all this everyone completely. forgets the ·need for love.. A desperate need; not the need to receive it only but the need to .give love." · At Notre Dame, there is a battle between the. sexes but· just as important is the · battle within ourselves to make the necessary sacrifices and transition of attitudes. Hopefully, the farmer conflict can be resolved peacefully, but the latter one must be a complete victory if Notre Dame is to progress. successfully as an institution of higher learn­ing. 

NOVEMBER 22, 1974 
7 

Women In Academics 
The fall semester began the third full year of coeducation at Notre Dame. Although ·women still com­prise only around one~sixth of the student community;.· their presence is felt strongly ill the academic field --inos( notably evidenced by the fact that the valedictorian of· the class of 1974 was a woman. In sepa­rate interviews, Dean Frederick Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters and Dean Bernard Waldman of the College of Science, the col­leges with the highest female enroll­ments, addressed themselves to the academic position ofwomen at Notre Dame in both the student population and the faculty. · 
The institution of coeducation in 1972 brought some 200 women trans: fer students as well as 150 first-year female students. The policy at that time was to give preference to women who had already demon­strated a high academic standing in other college situations and to highly qualified young women who were entering college for the first time_ Accordingly,· these women had higher academic ratings than their male counterparts upon entrance. An idea that surfaced prior to coeduca­tion was the institution of so-called "women's majors," i.e., traditional course offerings for women, such as education and nursing. However, this never materialized because, as Dean Crosson stated, women are now more 
interested· in "career parity with . 
men" than more traditional roles. 
Today, the College of Arts and Letters has the highest· female en.:. 

rollinent with nearly one-fourth of its students being women. The supe­rior academic ·performance of women continues in this college with women still maintaining · a higher• grade point average than men who' are en­rolled in Arts and Letters~ Nonethe­less, Dean Crosson f~resees a sta­bilizing process in the next few years as some 400 more womeri:are ad­mitted next year. He believes that the early influence of· the extremely well-qualified 'woman ·· student, who was admitted at first, will begin to wane as· these _wmnen graduate. Thereby, the academic,performanceof men and women will become more equalized. . . . 
The presenc·e of women in the Col­lege of 'Arts and Letters has had an effect on the academic program. At 
The PhysicalRec:ldjustment 
The coeducational experience can only be as good ·as the environment in which itexists. In order to make Notre Dame more educational, our University . facilities will ·have to lead the way; We. have good news on the athletic side but bad news on the housing side.. 
All athletic equipment is open equally for both men and women. Also, because of a new NCAA ruling, .a .woman can participate in ·any sport. Currently, three· co­educational sports are in session: crew, skating;. and skiing. There are also some dub: sports which only girls•· participate, namely, · tennis, fencing and basketball. In addition, golfand field hockey are in the de­veloping stages. 
Besides meeting members of the opposite sex in coed sports, one can also see ·them in Freshman Physical Education class. Although it is not the most romantic setting, it is nevertheless a beginning. 
On the bad . news side we have 
housing facilities,.·· which is ' prob;.; 
ably the second most important 
factor in building a better coeduca-· 
tional experience (the most impor­
tant factor being the people them~ 
selves). 
In an interview _with Father Mul­
cahy, director of. student hous­
.ing, various topics such· as coeduca­
tional housing and ratios were dis­

cussed: His answers were enlighten­. ing, although · saddening. _He ex2 plained that the administration had studied the coeducational dorm situ­' ation of other schools and concluded 'that there is no place for'.them.at . Notre. Daine. He then wenton to describe the complexity. of the prob­lem involving the student ratio. "As .it stands now, if we were not to 
change the ratio, the same n~mber 
of people who were forced off cam­
pus this year would have · to move 

off aga!n next year. If mm·e· women were admitted, more men would be forced to move or women would thenhe forced to move. Either way, a. very bad scene exists." ... 
The possible solution of building another dorm was not elaborated upon by Mulcahy.As a result we are faced with a decision · between ·two evils~keeping the ratio iri a_.positiori which constitutes an abnormal social life versus the migratio_n c,f ha.If the student body off campui:;'. Father Mul­cahy. and the _Student Affairs .. Com­mittee would like to see the first al­ternativ'e, but the· fi~a.l decisfori rests with the Admissions Committee. The. important housing. issue will· be decided in the near future. . . 
Hopefully, their decision will bring the success to.campus housing that is· already apparent. in our coed ath­letic facilities. 
-Jeffrey Murray 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

present, the situation in the college is fairly stable with one-half of the students majoring in _either· English or Government. However, Dean Cros­son anticipates· a _ shift .as -women move into the upper classes. He stated that Modern Lariguages. and Psychology' majors ;may increase with a possible ·decline iri Govern­ment. Ultirriately, he feels that Arts and Letters' will become a largely coed college. · 
· .Thf College .of Science contains · · the second . highest number of : women, although their number is · considerably smaUer than that in Arts and . Letters. By far, most . women in the College_ of Science are . Biology majors. As in the College of · Arts and Letters, \1Vomen maintain a -high academic standing with the ' highest grade_ pciin.t average in the . College of . Science belonging to a woman. Stiil, the ratio ·of academic success here is about 'the' same be­
•tween men and° women~ '' ' 
The position of-women iri ,faculty : positions ·at Notre Dame is much the -sa·me ·as that of woinen · in other : major universities. At present; ·there . are only around 40 women in the 
•teaching and research faculty out of . . nearly 700 total members:: By far, 
Arts and· LettersC-has · the. largest : with -somewhere ·around · 30, btif : ma~y ·_serve only part time. The Col­. lege of Science has only one full~time : professor, Dr. Phyllis Webb, and one : part-time professor, Sister . John : Miriain 'Jones. . · · 
All ·university' departments seek to fulfill -"affirmative action"· goals . set by the:federal"' government, by : which they fry fo maintain a certain · level-of employment for women and minorities. Still, the appointment of women to· faculty-positions is down largely due to a low rate of turn­over. Each department actively seeks to employ women. Both Dean Cros­son and Dean Waldman set compe­
. tency as the primary criterion in_ determining · faculty·· appointments, but, all things being equal, ,women and minorities are given first con­
•sideration when faculty openings de­. velop. 
Neither Dean Waldman nor Dean 

Crosson sees any special privileges 
granted to women students. Con­
versely, they do not find that an 
extra burden. is placed ori women 
students with the expectation of a 
superior performance from them. 
Women are a minority in most 
classes, and, although they both ad­
mit that there· is no real means of 
determining· it, both men believe that no special privilege or extra · pressure· is placed· on women in a classroom situation. Dean Waldman 
stated: "Ifiknew about it, I'd stop it. I don't think they (the women) want it that way." 
Both -Dean · Crosson and Dean Waldman·• believe· that the . position of women ;at Notre Dame will re~ main much as it is now. The -two men feel that the· number of female students will increase slowly. Like­wise,· the ·number of women faculty will increase, but at· a-slower rate. The number of-women fa·culty mem­bers is contingent on faculty turn­over and the turnover will probably 
. ' 

· not occur for another l0'years when 
the retireme~ts_ :<>f post-World War 
II professors begin. · 
Reflecting on the eff~ct _ that 

women have had at Notre Dame; 
both men were very positive. -Dean 
Waldman sta:ted: "It has brightened 
up the place.,It has helped alot both 
externally and. educationally." Echo~ 
ing this, Dean Crosson said: "I am 
very happy that we have gone coed: 
I welcome it and think that it's gone 
very well. It provides a very healthy 
influence on campus and I see noth­
-~:·~~4~;~: /··: ,;
-· ----.·~ . 
-. ~ ___=-~:~:---]~: 
... ...... ·.• 
. ~ -~~ :;__ .. _.; 

ing but continued ·smooth sailing in 
that regard." 
·The · assimilation of women · into 
the .· University, like any major 
change in an established institution, . :has not been· accomplished without 
some problems. Carole Moore, a~ 
assistant professor in the history de­
partment, credits some of the diffi..­
culty to the fact that,· because a 
large ·percentage of students at­
tended· sex-segregated high schools, 
Notre Dame represents their first 
experience with coeducation. The 
NOVEMBER 22, 1974 
"\ 
atmosphere that prevails during this period of adjustment ori the part of both the individual and the univer­sity as a whole offers, perhaps, less than maximum academic encourage­ment to women. 
The class of 1974, graduating a female valedictorian and two other women ranked first in, their col­leges, may be cited as a leap to-. wards academic equality. Closely allied to this progress, however, re­mains the consideration of women faculty, which Ms. Moore _believes to be vital to successful coeducation. Pointing out that the number of female faculty members has dimin­ished since 1973-74, she stresses that religious, single, and married women are essential as role models of intel­ligent, educated women pursuing careers outside the home. 
The .responsibility for weighing this factor· falls largely to the de­partments of the colleges and the university administration, which share authority over hiring. The faculty, Ms. Moore . feels, have expressed a positive attitude to­wards coeducation, and the students demonstrate a growing acceptance that improves with time. In order to .. attain balanced and successful coeducation,.· the entire· university must incorporate the fair evalua­tion of all students by appraisal of their minds and characters, without regard to their body wheth­er it be male or female. . 

· -Mary Digan · . Johri Hanley 

SMC: Cooperation and Coeducation 
It appears· the. highway between working towards a celebration com­Saint Mary's College and Notre mon with both campuses. Dr. Hickey Dame isn't so deep a river that it·· commented, ·"We could have sep­
cannot be crossed. What does one. 
rieed to walk across the water? This 
article will expound on some ideas 
to save future drownings and en­
tice some students to at least try 
the water. 
The question is often asked, 

"What at Saint Mary's could inter­est Notre Dame?" To start with the educational department (lacking at ND) is open t6· any interested ND student. · SMC nursing courses .can :· also be. taken through · special ar­. range~erits. (Due to a full student · enrollment in the program, the · course cannot be completely cross­· listed.) The Theology and Speech ·& Drama departments are completely 
combined between the campuses. 
To help along . the present co-
exchange program, academic affairs 
councils for each• school work to­
gether. There are two SMC represen­
tatives on the ND academic council, 
and two ND representatives working 
with Saint Mary's. 
On the lighter side is the bicen­
tennial celebration in '76. Dr. Wil­
liam Hickey, acting president. of 
Saint Mary's, said·that the bicenten­
nial committee, consisting of admin­
istration, faculty, and students, is · arated, but we didn't." 

This is .what Saint Mary's can 

offer you! What . else? Well, for Notre Dame women looking for spe­cial attention not easily found at a . male-oriented school, SMC offers a career development and planning 
center, and a women's council. 
Counselors in the career develop­
ment center help direct the ~!udent 
from year one to the finalgoal, beat­
ing the senior .rush for jobs. The cen­
ter also offers speakers and recruit­
ers geared to Hberal arts. . 
The women's council was initiated 
by students during the troubled days 
of the merger. Today: it. exists as a 
sounding board for . students dis­
satisfied with social and academic 
situations between the . campuses. 
Sister Miriam Jones of Notre Dame 
works with Saint Mary's on this. 
Athletically·the_ two campuses are 
trying to cooperate with. one an­
other. (Even though SMC does not 
have any football potentials.) Exist­
ing .now are volleyball and basket­
ball. teams competing intramurally. 
The season for each opens next 
week, so keep an eye on your favor­
ite S~C/ND halL . 
Most other club sports are still in "the "embryonic" stage. Fencing and 

crew· · still · have not· · completely thought out' team co~rdination be­tween campuses. . 
Dr. Mary . Alice Cannon, Saint Mary's vice . president for student affairs,· said that there. are many problems . still needing considera­tion; budgets, equally distributed .re­sponsibility, , studen,t benefits, . and transportation to' competing cam­puses. Nevertheless, even the faculty gets caught up in the athletic spirit, having started their own team, They call it, "Over the Hill sports!» 
So now what is left to those stu­

dents who, in spite of these ideas, 
still drown in the great river? Cre­
ativity! Go out and find ways to 
~eet people through the_ campus 
media, volunteer groups (perhaps 
Logan Center). Get involved in the 
traditions of. the campuses (exclud­
ing panty raids!), .the social com­
mission, and, last.but not Jeas_t, the 
co-exchange meal tickets!. Good rela­
tions · between and within the cam­
puses cannot. be · forced . from . the 
administration. Students should .be 
creative and initiate activities; It is. 
all up to us! As Dr. Cannon said, 
"Working on projects together builds 
up spirit." 
-Connal McGee 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


Students Must Respond Constructiyely 
The problem of· coeducation at Notre Dame·. is the focus of: this· issue, and this implies the nature of our difficulty -. coeducation continues to be a "problem;". That which should be.second nature, the coexistence of men and women in an academic and social community, becomes the center of much strained self-examination and the source of an undefinable, .yet very real, sense: of failure. 
An. awareness of the problem exists, but construc­tive reaction seems to be lacking. Some attempts have· been made· at the hall level to find creative modes of . interaction --:-Farley's square dance, Keenan's barn. party, Breen-Phillips Sadie :Hawkins·_ dance ..:,;,:.. but a more . comprehensive effort_ is called for. .Elected and appointed student representatives are trying to define sexuality rules for a campus which has difficulty relat­ing on the simplest. social level. 
A· major barrier· to free interchange·is the lack of adequate facilities. Darby's Place and The Nazz are excellent steps forward, but _6,000 people ·cannot be. accommodated in the basement of LaFortune. The rest of the building suffers from desertion; hopefully reno­vations· will offer improvements, but even if these changes prove less than miraculous, the existing spaces can be usedinore effectiveiy. Fisher's 50's party sur­vived the ballroom. · · 
Within -. individual halls, lounges and recreation areas.are often concerted rooms that do not effectively serve their purpose:. Attention should be given to these spaces. It cannot be emphasized enough that spaces must be provided, places created in which interaction can take: place on a casual level,' where agood ·game of cards or a relaxing conversation can exist. 
Besides the physical' necessities; a · more basic change seems to be indicated. There is a need for a . 
· reexamination of student position, assumptions ·and motives. Artificial roles and surface contacts" must be · discarded.· A positive ·approach is demanded: experi.: 
· mentation with social possibilities, and"· cooperation with · student attempts and ·administrative advances. Ultimately, the administration must :make any final decisions on -the actual specifics of coeducation, but constructive student input is essential. -The more possi­bilities that can be explo-red, the greater the pos·sibility 
. ·fora viable community.'·, . 
It is not .our intention to suggest that there is no meaningful contact between students on campus, or that coeducation is ·a failure. ''Many advances have been made, and the campus is much more·integrated· today than it was. three years ago.. Yet, for many 'students something is still l~eking. It should not take -letters to the editor lil_{e those recently carried in The Observer, 
.to keep us sensitive to the situation. 
There is a need for a creative approach on the; part of the entire student body; -·Perhaps, rather than wait-' ing for administrative advances, we should take the 
initiative. Innovative leadership is vital. THE EDITORIAL BOARD • 

NOVEMBER 22; ;1974 

But maybe that's not so bad. Maybe because it was a dirty booki Now Education it's good that we are so much in the the second floor is full of all sorts 
midst of change, of flux." of_ books. It's a real bookstore, and
(continued from page 5) 

Tom: "Maybe every generation_ Art comes back to Old College in a 
is. Maybe middle age is _just when daze after a three-hour browse. be. Not that we're all atheists, mind you start being acutely awar_e of _it." And we begin, then, to talk about you -=--though none of us sees· that what's called "continuing education," as a dirty word anymore. We ·are Notre Dame is a lot different from about maybe. sabbatical . ieaves for all · concerned with ·our spiritual what it was twenty years ago: new insurance executives and mothers· lives -.and -find quickly that we buildings, a bookstore full ·of .new and doctors. Skip calls it a "second want to talk about things spiritual books, our coed dorm. But it's still chance" at-education; and he wants rather than things religious. the same, too: "No women are al-this second chance both to make.up 
But here's the question, from Tom • lowed to fish on campus," ·says a for .the things ,missed and to catch first, I think: how do you start kids -campus cop~ up on· new things,; new· thoughts. out on a spirituallife without a re­The world is a lot different, too--. "It's exciting," he says,-"to see· that ligious background? _We all had reli-· and yet it's still the same, just a _-. bookstore. And frustrating.· 0 1 feel gious upbringings, and can identify · generation farther on. like I'm behind. We probably'all are. the basic formation of our spiritual And us. We're a lot different: Our-intellectual development has values there. Somebody says older,· "professional" now, with chil-· -lagged.".-, "moral" values,. and I: object: let's stick to «spiritual." _ 
"The . only _morality the _Church ever taught was sexual morality," says: Jack. "I grew up .• thinking morality existed only between the legs." _ 
So let's stick to spiritual. How do ­
you get your ,kids started,on a spir­
itual life?_ ,The_ obvious. answer, of 
course, _is at home, --in that · family 
we're all so anxious about. Nobody 
but me, however -and .ordinarily 
I don't have any kids_-:-will be sat­
isfied· with that. . "Somebody else" ­
has to _do it, _too: the Church, the 
school;. 
. . ' 
"But look at what you get mixed 
in.with the spiritual .values,". some­
body says. 
"We send our three to the paro­

chial school;"_ Nancy Johnson says;_:_ 
"because it's a·good school:........:. not be­
cause it's Catholic. But it teaches ­
values. The. teachers seem . to be ­
warm, committed people, · concerned 
with more than just facts and strat­

egies. The nuns seem interested in dren." Btit we're still the same, too: Jack: ."Maybe this, the cut-off · 
our kids, and to want them to grow. arguing, over Gallo wine, about polf~. from education, is what makes aging 
up to be good people." · -tics; about our world a.nd our values such a,: problem." /. _ 
Jack: -"How do you -know, what's and our lives; -. Jerry: · '.'It's what makes genera-
right ·for your kids?_ l may come * · * * * * . tiori gaps, too." --. 
back to religion someday~ I hope -. • Brother Avarice's -Sriuveni~ E~~ Toni: · "Oh, we could, make ·_our 
I wm; I guess. So shouldn't.I ex-porium. In_our ciay,i(sold:Mirac-·. educations continu~if we had.the 
pose my kids to_ it?"· ·-·-ulous Lariet Ties· and St. Christo--: time. And the stimulus, I guess. For; 
Art: "I think we're all schizo~ . pher cuff -links ,and busts of -Knute a_ while I worked at it pretty hard; 
phrenjcright now, in ou~ doubt~and~ . Rockrie thai looked like the Golden but my God! I can't even keep up faith situations.'.' . -_ -· Dome on the ground floor, and text-with the professionai" literature. I . Jerry:' ;"Ca~ght· between two books_ 011 the· second..:.:...plus Catcher, have to read, l~t a.lone Commonweal worlds' ·-::-is that what you mean? in ·the Rye, face: ciown·.·on the shelf:. or -agood book; I don't even have 
12 
!-\ ;THE.SCHO~ASTIC 


that much time just to sit and 
think!" 
Jerry: "So we have to make time, 

Tom. Education means growth; and 
when our lives get cut off from edu­
cation, _and we begin to exist' only as 
'professionar people, then we're al­
ready becoming obsolescent, as hu~ 
man beings." .. 
Tom:. "But I can't just take off 

for four, months_ or a year. My job 
won't be there when I get back" 
Jerry: "Okay. so· let's try then 

to start redefining what. we mean· by 
'job,' by 'profession'-:-so that you 
won't have to 'take off,' Tom." 
Jack: "What we have to. do is 

think of something. like awhole pro­
fession, _in .which, everything counts." 
. Art: "Then the.'professional' man 
would be, husband, father, doctor, · ·and. person""7al('professionally.'" 
. Ginny: "This sounds Hke the old 
'Renaissance Mari.' " 
,Jack: .. <'Maybe." . . 
Art: "The Renaissance Man was 

both. a scientist and, a humanist__:_, 
and that's something I guess I have 
to want to be." · ·· 
Jerry: "Scientist and humanist, 

in the Renaissance, . because those 
were the tw~ poles..Since the Indus­
trial Revolution the more crucial 
dichotomy has become that between 
work and play.'' 
Tom: ''Like in Pieper's. Leisure 

the Basis of Culture." . . . . . , . 
.. Jerry: "Yes~. And.as.the new sci-. 
el_lce'created aproblem for the medi~ 
eval.humanist, which was solved by 
the whole that the Renaissance Man 
made out of, science and humanism, 
so for, the Modern Man thejob is .to 
reunite work and play,. which have 
been separated . by .•the Industrial 
Revoiution.''. . . .• · ,. · · .. . 
Art: "And education can.do this.'' 

, Jack: ''If it continues. C>r st~rts up 
agai~." . '' . . ,' ' 
Art: "So we have to.find a way to 

engage ourselves.-:-in . one piece ­
with some form of continuing edu­
cation." • . : · · · · · .. 
, Patsy: "You guys make your own 
problems .. What I do comes from the 
time I make for myself out of on~ 
day. And it's all the, same k~rtd of 
work, too: people-wor~. I don't .do 
home-work and .. then . volunteer-:-. 
work. It's all a part of one life, and· it's all rewarding and satisfying. I don't feel separated, or broken. But you men -you make the separa­tions in your Hves.''. . 
Art: "We. sure do. Sometimes I feel like an autm:n.aton during the day; and that's. not what I had planned on at this stage of my ca­
reer in medicine.'' . •.· . . 
jerry: "As.long as we keep think-. ing of 'education' as something we'll keep up with in our spare time, ·in our leisure time, we;re in. trouble. Because what we mean then;by .'edu­
cation'. is the humanistic -as op­posed to ·the professional _:_ side_· of our lives. It's almost as though, we say_ that we. carry on our personal lives in our spare time. And .Patsy; you don't do that. Your whole life is professional and personal -:­right?" . . .. . . . 
Patsy: "I hope ,so! I think.I'd go crazy if_it weren't." · · . .. . 
Jack: "When we were in . school, here, education was a full-time job,:, and we all stayed pretty busy· at it. Not: that we were· always in·_the books, but we were always talking and thinking and worrying about things like the world. al_ld_ourselve.s: · But as soon as we~:left here; that full-time job got transformed into a leisure-time affair, and I was sup­posed to do -be, for God's sake! ­in a couple of hours after dinner what used to comprise ·my whole day." 
Tom: "We all know we can't con~ tinue our education in · oiir leisure. time. But we know we can't come backto Notre Dame, either." · 
Art: ''So let's change the defini­tion of 'leisure' -back to Pieper_.:.:__ so that we'll have more of it, or let's change the_ definition of 'profession.' What we're up to right nowJs edu­cational, professional, and also· a leisure activity-right?". 
Jack: "Right. And I haven't even sold-your clinic a Metropolitan Life group policy yet, Art.''. .. 
. So how can we get sabbaticals for everybody? Ifow can we all get. to­gether like: this, even, for six: days of talk, more than once every fifteen years? It's. the . biggest . question we have come upon, and the one which we can't answer practically. 
But it's a question related to our earlier question about family -and we did find an answer there, though it was maybe more theoretical than practical.But .we didn't care, b~ cause we ,were.concerned enough,· I think, deep ·down inside, to accept our philosophical solution as ·an ideal we simply have to strive to­ward. And ·maybe we aren'.t as con­cerned, . flllHime, about this educa: tion stuff. Maybe we ordinarily exist more . comfortably _with . the split down the middle of. our iives. Thus we don't feel as committed to the tlie~cy ofindividu~l wholeness as we wer~ to the.theory of family togeth­erness, ofmutual unity. Hwould be good, to be sure, if we could all have sabbaticals, but we're not . going to get them; and to change ourHves significantly without such a.· formal program. or license,,is too much ,to consider. . , · 
*' * * * * 

Monday evening,. after swimming and . tennis, drinks on .the lawn' by Old College. And we settle in to talk: We've put up a sign, to try to slow down the speed demons _:_ ncitstu~ dents, but faculty ,and staff, Jay and religious, who seem' to identify with the origins of the Holy Cross order at Le Mans'. 9ur sign says, '"Caution: Reconstructed Holy Cross . Mission Band Playing.'' The' kids are run­ning, around, ~nd we reaiize that 
. -.-. ... 

they are closer.to. being.Notre Daine age -_an of them,_ even·. Jamie, who's five ...:.. than we are. And thus they..a<ld_ ,mother dimension··_of · poi­
gnance to our being back here. '.'Re­construct~d". is not exactly the right w~rd.-. 
We. talk .through. such things as sex, our adolescent innocence, all_our. Catholic hang-ups, .an. our. closed views. "We Protestan_ts,,.says Patsy, "were. a lot more open and _charita­ble about everything _than,._you ,.all wer.e." We agree. ,AI.ld we agree; more or less, that the kids are much better off growing ,tip. as they._, are, now, than as we were. 
Sure, there are, worries about -,­and for -:--them. How are they going 
(continued on page 23) 

NOVEMBER 22, 1974 

,.. .. .. . . . . ' 
THE HUl\lANE 11\IPERATIVE. By Theodore M. Hesb'urgli/ C.S.C., 115 pages. Yale University Press. $5.95. 4vailable in t1ie ·Notre Dame Book­
'",:
store.. 
To put. the case for the poor most simply, imagine our Spaceship Eartii with only five people aboard instead of more than 3.'5 billion. Imagine that one of those five crew members represents ;those 'of us .earth 'passim~ gers who live i1i'the Western worid of North America and :Europe-:-one fifth··of humanity on earth, mainly white and Cliristian'. The person representing us haS· the use · and control of 80 percent" o/the: total lifeisustaining· resources available aboard our··· spacecrait. The other four creunnen, representing the other four-fifths of humanity:--better than 2.5_ billion people-have to get along on the 20 percent of the resources that' are left, leaving_ them each about 5 percent· to our man's 80 percent. To inake it worse, our mah is in the process''of.iricreizsing his portion of these limited_'resources to §o percent.· · 
Essentially, thit situation -de­scribed ·in that passage is the central concern of Fr. Theodore· Hesburgh's book, The Hum~n jniperative. A col­lection: of . lectures given 'by Hes-burgh af Yale University last year, the book confronts the world's tre­
. mendous imbala~ce of< power . and advantage and poses a possible' goal 

r i1 of world unity for: the .year 2000. Hesburgh's point of view· is com­passionate, · energetic and distinc­tively Christian and·his book is_ in­teresting and· well· worth reading. :whilethe idea of discussing the whole".w6rld in' 115 pages may at · first seem' like 'an impossible en-· deavor, Hesburgh's verbal economy is very.impressive; he presents a concise : overview of the general problem of imbalance and theri pro: ceeds to examine it from the social, . economic,-· political and religious perspectives. • His discussion focuses on the fact that every day . thousands of people 
14 
die from starvation and . malnutri~ tion: With that in·mind,· the lectures propose a plari for the' solution''to this problem. Central to that solu­tion is· his belief in tlie responsibility of all those who have power and wealth in ·their hands to use·it prop­
erl~ · -· · Politically ancl ·economically, Hes­burgh foresees the development. of three distinct regions in the world; set on a north~south axis. He states thaf ·within this tri-regional struc­ture, progress can be made by the developed countries to raise' the quality of life in the underdeveloped deed, Hesburgh places a great deal of hope and trust in this generation to move forward toward his. goal of .world justice. "I believe that· none 


. but the young -·. and the young in heart -can dream this vision. or pursue this ideal,· for it means leav­ing behind the conventional wisdom that pervades the agirig. bones of the Western world." 
Aside from the actual content of the book, The Humane Imperative also serves another function. It re­veal~ to the reader, especially the .. Notre Dame student, the man behind the book. It tells what kinds cif con­cems his are, aqd what sort of hope he possesses. ."Rather than'. the scenario of global catastrophe in th·e · days ahead, I should like to project .a new world that is possible and even probable if we will ·dare to think new thoughts, .to engage in 
ones. And, in a fashion reminiscent of the Puritan ·vision of America as a "City on a Hill," Hesburgh expects· America to lead the way in ·'this 
progress. . ,, . Primary to that progress; in Hes­burgh's view, is the creation of ari entirely new system of educati_on. · His statement ·on the role of world­wide:liberal education is fasciriating, especially to the student fo a formal educational institution: And the type of cybernetic education he proposes is theoretically· and technically in­triguing. 

If there ·is any single difficulty with . the book, perhaps it is Hes~ burgh's naivete. · . He seems· to say that if the people ·of the world could be educated to the. problems of the poor, .they . wou1d move anxiously toward world community. Such an attitude can either be in­terpreted as a blindness . to the fail­ings of human nature,· or as a hope iri man's potential for goodness..' . 
To the Notre Dame student, this book says some very special things. If Hesburgh's. commitment is to be· the· commitment of. his university, the book demands . some intensive soul-searching by the students. In­
programs \voithy-of our hopes, and to share our visions with all ·who will work with us to achieve it." 
. It is gocid to hear the president of ' this university say that, and· it is good to think about his challenge. As Yale University President King­man Brewster· says in his · preface, "At a time of lowered. expectations, it is good that there are voices of hope,· seasoned by exper~ence; ; still capable of believing that we can fashion _a better world.• When· that belief is vindicated ·by history and sustained by faith, it • helps to· strengthen and reinvigorate us all." 
-James Gresser 
-. THE. SCHOLAsTIC 

r... ··, ---~··, --1:. ',' ·, ·,. ·:· -.-'.. ~ ~----""""'· ,. 't _ _,..,. _... "" ,. -.....,,..,... • __,..... . -•-·s,•-•,-vv••,,,.,--------~,_, -~•·--~w-•--··~,---~---~-~w••~--~,.--~~ .,. 
!·People at ~D ­
t.....-.~'-''-•--• -"• ,_,;_,,-,.,,.. ,'< --•C,,,~<L••--• _,_,_.,.,_ •~•·-•,.,._..,,#___ -••-<';-.-~-•._..,.,~.-~,.........-......_ •-• _,.,• 

'Ifone should ever venture into the realms of the third floor of. the La­Fortune •Student Center, .he might find, seated belfind a desk cluttered with papers, pamphlets and, other paraphernalia, Student Union Direc­tor. Pat Burke. Pat; who last year rari. summer storage. and also the Charity Basketbali. Game, heard .of the job opening, applied for the po­sition, went through a circuit of interviews, and was appointed.. A senior government' major and pos­sible law school candidate, he is ,tlie first stud~nt to hold the directorship, having had no previous Union ex­perience. He considers this fact an ass~t, due to a fresh outlook and a lack of confining allegiances to other people. . ' . 
Pat's position is primarily a super­visor)/ one, .being responsible :for the four commissions .and commission­ers, and he has . instiHed various measures to.insure a greater efficien­cy throughout the entire organiza­tion .. For instance, he requires pre­limi~ary financial reports,. summa­
·.1:5 ST.JUDE 
CHILDREN'S·
FIBsEARCl-l. 
HOSPITAL :Pleasehelp;us 
Send contributions to: ,.·' · : : 
•MEMPHIS, TENN. 38101 .;,::., 

NOVEMBER 22, 1974 
ries . · and analyses . of. -_~i everits planned. Among the changes made under his authority is: the new pol-' icy .under · wh'ich the Cinema '75 series is operating, giving all clubs art. equal. opportunity. to raise money by ·showing contemporary and cul­tural films. Pat's main concerns for the year are to look for more ca'.ni­pus-wide events, and· to' ·get · more people involved in the Student Union and the diverse activities ·it offers. 
·There are few students at Notre 

Dame who· are able to claim as· many 
unique· honors . as . is cheerleader 
l\lary Arin Grabavoy. ·As a junior in 
high· school, Mary Ann was award­
ed the Individual Grand Champion­
ship by the· u.s. Cheerlead.ing As-' 
Socia.Hon from among approximately 
four thousand girls,. and was -subse­
quently appointed to be a staff inem-. 
ber of the Association. In her senior 
year Mary Ann' won the title ot Miss: 
Teenage America, spending the lat.:. 
ter part of that year and her first 
semester at Notre Dame mak_ing 
appearances under that · capacity. 
She participated in the Innsbruck 
Program as a sophomore, but flew 
back in · April in ·order to try out 
for. the N.D. Cheering· Squad, over­
coming the competition in her usual 
fashion. She is presently considering 
entering the International Cheer-· 
leading . Association's "19_75 · All­. American Honor ·Cheerleadirig Com-· petition." Mary Ann, a government. major planning on entering.the internation-, 
aland diplomatic services, considers cheerleading; especially , at Not~eDame, to be a public relations posi­tion, where she 'must. represent the University and its students. : :She enjoys"'the competition and the op-, portunities given her to meet people, and values cheerleading as a positive factor in her ''going a'nd·. growing". philosophy of life. 
.. . .· 

· · Those · who attended the Elton John concert a few weeks.ago could not have failed to notice· the ,per: former's.)nclination ;towards, pecu­liar eyeglasses.. His .collection of glasses is. famous and at each. con~, cert he makes an: effort .to display, the most . spectacular i eye wear in the-house. At the. Notre -Dame con-. cert he . wore • a fantastic pair of white, feather-winged specs that would have taken an easy first prize had it not·been ·for the efforts-of-an attractive. sophomore •.·named· Lindy. Decio. Lindy showed up for the con­cert •Sporting a pair of •bright pink, automatic. windshield-wiping specs 
that·· decidedly outclassed the pair . 
worn by Elton. Sent to her.by her 
friends in-Massachusetts, Lindy· 
wore the glasses with the· intention 
of presenting them to Elton Jolin aS! 
a gift. The performer never gave. 
her a chance. to catch his attention,· 
however, and. so she ended up hold~: 
ing on to the glasses. "Maybe• it's 
just as well," she remarked.. "They 
weren't his prescription anyway."· 
-Thomas Birsic. 
Susan Grace 
15. 

r•-.. · ... -..·. ,.=r••.r• •.-•.,•-··•<.'.:' ·-.l 
The Employees·
! People.Behind ·"JDC:~· 
; ·..··-............;.: .._.,_ .·:· . ~-·--· ···•···-.·........ '.;;,_,.,·· j On Students 
The Notre Dame student is (a) a sloppy housekeeper who is rough on his living environment, (b) incon­siderate of his .neighbors. and of his communities ecology, ( c) ·an impa­tient, critical and. demanding cus­tomer, (d) a failure at following directions (e) overly 'career-minded, 
(f) personable, respectful, well man­nered, yet serious in person, or (g) all of the above. · · 
The correct answer, g, is a result 
of observing students in their na­
tural setting by those who know 
their behavior best; the University 
employees who. deal with. them' each 
day ·everywhere and anywhere on. 
the Notre Dame campus. . . . 
For most Notre Dame 'students, 
life begins and ends each day. in the 
dormitories.'· These rooms; home for 
riirie months of the year, . come 
equipped. with a mother 'in . a blue 
uniform. Although ·these:women are 
provided solely for building main­
tenance, the maids .. often show a 
maternal·: concern· for "their· boys." 
This is reflected in.'their ·comments 
on students. "Each year'I·get·maybe 
three or four that are 'sloppy · and 
that fake time away from-keeping 
up the rest o{ the floor, but mostly 
my boys are O.K." · .. ,., •· · 
Generally--thisc seems to be the 
feeling as 'the, ladies iri blue admit 
that-the students are' not· overly· 
particular in their housekeeping, but 
that only a ·few: are "real pigs.'' 
Occasionally however, the · maids 
sound like overworked· wives. '!We• 
sweep, dust,· take out the .wastecans; 
do everything but make their beds;' 
and ,we. shouldn't :have to do that: 
We're not· their personal maids."·· · 
On the heels of this came. horror· 
stories of rooms littered with pizza,: 
chicken· bones,· or mounds. of• cloth­
ing/ and ·walls,.dripping•·•with beer 
from cans that-.had· missed the.Jn..: 
tended·. mark; · a, 'wastebasket · over:.· 
flowing:with the aftermath of a long 
weekend;:. One maid revealed a novel . 
method two .students use:for storing,. 

'dothing': pants .piled on.one side of the room,·· shirts on the other. While situations such as these.can 
be v~rified by· the janito~s and hall most often s~~n in a small office . maintenance men, they admit. tha.t tucked away on the first floor of the things are usually not so. bad as all Administration Building. Here,· at that, and are actually better than in the Traffic Violations Bureau, a see­the past. "I think they· (the stu-retary must smilingly and single­dents) respect the place· a little handedly calm the sometimes ob­more than in years past. A couple noxious red face thaLaccompanies of years ago there was a lot more the always obnoxious yellow ticket. damage done, but I think the stu-"If they come in mad, right away dents realize that any damage 'done they jump on· me as if I gave them is _paid for out of their own the ticket. Why don't they go after pockets." . . the security. guard?" . However; 
· Still the "effects ·'of drunkenness there is also quickly added, "Mostly 
occasionally make work less than though;.· everyone is . real nice about 
pleasant.. ''When .they're drunk .If it/. ,·_·',: . , . . ·.. . · 
they woul,d just avoid getting sick Besides this duty,. the. lady aiso 
all over the floor. This. just makes takes care ·of lost-and-found. Here_ 
more work for me. : : . I guess it she sometimes. gets a smile.. "The 
must be the freshmen: I guess they students :will c°c>me in and -a~k me, 
just can't :take this .beer _or som·e-'Did you· find my mittens?'. or what­
thing.'' · • · ever; as if I had looked for them 
personally, as their mothers would.": 
. Another person concerned about Just down the hali from the Traf­
the student's respect for University · · fie Violations Bureau, the ·staff of 
property is Brother Gorch, manager the Student Accounts office find stu­of .the LaFortune Student Center. dent behavior sometimes unhumor­In his. flowing. black cassock he .is.as ous. The. ladies here wish.· students much a fixture of the building as are would read signs, and. stop plaguing 
the photographs of Mr. & Mrs.' La-their experienced e.ars with poor and Fortune in the main lounge .. Occa­

sionally, the quiet demeanor of this timeworn excuses for failing to' take 
slight figure is upset: · ''How can you care of accounts orforgetting to pre­
keep the place nice when you spend register for• rooms. They also wish 
a thousand dollars, to . recondition students would give them· necessary 
the furniture and yet · students put information before launching a bar­
. rage of questio·ns about their'. ac-
their dirty shoes· up ·on the furni-· 
ture?" He doesn't blame the entire counts or asking; a question dis­
. -guised as • a . disserta tiori.:. The 'most
student body. "For the most parti do compliment them· except for the vocal grievance they have is that students ignore office hours· posted 
small minority who, no doubt, . were 

· · · · · · · on the door· and attempt to· do busi~
brought up. i.n. a careless. wa~<" .. 

ness during periods of the day when 
. Regardless of ·whether the student the staff is working on· its files. •­
'Yas .~rought.up in a careless or care--What is the student like.as a .cus­
fuLway, • it• is ; the Security Depart~ tomer? In the Huddle he is ciour~ 
ment's: job.,, to provide on-campus teous..·As one· woma.~: said, ·••rn this 
police:, protection. for 'him....These day and age it's ·rJmarkable that the 
m.e~ and ,women feel that the way: students, when .tliey isk for .soine­
students .treat them is a reflection thing at the counter say ,'please' and 
of the _way they, treat the students. 'thank you.', I really appreciate .this , 
Qne guard said, _"It's., a,H in your. one thing.'•/ ... ,. ; . __ ..: .:. · · . , ·. ' 
approach to the students as to how; . The same .: employee · also ·.· con-
they act.toward you~. You_kee1> your: trasted the presence of women. in 
cool..a~d they'll be.cool to you.'!.··: i .· the Huddle·before and after the .ar­
Yet-when the student is. on the: . rivaL·of·' coJducatioil.: "In ·the \,Id 
wrong side of theJaw, his conduct days the St. Mary's; girls were , : .. 
can be less..than respectful. This fs; well, more smart/: Now ·,with ·-the 
' i :THE' SCHOLASTIC 

girls here they're all just as nice as swering the same questions over 
the boys." _ and over you' can see why." Further~ 
Present student customers are • more; students fail to volunteer in­still not without their faults, how­formation needed to· answer their · ever, for cashiers reveal that stu­questions. dents return merchandise just as a Secretaries, contrary to what they ·. bill is being rung up, causing con­feel students -· may think, are not fusion and irritation. · · Employees · being nosey in asking the nature of also wish students would smile a student's business in an office, but more, a desire :echoed by other Uni­do so in hopes of saving the student versity employ~es: and his department chairman time 
Acro~s, campus at the Bookstore, over matters easily handled by the the. student as customer is at times secretaries. . . a highly critical shopper. "I know . The student is stiU appreciated, the students coris'taritly gripe to us . though, · and the University's secre­about .the high· prices on items sold taries all feel that their efforts are here, ··yet they must remember it's generally appreciated by students, not a. K-Mart. The quality goods even if for the wrong reasons. · One sold here, including school supplies department secretary was told by arid , books, are . not · getting any students how .much she had been cheaper for us, either." missed· while absent from the office 
~ . . . .. ' 

This. sales person is joined · · by due to illness. It was only. after others . :who feel that, ·"Students she discovered that no one had kept must realize that this is not only a the office percolator full ·of coffee service -but abusiness as well." during her absence that she realized 
. . . _, _:)_. . . ' 
The ,student is.also an impatient why she was so sorely missed. 
customer, -who .·demands service .or The secretaries also feel that stu­expects results quickly. One em­dents are much easier to work with ployee, who had formerly been em­than faculty II1embers ("You wcin't · quote· me on that, will you? ·. My
ployed. at. Indiana University, feels boss would kill me"). These hard
this is not unusual though. "They're al~ the same, although students are taskmasters themselves . readily a little nicer here. Yet it's a question voiced observa Hons about· those they 
must teach every day: . . 
of their naivete in expecting us to Some·. feel .that the. Notre Dame
devote every minute on the job to student · is callous toward the cam­
wai_ting on them, . and in . becoming pus environment in which he lives.
i!'llpatient when books are not on Posters slapped on trees and statues,
our shelves due_ to slow movement 
of the mails. There is nothing we footpaths cut across othe:r w is e can _do when tl}e books just aren't verdant' lawns, and music blaring here." ·. . . · from dormitory: windows __ are . seen 
·The impatient, critical student is as· evidence of this. The professors' in.· the minority, . however, as most observations also go deeper, into students are. seen as a <'very nice ·· the minds they help shape. 
. These· minds are seen as ·being ­class of people," who are far easier only concerned .. about career ·andto deal with · than tourists and 

alumni ·("They come in here and economic success. Often a Notre 
think they're _something big"). 
Bookstore employees· would·_ find ... 

I' 
sympathetic ears in. the. college de­partmental offices .. · The · secretaries here agree that students can be very demanding, especially during pre­registration. The typical student was found guilty of failing to read signs and · follow. directions given to aid and simplify registration. The result is that the same questions must be answered· over and over.· This pro­duces frayed nerves and terse re-· sponses. · "I know they (the stu­dents) call . us· monsters when they leave this office. Sometimes we do get short with· them,.but, after an-
NOVEMBER 22, 1974 

Dame student's :course of study is 
primarily guided by what courses 
will look good on a transcript for 
graduate school or preparatory for 
a successful career. That the stu­
dent at du Lac is intelligent and 
friendly, there, are no denials. More 
than one instructor said the students 
are his main reason for staying on 
at Notre Dame. 
Yet this preoccupation with career and success is believed to cause a student's mind to be overcompliant. The student is less than challenging in the classroom, if he· fears he will jeopardize the grade he seeks. ·Al­though the student is aware of _the world around him, he too· infre­quently participates in that world, whether it . be charity or · blood drives, .discussion of ·world problems and politics, or everi the · defense of his student rights. · This_ careerism or anti-intellectualism, as it :-· is called, ·is felt to •cause the. student_ to shun those experiences outside the classroom that provide great personal -growth.-Service . projects, extr,acurricular ac_tivities, and atten~ dance at·cultural.events and lectures are avoided because of the student's intense devotion 'to his books ·and to his career. 
:The question posed'· in· the first paragraph \vas answered (g)° all of the above .. Hopefully now you can see why. ·Yet the Notre Danie stu­dent is more than merely answer g there are sides of this person un­mentioned, or which'are known only t~ himself. Furthermore he can and should be greater_ than this, and he is chailenged to be so by fellow members of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
-Bruce Shulte 

The ·Reign of the "Brutos'' in Chile 
Donald Gutierrez.is a professor in the Department of English at Notre Dame. 
Authoritative evidence was _made available earlier this year indicating a serious deterioration in the quality of civil and human rights in Chile_ after the Junta ·takeover last Sep­tember. According to a long report issued by the.Chicago Commission of Inquiry info the Status of Human Rights in Chile (an ad hoc group of Chicago citizens) from which ex­cerpts were published in the May 30 issue of The New York Review of Books, life in Chile has become a virtual hell. . As ·the Commission which visited Santiago this Febru­ary put it, "The campaign of terror developed by the Jurita seems · to have assumed a systematic and or­ganized· character." Much of the material below comes from the Com­mission's report (as presented in 
NYRB). 
1. An estimated total of 80,000 individuals ·have been detained during th~ · last · six months by 
. Chilean police and military insti­_tutions. Detentions continue in­definitely without charges being preferred. 
2. 
The present regime has per­petrated acts of murder and tor­ture against the. populace. People released from detentions are gen­erally threatened with death if they reveal maltreatment, .and must sign . statements that they have been well treated during de­tention. People can be, and have been, rearrested by different sec­tions of the military for.the same "offense." 

3. 
Economic sanctions are em­ployed against individuals· s~s­pected of sympathizing with the 


•Allende government when that regime was in power. An esti-, 
18 
mate has been given of 160,000 persons expelled from their work for this . reason .. 

4. 
Thus, unemployment, not sur­prisingly, is said to have reached 20%~. 


5. 
Of .137 national unions, only thirty remain functioning. (Sev­eral union members were picked up at random and shot in the presence of other workers, part of a larger campaign of terroriza:. tion encompassing illegal entry into private residences and search operations which include vandal­ism and robbery by state law per-. 


· sonnel.) · · · 
6. 
All universities and some grade schools are under military admin­istration. Police and non-uni­formed agents are often present in class'. 

7. 
StatE(control and repression _of all media information and opinion (newspapers, magazines, periodi­cals, radio, and television)_prevail. 


by•Donald Gutierrez 
As torture · by 'the· state itself speaks definitively about .,the moral (or immoral) character of a govern­ment, I want to quote instances of tlie administration of .torture by Junta agencies as "interrogation" procedures, and; more · basically, as a policy of terrorization designed to keep Chileans utterly and dehuman­izingly passive. 
"On September 22, a seventeen­year-old -schoolgirl turned herself in to the police after hearing her name cited over the 'radio (any person cited for presentation in the Diario Officiai · must appear before the authorities ·within five days). She was four months preg­nant. Electric current was ap­plied to her genitals during the interrogation." 
"A number of sources told the American Committee -that U.S. and Brazilian torture equipment 
•. is used: electric shock units, nail bar, etc. Methods of torture in­clude fingernail e_xtractiori, shoot~ ing off guns next to the ear, gun-


. i 

butt beatings, knife slashings and 
· mutiliations, sexual molestation, and rape." ("A motller found the body of her son · on February 13, 1974. His hands and genitals had been cut off. His body was covered with burns from cigarettes and slashed with knives.") 
"The Embassy of the U.S. appears 

· to have made no serious efforts to protect the American·. citizens present in Chile· during the take­over. One youpg man, an Ameri­can named Frank Terrugi, Jr., was tortured ·and· shot seventeen times in the National Stadium. His death yet remains to be thor­oughly investigated." "Amnesty International, an apoli­tical world organization dedicated 
·to protecting nonviolent 'prisoners of conscience' and basic rights for people in all countries; . has re-' ceived extensive ·reports of the torturing of children ·in order to intimidate their families. Amnesty was informed this March that a nine-year-old girl and a four-year­old boy -were tortured to death (my italics -D.G.) in front of their parents." 

This longer extract is the account of · a "very young man" who, along with a number of other youths, was ''invited" to take part in an interro­gation which was to last twci hours. No sooner had the four young men gotten into an official truck than adhesive tape was put · over their eyes. The vividness of the following action in part. derives from being seen "from the inside," rendering reader-identification with the "par­ticipant-narrator" of .the account unpleasantly. close: 
"... Monday they-took us in a small truck . . . we went down a stairway . . . hooded, our hands 
-tied behind. They. made us un­dress, tied us again, put us in small cells . . . and the inferno of 

NOVEMBER 22, 1974 
terror began. The first one they quished, made to look like moronic took to the torture. table did not incompetents that even a child could emit screams, they were howls. outwit. But evil, of course, can pos­My body trembled with horror, sess intelligence, and can win out: In one could feel the blows and hear Chile, the bad guys won; this report the voice of the torturer . ·. . I shows what they do after they have spent many hours there listening won. Ponder the agonized words of to the tortures ... My turn came. the young man quoted· at length They tied me to a table~ .. They above: "Why do they do this to us?" passed cables over my naked body. Why indeed? Anyone who is morally They wet me and began to apply . alive will not tolerate the campaign . currents to all· parts of my body. of mass sadism and misery being in­and the interrogator did not ask -· flicted by the Junta upon the inno­me, he assured me, 'You did this · cent, helples·s· people of Chile. I thing.' I denied the monstrosities · strongly urge you -the students, and the ~lows began to my abdo-faculty, and staff of this university men, ribs, ·chest, testicles, etc. I -to exert all the pressure you pos­don't kriow how long they mas-.. sibly can on your senators, on Presi­sacred me, but with the blows_ in, · dent Ford, and on the State Depart­my chest, my throat and bronchial ment to terminate ali American aid tubes filled tip and it was drown-to Chile until constitutional rights ing me; I was dying. They were are restored in that country and its laughing but assured me they . refugees allowed to enter our coun­were not kidding and threw acid · try. This continuing bloody night­on my toes .. They stuck me with __ mare for countless human beings needles. I was numb . , . They must be halted. The demented ty­. took us back to the camp. There rants of Chile .and their diabolic no one slept because of our moans. henchmen must be· brought· down. The prisoners cried with us But for good luck, any of us might Why do they do this to us?" have been born in Chile (Vietnam,_ · Hiroshima, Dresden, etc.) and grown Furthermore, according to Am-to experience· the radical inconven­
nesty, "The Nixon. administration, iences of such a location. We cannot 
which supported the_ Junta -with allow · the -dangerously -decept_ive. 
military arid economic aid, and comfort of our geographical location 
which remained silent· about the .. and our (comparatively speaking) 
atrocities and the absolute suppres~ · stable economic and political condi­
sion of rights in Chile, has refused tions to blunt us to these fiendish 
asylum to Chilean refugees (in .con-· perpetrations of human agony. Write 
trast with Canada, France, -West a letter or send a telegram to your 
Germany, Sweden, and other coun-political· representatives. The reign 
tries)." _William Wipfler of the-Na-of the "Brutos" must end. 
tional Council of Churches says that I deeply appreciate your attention 
"... only the most. intense and uni-to this desperate matter.· · 
fled pressure from outside Chile. will 
be able to save the clergy and the 
laymen still in prison . . . pressures ACNE SCARS, PITS , FRENCH HERBAL HOME SKIN PLANING -TREATMENT 
. . . particularly from the United 
States, are th_e principal hope ... for 
Write:

the victims of _terror in Chile.'' 
HERBS FOR YOUTH
In the somewhat unrealistic politi­
BOX 943 / DANIA, FLA. 33004 · 

cal movie Z, the bad_guys are in the end · neatly overthrown and van­
19 

Buildings We· Rarely See 
We are surrounded by buildings which we rarely see. We walk· around, through, past them -and ignore them. The last time many of tis looked attentively at the physical space around us was during Fresh­man Orientation, and then our pri­mary concern ,was not architecture, but identification: \vhere was Far­

'' 
'' 
I!<1 
20 
ley, which was Nieuwland Science Hall, and ''.what was a LaFortune Student Center"' After we had men­tally . tagged. and , sorted each and mapped our· routes between .classes, we ·could ignore the buildings. We had .named them, tamed them, and could. confidently· find our. way be­tweep. the library : (M,emorial · or other) and Holy Cross (either cam­pus). We immersed ourselves ,in present' .concerns -,-activities, peo­ple, papers, . tests, . surfacing only periodically when the ivy turned red, or the first snow fell. We stopped seeing. 


In the 1920's,. under University president Fr. Matthew Walsh and later, Fr. Charles L. O'Donnell, much of the South Quad took shape. Fran­cis Kervick and Vincent Fagan of the Architecture Department, respond­ing to the need for more dormitory facilities, created Howard, Morrissey and Lyons as a unit, forming a small quad. Later, in . 1927, as associate architects they _built the South Din­ing Hall; Alumni and Dillon follow under different arcllitects. Fagan and. Kervick were .responsible for the Gothic ,tradition .which now dominates the architectural charac­ter of the campus. They had a sen­sitivity and vision of the campus not often equaled in the years. fol­lowing; many._of their plans for a unified, coherent atmosphere re­mained in blueprint, never reaching concretion. .Yet, their. completed works indicate· their fine attention to detail. 
The buildings of the South Quad abound in sculpture, much now par­tially hidden · by ivy. Gargoyles guard the Dining Hall and figures decorate the Rockne. Kervick and Fagan took great care in their con­struction. No space is too mundane for careful consideration. There is a joy in detail, a fine awareness for form, in their work. •· 
A university exists in intel­lectual endeavor and. spiritual com­mitment and these' dimensions are understandably given much thought and attention. Yet a university' is also a physical entity, and its struc­tural development must be given consideration. The care of its build~ ers enhances our space. · 
-Sally.Stanton 
... THE SCHOLASTIC 

! 

. NOVEMBER 22, 1974 
Week In Distortion
. • . . . J 


LORD OF THE FLIES-biography of ND dining· hall foodologist, Ed­mund Price.". 
COMEDY OF. ERRORS-story about a university's antics with an academic calendar. 
WOMEN IN LOVE-tale of the wily attempts of coeds to obtain their Mrs. degrees. 

GRAPES OF WRATH-yarn about It has come to our attention LOOK BACK IN ANGER-a retro~ a student.wino wl}o goes,mad. through informed sources that an spective view of indignities commit­astonishing number of Notre Dame .ted against the student by a domi­THE EXODUS-travelog of an off­campus student.
undergraduates are intellectually de­nating parent figure. ficient, having never read some of i the great masterpieces of world lit­TO HAVE AND HAVE NOT-a LOST IN THE FUNHOUSE-on­erature. Many, the report added, comparison and coritrast of senior the-scene report about preregistra­were not even acquainted with. cur­students' postgraduate plans. tion day-O'Shaughnessy hall. rent American best-sellers. We sur­mise that the reason for this cul­THE CONFESSIONS-an inside THE CAINE MUTINY-science-fic­tural and aesthetic impoverishment scoop report on basketball ticket . tion wierdie in which grotesque sug­
is that most students don't REAL-. scandals, and where all that money ar plants rebel against the forces . 
LY know what is contained between REALLY goes. of nature and take over the world. the covers of those blessed tomes. Feeling that brief but.enlightening CATCHER IN THE RYE-daring THE INVISIBLE MAN-life chron­descriptions might attract an au-. ·· expose of how booze ruined the ca­icle of a traveling university presi­dience, and establish a faithful ·. reer· of a famous baseball player. dent. 
readership for these chef-d'oeuvres, we present, in the public interest: . THE WASTELAND-story behind a · A FAREWELL TO ARMS-the major university's refusal to build diary of Venus de Milo. THE SOUND AND THE FURY­more student housing. THE BOOK OF JOB-the who,
a look at a corrupt and decadent col­lege administration; laced with fre-PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT-medi­what, where, · when, and why of quent stream of consciousness . · cal report about a Jewish boy's. en-securing employment. speeches by provosts and trustees. counter with institution food. 
NOTES FROM THE UNDER­

A. STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE GROUND-a. recent novel by Jac­MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING­-an intensive. study about the ND­queline Suzanne.
drama about sexual promiscuity at SMC · shuttle service; who? what?. . -John M. MurphyNotre Dam.e. 

why? 
GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES-plans to 

. AIRPORT...:...psychological studyimprove (or initiate) haute cuisine, · done on students stranded at O'Hare 
. in the dining· hall. . . 
during the Christmas holidays. · 

PARADISE LOST-the epic jour-HOUSE Of..MIRTH--:-a . guide to ney of a studen.t from his home to . bars and taverns in the Michiana a university. .region. 
VALLEY .OF THE DOLLS-the . SOUL .ON IC.~theological report torrid love affairs and escapades of concerning the che.mical bonding. of ~ . women away at college. . .the spirit wit~ water. . 
THE SUN ALSO RISES-an opti-.. ·THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY mistic weather speculation for .. the . -a mundane odyssey from dining greater South Bend area. hall to lavatory.. 

' THE. SCHOLASTIC · 

Education 
( continued from page 13) 
to decide about things in their free­
dom: things like sex,. which our 
Catholicism settled for us · in our 
. . 
adolescence? And how are we going to respond to their decisionsf . _ With· care,. and. concern, and re­
spect:. we all agree. _ 
. Ginny: "If we teach our kids vaiues they'll be. able t_o make deci­sions --;that_ .won't:._ give u_s _. hea_rt failure,"_ · 
. Jae~:· _"Just ulcers!" ... 
Nancy: "And we -have ~o' wcirk out those_ values, _and_ understand them,'. first. I can't teach Cindy and Matt and Art about_sex untiU_know ~-and, believe -something very different about> sex -from what I grew up ·_with,'.'_ · 
Jack: "It's not that we have to have answers for them, but Jhat we · have to have answers~ at least ten­tative ans\Y'ers :-.for o-µrselves."_ , 
Tom: "Okay. Have you got some answers?J' 
-Which brings· us around through premarital sex, abortion, the war, discrimination, R i ch a r d__ Nix~n, ethics, and everything else, to that great old topic, discussed from the ­

third floor of Lyons to Chester's, 
from_ Sorin_ Sub to the.-Strat, from 
Walsh Hall to the Hotel Mish. How 
.do you _eve_r answer anything?.What 
is truth? · What did we learn at Notre 
Dame?_ _Values. Not a lot of the in~ 
formation we were fed has• stayed with us; most of what Jack calls the "indoctrination" -academic as well as religious ~-has washed out. But we do feel that the· intelligent 
values• we have were-· formed," at 
least in -part, _at Notre J?ame. 
Formed by us/together, ·in the _at­
mosphere ·of Notre Danie: formed here :as values, .from _the way we had 'grown up; from a lot of things we· read ,maybe, formed even from the indoctrination in part. 
What are those values? Happi­ness; . wisdom, · kindness, goodness, charity, love. Even as we admit that we iive most of our lives-much too· far away from those ideals, we in­sist J:hat they· are· _our values:::our interpretations of them -change, -of 
NOVEMBER .22, 1974 course, with time: as we change, as 
the world: changes; Twenty; years 
ago we would have argued ·that all 
sorts of. truths -and maybe even 
"truth" itself ---, .were absolute. But 
now we agree that our truths are 
momentary, at -• best,. though still 
worth believing in. ­
· "But when we ·start talking about 
change," says Art, "about ·truths 
changing, we're talking already 
about our unhappiness, however you 
want to disguise that fact. Human beings want peace -and keeping up with change really isn't peace." _-·•_'But.•change :~s natural,'_' I an­swer. "Un-change, stasis, is unnat­
ural, in an imperfect world.· The idea 
of stasis is antithetical to life. What 
you mean by peace, Skip, is retreat --:--and that .won't make you happy 
or the world perfect." 
. ."I . don't want to change the 
: world, Jerry, or make it perfect. '. Why should I want to -change · things? Who gave me the right to , sit in charge of the world's perfec­tion? Given that the truths I know -are momentary -are only morrien­-tarily 'truths' at all -why should ; I try to change the-world to fit 
them? Isn't that just cr~zy pride, . insane egoism?" · 
Jack disagrees. Strongly. "That's _ a fallacious argument, Art. A cop­-out. Unless you're going.. to live.by _your truths, your values,' you might '. as well not have any. Do you want ' to propose that we live valueless ! lives?" 
"I want to propose that we stop .' manufacturing values. That we try ; to live naturally." 
·-"And freely?" "How do you mean 'freely'?" 
"Oh, as in 'free.to change,' say." 
"Do. you think loving each other 

is a natural way to live, Skip?" 
"Of course I do." "Then . we have to care for each ~ther.· And if there are'-people who 
-need the kind of care that requires change -'-if there are -people who are poor and underfed as things are, 
if there are people who are _op­
pressed and discriminated against by the status quo -then we. have to work .for the change that will help them. That's: natural." . 
"Love isn't a manufactured value. -It's a natural value -_the basic natural value." 
. "The first natural law, Skip, is the law of love: the law that says things .want to come together. Newton's 
law of gravity is but ·a corollary to 
that natural law." _ 
"Sure. I agree. Love is ·natural. But St. Francis was hardly preach­ing revolution :·in the · streets. He taught love -love as happiness, as satisfaction. When I look at the nat-_ ural world these days I think I know 
.what Francis was. talking .. about. The: birds aren't trying to change the world. Trees aren't protest­ing in the streets -they aren't working for • change or betterment. 
Why do we have to be so different? 
Why can't we be 'natural' like they are, and be satisfied? Who says I have to make a perfect world? Who says I have any idea how to make a perfect world? I'm not God. I'm Art Johnson, doctor, _husband, father, 
man." 
T h e discussion continues ·f o r hours, deep into tl?-e night. Art cites 
a . passage from the . Desiderata: "You are a child of the universe, no less than th~ trees and the stars; you have a right to be here." I call this an example of "passivity" ­in .the . biblical sense ;___:_. and argue that though such was an attribute of prelapsarian life in the Genesis myth, man's responsibility since the fall is to think, to work _toward the p~rfection of this world· from which the active presence oLGod has. dis­appeared. Art replies: "My reference to the trees and the stars -to St. Francis -was to stress the natural harmony that can exist in the pres­ent. Man's preoccupation -with his future, be it · political, economic, re­ligious, or whatever, makes for both great . anxiety.: and minimal ful­fillment." . 
"Humpty~Dumpty and Adam?" I ask. 
Jack remarks on the violence of Art's natural world, and Tom sug­gests that though · violence is not natural, competition is: 
"Agreed.· Competition is naturat But only if you mean competition as a 'seeking together,'· which is what the word really_ means. -We have created a,·corrupt sense for• it, of opposition; but etymologically 'com­petition' means working together. We have to compete with each other, not against each other. And that's 
natural: that's even 'natural law' as 
I was defining it before." 
· "Do yc:iu want to say that violence 
is natural, then?" . . 
"I don't know. Our problem is 
perspectival, I . guess: It would be 
stupid -simplistic -to say that 
everything has a 'higher . pur­. pose'-" "Aquinas, huh?" · "-but there's nothing wrong with accepting as 'natural' that we · all live off each other."· "True. In a very immediate and clear sense, all life is a-parasitic · endeavor." · 
"Here's the competition in the 
family ~-generational competition 
-that .we talked about before." · 
· "Yes. And we want to say, I think, 
that education is a 'competition with' 
that results in growth." 
"Blake's line is, 'Everything that 
lives is holy; life delights in life.' " 
"Death isn't holy, then? Or it is 
holy, as a part of life?" 
· l'Yes. Holy as a part of life -'-be­
cause it's a part of life." 
Nothing ever· ends. Arguments and discussions stop where we wear out, but they're not over. Our week together runs out, but it's not over. It will have to be renewed, carried on. And maybe, .if we're:lucky, it will carry·on:for each of tis, inside, together in families at· home;· by mail even, across our bigger family, until we all get back together again. 
Nothing ever. ends. We're still learning what. we learned at Notre Dame.· Indoctrination was a part· of it; and though the j'doctrine" has worn off, the values that maybe the doctrine represented. are still 'with us. Information was· a part of it, too; but facts are almost always obsoles­cent, and generations of new facts have·replaced the· 1953-1957 · models for us. Our education continues, hopefully, always toward_ the forrim­lation • of values,. based upon ·our comprehension of ·the• world. . 
Nothing ever ends. We come back to Notre : Daine,· twenty. y'ears on. The next· ·generation comes with us . -and someday soon may come back on its own. That's "natural"; we can say that now, I think. 
Nothing ever ends. Our week to­gether is over. But we've proved .to ourselves that we can still exist to­gether . as. a large "family," and maybe there's enough value in that to . bring.· us back together:· again: soon. 
· So we take group pictures:·. the eleven kids, theri .the seven of us, and then the seven . of us' and ·the eleven kid;, A family picture. 
· Nothing·ever ends. No,'and noth­ing ever remains,the same. Love and change'• ccime. together there: nat­urally. 

EARN .CHRISTMAS. MONEY! 
JOIN SCHOLASTIC AD-SALES STAFF l\IAKE_ BIG l\IONEY-15% COl\11\IISSION . 
CALL D. C. NOKES @ 1739 OR SCHOLASTIC OFFIC:if 7569 
We Want You To Join Our Church 
,,·_ · As An· 
Ordained Minister 
And Have The Rank Of. 
Do~or of Divinity 
We are • -~--structured h1th, undenominationaf. with no traditional doctrine or· dogin1. OUr fut "owing church is ,ctinly seeking. new ministers who believe what we believe; All men are entitled to their.own convictions; To seek truth their own way. whatever it may ~. no qul'ltions asktd. As 1 
•minister of the _church. you may: _ , -1. Start your own church and apply for. IX• emption from property· and_ other taos. 
2, Perform rriarri1991, b.lptiam. fun.i111 and all other minintrial functions. 
3. Enjoy racluud r1te1 from some modes. of 
• transportation. some theaten. rtorn. hottls, etc. . : .: 4. Seek draft exemptiori as one of OUr work•_, 
_ ing minionaries. We will tell you how. . EnclOM • free will don,tion for the Minister's cadtnti¦ ls and license. Wt also isa,1 Doctor of Oi\linity Degren. We ,re State Chartered and your Ofdin.ation is recognized in all SO states and moct f0<eign countries. FAE E LIFE CHURCH­BOX 4039, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023. 
THE . SCHOLASTIC 

rcC)mi~g Di$11"aciibl1S< ..-... . .•...··•···.. . ·•·· ·...·• .··I 
FILMS 
The following to be shown iri the Engineering Auditorium: Nov. 22 -"Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid." Nov. 24 -"King Lear," presented b·y the Cultural Arts Commission Nov: 25 -Sociological movie: "Dead Birds." .. Dec. 2 -"Macbeth," presented by the Cultural Arts Commission. . . . . · . · . · · . Dec. 3-4 -"The Hireling," presented by Social Services. Dec. 5-6_--,--"The Way We Were," presented by Cultural Arts. Dec. 8 -"Wait Until Dark," presented by the Psych. 
Society. . . . 
Dec. 10-11 -"The Producers," presented>by Cultural Arts. · · Dec. 12 _:_ "Straw Dogs," presente~ by the PiU Club.. 
MUSIC Nov. 23 -Doobie Brothers in· concert, ACC. $6.00 tickets still available. 
ART 
_Notre Dame_ Art Gallery: Nov. 24-Dec. 29 -_19th· century art from the per­manent collection. Gallery 3... .. Dec. 1-29 -Christmas Show, Gallery 4. . Dec. 1-29 -Byzantine Art from the collection of Mr. Lawrence Majewski, New-York. Gallery 2. St. Mary's College: Through Nov. 27: _. 
MoreauGallery -INDIANA FIRE, Invitational 
· Ceramics exhibit. . Hammes Gallery ~-_Don. Cro~ch, "i\.merican West" etchings. . . . , . . . . Little Theater Gallery -Brass rubbings (Canterbury _and other sites), courtesy Sister Eva Mary .. Hooker, CSC. . · . . 
Shows open noon until nine,. every· ~ay. 
kc-~, --~~.-·:·-+c:; --~-..· ·=_:;:,:.~---·-----:......,.,,,...,.J·... -.-.. ~ \.:.r,--~---::;:·_ ~-..,.. .:/___ p----;4 -.:--!-~,.,,,,.-~.--.-..,.;..,. '.,_.,..,,,._.,.,.._,.,;..,,-·,..,,.--,,,~_...·_~ .. -~-'->-·~.':V-.~: -v·:--~,-~-.-........._:,.;,;.:....-.,..;....;....-~-·---=---__._.._.,~:.:.~c.;--,......,--1'--..,;,....;...,.;; 
.· l\lORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM (232-6954) Dec. 6-7 -"Amahl and the Night Visitors," South Bend Symphony Orchestra. Dec. 7 -The Gaither Trio. Dec. 12 -Up With People. 
SPORTS Nov. 23 ....:.._ Football: Air Force at Notre Dame. Nov. 30--:-Football: Notre Dame at USC, Dec. 6-7 -Hockey: Michigan atNotre Dame. Dec. 7......:. Basketball: Princeton at Notre Dame. Dec. 9 -Basketball: Kansas at Notre Dame'. Dec. 11-Basketball: Indiana at Notre Dame. Dec. 13-14 -Hockey: Michigan Tech at Notre Dame. 
RADIO 

7:00 
p.m. Friday, November 22. WSND-FM, 88.9 on the dial. "Broadway Melody". presents. "Bells Are Ring­ing." With Dante Orfei and Andy Schilling. A show which features the best in music from the Broadway, stage, past and present. . . . 

7:00 
p.m. Sunday, November 24. WSND-FM 88.9 on the dial. "Broadway Melody" presents "An Evening With Julie Andrews" with bante Orfei and Andy . Schilling.. 


-John A. Harding 

.l\lEN! -·wol\lEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. 
Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect sum­
mer job or career. Send $3.00 for information.. 
SEAFAX, Dept.. G-12, P.O; Box 2049, Port . 
A:~1geles,· Washington 98362. 
NOVEMBER 22,·1974 
Irish Gym Shorts 
~ 
-~--t 

Irish Hockey Coach Lefty Smith has a pleasant "problem" this season concerning his strength at goal. Freshmen John Peterson and Len Moher have turned in fine performances in the early season thus far for• the Irish, making it hard for Smith to make a ~ecision as to whom will be his number-one goalie. "We plan to alternate John and Len throughout the season to give them the experience they will need," said Smith. "But I'm awfully glad I have: two fine goalies to choose from."_ I imagine that many other WCHA coaches would like to be in your shoes too, Lefty. 
. The 1974-75 edition of the Notre Dame Swim Team boasts a_ plethora _of talent and experience this season. The Irish are led by three-time MVP Jim Kane this season in freestyle, along with returning· lettermen Ed Graham, Drew Wallach, Jim· Meagher ·and freshman Ed Fitzsimons. The Irish tankers will have ·record­holder Bob Thompson in backstroke competition and; along with_ Kane, should adequately have fine seasons. Possibly the strongest of the events for the Irish will be those in diving, with varsity record-holders Mark Foster and Bob Ebel returning. Irish Coach Denny Stark, with 100 team victories to his credit going into this season, is hoping that the right combinations of hard work, spirit and enthusiasm will push the Irish to their best season yet, and we can't see any problems getting in his way. -
Tlie Irish Basketball Team started on the long road 
back to their goal of a postseason tourney in fine fashion last weekend, defeating the "Athletes in Ac­tion" 92-83. The "Athletes" is the athletic ministry of the Campus Crusade for' Christ International. Formed in 1966, the purpose of the group is to present the message of .Christ to the ·sports worid and . to con-· tribute to the further excellence of athletic competi­tion. Unfortunately for the group, the awesome power of Adrian Dantley and the smooth play of Billy Paterno, Dwight Clay and Peter Crotty were too much for the · Athletes to handle. A well-executed full-court press and a flawless four-corner stall gave _Coach Digger Phelps some happy moments in the team's victory. With the season opener a week away against Valpa­



raiso, the Irish cagers appear to be in pretty•fair shape to achieve their goals. . . 
Women's sports have_ cert3:_inly had an impressive 
fall season ·this year. To begin with, the crew team 
went to the "world's biggest rowing event" over break 
-the "Head of the Charles''. race in Boston. The 
8-wonian teain, ·headed by captain Marilyn Crimmons, 
placed 15th out of the 44 boats in their race. Elated 
with their performance, the team is already busy work­
ing out for their big spring season. -. 
The women's golf team, coached by Astrid Hotvedt 
and captain Ellen Hughes, only played in 3 tourna­
ments this season. Their objective was to compete more 
as individuals this season so as to gain experience and 
ability for: their even bigger spring season. With this 
in mind, Barb Breesman; Barb Frey and Ellen Hughes 
all placed well in each. of their tournaments so look 
for a strong golf team next spring. 
The newly formed women's tennis team, coached by 
Dr. Carole Moore, started out slowly this season. Of 
their 4 -major matches the team as a whole only won 
one, but each of the girls looked strong, especially Betsy 
Fallon and Jane Lammers. As one member, Sue Grace, 
puts it: ''We have potential. We are going to_ come 
back strong!" 

Of the other newly formed teams, field hockey is just getting under way, and basketball arid fencing . begin their seasons in December. So look for these and a,strongret1:1rn of crew, golf and tennis next seme_ster. 
Special congratulations are in order for the Howard 
Interhall -. football team. for their valiant attempt .to 
complete their season. · Scoring only eight points of­
fensively all season, the Vultures of Howard finished 
1-4-1, placing them ·sixth of seven teams in the South 
Division of the Interhall Standings. Standouts for the 
Vultures have been quarterback Carl Oberzut, back Sam 
Lobosco and ends Steve Kindrick and Dean Bears. 
With many of the team returning for another season 
next year, hopes are high for a better showing for the 
Titans of Howard in the near future'. 
-Eileen O'Grady 
Bill Delaney 
THE .SCHOLASTIC 

?'/ 
Running the "Train" 

Pitt Coach Johnny Majors calls him the finest running fullback he's ever faced. Navy · Captain Tim Harden rates his second-effort abil­ity, "the best I've ever come across." Pepper Rogers from Georgia Tech spoke in consensus for the rest of Notre Dame's opponents early in the season when he said, "I'm truly glad· we never have. to .see him again." .., . 
· The player everyone . is · talking about is Notre Dame's-starting full­back: Wayne "the Train'' Bullock. Bullock's second efforts have won the Irish three games this season: a 19-14 victory over. the Spartans of Michigan State, a 10-3 squeaker·over the -Owls• ·of Rice;'• and a stubborn 14-6 win over Navy. In· nine·games this season, ·Wayne has gained 815 yards _-on i93 · · carries, · s~red _11 touchdowns, : and .has. set two new Notre Dame ~shing recor~. 0Not bad for someone.; who was •1eft off every_ preseason • All-America ~oll. ­
But what makes Wayne run? Is it because he knows that he carries perhaps the largest responsibility in the Irish offensive strategies? Is it because he feels that he must take charge for the younger players on the team? Or is it for other reasons? 
Looking at the statese will con­vince you of his worth: . ND 31-Geo'rgia Tech-7 
Bullock 67 yards, 2 _TD's. _ ND 49-Northwestern 3 . Bullock 65 yards, _1-. TD ND. 20-Purdue 31 Bullock 67 yards, 2 TD's ND 19-Michigan State 14 Bullock 127 yards, 2 TD's ND 10-Rice ;3 Bullock 55 yards, 1 TD . ND48-Army0 
• BuUock 112 yards, 2 TD~s ND 38-Miami 7 -. . . _ .: Bullock: 68 yards, 1 _TD • ND 14-Navy 6 · · Bullock 130 yards, 0 TD's 
ND 14-~itt :10_. ._ Bullock 124.yards, 0 TD's 

NOVEMBER 22,-1974 
. . 

Whenever the Irish are faced with a critical situation, it has often been Wayne's job to come through, to do ;the job necessary for victory. Very ·rarely . has he failed. He's played with bad ankles, bruised knees,_-and a recurring shoulder problem all sea­son. Yet he plays and does his job and more. In the victory over Mich­igan State, Bullock was both the punisher and the punished as he_ erased Notre Dame's record for most carries in -a game with 36. . He slipped and slid all day through State's Une for 127 yards against a quick -aggressive Spartan defense. And._when the game was over, after _we_ had regrouped after our loss to · Purdue, Bullock could . only -say, ''Well, we had to hit their middle, 
---and I guess it was up to me." 
He's been doing this same sort of thing all season; in the final quarter of both the Rice and Navy games, his second efforts; wiped out-any scoring punch that the Owls or Navy could come up with. Pitt-couldn't handle Wayne from the opening play of the contest -he gained 127 yards on 25 carries playing -"hurt" in .the words · of Coach Ara· Parseghian. Majors -couldn't stop praising , Bul­lock after the game, . saying that ''anybody-that, doesn't think -that Wayne was the difference in .the game was crazy. Hurt or not, he was phenomenal." 
· The Irish are now 8-1-in the sea­son going into tomorrow's .battle 
· with Air .Force, and the key reason why we have come this far is greatly due to number 30. 
Thank  God  the Irish  have .the  
Train.  
-Bill Delaney  

27­


From the Sidelines 
.by Tom Pagna 

· To many fans and students, alum-there is an aloneness T can really the Blessed Mother -down to the ni and friends, -a Notre Dame foot-savor. The chapel stained-glass. win-last resonant :and unified "pray for ball· game· on .Saturday afternoon dows behind the altar are magnified us," I know_ we are all part of some­represents excitement and· a social by the bright sunlight penetrating thing greater. I observe ' the non­gathering. They are thrilled or dis-their colors and reflecting them soft-Catholic members; trying to ,read mayed based on the game's outcome ly along _the blue--and -white-tiied . their feelings and faces and some­or some ·"good'' or "bad" plays made ceiling. The quiet: and;_ reserved at--how know they are experiencing all by their team or favorite player: The mosphere of pews awaits· the :play-. the· same feelings. There is a surge two-plus hour game; however, is just ers'. presence ·.arid signals the be-of promiseto "fightthe good fight"in the end. product .of a preparation ginning .of our day. '"Often . before . all of _us. There is a common under­week. What happens after the last the sleepy-eyed giants arrive, a few standing that though t9_day is im­practice on Friday is-little known.. visitors venture in and· ·find· seats. portant enough to. cause your stom­It is a voluntary ritual, an exercise My "smallness" begrudges this in-ach _to . churn and ·your heart to in mental preparation and a search-vasion of our <lteam privacy">as the ·hasten the pace -and your mind to ing for perspective.. The seeking for together feeling that begins to begin, race 2 there is also the perspective these qualities of virtue is not just . becomes distracted.-The larger me .thatsays there is "much more to life 
· for the game itself, but for the en-feels ashamed, knowing full well · and love and self." ·> · · richment and unfoldment· •of: indi-they have every right to attend tliat. That perspective ··..;...c_ -that small viduals bonded ·together in a com-Masi Still I get lost in' thought.and. unique beginning of the day -that mon experience called team. prayers, as we alldo. I.hope we will·. tells one that finding self is not a ·. Since Ara's first year here at :perform weli; that the opponent or ,.·_momentary or one-time thing; i~ is a Notre Dame, it has become our p_rac-our own:,.members will :not be serf-. ,daily step on an endless'-staircase, tice : to· move the team into Moreau ously injured and lastly, that we will ·and our· first real send~off. . Seminary the night before; a gam·e. win if we can and lose only if we · The Mass ends, and we exit only to It is a -more restful place -than the ·must. _. I have long.-ago m~r~ed in walk or drive around the]ake to the dorms or the ·campus side· of. the my "''boyish". mind that God cares ' North. Cafeteria."-A thirty. or· so lakes. · not.who ~ns a football game, .and it .ip.inute mea.l of steak, no butter, 
·we arrive ·at the· seminary ·early now · seems justified. Beyond ·the -jello, potato, toast and coffee sets 
. enough to view an 8:30 p.m. film,It 'game thoughts, there are. eternal heavily as Ara rises for his final talk is usually a "shoot-'em-up'' or com-longings, aspirations, long ·1ost to the squad. ·. · · · edy, but can be almost anything that . · dreams, ·and new resolves · being · Oh how I hate pure jello ·with. no· has the ability to distract us from made by. each individual. -There is fruit or walnuts' or whip cream or the· anxiety that begins io· pervade a·searching mentally for reasons· to · strawberries. Eating unadulterated one's feelings prior to game time. justify .our .· existences: ·,:we are jello is a waste of time~ like swal~ 
At 10:30 p.m. the players retire caught' up iri this day,. with this . lowing your own saliva! ., . to their rooms and _lights are out·at :game; with ·this University · and · '.'Let me have your attention; elev~n., We arise early enough .to . '.With this. team; Yet somehow, in-the men,'' ; startles me into . focusing make an .8:30 a.m. Saturday team ·chapel listening and intently watch-away from the damned jello, Mass. For me, this is where .it all . ing the celebration ofMass, venerat-. . • In a. way unique-to Ara and per­begins to come into focus. Aside ing the relic of the True Cross after haps to Notre Dame, he talks of from the orthodox "Catholic Mass," Mass, and saying the final litany to "Why is it important to win" and 
28 ·. THE SCHOLASTIC 
~ 
"What must we do to win." His talks are precise, short -far reach­ing and loaded with motivation. 
We break after his general talk and form into small position groups for last-minute reminders. . 
When .that . meeting ends, there will be. ·roughly a one-hour "free time" period -until our squad reas­sembles in the locker room. 
No man or woman, actor or ac­tress . has ever dressed with more care and precision ~han an athlete. Everything must have the "proper feel." Tape here but not there,· too loose or too· tight -superstition or habit -to drink water or to urinate. Time floats and drags -sweaty palms -apprehensions and the raw courage to ·overcome it are every"­where. There is Jhe· team chaplain giving a blessing on players -Ara's staccato instructions . and lastly a group with a loud "Our Lady of Vic­tory, Pray for Us!" 
Into the sunlight, into the arena of cheers and jeers. It's only a game you say, and still others say, it is 
the game. . ... Our reasons are more than routine and greater than tradition. The band playing the fight song, the National Anthem -au· contribute to the flow of adrenalin. This is the. time of im­portance, the slice of our lives that needs to be done well here and now. All of this is not religion and cer­tainly not . superstition -. it is the act, the physical manifestation of living life with an :active zest and the ·joy of knowing what you are doing. and why you must. · The next ·time we run through that tunnei into fame's bright suri, know that these are not gladiators, but people who think and ·feel deep­ly :for and about : life and Notre Dame.: 

HO~ 

YOU C4N.SPREAD 
--1flEME$AGE. OF ID\IE... lflE LO'JE OF CHRIST FOR ALL PEOPLE. 
Have you ever considered the priesthood as a w·ay 
· to serve people? The Paulist Fathers are a small community of American priests. Progressive, searching. young and energetic,.they form a religious family. 
A Paulist is a man of the Spirit, a man of his time. He rejoices in the signs of hope around him and celebrates with the people he _serves. 
Every Paulist is a missionary: in the pulpit;or parish house, on the campus, in the inner-city. He communi• cateswith the spoken word, the printed page, and with contemporary media; His mission is to all of America; : . His message is love; the love of Christ for all people •.. 
" . ,.1. . , ­
For more information send for The Paulis! Papers \Vrite to: Father Don C. Campbell, Room 100 . 
PAULIS(FA1FIERS 
415 WEST 59TH ST.,NEW YORK,H.Y.10019 
NOVEMBER 22, 1974 

The day before we left Colorado while riding past herds of cattle and on October break, I was driving row after row, field after field, and alone from Denver. to Boulder along mile ·after mile of · corn in Illinois Route 36. If you've ever driven that and Iowa. And the news on the radio road you know it has' to be one of kept telling of farmers in Iowa the most beautiful drives imagin-· slaughtering calves · they couldn't able. The road cuts diagonally across ·afford to raise. On the one hand the plain and seems to head directly it was good to have the break into the foothills of the Rocky and to read Hesburgh's book be­Mountains. cause they were welcome expan-
We had ·been in the mountains for sions of perspective. It was a neces­about four days already, but .that sary change from the isolated and afternoon they looked especially . trivial concerns of universit)'.: life. beautiful. The sun was going down On the other hand, having your per­behind them and the shadows of the spective broadened is not always a 
· peaks were swallowing up the plains. . comfortable experience. I had just ·finished looking at the Lately, there has been a great University of Denver Law School deal of talk around Notre Dame and compared to all those old, dull about the food crisis and many peo­books and all the young, dull people pie are expressing great concern. reading them, the mountains of-Many others may see it as just an­fered a seducing alternative. And other bandwagon for all the "rele­as if to make the situation complete, vant" people to jump on. Fr. Hes­old John Denver came on the radio burgh's book, however, made me singing, "Rocky Mountain · High." realize just what a large problem After the song, the DJ, who must the food situation really is and how have been a native Coloradoan and pervasive are its effects. Th_e world­bubble burster said he wished Den-wide injustice it reflects cannot just ver would change his pitch -to be shrugged off and ignored. In fact, Utah. it . is perhaps the greatest problem 
Cynical disc jockeys aside, I \YaS we; as a generation, will face. sold. I decided school was much too About the only thing I could com­narrow; the perspective was too pare. it to would be slavery in the limited for me. I decided to run pre-Civil War south. There-is little away to the mountains (where I'm question now that owning other hu­sure God lives) and live an easy man b_eings is wrong and that such life. Just one semester left, so thank oppression was inexcusable. Ask any God for "these mountains, a larger Yankee._ But what we don't realize perspective, and· the new academic is that at the time slavery was at calendar.· the base of the economic system; 
. Unfortunately, such moments of To ask someone to free his slaves uncontrollable joy have a charac-wasn't like asking him to help your teristic . tendency to fade away as basic little_ old lady across the road; other thoughts and considerations it was asking him to completely crowd into your _mind. After a throw away his whole, very com­while you can .see how ,running to fortable way of life. What the food the mountains could also be living " crisis illustrates is that, to all in­with a' limited perspective. tents and.purposes, a small percent-
For example, I remembered the,· age of the world holds the rest of drive out to Colorado a few days the people in economic slavery, and before and trying to read Fr. Hes-. I'm. not sure that the solution can burgh's ·new book, The Humane Im-be any less revolutionary. perative, on the way. The book talks This is not to say that fasts, meat­about thousands of people dying less Mondays, and tea and rice meals every day from starvation, and ·it . do '. not serve their purpose and 
· seemed so incongruous to read that should not be supported. Besides, 
30 
by Jim Gresser 
there're always ~he Huddle 'arid. food sales when they're· over. (Perhaps those students who strenuously ob­ject to an interruption of their diet could eat at Corby Hali. They always have plenty of meat there, although there is an occasional lobster served). These small manifestations of con­cern are good and perhaps there is some real, albeit short.:.:form', benefit derived from them. 
Even these· actions, however, seem a· little false when you 'realize that they are based on, and are conces­sions to, an unjust, institutionalized oppression. The challenge is much too revoluti~nary for them to • be adequate responses. The situation is a challenge to the raison d'etre of our total society, including', the_uni­versity. 
So what does all this mean? 
r" really don't know: One thing, though, is certain. The problem is a real one and our concern for it must not be a faddish one. All the time we spend at Notre Dame is apartici­pation in a system that results from unfairness. Every ambition or desire we have must be seen in· the light of 
-hundreds of thousands of hungry, uneducated people _whose only crime was to be born _in the wrong place at the_ wrong time. And those people who are taking any action against this situation, ·both here and else­where, should be applauded and supported. Perhaps . revolutionary change can come slowly. · 
Whatever the response to the situ­ation, however, .a broad world per­spective demands that the problem be considered with acute awareness. It probably means different things for different people. For some of us, it may mean thinking more than twice about living a laid-back life in Colorado or Florida or wherever and hopefully, for a great numb'er of us, it will mean some dedicated action. 
Otherwise, I guess we're stuck with forcing camels through the eyes of needles. 
THE. SCHOLASTIC 
,e 
Paqe 1 

U, S. POSTAL SERVICE STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION (Act ofAugust 12, 1970: Section 3685. Title .39. United States Code}  SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON PAGE 2 (REVERSE)  
1. TITLE OF PUBLICA 1 1UN Scholastic.  2. DATE OF FILING OCJ-23-.,,..  
3. FREQUENCY OF ISSUE 4. LOCATION OF KNOWN OFFICE OF PUBLICATION (Street, city, county,state, :E.Il'code} (Not printers} La Fortuno Stadent Center -Notre Daa st. Joeenh Cowl~ I_...___ w;.c:;q;, :>•. LO<.;A I ION Ot-I HI: HEAOQUARTERS OR GENERAL BUSINt:~<> OFFICES Or THE PUBLISHERS (Not pnnters} S... aaite¦ 4 6. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF PUBLISHER, EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR ...: u (Name ana aaareSSJ OniYernity of lotre Dam·-Hotre D1l¦e. lH t:u1, UH (Name ana auuress} Ji¦ Greaser -6llQ Grace 1'..-P -ffnbo. D..__ nr w;c:;q;, M"NAGER t:u1, v rivame ana aaaress1 Sall• StantCll -ltol y,..,.,_ n.,, -Notre n..­Tn hl:.s;:~ 7. OWNER (If owned by a corporation, Its name and address must be stated and also Immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding 1 percent or more of total amount ofstock•. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses ofthe Individual owners must be given. If owned by a partnership or other unincorporated firm, Its name and address, as well as that of each Individual must be given.)  
NAME ADDRESS  

J.C.ccC. 
.  

8. KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTGAGEES, AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING 1 PERCENT OR MORE OF TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONDS, MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES (If there are none, so state)  
NAME  ADDRESS  

IIODe  



9. FOR.OPTIONAL COMPLETION BY PUBLISHERS MAILING AT THE REGULAR RATES (Section 132.121, Postal Seivice Manual) 39 U. S. C. 3626 provides In pertinent part: "No person who would have been entitled to mall matter under former section 4359 of this title shall mall such matter at the rates provided under this subsection unless he· files annually with the Postal Service a written request for permission to m8II m8tter at such rates." In accordance with the provisions of this statute, I hereby request permission to mall the publication named In Item 1 at the reduced postage •rates presently authorized by 39 U.S. C. 3626. (Signature and title of editor, publisher, .business manager, or owner) 10. FOR COMPLETION BY NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED TO MAIL AT SPECIAL RATES (Section 132.122, PostalManua/1 (Check one} The purpose, function, and nonprofit status of this yyHave not changed . O Have changed during (If changed, publisher must organization and the exempt status for Federal ~during preceding · -preceding.12 months' submit explanation ofchange Income tax p~rposes 12 months · mth this statement.)  
11. EXTENT AND NATURE OF CIRCULATION  AVERAGE NO. COPIES EACH ISSUE DURING PRECEDING 12 MONTHS  ACTUAL NUMBER OF COPIES OF SINGLE ISSUE PUBLISHED NEAR• EST TO FILING DATE  
A, TOTAL NO. COPIES PRINTED (Net Press Run}  (,ooo  
B, PAID CIRCULATION . 1. SALES THROUGH DEALERS AND CARRIERS, STREET VENDORS AND COUNTER SALES  
2. MAIL SUBSCRIPTIONS  500  
C. TOTAL PAID CIRCULATION  500  200  
D. FREE DISTRIBUTION BY MAIL, CARRIER OR OTHER MEANS 1. SAMPLES, COMPLIMENTARY, AND OTHER FREE COPIES  66oo  
2, COPIES DISTRIBUTED TO NEWS AGENTS, BUT NOT SOLD  
E. TOTAL DISTRIBUTION (Sum ofCand DJ  7100  .5800  
F. OFFICE USE, LEFT-OVER, UNACCOUNTED, SPOILED AFTER PRINTING  100  200  
G. TOTAL (Sum ofE & F-should equal net press run shown In A}  72.00  (,ooo  
(Signature ofeditor, publisher, business manager, or owner} . ·. . ~I\..IU:l<L. I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete. x.<y-.,, ,-/. ) ..f..r.,•-J::p, ' ty'](L."L,t Al'>A  

PS Form 3526 July 1971 0 If 
·want your· family to . know what's really ··happiining ·at ND? · 
send them 
··scHOLASTIC· 
·and get news analysis, in­
. depth sports~. the Juggler and the· Football Review.· For · 
. only $s.oo . 
..· NOTRE DAl\lE SCHOLASTIC . .}fOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 . 
. Please send me a . subscription to SCHOLASTIC for · ...... years at $5.00 a year. 


I am encl?sing $:···:·········:········· .. . ........... , ....... CASH . · ........... : ...... CHECK 
Name ................................................................................... . . .
. 

. ............................................................................................................................................................. · . 
'.
· Addre~s ...................·.-............. · ...... ·................. · ..... ·. ·,······-'. · 
. . . . 
.................................................................................................................................................. ·. City _.................. : .... · ................ · ......................................... . State .........· ........ ·· ...... ·.................... ··....... Zip ................... . 


