HOW MANY TIMES A DAY
DO YOU INHALE?
IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT AHSWER IS OVER 200!
Yes, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING Philip Morris!
Ite	**
PROVED definitely milder .. .
PROVED definitely less irritating than any other leading brand .. .
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow ... you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
S PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
T
■ iiey’re both good basketball
I players. But if we were to - judge them the way we judge telephone equipment, we’d take the small one.
Ibu see, telephone equipment occupies valuable space, uses costly materials. Paring down its size helps keep down the cost of telephone service.
Take voice amplifiers, for example. Telephone engineers put the squeeze
on size, came up with a new small type. When 600 of these new amplifiers are mounted on a frame two feet wide and eleven feet high, they do a job which once required a roomful of equipment. Size was cut—but not performance!
This is one of many cases where the Bell System has made big things small to help keep the cost of telephone sendee low.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
February 15, 1952
Orchids
Editor:
- Congratulations on your fir;t issue of the second semester. That new cover peps up the magazine 100 per cent. A real professional looking job. Keep up the good work.
Ray Walker Off-Campus
A Nature Lover Speaks Editor:
I went to the show last Saturday in Washington Hall and I want to tell you what I think of those fellows there who kept hootin’ and hollerin’ all through that picture. Now don’t get me wrong, I don’t mean that there picture about the German guy Rommel but what I mean is that comedy. You know that’s the thing that comes on before the main picture. Well this comedy wasn’t really a comedy at all but was about the trees and the animals that live in the forest and about some bad woodsman who wanted to chop down a little tree and how all the things of the forest got together and saved the little tree. That was a very good picture to me but do you know what some of the fellows in Washington Hall were doing? You wouldn’t believe it but they were on the side of that bushy faced old woodsman who wanted to chop down the tree. Now I want to ask you do you think that’s fair? I don’t and if I ever see any of those fellows who were against the trees and the rest of the animals in the picture walking around campus I’m going to punch them right in the nose.
Yours truly, Roger O’Keefe Breen-Phillips Confound It!
Editor:
Last week’s issue of your very fine and eagerly anticipated magazine carried a letter from a gentleman in Howard Hall in which he attempted to define the term and social status of an engineer.
Although we have the greatest respect for some members of that group, nevertheless we wish to point out that the definition proposed last week, although containing a great many polysyllabic words, actually runs around in circles. In short it makes no sense. We would like to know if it is common procedure for engineers to spend all their time in a continual attempt to confuse other members of that society?
Equally confused, Off-Campus
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	!■ M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
RETAILING needs college-trained young people like YOU
as FUTURE EXECUTIVES
Retailing is a dynamic profession. It offers as many career possibilities as there are personal aptitudes: interesting positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching. One-year graduate program leading to Master's degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience—with pay—in top New York stores. Program for Bachelor's degree candidates and non-degree students also.
REQUEST BULLETIN C-52
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY School of Retailing
100 Washington Square	New York 3, N. Y.
AT ARTHUR MURRAY’S
Join the fun at the many Arthur Murray Student parties. Here’s your chance to dance with the experts and learn the latest steps at very little cost.
Now's the time to learn to dance and save...
Don’t wait another day to enroll at Arthur Murray’s. Special anniversary rates are in effect and extra special parties are planned, too. And, learning is quicker and easier at Arthur Murray’s with his wonderful “First Step To Popularity” method. So hurry, hurry—come in now.

CELEBRATING OUR
SS^MMVEXMRf
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
CALL 2-3339 — For Your Appointment NOW
120 E. WAYNE ST.
SPECIAL —"STUDENT DISCOUNT"
The Scholastic
%
i '
Fop of the Week
Scholastic’s new cover pleases the majority of the subscribers but . . .
The second semester here at Leahy-land has always been rife with all sorts of feverish and organizational activities of one kind or another. And this current semester is more rife than many of its predecessors ever have been. In fact, I dare say this semester will go down in history and tradition as being the most rife semester ever.
To pull aside the curtain a bit and £ take a quick peek, we note that the agenda is positively fat with such things as the Mardi-Gras carnival, the Bengal Bouts, two University Theatre productions, a mock presidential nominating convention, and of course, for the tired and worn, graduation.
Quiet on the Set!
Most of the embryo Jake LaMottas and Rocky Marcianos who daily spend their afternoon amicably pummelling one another in ND’s answer to Stillman’s Gym on the second floor of the fieldhouse, are as yet unaware of the vast audience who will view their fistic efforts come Bengal Bout time.
But it has been definitely confirmed, that WGN-TV will televise the final night of Bengal bouts, carrying the local leather barrage throughout the Midwest, a program feature, replacing, no doubt, the Colgate Comedy Hour.
All this is in the way of reminding the sweat-suited gents clobbering the heavy bag in the field house, that they had better read up on stage presenta-
By Jack Hynes
doing nothing and this little project might be right up their alley. I nominate me.
Choose Your Partners
Last week’s Scholastic, along with a new cover, carried a picture feature inside of photographs taken hereabouts some 50 years ago.
We noted with particular interest the picture of several charming St. Mary’s Gibson girls gaily (?) prancing about a May-pole. We were struck with the sudden realization that this spirited and sportive custom has been done away with by the younger generation across the highway. And we rather think it’s a shame, too. We feel inclined to suggest, then, that the custom of dancing around the May-pole be brought back to the campus by our sister scholars come this Spring. It certainly would be just lots of fun, girls, and who knows, maybe WGN-TV would come down to cover it.
How About a Tunnel?
We have been noticing since last September, a condition which, of late, has become a rather distressing problem—crowds. Specifically, we refer to the crowds of fellow scholars who, every hour on the hour, pour down the stairs inside the Main Building and, stampedelike, attempt to squeeze through the doors under the outside stairs, invariably trampling some visiting Commerce man who stopped to tie his shoe-
This problem could be taken up by the engineers, who certainly must have some theory on how to handle this situation; but rather would we suggest that the tradition-blocked outside steps of the Main Building, leading to the outside, be opened for daily use for all students.
Tine, it is a somewhat iron-clad tradition that only seniors on graduation day, graduate students and faculty be allowed the use of the Main building steps. But in the interest of public safety, and before my insurance runs out, it might be worth considering the idea of scrapping this particular tradition to make room for our increased numbers.
Bottom of the Week
... Nd Scholastics were delivered to the men of Sorin Hall last week—and we’re rather burned up about it, too, by George!
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine
Watches and Jewelry —
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill South Michigan Street
tion, camera angles, and the like if they are to hope for a successful debut.'
Rumor also has it that Nappy will supply the finalists with jars of Max Factor pancake make-up before they go on. I always said that he looked just like Sam Goldwyn. Roll ’em!
La Fiesta! — ’Er Whatever
Next weekend might very well turn out to be the most action-packed, breathless set of three days ever turned over to a Mardi-Gras Carnival if the' advance publicity for the occasion is any indication of its hullabuloo. Everyone is still wondering', though, if Ann Blyth will put in an appearance this year as she did two years back. Can’t we get $a committee working on this? There are enough of them hanging around
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles
February 15, 1952
5
FEBRUARY 15
PALAIS ROYALE—The annual Science Ball, “Black Magic” with dancing from 9 to 1 to the music of Ted Gallagan and his orchestra.	'
COLFAX (to Feb. 20)—The movie version of the Christopher’s prize-winning novel Call It Treason comes to the screen entitled Decision Before Dawn (Legion of Decency Rating A-2), starring Richard Basehart and Gary Merrill. It’s a story about a captured not-so-Nazi Nazi soldier who is convinced by American intelligence officers that he would actually be helping his country if he went back as an undercover man and spied on the Germans. This he does and his experiences as a spy make one of the top movies to come out of Hollywood this year. Definitely the best picture in town this week.
PALACE (to Feb. 21)—Smoke jumpers of the forest fighting brigades are the heroes of Red Skies of Montana, with Richard Widmark as Big Hero No. 1. There are many good shots of forest fires and methods used to combat the fires are interesting enough in themselves. A fairly good film on the whole. Judy Canova cavorts in the co-feature Honey chile (A-l)
FEBRUARY 16
WASHINGTON HALL—Rich, Young and Pretty with Jane Powell and Wendell Corey.
PALAIS ROYALE—Student Council dance with Gene Hull and his fellows supplying the music and you still supplying $2 per couple.
FEBRUARY 17
AVON (to Feb. 19)—Linda Darnell and Stephan McNally get involved in a romantic comedy in The Lady Pays Off (A-2). The lady, a child psychologist, pays off in a month’s care of the gambler’s motherless daughter. The events leading up to the inevitable ending provide a lot of laughs.
GRANADA (through Feb. 20)—Audie Murphy is the leader of the Dalton gang in The Cimarron Kid (B), a film conspicuous by its lack of realism, the presence of the usual stereotyped characters, and inconsistency of plot. There are a couple of redeeming features, such as elaborate gun play scenes, but they’re not enough to make the picture worthwhile. Tom Ewell stars in the co-feature Finders Keepers.
STATE (through Feb. 20)—A couple of oldies, Arabian Nights and Sudan.
FEBRUARY 21
WASHINGTON HALL—You’re in the Navy Now with Gary Cooper and Jane Greer.
COLFAX (to Feb. 27)—Sailor Beware is nothing more than an ' opportunity for Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis to display their repertoire of nonsense and slapstick. At that it turns out to be a pretty good picture. There is only a hint of a plot and the inevitable crops up now and then. But it still ranks as a good comedy, although not on a par with previous Martin-Lewis successes.
FEBRUARY 22
WASHINGTON HALL—The 103rd annual Washington Day exercises start at 10:30 a.m. Seniors who want to graduate in June had best be at the assembly point at 9:45 in cap and gown.
Travel and study ® ABROAD this summer
LOWEST FARES EVER make university-sponsored tours via TWA most attractive.
Spend your summer profitably and enjoyably on one of 16 four- to ten-week study tours in Great Britain, Europe, Scandinavia, Asia or Africa. Earn full credit while you travel and study. Arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in cooperation with TWA. Tour price takes care of all necessary expenses, including TW A’s money-sa ving new	'
tourist fares.*
For tour information, mention countries that interest you most when you write to: John Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours, 80 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
^Effective May I subject to gov’t approval
twa
TRAMS RtORLD AIRUMIS
HOW MORAL CANA VICTORY GET?
OR
Don’t Put All Your Goose Eggs in One Basket
A college basketball team once had plenty of nothing. It was so bad that even the coach hadn’t gone to a game all season. Couldn’t stand to watch his job collapse. Sc the team careened through its schedule and hit the road for the big game, the season’s windup. Du? to .lose by over forty-five points, the experts said.
But somebody back on campus had a brainstorm and started a notion. Telegrams. to be exact, just before game time, the team got more telegrams than you could shake a referee at. Croup telegrams from fraternities and sororities, personal telegrams from Prexy and the Dean of Women—hundreds of telegrams, all saying “We’re behind you, team!” And by golly, the boys pulled themselves together and, went out and lost by only twenty-eight points, instead of forty-five.
The moral is plain. The more you encourage guys, the better they work or play. Giving anyone a hand by telegrams does wonders for gratitude and cooperation—whether it’s cash from home you want or a date or just to send a thoughtful message to someone on any special occasion. Just call Western Union, or head for your local Western Union office
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 February 15, 1952 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritimis
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY ’
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE.............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E, ZIER ..............Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN...............Circulat nn
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl. Vai Chun. Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey. Fred Eckart. Carl Eiberger. Tom Godfrey, Bob Gorman. Jim Harrington. Ted Kinter, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison. Bill Moore. Gorman Redding. Bob Rust. Neil Scarlett. Al Sussnlsky, Mike Ward.
FEATURES: Sal Asseita. Jay Conlon, Charles Hands. Joe Imbriaco. Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick. Bill Stapleton. Rudy Unger. Ed Vasta. SPORTS: Mickey Carroll. Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher. Ray Humble. Tom Moore. Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett. Bob Huddleston. Jack Quetsch. Bill Ruby, Jerry Sheehan. Bob Swanson.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Nobody at Notre’ Dame will fail to recognize the ancient, much-used building on this week’s cover. But for some facts about the Huddle you might not have known before, take a look at the feature on page 18. Photo by Bob Huddleston.
We Still Want Blood!
In the issue before Christmas, we mentioned the fact that a blood drive would be conducted on campus soon after Christmas vacation. We asked the student body to support this drive generously. Right now, our faces are a little red because to date there’s been no blood drive nor even the canvassing which would precede it.	-
The catch appears to be the line in our editorial: “As soon as a bloodmobile is available ...” So far, no bloodmobile. The YCS was depending on the bloodmobile to handle their intended drive. From what information we could gather, South Bend has no facilities for handling large-scale donations. We can understand, therefore, why nothing has been done. But unhappily the need for the blood won’t wait. They still need it in Korea, and plenty of schools and colleges around the nation have managed to make facilities. It’s just about time we did.
During World War II, some very surprising places were turned into donation centers. Schools, churches, auditoriums and the like often doubled as blood banks. Or. at least, collection centers. Whv can’t we use the Drill Hall or the Rockne Memorial? The University could supply the beds; the YCS could organize the student drive as it had originally planned. We’re sure the Red Cross could enlist enough doctors, nurses and technicians. Chapters all over the country- have done the same thing. And we second the wise suggestion that a portion of the resulting donation might be set aside as an ND blood bank. This would eliminate the hurried emergency calls when some student is suddenly in need.	•
There’s definitely the need. There are certainly enough potential donors at Notre Dame. We suggest, therefore, that the YCS look into the possibility of conducting the drive with campus facilities — and before too much more time elapses. Even if we start right away, we could hardly be accused of haste.
No, Mr. Sugrue
If you saw the letters column of Time magazine last week, you undoubtedly • noticed a contribution by one Justin Bolger, a senior who lives in Alumni Hall. The portion of his letter printed showed that it was obviously a refutation of a previous Time piece on one Thomas Sugrue. We offer Mr. Bolger our heartiest congratulations.
Sugrue is a Catholic and he seems to be unhappy about the Catholic aptitude and desire to organize “Catholic groups” in things not specifically religious. This, he feels, is secular, un-American and, furthermore, unnecessary. His point is that these activities should not bear the title “Catholic.” He also feels that American Catholics are much too interested in secular things. All of which would be correct logically if he were right factually.
We don’t think he is. Granted, the word “Catholic” should not be used for personal gain, for partisan political purposes or for things not really concerned with Catholics. To take active part in things secular, though, is not necessarily to earn the title “secular” in its more opprobrious meaning. And to have a Catholic viewpoint in things other than theology is certainly a great good.
It demonstrates vitality, conscience and dynamism on the part of American Catholics. It’s a sign of health and is to be commended. Catholicism is a religion for every hour and every day. Mr. Sugrue gives the impression that he wants it confined to Sunday church.
February 15, 1952
7
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Announces
THE MORRIS INN
"on the campus"
Will Open in April 92 rooms 92 baths
Rates from $6.00 Single - $9.00 Double
•	Dining Room, excellent cuisine, air-conditioned
•	Private Function Rooms, also air-conditioned
•	Room Service
•	Gift and Souvenir Shop
•	Cigar and Newsstand
•	Golf, Locker and shower facilities for men guests
•	Putting Green
•	Radio and circulating icewater in every room
•	Parking area, paved and lighted, adjoining
FOR the many friends, the Alumni, and the Parents of the Student Body of Notre Dame, the University is proud to announce the opening in April of its own hotel, The
Morris Inn, right "on the campus," made possible by the beneficent gift of the late E. M. Morris, '06, of South Bend, Indiana.
The Morris Inn will offer its guests unforgettable views of the Notre Dame campus, with its famous buildings and landmarks, its traditional beauty and surroundings. In addition, if you are visiting at the University you will appreciate the convenience of staying at the school, saving you much travel time.
Guest accommodations include single, double and twinbedrooms, also parlor and bedroom suites. The air-conditioned Private Function Rooms will accommodate from just a few to sizeable groups and are ideal for civic, social and business luncheons, dinners, receptions, meetings, etc. The beautiful Terrace Dining Room is also air-conditioned and will serve excellent cuisine. Room service will be available to those who wish to dine in the privacy of their rooms. Other features of the Inn include cigar and newsstand, Gift and Souvenir Shop, Golf, with shower and locker facilities for our men guests and a large, well-lighted and paved parking area.
• RESERVATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED • E. H. Hunt, Manager
The Scholastic

The Notre Dame
Black Magic Lures Scientists From Lab
MISS JOAN POLMAN	MISS NATALIE HEALY
Black Magic ...	... But No Witches Here
Inexpensive Tours Featured by Agency
The dream of a low-priced quality non-escorted tour to Europe within a college student’s budget can now be realized, with the creation of a new individually-packaged tour, featuring 10 days in Europe for $100, which includes hotel accommodations, three daily meals, tips, land transportation, and complete sight-seeing by motor coach, with a choice of nine itineraries covering eight European countries.
Of great appeal to the student traveler is the freedom offered in this plan. Being an independent tour, there is no regimentation with a group.
The nine itineraries are broken down into six of ten days and three of five days, with unlimited possibilities of> fered for different combinations and. " groupings. The inclusive cost is $10 a day, with a small additional charge
to cover the actual cost of transportation between the end of one ten-day itinerary and the beginning of another.
The $100 tours, created by a special department in New York’s “House of Travel,” will be sold to the public through over 2000 travel agents throughout the United States and Canada. Pre-paid tickets, insuring reservations and covering all facilities abroad, will be issued to clients upon purchase of the tour.
Quality in all accommodations and facilities has been stressed, with the selection of comfortable, centrally-located hotels, the provision of three full meals every day, and standard second-class rail transportation on the Continent. Uniformed interpreters meet the traveler and escort him to and from (Continued on Page 33)
Dance to Gallaghan's Music at Ball Tonight
By GORMAN REDDING
“Black Magic” will engulf the Palais Royale .tonight, as an expected 150 scientists and their dates will break away from their slide rules and labs to enjoy four delightful hours dancing to the swing of Ted Gallaghan and his orchestra from nine to one. This evening will be the biggest social event of the year for the members of the joint departments of Science, who have combined their efforts in planning the dance.
Reigning “Queens” at the Science Ball will be Natalie Healy, of New York City, a sociology major at St. Mary’s College, and Joan Polman, a native of South Bend. Miss Healy will be escorted by Bill Santoro, a pre-med student from River Forest, Ill., while Miss Polman will be the date of Fred lonata, also a pre-med student, from Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
lonata and Santoro have acted as coChairmen in the task of preparing for tonight’s ball, the second annual production of the College of Science.
A large turn out of faculty members is expected, and as a special feature of the evening there will be a dance contest in which only faculty members will participate.
Also featured as a special attraction is a unique decorating system, designed by decoration chairman Charlie Duff. This system employs ultra-violet lights, causing a spectacle of multi-colored brilliance.
Committee chairmen who assisted Santoro and lonata are: Bob Visintine, publicity; Charlie Duff, decorations; John Cronin, tickets and programs. Terry Kiely and John Flynn were in charge of special arrangements.
February 15, 1952
9
Five-Day Mardi Gras Whirlwind Will Close With Big Draw for Cars, Video Sets, Radios
By TOM GODFREY
Three big raffles will conclude the 1952 Mardi Gras on Tuesday night, Feb. 26. Though the carnival will run three nights, Saturday, Feb. 23, Monday, Feb. 25, and Tuesday, all the prizes will be awarded on the final night.
This year’s top raffle prize will be a Buick hard-top convertible, with the seller of the winning ticket receiving a Nash Rambler. The second prizes for both the lucky winner and ticket seller will be a TV set, third prizes a radio for each.	.
Ed Raque, carnival chairman, announced that the grand opening for the carnival will take place at 7:30 Saturday morning. The carnival will then run to 11:30 Saturday night and the same hours Monday and Tuesday.
This week will be the last chance the students will have to sell their raffle books. They get a $2.50 profit on each book they sell and also a chance to compete for the $100 prize which goes to the campus’ best salesman. They can also help win for their hall the $100 prize awarded to the hall which sells the largest number of books per student.
ED VASTA AND THE BIG PRIZE
. . . To the Holder of the Winning Ticket
Students who would like to get more books or- make returns on the ones they have should see their hall council representatives. For off-campus men, a table has been set up in the Dining Hall where they can turn in and get new books during the noon meal.
All books, however, will have to be accounted for. The representatives will take up the final collection before the Mardi Gras weekend. If at that time a student does not have his books, he will have to sign a statement telling what happened to them or when he will make returns.
This year’s new Mardi Gras extras —a semi-formal Ball, a social, and a Minstrel show—are being offered to the students in a bargain package for $5. Ralph Marterie is playing at the ball, Friday evening, Feb. 22, tickets for which can be gotten for $3.75. The Saturday afternoon social, like the ball, will be at the Palais Royale, from 2 to 5, Feb. 23. Refreshments for this dance are included in the price of the bid, $1.50.
Washington Hall will be the scene Sunday of a Minstrel Show put on entirely by Notre Dame students. Three
performances, at 2, 4, and 8, will be —, patterned after the Old South shows put on years ago by Al Jolson and cihers.
Jim Powers, who is in charge, asks that anyone who has a banjo and would like to help out, see him in Sorin Hall in the next few days. Tryouts have been going on for two weeks, and now the cast of approximately 50 is pretty well set.
Next Thursday and Friday Booth Manager Brian Kelly and his crew will set up the carnival booths in the Drill Hall. Of the 26 applications for booths, 20 have been accepted with several new innovations.
A Bingo table run by the Chicago Club will be one of the new booths. Several of the popular oldies will also be back, including the Vetville Wives’ homemade cake counter.
Last week, the committee received —. the Buick Riviera they will raffle from * Yeager Motor Co. in South Bend. The other prizes are also from local firms, Goes Motor Co. contributing the Nash Rambler, and Sheehan’s radio store the television and radio sets.
♦ ------------------ .
'Socialism in Great Britain' NFCCS Round Table Topic
Professor John Hooker of the Department of History and Dr. F. A. Her-mens of the Department of Political Science will lead a discussion on “Socialism in Great Britain” at the NFC-CS Round Table Discussion Tuesday. The discussion will take place in Room 101 Law Building at 7:30 p.m.
Professor Hooker is a graduate of Cambridge University. He served in . the RAF Intelligence Bureau during the war and came to the United States in 1949. Dr. Hermens- taught at the University of Bonn before coming to this country. He is known as an expert on European governments.
Bill Dempsey of the' Academy of Political Science is student chair-man. John Comerford, Economic Round Table president; Tom Field of the debate team; and Dick Wolfgram of the Economic Round Table will serve on the student panel. One more participant is to be appointed.
Each of the student panel members is to give a five-minute prepared paper.
•The chairman will then lead a general discussion with questions from the floorbeing accepted.
Bill Fagan, general chairman of the Round Table series, has announced that the March topic will be “Obligations of Those in a Higher Income Bracket.” It will be conducted by the Sociology ~ Club.
10
The Scholastic
& Placement News
The Archer - Daniels - Midland Co., Minneapolis, will interview Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. candidates in chemistry and chemical Engineering, Monday. A-D-M is the world's largest processor of vegetable oils as well as one of the largest flour millers.
The Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co. will interview B.S. and M.S. electrical, aeronautical, and mechanical engineers and M.S. and Ph.D. physicists —Monday and Tuesday. On these same days Elector-Metallurgical Co., (division of Union Carbine' and Carbon), with plants located in all parts of the country, will interview B.S. graduates in mechanical, metallurgical, chemical electrical, and civil engineering; and economics and commerce graduates.
On Tuesday, the' Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich., will interview chemical, electrical, and mechanical engineers for sales engineers in the western half of Michigan.
On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, five representatives of all the Naval Research Laboratories and the National Bureau of Standards Research Laboratories in California will be here to interview all engineering graduates as well as Physicists and Mathematicians on all degree levels. The positions involve strictly research.
TUMPANE WITH MISSES SAUCCER, WEISS, AND RICHARDS All This and Dinosaurs Too
Dinosaur, Deluge, Glacier Form Weird Props In Forthcoming Comedy 'Skin of Our Teeth'
Movies Included
$
There will be a group meeting and movie in the Audio-Visual Center, Main Bldg., Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. Individual interviews are to be held in the Vetville Recreation Hall, Wednesday and Thursday.
The Chrysler Institute of Engineering, Detroit, will interview B.S. electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical engineers for combined work and study leading to a Master’s Degree. A special booklet of information is available in the
Placement Office.
> The Shell Chemical Corp, will inter; view, for technical sales work only, B.S. ji graduates in chemistry and chemical $ engineering. (These are the interviews ■zj originally scheduled for Feb. 12.) Both i companies will be here Wednesday, Feb. g 20.
d Thursday, Feb. 21, Cincinnati Deg signing, Inc., and associated companies, 3 will interview mechanical engineers and ? those * interested in machine design, product and tool design.
i
Interview schedules are being are ranged for those students who are qualified for such positions in the Placement Office, ground floor, Main Building.
Under the direction of Mr. John Turnpane, the Notre Dame University Theatre is now rehearsing for the production of Thornton Wilder’s comedy Skin of Our Teeth, which is to be presented at Washington Hall on the evenings of March 2-5.
Cast in the leading roles are Doug Robertson, Alice Weiss, and Jean Richards, while Denni Egry, Dick Simons, and Walter Swift play supporting roles.
Thornton Wilder’s production has been termed by some as a modem morality play, by others as an insane comedy, and by the Pulitzer Prize Committee of 1942 as the “Best Play of the Year.”
Acclaim for this play has even surpassed the recognition given to Our Town, another Pulitzer Prize winner by Mr. Wilder.
Technical director of this University Theatre production is Mr. Leonard Sommer. Skin of Our Teeth is an unusual play and one that is easily misunderstood. It is the story of the Antro-buses, an average American family living in Excelsior, New Jersey. However, they have a baby dinosaur and a mammoth romping about in the living room, and a glacier threatening them outside the door.
Mr. Antrobus is an average' Ameri
can husband who comes home after a hard day at the office. However his hard day included the inventing of the wheel, the alphabet, and the multiplication table.
Throughout the play Mr. Antrobus is a composite' of all the great and small men in the world—Adam, Noah, the inventor, the philosopher, the breadwinner, the eternal husband and father, and the eternal worm. He guides, cajoles, and bamboozles his family through an ice age, a deluge, and a global war.
Back by Popular Demand
After an absence of a few years, bottled Coca-cola will once again find a place on the campus of Notre Dame.
Arising from several suggestions by students, vrho have contended that the present “coke” as offered by the dispensers now in- use leave something tobe desired, the first “nickel grabber” is. to be installed immediately in the Architecture Building. An experiment in one-, of the residence halls will soon be made..
The future of the bottled-coke’ machine is dependent upon the students cooperation in returning the used bottles to their proper place.
February 15, 1952
11
Student Opinion Emphatic on Honor System; Think It Fine in Theory, Unsound in Practice
A recent poll of the student body evidenced the impractical aspects in the proposed establishment of an honor system here at Notre Dame. The majority of those contacted agreed that such a system is sound in theory but unsound in practice.
The reason most commonly cited was the unwillingness of students to report violations by their fellow students. Many also felt the mechanics of such a code would be superfluous since honor is an integral part of any university teaching Catholic principles.
When a cross-section of Notre Dame men were asked the question “Should Notre Dame have an honor system?” 87 pel’ cent responded with a vigorous and emphatic “no,” three per cent were undecided, while only ten per cent replied in the affirmative. The following represent several of the more significant opinions.
Mark Tremblay, member of the varsity baseball team: The honor system wouldn’t work here since Notre Dame tradition isn’t geared for it. Such a system is feasible at West Point because of that institution’s strict code of military discipline. Notre Dame does not have this discipline.
Bill Byrne, freshman vice-president:
Yes, I believe we should have an honor system because it would espouse Catholic principles and enhance the tradition here.
Hike Heichelheim, junior in the College of Engineering: No. Although an honor system is a fine and admirable' thing in theory, I believe the obstacles to be overcome would be insurmountable.
Jim Garvin, Student Council president: The ideals of an honor system are to be strived for, but the practical considerations present a challenge, for example, not only educating the student body, but selling the system to them; for 100 per cent student cooperation is a must in making it work.
Charles Masters, Morrissey Hall sophomore: An honor system would give students a sense of values, cause them to take pride in their work, and thus eliminate the feeling that they are being treated as children.
Al DeCrane, Debate Club president: Students should first be made to realize what an honor system entails. Such a system wouldn’t work if the students do not grasp the significance of honor’ as applied to their education.
There is the opinion of your fellow students. What do you think?
Debaters Gain Double $ Victory Over U. of C.
Speaking affirmatively on the subject of “Permanent Wage and Price Control,” Freshmen Carl Gunderson and Richard Galehouse triumphed over the University of California debate unit Monday .afternoon in the Law Auditorium.
Arguing negatively for the Notre Dame debate squad, Sophomores Bill Hank and Don Dowden won over California’s affirmative team that evening on the same subject.
AL DECRANE AND BILL HANK
The Audience Shifted Its Opinion
Washington Day Exercises Bring Out Caps and Gowns
Annual Washington Day exercises for June graduates will be held next Friday in Washington .Hall. The procession from the Main Building will begin at 10:15 a.m. and the actual exercises at 10:30.
The seniors will assemble by colleges on the main floor of the Main Building in caps and gowns, with the exception of the members of ROTC units, who will lead the procession in uniform.
The program at Washington Hall will include the conferring of three i	awards to seniors for outstanding
achievement in interhall athletics, one i	for the senior outstanding in dramat-
I	ics, and one for the senior outstanding
I	in general achievement.
I	Caps and gowns will be distributed
I	from 7 to 9:30 Friday morning; all
!	seniors not in ROTC Units must have
i	a cap and gown. Necessary absences
J	will be excused only if they are
!	brought to the vice-president in charge
I of student affairs before Friday.
Assistant Provincial Heads
Vocational Institute Speakers
Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Order of the Holy Cross, will give the main talk at the second session of the Institute on States in Life. The discussion will be held at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Engineering Auditorium.
The general topic is to be the priesthood. Father Mullahy will speak on “The Priesthood as a Distinct Calling.”
Rev. Richard Smith, assistant at St. Joseph’s Parish in Mishawaka, will talk on the diocesan or secular priesthood. Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., an ND graduate who was recently ordained, will speak on the religious priesthood.
Last Wednesday, Mr. and Mrs. Burnett Bauer, founders and promoters of the Family Acres project, led a discussion on the vocation of marriage.
The remaining talks will be on Feb. 27 and March 5. They will deal with the Religious Brother and the Dedicated Single Life in the World.
The contest was judged by a “shift of opinion” ballot, in which the audience expressed its opinion on the debated subject before and after the match, the winning team being determined by its success in convincing the greater num-ber of listeners to its views.
Opposing the University of Toronto on the evening of Feb. 20 in Washington Hall, the Irish debaters will take the affirmative' side on the question: “This house abhors the American foreign Policy.”
Freshmen Joseph Daley and Richard Galehouse will defend for Notre Dame in this contest, which begins at 7:30 p.m.
Defense of the extemporaneous speaking championship will mark the appearance of the Notre Dame debate team at the Boston University Invitational Tournament today and tomorrow. At the Boston meet, Junior Al DeCrane' will defend the national extemporaneous speaking title won by Bill Carey, ’52, last year.
In Debate, DeCrane and Freshman Charles Doherty will represent the Irish, who captured second place honors in ® this annual tourney last year.
12
The Scholastic
® Fitzsimons Presents 'World Leaders' Talk
Devoted to explaining the various approaches of the world’s leaders to the present international crisis, the Committee on International Relations, under the direction of Dr. Waldemar Gurian, has resumed its series of lectures on “World Leaders and World Crisis.”
The series is being continued after a lapse to allow for semester tests and the start of the new semester at the University.
Next on the list of discussions will be a lecture Thursday evening by Professor M. A. Fitzsimons of the History Department on the subject of “Winston Churchill and the World Crisis.” Pro-_ fessor Fitzsimons, a specialist in Brit-ish history, has been a frequent contributor to Commonweal and The Review of Politics, and is at present writing a study of the foreign policy of the British labor government.
Following the Churchill discussion by a week will be a talk on “Adenauer and the World Crisis,” Feb. 28, by F. A. Hermens, Professor in the Department of Political Science.
In his treatment of Adenauer, the newly-elected head of the recently formed West German government, Professor Hermens will deal with such problems as the question of the Saar Valley coal region, the future of the democratic party in Germany, the possibility of a new Fascist party rise, and the' threat of Communism to Germany.
Professor Hermens has worked in Germany for the American high com-mission and recently wrote a book, Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, in which the' formation and future prospects of the Adenauer government are discussed.
Lectures on “De Gasperi” by Dr. Stephen Kertesz, March 6, and on “Franco and Peron” by Mr. J. J. Kennedy, March 13, complete the series as arranged so far.
All discussions are held in Room 221 of the Social Science Building and begin promptly at 8:00 p.m. Everyone interested—students, faculty, and. employees—are invited to attend.
—Bob Gorman
SENIOR PHOTOS
Seniors who have not returned their DOME proofs to McDonald studios are urged to do so immediately.
Selective Service System Seeks to Clarify Draft Status Problems of College Students
Selective Service will not make any special provisions to give students 30 days after the end of their academic year to enlist in the service of their choice.
Such arrangements are not deemed necessary this year as the 1951 amendments to the Selective Serwice law provide that students are henceforth to be deferred instead of having their induction postponed. They will, therefore, have ample opportunity after the com-’ pletion of their academic year to enlist in the service of their choice.
The Selective Service Act of 1948 provided that any student who, while satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course, was ordered for induction would upon presenting the facts to his local board have his induction postponed until the end of his academic year. At the end of the year, the student became liable for immediate induction.
The 1951 amendments to the Act changed this by providing that any student pursuing a full-time' course who was ordered for induction would, if he had never before been deferred as a student, be deferred in Class I-S until the' end of his academic year, but he could receive only one such deferment.
If Orders Come
A student who is entitled to a statutory I-S deferment must be ordered for induction before he' can be deferred by his local board. The law says that he shall be deferred “upon presenting the facts” that he is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course at the time the order for induction is issued.
He need only to request his dean to immediately give his local board official notice that he is a full-time student doing satisfactory work and actually attending classes.
The Selective' Service law places upon each registrant the obligation of keeping the local board advised of his current status. It would therefore be advisable for each student to have' the University send official notice to the local board as soon as the student has been notified that he has passed his preinduction physical examination.
Set Up Class II-S
The new Selective' Service law provided for the Class I-S statutory deferment and gave the President authority to prescribe regulations governing the deferment of students in such numbers as he deemed necessary to the mainte-ance of the national health, safety or
interest. The President subsequently prescribed a Class II-S student deferment program.
Students may be placed in this classification at the discretion’ of their local boards. To assist the boards in determining which students should be given II-S deferments, a method was set up whereby students who are in the prescribed upper portion of the' male members of their class or who made a score of 70 or better on the Selective Service College Qualification Test may be considered by their local board for deferment.
However, the local boards are not required to defer men who meet one or both of the criteria. General policy is that students meeting either or both criteria will be deferred.
May Be Renewed
A student who receives a I-S deferment until the end of his current academic year may in some instances receive a II-S deferment for the next year.
If during the academic year his work was such that he is in the prescribed upper portion of his class, or if he' takes the Selective Service College Qualification Test and makes a score of 70 or better, the local board can consider him for a II-S deferment for the following academic year.
Whether a man is classified I-S or II-S, it is a deferred classification, and not a postponement of induction. At the end of the academic year, the local board must reopen the classification to determine whether he qualifies .for any classification other than I-A.
Following the period the local board is reconsidering his case, a student has the right, if he is not deferred for another year, to enlist in the service of his choice, which right continues until he is ordered to report for induction. The Selective' Service law, however, prohibits a irian from enlisting in the service of his choice once he has been ordered to report for induction.
OFF-CAMPUS ROOMS
A number of good rooms are available near Notre Dame for off-campus students who wish to move closer to the campus. Information on the rooms may be obtained at Father -Leahy’s office, east wing, first floor, Main Building.
February 15, 1952
13
WND Airs ND-Purdue Boxing Bouts Tonight
A full schedule of sports coverage and two new personnel appointments were in the news at WND this week.
Last night’s basketball game against DePaul started off a week-end which will see more action by the station sports staff than at any other time during the year.
Bob Dougherty, WND sports director, announces that the eight bouts of the newly-formed Notre Dame boxing club against Purdue tonight will be aired over the student voice from start to finish.
On Monday another basketball game will be sent over the airwaves as WND carries the final home' appearance of the 1952 Irish against the Pittsburgh Panthers.
Dougherty is busy making plans for the remaining home appearances of the Notre Dame track team, the soon-due Novice Boxing Tournament, and the Bengal Bouts, which will be coming along in the early part of March.
On the personnel side of the station, manager Bill Ryan announces the appointment of Commerce Junior Jim Murphy, as the new WND business manager. Murphy has served as continuity director- since the middle of last semester.
Filling in in the vacated continuity spot will be Jud Cassidy, a senior in economics.
Program director Tom Knott has announced this week’s show time tune selections and the opera to be played in full next Sunday afternoon.
Rossini’s Barber of Seville will be heard in its entirety next Sunday at 3:05.
Show tunes, on the air every afternoon during the week at 4:05 p.m., will feature The King and I, Monday; Victor-Herbert’s Sweethearts, Tuesday; Mexican Hayride, Wednesday; Words and Music, Thursday; and Allegro on Friday of this week.
JOE CONWELL
The Bureau His Brainchild
ND Speakers Bureau to Adopt Constitution
Next Monday night the newly-organized Speakers Bureau of the NFCCS ■will vote on a constitution and proceed to hold election of officers. Bob Niquette is chairman in charge of drawing up the constitution, while Frank Donovan is acting as temporary secretary.
The bureau was recently set up by Regional Forensics Chairman Joe Conwell.
The general aim of the bureau is to serve as a combination workshop and booking agency. Not only does it seek to develop the student’s speaking ability, but it tries to find speaking engagements for him with various groups such as the Lions and the Rotary.
With Prof. Eisen, Department of Speech head, serving as faculty moderator, the new organization has already had one' lecture on the mechanics of developing an oration. A discussion program will be followed for the next few weeks with lectures following on extemporaneous speaking.
Plans are to break up the 35 present members into smaller sections for better
handling. Stress will be on fundamentals, teaching the individual to “stand on his own two feet” and develop confidence. Later on the techniques of various types of speeches will be explained.
Tentative plans include the sending of brochures explaining the activity of the organization to various civic groups, and a possible regional speech tournament.
Determined not to let this idea be solely on a regional level, Organization Chairman Joe Conwell is trying to encourage the same action in other schools.
Work on 3 Buildings
Progresses Smoothly
Mardi Gras Box Score
FRIDAY, FEB. 22 TO TUESDAY, FEB. 26
What	Day	Time	Where
Semi-formal Masquerade Ball	($3.75). ...Friday	9 to 1	Palais Royale
Carnival Social ($1.50) 			Saturday	2 to.5	Palais Royale
Carnival grand opening 				Saturday	7:30 p.m.	Navy Drill Hall
Carnival—First night			Saturday	7:30-11:30	Navy Drill Hall
Three minstrel performances	($0.50)—Sunday	2, 4 and 8	Washington Hall
Carnival—Second night 			Monday	7:30-11:30	Navy Drill Hall
Carnival—Third night 		—-	Tuesday	7:30-11:30	Navy Drill Hall
Buick Raffle 			Tuesday	11 p.m.	Navy Drill Hall
Reports from Vincent Fraatz, the aa University engineer, indicate that work J on the various new buildings being erected on the campus is progressing satisfactorily.
Exterior brickwork on the Science Building is being completed, and most of the stonework is almost finished. About one-half the work on the roof has been done—the finished surface still requiring application of the rough concrete sub-roof.
Partitioning in the physics wing is nearly finished, and the installation of rough wiring and plumbing is nearly completed there.
One of the most necessary winter equipments, the heating system, is in use in the building. It is a very efficient type of steam-heating.
Mr. Fraatz said that though it had been expected that the building would be completed in April of 1952, it will probably be finished in September of this year.
Arts and Letters students may attend classes in the Liberal Arts Building sooner than expected, for it is hoped that the completion, will be in December of ’52, instead of April, 1953, as had been previously expected.
Plumbing is being installed in the . basement there, while outside, the brick stonework is being done. Last week the concrete sub-roof of the north wing was poured.
The project on the other end of the campus is progressing well, as Fisher « Hall has its exterior brickwork completed as far as the second floor. Both the basement and first floor plumbing are nearly finished. Mr. Fraatz expects that all work there will be completed about next September.
Because of the added load imposed by these new buildings, the steam plant is to be enlarged and converted, i with all new boilers being installed.
14
The Scholastic
® New Air Force Paper, 'Flying Irish,* Offers Bits of News and Views for Air ROTC Men
By BILL MOORE
Notre Dame’s newest publication to become firmly established is the Air Force ROTC’s Flying Irish, published monthly by a staff of cadets. The paper’s first issue came out last September to keep the 800 members of the Air Force unit here informed on the news and activities of both the local unit and the Air Force generally.
Master Sergeants LeDuc and Matt, local unit personnel, did much of the work bn the first issue, and then became academic advisers when the present volunteer staff took over. The staff is now headed by Editor-in-Chief Frank Haendler, who is assisted by Bob Rust and John Leeney as associate editors.
The editorial staff includes Cadets Pat Riley, Bob Denne, Alan Fitzgibbon, and John Cox, who also writes the paper’s occasional column, “Outside Loop.” The entire staff of reporters and writers numbers about 25, including the editors, many of whom have had experience with the Scholastic.
Flying Irish covers such activities as
THE PAPER IN THE PLANNING STAGE . . . Both,the Local Unit and Air Force Generally
the new AFROTC basketball team, the unit drill team, and the Air Cadet Club. In addition, the paper carries news of the officers of the unit, notices of cadet rank advancement, information on the study and drill schedule, and bulletins from the “front office.”
Even a Question Box
There is also a question box which answers inquiries on anything from deferments to dress uniforms.
Carrying its own sports section, edited by Jim Jacobs, the mimeographed publication also has a features department under Ben Grylewicz, and an art section headed by Dick Scherpereel.
Of course, the cadets are interested in more than just the local Air Force news, and Flying Irish sometimes reprints articles of interest from regular Air Force magazines and papers.
Some of the paper’s special features have included a series of sketches on the regular Air Force officers and airmen of the detachment, an article on the Air Force’s expansion, and even
an interesting piece on the Air Force office’s attractive secretary-stenographer, Mrs. Shirley Roemer.
The new paper, originally suggested by cadets graduating last year, has received encouragement from Air Force leaders, and is now a permanent establishment of the Notre Dame Air ROTC. Freshmen and sophomores interested in working for the paper should see Frank Haendler, 340 Alumni, or any staff member.
Vetville Men Dish Up Potluck for Wives
Tomorrow night’s potluck supper, featuring serving by the husbands, occurs as usual in the Vet Rec Hall. Admission to the affair is 50 cents per person. For this price the husbands and wives will receive a dinner, with roast beef being the main course.
Highlighting the entertainment side of the evening will be a three-piece combo of ND students who specialize in boogie woogie.
At a council meeting last Sunday, it was found that the pinch of the recent Studebaker layoff wasn’t being felt too badly by very many residents. However, revenue from all sources will be put into a fund to help alleviate any seriousness which might arise. Returns from both the potluck and the Mardi Gras booth will go into the fund.
Because the roads in Vetville are in poor shape, the council intends to contact the Maintenance Dept, and arrange to have the Winter’s damage repaired.
Last Sunday’s prelude to Spring was echoed in the council’s decision to take inventory of the community’s playground equipment, in anticipation of the childi’en’s return to outdoor recreation in a few weeks. The playground paraphernalia will be inspected to see what is serviceable and repairable. If some new. equipment is needed, an attempt will be made to erase the deficiency.
Quickly following the decision to paint the Rec Hall, the womenfolk swung into action. Besides a coat of paint, the Hall will have drapes, made by the women.
The last dance prior to Lent is going to be held in the Vet Rec Hall on Saturday night, Feb. 23, beginning at 8:30 o’clock. Music will be by records, and an admission charge of 50 cents per couple will be levied. -
The Vetville Directory, containing information about the resident families, was distributed this week.
February 15, 1952
15
World Federalism:
Pro
The great problem of our times, the crisis that faces Western civilization, is the grave threat to human liberty that arises from the vast new powers placed in the reach of mankind by modern scientific and technological development. These powers deriving from knowledge of internal combustion, steam, power turbines, jet propulsion and atomic energy, from new progress in medicine, agriculture and the arts of communication, suddenly and drastically
DOCTOR CHARLES C. PRICE
World Federalism—. a goal worth our noblest effort!”
have transformed the world in which we live. We must devise methods to direct this new power to the common welfare —or it can assuredly destroy the civilization that discovered it.
The dramatic fact is that this new power has made the' world physically one community—we are now all neighbors — and virtually interdependent neighbors. Science has not merely drawn us all closer together by revolutionizing the means of communication, of travel and of transportation, but has also made modern society vitally de-
EDITOR’S NOTE: It would seem, for a moment, that in presenting this article by two distinguished members of the Notre Dame facility, Doctor Charles C. Price and Professor Waldemar Gurian, the SCHOLASTIC is undergoing a rather drastic change from its usual policy. Actually, it is more of a change of pace, a looking higher, than anything else. While the feature section in the past has dealt mainly with student life, and quite often with the small things of student life, it would seem that the question of world federalism, vieived in its integral relationship with the problem of world peace, should concern those to whom the future is so important. The students. It is by no means as close to us as Christmas shopping, cramming, or drinking coffee in the Huddle. But it is so much more vital. With such a thought in mind, the SCHOLASTIC hopes you find this article timely, interesting, and ivorthy of serious thought.
The question is essentially this: is a world federation, a global union, possible? If so, can it bring lasting peace? If not, why not? On the affirmative side is Dr. Charles Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry and noted proponent of world federalism. On the negative is Prof. Waldemar Gurian, member of the Political Science Department, Editor of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS, and a recognized expert on the Soviet Union.
$
pendent on diverse raw materials, unevenly distributed all over the face of the globe.
The great problems, the great threats we face today are therefore global. No piecemeal approach can possibly lead to their* solution. They are of universal importance and significance and must be tackled on a world-wide basis. No part of the world today can enjoy peace, freedom and security unless all do.
United Effort the Key
We must therefore seek a solution to our problems by united effort. We must work to make the United Nations a responsible and representative organization with the' authority to deal with the major problems threatening to lead to international violence. It must be given (Continued on Page 32)
16
The Scholastic
Is This the Cure?
Con
World government is regarded by many as necessary in order to establish lasting peace. They believe' that there must be wars as long as national sovereign governments exist. Wars can disappear only if these sovereign governments are' replaced by one government; for this world government could not start a fight against itself.
This argument is impressive—but it proves erroneous as soon as we analyze it. Will all nations and territories be always satisfied with the policies of world government? Even if the world government is successfully established, there is no guarantee against revolts and revolution. The claim of such men as Mortimer Adler, E. M. Hutchins, and G. Borgese that lasting peace' will be the necessary result of world government is wrong.
Further, it ought to be realized that world government cannot be set up as a federal organization. It can be created only by a political group with overwhelming power. This hegemonial group must be strong enough to impose its will upon the whole world and to maintain permanently its superiority of power. World government is possible only as world tyranny operating in the same way as the totalitarian rule of the Communist minority over the' masses in the Soviet Union and its satellites.
World Government Without War?
Finally, how could world government be established today without a world war? For the Soviet Union would accept only a world government under control of its Communist leadership— the' Soviet system must be wiped out before a world government under control of the United States could be erected. By the way, the people of the United States would reject an American world domination which would demand armaments on a gigantic scale and make the United States into a permanent garrison state.
Therefore I regard world government not as a means to establish peace; just because I am for a policy having peace as its aim I am against world government. Those who demand world government as the single sovereign power in the world, are working (against their conscious will) for war.
Sometimes the term “world government” is used to characterize the necess-
ity of a moral unity of mankind. This demand is quite different from the request for an organized political world government. Working for such a moral unity means truly working for peace. Eealistic pdlicies which try to establish closer cooperation among nations, to overcome, for example, the outdated conflicts between European nations by trying to establish a united Europe, must also be clearly distinguished from the utopian perfectionist claim for organized world government. The utopian perfectionism is unrealistic because it doe's
PROFESSOR WALDEMAR GURIAN “World government is possible only as world tyranny . . .”
not see the human nature as it exists and believes that institutional gadgets can bring about paradise on earth. The demand for world government is a typical expression of that pseudo-legal and pseudo-moral approach which according to the wise American diplomat, the U.S. Ambassador to Moscow, Mr. George Kennan, is the greatest threat to a sound American foreign policy aiming at securing peace as well as at safeguarding national interest, and achieving the maximum of justice possible under existing conditions.
February 15, 1952
17
Huddle?
(I
The Huddle—a cheesebox
pretending to be a building. It fools no one.
What’s With This
Text by TOM DRISCOLL
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON and JOHN KINVILLE
Lunchtime—sandwiches, malts, and “that snappy service with a smile.”
Yes, it’s an odd-looking building. ..
Yes, the doors are located in funny places.
Yes, the bars on the windows do seem too out of place.
Why does this building have so many strange characteristics. Well, here are the answers to these and any other questions you can possibly have about the Huddle.
Why is it called the Huddle?
That seems to be as good a name as any. Some people have implied that the name comes from the way the customers are huddled together during the rush hours of business. Even the mice in the building are hunchbacked. Actually, the name is connected with the Notre Dame football huddle, which was just becoming famous when the Huddle was first opened.
Why are the windows barred?
Once upon a time Notre Dame students enjoyed midnight shopping sprees —but the building closed before the witching hour. The windows provided an easy means of entrance. Of course the bars aren’t necessary today, with the type of student now at the University, but just think of the expense involved in taking the bars back down.
Does the Huddle have any past history?
About the only past history the Huddle doesn’t have is a bed where George Washington slept, and that is because George didn’t care for Indiana weather. But the building itself has seen duty as a storage building, one of the maintenance buildings, an office building which sheltered some of the smaller offices such as the Western Union office, and, around the turn of the century, some of the more enterprising Holy Cross brothers sold candy bars and soda pop from a small room in the back of the building. This was before the Stratigon was opened. Rumors that Rogers and Clark stayed there while on their, expedition to open the great northwest were tracked down and found to be unfounded.
When did it become the Huddle as we know it today?
About 1935, when the residence halls on the East side of the campus were being erected. The conversion of an old building into the Huddle was a part of the campus development program, but we’re not sure just what part.
Who owns the Huddle?
It’s making money, so the University is still holding on to it. In 1938 a Mr. Sheehan ran it on a concession
basis. However, it has for years since been run by Notre Dame. Mr. Ernest Ferro manages it at present.
Why isn’t the second floor of the building used to give the Huddle more room?
When the building was being erected, six laborers were installing equipment for a tailor shop on the second floor. Unfortunately, an architect who couldn’t read blueprints sealed up the only door through which the men could leave, which left a small window as the only means of escape. But the window was too small, and the University decided that it would be easier to train the men to be tailors than to knock a hole in the wall to let them out, and to this day those six men are still in the small room pressing the clothing of the school’s religious faculty. Any more questions?
Why is the Building such a funny color?
The bricks for the building were made from Indiana clay, and, like so many things in Indiana, even the ground is diiferent from the ground in other locations. The clay happens to be the weird shade of yellow that is seen in so many of the older buildings on campus, including the Huddle.
How much business does the Huddle do?
This is the truth, and another example that truth is stranger than fiction. Every day it sells between 60 and 75 gallons of coffee, together with 350 sandwiches and about 100 dozen doughnuts. Approximately 35 gallons and 100 individual quarts of milk are consumed by the healthier members of the student body.
Who are those employees there?
Six lovely young ladies dash out from South Bend each day to work, and these are assisted by six students
who 4:30 days that
work part time. From 8:00 to and from 6:30 to 9:30 on week-
these people give snappy service with
they dispense with more from 8:00 until noon on
the students a smile, and of the same Saturday. On
Sunday they close up shop so that the brick masons can reinforce the building in preparation for another hectic week.
Are there any future plans for enlarging the building?
J
This reporter couldn’t find anyone who would make any definite statement about that, but if you really want to know find out for yourself. After all, if you’ve read this far you must have an interest in the joint.
It all depends on the viewpoint: the
Huddle
that hardly
anyone sees.
the hungriest men in
the world.
DAWG
OAXC
■
W;
'HMMK


The Huddle that everyone sees: like State
and
Madison during the
rush hour.

What the sweeper sees; in this corner have stood




Spanish 'Mad Queen' Next On List of Foreign Movies
The Mad Queen, the second in the Spring series of foreign films, will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., Feb. 27 and 28.
This Spanish film is considered to be the finest ever to come out of Spain with the possible exception of Don Quixote which will also be shown here on April 22-23. Based on the drama La Cocura Del Amor by Manuel Tamayo y Baus, the historical movie is the tragic story of Spain’s so-called mad queen, Juana la Loca, daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella and mother of the Emperor Charles V.
Admission to these showings, all European movies with English subtitles, is 25 cents.
Assumption First Title Of Aquinas Lectures
Five speakers are scheduled for this year’s Aquinas Lenten Lectures, Mrs. Daniel O’Grady, chairman of the series, has announced.
The lectures, sponsored annually by the Aquinas Library of South Bend, will begin at 8:15 p.m. each Sunday in March at the Progress Club, 601 West Colfax Avenue.
The series will open March 2 with Dr. Charles deKonich, a leading philosopher and dean of the faculty of philosophy at Laval University, speaking on “The Dogma of the Assumption.”
On March 9 Rev. Stanley J. Kus-man, S.M., will discuss “Public Honesty and Integrity.” Fathei- Kusman, a former missionary and United States Army chaplain, is now profe.sor of philosophy at St. Mary’s University, San Antonio, Tex.
Monsignor Martin B. Hellriegel, of St. Louis, Mo., a founder of the Liturgical Movement in this country and now its most prominent leader, will lecture on “The High Mass” March 16.
A young Chicago couple, Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley, will speak March 23 on “The Role of the Family in the Church.” The Crowleys have been leaders in the Christian Family Movement in Chicago for several years.
The series ■will close March 30 with Rev. Matthew Miller, O.F.M., of Brookline, Mass., talking on “The Passion of Christ.” Father Miller is director of the Franciscan Apostolate of the Way of the Cross.
Tickets for the series may be purchased at the Aquinas Library or at the Progress Club box office.
20
Hermens Blames U.S. For German Troubles
Democracy in Germany is subjected to great stress and the situation is at least partially the fault of our omi commissions and omissions.
Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor of political science and a member of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, who recently returned from a State Department-sponsored tour of Germany, made this statement on the trend of political thought in occupied Europe.
Dr. Hermens visited Germany to study three problems: the establishment of political science chairs at German universities, the political activities of students, and the electoral problem in Germany.
The Notre Dame educator stated that the third problem is by far the most important, and sheds considerable light on the failure of the democratic system to operate successfully in Germany, France, and Italy.
Dr. Hermens emphasized that the German situation is not a failure of democracy, but “a failure by the American authorities to present democracy to the Germans in a workable fashion.” The German government is based on proportional representation, which allows every minute political group to seek representation as a separate party in the Chamber of Deputies (the German equivalent of Congress), he explained.
“The result is a hopeless division of power that weakens the government to the point of impotency,” Dr. Hermens pointed out. “There is nothing in the German people that intrinsically opposes democracy. The Germans haven’t had a chance to try our system in a workable fashion and as a result they despair of its value and many are inclined to turn to a ‘strong man’ kind of government.”
An example, says Dr. Hermens, is the present German confusion on the rearmament question. Immediately after World War II the American authorities told them that an army would be a menace both to European peace and to the prosperity of Germany.
“But now we ask them to join us in the European army. The result is confusion among the German people. The confusion would not be dangerous if there were a strong government in Germany that could guide the voters, but the present three-way coalition under Dr. Adenauer is too weak to control any safe majority, and the result is a most difficult situation.”
Despite the inefficiency of the present set-up the Germans, at least the Western sectors controlled by the United States, Britain, and France, are not turning to Communism, according to Dr. Hermens, who reports that the German people actually detest the Communist system and fear it.
He visited the Russian sector of Berlin and was astounded by the difference in living conditions and the lack of freedom in political thought. “Propaganda posters, pictures of Stalin and of the German Communist leaders are plastered all over,” he said, —“but no one in Berlin is impressed.”
As another failure of the American occupation authorities, Dr. Hermens mentioned the requirements imposed on Germany for the export of coal. They must export so much to France annually that there is not enough for domestic consumption.
The result is that Germany must import high-priced coal from the United States, and must still ration private use of coal. He explained that the average family’s ration for an entire winter' is one ton.
Dr. Hermens was educated at the University of Bonn, Germany, and has also received degrees from the Law School of the University of Paris and the London School of Economics. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1938.
University of Vienna Offers Summer Session in English
The University of Vienna will have an international summer session this year at Schloss Traunsee, in Salzkammergut, Austria.
The summer school, held in a 19th century castle, is in the Alpine lake region, near the festival town of Salzburg. The purpose of the school is to promote European-American cultural relations.
Courses, conducted in English, will be offered in law and political science, liberal arts, and German literature and language. Tours and excursions to the Salzburg Festivals, to Vienna, and to other places of interest are offered together with the program of study.
The inclusive cost for three weeks at Schloss Traunsee will be $100, and for six weeks $185. The school is on the list of European institutions approved by the Veterans Administration.
Interested students should write for further information and application blanks to the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York, 36, N. Y.
The Scholastic
WND SCHEDULE
WND Program Director Tom Knott released the details of the WND schedule for the Spring semester. The schedule will be followed essentially throughout the semester, making only such changes as are dictated by better programming.
DAILY SCHEDULE
11:45 a.m.—popular music
12:00 noon—world news
12:15—Luncheon with Lopez
12:30—Chas. Schubert’s 1230 Club
1:00—world news, afternoon musicale ।	2:00—world news, afternoon musicale
'	3:00—world news, classical music
4:00—world news, show time
"5:00—world news, weather, and Dining Hall menu
5:15—Rendezvous with Tom
5:30—Barnstorming: (M) Ray McKinley, (T) Tex Beneke, (W) Sammy Kaye, (T) Claude Thornhill, (F) Artie Shaw
5:45—dinner music
6:00—(M) Here’s to Vets, (T) Serenade in Blue, (W) United Na-
‘ tions, (T) Guest Star, (F) Holland Calling
6:15—Organaires
6:30—Personality Time
6:45—Campus News, Record Labels
7:00—Invitation to Music
7:30—(M) Music by Roth, (T) Meet the Press, (W) Music by Roth, (T) Rodin’s Top Men, (F) Music by Roth
8:00—(M) Story of Storyville, (T) Date at Eight, (W) Date at Eight, (T) Date at Eight, (F) Contemporary Jazz
8:30—(M) Festival of Waltzes, (T) NROTC, (W) Festival of Waltzes, (T) Singing Americans, (F) Festival of Waltzes
8:45—Music of Manhattan
9:00—Requestfully Yours
9:55—World news
10:00—Late Date with . . . (M) Peggy, (T) Fran, (W) Doris, (T) June, (F) Maggie
10:15—Sports Final
10:30—Flights of the Mind
10:55—Evening Meditations
11:00—sign off
SATURDAY
11:45—popular music
12:00 noon—world news
12:15—March of Time
12:30—Saturday Afternoon Requests
> J -	5:00—world news
5:15—Jumping Jacks
Capsule Corner.
GRAD NEEDS LETTERS
Robert Kelley of Allentown, Pa., a civil engineering graduate of the class of ’48, was hospitalized recently when struck by a swinging bucket of a steam shovel. Encased in a cast half the length of his body, he is hoping to hear from some ND men. His address is Room 304, Ohio Valley General Hospital, Wheeling, W. Va.
MOCK CONVENTIONS
Notre Dame is one of approximately 170 colleges and universities invited to
5:30—Masterworks from France
6:00—popular music
6:30—On the Town
7:00<—Saturday Record Party
9:00—We’re at the Palais
9:55—world news
10:00—Late Date with Jo
10:15—Sports Final
10:30—Music until Midnight
11:55—late news
12:00 midnight—sign off
• SUNDAY
8:00—Music in the Morning
9:00—morning news, Sunny Side of the Street
10:00—world news, Sunny Side of the Street
11:00—world	news, Buddy’s Wax
Works
12:00 noon—The Week in Review
12:15—Jump for Joe
1:00—Men Behind the Melody
1:30—So you want to be an announcer
2:00—Toohey’s Turntable
2:30—WND presents Grand Opera
5:30—This is Broadway
6:00—popular music
6:30—Gay Paris Music Hall
7:00—So Proudly We Hail
7:30—Global Turntables
8:00—Wayne King Serenade
8:30—Jazz with Chas.
9:00—The Night Watchman, world news
10:00—Late Date with Dinah
10:15—Sports Final
10:30—Music in the Night
10:55—Evening Meditations
11:00—sign off
send student delegates to mock political conventions to be held at Lindenwood College, near St. Louis, March 20-22. Republican and Democratic conventions will be held simultaneously on the campus of the women’s college.
Outstanding national figures from both parties will make keynote addresses, and delegates will conduct their conventions according to the traditional pattern.
GURIAN ADDS ANOTHER JOB
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, has been appointed to the Committee on Slavic Studies, established by the American Council of Learned Societies.
As a member of the Committee, Dr-Gurian also will serve on the editorial board of the Current Digest of the Soviet Press, a weekly publication which translates into English all important articles appearing in the Soviet press.
BUCKLEY: PRO & CON
The Henry Regnery Co. of Chicago, has announced a contest in which two prizes of $250 each are to be awarded for the two best essays submitted for and against the views of William Buckley’s God and Man at Yale. Typewritten manuscripts of approximately 3,000 words must be submitted to the Henry Regnery Co., 20 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4, Ill., no later than. March 31, 1952.
BIOLOGISTS HEAR SCHMIDT
Mr. Karl P. Schmidt, chief curator of zoology at the Chicago Natural History Museum, gave a lecture at the recent Biology Seminar here on “The Most General Aspects of Animal Geography.”
Mr. Schmidt spoke of the faunas of the world, their present distribution, the fossil records, and the dispersal of species of animals throughout geological time.
Mr. Schmidt is internationally known for his scholarly works in zoology.
February 15, 1952
21
I
Paul Hoffman Speaks A+ Studebaker Dinner
Paul Hoffman, former Studebaker president and ECA chief and present head of the Ford Foundation, will be the featured speaker at the Studebaker Centennial Banquet, to be held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall tomorrow evening. The South Bend Association of Commerce is sponsoring the event.
The guests will include Walter Reuther, president of the United Auto Workers, and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. Five of the seven directors of the Studebaker Corporation will be present.
Governor Harry F. Schricker of Indiana, Mayor John Scott of South Bend and Mayor Spencer Walton of Mishawaka will represent state and local interests.
Mr. George N. Beamer, president of the South Bend Association of Commerce will preside as toastmaster. He expressed his thanks to the University in these words: “The South Bend Association of Commerce is grateful to the University for the generous donation of its facilities for this momentous occasion in South Bend history.”
There will be a social hour in the Faculty Dining Room at 6 p. m. for the principal guests.
After the meal there will be an elaborate birthday cake ceremony with a presentation of the centennial colors: The Notre Dame Concert Band will provide entertainment while the Glee Club will sing a specially-composed centennial song.
Exactly 100 years ago to-morrow, Feb. 16, 1852, the brothers Clem and Henry Studebaker opened a blacksmith and wheelright shop in South Bend. In 100 years the company they founded has produced seven million vehicles and paid over two billion dollars in wages.
Profs Speak at Annual Law School Convention in Denver
Notre Dame’s College of Law was represented by two members of the faculty at the annual Convention of the Association of American Law Schools held recently in Denver. Dr. Anton-Hermann Chroust, professor of law, and John J. Broderick, assistant dean of the College of Law, presented papers to the convention.
Professor Broderick presented the report of the Committee on Cooperation with the Bench and Bar, entitled “The Place of Legal Ethics in the Law
22
Mass Schedule
Monday, Feb. 18—Feast of Saint Simeon
Tuesday, Feb. 19—Ferial Wednesday
Thursday, Feb. 21—Ferial Thursday
Friday, Feb. 22—Feast of the Chair of Saint Peter at Antioch
Saturday, Feb. 23—Feast of Saint Peter Damien
Mass of Sunday, Feb. 17, will contain an instruction on Vocations. Speakers will be: at the 7 o’clock Mass, Father Wilson; at 8, Father Robinson; at 9, Father Richard Murphy; at 10, Father Kehoe.
School Curriculum.” This work was presented after a survey of member schools and had as a conclusion the fact that almost without exception law schools agree that they have an obligation to give training that will promote high ethical standards in the legal profession.
Dr. Chroust meanwhile presented to the convention the main paper on jurisprudence entitled “Natural Law and the Positive Law,” which was followed by a discussion of it by three other scholars. Later he was honored by being elected chairman of the permanent Committee on Jurisprudence.
Other recognitions recently came to Dr. Chroust in the' publication by the Argentine Academy of Science of his article on the Nature of Natural Law. First published in 1947, his article was one of only eight which were selected from 400 submitted article's on Jurisprudence by leading American and English authors to be translated into Spanish.
CIGARETTE CONTEST ON AIR
Chesterfield cigarette representatives on campus are sponsoring a contest over the “Chaz and Jack” radio show (WND at 8 p.m.) next week. The contest will be conducted over the airwaves with the winner receiving a carton of Chesterfields.
Six Is First of Four Officers To Lead ND Band Until June
Junior class members won three of the four offices voted upon last Friday at the Notre Dame Band’s elections. Heading the marching blue and gold until June will be Dick Six, tenor saxophonist.
Trombonist Herb Dir, is the newly elected vice-president. The only senior
among the officers is Secretary Jack Johnson, clarinetist, Junior Bill Missi-mer, piano soloist who also plays the French horn, will serve as social chairman.
Director H. Lee Hope expressed satisfaction with the band’s rousing perfonn-ance at the Kentucky game in Chicago. Rehearsals and plans are well underway for the Spring concert tour, which will take the organization throughout the Midwest, .beginning Easter Sunday. An. innovation in ’this year’s tour program will be the presentation of a great majority of modern works.

Donations Near $1.5 Million In Testimonial Fund Drive
Since July 1, 1951, when the University of Notre Dame Foundation announced the dedication of gifts to the last year of the' presidency of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., under the compre- i hensive title of “The Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund,” $1,044,903.40 has been received in gifts.
Of this amount, $800,803.91 is restricted, and only a part of this restricted money is applicable to the broad $3,000,000 utilities program announced as the specific goal of the Fund by July, 1952.
But $244,099.49 has been received in unrestricted gifts, and the alumni and non-alumni donations from now until July are expected to be much more directly channelled into the projects of water, heating, power, and sewage disposal units needed to round out the great physical phases of the present administration’s expansion.
Of interest to ND students, as well as alumni, parents, and other friends, is the report on the' financial support received for sponsored research and in . gifts during the five years of Father Cavanaugh’s administration from July
1, 1946, to July 1, 1951.
The Scholastic
* Council Initiates Poll on Football Trip Site; Sends Delegates to UN, Political Conventions
Student Council officers appointed several delegates to investigate the possibility of sponsoring two student trips for next year’s football season at its weekly meeting last Monday night.
Discussion of the situation and a possible decision by the Council as to the final action to be taken may be effected at the next meeting Feb. 23, pending results of the student poll which the appointed delegates will take.
Proposals have indicated that both the Michigan State game - at East Lansing (Nov. 15) and the Navy contest at Cleveland (Nov. 1) have re-, ceived favorable attention.
A Revision Committee, composed of Floyd Blair, Tom Reedy, Ed Noonan and Larry Mullins, was also appointed to revise the outdated constitution presently in effect. It is expected that the necessary changes will be completed before the end of the current semester.
The Council added a supplementary amount of $30 to that of the Reco Sports Goods Co., which was also $30, to be used as prizes for the annual Spring fishing contest headed by Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C.
Delegates Will Attend ‘Conventions’
The Political Science Academy was authorized to send delegates to the mock political conventions at Lindenwood College, near St. Louis, March 21-23, and to the United Nations Con-. . vention at Madison, Wis., March 29-31. A sum of $144 was appropriated for the Lindenwood trip and $137 was granted for the United Nations delegation. The latter is a loan to be repaid by the Academy out of receipts obtained from the convention to be held here in April.
In addition to these appropriations, a donation of $300 was given to the South Bend March of Dimes drive in the name of the student body.
The Service Committee, under the leadership of Ed Noonan, was urged to solicit additional contributions to the St. Joseph’s Hospital blood bank from Notre Dame students.
A special committee was designed to confer with Mr. Ed Krause, Athletic Department head, in order to determine a joint policy of the Council and the Department of Athletics which would affect the various unrecognized athletic groups on campus. Included ' in the group are the Gymnastics, Bengal Bout, Sailing and Wrestling Clubs.
The committee is composed of Fred Mangialardi, Joe Gallagher, Jim Hutchinson, and Lou Garippo.
The rule which prohibits the use of hall bulletin boards to display campaign posters for other than class elections was also reaffirmed. The rule applies particularly to the various city and district clubs on campus.
Symposium Honoring S+urzo Here Feb. 20
A symposium honoring the anniversary of the birth of Dom Luigi Sturzo, Italian political and economic philosopher, will be held in the Law Auditorium Wednesday.
The series of discussions will be’ comprised of two sessions, starting at 3 and 8 p.m. respectively, in which five papers will be delivered on Sturzo.
Rev. Phillip Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame, will preside. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., will deliver the first paper of the afternoon in discussing the life and career of the Italian sociologist.
Professor E. K. Francis of the Department of Sociology will discuss Sturzo as a sociologist.
Sturzo’s views concerning the relation of Church and State will be presented by Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science in the third and final paper of the afternoon session.
In the evening session, Prof. A. R. Caponigri of the Philosophy department will discuss Sturzo’s general theory on the State in the first discussion, and Prof. F. A. Hermens of the Department of Political Science will give the final paper in discussing Sturzo’s views on the international community of nations. Fr. Moore will then conclude the proceedings of the symposium.
Other anniversary convocations in honor of the Italian priest are to be
AUTO REGISTRATION
Off-campus students who own and drive autos must register their new 1952 license numbers with the Prefect of Discipline’s Office by March 1.
Licenses from Indiana or other states which did not issue completely new plates this year need not be registered.
COUNCIL TOPICS
The next regular meeting of the Student Council will be held Monday night, Feb. 23, at 7:30 in Room 101 Law Building. Topics to be discussed include the following: 1) Results of a student poll concerning the possibility of two student trips for next football season; 2) Presentation of an activities pamphlet for Hall Councils.
held in Europe and South America, as well as in other parts of North America. However, the Notre Dame symposium is to be the only academic one.
Invitations have been extended to the world’s leading scholars, as well as all others who are’ interested. The papers which will be delivered during the symposium are to be published in Italy in the review, Humanitas^
Million Dollar Morris Inn Will Open Its Doors in April
Morris Inn, the campus hotel, is scheduled to open in April, with all its 92 rooms-with-bath ready for occu-’ pancy. The rates at the Inn range from $6 for a single room, and from $9 for a double.
So far as the construction is concerned, the workmen are accomplishing a great deal at present. Painting was completed early this week on the third floor, while the second story rooms are now in the same process. They are to be completed by the end of this month. The ground floor probably will be finished three weeks later, and the lobby during the succeeding three-week period.
The guestrooms are to be carpeted throughout the building, and this work is going on at present on the third floor. The carpenters are expected to complete the work there by Feb. 23.
Almost immediately upon completion of the carpeting, the room’s furniture will be installed about Feb. 25.
Asphalt tile is being laid in the lobby now, and the hardwood floors in the three private dining rooms are to be laid soon.
The centei* of great activity in any hotel—the kitchen—is supposed to have its equipment installed about March 1.
An air conditioning system which ventilates the lobby, dining room, and other public rooms, is completely installed. The plumbing and wiring work has been completed, though the various fixtures have not yet been attached.
February 15, 1952
23
COLLEGE IAIAII
Woman Driver: “The way this car runs makes me sick. What’ll it cost to put it in shape?”
Mechanic: “First, let me feel your purse.”
The doctor came out of the operating room and spoke to the anxious wife.
“Frankly,” he said, “I don’t like the way your husband looks at all.”
“Well,” replied the wife, “neither do I but he’s nice to the kids.”
“The baby swallowed my matches. What’ll I do?”
“Here, use my cigarette lighter.”
Dean: “So you cut classes again. What makes you stay away from school so much?”
Senior: “Class hatred.”
A college student is one who enters his alma mater as a freshman dressed in green, and emerges as a senior dressed in black. The intermediate process of decay is known as a college education.
Bob’s girl keeps talking about diamonds, diamonds, diamonds — nothing but diamonds. I don’t know what’s the matter with her—I guess she’s got rocks in her head.
First Student: You forgot to take off your pajamas this morning.
Second Student: No I didn’t. This is my ROTO uniform.
“Pat, why on earth did you ever join up with those Communists? Be ya daft?”
“No, Mike. The doctor told me I had only 10 days to live, and I figure it’s bettei- one of those Communists dies than a good Irishman.”
They dragged the' man down to jail and took him up to the desk sergeant. “What am I here for?” he asks.
“For drinking,” the sergeant replied.
“Good! When do we start?”
The minister’s daughter returned at three o’clock from a dance. Her father-greeted her sternly. “Good morning, child of the devil.” Respectfully and demurely, she replied: “Good morning, father.”
A history professor was lecturing to his class. “Now James, if the President of the United States should die, who would get the job?”
James thought a minute and then replied: “A Democratic undertaker.”
Brilliance: The biology department was at work trying to distinguish the sex of a Malayan Pangolon. The search ended when one of the more talented, a fat head, came up with a solution. “Rub sneezing powder on its nose. If he sneezes, it’s a male; if she sneezes, it’s a female.”
There was a fellow dancing with a strange girl who kept growing taller and taller, every time they went around the floor.
“What’s the idea?” the chap demanded of the girl finally. “What makes you taller every time we go around?”
“Don’t you know?” asked the girl. “I’ve got a wooden leg and you keep turning me the wrong way.”
A woman’s yawn may be annoying, but it’s a lot less dangerous than her sigh.
When a man marries he should pick a woman with a sense of humor, as the joke’s gonna dawn on her some day, and she might as well enjoy it.
Civilization: A scheme of things cooked up by women to make men work for them.
Golfer (deep in rough): “Say, caddy, why do you keep looking at your watch?”
Caddy: “It isn’t a watch, sir. It’s a compass.”
Waiter: “Can I help you with the soup, sir?”
Diner: “Help me? What do you mean?”
Waiter: “Well, sir, from the sound I thought you might wish me to drag you ashore.”
“Don’t worry,” said the motorist who had just run-down one of the farmer’s hogs. “I’ll replace your pig.”
“You can’t,” shouted the farmer.
“You ain’t fat enough.”
He: “Do you know what I’d do if I had fifty thousand dollars?”
She: “Marry me.”	.
Love is like an onion:
You taste it with delight, And when it’s gone you wonder
Whatever made you bite.
THE STUDENT COUNCIL OF NOTRE DAME
Statement of Operations
For the First Semester of the *51-'52 Schoohear
RECEIPTS:
From 1951-’52 Student Council........... § 612.43
From Victory Dances .........-.......... 2.188.78
For NFCCS ................................ 950.00
From flower concession ................... 105.63
Delinquent club fine ....................... 5.00
Total receipts ......................... $3,861.84
DISBURSEMENTS: Petty cash ........................ $	20.00
Freshman Orientation —.............. 171.26
NFCCS expenses ..................... 475.50
Presidential expenses .—............. 95.30
Pep rallies ..............-......... 126.28
Class petty cash funds ............. 100.00
Office salaries, expenses .......... 129.55
Blue Circle budget .................. 57.00
Hall Decorations weekend ............ 84.85
Subscriptions ....................... 15.00
Soph Cotillion expenses* ............ 52.00
Grants to hall councils ............. 40.00
Office decoration contest ........... 25.00
Loss on Engineers’ Ball ............ 114.12
Broadcast of Marquette game .... 50.00 Loss on Commerce News ............... 40.00
Mise, bills to Univ................. 154.69
Expenses, 1950-’52 S. C............. 433.03
Total disbursements ..................   $2,183.58
Net worth ................................ $1,678.26
* A profit of approximately $250.00 has not yet been turned into the Student Council.
BALANCE SHEET AS OF FEB. 4. 1952
Cash in Victory Dance fund ....$ 693.00
Cash in Student Council fund.... 269.10
Cash reserved for NFCCS ........ 474.50
Accounts Receivable   ........... 241.66
Net worth ............................... $1,678.26
These records and statements have been prepared bv
LOUIS B. GARIPPO.
Treasurer, Student Council
24
The Scholastic

Irish Boxers Meet Purdue Here Tonight
Notre Dame Boxing Club in Initial Contest; First Intercollegiate Ring Match Since 1927
By ROGER FERNANDES
BECKER, DREW, FIORELLA, SMITH, WINDISHAR, BAUTE, COTTER, BROWN, BICKERT, GARLAND, CHISHOLM, LALLY
Have spent the last three weeks working for berths
Eight top Notre Dame fighters will meet representatives of the Purdue boxing club this evening at 7:30 in the fieldhouse in the University’s first boxing encounter with another school since 1927. The best fighter in each of eight weight classes will participate.
Fifty Fighting Irish under the tutelage of Dominic Napolitano have spent the last three weeks trying out for berths on the ND team tonight, and the following are among the leading contenders for the right to meet the Purdue pugilists:	'
In the 127-pound class the top men at the moment are Geary Becker and Sal Fiorella. Geary, a junior, won the Bengal championship in this division la.Su year while Fiorella, a senior, was the 1950 champion and last year's run-i.ervp. e	’
Pat Drew and Leo Hickey are battling for the right to represent Notre Dame in the 135-pound class. Both are juniors and participated in last year’s Bengal Bouts.
Four Seniors Head 160-Pounders
Among the leading contenders in the 140-pound division are two sophomores, Pat Lally and Leonard Lapinski who received their baptism of leather at Notre Dame as Bengal Bouters.
Leopold Vigil, a junior, has seen action in two previous Bengal Bouts, and his chief rival for the honors in the 145 weight section is a newcomer with no previous Bengal Bout experience, sophomore William Guilfoile.
Four seasoned seniors are battling for the two possible 160-pound slots.
(Continued on Page 31)
ND to Battle Pitt in Revenge Tilt Monday
By BOB FROLICHER
When the Irish take the floor against Pittsburgh Monday they will be all out to seek revenge for an earlier setback by the Panthers. The Irish eagers were lashed at Pitt, Jan. 28, 62-55. Another motive is to shake off the recent slump the eagers have hit in the latter half of the season.
The meeting of the two teams Monday will close the home season for the Irish and will also be the last home tilt for a number of veteran monogram winners. The game marks the twenty-third clash between the two schools, and Pitt is one of the few schools to hold an edge over Notre Dame with a record of 12 wins and 10 losses. The home-away series started in 1927, and this year was the first season the teams met since 1938.
Irish Lost on Free Throws
Free throws which have been an important factor in the last few games also turned the tables on the Irish at Pitt. Both teams finished the game . with 22 buckets but ND was outscored at the charity line.
Coach Doc Carlson will undoubtedly count on the same starting five of forwards Dick Dietrick, Mike Zernich, center Don Verostek, and Art Boyd and Clarence Burch, guards, to repeat the feat. Zernich was the workhorse of the evening, dropping 19 points through the hoop, 13 of which came in the surging third quarter. .
The hoopsters started off last week’s activities by taking Northwestern at Evanston, 75-69. The Irish had to surge from behind with two minutes left to put the game on ice. This time Notre Dame- took advantage of the charity line, hitting with deadly ac-
25
February 15, 1952
LEROY LESLIE
Broke a three year record
curacy and netting 21 of 25. Leroy Leslie topped all scoring of the evening garnering 20 points and followed closely by teammate Joe Bertrand who sunk 17.
Marquette Jolts Irish
The Irish then returned to their home court to tangle with Marquette. After the first few minutes of the game it appeared like an easy victory for Jordan’s boys, but before the final whistle blew the Irish knew they were in a ball game, finally dropping it ■ 57-50. The eagers did nothing right, playing their worst floor game of the season and hitting on only 18 of 81 shots from the floor. Hilltopper Pete Basarich led the scoring with 16 points, while Bertrand with 12 topped the Irish.
St. Louis was the site of the final game of the week and Notre Dame suffered their worst defeat of the year as the Billikens poured it on to the tune of 80-58. The only accomplishment the Irish could get out of the game was by Leroy Leslie. Leslie tallied 22 points to break a three-year record of 855 and boost his total thus far to 863. Ray Steiner of Billikens did everything right and dropped 31 points through the bucket to tie a record for his team.
Notre Dame Cindermen Blast Missouri; « Jack Alexander Breaks ND Mile Record
By BILL NOONAN
Notre Dame’s indoor track version of the Fighting Irish came into its own last Saturday as they humbled a good Missouri cinder team, 73 2/3-39 1/3 before a home crowd in the field house. The Tigers came to the campus with a cast including eleven lettermen from last year’s outfit which handed ND its worst defeat in track history, 105-26.
The boys from the show-me state started as if they meant to take up from where they left off last year as they copped the first two field events with Ronnie Salmons besting Jack Cunningham of the Irish with a heave of 44 feet 8 inches in the shot put and Mizzou’s Gordon, with a leap of 6 feet, 2 inches, grabbing high jump honors; ND’s Hassenger and Hughes Wilcox finished in a three-way tie with Horn of Missouri for the No. 2 spot.
The rest of the events, except for the 60-yard high hurdles and the two-mile, were all Notre Dame.
Probably the most sparkling performance of the day was turned in by the Irish’s Jack Alexander in the mile. The Canadian flash glided around the banked track in 4:21.1, establishing a new meet record, beating by 4/10 that of Bill Leonard of ND, set in 1940. Bob Fox of the Tigers, who finished second to Alexander in the mile, established a meet record of his own in the two-mile run, bettering by seven sec
Worst defeat in Notre Dame’s track history avenged
onds the old mark set by Missouri’s McGuire in 1950. Fox snapped the tape a quarter-lap ahead of his nearest ND competitor, Harry Snyder. Ben-ney Almaguer of the Irish came in third.
Another record came close to biting the dust also when ND’s Jim Harrington tied the 13-foot pole vault mark set by Notre Dame’s Jim Miller in. 1950. Joe Springer captured his second consecutive runner-up spot in two weeks with a vault of 12 feet, 6 inches.
Blp; Seven Champ Loses
The workhorse of the dual meet was lanky Hughes Wilcox. Besides tying foi’ second in the high jump, Wilcox sprinted to a fast 50.9 victory in the quarter-mile and ran anchor leg in the Irish mile relay triumph. The time of this event was a snappy 3:24.3 which bettered by 3 7/10 seconds last week’s winning time over Michigan State. Mc-• Donough, Begley, and Feltes ran the other legs in that order.
The 60-yard dash saw Big 7 sprint champ Byron Clark of Missouri finish out of the money behind Captain “Bucky” Ewing and Dave Foy of the Irish and his own teammate, Adam Fischer. For Ewing, it was his second straight victory, having won out over Foy last week in Lansing. The Irish captain’s time was :06.4 seconds. Harvey Newquist of the Irish also gained
26
The Scholastic
JIM HARRINGTON
Record almost bites dust
his second triumph in two weeks as he took the 60-yard low hurdles in :07.3 seconds. This was an all-Notre Dame finish as Newquist was followed by teammates Ed Powell and John Cam-pagnonc. In the 60-yard highs, Powell and Newquist trailed the Tiger’s Bill Fessler, who zoomed over the pines in :07.9. In a great stretch battle, Con Tetrault of the Wilsonmen nosed teammate John Mohar in the 880-yard run. The time for the half-mile was 1:56.5. Joe Heap, grid halfback with only two _ weeks of track practice, won the broad •5? jump for Notre Dame with a 21-foot, 7-inch leap. Tony Genovese of the Irish placed second.
Possessing a one-won, one-lost record in dual meets, the Irish make a return trip to East Lansing, Michigan, this week to be one of the many colleges and universities to participate in the 30th Annual Michigan State Relays. All in all, some 400 athletes are vying for honors in this early preview of American Olympic prospects. Full teams are expected from the Big Ten schools. Michigan Normal and Wayne, :	besides Coach Wilson’s aggregation.
s	Teams from the Southwest, South and
£	East will compete, though probably
£	with smaller delegations. Consisting of
f	the usual 19 events, the finals of the
-	meet will be held at night with the
preliminaries in the afternoon. On j their performance against Missouri, the IgQj Irish look as if they could make a ’ more-than-respectable showing in this ’ second trip to Jenison Fieldhouse.
Notre Dame's Skilled Fencers Impressive In Triumphs Over Ohio State, Hawheyes
By KEN MURPHY
Notre Dame’s experienced fencing team showed it isn’t resting on its laurels, as Coach Walter Langford’s men swept a doubleheader from the Ohio State Buckeyes and the Iowa Hawkeyes last Saturday in the drill hall. The Irish, by downing State, 16-11 and Iowa, 15-12, improved their season record to 3-1, and proved that they are out to duplicate last year’s distinction of having the best record of any athletic squad representing the University.
The Irish started off badly in each clash, dropping the epee to the Buckeyes, 6-3 and to Iowa by the same score. Brian Duff, however, did a sterling job of keeping Notre Dame in contention by taking half of the six Irish victories in both matches. Schneider paced Ohio State with three victories in as many tries, while Feldman duplicated the feat for Iowa in this event.
Notre Dame came back in the sabre to outscore Ohio State, 7-2, and go into the lead as Chuck Daschle started off his big day with three straight wins. The Irish then clinched the Buckeye encounter with a 6-3 win in
NOTRE DAME’S GRAHAM (r.) BATTLES IOWA’S ALLEN IN SABRE The team showed it wasn’t resting on its laurels
the foil. Jim Jacobs led the Irish in this clash with three straight wins, while Clegg gained two of Ohio State’s three decisions, losing only to the hot Jacobs.
Jacobs Has Perfect Day
Notre Dame also used the sabre to advantage in the Iowa encounter, as they came from behind to tie the match with a 6-3 win. Daschle finished out his great day with three more wins for the Irish and Paul Gibbons backed him up with two important decisions in this event. Notre Dame clinched the victory with a 6-3 win in the foil. Jacobs finished out his perfect day for the Irish with two wins, giving him five for the day, and teammate John Mooney added two more, giving him four out of five for the day. Craig took two of Iowa’s decisions in this last clash.
Possibly Notre Dame would have done better in the epee, had it not been for the fact that Ernie Franz-grote could not compete because of a broken finger suffered last week in the Michigan State fracas. •
In the other match of the three-way meet, Ohio State tripped Iowa, 19-8.
February 15, 1952
27
C&ack

By Jack Varley
Tonight, for the first time in 25 years, local boxing fans will have the opportunity to witness a team composed of Notre Dame boxers match a boxing team of another college. It should be an outstanding attraction. Bengal Bouters Joe Brown, Dick Cotter, Tom Chisholm and Dick Windishar should make Notre Dame’s debut into the intercollegiate boxing world a successful one.
Intercollegiate Rules to Be Used
The seven or eight bouts will be staged in the Field House on the basketball court and will adhere to intercollegiate rules. Each bout is to be worth one point, the winner adding his point to the team’s total. The scoring in the individual bouts goes like this—each man has ten points at the beginning of each round and loses one when he is knocked down or fouls. He receives a point for aggressiveness, offense, defense, ring tactics and sportsmanship. The points determine the winner of the round and if after three rounds the two combatants each have one round with one even the total points are added up to determine the winner. Under intercollegiate rules, there is never a draw.
With two weeks of the basketball season left and six games, we have been juggling our lineup around to find a winning combination.
At St. Louis last Saturday night, we ran into a very hot ball club, and a good one too. Under the circumstances they were a better club on that night.
At Butler on Monday night, it was Notre Dame spirit that helped us come from behind to win in the last quarter. We have found a new starter in Jack Reynolds from New Jersey, who sparked the team on to win.
In our remaining home game with Pittsburgh, I hope the student body will help us to avenge a previous defeat at Pitt.
Contest, Not a Brawl
Dominic Napolitano, coach of the Irish boxers, stresses that collegiate boxing is a contest, never a bloody brawl. If at anytime during the fight the referee decides the match is uneven he is required to stop it. Also an open cut on a fighter requires a halt of the affair. As an added safety precaution all fighters will wear head guards and the combatants in the first four weight classifications will use 12-ounce gloves while the heavier classes will use the 14-ounce.
The Possible Fouls
Under the rules being used there are 20 possible fouls:
1.	Hitting opponent who is down
2.	Hitting below belt
3.	Kicking with the knee
4.	Hitting on the back
5.	Butting
6.	Any blow on the back of the neck
7.	Hitting with the elbow
8.	Hitting with an open glove
9.	Pulling and hitting
10.	Holding and hitting
11.	Hanging on to opponent
12.	Wrestling
13.	Both competitors wrestling
14.	Hitting with forearm
17.	Any use of the ropes
18.	Clinching with straight arms
19.	Holding opponent’s arm
20.	Complete passive defense
Interhall Swimming Meet To Be Held on February 27
The annual interhall swimming meet will be held at the Rockne Memorial on the 27th of this month at 7:30 p.m. Gil Burdick, University swimming director, announced this week.
Competition will be on a team basis but awards will be given to individual winners. The awards consist of thirty-nine medals of gold, silver, and bronze,
BOXING ADMISSION
Students will be admitted to the Purdue-Notre Dame boxing match upon presentation of ID cards. The match will begin at 7:30 tonight in the Fieldhouse. Students are asked to use the same entrance as used for basketball games.
Track Stars Among the Elite
When hurdler Harvey Newquist, sprinter Paul Ewing and pole vaulter Jim Harrington travel to East Lansing tomorrow to represent Notre Dame in the 30th annual Michigan State Relays, they will certainly be competing among the elite. Purdue entry Denis Johanssen, holder of the 15,000 and 5,000-meter run Finnish titles, who hopes to represent Finland on the Olympic team; Jim Golliday of Northwestern who has tied the National AAU 100-meter at 10.3, Thane Baker of Kansas State who is the Big Seven dash champion and Jerry Wel-bourn of Ohio State, a 13-6 pole vaulter, are just some of the very prominent track men among the 400 athletes entered.
for the first, second, and third place entry in each event. A man may enter three events. The events will take place in this order:
1)	150-yard medley relay—three men take part; the first swims backward, second, the breaststroke, and the third, the crawlstroke (freestyle).
2)	200-yard freestyle.
3)	50-yard freestyle.
4)	50-yard breaststroke.
5)	Diving (low board) each man will have four required dives, three op-tionals.
6)	50-yard backstroke.
7)	100-yard freestyle.	j
8)	200-yard freestyle relay (four ' men).
28
The Scholastic
The Kampus Keglers in Action
by Jack Sand
With the resounding crash, and canon-like echo of the falling pins, Notre Dame’s unheralded Kampus Keglers Bowling Association moves into its sixth season of league competition with the same coherence and unity that began with the organization back in 1947.
Ever since Ernie Hoffman, the league’s first president, started the ball rolling, the Kampus Keglers have developed into one of the finest and most widespread clubs on campus. At the time of its resurrection, the University was in the midst of trying to return to a peace-time basis, since the world war II veterans of that period flooded the campus to take advantage of the GI bill. But it was these same vets who formed the nucleus of this newly founded organization, and to them ! most of the credit is due.
Movies Included
I	Predominantly because of the step-
ped-up program of wartime intercollegiate sports, which made it impossible for the majority of the students to compete, Hoffman, along with Jim Jenne-i wein then secretary, established a bowling league consisting of twelve teams, with the hope of affording some kind of competition and recreation for those who were interested. Its main purpose was more or less social, in order to promote friendship among the individuals themselves and to help instill some of that great Notre Dame spirit, which was somewhat carried away during the war years. But aside from the social aspect, the league brought about a keen sense of rivalry and sportsman-„ ship, and constituted a great pastime to while away the dreary hours of a typical dormant Sunday afternoon.
The physical requirements conduci '■ to bowling have aided in many ways to provide all those who could lift a six-teen-pound ball and roll it sixty feet down the hardwood alley a chance to display their talents. Unlike football or basketball, it takes no giant or muscle man to pound the tenpins with a fair amount of accuracy. Known as
LOU GARIPPO
The other side of college life
America’s “greatest indoor sport,” bowling has captured the eye of millions for the past two decades, and has produced many a top-flight performer in its field.
In actuality this new bowling organization went through 1947 in an experimental manner, but since it. was so tremendously successful, the following year saw an even greater interest as exemplified by its expansion to thirty-six teams, divided into a Blue and Gold league, with eighteen teams in each. Hoffman, once again at the helm, received the man-of-the-year award for his achievements and all around activities.
The season of 1948 was a 'banner year for the keglers in many respects, and with the vets still lingering around individual averages soared higher than ever before, with 195 and 200 commonly seen on the score sheets. It was also a record breaking year, due mainly to the fact that these older groups of men enjoyed the expansionist movement of the loop, thus bringing about a better brand of bowling. The highest total three-game series rolled to date, was recorded that season in a playoff match by Jack Rine, whose professional-like 648 pinfall has yet to be reached.
linnauet in ’-19
In the same formidable style that the league underwent all season, a fitting climax took place in the Spring of 1949 with a grand banquet being held in the Mayfair Restaurant in Mishawaka. Hughie Burns, the Fighting Irish’s famous football trainer, and a
February 15, 1952
29
pretty good bowler in his own right, was on hand to laud the work of the keglers, and presented each of the leading individuals with bowling trophies which has been an annual presentation ever since.
The following season of 1949-50 saw a completely younger set of bowlers move into the limelight, taking over from the vets, most of whom had left via graduation. But with their disappearance from the campus, also disappeared many a top-notch kegler, and the formerly well-knit organization began to lose its color. Jennewein, then .president, and Mike Pairulli the vice-president did very well though, despite the lagging interest, which seemed to characterize this younger and more inexperienced group.
With Pairulli now at the reins, the 1950-51 season returned to normalcy, . with the newcomers of ’49 becoming the veterans of ’50. The league showed an overall renewal of interest and the competition once again became sharp. The averages weren’t as high as they had been in previous years, but that was mostly due to the amateur tinge that surrounded the league.
The annual bowling banquet was again held in the Mayfail- Restaurant, and as attested to by all those 'who attended, it was one of the finest ever given by a Notre Dame Club. The usual trophies ■ for the highest individual average, highest three-game total, high single game, and the league champ were awarded, with the Detroit Club and Jim Shannon walking off with most of them. A feature attraction of the evening was the doorprize of a bowling ball being won by Bob Stefkovich.
League Betters Student Relations
This year, the Keglers have hit a new peak, comparing to that of the ’48 season in which strong teams equally balance both leagues. Unlike the former seasons, the Keglers have opened the campaign a few weeks in advance, in order to be able to wind up the year earlier in the Spring when the interest usually tends to slacken. This year’s president Lou Garippo, is doing a remarkably commendable job in keeping the organization well under control, and from the outlook thus far, it seems as if the Kampus Keglers will always remain a major part of the University’s extra curricular activities.
According to President Garippo, the league this season is out to foster better relations among the students, and offers them the opportunity of taking part in the other side of college life.
30
Approximately 250 potential bowlers get a chance to participate in the three weekly matches, since each of the 36 clubs can carry a roster of seven men. The association is based on the stipulation that each member of a particular authorized club is from the state or city which that club represents. In this way different sections of the country can compete equally with each other.
Inexpensive and Satisfying
As. expected, there is always some criticism that crops up in any organization, but as far as the Kampus Keglers are concerned, there is very little to complain about; except those who maintain that it’s too expensive to roll every week. But when it actually comes right down to it, the cost of bowling three games a week is little more than it would be to take in a show. The satisfaction that accompanies a few strikes and a nice 200 game, is enough to make it worthwhile
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 16—FENCING. Northwest e r n and Wisconsin at Evanston.
16—TRACK. Michigan State Relays at E. Lansing.
18—BASKETBALL. Pittsburgh ac Notre Dame.
for anyone who takes the least bit of interest in the game.
Ask any one of the Keglers’ six officers and they’ll tell you the same thing, for they’re the ones who are running the show, because they want to interest young men like yourself in something that is good, wholesome, and entertaining, and something that takes a little bit of know-how on your part.
Each week a list of the club standings and individual averages, are posted by the Keglers, not only to keep the members of the league up to date, but to arouse the interest in those who would like to know a little something about the organization. The three computers of this bowling sheet, secretary Ernie Buckley, Bob Rose and Al Piasio, deserve much of the credit in keeping this year’s members well-informed on the activities of the league.
So to all who would like to watch some really high-class competitive bowling, why not drop downtown to the Bowl-Mor Alleys on Michigan Street between one and four some Sunday afternoon, and take a look at the keglers of Notre Dame splattering those tenpins for all their worth.
Detroit, Irish Lead Kampus Kegler Action
By JACK SAND
In one of the most hotly contested scramble's in Kegler history, the Irish Club moved out in front of the Blue League by virtue of its four point victory over New England, and the De-- troit Club blasted its way farther to the top of the Gold loop by trouncing the Rochester Club in another clean sweep.
Once again it was Detroit’s Jerry Ledwidge proving too much for the opposition in leading the parade with a 522 series, followed by teammates Jim Shannon and Dick Eyal, with 468 and 457 respectively.
Italian Club Second
U’
Italian Club found it rough going as they battled to an even split with the Erie Club, losing two out of three games, but taking the total pinfall by five pins. Don Carillo with 504 and Lou Garippo’s 502 paced the Italians, while Tony Zam-broski led Erie with a 489 set.
Coming along in fine style, the fourth place AIEE moved into a tie for third place with the ASME, as they racked up three points from the previously third place St. Louis Club. A trio of seniors led the Engineers, with Joe Scherer registering 495, Ray Tritz, 486, and Roger Dexheimer, 484. For the Saints, Art Henken’s three game series of 527, and Bob Hoyenck’s 517 set were not enough to stem the tide of the oncoming engineers.
Another group of engineers, the mechanical, or ASME, found it easy A going as they rolled over the- NROTC in copping four more points to bring their season’s total to 25. Dave Price with 468, was high man for the Mechanics. Another important result saw the up and coming California Club move into fifth place by picking up three more wins and four points over the sagging Cleveland Club.
Irish Lead in Blue
Over in the Blue loop, while the Irish Club gained another four points to break a first place tie with Buffalo, the latter dropped one game out of four to the Architects, thus falling a point behind the Irishmen. Pacing the Buffalo boys was John O’Brien whose 518 series was tops for both teams.
Meanwhile, the Civil Engineers who were- also tied for first place, took it on the chin from a red-hot Kansas City Club in losing two matches out of three.
The Scholastic
The Kansans are now knotted with the “ Civies” for the third spot with 26 points apiece. Phil Schroer’s high series of 520, plus a pair of 509 three-game' sets by Gene Andrisevic, and Bill Allen, gave Kansas the decided advantage, especially in the first game when the combined five man team rolled a beautiful 1000 series to place’ themselves third in that department of the league.
Among the notable feats of last week’s bowling was the terrific performance turned in by New Jersey’s Bob Stef-kovich, who pounded the maples for a 567 series, with scores of 164, 197, and 206. This brilliant effort places him in a second place tie with George Klee for individual three game honors. Ray Bara still holds the top slot with 577. Stefkovich, along with Terry Brady’s 524 set, aided in piling up a three game team total of 2798 to put the still hope-ful Jerseyites, who could become the spoilers of the circuit, in the runner up spot in that department.
Purdue-Notre Dame Boxing
(Continued from Page 25)
Dick Windishar won the title last year in the Bengals while Tom Chisholm was runner-up. The two other candidates are Dan Finn and Bill Sideler. Finn was the title winner in the alternate 177-pound class last winter.
Brown, Cotter Are Favorites
Joe Brown, 167-pound champion in the ’51 Bengals, is almost a certainty to represent Notre Dame in the 175-pound division.
Dick Cotter is a strong favorite among the heavyweights. A law stu-dent, Cotter belted his way to the title spot among the heavies in the ’51 Bengals with a knockout victory over rugged Bill Flynn. Seniors Jerry Hagman and Charley King are other heavyweight contenders.
J
Phi Beta Kappa Plans Stalled
Plans for a chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa honor fraternity are at a temporary standstill awaiting results from an investigation at William and Mary College in Virginia. The Student Council, heading the action to get the honor organization for the university, has been unable to get any information concerning the outcome of the investigation.
The organization, which is primarily for academic achievement, will be open only to those who are academically qualified. There are other Phi Beta Kappa chapters at universities throughout the country.
McIntyre's Band Replaces Thornhill for Junior Prom
With the contracting of Hal McIntyre as the Junior Prom band, preparations for the April 25 event got into full swing this week. McIntyre replaces the previously considered Claude Thornhill because of the latter’s sudden disbanding. Chairmen Floyd Blair and Jim Hutchinson have announced that there will be intermission entertainment by a combo still undecided on.
A Name A Theme Contest was held this week to determine what decorations and theme would be used for the prom. The winner receives a free ticket and corsage for his date.
The heads of the various committees have also been announced. They are: Ed Condon, business manager; Dick Harvey, entertainment; Tom Reedy, publicity; Len Lerose, favors; Tom Stahl and John Dasek, decorations; Joe McDade, hotel rooms; Joe David and Jim McIntyre, refreshments; Jerry Boehling, tickets; and Joe McInerney, miscellaneous.
Bids will go on sale the first week of March. The price is still unannounced.
Plan Free Casting Lessons For Notre Dame's Anglers
Two representatives of the South Bend Bait Co. will be on hand in the Drill Hall next Tuesday and again in March to give free casting lessons to all interested ND students.
Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., with the cooperation of the Student Council, arranged for the men, Barney Van Lue and Steve Barany, to come' to Notre Dame. Mr. Van Lue will give lessons with a casting rod and Mr. Barany with a fly rod. The sessions will all be held on Tuesday evenings at 7:30 p.m., Feb. 19, March 4, and March 11.
Father Baldwin, who originated the idea, started casting practice' in the Drill Hall this winter to give the campus anglers a chance to get together in the winter months and unlimber their casting arms for the Spring fishing contest.
Father urges all who own a rod to attend Tuesday night.
NFCCS Apostolic Chapter Extends Missal Sales Drive
The four religious organizations on campus, working through the Apostolic Chapter of the NFCCS, will participate at the end of this month in a Missalselling campaign throughout the school. Salesmen will try to reach all the stu
dents in their rooms. Earlier this year the Chapter sponsored a similar campaign in Zahm Hall with a great deal of success.
Lenten adoration, which will start in about two Weeks, -will also be handled this year by the Apostolic Chapter. Each man who signs for adoration will be reminded each week by .card of the time he signed for.
This chapter of the NFCCS will also be in charge of the May Day ceremonies as they were' last year. In all these projects, the organizations which will participate are the Third Order of St. Francis, YCS, the Liturgy Club, and the Knights of Columbus.
—ADVENTURE-x 35 Days-From 9309 Offered by America's largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Less lours MEXICO, The Scenic I ■ West, Alaska, South America, Bermuda or The Orient.
Our 19th Year
See your local representative or write to:
STUDENTS IMTIRMATKHIAI. TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
----545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 17 • MU 7-02M
A 20% DISCOUNT ON
ALL CLEANING AND
PRESSING FOR
NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus line
February 15, 1952
31
World Federalism—Pro
(Continued from Page 16) the power to settle crucial international conflicts and disagreements on the basis of equal justice under law.
This will not he an easy task. It can not be accomplished quickly. It will require determined effort, patient devotion and great faith in democratic principles. It must involve fuller implementation of the present provisions of the UN Charter. It demands universal membership of all the nations at the earliest practicable' moment.
The current proposals by the United States for a world-wide arms census,
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
ATTENTION MEN!
Do you need a typewriter?
Don’t rent an old machine
Rent a new portable or late model standard. Forbes' PLAN permits 3 months' rental as purchase credit if you desire.
Forbes Typewriter Co.
Forbes Bldg., 228 W. Colfax, Opp. Tribune
AQUINAS Library and
Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
110 EAST LaSALLE
followed by UN inspected disarmament, would be an important step in this direction. Many people' express the opinion that attacking- the problem of disarmament is only attacking a symptom of world disunity, not its cause. While it is certainly true that there are many issues dividing the East and the West besides the power struggle and the mutual fear of armed attack, it is equally true that the great feai‘ by each of the other’s armed forces is a major stumbling block to the settlement of any of the other issues. For this reason, a ' basis for foolproof inspected and enforceable regulation of all national armaments may be the key to the logjam. By assuring security against military aggression to both East and West, it can markedly reduce the explosive and divisive fear and tension now prevalent. For example, Germany would no longer be a key piece in the power struggle'. It would not be a threat to Russian (or neo-Nazi) control. The grave moral problem of rearming Japan as a part of the power struggle would disappear.
Threat of War Absent
Certainly there would remain issues of conflict and disagreements, but in the absence of the threat of a devastating war, there would be more time and more disposition to gradually work out reasonably satisfactory arrangements for most of them, at least arrangements to “live and let live.” I therefore believe that we are indeed attacking a key point in world tension and disorder by seeking UN regulation of the armed might of all nations. I further believe it attacks world disorder in an area of great popular support and agreement. In spite of difference in culture, language, economic development, religion, etc., the vast majority of peoples everywhere' would like to be relieved of the burden of armaments and of the fear of armed aggression. It is therefore powerful and effective world politics to initiate and support practical proposals in this direction. I believe that, by pushing these proposals with all the resources at our command, by obtaining the support and adherence' of a large part of the non-Soviet world, we can actually, by force of external and internal public opinion, and by reason of practical economic and military considerations, achieve Soviet acceptance of such proposals—although it will certainly, at the very least, require a bitter and determined political struggle in the UN.
Even if unsuccessful in obtaining Soviet concurrence, such a campaign will nevertheless be of vital significance in making clear to the world that we do not seek war and that we are ready to end the arms race on terms which will
provide for the liberty and security of all nations. It will then clearly unmask Qj the phony peace propaganda of the Soviet Union.
The Economic Viewpoint
In addition to reasons of security and freedom from fear, another great force for acceptance of UN Charter revisions to establish a UN federal government with authority to effectively regulate all armaments is the economic argument. Not only will we be relieved of the crippling economic burden imposed by armaments, but we will be able to divert to world development some of the vast resources of time, effort and money which will no longer be required for armament and war. In this way we can, through the various UN agencies, such as World Health Organization, UN Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization, Food and Agricultural Organization and International Trade Organization, more A effectively undertake the war against want, hunger, ignorance and disease.
I therefore believe we are acting on a firm, practical basis in advocating that the UN be given increased authority in the vital area of anus regulation. If the UN is to be given really effective authority and power, even in this narrow but all-important area, it seems to me we must give very serious thought to some important revisions of the UN Charter so that this authority will be safely and responsibly exercised.
The General Assembly in this event becomes a legislative body with defined and limited powers to establish arms regulations equally binding on all nations. These armament laws must be enforceable against individuals. Representation in the General Assembly must reflect the power and influence of the nations and therefore must be based on both population and economic development. All representatives to the General Assembly should be elected by their constituents.
The Security Council must become the Executive Agency, with power to implement the provisions of the charter and the decisions of the Assembly. Adequate provision must be made to circumvent a big-power veto on matters of international security.
Progress Has Been Made
The World Court must be the judicial branch to adjudicate disagreements and to interpret the charter and the acts of the Assembly within the area of authority delegated to the UN on the basis of equal justice for all.
There is on the agenda of the UN General Assembly for 1955 a Charter Review Conference. We must be pre- O pared to press for this program at that
32
The Scholastic
time. Already great strides have been made. In a thoughtful statement to delegates from the Fourth Congress of the World Movement for World Federal Government, at Rome’ in April, 1951, Pope Pius XII joined the many world leaders who have publicly supported this goal. Public opinion has so dramatically swung to support of these general goals that our government has now embarked on a step-by-step build-up of the UN into a limited federal authority. At London in September, 80 members of parliaments from fifteen nations, including two from the United States, held the first semi-official meeting of government representatives aimed at establishment of a world government. They there adopted a stirring statement of fundamental federalist principles and established a “World Association of Parliamentarians for World Government” to translate their objective into political reality.
With determined responsible American leadership, we can achieve this goal! We can thus bring hope and opportunity for self-development to the technical ly-backward areas of the world. We will open the door to a great era of economic development, of increasing human freedom and of growing moral responsibility. This is a goal worth our noblest effort!
Announce July 17-20 as Date Of Annual Vocation Institute
The sixth annual convocation of the Vocation Institute will be held July 17-20 on the Notre Dame campus, Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., director of the Institute, has announced.
J The Vocation Institute, which has expanded from a one-day session to a four-day series of conferences and discussions, annually attracts nearly 400 priests, Brothers and Sisters from all parts of the United States.
In addition, more than 150 others— diocesan and religious directors of vocations, directors of novices and postulants, youth counsellors, etc.—annually come to Notre Dame especially for the Institute.
Father Wilson said the 1952 Vocation Institute will begin with a Holy Hour following all-day registration on July 17, and will close on the afternoon of July 20 with an “Information Please” type panel discussion.
Approximately 75 per cent of the program will center around the theme, “The School and Vocations,” but other topics also will be treated. One of the W features of the Institute will be a discussion of Secular Institutes.
Europe Tours
(Continued from Page 9) railroad stations, air terminals and hotels.
The ten-day itineraries, of which there are six, are grouped as follows: England and Scotland; Holland, Belgium and Paris; France and the Riviera; The Rhine Valley and the Low Countries (Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg) ; Switzerland; and Italy. The three five-day trips encompass London and its environs as one unit; Paris and vicinity as another; and Naples, Sorrento, Amalfi and Capri as the third. The flexibility of the plan is such that the traveler can arrange as many combinations of itineraries as he wishes, with the minimum of duplication in trips.
A partial list of hotels to be used includes Hotel Kenilworth, London; Hotel Parioli, Rome; Hotel Jura, Lucerne; Hotel L’Ocean, Paris; Villa Igea at Sorrento; Hotel Splendide, Venice.
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform DRAWING DENCH
•Absolute uniformity means drawings without "weak spots'.'—clean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull’s-eye degree stamping on 3 sides of pencil. At your campus store!	J
EBERHARD
i
FABER
TRADE «A««S DEC. U.S. DAT. Of?
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Even his best gal didn’t
POOR PAUL was having a fowl time.
give a hoot for him. "Wise she hate me so?" he asked his roommate. "Simple, you stuffy old bird—because your hair's always ruffled up! Better try Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. It’s non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. And does tree things: Relieves annoying dryness: Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Grooms hair nearly and naturally all day long. (Even limb-ers up your scalp. And helps you pass the Finger-Nail Nest-er, Test!)” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he’s a ’owling success. So why don’t you take a taxi-dermist to any drug or toilet goods counter to get a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’s your hair’s best friend! And ask for it at your barber shop. Then there’s no talon how the chicks’ll go for you.
of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
wuoaoo’
February 15, 1952
33
About the middle of last week, I received a letter from one of my closest friends and most diligent critics. In it, he stated that he had been reading this space for some time, and was still looking for something worthwhile. He suggested that I write something worthwhile.
On the surface this seems like a pretty good criticism. If you can’t write about something worthwhile, you really haven’t got any business taking up the space.
But did you ever try to figure out just what is worthwhile to write about?
It so happens that this particular critic is an engineer, just recently graduated. He is unmarried, but thinking about changing that, has a pretty good job, and is worried about being drafted. To him, such questions as the relative importance of athletics in the intercollegiate scheme, whether or not the honor system would work at Notre Dame, in fact, anything strictly confined to life in a university, is not worthwhile writing material.
A Worthwhile Subject?
He might, however, consider Universal Military Training as a worthwhile subject.
Opponents of UMT say that if it is adopted it will make the United States a country with a militaristic outlook.
They say this about a country, or a government which is spending more money for arms and other military expenses than any other country ever has in the history of the world. They say this about a country which has, in the last six or seven years, spent more money on defense than it spent in almost two centuries up until that period. They say this about a country which has been engaged in a war in Korea for a duration of time that is longei- than the period during which the United States fought in World War I.
Now, a militaristic outlook is certainly not good. It leads to thinking about “preventive” wars, tends to make a nation too ready to go to war when a discussion has reached an impasse. It breeds, after a time, a military caste.
However, I find it hard to believe that UMT is likely to breed a military
By Bill Riley
caste. It seems to me that military service is approached by most young men with a feeling that hangs somewhere between distaste and resignation, looking upon it as something that has to be endured, but is to be done with as soon as possible. I find it hard to believe that the government will be able to make it so attractive as to draw the outstanding men, the men of leadership who are necessary to the growth of a ruling caste.
I think that a military caste springs up usually in a poverty-stricken nation. In a country where the rewards —both in prestige and in money and power—are higher in the military than anywhere else.
It seems to me that UMT will have just about the opposite effect. That young men, having been forced to serve six months or so in the army, will serve as a sort of leavening influence on the core of West Point-trained soldiers who, after all, are bound to think along military or militaristic lines, inasmuch as they are trained to make war.
It also seems to me that UMT is a much more prudent approach to the problem of preparedness.
A Nine-Headed Monster
When a nation has a draft, it has a draft, it has a standing army. When a nation has a standing army, it has a striking force, it is true, but it also has a nine-toothed monster that gulps down money and supplies, so that, it may become almost a necessity that it be put to use. It might be compared to carrying a gun while walking through a rough section of town. When a tough-looking mug approaches, you’re just liable to out with it and cut him down, on general principles, and then find out afterwards that he just wanted to borrow a match.
It would be better to take a little chance on somebody ganging on you, and bring friends along a bit behind to enable you to retaliate quickly if the occasion arises, but still have a little time to think about it before you commit yourself fully.
The Real Question
The other main objection of the anti-UMTers is that life in an army might be a degenerating influence on young men out of high school only a month
or so. This is certainly true. But so might life in a university, or life in a V.z factory. There may be a likelihood that the army would furnish strongei temptations.
But that is not the real question. The question is: how can we remain prepared and at the same time take as little risk as possible—of starting a needless war, of wrecking the morals of youth. It seems to me that UMT furnishes the best answer to that question.
Schedule Selective Service Test for April 24 on Campus
All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test in 1952 should file applications at once for the April 24 administration, Selective Service National v Headquarters advises.
An application and a bulletin of information may be obtained at the Office of Military Information, east wing, first floor Main Building. Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application immediately and mail it in the special envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked no later than March 10. Early filing will be greatly to the student’s advantage.
Results will be reported to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test.
New York Executive Given President's Committee Post £
Appointment of Bernard C. Duffy, of New York City, president of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, Inc., as chairman of the Greater New York Chapter of the President’s Committee of the University of Notre Dame was announced Wednesday by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Mr. Duffy succeeds Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States, who will continue as national chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation and as president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
Purpose of the President’s Committee is to act as counsel and advisor to the president of Notre Dame. Most members of the Committee, like Mr. Duffy, did not attend Notre Dame. Mr. Duffy also is a member of the Advisory Coun-cil for the College of Commerce at Notre Dame.
34
The Scholastic
«>
THE DI' PONT
DIGEST
A---------------i> ,r -*■»!	• ^VAAKMA
Ch. E’s at Du Pont
The fields of research and development invite ingenuity of the chemical engineer
SEEKING new ways to coat plastic on wire: Carl Hellman, B.S.Ch.E., Syracuse ’50; arid J. M. McKelvey, Ph .D.Ch.E., Washington ’50.
[second of a series]

Research and development work in chemical engineering often overlap at Du Pont, except where the research is fundamental.
The chemical engineer occupied with fundamental research is chiefly concerned with basic studies of unit operations and processes involving reaction kinetics, thermodynamic properties of fluids, high-pressure techniques, equilibrium studies, heat transfer and the like. Such studies often lead to lower-cost manufacturing processes. Some recent projects in fundamental research have been:
1.	A study of fluidized catalyst reaction units including degree of fluid-ation, temperature uniformity, catalyst activity and life, and conversion of feed gases.
2.	Studies of the fundamental transfer relations between phases, for instance, gas and liquid, in reacting materials.
Apart from the chemical engineers engaged in fundamental research,
MEASURING pore-size distribution of porous media used in filtration: Harold P. Grace, B.S.Ch.E., Univ, of Pennsylvania ’41; and Nym K. Seward, B.S.Ch.E., Lehigh U. ’47.
there are many groups working in applied research and development. In fact, this is the major part of the chemical engineering work done at Du Pont. Here are examples of the literally hundreds of unusual problems they have solved:
1. Designing equipment for producing pure silicon at 1000°C. (Though one of the starting compounds is highly corrosive, only spectroscopic traces of impurities can be tolerated.) 2. Developing a high-pressure liquidphase process to replace the standard dry method of producing sodium azide formerly employed.
3.	Designing a continuous flow, gasliquid reactor for use in making a fiber intermediate under pressure.
4.	Developing, from laboratory research results, a process for large-scale production of complex polymeric materials used in the manufacture of color photographic film.
These examples can only hint the variety and originality of problems
INSPECTING a new type of high-pressure reactor: Robert J. Stewart, B.S.Ch.E., Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ’50; and Henry Smithies, M.S.Ch.E., University of Michigan ’50.
constantly arising at Du Pont. They indicate the challenge as well as the broad opportunity awaiting the talents and ingenuity of the young chemical engineer who wants a career in research and development.
NEXT MONTH —The chemical engineer’s role in plant operation at Du Pont will be discussed in the third article in this series. Watch for it!
SEND FOR your copy of “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” Describes opportunities for men and women with many types of training. Address: 2521 Nemours Bldg.,Wilmington, Delaware.
’eg. u.s. pat.ofk BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
STUDYING plate in stainless-steel tower used to determine efficiency of designs: C. M. Gomel, Jr., S.M.Ch.E., M.I.T. ’48; and J. B. Jones, M.S.Ch.E., University of Michigan ’46.
February 15, 1952
35
