
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DISCe-?VASI SCmP€l2-VICTVRVS- -VIVG-9VASI-CRAS-MORITl/RVS*
Vol. XXXIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 9, 1906.	No. 33.
The “Irish” Gold and Blue.
(Air: The Wearing of the Green.}
BY A. BLUMYNGTUN SOARHEDDE.
^~^H! Hoosiers dear, and did you hear the news that’s going round?
The Shamrock plant is making good on Indiana ground;
Not satisfied with waving all-triumphant in debate, ’Tis growing free and lusty on each diamond in our state. I met a Wabash rooter, and I took him by the hand:	-
Says I, “How ’bout your baseball team, and are its chances grand?” .
Says he, “ We’re up against it, kid; in fact, to tell you true,
We’re knocked galley-west and crooked by the Irish Gold and Blue. .
Yes; ’tis a shame, but Notre Dame has handed us a few, And we simply are not in it with her Irish Gold and Blue.”
We met them here in Bloomington and passed them bloomin’ knocks;
They merely smiled—then swatted all our twirlers from, the box.
They got another roasting from the grouchers of De Pauw,	'	\ .	‘
But the Irish team played ball the while Greencastle played its jaw;	‘	'
Their tossers “put it over” to the tune of one, two, three, And their fielding—Gosh A-mighty! but it was a sight to see 1	_
We mock of course their race and creed; but let me say to you, Thev’re Jim Dandies on the diamond, are the Irish Gold and . Blue.
No cheap-skate cads can queer those lads with insults* old or new, Thev’re rustlers all from Rustlerville, the Irish Gold and Blue.
Their names? Well, take their twirlers,—Young O’Gorman, Waldorf, Perce; . The Leagues perhaps have better ones—they certainly have worse; .	.
Their catcher, All-There Murray, Jack, who kills each tried-fbr steal;
Their short, the Lightning Shea whose speed just makes your optics reel;" , \ On bags there’s Tony Stopper, Cap McNerny, Brogan swift;	* , £
Then Bonan, Sheehan, Farabaugh ('McCarthy,- on a shift)—	- :
’Tis these who’ve downed our Varsities, from Hillsdale to Purdue, .	. ’ ,
And the Hoosier State as pennant wears the Irish Gold and Blue.. T
Yes, cruel fate! They’ve swept the state, from ^Hillsdale to Purdue,- . ,	>	And all Hoosierdom pays tribute to the Irish Gold and Blue. : - -
546	NGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Champions of the State.
I SING a song of the Gold and Blue, Of the team- that fought and won, Of heroes tried and heroes true
Who bowed in defeat to none.
The champions of the State, boys, The champions of the State;
0 heroes true to the Gold and Blue Are the champions of the State.
The years may come and the years may go, But they shall not dim the fame
Of the men who brought the pennant back To dear old Notre Dame.
The champions of the State, boys, The champions of the State;
0 heroes true to the Gold and Blue Are the champions of the State.
Then give three cheers, three heartfelt cheers, For the team of the Blue and Gold;
O’er N. D. U. let the pennant wave
As it did in the days of old.
The champions of the State, boys, The champions of the State;
O heroes true to the Gold and Blue Are the champions of the State.
W. J. D.
Athletics as a Factor in College Education.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, A. M.
IS T 0 R Y in recurring epochs bears witness that bodily prowess has always been found side by side with the cultivation of the intellect. In the most intellectual period of history
with which we are all well acquainted, the time when Greece was the central figure of the world, the attainment of superior physical ability won equal praise with the mastery of the great intellectual problems. Productions of dramatic and epic geniuses were written on the same page with the records of the most noted athletes, and the great lyricist, Pindar, could find no higher inspiration than the Olympic Games. The same audience that crowded the immense theatres of Greece to hear the masterpieces of Sophocles, jEschylus and Euripides shouted their plaudits in the amphitheatre to the well-muscled athletes.
It is indeed natural and fitting that modem education has not placed the mark of disapproval on athletic games. Educa
tion does not hold forth as its ideal the privilege of writing several letters of the alphabet after one’s name. It does not mean the turning of the brain into a garbage box into which a certain measured amount of knowledge is annually unloaded. Education, from its very derivation, means the drawing forth of what is good in the youthful mind and the leading it onward to the perception and accomplishment of life’s noblest ideals.
“What sculpture is to a block of marble, education is to the human soul,” says Addison. It does not create, it shapes the mind; “it changes the size, not the sort.” So it is that the modern college educator has to consider what good and what bad ideals are implanted in the youthful mind, and then aim to eradicate the bad and broaden the good ideals. Now if any ideal is common to American youth it is athletics— sport, in the good _ sense of the word. It is most certainly a good and wholesome ideal, approved and commended by common sense, and therefore can not be overlooked in any plan of education. So .it is that in our institutions of learning we find that athletics are approved and supported by those who labor in behalf of education.
And again there is another fact which will be no less a fact though it may happen to meet with approval by the minority. While no attempt is made to prove that athletics is the principal part of the college curriculum,—that physical prowess is more desirable than intellectual attainment,—yet I think it may be asserted that the participation in college athletics is, in a small measure, a “trying out” for the battles of life. This claim may meet with derision from many over - zealous opponents of athletics, but as the saying goes, “men possessed of an idea can not be reasoned with.” “Every why hath a wherefore,” and the concomitance of the intellectual and the physical throughout the pages of educational history should be sufficient to check any over early criticism. For is it not true that the man who hopes to gain success in the world of to-day must be able to analyze opposing conditions, and at the same time to defend himself by systematizing all helpful forces ? Such a man must be able to ferret out the plans of competitors and to arrange circumstances for his personal benefit. Com-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S47
petition is the keynote of the present time, and the man must fight who hopes to reach the road to success.	•
“The winds and waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators,” said Gibbon, and ther person who can master circumstances will inevitably be the victor in the battle of life. It naturally follows that the person who has often had to face a crucial moment in youth and has through frequent trial learned that he must guard himself and take advantage of his opponent’s mistakes, will not feel himself altogether a novice when he faces a crisis in later life.
Now there is nowhere a greater opportunity to prove oneself a master of circumstances than in athletic games as played to-day. The baseball player who can “hit in” the winning run certainly proves himself a master of circumstances. The athlete who can turn a closely contested track meet in his team’s favor has faced a crisis and proved himself equal to the occasion. In a football game some years ago between Yale and Princeton, the two teams were evenly matched, and it was only in the last few minutes of play that the victory was turned in Princeton’s favor by a place kick. . The papers related later that a minister, in a neighboring city took as an illustration of his text this place kick which turned defeat into victory, and acclaimed De Witt, the player, who kicked the goal, as a master of circumstances. In all branches of college athletics certain moments are found when ability counts for naught unless it be backed bv a cool head and steady • nerve. Just as in the world, the head which is the coolest and possesses ability to take advantage of the opponent’s weak points, is the most successful. In this one regard it seems that the athlete when he enters into competition in the business world will have no slight chance of outdoing the opponent who is totally inexperienced and untried in facing a critical situation.	•
Nor is it true that physical strength is .the only requisite for athletic ability. It would be almost as sensible to claim that the man who owns a great library is a literary person or that a person with agile fingers is necessarily a musical genius. The man. who lacks brains will never become-a great
athlete, especially in baseball or football.
How often in watching candidates work for positions on athletic teams, do we hear the saying, “he would make a good man if he only had the head.” Ability to “make good” on a college team demands as one of its requisites the ability to think and to think quickly. Another prime requisite for success in athletic games is team work, and team work is a practical impossibility for a team of men who lack brains. Any person who has ever participated in athletics can bear out the.statement that the team whose members work hand in hand will inevitablv conquer the team of individual stars who lack team work. .	-	.
The fact that experience is necessary to attain athletic renown also shows that physical prowess is not the sole requirement. The members of our star collegiate teams have attained their place through years of experience and continual practice. The person who jumps into the limelight in any field of athletics has always had a long “take off.” Hence'it is rather grating on the ears of those who know. athletics as they are, to hear the claim made that college athletics are, as it were, a parasite, preying on the students’ minds and destroying the benefits of college education: We can appreciate the fact that such assertions are made in all good faith by persons whose intellectual ability saves them from the accusation of possessing but little common sense. It has been said that “Ignorance is the mother of devotion,” and it may conversely be true that devotion is sometimes the mother of ignorance. We can not charitably ascribe such assertions to any other cause than total ignorance of the-present status of athletics. We do not claim that the diamond, gridiron and track possess as great facilities for broadening the intellect as the class-room; we merely assert that our college athletic games do not annul intellectual ability nor place a -
. premium on lack of brains; that the .possession of some intellectual ability is a prime requisite for a good athlete. It is but natural •that American colleges should support athletic teams to represent them. Some physical training, is absolutely necessary for the. young student. “There is no creature so lonely as the dweller in the intellect,”
NOTRn DAME SCHOLASTIC.
said William Winter, and every college student will doubtless subscribe his approval to the saying.	•
The man of great intellect if he neglect his physical welfare, is like an eagle with clipped wings. So close is the strange union of body and soul that imperfection in the one is rarely accompanied by perfection in the other. The decrepit genius approaches no nearer perfect manhood than does the stalwart idiot. Athletics then serve a purpose in education, though that purpose be largelv one of recreation. It is of course true that they may be abused, and prove - injurious to those who indulge overmuch in contests. Yet it is not the rule that students indulge too deeply in athletics. That abuses occur in some cases is no proof that they are useless or harmful for everyone or even for the average person. It would be just as logical to infer that, if certain people should die from over-exertion, no one should ever work.
Then we have to face the argument that only a few participate in athletics. College teams are made up of a few selected men, while the great majority are compelled to be idle spectators. This argument is, on the whole, lacking in fact. Besides the one representative team in the several branches of athletics,—baseball, football, track-work, basket-ball, etc.,—we find many other lesser teams in every university and college. Every class, hall and society is represented by a team, and nearly every other student finds a place on some “scrub” team.
It is a strange fact that the greatest critics among the student body are never found on any team. They very conveniently avoid any place or occasion which might demand of them a practical exhibition of the knowledge they dispense so freely from the bleachers or grand stand. Disraeli once said: “You know who the critics are? The men who have failed.” Had he also said “The men who are afraid to try,” the quotation would have applied most pointedly to these all-wise critics.. Anyone who has ever been on an athletic field will sympathize with the man who fails after an earnest effort. Whenever a person continually finds fault uath a team or man—and such persons do find fault, even with the most perfect plays— and attains his highest idea of applause
with a benevolent “it’s about time,” such a person may be put down at once as either very ignorant or conceited in regard to athletics. The hypocrisy of some of these critics is galling. I have seen many such who in their loud “under tones” tear to pieces the reputation of a performing athlete, and yet when the game is ended, these very same persons are the first to congratulate the athlete. The fact that athletics can find no place for such is indeed in its favor.
Excluding such we may claim that every student takes active part in some branch of athletics. Here at Notre Dame we have teams representing every hall, and many others representing “class and clan” which include nearly every student. During the football and baseball season the fifteen or more athletic fields are continually occupied.
Athletics is inbred in the American youth; it gives zest to the college atmosphere ; it is one of the closest bonds, one of the dearest ties between the college student and his Alma Mater. To abolish athletics would be a long step toward turning our universities into mere knowledge factories. They have proved a factor in college education, and we should be careful to support them as they deserve.	.
The Slugger.
fA MURRAY dear, and did you hear The news spread through the land, The State-teams say the ball you play
Is hard to understand.
You pound the baseball o’er the fence And i leave them all in doubt,
For when our daddies used to play, Over the fence was out.
Poor Wabash thought, they think it still, -The ball you hit had -wings, •
The word was sent, around it went, “Skiddoo” when Murray swings.
Poor Indiana • heard it well,
. But didn’t take the tip	~
When back at Bloomington, - they wished They didn’t take the trip.
So, Murray dear, a hearty cheer
- From dear old Notre Daine ;	,
You’re loyal to the. Gold and Blue.
You’re always in the game.
..You. bore her colors through the State
. . With ■ victory to the end .
- And piled the \ figures on the slate .
Our colors to defend.	T. E. B. -
NOTRE LAME SCHOLASTIC.
549
A Toast.
J_JERE'S to McCarthy, the “silent,” The man with the “noisy” swing, The man who tilled right garden, The man with the terrible wing.
When the score was low and sullen He came with his solemn pace, And knocked the bas ball dizzy, And the score to its proper place.
E B.
The Baseball Team.
Notre Dame came back to her position this year and walked away with the Indiana championship with little trouble, losing one game out of the eight.
Last year’s team lost the championship, and it was the first time in several rears that Notre Dame had to be content with other than first place in the championship race, but the manner in which Captain McNerny and his men captured the first honors this year restored Notre Dame's baseball prestige and put her where she has always stood, among the best teams in the West.
McNerny’s injury on the last trip undoubtedly affected the team’s playing, and this may account for the one game lost to
HENRY J. MCGLEW, ’05, MANAGER.
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06.
Purdue. Bonnon was compelled to come in from right field without any infield practice and play second base; and although he rose manfully to the occasion the team did not work the same, and it was some time before the new arrangement got into working order; but once Shea and Bonnon got together they played a great game around the second bag and took care of the Capt’s job in a most creditable manner.
Coach Harry Arndt, who is now playing third base for St. Louis Nationals, worked the men in the Gym during the winter months, and when he turned them over to McNerny they were as fit a lot of ball players as Notre Dame has turned out in manv vears. The success of the team speaks for Arndt’s and McNerny’s ability as coach and captain.
For the first time in four years the team won the practice series from the South Bend Greens and the prophets had little trouble from the beginning in landing the championship. Brogan, Murray and Bonnon were the finds of the year— all new men and all made good with little effort. Bonnon was the. only utility man on the team; he could be used in almost any position, and could be relied upon to take good care of it.
1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'
The schedule for the past season was probabty the best Notre Dame ever had. The season opened with the practice games with the South Bend Greens, and following the early games came a schedule of twentyseven games.	.
Following is a list of the games won and lost and a brief, sketch of each player.
April 21—Kalamazoo College at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, IS; Kalamazoo, 0. Perce, pitcher.
April 23—Hillsdale College at Notre Dame. Notre. Dame, 17; Hillsdale, 0. ' O’Gbrman, pitcher.	_
April 26—Illinois at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 9; Illinois, 12. Perce, pitcher.
April 28—De Pauw at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 4; De Pauw, 2. O’Gorman, pitcher.
May 1—Notre Dame at Watertown, Wis. (Rain.) "
Afav 2—Notre Dame at Beloit, AVis. Notre Dame, 6; Beloit, .5. AAMldorf, pitcher..
May 3—Notre Dame at Minneapolis, Minn. N. D. 9; Minn., 0. Perce, pitcher.
May 4—Notre Dame at Minneapolis, Minn. Notre Dame, 4; Minn., 7.
May 5—Notre Dame at AVatertown, AVis. Notre Dame, 16; AAratertown, 0. O’Gorman, pitcher.
Mav 7—Rose Pol\technic College at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 14; Rose Polytechnic, 6; Perce, pitcher.	-
May 10—Purdue at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 4; Purdue, 2. AValdorf, pitcher.
Mav 11—Nebraska at Notre Dame. Notre - •
Dame, 6;‘ Nebraska, 3; O’Gorman, pitcher.
Mav’12—Beloit College at South Bend. Notre Dame, 11; Beloit, 5. Perce, pitcher.
Mav 14—Notre Dame at Bloomington, Ind. Notre Dame, 10; Indiana, 2. Waldorf,, pitcher.	:
May 15—Notre Dame at Greencastle, Ind. Notre Dame, 17; De Pauw, 2. O’Gorman, pitcher.	_
Majr 16—Notre Dame at Crawfordsville, Ind. N. D. 5; AV abash, 1. Perce, pitcher.
ALiy 17—Notre Dame, at Lafayette, Indi .Notre Dame, 4; Purdue, 8r AValdorf, pitcher.	,	. .	-
May 18—Notre Dame' at Champaign, 111. Notre Dame, 1; Illinois, 12. Perce, Waldorf, pitchers. :	/
May 21—Albion at - Notre Dame, : Notre Dame, 6; Albion, 0. O’Gorman, pitcher.
Maj' 23—Nebraska Indians at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 5; Nebraska Indians, 3. Waldorf, pitcher.
Majr 25—Indiana Univer. at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 16; Indiana, 2. O’Gorman, pitcher.
Majr 26—Wabash College at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 5; Wabash, 4. Perce, pitcher.
Mav 30—Minnesota University at South Bend. Notre Dame, 5; Minnesota, S. AValdorf, pitcher.
Majr 31—Minnesota at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 3; Minnesota, 0. Perce, pitcher.
June 4—St. Amateurs’ College at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 2; St. Amateurs, 1 (10 innings). O’Gorman, pitcher.
June 6—Ohio Wesleyan University at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 4; AVeslevan Universitv, 2. AValdorf, pitcher;	•
June 7—Ohio Wesleyan University at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 7; Ohio AVeslevan, 1; Perce, pitcher.	’
Batting Averages Fielding Averages For the Season of 1906.	’
Murray.....36b %	Murrajr.....961 %
Brogan.......333	Stopper.....946
Sheehan......320	AValdorf....920
Perce........2S3	O’Gorman....906
McNerny......2S1	Shea........899
McCarthy ....278	Brogan ........885
xzvoiij	a cii ciuciu^ii . . cjcjtt
Shea........234	McCarthy.. ..892
F arabaugh...224	AIcNern y...... 8 9 2
Stopper.....200	Sheehan......869
Waldprf.....147	Perce..........838
O’Gorman ....104	Bonndn..-....833
.Lawrence McNerny (Capt. and 2d Base).
This is A'lcNerny’s third and last year on ’the* team, and his loss-will certainty be felt next season. He is a hard worker and possesses the fighting spirit a captain must have to be a leader. AIcNernv had enough hard luck in baseball this season to last him all. his. life. In the third practice game with South Bend he was spiked in the hand and was ; out of. the game for 'two weeks; Then on the last. trip blood poison developed in his heel and he was compelled to resume his seat oil the’ bench. It is to be regretted that .McNerny did not have a chance to plaj- the entire, season as it was his. last, but- in the few games . he did play he showed all of his old-time

1
552	NOTRE DAME
form and'was even better than the two preceding years.
Sa-muel O’Gorman . (Pitcher).
This is O’Gorman’s third and also his last year on the team. The “Old Alan” is not a brilliant pitcher, but he is the kind of man that every good team must have. A cool, steady, reliable pitcher, O’Gorman has a good head and knows the game from beginning to end. Last season Sam led the team in hitting, but this year as his batting suffered his pitching was better. The last game O’Gorman pitched was against St. Viateurs, and' it was as good a game as has been pitched at Notre Dame this year.
John Shea (Short Stop).
This is-Shea’s second year on the team and we are hoping not his last. Shea is undoubtedly the fastest college short-stop in the West. His fielding record is not any too high; but when we take into consideration the ground he covers the record is exceptionally good. His is a case of a man making errors because he is so good that he gets his hands on balls that an ordinary man would never touch. His great speed and willingness to take chances have given him the greater share of the errors marked against him. As a hitter Shea is only ordinary, but his wonderful fielding more than makes up for -his deficiency with the stick.
Clarence Sheehan (Centre-field). ,
This was Mr. “Jer’s” first year in the outfield, and the change was at once apparent. Last season Sheehan caught and was one of the lowest hitters bn the team, but this season he earned the nickname of “Homerun - Bud, ” landing for three all - the - way arounds in one game. Sheehan is a fast out-fielder, covering his share of grbund, and possesses a good arm. His ability to hit in pinches was most remarkable, as. he drove in more runs than any inan on the team. Sheehan-has one more year, and again—we all hope.	.
. William Perce (Pitcher).
Last season Perce pitched but a few games, playing in the field the greater part of the year, but this season Mr. William was one of the stand-bys in the box. Not only is Perce a good pitcher, but he is a
SCHOLASTIC
good hitter. He can be played in the field, or he can go in and pitch, and is one of the best men on the team, combining his hitting and pitching ability. Perce, has the best control of any of the pitchers, a cool head, good curves and plenty of steam. He has another year and it is hoped he will return.	•	‘
Rufus Waldorf (Pitcher).
“Bumper” Waldorf, the man with the steam, is another man who can be played almost "any place. Like Perce, Waldorf is a good’ out-fielder, but this season he was not-very strong with the stick. Waldorf has all kinds of steam, a good head and quick curves, but lacks the control Perce has. Waldorf has two years coming to him, and will undoubtedly develop into one of the best men Notre Dame ever turned out. About the only difference that can be noticed between Waldorf arid Perce, is that Perce has the better control, and hence has the shade on “Bumper;” otherwise, so far as pitching abilitjT is concerned, they are on a par.
Antony Stopper (1st Base).
This • is Stopper’s second year on the team and very likely his last as he graduates in June. - Stopper is a hard worker, always in the game and ever ready to do his share. “Tony’s” hitting slumped this season, but he was the kind of a man the rooters always expected to hit the balL Seldom did he’ strike out, but- was unfortunate in always hitting- into somebody’s hands. Stopper’s ^position will be a hard one to fill next season. _	. '
. John Brogan (3d Base).
? Upon Brogan fell ‘the task of taking ex-Capt. 0 Conner’s position, and he surely
filled the bill. Not only is Brogan a brilliant fielder, but he is a 300 hitter, and was one of the best men? on the team. This is Brogan’s first year and from the game he put up this season he lias a great future .before him. Brogan, like Shea, is a willing and hard worker, and the greater number of errors marked against him are due to his ever-ready spirit, as he stops, at nothing and is-always in the gamer
G. A. Farabaugh . (Left Field). ' .Farabaugh was formerly a catcher, but this season he went out for left-field and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
553
made good with little effort. He is another of the hard-working type, always in the game and always doing his share. The sungarden is undoubtedly a hard position to play, and especially on our own grounds, and the few errors Farabaugh made were the result of hard chances. Farabaugh has another year and will return.
John. Murray (Catcher).
“Johnnie” Murray was always the man behind the bat. All pitchers looked alike to him, and when the auburn-haired man stepped up to bat things were bound to happen. In nearly every college game of the season Murray landed for three bases until the proverbial three bagger grew to be an ordinary affair. And not only was he noted for his hitting, but as a catcher, possessing a quick arm and a good head. Murray dropped only one foul ball the. entire season and leads both in hitting and fielding. This is his first year, and for the third time we are again hoping.
Douglas Bonnon (Right Field).
Bonnon was the all-around man of the team, and was without a doubt one of the best little men that wore an N. D. suit. His playing in the infield and outfield were both good. Bonnon led off in the batting list, and in nearly every game started things with a hit. The out-field appears to suit him better than the diamond. He covers plenty of ground in both positions and has a good arm. This is “Bonnie’s” first year and he will return.
Frank McCarthy (Outfielder).
McCarthv was one of the finds of the year. This is “Mac’s” first year on the team and he did not get into the game until late. He was picked for second catcher, but McNerny’s injury made it necessary to play him in the field, and he proved to be able for the position. McCarthy did not have the experience some of the other men had, but was a good hitter and a hard worker. McCarthy graduates and it is to be regretted we can not have him another year.
John Shea was elected captain for the next season. His‘ability is too well known to need comment. Suffice it to say, may only good luck be his.	R. L. B.
Inter - Hail Baseball.
The Inter-ball baseball league was formed in the early days of April, and after promising to be a success broke up early in May. When the playing was over Brownson had the victory, winning all their games. Capt. Art Cooke of Brownson was sick a great part of the season, but he showed his old form in the few games he played.
Fred. Bggeman received; his work as a back stop was equal to the best of them. Many an unwary Corbyite failed to locate second on a steal because of Eggie’s arm, and when he hit the ball it went some.
Tony Williams, Frank Seigler and Bill Heyl did the twirling, and they were there with the goods.	.
Left-handed Long has a good delivery, is steady and his curves can not be beaten.
Bill Heyl is the old reliable with plenty of steam and a coolness that any leaguer would be proud of.
Frank Seigler’s slants were of the speedy variety. He has shown himself to be an able pitcher and the many runners he has nabbed out at first are evidence of his alertness. Frank can hit the ball and is a good base runner.
All three pitchers changed off at taking care of right field and have shown up there in a creditable manner.	:
“Cub” Bennetts held the initial sack; Cub’s long stretches and startling catches and his fierce slugging show- the makings of a Western Leaguer.
Lenertz held second. The way he would freeze onto the grounders and slug the ball marks him a comer in baseball doings.
Murphy took care of third' and did his work well. Birch Blum did stunts at short; between Murphy and Blum many “would-be” hits fell into an “itching palm.” Both men are good hitters and fast base runners.
Carl Centlivre shaded the left garden, and wherever the ball w’ent Carl was under it. He is an excellent fielder and one of our best hitters. .	.
Sam Lannon looked after things in centre. His fielding ability has no equal here. Such runs, and one handed catches are stunts for Varsity men only.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
hntered as second class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, June 9, 1906.
Board of Editors.
EUGENE P.
CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, '07 CORNELIUS HAGERTY,’06
WALTER O’DONNELL, ’06
BURKE, ’06
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06
JOHN M. RYAN,’06
JOHN C. MCGINN, ’06
LEO J. COONTZ, ’07 EDWARD F. O’FLYNN, ’07 ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS
—It would be a foolish thing for a small boy to get into a passion because the Twentieth Century Limited could travel a little faster than his tov .train of cars, and still more absurd would it be for him to stand off and shoot beans at the great express hoping thus to be revenged upon it. The figure represents rather well De Pauw’s attitude toward Notre Dame. In last week’s issue of their journal—a miserable little sheet, poorly written, badly printed, but with an appropriate cover of screaming yellow — the editor remarks that “From past experience we are of the opinion that life would be happier if the Catholic college of the north were left to do her contesting by herself.” Doubtless life would be happier for De Pauw, if such conditions came about. The “ experience ” they allude to is probably, in the first place, the football game of last fall when we piled up seventy points and they failed to score; in the second place, the two baseball games of this season in which we defeated them, and thirdly, and most bitter of all “experiences,” the recent debate in which we beat them by a majority decision which missed being unanimous by only a fraction of a point.
Their write-up of this debate in the same number of the paper is in viola
tion of all the ethics of true sportsmanship. Not a single point made by the writer but can be contested, but whoever has had dealings with De Pauw knows them too well to pajr any attention to their customary “knocking.” “We won the debate, we only lost the decision,” is always their wail,—Indiana colleges are sick of the note. By the recent action of the Faculty here in dropping De Pauw from the list of those with whom we contest for honors in field or forum, Notre Dame merelv signified that she had reached that point at which forbearance becomes simply ridiculous.
—Following is the programme of the Commencement Exercises:
SUNDAY, JUNE 10
8:00: a. m.....................Solemn High Mass
Rev. Father Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Celebrant Baccalaureat e Sermon
By the Rev. John T. O’Connell, Toledo, Ohio 2:00 p. m..........Solemn	Benediction and Te Deum
6:30 p. m.....Lawn Concert by the University Band
MONDAY, TUESDAY, JUNE 11—12 Examinations
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13
8:30 A. M—St. Edward’s Hall Distribution of Premiums 10:00 a. m.............Regatta	on St. Joseph’s Lake
12 M........................................Dinner
6:00 p. m...................................Supper
6:30 p. M.....Lawn Concert by the University Band
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13, 7:30 P. M Commencement Exercises in Washington Hall Selection from “ Wonderland ”..........Hildebrand
Universitjr Orchestra Bachelors’ Orations
1	.—Oration.........................Conduct in Life
Cornelius Joseph Hagerty (Indiana)
“Star of Descending Night’’...............Emerson
University Quartette
Hugh B. MacCaulej’ Eugene Paul Burke John Connor McGinn Francis Xavier Zerhusen
II	.—Oration...................The Lay Apostolate
Addis Emmett Lally (Iowa) “The Tar’s Song”................................Hatton
University Quartette
III	.—Oration........The College Man and Civic Duty
.	Eugene Paul Burke (Illinois)
Selections from “The Society Circus.............Bohara
University Orchestra

Oration of the Day by
The Rev. D. J. Stafford., D. D. Washington, D. C.
THURSDAY, JUNE. 14, 8:00 A. M Home, Sweet Home................................................University Quartette Class Poem....:.........................Charles Leo O’Donnell (Indiana) Valedictory................................Alexander William McFarland (Ohio) Conferring of Degrees...................Awarding of Honors
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
555
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, 'OS, CAI’T
Football Outlook.
The baseball championship lost by us last season for the first time in many years, has been won back by the Varsity of ’06. With the opening of school in September football will be in the limelight, and then all our efforts must be directed to regaining the championship of Indiana.
The athletic board has been untiring in its efforts to secure a competent coach, and Mr. Thomas Barry, Brown ’02, has been finally selected. For four years Barry played football on Brown’s team and was the choice of many for the position of half
back on the All-American for 1902. He was also a star baseball player while at school, and later played with Buffalo and Montreal of the Eastern League. To his ability as an all-around athlete is added the experience that comes from having coached the star eleven of Brown University and Boudoin College. Mr. Barry, who is athletic in mind too, is at present studying law at Harvard.
With a good coach and the material which always shows up at Notre Dame wc are assured of a strong team. Several of the veterans will be back, and there is an abundance of promising material. Capt. Bracken will lead the team, and all who' are acquainted with “-Bob ” know how
THOMAS BARRY, COACH.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lines, when Lonergan and Nyere were ever capable he is of doing the work well.
The time has come when Notre Dame should take her old rank in the football world. The. rank she had when Fortin and Farragher and Farley were here; the rank she had when Salmon, the invincible, tore through Michigan’s and Northwestern’s ready with their ten, twenty or thirty-yard runs, or when McGlew or Shag went down the field on punts and downed their man in his tracks. The memory of those teams is with us still and can not but urge us on to do our utmost next fall. Let every true son of Notre Dame show his loyalty to Alma. Mater. If you are big enough or strong enough come out and try for the team, if _not for the Varsity at least for the scrubs. There can not be too many candidates; for a successful Varsity there must be a strong . team of scrubs, consequently many candidates are needed. When the first call is made for men let there be a ready response. Then here’s to Coach Barry and Captain Bracken; may success crown your efforts and may the Gold and Blue wave in triumph on the gridiron of ’06-’07.
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 16; Indiana, 2.
The Varsity gave Indiana an awful beating up here last week. In a terrible slugging match they scored 16 runs to Indiana’s 2. O’Gorman was On the hill for Notre Dame and was hit hard and often, but the great fielding behind him made the hits of little use. Dunlap and Hunter were touched for seventeen hits including those of the all-away-around variety and from them down. Murray broke back into the home run game again and McCarthy got the other.
Shea is playing second in McNemy’s place and Bonnon is on short and they are taking care of the Captain’s position in great style. Shea plays second as though he had been at it all his life, and Bonnon is doing better on short than he did on second.
Notre Dame	Summary.	R	. H	p	A	. E
Bonnon, ss.		. 3	3	3	2	0
Farabaugh, 1. t.		1	1	1	0	0
McCarthy, r. f.		3	2	0	1	0
Murray, c.		3	4	4	4	0
Stopper, lb.		■ 1	i	6	0	0
Brogan, 3b.	-	- . 1	1	6	1	0
Sheehan, c. f.		-1	1	2	0	0
Shea, 2b.		2	3	4	5	'o
O’Gorman, p.		1	1	0	2	0
Totals	.		16 17 26*			15 0	
-	Sumjiary.					
Indiana		R	H	p	A	E
Boyle, 2b.		0	2	4	1	2
Bradbury, ss.	*	0	2	0	4	1
Hunter, r. f., p.		0	1	3	1	0
Moore, c. f.		1	2	1	0	0
McFerrian, c.		0	1	6	2	0
Balfour, lb.		0	0	8	0	1
Michael, r. f., 3b.		0	2	2	1	1
Fox, 1. f.		1	2	0	0	0
Dunlap, p., c. f. '		0	1	0	1	1
Totals ‘	213 2410 6
* Boyle hit by batted ball.
Home runs—McCarthy, Murray. Three base hit— Moore. Struck out—By O’Gorman, 5; by Hunter, 2. Bases on balls—Off O’Gorman, 1; off Hunter, 1. Passed balls—McFerrian. Hit by pitcher—McCarthy, Sheehan. Umpire—Clark.
Notre Dame, 5; Wabash, 4.
Notre Dame defeated Wabash in the most exciting game played here this year last Saturday, by the score of 5 to 4.
Rubash, Wabash’s star pitcher, lost his own game. In the eighth inning Wabash was one to the good when Sheehan came to bat. Mr. “Jer” was an easy out, and the big half was down. Then Shea singled and stole second and the rooters sat up and noticed. Perce hit one to Lanty who left it to Hubbard and neither got it, Shea going to third. Perce stole second. Bonnon flew out to Hubbard. Then Farabaugh drew a pass. Two outs and the bases crowded. Rubash presented Notre Dame with the twig run by walking McCarthy and forcing Shea across the plate.
In the ninth Stopper came first and flew out to right field and the game looked good for an extra inning, but Brogan hit one for a base and stole second. Sheehan
“Mac” McCarthy took “his in the neck,’’ hit a fast one to Bolton who fumbled the third time he was up to bat, but no the ball, advancing Brogan and allowing harm was done as he got a home run the Sheehan safe at first. Shea, hit an easy next time up.	bounder to Rubash; and in trying to catch.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Brogan coming home, he threw wide and drew Thorn off the plate, and Brogan scored. Thorn dropped the ball, but the throw looked to be such that Brogan would have been safe had he held it. Perce pitched a good steady game and was master of the situation at all times.
Harp, Wabash’s big catcher, sprained his ankle in sliding into first base and will be out of the game for some time.
Wabash plays Purdue Saturday, and-should they win from Purdue Notre Dame would appear to have the best claim on the championship as we have lost but one game out of the eight with the Indiana schools and Purdue would have lost two
out of six.					
Summary.					
Notre Dame	R	H	p	A	E
Bonnon, ss,	0	0	3	2	3
Farabaugh, 1. f.	1	1	0	0	0
McCarthy, r. f.	. 1	1	0	0	0
Murray, c.	1-	110		3	1
Stopper, lb.	0	2	8	0	1
Brogan, 3b. -	1	1	2	3	1
Sheehan, c. f.	0	0	0	0	0
Shea, 2b.	1	1	4	2	0
Perce, p.	0	1	0	2	0
Total	5	8	27	12	6
Summary.					
Wabash-	R	H	p	A	E
Harp, e.	0	0	3	0	0
Hubbard, 3b.	0	1	4	0	0
Diddle, c. f.	0	1	0	0	0
Adams, r. f.	1	2	2	0	1
Bolton, 2b.	0	1	1	0	2
Coen, lb	0	1	5	0	.0
Myers, 1. f.	1	0	3	0	1
Lanty, ss.	0	0	1	1	1
Rubash, p.	2	1	1	4	1
Thorn, c’	0	0	5	0	1
Totals	4	7	25.	5	7
Three base hit—Murray.	Struck out	—	By	Perce,	
6; by Rubash, 6. Bases on balls—Off Rubash, 4. Passed balls—Thorn. Hit by pitcher—Bonnon, Murray. Double plays—Brogan, Shea. Umpire—Tindill.
* *
The rooting was the best this year.
♦
*. *
It should be a pleasure to the student body to know that the Wabash men said that the treatment they received here was the best they have received any place this year. One can “root” and make all the noise necessary, and it is just as easy to
treat visiting teams like gentlemen as any other way. And to beat a team and yet have them say they were satisfied with everything can not help but make the victory the greater.
* * ♦ Minnesota, 8; Notre Dame, 5.
Minnesota defeated the Varsity in the first game of the series by the score of 8 to 5.
The game was played at Springbrook Park before the largest crowd of the year. Waldorf was on the mound for the Varsity and ■ pitched a good game, but the support he received would lose any game. The hits were, even, and the strike outs 9 to 1 in Waldorfs favor. Minn, scored first in the fourth when two hits and as many errors allowed four runs to cross the plate. Notre Dame made a great effort in the last of the ninth. Perce batted for Stopper and hit for a base. Brogan got his third single of the afternoon. Sheehan took one in the head. Shea took three healthy ones and resumed his seat. Waldorf hit, scoring Perce and Brogan. Waldorf went out at second. Bonnon hit, scoring Sheehan, but
Farabaugh was an easy	out.
Minnesota	R H P A E
Pidgeon, c. f.	2 3 3 0 0
Caldwell, ss.	0 2 13 0
Robertson,.1. f.	0 0 0 0 0
Brenna, c.	1110 0
Boyle, 3b.	112.11
Linehan, lb.	1 2 121 0 -
Hurly, r. f.	10 10 0'
Spooner, 2b.	2 0 5 2,1.
Volstead, p.	0 0 2 2 0.
•Totals	8 9 27 9 2
Notre Dame	R H P A E ■
Bonnon, ss.	0 2 0 3 0 ;
Farabaugh, 1. f.	0 0 0 0 2
McCarthy, r. f.	1 2 10 0
Murray, c.	0 011 1 1
Stopper, lb.	1 1 8J1 1.
Brogan, 3b.	1 3 1 1 1
Sheehan, c. f.	1 0 4 0 2
Shea, ss.	0 0^1 2 0
Waldorf, p.	1 1 13 0
Totals	5 9 2711 7 .
Struck out—By Waldorf, 9; by Volstead, 1. Bases oil balls—Oft' Waldorf, 2; off Volstead, 1. Hit by pitched ball—Volstead, Sheehan. Umpire, Ryan.
* * » Notre Dame, 9;. South Bend Elks, 1.
Notre Dame and the South Bend Elks went through a few stunts out at Spring-
EIOTRH DAME SCHOLASTIC.
brook Park Wednesday morning, and although the Elks put up a fair imitation of baseball, the game was rather on the quiet order and no one suffered from overexcitement, or anything like that. O'Gorman was in the box for Notre Dame, and Brown was the only man who got anything like a hit, and he landed on one for three bases. Johnson was on the hill for the Elks and pitched a fairly good game, but when the college boys needed a hit they had little -trouble in getting it. Murray got his usual three sacker, but was too tired to .-take more than two on it. The score at the end of the seventh inning was 9 to 1, and the’^ Elks were given another bat out of the college men’s kindness of heart, but no damage was done, and the game was
„ called off. Score:
Notre Dame—0 0 1 0 2 4 2 *=9 S 1 South Bend—0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0=1 1 5 Batteries—O’Gorman and McCarthy Johnson and Brown
* *
Notre Dame, 2; St. Viateurs, 1.
McCarthy was the man behind the bat on Monday, and his clean single in the last of the tenth brought Bonnon from second, defeating St. Viateurs by a score of 2 to 1.
Sam O’Gorman pitched his last game for Notre Dame, and the best game of his college career. After the second inning the youngster settled down, and for the remaining eight innings allowed the visitors three scattered hits. Shiel was on the mound for St. Viateurs, and although he. allowed the same number of hits as O’Gorman, the pitching honors all went the “boy’s” way, as Shiel passed four men and hit one, while O’Gorman issued no “comps” and hit one man. Each team scored one run in the first ' and then the score book marked 0 for 9
innings. .
Bonnon started the tenth by reaching'first on Kelly’s error. Farabaugh sacrificed. Then came “Noisy ” McCarthy with his second hit and won'the game. The same McCarthy was responsible for the first run, bringing Bonnon from second the first time with a two bagger. ;
. Summary.	.
. NotreDame ,	. .	. r h ,p a e
Bonnon, ss. . . - . :	:	< 2 0 2 2 0
Farabaugh, 1. f.	:	; - 0 1 1 0 0
. McCarthy, r. f.’	- ‘	0 2 0. 0 0
Murray, c.	0	0 11	2 0
Stopper, lb.	0	0 11	0 0
Brogan, 3b.	0	1 2	0 1
Sheehan, c. f.	0	1 1	0 0
Shea, 2b.	.	•	0	2 2	4 0
O’Gorman, p.	0	0 0	4 1
T otals	. 2	7 30 12 2	
St. Viateurs	R	H P	A E
Hickey, c.	1	2 4	2 0
McCarthy, ss.	'	0	0 4	0 0
Conway, 1. f.	0	3 1	0 1
Martin, lb.	0	0 11	0 0
Dalton, 3b.	0	0 1	2 1
Legris, c. f.	0	1 2	0 0
Kelly, 2b.	0	0 4	6 2
O’Connell, r. f.	0	1 1	0 0
Shiel, p.	0	0 0	5 0
Totals	.	1	7 2S15 4	
-Two base hits—McCarthy, Conway. Struck out— By O’Gorman, 9; by Shiel, 2. Bases on balls—Off Shiel, 4. Hitby pitcher—O'Connell, Bonnon. Umpire, Tindill.
* . * *
Notre Dame, 4; Ohio Wesleyan, 2.
The pitchers are all finishing up the season in grand style. Waldorf made his farewell appearance on Wednesday, and for seven innings did not allow the visitors anything that looked like a hit. In the eighth Secrist beat out a slow one and in the ninth two singles made the total three.
Webb was on the mound for the visitors and pitched a good game, but the Varsity hits were bunched. Same team again to-morrow.
Notre Dame Bonnon, ss. Farabaugh, 1. f. McCarthy, r. f. Murray, c. Stopper, lb.	. ■ Brogan, 3b. Sheehan, r. f. Shea, 2b. ’ Waldorf, p.	R 0 0 0 1 2 . 1 0 ■ 0 0	H P A	E 1 0 0 2 1' 0 0 1 1
		10 1	
		0 10	
		0 10	
		2 10 0	
		19 0	
		2 3 5	
		10 0	
		13 1	
		0 0 1	
Totals	.	4	S 27 8	G
Ohio Wesleyan	R	H P A	E •
May, 2b.	0	0 2 3	1
Secrist, lb.	0	111 0	0
; Webb, p.	.	0	0 0 3	1
. Rupert, c. f.	0	0 0 1	0
. Henderson, ri f.	0	0 0 0	0
Potts, 1. f. .	0	0 10	0
Cleland, ss.	1	0 0 4	0
Sessian, 3b:	1	110	1
Baker, c.	.	. :	.	. 0	19 0	0
Totals .	\	.	2	3 24 11.	3
Two base' hits—Shea.	. -Struck out—By	Waldorf,	■9;
by Webb, 7: Bases on Tindill. -.	' '■	balls—Off Waldorf, 2. Umpire,		
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
559 •;
Will Perce finished it up yesterday by defeating Ohio Wesleyan in the second game by the score of 7 to 1. Hibbs, who started in to pitch for the visitors, was put to the woods in the fourth inning, and Webb was compelled to go again, but the Varsity were there to win, and the change made little difference. Perce allowed but three hits and only two men reached second base.
Summary.			
Notre Dame	R	H P A	E
Bonnon, ss.	1	2 2 0	0
Farabaugh, 1. f.	1	12 0	0
McCarthy, c.	- *	0	0 7 1	1
Murray, r. f.	0	110	0
Stopper, lb.	1	3 10 0	0
Brogan, 3b.	'	1	0 2 4	0
Sheehan, c. f.	1	10 0	0
Shea, 2 b.	1	11’2	0
Perce, p.	1	12 3	0
Totals SUMMARY.	7	10 27 10	1
Ohio Wesleyan	R	n p a	E
May, 2b.	.	0	0 2 2	1
Secrist, lb.	•	0	19 0	0
Rupert, c. f.	0	0 2 1	0
Henderson, r. f.	1	110	0
Potts, 1. f.	0	0 0 0	1
Cleland, ss.	0	0 2 2	0
Sessian, 3b.	0	0 0 2	0
Baker, c.	0	OSO	0
Hibbs, p.	0	0 0 1	1
Webb, p.	0	10 1	0
Totals	1	3 24 9	3
Three base hits—Farabaugh. Two base hits—Secrist,			
Henderson. Double plays—Cleland to Secrist; Rupert			
to May. Struck out—By Perce, 5;	by	Hibbs, 3;	by
Webb, 3. Bases on balls—off -Perce, Umpire—Tindill. ' —:			2*	off Webb	2.
Military Medals Awarded.
On Memorial Day the members of the military companies of St. Edward’s Hall contested for honors. In a series of three drilldowns Master E. Peil, Captain of a company, took the medal for the non-commissioned officer, and Master Milton Mann, who is in his first year’s military service, took the private’s medal. The young soldiers were trained by Messrs. Robert and Beckman Ohmer of Corby Hall. Among the audience were our Reverend President, Reverend William Marr, C. S. C., Reverend M. A. Schumacher, C. S. C., and the members of Notre Dame’s G. A. R. .Post.
Senior Banquet.
The class of 1906 has set a high standard socially as Avell as intellectually for other classes to follow, and the banquet given at the Oliver banquet hall last Wednesday evening was no exception to the ideal of excellence and originality for which the class has always striven. Much credit is due Mr. Evaristo Batlle of the Arrangement Committee for the success of the affair. The menus were printed upon gold and blue . silk bound together, with the class colors of garnet and grey. A handsomely engraved view of Notre Dame added to the beauty of the carte de table. A perfect meal was served in the usual Oliver style and the members of ’06 did the rest.
After the cigars had been passed the toasts were given, with President Shea as toastmaster. T. Dart Walker was. the first to ' speak. His subject, “The Dome,” is ’06’s chief claim to fame, and Mr. Walker easily showed that it is a work to be proud of. A. W. McFarland, in responding to the toast, “The Individuality of ’.06,” clearly showed -that this vear’s class is different from those . of other years, and that future senior classes will have to make a tremendous,effort to equal the record of 1906. Will .O’Brien made the hit, of the evening with his toast on “The Value of Discipline; ” it was replete with good humor and sound advice. Arthur Funk, our football hero, spoke of the deeds that ’06 has accomplished in athletics. He spoke also of the general condition of athletics at Notre Dame, and deplored the lack of greater interest in the teams. It must be remembered that ’06 is chiefly responsible for the new athletic policy at Notre Dame; hence it is fitting that they should take such an interest in the matter. Lally on “The Faculty,” and Dubbs on the “Ladies” were equally good. The truer class spirit and loyalty prevailed when Mr.-Roesch arose to the toast which is to be ’06’s greatest and best claim to individu-alitv,“ Class Reunion.” Mr. Roesch in his own pleasing way spoke of the beauty and feasibility of such a project, and plans were formulated for another such gathering . in 1910 as was had last Wednesday evening.
560
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Card of Sympathy.
Whereas, God has seen fit to call to Himself the brother of our hall-mate and friend Harmon V. Donovan, be it
. Resolved, That we in behalf of his companions and friends in Brownson Hall tender him our sincerest sympathy.
A. J. Cook	C. J. Burke
Wr. P. Calahan	A. M. Geary
Personal.
—Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the well-known law firm of Bastruf and O’Neill, Chicago, delivered a very interesting and instructive address last Saturday evening to the law students. He spoke almost two hours and had throughout the undivided attention of his audience. His subject was the trial of actions at law and'suits in equity, and he explained in a masterly manner the fundamental distinctions between the common law and equity in the exercise respectively of their remedial powers. In the development of his theme numerous incidents, pleasing and amusing, were related, and they served admirably the intended purpose of illustration. Choice in diction, felicitous in expression and luminous in thought, he gracefully led his interested and delighted hearers into and through, the preliminary mazes of common law and equity pleadings. His promise to address them frequently the coming academic year was received with great applause. He is doubly a son of Notre Dame, being a graduate both in letters and law, and his Alma Mater is justly proud of the success and honors he has achieved—the deserved reward of his ability and worth. .
Local Items.
—Mr. De Liinden, Corby Hall, wants to ■ sell his eighty-five dollar camera.
—The flag, presented by the class of ’06 on Washington’s Birthday will be hoisted according to custom to-morrow, Baccalaureate Sunday.
—The original photo from which the cover ’ is designed will be presented to the Athletic - Association by Mr. Mangold, the South Bend photographer. The original is 22 x24 and is finished in sepia.	’
—On last Wednesday at the Catholic University Washington, D. C., the doctorate was conferred upon the Rev. Janies Burns, C. S. C., and Rev. Mr. Timothy Crowley, C. S. C., alumni of Notre Dame.
—The following are the subjects of the theses for Master degrees: The Religious Animal or the Universality in Time of Peace of a Belief in God by Henry Michael Kemper, Lift. B. ’05, for degree of Master of Arts in Philosophy, and The Law of Administrators and Trustees by Edward Hermann Schwab, LL. B. ’05, for degree of LL. M.
—The second debate between the first teams of the Brownson and St. Joseph Literary and Debating Societies has been declared off. A misunderstanding of the conditions of the question led the St. Joseph team to put a too narrow interpretation upon it, and the lateness of the school year prevented any further study of or change in the question. As there were no conditions . made for the inter-hall championship, and as Brownson Hall has won the most debates, this hall is entitled to the championship.	.
—On Alay 29 the Brownson Literaiy	)
Society defeated the St. Joseph Debating	|
Society by a unanimous vote. The question	I
was: Resolved, That United States senators	;
be elected by direct vote of the people.	;
The affirmative was upheld by Carl Rolands, Eugene Clear and D. AIcDonald of Brown- . son, the negative by Messrs. Tuohy, Wolf	I
and Galligan of St. Joseph’s. Both teams	|
showed that they had a thorough hold of the question and delivered- their arguments with force and clearness. The judges were Father Regan, Prof. McCue and Air. Bolger.
—We. are requested to draw the attention of the students to the following: .
Prize Short Story Contest.	i
An Indianapolis Publisher wants a 1000 word story,—fiction of course—which will' portray the undergraduate life at Notre Dame. The contest is open to all bona fide students,—seniors of the present year barred. The stories must be within the word limit or the manuscripts will not be considered. Remember that the stofy of the Creation is told in less than 500 words. .
All MSS. must be in,; the editors’ hands not later than Oct. 1. A photograph of the author with a brief sketch of his college career must accompany each story. The publisher reserves the right to retain such stories as he deems worthy of publication, the same to be paid for at space rates if used. Names of students desiring to enter this contest should be forwarded at once to the editor,	y
Fred Elliott Fisher, 1949 N. Penna? St.,Indianapolis, Ind. '
1
?
The Rev. D. J. STAFFORD. D. D., Commencement Orator.