The SCHOLASTIC
MAY 24,
1963
PfiLm LITC®
< TAILORED BY	COMPANY
THE PALM BEACH PALM LITE SUIT ... S4MS
For the young man on the go! A cool luxury blend of Dacron polyester and wool worsted meticulously tailored by Palm Beach for a perfect fit. Handsome deep colors and muted patterns. Other Palm Beach suits from $39.95.
^GILBERT'S
COOL PALM BEACH SLACKS $10.95
Relax in stvle this summer in lightweight colorful Palm Beach slacks. Fashioned from a wrinkle-free blend of Dacron polyester and rayon. Sensational colors?
•Reg. T.M. Goodall Sanford Incorporated
GENUINE
TAILORED BY	COMPANY
CHARGE
IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY 1/3 IN JUNE • PAY 1/3 IN JULY • PAY 1/3 IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Get what you need now for vacation wear and pay for it this summer while you’re on vacation! You pay nothing extra for this handy Campus Shop charge account service.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY STORES
^GILBERT'S
May 24, 1963
i
If your shave hasn’t got it here, it hasn’t got it
If your shaver won’t get close, why should she?
To knock off that unromantic stubble, you need power. The kind of whisker-cutting power only the Remington® 25 shaver delivers. Power to glide through the wiriest beard without slowing down.
And comfort. Exclusive Remington roller combs smooth skin down. Pop whiskers up into the man-sized shaving head. No irritation. No redness. No whiskers. Just comfort.
Will she or won’t she? Your REMINGTON 25 lets you know for sure.
The Scholastic
Welcome Notre Dame Men
FINE JEWELRY • FINE SERVICE FAIR PRICES
DIAMONDS
Keepsake * Artcarved * Orange Blossom
WATCHES
Omega ■ Rolex * Longines ■ Wittnauer Patek Phillips
14K GOLD JEWELRY
Charms * Bracelets * Pendants * Crosses Pins * Cultured Pearls
FASHION JEWELRY
Trifari * Monet ■ Eisenberg * Siamese Sterling and Gold Filled Charms
CREDIT (WITH NO INTEREST) AND LAYAWAY—AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M.
Here’s deodorant protection
YOU CAN TRUST
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
Old Spice Stick Deodorant.,.fastest, neatest way to allday, every day protection! It’s the man’s deodorant preferred hy men...absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily... dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant — most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.
COVER
Back to our photo-drawing format this week. The panels are, clockwise from upper left: the new library rising toward hoped-for completion in September; a girl who visited ND during the jazz festival; Performer of the Year John Andreoli; Cardinal Suenens addressing students and faculty at the Grotto; a Sickingpression of graduation. Photos by Hoyt, Wheeler, Ford, Larsen, and Beck. Arrangement and drawing by Larry Sicking.

STICK
DEODORANT
S H U L_ T O N
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
May 24, 1963
5
OnCa9qn$H&»
{Author of “I IFas a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 May 24, 1963 No. 22
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
With today’s installment I complete my ninth year of writing columns in your college newspaper for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes. In view of the occasion, I hope I may be forgiven if I get a little misty.
These nine years have passed like nine minutes. In fact, I would not believe that so much time has gone by except that I have my wife nearby as a handy reference. When I started columning for Marlboros, she was a slip of a girl—supple as a reed and fair as the sunrise. Today she is gnarled, lumpy, and given to biting the postman. Still, I count myself lucky. Most of my friends who were married at the same time have wives who chase cars all day. I myself have never had this trouble and I attribute my good fortune to the fact that I have never struck my wife with my hand. I have always used a folded newspapereven throughout the prolonged newspaper strike in New York. During this period I had the airmail edition of the Manchester Guardian flown in daily from England. I must confess, however, that it was not entirely satisfactory. The airmail edition of the Guardian is printed on paper so light and flimsy that it makes
little or no impression when one slaps one’s wife. Mine, in fact, thought it was some kind of game, and tore several pairs of my trousers.
But I digress. I was saying what a pleasure it has been to write this column for the last nine years for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes—a fine group of men, as anyone who has sampled their wares would suspect. They are as mellow as the aged tobaccos they blend. They are as pure as the white cellulose filter they have devised. They are loyal, true, companionable, and constant, and I have never for an instant wavered in my belief that some day they will pay me for these
We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, confess to more than a few nervous moments during the nine years we have sponsored this uninhibited and uncensored column. But in the main, we have had fun and so, we hope, have you. Let us add our good wishes to Old Max’s: stay happy; stay loose.
last nine years. But working for the makers of Marlboro has not been the greatest of my pleasures over the last nine years. The chief satisfaction has been writing for you—the college population of America. It is a rare and lucky columnist who can find an audience so full of intelligence and verve.
I would like very much to show my appreciation by asking you all over to my house for tea and oatmeal cookies, but there is no telling how many of you my x\afe would bite.
For many of you this is the last year of college. This is especially true for seniors. To those I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will find the wTorld outside a happy valley. To juniors I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will become
seniors. To sophomores I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will become juniors. To freshmen I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will become sophomores. To those of you going on into graduate school I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will marry money.
To all of you let me say one thing: during the year I have been frivolous and funny during the past year—possibly less often than I have imagined—but the time has now come for some serious talk. Whatever your status, whatever your plans, I hope that success will attend your ventures.
Stay happy. Stay loose. © 1863 Max Shulman
Founded 1867
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:
Tom Hoobler
MANAGING EDITOR:
Dick Stranger
BUSINESS MANAGER:
Brian Barnes
NEWS EDITOR:
Mel Noel
FEATURES EDITOR:
Jim Devlin
SPORTS EDITOR:
Terry Wolkerstorfer
ART EDITOR:
Larry Sicking
ADVERTISING MANAGER:
John O’Hanlon
CIRCULATION MANAGER:
Tom Keane
PHOTOGRAPHY:
Brian Beck
CONTRIBUTORS:
Carl Wiedemann, John Anton, Frank Obert, John Pope, Dick Gibbs, Karl King, Brian Jorgensen, David Barrett, Tom Woods, Jeff Blackwell, Joe Wilson, John Buckley, Jim Cdllero, Mike Walusis
STAFF:
Gary Sabatte, Rex Lardner, Al Dudash, Frank Smith, Tom Bettag, Bruce Palka, Ray Burke, Rick Weirich, Bill O’Grady, John Frey, Mike Hoyt, Jack Quine, John Twohey, Pat Ford, John Gorman, Jack Rowe
FAJCfJLTL ADVISOR: Fr. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C.
EDITORIAL BOARD:
Dick Stranger, Chairman; Pete Clark, Matt Cosgrove, Mike McClintock, John McGrath, Bill Smith, Tom Stahlschmidt, Tom Vitullo
6
The Scholastic
	
Student
Apathy:	Who Gives a Damn? ... about Birmingham ... about WSND-FM ... about Gerald L. K. Smith ... about building graduate dormitories ... about cheating ... about SINA ... about hall spirit ... about class sizes that increase as faculty numbers decrease ... about the social situation ... about HUAC ... about the Scholastic ... about George Lincoln Rockwell ... about dance lotteries ... about ROTC	i ... about capital punishment ... about student-administration communication ... about Red China and Southeast Asia ... about participative Masses ... about federal aid to education ... about the limited choice in theology classes ... about Vatican II ... about Blue Circle ... about the inadequate pension plan for faculty members ... about inadequate scholarship funds ... about viewing faculty and students as dignified, cooperative elements in effecting the true goals of the University ... about the new library ... about the Distinguished Lecture Series ... about the Religious Bulletin ... about Brand X and the like ... about the Freshman Year of Studies ... about a co-op plan for the bookstore ... about the John Birch Society and groups of that nature ... about “cabin fever” ...about Cuba	। ... about Cardinal Suenens	. ... about football ... about frisbee ... about the Laetare Medal ... about curfews	i ... about India	| ... about student rights and responsibilities	| ... about Nadaismo	| ... about the “Notre Dame man”	I ... about increasing powers of the	central govern-	J ment ... about student government ... about Notre Dame ... about anything
May 24, 1963	7
SENIOR ART EXHIBIT
The Senior Art Exhibit, a composite show of the best works of nine senior fine arts majors, opened on Thursday, May 23, and will run to July 1. The seniors whose work is being exhibited are Gerry Grahek, Richard Juckniess, John Mooney, Larry Norton, Mike O’Connor, Bob Sajnovsky, Tom Schneider, Brian Shea, and Fred Trump. The Art Gallery is open daily from one to five in the afternoon.
$40 to $47.50
wear.
India Madras, etc.
$25 to $37.50
from our University Shop COOL SUMMER CLOTHING for travel, work or play
Our Wash-and-Wear suits in Dacron® polyester and cotton poplin, Dacron® and rayon, Dacron® and cotton cords, etc....in designs and colorings excellent for travel or business
Our Odd Jackets, in a host of attractive, practical materials, including Dacron® and flax, cotton seersucker, Dacron® and cotton, cotton
Summer Odd Trousers, from $ 10 Bermuda Length Shorts, frotn $11.50 ESTABLISHED 1818
Mens furnishings. |{ats ^Shocs
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEP AIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPUCATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED o
DR. M. MITTERMAYER
Optometrist
228 S. MICHIGAN
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
NOTRE DAME Jewelry Diamonds • Watches
Hundreds of Gift Items
AT BLOCK BROS. MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Jewelers to Students and Faculty tor over 40 years
AQUINAS LIBRARY ani BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 138 N. MICHIGAN • SO. BEND A Non-Profit Organization
8
The Scholastic
letters
Mr. Editor:
When I first heard the rumor of spring “riots” in the offing, I was struck by the incongruity of the idea. In my country, riots at colleges and universities Eire not uncommon, but they are purposive and invariably bloody. The police are involved in open fights, students are sometimes killed, and whole student bodies boycott for months to protest an offensive schedule or demand the removal of a disagreeable president or professor. There are serious causes for these demonstrations, and the students are willing to risk life and health to achieve their goals.
I was astonished, therefore, to find a Notre Dame “riot” no more than a spirited chant-and-scuffle pageant, a spectacle for the sake of spectacle, with no more defined, vocal protest than a babel of groans. ,
The most recent “riot” to date, an indiscriminate and vandalistic “water battle” made redundant by the sudden showers, appears to have involved upperclassmen as well as freshmen.
Granted freshmen demonstrations are often puerile and, because we are freshmen, are to be expected. But is this a perennial sport?
Granted some of the regulations seem more suited to high school than to college. But when upperclassmen are given to playing with fire hoses, what can we expect?
Granted that such acts are caused by a minority. But we cannot afford to shrug off our peccadillos on a faceless “minority” every time the school’s reputation is singed.
This “minority,” a handy word when specific blame is impossible, has a striking influence on the University’s academic growth. Such outbursts militate against any consistent intellectual atmosphere, without which a university is nothing.
This is not a plea to improve the scale and organization of student demonstrations; no more real progress is effected by bloodshed than by a water fight. But harmless as these disturbances may seem, they are prejudicial to our claim to maturity. Only organized, pacific discussion against a background of general worthiness will get us the responsibility we are asking for.
Atentamente,
— Julio A. Cardenal 141 Cavanaugh Editors:
The trio of letters which appeared in the last issue of the Scholastic cries out for some reply. The first of
May 24, 1963
many startling misstatements is Paul Brown’s casual coupling of “Father Hesburgh and the Notre Dame faculty” in his exultation over the censorship of the Scholastic. Anyone who thinks that the faculty at Notre Dame had anything to do with the duplicitous dealings is obviously very poorly informed as to the actions of a) Dr. Costello, and b) the A.A.U.P. which met last week. Author Brown might also take the time to find out the opinions of several departed and departing professors. And while he is at it, I wish he would explain just which “noble tradition of Notre Dame” he would have you, the editor, carry on. Perhaps he refers to the time-honored practice of confusing ordination with canonization. Though a long-standing tradition, I would hardly call it a noble one.
Regarding the childish, ill-constructed fragments of opinion contributed by Freshman Plonka, I am only sorry that the inclination to write struck him at all. Preserve us from such inspiration in the future! I must admit, however, that his letter did contain one accurate statement, namely: “They seem dead serious about this movement.” I think that if Freshman Plonka will wait for another year or two before writing again, he will know why they are dead serious. College education is nothing to take lightly. Mr. Schmitt (’43) knows just how much a college means as a gateway to career opportunities. So I do wish that Freshman Plonka wouldn’t flaunt his ignorance by referring to the seniors who disagreed with the administration policy as “pseudointellectuals.” If he can find his way to the Dean’s Lists in O’Shaughnessy and Nieuwland, he will find the names of several of the men who played prominent roles in the controversy. And if he will get a list of the 1963 fellowship winners, he will notice a striking similarity to the list of sponsors of a petition which was widely circulated and supported during the crisis. So apparently the difference between a true intellectual and a pseudointellectual is that the former always agrees with Big Brother, while the latter disagrees, and has the courage to make his views known, despite the awareness of almost inevitable consequences.
The few suggestions offered by Mr. Plonka are hardly worth notice. His reference to fanatical students who find fault with everything is silly, and has no basis in fact; neither does the notion that there is no difference between reform and revolution. Regarding the third and (thank heaven!) final suggestion, we can only hope that blasphemy is not the only defense of “orthodoxy.” “Why not begin acting as mature young men?” Indeed, Freshman Plonka, why not?
Last (and perhaps least) of the three letters, that of Mr. Garvey, was proof that although Mr. Morsch has
CContinued on page 27)
Attention! Sophomore Class
Order Your Class Rings Now
To Place Your Order a Small Deposit is Required
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
on-fhe-campus
Leo Joseph Cardinal Suenens, Archbishop of Malines-Brussels and Primate of Belgium, received an honorary Doctorate of Laws at a special Notre Dame convocation in the Grotto on May 16. The degree, conferred on Cardinal Suenens by Father Hes-burgh, acclaimed the Cardinal as “one who, in the spirit of Our Lord, stretches over distressed humanity the hand of compassion against the deviltry of the world.”
Pope Pius XII named Father Suenens Auxiliary Bishop of Malines in 1945, and sixteen years later, when the new combined See of Malines-Brussels was created, he was promoted to the rank of Archbishop. In 1962, Pope John XXIII proclaimed Archbishop Suenens a Cardinal. The Cardinal has been active in the Vatican H Council as a member of the new* Secretariat for Extraordinary Affairs and a member of the Commission on Diocesan Government. He also was very close to Pope John in the formulation of the recent encyclical, Pacem in Terris.
At the Grotto, Cardinal Suenens spoke of the Council as the biggest event in the history of the Church. In it, the Cardinal sees a threefold dialogue. The first is that between the Church and her own children. This relationship is in the form of an examination of conscience, in view of Christ’s command to go and teach all nations. At this time the Church must ask herself what she has done, what Christ would wish her to do today. In answer to the question given the Cardinal by a reporter covering the Council (“What is the main problem for the Church today?”), he replied that the answer is one of how to make passive Catholics active. “A Catholic has no right to simply accept the faith but must give it and in this way keep it.” Cardinal Suenens sees the answer as referring to the Cat-echismic response to the question why are we created—to know, love, and serve God. We must know Him and make Him known; love Him and make Him loved; serve Him and make Him served. One of the biggest problems for the bishops at the Council is their collegiality. They have a responsibility to bring the gospel everywhere, not by jurisdictional right but by a duty to help.
The most important moment for the Council will come after it. As the
great significance at Trent was the influence on the following centuries, so also will be the great influence of Vatican H.
The second dialogue concerns the Church and her separated brethren. Something must be done in this area, and the Cardinal spoke of an atmosphere at the Council in which the Holy Spirit is felt to be present. The two obstacles to visible unity can be summed up in two words, Peter and Mary—the primacy of Peter and the mediation of the Blessed Lady. They cannot be avoided and we must pray that the Holy Spirit will help the world understand the divinely instituted succession and that Mary will help the world understand her role in the Church.
Thirdly, the Church is in a dialogue with the whole world. The Cardinal noted how this aspect was injected into the Council formally during the previous week. Questions considering the nature of love, hunger in the underdeveloped countries, the demographic explosion, and war and peace must be answered in a world context. This last point, war and peace, is the theme of Pacem in Terris.
Cardinal Suenens, whose mission to
Left to right: Fathers Joyce and Hesburgh, Cardinal Suenens
the United States was primarily to explain this encyclical to a committee at the United Nations, sees in it three basic appeals. First, there is an appeal to all men of God to respect the dignity of the human being. Second, there is an appeal for collaboration between peoples of every land toward the goal of world peace. A supranational authority must be set up to solve world problems in a legal way, and the United Nations is the first step toward such an end. The third appeal is one to distinguish between persons and doctrines. We must love persons irrespective of their beliefs and practices. Man “must create a bridge between man and man . . . (He must) give his faith, and his youth, and his joy to his fellow man.”
With an eye to the new Memorial Library, Notre Dame has augmented its microfilm stock with approximately one hundred reels of classical, medieval, and Renaissance manuscripts from the famed Ambrosian Library at Milan. These are the first copies of these documents to appear in this country. Eventually, microfilm copies of 25,000 documents will be available.
10
The Scholastic
Congressman William Miller of New York, the Republican National Chairman, explained to Notre Dame students last Monday night how the Republican party was conquering its Winter of Discontent. The students packing the engineering auditorium learned why, according to Congressman Miller, the Republican party has not had a substantial victory in thirty years and, further, what is being done to increase the Republican vote power.
Congressman Miller, a. 1935 graduate of Notre Dame, started his lecture by praising our two-party system as the factor allowing the preservation of the constitutional approach in America. The goal of the political party under our system is not to win every election, but to be strong and vigorous, thus forcing the opposing party to be strong also.
Examining statistics from the 1960 elections, Miller pointed out that Mr. Nixon won more states, more congressional districts, and more counties than had President Kennedy. The election was lost in seven or eight large cities including Detroit, Chicago, and St. Louis. Republican “ideals, ideas, and platform” made vote power strong in the rural sections. However, the party “lacked muscle in the large cities.” To build this “muscle” and maintain the rural vote necessitated a strengthening, and in some cases a creation, of a Republican machine in the large cities. This machine has taken the form of a coordination of expert political advisors and volunteer workers making connections and “speaking out” for the party.
The New England States also needed strengthening. In the 1960 elections five thousand of the 50,000 polling places didn’t have a Republican precinct worker.
Congressman Miller explained that the Republicans don’t have to carry the cities but merely poll enough votes to give them a state-wide majority—only forty percent of Philadelphia’s vote is needed to carry Pennsylvania, he said.
Progress has been made, as Mr. Miller showed by the change in vote strength in the 1962 congressional elections; 1960 Democratic majorities have been substantially reduced in many cases.
Even the South “realizes the benefits of a two-party system, finally.” Miller was careful to point out that the great Republican progress in the South has not resulted from an aggravation of the civil rights problem. This success has been great enough to lead to expert speculation that Senator Goldwater may possibly have a chance of taking the South and
Republican National Chairman Rep. William Miller
its 112 electoral votes if he were nominated in 1964. Student speculation was aroused however, when Senator Goldwater and civil rights were mentioned together in a question addressed to Mr. Miller after his speech. Although the question wasn’t intentionally loaded, placing the two topics together seemed to bring a disproportionate reaction from him— he leaned closer to the microphone, spoke louder and faster and became flushed.
The intriguing dilemma of the effects of Rockefeller’s divorce and remarriage were, of course, brought up. Miller answered “politically” and said that only time will tell how deep and how lasting the effects of the latest move will be.
In closing his speech, Chairman Miller concluded that now both parties are strong enough that elections can be determined by issues instead of being won or lost by default.
Professor Harry Caplan, of Cornell University, gave a lecture Wednesday, May 15, on “The Classical Tradition: Rhetoric and Oratory." An engaging speaker himself, Professor Caplan presented his topic with humor and force as he traced the development of rhetoric and oratory through Greek and Roman times, and then analyzed the effects and influences of classical orators and schools of rhetoric upon the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, and modern times. Acknowledging that formal rhetoric is a disappearing art in the contemporary world, the professor maintained that classical tradition in “the art of winning public opinion,” as well as the interpretations of this tradition by later scholars, is the basis for our public speaking courses, advertising techniques, sermons, and other prepared and ex
temporaneous presentations of the spoken word.
Professor Caplan concluded by reemphasizing four of his main points: 1) that the arts of rhetoric and oratory were of great value to the ancients, and exerted a recognizable influence on the other arts; 2) that from classical rhetorical techniques came standards of rationality and good form influencing art down through the ages and serving as a guide for present-day teachers and public men; 3) that these twin arts were a natural growth from free institutions, flourished under freedom, and declined in times of oppression; 4) that rhetoric is a major force in a modem society which places so much emphasis upon public opinion, and thereby it is a major element of our heritage from the ancients.
James A. Lisiak, a senior finance major, has received the Wall Street Journal Student Achievement award, which is presented annually to the Notre Dame senior with the highest academic average in the department of finance. Listak, who is from Berwyn, Hl., is also a member of the Finance Club and served as co-chairman of the recent Finance Forum.
Edward G. Siegfried, a senior math, major from Mount Clemens, Mich.,, has received the Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh Award “for high qualities of personal character and academic achievement, particularly in theological studies.” The award was established in memory of the late Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former head of the theology department.
Hugh Plunkett, Chairman of the Dillon Hall Council, accepted the first annual award for the “Most Outstanding Hall on Campus” from Tim Morrison, Chairman of the Hall Chairmen’s Council, at the recent Student Government Banquet. In presenting the award, which carries with it a trophy case for the hall, Morrison explained the purpose of the recognition and the means of the selection. The award is in keeping with the tendency of various branches of student government to emphasize activities on the hall level, and is intended to encourage a type of competitive spirit among the halls. The selection was on a “subjective-objective” basis by a panel of judges—the officers of the Hall Chairmen’s Council, the Vice-President for Student Affairs, and the Student Body President— who considered the inherent differences among the halls, as well as the activities and spirit displayed by the hall, and the contributions of the
May 24, 1963
11
Hall Chairmen’s Council Officers. Left to right: Vice-Pres. Mike Coy, Treas. Hugh O’Brien, Sec’y. Hugh Plunkett, Pres. Tim Morrison
hall’s council to the residents.
The award, and the corresponding enthusiasm for hall governments, are indicative of the importance that the Hall Chairmen’s Council is assuming more and more rapidly. Independent and informal, the HCC is now involved in producing a new constitution for the Halls, one based on floor level activities through more widespread participation in the governing of the hall. In addition, the Council will supervise next year’s Homecoming decorations, and will work very closely with the new Social Commission to provide informal social events on a small scale.
The first annual “Best Geographical Club Award” has been won by the Detroit Club for its performance during the past year. The award is presented by the University Alumni Association; it was given at a banquet sponsored by the Association on May 20 in honor of the Detroit Club and the two runners-up, the Canton Club and the Metropolitan Club.
The award is given on the basis of the number of functions sponsored by the winning club during the year and the variety and ingenuity of these activities. Another important criterion is the extent of co-operation existing between the campus club and its corresponding Area Alumni Association. The club receiving the award is chosen by the Student Government Campus Club Commissioner, due to his close contact with all the geographical clubs throughout the year.
A permanent plaque will be installed in the main lounge of the Student Center with a new plate, proper
ly inscribed with the name of each winning club, to be added each year. Officials of the clubs are, Detroit Club president, Terry Desmond; Canton Club president, Pete Wackerly; Metropolitan Club president, Bob Mulshine. The Campus Club Commissioner is Bill Sparks.
An outstanding Catholic layman will be informally presented with the St. Thomas More Award by the Young Christian Students on Sunday, May 26, at a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn. Named after a model Catholic layman, the award is determined on the basis of outstanding achievement and sense of personal dedication in the field of the student apostolate, academic merit, leadership ability and personal generosity.
The 1963 winner of the award is Alfred G. Killilea, from Andover,
Massachusetts. A political science major, he has given four years’ personal effort to the furtherance of the student apostolate and the betterment of the student’s position in the university. He has worked for Christian improvement of the student community as a member and president of the Young Christian Students. With little fanfare, he has had a guiding influence in many of the actions on campus which work their effect in an often unnoticed manner. In addition, he worked as a member of the Mexican contingent of the Council for the International Lay Apostolate last summer.
The award is primarily recognition of a contribution to the student apostolate, which examines and acts upon existing practices, institutions, and attitudes with an eye to their giving the student that which is properly his. By means of this involvement, one attempts to make the student aware of the world about him, and aware that he can change it.
The Communion breakfast will follow the 8:30 Keenan-Stanford Mass on Sunday. Those interested in attending should notify one of the present officers: Bill Staudenheimer, President; Pat Deluhery, Vice-President; or Joe Ahearn, Secretary-Treasurer.
“Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal” was the subject of a lecture given by Mr. Frank Freidel in the Law Auditorium on Tuesday evening, May 14. Currently professor of history at Harvard University, Mr. Freidel is compiling a biography of Roosevelt three volumes of which have already been completed and published.
One out of six families was on relief when Franklin D. Roosevelt assumed the office of the Presidency in 1933, Professor Freidel informed his audience. Consequently, FDR had no trouble instilling a sense of urgency into the people of the depression-ridden country. Roosevelt had a plan for each of the ailing economic groups, which, in 1932, included most everyone. The question of a program for instant recovery was best solved by a politician, and Roosevelt filled the bill perfectly. Roosevelt’s goals were to be simultaneously the great arbitrator and dispenser of favors to special interest groups.
Strangely enough, the Democratic candidate in the election of 1932 was a Wilson Progressive, ideologically professing the policies of the New Freedom. But Roosevelt wanted to be President to dll people, labor as well as business, farmers as well as bankers. Roosevelt’s main objectives can be summarized in three main points
12
The Scholastic
of view which he held: to satisfy eastern economists, an inflationary policy and adjustment of the credit were necessary; to satisfy the Old Wilsonians and western progressives, the administration must enforce antitrust laws and securities and stock exchange control bills, force big business into line, and regulate it according to strict legal rules; in order to satisfy business interests, the New Deal must go beyond the policies of telling businesses what not to do, and operate on some positive ideas for business.
Most important of all, Franklin D. Roosevelt could count on the support of the common man, while at the same time securing the intellectual backing of such personalities as Walter Lippmann. FDR had an endearing personality unmatched by any President prior to him. His “fireside chats” were perhaps the most effective means of soliciting public support. With public opinion behind him, FDR was able to put through his legislation with amazing speed. By the end of the first 100 days of his Presidency, Congress had passed every one of his remedial measures. Thus, Professor Freidel explained, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, through his pragmatic but perceptive political talents, proved capable of leading his nation — as a nation — through the severest economic trial of its existence.
Dr. William T. Liu, associate professor of sociology here at Notre Dame, has been awarded a research grant by the Social Science Research Council, New York City, to conduct a study of the aspirations and value orientations among the Chinese youth in Southeast Asia. He gathered data for the project last summer in Formosa, Hong Kong, and Japan, while traveling under the auspices of Notre Dame and the University of Chicago. The new phase of his research will center around the analysis of this
Bookmen President Frank McConnell, left; Juggler Editor George Craft
May 24, 1963
data at the Computer Center, which will yield information concerning the role of younger generations in the social and economic changes of the new nations in Southeast Asia. Dr. Liu says that the Chinese are the largest and most economically powerful minority in the area, and many still have strong ties with the economic and political activities within Communist China.
Dr. Liu joined the sociology faculty here in 1961. He is currently teaching a course dealing with social change in Communist China. Dr. Liu holds a Ph.D. from Florida State University, and did two years of postdoctoral work at the University of Chicago.
The Notre Dame Bookmen, a literary discussion group, have chosen Frank McConnell as their president for next year. Edward Vasta of the English department will be their faculty moderator.
Meeting on the average of once every three weeks, the Bookmen discuss various works of literature; discussion centers around analytical and critical papers submitted and read by members.
Membership in the Bookmen is limited to 22, but when the next application period is opened, soon after we get back in the fall, there will be approximately eleven membership openings. Admittance is gained on the basis of an interview during which an attempt is made to determine the applicant’s ability to discuss literature in a conversational, rather than formal, setting.
The new editor of the Juggler is George Craft, with John Gaine, Frank McConnell and Walter Duncan serving as Associate Editors, and John Pesta, Layout Editor. The new staff hopes to expand the magazine in both size and frequency of publication. Recently the Juggler has been for the most part an outlet for creative writing, and consequently has been largely an English major’s magazine. Craft intends to include in the Juggler serious writing in such fields as philosophy, history and political science.
Canadian-American relations will be the subject of the commencement address at the 118th graduation exercises on June 9. Prime Minister Pearson’s speech will be the first given before an audience in the United States, his second visit as Prime Minister. It is not known at this time if a ranking official of the United States State Department will be on hand to greet the Prime Minister, however, it is customary for a representative of
the President to be on hand for such an occasion.
Lester Pearson, was in his second year at Victoria College when, in March of 1915, he enlisted for service against the Axis. After distinguishing himself in both the army and the RAF, he attended the University of Toronto, where he earned a BA in Honors History. After experience in both law and business, Pearson returned to school for another degree in history, this time from Oxford, and then served at Toronto University as lecturer.
Pearson’s public service began in the foreign service, where he served, from 1929 to 1939 at the Hague Disarmament Conference and with the International Economics Conference. During World War II he was Undersecretary of State for External Affairs and later ambassador to Washington. In 1949 Pearson was elected to the House of Commons and has served almost continuously in the House since then. A major honor for diplomatic service was the Nobel Peace Prize for 1957, which was awarded to Pearson for his work with the United Nations.
13
SQUARING
THE CIRCLE
by Frank Smith
As the bewildered freshman steps off the bus into the Circle on his first day as a Notre Dame man, he plunges into a new world. He sees the heralded Golden Dome, the football stadium where the famous Notre Dame spirit comes to life, the steeple of the stately Sacred Heart Church, and everywhere the cheerful student with the button on his suit which reads “Blue Circle.” As the confident senior marches up to receive his diploma on his last day as a Notre Dame man, he reflects on his college days. Here again is the Blue Circle which has done a great deal of work on the graduation ceremony. From the first day to the last, the Blue Circle is present, sometimes appreciated, often criticized.
The Blue Circle Honor Society is certainly one of the most controversial groups on our campus. To try to find out just what the Blue Circle is and what it does, the Scholastic interviewed its recently elected chairman, Paul Tierney. The constitution of the Blue Circle proclaims it to be “an
Blue Circle Officers: Left to right: Vice-Chairman Paul Charron, Chairman Paul Tierney, Sec'y-Treas. Fred Heroman
honor society dedicated to the ideals of the University.” Time calls for a constant revaluation of these ideals. As Tierney sees it, the goal of the University is to produce Catholic leaders in all fields of modern life, and thus, it is the task of the Blue Circle to endeavor to aid the University in any way possible in its desire to produce these leaders.
In the eyes of the administration, the Blue Circle and Student Government are the two complementary organs of student body leadership. The two groups work autonomously but hand in hand, with the ideal of both consisting in a desire to make life more enjoyable for the student body. Unlike the somewhat vociferous and controversial Student Senate, the Blue Circle is like the proverbial iceberg in its behind-the-scenes work. The Circle feels that it can best put into practice its dedication to the ideals of the University by engaging in a program of service to the student body. It is in exploring this field of
the Blue Circle’s service activities that one can appreciate the value of this society to the student community.
As has already been mentioned, the Circle does a great deal of work with both orientation and graduation. It is also the Circle which employs the organizing hand in many of the activities of our college days. Everyone knows of the fun-filled (perhaps too much so at times) student trips. These are planned and carried out by the Blue Circle. The Circle is the organization which regulates the campus elections. It is the Blue Circle which improves relations with South Bend and demonstrates Christian charity by the unique innovation called Help Week. The famous Notre Dame pep rallies are planned by the Blue Circle men. These are just some of the Circle’s contributions to campus life. Besides performing these social functions, the Blue Circle is the spiritual commission of the school.
Chairman Tierney has also outlined four new tasks which the Circle will assume. A Graduate School Bureau will be set up which will designate a place where information on graduate schools and fellowships can be found. A Collegiate Investigation Committee is planned to exchange ideas with honor societies of other schools. A Senior Advisor Committee to continue freshman orientation throughout the year is envisioned. It is also the Blue Circle which has begun planning on the greatest academic change in the history of Notre Dame, the introduction of an honor system.
The honor system, though still in its incipient stage, has already been controversial and misconstrued. It is the belief of the Blue Circle that the committee organizing this system should be an autonomous group. Such a committee has been formed by both Tierney and Dave Ellis. Both of these men have selected three other students to serve on the committee which is chairmanned by a sophomore, Doug Lovejoy. Each man on the committee will write a report on what he thinks
(Continued on page 28)
14
The Scholastic
another
The American Association of University Professors has voted to censure the University of Illinois for the manner in which it dismissed biology Professor Leo F. Koch after he had written a letter to the student newspaper condoning premarital sexual relations for students on biological and psychological grounds.
A vote of censure by the AAUP has no legal weight, but it carries considerable moral pressure, since a censured institution often finds it difficult to hire top-notch faculty members and loses considerable respect in the academic world.
The action against Illinois, taken by the AAUP at their annual convention, did not defend Prof. Koch’s position in the controversy, but considered only whether Koch’s letter constituted grounds for dismissal and whether Koch had been granted due academic process in the dismissal.
The Koch case erupted on March 18, 1960, when Koch’s controversial letter appeared in the Daily Illini. The letter included the following paragraph: “With modern contraceptives and medical advice readily available at the nearest drug store, or at least a family physician, there is no valid reason why sexual intercourse should not be condoned among those sufficiently mature to engage in
it without social consequences and without violating their own codes of morality and ethics.”
The AAUP declared that Illinois President David D. Henry was wrong in dismissing Koch without a formal hearing on the charges against him. The Illinois administration was also criticized for failing to support the unanimous resolution of the University’s Senate Committee that Koch should be reprimanded, but not dismissed.
The University of Miami has announced plans to experiment with a coeducational dormitory during the coming summer sessions, provoking “endless amazement and debate,” according to the Miami Hurricane, the student newspaper.
At the time the announcement was made, the committee working on the proposal had not reached any definite plans, but expressed hope that restrictions in the dorm would be limited to the “bare necessities.” The committee considers the project as an “experiment in student self-discipline,” and therefore no school or administration restrictions will be placed on the activity of the students, other than those formulated by a committee of the students living in the dorm.
A proposed code of conduct for the dorm would eliminate curfew for women as well as men students. Rather than restrict the students, the rules would ask that they sign out in the evening by indicating where they intend to be.
Further, no restrictions on dress or
movement through the building would be imposed. According to the committee this would lead into positive programs and tend to discourage sloppiness.
Future Michigan State students will not have to walk across campus to a library, because their library will come to them. Special libraries, staffed and operated by library personnel, are planned for each individual dormitory. These libraries will consist mainly of duplicated basic books for the undergraduate, and depending on demonstrated need, may grow as large as 50,000 books.
The students also have access to a supply of 2000 of the latest best sellers. These books can be checked out for two weeks, but no fines are levied on overdue books in order “to encourage reading in general.”
Everywhere you turn lately, you’re likely to find Father Hesburgh’s letter in one form or another. The May 10 issue of the Xavier University newspaper carried the omnipresent document in full. The paper also gave a summary of the incident with an interesting twist. The deleted article which finally touched off the incident, reported the newspaper, “ . . . consisted of an editorial which called for the resignation of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. ...” This is the editorial which was in fact published weeks before the incident. With each report adding its own touch, the story should soon become almost unrecognizable to any of us.
May 24, 1963
15
NUCLEAR ENERGY:
A LEGACY
AND A FUTURE
e have., in our age^ discovered a physical force greater than that encountered by man in all of recorded history. Nuclear energy, in just a few short years, has emerged as the dominant factor in the great human equation and undoubtedly the single most important factor determining the course of international relations.
In the minds of most people, nuclear energy connotes destruction, but my message to you is that this need not be the case — that man, with determination and perseverance, can direct the great force of the atom to the cause of peace on earth. The choice is ours. The important thing to realize is that the atom is with us for good or evil and that our great enterprise is to subject this energy to our will.
For the past ten years, I have been a member of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy and currently I am serving as its Chairman. During this decade, I have had the opportunity to observe and study the impact of nuclear energy on our society and I have participated in a number of decisions affecting the development and use of the atom. In this article, I would like to outline briefly some of the developments which have already occurred in the field of atomic energy — your nuclear
BY SEN. JOHN O. PASTORE
legacy, so to speak. But more importantly, I would like to suggest to you some guidelines for shaping your nuclear future. I deliberately use the words “your future,” for as the young leaders of tomorrow, many of you will undoubtedly be participating in the great decisions affecting the development and control of the atom.
THE MILITARY ATOM
For practical purposes, we may say that the atom was born in secrecy in 1942 under the football stands at Stagg Stadium at the University of Chicago. It was here that Enrico Fermi, a great scientist who had fled the tyranny of fascism in pre-World War H Europe, operated the first device to sustain a nuclear reaction. The first practical application of Fermi’s discovery occurred three years later when the atomic bomb was exploded near Alamogordo, New Mexico. Like the development of man himself, the nuclear force emerged on the world scene showing its violent self first. In the course of events, the atomic bomb finally brought World War II to an end.
But the peace which had been won so dearly was not to last long. Within months after World War n, the Communist conspiracy placed a stran
gle hold over all of Eastern Europe and by 1949, the Soviet Union, through subversion and espionage, had acquired the atomic bomb. The spiraling arms race, which began in the late 1940’s, continues to this day and the United States has been forced to continue the development of nuclear and thermonuclear weapons in order to deter the threat of Soviet military aggression and to preserve our way of life.
The use of the atom for military purposes has not been confined to nuclear bombs. Starting in 1950, under the dedicated leadership of Admiral Rickover, backed by the unqualified support of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy and the Congress, a revolution began in the field of Naval propulsion. Nuclear energy made it possible for the United States to build true submarines—that is, submarines which are not dependent in any way upon the earth’s atmosphere. The resulting warship, when mated with the Polaris missile, provides us with an unequalled weapon system. Today the Polaris submarine stands as America’s first line of deterrence against a Soviet attack.
Like so many other military applications of atomic energy, the development of nuclear submarines has provided an important dividend for the civilian atomic energy program. Fortunately, we were able to use the technology developed under Adm. Rickover’s project in our civilian nuclear power program, and I would like to turn to this subject now.
THE CIVILIAN ATOM Nuclear Power
For the past ten years, we have devoted a great deal of effort to our program for the generation of electric power with nuclear energy. Our financial investment is estimated at $1,275 billion. What are the factors which justify such an investment in talent and resources?
First, nuclear power makes good sense economically. If the development of nuclear power proceeds gradually on the timetable recently proposed by the Atomic Energy Commission, it has been estimated that by 1990, the annual savings in electricity would range between $2 and $2.5 billion per year and that by the year 2000, between $4 and $5 billion a year could be saved. Cumulatively, this means that by the year 2000, we could save approximately $30 billion. This means savings to you as a private electric consumer as well as savings to industry and commercial establishments.
(Continued, on page 30)
16
The Scholastic
The Fantasticks
OR THE LAST TWO WEEKS, Tom Jones’ off-Broadway musical, “The Fantasticks, A Parable about Love,” has been playing at Washington Hall; the play will also be the University Theatre’s offering to the parents who come here for graduation exercises. A number of elements have combined to prepare the performance’s favorable reception: it is the last, for instance, in a series of quite successful presentations by the Theatre this season, a series including the excellent Hamlet, the adequate if boring Billy Budd, and the exceptional Long Day’s Journey into Night; furthermore, it is the last performance at Notre Dame by Richard Kavanaugh, a young man of considerable achievement and greater potential; and, of course, the play itself has been rather widely touted by those fortunate enough to see its original off-Broadway production.
The unfortunate fact is, however, that it is perhaps the weakest offering of the University Players to date. The musical score is excellent and original, but no one in the cast, with the exception of Marilyn Petroff (The Girl) and Dave Van Treese (The Boy) can sing; and Miss Petroff’s voice has an annoying tendency to become an embarrassingly loud falsetto. The staging would be spare and avant-garde in a small theatre (fifty or one hundred people), but in Washington Hall, complete with a traditional proscenium arch, is disturbing and unsightly. And the play itself is a facile light satire, which would require actors of
May 24, 1963
by Frank McConnell
great maturity and experience to be even adequate theatre.
The theme of the play, of course, is established with a vengeance in the opening song. “Without a hurt,” sings Narrator-Professional Abductor Kavanaugh, “the heart is hollow.” For the rest of the play, then, a cliche-ridden Boy and Girl try to find love in a world of impossible fantasy, are assisted by The Boy’s Father (David Garrick, Jr.), The Girl’s Father (John Patrick Hart), The Old Actor (Terry Francke), and The Man Who Dies (Robert Urso); the fantasy, of course, collapses, a period of separation symbolized by — what else? — Winter ensues, and Boy and Girl are eventually reunited, Sadder, of course, but Wiser. Jones’ capital-lettered names of characters are obviously intended for something rather more advanced than a simple Boy meets Girl, Boy loses Girl, Boy gets Girl structure: but this is nearly all he ends up with. The Man Who Dies and The Old Actor, one with overtones, perhaps, of Samuel Beckett, the other with overtones, perhaps, of Thornton Wilder, actually do very little for the play, and their comic scenes are purely and simply gross, uninterestingly avant-garde slapstick. The characterization of the Fathers is silly. And the Mute, who initially acts as the living prop common in Chinese theatre (this is a conjectural source, but I’m sure Jones
got it from somewhere else), is later spoken to by the Fathers, and dismissed with the comment, “Oh, I forgot he doesn’t talk”—a lamentable breach of self-imposed decorum. In general, the fault of the play is its tendency to satirize the already laughable, and thus end by being silly; for there is nothing sillier than an artist using an apparently modem, advanced whip to flay a horse dead for many years.
The acting, however, does little to conserve what value there is in the play. A criticism of the acting, of course, is in some respects unjust, since the material demands so much intelligent and experienced effort for even slight success. But the fact remains that none of the actors are yet up to the demands of The Fantasticks. The Fathers, to begin with, play the low comedy with even more misdirected gusto than Jones himself might have allowed, and turn their duet, “Never Say No,” into simply second-rate Durante and Jackson-type vaudeville. As the boy, Dave Van Treese is appropriately callow, enthusiastic, disillusioned, and sadder but wiser — but one feels that his role is in a sense
(Continued on page 26)
17
Rationalism and Romanticism: A Dilemma
Through observation of life in general and reading, various problems arise which every thinking person is concerned with either directly or indirectly. Whether we be conscious or unconscious of their existence, these problems have an undeniable influence on everyone’s life regardless of whether they are resolved or unresolved in any particular individual’s mind. Although many of the problems that arise have direct reference to various mediums of artistic expression they can be applied just as validly to the way one directs his life, what he holds in his heart and soul as truly meaningful, and how he expresses his beliefs by his .actions.
A romanticist may present rationalism and materialism as horrible grotesque beasts that devour men’s minds, souls, and hearts till nothing is left but an integration of the beast and the soulless man it has consumed. If one’s experience is at all expanded it isn’t long before he is confronted with a corporal example of such a seemingly soulless individual. We have all run across such persons, the cutthroat businessman, the scientist who requires analytical proof for everything, the unloving hater of people in general, who shows no human mercy or emotion. He may drive a bus, collect taxes, or worst of all, teach young impressionable individuals.
In like manner though, romanticism and spiritual mysticism may also be transformed into a consuming beast by the rationalists. The image of romanticism as a beast may pre-
by JOE SRHOLEZ
sent a rather difficult vision to conceive of, but its degradation of the person as a meaningful entity may be just as complete and devastating. A person does not just become a mystic overnight, he gradually glides into its jaws and becomes unreal, removed, and less meaningful through a slow unconscious process. One can fall prey to this beast even though initially he may have had the noblest aspirations. The state of a mystic is certainly one to be pitied. It is one of disillusionment, removal from reality and what actually exists. It is a closing of the eyes to the unpleasant. He cannot see poverty, suffering, disease, and.death, which are most certainly manifested in reality. This type of individual is not as evident to an American of this day and age. In fact, you may go through your whole life in this country and never run across a truly mystical person. However in other cultures the story may be quite different indeed, especially in the Near and Far East.
It can be easily observed that there is something lacking in both extremes. But as is very often the case when one takes the middle-of-the-road view, you may wind up with a harmonious stable individual, but sad to say quite a passive one. He is a person who neither feels deeply nor expresses his emotions nor one who has a fine scientific attitude or inquiring mind.
What can be done about this paradoxical situation? Should we just plunge into complete agnosticism and disbelief in everything, just as the
ostrich buries his head? Should we scream “to hell with values” — material, spiritual, or otherwise? — “Everything’s relative anyway.” No, I think not, for this raises self-deception to a fine art.
I propose an extreme integration of all meaningful experience and knowledge. Our culture is known throughout the world as grossly materialistic and scientific. There is evidence of this in our everyday life: for instance, if you were walking down the street and happened to note a fellow walk off the sidewalk and smell a blossoming rosebush, you might be inclined to wonder about him. Why? I’ll tell you: because of the culture you were raised in. It would be much more natural to describe the photosynthetic process in our culture than to smell a blossoming flower.
Actually, both have extreme merit, you see. The emotional experience of smelling a flower on a tender spring day is truly a beautiful, meaningful thing. Likewise, knowing the structure of a plant and how it functions is just as stimulating on an intellectual level. When one combines knowledge and emotional feeling in one experience, a true sense of meaning is derived. It gives a unity to existence, that makes sense. People should indulge with their entire hearts into communion with the absolutes, just as vigorously as they should build rational, analytical constructs, whether they be scientific or philosophical.
Certainly I don’t wish to ethnocen- ' trically impose upon each person a set course of action. For some people may be naturally more romantic than strictly rational or vice versa, but I should like to propose that a wholehearted integration of both is not only possible without being hypocritical, but is actually a most significant and meaningful approach to life and existence per se.
18
The Scholastic
It was hard to picture Mr. Thomas Kinsella looking imposingly or wistfully out of an oval in the corner of the cover of an anthology of poetry. Although his hair stood up a bit in the back, it was sleek and thinning (he is thirty-five); his glasses were thick, his chin a trifle weak, and he was, as he said, “backed against the wall” of the O’Shaughnessy Hall Art Gallery, and dwarfed by a Mestrovic Crucifixion. The first poem which he read was a self-conscious acknowledgement that he looked and lived and felt like an ordinary, middleclass person.
It is, in fact, by “caring about the same objects and persons that we all care about, and in the very same way,” by attempting the “facile, really, and finally simple and utterly insoluble” task of “formalizing human existence,” that Mr. Kinsella has created his “gadgets to hold, in motion, people and objects as they exist in the process and erosion of time”; which gadgets are a number of the best poems being written today.
“I was a late starter," he said, “Be cause in Ireland my first teachers never showed me anything more about poetry than that it began with Chaucer on page one, and ended on, say, two-fifty-one, with James Stephens.” Perhaps because his commitment was self-conscious and entire, Mr. Kinsella’s early poetry relentlessly pursues the “nature and origins of the creative act,” especially in his own unself-conscious past, “The spray of dried forgettings Youth/ Collected when they were a single/ Furious undissected bloom” (from “Baggot Street Deserta”). He lived for almost five years in a room above Baggot Street in Dublin, “with almost no consciousness of social responsibility.” “But this was made up for, I rather think, by a dedication to hard work.”
.Looking backward, all is lost; The past becomes a fairy bog . ..
I nonetheless inflict, endure Tedium, intracordal hurt,
Thomas Kinsella .	I
I
by BRIAN JORGENSEN
The sting of memory’s quick, the drear Uprooting, burying, prising apart Of loves a strident adolescent Spent in doubt and vanity. All feed a single stream...
Versing, like an exile, makes A virtuoso of the heart Interpreting the old mistakes And discords in a work of Art...
For Mr. Kinsella, any poet is an exile who must stand apart from his world. “You’re working with, you’re using, the feelings of your own heart; and you need, as James Joyce once said, aloofness and cunning.”
Two major enlargements could be discerned in the expanding world traced by the poetry he read. “Other men’s voices were all too obvious beneath the surface of my work; until, for a very practical reason, and a common one, I began to produce a good number of poems, some of which were all right, and they said things as I wanted to say them. I began to court a woman; and the way to make love poetry work, is—you must be sincere. And some of it worked.” The love poems were ruthlessly sincere, speaking of the selfish and destructive as well as the creative and selfless moments of love. Again, in the poem called “Another September,” “new directions of thought were apprehended." The poem’s speaker, lying awake in a “country bedroom, raw/ With the touch of the dawn,” thinks of the Autumn season, of his wife lying asleep beside him, and watches:
Wakeful moth-wings blunder near a chair,
Toss their light shell at the glass, and .	9°	.
To inhabit the living starlight. Stranded hair
Stirs on the still linen. It is as though The black breathing that billows her sleep, her name,
Drugged under judgement, waned, and —bearing daggers
And balances — down the lampless darkness they came,
Moving like women: Justice, Truth, such figures.
The fusion of different levels of
experience which occurs often in Mr. Kinsella’s poetry can be seen clearly in this stanza, in which, through the personal and the physical, the impersonal and the metaphysical are apprehended. The quote is typical, too, in the terseness of its language, which concentrates the abstract or general into poignant contrast with the con- ! create.
Mr. Kinsella continued by reading poems which demonstrated his new range of concern: “Old Harry,” a poem “biased and unfair, in a way, and I would make it more so if I could,” which protests the bombing of Hiroshima, and which attempts to trace, in a figure whom the poet considers partially responsible, the natural processes of decay and guilt, and to relate these to a principle of justice by which, for some individuals, “Death ... is a criticism”; and, to balance this, a poem in which a laundress in a painting by Vermeer comes to typify those who contribute by simply sitting still and being decent.”
Mr. Kinsella concluded by reading j “A Country Walk,” a poem in which past and present, mind and nature, j thought and action come together. j The poet’s walk takes him away from “the piercing company of women," through a somber landscape heavy	।
with Irish history, to a river which,	i
like the river in “Baggot Street De- ’ serta” seems to embody the creative mind’s confrontation with Time:
... a thousand currents broke, Kissing, dismembering, in threads of
foam
Or poured intact over the stony bed I Glass-green and chill; their shalloio, | shifting ivorld	I
Slid on in troubled union, forging together
Surfaces that gave and swallowed light; .
And grimly the flood divided ichere it swept
An endless debris through the failing dusk	i
Under the thudding	span	beneath	my	;
feet ...	I
The inert stirred.	Heart	and	tongue	:
were loosed:	i
‘The waters hurtle through the flooded night.. ?
May 24, 1963
19
THE MAGICIAN
Ingmar Bergman’s art suffers quite often from the apparent pre-eminence of the artist both as portrayed in the protagonist and as seen in the form of Bergman’s fingerprints on the film. Too much of what might have been partially understood only in the Middle Ages—as Mr. McConnell has suggested—is constructed in his films. They often rely too heavily on an audience having the ability to remove itself from its own world in order to understand the world portrayed on the screen. They appeal primarily not to beings in the world but to beings who manage to appropriate the cosmos into their mentality. The Magician, probably Bergman’s best film,
is intensely ambiguous; but the ambiguity is not the ambiguity caused by the use of incomprehensible symbolic action; rather it is the ambiguity of natural experience, an artifact which calls into play the natural view of the world only to question whether the natural view is really so singular and absolute as scientists (to employ a category) would have us believe. Vergerus epitomizes the “concrete understanding” of the empirical attitude. He takes as his own a particular field of fact and assumes that conclusions which are lucid and complete can be arrived at through right reasoning. This manner of thought is in opposition to the idea of the religious artist so cherished by Bergman. But these forces in The Magician are not set directly into confrontation in the form of traditional melodrama. The large and most important ambiguity of the film is Voglen’s ambiguity. Does the scientific explanation of the magician’s methods offered at the end of the film account for everything, and is it the only explanation? This is the argument, or question, of the movie. Nothing really forces one to believe in any world except the scientific world. The magician’s skills can account for the eyeball and for his appearing only in the mirror. But the terror in Vergerus’ eyes and the possibility that the old witch did raise a man from the dead, as well as the tone
of the entire movie, make the question obvious.
The primary device employed in the movie is the device of a pose—the act of being an actor. Traditionally, the assuming of a pose and the wearing of a mask are ways an individual may come to a personal perfection. One assumes a pose in order to attain to ■ an ideal self. Voglen assumes the role of the magician in order to become a magician—an artist—and in order to escape from a world where the kind of truth he is seeking is condemned. Magic is made a profession in the film on the one hand (i.e., from the natural view) and a task and ritual of creation on the other. The actors must escape the police— and the vice of the empirical attitude. The pose is what gives the actors their proper place in the larger world of religion and love and art. It is significant that when, at the end of the movie, Voglen is seen unmasked, he is weak and even somewhat ignoble. The magic that he performs without his mask is the magic performed by an unseen magician. Voglen, as a man, is most perfect in his world when he poses.
In a sense, the magician is Bergman’s best portrait of the religious artist in his essential ambiguity. The film is a masterpiece of motion-picture art, acknowledging the audience’s frame of reference while drawing it into another. —Janies Devlin
FREUD
The movie, Freud, is probably good only insofar as it is useful. Its intention is to be popular and thus to popularize a more exact conception of Freud’s psychology than is received as an undertone in day-to-day life. Montgomery Clift plays Freud with adroitly neurotic and noble bearing; he succeeds in calling attention to the actual struggle Freud must have gone through—with his colleagues, his own mind, and his patients—without attempting to render his biography. The facts are, as is to be expected, inexact, and the ideas are grossly oversimplified and reduced, while nevertheless retaining or even being thereby enhanced with a kind of realism. Director John Huston’s Freud is neither the scientist nor the myth-ician he is ordinarily made out to be, but rather a student and thinker who had one not actually original idea, childhood sexuality, and was able to see in it large and important implications, especially the Oedipus Complex. The points in his adum
brated psychology occur to him in the finger-snapping mode of inspiration and are immediately assumed into the ethos of the movie. One patient, Cecily (played by Susannah York), is the symbolic representation of all Freud’s early patients, except for various people he cured by hypnosis. He analyzes her dreams largely with a theoretical a priori gained from the thinking of the night before. All this simplification is simply a matter of convenience. Although the movie does create unconscious demons with the facility of metaphor that characterized Freud himself, and although the movie heroizes Freud owing to its condensation of time, it nevertheless retains enough of Freud’s ideas in a fairly accurate adumbration and, more importantly, enough of its aesthetic responsibility, to be a worthwhile film.
Freud’s especial concept, dream analysis, which is seen as a device through which he explores his idea of childhood sexuality and subsequent repression, is expressed photographically in some good dream sequences, which, aptly surrealistic, draw the
viewer into Freud’s own drama as well as the drama of the psychic demons, so that he becomes a sympathetic character in the same way that he does in Ernest Jones’ biography—through mystery. And the mystery is maintained throughout the movie by Montgomery Clift’s fairly sensitive portrayal.
— Janies Devlin
20
The Scholastic
John Andreoli, Basketball:
Performer of the Year
It’s been said that John Andreoli is “so consistent that you don’t even notice that he’s outstanding.” His consistent and cool play have helped carry what was first an inexperienced, and then a crippled Fighting Irish basketball team on to a 17-8 season and an NCAA bid.
The Scholastic’s 1962-3 Performer of the Year captained and played forward on what was essentially a young team, and used his “cool head and hot hands” to steady the sophs and unnerve his opponents. How many times this year was the man guarding Andy left alone and looking foolish as the Philadelphia, Pa., senior popped one in from the side?
He led the team in scoring with a fifteen points per game output, but his value to the squad came mainly from the fact that this figure was the median as well as the mean average of his scoring. One would have been equally amazed if, on one occasion, Andy snapped Lloyd Aubrey and Tom Hawkins’ 43-point single game record, or if, on another, he missed three straight from the line. This is the kind of ballplayer that Andreoli was: always in double figures, but often overshadowed by a teammate having a “hot” night.
John moved up to the first string in his junior year when he trailed Armand Reo and Eddie Schnurr for team scoring leadership with a thir-teen-point average. Since gaining the starting spot, he has played in 49 straight contests and-has-compiled a fine .432 percentage from the field.
Chuck Lennon, head coach John Jordan’s assistant, praised the senior forward for his play against then second-ranked, undefeated Illinois, when Andreoli led the team with 23 points. “Whenever we needed a basket, Andy was there and he put it in. It was his clutch play that won the game for us.”
When Larry Sheffield and Ron Reed were lost, Andreoli shifted from forward to fill Sheffield’s guard post. Though firing from a new spot, he was among the team’s top point producers in eight of their last ten outings and was high point man against Navy and Bradley.
Basketball ability can be measured by points scored, clutch performance, team leadership or a host of other criteria. It is almost impossible to single out one or several of these qualities in John Andreoli. He had them all.
FOOTBALL:
Jim Kelly
Just as Maury Wills is an expert on stealing bases and Jack Nicklaus an expert on putting, so too Jim Kelly is an expert on catching a football. For this is the art in which Kelly excels; his ability to catch a pass was evidenced by an excellent performance throughout the 1962 season.
Last fall the junior end broke two pass-receiving records. By grabbing 11 against Pittsburgh, he broke the Notre Dame single game record, formerly held by Monty Stickles; in all, Kelly caught 41 aerials, snapping Jim Mutscheller’s mark of 35 set in the 1950 season.
To Jim Kelly the most important factor in pass-catching is what he calls “an utter disregard of the consequences. When you’ve turned your back on the defender, as you often have to, you can’t hear footsteps because your complete concentration must be on the ball.
“I feel a knowledge of the defenders and what moves it takes to get loose are of vital importance. A. good receiver should have the ability to spot the quarterback in a split second and to see the ball coming. Good hands are essential, and, especially on short passes, the ball should never touch your body.”
A 6-2, 200-pounder from Clairton,. Pennsylvania, Kelly won eight letters while in high school, and received over 85 college scholarship offers. He is Notre Dame’s outstanding candidate for All-American honors in the 1963 season.
Kelly has borrowed part of his passcatching philosophy from former Los Angeles Ram, Elroy Hirsch: “An end should catch anything he sees.” Last fall Jim Kelly did a remarkable job of doing just that.
May 24, 1963
21
SOCCER:
Bob Dubois
CROSS-COUNTRY:
Bill Clark
SWIMMING:
Chuck Blanchard
Notre Dame’s soccer team had its first All-American this past season in right halfback Bob DuBois. A member of the team since its inception three years ago, DuBois, the team captain, was one of the five Irish hooters to receive all-Midwest
honors.
The senior from Waterbury, Connecticut led the soccer team to a 6-2-1
record, including an impressive 3-3 tie
against St. Louis University, which went on to an undefeated season and the NCAA championship. Notre D a m e’s three goals in that contest were the most ever scored against the Billi-kens.
DuBois and Joe Echelle organized the Irish soccer team three years ago and he has been active in trying to attain varsity status for the team since that time. “Had the club had
varsity status and with it, more organized practice sessions,” says DuBois, “we could have had the best team in the nation.”
WRESTLING:
Fred Morelli
Little but muscular Fred Morelli snared the wrestling Performer of the Year honors in close balloting over another great Irish wrestler, and the Scholastic’s choice of last year — Ed Rutkowski.	.
A senior from Chicago, Morelli went undefeated in dual-match com
petition this season and was a main
stay as the wrestling team compiled a hard-earned 5-2-1 record. Although Morelli’s p e r -formances were not spectacular in the tournaments, they were, nevertheless, exemplar. In the
Wheaton Invitational and the Indiana College tournaments, Morelli finished second in the 137 pound division; and in the always-tough 4-1 tournament, he placed third. Morelli’s best single performance of the season was his defeat of Larry Janis, onetime 4-1 tournament winner and one of the best grapplers in the Midwest.
Notre Dame’s success in cross-country this past season — a 2-1 record in dual meets, third place in the IC4A behind Villanova and Michigan State, fourth place in the Central Collegiate meet, eleventh place in the NCAA championships — was due primarily to sophomore Bill Clark.
Clark does more than run crosscountry and track — he eats, sleeps, and lives running. Only a sophomore, he already has an impressive list of cross-country accomplishments: firsts in the Chicago Track Club-Notre Dame dual meet, the Indiana State Meet, and the Indiana-Notre Dame dual meet; and a fourth in the national IC4A meet.
Clark is a graduate of Philadelphia’s Cardinal Dougherty High School, the same school which produced Notre Dame distance runners Frank Carver, a junior, and Mike Coffey, a freshman.
He has nothing but glowing words for his high school coach, Jack St. Clair, to whom
he attributes much of his success. “He works a lot with individuals,” says Clark, “and he stresses confidence. If you don’t think you can beat the other guy in a man-to-man competition, there’s no sense in running in the first place. And he worked us hard, although it was nothing like college.”
Happily, Clark combines the desire of-a beginner and the ability of a veteran. He considers distance run
ning a real challenge, and talks of running a quarter-mile-long hill in New York’s Van Cortland Park (during the IC4A meet) with much the same sense of satisfaction that one might talk of conquering Mount Everest.
In addition, Bill Clark has become Notre Dame’s greatest miler, and has broken the Notre Dame outdoor record twice this spring — with a best time of 4:08.0 in the dual meet with Southern Illinois. He definitely has the potential to become a star of national significance in cross-country, and even, perhaps, to become Notre Dame’s first four-minute miler.
Despite a so-so 6-6 record, Notre Dame’s swimming team completed what must be considered the finest season in its seven year history this winter. The won-lost ledger matched that of a year ago, but a flock of new swimmers sent Rockne pool records tumbling to respectable levels.
It is difficult to single out one rec
ord holder from so many. Next year’s captain, Chuck Blanchard, was the
tea m’s “Iron Man,” swimming in the distance free-style events as well as in the final relay when he was needed. He broke his own varsity 500-yard free-style record
three times be-	'
fore sophomore -	*
Rory Culhane’s 5:27.9 clocking set the new standard in the final meet in
Pittsburgh.
Breaking records is nothing new to Chuck, who still holds the varsity 200, 220 and 440 yard free-style marks. He has tallied 194 points over the past two years and should have no trouble setting a swim team total point record next season.
FENCING:
Ralph DeMatteis
The closest thing to D’Artagnan at Notre Dame would be Ralph DeMatteis, Notre Dame’s fencing team cocaptain. As a master of the sabre, the agile DeMatteis leaves his mark as the winningest fencer of the past season, and hence is the logical choice for Irish fencer of the year.
DeMatteis, in sabre competition, won 26 and lost only 11 matches during the fencing season. Along with his eighth-place finish in the sabre division at the NCAA tour
Ulinois, winning
nament in late March, such efforts undeniably merit him this recognition.
A senior from Hollidaysburg, Pennsylvania, De Matteis was most devastatingly effective against Wisconsin and six consecutive
matches without a defeat in only two days.
.22
The Scholastic
TRACK:
Carl Ludecke
Carl Ludecke holds the Notre Dame
indoor and outdoor shot put records with throws of 55-11 and 56-*4, respectively; he holds records in the Indiana State Meet, Notre Dame-Pittsburgh dual meet, Ohio State Relays, Notre Dame-Michigan State dual
meet, and has taken firsts in a host of other meets; he finished fourth in the IC4A meet won by Gary Gubner of NYU.
Not only has Ludecke established himself as Coach Alex Wil-
son’s most consistent winner and as
the greatest shot-putter in Notre Dame history, but he has been an excellent captain. He has maintained unity on a team which has a great number of sophomores and juniors, and relatively few seniors—and in a sport which stresses individual competition. As a result, Notre Dame has had one of its most successful track seasons.
In short, Carl Ludecke is one of the few truly great Notre Dame athletes of 1962-63.
TENNIS:
Raull Katthain
Raull Katthain, a fleet, smooth-
playing sophomore from Mexico City, is the Scholastic’s netman of the year. Already the number one singles player, Katthain’s tennis aplomb is re-
flected in his current 17-4 singles record. As a sophomore, this is a more - than -creditable feat, and is also an encouraging indication that Katthain, with two years to go, might shatter
some Notre Dame tennis records. One thing is certain: he has started well, and is keeping up the pace.
Although he must play under different environmental conditions at Notre Dame, Katthain has been able to adapt himself to the Indiana climate.
As number one player, Katthain has faced such stars as Marty Riesen of Northwestern — ranked ninth in the nation and a former Davis Cupper — and has always played creditably.
Vjice in the Crowd
In 1962-63, as in any other year, Notre Dame sports have provided excitement, some memorable moments, and some players to remember. But there were significant differences this year.
A WINNING YEAR
First, 1962-63 was a winning year for the Irish: with a few spring games not yet played, Notre Dame has won 106 games or matches in varsity competition, and has lost but 48. This record compares most favorably with that of last year, when the varsity Irish won only 64 of 132 contests.
It also indicates, hopefully, that Notre Dame is once again on the rise as an athletic power.
NONVARSITY SPORTS
Second, nonvarsity intercollegiate sports have gained considerable stature during this past year, and now play a significant role in the athletic program at Notre Dame. Hundreds of additional students gained competitive experience on the rugby, soccer, sailing, and skiing teams, and all four were highly successful. A fifth such team, in lacrosse, is projected for next spring.
The increased athletic participation brought about by these sports — and the fact that the student body as a whole has been very receptive to them — is one encouraging sign of a healthy athletic program.
MOMENTS TO REMEMBER
The lootball season opened on a hopeful note with a win over Oklahoma, but hope soon turned to despair as the Irish were beaten badly by four successive Big Ten opponents. Faced with a win-or-else situation, Notre Dame then played Navy in a freezing rain at Philadelphia, and fought back from a 12-7 deficit to win. 20-12. It was in this game that Daryle Lamonica at last came into his own, and it was a game worth braving the weather to see.
The following Saturday, in considerably better weather, Notre Dame displayed the most potent offense of the Kuharich era in beating Pittsburgh, 43-22. Lamonica and Jim Kelly set single game passing and receiving records, and the Irish seemed headed for a comeback.
Notre Dame kept the comeback — and hopes for a winning season, the first since 1958 — alive with a win over North Carolina and an upset victory over Iowa, but suffered a disastrous and disappointing loss to national-champion Southern California in the season’s final game. . . .
The basketball season was more rewarding. Ron Reed opened the Year of the Sophomore with 35 points in the opener against St. Joseph’s, and even though Reed and Larry Sheffield were lost through ineligibility at midseason, the impetus of sophomores Walt Sahm and Jay Miller got the team as far as the regionals of the NCAA tournament.
OUTSTANDING PLAYERS
A number of players, other than those recognized as Performers of the Year in. their various sports, contributed greatly to Notre Dame’s success this past year. Among them are Lamonica, Don Hogan, and Bob Lehmann of the football team; John Matthews of the basketball and baseball teams; track’s John Joe Mulrooney; wrestling’s Ed Rutkowski; fencer Tom Dwyer; swimmers Ted Egan, Rory Culhane, and Tom West; golfers Mike O’Connell and Bob Ferrel; and Mickey Walker and Rich Rusteck of the baseball team.
With a winning football season seemingly within reach, Notre Dame could enjoy even greater athletic success next year.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
May 24, 1963
23
BASEBALL:
Shaun Fitzmaurice
One of the brightest spots in Notre Dame’s star-filled baseball picture has been the hitting of Shaun Fitzmaurice. Despite a midseason slump that saw his record-breaking eighteen game hitting streak come to an end and caused his average to drop below .400 for the first time, his play has earned him offers from 18 major league dubs. To no one’s amazement, he has been named Scholastic’s outstanding performer of the baseball season.
At the moment, Fitzmaurice is leading the Irish nine in almost every offensive department. He is first in batting with a sizzling .394 average and leads the team in hits, doubles, triples, RBI’s and stolen bases. His eighth inning home run against Michigan last week lifted him into a tie for team leadership in round-trippers. He is the spark plug of a team that has won 18 of 24 games. Now, with a week to go, Notre Dame is in an excellent position to receive an NCAA tournament bid.
“Fitz” took over as first team center fielder during spring practice and promptly went on to hit in his first eighteen contests. Shaun, a 20-year-old sophomore from Wellesley, Mass., sparked Irish late inning rallies against Ohio University which kept Notre Dame’s winning streak alive just after spring tour.
His speed has enabled him to stretch his hits and become the top threat on the basepaths for the Irish; in the off season, he runs sh for the Alex tre Dame track
team. Though lacking the freedom with his Willsian skill that he had in high school, he has quickly established himself as team leader in thefts.
It’s not too surprising, then, that he has chosen to make baseball his career. Fourteen clubs were willing to sign him out of high school, but he fdt a college degree would be helpful when he retired from the
game.
Though Shaun Fitzmaurice feels that his skills need polishing, he has already proven himself outstanding in college ball. With a little luck, maybe next summer there will be two Notre Dame men roaming the outfield at Fenway Park.
GOLF:
Mike Voss
Mike Voss, co-captain of the Notre Dame golf team, has been selected as the Performer of the Year in golf. Although he was not the most spectacular member of the team, the senior from Detroit played consistently good golf during the entire season: he finished the year with the lowest average score and the highest point total on the team.
His season average was a very good 75.2; he won a total of 119 points in competition. His record in eighteen-hole match play was also the team’s best: 27-10-1.
His best rounds of the season, ironically, came against North
western, Bellarmine, and Ball State, the same match in which sophomore Mike O’Connell shot his recordbreaking 64. Voss shot 72-71—143, typical of his steady play.
RUGBY:
Mike Murphy
Although the rugby club is composed primarily of juniors, its greatest asset in this year’s successful campaign was a sophomore named Mike Murphy.
Hailing from Toms River, New Jersey, Murphy is a 6-5, 230-pounder whose consistently rough but clean and
effective play in the scrums and '
lineouts reason, many, ruggers’
was one among for the credit
able 6-3-1 season. Voted by his teammates as the “most valuable player,” Murphy played at his lock
position all season, a position he
played “outstandingly” according to Bob Mier, Irish rugby captain.
“He provided the big push in the scrums,” lauds Mier. “As the lock, he directed the scrums consistently well and his play against such giants as Al Vonder-Haar of the Bombers was amazing ... If there was any man we would’ve really missed because of an injury, it would have been Mike Murphy.”
soorebdai^
Baseball: Michigan continued the Big Ten’s domination of the Irish batsmen with a 7-6 victory after Notre Dame had drubbed Valparaiso, 11-4. Boasting an 18-6 record with only four games left, the Irish almost certainly will receive a bid to the NCAA regionals.
Track: Despite record-breaking performances by Pete Whitehouse, who was clocked at :38.6 in the 330 yard hurdles; by Bill Boyle with a :47.3 in the 440; and by Bill Clark with a 4:08.0 mile, Notre Dame fell to Jim Dupree and Southern Illinois, 76-64.
Rugby: The Irish were able to score eight points against the powerful St. Louis Bombers, three points more than the Bombers ten previous opponents combined, but it wasn’t enough, as they lost, 12-8. The second string fared better as they blanked Wisconsin 8-0. The first team winds up its season with a 6-3-1 mark, while the second team posted a 2-1 record.
Lacrosse: With 104 members paid, Jack Tate is already drawing up next spring’s schedule in the Midwest Conference.
Tennis: The Irish warmed up for tomorrow’s revenge match against Southern Illinois with an 8-1 trouncing of Wisconsin; the Southern H-lini shut out the Fallonmen earlier this year. Notre Dame will be looking for its sixteenth win against six defeats.
SCHEDULE
Baseball
May 24 Western Michigan at Notre Dame May 25 Western Michigan at Kalamazoo May 28 Michigan State at East Lansing May 29 Michigan State at Notre Dame
Tennis
May 25 Southern Illinois at Notre Dame
The racing team of Notre Dame’s sailing club — Skip Kaiser, Art Lange, Tom Fox, and Bob Singe-wald — will compete in the North American championships at Boston in mid-June.
24
The Scholastic
Central Collegiate
Conference
Track and Field
Notre Dame has succeeded Marquette as host for the annual Central Collegiate Conference outdoor track meet, and this year’s promises to be just as exciting
as last’s.
J une of 1962 marked the first time within memory that the annual Central Collegiate Conference Outdoor Track and Field Championships were not held in Milwaukee’s Marquette Stadium; the reason, simply enough, was that Marquette University had dropped track.
The 1962 Notre Dame, on the part Cartier Field
meet was awarded to with some reservations of all concerned: the track was new and not
yet in top condition, and Notre Dame personnel had no significant experience in organizing and publicizing a meet of such proportions.
The results were beyond anyone’s expectations: six meet records were broken or tied, despite the fact that -the track events were run on a clay base; the meet was handled efficiently; and the crowd was near-capacity.
Track coaches, a generally finicky and hypercritical lot, could find little fault with the organization or facilities, and Notre Dame appears to have succeeded Marquette as the permanent host of the outdoor Centrals.
There is every evidence that the 1963 meet will surpass that of 1962: there is now a topdressing on the track, Notre Dame personnel have a year’s experience to their credit, and at least seven champions are returning to defend their titles.
Nate Adams of Purdue, Big Ten 100- and 220-yard dash champion, broke CCC and Cartier Field records with a :09.5 100 last June. The previous meet record had been set in the 1933 Centrals by Ralph Metcalfe;
May 24, 1963
by Terry Wolkerstorfer
returning will be Bill Cornell, who a
Southern year ago
Also Illinois’
Jesse Owens had held the Cartier Field record since 1936.
Adams will be challenged this year by Michigan State’s Bob Moreland, the runner-up in both Big Ten sprints, by Odell Barry of Findlay College, and by Jim Stewart of Southern Illinois, making the sprint field one of the strongest in CCC history.

beat Bill Dotson and Tom O’Hara (both of whom have since broken four minutes) to the tape with a 4:06.2 mile.
Cornell’s teammate, Brian Turner, won the three-mile run in 1962, and will be the favorite in this year’s two-mile. The four men who finished behind Turner — Jerry Bashaw, Don Hancock, and Dick Greene of Western Michigan and Notre Dame’s Frank Carver — will all be back for another try.
Ernest Soudek of Michigan in the discus, Jerry Williams of Iowa in the 440-yard hurdles, Pete Whitehouse of Notre Dame in the 120-yard highs, and Western Michigan’s Al Littlejohn in the high jump are the other defending champions.
Notre Dame, which finished second to Western Michigan (and ahead of Kansas) in the 1962 team standings, will probably do the same in 1963.
Carl Ludecke finished third in the shot put, but should win it this year, and will probably place in the discus as well; Jerry O’Connor took third in the broad jump and second in the hop-step-and-jump a year ago, and could be a double winner this year.
The Philadelphia twins, Bill Clark and Frank Carver, will probably take two places in the mile; Whitehouse and John Joe Mulrooney can finish two-three in the high hurdles; and Pat Conroy should get a place in the 880.
The 1963 Centrals should be every bit as successful as last year’s — for the conference and for Notre Dame.

Fantasticks
(Continued from page 17)
leading him, that we are hearing a dramatic reading rather than a performance. And Marilyn Petroff, as The Girl, rather overdoes it; lines which were probably meant as a parody of “Ozzie and Harriet” style dialogue, she delivers simply the way Harriet would have done it, or rather the way Judy of “A Date With Judy” would have. Her swoons, furthermore, are not overly perfectly timed or executed.
Richard Kavanaugh, whose performance as Narrator is easily the best performance in the play, deserves
special attention and criticism. As I hope to have implied, it is with a great deal of regret that one sees his last Notre Dame performance in such a bad, difficult play; it is with relief, however, that one observes that at least he demonstrates much more maturity in his performance than could normally be expected from a twenty-two-year-old actor. He is, always, in perfect control of himself—and, one feels, of all the other actors on stage with him. His comic lines are delivered with a wryness and a sense of timing not found elsewhere in the production, and his extenuated death in the Rape Ballet is, if slapstick, at least forthright slapstick, and for that reason
funny. He is miscast in a singing role, and perhaps miscast at all in a role in a play with as little chance of effectiveness as The Fantasticks.
Carl Wiedemann’s excellent tribute to Kavanaugh appeared last week, and little needs to be added to that — except that his last appearance here was a disappointing anticlimax, not because of a flaw in his own fine abilities, but because, perhaps, of a less than first-rate play and an unfortunately bold selection of the play for actors who, after all, have not yet reached the beginning of their full maturity.
Hony Soit Quy Mal Pense
BEETLEFATIGUE?
Try this one!
You call the play with Twin-Stick Floor Shift —has Instant Overtake.
This Rambler American 440 Convertible comes equipped with lots of inside room, yet with compact outside dimensions you can fit in tiny parking spaces. Surprising performance, too.
It's a good-looking way to get away from it all. Bucket Seats and Twin-Stick Floor Shift are sporty low-cost options. Power-operated top is standard.
Rambler prices start real low and you won't go barefoot to keep one running. A Rambler American 440 with overdrive logged 28.19 m.p.g. in the '63 Pure Oil Economy Performance Trials. And Ramblers are more service-free than ever before. Rambler quality keeps it on the road, not in the shop.
RAMBLER’63 Winner of Motor Trend Magazine Award: “CAR OF THE YEAR”
26
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from page 9) passed from the Notre Dame scene, his spirit grovels on. First may I point out that at no time was there any criticism of any of the alumni until the publication of the insulting letters of Messrs. Morsch (’53) and Schmitt (’43). To ignore these letters, or to allow them to go unchallenged, would be a sign, not of respect for the alumni, whom I doubt these men represent, but of a lack of self-respect on the part of today’s Notre Dame students. Yet Mr. Garvey finds a reply to these scornful insults “out of hand” and “in bad taste.” (Perhaps Mr. Garvey doesn’t mind being told he has a mind the
size of a gnat’s. Or perhaps he is used to it.) He also feels that Fr. Hesburgh’s letter was not sneaky, but rather well timed. I hope he doesn’t mean a contradiction between the two adjectives, because I found the letter both sneaky and well timed. No one can deny the technical excellence (rah) of the letter; it was very well timed and perfectly aimed (at the parents and newspapers, NOT the students). The students who cared had already penetrated the smoke screen of press releases and had found out the truth. Which is why it was frustrating to see those facts distorted, buried in prose, and in general misrepresented in such publications as Time, National Observer, and the Sun-Times. (My, but the
Notre Dame family is growing!) In case Mr. Garvey and others missed the point of that parenthetical statement, may I remind them that it was not Messrs. McCabe, Ahern, and Wyrsch who made Fr. Hesburgh’s letter available to the nationwide press. (And by the way, I hope no one is unwise enough in the future to refer to incomplete and one-sided interpretations of the facts!) I myself was surprised and dismayed to see the letter in the national press; up until that time I had disagreed with the former editors in their wish that Fr. Hesburgh be replaced as President. Messrs. Morsch, Schmitt, etc., are certainly right in giving Fr. Hesburgh much credit for the emer-
(Continued on page 29)
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it.
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer’s crisp, long-lasting aroma just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because of this effect.	s
How intelligent!	VS-U
3 ”C 3?
: ® $ C
fvf skin bracer
May 24, 1963
27
Circle
(Continued from page Ilf)
an honor system should include and the ways in which such a system can be implemented. These reports will be discussed and a suitable honor system
will be formed as a composite of these reports. Next fall, a referendum will be conducted and the student body will decide whether an honor system will be implemented or not.
If an honor system is accepted by the students, present plans call for a
THE SAFE WAY to stay alert without harmful stimulants
NoDoz keeps you mentally alert with the same safe refresher found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Absolutely not habit-forming.
Next time monotony makes you feel drowsy while driving, working or studying, do as millions do . .. perk up with safe, effective NoDoz tablets.
Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
A
Nothing rasher for your hair than grease. Let Vitalis -f „ \ with V-7 keep your hair neat all day without grease. 3 Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® with ^=—1 V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your $££38 hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis today. You’ll like it!
target date of September, 1964, at which time the incoming freshman class will adopt the honor code. At this time, the honor system will include the academic sphere only, but may be extended in the future to cover all aspects of student life. Chairman Tierney believes that an honor system will turn out more mature students and hence individuals who will be more prepared to accept the responsibility of being a Catholic leader.
Despite the fact- that the Blue Circle performs so many useful functions and accepts a large amount of responsibility in bettering student life, it is looked upon by a great part of the student body as a “snobbish clique” which exists only for the members who are in the Society. (A good example of this attitude is found in the comment of one student who told this reporter, “I’m planning on applying for the Blue Circle but don’t tell any of my friends, because they’ll think I’m a ‘brownie.’ ”) One reason for this feeling is the exclusiveness of the membership in the Circle. When applications were held this year, the Circle received 200 applications for 25 open spots. Many of the 175 who were turned down, some of which Tierney admits would have made desirable members, begin to believe that the Circle thinks it is too good for them. This idea is widespread throughout the campus and, hence, many students have a contempt for the Circle because they themselves cannot be a part of it.
Another reason for the dislike of the Circle can be traced back to the society itself. Far too many times, some members have adopted the attitude that it is a clique and they are condescending to help the student body. Chairman Tierney hopes to dispel much of the animosity which has been shown at times by the student body. He promises a Blue Circle which will shake off many of the conservative tendencies of the past, and assume a more progressive attitude. The Circle must be a closely unified group of young men which will be able to sow their ideas and zeal throughout the student body. Tierney would like to include more of the students in the Circle’s tasks and goals. In this way he wishes to destroy the idea that the Blue Circle enjoys prestige without a basis for that prestige. Tierney also promises that the Society will continue to pursue with increased enthusiasm its ideals of service, while at the same time always looking for new ways in which it can make life at Notre Dame more enjoyable and beneficial for the future leaders of the Catholic world.
28
The Scholastic
J	Letters
i	(Continued, from page 27)
i gence of Notre Dame as the Catholic | university. But for a penance (I’m j sure they have committed some sin) | I would ask that these writers reread j the now ‘infamous” editorial (if they I haven’t burned it, that is). Specifi-:	cally, may I refer them to para-
i graphs 2 and 3. These can hardly be I construed as a personal attack on i Father Hesburgh. The main point is, and I quote, “Fr. Hesburgh as public personality and Fr. Hesburgh as head of the academy are irreconcilable fig-i ures at present.” Notice in particular the word “academy.” The fact is that the job is now too big for any one ' man, even one of Father Hesburgh’s • capabilities. It is no insult to him to say that what once was a job for one man now requires two. Father Hesburgh is largely responsible for that job being what it is. And such outstanding schools as Brown and Harvard have recognized that running a university is a two-man job. I feel that the circumstances call for the institution of the office of chancellor. It is unfortunate that the former editors confused the offices of president and chancellor. The chancellor is the academic authority, while the president is more of a public figure. Had the editors asked that the job of chancellor be given to someone who is intimately acquainted with the University, and who can be and stay close to the campus, thus freeing Fr. Hesburgh from the pressure of local and academic problems, perhaps the whole controversy would never have blown up. But it did, and with startling consequences. The blatant duplicity of some members of the administration is a matter of record, not subject to argument. And Fr. Hesburgh’s letter, whether to the students, parents or press, did nothing to resolve or (Clarify the dispute. Rather, it was an inaccurate version of the story, calculated to place all students who disagreed with him in the ugly spotlight of fanaticism. No allowance was made for the well-meaning student who is mature and intelligent enough to recognize the problems which exist here, realizing that there is much room for improvement at Notre Dame, as at any university (even Reed, Oberlin, and Swarthmore). At the same time, the scattergun approach of many critics leaves much to be desired. So if there are some who feel that criticism of various aspects of the University is unjustified, then let them defend their position with reason, NOT rhetoric. The last editorial in the Scholastic referred to the system of regulations as “easily justifiable in many respects.” If it is so, then let us hear it justified. Up until now, no attempt has been made to give any reason for many of the rules. The treatment accorded the former editors was no justification, nor was Fr. Hesburgh’s open letter.
May 24, 1963
So if all the regulations are just and reasonable, then let us hear the reasons. We students may not be equal partners in the educative process, but we are involved, and it is an educative process, not a training system. Little boys can be told to obey unquestion-
ingly; college men cannot. I and many others are waiting to hear the rules explained and justified. For then, and only then, will we “catch our breath in this exhilarating new freedom of abridged discipline.”
—Jerry Lane, 325 Pangbom
the fourth dimension: TIME ... still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation and surprise.
919 A.D. TREE TIME! Growth rings of trees cannot only be counted, but “read.” From them, weather patterns can be traced. Back-checking on weather data permits scientists to learn the actual birth date of beams and posts found in archeological ruins. One charred pine log has been found in New Mexico that was “born" in the year 919.
COMMUNIST CALENDAR...was a big bust in 1930. Russian leaders initiated a five-day week: four days work, one day rest. To keep factories operating daily, rest days were staggered. A boy and his girl friend might have different days off and get to spend a day together only a few times a year. The system was dropped after six months of grumbling.
HAMILTON SPACE CLOCK... is world’s first interplanetary timepiece. Located in Philadelphia’s Franklin Institute, it makes possible integration of Earth and Mars time. This can be tricky, since
Mars months have 55-56 days. This amazing clock records the hour, day, month and year on Mars.
You get more than accurate timekeeping when you wear a Hamilton watch. A Hamilton reflects your good taste as no lesser watch can — shows you know quality and value. Outstanding styles for both men and women start as low as $35. An excellent graduation gift suggestion!
i
i
i i
i
29
HELP!
The Scholastic urgently needs copies of the December 14, 1962 issue. A reward of $1.00 per copy will be given for the first 18 copies brought to the Scholastic office after 7 p.m. on Sunday evening. This issue will never be so valuable again—neither will a dollar. So bring in those copies after seven on Sunday only.
WARNER'S RENT-A-TRAILER
Rent A One-Way Trailer
TO TAKE YOUR THINGS HOME
PICK UP TRAILER IN SOUTH BEND —LEAVE IT AT HOME
901 WESTERN
SUMMER JOBS
for MALE STUDENTS
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR SUMMER JOBS WITH MAJOR NATIONAL CORPORATIONS
YOUNG MEN 18 YEARS AND OVER WANTED TO WORK IN MARKET SALES PROMOTION AND BRAND IDENTIFICATION POSITIONS DURING SUMMER. WILL WORK WITH HIGH LEVEL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT.
SCHOLARSHIPS: 16 $1,000 scholarships SALARY: Can earn in excess of $150 a week
SEE: Spain—earn an all expense paid holiday in Spain for entire week
Those students who qualify may continue their association on a part-time basis next semester.
For interview caii College Director:
Detroit WO 5-0561; Grand Rapids GL 9-6533; Lansing IV 2-4372; South Bend CE 4-0906.
SUMMER WORK •
Students living in Michigan, Indiana or Kentucky can earn $600-$915 part time or $l,300-$l,700 full time in home-town area.
•
Apply office number 5 123’A Lincolnway West
Mishawaka on Saturday at 3 P.M.
AT 7-9494
Nuclear Energy
(Continued from page 16)
Second, atomic power makes sense from a conservation standpoint. Our supplies of coal, oil and gas are limited. Moreover, fossil fuels contain many valuable chemicals and it would be wasteful to bum these fuels solely for the generation of electric power. On the other hand, the potential energy available from the atom is theoretically unlimited. In a society such as ours, which is absolutely dependent upon the availability of energy, sound conservation practices demand that we proceed with the development of nuclear power.
Finally, in just the short period of ten years, we have made giant strides in the development of civilian nuclear power. In certain parts of the United States, such as California and New England, nuclear energy is today competitive, or nearly competitive, with energy from coal, oil and gas. This, I submit, is no mean accomplishment. If we continue with a careful, wellpaced program of nuclear power development, I predict that before the turn of this century we will have provided generations of Americans yet to come with an unlimited, inexpensive source of energy.
Radioisotopes and Radiation
Another important field for the peaceful applications of nuclear energy involves the use of radioisotopes and radiation. Radioisotopes are used today for a myriad of purposes in medicine, agriculture and the life sciences.
In medicine, radioisotopes have been used as tracers to provide us with a better understanding of our biological processes. In a more direct way, radioisotopes are now being used in the diagnosis and treatment of one of mankind’s worst enemies — cancer.
In agriculture, the radioisotope has provided us with an unparalleled tool to trace the growth processes of plants and to determine the effect of certain nutrients on this growth process. In addition, an entirely new field for the control of plant diseases and plant pests through the use of radiation is just beginning to open.
Great strides are also being made in the use of radiation to preserve foods. Earlier this year, the Food and Drug Administration gave its approval to the use of irradiation as a means of preserving bacon for human consumption. This marks the first approval of irradiated food in the United States, and it is certain to be a precedent for the approval of other irradiated foods.
One of the great problems facing the world is the question of providing
30
The Scholastic
food for the expanding population of this earth. While the United States is fortunate in having highly advanced transportation and refrigeration services, many areas of the world are in 1 dire need of a means for preventing I food spoilage. Food irradiation may ; provide the answer to this pressing I problem.
’	Work at Notre Dame
‘ The largest and most competent group in the free world working on radiation chemistry is located at the University of Notre Dame. In 1960, j the Joint Congressional Committee on : Atomic Energy authorized a project ' for the construction of a $2.2 million * radiation laboratory on the campus of j the University. This project was add-j ed in recognition of the outstanding work which is being done at Notre Dame in the field of basic chemical
’ effects of radiation.
I referred earlier in this article to the fact that atomic energy was, for many years, regarded as synonymous :	with mass destruction. I believe,
however, that this thumbnail sketch of the atom’s peaceful applications should dispel any such misconception. The whole story was probably best summed by Adlai Stevenson, our Ambassador to the United Nations, in this way: “There is no evil in the atom; only in men’s souls.”
ONE WAYTO TRAVEL FOR LESS THAN GREYHOUND
CONTROLLING THE ATOM
This brings me to my closing note. As you face the future — a future filled with the great promise of the atom, keep in mind that the same force which can be used to drive the turbines of industry and to treat the afflictions of mankind, can also abruptly end life on earth if used in anger.
This is the overriding problem with which we in the Congress, and particularly the members of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, are concerned, on a daily basis. We are acutely aware of the fact that our decisions today, affect your future tomorrow.
I hope and pray that means can be found to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to stop the deadly arms race. But while we pursue the avenues of peace, the realities of world politics require that we maintain our strength. As President Kennedy stated in his inaugural address:
“Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.”
The enterprise which lies ahead is difficult. But with God’s help, we shall control the energy of the universe for the benefit of all His children and the cause of peace on earth.
A short walk is good for you. But when you really want to travel you can’t beat Greyhound for going places at lowest cost. In fact Greyhound costs less than trains, planes or drivingyourself. For economy, GO GREYHOUND... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US.
No other form of public transportation has fares so low. For example:
CHICAGO, ILL. 	 TOLEDO, O		... One way S 3.10			Round trip Round trip		S 5.60 9.45
	... One way		5.25			
CLEVELAND, O		.. One	way	8.70	Round	trip	15.70
PHILADELPHIA, PA		... One	way	23.30	Round	trip	41.95
NEW YORK, N.Y. 			.. One	way	26.30	Round	trip	47.35
PITTSBURGH, PA		.. One	way	13.15	Round	trip	23.70
ST. LOUIS, MO		.. One	way	9.45	Round	trip	17.05
BUFFALO, N.Y. _		.. One	way	14.60	Round	trip	26.30
BOSTON, MASS.		.. One	way	29.85	Round	trip	53.70
AT 7-6541
210 W. Monroe Street
BAGGAGE: You can take more with you on a Greyhound. If you prefer send laundry or extra baggage on ahead by Greyhound Package Express. It's there In hours and costs you less.
GO GREYHOUND
...and leave the driving to us
May 24, 1963
31
Hey! FRESHMEN and SOPHS
The Leprechaun needs You!
For that knowing thrill of student subversive activity, riot leadership, and general hell-raising, join the Leprechaun staff. Anyone interested in joining our staff particularly in
•	COPY
•	CIRCULATION
•	BUSINESS
contact John Marlow, Room 40, Pangborn Hall, Extension 700 or
c/o Leprechaun, Box 431, Notre Dame, Indiana
Storage for Winter Garments only $2.95
PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN’T” necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
1st comer across the river on the Bus Line
The Senate’s final meeting of the year last Monday resulted in a record 17 motions reaching the floor, with all but one passing. For the most part, reports and bills were handled with speed and efficiency, as the Senate showed some ability to distinguish between routine matters and important issues.
In the economic area, a five to seven thousand dollar deficit for next year was divulged, a result of the tremendous losses incurred by most of the activities this semester. At the same time, a total of $2350 was loaned to various activities and organizations, with most of it ($1600) going to the 1964 Mardi Gras. However, these loans were given under tighter restrictions, as will be the policy of the Ellis Administration. A bill was passed providing for a Senate delegate for each activity, who will keep that activity within its approved budget, and will be able to cut even that budget if ticket sales do not provide the expected revenue.
Through reports and the general debating, it was learned that joint St. Mary’s-ND student executive meetings will be held next year, to be followed by closer informal relations in general. There will also be a Freshman class president next year, and earlier elections for all offices. The beginning of Easter vacation will probably be changed to Wednesday of Holy Week. Finally, residence halls will return to the hall president-floor representative form of government, under a mandatory uniform constitution approved at the meeting.
It was edifying to see some actual persuasive debate in the Senate, which was particularly evident on the measure to change hall presidents’ average requirements from 2.5 to 3.0. The motion was tabled, but the Senate indicated a trend toward better analysis and debating.
Another trend evident in the Senate is a definite centralization of power in that body. A tightening of the reins economically, stricter enforcement of Senate policy in all areas, the mandatory uniform constitution, and the broader scope of Senate involvement all indicate a serious revision of campus activity. Evaluation of this trend will have to wait. However, student participation in these changes will depend on the influence exerted on the Senators. This in turn will depend on just how interested Notre Dame is in the changes that are being promulgated in campus life.
— Al Dudash
32
The Scholastic
J
time out
Of course, you probably all realize that this is the last time until September that we’ll be around to bring a bit of weekly joy and happiness into your lives; but we hope that you aren’t so crestfallen with this thought that you will be so distracted that you miss all of the fun of finals. We’ll have to admit that we’ve been a bit preoccupied ourselves with concern for your welfare this summer: frankly, we’re afraid that, without our weekly influence, you may become so bedazzled by the fascinating bright fight of your emerging intellectual insight that this could turn out to be your Summer of Discontent. We believe that we may be expected to give leadership and a tone, possibly even a style, to your whole summer; but, unfortunately, we cannot personally be involved in very much of the day by day (or night by night, as the case may be) activities. We were really frightened by the thought of the possible consequences of our not always being around to pat you on the appropriate end; but we’ve been assured that you men actually don’t need such patting, at least not from us. So, with supreme confidence that y’all will keep Notre Dame spirit in mind when you and your beautiful date head for the movies this summer, we’ll just wish you a superlatively swinging vacation.
You may think that we have sounded hopelessly naive, and what is worse, possibly maudlin, but may we say quite simply that we love Scholastic readers, especially Time Out readers, not because you are all inherently lovable, but because you do represent one of the best present hopes for the future. Speaking of the future, let’s now proceed to leap with reckless abandon into the world of this week’s cinema marvels:
The Avon: Lonely are the Brave, starring Kirk Douglas, is probably one of the most fascinatingly entertaining and inspiring movies to hit South Bend this year. The story is about a young man who perhaps neurotically, perhaps with great insight, but nevertheless courageously, becomes a renegade from the world of automation and heads for the hills to five his own life in the wide open spaces. Unfortunately, he returns to involve himself in the life of modern America in order to help a friend in trouble; and, thus, he meets his downfall at the hands of the callous animals his fellow men have become. This movie has something for every
one—humor, excitement, tragedy, and thought—but it hasn’t accomplished this feat by merely tuning itself to the lowest common denominator. On the same bill is Holiday Island, a comedy featuring Vittorio De Sica.
(Lonely are the Brave: Friday at 9:15; Saturday at 6:15 and 9:50.)
(Holiday Island: Friday at 7:15; Saturday at 8:05.)
The Colfax: Poor Ralph Essex. In case you don’t know, Mr. Essex is the manager of the Colfax and is really a nice guy. But lately fate has been unkind to him by giving him one of the longest strings of lousy movies ever to have hit South Bend at one theater. This week it’s The Day of the Triffids. This movie concerns the time when the earth is invaded by these man-eating plants called, of all things, triffids. The triffids have an advantage because most of the people on earth have been blinded by a shower of meteorites. Any of you who feel that a horror show is in order this week before exams should find The Day of the Triffids made to order.
(Triffids: 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:05, and 9:10.)
The Granada: Marlun Brandeaux stars this week in The Ugly American. If you loved the book you’ll hate the movie, but if you hated the book you’ll love the movie. The morals of both are diametrically opposed. Also, if you loved Marlun in One-Eyed Jacks you’ll hate him in The Ugly American and vice versa.
(Ugly: 1:30, 4:00, 6:30, and 9:00.)
The State: A Girl Named Tamiko and Five Miles to Midnight are featured in this week’s twin bill. The former starring Miyoshi Umeki, Martha Hyer, Laurence Harvey and France Nuyen, is a real winner. Umeki plays a prostitute, as always; Hyer is a nymphomaniac; Nuyen is an emancipated noble woman; Harvey is a photographer; the movie is blah. Five Miles to Midnight, not to be confused with Nine Hours to Rama, stars Tony Perkins and Sophia Loren. Tony plunked a pile of quarters into the insurance vendor at an airport, played dead, had Sophie collect the $120,000 in life insurance, and—in classic style—they both run for the border and safety from the constabulary. The only hitch is that Sophie decides that Tony really should be dead instead of just playing dead. Humbug.
(Girl: 3:15, and 7:15.)
(Miles: 1:10, 5:10, and 9:10.)
by Dick Gibbs and Karl King
I’ve been directed by my bosses to offer apologies to the Scholastic editor, staff, advisors, readers, and collectors for Tinky.
Jorge Salazar and Hernan Puentes, ND students, presented “A Program of Chilean Music for Guitar” in the Little Theater last week. They’ve been seen on campus here lately as The Chilean Two.
In the Science Lecture Hall on May 15, in a biology seminar, Mary Beth Allen spoke on Smoking and Cancer and Betty Brazis spoke on Biological Tumescence. Apparently both smokers and the biologically tumescent were greatly enlightened.
On May 19 the Columbine Club presented Synge’s Riders to the Sea. Directed by club president Pam Gallagher, the play featured Carolyn Sugg, Maureen Warden, Peggy Johnson, and Sean Griffin.
That same afternoon, Monte Hill Davis gave a piano recital in O’Laughlin Auditorium. The program included works by Beethoven, Prokofieff, Chopin, and Liszt and an encore presentation of Strauss’ Blue Danube. The audience was appreciative but small and hardly in keeping with the talent displayed by Miss Davis.
In addition to the regular music program, Music Week saw the initiation of Concert Hours to be held every other Wednesday at 1:10. Sister Eleanor Marie of the Music Department has evidently made good use of her new stereophonic equipment, since the sessions to date have been very well attended. Program notes and an analysis are provided for each piece.
The senior comprehensives are finished. The Art Comps may be seen in the foyer of the Little Theater. Meanwhile, for everyone else, exams start today.
Possibly because of the two unexpected visitors to Le Mans in the early morning last week, the campus police force is evidently expanding. At any rate, the College now provides an extra service for those who congregate on Holy Cross porch. At curfew time a blue-uniformed guard appears to usher girls in and boys out.
To end on a brighter note—pun fully intended—the seniors have offered to leave the school the sun deck which the girls have been clamoring for. A better tan will still be gotten in the Social Center, but the outside porch will have other advantages. When the wind blows right the plane ride into South Bend will resemble the opening scene of La Dolce Vita.
— Frank Obert
May 24, 1963
33
DOME
"This year the Dome will be a book and it will concern the year — after that, anything goes. ... It may not win any awards, but we hope that the Notre Dame student body will enjoy it during the few hours they spend thumbing through it”
In order, these were the directions editor John O’Hala gave his staff at the beginning of the year and his reflections after seeing the finished product His instructions were carried out and the book is the best in years.
Utilizing an imaginative layout which avoids the crowded and somewhat tight arrangement that plagued books of the past years, the staff has effected an issue that is truly pleasing to the eye. A liberal use of white space sets off the copy and photographs in a way that combines the best of technique that had been used to a limited extent in previous issues of the Dome. A layout of this type necessitates the use of only those pictures that are active and alive and copy that is interesting and pertinent. In effect, it forces the editor to synthesize thought and intent, thus cutting out much of the extraneous and
unimportant. It avoids the “scattergun” effect that is the result of trying to cover too much material with too little space. What remains is material that has a place—material that covers with quality rather than with quantity.
The photography in the ’63 Dome is nothing but good. Very few of the pictures could be improved upon. They are artistic where they should be artistic and informal where they should be informal; they are sloppy in no place. The use of color is limited by expense but is one thing that spices up the appearance of the book; the use of more of it would have improved an already fine element of the book.
Dome seems to have covered the year well. Their copy is serious and concerned, for the most part, slipping to the mediocre in some spots and to the trivial in others. The whole impression of the writing is that it was done that way for a purpose. The “editorial and analysis” copy of the book examines the year in a serious light while the rest of the copy sets the tone of inoffensive informality.
It is somewhat doubtful that the
Dome is the proper place for editorializing, whether straightforward or veiled. It is the common philosophy that a yearbook is of a more permanent nature and should restrict itself to objectivity so as to retain a shield of permanence. However, the analysis and discussion of the University and of the challenges facing it are something that has real permanence and pertinence in that the editors have correctly analyzed the problems and the situation that faces the University on the threshold of an era which can be one of progress or regress. It will retain the permanence in that its analysis can be constantly examined and seen to be one which properly analyzed the situation—one which captured a glimpse of the University in its progression to whatever end it may determine.
The only black mark on the Dome’s production is that it is late. The circulation date is set for June 1—a date which falls after many will have left for the far comers of the earth. Whatever the reason, it is very poor to have it issued so late. Perhaps the quality of the production will salve part of the sore spot.
— Dick Stranger
Dick Stranger’s review of the 1963 Dome appears just above us on this page. We too got a look at the proofs of the Dome this past week, and were personally a little disappointed in what we saw. We have always felt that a yearbook is supposed to give a representative and objective pictorialeditorial account of the year, the students, and the University.
The ’63 Dome is neither representative nor objective. Highly controversial copy, and at least one section which might be appropriate in the Leprechaun, but is out-of-place in the Dome, make the Dome more sensational reading than ever before, but hardly help to make it the record of University life in the year 1963 that it properly ought to be.
The heading for the Dome Staff section in the book reads: “Fifty years from now, who’ll care?” Evidently, the editors look on the Dome as hardly more important than a throwaway sheet. We look on the Dome as the most permanently important of the University publications, and feel that
it should reflect its potential value. This year’s, unfortunately, doesn’t.
Mr. James Armstrong, the Alumni Secretary, has informed us that ND students junketing through Europe this summer will be welcome at the “Hospitality Center” in Rome, sponsored by the Rome (Italy) Chapter of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. We lost the address, but Mr. Armstrong can supply it for those interested, or, if you unexpectedly find yourself in Rome, just ask any native singing the Fight Song where he learned it.
Finishing work on the issue, I realized that there were a good many people I wanted to thank for their help these last four issues, and for some, their help over the last three years. Thanks, then, to Dick Stranger, Mel Noel (the most conscientious, certainly), Terry Wolkerstorfer, and Jim Devlin; Brian Barnes, who picked up the mess of figures he inherited and put them in order; Gladys, for something or other; Mr. Sanna, who yells, and Gene, who doesn’t, and George, who doesn’t like Feiffer (sorry, George; it stays). Most of all (because I can only thank them once) to those who are departing: Carl Wiedemann (the incomparable, who
was the only man with the courage to take on both the Juggler and Fr. Harvey), Bob McGowan, and D.E. (who’s bashful). To Joanne, whose article didn’t get in (but next year . . .).
To Larry Sicking, who was right when I was wrong, and vice versa. To all the people who “quit” and came back. To all the people who just came. To all the people I’ll have to thank again next year. To Fr. Hoffman, who advised, and helped. To my predecessors, who made the job so hard to get, but gave it to me after all, in their way.
At the end, we turn the final last word over to, appropriately, a senior: A Final Word Perhaps, with regard to the spirit in which Mr.
McCabe and Mr. Ahern edited the Scholastic;
with regard to the spirit in which those of us who wrote occasionally wrote;
with regard to the-formative hope in meaning the magazine endeavored to engender:
those who know always know—are able to sense.
Poets and fools try to tell the rest.
— Tom Kapacinskas 109 Walsh Hall
34
The Scholastic
"HELPFUL HINTS" For Packing and Sending
1.	You can send everything "Collect".
2.	All baggage should carry both an address tag and address label on the outside. (You can get proper labels and tags from REA office on campus or from the janitor.)
3.	Print your name and complete home address, school address, and declared value on each tag and label. You get valuation coverage, too, up to $50.00 on each 100 lbs. or less (50c a lb. valuation over that weight) at no extra cost . . . additional coverage at a slight extra charge. Delivery is right to your home if you live within established vehicle limits.
4.	Label the inside of trunks, suitcases and packages with your complete name and school address ... also be sure to include your home address.
5.	Be sure each trunk and bag is carefully locked, straps buckled, all knots tied. Pack any breakables carefully and mark "fragile" on the label.
6.	We will pick up everything right at the halls—no need to take to R E A office. Foreign shipping to anywhere in the Free World.
REA EXPRESS
Extension 511 on campus or call AT 9-2441
MM
BUSHED?
STAY AWAKE
TAKE
ALERTNESS CAPSULES
Combat fatigue almost immediately. Keeps you alert and full of pep for hour after hour, after hour.
Continuous Action Capsules.
. Completely safe Non-habit forming
NO PRESCRIPTION NEEDED
Have you ever stopped to wonder why Michaels & Mann has advertised so extensively. The whole campaign has pointed out the high quality clothes and friendly service that are at Michaels & Mann. We hope that you have taken advantage of our services and that you continue to do so in the future. We would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your patronage and to wish you an enjoyable summer vacation.
YOUR I.D. IMMEDIATELY OPENS A 6-MO. CHARGE ACCOUNT
Michaels & Mann
■■s	: inc. =■■
118 5. MICHIGAN
NEXT TO OFFICE ENGINEERS
MM
NWeppf:
GARY GOULD—
Skilled water sportsman... deep-sea fisherman...
Camel smoker!
rj
f -
cflvra,
3
‘4
J* ri p i
I
1 P
PARGEN. JOHN J EDUCATION DEP1 NOTRE DAME,
- 8? ; I
EVERY INCH A REAL SMOKE!

There's no cigarette like a Camel. Its taste is distinctive. Alert. All there. You’ll find Camel's got swagger —yet it’s smooth. Get the clean-cut taste of rich tobaccos. Get with Camel. Every inch a real smoke
... comfortably smooth, too!
ca^EZ

The best [ tobacco i makes the ■


TURKISH & DOMESTIC BLEND ___CIGARETTES