Vol. XIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 16, 1886.	No. 18.
That Duplicate V.
THE AUTHOR OF “ VAPID VAPORINGS ” TO THE AUTHORESS OF “ VAGRANT VERSES.”
I scarcely had issued my pages Of slight, unpretentious rhyme, When a man in New York it enrages, By theft of his name ‘-Justin Thyme.”
He writes horticultural verses
On celery, spinach, and such';
And I.think neither of us the worse is
For the innocent error—not much.
But I fancied my alliteration Was something unique in its way,
That a marvellous imagination And a powerful brain would display.
Yet here once again I’m checkmated— Cast down from my throne in the air;
Environed by trials, I’m fated To give up my work in despair.
The diff’rence, however, is small, and Great intellects always agree,
So I think I’ll conclude, Miss Mulholland, To leave you the duplicate V.
University Life.
BY PROF. WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M.
There is something singularly charming about university life. It.is peculiar in all its associations and experiences. There is certainly nothing like, it in the great world outside or in the experiences of after years. It comes ordinarily when the student is in a kind of transition state—when he is passing from the roseate season of youth to the , springtime of aspiring manhood. It is a period when golden sunshine lies across the path and fills the heart with the numberless inspirations of hope unchecked—hope untempered by disappointment. Then the senses are most active, the feelings most ardent, and the mind is instinct with the spirit
of inquiry. Then the desire to learn is strongest and the power to learn greatest; and if the surroundings are pleasant and favorable to the acquisition of knowledge, the student will learn. He cannot do otherwise. If his companions are studious, he will be so. If they are actuated by a common spirit of emulation in this respect, he will share it. But if, on the other hand, they are subject to no special discipline or restraint; if they are permitted to consult their own inclinations in reading or studying what, when, and how they please; if the surroundings be not pleasant and calculated to afford general satisfaction, it is quite unlikely that this salutary emulation to study, to learn, to acquire knowledge, will be earnestly cultivated, or fostered, or even aroused.
In that early period of life the fancy claims unhampered sway, and the thoughts are naturally discursive. Though quick, active, energetic and lively enough, they are not deep; and though bold and ingenious, they are not stable and reliable. If inclined to investigation, their tendency naturally is to roam fruitlessly through the domain of mystery and abstract speculation rather than profitably to concern themselves with things practical and useful. The voluntary study of things common and practical is too likely to be found uninviting and irksome. Such facts show how necessary it is to direct undisciplined thought—to prescribe duties for and limits to its range, work and activity. Unless this be done it may well be apprehended that it is likely to take a wrong direction, or so many directions that very little can be accomplished in any of them.
It is important, therefore, to inquire what surroundings, what system of discipline, and what course of studies, are likely to prove most effectual in stimulating a student to devote himself with ■ fidelity to his work, to study with zeal and interest, to improve his time and opportunities most profitably. While this is a matter that forcibly addresses itself to the attention of all friends of education^ it is, nevertheless, to be feared. that it has not received as much or as careful consideration as its importance deserves.
Of the different systems of university discipline ■
282
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and education it is unnecessary, for the purpose of these remarks, to consider more than two, which, to use popular expressions, may be called the “ oldtime,” or “ common family,” and the more modern or “ boarding-around ” system. The latter is probably the more popular, but that it is the better is very doubtful. Under the former system, students live together like members of one great family, having their apartments or dormitories, their refectories or dining-rooms, and the usual accessories and accommodations of a hotel, in one or more of the buildings attached to the university.
Under the other system they do not live at the university or within its precincts. They board at hotels or private houses scattered through the town or city where the university is situated, and at certain hours they repair to it to attend class. Afterward they return to their boarding houses, or go where they will. When not at class there is no more restraint upon them than upon other inhabitants of the place. In some instances, as when the classes are large, their absence is not noticed, even though they remain away days at a time. They are commonly acquainted with but few of their fellow-students, and it not unfre-quently happens that they do not personally know all the members of their own classes. The ac-_ quaintance thus formed rarely ripens into a deep and lasting friendship. It is much the same as that existing between neighbors or citizens generally in a community. In numerous instances they do not give more than a fifth of their time to actual attendance at the university. Many of them, it is true, study at their boarding houses, but others feel or exhibit very little impulse to study there or anywhere else—and all are free to do as they like in the matter. Not a few give considerable time and attention to sports, amusements, and the demands of society, for it is their privilege to spend their evenings where they will and in whatever manner they please. The course of life runs in much the same channel as during school days in early life, except that the discipline was then stricter and the time for study less liable to interruption. They have wider latitude and greater license when “boarding around.” They are not subject to parental control. They are not required to be at class more than an hour or two at any time during the day. They may participate in the-little adventures suggested by their buoyant'spirits without'fear of being criticised or seen by friends and acquaintances. In short, they are under practically no restraint, and subject to no particular rules. They are free to shape their actions and form such habits as their surroundings may suggest.
Such is the so-called modern system, and such are some of the results to which its lax discipline and feeble influence frequently lead. But the other system is quite different, and it is the only one that realizes what may be termed genuine university life. This brings students into daily and hourly intercourse with one another. They dine together, they sleep in dormitories or adjoining apartments, they mingle together on the campus during recreation hours, and they necessarily meet frequently
at class and lectures. In short, they live together like a common family, sharing the common aspirations and impulses, cheerfully submitting to the wholesome discipline in force, and entering into the inspiring spirit of emulation necessarily excited by such surroundings and influences. The rules to which they are subject are carefully calculated to guard them from the allurements and distractions of society, and to make them as industrious - and studious as due care for health may seem to warrant. They become thoroughly acquainted with one another. The professors are always accessible, and frequently among them. Marked distinctions are removed or obliterated, a sense of equality is established, a feeling of common friendship prevails. Under such circumstances, intimate friendships that last throughout life frequently spring up among those of kindred tastes and temperaments. This system brings students and professors together more frequently and more closely than any other.
Of course, there are some students to whom it is a matter of comparatively little moment to inquire what the respective merits of these two systems really are. But they belong to the class of earnest, persevering and industrious young men to whom work seems hardly less than a necessity—young men who love knowledge, who are fond of learning, who will study anywhere. To the great majority, however, it is a matter of much importance; for they will not study, unless under judicious discipline, supplied with the incentive of emulation, surrounded by influences that promote diligence, and satisfied with the college, the professors, the course of studies, and the like.
The surroundings and disciplinary tone of a university have undoubtedly much to do with shaping the character, directing the thought, and forming the habits. In one place a young man may grow up in indolence and be comparatively backward in learning, while in another he may make creditable progress in his studies and grow into' habits qualifying him for an active and useful career in the outside world. Where a youth is least directed in his work, least obliged to account for his time, and freest to do as he pleases, he is most likely to manifest a preference for the easiest and least profitable work, to waste or misapply his time in undue attention to amusements or trifles, and to increase in indolence and general worthlessness.
It is a fact within the range of common observation and experience that far more can be accomplished in a given time when a person works.under a sense of duty than when he has no such stimulus, or works voluntarily. When one undertakes the performance of any task to which he is urged by a sense of obligation or necessity, he accomplishes it with exceptional speed and facility. And the rule applies to young men at college as well as to persons involved in the activities of the outside world. If not judiciously directed in their studies,* and as signed proper tasks, and required to work under a sense of duty, it is more than likely that they will fail to make rapid, substantial, or commendable progress. If left to consult their own caprices, and .
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to follow their own inclinations, they will not, in at least four cases out of five, one may venture to say, study diligently, or learn profoundly, or qualify themselves acceptably to discharge the duties to be undertaken in after years.
In view of such facts, it can hardly be doubted that careful training, and judicious counsel, and salutary discipline should not be overlooked in connection with a university education. This being granted, it will be found difficult, if not impossible, to escape the conclusion that the old-time system of university life and training possesses merits and advantages clearly superior to those of the modern. There are numerous colleges throughout the country that retain that system, and all of them are entirely satisfied with it. Of course, it is not to be supposed that the latest methods of teaching, or the most recent discoveries in the sciences, or the most approved progress in the arts, or unrestricted freedom and powers of eclecticism, are in any way inconsistent with the old-time system. No; this latitude is common to all liberal and progressive institutions, though it may be circumscribed by their means, policy and predilections. Sometimes under what is denominated the “ old system ” the most modern methods of teaching obtain, while comparatively ancient methods are deferentialty followed in some colleges that affect the modern plan. Practically, then, the distinction lies between universities whose scholars live anywhere around town and those*whose students reside within the college precincts.
In the next place it is important to refer a little more particularly to the surroundings, the course of studies, etc. The advantages that accrue tora university from having beautiful and picturesque surroundings cannot be overestimated. A diversified landscape and healthful location, with extensive grounds, running waters, groves of timber, tracts of meadow, shade-trees, roads, walks, shrubbery, flowers, and the like, are accessories of the highest importance. They tend to make university life pleasant. They inspire a feeling of satisfaction and contentment. And, in passing, perhaps it is not superfluous to say that when a student is satisfied and contented he is capable of doing far more than when morose and unhappy, or displeased and melancholy. His health is better; his capacity is greater; his work is more effective.
The university buildings should be spacious, well ventilated, in good condition, scrupulously neat, well lighted, and securely guarded against the perils of fire. If situated in a town or city, a university is deprived of the natural advantages growing out of spacious grounds, picturesque site, and beautiful surroundings. It is necessarily circumscribed to a few acres, and it generally looks enough like an asylum or a factory to have a decidedly uninviting appearance. It is by no means an easy matter for a student to feel comfortable and contented in such narrow quarters and amidst such inhospitable surroundings. Moreover, he is thus subject to the claims of society, thrown into daily, contact with all classes of people, and frequently required to be among persons who never
were students, who are comparatively illiterate, who cannot share his aspirations or sympathize with his views. Under such circumstances he can ordinarily experience but a feeble incentive to study with assiduity; neither he nor his associates enter fully into the true spirit of university life, and he is likely to bestow too much thought upon matters frivolous and foreign to his proper work. Besides, he is likely to become prone to waste his time in anticipating work and doing things that fall more properly to later years. To insure immunity from such bewildering distractions and incongenial as. © sociations, a university ought to be at some distance —say a mile or so—from town. So situated, its surroundings would be charming. It would combine all the beauties and advantages of the country with the necessary conveniences and accommodations of the town or city.
At college a student should assiduously devote himself to the studies of the course upon which he enters. Whatever is foreign to it ought to receive no favor. Whatever may be learned as well at home or in after years ought not to be suffered to engross time or attention. The few years to which university life is restricted do not warrant much latitude in the choice of subjects of study or the ■ use of time. The work and preparation of those few years must be the foundation of the whole superstructure of labor and usefulness in life. What, the student is expected to study at a university can undoubtedly be learned there far more readily and thoroughly than anywhere else. If he allows his zeal to be arrested, and fails in the performance of his regular duties, on account of frittering away his time in the study or investigation of matters merely speculative and collateral, he must fall behind in his classes, and this is invariably unfortunate. A student behind his classmates in proficiency readily becomes discouraged, generally limps along through the course by a sort of sufferance, and not unfrequently experiences a very mortifying sense of humiliation. He should first aim to attain proficiency in the classes of the course, he selects, and if afterward he has additional time at his disposal, he may devote it to studies in the other courses for which he feels a pronounced partiality.
In the great domain of useful work, effective action, and sound thought, success seems to move • in the most direct lines; and it may be freely asserted that unless a young man has specific.aims, to the promotion of which he is faithfully and unswervingly true, his course is likely to be con- ' fined to the eddies and shallows of life. But when . true to his primary choice, no sound objection can be urged against the gratification of any pronounced . taste he may have for optional studies in the other courses. And even if a student falls behind in any of his regular studies through a natural repugnance to it, there is hardly any controlling reason why he < should not be granted some indulgence in the light,, of his standing in optional studies to which he more \ profitably applies himself. Some .students have, . for instance, an invincible dislike for mathematics, -while others are extremely fond of that study... In such cases it would hardly be wise or practicable
284	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to require all to attain a like standard of proficiency in mathematics. It is said of Macaulay, Prescott, and several other eminent scholars, that they could never learn the mathematics of their collegiate course, and that they could never have been graduated if required to learn it. But their deficiency in that study was viewed with indulgence on account of their acknowledged proficiency in other branches. And such indulgence is judicious in many cases. A person can never do well in pursuing a study which he regards with positive dislike, and unless it is an essential part of the course he selects, it is generally wiser to let him take instead its equivalent in optional studies.
One may appeal even to the experience of teachers and professors for confirmation of the truth of these remarks. Every professor knows that for some branches in the university curriculum he has a particular liking, and that he teaches these with an interest and enthusiasm that render his labors eminently successful. Put the same professor in charge of a class that does not interest him—ask him to give instruction in studies that enkindle in him no spark of enthusiasm—and in probably four cases out of five he will gradually sink to a level much below his reputation in the line of his regular and congenial work. And as the professor is, so are the students of his classes. If he does his work in a perfunctory way, they are likely to be as spiritless in doing theirs. Though they may be willing to' follow, they are not inclined to lead. It follows, therefore, that professors, as well as students, should be permitted, whenever practicable, to do the work for which they are best adapted. They should enter into the spirit of the institution and be directed and governed by its aims and policy. Ever}' university has an atmosphere or individuality, so to speak, peculiar to itself. It is vigorous, enterprising and progressive, or it is slow, cautious and conservative. Some men are by nature adapted to the atmosphere of the former, and find their work in it pleasant and congenial, while others feel out of their .element if not in the latter. A student imbibes the spirit and becomes accustomed to the atmosphere of the institution in which he is taught. And from this point of view it may be stated, as a general rule, that in the selection of professors to fill vacancies created from time to time in a faculty, graduates of former years should be given preference. They are instinct with its spirit, they favor its aims, they are in accord with its policy, they appreciate its maternal solicitude for their welfare, and they feel honored at being called into its service. Such ven cannot be otherwise than earnest and enthusiastic in the work they undertake. They discharge with readiness and efficiency the duties devolving upon them. They are so closely identified with the university that the student never sees anything discordant between their work arid its prevailing tone, and thus alb the sooner he becomes imbued with its spirit, accustomed to its atmosphere, and satisfied with his surroundings. And to have students in that frame of mind realizes one of the first conditions of success.
No university can be successful or great unless
its authorities and faculty enter heartily into the spirit of their work, and seek indefatigably to rise higher and higher, from year to year, in the scale of efficiency and thoroughness. They should endeavor to give it a standing calculated to make its alumni proud of it, and its students confident that it will be no empty honor to be numbered among its laureled children. There is a reciprocity in the duties it owes to them and they owe to it. The more carefully and effectually it does its part, the more confidently may it count upon their appreciative recognition of its merits—the more securely may it count upon realizing the success sure to result from a reputation honorable and enviable throughout the country.
It is a source of sincere satisfaction to the authorities of a university to know that its alumni are proud of it. Hardly anything can go further to make them feel compensated fortheir trying labors. On the other hand, the alumni, who are thus appreciative and grateful, find inexpressible pleasure in thinking and speaking of the associations and experiences of their university life, and in meeting to renew the friendship and recollections of boyhood *in the annual reunions they hold. And to one who analyzes the emotions of the human heart it must seem that this disposition to speak with gratification of such past experiences is one of the truest tests' of real pleasure. A sense of enjoyment which does not thus live through the years to the memory and heart, is deceptive and*counter-feit; while every agreeable emotion so aroused by the recollection weaves a ray of sunshine into the life, which shines unobscured through all the mutations of succeeding years. And in those years the recollection of a pleasant, profitable and happy university life more frequently recurs' to us and arouses such emotions than any other experience of life.
Fiesta de Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe, 12 Dio
(SONETO.)
De Guadalupe en la villa encantada, Donde brilla la luz de un sol sin velo, Donde mil Hores esmaltan el suelo, Nuestra Sefiora fijo su morada.
Alli ruega la gente arrodillada;
Alli los angeles refrenan su vuelo;
Alli se desvela y sonrie el cielo, En tu templo, Maria Immaculada!
Nos desterrados en tierra lejana, Mirando, en tu fiesta, amorosamente Hacia tu santa ciudad mejicana, En union con padres, amigos, gente, Te enviamos, O Patrona Soberaria! Recuerdos, preces, corazon y mente.
-	L. E. (Spanish Class?)
The only “smartness” worthy of the name is that which is perfectly unconscious of its own existence.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Turkey.
On all occasions of grest festivity and rejoicing,— such as Christmas, Easter, Thanksgiving, and many other feast-days,—it is customary to see the diningtables heavily laden with choice edibles, foremost among which are turkeys. Everybody knows this, and appreciates it too; but what I was going to say is that, as everybody is not so well acquainted with the manners and habits of this favorite fowl, a few words on the subject might not be uninteresting. Should a student have some leisure moments and wish to get into mischief, he might do worse than take a stroll down to the farm-yards a day or so previous to the next turkey-dinner on a festival day, and try some experiments that I will tell him in the course of my remarks.
The real home of the turkey is North America— Canada especially. It has also been found along the Ohio and Mississippi rivers. In their wild state, turkeys are as haughty, proud and cowardly as when in the poultry-yard. The large poultry-yards of “ well-to-do ” farmers are generally fenced in by open slatted paling fences, several—perhaps eighteen or twenty—feet high, planted with, and surrounded by large trees and bushes. In the middle of the yard is an immense pond in which the ducks, geese and swans are continually sailing and diving, and enjoying the warm sunshine; about the pond are the hens, large and small, busy picking up the corn, wheat, etc., scattered around; rabbits, with their young ones, are nibbling away at choice blades of grass; variegated pheasants, pigeons and turtle-doves are hopping from branch to branch; and a blue-jay flies off with a piece of cheese stolen from the cat. Outside the’ poultry yard, lambs, kids and sheep follow their favorite, the stable and herds-boy; the dairy-maid is yonder milking the beautiful, fat cows, the large mastiff crunching a huge boneat her side; the hogs are scattered around, tumbling the bedding-stuff from the stables, and grunting and squealing as the stronger ones jostle and bite the weaker. But what strange-looking fowl is that which we see parading up and down so majestically? Is it, perhaps, a peacock? No: The peacock is seated in yonder corner, sunning his hundred-eyed tail. It is a turkey. He looks around disdainfully on the motley groups of hens which he considers as a set of mean, despicable beings. He does not stoop to eat of the food placed before him. His food consists of corn, vetches, bread, fresh lettuce, potatoes that have previously been cooked and finely beaten; apples, pears, peaches, etc., that are fresh from the trees are placed before his royal highness, but he scornfully disdains all these. A little starveling mouse sneaks up and snatches away a few grains of corn and bread which she divides among her poor, hungry family. On a sudden the little cap on the gobbler’s head raises itself, the “Adam’s Apple” falls quickly, tail and wings expand to their full w’idth, the nose protuberates more and more, turning at the same time into’a deep red color, the turkey goggles, utters a piercing cry, and finally makes
ready for an attack. Who or what has excited him? We shall presently see. The turkey, like the bovine family, becomes exasperated at the sight of scarlet red, and the turkey’s master happens to make his appearance in a scarlet vest. I once witnessed an instance in which a cow became so maddened at the sight of a scarlet dress that considerable force, and moral suasion from the head of a cane, had to be employed to prevent a child from being horned to death by the infuriated animal. If a person hold up before the eyes of a turkey a red handkerchief, he should be on his guard against the reception of “ beauty spots ” on his face from the bill, wings and claws of the furious biped. But if he has the good fortune to have a piece of chalk about him he may now turn it to advantage in taming the infuriated fowl. This can be done . by stepping behind him, seizing him by the upper part of the neck with the left hand, and pressing his bill flat on the earth, while with the right hand a heavy chalk line is drawn on the ground to a distance of a few feet—perhaps six or eight— and in a direct line from the turkey’s nose. He will continue to lie there, staring at the line motionless, until taken up, and in the mean time the little tuft or cap on his forehead has shrunk to its former size, the Adam’s Apple has collapsed, and the nose regained its normal size and color. When removed, he will rise gently, pace away in his usual measured, majestic way, even take a bite of the food which he a short time ago so disdainfully rejected. Ferocious and haughtv as he was ten minutes before, he will now suffer himself to be driven off into a remote corner of the yard by a cockerel, who had the misfortune to be jostled by him. The turkey in general is very cowardly; on perceiving a foumart he will make off as fast as his heels can carry him, and will stoop into the high grass or into a bush or thicket at the sound uttered by even a very small owl, perhaps not one-tenth of his size.
Such is the tame turkey as seen in domestic life; we will now take a view of him in his wild state. The wild turkey roams from one oak forest and walnut grove to the other, till the winter season overtakes him. He then selects a good, strong branch, which he chooses for his winter quarters. A sort of drowsiness overpowers him, and he throws back his head into his thick feathers, which afford him considerable warmth. During the autumn he has done nothing but stuff his stomach with acorns and walnuts. These make him so fat that if shot down from a high tree he -will burst asunder on striking the ground. Possessing an over amount of nutriment in his body from his autumn gorging, the wild turkey requires but very little food during the winter season. At intervals, however, he descends from the tree-top and picks up a few acorns.
Quite a number of the turkey family live thus together in a single dense forest. On the approach of spring, a hen makes the announcement with a peculiar cry, which is taken up by her next neighbor, then passed to the next, and in a few hours’ the whole colony are cooing. The gobblers descend from their tree-tops, and the hens creep out from their nests. The former strut about as proudly
286	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as an overdressed young fop on a promenade; and the hens begin to explore the country in search of a safe place for their nests. The hen always hides her eggs from the gobbler. The plumage of the wild turkey is of a brilliant metallic color. In rhe spring season the turkey commences his tours up and down the country, picking off choice berries from currant, raspberry, and other fruit-bearing bushes. A good-sized fat turkey will weigh as much as fifty pounds.
Before closing this rather length}' description, I should not pass over the young ones. The young turkeys are very tender. If they have the misfortune to be struck by a draft of cold air, or the sun shine upon their delicate head, or a nettle pierce their tender feet, or they are caught suddenly in a rain-shower, or “catch cold,” they must immediately be wrapped up in flannel that has previously been well soaked in strong brandy; wine is poured into the water they drink; panado, frumenty and groats, eggs that have been cooked and chopped finely, and manchets, are placed before them. If the turkey hen espy a hawk, she immediately assembles her young ones, conceals them beneath her wings, or sets them under a thick bush. If she perceive a foumart in the distance, she immediately leaves her nest and contrives to allure the noxious animal away from her repository of eggs. The wild turkey is very thievish, knows how to unfasten ears of corn, understands the art of ■“ hooking” fruit from the trees, and not seldom will venture to enter a hen coop, eat away all the corn or bread, and then walk off contentedly. If it happens that the turkey is separated from his companions bj' a river or creek, he will try to fly over to them; but, being so very fat and heavy, he often falls into the water, and seldom succeeds in reaching the opposite shore. Notwithstanding all his efforts, he falls back into the water, and is swept along by the current. But if—once, perhaps, in ten times—he succeeds in escaping Neptune’s clutches and reaching terra firma. he again struts about proudly and majestically. •
-	P. F. S.
Ingersollism.
[The following is an extract from a sketch of Ingersoll and his pretenses, written by Mr. Wheeler, of the New Tork World, known in humorous literature as “Nym Crinkle.” It will be found a splendid illustration of word-painting and analysis, and completely demolishes the notorious infidel lecturer.]
As the lecture approached the subject of God, it became humorous. ■ Bob’s caveat is the application of the hilarious to the infinite. In the treatment of skylarks and daisies he is reverent and pathetic. In the discussion of eternity or the deity he is as sportive as a Caliban, as flippant as a Merry Andrew, and as inaccurately volatile as a drummer.
He is the only Sunday night performer of our generation who can stand up and declare that man is an orphan at his birth and an outcast in his destiny to peals of laughter. He is wrought to a jocund delight as he pictures the human race wait
ing dumbly through the night of ages for the dawn, and he rises to the ecstacy of a practical joke as he tells them there will be no sunrise.
Irreverent in his treatment of religion, he is always inaccurate in his treatment of science and sentimental in his estimate of morals. He uses facts as a man gathering stones. If they are good weapons, he keeps them; if not, he buries them out of sight. He declared again that music, poetry and painting had been fought step by step by religion. The greatest poems—such as Dante’s “ Inferno,” Milton’s “ Paradise Lost,” and Goethe’s “Faust”—spring out of it, as do those sculptured fanes that lift their beauty and their reverence im-perishably into the haven of hope. “ These are my apostles! ” he cried—“ Copernicus, Keppler, Galileo”—with the implication that they had been opposed to religion; whereas Copernicus was educated by a Bishop, was Canon of Frauenberg, dedicated his best work to Pope Paul III, and, dying, was honored and buried by the Church. Keppler was what in our day would be called a pious man; and Galileo was a devout Catholic. He assailed the past in the same bushwacking way. All the literature of Greece would not make one play of Shakspeare. But it is a fact, nevertheless, that the literature of Greece did make a number of them.
Then he shot his scientific thunder-bolt. Science had torn down the myth and the miracle and all the supernatural, and it makes this greatest of all assertions: the uniformity of nature is the same to-day, to-morrow and forevermore. But he did not undertake to explain in what manner the uniformity of eternal nature lifted, comforted or blessed the multiformity of free agents.
The entertainment, regarded as an explanation of myths, was amusing without being at all original or satisfactory. The account of the legends of India and Greece and Egypt were snatched bodily at second hand from the encyclopaedia and treated with contempt in telling. The genesis of wholly unlike myths was made identical. Apollo, Bacchus, Thor, Christ, Krishna, Jack the Giant Killer, and the Virgin were swept with the besom of burlesque into the same dust bin of romance. The “ Snake Story,” as he calls it, excites his' fiercest contempt and ridicule. That it does, simply shows him to be neither a scholar nor a philosopher. The snake story is one of the most amazing of universal phenomena. The mystery of the serpent that is in the Mosaic history stretches, not only from Moses to Hezekiah, but writhes with recondite meaning along the history of the Hamitic races from Memphis to Babylon; and his strange, mystic trail has been traced in the primitive fears and primitive knowledge of me#, from the religions of Scandinavia to those of Polynesia and the American prairies. It is coiled round the rod of .Hermes, and is the symbol on the cave temples of Egypt. It lies in mammoth ruins on our great plains, and is graven in convolutions on the tombs of Hindoostan and the frozen steppes of the North.
Philology, ethnology, archaeology and theology tread here with curious awe. The gentleman from Peoria turns a rhetorical back somersault and
• «
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, „	287
■screams. It is not for such an entertainer to deal with myths. In any endeavor to fix the status of this performer, as we fix other amusement-makers, I should sav that nothing exactly like him had ever been seen before. . In reckless humor, in defiant ignorance, in unscrupulous perversion and in tinkling sentimentalism he is peerless. With the grasp of these gifts he has wrought the stupendous issues of life and death, the mystery of a hereafter and the inscrutable destiny of the human race into the effective compass of the “ stump,” and assaults heaven with the fluffy nimbleness of a lightningcalculator.
In some respects an overweening and ruthless Americanism in his method of looking at things brings before us the spread-eagle orator from the ■deestrick, where the flap of the eagle’s wing is still heard, and the deestrick school rounds up the patriotism, the humanity and the learning of the locality. But in ethics and religion Bob’s Americanism reaches to heights and deaths never before scaled or fathomed.
If I were asked, as a humble student who had listened to this orator and had for years tried to preserve a respect for all opinions, what it was that his oratory represented, I should say that its facts were myths and its logic miracles.
I should say that he may be accepted as the outcome of an intellectual restlessness and bravado which are, perhaps, the results of a liberty and prosperity that have diffused knowledge without increasing culture; that is, enlarging man’s sense for his personal dependence.
Scientific Notes.
—Helloffite is the suggestive name of a new explosive, compounded in a Germany laboratory. It is said to be a mixture of nitro-glycerine and gelatine, dissolved in strong nitric acid. Its power is greater than that of nitro-glycerine, or dynamite, and it is much less dangerous to handle.
—Lake Glazier, the newly-discovered source of the Mississippi, is a sparkling little lake, which nestles among the pines of a wild and unfrequented region of Minnesota, just on the dividing ridge which forms the great water-shed of North America. It is about a mile and a half in greatest diameter. The waters of the lake are exceedingly pure, coming from springs.
—Dr. Draper, of the Meteorological Observatory, is said to regard ozone as constituting a predisposing cause of pneumonia. If this be the case, the matter of keeping plants in bed-rooms becomes serious, as flowering, and especially odoriferous plants, exhale ozone largely. The value of ozone, pro and con, has been much dicussed, but there appears to be no doubt that small quantities act upon the lungs with great violence.
— There has recently been discovered on Star Island, Isles of Shoals, a singular hole in the solid granite ledge of the Island, just above high water mark in front of the ice house. It is five feet, six
inches deep, and two feet, three inches in diameter, perfectly circular and with smooth sides, apparently the work of human hands; but when or by whom made, or for what purpose, no one has yet explained. It was packed solidly with pebbles and gravel when discovered, and has been trodden - over thousands of times by fishermen and former residents of the island and -summer visitors without its existence being detected.
—A. New York paper says: “ Thomas A. Edison, the inventor, has resumed his work on the phonograph, for recording spoken words and musical sounds for repetition, which he abandoned in 1878 to perfect his electric light. He is now building one with a five-foot wheel to be driven by steam, the sound of which will be transferred to a wheel, forty times its diameter, which will have a funel thirty feet long, and give forth a sound thirty times louder than the human voice. He has got so far as to make it say {Ah I ’ distinctly. He says that after he perfects this machine he will construct one for office use to take the place of stenographers and type-writers, and which can be used at home to box up the thoughts of the owners until the next day.”
—Another addition to the list of priestly inventors and discoverers has to be chronicled. A priest of Namur—the Abbd Thirion—has invented a new kind of roofing, which has attracted considerable attention among French architects, who praise it very highly. The idea is exceedingly simple. The roofing is done by ordinary slates, but these are fastened, not at the top, but at their lower part. “Simple indeed,” says the Cosmos, “but it wanted thinking of; it is the old story of Columbus and the egg. Besides, it was necessary, after thinking of it, to invent some practical process for rendering the new idea practical. This the Abbe Thirion has done.” The details which are given are very ingenious, and quite merit the encomiums passed upon them. The Abbd Thirion is a distinguished mechanician, and has several times obtained patents for his various inventions.
—Various methods have been devised for treating the surface of certain woods so as to produce the most perfect imitations possible of rosewood, walnut, etc.; but some of the most attractive work in this line is effected by simply spreading on the surface of the material a concentrated solution of hypermangate of potassa, this being allowed to act until the desired shade is obtained. Five minutes suffice ordinaril}' to give a deep color—a few trials indicating the proper proportions. The -hypermangate of potassa is decomposed by the vegetable fibres with the precipitation of brown peroxide of manganese, , which the influence of the potassa, at the same time set free, fixes in a durable manner on the fibres. When the action is terminated, the wood is carefully washed with water, dried, and then oiled and polished in the usual manner. The effect produced by this process in several woods is really remarkable. On the cherry, especially, it develops a beautiful red color which resists well the action of air and light.
I
3
288
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 16, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editor of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Staff.
Frank H. Dexter,	P. J. Goulding,
F. J. Hagenbarth,	T. J. Cleary.
—We regret that, owing to an accident to our cutting machine, we are obliged to send out uncut many copies of this week’s Scholastic. Our readers will please accept our apologies. The evil will soon be repaired,.and everything, we hope, will be serene hereafter.	•
—The semi-annual examinations will begin on Monday, the 25th inst. It is expected that their results will form a fitting crown to a session about which so much general satisfaction on the’ part of students and Faculty has been deservedly expressed. It is desirable, therefore, that the spirit and industry which have prevailed will not be allowed to flag as the end draws near. Finis coro-nat opus. One week yet remains, and it should be profited by to supply, as far as possible, what may be needed to present a worthy showing when the work of. the session comes to be inquired into. As far as the examinations are concerned, it is
needless to say that their object is simply to ascertain what the student has learned, in order to determine his standing in his course and the rewards, if any, to which he is entitled. The idea of any such thing as a “ terrible ordeal ” for the purpose of “sticking,” should be banished as. a groundless, childish fear, unworthy of a manly student who realizes and has at heart the grand object for which his year at college is given to him.
The averages will be published in the Scholastic after the examinations, and it is confidently expected that each one will be creditable to the student and give joy to parents and friends.
-—The Hellenists of the University, under the direction of their worthy Professor, have gotten out, in neat pamphlet form, a collection of narratives, anecdotes, conundrums, etc., in the language of Athens of old, “set” in Greek type by their own skilled and industrious hands. The little book is one of several others—some already published, others in course of preparation,—all of which have a peculiarly fascinating interest for the student of Greek and cannot fail to impart a love for a language—which some modern educators (?) would seek to “ taboo ”—and aid in the acquisition of a familiarity with its intricacies, thus paving the way for the perfect enjoyment of its manifold beauties. The little book, containing, as it does, short pieces in Greek prose and poetry—for the most part the expression of the thought of the present day—possesses an interest to the student of Greek everywhere. A few pages in conclusion are devoted to the History of the Hellenic Association of Notre Dame, with notices from Greek papers of the plays—CEdiptis Tyrannus and Antigone—produced in former years. The names of the officers of the present year are also given, and it is quite a curiosity to see them in their Grecian dress. We lingered long over the roxio-ppaipo'.^ and we sympathized greatly with the Sta^olot. They have all done well, and may be proud of the work, they have accomplished.
Of course, the chief credit for the work must be given to the Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., Professor of Greek. Though his name does not appear in connection with the book, yet it was produced under his direction; and it is another evidence of the happy results which have attended his efforts to excite renewed interest in classical studies. We hope that his praiseworthy labors will meet, in the future as in the past, with the success they so well-deserve.
The Study of Drawing.
There are always to be found people to decry the study of what are called the fine arts. They do not find fault with the study if he who occupies himself with it intends following an art for a livelihood; but that a young man who intends to engage in commercial pursuits should study the arts, they hold absurd. Thus especially they speak of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	289
drawing. Now, we believe this study is a great means of developing the mind. However, its value as a means of mental development will be better realized when we consider its nature and its relation toother branches of education. Drawing is a method of expressing thought, and is, philosophically, associated with other forms of language. As we regard language as a means and not an end, so should we look on drawing. Its value consists in embodying thought, and in communicating one man’s thoughts to another. Separate it from thought, and it becomes worthless. Mechanically, a picture may be perfect, but unless the thought of the artist glows in it, the picture is of no value. And not only should the thought of the artist appear in the picture, but each line and mark necessary to complete the expression should appear; while every line which is not required to show forth the thought should be discarded, because, being superfluous, it injures the thought which it is intended to express.
The thought, then, ought to be that on which the attention is primarily fixed, because that is the main thing required of a pupil: secondary attention should be given to the expression. In all true educational work, this is the case. In the study of the sciences the great endeavor, while using the text-book, is to master the ideas contained in the book, and the words are considered as useful only inasmuch as they show forth the ideas fully. It is well known that if a writer has a clear idea of what he wishes to say, he will express his thoughts clearly. Vagueness of expression is the result of looseness of thought, not of any lack of words. As we said before, drawing is a kind of language; and, such being the case, the primary attention should be concentrated upon the form to be portrayed. The method of representing this form should be incidental, as the words of the orator or poet. If there are defects in lines, these may be corrected by more accurate observation of the form.
Drawing, then, demands continually close and accurate observation. It thus cultivates the perceptive faculties, and by it the mind is stored with distinct ideas of form. It also by this reason causes the mind to make comparisons and distinctions, and fixes the attention upon real objects. When the perception is thus developed, keenness and activity of observation become habits of the mind, thought is increased, culture broadened, and life enriched.
But thought must always be accompanied by expression. Ideas are embalmed,in a general way by the use of words, and ideas of form are defined and preserved by drawing. What the eye perceives must be expressed by the hand; but the hand must be trained to do this perfectly—and, to attain this ' training, practice is required. This practice brings into play the observation of the pupil to its greatest extent.	-	•
Not only is the cultivation of perception and observation assisted by drawing, but it may even be made an auxiliary in the development of the higher faculties. By it the imagination is brought into
exercise. The first efforts at invention are perhaps failures, and are so because the imagination has not been aroused. The mind has moved along the path of the real without any effort at re-arrangement or new combination. The creative faculties of the mind have never been employed. But, step by step the mind is led from the real to the ideal.1 The imagination becomes awakened.; the possibility of creating new figures becomes a reality; . the mind is stimulated to do something greater, and is led to greater achievements.
But the imagination must itself be controlled so that its new combinations produce definite effects. The designs produced must be harmonious and symmetrical. Thus reason is exercised; for reason is that faculty which preceives the different relations upon which these qualities are founded, and which directs and controls the imagination.
Besides these, drawing develops our conception and cultivates our taste. But we have said enough to show the great advantage which drawing is to the student as an aid in the development of his mental faculties. We may have occasion again to refer to this subject—unless a more competent hand undertake the task—and endeavor to show the practical value of drawing in its application to scientific studies. It is our earnest hope that none among us here will fail to profit by the opportunities presented of following this delightful study.
B.
Capital and Labor.
What the land question was to the agricultural population of Ireland, the labor question is to the toiling masses of the United States—who, in one or another form of manufacturing industry—in mines and shops, or public employment—are honestly striving to “ earn their bread by the sweat of their brow.”
In-the case of the Irish people, the. question was ’one of life and death, or, what was practically the same, starvation or exile. An alternative so monstrous and so pitiful is not presented in the United States to those who toil; but the conditions and prospects presented to them are often harsh and bitter. -
We have seen, in the instances of labor strikes, and by the simultaneous suspension' of work in the great mills and factories, that tens of thousands of men, accustomed to subsist by the returns for . their daily toil, have been reduced, with their families, to want and wretchedness.	.
The accounts given in the public journals of the sufferings in Ohio and Pennsylvania during the.recent strikes amongst the miners recalls the widespread and, in instances, awful distress whic.h prevailed in the districts in question..	.
The startling figures lately put forth by repre- . sentatives of the Knights of Labor,—which is said . to be a powerful and widely extended labor organ-ization,—as to the numberof unemployed,men in. the United States seem incredible in the faceof the apparent activity of trade and the general seem
29o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing prosperity; but there is no doubt the real figures are great enough to excite deep concern on the part of the thoughtful and reflecting observer.
It does not require that one should be either a philosopher or a communist to see the prevailing conditions of the labor element in the United States, that something is seriously out of gear. With capital everywhere concentrating in the form of monopolies,—whether it be in the consolidation of railroads and telegraphs, or in mills and mines where products are “ pooled,” or yet in the colossal stores and factories; on every hand is seen the strengthening and solidifying of capital in the hands of the few. And this consolidation, it is plain, is only effected by sweeping out, or swallowing up, smaller enterprises. This is the logical and, perhaps, inevitable result of our . modern social system—in which wealth and “ greed of gain ” is held to be the chief end of life. But with this visible agglomeration of wealth in the hands of the comparatively few, what is to be said of the conditions and prospects of the laboring masses? If, happily, in the acquisition and accumulation of wealth by monopolists, we could hope for the rules and application of Christian principlesand a realizing sense of Christian duties in its employment and distribution, there would then be less occasion for concern and apprehension in considering the problems presented in the questions ofCapital and Labor.” However seductive and alluring maj7 be the dreams and vagaries of latter-day theorizers, inequality of social and worldly conditions is and will remain the rule. Utopia will remain in the books; it cannot be realized, in fact, under the conditions of our or any other known civilization. It can and may be realized, but in a form and fashion outside the ken of the modern “philosopher,”—and that will be by the universal acceptance of Divine law and the general practice of the Divine commands.
The Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount contain the solution of all the problems with which we are concerned in the discussion of this question. When capital recognizes and acts up to the duties involved in, and implied by, the possession of wealth, labor will recognize and respect the rights of capital.
The philosophy of the question turns upon these two simple words, “ Rights ” and “ Duties.”
Adam Smith says: “ The property which every man has in his own labor, as it is the original foundation of all other property, so it is the most sacred and inviolable. , The patrimony of a poor man lies in the strength and dexterity of His hands; and to hinder him from employing this strength and dexterity in what manner he thinks proper, without injury to his neighbor, is a plain violation of this most sacred property.” A distinguished Catholic authority—Cardinal Manning—gives a more concise definition—“The honest exertion of the powers of our minds and of our body for our own good, and for the good of our neighbors.” .
The rights of the workman to dispose of his own toil'on his own terms cannot be questioned; nor canhis right to combine and unite with other toilers for purposes of mutual-protection be seri
ously questioned; Indeed, such unions and combinations may be said to be a necessity in the existing order.
How is it possible, except through such union and combination, to resist the power of great corporations and exacting monopolies, which, as a rule, little regard the rights of the day-laborer. Capital is protected by its own innate power, by its influence over legislation and legislative bodies, and by the readiness with which “ pools ” and “ combinations” are formed to its bidding; but in its control over labor it is more powerful still by reason of the helplessness of. the working masses, who must work in order to live. An autocratic order from the chief of some great corporation will sometimes reduce the wages of tens of thousands of employes from ten to twenty per cent, in one swoop. And the tens of thousands have no redress or alternative unless to “ strike.” ‘
And here lies the difficulty. The public, as a rule, do not sympathize with “ strikes ” and “strikers.” Strikes are always inconvenient. They upset the existing order, disturb business, and sometimes lead to destruction of property.
There is, and can be, of course, no justification for lawlessness. If the rights of the workman to fix a price for his labor, and other conditions as to the hours of his service, cannot be disputed, the equal rights of the employers to fix the terms and price to be paid is no less certain. Between these, often irreconcilable, conditions lie only submission, strikes, or arbitration. The former is often expedient, the second sometimes necessary, the last is always wise. A leading mine owner, widely known for his uniform practical sympathy with his operatives, and for his public spirit and high character—Col. William P. Rend, of Chicago— has lately put forward, in several public conventions representing the mining interests, a method of arbitration which would be invoked in case of differences between employers and operatives. The simple suggestion of arbitration, as the true remedy, carries on its face the evident solution of this vexed labor problem.
It is not necessary to suggest details. The fundamental idea is that all differences may and ought to be reconciled by frank and honest arbitration. Where employers will meet operatives on this half-way neutral ground, an adjustment may be confidently looked for in most cases. The arts of the demagogue and the threats of the socialists will no longer be effective with the laboring masses. Where arbitration by mutual agreement is not practicable, legislative “ Boards of Arbitration ” could be appealed to; and these should be provided for by law in every State.
When corporations and individual employers shall—as:very many, to their honor be it said, undoubtedly do—show due regard and consideration for the rights and necessities of workmen and operatives, there need be no feai* of the spectre of communistic disorder in the United States. Our mechanics and workingmen are instinctively conservative, and cannot be led away permanently into dangerous societies and combinations, if only cap
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ital will join in promoting the adoption of “arbitration ” as the true solution of the labor problem. William J. Onahan, LL.D., ’75.
Books and. Periodicals.
The Congo, and the Founding of its Free State; A Story of Work and Exploration. By Henry M. Stanley. New York: Harper & Bros. Franklin Square. 18S5.
This is a “ round, unvarnished tale,” such as might win the ear of a Desdemona. Stanley’s literary style is plain, and would be prosaic, were it not for the interest due to the facts he narrates, and, perhaps, a plain style most befits the subject, carrying with it^ as it does, the conviction of perfect sincerity on the part of the narrator. With the breaking up of the slave trade (for which the nineteenth century will be encircled with a luminous crown, as it is looked back upon from the standpoint of ages yet to come), has dawned upon us the knowledge of the interior of the Dark Continent as a land of verdure and fruitfulness, far from the arid desertit was once supposed. Aland whose povvers of productiveness may be multiplied one-hundredfold under the auspices of civilization. The vast area known now as the Free State of Congo—although the sense in which it is “free” has little reference to the condition of the population—extends over a large and rich portion of Central Africa, and the history of the formation of outposts of civilization therein is most entertaining as well as instructive. As we read we learn that human nature is human nature all the world over. The two volumes of this work are very handsomely bound and printed. The illustrations bring the events of the narrative before the mind with redoubled force, and the maps give evidence of the solid work done by the explorer and his assistants. We have great pleasure in recommending this work to all.
—In everything, that enters into the make-up of acceptable college song books, those published by Oliver Ditson & Co. are unquestionably superior to all others. “Carmina Collegensia ” ($3.00), an . elegant volume containing a complete collection of American and Foreign Student Songs, at once-took its place as the song booker excellence years ago. After twenty or more editions, as the result, of frequent and careful revisions (as remarked by the Spr ingfield Reptcblican')^ it remains the standard book of.its kind, and will probably so continue for years to come. Not long ago, to meet the demand for a cheaper edition, this house issued “ Student Life in Song ” ($ 1.50), with a charming introduction by Charles Dudley Warner, and containing choice selections from the larger book, including all of its foreign student and miscellaneous songs. To these favorite books has been added a third, the popularity of which is attested by the fact that every edition has been exhausted as fast as printed. This-book—-“ College Songs” (mailed free for fifty cents)—is unquestionably the best as well as cheapest of its kind. It contains’not only a selection of
the best“ old songs,”but a splendid collection of new songs recently introduced in college circles, most of which are copyrighted and can be found in no other collection. Among them are such capital ones as “ Funiculi,” “ Paddy Duffy’s Cart,” “ Darling Clementine,” “ In the Morning by the Bright Light,” “ Irish Christening,” “ Emmet’s Lullaby,” “ McSorley’s Twins,” “Spanish Cavalier,” “ Solomon Levi,” “ Carve dat Possum,” “ To the Bravest,” (quartet) “ Rosalie,” “Good-bye, my Lover, Good-bye,” “ What Beams so Bright,” and many more choice gems. One .of the best fea'tures of this, and the books first mentioned is, that all of the solos have piano accompaniments. That these books should excel others of their kind in value is not surprising in view of the fact that their editor has had at his disposal the copyright material, and other facilities, of the largest music publishing house in the world. Those who desire the best college song books should see to it that they have the imprint of Oliver Ditson & Co.
—The Popular Science Monthly for January opens with M. Pasteur’s communication to the French Academy of Sciences announcing his discovery and successful application of “ Inoculation against Hydrophobia.” In “ The Origin of Primitive Money ” Mr. Horatio Hale, an accomplished student of aboriginal history and customs, describes wampum and its uses, and traces the existence of similar currencies in other parts of the world, and evenin the most ancient times,in China. In“Prog-ressin Tornado-Prediction,” Mr. William A. Eddyshows that something real has been accomplished in that direction, and that it is now possible to render cases where a tornado may overtake a settled neighborhood unawares of rare occurrence. -In “ Communal Societies,” Mr. Charles Morris compares the social organizations of “ communal animals”—beavers, bees, ants, etc.—with the primitive social organizations of men. In “ The Flower or the Leaf,” and “ The Study of the Relations of Things,” Dr. Mary Putman-Jacobi and Miss Eliza A. Youmans discuss, from their respective points.of view, ostensibly how the study of botany should be begun, but really fundamental principles of primaryinstruction. Mr. George F. Kunz has an interesting paper, beautifully illustrated, on the “Agatized and Jasperized Wood of Arizona,” a remarkable phenomenon distinguishing a whole “ park.” Other papers of interest are Professor Flower’s “ The Varieties of the Human Species,” Grant • Allen’s “Fish out of Water,”Herbert Spencer’s social science study of “ Nonconformity,” the Rev. Henry Kendall’s startling speculation on “ Natural Heirship; or, all the World Akin”; Dr. William Odling’s “ Science in its Useful Applications,” in which the author animadverts upon the modern cant about the superiority of pure science, and on the idea that there is something derogatory in making science practically profitable. The biographical sketch, accompanied by the usual portrait, is of Frank Buckland, one of the interesting characters in the history of science. The editor rejoices over “ The Decline of the Ghost.’’	_
292
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—Eugene C. Orrick, ’82, is a prominent and successful lawyer at Indianola, Miss. .
—Rev. Vice-President Zahm made a flying visit on business to Chicago last Thursday.
—Among the welcome visitors of the past week was Rev. C. M. Korst, of Coldwater, Mich.
—Ed. Schmauss (Com’l), ’85, is in business at Rockford, Ill. His many friends will be glad to learn that he is doing well.
—Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., formerly Professor at Notre Dame, now the esteemed Vice-President of Sacred Heart College, Watertown, was the recipient of many handsome Xmas offerings.
—Rev. President Walsh returned last Tuesday, after a few weeks’ vacation in the sunny South. We are glad to state that the trip has brought a much-desired improvement in health to Father W alsh.
—Mr. Jas. Graham, formerly of Nashville, Tenn., and well known here in 1863-64 and ’65 for his elocutionary talents, is now a partner in the law firm of Heard & Graham, Attorneys at Law, Cleburne, Texas. Jim was the first “ Prince of Por-
' tage Prairie.”
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Miss Hake, Miss Helen Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; E. D. Millen, Esq., Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Robert Mitchel, Princeton, Ind.; L. B. Custer, Logansport, Ind.; Alex. Heron, Indianapolis, Ind.; Lorenzo E. Henderson, J. J. Wad, St. Louis, Mo.; Aaron Jones, Sr., Samuel Bowmer, South Bend, Ind.; C. G. Towle, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Chicago.
—The following notice of the Hon. James H. Ward, of ’69, recently appeared in the Washington Post:
“ One of the Democratic Congressmen from Chicago is J. H. Ward. - He is barely thirty years old, and is worth upward of $300,000. He is a bright law\ er, a g ood conversationalist, and a fair orator. He is one of the handsomest men in Congress. He has taken quarters for the winter at Willard’s. Mrs. Ward is an accomplished lady, and will undoubtedly be prominent in society here. Mr. Ward is liberal arid charitable, but exceedingly modest about his gifts. He has made his wife a present of his entire two years’ salary as a Congressman.”
Local Items.
—Be ready!
—Who will win the cake?
—Look out for the “ Semis.”
—All are back; and more, too.
—The big dynamo has arrived.
—-There are indications of a January thaw.
—Ye festive “sassidge” hath begun to put in an appearance. -
—Lectures on Political Economy were resumed last Thursday.,
—During the past few days there have been several new arrivals.
—Present indications point to an increased attendance next session.
—Now is the time to show your public spirit by contributing to the Bazaar.
o
—The Military Company enjoyed a grand sleighride on Thursday afternoon.
—A fine specimen of a Florida lemon may be seen in the President’s room.
—A Junior asks: “ Why can we not have a singing class?” A very timely question.
—The holiday entertainment by the Euglossians will be given this (Saturday) evening.
—Elementary courses of Physical and Natural Sciences will be inaugurated early next session.
—No more competitions this session—all work is now centred on preparation for the “ Semis.”
—Come one, come all, turn out in force to make the Bazaar a grand financial success and the social event of the season.
—Do not fail to take a guess at the number of beans in the jar. The one who comes nearest to the exact number will receive a handsome prize.
—Skating was very good during the week until yesterday afternoon, when rain fell. Parts of the lakes were cleared of snow so as to permit the full enjoyment of the sport.
—The princes, seeing that the time for examination is at hand, have gone right into business. They suspect Very Rev. Father General will have some puzzles ready for them.
—It is proposed to have a revival of the grand spectacular drama—“The Son of the Sun”— which, we are told, was produced with most brilliant effects in the spring of 1870.
—A handsomely-framed, life-size photograph of Rt. Rev. Bishop O’Farrell, of Trenton, N.J.— the gift of Bro. Justinian, of Nativity School, Chicago—has been placed-in Bishops’ Hall.
—If you have any fancy articles—toys, books, curiosities, sweetmeats, candies, etc.—yon do not need, send them to the Bazaar, where they will be sold for the benefit of the Juniors’ Club.
—The “Semis” will begin on Monday, the 25th inst., and continue four days, after which classes will be reorganized and everything made ready to begin the second session on Monday, Feb. 1.
—Work has begun cutting ice on St. Joseph’s Lake. There will be a plentiful supply of good, thick ice, notwithstanding ‘ the “ opening of navigation” which marked the first day of the year.
—In response to numerous inquiries concerning a local item which appeared last week, we would say that “flower” should read “flour,” and refers to best bread. There is no personal reference whatsoever.
, —Our societies have been somewhat slow in reorganizing since the holidays, at least we should judge so from the silence of their secretaries. Ah! perhaps the.“Semis” *4have the floor?” Yes,that must, be it.
—We have heard a doleful tale of a conflict be
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	293
tween a rat and a mouse, in which the rat tore to pieces the mouse; but, it. must be said, the latter was handicapped in the struggle, or rather he. had his head captured in a trap. N. B.—The victor has not as yet been heard from.
—The “blizzard” with which the week opened —to the great joy of some local weather prophets— took its departure for “ other climes,” after a brief sojourn of two days. Since then the weather has been delightful, and the sleighing splendid—luxuries that have been heartily enjoyed.
—The eleventh number of the Scholastic Annual, published by Prof'. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has been received. Its table of contents is, if possible, richer than ever, and composed of matter of interest and value to every household and every office.—South Bend Register.
—The students of St. Edward’s Hall had a very-pleasant sleigh-ride on Thursday. They took in South Bend On their route, and were very courteously shown through the Oliver -Chilled Plow works by Mr. Oliver himself. The princes return sincere thanks for the kindness and attention shown them.	;
—Speaking of the delightful climate of Florida, Rev. President Walsh says that just now, while everything here is covered with snow, the streets of Jacksonville are lined with orange trees laden with fruit. He brought with him, as a specimen, a few delicious oranges that he plucked from the tree the day he started for home.
—At the 10th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, held on the 13th inst., the following gave recitations: E. Darragh, R. C. Newton, C. Spencer, P. Brownson, and D. C. Regan. The public readers for this week are, F. Long, W. Wabrauschek, M. O’Kane, M. Mul-kern, R. C. Newton, and E. Darragh.
—The work of running the wires for the elec-trie light through all the rooms and corridors of the main building is now nearly completed. In a few days, the wires will be extended through St. Edward’s Hall, then Science Hall and the Academy of Music. By that time it is expected that the new large dynamo will be in position. '
—The 12th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held in St. Edward’s Hall, on Monday, Jan. 11. Well-written compositions on various subjects were read by Masters R. Munroe, F. Peck, F. Dunford, and W. Bailey. The Chair proposed a debate for the next meeting, and exhorted all to keep up the energy and industry they have shown for the past four months.
—Next week, a grand Bazaar will be held in the Juniors’ reception rooms for the benefit of the Juniors’ Baseball Association. The committees who have charge of the arrangements are hard at work preparing to make the affair a grand success, and contributions for the booths are flowing in from all sides. Persons desiring to contribute articles or eatables can send them to Messrs. Benner, Cooper, or Myers,
—The “beard question” has of late begun to assume gigantic and awful proportions in this vicinity. An old friend of the Scholastic writes as follows:
The Rev. F-------has become a convert to the old doctrine. I join with him in the same declaration. He is only afraid that some may fear it would detract from their personal handsome appearance. Tant s'enfaut qiCau con-traire; and if anyone insist, let him come to-----and look at him, and judge if he has not gained 100 per cent, since he laid aside his old dull and deceitful razors. ■ -
—“ Vapid Vaporings,”by “Justin Thyme/’ with the compliments of the author, kept us up several hours last night, in the enjoyment of its sly humor and quaint fancies. We suppose no bright college student has ever failed to indulge in flights of poetic fancy. In most cases they get no farther than the college paper in which they are born, cradled and buried. “Vapid Vaporings,” however, have risen again in an elegant volume, of which they are well worthy. They are, beyond comparison the best efforts of student literature that we have ever seen.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—In their recent publication the Hellenists treat us to what they call a very respectable word. Mr. Aristophanes, who pronounced it a few thousand years ago, we learn, is now a dead man. It reads:
^XayoYaxsoxpaw>).st<pavv<iptpo~i>Tpipp.aToai).(pio~apa.-op.z).iToxa~aitsyu!i^vox’.y).s~ixoffG(}0o<pa"o~3ptffTspa).£XTp~ uovo~T3xz(pa).M.ox'.'px).o~s).eto).a'f(»o<>tpatoSa<pTjTp(rya'>OTm-ptrfwv.	.
It is commonly translated by the English “hash” a translation which Mathers pronounces as altogether too free and unscholarly. Sheridan’s version comes much closer to the Greek. He translates : An oyster-saltfish-skate-shark-remainder-bf-heads-dressed-with-vinegar-laserpitium -leek - mixed- with-honey-thrush-blackbird-pigeon-dove-roast -ed-cock’s-brains-wagtail - cushat - hare - stewed - in-new-wirie-and-seasoned-with - green-corn-with-its-shoulders-fricassee.
—An interesting scene was witnessed on the Juniors’ Campus yesterday afternoon, at oneo’clock, when an exhibition was given of the “Ready Fire Extinguisher.” Board partitions, 12 feet in height and 10 feet in length, were erected, and after being thoroughly saturated with kerosene oil and covered with tar and paraffine were set on fire. The flames rose fiercely, roaring and cackling, to a height of fifteen or more feet. Mr. E. D. Miller, the agent of the “Extinguisher” Company, threw a “Hand Grenade” into the flames without producing any effect. Then, taking the “Ready Extinguisher,” and standing about ten or twelve feet off from the conflagration, a, portion of the contents were thrown when the flames were subdued so as to permit of a nearer^ approach, and the application of a few more drops resulted in.completely extinguishing the fire. The exhibition occupied less than a minute, and was a complete, success.	.
—It may not be generally known that an inter- • esting relic of the very early days of Notre Dame still survives. It is the first altar, made by Bro.
194	‘THE NOIRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Francis more than 42 years ago, on which the venerable Father Sorin used to say Mass in the old log chapel that marked the site on which, he beean the series of labors that have been crowned with such grand results. This precious sotivenir. of an early and laborious period in the history of a grand and world-renowned institution is still used for the offering of the Holy Sacrifice and may be seen in the East chapel of the new extension to the church.
—We were shown, a few days .ago, another very interesting relic of old Notre Dame. It is a small, eight-page pamphlet, giving the report of the “ Solemn Distribution of Premiums at Notre Dame du Lac University, South Bend, St. Joseph County, Indiana, July Fourth, 1848.” In those early days—no doubt through patriotic motives— it was customary to hold the commencement exercises on the Nation’s Festival Day, and they were always inaugurated by the reading of the “ Declaration of Independence.” This endured for a few years, when commencement time was changed to its present date. The paper is interesting as a record of the classes taught forty years ago and the number of students attending. The name of the first graduate of Notre Dame—the lamented Rev. N. H. Gillespie, so long an efficient officer of the University and an active and devoted member of the Community—appears among the students of the time, and no doubt in other catalogues of an earlier date. We are pleased to learn that efforts are being made to secure for preservation these oldtime prospectuses and catalogues with a view to supply valuable material for an interesting history of Notre Dame. •
—The Director of the Historical Department returns grateful acknowledgments to Rt. Rev. Bishop Mora, of Los Angeles, Cal., for valuable souvenirs of the missionaries of California; to Prof. Stoddard for a piece of .the stole taken from the remains of the Ven. Father Junipero Serra, the day his remains were found in the Sanctuary of the old Carmelo Mission Church; a Certificate of Baptism written arid signed by Father Junipero Serra the 29th Xber, 1781; also a letter written by him in Monterey to his Superior; Baptismal Certificate written and signed at the Mission of Sancta, Thereza, 26th of Oct., 1782; by Father Fran-ciscb Dumet; to Mrs. Fitzhugh, of Bay City, for a piece of- the gold chain by which Archbishop Carroll suspended his pectoral cross; to Miss Brent for an autograph letter of Charles Carroll, of Carrollton; to Master Gus. Cooper for souvenirs of Dubuque missionaries; to Mrs. Shields for pair of heavy golden epaulettes worn by Maj; Gen. Shields; to Miss Eliza Allan Starr for valuable manuscripts; to Master G. Berry, of Denver, for Swiss coins; to Mr. H. Hull for Italian script; to F. J. Hagenbarth, for rare American nickels; to F. Long for medal of St. Louis Exposition; to Master Castillo for Mexican game; to Mrs. J. Berthelet, of Milwaukee, for large lithograph of Rt. Rev. John Henni, first Bishop of Milwaukee; also for large lithograph of Rt. Rev. Dr. Pe'nson-eaultr first Bishop of London, Canada West
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week 'has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.] '	■
SENIOR. DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton; Aubrey. Burke, Becerra, C. Bowles, Boyer, Bolton, Burns, D. Bvrnes, Baca, F. Browne, Breen, A. Browne, Conlon, Coady, Congdon Craig, Chapin, Cusack, Crilly, Cdrtier, Fred Combe, Cassidy, Dempsey, Davis. Dexter, Dolan, Fogarty,-Finlay, Ford, Geiger, A. A. Gordon, A. Gordon, Goulding, Gallardo, Glenn, Griffith, Hamlyn, Horn, Hagerty, Houck, E. Hampton, J. Hampton,. Hagenbarth, Hull, Holden, Judie, Jackson, Jeffs, Koudelka, Keys, Kreutzer, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Keegan, Karst, Kabat, Kegel, Kleiber, Ley, Latshaw, H. Luhn, W. Luhn, Lally, Martinez, G. Morrison, B. Morrison, Mathers, Murdock, Mier, McGuire, Miller, Moon, McDonald, Neill, Nester, O’Donnell, Ott, J. Prudhomme, Padilla, Perley, T. Ryan, Remish, E. Riley; Rothert, Rochford, Shaide,' Stubbs,’ Saviers, Sheridan, Stickney, Strasser, Triplett, Vandercar, C. Williams, W. Williams, White, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Adlesperger, Austin, H. Ackerman, Akin, Berry, Benson, Bodley, Brabrook, Baur, Brownson, Bowles, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Bacigalupo, Curtis, Colina, Cain. T. Cleary, Cooper, Chute, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, Clarke, Coles, Coad, Chaves, Dougherty, Doss, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dickinson, Dungan, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fehr, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Fitz-harris, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, Houston, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Holman, Harris, Hiner, Inderrieden, Jewett, B Jacobs,. N. Jacobs, Jeffs, Joyce, Klaner, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, ■Luther, Long, McKendry, McCourt, Muessel, McConn, Meehan, Mueller, Mulkern, McPhee, McIntosh, Myers, McNamara, Nealis, L. Newton, R. Newton, Noud, Nester, Nations, O’Connor, Oxnard, O’Kane, Portillo, Press, Prudhomme, Preston, Potter, Regan, Ratighan, Redlich, C. .Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Rose, Ramirez, S. Smith, F. Smith, L. Smith, H. Smith, Short, Shields, Senn, Spencer, Steele, Scherrer, Servis, Stattman, L. Thompson, W. Thompson. Talbot, Tewksbury, Tarrant, Tidrick, Valasco, Warner, Walsh, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, Williamson, Woodman, Fontanel. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
Masters Ackerman, Bailey, Bull, Barger, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Chute, Cobbs, Campeau, Crotty, E. Doss, L. Doss, Dunford, F. Falvey, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, F. Garber, E: Garber, Griffin, Grant, Graham, Healy, O. Haney, Inderrieden, Jones, E. Jewett, ' A. Kintz, J. Kintz, O- Kintz, Kellner, Klaner, B Keeffe, Landenwich, Mainzer, Moncada, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy, Mason, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munroe, Nester, Nussbaum, C. Nealis, B. Nealis, O’Neill, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Quinlin, Ramsey, Riordan, Stone, D. Sweet, G- Sweet, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, W. Smart, A. Smart, Sullivan, Til lenburg, Taft, Williamson.	'	•
THE YOUNG FIDDLER.	’
I love to play the violin, -And hear its sound so sweet:
It gently rests beneath my. chin, My weary heart to greet.	.
I cannot play it very well,
I have not learned it long;
And when I play, as you can tell,.	.
I get a little wrong.	.
Those stupid folks who live next door -They hate the violin; '	•	. .
But I. will practise more and’ more • My dear old violin.	.
'	— The Keynote.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Mary’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Charlotte Caddagan created quite a surprise among her friends at home by her success in Elocution. On her return, like her little friend Maude Goetz, she also brought pleasant proofs that she ' did not forget her school friends while enjoying the pleasures of home, as the pretty vases in the-, study-hall and dormitory will attest.
—March is not so very far off that pupils cannot begin to count the weeks to June. This close proximity of the end of the scholastic year is very suggestive to those who would write “ success ” as the sum of their efforts. All remember that the examination of February is the reliable index to the promotions, and it is very, edifying to behold the unanimous diligence with which the thread of duties is taken up by those who have just turned away from their holiday enjoyments.
—Those who have returned promptly from their Christmas trip are, no doubt, worthy of being distinguished from the tardy ones. With a severe examination before the pupils, the authorities wisely stipulate the day of resuming the class duties; and those who are most ready to correspond to the- -wishes of their teachers are, truly, most deserving of approbation. Be this as it may, it is the declaration, without one dissenting voice, that the holidays have passed delightfully at St. Mary’s. Not one was homesick, and all did their best to render compan- -ions happy.
—The pupils who passed the holidays at St. Mary’s, in order to express, in a substantial way, their profound sense of the devotedness of which they were the objects, wrote to the Prefect, embodying their sentiments of grateful appreciation, and stating the fact that they had secured a number of Masses to be offered for her intention. The manifest remembrance of the care* devoted to their comfort and pleasure is certainly no more, than a simple proof of that courtesy, the omission of which would be inexcusable. To say “Thank you ” is the least one can do* on the reception of a favor.
—Some of the cabinet-sized photographs of Very Rev. Father General, taken by McDonald,-of South Bend, and lately received in the Academy, are pronounced to be.the very best likenesses • existing- of the venerable original. The charming -half-length portrait by Lorin, of Chartres, in France, now in the Convent at Notre Dame, and * the full-length figure in the large parlor of the University, painted, years ago, by Signor Gregori,-are always understood to be left out of the question in any. comparison. It is very acceptable, however, to now and then come across a small representation somewhat approaching the appearance of the original, which most of Father General’s pictures do not. The new photographs are hailed with unqualified satisfaction by every one.
—The tiny white mounds that mark the window sash, and give an irregular and slightly ^curving outline to the angular panes of glass which let in the cold light bf the wintry sky, while the warmth . . of the room appeals so winningly to our human sense of comfort, suggests also the delightful illu-.
—Fine cut flowers for the Altar from Miss Munger are gratefully acknow ledged.
—Miss Katie Fehr brings her cousin, Miss Anne Baschamang, as a holiday addition to the ranks of St. Mary’s Senior department.
—Mrs. Shephard of Arlington, Nebraska, has ’ made several very acceptable gifts to the Academy, for which hearty thanks are tendered.
—The life-size statue of Mater Admirabilis in the Juniors’ study-hall is now surrounded with fresh and appropriate decorations, which add greatly to the cheerful appearance of the apartment.
—Miss Florence Wynn, of Toledo, Ohio, on her return from her holiday vacation was accompanied by her elder sister, who has entered as a pupil. Mrs. Wynn came with her two daughters and Miss Laskey.
—Miss Fuller has painted roses on a banner of blue silk, which were so well executed that they received a compliment from Signor Gregori. It is designed to veil the mirror of the cabinet in the North reception room.
—All the Princesses have returned to their very bright, but no less unpretending palace. They are entering into the very, essential mysteries of practical calisthenics and, as a natural consequence, are perfectly upright.
—A very graceful hand painted card of congratulation to her near relatives, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Byrnes, of St. Joseph’s, Mo., was sent by Miss L. Walsh in response to their wedding cards. The design was of her own composition.
—To the honor of the Juniors be it spoken, but twro members of the entire department have lost their good notes during the year. This is an en-coura^ement, and will doubtless incite them to further endeavors to reach the highest point of excellence.
—The Graduating Class, upon the return of three of their members,—the Misses V. Barlow, M. Munger and L. Carney,—paid a visit to the apartments of Madame Gregori to inspect the beautiful portrait of Miss Gregori, mentioned in the Scholastic of Jan. 2.
—On the festival of the Epiphany, the hearty personal greetings to the Prefect.of Studies, of which the pupils were deprived on New Year’s Day, were paid.in full, with compound interest, when she entered the refectory for, the .first time since the Feast of St. John the Evangelist, the 27th ult.
—Maude Goetz, of the Princesses, did not forget her little playmates in her absence. Foi' their study-hall she brought back from her Christmas trip to Chicago a handsome statuette of “ The SchdoLGirl,” and many delightful toys for recreation hours. For St. Michael’s Dormitory she presented a.pretty, symbolical holy water font.
296	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sion of being “snow-bound” However, one must not look far abroad, in order to keep up the illusion. There are no deep snow drifts; no wide fields that are smooth and white as the whitest marble; and as yet not a particle of sleighing. However, it is no more than respectful for winter to put on his best ermine robe to honor the new year, and we are very glad to see that he adheres to his usual sense of propriety. He has but little more than a month and a half to reign, and should make the best of his time to perform the agreeable while he remains on his throne.
—Miss Sophronia St. Clair, who so successfully rendered the part of “ Madame Affable ” in “ New Arts,” on the 11th ult., has charmed her numerous friends in Chicago, and elsewhere, during her late holiday vacation, by her admirable recitations; The simple, natural ease of her manner is greatly enhanced by the purity, clearness and force of her rich intonations. The “ Reception ” in “ New Arts,” though conducted from year to year by many an accomplished leader, the part which of necessity falls to Madame Affable was never performed in the past in anything approaching the exquisite manner which marked Miss St. Clair’s interpretation. She was, however, admirably sustained by the tact and skill of her well-versed assistants, the Misses Rowena Fenton, Marie Bruhn, M. Chute, S. McHale, J. Barlow, and L. Williams.
—The despotic sway of winter is felt to such a degree that out-of-door exercise for the most part is rendered quite out of the question. Vigorous in-door calisthenic exercises, carefully superintended, must take its place for some months. But these exercises may be underrated bj' the thoughtless. On the other hand, one who has noted the rarity of a perfectly symmetrical figure, and who has carefully studied the object of the exercises under consideration, - will understand their real value. The indifferent, mechanical, and often ineffective performance, which sometimes passes under the name of calisthenics, is as tiresome as it is useless. Not so the drill which results in “graceful standing,” and which is intelligently employed. Young students are often unconscious of the Ibu ng-ing, unhealthful postures they assume while studying or reciting. Misshapen limbs,spinal curvatures, awkward movements are the penalty. Simple, unexaggerated, but regular exercise of the muscles, will serve as the best remedy. Calisthenics at St. Mary’s constitute a very pleasant and profitable by-play in the morning after breakfast.
Affectation.
Of all the many misapplied terms of which our vernacular is full, the word “ affectation ” may rank among the first. A person; from conscientious motives, may be somewhat reserved. In the free and easy class, who speak twice before thinking once, she is set down as “ affected.” Another, from motives equally praiseworthy, would, perhaps, turn the tide of conversation; she assumes a cheerfulness not consistent with the flow of the danger
ous gossip which it may be her purpose to divert. The foiled tongues revenge the rebuke, and the delicate charity is dubbed with the ungracious title of “ affectation.” So we might multiply cases to the end.
The word in question is often trippingly used and thoughtlessly fastened upon individuals and works, more frequently from ignorance than from any other cause. The tyro finds it a very convenient cover to hide his inexperience. In fact, it is a word very rarely used by those who have a broad knowledge of human nature, of national peculiarities, and of the respect due to the distinguishing traits which constitute individuality. It is, in reality, marvellous what mistakes may be made by very wise people in their estimate of others, and in their expression of that estimate.
At the first thought, the term may not appear quite so offensive as the word “ hypocrite,” but it is, in fact, just about as complimentary. Attention is called to its very frequent misapplication, since the greatest harm is often done by evil perpetrated “with the best intention in the world.”
In circles where slang and provincialisms are current, let one pronounce the English in exact accordance with the standard, and he is’very sure to be at once set down as “ affected.” Let the manners of culture encroach upon the rudeness of the careless and unlettered, and the innovator is at once stigmatized with the ambiguous appellation which, unjust as it may be, is sure to create more or less prejudice.	•	-	.
Mistakes are the most common things in the world. There is only, one infallible umpire this side of heaven—that is the holy Church of God; and the exponent of this umpire must speak ex cathedra to be regarded as infallible. This should be a lesson to “common mortals” not to be too ready to brand others with offensive titles, even when they feel sure they are deserved.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Allwein, Bruhn, V. Barlow, Brady, Blair, Blacklock, A. Baschamang, Carney, Clendenen, Chaves, N. Carroll, E. Coll, A. Cox, M. Dillon, A. Duffield, B. Desenberg, P. Ewing, A. Egan, M. Fuller, G. Faxon, C. Fehr, E. Farnsworth, R. Fenton, C. Griffith, H. Gu;se, N. Green, A. Heckard, B. Heckard E. Horn, A. Henry, B. Haines, N. Keenan, B. Kearsey, E. Kearns, L. Krapf, M. Lyons, C. Leahigh, J. Lawrence, M. Munger, C. Morrison, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. Morse, M. McNamara. C. McNamara, E. North, M. Otero, F. Rowley, A. Riedinger, F. Robb, H. Rose, G. Stadtler, C. Shields, A. Shephard, L. Williams, G. Wolvin, L. Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, O. Boyer, Coll, Cox, Duffield Griffith, Hertzog, Keyes, E. Martin, Mason, Odell, Pierce, Prudhomme, Regan, Servis, Sheekey, Smart, Smith, Simpson, Steele, Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, M. Goetz, F. Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, M. Philipps, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, J. Wallace.	-