


>> The Not-So-Secret Garden by Nick Kolman-Mandie 14 >> Tapping into Faith by Carolyn Lafave 20 >> My Big Fat Fake Wedding by Katie Dillon 26 >> A West Side Story by Lauren Kiehna 28 >> Looks Aren't Everything by Ryan Retartha 29 
From the Editor . . . . 2 Splinters .... 22 ND Notebook ... 4 Out of Bounds . 30 Campus Watch 19 Calendar .. 31 Week in Distortion 21 Final Word .. 32 


look for 
ISSUE 10 
on 
FEB 19 

A Primary Concern 
In the student body's collective consciousness, student government prob­ably registers somewhere below the Curling Club and above Davos, Switzerland. Outside of the· members themselves, few in the student body have interest in the ongoing struggles of our governing forces. It's an open question as to how many people really would notice ifstudent government disappeared tomorrow. This is not to say that student government literally does nothing. As a pro­gramming organiza.tion, it offers a valuable,·centralized opport;unity to provide. · 
·· ·activities for the student body. Yet programming is a function carried out just as well by the dorms -a fact that probably explains why students feel more con­nected to their dorm governments than their campus-wide government. it is the same old story: Each spring, pairs of candidates come to the table promising that this year, things will be different. This year, student government will be relevant. This year, student government will be accountable. This year, student government will instigate change. Then the students look on with bemused cynicism as the promises ofdances returning to the dorms, Grab 'n' Go appearing inDeBartolo, more options being offered for Flex Points and meals, and football ticket distribution improving go by the wayside. As the year goes by, the student body quickly learns the lesson: Promises are idle and empty. How can this change? Is there a magic candidate that can alter the face of student government? Will this be the year he or she rises to the occasion? The answer is never lmown until long after the ticket has been elected -far too late to do anything about it. It may be easy to blame this situation on the administration or the student government itsel£ Apathy is something with which these two entities genuinely must come to terms. But the onus is also on the students to engage actively in a process that they find flawed in order to make it function more efficiently. It may be tempting to turn away from student government and continue to go about our lives. It would certainly be easier, but even the worst situation cannot justify that action. The only acceptable response to an incompetent and . irrelevant student government is more engagement by the students. We should demand more from our candidates and our representatives. We should engage the issues. ffyou're reading this, then you've opened the cover to the magazine: Good, you're halfway there. Now; turn to page 7 and take a gander at Scholastir!s elec­tion coverage. We've interviewed the candidates for you, and have presented the options. We humbly offer our endorsement on page 13. No matter what happens next week, don't let student government slip away. Keep pressuring the winning ticket over the next year and demand that they 

~ba-
Matt Killen, Editor 
Vol.145,No.09 • 05 FEB 2004 

SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor in Chief Matt Killen 
Managing Editor Sean Dudley Executive Design Editor 
Ryan Greenberg 
•. Assistant Managing Editor Ryan Greene 
News Jim Ryan, editor Tom Tiberio, assistant 
Campus Life Carolyn G. l.aFave, editor Nick Kolman-Mandie, assistant Lauren Wilcox, assistant 
Sports Jimmy Atkinson, editor Christopher Meskill, assiSlallt 
Entertainment Tracy Evans, editor Lauren Kiehna1 assistant 
Departments Mike Healy, editor 
Design Alice Bonifield David Redenbaugh Nell Ryan 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Manion, assistant 
. ·.,.•. Graphic Design :, . Christine Graham, editor 
\ Copy 
•. Kelly M. Faehnle, chief Mo Ertel, assistant JenniferWadkins Kim Thompson Anna Schmall Katie Scarlett O'Hara Darlene Luebbert 

Distribution 
Phil Hall, manager 
Business Jessie Potish1 manager 
Online 
Jimmy Atklnsc~, manager 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Mo1'itums 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine Is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or in part. may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume llablllty for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556,To be published in the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Democracy Is for dorks.All letters must Include ihe writer's name,address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request In certain instances. Scholastic · reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publicatlon cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per 
·year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastlc magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the srudent body. 
2 SCH0LASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 



Afraid you 're not worthy? 

Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. founder of the University of Notre Daine at age 29. 
So was he. 


Be Not Afraid! 


IFluffy and Delicious A senior has visions of biscuits dancing in her head 
ANNAO'CONNOR 
Rachel Endress has a dream. This senior dreams that one day she will walk into South Dining Hall and quickly be able to grab one of the hallmark biscuits of the homestyle section without having to go through frustrated with the lines began to cut in line to just grab a biscuit. This creates chaos in the dining hall." 
Endress proposes that dining hall management create a separate line for biscuits or, at the very least, move bis­cuits to the front of the homestyle line, 

Endress has spent four years tirelessly campaigning for the biscuit line, but to no avail. She has had student senators propose the idea to the senate, and she encourages this year's presidential can­didates to add it to their campaigns. · 
Though she may never see her dream fully realized during her time here at 
the hassle of waiting in long lines Notre Dame, Endress does not behind entree-eating stu­lose hope in the move­dents. Endress dreams ment. "Even if the of The Biscuit Line. change does not The biscuit line is happen this · Endress's grassroots semester, I am movement to bring hoping this the warm· and flaky is my legacy. culinary treat out from As an alum on -the shadow ofthe homestyle football weekends, I section and into the limelight that would love to come back 
she believes it deserves. "Biscuits have always been at the end of the homestyle line. For those of us who only want a biscuit, most of the time we get stuck in long lines behind people who eat cas­seroles and meat and fish, etc.," Endress says. "Some students who have gotten thus allowing biscuit patrons to seize their favorite bread product quickly. "The biscuit line could even feature condiments that traditionally go with biscuits, like honey or butter," Endress says. 

to the dining hall and see the . biscuit line." 
Students who "Just Want, a Biscuit" can visit Endress' site for The Bis­cuit Line at www.nd.edu/~rendress/ · capp481.html and help make Endress' dream come true. -D 
Ten Questions 
with a monk (not that one) 
f~~~~-~c.:---' ·. •c·
.. ____: ___,_;_;•••, ••_,.c__ ,_I 


I Cyprian _ 

Cyprian Consiglio is a Camaldolese 
Benedictine monk who writes and plays music 
marketed as sacred chant/world beat. He lives at Holy Cross Parish in Santa Cruz, Calif., but spends more than halfhis time on the road, playing at churches, Catholic colleges, monasteries, book stores and music festivals. He peifonned last Friday night 
with Notre Dame alum Danielle Rose ('02) 
in the Keenan-Stanford chapel to benefit the 
Catholic Peace Fellowship. 
What are the main inspirations for your music? 
Poetry, meditation and the sounds I hear on the streets.Just the beautiful noises you hear everywhere, especially the music on the street. And scripture. 
What is the most important message you hope your music conveys? 

"This is who you are." To sing from my own dignity as the image of God, and to let that be a mirror to others to see their own dignity as images of God. 
What does your Benedictine community think of you: a traveling, music-playing monk? 
Ifit's any indication, I don't live with them right now. Uaughs] No, they're proud of me, sometimes confused. It's not been the easiest thing to find a balance between belonging to a congregation and having such a particular, individual drive. It's a significant thing that I live on my own. I had to ask permission. It was very difficult living in community and also traveling as much as I did. But they support me. 

Stud~11t:'1 'ai0afs t~n gififrm@fthe kirid ofguyyou want to date in . college, I'm the'kind of guy yo~ viarit tomarry'. >·· 
. r()fessor: That's the most sham less plu~ for dat~s I've ever heard. 
Your hair is horrifically long -I mean, not in a bad way. -overheard student 
I32 Years Ago Whoa, girls! 
It's that time ofyear again: Valentine's Day is growing near, and everyone on campus is concocting something sweet for that special somebody ( except certain writers at Scholastic; ehealy@nd.edu). While the men and women of Notre Dame prepare to exchange sweet noth­ings and even sweeter candies, it must be remembered that Notre Dame was not always a coeducational institution, and ND men once found the fairer sex to be even more of a mystery than they 
Unlike a country, Indiana can't make war or peace. Which is good for Kentucky. · · -Irish history professor Dillon Hall is the Texas of Notre Dame: large, obnoxious and section­alist. -overheard Stanford Hall resident and Indiana-native Who is your favorite rock star or group most? and why? Ha. That's like asking me which of my Sting. First, I love his music. Second ofall, I sisters is a priest! I've been particularly, love the philosophical underpinnings in his profoundly, influenced by Zen Buddhism music. I don't always agree with them, but I and Taoism. But I've studied Hinduism like the fact that there is intelligence behind more than the other two, from visiting it. It's thought-out. I also like Radiohead a our monks in India. lot. Their music is so well-textured, and their lyrics are intelligent. What is your favorite thing about Notre Dame? What are your plans for the immediate It would have to be the people I know here. future? [Rev.] Mike Baxter and I are good friends. I'll be on the road tillJune. And then I'll be [Folk Choir director] Steve Warner and I substituting for a priest at the parish back are good friends. home. I'm going to be doing more record­ing and composing work at home. Where's the mostexciting place your music and faith have taken you? Through your music, you have been able to South India, where I stayed in an ash­encounterotherreligions and spiritualities. ram, where I studied Indian music with What non-Catholic faith impresses you a teacher.  do today ... From Scholastic, February 25, 1972 (the year before Notre Dame went co-ed) "Not all [men} employ the same suggestio!]S as to what should be done with them when they actually arrive... Some believe that women are mysterious beings whose natttre is still unknown; others that women... will mre their existential problems ..." It is amazing to consider that the men of Notre Dame held such opinions dur­ing the same time period that was Burt Reynolds' heyday. -Mike Healy First ofall, you get a sense ofa culture that is just saturated with the sacred. And then, to be living that simply with people who are that poor, and to try to teach the Gospel ... it changed the way I look at everything. You have been playing guitar since you were IO years old and writing music for 30 years. Ifyou had to choose between your voice and your guitar, which would you keep? Myvoice. I think I'm a much better singer than a guitar player. Why is music special to you? It comes out of and goes back to silence. Somehow, in the silence, it's before there are questions and answers. It stays close to the place before things get divided into questions and answers. -Sean Dudley SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5  
 

I: j 
I; 
NOTEBOOK  
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLYIJudgment Calls Opinions and observations r-~~:¢:9.rn_111:a;·:elt6f..ij:ansyo·:::';9i_r~:•~-c:-(:-?;:;:::}:~ " The premiere of Survivor:AII Stars could be the Jj 
end, or just the beginning, of reality TY. .SUPER BOWL It was exciting! It was close! It kept us glued to our televisions. IRYANGREENE . . . ,==o.••= Our prediction for next year? new star hasrisen-onewhosesear­on earth. mgwretchednesswillhopefullyburn As repetitive and uninspired as mostDetroit over New England by six ut our eyes and melt our brains. In seasons have been (there are only so many. touchdowns. fact, the advent of Suroivor: All-Stars may times you can see a group of half-starved,. have sounded the official death knell for all half-naked people run across a beach to light original thought in the American entertain-a torch before it gets old), this latest has taken SUPER BOWL HALFTIME ment industry. the cake after only a single episode. CONTROVERSY In a television landscape dominated by ·Sitroivor:All-Stars, which premiered after· It was staged! It was boring! endless iterations of tedious Law & Orders the Super Bowl, brings together 18 previ­The constant media coverage and medical ~as,realityTVhas become ous players to compete in a best-of-the-best. is keeping us away from our a reminder ofjust how stupid the idiot box situation. Notonly are the premise andloca­televisions. Our prediction for really has become. ___________ tion (this season returnsnext year? Super Bowl halftime Think about it. to last season's Panama brought to you by Hugh Heffner. Mimbos and bimbos Reality TV has become setting) unabashed re­ 
strutabout, mindlessly a reminder of just how hashes of what has gone looking for nothing before, all the contestants GROUNDHOG DAY short of, ahem, "true stupid the idiot box havebeenthereanddone Great movie, bad shadow. Bill love" in drivel like The really. has become. that already. Murray may be funny, and.that Phil Bachelor and Meet My __________ While something may be cute, but we really don't Folks. Average Joe and mightbesaidforcomfort.need six more weeks of winter. MyBig Fat Obnoxious Fiance parade hapless, infamiliarity, Suroivoris taking the idea too uncouth and downright detestable degen­far. Nearly every facet oftheir new season is erates through the gamut ofasinine dating old hat, utterly devoid of creativity. , 0 "HEYYA" scenarios for the viewing public's perverse . Granted; this is reality TV: ·Expectations · · Sure~ it's been out for a~hile, but pleasure. Muscle-headed cretins and ditzes . for originality start pretty low as it is. But shaking it like a polaroid picture compete to see who can eat a goat's testicles Survivor:All-Starsis the very embodiment of will never get old. Plus, who or a cow's scrotum fastest on Fear Factor. what is wrong with TV today. It's brainless;. doesn't appreciate the irony of Oh, and Donald Trump and his ha.ii-now it's crass; it's unoriginal. a band named "Outkast" being have theirown show, TheApprentice. Featur-But what's worse is that, as one ofthe more embraced with open arms? ing guest appearances by Trump's private jet. popular reality shows onfelevision-indeed, And helicopter. And limos. And gold-plated as one ofAmerica's most-watched shows pe­trophy girlfriends. riod-it is a sign ofmore to come. Clearly, ButthecrownjewelofrealityTV'stwisted the television-viewing public values insipid E-MAIL VIRUSES crown has always been Suroivor. For seven tripelikeSuroivoroverinnovative, intelligentNow, remember Jimmy, never seasons, CBS has familiarized audiences entertainment likeAlia.r and Curb YourEn­0 accept strange e-mail attachments with such valuable themes as dehydration, thusiasm. And it probably always will. from people you don't know. At poor hygiene, and the insanity that comes Looks like mediocrity's rising star will be least we're keeping OIT working fromlivingonanislandwithahand-picked shining in living rooms across the country  
overtime. group ofthe most annoying human beings for a long time to come. D  
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY Source: Notre Dame 2004 Economic Impact Report The University of Notre Dame has long been regarded as one of the greatest fiscal benefactors ofthe South Bend metropolitan area. Home football games fill local hotels, thirsty students frequent neighborhood bars, and the Dome atop the Administration Building has long served as a great source of business to the area's many gold mines. For those. of you wondering just how significant Notre Dame's contribution to the financial community really is, here are some figures for you: $536 million University non-construction spending • $290 million Total aggregate salaries of university faculty and staff $53.9 million Total student spending 4,070 Total number of faculty and staff employed by the university $92.1 million Out-of-state visitor expenditures $615,418,593 Total university revenues for the 2002 fiscal year  
6 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK  

2004 STUDENTELECTION COVERAGE 


II 
.RyanCRAFT CharlieEBERSOL MarkHEALY AdamlSTVAN ~ ;! 
,: .' SteveLYNCH JamesLEITO MikeHEALY KarlaBELL . . ·. '
II 

page 8 page 9 page 10 page 11 
This year, four tickets are contending for the top leadership positions in student government. To shed light on the candidates and their platforms, Scholastic met with each pair of running mates. We asked about their ideas to improve life at Notre Dame and which campus building would be best for eternal confinement. Read on and inform your vote for student body president and vice president. 

. --7\ 
i'. 
·......,··-­

J ·.. Only cine ticket can .win,:but there's· n_~ shame in°il1f~wing a teiidea~; . dorm~wide party. (Istvan/Bell} .
l' Here are our favoritedrom this year's tickets.:1:hat we'd like to iee .
l implemented, regardless of who.ends upJn·2oit~Fc:>i-tune. .·.· .· Midsemester TCEs ~A chance to gradeyour teachers halfway)· 
i _ . _ .. ; ..._ ; : -; ,_ through th El ~~mester definitely could_ have a positive effect_ cin class •i 
t ·Putting the student body president'on the· B9ard 9f TruJf~es· : experien~e~JEbersol/Leito) . · · · · · · . . 
L ~-S~iJ~entswill_be_iesslikelytogetblih_gs)delbypo_licychangesif.the -.•.ii: .· .· ·. · •. <. . · ;:_. :< : . , ., .<:, .. 1: 
: . ; president of stud.ant governm_erit ha~tpgrrhan(:)111: spot on the b9arWs . Sta~•~rs an,d hole-pu~cl:i«!rs ·~ every c::omputerd~ster; prmt-i" 
Student Affairs committ~e. It r:nakl;!s se'nse;"_(Ebersol/Leit6) ·· · _ers 11l:eyery dorm-:-:. Nuff sa1d'._ (C_raft/Lync;ht ..·.· ···· ·i 
._·.. ··._ .. ·.... ···'.· .· ..' .. :/.f.'"'_c: .· ... ".·:;,, •. -• .·.··: ··-.: ,,.-.• : , ..•. > .<>:..•/·· .. ·-·..·.. ,:>{ 
.t;~i~!;)fat;:;;~;~t~i_;~ii~ta:gf~i~:•;{;e!:t-ii~ij~J~::l~;-·•:?;[~]::~::lW];~;~,:;:z;,_~_t.~;~~~;§;\;~kSs~s:1:·~;;~:I: '.:: .andFrerch.bread p1zza·so1,1n4409goo~to pass up.;(§raftltYnch) · .-:l"J'l~V!e~ fr<>mthe•~gnven1ence stgrl;!_ •l'.l .the l-lud~l~/(lstvan/Bell):: \·-:<). 
;1;::':.s;Rs:~:~l<·.in.the,.dor~.~:;::t·::tngtreks,to..e~pensive·•i~'d.:ip;~~.quate······.•··. ··~,~~-~an~pus.p~s:~es·f~r s~ud~h~ d·~~i~nated;:J·~1tiis·. ·_ .••. pro;;;~g••_.! i jj(:dancevenues appealtq}10 bne.and hurt dorirt partkJp~tipn;"So.bring._ '.i.~ff>?<).cateq fri.e~c;l~.i"ig~~ atth~ir,9or.r:n.s seems s~fef_li;nd cheapef,th~nj, 
We asked the candidates to use "deglutition" in a sentence without giving them the definition. What would you have said? deglutition (de• glu •ti• shun): noun, the act or process of swallowing. 
2004 ELECTION COVERAGE SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 
RYANCRAFT STEVELYNCH 

ccLet's make this school fun again."
Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch are attractive option for both the vendors and seeking to change student per­the students. 

8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
2004 ELECTION COVERAGE 

CHARLIE EBERSOL JAMES LEITO 
uThe road to progress."
Charlie Ebersol and James Leito top performers and speakers every say thatwhat separates them from year, but groups here cannot. "There 

the other tickets for student body are not sufficient funds on this campus president and vice president is a well-re­to do things that a lot of students want 
PRESIDENT
searched, carefully developed platform. to do," he says. 
Name: Charlie Ebersol 
They have taken the time, they say, to Ebersol and Leito plan to stay con­
Class: Junior 
explore each of their ideas with student nected to student wishes by going to 
Major: Film, Television & Theatre 
and university leadership, and they are where the students are. "I will be in a 
Dorm: Off-campus 
confident that their suggestions are fea­different dorm once a week every week 
Home town: New York City, N.Y. 
sible and beneficial for students. next year," Ebersol promises. They don't Ebersol, a junior who ran against Pat claim to have a solution to student apathy 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Hallahan and Jeremy Lao last year, is about student government, however, nor 
Name: James Leito currently the board manager for the do they feel they can know what students 
Class: Sophomore Student Union Board (SUB). He and want all the time. "We put the focus on 
Major: Accounting sophomore class president Leito feel the dorms," he says. "The representatives 
Dorm: Siegfreid their campus leadership experience and in the dorm need to be the ones you're 
Home town: Fort Worth, Texas exposure to student government help talking to, and they can go through stu­
them understand how to get things done dent government." 
PERSONALITY 
at Notre Dame. Leito explains that student government 
Use the word "deglutition" in a "As a ticket, that is our biggest asset," has had trouble getting things done be­
sentence: He clearly was not in Leito says. "Someone who hasn't been in­cause oftoo many groups trying to do the 
violation of the seven deadly volved in student government -where same thing without a concerted, collective 
sins because he was involved in they might have these great ideas -isn't effort. "Next year, what we want to do 
deglutition. going to know how to effect them." is get every student group on board," he 
If you were confined to one campus
"If you listen to the students and you says, "so if we want to make a program­
building for your life, which would it be? 
I

understand who is supposed to hear what ming change, everybody that works in 
Ebersol: The new sports center. •_-,:_--•.
the students are saying, then you can ac­programming in student government 
Leito: Lafortune.
tually implement ideas," Ebersol says. says, 'We fully support this idea from a ' "But ifyou're just listening or you're just resident's standpoint and from a campus 
IDEAS 
trying to yell into the wind ... " life standpoint."' 
Most Important: "Nothing's gonna happen," Leito Ebersol hasn't always had success 
Student leader on Board of Trustees finishes. running events himself, but he feels 
Least Important: They propose to put the student body that even his negative experiences as 
Menus in the dining hall · president, and possibly the vice presi­the director of SUB taught him lessons dent, on the Board of Trustees to rep­for the future. He thinks that the David 
QUOTES 
resent student opinion directly at every Spade performance would have drawn a 
"Student government needs to be meeting. "We realize that if any major larger crowd if SUB had marketed the 
about representation. It needs to be changes are going to be made here, you event more than a week in advance, and 
about the dorms." 
·can complain to Father Poorman a_nd that the Michigan football ticket lottery the administrators all you want," Leito would have run more smoothly had they says, "but the Board ofTrustees are go­done a trial run first. form are plans for introducing wireless 
ing to be the ones making the decisions." This year, Ebersol and Leito were connection to Notre Dame Internet for Ebersol says the Board of Trustees has members of the committee that organized off-campus students, within a reasonable responded positively to his ticket's sug­the restructuring ofstudent government. distance. They also hope to establish a gestion. Their faith in the new system and un­full-time gender resource center and an 
.Their second most important idea, derstanding of how to accomplish tasks advising program for rising sophomores they feel, is the establishment of a $5 within that system make their ideas for with professional academic counselors. million dollar endowment for speak­policy and programming more achiev­Mid-semesterTCEs, a designated driver ers and concerts on campus. Leito says able, they feel. "We see what avenues and program, and a networking database for that student organizations at other what channels you need to go through to alumni and seniors are included in their universities, even those smaller than get things done," Leito says. platform, as well. Notre Dame, can bring in multiple Among the suggestions in their plat--Sean Dudley 
I 

2004 ELECTION COVERAGE SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 

•i 
I\ 

MARKHEALY·MIKEHEALY 
"'We're here to listen."
Mark Healy and Mike Healy want to hear what you have to say. These freshmen of the same name (no relation) promise to run an administration focused entirely around the choices and desires of the student body. "In the short amount of time we've been able to research student government," Mark Healy says, "we realized that their focus was on the wrong area." They say that they are the ticket that is uninterested in the prestige of the office. Rather, their business would be solely in serving the students. "We want to fix problems," Mark Healy says. He says that too often student government ignores the main purpose ofits existence: fixing students' problems. To return the power to the students, Healy and ·Healy's main proposal is the installation of student idea boxes in prominent places like DeBartolo, to gather student opinion. They hope that these boxes not only will bring fresh ideas to student government, but also will act as a gauge of student opinion, These boxes can be used to present data on student views on policies that the administration implements, such as the overwhelming opposition to alcohol revisions announced two years ago. The idea box proposal reflects a humility that the Healy/Healy ticket maintains. "We're good, but we're not supermen," Mike Healy says. The pair wants the students to take initiative on issues that they find important, recog­nizing that they may not have all of the answers themselves. This viewpoint of the role of their campaign is not a product of their youth. Mark Healy says that their relative inexperience in student gov­ernment is an asset that will help them in their campaign. "People that have been in there too long may not have the outsider's perspective that's ·needed," he says. Mark Healy says their youth pro­vides a distinct advantage: They will he around to see the long-term effects of their proposals. 
The two say their lack ofactual experi­ence in student government is mitigated by the other abilities that they would bring to the office. "I'm a people person," Mark Healy says. "I can offer an outsider's perspective." 
"Plus," Mike Healy adds, "we have a really cool last name." 
From their oµtsider's position, Healy/ Healy have found that they disagree with several recent actions taken by the current student government ad­ministration. 
Among these was then-president Pat Hallahan's decision to close the cabinet meetings to the public and the press. Referring to his home state ofFlorida's Sunshine Laws, Mark Healy says that all governmental meetings should be open to the public. "I can run the ad­ministration openly and honestly," he says. His running mate agrees: "I don't see why there's any reason to be hold­ing secret meetings. We're not fighting Communists here." 
The ticket also is uncomfortable with the recent restructuring of stu­dent government. Citing concerns with the way it has been restructured, Mark Healy wants to keep the power balanced between the president and the student senate. 
Further, the Healy/Healy does not agree with any proposal that would at­tempt to legislate a student position on the Board ofTrustees. Mark Healy says such a proposal would take far too much time to implement. He suggests that a better policy would involve the president simply communicating directly with administra­tion officials about student concerns and interests. 
Aside from the notion of an idea box and concerns about current policies, the Healy/Healy ticket has several ideas al­ready on the table. They want to speed up what they see as a stalled process for putting a DVD rental facility in the LaFortune student center. The pair also hopes to get the Hammes Bookstore to publish their buy-back prices before students attempt to sell back their books. 
Class: Freshman Major: Engineering Dorm: Zahm Hometown: Orlando, Fla. 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Mike Healy Class: Freshman Major: American Studies Dorm: Keenan Hometown: Chicago, Ill. 
PERSONALITY 
Use the word "deg/utition" in a sentence: "When the girl drank too much, there was deglutition of the contents of the stomach." 
If you were confined to one campus building for your life, which would it be? 
Mark Healy: Zahm House. Mike Healy: Admin. Building's bathrooms 
IDEAS 
Most Important: _ Letting the administration know what students think Least Important: Grab 'n' Go improvements 
QUOTE 
"If your name was Healy, we'd vote for you." 


Healy/Healy also wants to look into pro­viding hot foods anhe Grab 'n' Go loca­tions and possibly add a third location in DeBartolo. 
Above all, Mark Healy and Mike Healy emphasize the need for a positive and con­structive discussion with the administra­tion and the rieed for flexibility in working with students. "Anything that will make ND cooler, we're all for it," Mike Healy says. 
-Matt Killen 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
2004 ELECTION COVERAGE 


ADAMISTVAN KARLABELL 
uReal leaders. Real ideas. For real students.,, 
ere is nothing elitist about Adam 

stvan and Karla Bell's vision. They 
want to make student life better at Notre Dame, and they want everyone on board. Both engineers, the two candidates claim to notbe interested inboosting their resumes or acquiring recommendations. 
"We're doing this because we think we can make a major improvement to this school," Istvan says. "We're doing it because we love Notre Dame." 
They want to refocus student govern­ment on student life. Through commu­nication with the administrators and the trustees, the two hope to improve the social, academic and spritual lives of all the best way of affecting this change and believes some board members and prominent alumni will take the side of these presidential hopefuls. 

Istvan admits that there were problems with alcohol before, but believes the admin­istration used incorrectmeans toaddress the problem. "They used a sledge hammer to fix a pair ofeye glasses," says Istvan. 
Aside from using pledges and campus publications to garner campuswide inter­est in their platform, the two feel confi­dent about their networking capability. Istvan and Bell also plan to address the issue of in-hall dances personally with the Board of Trustees, expressing the 
PRESIDENT 
Name: Adam Istvan Class: Junior Major: Aerospace Engineering Dorm: Morrissey Hometown: Rochester, N.Y. 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Karla Bell Class: Junior Major: Chemical Engineering Dorm: Walsh Hometown: Poland, Ohio 
ND undergraduates. importance of the dances to Notre "I thinkstudent government has unfor­Dame's tradition. 
PERSONALITY 
Use the word "deglutition" in a for the students to a government that ees about something, it's our job to talk to tunately traveled away from a government "Ifthe students want us to talkto the trust­
sentence: After the man fell into the looks inward on itself, almost exclusively," them," says Istvan. 
vat of Elmer's glue, they took him to' Istvan says. As juniors, Istvan and Bell fear that 
the mortuary for the deglutition. Returning dances to the dorms is fore­the class of 2005 will be the last to have 
Ifyou were confined to one campus
most on their agenda to promote dorm experienced the SYR tradition. "There 
building for life, which would it be?
unity. Neither Istvan nor Bell are strangers will be no one left on campus who can Istvan: ND Stadiumto dance policy: Istvan is the former dance . say, 'I remember when this was better. I Bell: Carroll Hallcommissioner for Morrissey Hall, while Bell remember when dorms were family, and is the current president ofWalshHall. Both when freshmen and sophomores didn't go 
IDEAS 
can attest to the fall in dance attendance off campus every weekend."' 
Most Important: 
since the change in the alcohol policy. The tendency of students to travel Return student government to the 
Istvan says the hard-alcohol ban was ap­off campus leads to another plank in students. 
propriate in that it resulted in a reduction their platform. Istvan and Bell feel that Least Important: 
in abusive drinking. He also feels bringing NDSafewalk should be expanded to in­Posting transportation schedule. 
dances back to the dorms wouldn't increase clude driving students home to nearby off­alcohol abuse. "It doesn't so much have to do campus housing and a bus to shuttle to and 
QUOTES 
with the alcohol itself," Istvan says. "Ithas to from local bars and clubs on weekends. "I "We love this school." 
do with not being at home!' think it's better that they provide trans­
----------------i,•'
Communication and compromise seem portation than saying, 'Do it yourselves, to be the keys to Istvan and Bell's approach, find your own way home,"' Bell says. said Istvan. "Browse through movie titles, and they argue that the more aggressive According to their proposal, fund­pick one and then reserve it." tactics iof the past, such as burning copies ing would be secured from charging a The movie rental idea is one that has of du Lac, get students nowhere. Instead, small ($1-$2) fee, from subsidizing from been thrown around as oflate, but Istvan Istvan and Bell plan to ask undergraduate Student Activities or even from coopera­and Bell have played a proactive role in students to sign a pledge stating that they tion with the establishments themselves. making it happen. will not participate in excessive drinking Istvan cites other universities, including Other proposed initiatives on the ticket during in-dorm dances. Theyreason that Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, include addressing the Bookstore policy thesocial benefits -in the form ofdorm that have such programs. on textbooks and lottery numbers for unity and "family as tradition" -aremore Another program on their list is a DVD football and basketball. important than any benefits inherent iri rental at the Huddle, something Istvan and "We believe this school is a great place," beig allowed to consume hard alcohol. Bell are confident will becott:1.e a reality re­says Istvan, "but we believe it could be an 
Istvan. says that he -has spoken with gardless ofthe outcome ofthe election. even better place." students and rectors to try to determine "The renting would be done online," -Tonz Tiberio 
2004 ELECTION COVERAGE SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT• YEAR IN REVIEW 
PATHALLAHAN JEREMYLAO 


Reflecting on the 2003-2004 administration
This year's student body presidential administration has been the cause of significant changes within the student government. In late August, for­mer student body president Patrick Hal­lahan announced his decision to graduate one semester early, marking the first time in Notre Dame history that presidential power would transfer to the vice president. In addition to this leadership change, other transfers of power have occurred within student government. Hallahan and then-vice president Jeremy Lao took on the challenge of restructuring the student government, a project Lao and new vice president Emily Chin hope to complete by the end of their term. In their October meeting with the Board of Trustees, Hallahan and Lao proposed serious changes to the Campus Life Council (CLC). The board would 
not support these changes and expressed their desire to see a more unified stu­dent government. "They were completely blunt and honest," Chin explains,. who served as Hallahan's chief of staff at the time. "They said that we need to make some changes to our student govern­ment before we can work together." 
Soon after, the Council ofRepresentatives was ap­proved as a new governing body. A combination of the executive cabinet and the student senate, student leaders saw this new organization as the first step to becoming a always fun and easy, are crucial in form­ing a better government that can voice student needs. An improved government will ensure better use of funds, as well. The power to approve the budget now be­longs to the Council of Representatives. "The reason we created the Council of Representatives was to have the most representative body to approve the bud­get so we allocate our resources better," Chin says. · 
However, the Council ofRepresenta­tives is only the first step in creating the foundation for a new government. Lao and Chin plan to continue working with all the elected student leaders to discuss and decide upon all the details of the new government by the end of their term. 
Aside from changes within the student government, Hallahan, Lao and Chin 

"This year isn't finished yet. There's a lot of unfinished business.'' 
-Emily Chin, student body vice president 
more efficient and unified government and more legitimate body in the eyes of the administration. 
"The creation of the Council of Rep­resentatives is one ofthe most important things for the future of the student union," Lao says. Hallahan agrees that the internal changes made to the student government's organization, while not have worked to accom­plish several other goals in office. The publica­tion of Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs), a goal Hallahan and Lao outlined during their campaign last year, has come very close to realization. "We pushed for a [faculty] senate com­mittee on it, which is a huge step because this is the first time any student proposal has made it this far," Chin explains. The student government will wait to hear the faculty senate's final decision on the issue. 
Additionally, the presi­dential administration has pushed the student 
government to plan activities and programs that raise students' respon­sibility to be aware of such important issues as diversity. Student government worked earlier this year to promote the Church in Africa conference. Hallahan is proud of the positive turnout for the conference, saying that it was "a good symbol of students living up to their 


potential to help others." Chin notes 
that the conference was a way to en­
courage students to be "more socially 
aware and socially conscious of the 
global society." 
A new program, Sustained Dialogue, 

is a product of the student government's 
Diversity committee. Sustained Dialogue 
aims at creating an informal setting for 
students ofdifferent backgrounds to share 
their experiences and thoughts on stereo­
types and other racial issues. "We're ad­
dressing the issue of diversity on campus 
and the need for some more dialogue in 
general," Lao says. 
This year's student government has also seen improvement within the Cam­pus Life Council. "We have done things with CLC in regards to students with disabilities," Lao says. "[This project] is something that everybody on that com­. mittee wants to address, and it's really promoting more unity on CLC, more than anything else, in order to build a 
base and further discussion on the com ­· position," he adds. 
In the final months of.their administra­

tion, Lao and Chin will be busy working 
with their Student Life committee to ad­
dress the alcohol issues brought to their 
attention at the last Board Petition Court. 
In response to concerns over alcohol 
abuse and consumption, student govern­
ment will devise programs and a publicity 
campaign to promote responsibility and 
awareness of the issue. 
Lao plans to develop an endowment 

fund that will be another focus for stu­
dent government in the coming months. 
The endowment will go towards improv­
ing campus activities and enhancing the 
student experience. 
Student government likely will have 

many more developments in the coming 
months. "This year isn't finished yet," 
says Chin. "There's a lot of unfinished 
business." 
-Lisa Pinelli 


12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
2004 ELECTION COVERAGE 

ouRENDORSEMENT 

VOTE EBERSOL/LE/TO

The landscape of student govern­ment has changed since last spring, yet much ofthe view has remained unchanged. A massive reorganization has changed the structure ofstudent govern­ment, leading to what hopefully will be a more streamlined and efficient process. At the same time, students' apathy regard­ing their government seems to be at an all-time high. This year, students should choose the ticket that will best take advantage of the new structure. Student government be able to look at this list in February 2005 and see all 10 promises fulfilled. 

Ebersol and Lei to want to see a general refocus on dorm life, an aspect ofstudent life that has suffered from such policies as the removal of in-dorm dances. They want more students engaging in their dorm governments to increase partici­pation and lead to more successful social activities. 
One ofthe ticket's best ideas is to place a student on the Board ofTrustees in order to offer direct student input on policies act as a monetary source for funding large-scale events that otherwise would be cost-prohibitive, preventing such events from inflicting fatal financial blows to general student funds. 
Adam Istvan and Karla Bell have a plat­form that contains several good planks, but there are significant holes, and they lack a comprehensive vision for student government. Also, the candidates admit that a few of their ideas, most notably a DVD rental facility in LaFortune, prob­ably will happen whether or not they are 
,  needs a ticket that will focus on practi­that effect them. Ebersol and Lei to argue elected. cal, feasible ideas while continuing to that this is a feasible move, and it would Mark Healy and Mike Healy say give students a coherent, uni­that they bring an outsider's fied and consistent voice in the perspective to student gov­Only Ebersol/Leito combi_nes alladministration. Students need ernment. While this can be a president that focuses on ac­refreshing, it often comes atthe qualities necessary to besttion, experience, accountability the price of experience. As and innovative ideas. freshmen, Healy and Healyserve the student body. This year, that ticket is Charlie have several years ahead of Ebersol and James Leito. them. They have great minds Ofall the tickets seeking the office this be a major step toward increasing student that would be valuable in student gov­year, only Ebersol/Leito combines all the influence on university policy. ernment, but they should work their way qualities necessary to best serve the stu­Most importantly, Ebersol/Lei to is the up, becoming familiar with government dent body. Although their platform is rife only ticket with the experience necessary through experience. with researched and detailed proposals, to implement policies successfully and Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch have sev­the general themes of their campaign are to act effectively as a voice for student eral attractive ideas, but their platform the most attractive elements. concerns. Both have experience in stu­is extremely limited and not researched. Ebersol/Leito focuses not only on dent government, which gives them the While ideas like Grab 'n' Go in DeBar­ideas but on action. The pair says that detailed knowledge needed to run the tolo and midnight buffets in the dining their proposals have been thoroughly government well. halls during finals week sound great, the researched and should capable of imple­Even if elected, however, Ebersol and pair have not conducted much research on mentation during their term. While a few Leito will have the difficult task ofearning any of them. Student government needs of their ideas seem like pipe dreams, the the trust and respect of the student body. leaders that are more prepared to meet vast majority are practical and desirable Ebersol's high-profile missteps as president challenges. changes that have the chance of seeing of the Student Union Board, such as the The race for student body president is the light of day instead of wallowing in debacles with David Spade's performance not a popularity contest. It is not about endless debate and study. and the Michigan football ticket lottery, who is likable; it is about who can do the The focus on action and real results understandably have created feelings of best job working for and representing the would not be enough, however, without ill-will among some students. At the same student body. In this election, only one another main theme of the campaign: time, Ebersol says he has learned from his ticket has the experience, feasibility and accountability. Although accountability mistakes and has policies designed to pre­vision to do this. The best choice on elec­is difficult in a system that eschews re­vent them from recurring. tion day is the ticket of Charlie Ebersol elections, Ebersol has promised to publish One such policy is the plan to imple­and James Leito. a list of 10 "guaranteed" platform items in ment an endowment devoted solely to fi­Scholastic and The Observer at the begin­nancing big-name comedians and bands Editor's Note: Candidate l-lfike Healy is a ning ofhis term. He says that people will at Notre Dame. The endowment would me'lllber ofScholastic's staff.  .  '  

2004 ELECTION COVERAGE SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

203 Zahm is an Eden for beer drinkers 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
~~ The very first thing to strike you ' 
about 203 Zahm is the verse 

from the Book of Genesis neatly taped to the door: "Then the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and he placed there the man whom he had formed." 
The Bible verse on the door more 
i 

than suits the dorm paradise found
I 
' I 

behind it. 
The proud residents of Chapel Alley -the section located directly above Zahm's chapel -have dubbed their humble party room "The Beer Garden." And here the doubt arises: "Beer I can believe," the skeptics say, "but a garden? 
. Gardens have shrubbery, kitschy lawn ornaments, and latticework, patio fur­niture even." These Zahm men repiy,· "Check, check, double check." 
The room, perfectfor pre-partying and poker, is the collective brainchild of seven of the section's residents: Kevin 
, Hardt, Mark Witschorik, Anthony Van 
•· 1 Gessel, Kyle Chong, Matt Wrablik, Jon ! Jahr, and Matt Ploszek. "We've always 
· \ been about doing something different," ·:. j says Witschorik, referring, for example, 
i/.tl ;::E.:Jl~:::;~2EE!; 
,'! of this semester, the residents felt the 
(' :.j 

urge to do something different. : · · The Beer Garden is a synthesis of : ·,· ·:1 American drinking culture and Bavar­
[;C{j :t1!:Ei~E~E;1;~~::~tJ r{~ 2~~~~~~i!: P;~:';i:.~d:.to
L ',:,:;' table, signed by visitors and residents alike and complemented by its matching 
THE GATES OF PARADISE Shrubs and suds abound in Zahm's Beer Garden. 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 


YOU WOULD ALMOSTTHINK ITWASWARM The residents of The Beer Garden bring the outdoors indoors. 
chairs, sets the tone. The giant, stand­ing Old Style umbrella beckons the tired and thirsty to recline beneath it. The umbrella (origin-unknown) serves no physical purpose, but nonetheless it provides the comforts of an outdoor patio without the unreliable weather. 
Adding to the natural ambience, there is a surprising element for a guy's room: foliage, and lots ofit. Tree shrubs stand in the corners of the room and holly garland sits atop the latticework -yes, latticework -which hides the heater and keeps out the neighbor's dog. Decorative leaves also hang around the ceiling and a holly-festooned arch leads into the adjoining room. A mushroom­toting garden gnome keeps a silent watch. 
Americana Budweiser and Miller Light signs abound, while Captain Morgan and beautiful women gaze down from above. The room has an 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 

international flair as well, fitting for a locale of such Germanic tradition. Steins adorn shelves, and ifthe ferment­ed barley element is a little too over­whelming for some classier individuals, they need only direct themselves to the northwest corner ofthe room for a copa de vino from the wine bar, replete with long-stemmed glasses. 
Beer is the drink of choice, though. "Schlitz," Ploszeksays, "is the babbling brook of this garden." While the nov­elty of the room comes with sacrifices (it has contributed to the number of fines the residents have received· this semester), Chapel Alley is looking to spread word of its abode and extends an open invitation to Notre Dame and St. Mary's ladies. 
On leaving, glancing again at Gen­esis 1:8-9, one can't help but think that Adam might have felt pretty comfort­able here. He was a guy after all. D 
~ 


COOLERTHAN COOL Props add to the ambiance ofThe Beer Garden. · 
· SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 
r:.. 

otre Dame's ament returns this 
• ...• -c• 

.. -,-11,,,~ g for charity. 
LAURENWILCOX founded in 1923 by legendary football coach Knute Rockne, as a way to keep
The history of Notre Dame Bengal his football players in shape during the Bouts hangs all over the walls of spring semester. the boxing room. Pictures, "Knute Rockne was a big proponent 
memorabilia, and old articles about the of boxing as a conditioning program," thousands of dollars donated every year says Rich O'Leary, director oflntramu­to the Holy Cross Missions in East Pak­rals and Club Sports. istan, the influential coach nicknamed · When Rockne passed away in 1931, "Nappy," and the "Bengal Bouts Award" Scholastic managing editor Neil C. Bur­received by Muhammad Ali. , lew and football coach Hunk Anderson 
A feature article about Bengal Bouts, transformed the program from an inter­by author and boxing fan Budd Schul­collegiate set-up into one where Notre berg, was published in Dame boxers fight each other and raise Sports Illustrated years money for the Holy Cross Missions. ago. Numerous articles That year, the Knights of Columbus have appeared in the raised $301.25 for the Bengal Missions 
South Bend Tribune, and in Bangladesh, and the "Bengal Bouts" ABC's Wide World of were born. Sports covered the Bouts Scholastic and the Knights of Co­in the 1960s. lumbus sponsored the Bengal Bouts 
It is this history that organization for several years. "Scho­has created today's rich lastic was the sponsoring organization tradition enjoyed by because there was no RecSports," saysNotre Dame boxing fans. · Tom Suddes, coach and former Bengal 
Attendance at Bengal Bouts champion. Bouts last year reached The director of non-varsity athletics 10,000. Over the past six at Notre Dame, Dominic J. "Nappy" 
years a total of $400,000 Napolitano, took over the boxing· from donations has gone program in the Bengal Bouts' second to benefit the Holy Cross year. Nappy, who had headed up the 
Missions in Bangladesh. But boKing at U.S. Navy's boxing program while Notre Dame wasn't always a blockbuster serving in WWII, was an influential charity event. 
part of Bengal Bouts until his death in The Notre Dame boxing program was the 1980s. "He really had a passion for 

boxing," says Tommy Demko, Notre Dame Boxing Club Co-President. "He was the force behind Bengal Bouts for 50 years," O'Leary says. 
Nappy was the one who put the pur­pose of the Bengal Bouts to words when he said, "Strong bodies fight that weak ones may be nourished." The charity meant as much to Nappy as the boxing did, and this quote has traveled down the generations of Bengal Bouts par­ticipants, still defining the event for all involved. 
Nappy dedicated a great deal of his time and energy to the Bengal Bouts program and participating boxers, and he got a great deal out ofit. "Every year his boxers were basically like his chi!~ dren or his family," Suddes says. 
In 1971, Nappy had a heart attack and was no longer able to coach. Sud­des and Terry Johnson took over the Bengal Bouts program in 1973 and still continue to coach boxers. 
"Both have taken it under their wings in the last 15 years and have been not only behind the scenes, but in the fore­front on many things," O'Leary says. 
Suddes takes time off from his job as a business developer in Ohio to coach the boxers for six weeks every year, and Johnson handles the administrative and financial work for the Bengal Bouts. Johnson is also a lawyer in Chicago and a generous benefactor to the program. 

In addition to coaches Suddes and Johnson, other part time coaches and former boxers help train participants in the Bengal Bouts. Influential train-· ers and contributors to Bengal Bouts include University pilot Pat Farrell, published poet and former boxer Jack "Zimmy" Zimmerman, law profes­sor Dr. Charles Rice, Superior Court judge Roland Chamblee, and· Jack Mooney, who once was Knute Rockne's paperboy. 
The boxing program starts in the fall each year for novice boxers and culminates in the five-day tournament 

1 held in the spring. After Christmas break, training begins .on the first day of classes. Boxers typically train for six 
J 
toeight weeks, depending on the length ofthe season. During the third week the boxers start sparring. 
"Sparring is when you get a partner 
. and a coach. It's a more controlled en­vironment, but a good simulation to get you ready to fight," o·emko says. 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 



Most of the participants coming into the program are beginners at boxing. "We have a novice program for the first-year boxers," Demko says. "This is a slower-paced program where we really work on the fundamentals and get in shape." 
Sophomore Charlie Gough, who made it to the finals of the 165-pound weight class last year, was ready to start learning the day he arrived on campus. "My junior year [of high school] I came down to Notre Dame and watched them box," he says. "The atmosphere with the student support caught me right then, and I knew if I came here I would want to participate in Bengal Bouts."­
The coaches teach Olympic-style boxing. Matches have only three rounds, each a minute and a half long before the Bengal Bouts finals, which 
FISTICUFFSThe Bengal Bouts run from late 
February to St. Patrick's Day. 

feature two-minute rounds. Judges de­termine the winner by assigning points for landed punches. 
This year, the preliminary rounds will take place on Feb. 25 and 26. Quarterfi­nals occur March 1, and semifinals will be March 3. The final round is sched­uled on Saint Patrick's Day, March 17. 
"We are hoping to get bigger crowds this year with finals being on St. Pat­rick's Day," says Patrick Dillon, Notre Dame Boxing Club co-president. 

"From a participation standpoint, Bengal Bouts is one of our largest groups," O'Leary says. "We have as manyas 4,000-4,500 come to ~he finals. There is no other intramural or club sport that would cor_ne close." 
The largest fan turnout for finals oc­curred in 1975. "We put 10,000 people in the ACC for the finals when four football players, Jim Browner, Doug 
Becker, Ross Browner and Ken McAfee 
fought," Suddes says. 
Among notable past attendees of the 
Bouts is Muhammad Ali, who has re­
ceived the "Bengal Bouts Award." This 
award is given yearly to someone who 
has been associated with boxing or hu­
manitarian concerns. 
Student participation has increased 
over the years. This year, 170 boxers 
signed up to participate in the boxing 
program, and last year the number was 
146. 
"In years past, we've had about 125 
guys fight," Demko says. Last year, the 
numbers were so big that they had to 
split the preliminary round into two 
nights. 
One ofthe most important aspects of 
Bengal Bouts is that all revenues raised 
benefit the Holy Cross Missions in Ban ­
gladesh, formerly called Bengal. This is 
the 150th anniversary ofthe Holy Cross 
priests in Bangladesh. · 
"They do incredible work with a 
seminary, secondary school, college 
and infirmary. I was lucky enough to 
get over there and it's unbelievable, what 
they do," Suddes says. 
"Donor contributions reached a high 
point, two years ago, ofover $70,000 to 
the Bengal Missions," says Dave Brown, 
assistant director of Club Sports. 
"When we send money over it is a 10: 
1 or 20:1 value over there. So when we . send $70,000 over there, it has a huge 
impact," Suddes says. "Bengal Bouts is 
the largest donor or investor in the Mis­
sions in Bangladesh." 
Bengal Bouts is a unique sport, not 
only in the way it donates all revenues to 
a charitable foundation, but also in the 
atmosphere among boxers. "It takes an 
individual sport like boxing and molds 
it into a team-like sport," Demko says. 
"Our coach says all the time that it's 
the weirdest sport you'll ever do be­
cause you're down there training with 
150 other guys and helping each other 
out. And then you'll turn around after 
six weeks and have to face those guys 
in the ring." 
"My favorite partis the practicing and 
pushing yourself everyday. When you 
go and fight you lose the team support." 
Dillon says. "It's just you and the other 
guy, and there's no where to turn, but 
you have to face your fears and step in 
the ring." 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 

---=__k_a.rao ke . 
february 6 Iwill not tell a lie-our staff is pretty concerned about this one. Seriously worried. No foolin'. 
10:00 pm -12:00 am 
_____...!!,peecldoting_______ 
february 1 0 Ten dates in one night? ­Call them quick,. call them efficient, call them effective! Weed through the bums and pick the ones you like. There's no pressure and no asking for information-we hook you up with your matches! e-mail: Legends@nd.edu to sign up 

Jrlbi@ ~@y@ij Th@~ _ 
february 12 The much anticipated debut of campus favorites. 70:00 pm 
theKWILS 
february 13 Last time I checked, we were still the Fightin' Irish. Well, let's focus on the Irish part-c·ome on-down to ye 'ole Legends Pub for fellowship and sing-a~ongs. You'll love the traditional Irish and Scottish tunes. Song sheets will be provided. Doors at 9:45 pm 

February 14 I can't imagine spending the dreaded V-Oay with any better group of guys. Unless, of course, Jesus and his Disciples show up. 9:00pm. · · r _ 





G 
Welcome back to thiswinterwon­derland, dear Gipplings! De­spite the falling temperatures 
in the Bend, the tips have been heating up. Tonight, the Gipp offers three tales to warm your heart. So without further ado ... 

up with later in the evening. 
The Gipp has received conflicting re­ports on just exactly what happened next. But suffice to say that the unfortunate affliction was spread to at least one other party that night. So let this story serve as a word of caution to all: Take care to stay safe next time you venture into the 
"Sam" along with Sam's date "Alotta." Top to bottom, Adam, Alotta and Sam were stacked three people high on one seat in the cab when Alotta "decided she was in the mood" about halfway home. Sam's hand worked its way under Alotta's skirt, which soon was noticed by Adam, who, as you may recall, was sitting on top of the two. Alotta then asked Adam 
Bottoms Up (Part 
if he would like to join in the fun. Deux) Apparently, Adam was not 
This one is an oldie, but a the only one who noticed the goodie. Caution: It's not for sub-skirt endeavor. Reports the easily disturbed. Long­indicate that the taxi driver al­time Gipplings, you may most blew a red light because remember a tale from last he, no doubt, was having a hard March about one individual's time focusing on the road .. preoccupation with his poste­Unfortunately for our two rior. During last year's spring Dawgs-in-waiting, Alotta had break in Mexico, our old pal other plans on her mindupon Penetration Pete showed arrival back at campus and off his ability to consume a Adam soon spotted her in a bottle of beer through his compromising situation with "out-hole," as it were. another man. Luckily for our 
Well, ladies and gents, he protagonists, Sam was able to is back at it again, and this find another girl to satisfy his time, there's a twist. It seems hormonal urges for the eve­that our pal was able to outdo ning. Looks like all's well that his Spring Break '03 feat by ends well. But here's hoping the involving third-party par­cabbie can keep his cool in the ticipation in his most recent future when things heat up, undertaking. Just this last and his curiosity can take the December at Castle Point, backseat while driving. Pete was able to intake only the majority of a bottle of Guinness in his now-pat­Keg for Delivery ented reverse style. He and It may be best to let the photo his cronies decided to leave do most of the talking for this 
the remainder of the bottle for an unsuspecting freshman. 
What has been described as a "half­filled bottle of Guinness whose rim was lubed with eight ounces of Vaseline" then was chugged by our poor, poor bystander, wholly unaware of what had taken place. Upon his discovery, our freshman friend forcibly purged himself of his evening's refreshments and, much to his delight, was even able to find a junior girl to hook unknown on a weekend night. Be sure to know where your beer bottles and your partner's lips have been. 

Taxi Confessions 

Following Alumni Hall's bowling alley formal, 16 people were shoved into one taxi, a situation just begging for problems to arise. Our story centers on a group of three individuals, roommates "Adam" and 
one. After a successful night at the 'Backer, two seniors discovered an empty keg in their dorm. Rather than simply ridding themselves of it, however, the two tookitupon themselves to make a special late-night delivery to a position of honor: None other than the steps of Main Building, of course. But along the way, they made a few stops at campus landmarks such as Touchdown Jesus, First Down Moses and Stonehenge. D 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 19 

Tapping Into Faith 
Theology on Tap brings students together to discuss their faith 
CAROLYN LAFAVE 

t 10:30 on a Wednesday night at 
Legends, students sit around tables 
istening intently to a talk called 
"Jesus, Buffy and You." 
After a clip from the TV show Buffy the Vampire Slayer, professor Cathleen Kaveny embarks on her task ofconnecting the tele­vision world of vampires to the Christian spiritual life. Students ask and answer ques­tions as theymunch on free chips and salsa and consider the relationship between pop culture and Catholicism. 
This is the usual setting for Theology on Tap, a weekly event at Legends that was launched this year. 
Inspired by the Archdiocese ofChicago's TheologyonTap program for young adults, Notre Dame's version invites students to come together in a casual atmosphere to discuss real life issues that relate to faith. 

The evenings usually begin with a 20-a Christian Rockstar" and "Stump the like the atmosphere." minute presentation, followed by a ques­Priests." Several members ofthe university Senior Liz Larkin feels that addressing tion-answer session. community have been presenters: priests, real-life issues is important for Catholics. 
"TheologyonTap is just another vehicle professors, administrators and assistant '.'Culture keeps moving forward, and the . 
to reach out to people," says the Rev. Kevin rectors. Church needs to keep moving forward, Russeau, C.S.C., who is in charge of the "Turnouts on the whole have been tre­too," she says. TheologyonTap program and helped start mendous," says Jonathan Jorissen ('02), Glynn and fellow Campus Ministry 
it. He says that the comfortable setting of Legends program coordinator. Campus interns Keara Coughlin and Lauren Wil­Legends fosters casual conversations among Ministry intern John Glynn says the loughby, all '03/graduates ofNotre Dame, presenters and students. largest crowd was for senior night on Jan. schedule Theology on Tap topics and Kaveny, who teaches courses in law and 21, when the topic was "Life Beyond the speakers. Theyare part ofan advisory board theology, was happy with the conversation Dome," focusing on how to maintain a life for the program. Coughlin says they have she had with students. She wrote an article ·. offaith after graduation. gotten a lot of "positive and constructive for Commonweal -a magazine that com­Seniors and off-campus students are criticism" from students. Comment cards bines politics, religion and culture -on the target audiences for Theology on Tap, are available every Wednesday night and how Buffy relates to Catholicism and fe­Glynn says, simply because those students have generated new ideas. male vocations. When asked to speak at might be looking for faith sources outside of For example, prayer has been a popular Theology on Tap, Kaveny thought that conventional campus groups or retreats. suggestion that prompted this week's dis­
the topic "would relate both to the lives of G;lynn and Russeau emphasize that cussion, "Does God Really Listen?" Stu­
students, and .theology," she says. She also Theology on Tap is certainly open to ev­dents have also expressed interest in the 
enjoyed the nature of the presentation. "I eryone, but Russeau hopes it can be a way relationship between the business world and 
thought it was a real conversation, and the ofreaching students who have not been able community service as part ofa spiritual life, 
nice thing about real conversation is that to participate inother faith-based groups on so the Rev. Tom Doyle, C.S.C., will speak 
you don't plan it." campus. "There are lots ofgreat programs on that topic on Feb. 18. 
Discussion leaders tend to allow the audi­on campus," Russeau says. "[Theology on "Our hope is that we're reaching out to 
ence to determine the course ofthe conver­Tap tries] to reach out to people that may people who don't necessarily go to Mass all 
sationin order to ensure thatissues that are not be able to respond to other things." the time or pray or think about the spiri­
important to students get covered. And students seem to appreciate and tual life," says Glynn. "It's a gateway to get 
Topics have included everything from enjoy the talks. "I've liked the topics so people to talk. It reaches out to them where 
"How far is too far?" (in the context of far," says junior Phil Nagel. "I like how [ they are] in the spiritual life and takes them 
romantic relationships) to "Partying like they relate to people our age, [ and] I really further, or at least gets them thinking." . 

20 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 05 FEBRUARY 2004 


.Moustache Mania 
From Josef Stalin to Tom Selleck ... and all for a good cause 
GREGRUEHLMANN 
0 nee upon a time, it was cool to have a moustache. It was truly a golden age. You couldn't turn 
around ·without spotting somebody -your neighbor, your dad, Wilford Brimley -with a bristly friend on his lip. As a child in the '80s, I accepted mous­taches as a part oflife. My dear friend Mr. Potato Head came with one, the guy on my beloved Monopoly board would be· nothing without one, and imagine what the snack industry would be like if the Pringles guy appeared sans "stache." I shudder at the thought. 
Then, one day, everything changed. It's hard to pinpoint an exact moment or event when moustaches stopped being cool, but in any event, the whole nation was thrown into chaos. Stock in companies like MoustacheCorp plummeted on Wall Street, and the mayor qfMoustache burg was thrown out oftown, left alone to cry his moustache tears. Men everywhere began shaving frantically. Razors were flying off the shelves, and upper lips that had not seen sunlight in years were suddenly thrown back into a frightening world they no longer understood. 
No one could have expected such a drastic turnabout. I suspect people be­came frightened by the fact that some of the great monsters of history had moustaches -people like Attila the 
· Hun, Josef Stalin and Tom Selleck. But for every monster, there's always been a Gandhi, an Einstein and an Officer Carl Winslow from Family Matters to show the moustache's potential for good. So why is it that in this age of tolerance, the only acceptable moustaches are the ones in milk ads? 
I am pleased to announce that we, the men of Dillon, will change all of that. From now until mid-February, we're celebrating the Dillon Hall Stache Bash, a 24-day event during which wewill raise moustache awareness by actually grow­ing moustaches. But we'll also be raising awareness about a much more important issue: testicular cancer. Testicular can­cer is nothing to laugh about -it is the leading form ofcancer among college-age males, and has recently affected members ofthe Dillon brotherhood. Many men are unaware ofhow to prevent or detect the 

. disease early on. 
Every par­
ticipating Dillonite will 

accept donations for each day offacial hair 
growth. All proceeds will go to a fund 
for testicular cancer awareness. We think 
the Stache Bash will be one of the most 
successful fundraisers in the history of 
dorm life. We are counting on you -our 
friends and family, to give generously. Af­
ter all, we are putting ourselves on the line 
and making social sacrifices by sporting 
24 days worth of unpopular and patchy 
facial hair. We've gotten our whole hall 
staff to participate, even our rector, Fr. 
Paul Doyle. The least you can do is :finan­
cially support our idiocy, especially when 
the Stache Bash ultimately isn't about us or our moustaches at all, but about a very good cause. Heck, even ifyou don't know any Dillonite all that well, stop one you see on the quad. He'll be pretty easy to pick out of a crowd. Tell him you're will­ing to sign up for 50 cents or a dollar per day. Tell him his moustache doesn't look so bad after all, especially if he's an 18­year-old freshman struggling insecurely to make his peach fuzz grow. 
The men of Dillon Hall want to make 
a difference in the fight against cancer. 
In the process, we'll go a long ways 
towards bringing the moustache back 
into social acceptability. Have you ever 
experienced the beautiful sight of over 
200 college guys with terrible-looking 
facial hair? Trust me, you will. Get 
used to it -who knows, you might 
even learn to like it. At the very least, 
by February 13th, Dillon will have 
successfully made bad moustaches a 
badge of honor on campus. And just 
in·time to celebrate, too, because that 
night we'll be having the real Stache Bash, a semi-formal dance at Chuck E. Cheese's. We'll have moustache awards for best, worst, and most creative staches (we're hoping Rollie Fingers-style). But ·of course, every man of Dillon will be a winner, because he can think about his awesome moustache. And those freshmen will be on top of the world, too, because we'll be providing fake moustaches to help 
them cover up that pathetic peach fuzz. 
Our lady friends win big, too, because 
what woman doesn't dream ofbeing invit­
ed to a dance by a guy with a moustache? 
But even ifsome crazy girls out there are 
disgusted by all ofthis moustache-mania, 
they'll love what we're doing the day after 
the dance. That's right, on February 14, 
all of us will be shaving off our mous­
taches as Dillon Hall's· Valentine's Day 
present to the women ofNotre Dame. 
The biggest winners ofall, though, will 
be those who benefit from your pledges. 
We in Dillon hope you'll support our ef­
forts. Let the moustaching begin. D 

Submit an 800-word essay forWeek in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 21 

Field Goals and Groundhogs
IJinibo's Jabber 
by Jimmy Atkinson -jatkins1@nd.edu 
The portable TV picture was 
fighting to make any sem­
blance of a viewable image behind the layer of static fuzz as the radio signal began to fade. It was mile 12 on the Ohio Turnpike. That's where I was when Adam Vinitieri booted his 42-yard field goal attempt through the uprights at Reliant Stadium to give the Patriots their second Super Bowl win in three years. 
Somewhere between South Bend and Punxsutawney, Penn., I came to the re­alization that I had completely lost my mind. Perhaps Vinitieri's kick caused me to come to this ephiphany. I'm not sure. All I am certain of is that while one billion people worldwide were watching the second half of football's biggest game ofthe year comfortably in their living rooms or local sports bars, my friends and I were on our way to Groundhog Day in my Civic. 
I guess sometimes we all need to get away from the sports world and take some time to do something ridiculous. Still, I found it hard to escape. After all, we had the radio tuned to the football game for almost the first two hours of the trip. And when the game was over, our conversation invariably led back to sports-related topics. 
Naming all of the teams in the ma­jor collegiate sports conferences was a fun chore. And several obscure trivia questions also popped up. Quick trivia question: There are six major (Division I-A) college football programs whose nicknames do not end in the letter "s" nor include a color. Answer will be in­cluded in the next issue. 
I used to have a fairly narrow defini­tion of "sport." I defined it as "an ath­letic event in which one party directly competes and defends against the op­posing party." After spending 14 hours on the road and six hours in the small town ofPunxsutawney, I have decided to and chanted on that frigid February morning as they gathered around the stage to reserve a close-up view. When Phil finally did emerge from his stump, a cheer erupted from the crowd so loudly that one would have thought an overtime goal had been scored. The suspense that mounted among the spectators between the time he emerged and the time th a t 

Somewhere between South Bend and Punxsutawney, Penn., I came to the re­alization that I had completely lost my 

mind. 
broaden my narrow-minded approach to incorporate the more absurd. 
This trip, more than any other I have taken, reminded me of past trips to West Lafayette, East Rutherford, East Lansing and Ann Arbor for Notre Dame football games. And when we finally arrived in Gobbler's Knob at 4: 00 a.m. on Monday, it felt like we were at a huge pre-game tailgate party. The pre-dawn, cult-like following ofweather enthusiasts and news media alike of Punxsutawney Phil's biggest day was eerily similar to the attention that the Notre Dame-Michigan football game received from rabid football fanatics and ESPN's College GameDay. 
Before the groundhog's appearance, thousands of Phil's fans sung, cheered his prediction was announced conjured up images ofBarry Bonds coming up to the plate in the bottom of the ninth in­·ning. And when Phil predicted another six weeks of winter weather, the boos . that rang across the area resembled those that would greet a bad call by a referee during theJast shot of the basketball game. 

Okay, it '}Vasn't really a sport. But the atmosphere surrounding it seemed like it could have been. And while the ride home wasn't as depressing as my long trip home from the Gator Bowl a year ago, I was left with a feeling of senselessness. Had I really just missed JanetJackson's moment ofglory and the second half ofthe Super Bowl to witness a groundhog notice his sh;idow? . 




Men's Basketball (10-7) 
On Saturday,the Irish trailed Rutgers ( 12-6) by only four points at the half. However; the Scarlet Knights opened the second half with a 26--6 scoring run, taking an isurmountable lead. In the end, the Irish lost by II, with the final score, 81-70. Leading scorerTorin Francis racked up 23 points and eight rebounds in the game. Chris Quinn also scored 19 points, including three three-pointers, and freshman Colin Falls added t>No three-pointers of his own.The Irish will take on No. 4 Pittsburgh this Saturday in the Joyce Center at 7:00 p.m. 

Women's Basketball ( 13-7) 
In a Saturday afternoon thriller; Notre Dame beat No.23 Boston College (14-5) by a score of 52-50. Megan Duffy, Le'Tania Severe and Courtney LaVere led the Irish, scoring 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 


Freshman sabre Matt Ste~rr:is emerged onto the coll~ge scene this year .after an incredible high schopl career. As captain of his fencing team, 
· Stearns Was the four-time Minnesota fencing champion iri the sabre. The 6-foot-4-inch, 2 I5spounder makes good use of his size, dominating his opponents with his longer reach. This Minnetrista, Minn.-native talks about 
__ •ryow his first seasori for; th~ Irish is going. 
., .. 
Our Calls 
Men's Basketball 

OPPONENT: PITTSBURGH WHERE:JOYCE CENTER 
_When didyou~feJ:.1cmg?. . ._ _ _ . .When Iwas i2.::years old, maround sixth or seventh grade, I went to a fencing •-camp over the summer with my club; and we just got taught basic stuffin a week... · 
· --·._ long program. I liked it; so I got a membership for three months and practiced. Thei:i I started getting in competitions, and stayed with it:: · _-· 
How do yo~prepare yourselffor.~ meet? . _ _ _ . One ritual is that I usually don'.t eat the day ofa competition: I guess maybe it's just nerves, I don't have the stomach to eat anything. It's probably not healthy, butit's one superstitionT,have, · _ · 
;:~.. ,· . . . . .. 

·•• ~tareyour goals fo1;: this s~«>ri? . _-_ . _. _/_ . ,_. To repeat.:...::.. we've got to defend a championship. Personally, I'd like to qualify_ •• · irid do wellat the :r-JCAA [touman:ient] and just do well for the team, We want to
:win. a championship. .. . . . . . 
·•What hds been the bigg~st ~halle11ge in your fencing-~e~? ·• .·Just stlcking with it over the years. It's hard to keep going to practice, n6t getting burned out and finding time with my schoolwork 
.._: :·. .. . 

What is y~tir-mos~ meriiorilb~e fencfug moment at ~otre Da.tn,e? . ­_So .fu-this year, it's probaply beating Colin Parker at the NCAA meet this past weekend. •He was a member oftheJunior National terun. That was certainly a
p~ey b1gmoment · · · · · · · 
.. -.-Whatare you looking forwitr,dtq :most this season? · .-·­Going to NCAA [tournament].. I've never been there before~ and I don'tknow .· _. :what _it's like, ·It will probably be very exciting, and there will be a lot ofpressure ' for USto repeat as national chathpions. · · 
Yl\vh.o is ymirfuvorite atlilete? _ _ ,._ My:fav,orite athlete is.Mihai Covaliu. He was the 2000 Olympics gold medalist .: 'in m.e.t1~ sabre fronfRomania. He's amazing; he is my_ideal. 
_16, 15 and I I points, respectively. Duffy also nailed three offive from behind the arc and Hockey ( 13-9-4) tied her career high offour steals in the This past weekend, Notre Dame played 
· game.This was the third ranked team that two games against conference rival, Alaska­the Irish have beaten this week, and the fifth Fairbanks (12-13-1). Despite only outscoring ranked team that the Irish have knocked their opponent five goals to four; both the off in the last seven games. On Sunday, the Irish offense and defense performed well. In Irish will travel to South Orange, N.J., to face Friday's game,freshman goaltender David Seton Hall for a 2:00 p.m. game. Brown made 40 saves for the Irish, as Notre 
WHEN: FEB. 7, 7:00 P.M. 
One of the top IO teams in the
> nation, Pittsburgh comes into the Joyce Center with revenge on their minds after losing at Notre Dame a year ago, 66-64.This time around, the Panthers are too much for the Irish to handle. Pitt wins 75-59. JIMMYATKINSON SPORTS EDITOR 
After a tough loss at Pittsburgh on , January 12, expect the Irish to come 
>out strong, showing stout heart and unfailing determination. I hate to be a nay-sayer, but even with a strong effort, I do not see the Irish pulling out of their rut with this game.The Panthers will simply outplay the Irish in this one. Pittsburgh wins it, 72-65. CHRISTOPHERMESKILL ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Paint Presence 
· > The Irish defense has been struggling in the key, allowing 34.4 points in the paint in their last five games.A strong physical presence in the paint on Saturday is essential if the Irish are to slow Pittsburgh's attack. 
Dame's Aaron Gill, Rob Globke and Mike Walsh scored goals in the win. Saturday's game resulted in a 2-2 tie: Irish defenseman Brett Lebda scored with 30 seconds left on the game (and the Irish goalie pulled), and both teams went scoreless in the overtime period. Notre Dame's next game will be at Miami (Ohio) on Friday at 7:35 p.m. 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

KEEPING IT TOGETHER 
Point guard Megan Duffy sparks the Irish back into the rankings 

STANDING TALL Point Guard Megan Duffy has helped the Irish reach No. 2 in the Big East. 
I 
I 


CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
The shot clock winds down, the ball is released with one second on the clock: it goes in. The crowd felt the pressure alleviated as sophomore point guard Megan Duffy hit this des­peration floater to put the Irish on top of Boston College, 52-50. The Notre Dame faithful were also relieved to see their Irish get back into the rankings in women's basketball (13-7 and No. 23 in the AP). With early losses to Colorado, Michigan State and Tennessee knocking the Irish out of the rankings, perhaps Duffy and her teammates were not the only ones desperate to see that shot go in. However, the Irish did not get back into the rankings on one shot alone. The 5-foot-7-inch Dayton, Ohio-na­tive has been a prototypical point guard throughout the season, getting the ball to her forwards when they'are in posi­tion or taking the shot when they are not. After coming back from off-season knee surgery, Duffy has started every game this season. . Averaging 12 points, five assists and three rebounds,per game, Duffy does a lot to help her team win-:-In addition to an already balanced game, Duffy is a serious threat from'behind the arc, leading the team with 34 three-pointers and a .425 three-point percentage. "I just try to get better each and every game. This is my first year starting at guard, but I just try to do everything I can to help the team win, whatever itmay be," Duffy says. In true point-guard spirit, Duffy de­scribes her game as "running the point, keeping everyone in the right position. Some nights I have to score, some nights I don't. The biggest thing is getting these guys shots and keeping the team together." Duffy has been a spark plug for the Irish offense lately, coming into her own at Georgetown. Despite a tough 76-73 loss to the Hoyas, Duffy started to show 
OS FEBRUARY 2004 


her ability, scoring 22 points, including four three-pointers, and pulling down three rebounds. Since that game, Duffy and the Irish have rolled over five ranked teams in their last seven games and have skyrocketed back into contention in the Big East. 
The first of those Irish victories came against the No. 16 Virginia Tech Hok­ies. Trailing by four at the half, the luck of the Irish kicked in as they went on a 22-7 run in the second half. The Irish defense buckled down against the Hokies, as Virginia Tech only hit 33 percent of their shots in the game ( the second-lowest percentage for Virginia Tech this season). "I feed a lot off of good defense," Duffy says. And that she did. Running the point perfectly, Duffy had seven assists, dish­ing the ball off to Jacqueline Batteast and Katy Flecky, who scored 14 and 7 points, respectively. In addition, Duffy added six points of her own in the game, putting the underdog Irish up over Virginia Tech, 53-40. 
This was just the beginning of things to come, as. the Irish took on their big­gest challenge ofthe season, No. 4 Con­necticut. Once again, the Irish guard played perfectly, feeding the ball off to her forward, Batteast. With good play all around, the Irish held the Huskies to only 31 percent shooting, and Batteast was able to score 23 

the game at West Virginia 
that followed. While Notre 
Dame has been undefeated 
at home this year, it has been 
cursed with a 2-7 record on 
the road. Duffy continued 
to rotate the ball well, con ­
tributing six assists, but she 
was unable to score a single 
point. Unfortunately for the 
Irish, the Mountaineers ex­
ploited Notre Dame's weak 
game to win, 64-51. 
However, the Irish 

bounced back, as they de­
stroyed Syracuse on the 
road, 64-35. Returning to 
form, Duffy had five assists, 
five rebounds and five points 
• during the game. Along with the offense, the defense came back strong, hold­ing Syracuse to 23 percent from the field. This gave the Irish the momentum they needed to get back into the 

rankings. 
Returning to the Joyce Cen­ter, the next victim on the Irish schedule was No. 23 Villanova. Playing on even levels, the Irish and Wildcats went into the half tied at 18. In an exciting second half, the lead fluctuated between the two 
teams. With less 

points. Duffy's than two minutes 
"I think that, as a team, 
seven assists remaining, Duffy helped the Irish we always set high hit a three-point­take down the er to tie the game. 
goals.... We are always
highly ranked Then, with less Huskies, 66-51. trying to win a National than 20 seconds 
Afterwards, the left, the Wildcats Notre Dame Championship." fouled Batteast, 
· fans rushed the 
court at the 
Joyce Center. 
"It's so much fun playing at home," 
Duffy said that night. "The kind of crowd 
we got tonight just made us want to play 
even harder. It made us want to make the 
big plays and come out with the win. On 
every big play and every rebound we got, 
the crowd was into it. That was huge in 
keeping us inspired and keeping us play­
ing hard." 
The Irish were slightly sidetracked in 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 

and she hit the two free throws to win it, 38-36. 
The Irish did not lose any mom en ­tum as they moved into their next game against No. 17 Miami. Down 28-26 at the half, the Irish opened the second half with an 11-2 run to take a 37-30 lead, a lead they held for the rest ofthe game. Duffy starred in the game with 14 points, five as­sists and six rebounds. The Irish finished the game on top, 59-50. 
Now 5-1 in their last six games, the Irish hosted the No. 23 Boston College Eagles. In perhaps the most exciting game of the season, Duffy hit the aforemen­tioned floater to break the tie late in the game. The Irish held on to this one-pos-. session lead for the last two minutes ofthe game, to win it, 52-50. Duffy came up big in this game, hitting three three-pointers and scoring 16 points. This victory left Notre Dame undefeated at home this year, and undefeated against the Eagles at the Joyce Center. With this victory, Notre Dame catapulted itself back into the rankings and up to No. 2 in the Big East standings, behind Connecticut and tied with West Virginia. 

"I think that, as a team, we always set high goals," Duffy says. "We set out to win a lot of games and make it into the [NCAA] tournament and advance as far as we can. We are always trying to win a National Championship." 
Given the hot streak that Duffy and her now No. 23 Irish are currently on, they very well could make the NCAA tournament in March, and Irish fans will just have to wait and see how far they advance. 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 25 

·My Big. Fat FaJ<e Wedding 

Coming to town this weekend, Tony & 
Tina's Wedding lets you participate 
in an interactive play 
KATIEDILLON 
South Bend and the surrounding area have been cordially invited to Tony n' Tina's Wedding. But who are Tony and Tina, and why are you invited to their nuptial celehra­tion? Well, this isn't your ordinary wedding: Tony and Tina are actors and Tony n' Tina's Wedding is a theatrical experience unlike any other. The South Bend area eagerly accepted 
·the invitati6n to this ceremony: the sh6w~s tun at the Palais Royale from Feb. 17 to Feb. 2Us already sold out. Those who were fortunate enough to snag a ticket are in for quite a show, er ... wedding. 
Tony n' Tina's Wedding first opened on Feb. 14, 1988 in New York City. Worldwide, audiences have had a very positive response to the unique­ness of this theatrical experience, making it the longest-running comedy, on-or off-Broadway. Tony n' Tina's Wedding has· made stops in over a hundred cities worldwide, including cities in Australia, Japan, and all m,:er Europe. It's no wonder that the Broadway Theatre League of South Bend is excited to be able to offer a week­end-full of the show. · 
The League, currently in its 45th season, has successfully brought numerous award-winning shows to the South Bend area. Now they can add Tony n' Tina's Wedding to the list. 
The comedy offers a different but. enter­taining experience, which the League be­lieves the community will really enjoy. "Each year the Broadway Theatre League tries to have one special show, unlike any other," explains Jennifer Kuzdas, the League's ex­ecutive director. · 
There are many aspects of Tony n' Tina's Wedding that 'set It apart. Audience inernbers .. do not simply sit back and enjoy the show; they are a part of the show. The play is a hilarious · satire set up like an actual, overly stereotypi­cal, Italian-American wedding. The ticket price of $65 includes the ordinary wedding 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT OS FEBRUARY 2004 

WHENYOU'RE HERE,THEY'RE FAMILY 
Frightening, isn't it?The cast of Tony n'Tina'sWedding may not be the most attractive bunch, but looks aren't everything. Their energy and over-the-top style put the 'fun' back in 'dysfunctional family: And the best part is, you don't have to take them home to meet mom. · 
great-uncle, who speaks Italian and dissapproves of the groom. Tony's father, Anthony Angelo provides quirky com­mentary throughout the ceremony, and he arrives with his girlfriend, Madeline Monroe, a women fond of skin-tight dresses and copious amounts of makeup. Father Mark, the presider, enjoys the occasional libation. Connie, the maid of honor, is pregnant and somewhat jaded. Sister Albert Mar:ia, Tina's cousin, is a pushy nun. Even Tina's ex-boyfriend, Michael Just, enters the fray. As the evening progresses (and the drinking increases), the characters become more and more outrageous, and the reception becomes more and more raucous. 
For the South Bend show, most of the roles were open to the public. The parts were given to people able -to entertain an audience and keep them involved. They also had to have flexible schedules, because Tony n' Tina's Wedding does not practice regularly during the weeks leading up to the perfor­mances. Instead, three long rehearsals are held, only two of which include the four Broadway actors. The three days prior 1:1 to the show are dedicated to rehearsals varying from four to :ll
i 
10 hours in length. 

With the additional cast chosen, the focus then turned to choosing the venue. The Broadway Theatre League believed that the Palais Royale was the most logical choice. 
"We are taking advantage of the stage and size of the Palais Royale. We needed a venue where we could serve dinner, but we also wanted a location that would allow the audience to be more close-knit so they can feel like they are actually part ofthe ceremony," Kuzdas says. Tony n' Tina's Wedding's setup includes 
a:church, a bar, a reception hall and, ofcourse, an excited group offamily and friends. · 
_The Broadway Theatre League is anxious for the upcoming performance, and although buying a ticket for the South Bend area performance is no longer an option, Tony n' Tina's Wedding is also playing in Chicago. Everyone, of course, is cordially invited to attend. 
For more information on the Chicago performances, go to www.tonyntina.com. 0 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 


festivities: a ceremony, reception, an unlimited Italian buf­
fet, champagne toast, wedding cake, live music, dancing and 
more. The guests obviously aren't required to bring gifts, 
but they do have to bring their imaginations and a desire to 
have a good time. 

"You have to realize that, from the minute you walk into 
this performance, you take on a new identity for a few hours. 
You walk in, and people are talking to you like they have 
known you for years rather than minutes. For a few hours 
you almost convince yourself you know Tony and Tina and 
the rest of the wedding party, because from the cast to the 
setting, it is like you are actually at a real wedding," says 
Kuzdas. · ·· 

The show also invites those within the community who are 
looking for some acting experience to be a part of the cast. 
The traveling troupe of Tony n' Tina's Wedding only brings four 
Broadway actors including the groom and bride. The rest ofthe 
family members and friends are played by those who successfully 
auditioned for the roles. For this reason, the Broadway Theatre 
League and the South Bend community have played a vital role 
• in the up-and-coming event. 

"Tony n' Tina's Wedding is a great way to get the community 
involved in local theatre.The auditions for the roles of family 
members and friends give community members a chance to 
participate in a successful off-Broadway play, but at the same 
time, have some fun," Kuzdas explains. 

Tryouts and callbacks were heldJan. 31 and Feb. 1 at the Cen­
tury Center in downtown South Bend. In the search for_people 
willing to play the parts ofvarious family members, friends and 
other important roles, the League did not set many restrictions 
on those eligible for tryouts. 

· "We were looking for anyone between the ages of 19 and 70 . 
with improvisational skills and an outgoing personality. We 
wanted the remaining cast members to be filled with people 
who are going to go out there and have fun, because that's what 
Tony n' Tina's Wedding is all about: fun," Kuzdas says. 
Among the eccentric characters that audience members are liable to encounter is Uncle Luigi Domenico, Tina's 
OS FEBRUARY 2004 


A West Side Story 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company gears up to entertain sold-out crowds 
i: .J 
LAURENKIEHNA 
erome Robbins' adaptation of an age­
old love story comes to Washington
J
Hall this month as the Pasquerilla East 
usical Company(PEMCo) presents West 
Side Story, its seventh annual production. 
The popular 1950s musical has proved a 
smashing success on Notre Dame's cam­
pus even before its opening night, as tickets 
have sold from the LaFortune Box Office 
so quickly that tickets for the final dress 
rehearsal are being sold to fill the demand 
for seats. 
West Side Story is one ofthe most popular 
musicals in the history ofAmerican the­
ater. The brainchild ofrenowned director 
and choreographer Jerome Robbins, the 
musical was based on one of William 
Shakespeare's most famous plays, Romeo 
and Juliet. Arthur Laurents wrote the 
libretto, which became the basis of the 
musical in the early 1950s. The arrival ofa 
large number ofPuerto Rican immigrants 
to New York City inspired the central ac­
tion ofthe piece: the conflict between two 
ethnic gangs, the Sharks and the Jets. 
After the initial blueprint for the musical 
had been completed, Leonard Bernstein 
composed the score, which includes such 
familiar songs as ''America," "Tonight" 
and "Somewhere," and Steven Sondheim 
wrote the lyrics. A cast oftheater newcom­
ers was chosen, and the show premiered 
on Broadway in 1957, enjoying a success­
ful run before being made into a motion 
picture in 1961. The movie went on to 
win several Oscars, including the award 
for Best Picture. 
West Side Story, with its upbeat, Latin­
influenced score, youthful characters and 
timeless story, should be a great fit for 
the company, which has been presenting 
student performances since 1997. PEMCo 
began operation when Pasquerilla East 
resident Kelly McGann noticed a lack of 
musical theater on campus; no mus1cals 
had been presented since a student-writ­
ten show took place in Washington Hall 
in 1991. Under McGann's leadership, a 
group ofPE residents worked with Student 
Activities to start the student-run troupe. 
Since then, the company has produced a student production of a popular musical 
everyyear. The debut show,Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, premiered in Washington Hall in 1997 with a cast of students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's as well as a children's chorus comprised of area elementary students. 
The production ofJoseph was agreat suc­cess, and the company continued their run of student-run presentations on campus. Since the first production, the company has offered one musi­

three of them are just phenomenal." Law­rence Santiago, the lead singer of known campus band Station One, tackles the role ofBernardo, leader ofthe Sharks, inhisfirst campus theater performance. KC Kenney plays Riff, the leader of the Jets, to round out the lead roles. 
Areaux is enthusiastic when discussing his cast and crew. "To direct fellow stu­dents is a privilege, more than anything. They've got ·no obligation to be here. 

cal production every 
year. While other 
campus theater groups also offer productions produced, directed, 
and acted solely by 
students, PEMCo is 
unique in its offering 
of only musical the­ater. Past shows include 
Godspell, Guys and Dolls, Grease, Damn Yankees, 
and last year's Into the 
Woods. 
Ray Areaux, the director of West Side Story, notes that the 

piece was chosen for SO I BIT HIM PEMCo's cast practices_for opening night. 
its unique qualities. "We wanted to do a big show," he explains, "and West Side Story has a cast of 38." Last year's cast was significantly smaller. The more serious nature of the show was also a plus. "The overall intensity of the show was important," Areaux says. "We've done a lot ofmusical comedy, and we felt thatthe drama was a good contrast." 
Auditions were held in September, and a cast and crew were selected soon after. The cast is composed of a combination of students with solid theater and musical experience and those who are newer to the university's theater scene. "We have a very 
. high number offreshmen and sophomores in the cast this year," Areaux says. Thelead roles ofTony and Maria are played by Jack Calcutt and Natalie Martinez. Anita is played by Jenny Radelet, the winner oflast year's Irish Idol contest. "Natalie andJenny are sophomores, and Jack, as a freshman, has just blown me away," Areauxsays. "The The peer-to-peer relationships here are built totally on trust and. respect." He notes that the challenges posed by West Side Story have been confronted with the help of everyone involved. "I could not have been luckier with my creative team. They've just been fabulous. It's been a lot of fun, because· everyone is here for the right reasons." 

The campus response to the show has already been outstanding. Areaux credits the Notre Dame community for embrac­ing the student-run group. "Thank you to everyone at Notre Dame for their sup­port; that's what the Notre Dame family is all about," he says. The uniqueness of being able to put on such a successful show with a company composed only of students isn't lost on Areaux. "Ifcollege is supposed to be a micro lab ofthe world," he says, "then this is a pretty special ex­periment." D 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 05 FEBRUARY 2004 
-------------~ -~ ­
" . 
Looks Aren't Everything 
A local eatery offers the finest in Mediterranean cuisine 

RYANRETARTHA 
Is everything in South Dining Hall start­ing to taste the same? Is the furniture in your room made out of Sbarra and 
PapaJohn's boxes? Have you already used half your Flex Points at Reckers? Elia's restaurant answers to all these needs with exotic flavor and atmosphere. 
Located nearby on Dixieway North in South Bend, Elia's is a traditional Medi­terranean-style eatery owned by Helene and Nagi Elia, who both came over from their home in Lebanon 17 years ago. Mr. Elia also works at Notre Dame's Office of Information Technology (OIT). 
Opening a restaurant in South Bend was an easy decision for Mrs. Elia. "I love cooking, and I wanted everybody to know about our culture and our food." It seems that the message is getting across. Mrs. Elia notes that she gets many Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and pro­fessors and that business is non-stop on football weekends. 

And Elia's is not without its share ofno­table customers as well. South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke, former ND golf coach George Thomas, Father Hesburgh, and former Notre Dame football coach Ara -------,. Parseghian have( Elia's all tried Elia's. 
.,-***"'! •out of 5 . ~ Parseghian ranks 
. . 
among the regu­Location · lar patrons, says
111 Dixieway North 
Mrs. Elia. "He 
South Bend 
always comes in
277-72,39. 
here when he's in Prices 
town." 

Appetizers range from The simple 
.. $1.50-:-$4.00 .... ·., 
interior is under­Entrees rangefrom $6.00 ·. i 

~ $10.00 . whelming, but the menu and ' Hours · service maintain

TuEls;-Sat.11-2, 4-9 ·· 

a ·high level of 
professionalism. 
Of course, the 
food itself represents the real gem of the dining experience. Elia's has a fairly large menu, including sections for vegetarian and meat dishes. The range of desserts and appetizers is also extensive. 
The appetizers include homemade hummus (yes, much better than that at the dining halls), and baba ghannouge, a hum­mus-like eggplant puree. One of their most popular dishes are grape-leaf rolls -a rice and onion mixture wrapped in a grape leaf. Another favorite is their tabouli salad, which is a parsley, crushed wheat and tomato mixture, which re­sembles a very mild salsa. All the appetizers were delicious, especially with the accompani­ment of homemade pita bread. 


Some of their more popu­lar main dishes include shish tawouk, which are pieces of broiled chicken with rice, and shish kebab, consisting ofpiec­es of broiled filet mignon with vegetables and rice. Their veg­etarian dishes include falafel, a fried bean dish, and midardara, a lentil and rice dish. 
The menu at Elia's is re­markably healthy, a treasured quality of Mediterranean cui­sine. The simple, unprocessed 
· ingredients such as rice, chick­
en, tomatoes, beans and onions are trans­formed into true culinary delights with careful use of Mediterranean spices. Yet . the spices themselves are not hot or bitter, but very mild, always adding to the flavor of the food without overpowering it. 
Their desserts were equally delicious, including such traditional favorites as baklava and rice pudding made from a traditional Lebanese family recipe. Af­ter Scholastic's meal, the waiter brought out shot-sized cups of imported Turkish coffee, which was some of the best cof­fee we have ever had. The secret was the addition· of the spice cardamom, which added a powerful, zesty flavor and aroma reminiscent of chai tea. 
For those wondering what such fine food costs, most of the appetizers run from $1.50-$4.00 and most entrees from $6.00-$10.00. They also have their whole menu available for take-out. 
Mrs. Elia says of owning a restaurant 


OUTSIDE, INSIDE Elia's more than makes up for its plain atmosphere with an excellent menu. 
in South Bend, "It's tough to open any business, and you need to put your heart into anything you do." All Mrs. Elia could say about her future plans was to "be happy." 
Eating at Elia's was a great, out-of-the­ordinary dining experience. It made us realize the fantastic potential ofa smaller eatery in the city run by people who are passionate about food. 
As we enjoyed our petite cups of coffee and let the delicious meal settle, we soaked up the pleasant ambience. Listening to the authentic Lebanese music playing overhead, we could not help but feel like Indiana Jones in Raiders ofthe Lost Ark or Rick Blaine in Casablanca: ordinary men immersed in a world of foreign spices, aromas and flavors. 
If you're in the mood for the magical experience of trying foreign cuisine, or would just like a good, home-cooked meal, Elia's is an excellent place for both. 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

From Halftime to the White _House 
Sex and presidents: a winning combination? 
ofTuesday, my roommate from Boston is still recover-

mg from the aftermath of the Patriots' victory in Super 
owlXXXVIII. Personally, I'm still recovering from the 
halftime show. 

Let me say first ofall that I think most people are overreact­ing. Yes, there was a nipple on prime-time television the other nightwhenJustin Timberlake caused a "wardrobe malfunction" byviolentlytearingaway the right breast cup ofJanetJackson's do:rriinatrix bustier. ButJanetJackson's ginormous star-shaped sticker was probably the least offensive spectacle of Super Bowl Sunday. 
Nobody complained whenJanetwas getting artfully groped by a muscular, shirtless black man wearing a ladies' leather cor­set. Nobody complained when Nelly commanded America's youth to "take offall their clothes." No complaints when Kid Rock desecrated the flag, wearing Old Glory like a poncho. 
that performance have been ifRingo had stood up in the middle of "Love Me Do," whipped out his little Starr, and rested it on the snare drum? 
Much to my chagrin, all of this brouhaha is overshadowing the Democratic primary. I'm sort of a political junkie, which is like any other type of junkie, exc~pt we crave Zogby tracking polls instead of syringes and neatlypackaged sound bites instead of pure, uncut smack. To me, the mostpressingissue facing this country in the next year, even more important than the current status of Ben andJ. Lo, is the ousting of George W. Bush from the White House. 
Now, I used to be one of those irrational Bush-haters. I was almost pathological in my disdain for the man and all that he stands for. Currently, I'm a little more rational than I was be­fore. I don't think that our 43rd president is an evil or bad man. I certainly would hesitate before comparing him to Hitler. It 

,I 
t 
Nary a peep for the crotch-bit-~~~~--~~~~~~~-~--~~~-mustbetheEnglishmajorinme, 
§g~~~ flfill!itllillil§1~~~
worked for me." I wouldn't shed any tears over a 
That last commercial is probably the most offensive to me, not because of the pill it was advertising, but because it forced me to picture coach Ditka's flaccid schwant as he chucked a football through a tire swing. 
All parties involved are of course distancing themselves from the stunt. The NFL announced that they were "extremely disappointed." Janet's antics undermined theirattempttoposi­tion themselves as America's most family-friendly purveyor of spinal cord injuries. CBS "deeplyregrets" the incident, although they stopped short of apologizing for bombardingviewers with advertisements for their wretched sitcoms. Even MTV; the producers of the halftime show, issued a lame apology, although it's hard to believe in genuine remorse from the channel that en­gineered the infamous Britney/Madonna spit-swap last fall. 
Janet herself waited acouple ofdays beforeweighingin. To her credit, she apologized. The timing of the whole incident casts suspicion on her motives, however. She's got a new album com­ing out, and what better way to get free publicity than to expose yourself to 90 million people on national television? This week is the 40th anniversary of The Beatles' legendary performance on the Ed Sullivan show, but how much more memorable would 
0 u T 
furry, carrot-munching rodent, but in this case, metaphorically 
speaking, the bunny is ~s country. · 
Actually, to be.honest with you, our founding fathers knew their business, and due to the checks and balances built into the Constitution, no one person can screwup the country too badly. What I do think is screwing us up is the attitude that our leader espouses. The anti-intellectual, good vs. evil, pseudo-macho cowboy thing is quite damaging to our national morale. When Bush scoffed at a r~porter a few year!? ago for speaking fluent French, one could hear Benjamin Franklin spinning in his grave. _This country was built on a proud tradition of brilliant, intel­lectual men. Yes, they were men ofaction, too, but they always let their reason guide their actions. Itseems that Dubya is sorely 
lacking this quality. 

In away, thisyear's Super Bowlwas GeorgeW. Bush'sAmerica 
encapsulated into one evening. The displays of raw machismo 
and naked capitalism are the territory to which we, as a people, 
have been dragged over the past couple ofyears. This year's big . 
game will be remembered, I hope, as President Bush's swan song. 
Everything except the halftime show ofcourse. That one we're 
going to have to blame on a certain president number 42. 0 
0 F 
30 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 05 FEBRUARY 2004 


coMPILEo BY MIKE HEALY

r-~C:lO.EMc.1•;,~N£G2>1-D\l~.SDEEB..tAE@EEtlsOY.rsJ:cs·.c..._...._•••-·•~ 

EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Valentine's Day 

Saturday, Feb. 14, 9:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m. (hours subject to change) 
Alright, Lance Romance, ifyou are planning to make 
a move on that special somebody, today is the day. Be 
sure to utilize flowers, candy, sappy poetry, love songs 
and arts & crafts to their full potential as you woo the 
object ofyour affection toward a lifetime of perpetual 
bliss (with you, hopefully). And ladies, soak it up -it's 
not often these brutes take time out from their pressing 
schedule of sports, action movies, and/or video games in 
order to be civilized. 
ATHLETIC 

Men's Basketball vs. UConn 
Monday, Feb. 9 at 7:00 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Free · admission ... with ticket booklet and student ID. 
Arena Football: Chicago Rush vs. Grand Rapids 
Rampage 

Sunday, Feb. 8 at Allstate Arena, Rosemont, ill. Kickoff at 
2:00 p.m. Tickets range from $8-$48. NOTE: Forecast in the arena calls for high of 74, a low of 72, and a good chance ofawesomeness. 
-ARTISTIC 

Four Paintings From the Lilly Endowment Collection 
Sunday, Feb. 15, all day, Snite Museum ofArt. Free 
admission to the public. 
TheVagina Monologues 
Saturday, Feb. 14, 7:00 p.m., at the Stepan Center. 
Sponsored by the Center for Gender Studies. 
EDUCATIONAL 
Beer IOI 

Saturday, Feb. 14, 8:00 p.m., at Legends. Free admission, save the 21 years of existence required to enter. 
SPIRITUAL 

Living the Mysteries of the Rosary 
Monday, Feb. 16, 7:00 p.m. -9:30 p.m., 107 Hesburgh Library. Free Admission. The Rev.John Phalen, C.S.C. speaking. 
A SUBMIT your event for Scholas­
A 
tic'sComing Distractions. E-mail your submissions to Mike Healy 
at ehealy@nd.edu 


05 FEBRUARY 2004 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 
I. --­
----~-' 

l! 

1 
by A.]. Cedeno

For the Record 
1, 
I do appreciate the fact that I am surrounded by all of these di­versely talented people. I look-at it as a challenge, a way to motivate myself to work harder. 
A.J. Cedeno is the freshman 
representative from Dillon Hall. 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 

Notre Dame is a pretty special place. From the renowned athletic quality to the solidarity of the student body, any­body can step onto the campus and in a mere five seconds soak up the feelings oftradition, family and excellence that seem to radiate from deep within the university's core and through every student. Here at Notre Dame, we almost have our own little world; where leaders are born and the great become the unparalleled. As a kid lucky enough to be enrolled here, I have taken the time to observe some of our student leaders and the organizations that attempt to cultivate the abilities in them. These organiza­tions -class councils, hall governments, etc. -are in place to give students the ability to offer their input about new events and activities or to express their 'feelings about changes that they feel need to t_ake place for the benefit ofall. Though student govern­ment is only one branch oforganization, it is one of the best ways to get your voice heard and is a place that is always open to hearing new ideas. After I became ac­climated to the University of No.tre Dame, I quickly realized how important it was to get involved. I knew that if I wanted to meet people and start trying to make a difference, it was imperative that I go out and make myself known. I jumped at the first opportunity that came my way and was elected the freshman class council representative from Dillon Hall. And, yes, it definitely has had its benefits. Class council has given me the opportunity to have at least some small involvement in almost all of the unique events that the freshman class council has sponsored -whether it be a social, spiritual, service, or fundraising project -and it has allowed me to meet some really great individuals. It amazes me to think that I have already established the foundations of lifelong networks with these people. So ifone day I need 
one of you to perform triple bypass on me, or bail me out of jail, consider this my gratitude in advance: Thanks. 
I would not say that student government has a "down side" other than the fact that it is limited in power. However, ai:J.y kind ofbusiness is going to have some sort ofconflict, and this is no exception. I will be the first to admit that the democratic style in our student government meetings is indeed the best method for putting forth ideas and voting on them. I never assumed that problems would stem from the loads oftalent surging through my fellow council members, but when anyone has new and creative ideas, everybody else has an opinion about them. So yes, much patience needs to be practiced, but this does not make me any less proud of my class. Coming from a high school where I was thought to be pretty smart, adjusting to the fact that all of the advantages I used to hold over my peers have been lost, has been difficult for me. However, I do appreciate the fact that I am sur­rounded by all ofthese diversely talented people. Nook at itas a challenge, a way to motivate myself to work harder. So atleast, inmy humbling plunge to mediocrity, I can thank my friends for helping me build character. 
Finally, the only advice that I can offer to any readers is to. get involved, -promote your ideas, and join student government. Understand that not all of our spontaneous hopes -like mak­ing beer pong a varsity sport, or extending parietals until 8:59 a.m. -are going to come true·(though it would be sweet). And granted, sometimes duLac can duSuck, but it probably would not be around if it had no· purpose. So if you are one of the intellectual souls who feel like this campus needs some changes or new events, start getting involved now. Maybe you will be the first to toss the ping-pong balls with Monk. Anything is possible. But, regardless of how your ideas turn out, the best chance you will have of getting them heard is through a leadership position in student government. So get out there, make a difference. "Dami+ the man. Save the Empire." . 
05 FEBRUARY 2004 


EDITOR IN CHIEF WANTED. HAT OPTIONAL. 
Scholastic is now accepting applications for Editor in Chief. For more information or an application, call Matt Killen at 1-5029 or stop by our office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Applications are due February 11 . 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 ••••••••• 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & 
Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING COMMITTE£ ON GAYAND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site/or student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 
-university Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 

Even in alosing season, the rightphoto can make your wall look like awinner. New this year, you can order reprints of any of the student­photographed pictures from 5cho/astks annual football review. full­colofprints are available in 5x7, BxlO, or llxll, sizes. 
5x7 -$5 8x10 -$10 11x14 -$20 
for ordering information, contact Scholastic at 57Lr63J,.]569 ·Ii: or scholast@nd.edu, or visit scholastic.nd.edu/footbaH.html. --------------~--'---______ -___J 

I 

~1-· ·... Jsup.port non­
1 

Jcorporate t
:it's Ii .1 I t 
· radio, l:isten to your

opp ! i 
friends and 
makeinew
of Cl 
,ones at 

Ch:iar·, ... .'htfip1// 
I
· wvfl.nd..edu,
. ti 

i 
I
(nd's student 
1run staflon) 

I
I
.& sta,hipto the scene wi·th· mu.s:1· ·c.. 
reviews1 
showtlmes 
and more 
.
at http;// 

II
wvfi.nd.edu , 
/-:111lnd1et 







