Geatlune-Great RECORP
It’s Bob Eberly’s waxing of "You Can’t Run Away From Love."— Decca Record Release
Wore peopk are, smbug	ewr before,!
R. J. Reynolds I'obacco Co Wlndlon*Snlern, N. C.
!>•
a
u
0
BOB EBERLY, the romantic ballad singer, gives some old but good advice to cuddlesome-twosomes on this click-disc.
And Bob has another good word for smokers. As Bob sings it, “I’ve tried a lot of different brands of cigarettes—but Camels suit me best.”
Try Camels on your “T-Zone”—T for Taste.. T for Throat. See for yourself why, with Bob Eberly and countless other smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience.”



CAMELS
And another
p^CO^'
-’di o
are the choice
of experience with me!

LETTERS
It’s Adlers
FOR
HOW ABOUT IT?
Dear Editor:
This isn’t a gripe about the magazine, or a correction for something you said that someone didn’t agree with; it is merely to seek out the gentleman that borrowed my Parker pencil during the Student National Republican Convention. The pencil, a little green fellow with a green cap, was lured from my hands by a student who claimed he wanted to use same. On the gold cap were the initials E. J. H.
I would appreciate it very much if the borrower would please return said pencil to me at 335 Lyons Hall.
Edw. J. Hughes Lyons Hall
FOR SHAME, MR. WILCOX!!
Dear Editor:
I desire to express my opinion concerning the occasional pubescent parodies which one Joe Wilcox is “inspired” to write after having read the Juggler.
Although Wilcox’s attempts may be best ignored, their uncontested reappearances may imply complete agreement with his remarks. He seems to be determined to carry on a kind of a snide, sniping away at other campus publications, which can but cause ill-will and misunderstanding on both sides.
Mr. Wilcox states, at the conclusion of “Third Party Beneficiaries,” (Scholastic, April 30) that he is “everlastingly indebted to the Notre Dame Juggler.” He may well be, since the Time magazine style which he employs so easily—and which is imitated in many places in Scholastic—can absorb only so much mauling around. It must indeed be a relief for Wilcox to have something else to victimize. It is regrettable, actually, that Juggler does not appear weekly, in order to furnish him with a continual source of “inspiration.”
I will not assert that material published in the Juggler is always above criticism. It does have, however, the virtue of being original—something which seems to have successfully eluded Joe Wilcox.
John M. Considine Off-Campus
VAN HEUSEN
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Back
Pleated Bosom Tuxedo Shirts
Nights are brighter, now that Van Heusen Van Tux is back again. And in two smart, low-setting collar-attached models: regular length and wide-spread. The pleated front and cuffs are crisp, snowy white pique—on a body of fine handkerchief cloth. We’ve spared no tailoring detail to make these the quality shirts you expect. §5.95 each. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
agatm

You*re the man most likely to succeed in
°Van Heusen Shirts
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS • PAJAMAS
3
TOP OF THE WEEK
We forgot to mention last week that the Senior Ball favors were made of loo-cite (KOH9A1MQ_RSVP over left tackle).
THE CUSTOMERS ALWAYS WRITE
Last week Scholastic was gently chided by one of its readers for the brutal comments generally attached to critical letters-to-the-editor. The chider made a good point. If the comments get any nastier, the editors will soon be frightening their readers into imbecility every time they answer a letter. The whole situation will doubtless come to a climax when an innocent, well-meaning freshman writes in to ask a slight change in the magazine, like this:
Dear Editor:
Hey, why don’t you fellas number the pages at the top instead of at the bottom . . . hey?
Edsel Nub Breen-Phillips
Reader Nub would do well to leave matters of Scholastic policy to those better qualified to handle them. Obviously a congenital fathead, Nub reveals a streak of rampant emotionalism which will soon disrupt his life unless he is put in a cage. His suggestion is irrational, stupid, and idiotic. His repeated use of the word “hey” indicates a corroded brain, the absence of a mind, and a poor digestive system. A little less nonsense from you, please, Mr. Nub.—Editor.
Nub will later be found floating in St. Mary’s Lake, a suicide note clutched in his grubby little fist. An angry mob of students will lynch the editors, and the magazine will be turned over to Harry Nicodemus.
—❖—
LASKI, GO HOME
Waldemar Gurian, the erudite political science prof, took a few rounds out of one of Communism’s ace apologists last week. At a conference in Indianapolis,'
4
Dr. Gurian tangled with Professor Harold Laski, a leader in Britain’s socialist movement. Laski thinks the Soviet is misunderstood. Gurian ripped his adversary’s arguments apart and evoked a kind of left-handed praise foi* Notre Dame from him.
“I have to hand it to you,” Laski said, in effect. “Until I met you all I’d ever heard about Notre Dame was Knute Rockne.”
Got a bicycle? You’ll need one tomorrow afternoon. As everybody has noticed by this time, Notre Dame’s funloving athletic schedule-makers have set up a real problem to test student ingenuity. They’ve slated everything but a skijumping contest for the campus tomorrow— football, baseball, track, and golf. Steve Pavela will probably go back for a long fly and win the hundred-yard dash running backwards. All Notre Dame’s outfielders will be in constant peril of being hit in the head and immediately killed by a scatter-armed shot putter. Total chaos looms when the crowd starts to move back and forth.
The sports schedule gets more hilarious all the time.
SOUTHERN DISCOMFORT
One of the results of the campus political convention last month is an undercover feeling among the Rebels that the recalcitrant Texans should be kicked out of the club. Seems the Lone-Star
.... AND REMEMOER. STM MM FMf4 CORB^t
beys didn’t follow orders too well. The Rebels’ biggest mistake, though, came when they succumbed to hysteria whipped up by California, Illinois, and Oklahoma and went for Warren on the third ballot. Warren had no chance whatsoever, and as a result, neither did Ellis Arnall for vice-president . . . The best laid plans o’ mice and men gang aft aglay, as Bobby Burns said one night. (He was probably drunk when he said it.)	*
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
. . . Or maybe it was leweite (KKKYCSgCOH47, mix well and stir for fifteen minutes).
FROSH EXAM
The final "Essentials" Examination for Freshman English for the scholastic year 1947-48 will be given on Wednesday, May 19, from 7 to 9 p.m., on the second floor of the Main Building. Freshman English teachers will announce room assignments.
The New Jersey Club
Invites All
NOTRE DAME MEN
to
NOTRE DAME NIGHT at
Frank Dailey's Meadowbrook Route 23, Cedar Grove, New Jersey
JUNE 19, 1948
Tickets Aren't Necessary — Bring Your Date and Enjoy the Music of
LARRY CLINTON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Coast-to-Coast Broadcast That Night

The Notre Dame Scholastic Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR. Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN ._____________________________________ Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK ...---------------------- Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL  Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN Librarian
JOHN CLARK Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL  Circulation
B. T. KYSER Advertising JOHN S. BRENNAN _______ Faculty Moderator
iiiittiiiiiaiiiiiiiittiiinBitiiiiiaititiHiiiiiiiiiiiiHiuittsiiiiiiiitfititiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiitiiiiHittiiiaiiiiiiiniititi
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
I8aaiiiiaaaaiiiiaaaaaa<iiiaiaaaaaitiiaiiaiiiaaaaacitaatiaiiiaiaaaaaaiaiaaaaa8aaaiaaaaaiaaaai8aaaai8a8i8aai(iaaitiaatiiaai*«it>
Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
STUDENT MUSICAL—Cashman Hits Stage ___________ 9
COMMENCEMENT—Five Will Receive Honorary Degrees 9 DANCE—Frosh to Hear Tony Papa at Vet Rec Hall- 11
FEATURES
WORK—What a Difference the Place Makes!  12 CHOIR—Friends Pay Weekly Tribute to Joe Hailer.- 13 VETVILLE—Model Community Beneath the Dome------- 14 BULLETIN—Message From God Five Times a Week.---- 28
SPORTS
FOOTBALL—Spring Finale at Stadium Tomorrow____20
PREP COACH—Dick Friend Heads S. B. Catholic_26 TRACK—Lone Home Track Meet at Cartier Saturday.— 27
COVER
Ed Cashman, grad student in Music, smiles in anticipation of a possible third campus musical hit. Photo by Jim Ferstel.
CALENDAR
MAY 14
COLFAX, State of the Union. Again Spencer Tracy has absolutely nothing to do. Again Kate Hepburn shows that she tires in the stretch; she’s come a long way since her brilliant performances in Mary, Queen of Scots and The Little Minister. Again Van Johnson’s appearance on the screen brings up the question: Is he necessary?
GRANADA, Trapped by Boston Blackie. Whatta fate! Companion feature, Along the Oregon Trail. Francis Parkman never intended anything like this.
HAIFA: British troops start leaving Palestine. ND: students start passing up Friday’s fish.
MAY 15	7
FRESHMAN DANCE, Drill Hall, 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Tony Papa gives out with the moosick.
VARSITY-OLD TIMERS GAME. Leahy unveils next year’s representative team romping through their tactics with very little tricky stuff and nothing startling or revealing in the way of plays. Fans will have a chance to see if Bobby Williams can hit his targets and if Larry Coutre is developed into our best running back. The old timers will be at their strongest, and have a good chance of taking this one if the big names play their best brand of ball.
MAY 16
GRANADA, The Exile, with Doug Fairbanks, Jr. and a former visitor to the ND campus, Paul Croset. Companion feature, The Marauders, with William Boyd and a former hayburner, turned movie star, Horse.
STATE, Cry Wolf, with Barbara Stanwyck and Errol Flynn. Companion feature, Wild Horse Mesa.
RIVER PARK, The Virginian, with Joel McCrea and Brian Donlevy. A cowboy classic, a must for all western fans. Sonny Tufts gets hanged and Donlevy smiles when he calls the Virginian the frontier equivalent of a “dirty fascist.”
MAY 18
WASHINGTON HALL, It Ain’t Hay, an all-student musical, featuring book by Joe Herrington & Verne Kelley, music by Ed Cashman, sets by Don Birren, starring Roy O’Neill and a flock of South Bend queens.
MAY 20
GRANADA, Shoeshine, one of the better foreign films, in Italian, with English captions. Will be in town for two days only. Companion feature, to insure a sizeable South Bend turnout, Swiss Miss, with Laurel & Hardy.
PALACE, Skinnay Ennis and his orchestra in person on the stage. On the screen, Port Said. Port said what? What did the man say?
MAY 21
PALACE, Black Bart, with Yvonne DeCarlo, who is doing for the films what Beatrice Kay did for the night clubs, and Dan Duryea. Jeffrey Lynn, after a long layoff, is back too. Companion feature, Wreck of the Hesperus. It’s about a guy’s blind date and what he thought of when he first spotted her.
RIVER PARK, Gunfighters, with Randolph Scott and the former Rose Bowl queen, Barbara Britton.
5
SCORN ER'S SEAT
Men With Blue Pencil Irk Me, So Do Ball Points and Pegler
By Joe Wilcox
newspapers from commenting on political matters) was unconstitutional.
Now comes Pegler, saying, briefly this: Judge Moore is a democrat. Nefarious enough in itself, this heinous sin is made worse by the fact that Judge Moore has—or had, I forget which—a law partner who was an attorney for John L. Lewis. Therefore, Judge Moore ruled unfairly in the case of the Taft-Hartley law provision.
TO THE SCISSORS WIELDER:
Twice now have I gently prodded the magnificent serenity of the Chicago Tribune. the world’s vou know what as well
as I do. Once, some time ago, I ran it all around the mulberry bush generally, and last week I said its comics were not what the Tribune cracked them up to be, good, old rugged individualist-free enterprise, Orphan Annie included.
I said, if I can recall such a no
table witticism, that she should be hauled off to the nearest orphan asylum, conducted by the Witch of Endor, on the next garbage truck. But alack—somebody with a big, blue pencil took away not only my witticism, of which I was inordinately fond, but my whole magnificent delineation of the qualities of comics a la Tribune.
Anyhow, every time I mention the Tribune, the mention meets with unmentionable treatment. If, mayhap, I have committed some sort of heresy, I will collect the fagots for whoever has charge of burning heretics at stakes. . . .
INCIDENTAL INFORMATION ...
If you are one who is wont to write a great muchness, I would advise you to do it with an old-fashioned fountain pen instead of with a ball point wonder. I am now in possession of a ball point pen which I found in South Bend, and I find that refills cost fifty cents apiece. I am one who uses a pen a lot, briefing cases and whatnot, and, although the refill has been in the pen only about four days, already I note that it is about gone. At fifty cents a crack, I can no more maintain a ball point pen than I can furnish white bread, brown bread, and plum cake for the repast of fighting unicorns. Furthermore, I have discovered that ball point pens have an unpleasant habit of smearing your fingers. Hereafter, I think I shall write with the two-bit pen I bought at the ten-cent store.
QUEER SYLLOGISM DEP T.:
My old friend Westbrook Pegler, whom we have not mentioned here—lo, these many months, has come up with some reason'ng which I think is deserving of comment, even though I may be opening myself up to the renewal of feuds which raged of yore.
It appears that a Federal Judge Moore, who for some reason is not pleasing to Peg, ruled that provisions in the Taft-Hartley Act outlawing the expenditures of union funds for political purposes (which in effect stopped union
T
now available in a variety of designs
SPORTS TOURIST .	/
for oil purposes—for all ages;' the most popular model—with all the famous Raleigh features. -
UENTON aUBMAN fqr sport cycling'at its best— „ ■ streamlined, extra light, speedy, study and saftu , / - '/'"?•
Precisiuri-built Ail Steel Frames \ for a minimum ofweight—a ' maximuA of sturdiness. :	'■
Is \	"	-
-. Sturmey-Archer Variable .
> Speed Gears \	,
-for leveling tough slopes and : rough roadsX ,	,
Raleigh Two Wheel Safety Brakes i" for quick/ smoothstops without
I skidding./ A X: ", s i	' -K v . ,
-; Raleigh Dyno*Hub Lighting Set for night-piercing electric light/ -providedaslhebicycle moves. *
1 BIIHirt FOtEHtST
Raleigh
Raleigh cycles are guaranteedwithout time' limit—serviced by Raleigh dealers I: - everywhere; Fer tile name af titd one neari»*t'yoe—for freeillvstratedcatolog ;;s';-writetoJ	. '/i/'X XX. \
kXRol^gis Cycle Distributors, Dept. U, 669BoyislonStreet, Boston16,Mass. .. a '


Mr. Pegler, I think, could use a course in elementary freshman logic to good advantage. But perhaps Mr. Pegler would not be interested. A course in logic would do all manner of things to Peg’s Peerless Prose.
NO GRAVY ON THE PEAS, PLEASE
My estimable friend John Walker just concluded a pair of articles on the dining halls. Perhaps I should not add my farthing’s worth, but I have one great and overwhelming gripe against the dining hall. On the whole, I think it’s do

1
ing pretty well considering that we are paying the same amount for food that we did in the fall of 1946.
Nevertheless, I deplore, decry, and denounce the over-use of gravy to which the dining hall resorts. I do not recall ever having seen gravy employed in such a great profuseness before. Gravy is dashed all over everything, and whatever remains to be doled out goes into the gravy. What’s more, I do not like beef gravy on chicken, pork gravy on beef, and mutton gravy, of all things (which fortunately, I have not seen of late) on anything at all. Nor am I fond of gravy on German fried potatoes, where it is quite unnecessary. Begone, 0 Superfluity of gravy, begone!
CAMPUS CLUBS
PALESTINE PONDERED
The International Affairs Clubs of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will join in a group discussion of the Palestine situation across the Dixie Highway Monday evening.
Although it will not be a debate, the St. Mary’s group will present the Arab side of the issue, and Tom Kelleghan of the Notre Dame club will defend the Jewish side. An open forum will follow.
Don Lueck, president of the International Affairs Club, will be Notre Dame’s co-chairman of the event.
FALL REGISTRATION
Registration for Fall 1948 Semester will be held September 13, 14 and 15 ONLY.
There will be no late Registration! No student will be admitted to class after the first scheduled class period.
In the past several years the number of students making this late registration has multiplied to the point where any kind of class organization has been practically impossible during the first week of the semester. With the present large enrollment the necessity of getting classes properly started on time is particularly urgent. There will, therefore, be positively no late registration in the Fall semester of 1948 or the following semesters.
general electric
'PILE' ENGINEER...ACCOUNTANT...SILICONES SPECIALIST
for each, General Electric has assignments to his liking
General Electric is not one business, but an organization of many businesses. Graduates of American colleges and universities arefind-
ing that the 125 plants of General Electric offer opportunities to all degrees of specialists, all sorts of enthusiasms, all kinds of careers.
'PILE' ENGINEER
Quoting Dr. W. I. Patnode (Cornell ’27) of the General Electric Nucleonics Project: “Seldom has the engineer been offered the opportunity to achieve greatness that is contained in the development of atomic power . . . The pile engineer must know radiation as the aeronautical engineer knows air flow, as the electrical engineer knows electromagnetism . . . There is work for more pile engineers.”
FROM BTC
Donald L. Millham (Union ’27), today the G-E Comptroller, is one of the many top officials of General Electric who got their start in the company’s Business Training Course. BTC trains nontechnical college graduates for managerial accounting positions such as department comptrollers, division accountants, district auditors, operating managers, and treasurers of affiliated companies.
SILICONES SPECIALIST
“The field of silicon chemistry has only been touched”—that is the opinion of Jerry Coe (M.LT.’42), now helping start up the new G-E silicones plant at Waterford, N.Y. Oils, resins, greases, “bouncing putty,” and rubber having silicon as a basis of the molecule are now being marketed in increasing quantities, as they gain recognition for their striking temperature stability and other unusual properties.
For your copy of "Career* in the Electrical Industry," write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
7
tyuMn Ute	.
How About a Little King?
Football, giant of Notre Dame athletics, strides back into the arena tomorrow afternoon, after a winter of nutritious hibernation. The nation’s keener eyes will be watching the 1948 Irish, and they’ll see a promising squad flex its muscles. But the power and tricky stuff will stay under wraps. What Notre Dame men will see, beyond the surface manifestations of color and competition and spectator excitement, is the restatement of football’s claim to kingship among Notre Dame athletics. For a long time now football has been monarch. It will be so for a long time to come. That’s great! But in the meantime other sports have suffered dwarfdom at the hands of the padded colossus. Take swimming and wrestling, for instance. Both these sports deserve a break — quite a few men are interested in them — but Notre Dame shies away from them. Let’s take the case for wrestling.
Every year letters and telegrams pile up on the desk of the director of Physical Education seeking matches with the Notre Dame wrestling team. These requests come from other colleges, many of whom are small struggling little hick-town institutions, seeking a match with the Goliath of American college athletics. But Notre Dame has no wrestling team — and that’s the answer that’s sent back. Unhappily the illusion of Notre Dame as the bastion of the American athlete is shattered.
There is really no ironclad reason why Notre Dame should not field a wrestling team in the amphitheater of intercollegiate competition. Many smaller schools do it; e.g., Cornell (Iowa), Wheaton, Washington and Lee. The service schools, both at Annapolis and West Point, have wrestling as a major sport. All leading conference schools in the East and Midwest do likewise. No opposition to wrestling as a form of athletics could hold water once the obstacle of facilities is overcome.
Nevertheless, Notre Dame, a men’s school, has not yet come up with a wrestling team.
Admittedly wrestling, amateur style, is a dull sport for the general public. But then the question evolves, are athletics at Notre Dame primarily for the public, or for the development of the manly virtues of courage, skill and sportsmanship, as well as leadership, among the participating students?
Wrestling is, by comparison to football and boxing, a dignified and immaculately clean sport. Injuries are never of the proportions or the severity sustained in football. Wrestling according to amateur rules is a clean, fast, scientific match of strength and skill — no knockouts or concussions involved.
Wrestling in college is in no way to be compared with that beefy burlesque of the sports-night-life known as “da rasslin’ matches.” Collegiate wrestling produces no such thugs.
It is a very basic sport — like running and swimming. Men of all ages engage in one form or another. Kids tussle on lots and lawns; young fellows are always grabbing and holding on with ienffective holds in some sort of sham battle; old-timers are the quickest to turn a handshake into a mock exhibition of muscle power.
Notre Dame has the facilities, and the coaching. The University has granted major-sport status to such vigorous forms of athletics as fencing and golf. Now is the time to
8
lay plans for a wrestling team for next winter. It will broaden the athletic vista open to the student. It will increase the school’s prestige, because we have able men here, and as in all other fields, they will do the University proud in competition with others. We can build champions on the mat as well as on the gridiron.
The Horn Blows Louder
The recent NFCCS convention in Philadelphia sounded the clarion for student government, which has long been sweet music to the ears of responsibility-starved college students. But this time it was not just a few toots as of old, but a long, loud blast, certain to be heard in the farthest campus hangout and most austere university directors’ room.
The NFCCS has built up a good case, a far better case than has been planted upon college door steps before. In a country renowned for its leaders and currently teeming with racial, religious, social, and economic strife, its case bears investigation.
Rightly or wrongly, many Catholic colleges and universities have been reticent in the past about the question of student government. They have felt that leaders could be nurtured by a sound education and a healthy respect for discipline. They can point to instances where this philosophy has borne fruit, and conservatively estimate that it will continue to do so.
Nevertheless, the changing world calls for changing methods. No longer can the Catholic college graduate expect to keep equal footing with his secular brothers unless he has been so trained. This contention has been proved by Tinmorons Catholic college representatives to national student functions, who sat awe-stricken while leaders from secular colleges maneuvered matters to suit their own tastes. Fortunately a handful of capable Catholics have seen to it that some of their views were incorporated into the proceedings. Take last fall’s NS A convention for example. Many Catholic colleges sent representatives virtually untrained and untried. As a result it would have been a walkaway for secular ideas had it not been for a few competent Catholic representatives. Notre Dame’s delegation set the meeting back on its heels by presenting a Student Bill of Rights, incorporating Christian ideals. Many delegates didn’t think a group of Catholic men had that much initiative in them.
It has become the responsibility of our Catholic college graduates to begin carrying the torch. Unless they wish to fall before the onrush of false, paganistic ideologies, seasoned by racial and religious strife, they must be armed for battle. It is the responsibility of the Catholic colleges to do the arming.
If in the past colleges have -questioned the maturity and capability of their students to lead while students, it might be well to reconsider. If they have looked with disdain upon student government (generally considered to be the best foundation for leadership since it teaches leadership by making students lead), they might find it wise to recall that our country moulded its leaders in the services by making them lead other men during their training.
The eyes of the Catholic educational world are slowly beginning to focus on Notre Dame, where training for leadership has long been the criterion. Notre Dame’s stand on the issue will be vital to its ultimate success or failure.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 26
MAY 14,1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Cashman's 'Hay' Ripe for Harvest
HOLDERS OF LEADING ROLES IN "IT AIN'T HAY"* The old jitters were back again
University To Confer Honorary Degrees On Five Leaders At June Commencement
An Archbishop of the Catholic Church, a leading government official, a noted scientist, a prominent Chicago business executive, and an outstanding educator* will be awarded honorary degrees by the University at its 103rd Commencement exercises on June 6th.
Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, announced yesterday that Doctors of Law Degrees would be conferred on the Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing, D.D., LL.D., Archbishop of Boston and Baccalaureate speaker; Paul G. Hoffman, newly-appointed Director of the European Recovery Program and Commencement Speaker; Vincent J. Schaefer, research chemist for the General Electric Company; William J. Corbett, President of the C. W. Marks Shoe Company in Chicago; and Dr. Roy J. Deferrari, Secretary General of the Catholic University if America.
Schaefer skyrocketed to fame this last year as the first real weatherman
with his successful experiments in “artificial weather.” The General Electric chemist has employed small particles of dry ice to cool the nearby “supercooled clouds” producing rain and snow. Last fall, Mr. Schaefer delivered the annual Martin McCue Lecture in the College of Engineering here.
Mr. Corbett has been president of the C. W. Marks Shoe Company since 1926 and is a pioneer- of the industry. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad, a Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus and has been a member of the Associate Board of Trustees at Notre Dame since 1941.
Dr. Deferrari has been associated with Catholic University for the past thirty years. He went there in 1918 as an instructor in Latin and Greek after three years at Princeton.
* Left to right: Mary Barany, Bob Ruetz, Joanne Lunceford. Gerald Hekker, Terese Lazarra, Bill Mills, and Beverly Watson.
Student Musical Set For Five Night Run
By KEN THOREN
Though perhaps difficult to conceive, Washington Hall will take on all the aspects of a real, glittering Broadway opening night when the student musical “It Ain’t Hay” opens next Tuesday for its five-night run. Crowds will pour* out from every residence hall and from South Bend and environs to participate in the excitement and gaiety that is connected with the glamorous, and possibly erroneous, connotation of a first night.
Backstage, actors, dancers, chorus girls, stagehands, all-purpose worriers and even some needless kibitzers will go about their work in a state of controlled confusion. The auditorium’s hazy lights will dim, the orchestra will run through the overture, the curtain will go up, and the show will be on.
“It Ain’t Hay” marks the third such opening night for Ed Cashman, the composer and lyricist of the musical’s twelve songs. He walked the floor when his “Let’s Get Going” was bora in 1943 and when his memorable “Meet the Missus” hit the boards last year. He should be steeled against the ordeal by now, but pessimistically confesses that “those old jitters are bound to be with me again.”
Red-thatched Ed Cashman was bom 25 years ago in Peoria, Illinois, and is now a grad student, aiming for his master’s in music. Like Feller and a no-hitter, he should take it in a breeze. Ed is 5' 11" of unassuming reticence. He keeps a shy, toothy smile hidden beneath an almost constantly furrowed forehead while clicking leather heels denote a business-like attitude that permeates anything he has a hand in. Theatrically temperamental at times, Ed is more often than not the embodiment of that time-honored expression—calm, cool, and col
9
lected. Or, as a willowy blonde in the present show claims, “He’s simply terrific!”
Unlike such precocious geniuses as Haydn and his celestial ilk, Ed did not start to turn out musical concoctions until his tenure in high school. He arrived at Notre Dame in ’41, but left for the service in ’43. Then the prodigal son made his return in ’46. During all these years at N.D. he has been pounding out an unceasing flow of pleasing ditties.
His prescribed method for writing a song sounds simple enough in black and white, but few seem to succeed at copying it. First he usually gets a musical idea. After it has run through his humming brain long enough, he puts it down on paper and then tags a title to it. Most of the compositions are written in free part-song form in 32 measures. The lyrics come next. Of all the tunes he has written while residing on the campus, he is most partial to the song “Forsaken” from his first musical, “Let’s Get Going.”
Although not especially world-shaking in their poetic value, his lyrics are several pegs above most of the current tripe that dribbles forth from radios and jukeboxes. Ed’s tricky double rhyming in the lines of his favorite song stress the craftsmanship that goes into each of his ditties:
Forsaken, all those wonderful things
Mistaken, now my heart has no strings } ou’ve shaken, all my faith in the game You’ve taken, all my love just the same I fell to awaken and find reality stings Now forsaken, all those wonderful things.*
It cannot be said that Ed is an equal to the top tunesters, for though his works are exceptional for a college student, they are far from being on a par with the triple-A ASCAPers. Cashman’s songs all have a certain sincere lilt to them, but many contain passages that are reminiscent of other popular tunes. Such a flaw, however, is infinitesimal compared to the overall products.
This year’s musical has a peppy script written by Verne Kelley and Joe Herrington. It is laid in the west and is concerned with the false discovery of gold. Its colorful scenes have been designed and constructed under the aegis of Don Birren. Jim Beyme has had the taxing task of putting together all the loose directorial ends while Gerry Hekker has not only served as producer but has also essayed one of the leading roles.
Entertainment-hungry students are bound to like the show. No grand illusions surround it in regard to its being Broadway material. It is a college musical and is prepared to stand or fall as such. Unlike Notre Dame musicals of bygone years, this show and the other
*Used with the permission of Ed Cashman. Copyright, 1943.
COMPOSER CASHMAN
Double rhyming with celestial ilk
two productions that Ed Cashman helped write are completely original.
When asked if he was going to head for New York and the “big-time” after graduation, Ed—up to his thin, open-collared neck in the forthcoming musical—winced and replied, “That’s all too far ahead to think about.” Be that as it may, he might just as well start thinking about it now. For few who have heard his works would deny the fact that someday Ed Cashman will be at the top of the heap. He’ll undoubtedly be up there, tinkling out his tunes, and always with the same attitude to which ha eyed this story.
“Now don’t lay it on too thick,” he said. That phrase, more than anything else, typifies Notre Dame’s unassuming, student musical master, Ed Cashman.
Commencement Split In Separate Sections
Two separate commencement exercises will be held this year, due to the size of the graduating class, according to an announcement this week from the Alumni Office. Both events are scheduled for the Navy Drill Hall, with the graduates divided according to colleges.
At the 1 p. m. exercise on June 6, sheepskins will be conferred upon 414 members of the Graduate School, the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, and Law. Two hours later, 461 students of Engineering and Commerce will receive their degrees.
Paul G. Hoffman, newly appointed director of the Economic Cooperation Administration, will be the principal speaker at the graduation exercises. The baccalaureate address will be delivered by the Most Reverend Richard J. Cushing, Archbishop of Boston. The Most Reverend John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, will celebrate the baccalaureate Mass on the morning of the commencement in the Navy Drill Hall.
Gurian Lists Possible Factors in Open War
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of political science, discussed five prominent factors which “could lead to an open shooting war” between the United States and Soviet Russia in a forum on War and Peace held on May 4. Other* participants in the forum, sponsored by the Graduate Students Association included Dr. Yves Simon, noted author and professor of philosophy, and Professor William O. Shanahan, of the department of history.
Dr. Gurian, who is also editor of the “Review of Politics,” stressed that there is strong opposition to an aggressive war by the United States and expressed the hope that the Marshall Plan will improve the situation outside of Russia.
The five factors which he believes could lead to a shooting war are:
1	.) the continuous possibility of sudden incidents which cannot be foreseen;
2	.) fear- of the future by both sides, a fear which could cause a preventive war against Soviet Russia or a counter-offensive war by her to protect her sat-elites;
3	.) the existence of the two-power system which makes situations inflexible;
4	.) the belief inside Russia that she is threatened by the capitalists who want to uproot her regime; and
5	.) hysteria which has been created by Communist propaganda and the actions-of men like Molotov.
Dr. Simon warned that “we must be aware of misdirected self-criticism and of ‘debunking’ our own way of life, because if we do not believe in ourselves, we will not be able to protect ourselves.”
One of Professor Shanahan’s concepts of modern war was described as “total war,” which developed during World War I and which means that the entire economic resources of a nation must be organized for war. Under this concept, he explained, war affects every man, woman and child in a belligerent country.
State's Top Agent Addresses Lawyers on FBI Possibilities
Harvey G. Foster, agent in charge of the Indianapolis office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, addressed the members of the Notre Dame College of Law at 11:00 last Tuesday. Foster, who graduated from Notre Dame with a Bachelor of Laws in June, 1939, spoke on the organization of the F.B.I. and the opportunity for positions and advancement in the Bureau.
10
HAVE A HOT DOG
When foul weather threatened to put a damper on their Ascension Day picnic, ND and SMC freshmen moved it to the Vetville Rec Hall, where they are shown in the chow line.
Frosh To Toss Dance Wi+h Gay 90's Theme
When Tony Papa comes down with his baton on the first bar of music at the Freshman Spring Informal tomorrow night he will mark the beginning of the second Frosh social venture within ten days. On May 6 the first year men tossed their outing, such as it was, in the Vet Eec Hall and, judging from the enthusiasm displayed at that affair, Saturday’s dance is going to go over the top in a big way.
Chairman of frosh social activities Ward McCabe and his crew have gone all out in preparations foi- tomorrow’s revival of the Gay 90’s at the Navy Drill Hall. The theme of the dance—51 Skidoo — has been carried through in the decorations, bids and the intermission entertainment. But the dance music supplied by Maestro Papa and his boys will be strictly up to date.
For the first time in many a moon the Freshmen are being allowed to hold their own dance, and this one goes by way of an experiment. If the expected attendance is realized, not only will the committee be happy about the immediate success, but the class officers will have vindicated the faith placed in them by their classmates in last semester’s election when they promised to open the doors for first year Irishmen to campus social events. Tomorrow tells the story.
But the average Frosh isn’t concerned over election promises at the moment. - Right now he’s lugging pressed pants back from the cleaners and inspecting that one remaining white shirt as yet saved from the manglers at the laundry. His chance to make like the upperclass-
'Just Plain Bill' Does Good Job of Running Library Circulation
One enters the main library to encounter a paradox. The grumpy, patriarchal moose, glaring down from the wall, presents a visual synonym of severity and aloofness. Somewhere below this unexplained monstrosity there stands a man who exemplifies everything that is contained in the words friendly and helpful. His name is Bill Setty.
As on the daytime serial, “just plain Bill” has been an aid to ND students in the cavernous library since 1931. Married and living in South Bend, Bill is slim, wears glasses and tweed suits, and owns one of the sincerest smiles on the campus. He is acting as the head of all circulation but is occupied by more tasks than Vetville has babies. Regardless of his many duties, however, Bill is always ready and willing to help a departmental victim or any other student in distress.
Something amusing happens each and every ssh-hush-quiet-please day, but Bill especially likes to recall the story of the conscientious nun who solicited his aid. She was attending a summer session and had apparently attended the one previous. In all sincerity, she came forward and asked Bill, “Could you please tell me the name of that book I had last summer? It was red bound and was just about so thick.” There being some 250,000 volumes in the library, a third of which are perhaps red covered, it is understandable that Bill had quite a job on his hands.
At the moment, Warren’s All the King’s Men and Costain’s The Moneyman are at the top of the fiction popularity list. There is no definite grant set aside for the purchase of novels, but from time to time certain professors suggest titles that they believe to be worthwhile.
Four full-time workers come under Bill’s amiable jurisdiction while approximately 30 part-time students are also included on his roster. From the cute, perfume-wafting blonde, to the burly book boys, to every student who has ever had the opportunity of asking him for help — the unanimous opinion about Bill Setty is always the same; he’s a great guy!—Ken Thoren
men has finally arrived and, though there won’t be many imported lovelies wandering around campus, the Frosh is quite content with his queen from St. Mary’s College. (Or is she from St. Mary’s or St. Joseph’s Academy?)
LILL SETTY 25.000 volumes were red-covered
Station WND to Close Shop For Summer Tomorrow
Campus radio station WND will close up shop tomorrow night, dismantle all its equipment until next September, and send weary staff members back to their books in preparation for final exams. WND chalks up three and a half months of successful broadcasting experience that was backgrounded by ten months of sweat, tears, and evictions for the fledgling station.
WND finally began operations Feb. 9, 1948, from the newly-constructed studios behind the field house balcony after months of shuffling between the Washington hall band room and a radio booth in the stadium.
Tomorrow’s concluding schedule gamuts the kind of programs that Notre Dame students seem to want. At 1:30 p.m. is the Ohio State-Notre Dame baseball game from Cartier Field, followed by recorded music in the early evening, and terminating with thirty minutes of direct-wire music from the Palais Royale bandstand.
Air Force Urges June Grads To Enlist for Pilot Training
According to a United States Air Force announcement openings will exist for the aviation cadet class beginning in July. June graduates interested in the program which leads to a commission as a lieutenant are urged to complete their applications without delay in order to qualify for the next class.
Pilot officer training is open to all unmarried citizens between 20 and 26% who have had at least two years of college and are in good physical condition.
11
THEY CALL IT WORK!
Ten lucky laborers spill ‘inside story’ on St. Mary’s
Life can be beautiful! Not many around these parts could agree with that effusive statement, but we have uncovered a few who constitute the proverbial exception to the rule. Those who agree with the flowery maxim are ten stalwarts who spend their spare hours working at St. Mary’s.
Taking our cue from Insider John Gunther, we were bent on getting a scoop which could have been entitled Inside St. Mary’s. Using the ten who work there as our informers, we found ourselves with a result that added up to nothing more revealing than the fact that the usually formal girls sometimes come to supper with sweaters pulled over their uniforms and with muggy saddle shoes upon their feet. They also have the occasional habit of depositing their wads of gum upon a plate. Like their lipstick trademarks on cups, the boys have a hard time scraping the residue off. From these bits of expose material, it becomes evident that few yellow
BY KEN THOREN
newspapers would jump with joy in trying to grab the copyright titles.
Two of the male decemvirate labor in the lacy Oriole on Sunday afternoons only. Behind the soda fountain they stand; beaming, scooping, ladling and beaming. The soda-jerks are Louis Ni-coulin and Jack Smith. Jack, who comes from Flushing, N. Y., and Lyons, disclosed that Louis makes out like mad with the femmes, since so many of them come from his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky. So it seems apparent that the opportunities connected .with the job are far greater than one is led to believe from reading the frigid working schedule details.
Orders for hot soup are supposed to be taboo on busy Sunday afternoons, but the adroit gals are always able to wrangle their Campbell specials out of the soft-hearted Blue and Gold boys, after pleading for the order on the platform that the soup is for a sick friend. Then there are the embarrassing situations which continually arise when the chocolate or have-your-choice squirter goes on the blink, backfires and ruins a new new-look creation that Ma-ma just sent down. On the whole, however, the job is really okay.
The remaining eight fellows who labor at the Rock are confined to the Collage’s spic-and-span kitchen. Gene Tunney, from Elmhurst, N. Y., and Lyons, seems to have found a home insofar as he has worked over there for four years running. The kitchen crew arrives about six o’clock. They sit down to a bulging family-style dinner and then head for the kitchen at 6:30. They are complemented in their duties by 32 girls—and they call it work!
Relations are on a fairly prosaic level between the fellows and the girls who eat in the dining room, yet a case was confessed in which one of the erstwhile men in the kitchen had a habit of sending notes to his girl out front via a student waitress. The recipient of these missives must have been constantly on tenterhooks, wondering what kind of stationery would turn up next, stashed in her mashed potatoes.
Carl Ackerman seems to be the crew’s unanimous choice for skullery Romeo. He often arrives at his job directly after leaving a belle at the front door while
he scoots around to the rear entrance. It was he who hoped that the facts of his job wouldn’t be divulged, since most of his friends attach a mysterious connotation to his work with a certain air of glamour hovering over it. Now he’ll have to start living it down.
The other ND men who trek across the highway each night are: Pete Baker, Leon Marinello, John Spellman, Rip Rause, and brothers Chuck and Dick Kasberg. Seven of these “I’ve found a home-ers” are scheduled to graduate by next September, but if there are any operators who would like to latch onto this deal, they had best throw their hopes to the Indiana winds. Why? Because the jobs are already lined-up with early birds for the next two years.
Gripes continue to pile higher and higher around these parts, yet not one of the complaints seems to ba forthcoming from the ten lucky lads who work at St. Mary’s and who unanimously agree that they’ve got it made.
12
IN MEMORI AM
Cavanaugh Choir Born in Hailer's Death
By TOM McNALLY
Joe Hailer died on Oct. 25, 1947. With his death was touched off one of the nice spontaneous acts of Christian charity and sacrifice common to Notre Dame.
It started the day after his death. The students of Cavanaugh, his neighbors, his friends, many who just knew of him or knew who he was, went down to the Rev. James J. Leahy, c.s.c., hall rector. They wanted to have Masses said for Hailer; many wanted not just regular Masses but something special. They wanted high Masses, to be sung in the Cavanaugh chapel.
But high Masses were out of the question for a high Mass meant that two priests would have to get up at 5 o’clock; one to act as celebrant and one sing the responses. For one or two Masses this might be feasible. But for twenty high Masses? Father Leahy hit upon the solution. Why not recruit a hall choir to sing the Masses and have them celebrated in the hall chapel as the students wanted?
In that moment the Cavanaugh student choir was born. Father Leahy took the matter to Father Benedict J. Mawn, O.R., the Passionist priest who was prefect of the second flooi' and together they scanned the roster of the Glee Club members in the hall. They asked five of them, Bill Sahm, Ray Cavanaugh, Larry Metcalf, John Koewler and Dick Blaumeisei-to help out and later Charley Conley and Bill Gibbons were added. All of them agreed without hesitation, although they knew it would cost them a little time and inconvenience.
CAVANAUGH HALL CHOIR* Joe wasn't forgotten
For many nights they met in Father Mawn’s room to go over the Requiem Mass for it took plenty of time to mould the members into one unit.
“At first we were pretty bad,” Sahm admits, “but gradually we began to work together and by the first Mass we had improved a lot.”
Father Leahy told the rest of the men in the hall when the first high Mass would be held. It was celebrated at 6 o’clock before a big turnout. From that date in mid-November until a short while ago a high Mass foi- Hailer was celebrated at least once a week and the attendance increased every time. The men in the choir got up at 5:45 or 6:15 and so did the others who attended. They may miss a note or two but Father Mawn, who is an authority on this form of choir work, thinks highly of them.
They’ve kept improving ever since, although Father Mawn has left and Bill Sahm is in charge of directing the small group. Bill has found that directing is no easy job, but he has improved along with the rest. Also, although it’s primarily a hall project, they’re ready to spread out and not just confine their work to Cavanaugh Hall and to St. Ed’s (where they have sung a couple of times). They’ll sing in any chapel on campus where someone wants a high Mass.
Nor will the project fold up at the end of this year. Next year they will sing on special feastdays and on feasts of Our Lady as well as at Masses for the dead.
Constitution Analysis Wins Prize for Kiene
Ten dollars a minute is good pay in any man’s league . . . and that’s approximately what Don Kiene, junior from Quincy, Illinois, was making when he delivered his first prize winning oration in Monday night’s Goodrich-Cavanaugh Contest at Washington Hall. His vigorous, thought-provoking analysis of the U. S. Constitution was good enough to gain the nod of the three judges and top award of §100.
Freshman Will Dixon, of Caspar, Wyoming, finished in a tie for second place with Albert Grzebier, of Providence, Rhode Island, to gain an even split of the remaining prize money, totalling §50.
Kiene, who is president of the ND Radio Club, stressed in his speech the basic importance of the Constitution as a “charter of freedom.” He declared that it was the greatest achievement of the Revolutionary era, even surpassing the original victory over tyranny, and went on to outline the absolute necessity of preserving it intact and effective. In 1945, Kiene gained third place in the national finals of the American Legion Oratorical Contest, delivering the same address, entitled “Privileges and Responsibilities of Citizenship.”
Dixon spoke on “The Rights We Defend,” urging Americans not to fail again in preserving the peace of the world at all costs. Grzebier, in his speech, “Lamented Decision,” struck out at the recent Supreme Court ruling to ban all teaching of religion from public schools. He termed the move an obvious misinterpretation of the spirit of the: Constitution.
Other finalists in the contest were Donald Kersten, C.S.C., winner of the Breen Oratory Contest this year, who spoke on the topic “Bloodless Altars,” and Quintin Marlow, who won the recent freshman oratorical contest. Marlow offered his ideas on “The Constitution and the American Citizen.”
Judges for the evening were Father Walter Higgins, pastor of Christ the King Church in South Bend, George Koch, member of the faculty at Riley High School, and John Lechner, local attorney. All are Notre Dame graduates. Supervision of the contest was in the hands of Professor Frank Kelly, of the Notre Dame Speech Department. — Joe Dukert
* Bill Sahm, Dick Blaumeiser, Larry Metcalf, John Kaier, Tom Conley, and Bill Gibbons.
13
Married Vets Have Model Community
BY GREG HALPIN
This is the story of a little community and the spirit that makes it big. It is the story of wash lines and cinder roads, of pot luck dinners and council meetings, of retreats and rosaries. It is the story of Vetville, Notre Dame, USA.
This story begins in the early fall of 1945. Notre Dame, with the nation, was trying to make the conversion back to normal, peacetime status and finding the going rough. One of the biggest problems the return of veterans posed was the astounding number who brought wives back with them. For this Notre Dame was hardly prepared. Neither, it seems, was South Bend. As a result, the married scholars were faced with an acute housing problem. Partly as the first step in its solution, a meeting was called one night late in the fall at the Rockne Memorial. From a modest gathering of two priests and some representative couples, a whole town was to come less than a year later.
It wasn’t a simple thing, the birth of this town. There was a lot of labor and pain and delay before delivery. The government had a long list of married groups who needed housing and there weren’t any quiz shows giving units
away at the time. It took more patience than anything else, but by the early fall of 1946, things were happening across the road from the Stadium. The ring of hammer and the buzz of the saw were playing in happy harmony for more than a hundred couples huddled in crowded apartments all over St. Joe County. Although the job was not fully completed until January, 1947, the first couples moved in on November 1, 1946.
That’s the way it all began—39 old Army barracks converted into 117 housing units, a road or two cut through the Indiana mud and a few poles stuck in the backyard for wash lines. It wasn’t a pretty little place—it still isn’t—but there were three rooms and a kitchen and the roof didn’t leak and the water was hot when you wanted it to be and Uncle Sam was the landlord and he played by the rule book. If it wasn’t a home, it was a great start toward one.
The people of Vetville lost no time in organizing. They all knew what cooperation meant in its fullest sense as part of the marriage team, and they built the cornerstone of their community around it. They partitioned Vetville
VETVILLE DAD DOES DOUBLE DUTY From'a modest gatherin? . . .
14
VETVILLE'S COUNCIL—Seated: Mayor Vic Gulyassy.
Standing, left to right: Bob
Gardner, George Logan, Charlie
Ehret, Bob Logan, and Steve Kelleher.
off into six political wards, elected a mayor named Haggerty and a council of six and started turning out a weekly newspaper called the Vet Gazette edited by Jack Huff. All three had a big job to do, all three did it well. After all, it’s simple when you cooperate.
The first thing to be done was to get telephones installed in at least every third unit. As it was, Vetville was isolated from the outside through lack of communication. Mayor Haggerty and council started to work on the telephone company; the Vet Gazette let its mimeographed pages loose on the cause. The telephones were installed. Then there was the bus situation. From a Vetville apartment to the bus circle is a. long walk, especially if you’re coming back from town with your arms full of bundles and babies. The big three moved again. The bus now swings back around the Stadium to Farley Hall with stops along the Vetville way. Mayor Haggerty’s administration was showing itself to be a model government.
The primary problem facing the social committee, appointed by the council
to organize activities, was to find a place to hold them. After a few attempts at throwing affairs at rented halls, it became clear- that Vetville needed a Rec Hall. The ball was handed to the town’s
MISSUS HANGS HER DIPLOMA ... a whole town emerged
“Guardian Angel” the Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., one of Vetville’s founders and its first and only chaplain. Father Hesburgh scored a few months later. The plays he used are still secret, but the Vet Rec Hall stands as a useful monument to their success.
The Rec Hall was dedicated with a retreat conducted by Father Hesburgh and from there on in it became the center of Vetville activities. Victory Dances were held after every ND home game last fall; pot luck dinners and “Get Acquainted Dances” were initiated. This fall, the first exercise graduating women from Notre Dame was held. The wives of graduating seniors were awarded signed diplomas attesting to then- “courage above and beyond the call of duty” in helping hubby to a “happy graduation” despite the “post war hardships of South Bend housing and the rigors of Indiana weather.” Cooperation was piling up results.
The guy with the twinkling eyes lean- • ed forward in his chair. “We found out early we had to stick together over here,
15
FATHER HESBURGH PRONOUNCES RENEWAL OF MARRIAGE VOWS 'So much can be done by working together'
or we’d go under,” he said. “It was tough going at first but we really are set up now. This council we’ve got is really the core of things around here. They do all the work.”
The guy should know, for he is Vic Gulyassy, Vetville’s second Mayor. His Honor is a stocky law student from Cleveland, Ohio, who, during his war travels in Texas found himself a pretty wife named Billy Jane in El Paso, and came back to ND to become a part of the town he now heads. The Vetville council is his pet subject. It’s hard to get him talking on anything else.
“Charlie Ehret, Bob Logan, George Logan, Steve Kelleher, Denny Carroll and Bob Gardner are our council now and they are doing a terrific job. Of course you can’t forget Charlie Golden who is putting out the best Gazette ever and then Father Hesburgh is our indispensable man, but these six council boys really deserve a blow. They hustle like mad, but they have to. There’s so much to do.”
It would seem that there was. The council has just finished supervising a Spring Clean Up week which found gallons of paint distributed to every unit and tons of sodding to every lawn. The results are obvious.
And thanks to the council’s efforts “Suicide Lane” which separates Vetville from the campus is now a safer place to cross. A petition signed by every husband and wife in the community and followed through county channels by the Mayor and his council saw to that. A county sheriff’s car now patrols the road daily. As Gulyassy puts it: “So much can be done when you’re working together.”
But what makes Vetville unique is none of these things. It’s not the coun
cil or a clean up week or a petition or a roof that doesn’t leak, or even the 135 babies that are so much a part of its population. It’s none of these, rather it’s a simple Rosary with a couple of families kneeling in the living room; it’s the expectant mothers receiving a childbirth blessing from Chaplain Hesburgh; it’s a hundred families kneeling in the Farley Hall Chapel renewing their marriage vows at the close of the annual retreat.
This is the real story of Vetville. This is where the cooperation comes from. This is what has kept 370 people working together to make the little town across the road a big thing.
Dominican Lectures Here On Psychology and Religion
The relationship of God to the unconscious was discussed by the Rev. Victor White, O.P., in a special lecture Tuesday afternoon in the Law Auditorium. His talk was sponsored by the Department of Religion.
Father White is professor of dogmatic theology at Blackfriars College, Oxford, England, and a foundation member of the C. G. Jung Institute for Analytical Psychology in Zurich, Switzerland.
The priest-psychologist briefly treated the subject of religion and depth-psychology, pointing out the historical background and value of previous studies. He illustrated and classified the various types of psychology and showed the effect each has on the present conception of God and the unconscious.
Father White, on his first visit to America, was making Notre Dame one of the stops on his current lecture tour of several colleges and universities throughout the country.
Debaters End Season; 70 Wins and 15 Losses
By JOE DUKERT
One of the nine best debates of the year, according to national experts, will take place next Friday night at Wash-iiigton Hall. At the invitation of the H. W. Wilson Publishing Company, Frank Finn and Tim Kelley, of Notre Dame, will uphold the affirmative aspect of Universal Military Training against a team 'from Purdue in a special debate, to be printed in entirety in the 1947-48 University Debaters’ Annual.
Each year this book contains verbatim accounts of nine debates, bringing together the top-ranking collegiate teams of the nation on questions of current interest. Upon publication of the annual, each of the speakers will be presented with a complimentary copy. Due to the special nature of the debate, no decision will be rendered.
Next Friday’s encounter will culminate debate activity for the season, with the year’s record standing at 70 wins and 15 losses. Besides these contests, ten non-decision exhibition debates were presented before local clubs and civic groups.
This season saw the Irish arguers emerge victorious from four of the seven tournaments in which they participated. Early in the year, they won out over 34 other schools in the Iowa Invitational Tournament. The Purdue Novice Tourney, open only to those without previous intercollegiate debate experience, ended with the N.D. speakers atop the heap, outpointing 66 other teams. It was a grand slam several weeks later, when the Gaelic gabbers tangled with representatives from 35 other colleges at the Eau Claire Speech Tournament. N.D. men took first places hi debating and extemporaneous speaking and monopolized three top positions in the discussion division. Their rewards there included two trophies, one for debating, and one Sweepstakes Award for tourney supremacy.
At the Tau Kappa Alpha National Discussion Meet, Frank Finn earned the Wachtel Plaque, awarded annually to the best speaker in the contest, for the third consecutive year. Letters of personal congratulations from Rev. John Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the university, were recently received by Finn and freshman Bill Carey for their outstanding performances in this competition. Carey was awarded four “superior” and two “excellent” ratings at the TKA tourney, to place in the first 15 among the 208 competing speakers.
Finn and Carey figure prominently in
16
Coach Sommer’s plans for next season. In all, 12 varsity team members are expected to return next fall. Professor Sommer, however, is also counting* on a number of new aspirants for team positions, especially from among the ranks of law students.
“Now that debating has become fairly well established here at Notre Dame, I hope that next year’s turnout will be larger than ever,” declared Professor Sommer. “In the past, few law students have taken up debating, pleading lack of time. However, I believe they owe it to themselves to cultivate technique of argumentation and discussion in order to groom themselves as capable lawyers.”
Rossi Outlines Italy's Economic Problems
Problems of Italian reconstruction in connection with the Marshall Plan were discussed last Monday night at a special year-end meeting of the Italian Club by Mr. John Rossi, legal adviser to the Italian consul general in the United States.
Rossi represented Dr. G. B. Cuneo, the consul general, who was originally scheduled to address the club. Illness prevented Dr. Cuneo from appearing.
Presenting the economic picture as it exists in Italy today, Rossi described the terrific losses suffered in art and architecture as well as industry and agriculture during the past year.
“Food is the most important problem,” he said. “As a result, the children are the innocent sufferers. The cost of living is 1900% above normal.”
For that reason the restoration of Italy’s agriculture is the first and most important step in reconstruction, Rossi continued. Further, Italian industry has great need for American machinery and raw materials.
The answer to these pressing needs, he declared, is the Marshall Plan which is viewed by Italians “as an opening to better- days.” To facilitate repayment of the Marshall Plan debt, Rossie urged modification of the American tariff policy, so Italy may sell her goods and services to balance imports from the United States.
Rossi cited the interest of the State Department and the American people in the recent Italian elections as proof of Italy’s importance in the political and economic future of postwar Europe.
Other speakers on the program included the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the. University; Mr. John V. Hinkel, director of public information; Dr. E. Berteloni, assistant to Dr. Cuneo; and Mr. Pasquale Pirchio, professor of Italian at Notre Dame.—
Dick Rosengarten
FATHER MURPHY AND ITALIAN VISITORS Food was most important
Council, Fatigati and Four Machines Reduce Confusion as 3,000 Students Pick Officers
The beginning of yesterday’s lunch hour marked the end of a hectic week of campus-wide campaigning and the beginning of an eight-hour stream of hopeful constituents to and from the basement of the Dining Hall. Thanks to the fine work of the Student Council and of Election Chairman Ivo Fatigati, four voting machines served to keep confusion down to a minimum and to simplify greatly the voting process. The welcome machines not only speeded up the actual ballot-casting, but eliminated the unpleasant task of counting over 3000 votes.
Campaigning devices were ingeniously used throughout the past week, -including open-air broadcasts, a plethora of posters, placards, matches and blotters advertising the various parties, and radio time over station WND. The often discussed Indiana weather threw a wrench into some campaign plans, but those that could be used, it is felt, aroused a good deal of student interest.
The outcome of the elections were not known in time to reach the pages of this issue of the Scholastic, but here are the major parties and candidates as of noon yesterday.
In the Senior Class-to-be, four parties and one independent candidate vied for top honors. The ‘Four Leaf Clover Party’ supported Pat Costello for the presidency, Marty Wendell for Vice-President, James J. McLaughlin for the Secretary slot, and Don Murphy for Treasurer. The ‘Pacemaker Party’ chose Bill (‘Red’) Dacey, Don Begley, Mike
Conley and Jack Dempsey as their candidates to lead next year’s class. The ‘Keystone Party’ advocated William J. Furlong, James J. Farrell, Joseph Rozier and Thomas J. Naughton as their choices. The fourth Senior party consisted of Tom Muscatello, Dick Smullen, Bernie Powers and Bill Halligan. Bob Aziz was an independent presidential candidate.
Next year’s Juniors found two party tickets and one independent marked on their Ballot Machine. The ‘Four Roses Party’ nominated Bill Shanahan, James Holway, Robert Lally and Jack Thornton as their choices, while the rival ‘8-Ball Party’ boosted Robert A. Rohling, David Robison, John Whalen and Thomas H. Saggau. The independent candidate, again for the top position, was S. Talmadge Powell.
The dynamic future-Sophomores led the nominee field with five parties and one independent. The petition for the ‘51 Party’ listed Bill Simpson, Dick Small, Bob Boyne and Gene Johnson as one set of hopefuls. The ‘Green Light Party’ chose Bill McGee, Dan Damiani, Jack Haddox and Jack Malady, and the ‘Caravan Party’ supported Dan Brennan, Edward Magner, Larry Cunningham and William Hurley for the respective posts. Ken Thoren, Bob Williams, Kobe Taylor and Pat O’Sullivan constituted a fourth Sophomore group and the fifth entry was made up of Tom Logan, Ray O’Connor, Ray McGrath and John O’Brien. Jim Carrig ran independently for the presidential honors.
17
MAESTRO Sunny Dunham hands Queen Pat McGrane her Rowers
HONORED GUESTS and class officers—Treasurer Ryan and Maree Heinen; President Sullivan and Pat McGrane; Patricia Lawlor and Secretary Burns; Jane Kelly and Vice-President McCaffery.
Seniors dance last mil
KEEN COMPETITION for the flashiest arrival was the order of the night. First prize went to a hearse, driven by Eenny Sheridan, with Kevin O'Shea as footman. At left. O'Shea, in white coat and green topper, helps Marty Brutz get out. Marty shakes himself and then allows George Connor and Ziggy Czarobski, with their three dates (right) to disembark.
18
IN THEIR BEST CLOTHES AND BIGGEST SMILES THREE COUPLES DESCEND THE PALAIS ROYALE STAIRS
with fanfare, frills,
and
Dunham’s music
Close to 500 couples poured into the Palais Royale Friday night where the members of the June graduating class were to dance their last mile as Notre Dame students.
Bandmaster Sunny Dunham, sensing the nostalgic air, toned his musicmakers along smooth, danceable lines, pleasing everyone.
In an atmosphere of fantasy decorations, Maestro Dunham presented roses to the Ball Queen, Patricia McGrane, and to the honored guests, Misses Jane Kelly, Patricia Lawlor, and Maree Heinen.
On Saturday the couples were back to the Palais for more Dunham rhythm, spiced with a buffet supper. Then it was off for a tour of South Bend. Many of the Notre Dame seniors, who had dated St. Mary’s seniors, found themselves at another senior ball that night — over at SMC.
By Sunday afternoon the festive week end had drawn to a close. Dates rushed packing to beat hotel deadlines and catch trains, while Senior Ball committeemen dismantled decorations and set to bookkeeping operations, which would decide the dance’s success in the eyes of the public. In the eyes of the weary dancegoers, it had been a decided success.
19
SCHOLASTIC SLCLTT
It's Youth vs Age Saturday at 2:30
Battle Gauges Result Of Spring Workouts
By HARRY MONAHAN
Tomorrow afternoon Coach F rank Leahy will move his 1948 football squad into the Stadium for the annual game against the graduating seniors and the reserves. Rumors have been flyiug thick and fast the past weeks as every tipster on campus had the "real” starting line-up for the Old Timers. Almost as fast as these rumors added another Irish play-for-pay gridder to the list, the professional football guardians moved in to protect their high priced talent by prohibiting them from playing in the game. Kick-off time is 2:30.
The Old Timers were still able to put together a power packed eleven to help the varsity close the spring drill sessions. The tentative oldster starting lineup is: ends, Zeke O’Connor and George Sullivan; tackles, Ziggy Czarob-ski and George Connor; guards, Bucky O’Connor and Joe Signaigo; center, Art Statuto; quarterback, Johnny Lujack; halfbacks, Bob Livingstone and Bill Gompers; fullback, Floyd Simmons or Cornie Clatt.
Angelo Bertelli’s arrival on campus of course throws this line-up into the doubtful class. Tomorrow’s Stadium spectators may see a backfield combination that every coach dreams about. With the "Springfield Rifle” and the “Connellsville Comet” teamed together the varsity will have to take to the air raid shelters when it starts raining footballs. Pete Ashbaugh is expected to take over' his usual defensive spot, although some in the stands will probably be hoping to see Pete pack the leather for a change. He proved he could do it on the few offensive plays he was in. Automatic Fred Earley will give Coach Leahy a chance to compare his current placekicker, Steve Oracko, against the point collecting Earley toe.
Of course the feature of the game will be the appeai-ance of the All-American trio of Connor, Czarobski and Lujack. Due to the current tackle weakness of
20
the Irish varsity it might be safer to list Ziggy and Moose in the varsity backfield. They will probably spend most of the afternoon back there anyhow. It will be the pitching duel of the season with Lujack vs. Tripucka. Frank is the man on the spot in this contest and Bertelli’s presence won’t ease the pressure any. George Sullivan has a busy afternoon scheduled for himself tomorrow. He is due to toss the discus and shot for Coach Handy against the Michigan State track-sters and then rush over to the Stadium to suit up for the Old Timers. Jake Kline has warned George that he may need him in right field against the Buckeyes. Jake is going to let him play at
OLDTIMERS LUJACK, CZAROBSKI AND CONNOR
Bertelli came as a surprise
least two quarters of the football game before sending him in.
As if the varsity didn’t have enough to worry about, they are going to have to keep an eye on the fleet Bob Livingstone. Southern California has reportedly set up a ten-foot barrier on the 40-yard line of the Los Angeles Coliseum lest anyone else try to duplicate the “Liver’s” run of last fall. Putting the varsity safety man on his own goal line might stop Bob, but we doubt it.
While everyone was worrying about the pro ball players’ health, no doubts were expressed as to who would see action for the varsity and the reserves.
BUDYNKIEWICZ
HART
The Oldtimers may try some fancy stuff . . .
McGehee
The headman will play them all and the spectators should see a good ball game as the first stringers fight it out with the competition foi' next fall’s starting-assignments.
Coach Leahy isn?t saying just who will start for the varsity, but the following would be a close guess: ends, Leon Hart and Jim Martin; tackles, Gus Cifelli arid Ralph McGehee; guards, Captain Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell; center, Bill Walsh; quarterback, Frank Tripucka; halfbacks, Emil Sitko and Coy McGee; fullback, Mike Swis-towicz.
The varsity starting line-up will depend, however, on whether the varsity receives or kicks. The above would be
the receiving starters. Should the varsity kick off, Tom Carter will probably replace Tripucka and Dick Cotter fill in for McGee. There may also be another-change if Leon Hart is still on the injured list. Bill Wightkin would then take over the flanker duties for Leon.
All eyes will be on the play at the varsity tackle slots. Cifelli, McGehee, Ted Budynkiewicz, Frank Gaul, Ed Hudak, Jim Mahoney and Bill Flynn are going to have to prove themselves against about the stiffest opposition that the Irish mentor could throw at them. Play along the rest of the line will be evenly matched. The main interest here will be seeing how the reserves stack up.
It is hoped that the Old Timers will complete the instructions which the first
string started last Saturday to convince Bob Williams that he can’t stand back there forever waiting to pass. He was smeared several times last weekend by a charging first string line and the Old Timer line won’t be much slower. The “Battle of the Redheads” should arouse Irish hopes as Larry Coutre and Sitko compete for ground gaining honors.
TomoiTow’s battle will be straight football with the fancy stuff remaining locked in Coach Leahy’s safe. The Old Timers may try some razzle dazzle just for laughs, but on the whole it will be played without frills. Just how much bearing this game will have on the opener with Purdue is doubtful, but it will provide plenty of material for prognostications and bull sessions.
WIGHTKIN
TRIPUCKA
. . . but Leahy will keep his locked in a safe
SITKO
21
HIGH SCORER DERRICO
Villagers Top Vetville;
Win Kegler Crown
By BOB CASURELLA
The Villagers swept in to capture the first campus bowling championship as the Kampus Keglers took over the Bowl-Mor Alleys last Sunday in a pin-splitting civil war between the Blue and Gold Leagues. To win the Villagers had to best another local contingent as the Gold League was represented in the top flight by the buggy pushers from Vetville. Don White’s 511 series paced the Villagers in their win.
Play in both leagues was evenly matched and the final ratings found the Gold League winning in seven matches while the Blue outlasted their opponents five times.
HIGH single game bowler. Jim Jennewein, checks his score with Kegler Czar Huffman
Final standings matchings were:
Final
Winner	Standing
Villagers (G) ...... 1
Inter American (B) .. 3
Fox Rixer Valley (B) 5
Pittsburgh (B) ..... 7
Buffalo (G) ........ 9
Chemists (B) ...... 11
Texas (B)  13
Rockford (G) ...... 15
St. Louis (G) ..... 17
Jet Propulsion (G) .... 19
ASME (G) .......... 21
Youngstown (G) .... 23
Final
Loser	Standing
Vetville (B) ........ 2
Toledo (G)........... 4
Rochester (G) ....... 6
Italian Club (G) .... 8
Syrian-Lebanese (B).. 10
Detroit (G) ........ 12
Boston (G) ......... 14
Met Club (B) ....... 16
Monogram Club (B) 18
Aero (B) ........... 20
Milwaukee (B) ...... 22
Columbus (B) ....... 24
Bowlers Invite DePaul
A squad of bowlers from DePaul University will try to repeat a previous victory over the Irish keglers tomorrow evening at the local Bowl-Mor lanes. President Ernie Huffman and his squad are just as determined to prove that the slight margin of victory of the last meet will not be repeated again. Huffman hopes that this slight margin may be overcome and the fact the local keglers are rolling on their home alleys should also work to their advantage.
and tournament
RUNNER-UP ANGIULLI
Purdue Wins St. Joe Tourney; ND Third
Notre Dame’s keglers scored their first intercollegiate victory last Saturday evening as they toppled a quintet from St. Joseph’s College at Collegeville, Ind. The victory left the Irish in firm possession of third place in the tournament which was won by the Purdue squad from Lafayette. Valparaiso gained the runner-up position and fourth place was ultimately occupied by the St. Joseph team.
According to the tournament procedure, each team entry bowled two matches, the opponents chosen by the drawing of lots. Notre Dame’s afternoon opposition proved to be the Purdue keglers. The Eoilermakers started out like the proverbial house afire and
VILLAGERS — CHAMPION KEGLERS
Kneeling: Capt. Norm Kapec. Hank Baele, Don White.
Standing: Dick Markiewicz and Fred Tansey.
VETVILLE —THE RUNNERS-UP Left to right: Chuck Perrin. Jack Palmer. Vic Gulyassy. Phil Munning and Don Weibel.
22
captured the first game by a wide margin. Their 947 score, a combination of 193, 204, 141, 196, and 213, was too great too overcome and even though the Irish came back and took the final two games of the match they could not catch up to the boys from Lafayette in total pinfall, the method by which the match was decided. Eventually, the Boilermakers went on to win the tournament by beating Valparaiso University in the 'evening.
In the Purdue match, the scoring honors for the Irish went to Chuck Derriso. His 521 series was topped by a big 192 game. Gene Anguilli and Bob Bairley were also instrumental in helping the Irish to their two games.
While Purdue busied themselves disposing of Valparaiso in the evening doubleheader, Notre Dame was pitted against the St. Joseph squad. Just as in the afternoon match, the Irish were almost buried in a first game avalanche. Being behind 170 pins at the end of the first game, the keglers came back to take the next two games by such decisive margins that they were able to overcome this deficit and go on to win the match on total pinfall.
John O’Brien, the jet-propelled Far-leyite, was the thorn in the side of St. Joseph all evening. His 537 series was topped with a 187 game.
The Valparaiso team rolled the best match score of the tournament. Their total of 2676 pins is the best seen in quite awhile in inter-collegiate circles, although Purdue’s series of 2643 pins certainly demands similar praise.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 14—BASEBALL: Ohio State here.
May 15—BASEBALL: Ohio State here.
TRACK: Michigan State here.
FOOTBALL: Old Timers’ Game, Stadium.
GOLF: Louisville here. TENNIS: at Kentucky.
May 17—GOLF: Michigan here. May 18—BASEBALL: at Michigan.
TENNIS: at Western Michigan.
May 20—BASEBALL: Michigan here.
May 21—TENNIS: at N’western. May 22—BASEBALL: at Michigan State.
• TRACK: Indiana State Meet at Bloomington. GOLF: Indiana Intercollegiate Tourney here.
TENNIS: Purdue here.
PETE KOBLOSH
Irish Play Buckeyes; Seek End of Famine
By VIC DORR
Following another unsuccessful weekend road trip which added two more losses to the record, Coach Jake Kline’s hitless Irish baseball team braces itself today on Cartier Field for the first game of a two-game series with the Ohio State Buckeyes. Taunted by. a double loss to Wisconsin and a humiliating defeat by Notre Dame’s power-packed freshman squad the Klinemen could possibly surprise everyone by backing up their pitching with some hits for a couple of victories.
Like Notre Dame, Coach Floyd Stahl’s Buckeye nine boasts fine fielding and excellent pitching, but unlike the hapless Irish they are not woefully weak at the plate. In the current Western Conference race Ohio State has a firm grasp on third place after having bowed only to Michigan’s rampaging Wolverines.
Heading a talented mound staff for the Buckeyes is Pete Perini, a tall, 220-pound righthander who amassed an enviable record of eight wins and two losses as the Bucks captured second place in Big Nine competition last year. Sharing the choi’es with Perini are two other ace twirlers, Dick Magato and Jack Hammett, with southpaws Gene Brown and Dick Hess serving in relief roles.
Behind the pitchers works a smooth infield and a battery of slugging outer gardeners. First-baseman Fred Taylor was the Bucks’ leading hitter last season and has given a good account of him
self in the clean-up spot so far this year. Captain Norb Ranz, the catcher, third-sacker Dave Wills, shortstop Bob Wey-gant and outfielder Ray Gebhardt share othei- hitting honors with outfielder Alex Verdova and catcher Bob Dudley. If Ohio State’s big guns start roaring as they have in past games Irish pitchers will be in for a rough afternoon.
In the two encounters with Wisconsin last weekend Notre Dame’s losses can be attributed to ineffective hitting alone. In Friday’s contest the Irish were held to three meek little singles by the Badgers’ Jim Lawrence as his teammates garnered six hits — two of them extra base blows — to win 3-1. The Irish hurler, Jack Campbell, pitched good ball, however, and with the exception of the Badger rally on three hits in the fourth inning, the game proved to be a pitchers’ battle. Both Campbell and Lawrence struck out 14 rivals.
To big Walt Mahannah, the losing pitcher- in the second game, goes credit for a brilliant performance and a heart- . breaking defeat. For seven and two-thirds innings the husky Memphis righthander hurled no-hit ball; relinquished only three hits in the entire twelve-inning contest while fanning 10 men; and lost by 2-1 on Badger catcher Bob Wilson’s tremendous four-bagger in the twelfth frame. This gave the Irish their eighth loss in eleven starts and their sixth defeat by a single run. John Creevey, usually a pitcher, who was doubling in the outfield, turned out to be the batting star for Notre Dame as he got three of the six Irish hits.
In a six-inning tilt last week, the varsity dropped a 7-2 decision to Coach Bill Dioguardi’s eager frosh squad. Highlighting the game was Bob Nemes’ splendid mound stint for the first year men and catcher Tom Boland’s long first-inning home run. For four innings the varsity got but one hit while the freshmen scored runs off each of three regular pitchers, Creevy, Campbell and Mahannah. Hitting the ball well, when men were on the bases, the freshmen displayed a batting punch that must have made Jake’s mouth water.
With Coach Kline still searching for a potent power combination, the starting lineup for today’s game with Ohio State is yet uncertain, especially in the outfield. Petrzelka, Kozlik, Koblosh and Martin will hold down their infield posts but the left and right field positions, as well as catcher, may see some more shifting in an attempt to uncover a hitter or two. With some effective plate punch the Irish could turn their fine pitching and fielding team into a winning ball club.
23
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Mariners Invited to Nationals: Lay Plans for Big Things Next Fall By Pete Brown
OVER THE BOUNDING MAIN
The lately arrived Sailing Club in its first appearance served notice that it does not intend to stay perpetually in the late arrival class. In a nine-team intercollegiate regatta, the Notre Dame Club finished third behind Michigan and Purdue. This was done without any practice and in boats that the members had never seen before.
As a result, the club was invited to the National Collegiate regatta at Annapolis later this month. From the national event the skippers and crews for Olympic competition are to be chosen. However, University officials decided that because the club is still in the embryonic stage it would be best that they not attend the National Regatta. The members of the club agreed with this because by their calculations the schools in the east are far superior to anything the midwest can offer. The eastern colleges recognize sailing as a minor sport, while the midwesterners have yet to come to the conclusion that there is a future in sailing.
The idea of the club was born in the minds of Fred Joyce and Ray Bushey.
Because there were no lakes or boats in the vicinity for tests to determine fit members, the two called an organizational meeting inviting anyone who had any sailing experience to attend. From the turnout four other men were chosen to represent the club at the Michigan Regatta. They were Joe Caldwell, Bill Harrington, Charley Burke and Jack Schneider.
Since, from necessity, the season opened and closed with the one regatta, the Club members have now turned their thoughts to big plans for next year. Organization for next year* will be in the fall. Some of the difficulties of this year will be eliminated by that time. The first step foi* prospective members will be a written examination. The bosses of the club claim that such a test can go a long way in proving the fitness of a boater. After that first screening, trials will be run at Diamond Lake which is up the road a bit in Michigan. From these trials men will be chosen for competition.
By student enterprise and student enterprise alone this was accomplished. The members of the club did all the organ
izing. Their trip to Ann Arbor was at their own expense and no excused cuts.
WE'LL SEE TOMORROW
There certainly has been a letdown as far as Notre Dame football is concerned this spring. Last year during the spring all the newspapers claimed that any Saturday scrimmage between the varsity and the reserves would be as tough a game as Notre Dame would face. There is none of that this year. It is surprising what the loss of three men can do.
Tomorrow should give any critic a pretty fair idea how weak the team has grown. It is a foregone conclusion that the varsity will beat the Old Timers, but it is the manner in which they do it that counts.
If by chance you looked at the South Bend Tribune last Sunday, you could not help but notice that Ernie Zalejski got in the scrimmage on Saturday. He did look good and did some smart thinking on one run when he was trapped. If nothing else is attractive in the game, the return of Zalejski should draw a crowd.
ND Linkmen to Challenge Louisville and Wolverines
Louisville tomorrow and Michigan on Monday — that’s the schedule facing Father George Holderith’s golf squad. Both matches are to be played over the University Burke course, but Michigan can possibly upset the Irish applecart despite the home course advantage.
NOTRE DAME'S SAILING TEAM*
Without practice and in strange boats
24
Going into the Louisville match Notre Dame will carry a three-and-three season’s record. Wisconsin handed Notre Dame its second less of the season at Madison 15%-11%. Next came Detroit in the Motor City. The Titans fell before the Gold and Blue 22-5.
Minnesota invaded Notre Dame on Saturday, May 8, and piled up a six-point advantage in the bestball play which aided them in coasting to a 17%- t-9% win. The Gophers took all three doubles matches and held a 7%-l% lead before singles play. Capt. Dick Seidel and Ed Kleffman of the Irish each scored 3-0 wins in the singles, and George Stuhr gained a 1%-1% tie.	•
Northwestern and the Irish got together on Monday, May 10, despite the | rainy weather, and Notre Dame proved t the better mudders by edging the Wild- | --------------------------------------- -
* Kneeling: Bill Harrington, Fred Joyce, Charles Burke. Standing: Joe Caldwell, Jack Schneider, Ray J Bushey.
cats 14-13. Jack Fitzpatrick was the first Irish shotmakei* to break par in competition over the local links this year, firing a one-under par 70. Stuhr’s 72 was next in line, while basketball star Bill Sticklen of Northwestern also shot o 72.
Against Louisville last year, Notre Dame took home an easy 27-9 win. It was the first golf competition between the two schools. Michigan, on the other hand, stands even with Notre Dame in eight outings since the first match in 1938. Th Irish have captured all four meets here at Notre Dame while the Wolverines have finished in front four times at Ann Arbor. Last year Michigan won 21-6.—Jim Butz
YOU CAN
ALWAYS SPOT
A Parker-Winterrowd custom made or ready made suit, sport coat or topcoat anywhere. You’ll know them by the custom made way they fit the owner. Look at those shoulders, look at the smooth lapels, look at the snug collars, and the fit across the back. Then come to our store and shop. Let us show you what we mean by 'FHEY FIT."
Complete selection of gabardines, flannels, shetland cassimers, unfinished worsteds — all moderately priced to fit the college man's budget.
Notre Dame men may use their credit.
Parker-Winterrowd
115^-117^2 N. Main, upstairs (North of Oliver Hotel)
Microtomic VAN DYKE
Tops in Drawing Pencils
For uniform, dean lines on drawings...for white, sharp lines in prints, you can count on the absolute opacity of HI-DENSITY leads in Microtomic “VAN DYKE” drawing pencils. Even the finest details appear free of fuzz or irregularity.
EBERHARD FABER
SPLINTERS from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
The banquet for all fighters and those connected with the most successful Bengal Bouts in history was held Monday, May 3. After the dinner and draft beer ran out, the presentations were made to champions and runners - up. Sweaters were given to all of these men, and the champs also received trophies.
Dominic Napolitano, Bengal Bout trainer for the past 16 years, topped the evening’s
speeches when he gave a short talk that hit everyone at the affair. “Nappy” claims that he is through handling the Bengal fighters because of difficulties which he has encountered in the past several years.
If that is true, the Bengals will find out just how important “Nappy” is to the whole scheme of things.
At any rate, Nap told the boys how proud he is to have been associated with them. He singled out several cases of boys who never have won championships in three years of fighting, but who have made progress. In each case the boys were knocked out the first two years, but they lasted the full three rounds the third year.
“Seeing those boys finish their fights gave me more of a thrill than seeing any champion win his title,” said Napolitano. “I told you boys when we started that no one would get hurt, and I kept my promise. Some of you and your friends
<g>“VAN PYKE** EBERHARD FABER, v •.*
ROUND LIAOS
(8 DEGREES
Round leads from 9Hto7B.
Chisel shaped leads with the same HI-DENSITY quality are available in six degrees.
TRAINER NAPOLITANO For the fighter's good
were puzzled when I had a fight stopped, but it was for your own good. I want to see everyone in the Bengals walk out of the ring.”
It’s up to the Knights of Columbus to see that the Bengal Bouts don’t lose such a man as trainer.
One happy celebrant at the Bengal banquet walked up to Mike Hines, ring announcer for the fights:
“I hear you’re going to play tackle for the Old Timers against the Varsity, Mike,” he said.
“That’s right,” answered Mike.
“I know that they call it the Old Timers game, but isn’t that can-ying things a little too far?”
Kampus Keglers Conclude First Season With Smoker
Monday evening, May 17, will offer the Notre Dame Keglers a chance to rehash the strikes they almost made, the spares they just missed, and all the splits that held them from that dreamed-of 300 game. On that night they will gather at Ramble Inn for an informal Smoker.
Trophies will be awarded to Charley Derrico (Italian Club), high seasonal average, Jim Jennewein (St. Louis Club), high individual single game, Art Arquilla (Italian Club) high individual three game, the Toledo Club, high team three game, and the Syrian-Lebanese Club, high team single game.
Besides these trophies, there will be cash prizes for every team in the League. The affair will climax the Notre Dame Bowling League’s first season and a big crowd is expected.
I
25
"HIT 'EM LOW, FELLOWS"
TURN TO PAGE 29 FOR TODAY'S LESSON"
P^p	—3
Tiny Athletes Plus Friend Equals Powerful Squads
By BILL LYMAN
Frank Leahy hatched one of those big, contagious smiles of his when he heard the name Dick Friend.
“He’s doing a great job out there at South Bend Catholic, isn’t he?” said Frank. “Dick Friend has all the qualities it takes to be a good coach.”
Dick is a 27-year-old junior in the Phy-Ed school. Last fall when South Bend Catholic High School needed a coach, Frank Leahy recommended him. Since then an amazing-change has taken place in that school’s athletic prestige.
The little school had never put out a winning ball club. Of its enrollment of 120 boys, only 24 turned out for football. Dick looked them over; they were tiny—159 pounds average. Last season they had only won one game and lost seven. They knew very little about fundamentals.
When the season ended, thsee boys were rated the third best Catholic school team in Indiana; had won a place on the Big Fifty—the top teams in the state; had taken the city Catholic championship by whipping Central Catholic, their arch-rivals, 26-0; and had outrushed every team they played. A series of bad breaks gave them only three wins in seven games, but they had gained plenty of respect from their rivals who don’t like to think about facing them next year.
When basketball season came, Dick looked around for the gym; there was none. The fellows who turned out for practice in a small, made-over room again were tiny. They had speed but very little style. When the season was over, they had won six and lost six against much larger schools.
This spring twelve boys showed up for baseball, but Dick says they’ll make the best team in the history of the school and one of the best in South Bend. He thinks they should win at least three-fourths of their games.
“I like to win,” says Dick, “but in doing it I aim at building character rather than machinery.”
Dick thinks that sports is a part of every young fellow’s proper development. Good conditioning means clean living— no late hours, drinking or smoking.
“Also, in sports,” he says, “you learn to get along with the next fellow. You learn team work, unity . . . and that’s what we need in this country today; we have to learn to work together.”
And Dick stresses these principles in the classroom, too. He teaches Safety, Health, Sociology and Civics besides his coaching. Still more, he sold his ideas to the Father’s Club that he organized. The fathers have backed him by throwing parties and dances to raise money for better athletic facilities. They know Dick is doing them a service by building character in their sons, and they have decided to do everything they can to help him.
“The Phy-Ed training at Notre Dame has taught me a lot about handling youngsters,” says Dick. “Besides being a good teacher, you have to be a good Christian, a good administrator and a good diplomat. ... I think Notre Dame is the greatest school in the country.”
Dick is one of those fellows who always wanted to come to Notre Dame. He always wanted to coach and always idolized Knute Rockne. But he was always poor, had to sell newspapers, work in steel mills or do something to
26
bring in money. That’s why people laughed at him when he’d say some day he’d graduate from Notre Dame.
St. Basil’s in Pittsburgh, where he went to high school, had about 120 students and wasn’t famous for its athletic teams, but Dick decided he’d have to win a scholarship from there or never get to Notre Dame. So, he went out and lettered in football, baseball and basketball.
Basketball was his long suit. He made all-city in 1939 and led St. Basil’s to the state championship. Then he came to Chicago with the team to play in the National Catholic Tournament. St. Basil’s went to the quarter-finals and Dick was named most valuable player of the tourney. Scholarships rolled in from Ohio State, Duke, Pittsburgh, Carnegie Tech and a flock of other schools—but none from Notre Dame.
Dick was discouraged. After getting out of school, he and a few other players formed a basketball team and went barnstorming in every state east of the Mis-sisippi River. This venture was broken up by the war, however, and Dick found his way into the Coast Guard. All this time Notre Dame was in the back of his mind.
After four years in the service, Dick finally got his wish: he made Notre Dame on the G.I. bill.
“It was just one of those lucky strokes,” he says. “Nothing could have made me happier.”
Dick got his first N.D. football uniform from Hugh Devore, and then played a little quarterback for Frank Leahy whom he rates with Knute Rockne among the all-time great coaches. Those four years in the Coast Guard slowed up the old legs, though.
“The spirit was willing, but the flesh was weak,” he says. “So I just contented myself with learning everything I could about the T-formation.”
Then it was that Dick got his break with South Bend Catholic. He began teaching the ‘T’ himself, and his quarterback, Dick Balka, came to Notre Dame. He’d like nothing more than to repay Frank Leahy with a first-rate quarterback, and he thinks the boy may have the stuff.
Three more of last year’s squad went to Marquette where Dick has an eye on a job as backfield coach. Headcoach Murray there has already told Dick he might have an opening for him when he finishes at Notre Dame.
“I love coaching, and I love to work with young fellows,” says Dick Friend. “Thanks to Notre Dame I may get what I want most in life—to be a good college coach.”
Irish Seek Revenge Tomorrow, as Michigan State Opens and Closes Home Track Season
By JIM HOWARD
The cinder classic of the current season will take place on Cartier field at 12:30 tomorrow when Notre Dame meets the Spartans of Michigan State in the only home track meet of the year. Notre Dame, having suffered defeat at Spartan hands during the past few years, will be attempting to regain the winning side of the two school rivalry.
BILL LEONARD
Dianetti was troublesome
Earlier in the season, the Blue and Gold spikesters sustained a technical defeat when they finished behind the Lansing speedsters in the indoor Central Collegiates. Last year, Notre Dame lost both indoor and outdoor dual meets to the flashy trackmen from the north. In addition, the Irish relinquished the indoor Central Collegiate crown to Michigan State for the first time in 13 years.
Since the arrival of Jack Dianetti, the distance king of the midwest, Notre Dame has been unable to surpass the State aggregation. Dianetti is not up to form this year, and Bill Leonard, if he repeats his half-mile time of 1:55.3 recorded at Marquette last Saturday, will be favored to take the 880-yard duel. According to Spartan authorities, Dianetti has not been running the mile this year, because he is saving himself for the Olympics.
Michigan State was defeated by Penn State in a dual meet last Saturday, 77 to 54, while the Irish pulverized the Hilltoppers of Marquette, 93 to 48. Notre Dame also went down before the balance and power of the Nittany Lions in an indoor battle, 58% to 52%. Despite the fact that the Irish were edged by both Penn State and Michigan State in in-door contests, the local thinclads are favorites in tomorrow’s cinder spectacle
because of the Irish strength in the field events. In the dashes, Bob Smith will have top competition from Fred Johnson. Smith has a better opportunity of capturing the 220-yard dash than the century, because Johnson is noted for his speed in the shorter race. Johnson also is the leading contender in the broad jump.
The quarter-mile will also be a feature with Capt. Ernie McCullough, Ray Sobota, and Paul Schwetschenau hitting champion competition from Bob Schepers of the Spartans. The hurdles title is one of the most important in the meet. If Bill Fleming can edge Horace Smith, the Michigan State timber topper, the victory will be virtually assured. However, Smith is one of the crack barrier men in the midwest and bested John Smith, the Irish ace, during the indoor season. It is doubtful if John Smith will be prepared to try the stick events until later in the season, because the injuries sustained in the Kansas Relays are healing slowly.
Last Saturday, Notre Dame won 10 events, and tied one in their overwhelming conquest of Marquette. The Irish swept the mile, half-mile, and two-mile in testimony of their superior distance strength. Lou Tracy won the mile in 4:33, followed by Jim Kittell and Gerry Johnson. Leonard was followed across the finish line in the 880-yard run by Pat Kenny and John Lyons. Reliable Jim Murphy blazed to victory in the two-mile in 9:49. Second place went to Tracy, who was in peak form for the day, and third was captured by Kittell.
Paul Schwetschenau flashed through the 440-yard dash in 50.6 seconds to give the Notre Dame squad a victory in that event. Sobota took third in the quarter against the Hilltoppers. Bob Smith won both the 100 and 220-yard dashes at Marquette; McCullough was third in the century and second in the 220. First in the high hurdles went to Fleming, who also got second in the lows. McDavid was third in both events. In the pole vault, Jim Miller took second behind Roy Potochnik of Marquette. George Sullivan and Floyd Simmons finished one, two in the shot put, and Simmons also took second place with the javelin. John Johnson won the discus title and Sullivan took second place.
A 3:24 time was turned in by the mile relay group of McCullough, Schwetschenau, Bob Smith, and Leonard to win easily from Marquette.
27
BOLAND, FERRYMAN. GILLIS. GIEDLIN AND KENNEDY Worry to be allayed
FROSH NINE
COACH DIO GUARDI AND HIS SQUAD His first and last season
CATCHER BOLAND AND SLIDING MOORE
Some real promise
28
Green Pastures Graze New Stock for Cartier
By VIC DORR
If Jake Kline could use some of this year’s freshman baseball crop on his varsity nine, his worries for the lack of hitters might well be allayed. In this freshman squad, the first since the war, the depleted varsity batting order has a wealth of potential power. From all indications next season’s first string lineup will see many of 1948’s freshmen in key positions.
No longer confined to the far corner of Cartier Field by the scoreboard, Coach Bill DioGuardi’s frosh nine has a diamond all its own. In the vast pasture east of Notre Dame stadium some thirty young basebailers ply their trade daily. Prevented by Big Nine rules from playing other collegiate freshmen teams, the Irish first year men have been scheduling semi-pro outfits from town to get the feel of competition.
Under Coach Bill DioGuardi’s instruction the frosh have rounded into a well-balanced ball team, three-deep in reserves at almost every position. On Cartier Field recently, behind the effective two-hit pitching of Bob Nemes, the frosh trounced Pop Frankel’s Northern Indiana Transit semi-pro team 4-0. The big bats of Dick Giedlin, Tom Boland, and Tom Kennedy and Jim Gillis in particular shelled a quartet of NITC hurlers from the mound as the freshmen backed up Nemes’ fine pitching without an error to bring about the victory.
Heading frosh mound staff are Bob Nemes, a gaunt righthander from Jersey City, N. J., and Skip Rossar, another righthander who hails from Cleveland. With experience behind them both of these prospective pitchers might earn a starting berth on Jake Kline’s first team next year. Backing them up is a wealth of talent including Bill McGee, Bob Hensler, Jack Voit, Ed Sullivan, Schreiner and Tucks.
Batting power is not lacking on the freshman squad. Leading a roster of sluggers are such long ball hitters as Dick Giedlin, Tom Boland, Gene Ferryman and Jim Gillis. Giedlin, a Trenton, N. J., boy, holds down the first sack position, bats and throws left-handed and promises to give Ray Petrzelka a real fight next year. Big Tom Boland, the catcher, hits a powerful ball when he connects. A pull hitter to left field, Boland will be an asset to any varsity nine. Besides his talent with the bat, he is a first-rate backstop. Jim Gillis, the right fielder, is another likely prospect for the Irish regulars next season. A native of Huntington Beach, Calif., Jim covers the outer garden well and doesn’t miss many chances at the plate. In the centerfield slot is Gene Ferryman, from Omaha, Nebraska. He rounds out the quartet of sluggers. Many other names are likely to show up, however as the season progresses. Outfielder Sjoberg, infielders Kennedy, Moore and Murphy handle their chances nicely and show definite talent in the hitting department.
From the prospects he has now Coach DioGuardi might round out a very talented team. It has already shown its potentialities and with more scheduled contests to come greater things can he expected of the Notre Dame freshman baseball squad. This will be Bill DioGuardi’s first and only year with them, however. The Kearny, N. J., grad student has been named as head baseball coach and assistant basketball coach at New Jersey State Teacher’s College, Montclair, N. J., and will assume his duties next fall.
FATHER McMULLEN, HIS SISTER, AND FATHER GALLAGHER Skill and persuasion enchanted the audience
MUSIC
McMullen Captivates
With poise, beauty and talented singing-, Miss Mary Louise McMullen thoroughly captivated her surprisingly large audience in Washington Hall last week. Miss McMullen’s beauty may have lured the large audience to come to the concert, but her voice was the lovely instrument that enticed the group to remain and revel in the music of a well-chosen program.
Though she sang in Italian, French, German and English, Miss McMullen’s diction was precise and sweet throughout the concert. Her German pronunciations were especially fascinating, but it was in the group of delightfully flirtatious French pieces that the audience was charmed completely. It was here that Miss McMullen displayed how smoothly, sweetly and quickly she could sing. Her voice has an adequate volume, but in singing softly, her notes were persistent, more precise and most enjoyable. A lovely young lady singing winsome French songs with skill and persuasion was more than enough to enchant any audience.
In the works sung in Italian, Miss McMullen presented two of Puccini’s most famous arias, “Si Michiamano Mimi” from La Boheme and “Un Bel Di” from Madame Butterfly. Both were sung well, with tasteful emphasis.
The latter, however, was the more beautiful, being absent of florid passages and the extreme pseudo-drama so often connected with the tragic Butterfly.
The group of songs sung in English which concluded the concert were further examples of Miss McMullen’s ability to sing as sweetly as she looked. Her winning personality was injected into each piece. “The Little China Figure” by Leoni was sparkling and cute, while “Vespers” by Frazer-Simpson was a simple tender song given a simple, tender treatment.
Traubel Is Superb
Helen Traubel and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra brought Music Week at Notre Dame to a marvelous conclusion last week. Before a full house in the University drill hall, Madam Traubel gave the anticipated superb performance of mainly Wagnerian music — the music one always associates with Traubel.
After opening the concert with the rousing Prelude to Act III of Lohengrin, the South Bend Symphony, conducted by Edwyn Haymes, performed the Prelude and Love Death from Tristan und Isolde. The strings in this work were unexpectedly smooth, perhaps even suave at times. The orchestra program also included Tschaikowsky’s Overture-Fantasy Borneo and Juliet.
With the able accompaniment of Mr. Haymes and the orchestra Traubel presented her wonderful voice in Elsa’s dream from Lohengrin and Elizabeth’s greeting from Tannhauser. As an encore
she assumed the character of Sieglinde and sang “You Are the Spring” from Die Walkure. The full, eloquent voice completely filled the drill hall with no effort whatever.
Madam Traubel also presented a group of three songs including “The Heavens Are Telling” and “The Drums Loudly Beating,” two fine songs by Beethoven, and the lovely “I’m Wearin’ Awa’, Jean” by Foote, which she sang warmly, with much vocal polish. Returning again to Wagner, Madam Traubel gave a powerful, effective rendition of Isolde’s narrative from Tristan und Isolde. In this last group Traubel was competently, accompanied by Conraad V. Bos at the piano.
The group of encores was varied. With artistry and feeling she sang “I Love You” by Grieg and Frazer-Simpson’s “Vespers.” The concert closed magnificently as she rendered the battle cry, “Ho-Yo-To Ho” from Die Walkure.
Nature Boys Ready To Watch Hamp Rock Drill Hall Monday
The world’s greatest sepia orchestra, led by the master- of vibes, drums, and piano, Lionel Hampton, will make its first appearance at Notre Dame on next Monday evening at 8:15 in the Drill Hall, when it plays a benefit concert for St. Augustine Negro parish of South Bend.
The gross profits of the night’s performance will go to the Negro parish because Hampton has donated the services of his band to this worthy cause. This fine gesture on the part of the band should be rewarded with a rousing attendance of Notre Dame students.
For many months, Notre Dame men have been hoping for just such a concert. For the last two semesters they’ve been fed strictly a classical diet; the Hampton concert will help balance the fare. The Rev. Vincent Thilman, C.S.C., ND ’35, pastor of St. Augustine’s, is responsible for bringing the “Flying Home” man to the campus.
In only eight years this orchestra has become world famous. Probably the greatest contributing factor to this tremendous popularity has been Hampton’s ability to play all types of music, from soft dinner-music to the loudest boogie and swing. In other words, the Hampton band can pick its spots, and thus make the grade with every type of music follower.
As the concert Monday evening is a benefit affair and in no way connected with the University, students will NOT be admitted with ID cards nor athletic books. Bring your wallets, boys.
—Tom Murray
29
Names Make News
CAMERAMAN CHAPMAN
Despite the weather
In the Public Eye
On the campus last week with Notre Dame’s official photographer, WALLY KUNKEL, was CHARLES T. CHAPMAN, free-lance cameraman from Evanston, Ill. Though hindered by the Indiana spring weather, Chapman shot up plenty of Technicolor film to be released by the University.
JOHN MEANY, from Chicago, Ill. a graduate student in political science delivered an address last week to the student body of Manchester College (Ind.). His talk on the “Racial and Nationality Aspects of the President’s Civil Rights Program,” along with the four others presented, was transcribed for broadcast over radio station WOWO of Fort Wayne. . . .
In Cincinnati last week JOSEPH L. BAUER welcomed an opportunity to speak with Senator Robert A. Taft, Ohio’s fair-haired boy and a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination. During the course of their little conversation Bauer, a commerce senior from South Bend, got around to informing the good senator of his relatively poor showing in the recent mock Republican convention here. In response the doughty lawmaker was visibly perturbed. . ..
In an address at a luncheon of the Serra Club of South Bend last week, the Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, professor of religion, held up “the need for religious instruction and the wisdom of making
other arrangements that will be .just and fair to all” in view of the Supreme Court’s recent decision rendering religious instruction in public schools “unconstitutional.” While speaking on the subject “Catholics and the School Question,” Father O’Brien also pointed out that Catholics have an enormous stake in the working out of a satisfactry arrangement because more than half of the Catholic children of elementary school age attend public schools. . . .
WILLIAM J. ELSEN, assistant professor of speech, will represent Notre Dame at the second annual conference of the Indiana College Teachers of Speech. The meeting will be held at Indiana State Teachers College, Terre Haute, today and tomorrow. At last year’s conference Mr. Eisen was appointed a member of the organization’s executive committee. This year he will participate in panel discussions on the speech needs of the college student. . . .
Last week at the annual meeting of the western division of the American Philosophical Association held at Knox College, Galesburg, Ill., Professor ALOYSIUS R. CAPONIGRI and the Rev. LEO R. WARD, C.S.C. both of Notre Dame’s philosophy department, took leading roles. Professor Caponigri read a paper entitled “Literature and Ideas” and Father Ward led a discussion on metaphysics. . . .
To the Victors
Winner of a brand new Kelvinator refrigerator is Miss VELMA WUKO-VITS, attractive blonde secretary to Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN, Director of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute. Miss Wukovits picked her prize last week as one of the 52 winners from the Michiana area in the Electrical Living Week essay contest conducted recently. Her winning essay chosen from 1800 entries on the subject “Electrical appliances offer me the greatest value for my dollars because
At the recent convention of the Midwestern Political Scientists Association held in Indianapolis, Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, professor of Political Science was chosen as one of the officers of the association. As chairman of the Program Committee, Dr. Bartholomew
VELMA WUKOVITS
Because of an essay
will draw up the agenda for next year’s convention to be held in April at the University of Wisconsin. . . .
The Alumni Association of the American Academy in Rome recently announced the winners of prizes in its 21st annual collaborative competition sponsored by the Association for students of architecture, landscape architecture, painting and sculpture in the colleges and art schools of the United States. The problem was to design a cosmetic sales and manufacturing center which would attract people, be effective advertising for the products, and eventually become the “Showplace of America.” For Notre Dame an honorable mention was won by the team of JOHN W. TRUEMPER, architect; RICHARD P. MULLER, landscape architect; GEORGE LEE, painter; and CARLOS COLON, sculptor. . . .
With many Notre Dame men in evidence a terrific ovation was rendered for St. Mary’s ELAINE BRUCK last Mon- . day evening at her recital in St. Angela’s Hall. The Elyria, Ohio soprano is a senior in music and the recital was a requirement for her degree. Accompanying Miss Bruck at the piano was Mary Terstegge, of Louisville, Ky.
Engaged to DICK GORMAN, Dome photographer and commerce junior from Chicago, Ill., Miss Patricia Northrop, St. Mary’s junior also from Chicago. . . .
Married to CHARLIE KEPP, commerce senior from Philadelphia, Pa., Miss Connie Norwich, on May 1 in St. Joseph’s Catholic Church, Flemmington, N. J. . . .
30
Earth's History in Fossils Added to Museum Exhibits
The Notre Dame Science Museum has added to its list of exhibits a group of fossils which represent the history of the earth from the Cambrian period, approximately sixty million years ago, up to the end of the Glacial period. This new addition to the museum should benefit students of geology, anthropology, and sociology.
The display, entitled “The Earth’s Geological History Interpreted from Fossil Life of Each Period,” shows specimens characteristic of each of the thirteen periods dating back about a billion and a half years. The various fossils are arranged chronologically and show at a glance the periods from which they came.	.
Among these are specimens of coal from Pennsylvania, which represent a period thirty-five million years ago; a shark tooth of six million years; and two of the oldest fossil specimens ever found in North America — their age has been estimated at approximately one and a half million years.—Bob Savage
100 English Profs Attend Association Meeting Here
Prof. John L. Bloxsome, of Rose Polytechnic Institute, Terre Haute, was elected president of the Indiana College English Association last weekend at its 13th annual meeting. The conference was held on the campus with approximately 100 profs attending.
A panel expressed the opinion that a working understanding of grammar not only is necessary for propel* structure in composition, but also for the correct understanding of the English language. Notre Dames’ Prof. Frank Moran participated in this panel.
The Headquarters for ARROW
ARROW CAN REALLY
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
Indeed, yes!
Our punning may be poor, but our T shirts and basque shirts are well-nigh perfect for golf, tennis, and beach wear.
Fine, full-combed cotton T shirts from SI. Basque shirts in solid colors and stripes from SI.25.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES ------------------------■ ■—■----------► UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Larus & Brother Company Richmond, Virginia
31
CAMPUS CONSCIENCE
Tiny Religious Bulletin Has 10,000 Readers
From his small apartment in Dillon Hall, the Reverend William Craddick, c.s.c., edits the smallest Notre Dame publication in size, but the largest in circulation—the Religious Bulletin. This publication, which is printed on ordinary letter size mimeograph paper, has a total daily circulation of 10,000 copies. Of these, 6,000 are distributed on campus and the remainder are mailed to subscribers. It is printed five days a week during the school year.
The Bulletin was first published in the fall of 1921 by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., then Prefect of Religion, who later became president of the University and military delegate to the Armed Forces in World War II. In writing of the Bulletin a few years after its inception, Bishop O’Hara said that it was started during the fall mission to call attention “in a whimsical fashion, to certain irregularities that had come under observation.” He continued that “other irregularities” occurred the next day and brought forth another Bulletin.
After the mission was over, the Bulletin ceased publication, but the students clamored for more. At first it came out only two or three times a week, but in a short time, because of the demand, it was published every day except Saturday and Sunday. The publication days have remained the same ever since. Until 1931 only 150 copies were printed each day. Some were posted on campus bul-
HOT OFF THE PRESSES As far off as China . . .
By PETE BROWN
letin boards and the remainder were made available to those desiring copies. As with the initial publication, the demand exceeded the supply and in 1931 door-to-door distribution was instituted.
When Bishop O’Hara became president of the University, his job was taken by the Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., who is now president. Father Cavanaugh was followed by the Reverend Frank Gartland, C.S.C.; the Reverend John Lynch, C.S.C.; and the present Prefect of Religion, Father Craddick.
Father Craddick, who took over in 1942, is justifiably proud of the worldwide circulation of his publication. During the war he received letters commenting on the Bulletin from Sicily, New Caledonia, China, Hawaii, England, some ships at sea and all points north, east, west and south. The Bulletin’s best war story in the estimation of Father Craddick was about a graduate who was injured very seriously while serving in Europe. After his recovery he returned to the States and met a classmate whom he had not seen for six years. The classmate expressed his sorrow upon hearing of the former’s injury. It seems that the second man had read about the injury in a copy of the Religious Bulletin he had picked up in China.
The Bulletin in its topics has always been guided by the traditional religious program at Notre Dame. It is used to remind students of their religious duties and to stir them from lethargic habits. Father Craddick claims that the mimeographed page takes the place of a daily five-minute sermon to which the students would not listen.
None of the editors has ever made any pretense at giving the Bulletin grammatical perfection. In controversial topics the language is usually exaggerated to get the writer’s point across. In 1944 Father Craddick commented very strongly on an article in a national magazine in which a Presbyterian min-istei* sanctioned cremation and the abandonment of cemeteries. The arguments by Father Craddick for cemeteries and against cremation were picked up by some mortician trade magazines. At
EDITOR AT WORK . . . the lethargic were stirred
last count five publications had carried a reprint of that Bulletin.
All the writing of the Bulletin is done by Father Craddick, but for the art work he depends on some student deft with a sketching pencil. His present assistant is Pat Weishapl of Norfolk, Nebraska. In between his regular duties as Prefect of Religion, which include hearing confessions, giving Communion and visiting the sick, Father Craddick squeezes in some time to write the Bulletin copy. After he writes it, he sends it to the University mimeograph department, where the stencil is cut and the copies run off. All this is done the morning the Bulletin is circulated. Six men deposit the copies under all campus doors.
A younger brother to the daily bulletin, the Weekly Bulletin, came into being during the war. In it are reprints of the four best daily bulletins in a given week. At present the mailing list for this edition includes 5700 names. This includes people from all walks of life and from every continent in the world. One of the earliest comments on the Weekly Bulletin came from the Catholic chaplain at Attica State Prison, Attica, New York, in which he said, “I enjoy reading it. On many occasions it supplies me with valued sermon material and the men in my ‘college’ really go for Notre Dame wisdom.”
The smile on Father Craddick’s face is as broad as the Bulletin’s circulation when he reads that letter.
32
Professor Encyclical
Rock Bottom Prices for Top Rung Morality
By JIM KENNEDY
If you want to get into a fast-moving conversation on economics, sociology, religion, writing or business promotion just sit down to a five minute cup of coffee with this gentleman named Brown of the economics department. Friendly, hard-working Francis Brown is actualizing an idea whose scope includes all of these items and a good number more thrown in, fol’ he is bringing the social teachings of the key papal encyclicals down to the level of the student. His objective is not confined simply to those of his immediate classes but to students of all Catholic colleges and universities in the United States and to seminaries, high schools, and industrial schools.
For a number of years, during his studies for a doctorate in sociology and economics at Catholic U. and throughout his teaching career, Dr. Brown has been convinced of the necessity of spreading the teachings of the encyclicals. There is something in them “for the man on the street and everybody else,” and he set himself to the task of bridging the gap between the two.
Being by profession a teacher and interested primarily in the lines of education, the young doctor diagnosed a breakdown, -without changing the official text, into simple, understandable sections with a master outline and a quick-reference index. Too often he had seen students shun completely its unrelentingly heavy thought, or hang it up after turning only the first few pages.
Shortly after arriving at Notre Dame in the fall of 1946, Dr. Brown decided to put his idea to the test. Finishing his labors on a breakdown of Quadragesimo Anno, chosen, he says, “because it seemed the most difficult to do,” he sought a publisher. The interviews with various commercial book publishers proved to be of little encouragement, and the delays involved were appalling. But the need and possibilities were too great to die in the offering and the solution to such problems of publication was realized finally in a new publishing house, Outline Press, Inc. founded by Dr. Brown and two of his brothers in Chicago.
In October last year the Outline Press offered to the public its first in a series of the papal encyclicals. The sale of their edition of Quadragesimo Anno— On Reconstruction of the Social Order— was immediate and its rapid success somewhat unexpected. Within a period of four months it had found its way into
DR. FRANCIS BROWN
Down to earth
85 institutions and at present is being used by such schools in the east as Holy Cross and St. Bonaventure, in the far west by Loyola of Los Angeles, in the midwest by Rosary and Notre Dame. Catholic in teaching, it is also catholic in circulation. It can be found on the shelves of book dealers in the far off Philippines, Ireland, Canada, and Cuba. Neivsweek considered it i m p or t a n t enough for a story in its Religious section, the magazine Today carried an article recently in its publication, and orders for copies continue to arrive daily at the offices of the publishing house at 2308 W. Van Buren St., Chicago, Ill. Interestingly enough, requests have been received from Protestant laymen as well as Catholic who desire a simplified edition of the encyclical for their own use.
Though their first venture has all the earmarks of a profitable investment, they are far from being satisfied, and their problems still are many. “As we fully realized from the beginning, one of the greatest difficulties is the price of 50 cents. But that is simply something to be contended with. In any case the fact remains that this price is strictly rock bottom. We wanted to do something worthwhile at a lower” price but nothing could be done.” Theoretical problems of production and distribution are one thing in a classroom but quite another in the real economic world, but “it’s all very ' fascinating.”
Dr. Brown and his brothers are going ahead with their plans for a series of
encyclical publications. Regarded by many along with Qtiadragesimo Anno as masterful definitions of the ideal Christian social order, Rerum Novarum !s scheduled for early release. The letters On Atheistic Communism, and On Christian Marriage will also appear soon.
As the man behind this tremendous scheme so simply and convincingly describes it, “we’re not up in dreamland, we’re out to push these ideas across. And the business end is the only intelligent way of handling it.”
Fr. Sweeney to Open 3-Day Senior Retreat
Rumors travelling along Notre Dame’s lush, green grapevine last week brought mixed responses from the 800-odd members of the senior class. The idea of a three-day retreat for upperclassmen on the brink of departure from the University’s protective walls came as a distinct surprise to most. Within a very short time, however, the plan’s reception had jelled into near-unanimous approval.
To tie the strings together class officers had rounded up an imposing array of spiritual advisors. The retreat is scheduled to commence at 7:30 p.m. Friday, May 21. At that time Father Robert Sweeney will conduct a conference on the subject, “Why We Should Leave Notre Dame in Good Spiritual Condition,” prefacing this discussion with instruction on how to make a General Confession. The Rosary at the Grotto followed by Confession in Sacred Heart Church will conclude the first day’s program.
Saturday’s schedule will get underway with Mass and instruction. At nine o’clock Father Thomas Brennan will conduct a session on “Being a Catholic in 20th Century America,” to be followed by a discussion of the “Catholic Family Man” led by Father Theodore Hesburgh.
The general topic, “Responsibility of Catholics in Their Professions,” will feature the afternoon’s activity. At this time those men making the retreat will split up into five groups, each specializing on one phase of this general subject. These panels will be conducted by Fathers Sheehan, Doheny, Sheedy, Frank Cavanaugh and Boland. At 3:30 p.m. Father Louis Putz will speak on “Opportunities in the Lay Apostolate.”
The conference side of the retreat will come to a close on Saturday night when Father Eugene Burke will speak to retreatants on the subject, “The Spiritual Legacy of Notre Dame.” Again, the day’s program will conclude with recitation of the Rosary at the Grotto and the hearing of Confessions in the Church.
The closing Mass of the retreat will be celebrated at eight o’clock Sunday morning. Subsequently, members of the
33
COLLEGE PARADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
GO FLY A KITE
Down at Butler University the Sigma Nu sorority is reviving an annual contest for campus coed organizations. March 17th, St. Patrick’s Day, will mark the date of the Sigma Nu kite flying contest. Rules pennit a ground crew of two for each kite, and any coed organization is eligible to enter. The kites must be off the ground within ten minutes, but each group will be allowed to have two kites in case of mishap. Spirits should be flying high that day.
triculates until he completes his training, with emphasis placed upon the technical phases of his studies.
A HOLY STENCH
The Greyhound, Loyola of Baltimore publication, reports that the Student Chapel will be closed for one day in order that some unfinished and unpleasant business may be taken care of. It seems that a skunk has decided to lodge underneath the chapel, but skunks will be skunks, so drastic action has to be
taken. Incidentally, the power of prayer didn’t seem to phase the poor kitty — a novena was just begun the day the polecat took up its residence, and because of the novena, no action could be taken for the nine days following the respected beast’s arrival.
SOUND OFF!
Apparently ND has no patent on ex-G.I.’s. In a recent session of an English class at Washington University in St. Louis, the professor quoted the passage from Milton’s “Paradise Lost” which reads: “And the devil called forth his commanding officers to give them instructions.” Said ex-private Jones, “Just as I thought.”	—Student Life
PAGING ST. PETER . . .
The rigors of registration are not peculiar to Notre Dame, if we can believe the Mundelein College Review. In that publication was reported the story of the small voice heard inquiring meekly at the Loyola religion desk, “Where does a Protestant go to register?”
A Scotsman had to send an urgent telegram, and not wishing to spend more money than necessary, wrote like this: “Bruises hurt erased afford erected analysis hurt too infectious dead.”
The Scotchman who received it immediately decided it read: “Bruce is hurt, he raced a Ford. He wrecked it, and Alice is hurt too. In fact, she’s dead.”	—Florida Alligator
We have just received a copy of the Purdue Daily Tribune, advertised as the “Campus’ Greatest Newspaper.” It is identical in makeup and copy with its namesake from the Windy City, even to the Varitype type of print. The news, political comments, and sports news are all, needless to say, in accordance with the satirical makeup of the paper. We don’t pretend to know the deep motivating purpose behind this publication, but we do know that it is a much more effective manner of presenting clean, enjoyable humor to the American college student than a so-called “humor magazine.” By the way, a certain Don of Michigan City reports in Orch Ard’s column that just because Notre Dame beat Purdue 22-7 in football it doesn’t mean they won as easy as pi.
THE REEL LOWDOWN ...
Production of a movie depicting the life of a typical engineering student is just getting under way at Detroit University. According to the Varsity News, the film will record the career of a young engineer from the time he ma-
1ARCT AMERICAN TENNIS mmSOUXED TOR. EIGHT UMPIRES— TODAY THERE JUSE15 OFFICIALS TOR. A SINGLE. AtATCH/
mi OR OUTZ
well, They
OUGHTA
COME UP Wft "ra'RjGHT. answer/
...ONE UMPIRE, TEN LIMESMEN,
ONE NET JUDGE,TWO TOOT-FAULT dDDGCS AnP A REFEREE WO JOST SETTLES DISPUTES'....
TWINS OF THE COURTS
BOTH THE FIBER-SEALED
WRIGHT&DIT50N DAVIS CUP AND THE FIBER-WEEDED SPALDING KRO-BAT TENNIS
rackets have BEEN PLAYED FOR YEARS BY THE BEST/
Bur'THEY
SHOULD GET
BOTH MADE BY SPALDING

34
Research Program Produces Technique for Tapering Molten Nylon Bristles
Difficult mechanical problems solved by Du Pont chemists and engineers to make nylon paintbrushes practicable
Nylon bristles used in toothbrushes and hairbrushes are uniform in diameter— that is, they are "level.” But paintbrushes made from such bristles did not paint well. Studies of the best natural bristles showed that they were tapered, so a research program to produce tapered nylon bristles was started.
Some difficult mechanical problems were encountered. Level brush bristles were being made by extruding molten nylon through spinneret openings designed to produce filaments of perfectly uniform diameter. A new technique had to be found to make tapered ones. Since it was not practical to taper the filament after cooling and drawing, a precise taper had to be put in just as the nylon emerged molten from the spinneret. And it had to survive the drawing operation, in which nylon is stretched to several times its original length!
Techniques originated in laboratory
The original idea for solving this problem came from Du Pont chemists, who
worked out the techniques in the laboratory, in the somewhat crude form represented in the accompanying diagram. It being largely a mechanical problem, chemical and mechanical engineers were called in to cooperate soon after the studies got under way. After further laboratory development, the engineers put the operation on a production basis.
The final result was a highly efficient process for tapering nylon bristles. As the molten filament emerges from the spinneret, pinch-rolls driven by a series of gears pull it slowly, then quickly. The size of the filament varies with the speed of pulling—thick diameters resulting at slow speeds and thin diameters at fast. Next the nylon goes to the drawing operation, where it is stretched by rollers to give it strength and resiliency.
Engineers designed special machines
Following spinning and drawing, in which many filaments are handled simultaneously, the nylon is "set.” Then it goes to a special machine, designed by Du Pont engineers, which "feels out” the crests and troughs and cuts the bristle at these points. This type of design was necessary because of the unavoidable small variations in the length of individual bristles. Sorting the bris-
Present state of development of the “spin-draw” machine evolved from the crude laboratory apparatus shown in the diagram below.
ties and sandpapering their ends completes the process.
Many techniques contributed to the development of the optimum properties of nylon in tapered bristles. At the laboratory stage, x-ray studies were made to learn the effect of various degrees of crystalization on bristle drawing and setting. Numerous devices were designed to test the bristles—for example, a machine that simulates the abrasive effect on a brush swept back and forth over a surface. Even after manufacture was established, high-speed stroboscopic photography and other stroboscopic studies were employed to improve coordination in the various operations and make a more uniform product.
The development of these bristles furnishes another striking example of the great variety of problems, often intricate, that may arise out of the discovery of a new substance like nylon.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
Diagrammatic representation of the first laboratory apparatus used Io establish the principle of making nylon from molten plastic. (From an early patent.)
What are the opportunities in development work?
The conception of an idea in a research laboratory is merely the starting point at; Du Pont. Men with training in mechanical, electrical, metallurgical, and chemical engineering are required to demonstrate the practicality of the laboratory findings, including small-scale operation of the new process. Even after the full-scale plant is operating, development work is continued to improve efficiency. Write for booklet, “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2518-A Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRlf
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
1
TED WILLIAMS
BOSTON RED SOX
STAN MUSIAL
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS
BOSTON BRAVES* . BOB ELLIOTT VOTED MOST VALUABLE HAYEK IN THE NATIONAL LEAGUE J
smokutr
f "I IE STEHEIE LI)
BUCKY HARRIS
MANAGER OF WORLD'S CHAMPION NEW YORK YANKEES
CHAMPION N. Y. YANKEES'
ide Dimaggio
VOTED MOST VALUABLE PLAYER IN THE AMERICAN LEAGUE

THE
Warette

Cigarette
NOTICE IS THEIR MlUMESS
EWELL BLACKWELL
CINCINNATI REDS
LWAIS
Copyright 1948, Liccett & Myim Tobacco Co.