'"-..._ ~ 
'-.._ \·,
'~ 

Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

---'---------------------­
Address ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.oox _years=$___ 
I 
I
': 
I 
! 


SCHOLASTIC 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine March 1, 1990 
COVER 
7Who Pays The Price? Notre Drune's investment policy in South Africa remains a controversial issue by Jeffery Long 

FEATURES 
·
11Safety First 
Escorts in Day-Glo vests light up the night as student-run SafeWalk begins operation by Karen Kenney 


SPORTS. 
14 Then and Now The author takes a nostalgic look at Bengal Bouts past and reflects on the present by Jim Maggio 
:l¥i~v~c~ti<l!l reriods.at the I lniuo_,;,., .....,.,.., .... 
:QO/ye~fand _back issues are 
'f8ns or.the entire editorial board of 
· · cipfuion ofthemajority of the While they lost...close-out on original designs 



/)_/:'.i:,:·-::,:.)::= ..::.·:, 
-~\\/i•.·••':' 
U..-'-1.......... 
~<~~~~


-~~>R9PM.. MP¥~
~FREE.LOCALCALLS
/fi<; ,.;::-.;::,:-:, .:,.. ·::;•', ·:, •.:-··:·-:.·-,: :'-·'-·::-·::·· :-_·· ··-.::··>, i-'·\::::\.?' '• •,. 
SCHOLASTIC 
ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
See Michael Jump, See Michael Fly 

Jordan's high-flyin' aerial circus snubs the law ofgravity. 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 

Yo,professor!WhatmakesMichaelJordanjumpsohigh? That was the question put to Douglas H. Kirkpatrick, a professor of astronautics at the U.S. Air Force Academy who recently made his television debut in a Nike™ shoe commercial. A brief from The Chronicle ofHigher Education indicated further that the commercial, first broadcast during the NBA's annual all-star game, also features Mr. Jordan and actor-director Spike Lee, who poses the question. And the answer? "Michael Jordan overcomes the acceleration of gravity by the application of his muscle power in the vertical plane, thus producing a low-altitude earth orbit," responds Kirkpatrick. 


Rock and roll, baby! It's showtime for Dick Vitale! Vany's Collectibles, Inc., under exclusive license, has developed and is marketing a collectible figurine of college basketball's No. 1Ambas­sador. The diaper dandy on today's figurine front is a facsimile of the ever entertaining (?) and colorful sports commentator. The 'Dickie Doll' is hand molded and painted in Italy, and retails for $19.95 plus shipping and handling. 
Ifthe shoe fits, steal it! Or so went the philosophy of a shoe thief who was recently apprehended by police on the University of Wisconsin­Madison campus. According to the National On-Campus Report, the culprit, a professor from a small Iowa college, had been for five years stealing shoes from students who had kicked them off while studying in libraries at several schools in the Midwest The man was caught when someone noticed a pair protruding from his backpack. 
Some students at Penn State find the dining hall: food hard to swallow, not because of its taste, but rather due to the music piped into the dining areas. The Weekly Collegian reports that rock music may soon be banished from dorm commons and dining hall areas amidst protests by the American Family Association's local chapter, who contend that certain lyrics are difficult to stomach. Songs about sex out of marriage, drugs and "awful things" launched AFA's combat "The lyrics (ofrock songs) are totally against what (Christian) people believe in," said local AFA president Bob Bowen. The group wants the dorms and dining halls to play either classical or Christian music or no music at all. However, the response to Bowen's suggestion has shown little support. 
The traditional moniker of "four-year college" may soon be a catch-phrase of days gone by. A private college association study recently found that only about 15.5 percent of the students who entered college in 1980 earned their degree in the normal four-year timeframe, as reported by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Graduating within four years is "a thing of the past," concluded Oscar Porter of the National Institute oflndependent Colleges and Univer-. sities, which studied the academic progress of 28,000 students whd were freshmen in 1980. D 

MUS IC/ DAVE HOLSINGER 

The group Wire continues to infiuence the music industry 
You probably remember a few years easily seen from their punk phase into what (and remain) social critics and skeptics like ago on R.E.M.'s Document album the band has become today. many of their musical contemporaries. But that one ofthe songs, "Strange" was The middle phase becomes a showcase of the way in which these social criticisms are credited to "Gilbert-Lewis-Newman-Goto-strangely inspired songs and unique effects presented doesn't force you to listen to bed." You probably said, "Oh yeah, them. You might say that where the just some other weird band that Sex Pistols shouted their ideas in R.E.M. decided to cover." That is, your face, Wire mumbles them at unless you'd previously listened to you from behind. Wire and realized that they're one of So why has no one ever heard of the biggest influences on R.E.M. 's them?Their overall lack of stature in sound. Wire may be in fact the most comparison to The Sex Pistols and influential unknown punk band ever The Clash in terms of revolutioniz­to exist. ing the way people view rock and roll A new release on Restless Retro, On may be due to their indirect and sur-Returning (1977-1979), gives a real real approach to the punk phenome­insight into this little known and little non. Even down to the cover art on credited band. The Wire sound their albums, Wire gives little indi­evolves through this album from the cagon of being the musical revolu­primal thrash of "12XU" and "Mr. tionaries that they truly are. Suit" through the tracks from "Chairs In sum, this album might be best Mi~ing" and "154," which have also described as "a greatest hits album been re-released on Restless Retro. that never was." All of the songs The compilation includes Wire's from On Returning are tremendous should-have-been punk anthem '.'I pieces of work from a thinking-Am The Fly," their answer to "God Wire's newest work, On Returning(1977-1979). man's punk band. By rights, they Save the Queen" or the highly-tauted that place the band well outside the punk should have been hits, but the approach may "London Calling." mainstream. By the later tracks such as "40 have been a little too weird for most listeners The group's sound is predominantly char-Versions" and "A Touching Display," their to be able to grasp. That doesn't mean that acterized by a tinny,jangly guitar buzz that change to an atmospheric, minimalist guitar this album isn't worth checking out, though. has remained a staple of the Wire sound band is complete. The sound of these two Rather, it's definitely one to put into the col-even up to their last single, "Eardrum tracks is easy to follow into their later re-lection. . Buzz." As the band progresses from the leases such as "The Ideal Copy" or "A Bell thirty or forty second long early punk head-is A Cup Until It Is Struck." Dave Holsinger Is a freshman residing In janglers into the later tracks, the transition is Lyrically, Wire's members have been St. Edward's Hall. 
WEEK IN DISTORTION/ROGER HIPP 
Where Have You Gone, Bugs Bunny? 
I don't remember very much from my introductory philosophy course. I have two theories about this apparent mem­ory loss. Maybe my mind registers a blank because the course exposed me to subtle, elusive-truths, which I must continue to grapple with before I can fully understand them and incorporate them into my mental framework. Then again, maybe it has some­thing to do with the fact that I slept through most of the lectures. It's difficult to say. One of the few things I do remember is that it's nearly impossible to prove the existence of anything beside my own mind. For ex­ample, I can't be certain that my left hand exists, since it could just be a figment of my imagination. This kind of thinking can come in pretty handy when you're stressing over that big exam. Just ask yourself, "Hey, what's the big deal? Why am I losing sleep over this test when I'm not even sure it exists?" The main problem with this ap­proach is you might flunk out unless you can convince your professor that the exam doesn't exist Ofcourseheorshemay not be as philosophically inclined as you are. It's not only the times which have changed, though. We've changed quite a bit, too. When we were kids, we would often set our alarm clocks so we could get up early enough to watch all of the cartoons. Cartoons were the greatest thing around, the highlight of the week. What could possib I y be better than the Bugs Bunny/Road Runner Hour? Nowadays, the Saturday morning lineup is dominated by the Smurfs. Clearly, our soci­ety is going downhill, and fast. Sure, Smurfs are cute, if you like blue dwarfs who use the word "Smurf' at least three times in every sentence, If only there were a Wile E. Smurf who constantly fell off cliffs, plummeted several thousand feet, only to be hit on the head by an anvil, which would then set offan avalanche. Now that's entertainment. 
Sometimes we would even sit through part ofJim Bob's Way Too Early Farm Report, to make sure we wouldn't miss the first few minutes of Hong Kong Phooey. But these days, the idea of setting the alarm for Satur­day seems pretty strange to most of us. In fact, a recent Observer poll revealed that eighty-three percent of the student body de­fines "waking up early" as "getting out ofbed before brunch is over." 
However, the decline in our quality of life 

As we grow older, it becomes evident that comedy is not pretty. 
isn't limited to cartoons. Clothes were defi­nitely better when we were growing up, too. By Congressional mandate, there was only one brand of boys' pants in the entire nation: Sears Toughskins™. Those pants were fan­tastic. They had all the features: reinforced knees, sturdy riveting, you name it. Sure, the Levi's 501 's™ we wear today might be more comfortable, but they don't come in your choice of ten colors. like good old Toughskins™ did. 
Toughskins™ were so great, I think they could make a comeback. Imagine this com­mercial: a good-looking Notre Dame stud is walking in the desert (probably on his way to the Fiesta Bowl.) A fast girl in a hot car pulls up and asks, "Excuse me, are those Sears Toughskins™ jeans you're wearing?" I know that I'd be wearing them again. 
It seems like sports have declined as well. When I was a kid, I admired my baseball heroes for their towering home runs, their clutch hitting, and their spectacular diving catches. I do not recall admiring them for pulling salaries in excess ofthe gross national product of, say, the entire southern hemi­sphere. Also, we rarely heard the term "labor dispute" in connection with sports, since playing ball for a living was not considered labor by serious people. 
And sadly enough, breakfast cereal is not what it used to be, either. Actually, it's quite a bit more than it used to be, since the number of breakfast cereals on the market doubles every three months or so. Eventually, we might see large shopping malls that sell only cereal. The problem is ·that all these newer cereals aren't any good. When we pulled our high chairs up to the breakfast table, there was an unwritten law that all cereals had to contain at least twenty-fl ve percent real food. Even Cap'n Crunch™ pretended to be nutri­tious, at least in an abstract sense. 
Nowadays, new cereals are developed con­sisting entirely of marshmallows, or some­times sugar-coated marshmallows. (Notice I am not mentioning the so-called oat bran cereals at all. These are not cereals. These are tree trunk shavings.) Most of these new cereals are named after movies or Nintendo games. I weep for my country. 
The U.S. faces some serious problems: drug abuse, poor educational standards, and Geraldo. But we can't make any progress on these issues until we get back to the basic&, Someday I'll run for president. If I can't balance the budget, a~ least I'll get some decent cartoons for our kids. Look for me. I'll be the candidate wearing Toughskins. O 
Roger Hipp Is a sophomore Lelsur~ Studies major residing In DIilon Hall. 


NEWS 








Who Pays The Price? 
Notre Dame's investment policy in South Africa remains a controversial issue as financial freedom meets moral obligation 


BY JEFFREY LONG 

In these times of rapid worldwide politi­cal change, one of the problems that has yet to be resolved is South Africa's pol­icy of apartheid, of separating its people based on the color of their skin, a policy imposed and enforced by South Africa's white minority. Although Nelson Mandela, leader of the recently unbanned African National Congress, has been released from prison, and the white-dominated government of South African President F.W. De Klerk is now talking serious! y about negotiating with the opposition movement, the apartheid sys­
' tern is still firmly in place. Many apartheid laws, such as the infamous Pass Laws, which required non-whites to carry forms that identified them by race, have been repealed or eroded. But true democ­racy, "one person, one vote," has yet to be­come a reality in South Africa. Despite recent moves toward change, the divestment debate thus remains a live issue, an issue that still touches us at the University of Notre Dame. The divestment debate centers around the 
answer to the question, "What is the correct response to apartheid for those outside of South Africa?" In the words ofFather Oliver 
F. Williams, how can we, "do justice in a land of violence?" The debate is not over whether apartheid should be opposed, for apartheid is a system that has received universal moral condemnation beyond South Africa's bor­ders. The debate is over what forms of opposition are appropriate for bringing about a speedy and relatively nonviolent transition to a truly democratic South Africa. More specifically, the debate is over what eco­nomic pressures, ifany; should be imposed upon South Africa's rulers-its wealthy white minority-in order to bring them to the negotiating table. 
Most active opponents of apartheid, par­ticularly those within South Africa, claim that tough economic sanctions, including divestment, are necessary to bring about a quick end to apartheid without a bloody civil war. This is the view of the African National Congress and such prominent black leaders as Archbishop Desmond Tutu. 
Opposed to this position is the conservative view, held largely by advocates ofcorporate interests outside of South Africa, people like Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, and by members of the South African govern­ment itself. According to this view, "Over the long term, a continuation of peaceful political change is impossible without eco­nomic growth and thus renewed foreign investment Sanctions are an obstacle to this. They [the sanctions imposed by the Compre­hensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986] should be repealed ... " ("Mandela's Finland Sta­tion," National Review, March 5, 1990, p. 18). According to those who oppose sanc­tions, such economic pressure does more harm than good, serving only to impoverish South African blacks further and to harden conservative white opposition to change. 
This is not the debate in which Notre Dame finds itself embroiled. Both Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, whose position is repre­sented by Associate Provost Williams, and the chief critics ofNotre Dame's South Afri­can investment policy, African Studies Di­rector Peter Walshe and the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network, headed by gradu­ate student John-Paul Checkett, have stated that economic sanctions work and should be 
6 





NEWS 

ap arth ei d i,,.,,F ;¥·-~•'"' 
law that Father Oliver F. WIiiiams defends Notre Dame's Investment on the zoneslandby grounds that business stimulation In South Africa benefits Its poor, race. black citizens. 




utilized to bring about an end to apartheid. The debate at Notre Dame is specifically a divestment debate. Both sides support eco­nomic sanctions, but differ on whether or not the withdrawal ofall foreign businesses from South Africa is beneficial to the struggle for justice and democracy in that country. 
More specifically, they disagree on whether Notre Dame should retain its invest­ments in corporations that still do business in South Africa. Thus the broader debate about economic sanctions is brought very close to home, for it is the destination of students' tuition money. that is in question. Do stu­dents' tuition dollars support a violent, op­pressive regime that separates its citizens by race, in which a wealthy white minority dominates a largely poor, black population? Or do they support companies that are sin­cerely trying to make life better for South African blacks, according to the Sullivan Principles? To divest, or not to divest that is the question for Notre Dame. 
Williams, who represents the university's position on this issue, supports "strategic sanctions, sanctions that provide ... crucial external pressure but fall short of targeting the destruction of the economy" (The Ob­server, February 9, 1990). He cites as ex­amples sanctions such as those of the Com­prehensive Anti-Apartheid Act, passed by the United States Congress in 1986. Such sanctions, the banning of new United States investment in South Africa, for example, and the banning of the landing of the planes of South Africa Airways in the United States, carry both symbolic and actual economic impact, according to Williams. 
But, Williams claims, the withdrawal of all foreign businesses from South Africa is simply too damaging to the well-being of poor blacks, many of whom depend upon foreign businesses for jobs: "Asa pastor, I am concerned about how these things affect the common man. When unemployment goes up, alcoholism goes up, spouse and child abuse goes up.... We need to find a way [to combat apartheid] that doesn't hurt the very people we're trying to help." 
Furthermore, according to Williams, those who call for complete divestment fail to rec­ognize the good accomplished by corpora­tions that have remained in South Africa. He cites as examples the Kellogg Company, which was instrumental in the freeing of a black union leader from jail; Colgate-Pal­molive, which, "provided funds and person­nel to organ­ize a· black consumer boycott of the stores of Boksburg af­ter the local city council tried to re­store segre­gation in the downtown city park" (The Ob­server), and Johnson & Johnson, whose fund­ing of multi­racial hous­ing Williams asserts con­tributed sig­nificantly to the erosion of the Group Areas Act, an 
Finally, Williams says that "the departure of American business from South Africa because of pressures exerted in the U.S. has usually resulted in new non-U.S. owners who are much less interested in solving social problems" (The Observer). Thus divestment leads to the undermining of what positive changes American companies in South Af­rica have succeeded in accomplishing, ac-. cording to Williams' view, and that of Notre Dame. 
· The University of Notre Dame claims that it is following the guidelines ofthe Statement of Principles drawn up by the Reverend Leo Sullivan (generally referred to as the Sullivan Principles) regarding what constitutes a mor­ally acceptable South African investment policy. The university's statement of policy on South African investment reads in part, "Notre Dame will not invest in any company doing business in South Africa that has not signed the Statement of Principles. In addi­tion, companies will be judged on the inten­sity of their support for the provisions of the 
7


NEWS 
Statement ofPrinciples, and the proposals of 
the American Chamber of Commerce in 
South Africa." 
Essentially, the Sullivan Principles state that companies doing business in South Af­rica must not directly support the policy of apartheid, such as by "selling strategic goods or services to the South African police, mili­tary, government or government agencies," and that these companies should act in the best interests of their workers, through policies and actions such as those cited by Father Williams. The Sullivan Prin­ciples are thus in accord with Williams' idea of "strategic sanctions" that "fall short of targeting the destruction of the economy," and with the university's stated policy. 
Opponents of Notre Dame's South African investment pol­icy, though, take issue with many of the fundamental as­sumptions and claims of that policy. Some, including a number of Notre Dame stu­dents, even doubt the sincerity ofthe Board ofTrustees and the rationale that they and Father Williams present for their pol­icy, claiming that the Board appears far more concerned with Notre Dame's business interests than with human rights or with bringing an end to apartheid. 
The Board's General Invest­ment statement reads in part, "The starting point of any for­mulation of an investment pol­icy is the fundamental require­ment that the Trustees of the University have a... responsi­years." Walshe claims that all of the legiti­mate black leaders in South Africa (those who are not in some way employed by or al­lied with the South African government, but who represent the opposition movement) have been calling for action for years, and continue to do so. "The A.N.C. [African National Congress], the U.D.F. [United Democratic Front] and Bishop Tutu have all called for divestment, and Notre Dame still 
Walshe argues that the Reverend Leo Sul­livan has actually repudiated the Sullivan Principles because they were demonstrated to be ineffective by the continued deteriora­tion ofevents in South Africa; a deterioration that culminated with the declaration of a State of Emergency by the South African government in 1986. This State of Emer­gency remains in effect today, giving the government the freedom to suppress news 
reports and the police the free­<lorn to invade the privacy of South Africans in ways un­dreamed of by American citi­zens under the Bill of Rights. 
Walshe perceives Notre Dame's policy as high-handed because he says it presumes that theNotreDameBoardofTrus­tees knows what is good for South African blacks better than the blacks themselves. "Williams and the corporations [invested in South Africa] claim that change must come from the white government...that blacks can't take their destiny in their own hands," says Walshe. 
In response, Williams says that, "I take my cues from the South African Council of Catholic Bishops." The South African Bishops say, in their Pastoral Letter on Economic Pressure for Justice, that, "We ... 
believe that economic pressure has been justifiably imposed to end apartheid.,. However, we need to point out that, in our view, intensified pressure can only be justified if applied in such a way as not to destroy the Brian Schwartz country's economy and to re­
bility to ensure a satisfactory African Studies Director Peter Walshe says that legitimate black duce as far as possible any addi­return on investments neces-leadership In South Africa strongly favors divestment. tional suffering to the op­
sary for the support and growth of the institu­tion as a whole." Many proponents ofdivest­ment exclaim, like John J. Gilligan, Director of the Institute for International Peace Stud­ies, "Behold, the Almighty Bottom Line!" 
The basis of Professor Peter Walshe's opposition to Notre Dame's policy is that it "refuses to listen to black South Africans, who have been calling for sanctions for refuses to listen," says Walshe. 
According to W alshe's view, and that of the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network, continued investment in South Africa based upon the Sullivan Principles is high-handed and inappropriate. They call upon Notre Dame to "get in step" and divest, to get in solidarity with the anti-apartheid movement around the world, which calls for divestment. 
pressed through job loss .... " 

This statement, Williams says, supports his position for "strategic sanctions," and against divestment. But Walshe says that, "It is illegal in South Africa to call for divest­ment... The South African Catholic Bishops could not publicly call for divestment... The South African Bishops, though, were in close contact with the American Council ofCatho-
SCHOLASTIC 

NEWS 

lie Bishops; and shortly after the South Afri­can Bishops issued their statement, the American Bishops issued a statement calling for divestment." 
The Congregation of Holy Cross, of which Williams is a member, divested after the American Bishops' statement was issued. The University of Notre Dame was fqunded by Holy Cross priests. Williams reconciles the apparent discrepancy between Notre Dame's position and that of the Congrega­tion ofHoly Cross by saying that, "I think that it was appropriate for Holy Cross, as a relig­ious order, to divest. As a religious order, it has a calling to take a strong, prophetic stance in situations of injustice. But the role of the Universi Ly is a stewardship role. We have an obligation to use our power and influence to 
What about the positive changes brought by American companies that have remained invested in South Africa, such as the Kel­logg Company, Colgate-Palmolive, and Johnson & Johnson? Wal she responds to the claims in favor of these companies' remain­ing in South Africa by saying that these companies are simply (and perhaps will­ingly) playing into the hands of the white­dominated South African government. "The changes brought by these companies. · are merely changes in 'petty apartheid' ... laws that have nothing to do with the funda­mental structures of oppression." 
In other words, Walshe says, the South African government is willing to allow minor changes, and to perform conciliatory actions such as the freeing of Nelson Man-particularly the foreign, economically pow­erful opposition, without actually replacing apartheid with democracy. "The South Afri­can government is still committed to group rights," Walshe says, and not to "one person, one vote." "Only tough sanctions, including divestment, combined with black protest within South Africa, can put sufficient pres­sure on the white government to bring about substantial change." 


John-Paul Checkett, a graduate student and leader ofNotre Dame's Anti-Apartheid Net­work, reiterates Walshe's statements by say­ing that the position against divestment, "has been proven wrong for the last ten years." In his words, "You can't keep telling a country that what they're doing is wrong and keep providing the funds so they can keep doing it." Checkett's message to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, the message of the Anti­Apartheid Network, is that "My money sup­ports apartheid, and I want it stopped." 
According to Checkett, the Notre Dame Board of Trustees has lost credibility be­cause, in their 1986 statement of policy re­garding South Afric;an. investments, they claimed that they would di vest ifthe situation in South Africa deteriorated. The exact wording of the policy ·js "Jhe Executive Committee and the Administration are em­powered and authorized, after consultation with the Investment & Finance Committee, to divest immediately o(any holdings if in their judgment those companies doing busi­ness in South Africa: a..are not influencing 



NEWS 
the dismantling of the system ofapartheid, or 
b. should circumstances warrant this action because offurther deterioration ofconditions in South Africa." 
Shortly after this statement was approved, 
the State of Emergency was declared in 
South Africa: according to Checkett, a clear 
deterioration of conditions. The Board, 
nevertheless, has not divested itself of its 
holdings in corporations doing business in 
South Africa. "As long as the highest au­
thorities at this university fail to follow 
through on their promises, we have a univer­
sity based on deceit," says Checkett 
According to Walshe, in light of recent 
events in South Africa, Notre Dame has 
"missed the boat" with regard to sanctions. 
"Ifthey have any decency, they will say that 
if [South African President] De Klerk does 
not bring substantial changes within a year, 
they will divest," Walshe says. 
Williams' reply to charges ofinsincerity on the part of the Board is to say that, "I can't speak for the Board, but I put in a lot of time on this matter ... I believe in going to South Africa to get the facts, and I have been there to see these things for myself." His conclu­sion is that, "It is possible for people ofgood will to disagree on this m~tter." 
The two main positions in the divestment debate, that ofthe Board and Father Williams and that of the Anti-Apartheid Network and Professor Walshe, are by no means the only ones represented at Notre Dame. Professor Lee Tavis, of the Business School, like Fa­ther Williams, opposes divestment. But, unlike.Father Williams, Tavis does not claim that change in South Africa needs to be a slow process of negotiation. 
In place of divestment, Tavis advocates immediate cutting off of all credit to South Africa. This is, he says, "a powerful threat. .. an incredible pressure," that could· bring about quick change from the South African government. But, unlike divestment, it would not "destroy the economic base that black South Africa would inherit after the fall of apartheid." Tavis believes that the dis­mantling of apartheid is "inevitable," and that the future regime will need to build upon the economic base left behind by the present one. Divestment, Tavis says, would destroy this base, and make life extraordinarily diffi­cult for blacks, not only in the present, but in the long run. 
Graduate student Gary Sugarman, of the Institute for International Peace Studies, who, like Professor Walshe, is originally fromSouthAfrica,offersyetanotheralterna­tive theory. Sugarman believes thatcorpora­tions should divest from South Africa and re­invest in the black Homelands. The Home­lands are tracts ofland within the borders of South Africa set aside as independent coun­tries for certain black tribes. Blacks born into one of these tribes are thus not citizens of South Africa, and have none of the rights of a South African citizen, but are citizens of a Homeland which they may never visit. The Homelands, not recognized as independent countries by the United Nations, are modeled roughly on the Indian Reservation system devised by the United States (for arguably similar reasons). 
According to Sugarman, if corporations would divest from South Africa and re-invest in the Homelands, a compromise would be reached. The economic pressure of divest-ment would, according to Sugarman, "bring white South Africa to its knees." Meanwhile, the black Homelands would flourish, experi­encing all ofthe economic benefits offoreign investment. According to Sugarman's the­ory, by a kind of poetic irony, "the very system that the whites created would bring about their ruin." This "compromise" of divesting and re-investing, Sugannan says, has all of the benefits of straightforward divestment (which, he points out, has cost white South Africa $2 billion within the last year), but it doesn't hurt the blacks, which is one of the main arguments against divest­ment. 

For one unfamiliar with the issues, the divestment debate can appear a confusing labyrinth' of arguments and counter-argu­ments. As Notre Dame students, whose tui­tion money is in question, the best we can do is to examine the issue seriously, critically, and with an open mind, and decide for our­selves what is better: To divest, or not to divest. 

.., 


FEATURES 



¦ 
1rs 


Escorts in Day-Glo vests light up the night as student-run Safe Walk begins operation 


BY KAREN KENNEY 

They come out around seven o'clock every evening all overcampus. You can see them sitting outside the li­brary and at LaFortune. They al­ways travel in pairs, carrying two­way radios and wearing those blue vests with the distinctive yellow reflective tape. Who are these people? They are the employees of SafeWalk, the new student escort service on thc"Notre Dame campus. Junior Gina 'Mahony and senior Jim Schilder head a staff ofapproxi­mately fifty paid escorts (who re­ceive $4. 70 an hour) and a handful of volunteers who work one night a week on a rotating schedule. Ma­hony herself provided . the spark which started SafeWalk in a letter she wrote to The Observer last Sep­tember expressing herconcern about campus safety after dark. Student body president MattBreslin also felt there was a need for such a service so he contacted Mahony and asked her to head up a new "task force" to loqk into the necessity of such a program. Later when student government decided to go ahead with the program, Mahony was placed in charge and added to the student government staff. Mahony said she has "never approached this with a feeling of paranoia," and she does not feel that the Notre Dame campus is unsafe, but she does feel that the program "will help make stu­

Gina Mahony Is the founder of SafeWalk. 
dents feel safer and more confident" about walking around the campus after dark. "Preventive measures are always a good idea," said Mahony. · 
Two Safe Walk escorts, sophomores Todd Vician and Doug Allston, find their jobinter_. esting. Todd commented that he was "sur-· prised at the amount ofpeople who have used the service." Hefelt the program has been re~ 
ceived with interest, and said, "A lot of it is because it is students themselves who are doing it." Vici an feels a partofitalso isdue to the fact that they, in effect "go out and pursue customers." 
Allston added that only about fifty percent ofthe people they h~ve escorted have actually called the main office requesting an escort. The other fifty percent have seen them sitting posted outside the li­brary or at LaFortune, or even just walking across · the campus, and have asked for an escort. -If the escorts see someone walking alone they will offertheir ~ervice to them. Mahony has been very pleased thus far with the support she lias received for.the pµ,gram. She said that "funding, fortunately, has not ~ been a problem," and that she ha.s "neverhad a doerclosed in myface, and this is in dealing with five of.fices in the s·tudent body president Matt Breslin wrote in a recent article for Scholastic, "Father Tyson, vice presidenrfor 

MARCH l , 1990  11  
'  "  -.!:_ '  1 '')1' ' - . 'f '. '  •  -- - __,  J  - • , ---­. ----~------­ ~-~  ~~­ 

_FEATURES 
student affairs, and Tom Mason, vice presi­dent for business affairs, have supported us from the very beginning and took our pro­posal to the university budget committee meetings, where the idea was well received and therefore allocated $20,000." This fig­ure is broken down into $5,000 for equip­ment and $15,000 for salary, according to Mahony. 
With as much support as the program has been receiving, not everybody feels that this escort service is necessary. Senior Pat Russell also wrote about the escort program in the February 8 issue ofScholastic. Russell holds an opposing opinion about the neces­sity of such a service. He does not feel that the student government should "squander $20,000 on another escort service" when Notre Dame security already provides one. "Student Government's attempt to address security problems with the escort service is well intentioned, but misdirected," wrote Russell. 
In response to this argument, Gina Ma­hony feels that the student escort service is better accepted and will be used more fre­quently by students because it is "students serving students. I think people were proba­"I strongly believe the support would not be there if there was not a need for a student escort service." 

Pat Russell's concern, however, is that "the primary security concern faced by Notre Dame lies not on the walk between campus dormitories, but in the peripheral areas ofthe campus. We need to focus on these peripher­ies ifwe seriously want to improve our secu­rity on campus, not on escorting students to the library." 
Escort Doug Allston said that he did not think a student escort service was necessary when he first started, but he now feels that "although I don't feel that there is a real problem with people walking across campus by themselves, having escorted people I can see where there is a lot of potential for prob­lems in some areas." The escort service docs mainly function within the confines of the campus, but this includes all areas from the Morris Inn, to graduate student housing, all of the parking lots around the campus, and even to and from Senior Bar. 


FEATURES 

Escorts will meet students who live or work off campus at a designated parking lot if they call ahead and make arrangements. SafeWalk does not provide escort service back to Saint Mary's, but they will escort Saint Mary's women to the shuttle stops and wait there with them until the shuttle arrives if necessary. Notre Dame security, in coop­eration with Saint Mary's security, does provide escort service between the two cam­puses, as they have in the past. 
The process of selecting escorts began in December, and escorts were selected through a basic application process. "We received probably about sixty applications," said Gina Mahony, and fifty escorts were hired. Once selected, escorts were required Lo alte.nd a two hour training/orientation ses­sion run by the head of university security, Rex Rakow, Gina Mahony, and Phil Johnson, assistant director of security at the university who has been involved with the program. During this session the escorts were briefed on the program's policies and guidelines. The program's main policy is to ensure a student feels safe with the escorts. Escorts, Mahony said, are not to use any "force or to approach people in a confronta­

tional manner." The confidentiality of the escorted person must be strictly observed, and no escort is allowed to ask questions such as why someone needed an escort, or why they are going somewhere. Also', no escort is Lo ask an escorted person for their phone number or name, or to ask them if they are dating somebody. 
The service also has a policy of only es­corting students or faculty to a secure loca­tion. "If they walk a girl to her dorm, for instance, and she does not have her Detex with her, the escorts will wait until someone lets her into the dorm; they will not leave her waiting outside," said Mahony, "Also, if they are escorting someone to their car, they will wait until the person has gotten the car started and has begun to drive away." 
Each escort also carries around survey cards which they give to the customers to fill out and return by campus mail to the main office on the second floor of LaFortune. Mahony said that the feedback from students has been positive. "We have received a lot of feedback requesting to extend the hours to later in the evenings and we will be seriously considering expanding the hours if it is within our resources to do so," she added. The current hours for the Safe Walk Escort Service are from 7:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. on Sunday through Thursday, and from 7:00 
p.m. -2:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. 
The response of interviewed students was, for the most part positive, especially from the female students. Freshman Cappy Mack felt that "the student escort service is better than using the Notre Dame Security service be­cause I would be a little embarrassed to be walked home by security, but this is different because this is other students." Kerri Sterling commented, "I would feel a little hesitant about calling even for a student escort," but she did feel the service was a good idea. 
Some students who agree with the program still feel that more needs to be done. Sopho­more Gaby Villalba said, "I feel that it's necessary, it's definitely necessary, but I probably wouldn't use it lfeel what's really necessary is better lighting around campus and some of the other stuff they've been talking about" Junior Kelly Streit fell iL was a good idea, but she also said "I don't think I'd use it. I think it's good for people going to parking lots and stuff, but it's not really necessary around campus." 
The reaction from male students on cam­pus was generally that it was a good idea, but that men would not use the escort service. "I think it's a great idea, but are people really going to use it? I personally would never use it; I don't think guys would," was Dennis Berry's view. Sophomore Brian Dwyer agreed with this opinion saying "I think it's a good idea, but I don't think guys would use it at all." Matthew Kenny, also a sophomore, stated, "I think it's a very good idea because there's no sense in anybody walking alone and being in danger if they don't have to be." When asked if he felt men would use the service, Kenny said "I haven't seen or heard of any guys using it, but there's really no 

reason why guys couldn't" 
"I think there is a little bit of a 'stigma' about using the service," Mahoney said, but she does feel that that stigma will go away with time. She feels that the program is offto a good start and that it will "definitely be a permanent fixture on this campus." The service has been running for only two weeks at this point and is averaging approximately twenty-five calls a night. "We have posted signs all over campus stating our hours and ourphonenumberwhichis283-BLUE,"said Mahony. "And we want to stress that the service is open to everybody, students, fac­ulty, graduate students, both male and fe­male." 
"I really think that people ought to give it a chance," said escort Todd Vician. "It's received criticism, but it has helped some, it is being used. As long as it'~ helping that little bit, then the program is-~orth it." As long as the program does continue to draw customers, it will mostJikely continue to be supported and it might .just become, as Mahony hopes, "a permanent fixture on this campus." 
D 

13





SPORTS 
Then an Now 

The author takes a nostalgic look at Bengal Bouts past and reflects on the present 
BY JIM MAGGIO 

W hile recently leafing through 
Scholastic' s bound volumes 
of yesteryear, I came across a rather comical sight. Page four of the March 20, 1936 issue features a screaming advertisement alerting anyone within· eye­shot of the fifth installment of the Bengal Bouts, taking place that night in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. 
Below mention of the feature attraction lies notice of a side attraction, that of a "wrestling circus" match between the "gar­rulous" Cy Conner and the "Scourge, of Sorin", Nick Tancredi. The accompanying story on page five depicts Conner's and Tancredi's pre-"fight" comments concern­ing one another, an exchange marvelously 
Fists Will Fly!! Tonight at 8:00 
FIFTH ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS 
Student Ticket, 25c General Admission, 35c 
iiliiif'5rn ft ;;.:: .. ~ ;~ 
8 Chatnpionship Bouts 
Also 

Cy Conner vs. Nick Tancredi 
A Wrestling Circus 
Tickets on sale in all the Halls after supper, and at the Box Office 
The 1936 Bouts featured a side event, Conner vs. Tancredi in a "wrestling circus." 
reminiscent of the Masked Marauder era. Gillespie, inquired about his preparatory 
"I ain't nervous, and I ain't stale. I didn't "ape act." "Don't bother me. This is a pro­have no trouble making the weight, and I gram called 'Lights Out,' and I have to get ain't got no plan ofattack," ranted Conner as atmosphere," Tancredi growled. "I'm get­he sized up his opponent. "I'lljust throw him ting in the mood for this Conner person. I'm out of the ring and go back to my boots and working up a good man." saddles." Good 01' Cy and Nick summarily pum­
Tancredi responded in kind when meled each other that evening for three fren­Scholastic's "Ace Reporter," John A. zied falls. I haven't been able to figure out the 
14 


SPORTS 



Marciano was the Inspiration for Schubert's (right, facing camera) Ill­fated boxing career. 
winner from published reports, although the two apparently provided enough theatrics to keep the Fieldhouse crowd in hysterics. 
Here's a classic clip from February 29, 1952: 
Hard-pimching heavyweight fighter better known as the latter-day Boston Strongboy or Rocky Marciano, has been named as the Bengal Bouts Award winner for 1952 ... Marciano, who is best known as the boxer who battered Joe Louis into retire­ment, has an impressive record in the profes­sional ring. He has been undefeated in 39 pro battles and has won 34 ofthem by knock­outs. 
..Anyway, off the record, it looks as if Marciano was destined to be a fighter. When he was born, his father received a congratu­latory card with the imprint of a pair of boxing gloves reading: "Hail to the Champ." A neighbor, Al Columbo, relates that Marciano actually fought his first ten rounder at the tender age of eight, a no decision bout in the neighborhood. 
Marciano, who 

would later stake his 
claim to the world 
heavyweight titie and 
retire undefeated, 
was one of several 
ring champions who 
served as a guest refe­
ree for the Bouts. 
Tony Zale, Billy 
Conn, Barney Ross, 
Jim Braddock, Jack 
Dempsey, Kid Ga­
vilan and Carmen 
Basilio arejust a sam­
pling of former 
champions who vol­
unteered their time to 
help officiate the 
Bouts. 
Marciano, though, almost stole the show on the night of the fights. Jack Varley re­ported that "after Ward (then the sports editor of the Chicago Tribune) introduced the Brockton, Mass., fighter as Rocky Graziano, Marciano almost stole the show by getting into the ring and asking the audience not to be too hard on Mr. Ward. 'Why, even my wife has introduced me as Rocky Graziano."' 
That year, a sports magazine's picture of Marciano belting an opponent through the ropes apparently gave one ill-advised Domer the inspired belief that if Marciano could do it, there was no justifiable reason that he couldn't. Charles Schubert, an otherwise nonnal senior "except for his complete lack ofa profile view," decided to give the Bengals a bid. Bill Riley described the ensuing turn of events: 
They laced the gloves on the splinter, and he entered the ring, courage in his heart, stark, naked fear in his eyes. Nappy was there to advise him, but refused to accompany him into the ring. 
Joseph Bush, a broth ofa lad who plays a bit oftacklefor Frank Leahy, was Charles' first opponent. If you will look closely at Bush's countenance you will distinguish just _the faintest traces ofterror. 
However, stage fright wears off and Bush advances towards the dauntless Mr. Schubert, little knowing that cocked and ready for action is the lethal rig ht hand that has flattened countless small children on spring afternoons. Schubert stands ready! 
(Scholastic, March 14, 1952) 
Not for long. "Chazz" quickly became a human projectile as a Bush punch sent him through the ropes and into permanent boxing retirement. So much for Rocky stories. 
********** 
As I fast-forward to tomorrow night's finals, the reality of how circumstances have changed hits me with the impact of a Buster Douglas left hook. The Fieldhouse, where some 3,000 fight buffs roared their approval for the 16 championship combatants that breathless evening in 1936, has since fallen victim to the wrecking ball. Any local resem­blance of Cy and Nick's antics can only be found on nights when Hulk Hogan and the Macho King pile drive each other to oblivion in the JACC Arena for the WWF Saturday Night Main Event. And, no, none of the likes of Chazz Schubert \\'.OUld dare step into the ring these days merely to try his luck. , 
Far be it to assume, though, that things have changed for the-worse~· 
Following recent stints 1n cozy Stepan Center, this year's Bouts have shifted to the spacious confines of the JACC's North Dome, the latest showcase for what has blos­somed into the country's most extensive collegiate boxing program. While some have 

15


SPORTS 

already expressed disappoint­ment during the preliminaries at the more impersonal setup, they've nevertheless screamed themselves hoarse for their com­peting friends with the same rau­cous approval they have in years past. The noise level should reach the familiar fever pitch tomorrow night when 28 courageous young men enter the squared circle seek­ing a coveted Bengal Bouts cham­pionship. 
To top off this year's aes­thetic changes, a spanking new boxing ring replaces the old one donated by the Studebaker Corpo­ration nearly 40 years ago. Absent are the gaudy beer and casino ad­vertisements that pollute so many professional rings, as is the under­lying point to this event. Outland­ish pay-per-view television reve­nues, electroshock-coiffed pro­moters and other atrocities of the professional fight game neither have nor will ever find a place in the Bengals. Sports Illustrated 
columnist Budd Schulberg put it best when in 1955 he commented on what makes the Bengals unique. The words re­verberate as clearly today as they did 35 years ago: "They have never lost sight of the fact that boxing, forall its seamy, nether side, is a great, basic and undeniable com­petitive sport." 
"We don't need an anniversary to por­tray this event as a great story," says the program's director, Walt Rogers, downplaying the significance ofthis year's event over those ofpast years. "There's not a program like this anywhere. 
"No one takes the time to do it like Notre Dame does -forcing those in­volved to train and commit to this extent This program prepares by ability. You just don't get that anywhere else." 
As Rogers looks to tomorrow's finals, he sees a talent pool as good or better than those o'f the past. "The stock of the Notre Dame athlete has not changed," he points out. "(But) we have more resources than in past years that has enabled us to train better and become infinitely more medical con­scious. 
"That's taking nothing at all away from Nappy and our predecessors, though. The systems we've implemented have merely improved on how to teach what he tought us." 
"Nappy" is the late Dominic J. Napoli­tano, the man most responsible for bringing the Bengal Bouts to life in 1931 and main­taining their level of excellence until his death in 1986. To him the Bouts were the closest thing to pure competition that existed at Notre Dame, but he also knew when to draw the line. "When it ceases to be that, then stop it," he would often say ifa fighter ran the risk of serious injury. "Don't let the boy get hurt." Nappy's successors have clung strongly to his mandate, maintaining the in­tense level of competition without compro­mising the well-being of the participant. 
More so than the competitive aspect, the fighters who carry on Nappy's legacy take special pride in the cause for which they perform. Nappy's poignant reminder to the true meaning of this event-"Strong bodies fight that weak bodies may be nourished" ­
underscores the fact that all proceeds are donated to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Two thousand students have competed over the years to raise monies in excess of $300,000 for this cause. 

Tomorrow's combatants will walk away with commemorative jackets as just reward for their individual success, but the program's collective efforts to aid the , Bengal missions will speak the loudest volumes. So bravo to you, Walt, and to your coaches -Sean McCormick, Jack Mooney, Fr. Greg Stephens, Sweet C. Robinson and Professor Charles Rice ­for helping make the 1990 Bengal Bouts a 1 rousing success. Bravo to the brave souls l who've set foot in the ring to give the fans something to holler about for a fantastic 60th year. From Paul Amann to Michael Zacchea, you've all paid your dues for a most worthwhile cause, creating a spirit , transcending the excitement inside the !I ring. That, in itself, is a most precious I reward. I 
. I 
I 
SCHOLASTIG 
I ! 
SPORTS 

COMPILED BY MAURICE RICHARD 

The Irish secured the top seed in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference post-season tournament, de­feating Detroit and Butler last week. The wins ran Notre Dame's record to 12-0 in the league. They meet the number four seed March 9 at 3:30 p.m. at Dayton Arena in Ohio. 
Notre Dame plays its last home game of the season tonight at 7 :30 against Dayton. The Irish finish the regular season on the road versus Detroit March 6. 
The men's tennis team, ranked fourth in Region IV, bounced 25th-ranked (second regionally} Min­nesota 6-3 last weekend. DAVID DILUCIA, MARK SCHMIDT, ANDY ZURCHER, and RON ROSAS all won their singles matches. In doubles, the teams of DILUCIA/MIKE WALLACE and ZURCHER/RYAN WENGER were victorious. 
The 11-1 Irish head to Corpus Christi, TX this weekend for the H.E.B. Collegiate Championship March 1-4. The squad opens the tournament today against Oklahoma. 
The women's team won all four of its matches last week, defeating Illinois 7-2 Friday, Kansas State and Drake by scores of 6-3 and 9-0 Saturday, and Miami (Ohio) Sunday 8-1. The Irish won all but one match on the weekend. TRACY BARTON, MELISSA,,,HARRIS, KATIE CLARK, ALICE LOHRER and KIM PACELLA all went 4-0. 
portsweek 
Notre Dame takes two weeks off before returning to action on March 11 at University of California-Santa Barbara. 
The wrestling team (6-8) fell to third-ranked Iowa 36-5 at home last Sunday. Senior PAT BOYD, at 142 lbs. was the only victoious wrestler for the Irish, defeat­ing Troy Steiner 2-1. CURT ENGLER earned two points when he wrestled Don Finch to a 5-5 draw at 177 lbs. 
Notre Dame's lacrosse team, returning 15 lettermen, opens its 10th season on the varsity level against Cani­sius College Saturday at 12:30 p.m. in Krause Stadium. Inclement weather will move the game to the Loftus Center if necessary. The Irish haven't lost a home opener since 1981 and have a .733 winning percentage on home turf. 
The fencing teams split squads last weekend, hosting Miami (Ohio), Michigan State, Eastern Michigan and Law1ence and competing in a tri-match at Rutgers. Both squads dominated at home but suffered their first losses of the season at Rutgers. The men's loss to Princeton ended their 46-match winning streak. 
The men's (24-1) and women's (21-1) teams travel to Appleton, WI, Saturday to defend their 1989 titles in the Great Lakes Fencing Championships. 
After a two-week hiatus, the Irish travel to Cleveland State Saturday for the Eastern Intercollegiate Champi­onships. Notre Dame hopes to improve on last year's sixth-place finish. 
The women's team won the 1990 Intercollegiate Swimming and Diving Championships in Baltimore last weekend, edging two-time defending champion West Virginia 670-612.5 to close its season. 
BECKY WOOD and TANYA WILLIAMS both qualified for the NCAAs. Wood finished .first in both the 100 and 200 breaststroke, while Williams set an Eastern record in the 400 individual medley with a time of 4:26.43. 
The Irish (18-13) defeated Michigan-Dearborn 6-3 last Friday night in Dearborn, MI. Notre Dame was led 

by LOU ZADRA's two goals while getting goal­and-assist performances from STERLING BLACK and MIKE CURRY. Snow prevented UMD from making it to South Bend for Saturday's rematch. 
Notre Dame closes its season this weekend in Huntsville, AL, at the Alabama Faceoff Touma­menL The Irish meet Alabama-Huntsville tomor­row and either St. Cloud State or Alaska-Anchorage Saturday. 
The Irish dropped two games to tlie University of Hawaiilastweekend,6-0and 12-7. NotreDame(l­
2) continues its season-opening, 19-game road trip against Texas on Friday, SL Mary's (fexas) on Sat:. urday and Trinity on Sunday. 
The softball team opens its second varsity season Sunday, March 4 at Indiana. The Irish play seven consecutive road games to open the season before returning home March 23 against DetroiL 
Last weekend the track team hosted the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Meyo Track and Field. Senior MIKE O'CONNER finished first in the 5000m run,qualifyingfortheNCAAs with a time of. 
13:57.38. YAN SEARCY was tops in the 500m at 1:03.18. 
The Irish, who will send 15 representatives to the IC4A championship meet this weekend in Boston, open their outdoor season March 24 when they host the Snowshoe Invitational at Krause Stadium. 

MARCH 1, 1990 
COMING DISTRACTIONS 
SPORTS 
Women's Basketball: Dayton at Notre Dame, 7:30 p.m., JACC Arena. 
SPECIAL 
University counseling Center Work­shop continues, 'Career/Major Decision Making.' 6:30 -8:30. Rm.300, Univer­sity Counseling Center. 
Sophomore Literary Festival: Joseph Coulson. 
Club Cup Nite, Alumni Sr. Club, 9-2 a.m. 
PLAY 
"The Importance of Being Earnest" by Oscar Wilde. 8: 10 p.m., Washington HMI. Sponsored by Dept. ofCommuni­cations and Theatre. 
SPORTS 
IBSAA Basketball Sectionals. .7:00 p:m., JACC Arena. 
BENGAL BOUTS FINALS. 
8:00 p.m., JACC Arena. . 
LECTURES 
"Europe: A Continent in Turmoil," R.T. Hon. Shirley Williams, Harvard Univer­sity. 12:00 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Kellogg Institue and Com­mittee for European Studies. 
"Science Courts and the Myth of Sub­stantive Rationality," Prof. Sheila Jas­anoff, Cornell University. 3:30 p.m., Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by Reilly Center Undergraduate Lectures in Sci­ence, Technology and Values. 
Humanities Colloquium, "Cicero on the Tasks and Modes ofPhilosophy," Walter Nicgorski, Program of Liberal Studies. 
12:00 p..m Rm. 131 Decio. Spo~sored by Committee on Critical and Continen­tal Thought. 
Seminar in American Religion, CCE. 
ENTERTAINMENT 
Film, "Vampire's Kiss." 7:30 and 9:30, Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Dept of Communicatio and Theatre. Admission. 
Theatre, "The Importance of Being Ear­nest by Oscar Wilde." 8: lOp.m., Wash­ington Hall. Sponsored by Dept. ofCom­munication and Theatre. 
Reggae Band, 9p.m. -2.a.m., Alumni Sr. Club. 
SPECIAL 
Soph. Spring Formal, Union Station. 
Lunch. Alumni Sr. Club, noon -2p.m. 
Father Burtchaell's Retreat, Crowes House (3/2-3/4) 
SPORTS 
IHSAA Basketball Sectionals. 8:00p.m., JACC Arena. 
Basketball. ND vs. Missouri. 2:30, JACCArena. 
ENTERTAINMENT 
Film, "Vampire's Kiss." 7:30 and 
9:30 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Dept. ofCommunication and Theatre. 

Theatre, "The Importance of Being Earnest by Oscar Wilde." 8:10, Wash­ington Hall. Sponsored by Dept. of Communication and Theatre. 
Comedy: Misfits in Disguise, 9p.m.­2a.m., Alumni Sr. Club. 
SPECIAL 
National Teachers Examination, Engi­neering Auditorium. 
Vitruvius Colloquium. Rm. 207 Archi­tecture Building. · 
Faculty Workshop in Science, Technol­ogy and Values, CCE. 

Society of Women Engineers Career Workshop, CCE. 
Eucharistic Hour of Adoration. 
9:00 a.m., Alumni Hall Chapel. Spon­sored by Marion Union of Priests. 
Windy City Shuttle, 9:45 a.m., Main Circle. 


EDITORIAL 

I est Now. 
In 1986, Notre Dame should have divested from South Africa. Instead, the board of trustees chose to take a "waitand see" attitude. One month later, the political situation was declared a state of emergency. Still, Notre Dame chose not to divest. To some, the freeing of Nelson Mandela along with other changes would indicate positive progress on the apartheid front. These are minor concessions made with the intent of silencing opposition. Notre Dame is still obligated to divest. After four years ofstagnation and promising to remove holdings if the situation worsens, it's time to realize we have been playing not to lose instead of to win. Even if the situation is not deteriorating, which Notre Dame's failure to fulfill its promise would lead one to believe, effective action is long overdue. Selective disinvestment, while fine in theory, has not produced necessary results. True democracy has yet Lo becomeareality in South Africa. An empty promise at Notre Dame has not helped the situation. Total divestment is a powerful and necessary sanction. The university's policy is based upon the Sullivan principles ofselectively maintain­ing holdings so as to have a means to effect change. Sullivan himself, however, declared these principles fallacious after witnessing the deteriorating situation. Yet, Notre Dame continues to drive over a bridge declared unstable by its architect. Common sense reveals the absurdity of this scenario. The university's position maintains that divestment would cause collapse in the economy and would crush those it attempted to help. Why, then, would black leaders in South Africa call for further sanctions such as divestment? Again common sense would dictate the revision of current policy. Finally, there is a major discrepancy between the policy implemented by the Holy Cross priests and that of Notre Dame. Father Oliver Williams, representative of the university's position.attempts to explain away the apparent inconsistency by claiming it was appropriate for Holy Cross to divest because, as a religious order, "ithas a calling to take a strong, prophetic stance in situations of injustice." As a religious institution, doesn't Notre Dame share in that calling? Granted, as Williams states,"[w]e have an obligation to use our power and influence to bring about a positive change." The most effective use of this influence is through total divestment. It's time to fulfill promises, listen to the black leaders of South Africa and recognize the impotence of selective disinvestment. It is time to divest 
-Scholastic 
HUNCHBACK/GREG DE LATE 

I/ 

I-lo UJ fo read Jf_uden f Gov 'f
1:

A 3u1d~ .Por +?-.t. .shr<'wd po/1'-hca/
1 
7/,~~-e po~"kr~ 
_J The, Na"'e c,

Bia/., , Bia A, 13/ah ~ NaA 
are mo~+I) 

Mah bloA 61:.A b/al, 6/c,h Ma /2 
Jlln r,a/i.:,t,c.

h/oi, /,/ah blah hla/2 !
-f'ou VV-1'<> ":)I "'j 


The P,c.1ure. 
E lecfton 
VY\,· V\c( 


Nof ivnporianf, no o,i-, ev-t..-runewi/u,:, who -/h"J are c,l'-f,-r i-h-e -elc:cfrov, Cw>!JCN"'j 
Cl . 1. _ f I. I -loew>dJ /, /<.e SoW>,-¼,v,c;_
1

,en<'« ca en pMa.1e_ (3 1_ ''cl J
0"0f;j,e «-"Tl WOUf< ><7; {a. 1000,,1,.o-fll,5MJ 7h,., ,, 1/., M0>1 cn<c,al ,;,lev,,e,,,i o-P -!h, pn!>1er r'o~ ca,n olec.ide whe-/h,~ or f\01 -lo vo1e based on JI,,, p,cfure. Rul-e~ -fl.., ,,wrc -/1,__, pie-lure look:, I, k< 
o [3.,,"'11<?:, ol buvn cov-u-f/2-e h;-tt-er f hr i, cf< t:' f .. A vo ,cl c~"q 
~5~-~~(./ 
D,:i /(~}';,rd -//,,.:, s.erf,oY\ 1'10Y'R o-f -{/,,:i -i/u ff f'Vfr hc,pp-PY1J Glh>1 waf
P!a+.forW\ 

6,:stdP.s --fAer( v11e nvil'J Jo m:;,n1J voile~ ball fourncwnl',,y)--1-=d sJ:,· 
-fr/~ -ilia-/ CO\Vi h-e pbv,,Nd in ot 



20 

.. 




::.i 

$2.00 students w/ 1.0. Also: $3.00 non-students 
Hypnotist Seminar Workshop 
Tickets go on sale Feb. 28 
March 8, 1990 at 3 :00 
at LaFortune Info. Desk 
Free Admission 
,,, '., . 
__ _,_f._, ,_ 




