
SAYE ON SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORT COATS 
The Campus Shop's semi-annual quality sale of men's fine suits, topcoats and sport coats is now in full swing! Come in soon . . . make your selection from our regular stock of famous-make men's cloth­ing. Save now ... charge it the Campus Shop way. 

NO CARRYING CHARGE 

Get what you need now at Campus Shop Quality Sale Savings and charge it the Campus Shop way: pay one-third in June ... one-third in July ... one-third in August. Of course, there is never a carrying charge nor extra fee for this handy Charge Account service. So come in soon and save . . . enjoy the convenience of your Campus Shop Charge Account. 
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS 

Kow, as the college yeur approaches its mid-point, one fact emerges clearly: you are all going to flunk ewrything. 
There are two things you can do about it. First, you can marry money. (I don't meun YOU marn· the monev itself: I mean you 1i1arry a ·person "·ho has money. 1Veddings between people and currency haYe not been legal :mywhere in the l:nifod Sfates since the Smoot-Hawlev Act. l\farlboro Cig:1rettes, on the other hand, are legal everywhere and are, in­deed, smoked ";th great pleasure and enthusiasm in all fifty states of the Union. I bring up l\farlboro Cigarettes because this column is sponsored by the m:ikers of ::\Iarlboro, and they are inclined to brood if I omit to mention their product.) 
But I digress. I was sa};ng you can marry money but, of course, vou ";n not because You are ahigh-minded, cleaii--IiYing, pure-hearted, freckle-faced Americ:m kid. Therefore. to keep from flunking, }'OU must tn, the second method: YOU must leurn how to take iecture notes. 
Accordin~ to a recent sur­Yey, 123.6% of American undergraduates do notknow the proper way to fake lec­ture notes. To illustmte this shocking statistic, let us suppose you are taking a course in histon·. Let us further suppose the lecturer is lecturing on the ruling hom,es of England. You lis­ten intently. You ,\Tite diligently in your notebook, making a topic outline as you have been taught. Like this: 
I. House of Plantagenet. 
II. House of Lancaster. 
III. House of York. 
Then you stop. You put aside your pen. You blink back a teur, for you cannot go on. Oh, yes, you know Yery well that the ne:-..-t ruling house is the House of Tudor. The trouble is You don't know the Roman numeral that comes after III. 
(It may, incidentally, be of some his­torical inforest to point out that Ameri­cans are not the only people who don't know Roman numerals. The Romans didn't know them themseh-es. I suppose they could tell you how much V or X were or like that, but when it came to reul cuties like LXI or l\BIC, they just flang awa:r their styluses and went down­
* 

town to have a bath and take in a circus and maybe stab Caesar a few times. 
(You· may wonder why Rome stuck ";th these ridiculous numerals when the Arabs had such a nice, simple system. Well sir, the fact is that the Emperor Vesp:1sian tried like crazy to buy the Arabic numerals from Suleiman the l\fag­nificent, but Suleiman wouldn't do busi­ness-not even when Vespasian raised his bid to 100,000 gold piastres, plus he offered to throw in the Colosseum, the Appian W:1y, and Charlton Heston. 
(So Rome stuck ";th Roman numerals -to its sorrow, as it turned out. One day in the Forum, Cicero and Pliny got to arguing about how much is CDL times l\:IVIX. Well sir. pretty soon ernryone in town came around to join the hassle. In all the excitement, nobody remembered 

to lock the north gate and-wham!-be­fore you could say peccQfortiter, in rushed the Goths, the Visigoths, and the Green Bay Packers!) 
Well sir, that's the ,my the empire crumbles, and I digress. Let's get back to lecture notes. Let's also say a word about Marlboro Cigarettes. The makers would be so pleased! And is it not fitting that we should praise these honest tobac­conists-these fine men, fond of square dancing, water sports, protein, and tat­toos-these tireless perfectionists who spend all of their days trying to please us -seurching eYerywhere for the best of all possible tobaccos, aging them with pa­tience, blending them with tender, loving care? l\farlhoros are available in soft pack and flip top box. You will find XX: cigarettes in each package. 
©l!l63 Max Shulm:m 
* * 

1'larlborum amo, Tom 1'larlborum amat, Dick 1'larlborum amat, Harry 1'larlborum amat, June JJlarlborum amat, Joan JJlarlborum amat, Jean 1'larlborwn amat, Jane JJlarl­borum amat, quique JJfarlborum amant-et Marlboruni quoque amabitis. 
The SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 104 January 18, 1963 No. 11 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras l\loriturus 
Founded 1867 
JOHN McCABE 
Editor 
JACK AHERN 
Managing Editor 

Associate Editors: John Bechtold, James Gah·in, Thomas Hoobler, John Pesta, James \'\Tyrsch. 
Business Manager: Jay Ward. 
Contributing Editors: James Devlin, Arline Hagan, John Kirlin, Ralph Martin, Frank l\kConnell, Robert :McGowan, 
J. J. Pottmyer, Patrick Sa.xe, Thomas Schlereth, Carl Wiedemann. 
Assistant Editors: John Anton, Ken Arnold, John Buckley, Joe Caspar, Vince De Coursey, Stephen Enright, Richard Notebaert, Joe Ryan, Terry Wolker­storfer. 
Advertising Manager: Richard Roggeyeen. 
Circulation Manager: Tom Dalum. 
Photography:_ Brian Beck. 
Faculty Advisor: Donald Costello. 
STAFF: Pat Bauer, Greg Callaghan, Ted Carlon. Jr., Dick Connelly, Dennis Corrigan. Al Dudash. Charles Dunn. Bob Edler, Geary Ellet. Jack Gerken. John Go,man, Bob Lumpkins, Dick l\laher, Terry l\leek, Julie O"Connor, John Pope. Jack Ro\\c. Frank Smith. Tim Sulli,-an, Richaid Weirich. Don \\'harton. 
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Xo11·c Dame. Indiana. at a special postage iatc authori1.ed June 23. 1918. The m~gazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collei,iate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by Xation:il Advertisin~ Ser\'ice and by Don Spencer, Colle~e l\[a,;azines Corp.. -l20 l\ladison Avenue. :-Sew York Ii. ~-Y. Published weekly during the school year. except during vacation and examination periods. the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the A,·e l\Iaria P, ess. The subscrip­tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185. Kot, e Dame. Indiana. All unsolicited material be­comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
4 The Scholastic 
EDITORIAL 
S
TUDENT G0VERN1\1ENT., since its inception in 1952, has had, by some standards, an illustrious career as the most important student organization in the University. It has received awards for high achieve­ment by NSA and been blessed by an occasional well-recognized leader. It has been instrumental in inaugurating and administering many programs of special benefit to the students, e.g., the Collegiate Jazz Festival, Mardi Gras, etc. However, national awards are made in comparison with other schools, not in our approximation of the ideal situation at Notre Dame; and specific social spectaculars, though enjoyable, merely point out the deficient, unhealthy social life that predominates throughout the school year. Let's face facts: our concern is limited to our life on this campus. If we are to spend four years at Notre Dame, we want these years to be as fun­filled and intellectually challenging -we believe the two are complementary in a vital personality ­as possible. Student Government is failing the stu­dents in both realms. 
It is important to note that the only significant action in the past few years was accomplished apart from the Senate (when a committee of seniors and a riot brought on the changes in rules). The illusory rules "victory" has, in fact, become a defeat. The time was ripe for a more thorough change -not merely an elimination of obviously obsolete regula­tions but for definite positive proposals to improve hall living, social life, and the academic atmosphere at the University. 
Kevin Hart's present government is not much different from other years'; it merely lacks the histrionics and banality of other administrations. Hart has apparently analyzed Student Government completely in terms of its limitations -student apathy, administration obstructionism, faculty dis­interest and conservatism. He has followed this analysis to its logical end -he has done nothing. 
A good statement of Hart's policy is contained in a letter distributed to newly elected Senators: "External pressure by students to initiate changes which only the administration is capable of making has so often delayed change, simply because the administration cannot appear to yield to such pres­sures without relinquishing a portion of its closely­guarded power. The Student Government represents the student body as an embassy of diplomats..." In other words, Hart does not see the Student Senate as ever becoming a representative body in direct contact with the students; the Senate then, is a body, dissociated from the mass of student opinion, deal­ing in maneuvers to extract minor tokens of con­cession from the all-powerful administration. 
The administration's analysis of Student Gov­ernment is identical with Hart's (as far as we have explained it). However, the desired result of Senate diplomacy is frustrated, rather than fulfilled, be­cause the administration realizes that the Senate has no support, no consensus, no power to persist in its demands. Fr. Hesburgh does not see Student 
Government as an interest group deeply involved with the mass of student demands. For him, ~tu­dent Government provides a type of "leadership­training," existing principally for the benefit of those participating in it. Thus when Hart proposed that a nominal monetary reward for efficiency be given to commissioners who stay within their budgets (no one has done this in the past several years), the plan was thwarted by Fr. Hesburgh, and the motion never reached the Senate floor. Since it is Fr. Hesburgh's conviction that Student Government is purely a vocational experience in political squab­bling, a monetary incentive was certainly out of the question. This, however, is also an example of Hart's failure to press issues, at the threat of a veto by Fr. McCarragher. If this measure would have ben­efited the majority of students, as Hart contended, the issue should have been forcefully presented and referred to the student body. 
No remedy to this lack of leadership appears to be forthcoming this year or next. 
Until Student Government recognizes a function that looks beyond its potential service role, it is basically meaningless. Student Government has the twofold task of creating and coagulating student opinion in the following manner: (1) by bringing issues directly to the student body and (2) by di­recting this consensus in a united effort to partici­pate in the formulation of University policy pertinent to the students. To this moment, Student Govern­ment has failed miserably to touch either the stu­dents or the administration; it pretends that the faculty does not exist. 
Specifically, Student Government should estab­lish a real voice in such matters as: general discipline -cars for seniors, types of social activities and hours, off-campus car, housing, and party restric­tions, Student Center planning, the Discipline Board, etc.; hall living conditions -self-government, hours, activities, and religious services; and academic policy -academic calendar, graduation requirements, pay­ment for transcripts, incompetent faculty, and aca­demic censorship. 
As further proposals we would recommend the following: a constitutional amendment changing the term of Student Body President to run from Feb­ruary to Febnmry; a change in the Senate By-Laws allowing any student to run for Student Body Presi­dent (there is now a clause requiring one year's Senate experience); student prefects in the halls; a student-faculty-administration discipline board; a reconsideration of the Stay-Hall Residence Plan; stu­dent participation on a revitalized Academic Council; a decentralization in the administrative power stn1c­ture as policy affects students; an intensified effort to integrate international students into campus ac­tivities and organizations; an effort to get a student body more diversified in background, in religious affiliation, in race; increase student scholarships; and a re-evaluation of the nature and function of the Committee of Academic Progress. 
Jan11ary 18, 1963 
Letters 

Dear Editor: The basic source of the general confusion about \:\'ho's \\'ho among American College Students is the gap bet\\·een the ordinary intuitive im­pression of such an award, and the specific ,,·ay in which candid.ates are selected here at Notre Dame. The general impression of any \\'ho·s \Vho, and probably the correct one, strictly speaking, is that of a catalogue of indh·iduals noteworthy for some rea-
LOUIE'S RESTAURANT 
FORMER MANAGER OF CASA PIZZA 
Now Located of 
SOUTH BEND AVE. & CORBY 
• 
Free Deliveries to Campus 
CE 3-0324 
• 

Homemade Italian Cooking 
OH-Street Parking 
937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STAY AWAKE 
TAKE 


ALERTNESS CAPSULES 
Combat fatigue almost im­mediately. Keeps you alert and full of pep for hour after hour, after hour. 
Continuous Action Capsules. Completely safe Non-habit forming 
NO PRESCRIPTION NEEDED 

son, in this case, outstanding seniors 
at all American colleges. 
But, when other attributes than 

fame or notoriety are valued more, 
it is natural that these receive strong 
consideration. This is precisely what 
has happened to Who's Who at Notre 
Dame. A conscientious attempt has 
been made to attach more significance 
to the award; it has become an award 
for contributing to Notre Dame by 
academic success, by leadership in 
activities, or even by exemplary be­
havior. These were the standards ap­
plied to the best of its admittedly 
limited ability by the selection board, 
and the candidates should be viewed 
in only this light. 
The confusion that has prevailed recently, .and much of the criticism leveled at ·the award stem largely from a misunderstanding of the dif­ference that does exist within the framework of the one award. There is probably no need to withdraw from the national organization, for it could be as satisfactory a vehicle as .any for the admirable purpose intended here. Some recognition should be given, certainly, to deserving men; there is surely no harm, and possibly much good, in adding these men to what is ideally a comprehensive col­lection of the best from every campus. In any case, however, it is essential that it be clear exactly why these particular individuals were selected· they are not merely the best know~ or most popular seniors, they are those men that we felt have done or attempted to do the most for Notre Dame. No claim of infallibility is made-it is likely that a different number of men could have been chosen, and just as staunchly de­fended-but one thing is evident from all that has been said so far: the committee was as conscientious as it could be, but until a more consistent and lucid policy is established, the confusion will rem;1.in. 
-Pete Clark 
0 

Dear Editor! I was shocked at the naive criti­cism of American science and of the Notre Dame College of Science which was voiced in the SCHOLASTIC edi­torial of December 14. This naivete indicates how widespread and serious is the lack of understanding and com­munication between scientists and nonscientists. The editorial questions, "Should Notre Dame be responsible for the professional preparation for scientists and engineers in these four years?" and thus urges Notre Dame to drop 
yet further behind Harvard in science and engineering. Such sentiment belies a lack of that understanding of science, which is appropriate to the liberally educated man, and an ignorance of the essential develop­ment of the personality which is achieved in a thorough professional education. 
The editorial further implies that the present portion of the energies and resources of this nation which are directed toward a mastery of space and nuclear power is far too large a portion. Such an assertion should not be made without a modest awareness of the contributions which these admittedly costly scientific en­terprises will make to the capability of decently satisfying the physical needs of all mankind. I do not wish to be overly critical of the SCHOLASTIC editors. Indeed, one thing that Snow made clear in his Harvard lectures that this modest awareness is rare outside scientific circles. 
Kevin Cahill 435 Walsh 
• 

Editor: As my friends and I returned from the \~'ashington Hall presentation of "The Innocents" on Oct. 31, we couldn't help but think of the im­mature minority of individuals en­rolled in this University. Throughout this movie, as well as other movies presented during the year, animalistic noises or shouts of supposedly hu­morous comments were made. vVhen tr..e movies were of high caliber, the mature people present found such noise both distracting and truly pre­ventive of complete enjoyment of the shO\v. A small group seemed to en­joy the "out of place" comments but most of this group were those that are easily led. I can see where letting off steam is good, but not at a good movie. I feel one way in which this annoy­ing situation could end would be to stop the movie when any such "out of place" upheavals begin. Then turn on the lights and wait till the "gentle­men" calm down. Naturally the im­mature will dislike such moves and will either keep quiet or won't come. Either case would be satisfactory. If nothing is done and the situation continues, our immature here at Notre Dame will continue to have their chance to represent us. 
Howard Borek 318 Howard Hall 
The Scholastic 

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: DON OLSEN 
Don Olsen (B.S.E.E., 1959), Sales Manager for Data Com­munications in Wisconsin Telephone Company's Madison Office, coordinates all data communications projects in the entire Southern Division. He works with company sales­men and customers throughout his area to uncover new data service applications. 
Don previously was a Communications Consultant help­ing business customers pep up profits by making better use of telephone services. His performance earned him the opportunity to attend the Bell System Data Communications School and won him his latest promotion! 
·whether guiding company craftsmen, or supervising the installation of transmission equipment, or working with customers, Don has capably handled a variety of challenges. 
Don Olsen and other young engineers like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America. 
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 

January 18, 1963 

If you have trouble saying it... 
Say it with a Parker 

If you're a little shy and have difficulty say­ing "I love you" or even "I like you very much"-say it with a Parker. 
The new Parker Arrow makes a beauti­fully expressive gift and looks as if you paid a small fortune for it. It only costs $3.95, however, which should leave you with enough date money for an impressive pres­entation ceremony in romantic surround­ings such as the second booth from the back in your local drugstore. 
The new Parker Arrow comes in black, dark blue, light blue, light gray, and bright red, with a choice of four instantly replace­able solid 14K gold points. Gift-boxed with five free cartridges. 
P. S.To girls: a Parker Arrow-besides being a very romantic gift-comes in one size (the right one), should last at least ten times longer than a scarf or a tie, and should bring in a harvest of correspondence you'll cherish the rest of your life. 
c:p PARKER Maker of the world's most wanted pem 
New PARKER ARR®W only $3~ 
The Scholastic 

• Tomorrow, at two o'clock in the Stepan Center, Peter, Paul, and Mary will appear in concert. This trio sings 
campus at a glance
folk music in a way unusual among 
big-name entertainers. Their music is almost totally lacking in "devices" which are so often utilized by folk singers trying to establish reputa­tions. As a matter of fact, their style, according to the trio, emphasizes the pure quality and "integrity" of folk music. 
As a consequence of having to please a great number of listeners, though, Peter, Paul, and Mary are not "pure" folk singers in the sense that the great Weavers are. In fact, they are so commercialized that the Jour­nal of Arnerican Folklore will not re­view their works. It must be noted, however, that the Journal is highly critical of Joan Baez. What they do sing suffers less distortion of its original spirit than the folk songs sung by the majority of other big­name trios, e.g.) The Kingston Trio. 
The group was organized to make big money, something not totally un­familiar to baritone Paul Stookey who, as a comic, was the highest paid entertainer in Greenwich Village be­fore joining the trio. Peter Yarrow, the tenor of the group, abandoned a career connected with psychology, which he studied at Cornell, because "Folk music is a satisfying field." Mary Allin Travers, whose voice and appearance both are described by the adjective "willowy," "went to a lot of New York progressive schools where there's plenty of art and music and the like." Later she studied for a year at the Art Institute of N.Y. 
The trio almost didn't make it to Notre Dame. The Social Commission first contracted Peter, Paul, and Mary in the last week in November for the three-week period between Christmas vacation and semester break. The only available date given at that time was Friday, the 18th, to which the social commission agreed. The con­tract was signed a month before Peter, Paul, and Mary were scheduled to appear. 
The day after returning from the Christmas vacation, the agent for Peter, Paul, and Mary called the Social Commission, notifying them of President Kennedy's invitation invit­ing Peter, Paul, and Mary to appear at the 2nd Anniversary of the In­augural Ball. The Social Commission explained that tickets had already been sold and because there was an apparent demand, that they did not wish to release Peter, Paul, and Mary 
from their contract. Possible dates given by the agent for an alternate appearance during the second semes-
Ja1111ary 18, 1963 
ter were unacceptable because they fell on Junior-Parent week end, and the week end of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. The agent therefore said that Peter, Paul, and Mary would ap­pear on the 18th. 
The next day, Howard Crem of United Artists, who is running the Presidential Extravaganza, offered the Social Commission $1000 plus a prerelease movie if they would re­linquish the contract. The same day the agent called again, offering Peter Nero and the Highwaymen as a sub­stitute for Peter, Paul, and Mary. In both instances, the Social Commission explained they could not accept these proposals. 
Mr. Raymond Miller of the White House staff later called Fr. McCar­ragher, explaining that Vice-Presi­dent Lyndon Johnson, and certain other members of the Kennedy family, had previously seen Peter, Paul, and Mary at the Shoreham Hotel in Washington and had re­quested their appearance. Fr. Mc­Carragher explained the situation here, and Mr. Miller agreed with the 
Social Commission's position. It was apparent by this time that consider­able pressure was being applied not only through Peter, Paul, and Mary, but also from the Vice-President of the United States. 
On Tuesday, the 8th, Peter, Paul, and Mary's agent called the Social Commission notifying them that the Vice-President had sent a personal telegram to N.D. asking them to al­low Peter, Paul, and Mary to appear in Washington as a personal favor. The agent also notified the Social Commission for the first time that Peter, Paul, and Mary would not ap­pear on the 18th. He offered a $3000 out-of-court settlement or an appear­ance Saturday afternoon. 
After discussion among themselves, the Social Commission decided that, because of the number of tickets sold and student demand, they would ac­cept the Saturday appearance. As a result, Peter, Paul, and Mary will ap­pear on Saturday, via the "Lady Bird," Vice-President Johnson's per­sonal plane. 

The personal desire of Peter, Paul, and Mary to appear in front of the President of the United States rather than Notre Dame students is under­standable in light of the trio's future career. Pressure from the White House, however, left a bad taste in the Social Commission's collective mouth. 
• Before the White House special overruns the campus tomorrow, Bela Szilagi, a pianist of no mean value, will slip unobtrusively into Washing­ton Hall, play selections and an en­core before a scattered audience, and leave. That an artist of Szilagi's re­pute will be so received is lamentable. 
Tonight at 8:15 Szilagi will play, in Washington Hall, selections of Bach, Brahms, and :Moussorgsky. Ad­mission is $1.00. 
• Emerging, finally, from the word­scarred chambers of the Who's Who Selection Committee is this year's listing of the most prominent seniors on campus. Feeling they were being ramrodded by the Blue Circle (13 Blue Circle members made the list), this year's Who's Who Committee at­tempted to clarify the ambiguous concept of Who is Who. In the at­tempt at clarity no agreement was reached and, but for the Blue Circle's swift moving forces, the Committee would have banned Who's Who from 
campus. The list: John Ahern, Dan Baldino, Edmund Barton, Thomas Bishop, Kevin Cahill, Edmond Collins, Doug­las DiBianco, Edgar Eck, Leonard Forys, Gerard Gray, Tim Haidinger, Patrick Harkins, Kevin Hart, and Thomas Harvey. Also included were Gerald Hewitt, Jr., Richard Kava­naugh, David Kennedy, Alfred Kil­lilea, Allen Korenjak, Paul Lehner, John Macleod, James Malling, Joseph Maxwell, John McCabe, Michael Mc­Carthy, Dennis McMahon, Charles Murphy, Thomas O'Connor, John Ohala, John Reishman, Thomas Schlereth, Joseph Simoni, John Walk­er, Jr., and Patrick Williams. 
(Continued on page 34) 


opm1on of many faculty members, raised Colorado to one of the West's 
leading institutions. A few criticized him, though, for bringing the school
On Other Campuses 
into the political arena. 
fAlfH CALltO AT JAJ.li. 5tlt 5N{7 /F FAITH CAl.l..€0 Ar l/:/f A~ 5AIV IF t(OV LOLA CALLfO A1 (:o,-?AIO ~He lfOV [JO~'f CAL.l H£R 8£,f 11:00 ~H€ roirr CAI.I, H&R FN '3:00 5H5 WIU KllL­WILL CAI.L 8k/C lA1€R. lDlA WILL KILL. H~l<5EL.F. ioL-A CAL.l€0 HER~l,f. /;fOVR FA1H€R CALlfO AT 12:00. CALWJ Af I:/~ 00 Mf½f,65. 
• The United States National Stu­dent Association, in co-operation with the federal government, will sponsor a nationwide student conference on the proposed "Domestic Peace Corps" at American University in Washing­ton on the week end of February 15-17. 
The domestic corps is a definite 
project of the Kennedy administra­
tion and is the subject of study for 
a special cabinet task force, headed 
by Attorney General Robert Kennedy. 
The organization would be similar 
to the Peace Corps, but designed to 
work among the "32,000,000 persons 
now living at a lower level than 
America is capable of providing for 
its citizens," in Indian reservations, 
depressed areas, and urban slums. It 
is expected that the new organization 
will be used to train badly needed 
social workers as well. 
The USNSA played a significant role in the formation of the Peace Corps. Several National Student Congresses had recommended such a program and USNSA threw full sup­port behind the President when he be­came interested in it. 
The Peace Corps itself is now be­ginning to shift its main accent to South America, in keeping with the President's Alliance for Progress with Latin America. Previously, many Corps members had been sent to the 
Feiffer 
Af q:30. 5Atrl ~Ht W/1.L. CALI. 

~OUR FAfHER CALL.£0 Ai '3:00 Ai!O !JJAtJTEO fo ~fXJW Will{ LfOU /W71J'f CN.L£D i,f01/R MOTH£R. 6VT Wl-l'f 1"€LI, H~R H~ row i,fOU ro. fAlrH 
CAL.I.£(? AT 3:$ NJO q..1D IF "(OU OOtJ"f CAL.I. HER 8'1 / ~:00 ~H6 WILL KILi.. 
~fi?$Lf. LOI.A CAI.LEO Af 
3:30-~JO 
HE~~AGE. 

f3ACK LA1ER. 
,,I 

l.fOUR fATRtR CA~LW Ai4:oo MJV ~AIV IF l.{OIJ CJIDtJ'1 CALL l{Ol}f! ~OTHtR ff€ WDIJW KIL.I. Hlf-1561.F, lDlA CALLW At 4:30 AfJO 5AIO IF SH& VIOIJ'T HcAR FROM /.,fOIJ E,lf 7:00 SHE' 

I WOIJLV K'ILL. H~f­~fLF. FAITH CAL(£() 
AT 5:or, MID lEff l<lORV 1HAi SIie /JJAS 60I~ 10 KILL HER~l..f. 

newly emerging nations in Africa. At 
present, there are approximately 
3,500 Corps members, with another 
1,000 in training. 
In addition, Director Sargent Shriver 
has announced that the Peace Corps 
is planning to go international. Rich­
ard Goodwin, of the State Depart­
ment, will head a special task force 
for international co-ordination of na­
tional peace corps groups. The in­
terest in this arose last October in a 
46-nation conference in Puerto Rico 
to study beter utilization of man­
power in the developing countries. 
Fifteen countries are already develop­
ing their own versions of the Corps. 
• Two more results of the furor at Colorado University, caused by the student newspaper's attacks on Barry Goldwater, are the resignation of President Quigg Newton, and the pro­bation of the ex-managing editor of the paper. 
It is thought that Democrat New­ton's actions surrounding the firing of the editor of the Colorado Daily damaged his party in the state, con­tributing to a general Republican sweep of Colorado's elections. A newly elected member of the University's board of regents is a right-wing Re­publican publicly committed to getting rid of Newton. 
In his six-year term, terminating in September, Newton has, in the 

H£ WMJf5 {{OU 10 CAJ,i, 
FA CAll..€0 A1 t:'f, 10 Ic€E--!IW ~OUR HOfHE"R, BUT l10U 1HAf IF l,fOU £70 OW'f ielL H€R ff6 / ~or CALL HER W{ 
row '10U 10. l0lA ?J:00~6 Wilt, 
CAU€O Ar I:oo. ~l..l P!R'Sclf. 5Al/J :iff6 Will, CALL. BACI( lAfeR. 
AM~fUl~6 O~LL1 Ol!E 
011, Hllflf! Iiovt
tL~f ~-iH1~6 

MOR€, YOU! Ji,OV& t'DU! / ti/R-I UJV6 YOIJ/ 


The Scholastic 

Terry Marshall, who quit his post as managing editor of the Daily after the editor was fired, was put on ad­ministrative probation by the Uni­versity of Colorado as a result of a strongly critical letter he wrote to a Republican candidate for the univer­sity board of regents. He took him to task for a number of statements about the Daily and the university. 
• 
There is a bright spot in the segregation issue. A federal district judge ruled that New Orleans' Tulane University, as a private school, could not be restrained from desegregation by state law, so the Tulane Board of Administrators decided to integrate the school. 

• 
Of course Sen. James Eastland (D-Miss.) had something further to say about segregation. In reaction to the action of the Association of Col­leges and Secondary Schools placing the University of Mississippi and all other Mississippi colleges on strict probation for bowing to political in­terference in the Meredith issue, East­land charged that the Association was "covering up Marxism in the col­leges." 


"I don't think," he said, "the states can protect those groups that are lined with reds. I think the states, through their legislatures and of­ficials, should get together and put a stop to this accreditation business." 

BIOLOGICAL PROGRESS 
I
N RECENT MONTHS, scientists have been intensely study­ing a chemical compound, for brevity called DNA, which is suspected of having a close relationship with the very origins of life -the thin line between highly complex molecules and the most primitive of living cells. While in­vestigating the possible philosophical consequences, I dis­covered an article, which appeared in La Revue de Paris for September, 1962, by the noted French biologist, Jean Rostand. He raises, but does not propose to answer, and neither shall I, some of the implications of progress in this field. 
Down through the ages, a person has been distinctly individual. This has been made possible by the immense variability of the combinations of genes within chromo­somes, which determine the characteristics of an indi­vidual. "In the lottery of conception, the same number never turns up twice." But in the face of more or less im­minent scientific control of mutation as well as organic grafting, what will become of the per­
son, meaning the specific, distinct individual? If each person in our phi­losophy has an individual soul, are specific physical distinguishing char­acteristics required, and if so, how many? 
Rostand indicates that already, by the use of hormones, some character­istics of the opposite sex can be in­troduced; others can increase the height of a man beyond that which his genetic make-up determined ear­lier in his life. Investigation of the chemical DNA shows that it is pos­sible to use that substance, extracted from dead cell matter, to determine characteristics of a new living thing: terrifying possibilities exist. 
Consider those which lie in the realm of the mind. Chemical or bio­logical changes within the skull, con­trolled by forces other than "nature," might work either good or ill on a human being. One's first reaction could be that this is tampering with forbidden material. Crude and in­humane experiments of any kind, even 
when perpetrated for the supposed good of mankind, as has been the world's past experience, are never permitted in the name of true science. But there are frightening powers being developed in this area; who or what is to determine their regulation? Rostand, as does Aldous Hux­ley in Brave New World, fears that as the margin of indi­vidual variability decreases, the concept of person is going to diminish or be altered. 
Concerning reproduction, Rostand envisages a point in which physical and mental standards of offspring could 
Ja1111ary 18, 1963 
by William Staudenheimer 

be kept above a certain minimum. This is taking part of the quality determination out of the hands of the parents. Would it be safe to compare this to, say, setting the min­imum standards of education in this country? Should the former be feared or hoped for? 
Already, certain tissues are capable of being_ sustained at will in the laboratory, apart from their original source. When this type of living has been elevated to the level of material resembling the human, could this be a human if allowed to develop -does it have a soul like that of humans, even if in immature form? Would the life formed by means of DNA, or by laboratory union of sperm and ovum, be truly human life or merely that of an animal not having the rational soul of man? 
This comes to the questiori-of what in a soul deter­mines that it is a human one, and secondly, when is this quality imposed? Does the embryo have to develop to a certain animal stage before the human characteristic is 
"added"? 

Dependent on this is also a possible­reinterpretation of birth control. Could the natural embryo, or fetusr be considered a human only when it could support life by itself -not spoon feeding itself but capable of living externally, with at least full potential for all normal functions. Thus the growth prevented might be only a growth with potential for being a human in a way similar to the po­tential for a tree to be a door. Could not the seed of a resolution of the problem exist here? 
Returning to Rostand, he presents the idea of the preservation of a char­acter by stored sexual cells. This is a 
____....;;:::a. highly debatable point from the view­point of morality as well as philoso­phy. We hold that our soul is natural and immortal. Does natural require the direct action of man and woman? 
Physical love is a means to a love on a greater plane between husband and wife, as well as presently a means of procreation. Would it right to re­move this incentive, this aid to great­
er love and mutual aid to gain the Beatific Vision? It was once observed that physical love and all the mental dis­turbance accompanying courtship and marriage existed for good reason. Otherwise how could two people ever be talked into embarking on a life of many years to­gether. 
These thoughts are certainly as yet still beyond the realm of the absolutely practicable. But on the other hand, they are not so far projected that their discussion is ,vith­out value for the concepts we presently hold. 

Two Views on Birth Control: 
1. 
A. Dudley Ward 

2. 
Frederick Crosson 


llfr. Ward is the autlwr of A Protes­tant Views Catholic Social Action. The fallowing is an excerpt from this work. 
THE PROTESTANT POSITION on the1• other hand is quite different. Protestants will disclaim, as Mater et llfogistra seems to indicate, that their support of mechanical population con­trol is based upon "utterly materialis­tic conception of man and of human life." (Paragraph 191 -Mater et Ma­gistra) Protestant assumptions are very similar to those that underly Catholic teaching. For example, the supreme sacredness of human person­ality and human life. Marriage is based upon the Biblical assertion that husband and wife become one flesh. (Genesis 2:24; Mark 10:8; Ephesians 
5:31) Marriage is not only for the mutual sanctification and perfection of individuals but of the family group. This emphasis upon the spiritual char­acter of marriage was elaborated in a pronouncement by the General Board of the National Council of Churches on "Responsible Parent­hood," (February 23, 1961) and is as follows: "(l) Parenthood is a divine­ly ordained purpose of marriage for the embodiment and completion of the 'one flesh' union, for the care and nur­ture of children, .... (2} Mutual love and companionship, rooted in the need of husband and wife for each other 
(Gen. 2:18), have also been ordained of God for the welfare and perfection of the 'one flesh' union. . . . (3) Vocation, or the service of the couple in society, is another high purpose through which 'the two become one.' ... .'' The pronouncement states fur­ther that "Responsible Parenthood, in the first instance, means to weigh the claims of procreation in relation to the total purposes of the marriage and the situation of the family in society." The responsibility for decision in the use of methods to avoid conception should be exercised in prayer and within the range of the Christian conscience. 
Family planning within the pur­poses of marriage which was ordained by God must take into consideration such points as were enumerated by the General Board, and these are four: 
"(1) The right of the child to be wanted, loved, cared for, educated, and trained in the 'discipline and instruction of the Lord' (Eph. 6:4). The rights of existing children to parental care have a proper claim. "(2) The prospects for health of a future child, if medical and eugenic 
. 

.V~­
~;q 

evidence seem negatively conclusive. "(3) The health and welfare of the mother-wife, and the need for the spacing of children to safeguard them. " (4) The social situation, when rapid population growth places dan­gerous pressures on the means of livelihood and endangers the social order." 

The question of methods of family planning is the point at which there is the deepest divergency between Roman Catholic and Protestant posi­tions. "Most of the Protestant church­es hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right. . . . Periodic continence (the Rhythm Method) is suitable for some couples, but is not inherently superior from a moral point of view." The general Protes­tant conviction is that 1notives rather than niethods are central to the moral issue. 
"Protestant Christians are agreed in condemning abortion or any meth­od which destroys life except when the health or life of the mother is at stake. The destruction of life already begun cannot be condoned as a meth­od of family limitation." Protestant churches point out the "hazards" in sterilization, and stress the possibility of its use only after the most thought­ful consideration of all the facts in­volved. Additional study of the scien­tific factors and the moral issues involved in both sterilization and abortion is needed. 
The task of society is to provide ap­propriate and sound information and counsel. "Legal prohibitions against impartation of such information and counsel violate the civil and religious liberties of all citizens including Prot­estants." This is a widely held con­viction in Protestant circles. 
The Scholastic 

Dr. Crosson is an associate professor 
in the General Program 

THE TENSION between religious2• and public standards reaches its maximum where these impact on the formulation of laws and policy guide­lines for the political community. There is every indication that this tension is going to increase in the near future in this country, in such areas as education, prayer in public schools, morality and the arts, and the set of problems which cluster around the issues of life and death: abortion, sterilization, euthanasia, birth control. The political function of this tension is to motivate a discus­sion in which opposing positions are stated and clarified for their adher­ents as well as their opponents. 
With most Protestant bodies, Cath­olics share the belief that parenthood is a Christian privilege and responsi­bility: that responsible parenthood is a norm for marriage. Responsible parenthood implies that the sexual privileges of the married couple, like all rights, involve duties if they are to be responsibly exercised. As Msgr. Luigi Ligutti, official Vatican ob­server to the U.N.'s Food and Agri­culture Organization puts it: "The Church doesn't say breed, breed, breed. The Church endorses celibacy, abstinence, continence and the so­called rhythm method as means of controlling births. Actually the Church is the greatest leader in birth control. . . . If everyone observed what the Church says on sex and con­trol there would be a lot less popula­tion." 
There are two facets of this prob­lem which ought to be clearly dis­tinguished, namely the question of ­legal enactments and that of moral evaluation. While it is not only the right but the duty of the Church, through its members, to express its moral position on legislation and on the formulation of policy, as a mat­ter of principle it is prudent -in the best sense of that misused term -not to impose moral demands on the majority which the latter do not impose on themselves. This is not only an American principle, it is a traditional maxim in Catholic teach­ing (Aquinas, S.T. i-11, 96, 2). Con­versely, the minimum requirement of the Church vis-a-vis the state is simply that its members not be bound by law to act contrary to their Chris­tian conscience. (This position is analogous to the theoretical relations between theology and philosophy.) But if it is prudent to exercise re­straint in the legal enactment of moral demands, this is not a counsel of laissez faire. There can be no 
Lady Watching 
Out in the wind the children play. Snow perils on the roofs of high houses Three storeys and four, Snow loaves on brick ledges. Cold glass, warm curtains, whiter at the seams. All at once Out of the east and south and north .and west The world collapses. Children, why play your games in the snow Where the wind is cold And where beneath your scarves and leggings You'll be wet? Wait till the snow stops. It isn't really warm-that's only you, You and that tickly wetness Underneath your shoulders. Don't bury Martha in the blank snowbank. What if some rare being tunneling up the other way Should find her in his snow and capture her? Or if it melts, And Martha crawls out wet and sneezing? 
Childhood true, on the minstrel plays, 
Hurdy-gurdy in the snowwhere. 
Out in the wind the children play 
In a soundless way. 

doubt that the development of man's moral consciousness has always been stimulated by the insistence of a minority that certain things were moral (or immoral), and their form­ing of the public conscience through persuasion and legislation. Decisions of the Supreme Court have often rec­ognized that what was tolerated at one time has later become essential to correct or suppress -but always, this supposes that a consensus has been reached. 
The second aspect of the question concerns the dialogue proper, and the grounds for the moral evaluations. Once the differences of evaluation are clear, as they are here, the problem is that of finding out precisely where and why we begin to disagree. For example, a recent Methodist writer has stated that "responsibility for de­cision in the use of methods to avoid conception should be exercised in prayer and within the range of the Christian conscience." This state­ment, which echoes the language of the Lambeth Conference of the Anglican bishops in 1958, is typical of the Protestant approach to moral­ity since the time of Luther and Calvin. This approach -excellently characterized in contrast to the Cath­olic approach in Tawney's Religion 
-JOHN PESTA 

and the Rise of Ca']litalism -seems above all to respect the freedom and integrity of the individual situation. Consequently, it tends to avoid an objective stipulation of what is moral, since mere conformity with a rule does not constitute moral action. As the quote above implies, the couple must decide what is moral for them. 
But of course the matter cannot be left there. Even granting that the "Christian Conscience" must be formed, informed -that it is not enough simply to "put on Christ" ­is it not possible to say that some means are simply illegitimate? The Methodist writer quoted above does in fact go on later to comment in passing that "Protestant Christians are agreed that abortion or any meth­od which destroys life . . . cannot be condoned as a method of family limi­tation." There is here agreement with the Catholic position that the ques­tion of methods, and not merely that of motives, is relevant. Here, it seems, is a common premise, where we can begin to disagree. 
The Church has traditionally taught that certain elements are essential to the integrity of the marital act ­without one or more of these ele­ments, the act changes its nature. 
(Continued on page 33) 

the assumed name of theThrowback's 
~Notes~ front the Underground 
by John ~Iarlow 

"There was a cunning practice at Notre Dame in those days (the 1920's) whereby sophomores, drifting through freshmen halls at night . . . during the first hazy week of the school year, would initiate new men to the perils of their new life. A eouple of sophomores, one carrying 
.a. big pipe wrench, and the other a hammer, would knock at a freshman's door; entering, they would explain with courtesy that they'd come to take out the radiator. They'd go over and bang it a few times, connect the wrench, and then pause patiently to listen to the freshman's protest. What he always said was that this was his room and that was his radiator. What they always said was that, yes, but last year this had been the room of the man with the wrench, and this was his radiator. Only we are gentle­men, they said, full of sympathy and understanding, and it is after all a great nuisance to lug away a radia­tor. . . . A great many freshmen bought radiators belonging to Notre Dame" -so says Richard Sullivan in his book, Notre Danie; Re11iinis­cences of an Era. Practical jokes are common on college campuses. Notre Dame is no exception. The Thursday Throwback of 1955-1956, a three­page dittographed publication, played a nine-month joke on the University of Notre Dame, and no one got caught. But this joke had a practical purpose. 
The Thursday Throwback was one of the many underground publications that have appeared on the Notre Dame campus. In 1930 there was a single-page letter to the students, slipped under doors at night that was geared to stir spirit before football games. The sender signed himself "Bearclaw," and there was specula­tion at the time that it was Rockne himself, playing author instead of coach. All the secret publications haven't been that harmless. In the early 1950's a sheet was passed out by a group called the "Advocates of Our Lady," followers of the ex­Jesuit heretic, Father Feeney. The 
result: the two student distributors were caught and immediately ex­pelled, and reaction was stirred as far as Rome and Pope Pius XII. The Thursday Throwback was neither a pep talk nor a slander sheet. It at­tempted, in its own words, to "cause some controversy." It succeeded. The first issue of the Throwback, Sept. 29, 1955, set its purpose 
There are many things that need saying on the cmnpus of Notre Dame du Lac, that need to be said plainly and publicly. Praise is needed where praise is due, and scorn, also, is often needed to make a good thing better. ... We are, of course, unregulated, and being · so we can print things the other student vo:ces are not allowed to, or are ignorant of. Regulation is fine until it regulates the truth. 
In spite of its serious opening com­mentary, the Throwback's criticism was usually geared to produce results with a smile. One noted Notre Dame English professor, who was sent copies, said of the Throwback: "It was decent. It wasn't crude; it wasn't coarse. It was, rather, a line of con­structive criticisms, tempered with humor." The article, "Heck," in the Oct. 6, 1955, issue, spoofed logic ( a required freshman course at Notre Dame) and the SCHOLASTIC, in six simple lines 
"It is better to sit at Notre Dame and think of hell than to sit in hell and think of Notre Dame." 
-The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC 

In other words, if you can't go to Notre Danie, go to hell. 
The Throwback varied its criti­cisms, with the exception of those aimed at SCHOLASTIC. ("Unfortunate­ly, we don't have a letters-to-the-editor section.... Why don't you send your letter to the SCHOLASTIC. The SCHO­LASTIC will print anything, n'est pas" -Thursday Throwback, Oct. 6, 1955). 
One short comparison called, "The Wrong Idea" achieved its purpose without a word from "James Squire," 
editor-in-chief, or any of his staff. -from Cardinal Newman, The Idea of the University 
"I say a university, taken in its bare idea ... has this object and this mission: it contemplates nei­ther nwral impression nor me­chanical production; it professes to exercise the mind neither in art nor in duty; its function is intellectual culture. ..." 
-from the Notre Dame SCHO­
LASTIC 
"The University has announced that it has received a gift of $5,000 to stimulate interest in bridge and golf anwng undergraduate stu­dents. . . . The newly established fund wi,ll be used to underwrite bridge and golf instruction and tournaments on the campus." 

The criticism contained none of the traditional Notre Dame complaints, such as lights out, morning checks, or cafeteria food. In fact, these words were not mentioned in the entire 1955-1956 volume. 
Subject matter for the Throwback ranged from campus play reviews to comments on the Religious Bulletin. 
("We cannot stand to see [Notre Dame's] religious power watered down in the Religious Bulletin" ­Thursday Throwback, May 24, 1956); it ranged from football to the re­ligious articles sold in the Notre Dame Bookstore. (Thursday Throw­back, Nov. 17, 1955: title, "Yippie­yi-o Blessed Virgin"; text, "One of the swell new items offered by the Bookstore, 'Miraculous Lariat Tie.' These, we suppose, are for Catholic cowboys.") And when Father Hes­burgh, the President of Notre Dame, was quoted in Time Magazine as wanting "Cadillac quality" in his stu­dents, and was pictured holding his fingers in the Churchill "V," the Thursday Throwback promptly en­tered its only cartoon of the year ­the Dome, with a shining Cadillac V instead of Our Lady. 
Some called the Throwback merely the voice of malcontents; an under­mining factor in the University. A chief complaint was that the writers were anonymous, and that criticism couldn't be countered without rec­ognizing the "underground publica­tion." The Throwback answered 
We would like very niuch to come into the open and publish with our own names, but we think that this service of ours ought not to be stopped, and we are aware of at least one gentleman on tlie ad­ministrative end who would be de­lighted to discover ou1· identities 
(Continued on page 26) 
The Scholastic 

Another Man's 
WHO'S WHO 
by J. J. Pottmyer 

T
HIS PAST WEEK, announcement 
was made of the selection of 

Notre Dame's nominees to the Who's 
Who among Eniployees of American 
Colleges and Universities (not a pub­
lication of A. N. Marquiss & Co. or 
the publication known as Who's Who 
in America). This select group will 
have their names included, with ap­
propriate biographical material, in 
the handsome, gunnysack-bound, 
newsprint edition which is sold to 
members of the group for $10 or to 
libraries for 51 cents. 
The selection committee at Notre Dame is made up of members from various influential organizations on campus. Officials of the local plumb­ers' union, faculty members, and the Hungarian consul are just a few members of this committee. Although criticism is sometimes leveled at the committee for favoritism, there is widespread agreement that this year's selection of nominees is the best rep­resentative group ever chosen. 
The obvious candidate this year was Helen Hlovatkvorskiwicz. Stu­dents eating in the West Dining Hall are all familiar with the fine job of serving done by Helen. Mrs. H1ovat­kvorskiwicz this year broke all Din­ing Hall records (and surprisingly few dishes, considering) in mashed potato slinging. She set the phenom­enal record time of 0.9 seconds while working in W line last October. She also gained the mashed potato record for a counter-lockwise circulating line when she succeeded in slapping down a perfectly spherical glob of potatoes in a mere 1.1 seconds. Helen, always humble as to her great achievements, thinks lightly of the many trophies she has won in Din­ing Hall competition, saying, "The smile of appreciation the boys give me when they really move through the line quickly is the only thanks I want." 
Mashed potato slinging isn't the only event in which Helen excels. She came in second in the Dining Hall 
Decathlon last year in which point scores in each of ten events (mashed potato slinging, Brussels sprout roll­ing, gravy ladling, meat spearing, chicken plucking, soup slurping, pea pushing, French fry distribution, cof­fee mixing, and hog slopping) are added together. Helen credits her success to the excellent teamwork of the other girls. Each group in the Dining Hall works as a team, each member having to serve each item at least once every two weeks. How­ever, you can always tell when Helen is on mashed potatoes and her partner Minnie is on gravy ladling; the line really moves. 
For the first time in five years, a husband and wife team has been nominated from Notre Dame. Helen's husband, Karl Hlovatkvorskiwicz, a University electrician, was also unan­imously elected to Who's Who. Karl is no alien to record setting, having set what will probably be the all-time record in his department. Karl re­cently took three days to install a light switch. He was able to utilize one entire day to estimate the job. The second day he used all the time from eight o'clock until noon to un­load his truck, took an hour off for lunch, and then reloaded all his tools from one o'clock until five. The third day he forgot to bring any wire with him. After returning to the shop for this, he took four hours to do a fifteen­minute job, succeeding, though, in making it possible to turn off the lights on the third floor of the Main 
Building and room 317 Nieuwland with a flip of the switch. 
In spite of the usual protests that the faculty can't properly be con­sidered as employees of the Univer­sity, the committee felt that Dr. Percivalle Platypus of the English De­partment achieved academic distinc­tion to such an extent that it would be unfair to eliminate him from Who's Who on any grounds what­ever. Dr. Platypus, the world's fore­most authority on Little Black Sam­ba, recently had a paper published on his favorite subject. In this scholarly work he discussed the significance of the number of pancakes eaten by Sambo, his mother Mumbo, and his father Jumbo. As you undoubtedly remember, the very last paragraph of the book relates that Mumbo ate twenty-seven pancakes, Jumbo ate fifty-five pancakes, and Little Black Samba ate one hundred sixty-nine pancakes. After discussing the signi­ficance of writing these figures in 
Roman numerals, Dr. Platypus then 
assigned Hebrew and Greek letter 
equivalents to these numbers using 
well-proven cabalistic techniques. 
Probably the best part of the work 
was the attempt to interpret the 
prime factors of each of these num­
bers. 27 is factored to 3 x 3 x 3. 
55 is factored to 5 x 11; and 169 is 
factored to 13 x 13. It is easily seen 
that Black Sambo inherits two 3's 
from his mother and the two l's from 
his father. However, it can be noted 
that there is a 5 which is not in­
herited from the father and a 3 which 
is not inherited from the mother. Re­
jecting at once the hypothesis that 
this illustrates a type of evolutionary 
degradation, Professor Platypus in­
terprets this to mean that there are 
areas of Samba's personality which 
are not yet fully developed. The 
numeral 5 is taken as a symbol of the 
male logical capacity ( as opposed to 
female intuition), since 5, being the 
number of human fingers, is associ­
ated with counting or mathematical 
ability. 
In spite of the presence of both masculine and feminine elements in Sambo, Professor Percy Platypus re­jects the modern hypothesis, based on a merely superficial examination of the number of pancakes eaten by Sambo, that Sambo was a pervert. 
Dr. Platypus' other works on Little Black Sambo include one on "Con­servation of Mass" in which he proves that four tigers contain just enough matter to make butter sufficient for 251 pancakes and another paper on "Matriarchal Society in India" in which he points out that Mumbo is always mentioned before Jumbo and finally his first paper "Grandiosity in 
Little Black Sambo." 
The only candidate for Who's Who who aroused much of the controversy this year was the traditional member of the group, Francis Joseph Haps­burgh. It may be remembered that Hapsburgh has been elected to Who's Who for the last ten years by the tra­ditional vote of 29 to 3. However, there was a large group on the selection committee this year which felt Haps­burgh had not made his traditional number of flights around the world. Upon learning of this, Francis Joseph immediately made a trip to Antarc­tica where, in a scant half-hour, he circled the globe ten times which more than satisfied the selection com­mittee. Therefore, they elected him by the traditional vote of 29 to 3. 
January 18, 1963 
Mister Duffy bv Bill :iv[etz 
T
HE SCHOLASTIC would like to do an article on you, Mr. Duffy." '"There's nothing to say." "We would like to get a little bio­
graphical background on you." "\Vhat for? \\lho is a person? I'm anonymous.'' "Could we make an engagement to talk then?" 
"Yes, I suppose. But one doesn't look forward to these things, you know. ffs like having a photograph !I'-ade. One doesn't like the exposure." 
After saying this, Mr. Joseph M. Duffy (he actually has a doctoral degree. but says. "Everyone is Mister") looked away, picked up his brown carrying case with the crumpled Air France baggage ticket still tied to the handle, and walked down the corridor of O'Shaughnessy to the elevator. He left Room 108 which was empty of the small group of freshman English students who had rushed to lunch. 
In September the freshmen in Room 108 had wondered -as many other classes have -if this were really the man who had such a fine reputation on campus. As he made his first dignified entrance into class three minutes after the bell, the stu­dents saw a tall man with meticu­lously groomed hair, sepulcher-white hands, and a noticeable paunch pro­truding through the coat of a con­servative suit. They raised eyebrows at his insistence that the windows and shades be arranged symmetri­cally, and at his horror upon finding dust on the instructor's desk. The freshmen exchanged puzzled glances when he bounced on tiptoe with his hands folded across his chest and be­moaned the condescension one must endure from South Bend cab drivers, and the inner turmoil one must suffer in deciding when to sell Studebaker stock. They were truly amazed when he tore at the very foundation stones of the University by boldly criticizing venerable establishments ranging from the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas to the prices of "Those Irish Jews in the bookstore." 
Several classes later the fellows in Room 108 were momentarily stunned when he said that their second paper should be a little longer than the first 
(one page), but "not more than ten 
thousand words." 
At other times Mr. Duffy's vague­
ness rather than his surprises per­
plexed his students. At what seemed 
to be the crux of a story that Mr. 
Duffy had taught many times and 
read many more times, his head sank 
low over his desk until his lips 
touched the tips of his fingers, the 
tilt of his glasses hid his eyes, and 
he said sadly, "I don't know. I don't 
understand it." 
But as the semester progresses, the students of Mr. Duffy's class begin to perceive underlying greatness in his teaching. \\Then he is belittling a taxi driver or worrying unceasingly about the stock market. students learn that he is actually forcing them to evalu­ate personally these social establish­ments. His undue emphases beguile the students into taking new and imaginative looks at the human crea­ture, and the observations usually end in a healthy laugh at the incongrui­ties that everyone treasures. The stu­dents eventually learn that Mr. Duffy is not always giving his own impres­sions in his anecdotes at the begin­ning of each class; he is actually giv­ing a small performance to set the stage for the rest of his class period. As soon as they allow him this touch of artistic freedom, they find his anecdotes and his classes truly en­joyable. 
As the weeks pass in the classroom, an atmosphere unique to Mr. Duffy's class develops. It is an atmosphere of penetrating curiosity about the human community at all levels: in­quiry into the obsession of a class member with the word "stereotyped," the position of classical languages in the Notre Dame curriculum, the polit­ical scene of South Bend, the speak­ing voices of American women. It is an atmosphere of eager analysis of both the insights of literature and personal observations such as those just mentioned. And it is an atmos­phere of intellectual keenness where banality is the unforgivable offense. Mr. Duffy establishes this atmosphere at the beginning of each class with his anecdotes, he sustains it by the sparring of wits throughout the class, and he utilizes the atmosphere to en­
able him to communicate deep and delicate thoughts with real earnestness. When Mr. Duffy ponders aloud pas­sages of literature, you feel you gain more than a surface insight. Speak­ing of Portia in Death of the Heart, he said: 
That is real courage. Not the heroism of dynamic action nor of public staunchness, but the heroism, of the little things. The courage to 011en a door, to walk across a 1·00111, filled with staring eyes. 
Yet Mr. Duffy never ties his thoughts into neat conclusions. This is the final beauty of his teaching, that he can say, "I don't understand it" at the end of a novel with such a blend of tact and sincerity that everyone in the room immediately wants to read the entire book again. The over-all effect of what Mr. Duffy calls a "shaping of the class" is that the students learn, are stimulated to learn more, and love it. At mid­semester, one freshman commented, "This is the only class I have that I really look forward to." Many other students in other classes of Mr. Duffy have expressed the same thoughts in respect for the same outstanding qualities of the man as a teacher, qualities which he has devoted his life to developing. 
As a grammar school boy in West­chester, New York, Mr. Duffy decided he wanted to teach. At Regis High School in New York City ("Jesuit, of course") and at Columbia College he studied the humanities, especially the classical languages. Then from Co­lumbia he went to Harvard for grad­uate work. But graduate work at Harvard was not what he expected, so he left after a year for the busi­ness world of New York. Yet the life of the businessman was not appealing either, and it lasted only until the day that an elderly friend of his father approached him during lunch at the Union League in New York City. As Mr. Duffy recalls: 
He grasped my hand and would not let go of it. Then he traced out all the lines on m,y palm, with the tip of his finger, and concluded, "Impracti­cal." I wanted to jerk my hand away. After that I knew it (the busi­ness world) was not for me. It is fine 
The Scholastic 


for others, but not for me. 
· So he went to his first teaching position at the University of Idaho. 
The time he spent in Idaho was most significant because it wa~ there that he found the field which was to become his first love, the novel. Then, as he says, "I knew what I wanted to do, and I wanted to get it over ,vith." After four years of work, three spent at the University of Chi­cago and one in England, he com­pleted and defended his doctoral dis­sertation on "Jane Austen and Nine­teenth Century Critics of Fiction." At the same time in the summer of 1954 Father Soleta, the Vice-President of Academic Affairs. telegraphed him an offer for a position on the Notre Dame faculty. Before that day, lVIr. Duffy says, "South Bend was only the place where United Airline pilots announced 'We have reached cruis­ing altitude,' when flying east from Chicago or announced 'We have reached cruising altitude,' when fly­ing west to Chicago." In spite of never having seen the city, he ac­cepted the position, and he is now an Associate Professor of the English Department. 
The life of a teacher is apparently hard for many people to comprehend. As Mr. Duffy lives it, it might be even more difficult to comprehend. He is a bachelor who lives alone in a South Bend apartment, and has few other activities than his teaching and reading. Yet he very emphatically defends the calling of a teacher. 
People are condescending to teach­ers. Either they idolize them or they vity them. But the1.J shouldn't. Teach­ing is a good life. And underline the good. It is good to know that one llas possibly added something to a life, or left an appreciation of a novel with a jew persons. 
After saying this he looks down, fumbles with his hands for most of a minute, and then without looking up again he mutters something very quietly which seems to answer any lingering doubts a person might have. 
The life oj the mind is a glorious endeavour. It is not the only thing, but it is a beautiful thing. 

T
ODAY most of man's attention is focused on what is called "the frontiers of space." At an earlier pe­riod, the various jungles of the world were the frontiers that challenged civilization. As time passed, the jun­gles shrank away from the encroach­ment of mechanization and commerce,
J 
until, at present, few still actively
1 
1 resist civilization. One of the most no­
,I 
J table is the Darien Region of lower 
l ! Panama, a jungle that has defeated all who have come to conquer it: from the early Spanish colonists to the present-day builders of the Pan­American highway. Our crossing had a significant his­torical precedent. In 1513 Balboa crossed the Darien and discovered the Pacific. Since then few people have tried and even fewer have suc­ceeded. _,\.s in most primitive areas, death is the penalty for a mistake; for a careful person, however, I felt that the Darien offered a unique op­portunity to explore an environment that has challenged men for centuries. In a word it offered adventure. In 1960 I convinced two of my friends at Notre Dame, Joseph Bellina and James Wirth, that such a trip was possible if it were planned with care. After discussing the problems involved and reading what material was avail­able on the region, we agreed to at­tempt to cross t.l1e Darien from the Pacific to the Caribbean after our 
graduation in 1961. In the meantime, 
we contacted another Notre Dame stu­
dent, Aristides Fernandez, from Colon, 
Panama. It was largely through his 
and his family's help that the trip was 
successful. 
The streets of Panama City that run down to the harbor literally go from bad to worse. The harbor con­tains a fleet of shrimp boats and a few banana boats; its surface is covered with a flotsam of garbage and debris. On the buildings crowding the water's edge, roost large black vultures, lend­ing their eerie presence to an already eerie scene. 
Here we boarded the trading vessel Pirre, a rundown, double-decked boat whose engine was a loud two­cylinder motor, and whose only sani­tary convenience was a roost sus­pended over the water. The crew was of Spanish, Negroid, and Indian ori­gins. The food served to those aboard was a barely palatable diet of rice and meat. The meat was so tough that it had to be first set in the sun until it started to decompose. 
The Pirre carried us down the Pa­cific shore of Panama to the Bay of San Miguel, from there up the Chu­cunaque River and finally to Yaviza, the last point of civilization in the Darien. With a letter of introduction from Aristides Fernandez, Sr., we sought a local merchant, Raoilio Ley, to whom we explained our plans. 
We had previously decided to camp 
in the interior of the Darien, and then 
to cross the San Blas Mountains to the 
Caribbean Coast. Ley told us that such 
a trip was possible only with the per­
mission and help of a native leader by 
the name of Chaua. He lived in the 
interior, on the Rio Tuquesa, a tribu­
tary of the Rio Chucunaque, and 
could only be reached by piraqua 
(dugout canoe). 
The next morning, supplied with a pot of rice and a great deal of enthu­siasm, we boarded a large piraqua and started up the Chucunaque River, headed for the Tuquesa. The river was enclosed on both sides by green jungle walls, and at each bend there were great white-trunked trees, towering two hundred feet above us. As we progressed into the jungle, our enthu­siasm was replaced by respect and awe at being in a place so removed from civilization. 
Towards evening we reached the Tuquesa and began making our way upstream against both the current and the approaching night. When the river became too difficult to negotiate, we left the boat and set off across the jungle. After a couple of hours of jungle travel, we came to an Indian settlement into which our guides dis­appeared. The settlement was un­usual, since it was inhabited by both Indians and Negroes. This strange condition was created by the nearby presence of the only trading post in the region. 


When our guides returned, they told us that the trading post was owned by Chaua, but he was on a trip fur­ther up the river. This news brought our plans to a temporary halt. While waiting for Chaua's return, we used the time hunting in the surrounding jungle. During one of the hunting trips we came across a Fer-de-Lance, a deadly South American snake of the Pit Viper family. On another occa­sion, we made friends with an old man named Kintana, who lived in a small hut on the edge of the main clearing; he seemed to know the jungle well, and we were told he had crossed the Darien approximately ten years before. This was important to us as we had not previously known any­one who had made the trip, and we knew that no man lived in the rugged San Blas Mountain region. 
Early on the morning of the third day, we were awakened by shouts tell­ing us to prepare to leave immediate­ly; Chaua was nearby and if we hurried we could reach him. All that morning was spent working our way by piraqua up the Tuquesa, until early afternoon when the Indians suddenly pulled the boats to the shore and told us that we had at last reached Chaua. Actually we had arrived at the home of a Choco Indian family. 
When we arrived, Chaua and the t
It· 
rest of the men were in the jungle. He returned two hours later and we were able to make the necessary arrange­ments. It was agreed that the three of us would go ahead and set up camp by a creek named Vanau. We would re­main there a week and would then be joined by Kintana and a weight­bearer named Carlos, who was to help us carry our heavy equipment. 
The camp at Vanau was a success despite a disastrous beginning. We arrived at Vanau late at night, tired and sore; we rigged up a hasty camp and collapsed from near exhaustion. That night the rains came with such intensity they soaked through the tent, wiped out the fire, and soaked all our clothing and gear. The next day it continued to rain, but we worked from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., cutting trees and building a semipermanent shelter, raised above the ground on stilts, so that we could have the basic necessi­ties of life: a place to keep dry and a fire to cook upon. This task completed, we spent an enjoyable week hunting, fishing, and exploring. Wildlife was plentiful though difficult to see. We regularly found the tracks of herds of peccary near the camp, and on one occasion we spotted jaguar tracks. 
A frequent visitor to our camp was a giant jungle otter who didn't seem to mind our presence. A less frequent visitor was the tyra, a five-foot weasel. As the time for our departure drew close, we began to appreciate the com­paratively easy life at Vanau and were apprehensive about the coming trip. 
The first day of the trip to the mountains indicated what was to come. As the diary of the trip records it: "Jim carried about 45 pounds, Joe and I about 35 pounds, our weight carrier, Carlos, about 55 pounds, and Kintana his own burden. We left camp at 9 a.m. and finally reached an at­tractive spot at the edge of the moun­tains at 5 p.m. where we set up camp for the night. Today as usual we trav­eled along the river, making twenty­one fords and covering about fifteen miles." 
The next day we found we had camped in a truly beautiful place, on a stony beach at the junction of three rivers. Since the river we were follow­ing was running high due to rains in the mountains, we left late the next day. Travel was difficult as the river was now flowing from the high jun­gles above in a series of cascades and rapids. Thus we were continually making difficult ascents and e..xtremely hazardous crossings of the rapids, made more dangerous by the dead weight strapped on our backs. That day we didn't reach the mountain pass or the divide as we had hoped. 
The next day's entry in the diary reads: "This was a difficult day. Again we were frustrated in not finding the 
' (Continued on page 28) 



Ingmar Bergman 

Frank McConnell's review of Virgin Spring and Through a Glass, Darkly (SCHOLASTIC, Dec. 15) was pejorative and it probably shouldn't have been. But some good theoretical points were raised. There is a way in which the symbolic reference of niuch of Bergman's art is abstruse and a way in which it naively presupposes too broad a reader acceptance. Most of Berg1nan's sym,bols are ethical; but because they are involved in the cre­ative sensibility, they 1night be in­comprehensible and even offensive to the critical m,ind -particularly one directed to an esthetic ideal, art for enjoyment. Given a certain unde­'TIULnding receptiveness, however, Vir­gin Spring can be appreciated on its own terms, and Through a Glass can be rewarding and memorable. 
Ingmar Bergman's Through a Glass, Darkly is not his best film, certainly; neither the best structured nor the best acted. But it is one of his clear­est -abstruse only when translation and dubbing are inadequate. The story concerns one day in the lives of four people alone on a Baltic island during the summer. It centers about the only woman character, Karin (Harriet Andersson), who suffers from a disease that is reducing her to an animal and forcing her mind deep­er into chronic schizophrenia, which is symbolized by the mermaid figure -half human, half fish -hung on the side of the house. 
The first part of the movie locates the characters in relation to one another, defines the situation out of 
~ 

~TBE~ 
~s 

which the later drama moves, and places the dramatic and thematic con­trol with the father, David (Gunnar Bjornstrand) ; as his name might sug­gest, he is the efflorescing religious­artist: it is he, ultimately, who sees "through a glass darkly." Karin dominates the screen, the action, and the audience sensibility: this alone would cause her to seem to be the messenger, so to speak, the "seer." But there is more to support this ap­pearance. We know that she is sus­ceptible to psychic trances which seem to have a mystic motif; that she denies her husband, Martin (Max Von Sydow), sexual gratification; and that she believes she is about to see God. The very style of her action, brought forth very well by Miss Andersson, is designed to strengthen the illusion that she is a kind of mystic. All of this heightens the intensity of the climactic moment, when she meets, not God, but a spider. The irony is overwhelmingly powerful -t o o powerful, in fact, for the characters themselves to resolve. And the dis­appointing final scene between her father and her brother, Minus (Lars Passgard), which is an attempt at resolution, testifies to this fact. 
The movie would yield to an ex­clusively psychological interpreta­tion: Karin's psychic problem would be a combination of her physical ill­ness and a mammoth Elektra Com­plex; Minus would be seen as an over­sexed adolescent searching for a mGther symbol; Martin would be a manic depressive, possibly, frustrated beyond all measure and too weak to rebel; David might be described solely in terms of guilt, or as a masochist who punishes himself by writing stories about a bad past. Not to deny a certain value to this approach, one must insist on more, must approach the movie on its own terms and take at least some of what the characters say at face value. If we listen, in this manner, we immediately perceive an 
intention quite patent in the movie­to dramatize an abstract relationship, "God is love." All that must be al­lowed is that the love aspect of the relationships between each of the male characters and Karin is suffi­ciently realized. Perhaps it isn't; perhaps, also, something of its power was lost in the translation of the dia­logue. Yet it is stated by each of the characters in question: in answer to Karin's assertion that he would rather have a young, beautiful, and willing wife, Martin, admittedly in inner turmoil, quietly says: "No. I love you." -Karin's father, who admits perversely to studying her dis­integration in order to satisfy his curiosity and get material for a book, states his love for her at least six times, and obviously feels something of her pain himself; and her brother, to whom she is a temptress represent­ing all that is mysterious and alluring about the female sex, and with whom she, in a storm of insanity, consum­mates an incestuous tragedy (the crisis of the drama), is openly able to speak of loving her. One point the movie makes is the distinction be­tween love and sex -uniting sex, ultimately, with a spider and false gods, and love with humaneness and, perhaps, a true God. 
What is being propounded by the film is love-love your neighbor ­so that no one can say, as Karin under the guise of the Queen of Va­lencia, in the play within the play, says: "Stark oblivion shall conquer me, and only death will be my re­ward." Hence, though her father uses her, her brother covets her, and her husband is constantly fighting the temptation to wish her dead, she is loved. What· is being deprecated by the film is solipsism, "the tomb of illusion." This is brought out by the room metaphor. Minus wonders whether everyone in the world is utterly alone in his own corner of the room; in the next scene Karin im-
T he Scholastic 

plicitly answers this question by say­
Hiroshima, Mon Amour
ing that in her trance she is in a big 
room where everyone is walking about in expectation, waiting for God to enter. Yet neither is correct: Minus is shown to be wrong by his father and his sister; Karin is implicitly wrong because her vision comes to a dead end, to a spider, to dementia. The resolution must come from David, the religious-artist, who speaks of the fault of most people: "we draw a magic circle around ourselves ex­cluding everything that doesn't agree with our little games." But these circles explode; one must face things as they are. 
The climax of the movie is pre­
cisely such an explosion. Karin is in 
a trance, expecting God to walk in 
the door any moment. She excludes 
her husband and her father from her 
ritual, but then tries to make them 
agree with her "game" of awaiting 
God. What comes to meet her are two 
things in one -a spider and a heli­
copter. The spider is an obvious 
phallic symbol; the helicopter re­
sembles .a spider, and it contains doc­
tors who are about to take her to a 
hospital. Her circle explodes, and she 
is left in despair. But she is loved, 
and the helicopter is not all bad any 
more than her family around her; it 
carries her away, into the sunlight, 
over the sea. And this leaves father 
and son alone. David has supposedly come to an inner resolution through the climactic tragedy; when he speaks about God his son asks : "Then, is God love?" And the answer is somehow positive, somehow negative. The God that Karin was looking for, waiting for, is not really God. She had God all along; she had the love of those .around her -people who were not pure, really: people who were people. "Love is a longing and a denial, a distrust as well as a trust; emptiness and disillusion turn into wealth and hope." Minus is left to mature in a world which he can see with the eyes his father has made perceptive; David has attained his goal; Martin is left with his love wherein he can find wealth and hope; and Karin is saved. 
The Avon theater manages to show the worst, most boring and disap­pointing films of the world; but in­termittently it comes up with the finest of motion pictures. In January it will present Phaedra, the notably controversial film starring Mercurtio Mercouri. This is a fine movie, in­telligent, stimulating, and enjoyable. 
-James Devlin 

January 18, 1963 
lN THE LAST ISSUE of the SCHO­
LASTIC, I criticized a pair of films 
by Ingmar Bergman; the criticism 
was harsh, because I had thought it 
possible to make a motion picture in­
to a wholly honest and self-contained 
work of art, and I was measuring 
Bergman's failure against a hypothe­
sis, an ideal and fully artistic film. 
I am now sure that the really artistic 
film is more than hypothetical -it 
is chimerical. Whatever are the 
psychological and aesthetic factors 
which give the motion picture its gen­
eric independence, they seem also to 
make it impossible for the motion pic­
ture ever to be really valid art. 
The case in point, of course, is 
Alain Renais' Hiroshima, Mon Amour, 
which was shown last week by 
Cinema '63. The film is perhaps the 
best of the art films now in circula­
tion in the United States, and, in­
deed, is a painfully honest attempt at 
poetry. But it fails. Or rather, it 
breaks down, overburdened, it ap­
pears, by the simple weight of its at­
tempt at lyricism. There are many 
good, and a few fine things about 
Hiroshim,a, Mon Amour; all that is 
lacking is intelligent unity, form, the 
good correlation of many good things 
which makes a series of poignancies 
a work of art. 
The film has been called Proustian by its well-read admirers. It is hardly possible, however, to conceive of two works more disparate in unity than Hiroshima, Mon Amour and A La Recherche du Temps Perdu. Both are about time and memory, to be sure -but then the movie might as well be compared to Four Quar­tets, or to the Wife of Bath's Pro­logue. The difference between the motion picture and the French novel, as a matter of fact, is simply that Hiroshima, Mon Amour is "about" time and memory, while A la Re­cherche uses concepts of time and memory to speak about something more important, about itself and its own form. The movie never gets past the theoretical concept, which, after all, is only an adjunct to the neces­sary poetic concept. 
The disunity of the film is imme­diately obvious in the first long sequence. Alternating with impres­sionistic shots of the French heroine and her Japanese lover in bed to­gether is a series of realistic and un­necessarily grisly photographs of the aftermath of the atomic bomb ex­
, 

plosion. Time and memory are there, to be sure: rather crudely so, since the lovers are simply remembering Hiroshima, and somewhat improbably so, since they are making love at the time, but, at least, thematically so, and with a vengeance. The problem is that, as the film develops, one be­gins to see that the time-memory theme has mainly to do with the French girl's faithfulness to her former lover, killed during the libera­tion of France, and nothing what­soever to do with atomic bombs. Why, then, is her second lover found in Hiroshima, of all the improbable places for a French girl to be, let alone find a lover? And why is he Japanese at all? The fact that the girl is an actress on location for a film is simply an amateurish device for getting her uselessly into Japan in the first place, and the lover's na­tionality, consequently, seems to have little to do with the movement of the film, except for the urchinish shock effect which also makes directors in­clude one alcoholic star in every other show business epic and one butler who really did do it in every tenth thriller. After the first se­quences, furthermore, the film be­comes more and more involved in the basic theoretical concept of memory, until, in the last scenes, it is almost impossible to see the ar­tistic aspirations for the phenomeno­
logical shrubbery, which sprouts anew at almost every line of the dialogue. 
There are, as I have said, great moments in the film. The photogra­phy is beautifully conceived, and the dialogue, not really effectively trans­lated in the subtitles, is often of a power much more Biblical than Proustian. But so much of the film is gratuitous, when criticized from an honestly traditional attitude; the theory does not justify itself in ar­tistic form, and at least half of the basic story elements make no sense in conjunction with the theory. 
A character in one of the Bergman films I reviewed earlier claims to have seen God, and found Him ugly; being not quite as possessed with Bergmania, I feel that at least after Hiroshima, Mon Amour, I can claim to have seen perhaps the most honest of motion picture attempts at honest, profound art -and r.mst judge the , task impossible. 
-Frank 1vlcConnell 

Irish Cagers Bid for Tourney Berth 
by Terry Wolkerstorfer 

Notre Dame's 1963 basketball squad, with an 11-3 record in its first fourteen games, has already won four more games than the 1962 team did during its entire season and looks like a cinch to finish at least 20-5, with a resulting bid to the NCAA and/or NIT tournament at season's end. Several facts justify so optimistic an out­look: this team is perhaps the most talented in Irish history, has gained some much-needed experience, has de-
John Andreoli: cool head, hot hand. 
sire, and -most important -has the toughest part ot its schedule behind it. 
Seldom, if ever, has a Notre Dame team had such uniformly good personnel; although the Irish have oc­casionally had a superstar like Tom Hawkins or Dick Rosenthal, almost never have all five starters been in double figures as is the case at the present time. 
Larry Sheffield, who plays with surprising aplomb for a sophomore, leads the team in scoring with a 17.2 average and is shooting just under 49 per cent from the field. John Andreoli, one of two seniors who were major factors in the rapid maturing of the four sophomore stars, has a 14.8 average; Ron Reed is close on his heels with a 14.1 mark. Walt Sahm, 6-9 sophomore center, has averaged 12.9 points per game and has also snared 
16.2 rebounds per contest to rank among the nation's top ten rebounders. 
John Matthews, the team's other senior and point man in the 1-3-1 attack, has an 88 per cent mark at the free throw line -one of the country's best -and has potted from outside for 11.6 points per game. The team's sixth -more recently fifth -man, Jay Miller, played only briefly early in the season but has scored so well lately that he has almost broken into double figures. Said Matthews: "Jay rebounds with authority." 
Inexperience is a natural problem for any predomi­nantly sophomore team, but Coach John Jordan tailor­made this year's schedule for this year's team, and Matthews and Andreoli steadied the team through early games with St. Joseph's, Michigan State, St. Francis, Valparaiso, and Western Michigan. The sophomores had enough confidence and experience at that point to dis­pose of Creighton easily. Though the Irish then dropped late December contests to Butler and Kentucky, they came from far behind to whip Illinois, 90-88, and Indiana, 73-70. In the heart of the schedule's three toughest weeks, Notre Dame also lost an overtime battle to an exceptional­ly competent, poised, and well-coached North Carolina five, but then came back to beat DePaul, Detroit, and Butler in succession and by convincing margins. 
Andreoli, who has made a major contribution to the team's success with a cool head and a hot hand, com­mented: "We corrected our defensive lapses, and our offense is smoother since we learned to play well to­gether; it's little things, like not passing up a good shot when you have it. Everybody is doing his part: Larry is hitting well from outside, Ronnie is our best man on the offensive boards, Jay is strong under the basket, Walt is our best rebounder, and Matty does an exceptionally good job of setting up the forwards. He realizes that in our offense the point man must think primarily of giv­ing the shot to the forwards or center, and only sec­ondarily of taking the jump shot himself. Any time the point man scores more than ten points, it's a great p2r­formance." 
Andreoli's casualness on the court belies his desire, but that is perhaps typical of this team. It is a team which doesn't yell "We've got desire." Rather, they work hard and let the record speak for itself. By March second, it should have a good deal to say. 
The Scholastic 

Lamonica: East-West Star 
Hefty Daryle Lamonica, the some­times brilliant quarterback of the last three Notre Dame elevens, put on an amazing offensive display in the_ last East-West Shrine game at San Fran­cisco. Playing with outstanding col­lege seniors like All-American George Saimes, Jack Cvercko, and other stars including Tom Hutchinson, John Mackey, Paul Flatley, Larry Fergu­son, Dave Behrman, and Boston Col­lege's Art Graham, Lamonica led the East to an upset win over the West at Kezar Stadium. Sixty thousand people watched as the native Cali­fornian unleashed twenty-eight passes, completing twenty, for 349 yards and three touchdowns. · Lamonica, who was elected of­fensive captain by his teammates, shattered the Shrine Game records for yards gained passing and for touchdown tosses. Yet it took a last­minute touchdown drive to win the game. He had to lead the East from their own fifteen-yard line with only three minutes remaining to break a 19-19 tie and give the East a six point triumph. 
Lamonica was unanimously named the game's Most Valuable Player and he deserved it. All week long the San Francisco newspapers had been saying that the West would win be­cause of its superiority in the air. While quarterback Sonny Gibbs and receiver Hugh Campbell were bril­liant in defeat, the fact remains that 
by Bob Scheffing 

Lamonica clearly outpassed the much heralded Gibbs. He credits his eye­popping performance to two things. "The line gave me fine protection, I 
had plenty of time to hit my receiv­ers. And Art Graham, Paul Flatley, Saimes and Hutchinson were really great. They were top receivers all the way." He praised his teammates, saying that the East squad "was dedi­cated during the whole week and a half of double practice sessions and during the game itself." 
While some were surprised at La­monica's fine performance, many were not. At Notre Dame Lamonica was noted as an excellent field gen­eral, a good ball handler, and a com­petent passer. His passing improved greatly through each of his three seasons. Last year, Lamonica com­pleted half of the 128 passes thrown for 821 yards and six touchdowns. In the Pittsburgh game he equaled a Notre Dame record set by Angelo Bertelli by hurling four touchdown passes. In the Oklahoma game he completed all five passes thrown, and against Iowa he gained 144 yards passing and eighty-five yards on the ground. 
Lamonica was drafted by the Green Bay Packers and by the Buffalo Bills of the American Football League. He decided to play for the Bills because "they gave me the contract that I wanted." Lamonica also said that "I thought I would have a better chance playing for Buffalo than for Green Bay. The Packers will have Bart Starr around for some time and I'm not the kind of ball player to sit on the bench." After the Shrine game Lamonica received a telegram from the Bill's end coach Lou Saban en­couraging him to report for drills and saying that they were counting on him. The Bills also signed Ed Hoer­ster and several other seniors this year including Jim Dunaway, George Saimes, and Dave Behrman. 
Lamonica will be married on June 15 to Miss Sharon Tukua of Chester, Iowa, and will make his home on the West Coast. He lives in Fresno, California, and has had several offers to go into business, but hasn't made up his mind yet what phase of busi­ness he wishes to pursue. 


Sailors Among Nation's Best 
Ironically, one of Notre Dame's ing procedures), intermediate (racing Last May, Notre Dame won the most successful teams-and a team rules), and advanced (racing tactics). championship of the Midwest Collegi­which does more for the noncompet­Because it can offer both relaxation ate Sailing Association, one of five itive participants in its sport than and adventure, members feel, pleasure regional organizations into which the any other-is among the least known sailing has almost universal appeal: hundreds of collegiate teams in North on the campus. The team: the Notre the couple sailing in a small boat at America are divided. The Irish thus Dame sailing club, whose racing sunset on a summer evening finds it won the right to represent the 24 skippers in 1962 won the Midwest romantic, while the skipper handling Midwest clubs in the North American championship and finished seventh a sailboat in a 25-knot wind-waves Championship races in Newport among all the collegiate teams in breaking across the deck and spray Harbor, Cal. After 40 races, the Coast North America. driven in his face-engages in a p-er­Guard Academy finished first, Notre 
sonal and elemental struggle with Dame seventh.
In its dual role as club and team, nature. Though they hitchhike to regattasthe sailing club permits both the Pleasure sailors, however, often and sail in snowstorms, the sailors"Sunday sailor" and the top skipper develop into racing skippers, and it do reap some benefits. The team isto take advantage of its facilities. 
is from within its membership that recognized and respected in yachtingThe new member, after passing a the club draws members for its team. circles across the nation; the bestbasic safety test, is able to sail one Of the 65 club members, the top six clubs -Detroit, Houston, Newport ' of the club's six Flying Dutchman 
!
comprise the racing team. These Harbor, Chicago, and Milwaukee to
Juniors at his leisure. i 
skippers face a tough schedule; there name a few-give Notre Dame sailors i 
The nonracing sailor is also invited are 20 regattas (a regatta is a two­red carpet treatment. In addition, the to compete for the Intra-Club Regatta day series of races) to attend, 12 in sailing club receives requests each and Race Series trophies (for which the fall and eight in the spring. Al­year for experienced men to take 
racing team skippers are ineligible), though team members must pay all summer jobs as sailing instructors and is eligible for the Yachtsman of their travel expenses, the 12,000-mile, for private clubs, sailing everythingthe Year award, given annually to co.ast-to-coast schedule faced by the from speedy catamarans to 60-foot the member who "contributed the sailors is the most extensive at­schooners. most to the benefit of the club." tempted by any Notre Dame team. The Notre Dame sailing club thus l 
!
To promote the growing sport on Although the racing team spends fulfills a dual purpose: it offers rec­
J 
campus, the club also stages each 45 class days each year from the reational opportunities for the casual \ 
l 
February an instructional seminar on campus, practices for countless hours sailor while its self-supported team j 
1
sailing techniques. Last year over 100 on St. Joe Lake, and gives up con­represents the school more than cred­1 hopeful and actual sailors enrolled in siderable vacation time, the sacrifice itably. I three sections: beginning (basic sail-paid off in 1962. -Bob Singewald 
l
24 The Scholastic 
SCOREBOARD 
Swimming: Bob Lieb, Chuck Blan­
chard, and Tim Kristl set records in 
their events to pace the swimmers 
to a 2-1 record in early season action. 
Fencing: Tom Dwyer, Ralph De­
Matteis, and Dick Marks-plus excel­
lent over-all strength in the epee­
were enough to get the fencers off 
to a 3-0 start. 
Wrestling: Fred Morelli took sec­
ond in the 137-pound division of the 
Indiana College Tournament, and led 
the team to a victory over Western 
Michigan in its first dual meet. 
SCORES Basketball: 

Notre Dame 87, St. Joseph's 73 
Notre Dame 92, Michigan State 85 
Notre Dame 101, St. Francis 70 
Notre Dame 102, Valparaiso 90 
Notre Dame 82, West. Michigan 68 
Notre Dame 74, Creighton 48 
Notre Dame 59, Butler 66 
Notre Dame 70, Kentucky 78 
Notre Dame 90, lliinois 88 
Notre Dame 73, Indiana 70 
Notre Dame 68, North Carolina 76 
Notre Dame 82, DeP.aul 62 
Notre Dame 105, Detroit 70 
Notre Dame 80, Butler 54 
Swimming: 

Notre Dame 71, Wayne State 24 
Notre Dame 38, Wisconsin 57 
Notre Dame 63, Ohio University 32 
Fencing: 

Notre Dame 15, Oberlin 12 
Notre Dame 17, Fenn 10 
Notre Dame 21, Case Tech 6 
Wrestling: 

Notre Dame 17, Western Michigan 14 
SCHEDULE Basketball: 

Jan 16, DePaul at Chicago Jan 21, Purdue at Fort W:ayne Feb 7, Boston College at Boston Feb 9, St. John's, Jamaica, L.I., N.Y. Feb 13, Gannon College at Notre Dame 
Swimming: 

Feb 2, Northwestern at Evanston Feb 8, West. Ontario at Notre Dame Feb 9, West. Michigan at Notre Dame Feb 12, Bowling Green at Bowl. Green 
Fencing: 

Feb 2, Iowa and Indiana at N.D. Feb 9, Chicago and Detroit at N.D. 
Wrestling: Feb 1, lliinois Navy Pier at Chicago Feb 9, Bowling Green at Bowl. Green Feb 13, University of Chicago at N.D. 
Indoor Track: 

Feb 9, Michigan State Relays at East Lansing 
Voice in the Croll)d 
About the only disadvantage of having a successful and colorful basketball team was exemplified at the North Carolina game two week ends ago. A record crowd produced many disgruntled students, a harassed ticket department, and a near riot. This has led to much dis­cussion, and subsequent disgust, over the Fieldhouse situation. 
Under the existing circumstances, the current Fieldhouse ticket policy, as outlined by Ticket Manager Bob Cahill and Business Manager Herb Jones, can certainly not be criticized. Seats are distributed in the following manner: season ticket holders, complimentary passes to ath­letic department workers and clergy, individual game tickets, opposing team tickets (usually only used by a few schools, such as DePaul and Detroit, and -the vast majority -to the student body. In theory, and usually in practice, this allotment causes few problems. 
THE PROBLEM 

This was not the case, however, for the North Carolina game. Two good basketball teams, a dearth of other activities, no television cover­age, the fact that the inhabitants had not wandered back to the institu­tion across the road yet, and the lack of enthusiasm to start studying for finals caused an unusually large number of students to go to the game. 
Twenty minutes before the game, the Fieldhouse was jammed to capacity. Unfortunately, there were still many students trying to get in at this time. Already one of the western world's great firetraps, this overflow crowd made it impossible to fit any more students into the Fieldhouse without risking possible disaster. Calls of "We've got our rights" and "Let's storm the place" caused a near riot. The fact that, at one point, a season ticket holder was admitted didn't quiet the crowd any, especially a freshman who stated (sixty years too late), "We paid for and built this place!" 
TEMPORARY SOLUTION 
Measures have been taken to insure that no more incidents of this type occur. Individual game tickets will not be sold for any games that appear to be sellout contests and students will continue to be given priority in games to which these are sold. A future solution being con­templated now is that the student body be broken into two groups: the first group being able to attend even-number games, with the second attending the odd-number games. This method is used by Ohio State, Purdue, and many other schools with the same basic problem. 
However, all of these are merely stopgap measures overshadowing the basic solution -a new fieldhouse. The present structure is a pub­lic disgrace and, perhaps, the worst home court of any major univer­sity. As Bob Hope so aptly put it last year, "When do the cattle come in?" 
NEW FIELDHOUSE? 
Present building plans call for a new fieldhouse "in the near future." This "target-date" symbolizes the place that this new arena enjoys in "the greater scheme of things." While certain other additions must have priority, it seems that the building of a new fieldhouse could be started this year. Most of the University's buildings were started be­fore all of the funds needed were collected. Many alumni can remem­ber the Fieldhouse from their undergraduate days as being outmoded. Tangible evidence of a start on a new fieldhouse could certainly be a . fund-raising asset. Until that time, we will continue to enjoy the "old­world charm" of the present "herding area." 
-John Bechtold 

January 18, 1963 
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN COMPLETE LINE OF 
BLUE & GOLD
SKI E9UIPMENT 
MOTEL 
BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31 
• 
Rese,-,,ations: CE 4-0136

Reco Sporting Goods 
•
113 N. Main St. 
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. '38 
Next to Oliver Hotel 
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. '3& 
STUDENT TRAVEL... STUDENTS CAN AFFORD!  33 ITINERARIES featuring: Western & Central Em·ope Eastern Europe & USSR -Scandinavia • Spain Turkey • South America Israel • Greece 36-60 land days ... from $510 also INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS and BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS $239 all-inclusive by air  
STUDY-TRAVEL PROGRAMS some scholarship assistance available Also Work Camp &Hosteling 42-46 land days ... from $300  
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS International Student ID card..................................................... $1.00 Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants) .. $1.00 Work, Study, Travel Abroad........................................................ $1.00 European charter flights and othe1· transpoi·tation  
U.S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION • Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 20 West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y " ~~-• OXford 5-5070 "USNSA is anon-profit organization scrt:ing tlic Americanstudentcommunity"  


FINALS GOT YOU WORRIED?? 
You wouldn't be if you had MONARCH REVIEW NOTES to review your courses with. It makes studying easier, more effedive and enioyable. 
MONARCH REVIEW NOTES are outlines of your very own textbooks-not general review books like most outlines available. Check the list of subjects below. If you are taking a subject listed there will be a Monarch Review Outline geared to your course text-and you know it will outline your material for your course. 
• WORLD HISTORY • AMERICAN GOVERNMENT (Western Civilization) and Political Science 
• 
AMERICAN HISTORY • ECONOMICS • PSYCHOLOGY • SOCIOLOGY 

• 
BIOLOGY (Botany and • CHEMISTRY Zoology)

• 
ART HISTORY • MUSIC HISTORY • CONTEMPORARY CIVIUZA TION 


The amazing popularity of MONARCH REVIEW NOTES among college students (thousands are sold at each college) is because MONARCH REVIEW NOTES are keyed to specific texts. Now they are available at THE BOOK SHOP, INC. 
Underground 
(Continued from page 14) 
and get them removed from cam­pus. ~o we feel it our duty to re­main anonymous. If we are oc­casionally unfair, we offer our anonymous apology. 
-May 24, 1956 

Father Hesburgh said that he wouldn't read anything published on the campus unsigned. And a direc­tive was passed to the other members of the Administration advising them to do the same -ignore the Thurs­day Throwback. This added to the Throwback's joke because at least one Administrative Department not only read the Thursday Throwback, but studied it well. The Office of Discipline tried hard to find the source of the Throwback, whose writ­ers "would have to answer a lot of questions," as one member of the office stated. The search was thor­ough, but in vain. No one could find "James Squire" and his crew. One library official was certain that the Throwback was printed in Morrissey Hall. The SCHOLASTIC got into the act when, as reprinted in the Thursday Throwback, Oct. 20, 1955, the editor was overheard to say: "I know where that Thursday Throwback is printed anyway. It's in the basement of Sorin. Did you know that they have a mailing list of two hundred? You just watch. It'll fold after the second issue." The Throwback's com­ment, "Certainly." This was in the third of seven issues. 
While the dean of men was con­ducting his search, the Throwback added to its practical joke by not only printing on campus, but by print­ing with Notre Dame supplying the paper, dittograph machine, folding machine, and envelopes -everything but the stamps. And Notre Dame even paid for them, indirectly; the Throw­back staff was getting paid 75c an hour working for the University, and printing on its time. 
The staff consisted of one student, although there were five names listed in the heading; he compiled and published the Throwback alone. (The final issue may have had more con­tributors, one source says.) The staff is still known as "James Squire" to­day, and those who know his real identity require the solemn oath be­fore revealing it. "Squire" himself mentioned in a letter to Mr. Victor Schaefer, director of the library, 
( date, May 31, 1956), "The identity 
o: its editors was doubtless the best­kept secret on campus -anyone with any intelligence at all was accused 
The Scholastic 

at least once." The spirit of secrecy still lives with the Thursday Throw­back. A close friend of "Squire's" supplied much of this article's infor­mation, only under strict promise that no names would be revealed. 
The Throwback distributed only 30 or 40 copies of each issue, but they were well placed. The President and his vice-presidents received copies, as did the deans and various faculty members. The SCHOLASTIC received a copy, and the rest were filtered to the student body by a random choice of box numbers. 
S p e a k i n g f o r t h e p re s e n t, Father Joseph Hoffman, who works with student publications, at Notre Dame today, says, "There is a valid place for the student's point of view and the student's voice. The Throw­back was doing something that I wish we could revive, in a sense. It presented the direct Notre Dame stu­dent feeling, but by being anonymous, none of the overdramatic articles and inaccuracies could have been checked. And certain limits do have to be ap­plied." Father Hoffman continued, "For example, how can the 'student voice' call for the resignation of a coach or faculty member, as the Throwback did, and expect results? Where would it stop? The University has a right and a duty to ask loyalty of its employees, and to protect those who give it." 
A volume of the 1955-56 Thursday Throwback is on file in the library's Notre Dame Collection. Attempts, as in 1957, to revive the Throwback have failed. As Mr. Schaefer said, "It was strange and unusual that a student would send a volume to us." But, as was noted earlier, there was practicality in the Thursday Throw­back's joke. To again quote "Squire's" letter 
Why, you may ask, should the li­brary keep these copies? There are two answers: first of all, the Throwback has historical interest in that some of the best student m,inds on cam,pus have used it as a media for their criticism. Perhaps in the future the Throwback will have great interest. Secondly, the Throwback has without a doubt been the most controversial local publication within the last year. . . . All in all, the Thursday Throw­back created quite a storm. 
A storm comparable to the one cre­ated that day when "James Squire" allegedly crowned his joke, by re­marking when receiving his diploma from Father Hesburgh, "Thank you, Father; I wrote the Thursday Throw­back." 

THE SAFE WAYto stay alert without harmful stimulants 
NoDoz keeps you mentally Next time monotony makes 
alert with the same safe re­you feel drowsy while driving, fresher found in coffee and working or studying, do as tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, millions do .•. perk up with handier, more reliable. Abso­safe, effective NoDoz tablets. lutely not habit-forming. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories. 

LET VITALIS® KEEP YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE! y···=··~­
Keep the oil in the can. In your hair, use Vitalis with V-7®, the ~ greaseless grooming discovery. ~ights embarras~ing dandruff, ;.-~£ prevents dryness-keeps your hair neat all day without grease. :,. --_;; 
COYER 
Peter, Paul and Mary, one of many folk-singing groups that turn up on college campuses as frequently as mononucleosis, will sing here tomorrow. Peter and Paul are the ones with the beards. 
fanuary 18, 1963 
Panan1a Trip 

.,,­
(Continued from page 19) 

divide. However, we will arrive to­morrow." This was followed by a sim­ilar entry for the following day. "Ha! \\Te climbed and walked all day through impossible and beautiful country, but still did not reach the divide. \Ve must cross the mountains tomorrow." The situation was getting dangerous; we had eaten the last of our provisions that night, and due to severe cases of jungle rot and fatigue we were incapable of hunting in the high mountain jungles. 
I 
The only camping spot we could find this evening was on a rocky ledge about twenty feet above the river. 
I 
FederalHousing 
I 
The fallowing is an excerpt froni a speech delivered by Robert Weaver, Adm,inistrator of the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency, in South Bend on January 10. 
I The most important role of Fair Housing Committees, however, is in using what diplomats call "good offices" -which is another term for influence -to help members of minority groups to find a place in communities from which they had once been excluded. It is interesting, to me, that most of the Fair Housing Committees that have been organized in the country have been in formerly all-white or all-Christian communities. 
In many cases these groups were organized to list homes available for sale to non-whites or non-Christians. And they be­gan this activity because the members of local real estate boards refused to list such homes. 
The citizens who undertook to break through the barriers im­posed by real estate boards did so because they believed -as I am sure most Americans do -that a truly democratic community must be a heterogeneous community. 
They did not want their children attending schools where every­one was the same color, with the same religious affiliation and the same political beliefs. And they did not want to live among neigh­bors so bland that one could not be distinguished from the other. 
~ 
I: 
They were against segregation, against discrimination, and against injustice. But -more important -they were in favor of a way of life they believed would be better for themselves, their families, and their communities. And they banded together to take action to achieve that way of life. 
It will not be easy. You will be accused of being hostile to your neighbors -if they are the kind of neighbors who want to live in a world closed to any but their own kind. You will be accused of destroying property values -by those who choose to wrap their social prejudices in economic terms. 
In such a community neighbors can be good neighbors -re­laxed neighbors, rather than neighbors constantly afraid of what those next door will do to them. 
In such a community property values can prosper, for they will be freed of the pressures which come from block-busting and panic selling. 
In such a community every citizen can take pride. And from such a community every citizen will benefit. 
As we extend democratic patterns to the sphere of housing, we are strengthening our way of life at home and demonstrating its sincerity abroad. These are worthy objectives for all Americans. 
28 
Across the river from our camp was a large stone rising the same distance above the river. On this stone rested a log, apparently placed there by a flash flood coming down from the mountains. Nature repeated its past performance that night. "At about 
1:00 a.m. the rains started and con­tinued with great intensity until at 
2:30 a.m. we heard Carlos cry out, 'You in the tent get out. The river comes.' The flood missed the tent by a matter of inches as it roared by, claiming all the gear in front of the tent. We moved what we could salvage to higher ground, and spent the rest of the night huddled in our panchos, cold and discouraged.'' 
If the night had been terrifying, the next day was torturous. "We finally crossed the mountains today after eight hours of the most treacherous climbing and walking imaginable." 

By the next day conditions had worsened considerably. We had been without food for 1½ days, and our feet were swollen and infected with jungle rot. Although we did know that the Rio Pito flowed into the Caribbean, we had no idea of how far it was or, for that matter, how far we could travel. After many hours of walking, the river led into a swampy region and then finally into the Caribbean. 
Our joy at reaching our goal was mitigated by our unfortunate circum­stances. For a camp site we could only find a sandbar with the ocean on one side and the swamp on the other. Since we had no idea of the state of 
the tide, we feared the high tide might  
come during the night and force us  
back into the swamp. Later that night  
we made a sobering discovery. While  
in the jungle we had been on the look­ 
out for crocodiles and ·caymans, and  
now when we were in a near helpless  
state, they were everywhere. One had  
only to shine his flashlight at the­ 
swamp ten feet away to see their eyes  
as they moved closer to the sandbar.  
We later learned that the larger croco­ 
diles frequently raided the Indian  
villages at night, looking for dogs and  
other domestic animals.  
The next day was the hardest day  
of all, and thankfully, was the last  
before we reached some measure of  
civilization. We discovered that the  
sandbar extended in both directions  
for a great distance, and then gradual­ 
ly turned into a beach. We knew from  
our maps that there was a town,  
Puerto Obaldia, located just above the  
Colombian border, about twelve miles  
south of our present camp. Thus, half­ 
starved and dazed, we started down  
the beach towards Colombia.  
After fourteen hours, the ordeal  
ended; we crossed a hill and sighted  
Puerto Obaldia. That night we ate for  
the first time in three days and slept  
on the floor of the local jail. After a  
rest of several days, we made our  
way up the coast by sailboat to a Cuna  
Indian Village on the island of Mula­ 
tupu, across the bay from where Balboa was beheaded in 1517. Here among these strange Indians we found a Baptist missionary and his American  r. I i  
wife; through his kind hospitality we  
were able to recuperate.  
Finally, we were able to contact,  
by means of a short-wave radio owned  
by the missionary, a bush pilot who  
landed on a nearby island and flew us  
back to Panama City. After three  
weeks of strenuous hiking to cross the  
Darien, we flew across it in a few  
hours.  
The Scholastic  

~~W.TURBOW 
-\._OPrOJUTRISl't EYEGLASSES REPAIRED !CONTACT LENSESI 
INQUIRIES INVITED 
EYE EXAMINATION 

OLIVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington -Phone CE 4-5'7-77 
The Annual KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BALL 
will be held on Friday, Feb. 8, 1963, at the South Bend Columbus Club. 
Car permission as well as two o'clocks will be given out. 
Tickets at $4.00 per couple can be purchased at the K. of C. office in Walsh Hall daily between 3 and 5. 
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP 
SINCE 1911 
• 
PICTURE FRAMING 
• 
ART SUPPLIES 

COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS 
• 
117 NORTH MAIN ST. 
South Bend, Indiana 
CEntral 3-2409 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY! 
Individuals, Campus Clubs and Groups! 
WIN 
VALUABLE 
PRIZES 
FOR SAVING 
EMPTY\1:CEROY PACKS 
Many Valuable Prizes to be awarded on this campus! 
ENTER THE BIG 
ICEROY 
EMPTY PACK SAVING CONTEST NOW! 
HERE'S ALL YOU DO: Just save empty Viceroy packs ••• win one of these exciting prizes ••. by yourself or in a group. The group or individual collecting the most Viceroy empty packs wins first prize. Second prize goes to the second largest num­ber of Viceroy empty packs collected ••• and so on. There's a large assortment of prizes ••• all to be awarded on this college campus. It's your contest! Plan to enter ••• plan to win. Start saving Viceroy empty packs today! Ask your friends to help you win by saving empty Viceroy packs for you • 
•

GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTY PACKS AT • •• March 20
•

THE HUDDLE ••• 
: Entries accepted this date. only 
Jan11ary 18, 1963 
MICHIGAN 
invites you to a 
·SKI EKEND 

where the accommodations are 

Join the migration to Michigan's snowy slopes and winter sports spots. Skiing and winter fun for all. Come by car, bus, train, or plane-attractive rates. 

One easy price for complete ski weeks or
ECONOMICAL 
package rates that 
weekends includes all your lodging, meals, include everything lifts, rental equipment and instruction. 

FOR FREE MICHIGAN SKI MAP, WRITE TO 
MICHIGAN TOURIST COUNCIL 
ROOM 6S, STEVENS T. MASON BUILDING • LANSING 26, MICHIGAN 
Don't Cheat on Examinations 
FHGaide 

Friday, ]a11uary 18 
_________-,:00

Broadway Cavalcade 
__________,6:00

Invitation to Music 
___________i:00

The Modern Sound 
_____________8:00-8:15
News 
Copland, A Lincoln Portrait Haydn, Symphony No. 100 in G (Military) Prokofiev Classical Symphony 
_________,;00

Rcicha, Quintet in Eb Major Lalo, Namouna: suite No. 1 Verdi. Aida: prelude and ballet music Bach, JS Fantasia and Fugue in G minor "the 
Great" _______________10:00 
Bach, Fugue in A minor Poulenc, Gloria in G major for soprano, chorus, 
and orchestra Rossini, Signor Bruschino Overture Mozart, Concerto No. 18 in Bb, K. 456 ···-·······ll :00 Beethoven Piano concerto No. 2 in Bb, op. 19 
Saturday, Ja1111ary 19 
Broadway Cavalcade ----------··-···5:00 
Continental Concert ___________i:00 l\larris, Symphony 1933 i:30 Hindemith, Mathis der Mahler Gilbert and Sullivan. Orchestral selections from Iolanthe ~-----8:~ 
11.fozart. Seranta no. IO in Bb major :00 l\lozart, Divertimento no. 8 in f major TchaikovsJ..,·. 11.farche Slav --------10:00 Addensell, \Varsaw Concerto Tchaikovsky, Symphony no. 4 Villa-lobos, Erosion -the origin of the ···-··-···11 :00 Amazon River Rossini-Resphigi, La Boutique Fantastique 
S1111day, Ja111wry 20 
The Request Show ------------·····5:00 Mastem·orks from France 6:30 Crosscurrents i:00 News .. 8:00 Opera on the Air 8:15 
,\lo11day, ]a11uary 21 
Broadway Cavalcade _____________, :00 Invitation to Music 6:00 The Modern Sound i:00
Ne"i; _________________8:00 
Haydn, Quartet in Eb Major -------8:15 Rachmaninoff, Symphonic Dances Glazounov, Concerto for Violin in A minor ....9:00 Rousse 1, Bacchus et Ariadne Luigini, Ballet Egyptian 
Beethoven, Fur Elise ----··-··············-··-··-···10:00 Beethoven, Symphony no. 2 Beethoven, Sonata no. 14 in C 11.linor 
Bach, Adagio ··-----------··-···ll:00 Bach, l\fagnificat in G Bach, Sonata no. 1 in G minor for solo violin 
Tuesday, ]a1111ary 22 
_______,-:00

Broadway Cavalcade 
__________6:00

Invitation to Music Music America -------·-----i:00 
________________8:00
News 
l\loore, The Pageant of P. T. Barnum 
···-···········8·15 

Schoenberg, Verklaarte Nacht 
BeethO\·en, Quartet no. 15 in A l\linor ···-·······9:00 Barber. Summer :Music Sibcliu~, Karelia Suite ·······-····-------10:00 
Bennett. Suite of Old American Dances Schoenherr, Suite of Austrian 11.lusic Chopin. Etnde no. 12 in C minor Orff, Carmina Burana ............................................11 :00 
ll'cd11csday, ]a1111ary 23 
Broadway Cavalcade ------··········-·······-···5·00 Invitation to Music ···-··-······-··--------6:00 
The Modern Sound ___________i:00 
News ··----------·····-··-····-··-··-·····8·00 
Mozart, Sonata no. 12 in F major _____8:15 11.fozart, Sonata no. 13 in Bb major :Mozart, Trio no. 4 in C Schumann, Concerto for Piano and Orch. 
in A l\lin. ______________...:,:00 Schumann, Symphony in d, no. 14 
Schubert, 3 Songs Berlioz, Symphony Fantastique ______10:00 Bartok, Sonata for Solo violin ·······-··-··········-·······ll :00 
Bartok, Dem, Portraits Bartok, l\.likrokosmos: Bouree Bartok, Hungarian Sketches 
FOR STUDY and ­

REVIEW... ~ 
~··-··-·--­

~i;ili~~' ~ £~: ..._. 
1111111111111111111111i1111111 
Barnes & Noble 
COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES AND EVERYDAY HANDBOOKS 

Famous educational paperbacks presenting basic elements of a subject in capsule form for ­
• 
College and advanced • Industrial training high school classes • Self-help and 

• 
Adult education recreations 


Average Price $1.50 
O:'.'." DISPLAY AT YOt:R BOOKSTORE 
WELCOME STUDENTS 
Your Philip Morris 
Student Representative invites you to 

IN THE COLLEGE 
BRAND ROUND· UP 
RULES AND PRIZES TO BE AWARDED Will BE ANNOUNCED SHORTlY 


As recipient of the award for the TFX, General Dynamics/ Fort Worth continues to pioneer technological development in the Southwest. The TFX is a bi-service (Air Force and Navy) aircraft with many unique engineering character­istics. Its development will afford excellent engineering opportunities to qualified engineers and scientists. To take advantage of these opportunities, contact your Placement Director to determine when a GD/FW representative will be on campus, or write Mr. J. B. Ellis, Industrial Relations Administrator-Engineering, General Dynamics/Fort Worth, 
P. 0. Box 748, Fort Worth, Texas. An equal opportunity employer. 
GIIIIIIIID GENERAL DYNAMICS lFORT WORTH 
32 
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST CONTACT LENSES In uiries Invited EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-H our Ser,,ice 305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477  
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry * J. Trethewey, Jeweler * For: Hamilton -Elgin Bulova -Longines and Wittnauer Watches 104 N. Main St. * CE 2-1756  
AQUINAS LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 138 N. MICHIGAN• SO. BEND A Non-Profit Organization  
SPECIAL!! 1 ­8 x 10 Photograph in oil $17.50 • CARLTON STUDIO State Theatre Bldg. PHONE: CE 4-9596  
frankie's RESTAURANT Student Specials Daily $1.25 • SPECIALS APPLY TO CARRY OUTS CE 2-7777 1003 North Notre Dame Ave.  

Birth Control 

(Continued from page ·13) 
For example, some kind of hearing is essential to the act of justly punish­ing, whether children or bank rob­bers. Without that hearing, the act changes its nature, it can no longer be justified. The familiar terms used to make this distinction here are "natural" and "artificial." The gen­eral use and scope of these terms is well known enough that they need not be reviewed here. 
What needs to be recognized is that 
Contact Lens Specialist 
• 
Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED 
OPTICAL REPAIRS 
GLASSES FITTED 
• 

212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 
these terms are not easy to delimit with precision. They are one form of expression for a distinction which goes back to the Greeks, to Plato and beyond, the distinction between phyS'is and nomos, nature and con­vention_ It should be noted, however, that they are opposed only abstractly, and that concretely nature is never encountered outside a particular con­ventional form_ "Nature loves to hide." 
The sense of the terms changes as other terms change. For example, it seems clear that "nature" acquires an additional sense with the advent of the natural sciences of the modern period, and a sign of this is the ab­sence of the term "supernatural" in Aquinas. Consequently it is difficult to apply the term, as Aquinas uses it, in the modern world. 
Difficult, but not impossible, indeed necessary. But the point is that we must rethink the classical arguments with their modern additions, and find out whethei.· the latter are consistent ,vith the premises of epistemology of natural law, one which takes into ac­count both the relevance and irrele­vance of anthropology and sociology, both the relevance and irrelevance of philosophical deductions, both the relevance and irrelevance of objective verifiability. At the present time, we do not have this. Without it, re­ligious pluralism is going to continue to imply moral pluralism, de facto if not de jure. 
But the political arena is not the only region in which this question is important: there are also the princi­palities and powers. In this respect, it seems to me, the Church's position is rooted in -not founded on -the awareness that there is a dimension of love which is symbolized by Eros and by Dionysius: an undertow in man, an opening onto a dark abyss into which he can be drawn and lost, just as much as the Apollonian domi­nating and rational love can betray him. Human love is neither angelic nor bestial, nor a simple oscillation between the two. It is the love of a human person. 
PATRONIZE 
YOUR SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS 


For Your Chrisfmas Giffs 
FINE JEWELRY • FINE SERVICE FAIR PRICES 
-:­
DIAMONDS 

Keepsake • Artcarved • Orange Blossom 
-:­
WATCHES 

Omega • Rolex • Longines • Wittnauer Patek Phillipe 
-:­

14K GOLD JEWELRY 
Charms • Bracelets • Pendants • Crosses Pins • Cultured Pearls 
-:­

FASHION JEWEL·RY 
Trifari • Monet • Eisenberg • Siamese Sterling and Gold rilled Charms 
-:­

CREDIT (WITH NO INTERESTI AND LAYAWAY-AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN 
-:­

Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M. 

121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 
January 18, 1963 



2. Use your head, man. Have your dad set up appointments with some of the big shols he knows. 
He·s a Yelerinarian. 
S. Beautiful! All you ha,·e to do is find a president who likes dogs. You·n hm·e him eating out of your hand in no time. 
I don ·t know an Elkhound from an Elk. 

5. A letter lo the cmplo11111cnt manager! Ho ho ho! You\·e a lot lo learn. 
Then how come I landed a 
great job at Equitable­
an executi,·e training spot 
that's interesting. pays 
a good salary and has a lot 
of promise for the future. 


4. Frankly. I don ·t know what else to tell you. You've got a problem. 
It's not as bad as it seems. l\Iy idea is lo find out the name of the employment manager at theeompany I'm interested in. Write him a letter telling him my qualifications. Spell out my interests. marks. Simple as that. 

The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States ®1968 Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N.Y. Seeyour Placement Officer for the date Equitable's employment representative will be on campus. Or write to William E. BleYins, Employment Manager. 
Campus 
(Continued from page 9) 

• In a conversation last week, Fr. Hesburgh had this to say about the new library: "The mural will be the largest of its kind." 
However, the whole project will be more expensive than planned. In ad­dition to the $8 million for the struc­ture itself, another $2½ million will be needed for the furnishings, and another $1 million for the "grounds." Fr. Hesburgh added, "Up to the last war the library held 400,000 volumes ; since then we have added 300,000 volumes, and within the next 15 to 20 years should approach the two mil­lion volume capacity. 
It has been reported that a $200,000 donation, to be applied as partial payment of the mural, has been re­ceived. At present interest rates this money could return $10,000 annually -enough to fill several empty book shelves. 
• St. Mary's girls are, by college rules, supposed to have their knees covered at all times, or, at least, quasi-covered, e.g., a skirt dangling over the knee. Our St. Mary's cor­respondent tells us that, unfortu­nately, one girl apparently did not have her knee covered last Saturday night, when the wind rose to 40 miles an hour and the temperature dropped to five degrees below zero. 
June Miller, a sophomore living in Holy Cross, suffered a bloody knee from the strong wind while walking to St. Mary's from Notre Dame. 
• Acting on a tip that a story lay in the departure of Prof. Milton Fisk of the Philosophy Department from the Notre Dame faculty, the SCHO­LASTIC last week sent a reporter to in­terview the young assistant profes­sor. Concerned over the recent loss of several promising young profes­sors, the SCHOLASTIC sought the par­ticular reasons behind the departure. 
Although perfectly cordial, Prof. Fisk was somewhat less than en­lightening, preferring only to say "I do not want to go any further than (saying) I feel ripe for a change; a good opportunity came and I took it, and my reasons for feeling ripe for a change do not differ substantially from those of any other young man who feels himself ready for a change." 
Whatever the reasons, Prof. Milton Fisk, a six-year faculty member, who received his B.S. degree in chemistry at Notre Dame in 1953 and, after spending 1956-57 at the University of 
Fribourg (Switzerland), his Ph.D. in 
philosophy at Yale in 1958, will soon become another ex-Notre Dame pro­
fessor. 

Get that raft afloat fast, and head for the land where ideas multiply. But before you set your course, you'll want to compare the opportunities ... the challenge ... offered by potential employers with ,vhat you, can bring to your employer. 
What's up at Hamilton Standard? In brief, a diversification program that includes de­sign and development of propulsion controls, life support systems, other environmental control systems, electron beam machines, automatic stabilization systems, propellers, and ground support equipment. 
We're looking for men "•ith ideas ... ideas ready to be launched. If you're an engineering student looking for the best means to an end, pick up a Hamilton Standard brochure at your placement office. It may hold the first clue to how you can get started toward the best company for you. 
A Hamilton Standard college personnel representative will be on campus soon. He'll be glad to answer your questions, and to take your application for a position if you decide you like what you've lem·ned about us. 
THE DATE: February 27, 28, 1963 
u
Haniilton Standard DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 
All EtJ11al 0['[1or11111ily Em[11oyer 

A 
p 
O'MEARA, DEAN JOSEPH JR COLLEGE OF LAW 
?WTRE DAME IND 


\WIHIA\'Ir II§ IDJP> JFiffi({J)~'lf f
-

Up front, ahead of a modern filter, only Winston has Filter-Blend... rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed · for full flavor in filter smoking. It's what's up front that counts! 
PURE WHITE, : MODERN FILTER : 
(liifi 1 ) 
PLUS j FILTER-BLEND UP FRONT 
Wfinn§lt@nn ltlm,§11®§ g@@«Il. 
11.nlke mcflgmreltlte §Iln({J)unil<dl X 
©lnG2 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, X. C. 

