
Vol. XIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 6, 1886.	No. 21.
To the Electric Light,
ON ITS FIRST APPEARANCE IN MY ROOM,	,
Candlemas Eve, 1886.
Unwonted splendor! flashing in the gloom Of sad midwinter’s twilight! Genial ray, Kindled as if by magic, light of day
Thou dost renew. Farewell we bid the fume Of noisome gas; its blackening stain no more
Our ceilings shall defile. This festal bright
Of Candlemas—this feast of life and light— Thou dost adorn, and cast thy halo o’er.
My match-box gapes in speechless, blank amaze;
Her phosphorescent nestlings, once a boon,— Their fieri ardor coming to the scratch,— Are now neglected. Vain their trivial blaze!
Futile they strike! Their grave is the spittoon.
Unrivalled light! thou’lt never meet thy match!
Boyle Dowell.
Poetry.
BY FRANK J. HAGENBARTH.
II.
English-speaking people are the heirs to a literature the richest on earth. Their novelists are unexcelled, their historians have attained to supremacy, and their poets include Shakspeare and Milton. Century after century, in its onward roll, has left behind towering monuments scattered all over the broad field of literature. Neither a Virgil nor a Homer aided in their erection; still they tower, and their light is a light of glory reflected on the English people. Centuries, nay, ages, have been swallowed up in effecting this happy consummation, and it is my task to trace out the scanty outline of its gradual development.
I.—Old English Period—449-1350.
The earliest inhabitants of England were the Celts—a barbarous people, dwelling in mountains and forests. They were a valiant race, and long resisted their attempted conquest by the Romans,
which had been inaugurated by Julius Caesar, 55 B. C. The Celts, amid the cares of war and the pursuits of a wild life, still cherished the poetic art. To be a bard was greater than a king, for in those times the bard’s calling was the noblest of professions; and great influence with the people rested in them, being not only revered, but even often regarded as prophets. Unfortunately, they have left nothing to posterity, and no criterion has come down to us by which' we might judge of their proficiency in the favored art. The earliest writing extant is an epic poem of six thousand lines, entitled “ Beowolf.” It is a quaint affair, detailing the death of a ferocious giant Grendel, who, wont to swoop.down upon the Saxons in times of festivity and carry off or devour numbers of them, became a source of terror to the country. The monster at length is slain by Beowolf, a declared enemy to giants, demons, etc. Upon the death of king Hrothgar the hero ascends to the vacant throne, and after a prosperous reign of fifty years, dies from wounds received whilstslayingafire-fiend.
The 6th century saw the conversion of England to Christianity. St. Augustine and his monks replaced the ruder marks of a barbarous age by the gentler arts of peace. The first fruit was England’s earliest Christian poet, Caedmon—a monk who courted the muses and wrote poetry “ inspired by the chaste beauties of Christian sentiment.” He sang “The Fall of Man arid Euci-fer,” and it has been maintained that from him Milton drew the earliest ideas of his epic. Both described the fall of the angels, their descent into hell, and the creation; Satan’s soliloquy iri hell is much alike in both. In fact, Czedrrion has been styled the “Anglo-Saxon Milton.” These two poets—Beowolf a pagan, Caedmon a Christian— have afforded us the only notable specimens of poetry written in the “ Old English Period.” No doubt, others were written, but during the. carnage and destruction of the Saxon (453) and Danish., invasions (ioth and 11 th centuries), all others , were probably lost.	.
II.—Middle English Period—:i 350-1680.
The second grand; division of English literature : begins with the reign of Alfred the Great (956),
I
33°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
It has been styled the “ Middle English Period.” Alfred, himself a noted author, gave a temporary impetus to the cultivation of letters, but it amounted to nothing—at least as far as poetry is concerned. 1 The Norman invasion, in 1066, gave the deathblow to native English literature, and for upwards of a century it remained utterly inert. The French expression almost totally superseded the native idiom, and so firmly was it rooted at court and elsewhere, that the Picard Trouvere, who recited his poem at the tomb of St. Thomas of Canterbury, could boast a hundred years later:
“Mes languages est buens; car en France fui nez.”
To supply the loss of native talent the Trou-veres and Troubadours, wandering French minstrels, furnished all the nation with poetry. However there sprang from the chaos two notable productions—the “ Ormulum ”—so-called, because written by Orm, a series of homilies for. every day in the year, consisting of some ten thousand lines of seven feet; and the Brut d' Angleterre^ by Layamon, a priest, who-makes Brutus, a son of the Trojan ^Eneas, the founder of the British monarchical line. These poems were both written in the 13th century, and are remarkable only as being the first indications of the revival of literature.
Layamon and Orm were precursors of Geoffrey Chaucer (1400), the “Father of English Poetry,” who flourished a century later. Around Chaucer, as the sun, revolved the lesser planets of the middle English period—John Gower (1402), Piers Plough. man and the old ballad writers or the 14th century. Edward III sat on the throne of England, and times were happy. The battles of Sluys and Nevil’s cross had been won, and the Black Prince had returned victorious from Cr^cy and Poitiers. The court, flushed with success, was specially gracious to men of letters, and Chaucer was its brightest ornament. He was a man of noble birth, broad-minded and generous, and, “having the soul of a true poet, loved nature and humanity.” After his style, which Spencer terms “Well of English undefiled,” compositions were formed during and for some time after the reign of Edward HL Chaucer’s early pieces, partaking of the tendencies of his age, were affected and pedantic, but the “ Canterbury Tales, or Romaunt of the Rose” alone would suffice to perpetuate his name. Gower, a friend and contemporary of Chaucer, being rich, lived a quiet life, and was a man of cultivated taste arid refined feelings. For many generations his.poems were in favor with the higher classes. Piers Ploughman* is remarkable for several reasons. His poems, when first printed in 1550, attained great popularity. .He revived the use of alliteration^ which had been popular in England previous to the introduction of rhyme by the Normans. . The first'verse of the “ Vision ” is : an illustration: .
* Piers Ploughman is a fictitious name, .meaning Peter, . .the Ploughman,, who. is supposed to be, a certain Wm. I , Longlande. Hei wrote the “Vision.” (1362), the “Creed” \ (1385), and the -‘Complaint of Piers Ploughman ” (1399).
In a somer seson,
When softs was the sonne, ' I shoop* me into shroudes^ f As I a sheep J weere.
Shakspeare has courted both Chaucer and Gower. From the former’s “Troilus and Cresside” taking material for his “Troilus and Cressida,” and from the latter’s Coufessio Amantis much of “ Pericles.”
An age of decay followed the death of Chaucer. Between the middle and modern English periods —between Chaucer and Spencer—there appeared no poet of high repute. John Lydgate (1460) and James I, of Scotland, flourished during the first half of the 15th century. Both were good poets, but neither excelled. However, many stirring old English ballads, mostly by authors unknown, somewhat brighten up the scene. I may mention the ancient ballad of “ Chevy Chase,” “ Clym of the Clough,” “Adam Bell,” “William of Cloudesley,” etc. Says T. B. Shaw:
“ Strive as they may, our poets of a nobler civilization cannot produce companion pieces to these. ‘ Young Loch-‘ invar ’ and ‘ Sheridan’s Ride ’ are spirited but they do not approach the old ballads in graphic terseness, in poetic simplicity, in fiery fervor, in tenderness of pathos.”
HI.—Modern English Period—1580-1886.
The Elizabethan Age dawned with the begin-ing of Queen Elizabeth’s reign in 1558. It was an age rejoicing in noteworthy advantages. The introduction of printing into England by Caxton in 1474, and the consequent revival of learning seemed to augur a grand outburst in all departments of literature. The language had cast aside the -pr<z-textus of youth, and had entered upon a thorough development. England had triumphed over land and sea. Her court presented the finest pageant in Europe. Her writers were men of “ originality and high, intellectual culture.” Printing had brought within their cognizance the rich images of ancient and foreign literatures, which had not ^5	* _ *
yet become commonplace in England.
Critics have divided the poets of this age into non-dramatic and dramatic writers.
Non-Dramatic: The first name apt to catch our attention is that of “ our sage and serious Spencer,” the only non-dramatic poet of the 16th century, who is entitled to rank beside our first poets. He was a worthy successor to Chaucer, though, unlike him, reared in humble circumstances. Yet he received a thorough education at Cambridge, where his drilling in genuine culture well fitted him for the man of letters; his career was as unfortunate as it was brilliant. A friend of the Queen, he had received grants of land in Ireland. In the Irish Uprising, of ’98, his house was sacked arid burned, and.his infant child perished in the.flames. A year later, death met him, a disconsolate, broken-hearted man. A strange career for the poet laureate of England, the author of the “Shepherd’s Calendar” and “Faery Queene.”	■	-..
' The former is a famous work, consisting of a series of pastorals, one for each month, written after the manner of Virgil’s “Bucolics”;.but on the
" shaped.J" clothes. . J shepherd. ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
latter his fame chiefly rests. It is a discourse on the virtues and vices, which are personified. The story runs somewhat like an allegory, and of all works it most emphatically marks the age. Poets had not yet learned that diversity pleases and monotony disgusts. It was reserved for Shak-speare and his successors to find out what was unknown to Chaucer and his immediate followers. Macaulay says of Spencer:	'
“One unpardonable fault—the fault of tediousness—pervades the whole of the “ Faery Queene.” We become sick of Cardinal Virtues and Deadly Sins, and long for the society of plain men and women. Of the persons who read the first canto, not one in ten reaches the end of the first book, and not one in a hundred perseveres to the end of the poem.”
Grouped with Spencer are Sackville (1608) and Drayton (1631 )• Neither is excellent, but both are good. The latter wrote “Polybion,” “in thirty ponderous cantos, containing 1500 monotonous Alexandrine couplets.” The work—a monument to untiring industry—describes, with painful minuteness, the rivers, mountains and forests of Wales and England, and this with accounts of all local legends and antiquities.
Two interesting distinctions belong to the nori-dramatic poets. In 1600, Joseph Hall published the first distinct satires in the language, consisting of three books of “ Biting Satires” and three more of “ Toothless Satires.” The same age produced translations of unusual excellence. Geo. Chapman (1634) wrote superior translations of the “ Iliad” and “Odyssey.” Says Charles Lamb:
“The earnestness and passion which he has put into every part of these poems would be incredible to a reader of more modern translations.”
Dramatic: The grandest phenomenon of the Elizabethan Age was the height of excellence to which the Drama attained. “ Spain and England alone,” says an authority, “ among all the modern civilized nations, possess a theatrical literature independent in its origin, characteristic in its form, and reflecting faithfully the moral, social, and intellectual features of the people among whom it arose.”
The English Drama dawned shortly after the Norman conquest. Its character was distinctly religions, and its productions were called “Mysteries ” or “ Miracle Plays.” The earliest on record was the “ Play of St. Catharine,” represented in 1119, and written in French. In the 14th century the “Miracle Plays” were superseded by the “ Moralities,” in which the subject was moral, not religious. Persons were discarded for personifications—the deity, the angels and saints replaced by Good Counsel, Repentance, Avarice, Pride, etc. It was not till 1551, that the first “ Comedy ” made its appearance. It was written by Nicholas Udall, an imitator of Plautus and Terence. Some years later “ Garboduc,” the. first tragedy written by Sackville, was played, and shortly after was represented the first cornedy; both were extremely popular. Between 1568-80 fifty-two plays were acted at court. They were of varied excellence, and some might even now have kept the stage but for their degrading licentiousness.
We now cast anchor in the most interesting ,	.	o
spot in our whole literature—where bubble forth the joyous springs of
“ Sweetest Shakspeare, Fancy’s child,” the grandest luminary in the literary firmament,— the man who completely revolutionized English literature and has since been the criterion of excellence for all nations. To him we are primarily indebted for our indisputable supremacy in letters. With the co-operation of Ben Johnson, Beaumont, Fletcher, and Massinger, he has contrived to render our Drama stable and complete. England’s greatest poets have made bold efforts in the dramatic field, but, as Dryden says,
“ Shakspeare’s magic could not copied be, Within that circle none durst walk but he.”
Shakspeare’s death dates the beginning of the literature of the 17th century—an age not remarkable for any extraordinary outburst of power, though it has left enduring marks upon the,English language. “The influences of the time,” says Shaw, “produced a style of writing in which intellect and fancy played a greater part than imagination and passion”—both essentials of poetry. This class of poets,comprising Edmund Waller (1687), Wm. Davenant (1668), Abraham Cowley (1667), Rich-, ard Crashaw (1650), and John Denham (1668), have been styled by Samuel Johnson the “Metaphysical Poets.” None of them have poetic passion, and all seemed to think that excellence consisted in finding striking analogies and showing the “ electric spark of wit,” rather than the glow of genius.	. .
(conclusion next week.)
Address from the Minims .
To Very Rev. Father General in Honor of his
Birthday Anniversary, February 6, 1S86.
1.
A happy birthday, Founder of the line Of Western Princes, who, in God’s design, Shall carry out the plan you nobly laid Long years ago, in the primeval shade;
For, are we not dear Father, of the hope	'
Embraced within that plan’s majestic scope? ■
11.
While we your happy birthday -would proclaim, Our filial greetings have another aim.
Our gratitude and love we strive to show, Responsive to your kindness, well you know, . And though full often we felicitate,
Rejoicing in each glad auspicious date,
in.
Yet if we profit of the sovereign grace With which your efforts have embowered this place, Three hundred sixty-five round feasts each year, Would serve not the grand debt we owe to clear.	•
But our Cashier is not of mortal birth, Therefore we hope to compensate your worth.
iv.	.
The Queen divine of Heaven, who, we are told, Claimed you when you were but a few years old, Has taken charge of what we owe you, Father, * And consolation from her care we gather, Sure her tried Champion must his dues obtain, His world-embracing schemes for Heaven mustgain.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
V.
As your loved youngest sons, we deem it joy To picture you as just a little boy, A prince as we now are—aye, younger still, A gentle, bright-eyed infant, if you will— Smilmg upon your own dear mother’s breast, Enjoying there, earth’s dearest, truest rest.
.	VI.
Then, fleet imagination guides us back Along the fair, enchanting memory-track. To eighteen hundred fourteen,—precious time, That held for us a promise so sublime,— Held the eventful day that gave to earth A grand, pure life, to show religion’s worth.
VII.	.
We beg your blessing that you may secure For your young princes’ birthday feasts as pure, That is to sav, that we, who just begin Life’s course momentous, may like merit win, So when, dear Father, we are seventy-two We, as your Princes, shall be worthy you.
VIII.
How many Februarys, since that day
Your ship first anchored in the New York Bay, Have you not kept the sixth in loving mind, To count the years devoted to your kind;
For man’s creation, when to reason given Is but earth’s threshold to the door of Heaven.
IX.
You, our dear Father, in divine decrees,
Were destined from your birth to cross the seas, And to esiablish in this western clime A monument to last through coming time In the warm hearts of youth throughout the West; To us how could your birthday be but blest?
The eldest born of Faith, your la belle. France— Whose sons are known throughout earth’s wide expanse As pioneers of Rome in every clime— Has never known, in her most favored time, One more heroic in the cause of truth Than our dear Father, from his earliest youth.
XI.
What, but the martyr spirit, gave you power To cast aside, in youth’s impetuous hour, The promise that the world, in tempting guise, Held up, dear Father, to your earnest eyes?
Ah! only grace divine could change the spell,— Lead you to cry to all, with joy: “ Farewell! ”
XII.
To the red race, in heathen darkness bound,
You came dear Father. How your prayer was crowned! But your humility was tried, to show How fit your strength to quell a mightier Joe: Fierce, Godless education, who unfurled Her deadly banner o’er a doubting world.
-	XIII.
True to obedience and divine command, A new door opened in this Western land. ' Now we must bless the Providence that drew A nobler course, our Father dear, for you;	,
For if the aborigines had won
Your care, dear Father, what would we have done?
.	~ xiv.	~
There would have been no grand St. Edward's Hall; No splendid church; no chimes to rise and fall, Like magic music oyer vood and wold,— No University, bright youths to hold;
No Science Hall; no mighty Printing Press,	-
No Seminary, all the land to bless;
.	xv.
No Monastery with its holy power
To bid the minions of the foe.to cower;
No golden statue o'er the Dome, in light .
Towering above to scatter shades of night; -	.
,No Christian Education, strong and deep.
• The truths of Heaven in youthful minds to keep.
XVI.
The Blessed Virgin's Journal and the Dome, All they comprise, had been without a home. How must we pray, each from his inmost soul, That as the years triumphant, onward roll. Your strength and health, each birthday shall increase; And Our dear Lady hold Her realm in peace.
XVII.
Her realm—this ’place, where her devotion sprung From your religious heart when you were young.
Oh, may her. love for you rejuvenate
Your life each birthday, and facilitate
Your every enterprise from year to year, As in the past, she hath upheld you here!
XVIII.
Thanks be to God, who led you from the-first;
May He, whose grace each holy germ hath nursed, Of heavenly faith, in this Columbian land, Sustain you always, in your efforts grand;
And grant the wish for which each Prince now yearns, A birthday happ>—many bright returns!	.
Your devoted sons, The Minims of Notre Dame.
Two Great Names in the Literature of G-ermany.
BY FRANK A. LENZ.
The period of the highest perfection of German literature—1770-1832—is especially'- illustrated by the names of the two greatest German poets—Schiller and Goethe—two names of which every Ger-riian may well be proud. Which of the two is the greater poet is a question as often asked as in itself it is useless, and in many respects even unjust. Goethe himself has, perhaps, given the best answer when he said: “You should not quarrel about who may be the greater poet, Schiller or I; you ought to be glad that there are two such, fellows at all.”
The main difference between the two poets consists in this: that the method which Goethe was naturally inclined to follow was to proceed from the particular to the general, while Schiller inversely always proceeded from the general to the particular. Each of them, according to the peculiar bent of his mind, has, in the process of thought, made the best use of the method, whether synthetic or analytic, which he was naturally led to follow. In other words, each of these two writers, from the very' beginning of his career, was able to clearly' discern the path in the field of literature wherein his powers could best further his onward march, and thus both were able to attain the looked-for goal—an immortal name. If, then in this paper we spealc in the first place of Goethe, it is not to indicate any superiority over Schiller, hut simply because he was the first to appear in the world of letters.	•
L—Goethe.
Johann Wolfgang Goethe was born in the citv of Frankfort on the Mayn. His parents were evidently' in very' comfortable circumstances, his father holding the office of imperial councillor, and his mother belonging to one of the.oldest and w'ealthiest families of the city. .While yet a boy, he gave evidence of the possession of great talents, and espec
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
333
ially the rare faculty of reading well the characters of men; so much so that his father entertained great hopes that his son would one day succeed him in his office, and determined to give him the most liberal education possible. Accordingly, he sent him to Lepsic in 1765 to study law. During the three years which-Goethe spent at that university he had occasion to meet with such great men as Gottshcd, Ernesti, Gellert, and others, without, hdwever, feeling any special attraction for them. He returned to his native city in 1768, and stayed there for two years, after which he went to continue his studies in Strassburg. Here the study of Shakspeare, and acquaintances formed with Herder a nd F rederica Brion, daughter of the parson' at Sesenheim, moved his poetic fancies, and for the first time he began to make verses, the traces of which we may easily follow through all the works -of his after-life. Returning to Frankfort in 1771, he began to busy himself with law affairs, which he also continued at Wetzlar, up to the year 1775. At that time his life received an altogether new direction in consequence of an invitation received from the duke Karl August of Sachsen-Weimar to spend the rest of his life at his court. Goethe accepted the invitation of this prince, who was at the same time a great lover and generous patron of
o	o	1
literature.	\
• This court, under the Duchess Anna Amalia, had been the resort of the most eminent literary men of the time, among whom Wieland, de Knebel and Musaeus are especially worthy of being mentioned; but it became more brilliant under her son Karl August, the enthusiastic admirer of the arts and sciences, who was always ambitious to draw to it all.the great geniuses of his time. We even find that for a certain space of time Wieland, Herder, Goethe, and Schiller were all living together at the court of this noble prince. As.for Goethe, he was for several years the director of an amateur theatre, and by his zeal for his office, as also by his writings, he became the favorite of the prince, so that in the year 1779 he was made privy councillor, in 17S2 president of the Prince’s Board of Finance, domains, revenues, etc., and at the same time was raised to the nobility. A two years’ journey to Italy—on which he entered in 1786, and during which he studied very diligently classic antiquity— revived his poetic tastes, and filled him with new thoughts and ideas. From that time his writings breathe more or less that spirit which the study of the ancient classics generally produces in men. Pie returned to Weimar in 17S8, and from that time on his life underwent very few changes, of which, perhaps, several excursions to Karlsbad and his election as Prime-Minister of the State are alone worthy of being mentioned. . He died in the 94th year of his age, having been up to the time of his death in the full possession of his mental faculties.
The greatness of Goethe may be easily judged by the number and excellence of his literary productions. ■ In genius the rival of Shakspeare, possessed of a capacity of comprehending almost intuitively all the desires and passions of men, their good and evil inclinations, their whims and feelings,
and besides an artfulness in humoring the prejudices of those with whom he had to deal, all this was calculated to carry him in triumph to the highest honors and to the renown unanimously accorded him, not alone by the whole German nation, but by all the enlightened nations of the civilized world. There are, however, some traits in his character which, although they may be ascribed to a defect in his early education, still deserve severe criticism: we mean his vanity, a certain disregard for truth, where it was his object to show merely the greatness of his genius, and those faults of his life when he would descend from the lofty regions in which his spirit was wont to roam— when, in a word, he simply proved untrue to himself.	.
The life of Gcethe presents three distinct periods, ’ each of which has left its clearimpress in his works. In the first —Der Sturm - und Drang period —“The Period of Storm and Impulse,” he is the greatest representative of his time in the effusion of passionate feeling and a brave pushing onward without regard to the forms and fetters of conventionality. This period embraced the first years of his residence in Weimar and ended in the journey to Italy, which not only gave new vigor .to the creative power of the poet, but also, as we have said, ennobled and ripened his taste, by the ideal models of ancient Greek and Roman history. .The after-effects of this journey mark the second period in Goethe’s poetic life, which was also influenced by a familiar friendship with Schiller; and whilst from this period the most beautiful of.his works are derived, the poet in the third period— which dates from the death of Schiller (1805) to his own death (1832)—turns to more scientific and critical examinations, and prefers, wherever ’ he enters on poetry, the allegoric-didactic and the oriental.	.	.	.
As far as Goethe’s works are concerned, it would be sufficient, as they are very numerous and varied, to point out the more important and those that are, up to the present time, the most appreciated.
Of his poetry, the ballads and romances—gener-ally treating of some natural truth—-are distinguished by their quality of putting the reader, by their weird melancholy, in a thoughtful mood. Among them we may name: Erlkonig,der Fisher, -der Sanger, der Konig in Thule, der Schatz grab er, der Zauberlehrling^ der Gott und die Bajadere. But the first rank must be given to his Hermann tend Dorothea, an epic in beautifully flowing hexameters, written in nine books, each of which is dedicated to a muse. Gcethe, although this work has a historical background, gives in it a description'of idyllic scenes from the home of his youth, and es-pe ially of the intimate union between him and his mother, who, beingabout twenty yearsyounger than his father, generally took his part, when the latter, a lover of military discipline, and often too exacting, was dissatisfied with the supposed vagaries of his gifted son. When he read this work in the circle of his friends—Schiller, Wieland, and Her-der—he would often be so moved by his own words that the tears would roll down his cheeks, and so
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
great was his emotion that he would have to stop frequently in the course of his reading.
Many of his beautiful lyric poems have now become popular songs—as Heidenroslein, Lied eines Gefangenen Grafen, and many others, but the sweetest of all is Trost in Thranen—“Solace in Tears.”	•
Goethe’s dramatic works vary in excellence, since they comprise both the grandest of his productions and many others, which for us are only valuable in so far as they7 come from the pen of this poet. Faust, his greatest work, he began while yet at the university7, and finished it only7 a few y7ears before his death. The subject matter of this tragedy, in which the poet discloses to the world all his feelings and apprehensions, his views about ' the world and life, is taken from a Volksbuch, which was published at the end of the sixteenth century7. Faust himself is a representative of men striving to be equal to God in knowledge and happiness. After he had penetrated the depth of every7 science without having been able to solve the riddle of man’s existence, he wants to seek in death what life refused him. Only7 the sad-sweet remembrance of those times, when his faith was not yet sacrificed to an unnatural thirst for knowledge, prevents him from committing suicide; and now, called to life, he seeks to satisfy7 himself with earthly pleasures, but in vain. The second part of Faust was intended to show that real happiness is found in active labor, but it betrays distinct traces of the rather advanced age of the poet, and it is hard for us to understand it, particularly on account of the many special references to the time, in which it was composed. Other dramas of Goethe, which like Faust deserve the highest praise are Goetz von Berlichingen, Egmont, Iphigenia in Taurissw^ Torquato Tasso.
Of his didactic poems, a part of which he wrote in the form of parables, epigrams and distichs, besides Die Wcissagungen des Bakis and Die Jahreszeiten, we may mention, in particular, the Xehien—a collection of epigrams—which was the product of the united labors of Goethe and Schiller. In this collection Goethe and Schiller boldly oppose all those evils, which were then widely prevalent, as vacuity of thought, fantastic notions, humoristic, unclean novels, hypocrisy, etc.
Goethe’s prose writings are also very7 numerous, and are partly. scientific, partly works of fiction. The former are looked upon by critics as models for exactness, clearness, and elegance of style, and their instructive tendency. However, the best known of his prosewriting are the novels, of which the first in time, Die Leiden des jungen Wert her, has made the greatest sensation. This book has met with many and severe criticisms, and one well-founded objection to it is, that it seems to present an apology for suicide. In fact, there have been known cases where, in consequence of reading this book, lovesick souls, following the example of the unhappy hero of the novel, have ended their days by committing suicide. More beautifid in matter, and better in expression than this novel is another, under the title of Wilhelm Meister's Lehir-jahre, and the sequel Wilhelm Meister's Wan-
derjahrc, in both of which Gcethe tries to solve some of the social questions “ in a sense of ideal humanity.” Finally, we may7 mention three other works, not less important— Wahlvervoandschaften, Azis meinem Leben, and Dichtunsr und Wahrheit, the latter being a complete autobiography, together with sketches from'his journey to Italy.
Having thus given a general idea of Germany’s great genius in the field of literature, we will next consider the life and writings of the other poet, who was so intimately connected with the first, but still more loved than he, and who was truer and more natural.
(conclusion next week.)
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Ruskin hopes to get the remaining three chapters of “ Prieterita,” which will complete the first volume of his autobiography, finished and out by7 his birthday, Feb. 8 next.
—Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly’s “Jubilee Hymn,” for the 50th anniversary' of the priesthood of Pope Leo XIII, which will occur December 23, 1887, has been translated into Italian, and forwarded to Rome for presentation to His Holiness. The hymn has also been done into German.	•
—The Abb£ Liszt expects to be in London about the beginning of April. He is at present in Rome, engaged upon a new pianoforte concerto called the “Pathetique,” and on an orchestral piece, “La Gondola Lugubra,” in memory of Richard Wagner. The Abbe’s stay in London will be limited to about a fortnight.	.	.
—“Zeph,” a posthumous novel of life in Colorado by Mrs. Jackson (“ H. H.”), is shortly to be issued by7 Roberts Bros. It was written at Los Angeles during the winter of 1884—’85, but the author, finding herself unable to finish it, sent the manuscript to her publisher, with a brief summary of the way7 in which she intended the book to close, and with a touching note of apology written but a few weeks before her death.
—Mr. Stanley Lane-Poole’s work on the “ Art of the Saracens in Egypt,” which has been in preparation for the past three years, is now, we learn from the Athenceum, passing through the press. It deals with the architecture, decoration, mosaic work, wood and ivory carving, bronze inlay7 and damascening, the glass, pottery, textile fabrics, and illuminated manuscripts of mediaeval Egypt, as preserved in existing monuments, and as recorded in the works of Arabic historians and travellers.
—The percentage of persons, aged 15 years and upward, who can read is in Germany, 94; in Great Britain, 91; in Austria, 8S; in France, 88; in Italy, 74; in Spain, 69; and in Russia, 53. The percentage of those who can read, write, and work out simple arithmetical problems is in.Germany, 89; in Great Britain, 81; in France, 77; in Austria, 75; in Italy, 63; in Spain, 49; and in Russia, 39. The percentage of those who possess a fair acquaintance with more
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	335
than one modern language is in Germany, 69; in Austria, 6r; in Great Britain, 34; in France, 29; in Italy, 28; in Russia, 23; and in Spain, 13. And finally, the percentage of. those who have some knowledge of the classics is in Germany, 32; in Great Britain, 21; in France, 20; in Italy, 16; in Austria, 13; in Spain, 7; and in Russia, 2.
—The January number of the Deutsche Revue, edited by Herr Richard Freischer, contains some interesting and hitherto unpublished extracts from the diary of Riemer, the intimate friend of Goethe. On returning from Italy in 1803, whither he had gone as teacher in the family of Wilhelm von Humboldt, Friedrich Wilhelm Riemer was made tutor to Goethe’s son August, then a boy of thirteen, and in this capacity, as well as in that of amanuensis, etc., to the poet, he worked for nine years, when he became librarian at Weimar. But though no longer a member of the family, he continued in close relations to the poet until the latter died in 1832, and had exceptional opportunities of proving a better • Boswell to him even than Ekermann, whose well-known “ Conversations” only refer to the last decade of this hero’s life. • In 1841, Riemer gave to the world his “ Mittheilungen uber Goethe,” but more detailed information of a similar kind is contained in the diary which he kept from 1807 to 1845, and which, having long lain sealed up in the Weimar library, has now been entrusted to Robert Keil for editing and publication.
Scientific Notes.
—A platinum wire, too fine to be seen with the naked eye, is said to have been made by Mr. H.: T. Read, of Brooklyn. It is to be used in telescopes as a substitute for the spider’s w’eb usually employed.
—J. B. Carnoy, Professor of Cellular Biology in the University of Louvain, Belgium, has lately published a work'on “Cell-Division Among Arthropods.” The work is entirely original, and a mass of facts are brought to bear on the great question of cell-division, which are calculated to clear up this desideratum of Cellular Biologv. The volume contains some 250 pages, with 3iz|. illustrations drawn from nature, and on the whole is the most thorough work on the subject.
—It has been long known that a place named Campodunum, not far from the Lake of Constance, was the centre of a great Roman military settlement in Vindelicia, and the headquarters of the third Italic legion. It seems to have held the next place in importance to Ratisbon in all that region. But various desultory searches, renewed at irregular intervals, failed to bring to light any of the relics which ought to have abounded in such a site. Quite lately a more careful exploration has laid bare the foundations of a great Roman building, the mortar, pavement, o-pus reticuiatum, drain pipes, and gutter tiles being of unquestionable Roman origin.
—The success of the incandescent electric lamp for private carriages in Paris, as a substitute for
candles and oil lamps, is pronounced complete.' Not only the regular side lights are included in this plan, but the interior of the vehicle-is illuminated by a lamp sufficiently powerful to read by, and in some instances a similar lamp is placed, for a novelty, on the head of the horse. The lamps are connected by wires with small accumulators placed under.the driver’s seat; they are small in size, being only about eight inches square and four inches high, each of such accumulators being able to supply a lamp offive-candle power for the space of some six hours. During the day they are removed and charged with electricity from a dynamo machine, or otherwise, and at night they are ready for use.
—Stoves are of very ancient origin. A. fixed stove (stuba) was used in the time of the«Roman Empire for heating baths, and in Germany and -Scandinavia for bathsand hot-houses. In the Middle Ages they were generally constructed of brick or tiles, sometimes of slate or steatite (soapstone), and used for warming dwellings. They were huge structures, sometimes occupying the whole side of a room, and in Scandinavia their broad,flat surface was the sleeping place of the household. The fire was kindled at the bottom, and the heat and smoke passed through various flues before reaching the chimney. These stoves were economical of fuel— a matter of much importance in some parts of Europe. In the homes of the rich they were sometimes faced with porcelain or highly ornamented tiles.
—The attempt to establish intelligible telegraphic communication between-moving railway trains and stations has been frequently made with more or less success. But there never was a . thoroughly ’ successful experiment until the 1st inst. of a method by which such connection was established over an ordinary railway road-bed without extensive and expensive alterations. The invention is by Thomas A. Edison, E. T. Gilliland, and William Wiley Smith. The primary result obtained is perfect and instantaneous communication in all directions between fixed telegraphic stations and moving trains. No special wire is .required, and hence the objection of great expense is removed. The mysterious part of the system is that the electricity is transmitted from a small dynamo carried .on the train. To the ordinary .Morse wires, usually running along the railroad, the electricity passes in waves. The exchanging of messages does not interfere with the transmission of messages on the wires themselves. The peculiar form of electricity used leaps from the train to the wires through the atmosphere. It has already been successfully done over a distance of 400 feet. The apparatus used on moving trains for receiving and transmitting telegraphic messages consists of an ordinary Morse key, a phonetic receiver, an ordinary electro magnet, and a.battery. At the fixed stations.a similar arrangement is used,. The system was thoroughly tested on the 1st inst., on the Staten Island Railroad from Clifton to Tot-tenville. A large number of-electricians were on the.train. The train, went, along, at the ordinary . rate, and numerous dispatches were. received, addressed to various persons.
336	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wdm seam
Notre Dame, February 6, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connecteS with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms., Sr.jO per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The Minims gave an excellent entertainment in their Hall this (Saturday) morning,to commemorate the seventy-second anniversary of the birthday of their venerable Patron', the Very Rev. Father General Sorin. We print the programme of the exercises elsewhere in this paper, as well as the beautiful address with which the venerable Superior was greeted by his youthful 'proteges. In the reading of the address, as also in the various selections, both musical and declamatory—but particularly in the interesting and instructive little drama presented on the occasion—the Minims gave evidence of the possession of more than ordinary talent and the advantages of careful and judicious training, and provided an entertainment which pleased and delighted the select audience assembled.	,
We, older boys, take advantage of this opportunity to respectfully tender our own congratulations to Very Rev. Father Sorin upon this happy anniversary, and express the hope that many other birthdays may find him in the possession of health and strength with .which to guide the destinies of our Alma Mater: which, frorh the beginning, has been the beneficiary of his fostering care.
—The publisher of the Ave Mariahs favored us with an advance copy of “ The Lepers of Molokai ”—a;new issue of the popular series of good and cheap books now appearing at' regular intervals, under the auspices of our widely-circulated contemporary. Gotten up in tasteful style, well printed on superior paper, substantially bound, and of convenient size for the pocket, or library shelf, and .sold at the low1 price of io cents, we feel sure these excellent brochures are destined to have
an immense sale once they become generally known to the reading public.	■
“ The Lepers of Molokai,” from the pen of Prof. Stoddard, describes the famous leper settlement of the Sandwich Islands, and tells of the selfsacrificing life of the brave priest, who, for twelve years past, has been a willing exile among those afflicted outcasts of the kingdom which has been called “the sweetest and the saddest in the world.” More than 1600 of these unfortunate victims of the most terrible of all scourges have been buried by Father Damien, and many of them he has laid out with his own hands. After the sketch had been concluded in the pages of the Ave Maria a letter from the Hawaiian Islands brought the sad intelligence that the pastor of Molokai had himself become a leper, and he now awaits a death as dreadful as that which threatens the most afflicted of his afflicted flock. This thrilling.announcement forms an epilogue to the sketch, the beauty and pathos of which it were useless to attempt to describe.
We shall not be surprised if “ The Lepers of Molokai” is assigned a first place among the writings of our distinguished Professor, and we are certain it will delight and edify every reader.
—The nezv electric light plant at Notre Dame consists of a large-size Edison dynamo, with a large Armington & Sims high-speed, low-pressure engine supplying the power. The latter is the engine always used by the Edison Co., and is, • no doubt, the best of its class constructed. It works noiselessly and perfectly, although the large pulley moves at the rate of 50 miles an hour. In addition to the dynamo and engine there is an apparatus, called the “Regulator,” by means of which the engineer can control the intensity of the current and keep the lights always at the same intensity. This effect is accomplished by causing the current to pass through a series of resistance coils. There is also an Ampere meter, which shows at a glance how much current the wires are carrying, and indicates when the machine is distributing its full quota. Large copper conductors carry the current from the dynamo building to the main building of the University, where it is distributed by smaller wires to all the class, lecture, and private rooms, halls, dormitories, etc. There are smaller mains leading to the crown and crescent which ornament the Statue on the Dome, and to St. Edward’s Hall. In each of the rooms there	,
is a peculiar form of adjustable drop.by means of	I
which the lamps can be placed in almost any position to suit the convenience of the inmates. The ] light gives the greatest satisfaction—it is steady, •	j
clear and safe—and is a relief from the dust and .	•
noxious gases attendant upon the lights heretofore j in use. •	.	>	]
The dynamo room is already quite an attractive spot to the visitor at Notre Dame. It will be made I . additional!}’ so when, in a few days, the large arc-
light dynamo, now, in the Printing House, will be placed in the same room.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	337
In Science Hall, the electric light plant and engine, so generously donated by the Edison Electric Light Co., and the Armington & Sims Engine Co., respectively, were first put in operation a few evenings since, and with results seemingly so satisfactory as to leave nothing to be desired. A description of the machinery—the dynamo and engine — would now be out of place, and an explanation of the details of the electrical regulating apparatus and many ingenious attachments is forbidden by space. The lamps—from two to six in a room—are each suspended from the ceiling by two handsome, flexible, insulated, silk-covered wires, twisted together in the form of a cord, which supply the current. This arrangement allows a lamp to be brought into almost any position, thus securing the best effects ' in demonstrations, etc., as in the case of the lamps over the lecturers’ tables; but more particularly is the utility of this hanging apparent in the biological laboratory, where the lamps can be broughtdown to the microscope tables, and even under the stage of the microscope, if desired. The illumination furnished by the incandescent lamp is at once soft, powerful and steady, eminently adapted to the requirements of all such scientific investigation and general work as is carried on by artificial light; and, at the same time, large or unsightly gas-fixtures are replaced by the neat and graceful pendent lamps; while absolute cleanliness is at the same time assured. The wiring of the building is all concealed, no wires being visible, except the green-and-gold pendent-cords; in short, perfect order and neatness are exhibited throughout—the result of the scrupulously careful supervision of Mr. J. C. Willson and help, well skilled in electric lighting. There are, altogether, about eighty lamps in Science Hall, and wires run to Music Hall for illumination during . the various entertainments and exercises held there.
Ireland’s Cause in America.
The movement now extending throughout this country in support of the.parliamentary agitation in behalf of the Irish people possesses a peculiar feature which merits more than the passing attention of every true lover of liberty and hater of oppression. It is a fact that expressive, practical sympathy with the movement in question is not confined to those acting through a natural love for the land of their fathers, but is energetically manifested by hosts of others, of all ranks, creeds and nationalities, from those holding high official positions in State and Nation to those in the ordinary walks of life. From all quarters substantial aid is contributed to swell the material resources with which a national love would seek to support the.measures planned by those to whom a nation’s best interests have been intrusted. Indeed, so widespread is the agitation daily and hourly becoming that we have no doubt that ere long it will assume a distinctively American character and take the form of one nation’s earnest protest against the injustice* and tyranny of another. Already the implied protest
given in the present extent of. the Irish agitation in this country has had its weight and influence, not alone in encouraging and supporting the representatives of Ireland’s cause, but even in forcing the oppressing Government to halt and call for parley. But it will not stop here; it is destined to extend further, and become more and more potent until liberty-loving America shall see the removalof the last vestige of that blight upon the civilization of this enlightened century—the tyrannical oppression of millions of people born to be free.	’
To what is directly attributable the general character which the movement has assumed here in the United States? It is true, indeed, that a love of liberty, which is, or ought to be, characteristic of the American people may, in some instances, sufficiently account for the sympathy expressed by a few true-hearted men. We all remember well the bold stand taken, in behalf, of the cause, by the late lamented Vice-President Hendricks, and the noble, brave, outspoken words with which he defended the justice of Ireland’s demands and pleaded for her right to self-government. Others, too, high in office, might be mentioned whose voice in defence of the right has not been silent.
But the general motive, which influences, and has influenced, such grand action in these isolated cases, will not suffice to account for the great extent of the present movement. Within a very few months a great and grand work has been accomplished in the removal of old prejudices, perhaps long entertained against the Irish people, and the evoking of a practical sympathy-which noble hearts, unfettered by prejudice, are naturally inclined to give.
We find the reason in the eloquent letters of the Rev. Dr. Bernard O’Reilly to theA'ew York Sun, and the powerful editorials of that influential paper advocating the cause of Ireland. Dr. O’Reilly’s letters on the condition of Ireland, his straightforward and clear exposition of the needs and just demands of the Irish people, his eloquent and authoritative portrayal of the high , culture attained, and attainable, by the sons and daughters of Erin, despite the most trying obstacles,—giving thesurest indications of the prosperity and happiness which would mark the nation under more favorable conditions,—have been so widely read through the columns of the Sun that, first attracting attention, they have eventually succeeded in removing prejudice and calling forth the practical sympathy of the sincere reader. Joined -with these have been the earnest, expressive; logical statements of the. Sun's editorials which, read by all classes of people, have opened the eyes of the many to a .view of the subject in its true light, causing them to reflect, be convinced, and finally yield to the dictates of the calm, unbiased judgments of reason.	.
Thus are the true-hearted citizens of this ‘‘land of the free” led to emphasize, by voice and act, the grand truth that a nation, once free and enlightened, once the great centre of the civilization of the world, should never through the uncivilized argument of might, become—to put it as mildlyas possible—the Niobe among the nations of the earth.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Books and Periodicals.
The Complete Poetical Works of Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Poet Laureate. New York: Harper & Brothers. 1SS5.
This is a fine illustrated edition of Tennyson’s poems, including some not commonly found among his published works. The “Poems by Two Brothers”—originally published in 1827—remind us that Charles Tennyson was at that epoch believed to be a youth of greater poetic promise than his more distinguished brother, and remind us also that the distinction subsequently achieved by his brother was the reward of hard., patient labor, proving a truth so frequently inculcated lately, and yet so necessary for the student to be impressed with, that what is called genius is not a mere natural phenomenon, an inborn energy, requiring passive acquiescence only on the part of its fortunate possessor, but a manifestation of steady, persistent, unswerving resolution to excel, overcoming countless obstacles, despising continual allurements, constant to its fixed purpose of achieving its end. The verse that flows with the greatest apparent ease is in reality the product of the most intense labor. There are some new illustrations to the poems as well as to the entertaining sketch of the author’s life by Anne Thackeray Ritchie. Those which are portraits of the author himself suggest inquiry as to the reason why physical ungainliness in attitudes so often accompanies intellectual superiority. “ Often ” we say, not “ always.” Byron, a greater—though not a better—r-poet than Tennyson, was as graceful exteriorly as his unfortunate infirmity permitted. In Tennyson, the brain and heart have apparently absorbed nerve-energy to the depauperization of those minor centres of force that render the human animal attractive. The name of the publishers sufficiently indicates the elegance with which this complete edition of a valued author is produced. We recommend it to all our readers.
—In the Century for February “Anecdotes of McClellan’s Bravery,” by one of his officers who was a companion in arms as far back as the Mexican war, lends additional interest to the war-time portrait of McClellan, which is the frontispiece of the number. Under the laconic title, “ Our March against Pope,” General Longstreet gives the Confederate view of the Second Bull Run campaign, with some caustic criticisms and amusing anecdotes. Though not written with a knowledge of General Pope’s article in the preceding number, it derives from that a certain interest 'which in another sense it returns. The paper is profusely illustrated, as is also “With Jackson’s ‘ Foot-cavalry ’at the Second Manassas,” by Allen C. Redwood, who describes the humors and hardships of a private. In “ Memoranda of the Civil War,” General William F. Smith and others offer “ Comments on General Grant’s ‘Chattanooga,’” and General Erasmus D. Keyes describes the services of “ The Rear-Guard after Malvern Hill.” “ Antoine Louis Barye,” the French sculptor, is the subject of the opening illustrated article, by Henry Eckford, who gives a thoughtful study of the man and his art, as well
as anecdote and information. George W. Cable contributes a paper on “ The Dance in Place Congo,” which is illustrated with several arrangements of Creole music by H, E. Krehbiel, Miss M. L. Bartlett and John A. Broekoven, and with striking sketches, by E. W. Kemble. “ City Dwellings,” attractively illustrated, is the subject of Mrs. Van Rensselaer’s fifth paper on “Recent American Architecture.”
—The numbers of TheAve Maria for the month of January, with which it begins its twenty-second volume, manifest the fulfilment of the promises made by the Editor- for “ new and good things during the coming year,” and must fully realize all the expectations, not only of the patrons and friends of Our Lady’s Journal, but of all who desire to read an entertaining and instructive periodical. The increase in size in the weekly issue, from twenty to ‘ twenty-four pages, makes a monthly part of 120 pages; thus presenting a collection of reading matter unequalled by any other Catholic monthly in the world. In regard to the contents, it is but little to say that, in point of interest and instructiveness, as well as elegance of style and purity of language, they are unexcelled by any other publication. A glance through the number before us will suffice to give some idea of the excellence and appropriateness of the articles contained therein. It opens with a paper on the Festival of the Epiphany, entitled “ The Gentile Christmas,” in which the lessons which the great festival naturally brings home to every faithful heart are vividly set forth in language that must impress the attentive reader. So, too, in each of the other numbers there may be found one or more articles on some approaching festival, or on the devotion of the Rosary, with which the piety of the devout faithful will be entertained. Prominent among other interesting articles is a series of papers from the well-known • writer, Charles Warren Stoddard, who, under the title of “ With Staff and Scrip,” presents a narrative of a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. We shall not mar its interest by attempting any description of the contribution of Mr. Stoddard, but recommend our readers to take the Ave Maria and entertain themselves. “ Palms,” a well-wrought and interesting story, by Mrs. Dorsey, is continued through the number. But it would take too long to enumerate all the other articles, in both prose and poetry, with which the number abounds, and which go to realize the ideal of a journal which combines in itself the characteristics of Christian instruction and rational • amusement, so happily blended and varied as to present suitable reading for both young and old.
.	Personal-
—A. McMurray (Com’l), ’85, holds a responsible position in the extensive establishment of Orr & Sockett, Clark St., Chicago. .	. .
—W. Ad. Hardenberg, of ’76, passed a few days at the College during the week, visiting old friends, all of whom were glad to. meet him.
—Hon. Orville Chamberlain, of ’62, Elkhart,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
339
Ind., and Mr. Kirkwood, U. S. Post-office Inspector, made a pleasant visit to Notre Dame on Sunday.
—John Armstrong, ’60, the well-known and distinguished architect of Chicago, spent a few days at the College early in the week, and was warmly greeted by many old friends.
—Rev. Edward Powers, of ’75, was raised to the Sacred Order of the Priesthood during the Christmas ordinations at St. Francis’ Seminary, near Milwaukee. He will be assigned to missionary duty in the Vicariate of Dakota.	'
—Rev. Father P. P. Cooney returned to Notre Dame last Tuesday, greatly improved in health after his recent much-needed vacation. We hope, with all the many friends of the well known missionary, that the amelioration in health will be permanent. He has placed his nephew Master W. Cooney, of Toledo, in the Junior department of the University.
—Among the welcome visitors during the past week were, Dr. and Mrs. William T. Rousey, of Toledo, Ohio, who came to enter their son Willie at the College. Dr. Rousey was. one of Notre Dame’s early students—a member of the Class of ’56,—and was pleased to meet with several of his old professors, as well as to note the great progress made by his Alma Mater.
—We regret to learn of the death of Mr. John Kauffman, who departed this life at his residence in Cincinnati on the 15th ult. The deceased was a prominent citizen, one esteemed and honored in business and private relations. His three sons were educated at Notre Dame—John of ’72; Michael, of ’77, and Charles, of ’84. We beg leave to extend our heartfelt sympathy to them and the afflicted family in this their hour of trial.
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Jno. L. Inderrieden, M. Benner, M. R. Mueller, Mrs. C. Stattman, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. C. Beckman, Miss Maria Beckman, Ottawa, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Miller, Hicksville, Ohio; Fred A. Collison, Richmond, Ill.; Jesse L. Demming, J. C. Sack, Ligonier, Ind.; Dr. J. R. Congdon, Bristol, Ind.; Henry Mulleges, Watertown, Wis.; Miss I. Moon, Warsaw, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. A. Gordon, Elkhart, Ind.; Miss Nester, Detroit, Mich.; Miss Duffy, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. P. W. Jones, St. Louis,.Mo.
—From a Kentucky paper we clip the following commendatory notice of a prominent member of the Class of ’83:
“ Mason County boys are always in the ascendancy. Out of more than five hundred students attending Bellevue Medical College, N. Y., from all points of the world, John J. Malloy, the gifted son of Mr. Peter Malloy, of > ear Germantown, has been selected to deliver the valedictory address at the close of the term, about March 10. The exercises will wind up with a grand supper at Dehnonico’s, given by the faculty to the graduates, followed by speeches from distinguished physicians.”
—The Rev. Father Galligan, Col. W. P. Rend, Judge Scully, and Mr. R. Gannon, of Chicago, were welcome visitors at Notre Dame last Saturday and Sunday. Father Galligan, who is the efficient and highly esteemed pastor of St. Patrick’s
Church, expressed himself as greatly pleased with the visit, notwithstanding the fact that the frost and snow of midwinter have temporarily obscured or obliterated all the varied natural beauties of the surrounding landscape. Father Galligan is a most amiable gentleman, and all who met him hope that he will come again and often. Col. W. P. Rend, the great coal dealer of Chicago, although required to travel frequently through this-quarter, on account of the extensive interests and numerous coal-mines he controls in Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania, yet never before found time or opportunity to visit the University. We are glad that his visit was so pleasant—reciprocally pleasant—pleasant alike to him and to all that met him. We expect to receive hereafter frequent calls from him, as he has left his daughter, Miss Minnie, at St. Mary’s Academy, where she is to complete her studies. Judge Scully and Mr. Gannon are among the true, and old-time friends of Notre Dame. Judge Scully has two daughters at St. Mary’s Academy, and from time to time we have the pleasure of seeing and greeting him when he comes here to visit them. Mr. Gannon was a student at the University some 25 years ago.
.	Local Items.
—Cold!
—Twenty-three below zero.
—Where is that skating rink?
—Don Francisco wields the sledge most gracefully.
—The “Ides of March” will be here in a few weeks. .
—The regular monthly conference was held last Thursday.
—Our astrologer is preparing something. Stand from under!
—The Columbians will appear in their annual, play next month.	'
— 64 Juniors received 100 at the examination in Christian Doctrine.
—Work for the second session has been inaugurated with a vim.	.	.	.
—The Minims’ entertainment this morning was an enjoyable success.	.
—We “ young uns ” make visiting old students J	O	O
feel quite venerable.
—The Spanish classes for English students are increasing in popularity.	■
—Quite a number of old students visited the College during the week.
—The Minims are enjoying a fete in honor of the birthday of their venerable Patron.
—The statue is lit up by the Edison light every evening, and presents a grand spectacle. .	;'
—The Elementary Science Course seems tp.be very popular. There are 74 Preps, attending..: .
—Some one asks where P. Primrose is. ; Like all the other flowers, he will blossom in the..spring..
i
34°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—“New Student” wants to know when we can get out on the Campus. “ In the spring, gentle Annie!”
. —The Political Economy lectures are becoming more and more interesting, and the class is steadily.increasing.
—Anchors are the fashionable pins to wear at present, being quite distingue, as it were—but only in this locality.
—The Elocution classes are numerously attended. This augurs well for the future increase of the Euglossian Association.
—Several interesting society reports have been unavoidably crowded out this week. We shall make all proper amends in our next.
—A visit through Science Hall is one of the pleasantest features connected with a sojourn at Notre Dame. Let him who doubts try it.
—Reports indicate that the societies are in a flourishing condition. It is stated that each will give a literary entertainment once a month.
' —It is expected we shall have a good baseball team this year. If the nines are chosen impartially, there will be no doubt that we can have some excellent games.
—Our humorist went South when the cold wave came. Here’s a chance for some aspiring youth to illiminate our local page with frescos of wit and humor. No “ chestnuts ”!
—According to present indications the mechanical laboratory will soon be crowded. The class intends to make an 8 or io horse-power steam engine before June. Success to. them!
—While modem improvements are being introduced all around us, we would respectfully suggest that the little matter of the proper ventilation of the Printing Office should not be neglected.
—Now let our vocalists come to the front again. Too long have they been retired away in the background—in the back seats, as it were. No entertainment is complete without some vocal music.
—The current number of the Home Journal —the excellent society paper of New York—contains a complimentary notice of the Scholastic Annual and speaks of its “ able literary articles.”
—The arrangement of the programme for the celebration of Washington’s birthday is now in order. We are authorized to announce that the Oration of the Day will be delivered by Mr. Albert A.- Brown. - -	■	-
—“R. D”: There are very nearly 26,000 volumes in the Library' of the University. Many of very old tomes were destroyed in the fire of 1879. The oldest'book at present in the Library is one printed in 1465. .	’ .	.
—The Junior “Bazaar” was a grand.success. We did not think the “young uns” had so much energy and such financial resources. That is what corries of having no extensive “Old Judge” and cheroot bills to pay. --	7
—The Mikado rage has caught our musicians and .vocalists. We dance the Mikado, listen to
“Birdie” warble the school-girls’ trio, and will probably have a Mikado masquerade soon—
“ Our object all sublime, We shall achieve in time.”
—The Minims, their teachers, and all connected with them, return thanks to Rev. President Walsh for having the Incandescent Light introduced into the Minim department. The clear, beautiful light is quite an acquisition to St. Edward’s Hall. It enhances the beauty of the Princes as well as the statuary, paintingsand other objects of interest and beauty in the building. It makes St. Edward’s Hall, to use the words of a visitor, “ a veritable Palace.”
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held its 12th regular meeting Wednesday evening Feb. 3d, when the members proceeded to reorganize for the second session. The following are the names of the officers: Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President; Bros. Alexander and Marcellinus, Promoters; Bro. Anselm, Director of the Orpheonic Branch; Prof. W. Hoynes, Gen’l Critic; J. S. Courtney, 1st Vice-President; W. Wabraushek, 2d Vice-President; C. Cavaroc, Financial Secretary; E. Porter, Treasurer; E. Darragh, Recording Secretary; T. Cleary, 1st Censor; P. Levin 2d Censor.
—Sunday evening Rev. Father Galligan, Col. Rend, Judge Scully, and Mr. R. Gannon, of Chicago, were among the spectators that witnessed the parade of the Light Guards, who were drilled in marching and the manual of arms. Col. Rend highly complimented the boys upon their proficiency, and said that during the war he had frequently seen veterans who could not so accurately and creditably execute the commands given. Before commencement the Light Guards will be one of the best-drilled military organizations in the State.
—A regular meeting of the Hovnes Light Guards was held last Monday, Col. Hoynes presiding. Messrs. C. Paschel and H. Paschel were elected members of the company. After the reading of the minutes of the previous meeting, Capt. Combe made a few remarks regarding the discipline of the men, and concluded by saying that Lieut. Cusack, Lieut. De Havan and himself had decided to give a medal to the best drilled private in the company. This announcement was received with marked pleasure. Company dress parade was held Thursday evening. Privates A. S.Williams, G. Craig,W. Cartier, and C. Duffin were appointed corporals; Lieut Cusack acted as adjutant.
—The Director of the Historical Department returns thanks to Rt.-Rev. Bishop Janssens, of Natchez, for valuable additions to the Bishops’ Gallery, also for a document containing personal descriptions of Bishop Chanche and Bishop Van de Velde; to Richard H. Clarke, LL. D., for a lock of the hair of■ Bishop Cheverus, Founder of the Diocese of Boston and afterwards Cardinal Archbishop of Bordeaux; wood from a case containing a mummy from Pompei,- obtained in January 1853 by the late Dr. Ives, whb, before he became a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
341
Catholic was Protestant Episcopal Bishop of North Carolina; to Rev. Father Stephen Byrne, 0. P., for personal description of Rt. Rev. Bishop Fenwick, First Bishop of Cincinnati.
—The Scholastic Annual, published at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, has reached its eleventh number. The issue for 1886 is full of good things, like its predecessors, but omits the predictions that were for several years a prominent and amusing feature of the almanac. The reason given is the quaint one that the prognostications were so often verified as to mislead some readers into the belief that they were something far above the mere play of fancy, which the author intended. Shades of Vennor and Tice, to say nothing of a whole host of predecessors, but what would you have given when in the flesh for such an excuse! Happy Prof. Lyons, to be able to despise that which so many others would have sold their ears to attain!—Chicago Tribune.
—The groundhog saw his shadow full and clear o	o
on the 2d inst., and the weather now bids fair to verify the old prophecy: ,
If Candlemas be fair and clear, There ’ll be two winters in the year.
For, we seem to have entered upon another winter, one worse than the first, the temperature during the week averaging from 16 to 23 below zero. In any case there has been a literal fulfilment of another expression of the same prophecy:
Si sol splendescat Maria Purificante Major hiems erit post festum quam ante.
Old “Sol” shone forth splendidly on the.Feast of the Purification, the zd inst., and the next day was the coldest of the year—230 below zero.
—An entertainment in honor of the seventy-second anniversary of Very Rev. Father General Sorin’s birthday, was given this (Saturday) morning by the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association in St. Edward’s Hall. The following is the O	-	-
PROGRAMME:
Introductory March......................Orchestra
Address.......J. McIntosh, E. Jewett, and R. Inderrieden
Music...........................................Piano
•‘THE MINIMS OF NOTRE DAME." A Serio-comic Drama.
Charles £ Otto j
Julius ; ' Basil Francis [ Gregory Hugh ) Louis (•
Gerard J George
Arthur ’
Joseph Albert -
Robert' j Ernest’ J.,
Dramatis Personae.
Very attentive.
Large for their age.
Smart boys, Pupils of the 1st Arithmetic Class.
Fine-looking boys.
Pu;
Bright boys, ipils of the Elocution Class.
William, a new-comer (a Good Boy)
C. Mooney J. McIntosh
F. Cobbs R. Graham ( F. Crotty A. Nester J. McNulty W. McGill
C- Nealis C. Scherrer F. Dunford
B. Nealis
| A. Sullivan
| S. Ciarcoschi L. Riordan .
E. Doss
R. Munro
S.Jones
... E. Scherrer
Frederick, a new-comer (a Runaway).;.......W. Bailey Students, etc., etc.
Chours—“Let us be happy!” J. Piero, G, Klamer, M. McCourt, F. Chute, A. Smart, F. Mainzer, G. Falvey-, C. Nealis, F. Garber, F. Peck, A Nussbaum, G.Landenwich, T. Falvey, A. Mason, C. Quinlin, J. Bull, F. Murphy, F. Falvey, J. Peck, F. Kellner, F. Garber, M. Dewald. L.PauI.. Song—“ B rthday Greeting.”.........Minim Orpheonics
Closing Remarks........;................:__
Semi-Annual Examinations Ending- Jan. -30, 1886.
General Averages.	-
[Ao Average tinder 60 is -published^ '	.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. B. Akin, 84; A. J. Ancheta, 97; Jno. Ashford, 76; F. Ashton, 65; Wm. Aubrey, 82; F. Baca, 81; H. Barke, 61; Jos. Bates, 66; F. Becerra, 60; B. Becker, 88; L. C. Bolton, 72; C. W. Bowles, 87; W. Breen, 84; A. A. Browne, 67; F. Brown, 75; B. Bryar, 85; V. Burke, 70; M. Burns, 87; D. Byrnes, 90; R. Byrnes,, 80; P. Carbajal, 60; W. Cartier, 84; P. Chapin, 72; E. Coady, 78; Walter Collins, 66; Wm. Collins, 70; F. Combe, 68; Frank Combe, 61; C. Combe, 63; W. Congdon, 84; Jno. Conlon, 91; G. H. Craig, 91; J. Crawford, 66; Geo. Crilly, 77; C. Crowe; 83; J. Crowe, 74; Jos. Cusack, 78; L. Daley, 82; F. Danielson, 80; N. G. Davis, 60; G. De Haven, 75; J. Dempsey, 78; F. Dexter, 92; J. Dohaney, 83; M. Dolan, 85; C. Duffin, 75; J. S. Emmons, 68; Chas. Finlay, 94; F. Forbes, 75; Jos. Ford, 74; A. Frash, 68; J. Gallardo, 82; W. Glenn, 77; G. V. Goble, 81; Alex. Gordon, 80; A. A. Gordon, 90; R. Goulding, So; J. H. Griffith, 75; F. Hagenbarth, 8 l ; C. Hagerty, 92; J. Hamlyn, 83; J. W. Hampton, 90; W. Harless, 85; C. Harris, ‘ 89; G. C. Harrison, 84; G. Hasson, 85; L. W. Plolden, 75; J. Horn, 69; G. Houck, S4;\L. Howard, 54; H. D. Hull, 88; J. Jackson, 82;. W. Jess, 89; F. Jewett, 65; A. Judie, 85; J. Rabat, 83; . A. Karst, 81; J. Keegan, 68; L. Kegel, 81; H. D. Kenny, 73; J.’Kenny, 77; T. Keys, 79; J. Kleiber, 62; F. Kreutzer, 94; W. Lally, 84; D. Latshaw, 93; H. Long, 76; W. Loomis, 60; H. B. Luhn, 85; W. L. Luhn, S3; L. Martinez,74; L. Mathers, 76; A. Mier, 69; A. Miller, 80; A. Moody, 64;-C. B. Moon, 73; G. Morrison, 89; S. Murdock, So; J. Murphy, 85; A. McDonald, 79; G. McEr-lain, 64; R. McGuire, 90; A. McNulty, 73; J. Nedeau, 62; C. Neill, 93; J. Nester, 69;' W. Ott, 90; J. V. O’Donnell, 85; W. O’Rourke, 77; V. Padilla, 92; C. Paschel, 78; H. Paschel,' 71; R. Paschel, 95; K. W. Perley. 75; J. L. Prudhomme, . 60; P. P. Prudhomme, 83; J. Rahilly,. 85;-J. \V. Regan, So; J. Rhemish, 84; E. Riley, 95; F. Riley, 74; W. J. Rochford, 78; F. Rodriguez, 93; C. Rothert, 94; J. C. Rudd, 80; E. Ryan, 71; O. Ryan, 84; T. Ryan, 64; D. Saviers, 75; .C.. Shaide, 74; T. J. Sheridan, 95; J. Shields, 72 ; R. Stickney, 85; M. Strasser, 54; F. Soden, 76; »R. Snapp, 85;'I.'Straus,. 854 C. Stubbs,.76;• A.. S. Triplett, 77 ;H.Vandercar, 86; J. Wagoner, 90.;
r
342
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. White, 79; S. B. Wiley, 71; A. S. Williams, 61; W. Williams, 70; E. Woodbridge, 67; E. A. Zeitler, 77.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. Ackerman, 77; A. Adams, 80; E. Adelsper-ger, 88; M. J. Akin, 81; W. Arts, 71; W. Austin, 82; L. Bacigalupo,8.; J. Baur, 76; E. Benner, 68; F. Benner, 60; G. Benson, 89; E. Berry, S3; H. Blakeslee, 79; E. Bodley, 81; J. Boos, 86; W. Borgschulze, 81; E. Bowles, 82; G. Brabrook, 84; P. Brownson, 94; J. Bunker, 83; C. Cain, 91; D. Cartier, 79; G. Cartier, 78; C. Cavaroc, 95; 8. ’ Chaves, S3; L. Chute, 84; J. Clarke, 86; T. Cleary, 86; A. Cleveland, 73; F. Coad, 74; J. Coles, 75; M. Colina, 82; A. Cooper, 84; J. Courtney, 85; W. Curtis, 82; E. Darragh, 92; J. Dickinson, 69; J. Dillon, 91; J. Doss, 70; J. Dougherty, 87; A. Duffield, 76; P. Dungan, Si; R. Edgeworth, 69; C. Epple, 81; E. S. Ewing, 86; F. Fehr, 76; A. Finchk, 94; J. Fisher, 78; S. Fitzgerald, 84; A. Fitzharris, 83; T. Flood, 87; L. Fontanel, So; R. Frain, 84; C. Galarneau, 87; F. Garrity, So; J. Garrity, 67; F. A. Goebel, 87; W. Gordon, 75; O. Grothaus, 85;'A. Hoye, 76; A. Hake, 95; T. Hake, 89; W. Harris, St; J. Hayes, 89; E. Hiner, 83; S.Holman,8i; W. Houlihan, 77; H. Houston, 85; C. Inderriden 85; M. Jacobi, 82; N. Jacobs, 84; P. Jacobs, 95; E. Jeffs, 82; H. Jewett, 89; A. Joyce, 92; W. Kern, 71; D. Klaner, 62; F. Kon-zen, 73; W. Konzen, 84; H. Lesh, 67; P. Levin, 77; F. Long, 92; M. Luther, 84; A. Meehan, 88; A. Muessel, 83; G. Myers, 84; H. McConn, 83; W. McCourt,-86; J. McIntosh, 82; D. McKendry, 93; W. McNamara, 81; W. McPhee, 91; A. McVeigh, 79; R. Nations, 92; J. Nealis, 85; F. Nester, 74;L.Newton,90; R.Newton,91; F.Noud,8958. Nussbaum, 91; R.'Oxnard, S3; W. O’Connor, 83; F. O’Gorman, 70; M. O’Kane, 91; E. Porter, 78; J. Portillo, 87; A. Press, 88; L. Preston, 83; E. Prudhomme, 78; R. Ramirez, 89; W. Ratighan, 77; A. Redlich, 84; D. Regan, 69; H. Robinson, 75; A. Ruffing, 88; C. Ruffing, 91; E. Sandoval, 89; L. Scherrer, 77 ; C. Senn, 88; C. Shields, 84; W. Short, 82; F. Smith, 87; H. Smith, 73; L. Smith, 83; N. Smith, 85; S. Smith, 93; C. Spencer, 83; C. Steele, 63; W. Stattman, 73; J. Talbot, 88; G. Tarrant. 82; D. Tewksberry, 84; L. Thompson, 85; W. Thompson, 76; F. Towner, 71; R. Valesco, 80; W. Wabraushek, 80; P. Wagoner, So; W. Walsh, 76; H. Warner, 60; AV. Welch, 80; C. F. West, 86; L. West, 68; T. Williamson, 76; L. Woodman, 86.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Ackerman, 80; J. Bull, 82; W. Bailey, 85; ■ E. Barger, So; S. Ciarcoschi, 82 : E. Connors, 90; J. Connors, 92; F. Chute, 83; F. C rot tv, 90; C. Campeau, 89; F. Cobbs,- 95; F. Dunford, 94; E. Doss, 90; L. Doss, 92; M. Dewald, 80; T. Falvey, 89; F. Falvey, 92; E. Falvey, 93; E-. Farmer, 80; A. Fontanel, 80; E. Garber, 82; F. Garber, 90; R. Graham, 95; O. Griffin, 82; O. Haney, So; J. Healy, 75; R. Inderrieden, 90; S. Jones, 94; E. Jewett, 90;- J. Kintz, 89; A. Kintz, 88; O. Kintz, 90; P. Keeffe, 80; G. Klaner, 75; F. Kellner,-89;
G. Landenwich, 94; F. Mainzer, 85; J. Moncada, 86; J. McIntosh, 88; H. Morgan, 85; W. McGill, 90; M. McCourt, 78; J. McNulty, 96; W. Martin, 86; F. Murphy, 89; A. Mason, 75; C. Mooney, 90; H. Mooney, 80; R. Munroe, 90; J. Mitchell, 82; A. Nussbaum, 98; A. Nester, 92; B. Nealis, 94; C. Nealis, 92; J. O’Neill, 86; L. Paul, 95; J. Piero, 90; J. Peck, 92; F. Peck, 90; C. Quinlin, 90; C. Ramsay, 92; L. Riordan, 90; L. Stone, 92; A. Sullivan, 86; P. Sweet, 92; G. Sweet, 94; W. Smart, 95; A. Smart, 92; E. Scherrer, 90; C. Scherrer, 95; C. Taft, 87; H. Tillenburg, 80; A. Williamson, 82.
Roll of Honor-
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Ashford, Aubrey, Akin, V. Burke, Burns, D. Byrnes, R. Byrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Bryar, Bolton, Baca, A. Browne, F. Brown, Becker, P. Burke, Breen, Conlon, J. Crowe, C. Crowe, Coady, Congdon Craig, Chapin, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Walter Collins, Crilly, Cartier, Fred Combe, Cassidy, Dexter, Dolan, Emmons, Fogarty, Finlay, Forbes, Ford, A. A. Gordon, A. Gordon, Goble, Goulding, J. Gallardo, Glenn, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Houck, J. Hampton, Hagenbarth, Harris, Harrison, Hasson, Holden, Judie, Jess, Jeffs, Jewett, Keys, Kreutzer, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Karst, Larkin, Ley, Lat-shaw, Long, W. Luhn, Martinez, G. Morrison, B. Morrison, Murphy, Mathers, Murdock, Mier, McErlain, McGuire, Miller, Moon, Meagher, Neill, ’Nancolas, O’Rourke, O’Donnell, Ott, O’Connell, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, Padilla, E. Ryan, T. Ryan, O. Ryan, Remish, Rothert, Rochford, Rodriguez, Rahilly, Rheinberger. Shaide, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Strasser, Soden, Sack, Triplett, Vandercar, W. Williams, White, Jackson, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adlesperger, Adams, Austin, Arts, Ackerman, Akin, Berry, Bodley, Blakeslee, Boos, Bowles, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Bacigalupo, E. Benner, W. Curtis, Cleveland, Colina, Courtney, Cleary, Cain, Chute, G. Car tier, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, Clarke, Coles, Coad, Chaves, Decker Dougherty, Doss, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dickinson, Dungan, Dunning, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fehr, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Fontanel, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Gordon, Houlihan, Hayes, Hoye, Hoffman, T. Hake, A. Hake, Holman. Hiner, Inderrieden, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Jeffs, Klaner, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Lesh, Long, McKendry, McCourt, McConn, Meehan, McVeigh, McPhee, McIntosh, Myers, McNamara, Mulkern, Muessel, Mitchell, Macatee, Mulberger, Nealis, Nussbaum, Nester, Newton, Nations, Oxnard, O’Kane, Portillo, Press, Prudhomme, Preston, Regan, Ratighan, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Ramirez, F. Smith, H. Smith, S. Smith, N. Smith, Short, Spencer, Scherrer, Sandoval, Steele, Talbot, Tewksbury, Tarrant, Vanselow, Valasco, W. Walsh, Welch, Wabraushek, Warner, C. West, Williamson, Woodman.	■
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bailey, Bull, Barger, Ciarcoschi, E. Connors, J. Connors, Chute, Cobbs, Crotty, Campeau, Dunford, E. Doss, L. Doss, Dewald, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, F. Garber, E. Garber, Grant, Graham, Griffin, Haney, Healy, Hillas, Huiskamp, Inderrieden, Jones, Jewett, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, O. Kintz, Keeffe, Klaner, Kellner, Landenwich, Mainzer, Moncada, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, M. McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy,Mason, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munroe, Mitchell, Nussbaum, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Nester, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, O’Neill, Quinlin, Ramsey, Riordan, Stone, Rousey, Sullivan, D. Sweet, G- Sweet, W. Smart, A. Smart, E. Scherrer C. Scherrer, Taft, Tillenburg, Williamson.	.	.
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary’s Academy.
One Mile West of Noire Dame University.
—A very interesting letter, dated’at Milan, has been received from Miss Bertha Legnard.
—The examinations in Book-keeping, both oral and written, proved entirely satisfactory, many of the young ladies receiving 100.
—Grateful acknowledgments are returned to Miss B. Heckard for her kindness in transcribing the names of the artists for pieces on exhibition in the Studio.
—The warmest thanks are extended to Miss Agnes English for the generosity with which she employed her skilful pencil in preparations for the 5th inst.
—Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Kirsch, presided at the examination of the Graduates on Thursday morning.
—The examination of the French classes was conducted by Rev. Father Fitte, of the University; Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Kirsch presided at the examinations in German.
—The mosaic cross is worn by Miss Bragdon, though drawn by Miss Clifford. Those who drew with them were the Misses E. Balch, Campeau, Griffith, Hertzog, Keyes, McEwen, Odell, Pierce, Prudhomme, Sheekey, Smart, Snowhook, Servis, and Steele.
—Of the first class in Elocution, the Misses Munger, S. St. Clair, Williams, Wolvin, A. Donnelly, A. Heckard, Stadtler, and Lauer, deserve especial mention; of the second class, the Misses Fenton, Clendenen, L. Meehan, Carmien, Rose, White, Haas, Keyes, Walsh, North, Shields; of the third class, the Misses Allnoch and Claggett.
—The pupils in Type-Writing have manifested great proficiency, considering the short time they have taken lessons. The Misses Munger and Lyons wrote the Programmes for the soiree on the Type-Writer in a manner to exemplify the beauty the work upon the instrument can' attain. Several elaborate programmes for distinguished guests prove the skill of Miss Munger in the art.
—Mrs. Stumer, of Chicago, has accompanied Miss Hannah on her return to school, after, her long visit in Europe. The beautiful medal in Elocution, won by Miss Stumer in the Junior department, attracted much attention among friends in the Old World, everywhere drawing forth exclamations of pleasure, as St. Mary’sand Notre Dame and their venerable Founder—Very Rev. Father General Sorin—seem to be well known wHbrever the travellers went. Great admiration was manifested for our little Junior; nevertheless, she looked back to her American home and her American school with eager desire to return. She is warmly welcomed by her teachers and companions.
—The semi-annual exhibition in St. Luke’s Studio was very brilliant, especially when lighted
up for the evening after the soiree. The display of Lustra and iridescent work, mingled with the rich paintings and decorations, produced an excellent effect. Not to particularize the. pieces of meritorious work, which would far exceed our space, we must satisfy ourselves with mentioning, in their order, the names of pupils. For paintings in oil, the Misses Heckard, Munger, A. Cox, Fuller, S. St. Clair, Rowley, Rose, Nagle, Considine, Lea-high, Brown, Kingsbury, J. M. Hale, and Keyes are worthy of mention; in water colors, the Misses Kingsbury, K. Scully, Egan, Fuller, E. Coll, Levy, Stadtler, N. Meehan, Clifford, Stafford, Steele, Shields, Sheekey, and Fenton; in pencil work, the Misses Butler, M. F. Murphy, C. Griffith, K. Scully, Egan, Clendenen, and Shields; in ■ crayon from casts, the Misses P. Ewing, Lang, Fuller, Munger, and Van Horn; in decorative art, lustra painting, Mrs. Studebaker and Miss Leahigh; painting on white velvet, Miss Rowley; china painting, Mrs. Studebaker, the Misses Otero, Duffield, A. English, Walsh, Addie Gordon and Alice Gordon. An exquisitely delicate piece of work—a toilet set on bolting cloth—though made up in the Novitiate, yet painted in the Studio by Miss Stadtler, attracted much admiration, as did also a rich iridescent picture scarf, and beautiful china-painting by -Mrs. Studebaker. In crayon from casts Miss Ewing has produced a great amount of excellent work. The careful work and close application of Miss K. Scully has given great pleasure to her teachers. The class in modelling in clay opens with the coming session.
The Closing' Exercises of the Semi-Annu at .	Examinations.
The closing exercises of the semi-annual examinations on Saturday, Jan. 30, rewarded the careful preparation devoted to the important occasion by both teachers and performers with full-and acknowledged success. The brilliant “Glee,” by the vocal class, with which the exercises opened revealed the consummate experience and skill of the Vocal Directress, as well as the talent of the singers: and the life-like, graceful, and truly artistic rendering of “ The Story of King Rhoud,” in the recita-tation by Miss Lora Williams which followed, sustained the agreeable impression made by the first number on the programme.
The instrumental selection from A. Rubenstein, presented by Miss Marie Bruhn, exhibited the delicate appreciation of a gifted mind which had been subjected to an exceptionally superior musical training. The essay in German, by Miss E. Horn, was warmly received; the deepest interest being manifested by all, and in particular by the many German scholars present. It was remarked that her accent was excellent. Miss Horn is possessed of that rare combination—a rich, resonant voice, a correct pronunciation, and a fluent and expressive modulation—which charms whenever it is heard.
Miss Bertha English exhibited a marked im
l
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I
I
provement in her vocal studies by her tasteful rendering of the “ Aria from the Creation.” Miss Ada Shephard—to whom her father’s presence in the audience must have served as a loving inspiration—played Chopin with a delicacy and force, a clearness and depth, which it would be difficult to equal, much less to surpass. With rare natural ability, Miss Shephard has profited well of every advantage placed at her command in the Academy, and in time the result will make of her an artistic musician.
The next number on the programme, the beautiful “essai" in the French language, by Miss Bruhn, elicited the unqualified praises of the clergymen present, one declaring his admiration, because the sentiments were “from the heart" ; another making his esteem apparent interrogatively, by asking, “Is she not a Parisian?” proving the docility of the pupil to her Parisian teacher; and, finally, Very Rev. Father General requested a perusal of the manuscript, to which request the young lady gracefully acceded. Her marked proficiency indicates the well-founded hope that June will find her worthy of the laurel waiting the adept in this beautiful language of the polite world.
A brilliant duett by the Misses S. St. Clair and Mary Murphy succeeded, when Miss Munger, in a faultless manner, came forward and read a poetical essay in our dear vernacular, significantly portraying the power of clear and noble thoughts, expressed in terse language and engaging utterances. Miss, Munger left nothing to desire. She proved herself well worthy the Elocution Medal won in 1884. Miss Bruhn followed in a very skilfully rendered, though very difficult, vocal piece, full of trills and chromatic changes, in which she sustained the golden opinions already so richly earned—her modesty of demeanor enhancing every charm. The literary contributions to the exercises of the day culminated in the recitation, by Miss Sophronia St. Clair, of Miss E. C. Donnelly’s beautiful poem “Gualberto’s VictQry.” The interpretation was complete, as was felt by everyone; the breathless stillness, unbroken save by the resonant voice rehearsing the touching story, showing how absolute the power of eloquence can be made for the moment, at least. Miss Barlow’s rendering of Liszt was a decided triumph on the part of the young lady, and proved her faithful understanding of the intricate composition, as well as her ability to interpret, not only the most delicate but the most powerful passages. The closing chorus. was new in style, and difficult, but it is no exaggeration to declare it has never been excelled at St. Mary’s, where choruses are always so fine. . Miss Lauer’s solo was marked by admirable distinctness of ennunciation. Not a syllable was lost. . The young lady possesses a beautiful . voice. - •	' • \ .. .
. . The speeches at the close were made by Very Rev. Father .General, Rev. Father Gallagher, Pastor of St. Patrick’s, Chicago; Prof. Hoynes, of the University, and Col.: Rend of: Chicago. Among the guests were, the. Rev. Fathers Shortis, Kirsch,. Fitte, Saulnier, Heli, and Dr. Howley; Judge
Scully and Mr. I. P. Gannon, Chicago; Mr. J. B. Sheph'ard, Arlington, Nebraska; Signor Gregori, Prof. Hoynes, Prof. Edwards, Prof. Paul, of the University, Miss Martha Beale, Class ’84; Miss C. Ginz, ’85; Miss Poole, and others.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Reorganization of Classes in Instrumental Music • February, 1886.
To graduate in June—Misses V. Barlow, A. Shephard, M. Bruhn.
Promoted to Second Class—Misses E. Carney, E. Horn.
2D Div.—Miss L. Van Horn,* Morrison.* Promoted to this Division—Miss A Guise. Classed—Miss Rend
3D Class—Misses M. Fuller,* M. Munger,* M. Dillon,* A. Riedinger. Promoted to this Class—Misses G. Wolvin, B. Snowhook, M. F. Murphy. M. Scully.
2D Div.—Misses K. Fehr,* K. Brown. Promoted to this Division—Misses L. Haas, C. Griffith, L. St. Clair, F. Sullivan, F. Fitzpatrick.
4TH Class—Miss K. Shields. Promoted to this Class— Misses G; Regan, B. Lauer, E. Brady, A. English, A. Egan.
2D Div.—Misses E.Walsh * Piomoted to this Divison— Misses A- Duffield, M. Cox, H. Coll, A. Keyes, A. Donnelly, M. Barry. Classed—Miss I. Wynn.
5th Class—Misses J. Lawrence, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon. Promoted to this Class—Misses H. Smart, M. Duffield, Nagle, C. Servis, G. Stadtler, A. Livingston, N. Donnelly. Classed—Misses Bechman, Miller.
2D Div.—Misses M Clifford,B English* M.Stafford, S. St. Clair,* A. Cox,* M. Murphy, Faxon, A. Allnoch,* M. Smith. Promoted to this Division—Misses C. Levy, M. Kearsey, H. Clendenen, M. Chaves, R. Fenton.
6th Class—Misses Robb, Odell, M. Qualey, Spencer,* C. Farnsworth, I. Bubb, M. Hummer, L. Trask, Considine, A. Kennedy, N. Meehan, J. McHale.* Promoted to this Class—Misses M. McEwen, Desenberg, Carmien, White, F. Wynn, F. Steele, E. Claggett, E. Kearns. Classed— Misses Bragdon, E. Carroll.
2d Div.—Misses M. Goetz, C. Leahigh, Pierce, Mason, C. McNamara, C. Lang, M. McNamara, E Blacklock B. Heckard, M. Morse A. Henry, N. Meehan, E. Dart. Promoted to this Division—Misses S. Campeau, F. Hertzog, Caddagan.
7th Class—Misses E. Burtis,* H. Rhodes, M. Coll, E. Blair, North, T. Balch, E. Balch, M. Monahan, M. Lyons. Classed—Miss Stockdale. Promoted to this Class—Misses C. Prudhomme, Andreus.
8th Class—Misses E. Blaine,* M.Lindsey*
9TH Class—D. Lee.* Classed—Miss Kendal.
_	HARP.
Promoted to ist Class, 2p Div.—Miss M. Dillon.
Promoted to 2d Class—Misses A. Shephard, D. Fitz patrick..	.
- VIOLIN.
Misses E. Carney, K. Brown.
.	GUITAR.
Promoted to 5TH Class, 2d Div.—Misses M. Otero, C. Servis.	:	.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss Bruhn. . ,	_	-
2D Div.—Miss B. English. Promoted to this Division— Misses M. F. Murphy, B. Lauer.' ' ' ,	'
2D Class—Miss' S. St. Clair- Promoted to this Class— Misses A. English; H. Guise. =	'
2D Div.^—Misses L. St. Clair, R. Fenton. Promoted to this Division—M^s F.;Sullivan. .
30 Class—Misses L. Walsh, N. Donnelly, G. Stadtler. Promoted to this Class—Misses M. Cox; F. Robb.
4TH Class—Misses L. Levyf C.jBrown, M. Chaves, F. Wvnn. Promoted to this Class—Misses Mi Barry, G. Regan. '	- .	.2	v ,
5TH Class—Misses E Allnoch M. McNamara,'!. Bubb, M. Otero. • . "	. ■	..	• .
* Promoted. in September.