

The OFFICIAL 1990 CATALOG for all your Life in Hell favorites ... plus THE SIMPSONS! 
111!' Silll\l~lllb'. \e11 Po~\11r/ \e11 Lml~1 • \1•111-Shirl/ \1•11 \\1m\,/ 
\ml aS1wrial fon l\l\\ln~ Pn\Hln\ \p11~\e\\er'. 

Great New: 
Shirts 
Cards 
Posters 

Books 
...and much more! 
Send merely $2.00 for postage and hassling to: 
Life in Hell, Dept. DA-1289 2219 Main St., Ste. E Santa Monica, CA 90405 


.. 


LASTI 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
1----------------------------1/\·
COVER 
Don't Read This 

Unless you're curious about the answers to some campus mysteries 
6 
Animal Lab Research 
American biogenetic science experiments with animals to im­
prove the lives of humans 


Totally Rad 
Behind silver windows scientists chemistry 


OPINION 
Vol. 131 , No; 10 December 14, 1989 

1 0 
Shadow on the Dome 
Some very enlightening opinions about racism at Notre Dame are held by minority students by Lois Conrad 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Crasi Moriturus 



FEATURES 
1 
Lifestyles of the Poor and Cold 
Founded 1867 

Report from students on the Saint Mary's Ireland program 
Editor in Chief: 

_ by Moira Murphy and Colleen Conley 
Andrew H. Hilger



SPORTS 
16 
Managing Editor:
Buffalo Soldiers 
Michael C. Wieber 

Bill McCartney's Colorado squad fights for the ultimate mission: 
Editorial Staff;

the national championship by Jonpaul Potts 
Sports: Jim Maggio Sports Asst.: Brian McMahon News: Derik Weldon 
News Asst.: Patrick Watkins ..Copy: Traci Taghon Features: Ian Mitchell . 
Departments: Chris Fillio Saint Mary's: Robin Spurr Photo: Mari Okuda 


Photo Asst.: Ian Johanson ·

ub Pop RockCity ::. :ct PX: byJ~ff Jotz····. ,.-· e4 ORTSWEEK: ••···.· <cornpiled\by MattNech · · ge20 · Production: COMING DISTRA . · Qlllpil~iby Karen Ken ge21 FINAL WORD: •· .. • • .·. · ·· n Sickler and ge23 Systems Manager:Matt Langie .Graphic Arts Manager: Vivienne

HUNCHBAC §Greg Del 
Padilla .. E3usiness:-Jim Fitzgerald .·. Advertislng:Tony Porcelli 
Ad De~ign:·Beth Kaiser·• 

•. Spbolastic is publish~d V/e;l<l/!h~ugh6ut the Jchciol Y~Ei#~bpi-difuig exa~ati6ns and vac;tion¥~ri6d~ at the Universi~y of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc:;~C>rd;IN.46~42, The sub,~c,iig~()Il pitfis'$20.QO/year and back issues are available al $LOO/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are th(}se of the authors and edifo~a1ifdo n<>tnecessaply repre~e11t tllf! Cl$icms ofthe e,n_tire editorial bo_ard ofScholastic orof the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editonalssigncii Scholastic repres_eiit½i(CJPWCJiiofthe majority of tlle executive editorial board. Manusc:ripts arc welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.' . ,._ .. • . '' ,>;>·• ·••· : ' . · 
~opyright 1989 Schol~sti~1]i!le. AU rights resiirvii~f k'.~i~Ji~:o~ in whole or in part without pennission is prohibited, 
.... .. ..········.:.·.. :: ...:· ... · ·. ·.·· . . . ..·. ··.· .··-·············:·.,. ·' ' ... ' .. . 

On Other Campuses 

Beastmasters, Betting and the Booga! Booga! Virus 
New computer uses on campus and the art ofdating ugly 


EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
U 
niversity of Utopia? Brown University announced last month that all segments of room allocation for next year will now be done on a computer, theoretically making the process quicker and more error-free. "Doing the lottery by computer will make things easier for students, will make the process move more quickly and will produce fewer errors," said council chairperson Jill Vargus in an article in theBrownDaily Herald. Also discussed at the meeting were improving the male/female ratio and fraternity /sorority rush week. Next on the agenda: computerized class registration. 
College professors and administrators who are puzzled by such words as "fake-bake," "beastmaster," and "hairball" might want to tum to U.C.L.A. filfil!g, a new dictionary of expressions commonly used by college students. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported recently of the new guide which may be helpful in keeping up with the fast pace ofchange in language, especially in California. According to the book, "fake-bake" refers to an artificial tan via tanning salons, a "beastmaster" is a "guy who consistently dates ugly girls," and a "hairball" is an obnoxious drunk. The book was published by the university's linguistics department. 
former academic computer center aide. However, a story in Holy Cross College's student paper, The Crusader, also said that Sadagahiany is under investigation for stealing more than $100,000 worth ofcomputer equipment from the New York school. The clever businessman allegedly was offering $3000 computers for $800 to MIT students in what may be regarded as the New York hoodwink since the Dutch bought Manhattan Island. 
Other candidates for the award include University of Texas stu­dents Adam Don, Dan Sachnowitz, and Christopher J. Trapp. A newsbriefin The Chronicle ofHigher Education stated that the three have been charged with running a gambling operation that netted nearly $100,000 per weekend in sports bets. Mr. Don and Mr. Sachnowitz are juniors majoring in business and economics, respec­tively, and Mr. Trapp is a graduate student with a degree in finance. Obviously, they're learning something in school. 
In other computer news, students al the University of Kansas found a new reason to fear the most recent occurrence ofFriday the 13th this past October. According to The University Daily Kansan, several computer viruses were found spreading across campus, viruses designed to erase all files on the computers when the machines' internal calendars reach October 13. The effects of these viruses­
which spread much in the same manner as any biological virus­One nominee for student entrepreneur of the year award may be range from the benign, such as printing "booga, booga!" on the Afshar Sadagahiany, a recent SUNY-Buffalo graduate student and screen, to the malignant, such as erasing an entire disk. Ill 
Scholastic 


Week in Distortion/Don Modica 



Confessions of a 
moker 
Or "How to Unsuccessfully Kick the Habit in Just One Day" 
'Quitting smoking is easy; I've done 
it a thousand times," goes the old 
smokers' joke. The sad part ofthis 
statement is that it's the truth. 

Telling yourself that you're going to quit 
smoking is no problem; actually doing it is. 
Well, smokers, let's face it. We're outnum­
bered on this campus like General Custer at 
Little Big Hom. The pressures to quit smok­
ing are pathetic. It seems as if everyone and 
their brother are worried about how pink my 
lungs are. 
A few weeks back-in a fit ofcrazed health 
consciousness-I gave it a shot. I knew it 
wouldn't be easy, but it was for my own 
good. This is my story: 
8:00 a.m.: Got up, showered, went to breakfast. I felt great. Although my last ciga­rette was less ·than ten hours earlier, I could feel myself brimming with renewed vigor and vitality, now that I was a health conscious dude. In fact, I thought that I might run a few laps of the campus. Just to start the day off right. 
8:55 a.m.: A little difficult not smoking between classes. But keep your chin up, Don. You're a non-smoker now. 
10:10 a.m.: Going nuts. Had four Hershey bars and a large cup of black coffee after history. Walked from the Loftus All-Sports Center back to Carroll Hall in four minutes flat. 
12:00 p.m.: Lunch was hell. Passed by the cigarette machine in the South Dining Hall and felt the first pangs ofdoubt in my resolve. Actually counted the change in my pocket to 
see ifI had one dollar and sixty-five cents for some Marlboro Lights. A mental battle en­sued ... 
Heart: Oh, smokes!· Oh, come on, Don. Please, please, please. A smoke would be so nice right now! Go on! Do it! Head: Now, Don. What about heart disease? What about lung cancer? Heart: Aww, what's a little lung cancer? Come on, Don. Just a five minute butt-break. Whudda-ya say? 

Author demonstrates famous 'deodor­

ant in face' method ofquitting smoking. 
Head: It's socially unacceptable. Heart: Yeah, well so's eating Grape Nuts in church! Head: It's offensive. 
Heart: You mean like your S.Y.R. date?! Head: Hey, she was a very nice girl! Heart: She was a cocker spaniel! Head: She was very polite. Hearl: Your roommate offered her his hand to shake-and she licked it! 
My stream of thought had rambled from to­bacco to the sorry state of my Notre Dame dating life. Thoroughly disgusted, perhaps at the thought of my S.Y.R. date, I lost the desire for a cigarette. Jamming the change back into my pocket, I proceeded to class, safe from my own weakness for another fifty minutes. 
2:35 p.m.: Chewed an entire Juicy Fruit Plen-T-Pack. Also chewed my last finger­nail. When that was gone I was detennined to go for the toes. 
4:20 p.m.: Back in my room at Carroll. My roommate returned from class. "God, it really is a beautiful day ouC' 
"Yeah, well the universe will eventually collapse back in on itself and all life as we know it will be obliterated." 
"Quit smoking again, didn't you, Don?" 
6:20 p.m.: Said screw it. Had two smokes then a nice, fatty piece of fried pork for dinner. Nauseated, b_ut satiated, I returned to Carroll Hall, a defeated Vermin. Cigarettes had won the day. 
Thus ends my sad tale ofbattling my addic­tion. But I'll leave you with this advice: Be nice to smokers. We really are good people. And now, if ycm will excuse me, gentle reader, I'm going to have a cigarette. II 



Music/Jeff Jotz 


u 


0 

The term "classic rock" has spawned much controversy in the world of rock 'n' roll. Concerning rock music, the 1980's will be remembered as the decade where most ofus looked where we've been in rock 'n' roll. Geriatric demagogues such as the Rolling Stones, Jethro Tull, and the Grateful Dead have filled the coffers of America's record conglomerates, while today's younger generation is vainly trying to identify itself with a past generation's music which was meant for their parents or big brothers. Presently, some bands have given into this nostalgia trip, while others have rejected it outright. Over the past few years, however, a little record label from the Pacific Northwest has tried to bridge the gap between complacent "classic rock" and the fresh, rebellious sounds of punk: Sub Pop Records. Sub Pop was founded almost four years ago by Seattle journalist Bruce Pavitt. Previ­ously, Pavitt published a fanzine called Sub­terranean Pop, and would alternate between magazine and audio cassette format each month. In late 1985, he released his first compilation, Deep Six, and Sub Pop was born. Since then, bands such as the Scream­ing Trees and Soundgarden have gone on to more lucrative labels. This fall, Soundgarden made its major label debut on A&M Records with Louder Than Love. The alternative radio and underground press have hailed Sub Pop and the many, diverse bands on its label. Artists on Sub Pop range from the politically-conscious folk musician Terry Lee Hale to the humorous, demented, grinding rock of the Thrown Ups. 

However, undoubtedly the must popular and successful band presently signed to the label is Mudhoney. The band calls their music a blend of ?O's punk and traditional rock, citing The Stooges and Neil Young as their two major influences. On their most recent self-titled release, Mudhoney rocks loud and distorted, drawing parallels be­tween Jimi Hendrix, early Led Zeppelin, and The Guess Who's "American Woman." 


Hereat Notre Dame, the album is doing quite well in terms ofair play on WVFI, the cam­pus radio station. Mudhoney's most popular single prior to this year'sLP,entitled "Touch Me I'm Sick," has been touted as "the an­them for the AIDS generation." Obviously, their music is not meant for the faint of heart (or stomach), and hopefully success won'tbe thwarted by that enlightened group, the PMRC. 
Speaking of singles, Sub Pop boasts that it still deals heavily in 45's, as opposed to the major labels who have currently opted for the cassette single. Sub Pop is also proud of its singles club. Yes, that's right, a singles club. For $35, twelve limited edition singles are mailed to your door, featuring some ofthe most respected alternative bands today. Sub Pop knows that many of its biggest fans are avid record collectors who really enjoy lis­tening to the music they collect. 
Despite this, not all critics have been fans of Sub Pop and the sounds coming out of the Seattle area. Many music fans have labeled the Pacific Northwest music scene as the "Seattle sound," a title which has become synonymous with loud, psychedelic, "grunge rock." The folks over at Sub Pop sincerely dislike this tille, claiming that the non-dis­cerning listener has unfairly generalized their label. Fortunately, the vast majority oflisten­ers are glad to see good music coming from an area other than New York City, Boston, or London. 
The main question on Sub Pop's mind seems to be the one that everybody's been asking: what about expansion? Is Sub Pop going to become a national label and support bands from all over the country? The gang in Seattle said, "No." With few exceptions, Sub Pop feels that they are backing bands from the Pacific Northwest who have the ability to hold their own in the national market, and possibly,establish themselves on the interna­tional music scene. In my conversation with a Sub Pop employee, I discovered that the organization sees itself as a Motown for the 1990's, bringing local acts into the national spotlight. It worked in the past with U2, R.E.M., the Cult, and the Pixies. The chal­lengers put forth by Sub Pop might just fol­low in the footsteps of these superstars. ~ 

Scholastic 

Features 

Don't 
ead Thi 
Unless you're curious about the answers to some campus mysteries 
BY KRISTINE DEGANGE AND IAN MITCHELL 

The University of Notre Dame may not seem to be a very mysterious place on the outside, but underneath this calm exterior lies a heart of secrecy and subterfuge. A dark network of underground tunnels connects the campus buildings. Mys­terious floors in the Hesburgh Library can't be reached by elevator or stairwell. And little-publicized labs labor under the seam­less cover of anonymity. Well, okay, maybe things aren't quite that mysterious, but there are a few questions to be cleared up. How about those tunnels underground? As we walk over the side­walks and pathways of our beautiful campus on a crisp winter day, we notice the beautiful trees, the bushes laden with red berries and the brilliant sun as it reflects on the crystal snow. It never occurs to us that underneath the calm exterior of Notre Dame lies a laby­rinth of twisting, steamy tunnels laden with cockroaches and forbidden to all students. The heat that is supplied to dormitories and the other buildings on campus is trans­ported through a system of underground tunnels. There are four miles of walkable tunnels that house computer cables, tele­phone lines, control lines for food services, energy management wires, along with the pipes for steam, hot water return, condensa­tion return and hot water supply. These systems are housed in a 6'x6' tunnel to mini­mize corrosion and for maintenance reasons. "There are four systems of tunnels that leave the (power) plant," John DeLee, the director of utilities at Notre Dame stated. "The oldest one heads towards the Admini­strati on Building, passing by St. Ed's, Sacred Heart, and runs to the Rock," he added. "The tunnels head in all directions (north, south, east, west) to reach all of the buildings." 
There are entrances to the tunnels at many points about the campus. There is an entrance in almost every dorm along with entrances outside. Once inside these tunnels which average about 90 degrees, a person could walk to any building. 
"It's really not a safe idea," Mr. DeLee said. "All of the entrances and exits are locked, so that if you did find a way into them, you really couldn't get anywhere and you would have to come out the same way that you came in." 
The tunnels have been around for about 120 years, since the first power plant. New tunnels are added "every so often" according to Mr. DeLee. A new tunnel was just added to accommodate the west side of campus; namely, the computer center and the new band and ROTC buildings. 
These tunnels used to be much more accessible to students although still forbid­den. Ofcourse, people ventured in. "It used to be a fun place t9 go in the winter," said Dr. Michael Stack, a 1968 Notre Dame graduate. "There really wasn't a lot to do, but we'd walk around which really wasn't very com­fortable because we'd hit our heads on the lights and they'd break. The other thing was that it was very easy to loose your serise of direction and it was about 110 degrees." Stack went on to say that one of his friends used to sneak into the Rock and go swim­ming after it was closed. "All this lasted about two weeks, and then we got sick ofit," he said. 
The mysterious floors in the Hesburgh Library aren't actually that mysterious, ei­ther. In reality, the third' floor is "a mechani­cal floor," said George Sereiko, associate director of the library. Sereiko said that the air conditioning/heating system and other maintenance equipment is kept there, while the top floor is set aside for meetings. "The fourteenth floor is considered a part of the president's office," Sereiko said. "Since Fr. Malloy really only has the one room, the fourteenth is sort of a conference room." Meetings of the deans of the colleges and the board of trustees are held on the fourteenth floor. 

But the real secrecy on campus sur­rounds the sci~ntific laboratories. Take, for example, the Medical School. What? You didn't know that Notre Dame had a medical school? Well, there is one on campus, located in the basement of Haggar Hall on North Quad. It's the South Bend Center for Medical Education, part of the Indiana University system. According to an informational re­lease, "students assigned to the Center are considered special graduate students of the University of Notre Dame in addition to being medical students of Indiana Univer­sity." The faculty of about thirty professors "who have adjunctive appointments with UND" teach students who "have full privi­leges of other UND students," the release said. 
But perhaps the most mysterious labs on campus are the Radiation building and the Reyniers Germfree Life Building, a structure so secret that few students even know it exists. These big mysteries will be examined in the following pages, as Scholastic contin­ues to blow the lid off Notre Dame's veil of secrecy. II 


Features 




nimal ar 




American Bio genetic Sciences experiments with animals to improve the lives ofhumans 
BY RICHARD FOLEY 
urprisingly absent from the Notre Dame campus is the harried, nervous 


experimenter suppos­
"The research carried out edly common at colleges across by American Biogenetic Sci­the country. This scientist, in his ences uses animals as test sub­white lab coat and holding a jects," said Dr. Ploplis. Cur­beaker full of a boiling, oily, rently housed at the Reyniers greenish liquid, spends his hours Building are several "germ­in underground laboratories free" mice and rats, waiting to trying to solve the mysteries of be used in one of a number of the universe. experiments. Their germ-free 
It is hard to find this stere­condition allows for the elimi­otype at Notre Dame. There is nation of some external vari­no well-publicized animal re­ables that could skew experi­search facility. There is, how­mental results. ever, a place at the university The ABS researchers, where exciting and innovative twenty in number, are organ­experiments using animals are ized into two groups. One carried out and important evi­studies molecular biology dence is brought to light. This while the other works on im­
happens at the Reyniers munology. Both teams are Germfree Life Building. equally important to the suc­
The Reyniers Germ free Life cess of the experiments. Building is on the northern out­"Don't ever tell one group that skirts of the Notre Dame cam­it's more important than the pus. According to Dr. Victoria other," said Dr. Morris Pollard, 
Ploplis, senior research scien­director of the LOBUND labo­tist, space in the building is rented by Ameri­The building dates from 1937; it was built ratory, laughing. "That would mean can Biogenetic Sciences, Inc. (ABS), which at about the same time as Cavanaugh and trouble." 
is in charge of the experiments performed there. ABS operates under a joint venture agreement with the University of Notre Dame. 
Zahm Halls. It is located on the north side of Douglas Road by the Credit Union building, hidden from the daily activities of most stu­dents by its obscure address. 


I ­
I I 
I 
I 
Scholastic 



Features 
the Reyniers Building. "One of the goals of ABS is that animals could be produced with improved quality," 

''The purpose (of.A.BS) 
is to ·look for ways to. 
study metliods of im­
proving the quality of 
life of animals. which 
could be translated into 
valuable 
for humans.ti 

-M<>rri.s• aborat 
said Pollard. In addition to using animals in 
experiments designed to benefit the lives of 
humans, ABS also tries to improve the lives 
of animals themselves. This could mean in­
volvement in the area of veterinary medicine 
and food production, among other fields. Although not an obvious landmark like the Golden Dome, the Reyniers Germfree Life Building serves an important function. ''The purpose (of ABS) is to look for ways to study meth­ods of improving the quality of life of animals which could be translated into valuable infor­mation for hu­mans," said Pollard. Hidden away in a comer of the cam­pus, the research teams in Reyniers work to benefit both humans and ani­mals through bio­logical research. 
Ian Johanson 

The experiments are designed along the principle of applied research, as information they discover will be used directly for a clear safety reasons, "testing is first done on ani­mals," Dr. Pollard said. Mice and rats are currently being used at the Reyniers Build­ing. 

There have been several other experi­ments at the Reyniers Building. "We stud­ied bone marrow transplanting," said Dr. Pollard. Bone marrow transplants are important for curing leukemia and Hodgkin's disease. The researchers also "developed model systems of cancer in man," Pollard added. These model systems enable them to study cancer as it affects humans, which is not the same as that in animals. 
Another experiment done in the past at Reyniers involved nutrition. "There were nutritional studies done to reduce caloric in­take, the result being to prolong lifespan," said Dr. Pollard. In general terms, the in­gestion of calories greater than the body requires results in many problems; obese people can have severe health problems. 
In general, "we study the interaction of animals with the environment," said Dr. Pollard. By doing this, scientists are able to observe how animals react to changes. This brings up another purpose to the research at 

The Reyniers Germfree Life Building is on the north end of campus. 


Features 



Behind silver windows scientists use radiation to understand chemistry 



BY RICH KURZ 

T he Radiation Building? It's that building with the weird silver windows, where people go in and are never seen again, right? Well, they do have silver windows, but those are only to conserve energy. And those stories about people disappearing in the building? Those, of course, are only silly stories. Actually the scientists in the Radiation Building are nice, normal people. But hidden beliind the cover of those silver windows, the people at the Radiation Building are quietly perform­ing a great deal of important research. Although it maintains ties with the university, the Radiation Research Building is actually an independent research facility under the direction of the United States Government Depart­ment of Energy, and has been since World War II. During the war, while a group ofsci­entists worked on the Manhattan Project to develop a nuclear weapon, the gov­ernment assigned one of the Project's scientists, Milton Burton, to study the effects of radiation on people. The fa­cilities at Notre Dame were the most suitable for the study, so the facility was nections with the government, from which it "given over to government service," said Dr. receives a yearly grant In the years since John Bentley, associate director of the insti­World War II, "we've expanded our charter, tute. from radiation chemistry and theoretical 
The facility has long since severed all ties chemistry to include photochemistry," con­with the Manhattan Project, but still has con-tinued Bentley. Each of these groups make 

8 

Scholastic 

.. 
Features 

use of the facilities at their disposal in the Radiation Building. The equipment at the institute includes a number of linear accelera­tors and van de Graaff accelerators, as well as some lasers. 
The chief purpose of both radiation and photochemistry is tracing chemical reactions that are initiated by irradiating a sample, often an aqueous solution. Bentley explained that a typical project includes lowering a sample into a cage, bombarding it with radiation by using a linear accelerator, van de Graaff accel­erator or laser, and then tracing the resulting reaction. 
Bentley said that which machine is used depends on the needs of the situation. If it is necessary to be able to irradiate the sample on cue, then the van de Graaff accelerator is used. It operates on the principle ofstatic electricity. Electrons are transferred onto a rubber band spinning at high speed, then "jump" onto a metal grid at one end of the band. They are then dumped into a tube, from which they are released when the scientist wishes. A draw­back to this type of system is that relatively few electrons can be used. If higher numbers of electrons are needed, the linear accelerator is used. The electrons are excited by a heating filament, then pushed up a tube and into a device that accelerates them and shoots them out. The chief drawback to the linear accel­erator is the lack of control of the instant that the electrons are released. 
The major difference between radiation techniques and photochemistry involves the amount of radiation applied to the sample. In radiation chemistry, the sample is exposed to amounts of radiation that pushes the atoms beyond the level needed for it to ionize, by forcing out an electron. This makes the sample more reactive. However, since a great deal of radiation is necessary to ionize the parVc!es, it is harder to accurately control the exact amount of radiation emitted. In photo­chemistry, lasers expose the sample to amounts of energy which are not enough to ionize it, but the amount of radiation is easier to fine tune, an important aspect of photo­chemistry. 
While many of the scientists work exclu­sively in the lab, another group ofscientists do their most important work outside of the lab. The theoretical chemists "attempt to predict or explain phenomena, including predicting 

molecular struc­
tures, strata, and 
reaction rates," 
said Bentley. 
They then use 
the institute fa­
cilities to test 
their hypotheses 
and predictions. Bentley said that the Notre Dame lab "and other Depart­ment of Energy labs under the Basic Energy grouping con­duct pure re­search which it is hoped will be of value to other, applied science entities." After the data is col­lected, it is taken to the Radiation Chemistry Data Center in the building, where it is stored for use by applied science insti­tutes, both gov­ernment and pri-Ian Johanson 
Signs ward off students from Imminent danger. 
vate. 
The facility is staffed by sixteen to sev­enteen permanent senior scientists who compose a research staff separate from the university, .and whose appointments are for the institute only. Other researchers include about twelve visiting scientists, often post­doctorates, and anywhere from ten to twelve graduate students. About half of the scien­tists are foreign-at any time the staff may include Russians, Chinese, Indians, Eng­lish, French, and Japanese. Other features of the institute include a staff photographer, an electronics shop, and a glass-blowing facil­ity. 
But what does all this jargon add up to? What does this research mean to the average person? Probably more than you realize. Bentley stressed that the applications for this type of research are broad, but some projects certainly have implications far be­yond the lab. One project consisted ofchemi­cally altering dioxin to make it less toxic. Another, ongoing project deals with solar cells. Perhaps one of the most important projects included simulating conditions in a nuclear reactor core meltdown to determine if potentially explosive hydrogen was being produced. 
The Radiation Building is the site ofsome of the most important and technologically advanced research being conducted on the Notre Dame campus, although technically it is a separate, government-owned facility. Much of the research being conducted there has implications that affect everyone. The Radiation.Building is not really such a scary, threatening place, even if the scientists do hide behind silver windows. 
9

Opinion 

Shadow 
On The. Dome 
Some enlightening opinions about racism at Notre Dame are field by minority students. The following comments, expressed by a black senior, reflect some ofthe frustra­tions she has experienced at Notre Dame. 
BY LOIS CONRAD 

This opinions expressed in this article do not necessarily reflect the opinions a/Scholastic or its editorial staff Responses are we/come. 
W hen I was asked to write an article for Scholastic on the life of a black student at Notre Dame, my immediate reaction was "good, I'll finally get a chance to express to all the white students how it really feels to be a black student at Notre Dame." After sitting down to actually write the article, I realized it was going to be more difficult than I thought. First of all, it would take more than a thesaurus to find words to describe the feel­ings I have experienced throughout my years atNotreDame. Secondly,lbegan to wonder how many white students would have enough concern to read an articl.e of this nature. How many white students feel this is just an example of all the hothead blacks on campus that are just too sensitive? 
Despite these obstacles, I decided the only thing I could do would be to give my point of view and hope some students will find it within themselves to want to reach out and meet me halfway in learning about another culture within our society. Of course !cannot speak for every black person on this campus, but I eat, talk, breathe, and live with black people on a daily basis. I know what they think and I am positive I can give the accu­rate, majority opinion among blacks at Notre Dame. 
Since I am a senior, I thought it would be 
· best ifl gave a year by year depiction of what black students experience ..This will show the entire evolution that occurs from the moment a black steps foot on this campus until that awaited day (graduation) four years later. Those four years provide a black stu­dent with the chance to learn more about themselves and others than they would probably learn anywhere else within that amount of time. No black leaves Notre Dame with just an academic education. 
Freshman year-Coming to Notre Dame as a freshman can be a little overwhelming, but as a black freshman there. is added pres­sure. During my freshman year, I remember being in a state of culture shock. I had never seen so many white people in my life. Coming from a predominantly black city, I had never experienced being a minority in the true sense of the word. I arrived before my roommates (who I knew would be black because I had written a letter requesting them) and everywhere I went I desperately searched for another black face. I was the only black in the dorm and one of few at the freshman mixer activities provided for those who had arrived early. 
At this point, I must comment on a prob­lematic issue. Many white students feel that blacks seem to make an issue out their race when it is not necessary. They (whites) say people are people and they cannot under­stand why blacks have to go around announc­ing their blackness. 
Well, if there is one thing blacks know it is that in our race-conscious society we cannot 
Scholastic 
Opinion 

walk around like everyone wants to sec us­Among them was one girl who had been assimilate with their values and ideas. void ofcolor. Every day that I walk out ofmy raised around whites all of her life and even The whole thing came clear for me when I room I am aware of my blackness and if by she felt alienated here. She said the whites at realized that all my life I had had to learn some rare chance I happen to forget, there is Notre Dame were unlike any others she had about white people-their history, their life­always a particular stare, comment, or some ever been around. I told her she had to sty le, their rules. Learning about Christopher other unfortunate incident with a white per-consider the fact that the whites she had Columbus discovering America was fine, but 

son that makes me quite aware that I am black. 
Back to the matter at hand. I felt so relieved when my roommates arrived. I knew that we instantly had some sort of bond just because we were black. I had no idea if our person­alities were compatible or not, but ifl wanted to talk about how it felt to be one of the small percentage of blacks on this campus, they could relate. 
Freshman year was also the first time I had been in a classroom where I was the only black or one of the few blacks in the class. I could not understand why everyone else seemed to naturally separate into small groups of pre-class chatter while I remained isolated in my seat waiting for the professor to arrive so class could begin and I could stop feeling awkward. At first I thought it was my fault because I have been told that I have an intimidating, overbearing expression that says "leave me the hell alone." 
I asked several of my black friends how they felt and they had similar feelings. 
previously dealt with treated her differently because they had a chance to get to know her and to realize that blacks are ordinary people. 
However, many white students here have never been around blacks and group all blacks as being like what they have seen on television or have heard about from other whites. It all seemed so logical when I ex­plained it to her, but when I tried to accept this explanation for myself, I could not. In fact, I still have difficulty with the explanation I gave her. I could not, and still cannot, under­stand how some people can be so ignorant about the black culture. 
During freshman year, I mistook white atti­tudes for deliberate cruelty. In some cases it was deliberate cruelty, but not in all cases. I kept thinki_ng, "how can some people not know anything about another race and culture that exists within their own society?" But then I realized that white people have been in a position where they do not need to learn about other cultures because they run every­thing. Therefore, everyone is expected to I did not even realize at the time that he had a black man helping him. 
I was also presented with the argument that I should be proud to learn American history because I am an American. First of all, as a daughter of America I must say that this country has not made me feel very welcome. Secondly, maybe I could appreciate Ameri­can history if all parts of it were taught, especially those parts about important black leaders that would make me feel as though my people are truly a part of American his­tory along with the American dream. 
Throughout my life, the message I kept receiving was that blacks were an American burden and "need to go back to Africa." Excuse me, if I am not-mistaken we did not ask to come here, but now that we are here we plan to stay. Needless to say, my freshmen year _ended on a note of rebellion. I felt as though blacks were not wanted here and that every white person that saw me thought I was here solely to fill a quota,not because of any academic skills. If it had not have been for 
Opinion 
my friends, I would have transferred. 

Sophomore year-By then I was quite familiar with my position as a black at Notre Dame, but that did not mean I liked it. During ihis time I became very upset with the appar­ent apathy of blacks on this campus toward their situation. They complained among themselves but would not take any measures to try and make changes. They used excuses 


1. 
such as, "There aren't enough of us to make a difference." It frightened me that they were so willing to give up. 
I also made a common mistake that year which many black people have made. I began voicing my opposition to the other blacks who were unwilling to stand up for their own rights. This only caused disunity because, as is true in almost every diverse group, there are those individuals who are passive and those who are active in achieving goals. 
Now I understand that it would have been better to compromise and work together since we were all working toward the same goal. However, I was labeled militant and a hater of white people. I do not hate anyone. I have a very strong dislike for white people 
who dislike me just because of my skin color. I dislike them for no other rea­son-not be­cause they are whiteoraredif­ferent but just because of the dislike they foster toward me because I am black. I have white friends and the reason they are my friends is because they are real. They did not come to me with pre­conceived no­tions of what being black means. They were them­selves, and if they had ques­tions about being black, they asked me sincerely. 
One of the worst things a white person can do is to tell a black person that they are not prejudice4 because they have a black friend or because they saw "Roots" and understand what blacks are going through. First of all, I will admit that having white friends does not prevent me from having prejudiced feelings toward some white people. My ill feelings toward some whites have developed over years of experiencing prejudice and now I 
find it very hard to trust them. Secondly, watching a TV show or movie cannot possi­bly make whites fully aware ofhow it feels to be black. To suggest this just adds insult to injury. By the end of my sophomore year I was beginning to see things in a whole new light. 
Junior year-This is the year I began to mellow a bit. I started looking forward to a future away from Notre Dame. It is hard to believe, but things like the "supposed" soul food dinner in the dining halls did not phase me like it would have normally. I have grown accustomed to displays of ignorance about blackculture. Ifoundmyselfsittingbackand observing Notre Dame like it was a separate entity. 
Often I tried to think of it in a humorous light so as not to see the sadness of the situation. How ironic to have heard all the praises for football players during the season and then several months later, to witness bookstore basketball games where obvious racial tensions aro!,e. It was as if when these players were not representing Notre Dame they became "regular niggers." 
It was a phenomenal sight to go to the games and see the black section stand and cheer for a team with blacks and then see the rest of the audience stand and cheer for the opposing team for every game despite the fact that the blacks' opponents changed. Racial slurs were shouted from the stands and as I looked around I saw a lot of the same faces that I saw cheering at pep rallies or asking an athlete to sign a picture for a rela­tive. 
In response to my observations, I heard the argument that this just was not the case. These students were not cheering against blacks, I was told, rather they were cheering against the athletes because they are glorified all year and this was the time for students to shineiftheycouldbeatthem. Well,Isaythis ' desire to beat them stems from the contro­versy that blacks are athletically superior to whites. Bookstore stands for more than an athletic competition. It symbolizes the larger struggle.of blacks for equality and whites for 
_continued dominance. Who put athletes on a pedestal in the first place? They did not climb up there by them­selves. Whites have the money and power to place athletes upon these pedestals by ac­
Scholastic 



=--\\?r·= -=~1111-:-----=!A=~v>:::-=;_,:,: 

tively supporting sporting functions and making athletes some of the highest paid individuals in the country. Blacks respect an 
. athlete's talent but are not overly impressed by it because we see so many good athletes in our own neighborhoods. I am not supporting the stereotype that all blacks are good at sports because that is not true. Rather/I am saying that a lot of blacks 
·are good in sports due to obvious conditions. The sports that blacks dominate are sports that do not require expensive lessons or equipment: basketball, track, football, etc. I believe that if blacks had the opportunity to participatein other types of sports they would also excel. Blacks-have the ability to excel in anything ifgiven the chance. History proves this with numerous blacks who achieved greatness and were named exceptions to their race. They were exceptions only in the sense that they received the rare chance to achieve their full potential. Senior year-Now I feel as if I have been here a lifetime. I have had some good expe­

Racism: Many say it doesn't exist at Notre Dame. To me, the question is not does it 
Opinion 

exist, but how can it be eliminated. Notre Dame does not have cross burnings or race riots, but these are not the only ways racism surfaces. This university has its own brand of subtle, or what some call institutionalized, racism. It is brewing inside many people, but on the surface very few are willing to admit , their prejudices. In some cases that can be the most dangerous kind of racism because when tensions get to a certain level, they ex­plode---taking many people by surprise. 
Notre Dame has taught me a great deal in these four years. At times I still stop and wonder why I am here, but then I remember that no other university can better prepare me for entering a society dominated by white males. Now I know how to "play the game." One thing I ask of the Notre Dame commu­nity as a start toward better relations between black and white students is that it allow blacks to join in as a productive part of society while still retaining their sense of 
hl~ti~ ¦ 


Lifestyles of the Poor and the Cold 
Report from students on the Saint Mary's Ireland program 
G 
BY MOIRA E. MURPHY AND reetings to our Notre Dame and Saint Mary's COLLEEN CONLEY 
family, from all those here in the Emerald Isle. We 
are studying at St. Patricks's in Maynooth, Ireland on the St.Mary'slrelandProgram. In spiteofflightdclaysand lost luggage, our group of twenty-six managed to safely embark upon our travels. Having arrived in IrelaJ!d nearly two weeks ago, we have all basically selllcd into what will become our lifestyles for the next eight months as foreign students. 
The year kicked off when we arrived on September twenty­third at Shannon Airport in the western part ofthe country. Our first weekend was spent touring Limerick and the surrounding area, complete with stops at the Galtee Mountains, overlook­ing the Golden Valeofireland, theCliffsofMohcroffGalway Bay and Bunratty Castle to name a few. 
The weekend ended as we headed cross country, destination: Maynooth, County Kildare. Our first project was to move into our houses. We spent the first few days stocking our kitchens, 
picking up various household items and acquainting ourselves Many students wait for their lost luggage to be retrieved at 
with ournew surroundings. Thcremaindcrofourtimc was put Shannon Airport in Ireland. to further touring, including trips into Dublin for a tour of the city sights and a night at the Abbey The­atre. 
As we spend more time here in the country of our ancestors, we are growing in many ways by begin­ning to appreciate a different culture. 'Ihc weather has been reasonably mild, although there is a peren­nial dampness in the air. We arc fast learning how to build peat fires in . our houses and to pile on the blankets. We have also realized that if warmth is in short supply, there is always an abundance ofit in the pubs where we socialize with the Irish nati vcs. Along with this, we arc learning how to maintain a house­hold and how to budget our money as we find that our dollars arc not going as far as we would have hoped 
once we exchanged them into Irish pounds. The remains of a roadside 
So it would seem that our "vacation" has ended as cemetery. our lectures and tutorials have begun. We arc all excited about the year unfolding before lli and our studies at Saint Patrick's. As our coordinator Roxann Brown returns to Saint Mary's. she brings with her our thoughts and sincerest wishes. Remember us periodically, because you at home arc always on our minds. And don't.forget to write! . ¦ 




14 

Scholastic 
l
.I 
II 
1' 


Ireland includ­(above). Eileen Collet introduces the beautiful grounds of Glendalough. 
On their way to Glendalough, the group stopped to see the Sally Gap. 
Students stop in Glendalough to see St. Kevin's church among other sites. 

A night at Dublin's famous Abbey Theater. 
Finally the touring comes to a halt while students move into their homes and build fires 
December 14, 1989 

Despite injuries, Bieniemy has rushed for more 
BY JONPAUL POTTS 

T he passion and pageantry of col­lege football in front of a huge national audience. The best halftime show of 'em all. The last bowl game played on New Year's Night; and played, possibly, for the National Championship. In a nutshell, the University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish versus the University of Colorado Buffaloes. On New Year's Night, Lou Holtz leads his fourth-ranked Irish into battle against an undefeated, top-ranked Buffalo team coached by Bill McCartney. The Irish return to the Orange Bowl, their personal House of Horrors, where last month they lost to archri­val Miami for the only blemish on an other­wise great season. The loss extended a string of futility for Notre Dame in that stadium dating back to 1977. A powerful, explosive team, the Buffs blew through the Big Eight Conference schedule en route to their first Orange Bowl appearance since 1977 and their first top national ranking in the 100-year history of Colorado football. 
This Colorado team has faced more than its share of adversity in 1989. Sal Aunese, their starting quarterback and most popular player, was found to have inoperable stom­ach cancer in March and could not participate in spring practice. He promised to fight back, but his condition steadily deteriorated until his death September 23, a few weeks into the season. 
Preceding Aunese's death, McCartney expressed the views of the whole Colorado community concerning their ailing leader. 
"He's (Aunese) an extremely popular person. As far as the team is concerned, we have to endure, and it's another test," said McCartney. "We have to look forward and overcome this crisis." 
The Buffaloes have dedicated their sea­son to Aunese, naming him Honorary Cap­tain before he died. Following his death, he has been their leader in spirit during an other-
than six yards per carry. 
wise-perfect 11-0 season. 

Unlike West Virginia, Notre Dame's bowl opponent of a year ago, the Buffs have beaten several tough teams along the way. The Big Eight is one of the top national conferences, and the Buffaloes soundly de­feated conference rivals Oklahoma (20-3) and Oklahoma State ( 41-17) while winning a nail-biter over previously second-ranked Nebraska (27-21). Add thrashings of Texas (27-6) and ninth-ranked Illinois (38-7), and what you have is a team that has withstood every challenge. 
"We certainly had the talent to be unde­feated," said McCartney, assessing his squad's season. "But it's my conviction that there was an unselfish spirit that overpow­ered any other single ingredient. We defined the word 'team' in 1989, and that's why we are 11-0." 
They've piled up some impressive sta­tistics along the way. Nationally, Colorado ranks second in rushing offense, sixth in total offense, third in scoring offense and first in rushing touchdowns. 

16 

Scholastic 


Colorado plays a Power I offense led by quarterback Darian Hagan. Hagan, only a sophomore, made an impressive Reisman showing and was named Player of the Year by the Sporting News. Despite the responsi­bility of stepping into Aunese's big shoes, Hagan exploded onto the national scene to rush for 1,004 yards and pass for 1,002: impressive statistics, considering Hagan played in only 33 of44 quarters this season as the result of so many blowout victories. 
Hagan works the Power I with a danger­ous backfield trio. Senior tailback J J. Flan­nigan rushed for 1,187 yards on 164 carries for an amazing 7.:J, yards per carry and 18 touchdowns, including a 246-yard effort against Kansas State. Junior Eric Bieniemy, a preseason All-America selection, fell vic­tim to injuries and played in only eight games. Still, he rushed for 561 yards on the season, good for a sparkling 6.4 yards per carry and nine touchdowns. Their fullback, senior Erich Kissick, rushed for 214 yards and two touchdowns. 
If the backfield runs into difficulty (a Ia Chris Zorich, Jeff Alm and Ned Bolcar), Hagan will take to the air with a trio ofbig­play receivers. Mike Pritchard, M. J. Nelson and Jeff Campbell all average over 24 yards per reception, with Pritchard and Nelson each snaring a pair of touchdowns in the process. Notre Dame's secondary unit, paced by Pat Terrell and All-American Todd 

December 14, 1989 

Sports 
secondary accounted for 17 inter­ceptions. Junior comerbacks Dave McLoughan and David Gibbs, along with senior strong safety Bruce Young, each picked off three passes as well. Young captains the defense and calls defensive signals. 
The Irish option attack could face the same problems as it did against Miami. The Buffalo rush defense allowed a mere 115.5 yards per carry in the traditionally run-oriented Big Eight Confer­ence. The Irish have come to rely on the running game, and no one except the Hurricanes was able to contain them. Miami summarily handed Notre Dame its only loss. 
The offensive line, led by seniors Tim Grunhard, Mike Brennan and Dean Brown, will have to be at the top of its game. Even so, Irish backs Ricky Wat­

Lyght, may have to rise to the occasion once ters, Anthony Johnson and flanker Raghib more. 
Defensively, Colorado has dominated. The Buffalo defense has allowed oppo­nents a meager 13.6 pts/game (sixth in the nation), yielding only 16 touchdowns in 11 games to rank eighth in that category. The studs of this unit are linebackers Alfred Williams and Kanavis McGhee. Williams (6-6, 230), a relentless pass rusher, notched ten and a half sacks to go along with 81 tackles en route to Big Eight Defensive Player of the Year honors and an All-America selection. McGhee had 75 tackles and seven sacks, teaming with Williams, junior Terry Johnson and senior Michael Jones to provide one of the best Iinebacking corps in the nation. 
Led by junior free safety Tim James, who picked off four passes, the Colorado Campbell ls one of three receivers averaging over 
24 yards per catch. 
. 17 


•' 

i. 
I . 
"Rocket" Ismail will still have to fight for yards. 
Inevitably, the brunt of the burden falls on the shoulders of quarterback Tony Rice. Rice led the Irish to a 23-1 record these past two seasons, including the National Champion­ship last year. Nevertheless, he will have to run the option to per­fection against a stingy rush de­fense and regain his passing touch. The Irish may otherwise be in for a long night. 
Defensively the Irish have · been dealt a serious blow. Two starters, junior defensive tackle Bob Dahl and junior outside line­backer Andre Jones, may not make the trip to Miami due to academic commitments. They both have work to complete before finals which may prevent them from practicing. The team policy is simple: If you don't practice, you don't play. 
"We asked how many people had a problem juggling football and academics-Andre and Bob do," said Holtz. "They are here, number one, to get an education, and that's first and foremost. I applaud them." 
Bryan Flannery, the versatile senior who has played a number of positions on the defensive front, 

.,. , 

"Wi···•askec1•·\1iow· miiiy•·· P.~opl·e··•had··a prol)le·~·•jug-·. 
•gling.·.·•·f~otban•..•a11d<· aca-i .. demjcs:-~.Anclfe •·•···•(J9fres)•: and Bob (Dahl) do.. They . are ))ere, n·umbet<one,.to 
.. g~t ... an·e~uc~ti.on,ta.nd. ·•.· that's firstandforemost" 
·-iFis~·.•···•~~~~h:.·•••t()µ.·i··•.~olt.~,. ,..~.11·'tije.··prospe~t..·<,>ffQsi11g · : t~o ~tal"ters for tile game 

18 
Sports· 

will step in should Dahl miss the. game. Sophomore Devon McDonald has displayed good pass-rushing skills and will fill in for 

option attack? 
Jones if needed. 

The Notre Dame defensive strategy will be simple-contain the big play. The story of Colorado's season has been the quick­strike play. Their offense had 61 plays of20 yards or more, including 25 plays of40 yards or longer. Scary numbers. 
Hagan plays the master conductor ofthis scoring concerto. He runs the option as well as any quarterback in the nation. Viewers of the nationally-televised Colorado-Nebraska game may remember the amazing play Hagan made in the first quarter. Hagan kept the ball on an option and ran about 25 yards downfield when a Nebraska safety met him head-on. Before he was tackled, Hagan op­tion-pitched to Flannigan for the touchdown. Such plays could kill the Irish on New Year's 
Night.. With aRocketin its arsenal,Notre Dame 
has good reason to believe it has one of the better special teams units in the country. They need only look at their New Year's Day opponent, though, to find their match. Colo­rado ranks first and second in kick­offreturns and punt returns, respec­tively. Placekicker Ken Culbertson is 13 for 17 on field goals and is a perfect 59-59 on extra points. Not to be outdone, punter Tom Rouen leads the nation in punting at 45.9 yards per punt and placed 14 kicks inside.the 20-yard line. 
The big picture remains cloudy for the Irish, although Auburn's defeat of Alabama was Step One in the Irish "formula" to a second consecutive national title. Alabama must recover from its loss and defeat Miami in the Sugar Bowl-no mean feat. The Irish must then soundly defeat Colorado in the Orange Bowl. Throw in a Southern Cal victory over Michi­gan for good measure, and the Irish could sneak out ofSouthern Florida with a number-one ranking. 
Regardless of what happens in New Orleans or Pasadena, the Irish know the task at hand lies in the OrangeBowl. Atightgamemaybe in order, simply based on the recent history of this storied event. The 
Orange Bowl has featured some classics, including 1983 when Miami turned back a two-point conversion attempt with no time left to defeat the Nebraska Cornhuskers and win their first national championship. 
Even in lieu of their one loss, th~ Irish may yet find themselves in control of their own destiny late New Year's Night. Net­work scheduling pits the Sugar and Orange Bowls against one another in the prime-time spotlight, yet the Sugar should end well be­fore the conclusion of the Notre Dame-Colo­rado clash. 
Entering the final minutes of the fourth quarter, the Irish may have their fate in their own hands as they try to exorcise ghosts of Orange Bowl past. A nation will be watch­ing. 
¦ 
Scholastic 
..--------------------------1111111 
Scholastic is lo.eking for talented people to fill these positions: 
umor: Week In Distortion News: aint Mary's ··Advertising: It pays, too! 
If any of these areas sound exciting to you, give us a call at 239--7569. 
TO WISH MIKE A :MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A FOND FAREWELL, WE PRESENT THE 1989 WIEBER TOP 10! 


10. DON'TlJSE SOAP WHENWASHINGTI-ffi CUPSTT·· . 
.·_ LEAVES.A FUNNYTASTE.BEHIND.. .· . .·... 9.. NQ...SEIUOUSL Y FISH, DO YOU REALLY HAVE A
3.9????????? . . .. ·. . . . ... . . 
8. HEYFISH, YOU QOTTASTAR.T INVITING CUTE GIRDS TO Y-OtJRTRUMPET P.A.RTIESEVEN IF THE"i;'RJ3,. NQT(fRUMPETS. . . . . . . . . ·.. . 
7._HEy·smD~,I'.LLB:EOVERATSCHQLASTICIF.... 
f\NY.NFCAtts. > .• -.. · > ..•.... ···.· . . . .. .. ··......·. 
6. HEY.FIS:H, .LINDA CALLED AND SAIDNOT TO . CALEHERBACK/. . . . 
. _ ·•·•···5:•HQNESTGUYS; MYPANTSNEVER•CAMEOFF!f!!.· 
4.. DON'TYOU:NEEDYOURBOOTSTO GOOUTAND · .·. MILKTHEPIGS??????J!?????? •. ..•. . . . . I' . ·. 3. WJ-IciCALLED?...GUYOR GIRL?...SINGLE OR 
.··•. bOtJBLERINGER.? ... WAS SHECUTE? ·· 2. LSAT'SAREEASY!!!!J!!!!!!!l!!! ·.. . 1. IIEY ERICH,,.NICK. DeSINES CALLED!??! 
'• ' • • ••• Y• • • •, 
LOVE,· . . ,C$~EF 
19



Sports 


k COMPILED BY MATT MECHTENBERG 

! ' 
I 
The Notre Dame wrestling team began its dual meet season with a 23-12 win over Illinois State last Sunday. The Irish won the meet despite the fact that five Irish wrestlers 
were moved up one weight class. 

ANDY RADENBAUGH, MARCUS GOWENS, PAT BOYD, and TODD LAY­TON all posted victories despite moving up. MARK GERARDI and CHUCK WEA VER also won at 167 and heavyweight, respec­tively. 
TheIrish (1-0)areidlefor the next three weeks, then travel to the West Coast for the Southern California Invitational Dec. 31. After the invitational Notre Dame will stay out west for three dual meets against Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo, Fresno State, and Stanford. These meets take place on Jan. 3­4-5. 
In head-to-head competition with Cal Poly-SLO and Stanford, the Irish trail the series 0-1 against both schools. Notre Dame and Cal Poly-SLO met during the 1986-87 season with the Mustangs winning 21-19. 
The Cardinals ofStanford won big over the Irish 27-7 during the 1980-81 season. Notre. Dame and the Bulldogs of Fresno State meet for the 
first time on Jan. 4. 

The Irish hockey team had a rough week­end against Ferris State, losing both games last Friday and Saturday. Ferris State won a close one (7-5) in the opening contest, then soundly defeated the Irish 7-2 in the second game. 
PAT ARENDT, DAN SAWYER, ERIC GREGOIRE, BRUCE GUAY, DAVID BANKOSKE, and LOU ZADRA scored goals for the Irish in the two games. 
Notre Dame faces tough competition after their two-week break. When the Irish return to action Dec. 28 they play nationally-ranked Wis­consin in the first round ofthe BankOne Badger Showdown. On Friday, Dec. 29, the Irish face either Boston College or Minnesota-Duluth, both also nationally-ranked, in the consolation or finals. 
Eachofthe three teams the Irish could face in the tournament feature a Hobey Baker Award candidate. Center Gary Shuckuk ofWisconsin, defenseman Greg Brown of Boston College, and goaltender Chad Erickson of Minnesota-
Duluth are all up for this honor. 

The Irish are coming off a two-game win­ning streak with victories over Indiana (75-67) and Marquette (87-67). Against Indiana the Irish were led by LISA KUHNS, who finished with 19points andshotfiveofsevenfrom three­point range. 
In the Marquette game the Irish spread out the scoring, with five players reaching double figures. COMALITA HAYSBERT led all scorers with 19 points. 
Notre Dame hosts UCLA on Sunday, Dec. 
22 at the Joyce Center. Game time is 6 p.m. 
The women's swim team turned in an 
awesome performance last weekend in de­
feating the Saint Mary's Belles 199-93. The 
Irish captured first place in every event. 

The Irish also had two swimmers, 
TANYA WILLIAMS andBECKYWOOD, 
qualify for the NCAA meet, to be held in 
Texas in mid-March. 

The Irish do not resume their season .untilJan.12 at2:30 p.m., when they travelto Northwestern to compete in a tri-meet 
against Northwestern and Creighton. 

TheNotreDamemen'sswim team trav­els to Florida during semester break for meets in Orlando and Boca Raton. The team resumes regular competition when they travel to Northwestern for a tri-meet against Northwestern and Creighton on Friday, Jan. 12. 

Scholastic 

SPORTS 
Women's Basketball: SMC vs. Uni­versity of Denver. 7:00 p.m. 
CONCERT 
Notre Dame Glee Club. 8:15 p.m., Stepan Center. Admission $5.00. Sponsored by the Dept. of Music. 
Cij~/STMAS S~OHI l(NO\J, l'LL G 
~YONE 
PER''} 


1/11C=;:};~~~-:;:)f ·r DISPOSABLE SRI 
21

December 14, 1989 

5 
Editorial 




Where Do We Go Fro:n1 Here? 
With the 90s approaching, all eyes tum to the future. Notre Dame should be no exception. Several areas worthy ofemphasis, both technological and theoretical, spring to mind. Notre Dame finally has demonstrated a commitment to computers, but its job is far from complete. They need further integration into classroom teaching. Furthermore, the lab space, though growing, rapidly is becoming inadequate. A goal should be the establishment of a computing network accessible from dorm rooms. Computers are no longer a wave of the future. They are a growing part of daily life and, consequently, are essential to a complete education. The university also has made admirable strides in the area ofcultural diversity. But racism, as Lois Conrad asserts (page 10), still remains prevalent on the Notre Dame campus. A continued emphasis must be placed upon multi-cultural awareness in order for tensions to be eased. This emphasis should come in the form ofcontinued recruitment ofqualified minorities in order to effect a diverse education for all students. In the area of male/female relations, a serious review ofthe current situation is in order. Co­educational housing should be an option for all students. Though implementation ofa change would be problematic, the current system borders on archaic. Assuming that learning takes place outside of the classroom, "real-world" diversity should be essential to everyday living. Animosities between the sexes result from the current situation and will be alleviated only when men and women are allowed to interact in an environment stripped of ridiculous boundaries. With respect to athletics, national championships should be a goal. However, the means to achieving this goal needs to be kept in mind. In no instance should academic credibility take a back seat to victories. Continued stress should be placed on graduation rates and sportsman­ship. The faculty situation also needs to be addressed. Research facilities are important for drawing top-notch professors. It is imperative, however, that these researchers do not lose sight oftheirreal vocation-thatofeducating the leaders ofthe future. Learning cannot be sacrificed for rankings that research generates. Furthermore, the current faculty cries out for an increase in the number of minority members which would further foster multi-cultural awareness. 
-Scholastic 


Scholastic 


Final Word 


JereU1y' Gift 
Appreciating the Christmas gift oflove 
BY RA YANN SICKLER AND MATT HOUGH 
Jcrcmy's adorable. He's two years old and has a mouth full of teeth. His father is in the army, stationed in Germany. His nineteen year-old mother had been living in the projects in Atlanta for the last two years. Jeremy was outside playing just before Thanksgiving when a stray bullet, the result of a nearby argu­ment, nearly hit him. Jeremy's mother couldn't take it any longer. She packed up what she could fit into a suitcase and headed Lo South Bend, the city where she grew up. She left eve­rything else behind: her possessions, her job at the airport, and the man she had been seeing--a man who had just been tested · HIV positive for the AIDS virus. She lived with her mother for approxi­mately a week and a half, but her mother was convinced that her daughter had con­tracted AIDS and was going to die soon. Her mother kept pushing her Lo give Jer­emy to them right then and there. But she couldn't stand living in this situ­ation either. Consequently, Jeremy and his mother moved into the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. That is where they will spend their second straight Christmas, along with approximately one hundred and twenty others.  Many people have asked us if we feel guilty when we work with those less fortu­nate--guilty about some of the things that we have like family, friends, and a home. We have often wondered why we were given the chances thatothers were not. We are no beller than any one else, and cannot sec how there is some way that we could 'deserve' any of what we now have. The point is not Lo feel guilty. We should only feel this way if we do not appreciate and share what we have.  This time of the year becomes so hectic that it's quite easy to get caught up in our own self-contentedness. Thinking about final exams, what we have to get done before leaving for home, what we want for Christmas, or else what we should buy for someone. All this contributes to the narrow-minded perspective. The true point of the Christmas holiday is to step back, relax, and appreciate the blessings that we recieve each and every day. The Grinch was right when he said that it wasn't the boxes and the bags that made Christmas. Jeremy may not get a remote control sports car for Christmas. He may only get a single ball instead of twenty presents. But the smile on his face is going to be just as big and as beautiful as anyone's could be. He's going to have the most important Christmas gift ofall--the gift of love. It's a gift offered to us every day, but one that sometimes requires a special time to be appreciated. Merry Christmas, Jeremy. Thanks for your smile. Ill Rayann Sickler and Matt Hough are case managers at the Center For the Homeless in South Bend. They are both 1989 Notre Dame graduates.  



Hunchback 

By Greg Delate 

2 -,.,eeks later --the denidl phase: Notr-e Dame campus slill ~f~scs -lo bchc,ie -lh,y 
Could have l~t fo Miami 
Llniversi-ly. /here must be. 
a reawi How Coulcl Mi~mi 
Win? We Were kiter. I+ 
was as if -!hey knew il,e. 
plays bcfure i!,cy were 
c.alled. How eould they h.wc. 
Known 1 1kJ Could ih,y ha,t. 
Knawn ••• 


24 
Scholastic 
---' 
~ 

,----,-.-· -----;-;:-~-----, --=-.-------~. ~ .·.::._; ',...::.______'"',-~· ,, -~-·~·--'·---.',..:_,~ ...... -. -,,: >.,. '., ,, -­
o-r 





MORE FORBIDDEtJ WORDS OF THE 1990s 
ACTIESS/MODEL AFFOKDAi3LE AL TE'RNATIVE ANYTHING A'ROMATHE'RAPY i31TE THE i3IG ONE i30TTOM LINE i3'REAKFAST LINKS THE CENTE'R FO'R ANYTHING CHILLIN' COLD FUSION COUCH POTATO CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED THE DA'RK KNIGHT DESIGNER ANYTHING DIFFERENT STIOKES FO'R DIFFERENT FOLKS DOGi3'REATH 007 EA'RTH TO ___ EL LAY ENE'RGIZE'R FISHWICH FLASHDANCE GtNIUS GU'RU HUNK J.A.P. I 'CJ ANYTHING l'M A SU'RVIVO'R KING OF 'ROCK 'N' 'ROLL LIFE IN THE FAST LANE LEGtNDA'RY LIMO LITE ANYTHING LIVING LEGtND L-WO'RD MCNUGGET ME GtNE'RATION MEGAi3UCKS MEGADEATH MEGA ANYTHING MEN'S Lli3E'RATION MOVE'RS AND SHAKERS NEOPSYCHEDELIC NON'REFUNDAi3LE DEPOSIT PA'RTY ANIMAL PAi3ULUM-PUKING Lli3E'RALS PUNDIT PUNS ON THE WO'RD "FA-,.._" THE 'RIGHT STUFF 'ROCK 'N' 'ROLL HALL OF FAME SE-,...POLITATION SMA'RT ANYTHING SMU'RF SNEEZE GUA'RD SPACE CADET SPACE CASE SPLATTER FILM 
. STIEETWISE SUPE'R MA'RIO i3'ROS. T&A TACKY THl'RTYSOMETHING ANY-NUMi3E'R SOMETHING THUMi3'S DOWN THUMi3'S UP STYLE UNISE-,.._ UPSIDE THE HEAD VEEJAY WHAT'S HOT (AND WHAT'S NOT) WHERE'S THE i3EEF? WOODSTOCK WOODSTOCK GENERATION PRESIDENT QUAYLE 





would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas 

and a Happy New Year I 







