The Notre Dame Scholastic
587
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
With Neil Hurley in charge of the current issue of the Scholastic the staff members have all bought new shoes, having worn out one pair over the week-end running down stories for the first form which was complete ahead of schedule, lacking only that famous (?) column dubbed “Comment.” As “Cookie” Leonard was “tough on rats” (copied from The Last Parade) so is Neil “tough on the staff.” He wants work and he gets it —with good results.
We are beginning to feel sorry for our poor President, Mr. Hoover. About the only time he had a chance to assert himself (when he chose to do so) was when the bonus bill came up, and then when he did speak his mind his legislative bodies walked right over him. Now the stampede has begun for loans from the government. The veterans are undoubtedly deserving of a little return for their services but where is the money coming from? Just a few more taxes, that’s all. About the only thing we haven’t been taxed for is our lease on life, but the rest of the taxes are becoming so burdensome that life isn’t worth living anyway.
It will be interesting for some of us to return to Notre Dame ten years hence and see the campus as we once dreamed it. With the erection of two new residence halls, which will bring nearly all the students on campus, and other new buildings, Notre Dame will be a city of itself. A local city paper emphasized the importance of the building program. as carried out by the University in that it added to the prestige of the city as well as the school. No one doubts that, but beauty and relief of the unemployment situation aren’t the only things backing the construction of new building on the campus. Notre Dame, as always, is looking forward to the education of Catholic young men. Beautiful buildings aren’t necessary, but their erection reflects upon the success of Catholic education and the recognized merits of the University. May she continue to grow!
Maybe Medbury and I are wrong . . . but it looks like the baseball team will be doing their training out in the open even if they are deprived of a southern trip. And with most of the games being played at home, it looks like a good season. W. V. B.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Fotinded 1867
EMIL
L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bergan	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward E. Brennan	Associate Editors James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske
The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
Richard J. O'Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
Frank E. Seward	James K. Coluns	W. Leslie Raddatz
Nezvs Staff
William C. Karl, News Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant Neivs
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson Lawrence Dunda
Editor Lawrence Prybylski Edmund Stephan Joseph Degnan
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor George Belting
. James Kearns
T. Edward Garey Irving B. Halper
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Raymond J. Naber
J. Albert Smith
John P. Hess
Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
MARCH 6, 1931
No. 19
Issue Editor—NEIL C. HURLEY
The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell------- University Breaks Ground For Two New Buildings—Lloyd Teske- Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward----- A Man About the Campus—Austin Boyle- Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan--- Book Reviews—John Pick-------------------------------------
Alumni Office Busy—Edmund Stephan----------- Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz-------------- Editor’s Page------------------------------- The Wink------------------------------------ College Parade—Daniel C. Williams----------- Notre Dame Splits on Eastern Trip—James S. Kearns------ Joe Gavin—Irving B. Halper------------------ Trackmen Beat lowans—Edmund Moriarty-------- Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B. Asman- On Down the Line—Cleve Carey---------------------------
588
589
594
595
598
599
601
602
603
604
605
606
608
609
612
616
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25. 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dane Publications Deserve the Patronage or All Notre Dame Men.
588
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
4 4'T'HOUGH they live in Sorin subway, still you can’t keep them down . . .” that, according to the Music Corporation of America, will be the title of the next song to be composed by Walt Phillips. Additional words will be fitted in by the Beamy Bard. These two campus artists received their inspiration amid the perspiration in the gym on Tuesday evening. The sight of Sorin’s fighting five triumphing over the invading Day Dogs stirred their sensitive souls, and brought tears of joy to their honest old eyes. Therefore the idea to get together with the muses of poetry and music. So the gallant defenders of campus honors may expect to find themselves soon immortalized, in the lines of a commemorating ballad. It has been long a custom among men to record valiant deeds and stirring victories in rousing songs and martial verse. Therefore, it is fitting that the success of the subway crew be thus announced to a listening world. Of course all the praise need not be directed at those who live below sea-level in the senior holy of holies. The hall rector had much to do with the winning of the championship. He kept the spirits high, gave much needed advice and encouragement, and helped the boys in their training. In regard to the latter: he saw that they did not inhale too much of that damp night air, and also safeguarded them against germ-carrying insects, by keeping close watch on the screens in the subway.
A CRUCIAL day in the lives of A.B. sophomores is approaching. Word has come from the office of the dean of the College of Arts and Letters that the second-year men should prepare to decide upon a major subject.	«
The decision is a momentous one, so it should not be made hastily. The correctly chosen course may lead a talented youth to fame and fortune, and to other such alliterative and hackneyed successes. Not the labor involved, but the benefits derived should be the consideration in choosing a major. There are men on the campus today whose lives have been almost ruined because they failed to select a	<
course of study that fitted their natures. Some men have an innate aptitude for, let us say, a subject like speech. You notice them in the cafeteria, in the recreation halls, in bull sessions. Now should they waste their time in pursuing culture via majoring in economics or history? The answer, which you may have worked out is, as listed on page 465, “No.” “Choose a major that suits your	<
nature,” is the Scholastic’s advice to the second year gentlemen. They might also visit Sorin hall, interview all the A.B. men there, and get their* opinions of the respective merits of the different departments. Most of these men are doing their theses now, and will probably be able to remember right off just what course they are taking.
—o—
T T looks like a pleasant spring for everyone but the local x lawyers, and the law profs, and the janitor in the Law building. The engineers aren’t so well off, either, but their situation is not so unbearable as that of the embryonic barristers. The former labor much, and talk but little. The latter are preparing for the world’s most loquacious profession, but you can never tell how much they are working. Up to this week they were able to orate, and recite, and argue to their heart’s content, over in their own private corner of the campus. But now all is changed. Competition has burst in upon them. The long and eagerly-awaited steam shovel has arrived. Soon it will be filling the air with amazing, ear-splitting shrieks. It will rattle and clatter and whistle and whimper in such an ever-changing variety of tones that the ever-present group of bystanders will be fascinated into cutting classes to watch the operations. And an epidemic of limp larynxes will be rife among the legal faculty. Man and machine will be blowing off steam on opposite sides of Notre Dame avenue. Only time will prove which is superior. This is not the first visit of the mechanical monster, for last year it won several decisions over professors in Science hall. Mr. O’Grady still turns pale at the mere mention of his unsuccessful debate with it. But lawyers are traditionally leather-lunged, so perhaps they will be able to answer barrage for barrage, and hold the fort until June.
R. RIPLEY will probably devote some space in the near future to the fact that this week’s Scholastic has been turned out without even a suggestion from the erstwhile editor. His absence from the office has been extremely noticeable ... as noticeable as quiet in a boiler factory. And that figure is not.far fetched. While the Judge vacations, peaceful placidity reigns in the news shop. There are no frantic cries, no savage foot-stamping, no wild hair-tearing. No jangled nerves have released themselves in babbling incoherencies. No occasional improper, that is, ungrammatical, phrases have banged against the hallowed walls. This week, the Judge is supplanted by a younger member of the staff. Never mind how much younger he is. Neil Hurley, ambitious junior, is the gentleman who is at the helm, holding the reins, wielding the scepter, or can you suggest something better? Next week John Kiener steps into the temporary editorship, and Neil returns to his former position. This is in accordance with the new plan of the publications department which is preparing men to step into executive positions next year, with plenty of experience and training behind them. And all the while Emil Luke has nothing to do but be “brutally frank” to the O’Brien double threat, and try to write a thesis amid very unacademic surroundings in Mishawaka.
O
The Notre Dame Scholastic
589
WORK STARTED ON NEW HALLS
Names For Buildings and Classes To Occupy Them Are Not Decided
Rumors Fly the Campus, But Most of Them Are Without Authentic Foundation.

By LLOYD W. TESKE
Work on the erection of the two new dormitories on the campus was begun the early part of this week by the Ralph Sollitt and Sons Construction Company of South Bend, who were awarded the building contract with a bid of $850,000. These additional plans to the University building program, which were released from the office of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, on March 1, came as a complete surprise to the student body, and have been the subject of a great deal of comment on the campus.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., on his return to the University last Monday after an extended absence, stated that he was unable to verify any of the present campus rumors.
Occupants Unknown
The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the Univer
sity, in an interview with the Scholastic said that the questions of the class or classes to occupy the halls has not yet been determined although the matter has been considered.
The question which has been discussed this past week concerning the names of the buildings was brought up during the interview. Several of the names suggested by the students were mentioned to Father Mulcaire who stated that up to the present time the matter of names had not been considered, but that the policy of the University was not to name halls after living persons. It was intimated that names for the new buildings will probably be decided upon in the near future.
Rumors Declared Unfounded
Many of the other rumors aroused in connection with the new buildings were declared unfounded by Father Mulcaire. The current belief that seniors will not be required to eat in the dining halls next year was among them.
The new residence halls will be located west of Notre Dame avenue in the present parking space. The main entrance of both will face Dore road, setting back from the road in direct line with the refectory and the new Law building.
In appearance the new halls will carry out the Gothic style of the
other buildings in the near vicinity. They will be built of brick with limestone trimmings and will be connected by an arch. The architect’s drawing shows a tower on the side of the building nearest the corner. From all indications it will be a twin to the corner tower* of the new Law building. They will undoubtedly form a handsome entrance to the University grounds. Both of the halls will be three-story structures. Maginnis and Walsh, architects of Boston, designed the two buildings.
As nearly as can be estimated the halls will accommodate between 490 and 500 students. The larger of the two will furnish living quarters for 273 students, displacing Morrissey hall as the largest on the campus. According to Father Mulcaire there will be no recreation centers in the new buildings.
Aid Student Facilities
The new dormitories, in addition to the twelve other residence halls on the campus, will expand the facilities foi* student residence to a great extent. The buildings will be ready for occupancy next September, and with their completion there will be accommodations for some twenty-six hun-hundred students on the campus.
Work on the Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce building will also begin in the near future. The site of this building will be north of Dore road between the postoffice and Chemistry hall facing the new Law building.
Architect’s Drawing of New Residence Halls
590
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GUADNOLA NAMED CHAIRMAN OF LAW CLUB FORMAL BY JOSEPH YOCH
CONTEST IS ANNOUNCED
Monogram Men Seek Student Work For Annual Show.
Dance Will Be Held on April Twenty-fourth at Palais Roy ale; Orchestra Not Yet Selected
Joseph P. Guadnola, a senior in the College of Law, and editor of the Lawyer, has been chosen general chairman of the Lawyers’ formal, by Joseph Yoch, president of the Law club. The dance will be held Friday, April 24, at the Palais Royale.
Although in past years the lawyers have always danced to the music of colored orchestras, bands of a different type will be considered this year. Several orchestras have been heard and one is particularly favored, but thus far no definite decision has been made. In the near future some definite announcement will be carried in the Scholastic.
The date of the dance establishes a precedent in that all previous Law formals have been held in January or February before Lent. The purpose of holding the dance at this late date was to provide more suitable traveling time for out-of-town guests.
Robert J. Kuhn has been appointed chairman of the ticket committee and will begin to canvass the members of the Law school in the near future. John Mahoney heads the committee in charge of decorating the ballroom at the dance. An original motif will be used in the decorations this year. Holding the dance in the spring will aid the committee in outlining a plan for decorations.
Invitations this year will depart from the usual subpoena form and will consist of a summons to the defendant to appear and answer all charges. According to James W. Murray, chairman of the committee, the plaintiffs will sign the summons. Programs will be of white washable leather, with the College of Law emblem in one corner, in gold. In the other corner will be the new university escutcheon.
Colonel William J. Hoynes, dean emeritus of the College, heads the list of patrons, which includes the following: Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop, Judge and Mrs. William M. Cain, Judge and Mrs. Orlo R. Deahl, Professor and Mrs. Homer Q. Earl, Professor and Mrs. Aaron H. Hugue-nard. Professor Clarence E. Manion,
Professor and Mrs. Elton E. Richter, Professor and Mrs. William D. Rol-lison, Professor John H. Whitman.
As is customary at all social functions of the University, the Lawyers will have the editors of the various
Joseph P. Guadnola
campus publications as their guests of honor.
Attempts are being made to secure a time extension for the dance. The matter has been placed before the faculty dance committee for consideration.
Committees for the dance:
Joseph P. Guadnola, general chairman.
TICKETS — Robert J. Kuhn, chairman; Walter R. Bernard, John A. Bitter, Charles J. Kovacs, George W. Vander Venet, John D. Voss, Robert M. Ward.
MUSIC—Kenneth J. Konop, chairman ; Vernon J. Freed, Anthony W. Kegowicz, Waltei’ F. Kelley, Stanley T. Nowotarski, Wilton J. Sherman, Harry F. Walsh.
RECEPTION—John E. Chevigny, chairman : Clarence J. Donovan, Edward J. England. Dennis J. O’Keefe, Manfred H. Vezie, Joseph L. Wetli.	‘
PROGRAMS—Robert E. Duffy, chairman ; Francis J. Downs. Kenneth J. Durbin. Emmett D. Ferguson, Arthur P. Hoctel, Alvin G. Koiski, Fred W. Lensing.
ARRANGEMENTS — Norman J. Hartzer, chairman; Thomas W. Callahan, Donald D. Coleman, Sylvester J. Cotter, Alan M. Foley, John J. McMurray, Benedict L. McShane.
PUBLICITY—Austin J. Barlow, chairman; John W. Carberry, Joseph R. Donlan, Joseph (Continued on Page 617)
President Arthur McManmon of the Monogram club yesterday announced that the club will sponsor a contest on the campus in conncetion with this year’s Monogram club show. In order to make the production really representative of Notre Dame as a whole, the club, through the Scholastic, is offering cash prizes for the best student work turned in.
The contest is divided into two parts: one to choose the best campus interest skits, and another to decide upon songs for the revue. Prizes are ten dollars for the best, and five dollars for the second best work turned in for each division. In order to be eligible, manuscripts must be sent in to Arthur McManmon, Sorin hall, before Tuesday, March 17.
Winners of the contest will be announced in the March 20 issue of the Scholastic.
Rules of the contest are few. All material submitted must be original; it must have’ to do with campus life in any of its phases. President McManmon promises that this year’s production will be entirely different from any before presented. “We intend,” said he, “to make the 1931 show something worth while while, rather than a slapstick affair that it has been in the past.”
“Juggler” Well Received
The “Broadway Number” of the Juggler was well received on the campus last Friday, with a large sale recorded in all of the halls and on the news-stands.
After the campus hieroglyphic experts had deciphered George M. Cohan’s message to Notre Dame, the students were in accord with the opinion expressed. Joe Lopker’s featured drawings again captured the students’ fancy, and many halls have been decorated with the new “dreamgirl.”
Raemers Gives Lenten Talks
The Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, Ph.D., of the department of philosophy of the University, is giving a series of sermons during Lent at St. Joseph’s church in South Bend on the subject of the Mass.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
591
PRESIDENT civen honor SENIOR BAU APPOINTMENTS MADE
Father O’Donnell Elected to	KNOWN BY SAUNDERS AND CAHILL
Head Catholic Poets. 
The pi-esident of the University, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., has been elected president of the newly-formed Catholic Poetry .Society of America. The organization committee of the society was composed of Mr. Frederic Thompson, associate editor- of The Commonweal; Reverend Francis X. Talbot, S.J., literary editor of America,- and Mrs. Edith Donovan, of the editorial staff of The Catholic World. This committee secured a charter membership of thirty leading Catholic poets in the United States who were empowered to elect officers for the first year.
As a result of their balloting, the honor of being the first president of the new society came to Father O’Donnell. Other officers of the society are Mr. Theodore Maynard, first vice-president; Mrs. Aline Kilmer, second vice-president; Miss Agnes Repplier, third vice-president, and honorary vice-presidents: Mr. Thomas Augustine Daly, Mr. Francis Carlin, Mr. Joseph Campbell, Miss Katherine Bregy, Miss Blanche Mary Kelly, and Mr. Charles Phillips. Besides Professor Phillips, other Notre Dame men among the charter members are the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., and Mr. George M. Shuster.
The society is formed on the model of the Catholic Poetry Society of England, organized last year, whose objects are stated thus: “To revivify Catholic culture in England; to stimulate a renaissance of Catholic thought in the arts, more especially in literature, and to encourage interest amongst the Catholic population of Great Britain and the English-speaking world.”
Wranglers Hold Meeting
The Wranglers at their weekly meeting last Tuesday evening suspended the regular program and, instead, several important matters relating to the conduct of the business of the club were discussed.
J. Edward Phelan, president of the Wranglers, will deliver a paper at the next meeting, relating to the defects of our present judicial system. The meeting will be held in the seminar room of the Law building on Wednesday.
160 Seniors Given Positions on Huge List of Committees; Date Set For May 8th
Committees for the Senior ball to be held on May 8 at the Palais Royale were announced this week by John F. Saunders, president of the class, and Walter E. Cahill, general chairman. One hundred and sixty seniors are in-
John F. Saunders
eluded in the list of committee members which appears below. Although the dance is many weeks away the ticket committee will begin work immediately in accordance with the plan announced by General Chairman Cahill.
Several orchestras are being considered by the music committee but no final announcement is yet forthcoming. As soon as a definite decision on this matter is obtainable it will appear in these columns.
The decorations committee is planning a more elaborate and striking scheme of decorations than has been used in previous years. A spring or summer motif will be effectively carried out by means of novel lighting effects. Favors of a new and individual design are being planned.
As in other- years, a tea dance will be held the day after the ball, but no definite arrangements have been announced by the committee in charge.
The following is the list of committee members:
HONORARY COMMITTEE—Tim E. Ben-itz, S. A. C. chairman: Thomas A. Conley, 1930 football captain; Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic ; John E. Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Benedict L. McShane, president of the Chicago club; Edward R. Madden, Blue Circle chairman; John J. O’Brien, captain of track: Thomas S. Yarr, 1931 football captain; Daniel D. Halpin, 1930 manager, of football; Dennis J. O’Keefe, captain of baseball; Arthur T. McManmon. president of the Monogram club.
DECORATIONS COMMITTEE — John J. Kuhn, chairman; John C. Shively, associate chairman ; William J. Flahaven. John R. Gannon, Frank J. Holland. Thomas E. Oakes. Henry J. Kopek. Thomas McGough, John W. Zaback, William Davis. Robert L. Neydon. Bernard Shafranski, Phil J. Angsten. Joseph B. Kirby.
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE — Richard J. O’Donnell, chairman: Robert C. Balfe. associate chairman; C. Bourke Motsett, Donald E. O’Toole. Edward B. Madden, Martin W. Downey, Daniel C. Williams. Emil L. Telfel. Austin Boyle. Ray G. Smith. John E. Phelan. George M. Spaulding, William C. Karl. John E. Foley.
PATRONS COMMITTEE—John F. Sullivan, chairman: Eugene C. Coyle, associate chari-man; Al Stepan. James Rorke. Robert Kendall, Edward Malin, Gerald Bustin. Joseph Morris. Thomas Coughlin, Phillip Prendergast. Louis Godoy, John Blanda, Thomas Cody.
HALL COMMITTEE—William’ J- Sullivan, chairman ; Joseph R. Munizzo, associate chairman ; Ambrose Steepler, Oliver Bennett. Gene Vallee, Gilbert Perry, Ray Connors, Robert Massey, Charles McKeever, Albert Roche. James Carideo, Michael Kinney. Edward S. Murphy, Carroll Murphy.
SUNDAY MORNING EXERCISES—Albert J. Maloney, chairman; John P. Hickey, co-chairman ; Frank W. Wachsmuth, Bernard McGlone. William Gibbons. Clem Powers. Matthew M. O’Brien. Michael J. O’Brien, Valentine H. Martin. Bob Baer, Joseph Maxwell, Charles Cushwa, William -Taylor. Lawrence Zell.
RECEPTION COMMITTEE — Thomas A. Conley, chairman : Martin Brill, co-chairman ; Frank Carideo, Marchmont Schwartz, John J. O’Brien, George Vik. Haskell' Askew, Joseph Quigley, Paul Enright. Frank Leahy, Clarence Kaplan. Alvin Culver, Bernard Leahy, John Lisicki.
MUSIC COMMITTEE—Vincent M. Teders. chairman; Walter A. O’Brien, associate chairman : Clarence L. Taeckens, Sheridan Wells. Jerome Crowley, Carl Gaensslen, Gerald Desmond, Walter Murphy. Robert Grear. Richard Barber, Frank O’Neil. Thomas Ashe, Albert Romanin, Charles D. Nash.
(Continued on Page 617)
592
The Notre Dame Scholastic
772 STUDENTS ANSWER NEW RELIGIOUS SURVEY
Display Interesting Sidelights on Student Character.
Containing answers by 772 students, the 1930 Religious Survey will make its appearance on the campus this week. Several interesting facts can be found in the book published by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
In the introduction there are some interesting facts about the material growth of the University in the past decade, emphasizing the religious background. Throughout the entire book the religious life of the University is carefully depicted.
Class averages are included. These form an interesting ratio to the general student body. Of the number who answered the questionnaire last March, 715 submitted answers to this question. Eighty-four per cent of the student body were in the class that is ordinarily considered as the middle third. Eleven per cent fell short and five per cent were above the ninety average.
Another interesting characteristic of the student mind can be found when we investigate the list of character traits which the students seem to admire most. Honesty in all things seems to be the one character most generally admired. Although only 118 chose this trait by name, there were 103 more students who chose the qualities of frankness, sincerity, truthfulness, and straightforwardness. Under three different headings there are 217 students who admire the purity of their fellow-students more than anything else. Courage seems to be taken for granted by the majority since only twenty-four students seem to hold it in the highest esteem.
466 students of the 772 admitted that they had a girl while some very few disclaimed any connection with the fair sex. The rest were either undecided or for some reason they were unwilling to commit themselves.
Chemical Society Banquet.
The banquet of the Indiana Chemical society will be held in the faculty dining hall, on Wednesday night, March 12.
I	NOTICE!	;!
All contributions to Scrip, <; University literary quarterly, should be handed in to Louis J; Brennan, chairman of editors, !; in room 245 Corby hall, or left f at the Publications office in care of his name.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES WRITTEN OF N. D. PRIESTS
The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. and the Reverend Daniel Hudson, C.S.C. have been selected by a national newspaper syndicate for biographical sketches. These two men are nationally-known figures. Father Cavanaugh is absent from the University7 at present.
For fifty-four years Father Hudson edited The Ave Maria and in later years Father Cavanaugh has assisted him in this work. Father Cavanaugh is noted throughout the nation for his forensic abilities. When he was making public appearances Father Cavanaugh was considered one of the nation’s leading orators.
Father Hudson has long been recognized throughout the nation for his editorial work and the many articles which he has written on various topics, which have appeared often in nationally-known magazines.
Library Adds New Books
The following new books have been added to the University library during the past week:
Bibliography: Short Story Writing, by Blanche Colton Williams.
Commerce: Voting Trusts, by Harry Alonzo Cushing; Introduction to Governmental Accounting, by Lloyd Morey.
Criminology: Chicago Surrenders, by Edward Dean Sullivan.
Fiction: Stories Without Women, by Donn Byrne; Greybeards at Play, by Gilbert Keith Chesterton; The Deepening Stream, by Mrs. Dorothes Frances Fisher (Dorothy Canfield).
Literature: Oberammergau and Its Passion-Play, by Frau Hermine von Hillern Diemer; Debate Coaching, by Carroll Pollock Lahman.
Poetry: Collected Poems, by Mrs. Katharine Tynan Hinkson.
Science: The Mysterious Universe, by Sir James Hopwood Jeans.
NEW BOOK TRANSLATED
Father Ward Writes Ethical Book Taken From French.
The Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. of the department of philosophy, has recently finished the translation from the French' of Moral Values in the Moral Life by Etienne Gilson. M. Gilson is director of medieval research at the University of Toronto. He was formerly connected with the Sorbonne and Harvard universities. He is recognized as one of the leading Thomists of modem times and he has made a careful study of the moral values in St. Thomas on which he based his work.
Treating the work from an historical and philosophical point of view, the book has attracted wide attention. The proofs of Father Ward’s translation have been read, and the books should appear this month.
Father Ward has done considerable work in the field of philosophical research, and is the author of some books on philosophy as well as several contributions to various periodicals.
Porto Rican, Prof. Reunite
An old time reunion took place last Friday evening at the conclusion of the debate between Notre Dame and the University of Porto Rico, when Philip Riley, professor of Spanish at the University, was reunited with his old pupil, Victor Manuel Gutierrez. Formerly both were at a prep school in Mexico.
Senor Gutierrez, a member of the two-man Porto Rican debating team now touring the United States, vehemently attacked the Notre Dame contention that American civilization is needed in Latin American countries, and stated “that the Caribbean possesses a civilization older than that of the United States.”
“Alumnus” Out in Two Weeks
According to James E. Armstrong, editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, the alumni publication will be ready for its readers in about two weeks. Most of the matter for the March issue' has been prepared, and awaits only the task of assembling it.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
593
SPECTATORS HEAR HICKEY
Dean Pound’s Views on Crime Analyzed by Speaker.
John Hickey, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Spectators club Thursday night on “The Criminalogical and Sociological Views of Dean Roscoe Pound.” Mr. Hickey gave a brief summary of the evils in the modem world which Dean Pound wished to alleviate by the practice of modern criminology and sociology. Chief among the innovations which Dean Pound advises are: rejection of the theory of free will, revision of the judicial system to meet the demands of a modem world, and greater use of psychiatry and sociology in the criminal courts.
Mr. Hickey then analyzed these different measures, approving some and rejecting others. He especially condemned Dean Pound’s denial of the freedom of the will, which was the crux of the whole body of the juror’s theories. In a discussion which followed, the advisability of revising the law to meet the complexities of modem life was debated pro and con. In general, the members of the club were in accord with Mr. Hickey’s
• analysis of these theories.
Alfred Stepan, president of the Spectators, announced that final election of new members will take place at the next meeting.
Talks on Economics Given
Review lectures on the principles of economics in preparation for the general examination to be given on March 27 to all juniors and seniors who major in the subject, are well under way. The lectures are given by the members of the department of economics at 4:15 p. m. on the days specified, in room 1 of the Main building. The following is a list of the lectures yet to be given: Mr. Riordan, March 9; Father Boland, March 11; Father Boland, March 16; Father Mulcaire, March 18; Father Mulcaire, March 23.
Beg Your Pardon
The Scholastic regrets that in last week’s issue it failed to mention that the replica of the Aztec calendar stone now in possession of the College of Science was presented by the Hamilton Watch company.
NOTICE!
< There will be an important > 5 meeting of the news and sports e ? staffs this evening at 7:00 in < < Room 222 of the Main building, s 5 The regular 6:30 editorial staff ? ? meeting will be held in the Pub- | < lications office. All members s < are required to attend.	;
“CATALYZER” CONTAINS
INTERESTING ARTICLES
The February Catalyzer has for the first time in many issues deviated from the usual policy of making its feature article highly technical in nature. “The Chemical Engineer in the Heavy Chemicals Industry,” by Ronald E. Rich, B.S. in Ch.E. ’28, outlines very clearly the opportunities, the duties and the future offered by the heavy chemicals industry.
Mr. Rich describes the step-by-step advancement of the young engineering graduate from apprentice to executive, emphasizing in particular that perseverance and diligence are essential for success in this field.
In the editorial “Scientific Organizations on the Campus,” the editor points out the value of the various organizations on the campus devoted to the discussion of scientific subjects; while the article, “Cooperation in Science” centers around the fact that collaboration in scientific pursuits is of utmost importance for those seeking the pinnacle of high achievement.
“Scrip” Easter Issue Planned
The third issue of Scrip, literary quarterly of the University, will be released at the end of this month. Some of the contributions for this number are already in the hands of the editorial board.
Several poems, one play, and some prose material have been accepted by Louis Brennan, editor-in-chief. Although no definite date has yet been decided upon for the issuance of the magazine, it has been tentatively marked for release on the Monday preceding the examinations.
Spectators to Hold Meeting
The Spectators will hold their next meeting on Thursday night, at 8:00 o’clock in the journalism room of the library.
MARVELS OF SCIENCE TO BE EXHIBITED HERE
Bell Lab. Inventions Secured for May 19 by Dr. Caparo.
The “Artificial Larynx,” the “Electric Ear,” and the “Mechanical Lung” are a few of the miracles of modem science, which will be shown in a two-day demonstration in Washington hall, May 19-20 by Mr. Sergius P. Grace, assistant vice-president of the Bell Telephone Laboratories of New York.
Once again will the discoveries of present day engineering genius be brought to the fore when Mr. Grace's voice will be heard coming from the huge amplifiers with no microphone in sight, only to have the mystery explained when he exhibits his vest pocket amplifier, no larger in size than a twenty-five cent piece. The dial telephone which speaks its own call number has long been rumored, but has only recently become an actuality, and will for the first time be demonstrated publicly in this part of the country.
Delay of speech transmission will be exhibited when a sentence spoken into a telephone transmitter will not be heard until two seconds after the last word has been uttered. The latest improvement for voice transmission in radio telephony is the “Speech Scrambler,” which prevents eavesdroppers from listening in on trans-Atlantic conversation by distorting speech to the point of unintelligibility at the sending end. Another part of the apparatus picks up the frequencies and rearranges the inverted sounds for the benefit of the receiving party.
Still farther experiments with sound have produced words and music from the blaring arc between two pieces of charged carbon, while no less interesting is the exhibition given of a piece of cobalt steel floating in air.	'
Mr. Grace’s costly and intricate array of apparatus, filling several trunks is being brought here through ararngements completed with Dr. Jose Caparo of the Electrical Engineering department, while the lecture and exhibition in Washington hall will be under the auspices of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
594
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Music And Drama
SEVERAL PAPERS TO BE READ TO CLASSICISTS NEXT THURSDAY
A lot of good tunes have been piling up during the last month; so if you’re in the market for records, don’t worry about not finding any you’ll like. I had looked forward to hearing Marlene Dietriech’s record of “Lola” and “Falling in Love Again,” but was greatly disappointed vhen I heard the “Lola” side. There was almost none of Marlene’s throaty huskiness. It was played in fast fox-trot time, and sung in the style of Fannie Brice or Winnie Lightner. The other side is somewhat a different story. She sings it much in the style of the “Apple Song” in “Morocco.” So if you want the platter for the one side, all right.
Then there’s “Blue Pacific Moonlight” and “You Didn’t Have to Tell Me” by Guy Lombardo and his Boyal Canadians. This is on a Columbia, of course. The first is smooth and lulling waltz music, while the fox trot on the reverse is in just the right rhythm. The trumpet work at the opening is rather startling in its shrill clarity, but then Guy’s records are always sharp and definite. Good Victor discs include Duke Ellington’s “Moon Indigo” and “When a Black Man’s Blue,” and the Troubadors, “Beaching for the Moon” and “Truly I Love You.” These last two have haunting melodies and excellent vocal refrains.
Do you remember the English band that made a concert arrangement of “Body and Soul”? Well, they’re here again, playing “Just a Gigolo,” “Yours Is My Heart Alone,” and the jaunty “The King’s Horses.” The band is Jack Hylton’s, in case you’ve forgotten, and his recordings are really extraordinary. On the reverse of “The King’s Horses” are Arden and Ohman working out on a piano to the tune of “Sleepy Town Express.”
For the past five or six weeks the Roxy Symphony, augmented to some two hundred musicians, has been broadcasting at 10:30, Sunday mornings. These concerts are for the benefit of unemployed musicians, and are done on a grand scale. Two hundred men can make a lot of noise. Ravel’s “Bolero” was played on two successive Sundays. I haven’t heard his Mother Goose music yet, but they say
it is just as queer as the “Bolero.”
The death of Nellie Melba reminds us that the old school of opera stars is passing, but almost faster than the ranks are depleted, the new recruits are coming. “When one passes, another is born.” And just a few weeks ago, the young soprano, Lily Pons, made her debut at the Metropolitan. Several years ago Dame Nellie wrote her autobiography, a very interesting book, not only for her own life, but for the side-lights it casts on the theater and stars of a quarter of a century ago. Madame Melba’s real name was Johnson, I believe, but she changed it to Melba after her native city, Melbourne, Australia. Melba toast and Peach Melba are named after the singer, of course, and not she after them. She was a great friend of Caruso, and there are numerous anecdotes about him in the book. These biographies and autobiographies of theater people are really our best history of the theater, for every star had experiences behind the footlights which never happened to anyone else. And although the theater gives fame to none but the greatest, their fame is everlasting. Madame Melba is rather assured of this fame.
And now I’ve forgotten to mention the record that should have been mentioned first — “Love For Sale” by Waring’s Pennsylvanians. It’s great, and so is the work of the “Girl Friends” on it. The music is from “The New Yorkers,” and is just what you would expect of that show.
—Frank E. Seward.
Lost and Found
Articles bearing the names of the following have been received by the Lost and Found department, on the first floor of the Main building:
George Poreden
Francis Henningfeld
Paul A. Fergus
Theo. J. Hiegel
Jack F. Fritzer
Brother Antoninus, C.S.C., in charge of the- department, would appreciate it if these men would call at his office.
The March meeting of the Classical Association will be held March 12, in the classical room of the new Law building. After the brief business meeting a program of readings, dialogue, and discussion will occupy the evening.
“The Hellenism of Walter Savage Landor” will be the title of the opening paper to be read by Francis J. O’Malley. Louis Brennan, editor of Scrip, and secretary of the association, -will present a comparative discussion of the Roman satirists: Lucul-lus, Horace, and Juvenal.
In honor of the feast day of St. Thomas Aquinas, March 7, Thomas A. Galligan will read a paper entitled, “St. .Thomas Aquinas: Doctor Universalis.” The final paper of the meeting will be read by Edward J. Hart on the “Oedipus Rex” of Sophocles. Following this careful interpretation of the great Greek drama, Roger Beirne and John Pick will take part in an imaginary conversation between Epictetus and Seneca.
A. S. M. E. to Have Pin
The local branch of the A.S.M.E. met recently and decided upon the purchase of pins representing the society. The design of the pin includes the regular A.S.M.E. blue enamel badge, superimposed upon a clover leaf of larger dimensions. The space around the badge is occupied by the school colors and the initials of the organization.
As there will be only one order for the pins, those desiring them should place theii- order at once, as the deadline for purchasing the pins has been set for March 11. For full particulars, see either F. L. Murray in Walsh hall or E. Troy in St. Edward’s hall.
NOTICE!
Applications for admission into the Commerce Forum will be received until Friday, March 13. Application blanks and information regarding eligibility may be secured from Forum Secretary, L. T. Lane, 409 Badin hall.
9
The Notre Dame Scholastic
595
NOTRE DAME FEATURED IN NEW MAGAZINE THIS MONTH
A Man About the Campus
College Stories, the newest magazine to enter the college field, honors Notre Dame in its first issue by dedicating it to this school. It will be on sale April 1. With a cover of blue and gold, and a feature article, “Notre Dame, College of the Masses,” by John L. Nanovic, editor of the Juggler last year, it makes an auspicious start.
The article on Notre Dame is complete in every detail, containing, in addition to the history of the school, list of expenses and other information for prospective students, school songs, yells, and so on.
Contributions for various departments of the new magazine have been submitted by campus writers, and at least one, Louis Hasley, is certain of publication, having already received a check for the material submitted.
Economist Lectures Here
Mr. L. B. Andrus of Indianapolis, a well-known engineering finance expert, was the speaker of the evening at a regular meeting of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held last Monday evening in the basement of the library.
The speaker showed in many ways the large part that finance played in engineering. Cutting cost by situating power plants near fuel and condensing water supply was one of the many examples used to illustrate the point.
Mr. Andrus, who at one time was instructor at Notre Dame, has a wealth of experience to his credit, having been president, vice-president or chief engineer of no less than fifteen utilities throughout the country.
Two student papers were presented. That on “Practical Telephony” was given by Henry Cluver, while the subject of the second, presented by Hugh Ball was “Mercury Arc Rectifiers.”
| EDITORS-IN-CHIEF $ > By authorization of the Board ?
< of Publications the next issue of s > the “Scholastic will be edited by > ? John Kiener. The present is- < < sue has been edited by Neil s > Hurley.	?
Clever fellows, these senior managers. Three of them have already managed to be written up as campus personalities, and here comes the fourth. This one’s name is Jack Hughes. He hails, suh, from the deep south, coming all the way from Jacksonville, Florida, and he hails you in
Jack Hughes
one of those deep southern voices with that soft slur, so reminiscent of honey, ’lasses, cohn pone, and choice lots of frontage and backage on Miami Bay.
Jack’s chief claim to campus distinction is his title of senior basketball manager. This does not sound as imposing as the long list of activities which many who appear in this department bring with them, but anyone who has listened to the griping of student athletic managers can appreciate Jack’s accomplishment.
Three years of toting football helmets, typing notices,' chasing baseballs, and chaperoning “B” teams on trips to Iowa and Kalamazoo, amount to a great deal of hard work. Showing up at the gym six afternoons a week for three years means less participation in other activities by the time one’s senior year rolls around. Besides, Jack complains, the Florida club was discontinued the year before he got here.
There are bright spots, of course, at a school so prominent athletically as Notre Dame. Traveling with the varsity teams and adding up expense accounts comes as a welcome relief
from the previous drudgery in a manager’s senior year. And Jack’s cronies intimate that as a freshman manager his work in the equipment office during the famed regime of Pat Canny was very light.
During the 1930 football season, Jack was in charge of ticket sales at the stadium for home games, checking in the receipts of the ticket booths with Herb Jones of the athletic association. As a result, he saw only about half of each game, but confreres assure us that he did better on the trips away from home. Jack was also the fellow who was asked by half of the residents of Sorin hall to get their student tickets for them when the Sorinites felt that standing in line over at the stadium would prove too irksome.
Right now Jack is approaching the end of his responsibilities as manager of this year’s basketball team. He is an official timer at all the games, and may be observed at all of them, stop-watch in hand, sitting at the scoring table. This position, avers Jack, involves considerable wear and tear on the nervous system.
One of his most lasting memories of Notre Dame will be the winter weather of his first year here. It was “so dahn cold” in Freshman hall, he says, that he thought he was freezing to death every night beneath five blankets and a sheepskin. He saw snow here for the first time, and remembers that he had no wool ja-jamas, but wished that he did. One of his favorite methods of warming up, he recalls, was to argue with the Californian in the room next to his about the weather in their home states.
Jack moved over to the other* side of the campus for his sophomore year, and tried to find warmth in the confines of the Lyons “sub.” It may be presumed that he succeeded, for he spent his third year there too. Perhaps the fact that his roommate, Bart Cronin, scrappy varsity quarterback, was then the “sub’s” prefect had something to do with this preference. Checking in with' a roommate every night isn’t much trouble.
Whenever you go into the single room Jack has in Sorin this year, you will probably find Lewis'O’Shea (Continued on Page 617)
596
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS ISSUES DATA
NOTRE DAME DEBATERS VIE WITH SPEAKERS FROM PORTO RICO
OKLAHOMA SCHOOLS MAY LOSE TWO YEARS WORK
Sophs Warned of Major Choice; Convocation in March.
Final grades of the semester examinations show that in the entire college only 31 students were placed on probation for the fir~t time, that 14 were continued on probation, and that 32 were dismissed for low scholarship. In proportion to the total number of students in the college, it may be said that this indicates the highest general level of scholastic excellence, and therefore, presumably, the best spirit of study in several years. While this is, of course, reason for congratulation on the part of the Faculty, it will be well to remember the necessity of maintaining the qualitative as well as the quantitative standard of scholarship required for continued candidacy for the bachelor’s degree. The temptation of the beautiful days of early spring is universally a spirit of dolce far niente.
As indicated in the University bulletin, each student having sophomore standing is required, before entering upon the work of the junior year, to elect a major subject, i. e., to signify in what particular department he wishes to undertake work of a more specialized and concentrated nature than is allowed during the first two years of college work. To make this choice wisely, many things should be carefully considered, such as one’s special tastes and abilities, the relation of the field to be chosen with the vocation to be followed in later life, the probability of successful work in that field, the cultural value of the particular studies to be pursued in it, the advice of teachers and of parents. In order to facilitate the making of this choice, a special convocation will be called during the latter part of March: At this time the various heads of departments will explain the nature of the work carried on in their respective fields and offer whatever counsel and advice may be desired. Meantime, the Dean of the college will be glad to consult with any sophomore on this matter during his regular office hours, i. e., daily, except Saturday and Sunday, between one thirty and two thirty o’clock.
Before a crowd which literally packed Washington hall last Friday, February 27, a Notre Dame team composed of Thomas O’Meara and James Burke debated the traveling representatives of the University of Porto Rico. No decision was given, but, to judge from the applause, both sides could have claimed a victory. Several times during the evening it seemed that an encore would be the only way to satisfy the enthusiastic listeners. Professor Pedro deLandero of the Department of Modern Languages, acted as chairman and welcomed the Spanish visitors.
The discussion, “Resolved: that the United States should cease its armed intervention in the Caribbean,” was ably and even warmly participated in by both sides. Arguments centered around the results of our intervention in Latin America and the ideals of the United States as a nation.
Perhaps the most striking feature of the evening was the open forum held after the debate. In this general discussion, which was conducted under the auspices of the Spanish club, the Spanish tongue was used exclusively. Members of the club and other Spanish speaking students represented Notre Dame, asking questions and soliciting opinions of the Porto Ricans, who made response in their native tongue, showing themselves equally fluent in either English or Spanish.
Psycholegions Fete Griffin
Mr. Charles J. Griffin of the department of education was singularly honored last Saturday evening at the second annual banquet of the Psycholegions held at the Knickerbocker . club in Chicago.
Originally organized by Mr. Griffin, while an instructor at the Carl Schurz Evening High school in Chicago, the club is composed of young men and women interested in educational and cultural pursuits. It has been in existence for three years.
• Dr. Lewis Carey of the College of Commerce and Mr. Earl Langwell of the department of modern languages were also present as guests and speakers. The faculty members were accompanied to Chicago by friends from the University and from South Bend.
Athletic Staffs Are Curtailed; Women Now Equal to Men.
(Intercollegiate News Service)
Recent dispatches from the Oklahoma Daily and the Daily O’Coll&gian, student newspapers of Oklahoma university and the Oklahoma A. & M. college, respectively, indicate that these two schools, and possibly other state institutions of higher learning, are in danger of losing the first two years of academic work in several different departments.
Having just escaped a bill for the taxation of fraternity property, the two larger state schools are now faced with the problem of retaining their athletic staffs as well as retaining the freshman and sophomore work in many departments.
Oklahoma A. & M. college had its athletic staff reduced to six members in the appropriation recently passed by the state legislature. If the complete staff is retained, the salaries must be raised by extraneous means. The stipulation was given in the appropriation as three men and three women, which would tend to place womens’ intramural activities on a par with the mens’. Oklahoma university suffered a similar shearing of its athletic • staff, and the combined move is probably the most drastic step taken in the middlewestem colleges towards soft pedaling athletics.
Governor W. H. (Alfalfa Bill) Murray is said to be in favor of the elimination of the first two years of college work. It is understood that Governor Murray believes the high school junior college system, which has advanced rapidly of late, can take care of the first two years, along with other secondary and preparatory schools. The move is taken as the first step toward a consolidation and elminination of duplication in effort of the two schools. Governor Murray was unable to be reached for a statement, being in Illinois.
Scribblers to Convene
Scribblers will hold their next meeting on Wednesday night, at 6:30, in Howard “rec.”
The Notre Dame Schola
JUNIOR PIN SELECTED BY CLASS COMMITTEE
Novel Features Incorporated in This Year’s Class Emblem.
Chairman Leonard E. Donoghue of the Junior pin committee announces that orders for the class insignia selected last Sunday will be taken after Monday, March 9.
Four new features upon which the committee has been working for some time are included in this year’s pin, which can be had in either white or yellow gold. A system of pearls is used with a single fourth-grain pearl at the top. It is the largest ever to appear in a Notre Dame pin, and is set within four fifth-grain pearls. . A distinctly masculine “N. D.” monogram in gold is on a graceful black shield bordered by a finely hand-tooled edge. Four spear-like points, ending each curve and varying proportionately in length, form the outline.
At a glance it presents a minimum of gold—a pin’s most desirable feature.
Members of the junior class may have a choice of guards. A sister pin, slightly smaller but of the same design, is available in both yellow and white gold.
William Maywait and Charles Fogarty may be seen concerning orders. An initial deposit must be made before March 20, with the remainder due on delivery. The prices of the regular pin are fifteen and sixteen dollars, and of the sister pins, ten and eleven dollars, depending on the choice of gold.
The committee, Frapk Eeilly, Paul O’Toole, Jack Scanlon, Eobert Law, and Eichard Sullivan, headed by Chairman Donoghue, has placed the order with the Helf-Jones Manufacturing Co., of Indianapolis, the second largest company in America handling college jewelery.
Scholastic News Meeting
The meeting of the Scholastic news “cubs” will be held at 8:00 on Tuesday evening in Eoom 338 of Morrissey hall this week. Formerly the meetings were held at 6:30.
CONCERT ORCHESTRA TO OFFER PROGRAM NEXT MONDAY EVENING
The first of the spring concerts of the University band will be given next Monday night at 8:00 p. m., in Washington hall. Sixty members will comprise the concert orchestra. This number is the largest that ever* has been included in the concert band.
Symphonic and popular numbers in original arrangements will be included in the program. Several marches will be played in the first part along with “Intermezzo” by De Luca and selections from “Good News” by DeSylva, Brown, and Henderson.
Part two will feature a collegiate atmosphere since the songs of Notre Dame will be used as well as “On The Campus” by Goldman. Always popular is any selection of Victor Herbert’s music and the present arrangement by Lake promises much, as do the two popular melodies, “Strike Up The Band” by Gershwin, and the selections from “Show Boat” which are arranged by Jones.
Notre Dame Debaters Honored
Notre Dame receives a signal honor in the field of forensic activity with the request of Professor E. E. Nichols of Eedlands University, California, that the speeches of its teams debating Compulsory Automobile Insurance be contributed for publication in the next volume of Intercollegiate Debates, of which he is the editor.
Either the speeches on both sides or the report of an actual debate is requested. The offer is being considered by Eeverend Francis J. Boland, University debate coach, and in all probability will be accepted.
Professor Nichols is one of the founders of Pi Kappa Delta, national forensic fraternity, and has had many years of successful teaching and coaching at the University of Bedlands. He is undoubtely one of the outstanding authorities on debate in America today.
In a recent letter to Father Boland he states: “Last year when I judged your debate with Northwestern University I was very favorably impressed with the Notre Dame team and style of work, and should be glad indeed to have your institution represented in Intercollegiate Debates.”
t i c	597
GLEE CLUB PERSONNEL CHOSEN BY CASASANTA
University Choristers Appear Here Week From Sunday.
Professor Joseph Casasanta, director of the University glee club, \ announces that the first concert of the year will be held at St. Mary’s college on the night of Sunday, March 8, at 7:30 o’clock. The following Sunday, March 15, a recital will be held at the University.
Mr. Casasanta announces the glee club personnel as follows:
DIRECTOR—Joseph J. Casasanta.
FIRST TENORI—Frank J. Hager. Joseph E. Kennedy, Theodore C. Collins. James K. Collins. John B. Sodoski, Eugene Moreau, Raymond J. Pellman, Ronald Zudeek, William F. O’Neil. Maurice J. Scanlon. Arthur Glasow.
SECOND TENORI—William J. McAleer. Jerome J. Culligan. John P. Hickey. Herbert W. Petzel, Francis J. Maas. William E. McNulty, Harold J. Tuberty, George F. Stenger, Edwin A. Rohrbach, Donald O'Toole, James Carmody.
FIRST BASSI—S. Jerome Roach. Robert Butler, Tom Garver, Robert Cahill, Ed Massa. Edward D. Quinn, Justin Tompkins, Robert J. Nesbitt. George Menard. George Mangan, Harry I. Merdzinski. William D. Waltz, Robert Alge. Paul L. O'Toole. Frank F. Ober-koetter, Alvaro Ferlini. Clarence Schmidt.
SECOND BASSI—Francis Brown. Frank Buhl. Bernard Huston, Leonard J. Dunn. William F. Walsh, James Bourdeaux. Thomas E. Meade, George G. Lennartz. George Coady. William Ayres. Philip Geoghan. Paul A. Haag. Daniel J. Rolfs. Frederick A. McLaughlin. Edward R. Brennan. J. Edward Phelan. James E. Wade. Clayton Duerr.	.
QUARTET—S. Jerome Roach. First Bass; J. Edward Phelan. Second Bass : Ronald Zu-deck. First Tenor; George Mangan. Second Tenor.
SOLOISTS—S. Jerome Roach. Justin Tompkins, George Menard.
“Football Review” Banquet
Joseph Petritz, editor of the 1930 Football Review, and director of sports publicity at Notre Dame, entertained the campus staff of the Review last Sunday at a banquet at the Oliver hotel.
Members of the staff included Eobert Gorman, associate editor of the Juggler; Neil C. Hurley, assistant managing editor of the Scholastic; Edward Britz, advertising managei’ of the Dome, and John Kiener, assistant managing editor of the Scholastic. Frank McAdams, who graduated in February, was unable to attend.

598	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
The Broadway number of the Juggler which appeared last week is undoubtedly the most attractive issue . Mr. Dempsey has yet produced,—and he has given us some very good ones. With a Broadway motif, the Juggler is featured by an excellent cover (for which no one seems to get credit), Joe Lopker’s dreamy sketches, and Art Becvar’s fine drawings (including that very sad and serious one of the excoloratura scrubwoman, which everyone seems determined to interpret as humor). A damning criticism of the theatre is the contribution of Mr. George M. Cohan, the Funny Fellow’s guest artist, who scores managers, producers, and public alike for tolerating, and even encouraging the playwrights to turn out such a quantity of smut under the name of drama.
In the March Forum there are several interesting articles, poems, and one short story, “White Man’s Town.” Professor Harold J. Laski, who teaches political sciences at the University of London, writes “Woodrow Wilson After Ten Years,” a critical, study of our war president. Another article by the fiery Major-General Smedley D. Butler, is entitled “Making War on the Gangs.” The General submits a plan to take the police out of politics as an essential first step in the “war”. General Butler, you remember, was loaned to Philadelphia several years ago to help the city enforce prohibition; and there he came into direct contact with the underworld and with the limitations of the police system.
A glimpse behind the scenes of New York City’s impressive hero-welcoming celebrations is given us in Forum by Margaret Doty of the New York Herald-Tribune. “Cordiality by the Carload” is what she terms the extravagant and “ridiculously excessive” shows that Walker’s town lavishes on celebrities who would much rather be left alone, and are frankly bored by the sham demonstrations.
We clipped the following anecdote from last month’s issue of the Golden Book:
“The man in the street whose opinions of art and literature differ widely from Olympian notions, may take
cheer in knowing that there was once some one man who dared to speak his mind.
“That brave man was Lope de Vega, Spain’s great dramatist of the sixteenth century. He lay, according to his physician, on his deathbed.
“ ‘You’re not guessing, doctor?’ he whispered. ‘You give me your assurance that I shall die.’
“ ‘My dear man,’ said the other, ‘I guarantee that you will have joined Charon by eight o’clock tomorrow morning.’
“ ‘Then,’ cried Lope, ‘Call my friends. I have a last remark to make.’ Messengers were dispatched and in due time at the bedside of Lope de Vega were gathered the great men of Spain, eagerly awaiting an epitome of a lifetime’s learning.
“By the guttering candles Lope de Vega glanced about him and sucked in a mighty breath.
“ ‘Gentlemen,” he said, ‘Dante makes me sick.’ ”
Conrad Aiken has paused long enough in his verse-making to write a short story which appears in Harpers. Other worthwhile features are “This Moderate Drinking,” by an anonymous writer; “Motes, Beams, and Foreigners,” by Dorothy Canfield; “Youth Turns to War,” by George Seldes; and “Romance in a Realist World,” by Avis D. Carlson. “The Scandals of New York” is another exposal—again by a HeraldTribune reporter. The author, Alva Johnston, has brought up all the old charges against Tammany, and an added attempt to involve Governor Roosevelt in the “scandal.”
Incidentally Harper and Brothers announce publication of “The Owl in the Attic—And Other Perplexities,” by James Thurber, one of the greater spirits of the Nev: Yorker. And it is handsomely illustrated by the author himself,—so you know just what to expect. . . . And Bill Kirby announces that there are on the news-stand a limited number of copies of Barron’s, the financial paper.
—Edward R. Brennan.
LAY PROFESSORS MEET
William C. Farrell Addresses Colleagues on Fascism.
Professor William E. Farrell, of the department of history at the University of Notre Dame, read an instructive paper on “Fascism and World Peace” at the monthly meeting of the lay faculty club, held in the University dining hall, Tuesday evening, March 3.
. The growth of fascism in Italy, Professor Farrell said, was the resuit of the economic chaos and communism which were the aftermath of the World war. As in other nations, the inability of parliamentary government to cope with the situation paved the way for a dictatorship. Post-war economic and financial conditions in Italy were, perhaps, the worst in Europe. The government was very unstable. Upheavals were frequent. Some stabilizing power was imperative.
Benito Mussolini, leader of the fascists, rose in power, and in his famous “March to Rome” he effected a bloodless revolution. The king gave him the privilege or forming a fascist cabinet. In 1924 the fascist party obtained a majority, and Mussolini became a virtual dictator, responsible only to the king.
Fascism achieved many notable accomplishments. It restored the economic and financial structure of the state, changed the annual deficit to a balanced budget, adjusted the foreign debt. Through its influence, the value of the lira arose and became reasonably stabilized. Public utilities have been improved. Italy has become one of the foremost nations in aviation. Church and State have been adjusted. Greater interest has been shown in education, both common and university. Only a short time ago, Italy has adjusted her rivalry with France over naval competition.
Fascism is a reaction from individualism to an ideal nationalism. Its political theory is that citizens should be glad to accept obligations for the good of the state. It does not believe in the state that governs least, and exercises a minimum of control with the citizen.
Professor Farrell did not go so far (Continued on Page 617)
►
The Notre Dame Scholastic
599
DOME’ NEARS COMPLETION
Art, Halls Sections Featured; Seward Writes on Drama.
Book Reviews
Cleve Carey, assistant editor in charge of music, drama and debate for the 1931 Dome, has announced that his section is about ready to go to press. More complete in every detail than in former years, the “arts” division gives a fine picture of the cultural side of Notre Dame’s campus life.
Both productions of the University theatre have been reviewed for the Dome. These will be illustrated with scenes from the plays and close-ups of individual actors. The “Monogram Absurdities” will be included also.
An added feature of the music section will be the article and photograph of the Moreau choir, whose Gregorian music is an integral part of the religious program here. Band, glee club, symphony orchestra, and “Jugglers” will complete the music di-vision.
Debate will be covered with an article reviewing the forensic season,. with photographs of the debaters and alternates.
An informal essay on “Music and Drama” at Notre Dame has been written by Frank Seward, music and drama critic foi' both the Scholastic and Juggler. With the publication of the year-book, Mr. Seward becomes our outstanding fine arts critic.
After whom were Freshman and Sophomore halls named? In completing the hall section of the 1931 Dome, this question came up, and after considerable research, the editors found the answer. Father Sorin, Professor Lyons, and Judge Howard will be among those whose photographs are included in that section as the men after whom the various halls were named. With the assistance of one of the campus’ artists, it has been made possible to honor Freshman and Sophomore the same as the other halls.
The page proofs of this part of the Dome have more than justified the staff’s opinion that it will be the most talked-of section in the book, when the distribution date is here. Verse by John L. Nanovic, ’30; clever satires by Charles Hanna, excellent group photographs, artistic views of (even Freshman and Sophomore) halls, the rectors’ photographs, and the hall-namers mentioned above—these make up the Hall section.
River Girl. By Homer Croy. Harpers. §2.50.
In its setting and in its characters, Homer Croy’s new novel River Girl suggests another Showboat, lacking, perhaps, the dramatic intensity of Edna Ferber’s opus but which still has all of the elements necessary for another musical extravaganza such as was made of Miss Ferber’s novel.
The setting is the lower Mississippi and the colorful, sinisterly wicked river towns of immediately before the Civil war. Among its characters are a couple of river boat captains, properly envious of each other’s feats as pilot; a brightly dressed, vivaciously sweet French mademoiselle of no apparent virtue and as temperamental as any prima donna could ever hope to be; a villainous gambler; a proper and dapper young southern blade to sing sentimental love ditties in a tenor croon; a negro mammy, maid to the soubrette, who is custodian of a brilliantly plumed parrot trained to question gentlemen, “Voulez-vous vous amuser?”
With such material at hand, Homer Croy, among whose previous novels the best known, perhaps, is his first, West of the Water Tower, could hardly help writing a colorful, gorgeous, interesting novel. River Girl is all of that, and more. It is a vivid chapter out of the history of the lower Mississippi of an older day.
Puritan’s Progress. By Arthur Train.
Scribner’s. $3.50.
Whether the world today is a better place in which to live than that of our- father’s, whether at the price of bathtubs, automobiles, gigantic labor saving machines, and the rush of modern life we have sacrificed something of infinitely greater value: there are the questions which Arthur Train propounds in his Puritan’s Progress, a history of American culture from the arrival of the Pilgrims in the seventeenth century through three centuries as revealed by its customs and habits.
Arthur Train, erstwhile novelist, author of the Mr. Tutt stories and of Ambition, The Needle’s Eye, and His Children’s Children, has the ancestral background which allows him to describe with authority the history of American culture. On both his ma
ternal and paternal sides he is a descendant of families whose histories go back to seventeenth century Massachusetts.
Shrewdly, incisively, and not without wit, Arthur Train describes American modes and manners throughout the years, from the traditionally stern Puritans of early New England to the modern young things in present-day America who are called flappers. Frequently brilliant and always entertaining his long recital of American life as it is revealed through constantly changing beliefs, superstitions, and follies ends with an inquiry regarding the health of the American soul. Mr. Train says, “The important question is not whether we have bathtubs and electric fans, but whether we have forfeited spiritually in consequence. Are we softer and less admirable than we were before we had all these comforts and conveniences? Have we paid for them in courage, honesty, fortitude, in appreciation for a creative power, in the arts, in mercy, kindliness, loyalty, charity, and sympathy?”
It is not in the role of preacher that Mr. Train gives us Puritan’s Progress, though the book inevitably has its moral. Rather, Mr. Train, it may be surmised, wishes only to examine and correlate the various phases of American life, to inquire into the foundations of our society. His book makes worthwhile and thoroughly entertaining reading.
The Barretts of Wimpole Street.
By Rudolf Besier. Little, Brown, $2.50.
Whatever the contradictory reports which come from Broadway concerning the merits of Rudolf BeSier’s little five-act comedy, “The Barretts of Wimpole Street,” published in book form, it makes eminently satisfying reading. Written around Elizabeth Barrett and her love for Robert Browning, it reveals the invalid and anemic Elizabeth in the bosom of her family, one of many brothers and sisters tyrranized by a stem, almost perverse, Victorian father. The play has humor, depths of poignant sympathy and rare understanding of the deep love between Browning and Elizabeth which brought them finally to their elopement to Italy.
—John Pick.
600
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
COLLEGE GROUP MEETS AT CARNEGIE TECH
COMING EVENTS
Question—“Do you think baseball should be abolished as a major sport at Notre Dame?”
Tighe Woods, Lyons hall, junior— “I think that baseball should be continued at Notre Danie. It is unfair that one sport should be emphasized so much that it causes the possible stopping of another major sport. Everyone can’t play football. Give those who are more skillful on the diamond a chance to do their bit for Notre Dame.”
Robert Kuhn, Off-Campus, senior —“A most lamentable state of affairs indeed—the recognition given baseball by our colleges and universities. I firmly maintain that the student body of Notre Dame should follow more closely the activities of its team and lend its ardent support which in the past has been lacking to so great a degree.”
Cyril Collins, Morrissey hall, sophomore—“Not having attended the University during any baseball season, I really cannot render any authoritative opinion, but, if baseball at Notre Dame resembles that at southern universities in regard to attendance and student interest, I would say that baseball is on a decided down grade and does not warrant continuance.”
John Cooper, Walsh hall, junior— “I see no reason why baseball should be discontinued as a University sport. It affords a means of expressing athletic ability to a different type of student from one successful in footbalk In a way, enemies of college football may point to the abandoning of baseball as the reflection of the so-called over-emphasis of the fall sport.”
Charles Jaskwich, Sophomore hall, sophomore—“Baseball is the national pastime, but it is dying because schools are abolishing it. If a youth has talent in this direction he should be given an opportunity to display it. It may mean the big leagues for some of them; this is undoubtedly what many of the fellows desire.”
Tim Benitz Will Preside at Meeting in Pittsburgh.
Tim Benitz, president' of the Notre Dame student activities council, and president of the Mid-west Conference of Universities, left Tuesday for Pittsburgh to attend the tenth annual session of the conference. This meeting will be held at the Carnegie Institute of Technology and representatives from universities in all parts of the middle west and south will be present.	"	•
Last year the meeting was held at Atlanta, Georgia, and Mr. Benitz acted as chairman of the meeting. Notre Dame is a charter member of this conference which convened for the first time in 1921 at the University of Missouri.
Numerous problems confronting the students in all colleges will be discussed, and it is hoped that a decision on some definite plan will be reached. Athletics, publications, and other phases of student activity will be brought up for discussion at this meeting.
Among the interesting features provided for the delegates are a trip to the steel mills, a tour of the city, and the reception dinner given by the Carnegie deans. On Friday evening the representatives will be guests at the Interfraternity dance held at the William Penn hotel in Pittsburgh.
The conference will last for three days. Five sessions will be held in the Carnegie Union, at which all matters will be discussed and com-■ mittees appointed to take charge of the location of the 1932 conference, the resolutions, and the nominations for office.
After the conclusion of the session the student activities council at each university will attempt to carry out the decisions of the conference which affect each particular case.
Parking Lot Changed
With the construction of the new residence halls, the parking space next to the Engineering building has been closed. In the future all cars are to be parked in the lot south of the Law building.
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, March 6—Basketball, Marquette vs. Notre Dame at Milwaukee.—Track meet, Central Intercollegiate Conference preliminaries, 8:00 p. m., gymnasium.—Scholastic editorial board meeting, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.
SATURDAY, March 7—Track meet, Central Intercollegiate Conference, 2:00 p. m., gymnasium.—Movie, “Disraeli,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, March 8—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.
MONDAY, March 9—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Music hall.— French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 3, Main building.—University band concert, 8:00 p. m., Washington hall.
TUESDAY, March 10—Debate, University of Kansas, at Notre Dame. —Basketball, Butler vs. Notre Dame, at Indianapolis.—Pharmacy club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Chemistry hall.—Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 222 Main building.—Concert orchestra rehearsal, 3:00 p. m., Music hall.
WEDNESDAY, March 11 —Scribblers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec”.
THURSDAY, March 12—Spectators’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., south room of library.
“Jugglers” Playing Nightly
The Notre Dame “Jugglers,” well-known campus dance orchestra, may . now be heard at Nobile’s restaurant, where they hold forth nightly, playing dinner music between the hours of five and seven. Under the direction of Al Stewart, student leader of the organization, a most formidable outfit has been assembled, and has proved most popular to local and out of town listeners.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
601
KEEPING THE GANG TOGETHER
"IT'S ONE BIG HAPPY FAMILY,” SAYS JIM ARMSTRONG
It seems that the busiest and most active people in this world are often the most quiet and unnoticed. Here in our own school we have a good example of this sort of thing in a group of lively workers with whom the student body as a whole is very poorly acquainted. Down next to the bookstore in the Main building is a cozy little room known, by the large black letters across the upper window, as the Alumni Office. The doors there are nearly always closed, simply because the occupants usually have an abundance of work on their hands, and not because visitors are not wanted. On the contrary, as an outsider we received as cordial a welcome as would any student who is interested in what is going on in the office.
The alumni office was founded in 1922, with Alfred C. Ryan, ’20, as the first lay alumni secretary. However, he remained in the capacity only four years.
In 1926, Mr. Ryan resigned from a successful term of office, his place being taken by James E. Armstrong, ’25, the present secretary. Jim, as he is known to most alumni, is a busy man, but never too busy to help out one who is in need of a little information. He is a pleasant, smiling personality, an honest-to-goodness “man about the campus.” Why the Alumnus is more interesting than ever, why alumni banquets are run off so smoothly and why the associa-
By EDMUND A. STEPHAN
tion is accomplishing bigger and better things every day are questions which Jim could answer if he were not so modest.
Jim Armstrong Alumni Secretary
The Alumni office is the sponsor of club organizations, fifty-seven of which are now active throughout the United States. They are similar to our own campus clubs. In connection with the clubs comes the general supervision of Universal Notre Dame Night, a task which falls to Mr. Armstrong and his assistants. This night, as you know, is usually the second Monday in April and is the occasion for much “whoopee” among all Notre Dame clubs throughout the world.
The celebration is growing larger every year, and is probably the most popular of all graduate social functions. A celebration as nationwide as this naturally has to have some headquarters; the little room near the book-store is the spot.
When alumni clubs give banquets in the various cities, they are often at a loss to present ample entertainment for the members. The office here has provided one thousand feet of motion picture film of campus scenes and events which can be obtained by request. The pictures are interesting ones, taken at football games, parades, dining-hall scenes, etc. Scenes at Colfax and Michigan at 5:00 on Wednesday, or of milling throngs outside the movie houses after football victories are, unfortunately, not on tap
We could go on indefinitely naming things that the Alumni office is doing every day, but we think enough have been given to you to prove that it is a very busy place. It is doing new things every day and has several ambitious plans for the future. Mr. Armstrong is to be highly commended foi’ the progress he has made since taking charge of the office in 1926. He works in the midst of a very pleasant environment, having as his assistants two very attractive young ladies in the persons of Miss Elenore Engeldrum and Miss Mary Cass, who appear quite devoted to their work. An interesting place, this Alumni office.
The Notre Dame Alumni Office in the Administration Building
602
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPLr CLUBJ
To Horse, To Horse!
TABLOID
The picture above is an original drawing made from a rare photograph especially for this page. It represents a club treasurer and club dance chairman disappearing from the campus after the reading of the club’s financial report. An ex-officer of the club, knowing what to expect, brought along the ammunition which is seen exploding violently in the background.
ACTIVITY
“Contrary to the general impression, this meeting was not brought about through the almighty power of the press”: thus did President John Raleigh begin the last (and first since the holidays) meeting of the CLEVELAND club. In quick order Secretary Myron Crawford read the minutes of the last meeting, now yellowed with age; Christmas Dance Chairman Ridley read the report of his affair. President Raleigh then proposed a swimming meet, a banquet, a smoker, a handball tournament, a bowling tournament. The banquet and smoker were voted upon favorably by the members and will be held sometime in the near future.
High points of the evening for most of the Clevelanders were the reading of the minutes which mentioned a smoker to be held immediately after the holidays, and the breakage bill of the CLEVELAND club’s dance. This last has the distinction of being the largest on the campus.
PARLEZ VOUS?
La reunion regulaire du cercle FRANCAIS a eu lieu Lundi dans la salle trois de Main building. M. Langwell, un de nos professeurs de francais, a parle d’une maniere tres interessante sur “Virgil,” le poete, l’auteur et 1’homme.
M. Edmund Sargus a conduit la lecture. Il fut suivi par M. George Martinet qui a parle sans preparation. Son sujet etait, “Mon Voyage en France et a Paris.”
IT LIVES, IT BREATHES
The BUFFALO club during the past few weeks has been quietly leading all the other campus clubs in activity. Following a meeting two weeks ago, members last Friday held a banquet. There were no speakers.
RESULTS
Since this page mentioned the University’s one-man WABENO (Wis.) club, many requests have poured in from other men who alone represent their locality. The NAPPANEE club, the GROVE CITY club, the MERRILL club, and all the rest seem to be in a stage of development that needs only a little encouragement and the dropping of a few rules to bring them into existence. Perhaps all these men might band together as the ONE MAN club.
MEETING
The meeting held some time ago to revive the EAST PENN club did not turn out successfully. Only three members were curious to find out how much the club lost on its Christmas dance.
TEXANS, BANQUET, JUDGE
Last Tuesday evening at the South Bend Inn, the TEXAS club had a banquet. Speaker was Judge Cain.
RUMORS
There is a rumor about that the IOWA club will hold a meeting sometime before Easter.
Another rumor is that senior manager Daniel Halpin is organizing a club baseball tournament.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
603
EDITOK’F I A( t
CLASS DUES AND SENIOR PINS
We read with interest that the Junior class officers, in a sincere, if not effective, campaign , to abstract class dues from their subjects, have conceived the plan that a receipt for dues must be submitted before a purchase of a class pin can be allowed. This notice comes to the fore as the aftermath of the final selection of the Senior pin, which is available now for all Juniors , in good standing.
The Scholastic heartily agrees with the officers that a method of uniform collection and a system of enforcement must be in effect, providing that there is a just reason for collecting the dues. However, it is with the method of * enforcement that the SCHOLASTIC finds fault.
We find ourselves wondering what the officers will do with those individuals who do not care to purchase a pin. Are they to go absolutely free and exempt from paying dues ? It hardly , seems consistent that the Junior class officers should see fit to place a penalty only upon those individuals who are desirous of purchasing a pin, which in itself costs fifteen dollars or more.
It is hard to understand why one Junior should be additionally burdened with dues, * while his neighbor or room-mate who has attended the Prom and enjoyed the privileges of the class should be exempted from all tax, simply by refusing to purchase a pin.
The present class treasurer intimated informally last week that a movement was on foot to have the dollar dues placed upon the student’s bill. In this manner they will be able to secure their objective of five hundred dollars. All of which leads up to the question: “Is the enforcement of dues absolutely necessary?” , Or better: “Why collect five hundred dollars in the first place ?”
If, as some say, the dues are settled at a dollar, because the class needs one hundred dollars and because the officers know that no more will be collected or needed, the principle is at fault.
•	The Scholastic would suggest that a dues item of one dollar be added to the student’s bill at the beginning of his freshman year, which would cover his four years at college, while each class would have a surplus of one hundred dollars reserve fund at least to fall back upon
*	• in cases of necessity.
DEBATING SUPPORT
The Scholastic observes with interest the increased student support that has been extended to the debating teams this year. Although the attendance at Washington hall has been by no means particularly astonishing, nevertheless there has been a noticeable growth of enthusiasm for forensic activities at the University. The debate with Porto Rico a few days ago set an almost record attendance.
The Scholastic, however, is not satisfied with the increase noted this year, especially since Notre Dame has for years known successful forensic teams which have matched wits with the best collegiate debaters in the country.
Nor do we advocate compulsory attendance, for a tinge of compulsion tends to limit the free appreciation of any activity. Packed halls of students who attend debates merely to fulfill a class assignment are, of course, better than rows of empty seats, yet it leaves much to be desired.
This year collegiate debating is fortunate in having a question which is neither trite nor impractical, the two most serious faults of ordinary seasons; rather it is of current, timely, and popular interest to all students. The proposal of unemployment insurance, touching, as it does, every single individual, should offer a sufficient inducement to bring the students to Washington hall.
—o—
PRACTICE VS, THEORY
University officials are to be commended for their action in fostering a building program at the present time. During these days of unemployment, when most colleges are debating relief measures in the class rooms or from the platform, Notre Dame has put theories into practice and is furnishing work for thousands of idle laborers.
At a time such as the present, theories are admirable and may sometime be indeed worthwhile, but it is more than worthy of note that Notre Dame stepped in when they were needed and with a minimum of administration red tape . entered upon a million dollar building program.
The Scholastic views the present plan as a civic good-turn, as well as a necessary addition to the University proper.
604
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
THE TRIBUTE
“To you,” I declaim and praisingly write Silly old words. When all the time I know tvhat makes my soul feel bright Is thought of myself—Ego Sublime.
—Porgy.
QUICK WINKS
Ye Graduate Manager pointing with pride to his name in one of the cartoons in College Humor . . . Ye Editorin-Chief enjoying a two weeks’ vacation with nothing to do but twiddle his thumbs and answer telephone calls from Mishawaka . . . Ye Editor for this week being very nice about it but making sure that copy is in on time . . . The Seward-Heitger feud over the merits of a certain drammer . . . George M. Spalding, the senior who made good . . . The Juggler finally making an appreciable impression on the campus . . . And next week, the Poetry number of the Wink.
and remark “Hi, there, don’t you remember me?” We can’t stand being twitted. So if anyone wants to go gardening, and is serious about it, we’ll stake him out with seeds. What’s more, we’ll carry water’ for him, supply • him with “Please” signs, keep his shoes shined, translate his Latin assignments—in fact, do anything.	(
In the first place spring is going to fall like a black hand upon you and with no consideration at all for the good work you have been doing, spoil all your chances for amounting to something during the rest of the year. When you start humming sentimental songs, and taking nocturnal hikes around the lake to see the same old moon that Millicent is looking at back home,—then you are done	’
for. Vague wonderings will trouble the soul as to whether there is any sense, really, in taking an interest in material things. You will feel that a life of the spirit is good enough for you, and with that in mind want to hide away in some quiet corner, and spend all your time counting to 10,000 by fives or carving misshaped hearts bearing the legend, “I love M. G.” (If your girl’s last name is	■«
Glunk.)
EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT
There is no sense in letting all this good weather go to waste without someone writing a “spring is here” editorial. And it might just as well be us, for we haven’t anything else to do and are pretty tired of just sitting around seeing the Russian government and Bill Thompson monopolize current events. Besides, we have a decent enough reason for rushing you into this thing. Everyone whether he be of high or low estate will before long be faced with a very serious situation, or, should we say, crisis (though that is going it a bit too strong). Because spring, no matter how you try to avoid it, will inevitably cast an insidious spell upon you. And then what good will you be? Just a crippled old nitwit that no one will want to talk to or let in the house.
Spring isn’t here yet, of course. But there are already seeping into the life of the nation certain sure signs that spring is just around the corner. The other night at least two radio announcers warned us that unless we sent pretty quick for- two packages of Blight & Blight’s garden seeds we wouldn’t be considered a fit person and would very likely be shunned as an objet de rire (dud, that is). Well, we don’t care a hang for gardens or seeds, but just to keep our slate clean during Lent we subscribed for Nasturtiums and Sweet Peas. But whatever in the world to do with them is a problem that makes ugly faces at us on sleepless nights and has even started us out biting our nails and kicking chairs from under people when they go to sit down. We thought at first that nasturtiums and peas might do nicely to perk up Sorin Sub a bit, but the otherwise congenial rector flatly refused our offer. Said he wasn’t going to have anyone tracking mud out of his hall.
Certainly we can’t go on keeping these seed packages in our class books as markers. For you know how dust will collect, and we simply couldn’t bear the affront to our scholastic pride, if some bright morning a pretty little red nasturtium should shove its blossomed head out from the leaves of a forgotten book, tap us blithely on the shoulder
The best cure for this obsession is a red-blooded, active room-mate, who if he has any spunk at all, will soon talk you into a round of golf. Golf is our prescription for spring fever, and while it may appear a useless one, it stands until someone has a better idea. There’s no doubt that it will put an end to Brooding, or The Reading and Writing of Poetry. And that’s something, surely. When a man marches off to class with a stack of golf clubs under his arm, and begins wearing knickers to bed, the chances are that he is a pretty normal individual and has some friends, at least.
There now, our spring editorial has probably scooped every paper in the country with the exception of the mail order catalogs (which you would hardly consider’ papers, real, live papers), and possibly the Nature Lovers’ Quarterly, though we are. not sure whether the Nature Lovers publish their Quarterly on February 21 or March 21. (If anyone is sure of this date or can find it out he would do us a great favor by refraining from sending it in, because our Useless Information Bureau is quite, quite stuffed.)
Also we have- done our* duty in a big, helping way. Social betterment is insured, the moon can come out and nobody get excited, and the fidgety Witkawigits in far-off Patlavonia can go in peace to their beds tonight and sleep the sleep of the just. At least as far as we know, there’s nothing to keep them up after—oh, let’s say, ten o’clock.
In conclusion we warn you that the first time you sit down and think seriously about this, you’ll come to the conclusion that “Land sakes, spring is here.” And that will spoil everything. Because sure as you have your mind all made up that the new season has definitely arrived, old Mother Nature, just for spite, will unload forty thousand buckets of nice, clean snow right in front of the postoffice, and we won’t have a street car out to school for weeks and weeks.
The Weary Bumper.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
• 605
COLLEGE PARADE
LIFE HISTORY
Registration.
Contemplation.
Procrastination.
Prevarication.
Examination.
Consternation.
Condemnation.
Probation.
—Daily Illini.
WHAT! BEER?
Many tongues are babbling about the recent scandal at .the University of Michigan. Michigan fraternity men are trodding the streets in the rain, looking for “Rooms to Let” signs; perfectly good fraternity houses are going to waste till next September—all because of dat ol’ Demon Rum. But some colleges don’t frown on imbibing as much as Michigan University does. Students at a college not so very far from here have recently petitioned that the sale of beer on the campus be allowed. The faculty didn’t fire the petitioners out of school. Police authorities didn’t object. It seemed that they weren’t bothered by the Eighteenth Amendment —and for a good reason. The college students were members of the University of Toronto, in the Province of Ontario, Canada.

GET HOT, MATHEMATICS!
Practically every Dean of Men in the country has had something to say for or against the radio in college. One says that they are useless and distracting, another holds that they are all right in moderation, another claims that they are perfectly permissable. The University of Minnesota decided to get the truth. In cooperation with a local radio station they made exhaustive tests which proved that students can do their best work when listening to music over the radio. It was found that absolute silence does not guarantee concentration. In fact a student can concentrate much better when the loudspeaker is vibrating in the room. Jazz music was found to be the best type of music by which to study. Well, if the University of Minnesota is correct in her discoveries, then we ought to start holding classes instead of dances in the Palais Royale.
ANTI-PLAY AT ANTIOCH
Recognizing the necessity for new methods of meeting individual student needs, President Morgan of Antioch and President Hutchins of Chicago have announced plans for orientating the inefficient student and facilitating the progress of the more intelligent.
Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio, has expanded its plan of dividing the student’s time between classes and actual work. Many students who want to find jobs for the required length of time are unfit to take them because of lack of experience. To obviate this difficulty a “professor of work” has been appointed. He supervises “glen gangs” in the actual, strenuous work of cultivating parts of the college land, and painting and repairing college buildings. Skilled and unskilled men and women are included in each “gang” and their wages increased in proportion to their improved efficiency. President Morgan says, in describing this experiment, “Some of them are our most brilliant and studious people, often representing wealthy and intellectual homes, who are simply inexperienced in facing responsibilities and in meeting practical situations.
COLLEGIANA
The story of Robert Frost, the famous American poet, who was recently teaching at Dartmouth ... on examination day, Mr. Frost told the class that there would be no formal exam ; instead he asked the collegians to do that which would please them the most . . . some fellows then proceeded to write poetry . . . some wrote essays . . . and one fellow walked out of the room . . . and received the highest mark in the class . . . but don’t try it on the profs around here next week . . . Dartmouth by the way, is a great place . . . Seniors with high grades may leave the campus for the year, and do independent work on which they will report at the end of the year . .. The University of Chicago’s new class ... in which reformed criminals teach their art to the college students . . . migosh, aren’t there enough criminals in Chicago now ? . . . Graduates of this course will probably be given the third degree on graduation . . . Bids to the St. John’s College junior prom are priced at twelve dollars . . . maybe the Prom Chairman took that course at Chicago U. . . . or maybe he went to Notre Dame.
606
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
Keoganites Win and Lose In East
Syracuse Cagers Take Overtime Game;	ARMY FALL BY 26-25
Loss of Baldwin Hurts Blue Netmen W WEST POINT GAME
Gavin Replaces Flashy Guard; Newbold and DeCook Shine In Hard-Fought Game.
A flashing rally in an overtime period gave the Orange of Syracuse university a 28 to 23 win over Notre Dame’s Blue and Gold on the easterners’ court Monday night. The game was a hard fought battle from start to finish and it was only after a game and fighting Notre Dame team had carried the score to a 20 to 20 deadlock in the final second that the home squad was able to move out in front to stay. Bill Newbold and Ray DeCook led the Keoganites on the offensive with eight points apiece. Hayman and Beagle annexed most of the Orange total by dropping eight and eleven markers into their respective boxes. Johnny Baldwin, ace guard of Coach Keogan’s squad, watched the battle from the sidelines as the result of a sick spell which forced him into the hospital upon his return to South Bend.
Katz of Syracuse opened the scoring with a free throw in the first minute, but Notre Dame stepped out on a field goal by Joe Gavin and Crowe’s one-pointer. Syracuse added to their account in single notches as they were unable to penetrate the iron-clad Gold and Blue defense. Seven charity tosses gave them their quota for the first half and Tommy Bums’ last minute two-pointer pulled the Notre Dame quintet into a 7 to 7 tie at half-time. It was the first time in the last ten years that the powerful Orange offensive had been stopped without a field goal for the intial period. The much-praised scoring prowess of the New Yorkers did not materialize in the face of Notre Dame’s close guarding.
Hayman finally broke into the two-point racket on the opening play of the second half but Ray DeCook matched it with the first of his three buckets. The lead continued to change hands as Crowe and Fogarty matched baskets and DeCook offset Armstrong’s free throw with another field goal. Syracuse began to drop points more rapidly and moved out to a slim lead. Bill Newbold cut it down four points with a basket and two conversions from the foul stripe. With only seconds to go and the timer already waving his gun in the air for the final curtain on the game, Bill Newbold whirled in under the hoop and netted a follow-shot to tie the score.
Going into the overtime period, Syracuse launched a bit of their famed point-getting ability and proceeded to manufacture a man-sized lead for themselves. First Beagle, then Bach and Hayman dropped field goals and Hayman and Beagle made the margin eight points by sinking a free throw apiece. The Gold and Blue
Stecker Chalks Up 18 Points • To Lead All Scorers.
fought back hard and as the game ended had cut the Orange lead to five points with a basket by DeCook and a free throw by Newbold.
The score:
Notre Dasie (23) re rr tp	Syracuse (28)	
	FG	PT TP
Crowe, f	113	Beagle, f	2	7 11
Newbold, f 2 4 8	Hayman, f 2	4 8
DeCook, c 3 2 8	Armstrong, c 0	1 1
Johnson, g 0 0 0	Katz, g	1	2 4
Gavin, g	10 2	Fogarty, g 1	0 2
Burns, g	10 2 Schumacher,c 0 0 0	Bach, f	1	0 2
—	—	— —
Totals	8 7 23 Referee:	Totals	7 Risley.	14 28
Notre Dame made its bow into eastern basketball circles Saturday with a thrilling 26 to 25 win over the Army. Playing their first game at West Point, the Blue and Gold cagers matched brilliant team play against the individual efforts of Cadet Ray Stecker, and though the latter tossed in counters from all angles, the visiting basketeers were just too strong. A capacity crowd of 3,000 jammed the Army gym to see Ray DeCook, Johnny Baldwin, and Joe Gavin lead the Keoganites to victory. Stecker and DeCook led the scoring with eighteen and ten points, respectively.
DeCook opened the scoring after the stout Notre Dame defense had stopped the Army drive from the tip-off. Malloy counted three markers to give the soldiers their first lead. DeCook scored again from the field, and Notre Dame led by 4-3. Army countered with Stecker leading, and ran	(
their total to eight before the Gold and Blue scored again. This time it was Baldwin who found the range and he dropped in three baskets and a gratis point to tie the count at eleven apiece. Army had reached that total on the strength of points from the	t
foul line. DeCook sent Notre Dame into a one-point lead as the half ended. The score was 12 to 11.
Play speeded up as the second half .opened, and Besson and Stecker gave the home team a four-point margin before Gavin and DeCook found their « eye. “Geever” dribbled under the basket for a short one, and DeCook tied the score, 16 to 16, with a brace of free throws. Gavin repeated his play, and DeCook followed it with another bucket to stretch the Gold
(Continued on Page 613)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
607
NOTRE DAME HOST TO TEN TRACK SQUADS IN FIFTH ANNUAL C.LC. MEET
Preliminaries Will Be Held Tonight, Finals On Saturday; Mile Run To Feature
PLANS ARE MADE FOR GOLF, TENNIS SEASONS
Senior Manager Tom Ashe Arranging Schedules.
Close to two hundred athletes will appear in the fifth annual indoor championships of the Central Intercollegiate Conference in the University gymnasium tonight and tomorrow afternoon. Ten mid-western teams accepted Notre Dame’s invitation to the meet and have mailed in entry lists ranging from a single star to a squad of twenty to twenty-five men.
Since its inception in 1927, the meet has been held each year in the local field house, and in that time, it has grown to become one of the outstanding indoor meets of the season. The all-around class of the competitors, and the records made, compare favorably with those of any similar contest in this part of the country. This year’s promises to outdo all others in point of interesting and hard-fought races. The number of teams entered is somewhat less than last year, but a glance at the entry lists shows many more outstanding men scheduled to appear.
According to the program of events, preliminaries in the 60-yard dash, 60-yard high hurdles, 65-yard low hurdles, 440-yard dash, and 880-yard run will be run off tonight at 8:00 p. m. The finals in all events will be held tomorrow afternoon with the pole vault on tap for 1:30.
Last year the men of Coach Nicholson won the championship rather easily when they more than doubled the score on Marquette, their nearest rival. 1931 brings the Hilltoppers back again with a stronger squad and even higher hopes of taking the title • to Milwaukee for a year’s stay. Other teams who have signified their intentions of participating in the meet include Drake University, Western State Teachers College, Butler University, Michigan State College, Michigan Normal, City College of Detroit, Detroit University, DePauw University, and Loyola of Chicago.
The mile run should present the most interesting race on the afternoon’s program. Entries for the eight furlongs include no less than eight
men who have done better than 4:30 in the distance and four of them have broken 4:25. Notre Dame’s entrant, Joe Quigley, placed himself in the latter class three weeks ago at Illinois when he was clocked in 4:22.9. Schwarze of Western State, Chamberlain of Michigan State, Sivak of Butler, and the Walter brothers of Marquette, are the other more outstanding men. -
The low hurdles should prove to be an open affair with Roy Bailie on the sick list. Bailie is suffering from an infected leg which will probably keep him out for the remainder of the indoor season. This is a severe blow to Notre Dame’s chances in both high and low hurdles. Captain Johnny O’Brien, however, will be the favorite to regain the title he lost to Captain Pondrebarac of Drake, last year when he was kept out of competition due to an injury.
Gene Howrey, who has lowered Notre Dame’s record in his last two appearances on the local track, will meet some mighty stiff competition Saturday in Chamberlain of Michigan State, and Rohan of Marquette. Chamberlain is entered in both the mile and the two-mile runs, but it is believed that he will run in the latter event. The little Michigan State star, who won the National cross-country last fall, seems to prefer the longer distance, even though he has hung up equally as good time in the mile.
Despite their rather impressive ' showing against Iowa State last "week, Notre Dame’s shot-putters will be hard pressed tomorrow in order to enter’ the scoring column. The meet, as usual, has drawn some excellent heavers, and leading the list will be a colored boy by the name of Dues from the City College of Detroit. This dusky strong boy, although only a sophomore, has neared the fifty-foot mark with the 16-pound ball on several occasions. Blanck of Drake, Harper of Western State, and Barnhill of the same school, all have done 45 feet or better.
Notre Dame’s minor sports program for the coming spring is rapidly taking shape according to Tom Ashe, manager of the golf and tennis teams. The schedules are nearing completion, and steps are being taken to put all facilities in shape for an early opening.
Golfers are promised a full season with the majority of the matches on the home course. The University links are conditioned now, and should be in excellent shape by the time the niblick-swingers are ready to make their bow. The varsity last year set an enviable record for this season’s squad to maintain, and the success of the year rests largely with the remaining veterans of that team. Captain Larry Moller, finalist in the national intercollegiate meet last summer, will lead the local team in its defense of the Indiana State title which it annexed with ease a year ago. Late in May an elimination tournament will be held to determine the Blue and Gold representatives in the national meet at Chicago in June. The winning of this championship is the aim of Captain Moller and his players.
The tennis team, too, is promised a busy spring. The racquet season will be climaxed by the Central Intercollegiate tournament at Chicago. As in former years, Notre Dame will sponsor this gathering of mid-west college stars. The definite date has not yet been chosen, but the latter part of May is favored by those in charge of the affair. Complete arrangements will be announced in the near future.
Matt O’Brien has been chosen to lead the net squad for the season, and his team will probably be built around the four veterans that are available. Mike O’Brien, Bob Kendall and Bill Reaume are the returning members of last year’s varsity, and they should form a nucleus for a powerful aggregation. Membership on the team is to be determined in an elimination tournament to be held before the Easter vacation.
608
The Notre Dame Scholastic
JOE CAVIN, EASIEST COLLEGIATE
NETMAN, RECEIVES MANY NICKNAMES
Wee Clevelander Starred In Football, Basketball, And Track at Latin High School
“Geever” is what his friends from his home town call him, “Flash” is what the supporters of Notre Dame’s opponents have termed him, “Spider” is the nickname he acquired when he began to compete on the basketball court for the Blue and Gold, and “Runt” is the pet name Bill Newbold has for him, but it is plain Joey Gavin on the campus. Joseph John Gavin, of Cleveland, Ohio, and Badin hall, is the gentleman with the numerous “monikers.”
In the fall of 1923, a little chap who scaled scarcely 100 pounds entered Cathedral Latin high school in Cleveland. That same little fellow became quarterback on the freshman football squad and because he was ineligible for varsity competition, he had to content himself with running the frosh team in their games against Casey’s Alley-rats and other similar teams. Basketball season presented none other than Joey Gavin at a forward position on the frosh squad.
The next year the football coach, who, by the way, was Dan Duffy, former Notre Dame halfrback, told him that he didn’t weigh enough and so Joe was forced to content himself with just studying. But when Geever became a junior (he had received the name “Geever” from Coach Duffy by this time), Duffy gave him his chance to display his wares, and Gavin became varsity quarterback—a quarterback who weighed not more than 115 pounds.
It was in his first year of basketball competition that Joey got his greatest kick out of sports. Cathedral Latin was playing its old time rival, St. Ignatius, for the city Catholic crown. Because of the intense interest in the contest, the game was played in the Cleveland public auditorium. “It was the environment that got me. The beauty and the magnificence of the place, added to the thought that I was playing on the court of the then world’s champions, awed me,” said Joe. That may have given him his greatest thrill, but we venture to add that the seven points he scored in the last three minutes of play to win the game for his team aided in thrilling Joey not a
little. Anyway, at the conclusion of the season Gavin received his letter.
In the spring his attentions were turned to track, and to the pole vault in particular. He worked hard throughout the season and was
awarded his third monogram of the year.
All-City quarterback, 1926. That was the title added to Joey’s name by unanimous vote of the Cleveland newspapers. The team that had Gavin for a field general that year was the runner-up for the state title, and on that same team, by the way, was another All-City player who was also destined to become a star at Notre Dame—Dick Mahoney, varsity end. This honor in football was not all that Gavin earned that year, for at the conclusion of the cage season he was chosen an All-City guard on the basketball team. In track, too, he became a steady point winner and once soared to a height of eleven feet, not a bad mark for a high school hoy.
The following fall the name of Jo
seph J. Gavin was included in the list of freshmen at Notre Dame. He tried out for Frosh football but soon gave it up when the call for interhall gridmen presented him with the chance to compete for Father Mooney and Freshman hall. Later in the year he won his frosh numerals on the basketball court.
In his sophomore year Joey confined himself to basketball. He considered trying out for the track team but found the other tracksters too far along in their training by the time the cage season was at an end. He saw much action on the basketball court that year, teamed with Mike Teders as Notre Dame’s midget forwards, but with such men as Fran Crowe, Joe Jachym, Jack McCarthy and Bob Newbold ahead of him in point of experience, tlie going was pretty tough.
Last year, too, he subbed most of the time. Joey can’t be considered a substitute, however, for he is one of those men who have the rare quality of being able to go into a fray when the sledding is the toughest and the score the closest and either win the game himself or so inspire his teammates that they will perform feats which before seemed impossible. At the end of the season he was initiated x into the Monogram club. This year he is serving in a similar capacity and has acquired, in the meantime, the reputation of being the fastest man in college basketball.
For hobbies, Geever has reading' and bridge. He loves to read philosophy and is so interested in the subject that he chose it as his major sequence in his course in the College of Arts and Letters. The room which Joe occupies jointly with Larry Kral, is the scene of an almost nightly bridge game. Incidentally, the room has one of the most novel arrangements of any on the campus.
o
Newbold Close to 100
(Including Sj-racuse game)
DeCook, c .... Newbold, f ... Crowe, f...... Baldwin, g ... Gavin, f...... Johnson, g ... Burns, g ..... Schumaker, c . Staab, g ..... Schraeder, c .. Jaskwich, g ..
Totals .......... Opponents’ totals
FG 49 32 24 20 16 12
8 3
1 . 1
FT 27
28
8 11
8 6
3 1
1 0
0
TP 125 92 56 51 40 30 19
7 3
167
146
93
116
427
408

The Notre Dame Scholastic
609
TRA CKMEN BEA T10 WANS
Scrappy State Squad Falls Before Crippled N.D. Team by 58-45 Score
Howrey, Hager, and Iowa Relay Make New Records in Close Meet; Quigley Wins Mile.
A crippled Notre Dame team that just refused to accept defeat, conquered the powerful little Iowa State aggregation last Saturday by a score of 58 1/10 to 45 9/10, in one of the best dual meets of the indoor season. Notre Dame was handicapped at the outset, suffering from the loss of such stars as Johnson, Bailie, and Little, while Captain O’Brien and Bob Dar. ling, though they competed, were bothered by injuries suffered in practice sessions during the past week.
Three new records were hung up during the course of the afternoon, including one unofficial world’s record and two new gym records. Captain Bob Hager, Iowa State’s classy timber-topper, ran the sixty yard lows in :07 1/10 seconds, to clip 1/10 second off the best recorded indoor mark, which was held jointly by “Phil” Guthrie and “Chuck” Werner. No official world’s mark is recorded for this event but Hager’s time was the best ever turned in on an indoor track. Gene Howrey rose to new heights in the two-mile run and clipped three seconds off the old gymnasium mark established by Shimek of Marquette back in 1927. The final event of the day also saw another gym record blotted out when Iowa State’s faststepping relayers ran their mile in the excellent time of 3:28.4 to eclipse the old mark by a full second.
The meet started out peacefully enough when the two teams split the points in the pole vault. Fishleigh of Notre Dame and Chapman of Iowa State were tied for first at 12 feet, 3 inches, while Behrman of Notre Dame and Cristy of Iowa State completed their activities for the afternoon in a deadlock for third place. Johnson, top-notch Irish vaulter, was out with a split hand but things were well taken care of by Fishleigh and Behrman, who look to be point winners in future meets. Bill McCormick came through as expected in the 60-yard dash to win in the excellent time
of :06.4. Wells of Iowa State followed McCormick to the tape while Dilling of Notre Dame came in third to add another point to the Fighting Irish total.
Coach John P. Nicholson
The mile run was hotly contested throughout with Quigley of Notre Dame making a lone stand against Eichelkraut and Chapman of Iowa State. Quigley assumed a lead at the start of the race, and although pressed closely, he was never headed and crossed the line well in advance of his closest rival. The 60-yard high hurdles resulted in a tie for* first place between Captains O’Brien of Notre Dame and Hager of Iowa State. Smith of Iowa State finished third. The winners’ time for the event was :07.8.
Henderson of Iowa State won the 440-yard dash, finishing just ahead of Mickey MacBeth of Notre Dame and Wessling of Iowa State. MacBeth was pocketed early in the race but came up strong from last place to finish second. The outcome of the
880-yard run was never in doubt from the time that Alex Wilson forged ahead of his rivals at the start, and he won the event easily over Labertew and Nagel of Iowa State, who bested McConville and Kuhn of Notre Dame. Dame.
The show was interrupted at this point and the spectators were treated to a.bit of strictly local talent when the relay teams of Howard, Brownson and Carroll halls battled it out for the supremacy of the freshman class. Each team was composed of six men who ran 220 yards apiece. Howard hall, flaunting the colors of the Gold Coast, showed themselves superior to their dormitory rivals by completing the three-quarter mile race in 2:33.3.
The 60-yard low hurdle race went to Hager of Iowa State, who won over O’Brien and Reiman of Notre Dame to chalk up the best time ever re- ' corded in indoor competition for the event. His time was remarkable in view of the fact that it exceeded the best marks ever to be turned in by the world’s greatest hurdlers. With Roy Bailie out with an infected ankle, it was up to Gough, a sophomore “comer,” to win the broad jump, and he did just that with a leap of 21 feet, 3 inches. King of Iowa took second, while Laborne of the Irish recorded the third best jump of the afternoon.
The two-mile run brought together two of the best in the middle west in Howrey of Notre Dame and Putnam of Iowa State. It was a beautiful race to watch and the lead alternated at frequent intervals between the two rivals, but at the final spurt, Gene came through with a beautiful “kick” and set a pace that was much too fast for the Iowan. In running this race, Howrey again brought himself to the limelight by clipping a full three seconds off the old gymnasium mark, thus breaking two records in the course of two weeks. The race for third place was also very interesting and almost resulted in a tie between Eichelkraut of Iowa State and Bauers of Notre Dame; but the former managed to win by inches in the final spurt.
The point score was uncomfortably close at this point in the meet but the Blue and Gold shot putters relieved the tension by scoring a slam in the event and thus cinching the meet for Notre Dame. “Nordy” Hoffman ap
610
The Notre Dame Scholastic
peared to be in fine form and won the event with a toss of 44 feet, 1 inch, while Branfort and Brill finished second and third respectively. Although suffering from a slight spike wound received in practice, Bob Darling continued his good work in the high jump to win with a leap of 5 feet, 10 inches. Second place honors were divided among five men, including Reiman and Hughes of Notre Dame, and Soults, Cristy and Mensing of Iowa State.
With the meet well in hand, Coach Nicholson benched his relay stalwarts and gave a few of his less experienced men a chance to show their wares. Although these four men gave a good account of themselves, they were unable to combat with the recordbreaking lowans who showed their heels to the Blue and Gold thinlies over the entire course and finished with a new Notre Dame gymnasium record tucked away to take home with them. The new time of 3:28.4 clipped a second off the old mark established by Notre Dame last year.
Summary of events:
Pole Vault—Fishleigh (ND) and Chapman (IS) tied for first; Behrman (ND) and Cristy (IS) tied for third. Height 12 feet.
60-Yakd Dash — Won by McCormick (ND); Wells (IS), second; Dilling (ND), third. Time :06.4.
One-Mile Run—Won by Quigley (ND); Eichelkraut (IS), second; Chapman (IS), third. Time 4:33.3.
60-Yard High Hurdles — O’Brien (ND) and Hager (IS), tied for first; Smith (IS), third. Time :07.8.
Broad Jump—Won by Gough (ND); King (IS), second; Laborne (ND), third. Distance 21 feet, 3 inches.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Henderson (IS); MacBeth (ND), second; Wessling (IS), third. Time :52.9.
880-Yard Run — Won by Wilson (ND); Labertew (IS), second; Nagel (IS), third. Time 1:57.3.
Shot Put—Won by Hoffman (ND); Branfort (ND), second; Brill (ND), third. Distance 44 feet, 1 inch.
60-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Hager (IS); O’Brien (ND), second; Reiman (ND), third. Time :07.1. (New unofficial world’s record).
Two-Mile Run—Won by Howery (ND); Putnam (IS), second; Eichelkraut (IS), third. Time 9:30.3. (New Notre Dame gymnasium record.)
High Jump — Won by Darling (ND); Reiman and Hughes (ND),
Mensing, Soults, and Cristy (IS), second (five-way" tie). Height 5 feet, 10 inches.
Mile Relay—Won by Iowa State (Nagel, Wessling, Labertew, and Henderson) ; second, Notre Dame (Kuhn, Gilfoil, Tuohy, and Scanlon). Time 3:28.4. (New Notre Dame gymnasium record.)
Three-Quarter Mile Interhall Relay—Won by Howard hall; Car-• roll hall, second; Brownson hall, third. Time 2:33.3.
Roy Bailie, Jack Baldwin Ill
Roy Bailie, star hurdler and broad jumper of Coach John P. Nicholson’s track team, and Jack Baldwin, sophomore mainstay of the Blue and Gold cage squad, have joined forces in the hospital during the past week and will, in all probability, be out of competition in all appearances of the teams in the near future.
Bailie is suffering from an infected foot and it is doubtful if he will be able to get into shape again before the outdoor season rolls around. Baldwin, who was unable to play in the Syra-cure game, went to the hospital immediately upon his arrival in South Bend with a more or less severe case
Starting Saturday
VAUDEVILLE
JF UOMEOFIIVE'ENTENAINMENT ’
One of the most unusual stories ever brought to the screen by
BEBE DANIELS
As Dora Macy, the girl whose one mis-step forever echoed to haunt her in
past
With
BEN LYON and LEWIS STONE
As the two men who wanted her! Her past meant nothing to them . . . but to her . . . everything!
---------ON THE STAGE--------
The International Mimic Star
EMILE BOREO
in his original cosmopolitan Characterizations in Song
and
Other RKO stars in a Big RKO Vaudeville, intact show.
This Month is RKO’S March of Events
Attend our Sat. bargain Matinee. 25c till 6 P-
pOLFAV
** Theatre **
STARTS SAT.
THRU TUES.
Radiant . . . magetic . . . chic . . . in fourteen stunning costumes . . . as a modern girl . . . experimenting with love, naturally . . . testing it by youth’s new standards . . .
JOAN CRAWFORD
in ■
“DANCE FOOLS DANCE”
with
Lester Vail Cliff Edwards Natalie Moorhead Joan Marsh
Joan Crawford electrifies and fascinates as a society girl with the world at her feet!
--------PUBLIX PRESENTATIONS------
Joe Alexander at the Colfax Wonder Organ
VITAPHONE Vaudeville
Paramount News
The Notre Dame Scholastic
611
BALLTOSSERS TO BEGIN WORKOUTS ON MONDAY
Seven Vets Return to Form Nucleus of Team.
Aspirants for the 1931 edition of the Notre Dame baseball team, including seven monogram men from the powerful nine of last season, will have their first spring workout Monday.
The Blue and Gold squad, headed by Captain Denny O’Keefe, will work out in the gym for the next few weeks until weather conditions permit outside practice. Workmen have been conditioning the diamond for some time, and report everything in readiness for the coming season.
Three pitchers and four- infielders complete the ranks of Notre Dame veterans. The chief loss through r graduation will be felt in the backstop position where Coach Keogan will have to work hard to develop a capable catcher to take the place of Joe Lordi, captain of the 1930 nine.
Lisicki, Mannix, and Palt, all veterans, will bear the brunt of the pitching assignments. All three turned in creditable performances last season, and should do even better during the course of the present one.	-
Captain O’Keefe, Askew, Sullivan, and Mahoney will hold down the infield positions. All were regulars last season, and should present one of the smoothest fielding and hardest hitting infields to represent Notre Dame for some time. Bill Sullivan, first baseman, son of the former White Sox star, journeyed to Panama and the West Indies with the College Humor ball team, a group of diamond stars representing many leading American universities, during the Christmas holidays, and brought no little credit to Notre Dame by his excellent performances. Sullivan is the heavy hitter of the team, and batted in the clean-up position on the College Humor outfit.
Candidates for the outfield will be especially in demand. Graduation robbed the Keoganites of all their capable performers, and not a single -letterman will answer the roll for the “garden” positions. O’Connor, Lamasnay, and Butorac saw some
NOTICE
Students in Professor Bott’s Marketing class are requested to call at room 107, Science Hall, March 10th, at 1:15 p. m., to secure their Marketing Note Books.
service last year, and may develop into the varsity outfielders.
The 1931 baseball schedule is reported to be complete, but must be accepted by the Notre Dame Athletic Association before it can be officially released. It is known, however, that the team will play approximately seventeen games with mid-western opponents, including seven Big Ten teams. Most of the games are on the “home and home” basis which means that the Notre Dame students will see some of the strongest nines in the country performing here.
RANAD
STARTING SATURDAY
ALL -TALKING ; PICTURE SENSATION
Ex-Fiami
A LIBERTY PRODUCTION with
NEIL HAMILTON MARIAN NIXON AND A BRILLIANT SUPPORTING CAST ,
A modernized version op
EAST
LYNNE
All Seats
25c
All Times
25c

1
w
ROCKNE STARTS SPRING PRACTICE ON MONDAY
Spring football practice, according to Coach Knute Rockne, will begin next Monday afternoon. The “team system,” which.was started at Notre Dame some years ago, will be used again this year. The entire squad will be divided into four or five teams bearing the names of various schools to be met next season. A varsity squad is chosen from those who show up to the best advantage and promotions and demotions are made each week. Games are played between the various teams and the winning squad is tendered a banquet by Coach Rockne.
Equipment will be issued early next ■week to all who desire to .come out for the practice. It is to be understood, of course, that spring practice is not obligatory for any man.
F
612
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
By HENRY B. ASMAN, Sports Editor	■
S.A.C. BOXING TOURNEY
Word has come to us that there will he no boxing tourney conducted by the Students Activities Council this year. This event, which last year proved to be. one of the most popular ever attempted on the campus, will be discontinued. First plans were being laid for the 1931 meet, but official sanction could not be obtained, and all further preparations
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
were dropped. This is unfortunate.
There is an abundance of material on the campus for a boxing show. Notre Dame boasts of some of the best amateur ringmen in collegiate circles. Last year an excellent program was put on, and was well received not only on the campus but also by the people of South Bend, who attended in large numbers.
NORTHWESTERN CHAMPIONS
The Wildcats clinched the cage crown of the Big Ten Conference last Saturday night, and gave the Evanston institution their second major title of the 1930-31 season. The gridmen were undefeated in conference play, but were forced to share the crown with Michigan; the netmen lost but one game, a surprise defeat at the hands of the greatly improved Illinois quintet, and earned a clear title to the diadem.
Northwestern’s team this year proved what can be done by a team
without reserve strength — provided the first team is far enough above the average. The Wildcats were alarmingly weak in “second-string” material, but with Reiff, Riel, McCames, Smith and Marshall, able to run up such large scores while they were in the game, there was not much for the reserves to do. And another thing, this combination seemed able to play through th'e hardest of battles without a substitution being made. The Notre Dame game at Evanston was an example of this.
SOPHOMORES MAKE GOOD
While’ on the subject of Wildcat basketball, we cannot forget Joe Reiff, the lanky sophomore forward. We understand that he leads the Conference in scoring—no mean accomplishment for a man playing his first year of college basketball. Notre Dame fans saw quite a bit of this man— too much, in fact—when the Wildcats played here. His night’s work that December evening netted him 25 points, lacking only three points of the Notre Dame total.
But with all of this, we doubt if Joe Reiff has meant any more to Northwestern than has sophomore
QiiiuimitnifiniiiiiintiftiiHiiiii'iiiiiifttiHiiiiiiiititHiuniiiiiittfttiiiiiiiiiiiiiitttiititiiitiiiitiit Q
Theatre in Chicago
1	Glance through the theatrical	1
1	section of one of the Chicago	i
i	papers. There are always a	I
|	half dozen good legitimate	j
|	shows at this time of year.	i
|	Pick out the one you like.	|
|	Catch the five o’clock South	|
|	Shore Line flyer out of South	i
i	Bend. Dine enroute if you like.	e
i	Return, on the after-theatre	|
i	special	leaves	Chicago at	i
1	11:15;	arrives	South Bend	i
1	1:25.	I
Trains every hour on the hour to downtown Chicago.
fapuiiiiitiitn'iiiiiiiiiiiniHiiitiiuiiiinuHtiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiit.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiniuiiiiiiiiiiiH
The Book Shop
j	119 N. Michigan Street	|
1	Headquarters Unexcelled	1
i	For	1
Books, Periodicals and Class Room Requisites
|	Pay Us a Visit	i
j	We have the Book you want.	1
THE BOOK SHOP
1	119 North Michigan Street	i
h...............................................................if]

The Notre Dame Scholastic
613
Johnny Baldwin to Notre Dame. Jack doesn’t lead any conference in scoring, nor does he even lead the Blue and Gold team, but it is hard to imagine a more clever player to entrust -with the job of working the ball in for short shots. His bullet-like “blind” passes to DeCook have never yet failed to find the opposing guard napping, or else just not fast enough to get in front of them. And his scoring record of more than fifty points is ample proof that he has a keen eye for the basket.	4
PRO TENNIS
Since Big Bill Tilden, Frank Hunter, and Emmet Pare turned pro some time ago, professional tennis has naturally come in for a great deal of comment from those interested in the net game. One Chicago columnist recently tried to picture the result it would have on American Davis Cup play, venturing the opinion that more of the Cup hopefuls would possibly follow suit. It is almost impossible for a player to make good as a Davis Cup player and earn a living besides. The former requires almost constant practice and absence from home. The young player, then,
might very well “choose the open money route” rather than the somewhat shady amateur standing that has been in vogue.
Attention has also been called to the fact that Tilden and Kozeluh, the Czech pro champ, are touring the country in a series of matches to determine the professional championship of the world—a title now held by Vinnie Richards. Must be two other wrorlds for whose championship Big Bill and Karel are fighting. Or should we say, were fighting. And again, was there really a fight?
ARMY FALLS BY 26-25 (Continued from Page 606)
and Blue total to 20. Stecker registered three points to pull up within a single shot. Here Norb Crowe entered the scoring column with two goals from well out on the floor. Stecker scored twice from the field, and Baldwin once on a free throw to leave the Notre Dame five on the top side of a 25 to 23 score. The irrepressible Mr. Stecker worked under the hoop for his seventh basket, and the score was knotted. DeCook counted his tenth point on a charity toss with two minutes left to play, and Coach
Keogan’s charges controlled the play from then on.
The Notre Dame defense and the scoring activities of Stecker were the high lights of - the game. Gavin played a fine game throughout, but was forced by injuries to leave in the last minute.
Score:
Notiie Dajie		(26) F TP	Army (25) G	F TP
	G			
Ciowe. f	•■>	0 4	Steeker, f 7	4 IS
Newbold, f	0	0 0	Kreuger, f 0	1 1
Gavin, f	o	0 4	Besson, f	1	0 2
DeCook, c	3	4 10	Strother, c 0	0 0
Baldwin, g	3	2 S	Blanning, c 0	1 1
Johnson, g	0	0 0	Herb, g	0	'0 0
			Malloy, g	1	1 3
	—	—. ——	—	— —
Totals	10	6 26	Totals	9	7 25
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
1 Suite 261 Associates	Building !
!	South	Bend,	Indiana	I
I	।
?	I
[ajitmimmitiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiittimiimitiiiiiiiiiitiitiiimimiimmttiiiiimmiiiiimmiiitQ
| Meyer's Fountain |
I Luncheonette |
COMBINATION ATTRACTIVELY J [	PRICED	j
= Every Day	All Hours i
I	Meyer’s	I
j EXTRA RICH MALTED MILK |
I and a choice of any 15c Sandwich, I
QmiiiiiimHimimmiiititttiiiiiiiitHimmitiiHiiiiimiitiHtmmmiiiiitmiiitiiiiimHtimitiititQ
The South Bend Clearing	J
House Banks	j
i Invite Your Patronage j
30c
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Eliiimiiiiiititimiiiiiiiiiiiimiiii....umitmiiimmm............Hmmitt.........mmi........hihiihiihiQ
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK i i	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	1
j	BANK	I
1	FIRST NATIONAL BANK	|
I	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	[
i ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS I 1	BANK	I
I ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST I 1	COMPANY	I
AMERICAN TRUST	COMPANY	|
I UNION TRUST COMPANY j
[El:HtmiiiiHHmiittiiimiiiiiiiiitiiiiiimtiiiiiiitiit...imiiiiiiiimitiiiimiimtimmiiiQ
614
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Interhall Sports
Being defeated by both Morrissey and Sorin during the last series of games, Off-Campus was ousted from the initial position in the heavyweight league during the past week, relinquishing the post to the veteran Sorin basketeers, which group had been pressing the leaders closely since the beginning of the season.
Teders at center for the Sorin squad was high point man for the winners in this contest which decided the leadership in the heavyweight division. His three field goals and a free throw for the total of seven points topped the bunch in scoring. However, he was bested by Bognar of the defeated five, the last mentioned man ringing the bell for seven free throws and a field goal to lead the pack with a total score of 9.
Sorin has three more games to play • and Off-Campus has two engagements before the completion of the interhall schedule. The games originally set for play during the final examinations will be played next week at the regularly scheduled times.
Standings
HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION
IV L PCT.
Sorin ....................S	1	.888
Off-Campus ...............S	2	.800
Lyons ....................7	3	.700
Sophomore ................5	3	.625
Walsh ....................5	3	.625
Brownson .................4	4	.500
Howard ...................4	4	.500
Corby ....................4	5	.444
Morrissey ................4	5	.444
St. Edward’s .............4	6	.400
Freshman .................2	6	.250
Carroll ..................2	6	.250
Badin ....................0	9	.000
Results
February 25—Morrissey 14, Off-Campus 12 ; Lyons 16, Brownson 11 ; St. Edward’s 17, Sophomore 11.
February 26—Freshman 16, Badin 14 ; Sorin 17, Howard 15 ; Walsh 23, Carroll 19.
March 1—Off-Campus 37, Corby 17 ; Lyons 14, Carroll 8: Brownson 18, St. Edward’s 8: Howard 13, Morrissey 8; Sophomore 9, Badin 3; Sorin 27, Walsh 24.
March 3—Sorin 19, Off-Campus 16 ; Lyons 18, Corby 7 ; St. Edward’s 28, Badin 17.
LIGHTWEIGHT DIVISION
W L PCT.
Off-Campus .............10	0	1.000
Freshman ...............S	0	1.000
St. Edward’s.............9	1	.900
Carroll .................5	3	.625
Sophomore ...............5	3	.625
Lyons ...................6	4	.600
Brownson ................4	4	.500
Corby ...................3	6	.333
Howard ..................2	6	.250
Morrissey ...............2	7	.222
Badin ...................2	7	.222
Walsh ...................1	7	.125
Sorin ...................0	9	.000
Results
February 25—Off-Campus 31, Morrissey 5 ; Brownson 15, Lyons 14; St. Edward’s 24, Sophomore 16.	.
February 26—Freshman 28, Badin 10 ; Howard 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit) ; Carroll 11, Walsh 6 ; Morrissey 18, Brownson 14.
March 1—Off-Campus 50, Corby 13 ; Lyons 9, Carroll 4 ; St. Edward’s 32, Brownson 10 ; Howard 14, Morrissey 2 ; Sophomore 24, Badin 16; Walsh 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit).
March 3—Off-Campus 2. Sorin 0 (forfeit) ; Lyons 10, Corby 7 ; St. Edward’s 18, Badin 4.
Interhall Basketball Schedule
SUNDAY, MARCH 8
Lyons vs. St. Edward’s; Freshman vs. Howard ; Carroll vs. Brownson: Badin vs. Walsh : Sophomore vs. Morrissey; Corby vs. Sorin ; no game, Off-Campus.
TUESDAY, MARCH 10
Off-Campus vs. St. Edward’s; Freshman vs.
Carroll; Howard vs. Brownson.
THURSDAY, MARCH 12
Badin vs. Morrissey; Walsh vs. Corby ; Sorin vs. Sophomore; no game, Lyons.	<
[3 Him.iiiiiiiiiiiiin...in.mm.  iiiiiiiini.nQ
| DINE...	|
1	Every Evening To The	e
i	Merry Tunes of The	i
| Notre Dame Jugglers |
0
Novelty - Colored Corduroy Pants
All Sizes, 28 to 38 Tan, Grey or Blue Regular $4 to $5 values
DINNERS ... 50c
LUNCHEONS . . 35c
MEN’S
OXFORDS
Black or Tan, Endicott-Johnson make,
GOLFERS
A Bankrupt Special 4 CLUBS and LEATHER BAG
1	Siveets and Confections	I
1	of all Kinds	I
I NOBILE'S I
I	108 S. Main	I
new toes, all sizes 5 to 11
Regular
$1.95 $r« A com
value,
complete
$4.00
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY — U. S. ARMY STORE
330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET

-a
The Notre Dame Scholastic
615
NETMEN JOURNEY TO MARQUETTE, BUTLER
Blue and Gold Favored Over Hilltoppers and Bulldogs.
After having split in the two games which comprised their eastern invasion, Coach George Keogan brings his eagers back to the middle west. The eastern trip proved to be a thriller for the locals. Last Saturday afternoon they barely nosed the Army five out with a 26-25 score. And then on Monday evening the Syracuse quintet, which gained the national title last year, had the long end of a 28-23 score; but it took an overtime period for them to make it. This evening the Blue and Gold eagers invade the Marquette gym.
Although the Notre Dame men were forced to fight every inch of the way in their two eastern games, it is probable that they will not be quite so hard pushed when they stack up against the Hilltoppers this evening. In the first engagement between these two schools this year, which took place January 13, Notre Dame shot their way to a 30-23 victory. It was a hard-fought game, but the Notre Dame five held the edge throughout the entire contest. The Milwaukeeans will have the first advantage to be offered, however, in that the game is to be played on their home court. In all probability the same lineup that faced the Notre Dame team here a few weeks ago will once again bear the brunt of the Marquette attack.
Notre Dame’s invasion in enemy territory of the middle-west will be resumed again next Tuesday when Coach Keogan takes his boys to Indianapolis to meet the Butler team in a return engagement. The war cry of the opposition on that particular evening will be, “Revenge is sweet.” It will be recalled that Notre Dame was the second team to defeat the Butler aggregation, after they had rung up a list of 13 victories. And if there is anything that aggravates a coach it is for some team to add a second blot to the record, after his boys have gone through such a successful season. That, however, is just another break in basketball. You can bet your last nickel, however, that Coach Paul (Tony) Hinkel will make it clear to his proteges next Tuesday night before they take the floor, that
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
Notre Dame put the second stain on an otherwise perfect record.
The Butler lineup has not as yet been made official but it is a certainty that Coach Hinkel will start his five strongest and best shots against Notre Dame. The curtain will rise, no doubt, with Miller and Davis holding down the forward positions; Tackett or Wolf will undoubtedly be at the pivot post, while Chadd and Proffitt are almost sure bids for the guarding places.
FOOTBALL STARS FORM BASKETBALL QUINTET
Nine members of the 1930 national championship football eleven, three of them all-Americans, and Tim Moynihan, colorful center on the 1929 national champions, will make up a basketball team that will journey to Dixon, Illinois, March 14, to participate in a benefit basketball game.
The three all-Americans who will swap their moleskins for basketball togs are Frank Carideo, quarterback; Marchy Schwartz, left halfback, and
These better bran flakes have three vital elements — whole wheat for nourishment, extra bran for extra health — just enough to be mildly laxative— and that famous flavor of PEP —the crisp, tempting taste that only Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes can give you.
Enjoy them at breakfast, lunch, after dances. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. In the red-and-green carton.
BRAN FLAKES
his running mate, Marty Brill, right half. Carideo was a member of the Notre Dame basketball squad last year- and Schwartz starred at forward for Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, high school.	■
The team will undoubtedly be led by Captain Tom Conley, right end, who won his monogram last year as a guard on the Notre Dame five. Others who will play in the charity fracas are Nordy Hoffman, tackle; Al Culver, tackle, and Bernie Leahy, left half, formerly a star forward on Paddy Driscoll’s St. Mel team in Chicago.
Tim Moynihan has been hard at work, practicing with the varsity and freshman squads whenever possible. If recent practices are any indication Tim will be one of the mainstays on the football five.
Opposition will be furnished by a team of stars selected from the fast Dixon commercial league. Several former college aces will be seen in action for the Illinois group.
616
The Notre Dame Scholastic
How Would You
Like...
to spend your money with a concern that bought hundreds of dollars worth of merchandise that you sold? How would you like to continue spending your money with this same firm if the majority of this firm’s business went past your door? How long would you continue giving out your dollars when no dollars came back from this hypothetical firm?
You are a member of a concern. You spend in the aggregate, hundreds of dollars a year. You wear clothes. You bujT hats. You are partial, perhaps, to clean linens. You buy toilet requisites, such as tooth paste, talcums, razor blades. A few of you, perhaps, find a little oil necessary for the hair. These latter items you buy in South Bend,or at Notre Dame.Whence come your shoes, your hats, your new tuxedos, your dozens of shirts?
We would not think of asking you to buy inferior merchandise merely to patronize a supporter of your publications. We are speaking of nationally advertised brands that are sold for the some prices here as everywhere else in the country. You can place your business where you will. We believe it is good business for you to buy where you live — and you live here at Notre Dame, a few steps from South Bend, ten months out of the year.
Why not buy that Easter wardrobe to-morrow in South Bend, at one of the stores you will find by merely glancing through these advertising pages?
Board of Publications
Administration Building At the University Notre Dame, Ind.
On Down the Line
. . . The late WALTER ECKER-SALL, football star at Chicago, twice performed the feat of dropkicking five goals during a game . . . against Illinois in 1905, and against Nebraska a year later . . . HELEN WILLS MOODY has won four consecutive victories at Wimbledon . . . The honor of winning the first tournament in which the new golf ball was accepted as the standard ball of play was bestowed upon TONY MANERO of Elmsford, N. Y., golf professional in the recent Pasadena Open event. . .
. . . ERWIN RUDOLPH, recent winner of the pocket billiards championship, trains for competition on the green cloth by pitching hay on his farm at Chardon, Ohio . . . during five months of the year he does not use a cue . . . While his father travels the country daring all opposition by oral methods . . . SMEDLEY BUTLER, JR., student at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, believes in saying it with fists . . . the son of the famous marine general competes for his college in the 175-pound class . . .
. . . An outstanding English soccer team, the Arsenals, plans to reconstruct its park so that the covered grandstands will provide accommodations for- 100,000 spectators . . . Twenty-eight players who performed in the Texas league are receiving trials with various major league teams this spring . . . LEROY SHINE, student manager of Alabama’s basketball team, “shines” brilliantly on the hardwood and track . . . MARK KELLY, sports editor of the Los Angeles Examiner, was a great football player in his day . . .
. . . PRIMO CARNERA has made §300,000 in the past ten months despite the fact that he had been banned by commissions all over the country . . . CARNERA has fought 24 times, and has given 56 exhibitions . . . REB RUSSELL, Northwestern football ace, is one of the Purple’s mainstays on the diamond also . . . ACE HUDKINS, the “Nebraska Wildcat,” has been doing road work for several weeks in the hope of recouping the hard-earned money he * wasted so quickly . . .
" In the Crescent
«>
... as in 42 other leading colleges, there is one favorite smoking tobacco
Engineers walking across campus to a lab in Sibley . . . arts students gathered on the porch of Goldwin Smith . . . lawyers on the steps of Boardman. Not much time between classes ... but enough for a pull on a pipe of good old Edgeworth!
Cornell men know their smoking tobacco. And they’re not alone in their choice. Harvard, Yale, Illinois, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth, Bowdoin—all report Edgeworth far in the lead. In 42 out of 54 leading colleges and universities Edgeworth is the favorite pipe tobacco.
Cool, slow-burning hurleys give this smoke the character that college men like. Try a tin of Edgeworth yourself—pack it into your pipe, light up, and taste the rich natural savor of fine burleys, enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
At all tobacco stores—15(5 the tin. Or, for generous free sample,' write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S.
* 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO

Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, withits natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready-Rubbed ” and “ Plug Slice.” All sizes, 154 pocket package to pound humidor tin.


*
The Notre Dame Scholastic
617
SENIOR BALL LIST
(Continued from Page 591)
• PROGRAM COMMITTEE—Malcom R. Mc-Vean, chairman; William B. Chawgo, chairman ; James Gallagher, William Gadek, John Van Dike, Robert Armstrong, Tom Ditchfield, William Vallee, James G. Murphy, Albert Grisanti, John Burns, Ellis Blumstrum, Lawrence Halter. George Richter.
ENTERTAINMENT COMMITTEE—Thomas S. Yarr, chairman: Frank J. McGreal, associate chairman : Robert Pigott. Raymond Ryan. James Seifert, John Keefe, William Redmond, John C. Hooley. Robert Cunningham, Raymond Gloudemans, William Cassidy, William Cooney. Bart O’Shea. Gordon Salmon.
TICKET COMMITTEE—Frank J. Henne-berger, chairman: Charles A. McAleer, co-chairman ; Edward Mahon, John Manley. Frank Flannery. Norbert Christman, Allan Howard, James Doyle, Fred Rahaim, Walter DeBaene, Joseph Thornton. Joseph Lauerman. Walter Beesley, Gerald Ball. Joseph O’Rourke. Nick Bohling.
TEA-DANCE COMMITTEE — Edward L. Shean, chairman : Robert A. Golden, co-chairman ; Joseph O’Hora, Joseph Schroeder, Jack Laux, John Bergan, Charles Mannix, Fred Reiman, Frank Kosky, Joseph Blaney, Walter Ridley, Vernon Knox, Charles Spinelli. James Kearney.
INVITATIONS COMMITTEE—William A. Morphy, chairman: Joseph W. Meitzler. co-chairman ; Edward Flynn. Marcelino Garza, Albert Tuohy. Richard Connelly, Donald McDonald. Jarlath Slattery, James Biggins. Norman Herwit. Samuel Verano. James Griffin. Steinhart A. Gansauge, George Costello.
ARRANGEMENTS COMMITTEE—Nordy F. Hoffman, chairman; Daniel D. Halpin, co-chairman ; Raymond Neu, Charles Wittman. Jerome Culligan, Jerome Wiggins, William Reaume, Warner Reising, Anthony Schreiner, James Comeford, Noel Gies, James Rudolf, Stephan Roth. John P. Ryan.
FAVORS COMMITTEE—Jack M. Hughes, chairman; James H. Murray, associate chairman ; Lawrence Kral, Frank Gannon, Myron Hirshfield, Rolland Poulin. John Dorschel. Edward Flynn. Joseph Gavin. Max Paschoff, Edwin Kosky, Paul Grant. Richard Lacey. Edward Cunningham.
Grimaldo, Dunand Speak
Ralph Grimaldo, of Panama, a sophomore in the Mechanical Engineering school, addressed the Spanish club at its regular meeting last Tuesday evening at 1:00 p. m., in the old Law building. He presented a very interesting talk on the history of his country and the habits of the people. He also told of the numerous possibilities for the student studying Spanish.
Rene Dunand, of Mexico, a senior in the College of Commerce, was the other speaker of the evening. He gave an illustrated talk on the system of education used in Mexico. At the conclusion of the talks questions were asked by the members^
GUADNOLA HEADS DANCE
(Continued from Page 590)
I. Glass, Richard V. Konkowski, Edward G. McClallen. Joseph A. Moran.
DECORATIONS—John M. Mahoney, chairman : Earl L. Hessmer, James E. Keating. Earl J. O’Brien, Joseph V. Stodola, John R. Sullivan, John H. Tuberty.
INVITATIONS—James W. Murray, chairman ; Francis G. Fedder, Qliver F. Field. Garchin R. Friedman, William J. Judge, William L. O’Malley. Henry R. Pratt.
PATRONS AND PATRONESSES—Colonel William J. Hoynes. Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop. Judge and Mrs. William M. Cain. Judge and Mrs. Orlo R. Deahl, Professor and Mrs. Homer Q. Earl, Professor- and Mrs. Aaron H. Huguenard, Professor Clarence E. Manion, Professor and Mrs. Elton E. Richter. Professor and Mrs. William D. Rollison. Professor John H. Whitman.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continuer! from Page 595)
and Jim Murray in there before you. They keep him from worrying too much about his managerial duties and those required by his commerce course. Jack started in the A.B. school, but wore the drab tassel of the College of Commerce on his cap at the Washington’s Birthday exercises.
He is fond of telling about the eight weeks he spent at the University of Florida’s summer session in 1929, where he garnered a few extra credits. Murray and O’Shea are fond of asking him about Muskegon, Michigan, where Jack claims he visits
HELLO MEN!	|
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard	i
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of
Notre Dame
relatives. Like nearly every other senior, he is undecided as to what he will do after graduation. Perhaps he will enter the lumber business in Jacksonville. Meanwhile he will help the Keoganites close a successful season and receive his monogram in the spring. He is also undecided about managing. “It’s a lot of fun,” he says, “but —.”
—A. L. B.
LAY PROFESSORS MEET
(Continued from Page 598)
as to prophesy what would be the outcome of fascism in its relation to world peace. But he did suggest some possibilities. Fascism has no exact parallel in history, he said, and even if history does not repeat history, in spite of the saying, it might be assumed that Mussolini may not act differently from other famous dictators, like Napoleon. When energy finds no popular interest at home, the dictator is likely to go abroad to divert waning popular interest by the glamor of war and the glory of conquest.
In conclusion, Professor Farrell suggested the desirable possibility that through the increase in education and general advancement of the Italian people as a result of Mussolini's dictatorship, the fascist energy may possibly be steered into domestic channels, and Italy may once more give birth to a new era of culture and refinement.
we spend $2,000,000
, JWF ■ -J ' ',	•	■■
to pot vAMEL cigarettes
in the new Humidor Pack
Ma>«v—..
We have been in the tobacco business a long time down here at Winston-Salem and we take a lot of pride in the quality of the cigarettes we make.
While we have spent a good many million dollars advertising Camels, we’ve always held to the old fashioned idea that the thing that really counts is what we put into our cigarette and not what we say about it.
If we know anything about tobacco, and we think we do, Camels contain the choicest Turkish and the mellowest, ripest domestic leaves that money can buy.
In fact we have every reason to be proud of the quality of Camels as they come from the factory, but the remark of an old friend of ours from Dcuvc^some lime agc^emphasized a point ^.^at-ah^s. heenrth^^hrohlein ^nf tlic cigarette ^^^Tmustry, ibr years.
* As he inhaled the smoke from a Camel we gave him in our offices one morning, he sighed with very evident enjoyment and then asked jokingly, “What is this, a special blend reserved for Camel executives?”
“Certainly not,” we told him. “This package of Camels was bought at the corner store this morning.”
“Well,” he said, “I’ve been a dyed in the wool Camel smoker for a good many years, but upon my soul I never got a cigarette as good as this in Denver. If you would give the rest of the world the kind of Camels you sell here in Winston-Salem, you ought to have all the cigarette business there is.”
J.HAT statement simply emphasized again the cigarette industry’s most important problem. The more we thought about it, the surer we were that he was dead right, and that somehow, something must be done.
Denver wasn’t getting a fair break. Neither in fact was any other town. The only people who really knew how good Camels could be,were the folks right here in Winston-Salem.
That was due to a factor no cigarette manufacturer had ever been able to control.
Naturally there is no difference whatever in the quality
SMOKE A FRESH CIGARETTE
of the tobacco in Camels, whether you buy them in Winston-Salem, Denver or Timbuc-too. But up to now there has been a very real difference in the condition of the cigarettes, by the time they reached the-smoker.
The flavor and mildness of fine tobacco depend upon the retention of its natural, not. added, moisture content which is prime at abou t ten per con I.
In spile of our great pains always to make sure Camels left the factory with just the right amount of natural moisture, no cigarette pack-age had ever yet been designed that could prevent that precious moisture from drying out.
1.IIERE are three things about a eigarelle that can sting the tongue and unkindly burn the
throat- .
£
(2)	Particles of peppery dust ^pft in the tobacco because of ineffieient. cleaning methods.
(3)	A parched dry condition of the tobacco due to loss of nuturul moisture by overheutiny or evaporation.
Always certain of the quality of our tobaccos we had already made Camel a “dustless” cigarette by the use of a specially designed vacuum cleaning apparatus exclusive with our factory.
Now, if we could perfect a package that would actually act as a humidor and retain the natural moisture content, then Yuma, Arizona, could enjoy Camels as much as we do here at Winston-Salem.
We knew what we wanted.
We tried many things. We asked the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory to help us.
humidity tests covering all methods of packing cigarettes came the detailed report of which this is the net:
(A) No existing cigarette package, including those wrapped in glassine paper or ordinary cellophane, gives anything like adequate protection against evaporation.
(13) All cigarettes so packed tend to dry out rapidly from the day they are released from
(C) Only a waterproof material with a .specially devised
air-tight, seal could give the desired protection. (D) This measure, while costly, could be relied on to keep Camels in prime condition for at least three months in any climate.
If you have a technical bent, the graph below made by the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory will show you the exact results of their exhaustive study.
cigarettes to you in prime condition
YOU may be sure we gave this report a lot of careful study. We checked it and re-checked it and then we went ahead. We tried this device and that. At last we met success. The air-tight wrapping involved the designing of special processes, special machines.
Thal costs a lot of money, more than $2,000,-000 the first year, but after you have tried Camels packed this modern new way we are sure you will agree it is a fine investment.
For some time now every Camel that has left our factory has gone out in this new Humidor Pack.
We have said nothing about it until now, to make sure your dealer would be able to supply you when the good news came out.
Camel smokers of course have already discovered that their favorite cigarette is heller and milder now than ever before.
If you aren’t a Camel smoker, try them just to see what a difference there really is between harsh, dried out tobacco and a properly conditioned cigarette.
You can feel the difference, you can hear the difference and you certainly can taste the difference.
Of course we’re prejudiced.
We always have believed that Camel js the world’s best cigarette.
Now we know it.
Just treat yourself to Camels in the new Humidor Pack and see if you don’t agree.
K. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
H7inston-Salem. A'. C.
620	The Notre Dame Scholastic
BROWNSON HALL VICTORS
Second Interhall Preliminary Goes to Main Building.
Brownson hall won the second Interhall Track meet held last Tuesday night by amassing a total of 39% points to lead their nearest rival, St. Edward’s hall by more than twenty points. Morrissey hall placed third with 11 points, closely followed by Carroll hall with 10. Walsh scored 6 points, while Sophomore hall’s lone entrant managed to garner 3.
One new Interhall record was set up when King of Brownson, stepped a mile in the excellent time of 4:27. Brownson won firsts in the mile, the pole vault, the 60-yard dash, the 60-yard low hurdles, and the relay, besides scoring heavily in the other events.
St. Edward’s mainstays were four football men, Joe Kurth, Len Bice, Larry Vejar, and Nick Lukats. Kurth placed first in the shot-put while Lukats took third in the same event. Bice rang off a first place in the broad jump and was closely followed by Vejar.
Carroll hall made a sweep of the half-mile event which was won by Kolb. Jones added five points to Morrissey’s total when he did the 440-yard dash in 55 seconds.
The relay was one of the most interesting events on the program. Carroll drew the pole and held a lead for the first lap. Milheim, running second for Brownson, gave his team a big lead which they maintained until Vejar of St. Edward’s made up most of the gap and McCarthy of the same hall took the lead. On the final stretch of the last lap, McDonald of Brownson passed Bice and rang up five points.
Summaries:
Mile Run—Won by King (Br.); Else (Br.), second; Moran (Car.), third. Time 4:27 (new interhall record).
Pole Vault—Won by Krack (Br.); Morris (Br.), second; O’Conners (Br.) and Ackerman (St. E.), tied for third. Height 10 feet, 6 inches.
Shot Put—Won by Kurth (St. E.); Halperin (So.), second; Lukats (St. E.), third. Distance 38 feet; 6 inches.
Broad Jump—Won by Bice (St. E.); Vejar (St. E.), second; Schidel (Br.), third. Distance 20 feet..
880-Yard Run — Won by Kolb (Car.); McIntosh (Car.), second; Moran (Car.), third. Time 2:18.2.
60-Yard Dash—Won by Milheim (Br.); Harrington (Br.), second; Egan (St. E.) third. Time :06.6.
440-Yard Run — Won by Jones (Morr.) ; Miller (Wal.), second; MacDonald (Br.), third. Time :55.
60-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Hoeschler (Br.); Ackerman (St. E.), second; Else (Br.), third. Time :08.4.
High Jump — Won by O’Hara (Morr.) ; Ellis (Wal.),second; Lough-rey (Morr.), third. Height 5 feet, 4 inches.
Mile Relay—Won by Brownson; St. Edward’s, second; Carroll, third.
FARM SUPERINTENDENT RETURNS FROM TRIP
Brother Leo, C.S.C., superintendent of all farms owned by the University and honorary member of the faculty of the department of agriculture, returned last week from a combined business and pleasure trip through the South. He studied, during the three weeks’ time, the present agricultural conditions of this area. He visited schools of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Austin, Texas, in Mississippi, and in Washington, D. C. He reports that Texas is an excellent agricultural state, although the conditions resulting from the severe drought have been very serious throughout the South. Several ranches in Mexico were also visited.
Brother Leo is a well-known member of the Holy Cross community here at Notre Dame, and is recognized nationally as an expert agriculturist and authority on the raising and feeding of live stock. He has been in charge of the University farms for more than twenty years, and has been called on occasionally to give lectures to students in the department of agriculture. He has not lectured for the past four years, being occupied with his duties as superintendent of the farms.
. Orchestra to Rehearse
The newly organized concert orchestra will hold its regular rehearsal ' on Tuesday afternoons at 3:00 o’clock until further notice.
Anyone playing a standard orchestral instrument such as violin, ’cello, viola, etc., many apply for merbership at the time of rehearsal.
RESEARCH WORK DONE BY AGGIE STUDENTS
Robert Gore, a senior in the department of agriculture, and Thomas Oester, a senior in the department of pharmacy, are now busily engaged in experimental work, trying to isolate, grow, and then study the habits of a protozoan parasite called the Eimeria or Coccidium avium, which causes the disease among poultry, known as coc-cidiosis. The action of this parasite causes thousands of dollars of damage annually to poultry.
The experiments include the obtaining of specimens of poultry on which this organism had been living, and samples of blood infected with the germs, from which cultures are made and tested. Much valuable literature and other experimental data has been applied for and received from many of the leading universities of the country, including Harvard, Chicago, and several others. The isolation and possible prevention of the damaging action of this parasite would be a contribution of great importance to the fields of sicence and agriculture.
Grand Rapids Club Banquets
Failing to lapse into the somnolence characteristic of the state and city clubs after their Christmas dances, the Grand Rapids club has been very active in January and February. Two banquets were held in January, and one was held last Tuesday evening at the Rose Marie tea room. About twenty attended the banquet last Tuesday. After dinner, the members of the club discussed plans for the Easter dance, and it was decided that the dance should be held the Monday after Easter.
Golf Course to Be Opened
Saturday or Sunday, weather permitting, the University golf course is to be opened for the season. Workmen have been busy for some time reconditioning the course, and rolling the fairways and greens. The former are in wonderful condition, and unless the weather forbids, the golf season should be in full swing early next week.
Foreign Commerce Meeting
A special meeting of the Foreign Commerce club will be held next Monday at 8:00 p. m. in the old Law building.
COMPARE a package of Camels with any other cigarette and note the difference in the technique of packing.
Note that Camels are completely enclosed in an outer transparent cover of moisture-proof cellophane and sealed air-tight at every point.
We call this outer shell the Humidor Pack. It differs from the ordinary cellophane pack and while it is egg-shell thin, it means a lot in terms of cigarette enjoyment.
It means, for instance, that evapora* tion is checkmated and that Salt Lake City can now have as good Camels as Winston-Salem.
While Camels are made of a blend of the choicest Turkish and mellowest domestic tobaccos, it is highly important, if you are to get full benefit of
this quality, that these cigarettes come to you with their natural moisture content still intact.
25 DAY CHART OF CIGARETTE MOISTURE LOSS
The Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory chart above graphically shows you that only the Camel Humidor Pack delivers cigarettes to you in prime condition
The Humidor Pack insures that. It prevents the fine tobaccos of Camels from drying out and losing any of their delightful flavor.
Aside from cheap tobacco, two factors in a cigarette can mar the smoker’s pleasure:
Fine particles of peppery dust if left in the tobacco by inefficient cleaning methods sting and irritate delicate throat membrane.
Dry tobacco, robbed of its natural moisture by scorching or by evaporation gives off a hot smoke that burns the throat with every inhalation.
We take every precaution against . these factors here at Winston- Salem.
A special vacuum cleaning apparatus removes dust and now the new Humidor Pack prevents dryness.
Check the difference youmelf It is a very simple matter to check the difference between Humidor Packed
? •
Camels and other ordinary dry cigarettes.
First of all you can feel the difference as you roll the cigarettes between your fingers. Camels are full-bodied and pliable. A dry cigarette crumbles under pressure and sheds tobacco.
If you will hold a cigarette to each ear and roll them with your fingers you can actually hear the difference.
The real test of course is to smoke them. And here’s where the new Humidor Pack proves a real blessing to the smoker.
As you inhale the cool, fragrant smoke from a Camel you get all the mildness and magic of the fine tobaccos of which it is blended.
But when you draw in the hot smoke from a dried cigarette see how flat and brackish it is by comparison and how harsh it is to your throat.
If you are a regular Camel smoker you have already noticed what proper condition of the cigarette means.
But if you haven’t tried Camels in the new Humidor Pack you have a new adventure with Lady Nicotine in store.
Switch your affections for just one day, then go back to your old love tomorrow if you can.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, fPhiaton-Salem, N. C.
* smoke a Fresh cigarette!
The Arena
Causa Nostrae Laetitiae
(Dedicated to the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.)
There uprose a golden giant On the gilded house of Nero
Even his far-flung flaming shadoivsand his image szvollen large
Looking down on the dz~y whirlpool Of the z'ound Arena spinning
As a chariot-zvheel goes spinning; and the chariots at the charge.
(	And the molten monstrous visage
Saw the pageants, sazv the torments, Dozen the goldezi dust zindazzled sazv the gladiators go, Heard the cry izi the closed desert, Te salutant morituri,	‘
As the slaves of doom zvent stumbling, shuddering, to the shades belozv.
“Lord of Life, of lyres and laughter,
Those about to die salute thee,
At thy godlike fancy feeding men zvith bread and beasts zvith men, Bitt for zis the Fates point deathzvard
In a thousand thumbs thrust dozvnzvard,
And the Dog of Hell is roaring through the lions in their den.”
I have seen, zvhere a strange country Opened its secret plains about me, One great golden dome stand lonely zvith its golden image, one Seen afar, in strange fulfilment, Through the sunlit Indian summer That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed her with the Sun.
She too looks on the Arena, Sees the gladiators in grapple, She zvhose names are Seven Sorrows and the Cause of All Our Joy, Sees the pit that stank with slaughter Scoured to make the courts of morning	.
For the cheers of jesting kindred and the scampering of a boy.
“Queen of Death and deadly zveeping Those about to live salute thee,
Youth untroubled; youth untortured; hateless zvaz~ and harmless mirth
And the Nezv Lord’s larger largesse
Holier bread and happier circus,
Since the Queen of Sevenfold Sorrow has brought joy zipon the earth:
’ Bums above the broad arena Where the whirling centuries circle, Bums the Sun-clothed on the summit, golden-sheeted, golden-shod, Like a sun-burst on the mountains, Like the flames upon the forest
Of the sunbeams of the sivord-blades of the Gladiators of God.
And I sazv them shock the zvhirlwizid
Of the world of dust and dazzle:
And thrice they stamped, a thuzzderclap; and thrice the sand-zvheelszvirled;
Aznd thrice they cried like thunder On Our Lady of the Victories, The Mother of the Master of the Masterers of the World.
“Queen of Death and Life undying Those about to live salute thee;
Not the crazvlers zvith the cattle; looking deathward with the szvine, But the shout upon the mountains Of the men that live for ever .
Who are free of all things living but a Child; and He zvas thine.”
—G. K. Chesterton.