


,!• 
:-.·· 
<" 

WITH OPENING ACT ACE ENDERS (FORMERLY OF THE EARLY NOVEMBER) 
ANJlbstalc& 
Best Week. Ever. 
? 
APRIL 25TH LEGENDS DOORS AT 9, SHOW AT lO 

a 2 
PRILl2008 

news 05 
8 On the Campaign Trail 
Jessica Farmwald 
Scholastic tags along with sophomore Tom Pappas as he campaigns for the Indiana State House of Representatives. 
11 culture 
1 2 Real Men Against Violence 
Kate Zinsmeister 
Notre Dame men are joining the historically female fight to end 
sexual violence. 
14 Cover, Part 1 : What's Missing? 
Courtney Ball 
Despite a long history of student activism, the non-discrimination clause remains the 
same. Why hasn't it changed, and will the new petition make a difference? 
18 Cover, Part 2: Notre Dame: Ally or Enemy? 
Courtney-Ball 
Gay students speak out about the problem of reconciling their faith and sexual 
orientation at Notre Dame. 

23 Zahm Gets a Facelift 
Molly Conaty 
The infamous Zahmbies renew a trademark tradition in time for the Blue-Gold game. 


sports 25 
·26 A Dream Deferred, Part Deux 
Marques Camp 
The Cinderella Irish hockey team makes Notre Dame history with their first appearance at the Frozen Four but once again, comes up short of a title. 

30 humor 
3 2 Dream School 
Natalie Kratz 
Notre Dame cuts an imposing figure in the annual Princeton Review's college rankings ... sort of. 
24 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 




EDNOTES 
GAY? FINE BY ... WHO? 
In the past two weeks: Progressive Student Alliance members stood in front of both dining halls, asking for signatures in support of adding sexual orientation to Notr:e Dame's non-discrimination clause. Stand Against Hate week featured an academic forum on Homosexuality and Catholicism and a prayer vigil at the Grotto. The "Gay? ;Fine by Me" T-shirt solidarity event flooded the campus with orange. 
\;Vhat was once a movement fueled primarily by the gay community now has the force of much of the student body behind it. But will it make a difference to the administration? 
On page 14, Assistant Culture Editor Courtney Ball follows the history of this debate, from the origins of gay rights student groups, to the attempt to change the non-discrimination clause in 1998, to where this issue may (or may not) be headed in the coming years. In a second section of our cover story, beginning 
on page 18, in-depth interviews with gay students describe their experience 
ofNotre Dame. Some students explain how they are trying to reconcile their 
sexuality with their Catholic faith. 
"\ft.That is "Fine by" students? "Fine by" the administration? "Fine by" alumni? 
"Fine by" the Church? Though the answers to these questions often intersect, 
none agree completely, and the debate is likely to continue. 
WE GOT A WEB SITE! 
Well, technically we've had one for awhile. But since it's been stuck on the 2006 Football Review for over a year, we're excited to announce that from now on, our brilliant and talented Webmaster Phil Langthorne will be making our stories and photos immediately available online at nd.edu/~scholast. Now you can e-mail links to the Gipper to your high school friends, stories about ND's rich academic environment home to the parents, and articles on our unyielding Catholic character to grandma and grandpa. Be on the lookout for additional features such as reader response forums, bonus interview material and issue archives coming next fall! 
CONGRATULATIONS, SENIORS 
If the football team doesn't give you a reason to come back next fall, maybe 
the recent addition of health foods in the Huddle and new game-day recycling 
initiatives described in News Notes, pages 6-7, will. And as a special goodbye 
present, your longtime friend the Gipper has put together a list on page 31 of 
the top five best tips from your years at ND. Enjoy, and thanks for reading. 
See the rest ofyou in the fall, 



That's What She Said 
"A Festival of Our Own11 
Meghan Drapalik 
Chick lit. Not to be confused with Chiclets, those little pieces of gum that somehow lose their taste before you even start to chew them. But for some writers like Alice McDermott, chick lit is equally flavorless. "Chick lit is to some people's tastes," she says, "but it has a pejorative echo, especially for young women writers _who find themselves pushed into this category." 
While the heroines of chick lit stereotypically live in the city, flaunt high-powered jobs and celebrate single life, the characters ofMcDermott's writing are subtler and more complex, haunted by memories more troubling than a Starbucks run-in with an ex-boyfriend and battling problems bigger than the fashion police. 
The typical. depiction of women's writing as shallow, formulaic and wholly defiped by the author's gender is one of the reasons English Professor Valerie Sayers says women writers are often unrecognized in literary circles. "Men are often considered more serious, more important, more ambitious. Women writers get lost," she says. Sayers, therefore, joined with her colleague Katherine O'Brien O'Keeffe and the Creative Writing Department to help correct what O'Keeffe calls the "woeful under-representation" ofwomen writers, especially in collegiate circles. 
Their solution morphed into Notre Dame's first annual Women's Writers Conference, "A Festival of Our Own," which ran from April 15­
16. The conference featured three authors -McDermott, Lily Hoang (pictured at right) and Katherine Vaz -who held readings of their work and participated in a culminating panel discussion. 
"Writers at the conference have a terrific range. They create a wonderful balance between the experiential and conceptual," Sayers says. 
Each of the women's writing is infused with Catholicism or in some way addresses the Catholic experience. McDermott, however, does not see her writing as distinctly religious and says that the sisters from her high school would be "just rolling in their graves" if they knew she was viewed as a Catholic writer. Instead, McDermott finds herself drawn to writing about Catholics for reasons other than the typical religious motivations. "Catholics already have a language for things, those things my characters yearn for, that is given to them by the Church," McDermott says. 
Just as McDermott does not feel pressured to write as a woman or as a Catholic, she is similarly not interested in writing cultural commentary. "I want to connect with readers about things true to us at all times, at all places, more than.,passing observation," McDermott says. 
Yet, these women still write within a culture where, despite the universal appeal of their work, McDermott fears men shy away from her books with their feminine covers. Even J.K. Rowling abbreviated her name in order to attract a larger audience. This conference, then, provides a special acknowledgement of women's writing that defies being branded as merely chick lit. 
McDermott jokes at a reading of "Our Girls," her new short story, that a festival for women writers at Notre Dame is only the beginning. "How about a presidency ofour own? A papacy ofour own?" she sl).ys. "You know what they say about women; once you let them in ..." + 

NEWS 

HUMAN RIGHTS PROTEST Students stage a protest of the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing on Fieldhouse Mall. 




-


Paris and Nicole joint wedding: AB if the thought of them propagating wasn't bad enough. 
Students try to set world record for longest spoon train. Let's hear it for campus activism! 
Indiana is finally relevant in the primaries. Too bad it's 
still Indiana. 
Christian Siriano speaks during Antostal. Seriously fierce. 
Live band at Pigtostal -good thing, since it took 45 minutes to get a beer. 
Eating Healthy at the Huddle 
LaFortune adds organic foods to its offerings 
Sarah Angle 
The home of the quarter dog now has an entire section devoted to organic and natural foods. 
According to Jim LaBella, manager of the Huddle Mart, the section was added to fill increasing student demand for healthy foods, as well as to replace the dying video rental section. "Basically, what I have going on there is vegan things, gluten-free items, some dairy free items and then just some organic natural foods," he says. 
LaBella checked out health food stores in the area to see which items were popular. The variety in the Huddle Mart ranges from Asian noodle entrees, assorted health bars, dried fruit and wheat-free crackers, to espresso chocol.ate chunk cookies. So far, he says, "Student response has been phenomenal." 
For some, the section was long-awaited. Sophomore Lindsey Hough says she is happy with the new addition a11d likes to periodically browse for new items. She hopes that the next step will be to for the university to begin to offer more organic choices in the dining hall. "The locally grown produce is a step in the right direction, but the university could definitely add more," Hough says. 
The new selection appeals to a wide base ofstudents. Even a slightly inebriated student was found enjoying some multi grain pita chips on a recent Friday night. When asked how he liked the new section, he replied enthusiastically thit it was great he could find a healthy snack for late nights. "When you're up at 2 · a.m., you don't want to be eating food that's complete s*** for you. What most people have to eat that late is the s***tiest food ever, and not what you should be eating that late." 
One complaint has been that the new foods are more expensive, but that is not uncommon to hear about organic products. LaBella reassures studen.ts that the foods are being sold at suggested retail, which is much cheaper than at other health food specialty stores. + 
6 ) SCHOLASTIC ) 24 APRIL 2008 

NEWS 

FILM FEST The Midwest Undergraduate Film Conference ran from April 11-FROM ND TO AFRICA Students on stationary bikes use their quads to 
13. Three-person panels included students presenting on their own papers. show support for the "Bike to Uganda" fundraising event. 
WM A &WiiiA#M#W 51? 9§95# iMB&k&Mk &SBJf,&k¼iMN?f SHi@BiShfiii1RM 49 S 9 M ¥ f6§&4fhi '-§½ii?MWM&ffit-



Blue+Gold -­Green 
Recycling initiatives tested on football weekend 
Vanessa Adjei 
In an effort to make strides toward a greener Notre Dame, a new recycling initiative debuted at the university's annual Blue-Gold football game on April 
19. The initiative was prompted by the student group Recyclin' Irish, a sub­group of GreeND, which is a "comprehensive student organization comprised of a leadership core and seven committees that organize and facilitate energy, environment and sustainability activities at Notre Dame," according to the group's Web site. 
The efforts of Recyclin' Irish and student volunteers were to ensure that the day's activities did not result in wastefulness. "Around eight students worked to hand out blue recycling bags to people tailgating and inform tailgaters what items they could recycle," Ann Kelley, president of Recyclin' Irish and 
GreeND member, says. Recycling bins were distributed throughout the stadium but may have 
_been overlooked amid the excitement surrounding the game. Junior Gabby Miller says she didn't notice the new recycling initiatives at the game. She did, however, describe a "noticeable change on campus" in the push to go green. "I 
know the dorms have had competitions and stuff to see who can recycle more, and I've noticed posters," Miller says. 
These new efforts are, in part, a response to Notre Dame's grade ofD-in the Sustainable Endowments Institute's 2007 College Sustainability Report Card. 
"The green initiatives will continue and will be larger and more widespread next year, especially because the topic of the [2008 Notre Dame] Forum is 'Charting a Sustainable Future,"' Kelley says. "Game-day recycling will also be back next year and will expand to all tailgating lots." + 

Most editorials written about vaginas. 

Highest obesity rate in squirrel population. 

Most misdiagnoses at a certified clinic. 

Longest Fro-Yo stand. (think keg stand, NDH style) 

Most sexually repressed students. 
24 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 

_NE_W~_S-__---------~----~-----_--------------~ 
Athree-hour drive back to his hometown, do or-to -door canvassing in freezing rain, 
fundraising efforts -all in a suit and tie. Not your typical Notre Dame student's Saturday. But then again, sophomore political science and classics major Tom 
· Pappas (or Thomas Konstantine Pappas, as the ballot will say on May 6) is not your typical Notre Dame student. 
"I've always had a deep sense ofpublic service," Pappas says. "I was looking around, looking to see how to become a state delegate to the Indiana Democratic Party convention, and I noticed that no one was running against Bob Behning [16-year Republican incumbent running
) 
for the District 91 seat in the House of 
I 
l Representatives]. So I thought, well, I'll file against him, because there should be a choice. There should be democracy, 
and I think this is a job I can do." 
Pappas thought he would face off against Behning in the election in November. A challenger for the Democratic nomination in the May 6 primary, however, arose in the form of Democrat Timothy Huber, a local carpenter who ran against Behning in 2006. "I was like, 'Game on, Mr. 

8 I SCHOLASTIC I 24 APRIL 2008 
ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL 
Sophomore Tom Pappas wants YOU to vote for him for the Indiana State House ofRepresentatives 
Jessica Farmwald 
Huber,"' Pappas says, grinning. 
And game on it was. Pappas has traveled home most weekends since he announced his candidacy on March 8. He participated in debates, held a pizza meet-and-greet for constituents and, most importantly, engaged in some good, old-fashioned "retail politics" -door­to-door canvassing, pavement pounding and flier distribution to make his name, face and message known to the voters. 
On one such mission, Pappas climbs out ofhis silver Ford Focus stationwagon in a neighborhood in Plainfield, Ind., just outside of Indianapolis. His communications director, Megan Clayton, a sophomore political science a:rid journalism major at Indiana University, and I scramble out behind him. 
"She's here to make sure I don't stay at the door too long," Pappas says jokingly. And, from what I can tell, to scold Pappas whenever he swears and to shoot me a pleading glance that clearly means, "That's off the record." 
We approach the first house of the day, and they tell me they have hit about 400 houses in the past two weeks. District 91 is a heavily Republican area, and Pappas usually starts by introducing himself and his primary issues -property tax equity, streamlining local government and education reform -without mentioning his party designation. 
A 30-something woman in a pink T-shirt answers the door, a yipping Yorkshire terrier under her right arm. Pappas launches into his spiel as the woman listens, glancing alternatively between his face and the flier he handed her. When Pappas pauses for a breath, the woman blurts out, "How old are you?" 
Pappas laughs and tells her he is 20 years old, and a college student. But he goes on to explain that he is serious about his candidacy and especially about Indiana's rising property tax, which he says has been a struggle in his own home. This leads to a conversation about what Pappas plans to do about the property tax if elected, and Pappas and Clayton walk away from the house saying they feel good about the ;xchange. 
One of our next encounters is not so friendly. Glancing at Pappas' flier, the man who answers the door says, "Wrong side of the island, buddy," and slams the door shut. We all laugh and shrug it off 


NEWS 
-on to the next constituent. 
We notice a freakishly high number of broken doorbells in the neighborhood; they are cracked and tend to stick if you aren't careful. We approach one~ with a working doorbell, and Clayton expresses hope: "Maybe this one will be a Democrat." Pappas eyes the un­broken doorbell and says, "Probably a Republican; they can afford to have their doorbell fixed." Clayton yelps, "Tom!" and shoots me the look. 
Soon we're playing this game at almost that she is proud of her son's dedication. "He's always been ambitious. He's much better than any of the other candidates, we know that," she says. "Not that I'm prejudiced." 
We leave, pick up a check, and then head to Pappas' high school German teacher's home. She and her husband invite us in to sit down, and immediately she and Pappas start chattering in German. All I manage to catch is "wunderbar," and.,she's pulling out her checkbook. Clayton and I exchange a make a difference." She also says to keep her posted, and she will consider making a contribution to his campaign. 
All in all, it's a successful day on the campaign trail. I make the drive back to campus around 6 p.m., but Pappas and Clayton keep working and tell me that they ended up with $800 in campaign funds at the end· ofthe day. 
Later in. the week, I sit down with Political Science Professor Peri Arnold to discuss Pappas' chances. "When I first heard this, I thought, 'that's bizarre,"' 
every house. Energy-saving --------------------------Arnold says. "You think 
light bulbs? "Democrats!" Pappas and Clayton say gleefully in unison. We encounter more unanswered doors with raucous dogs rather than people inside, a~d Pappas struggles to shove a flier in the crack of a door with br,and new weather stripping (Republicans). ".Weather stripping is our worst enemy," Pappas says. 
As we walk back to the car, Pappas and Clayton get into a discussion about home ownership that I barely follow, and it concludes as Pappas sighs and says, "But, T K. that's a federal issue." Offl • 
"You'll get there," Clayton 


P-Gs 
sh~ys, and I a1sk ~ap~as aboHut •----------.
1s eventua asprrat10ns. e says he'd like to serve in the 
state legislature for two years and then go to . law school, so he can learn "to serve in a greater capacity." He says in 10 years, he'd ·like to be representing Indiana in the U.S. Congress or serving as the governor of Indiana. 
We go back to the Pappas household to get directions to a house where Pappas needs to pickup a campaign contribution. They are working on raising the $600 needed to purchase 250 yard signs. 
Pappas has 'Clayton call his high school government teacher who has said he might contribute. "When's the last time you called him?" Pappas' mother says from the living room.. " 
"About three hours ago," Pappas says, grinning. "Oh, Tom!" his mother says ·· in exasperation. Pappas shrugs. "I'm persistent." His mother shows, however, 
rOR lND'JIN' A
r~ IM M 
"when did that happen?" look. 
They discuss the evils of the No Child Left Behind Act and how many weeks Grace and Max (her children, who Pappas knows by name) spend taking standardized tests instead _of being taught. "By the time I run for governor, you'll be able to vote for me," Pappas says to Max, and Max agrees that he will. "Gotta get 'em young," Pappas says. 
Our last visit is to the home of an ex-lobbyist who is also the mother of one of Pappas' friends. "You have my vote," she says. "I always thought you'd make a good politician. I totally expected you to run for office. Though not this soon." She tells Pappas that the legislature needs "smart, young minds -people who will most students are more concerned about their academic performance, or, in a worse case, having time to drink beer, than having time to run for office." 
If Pappas wins the primary on May 6, he will have to juggle classes in the fall with a campaign season for the general election. If he wins in November, he will have to take a leave of absence from the university during the spring semesters of 2009 and 2010 to attend the legislative sessions. 
But Arnold says he thinks 
it wil~ be a irepat learni~g 
experience ror appas, wm or lose. 
"People who win office tend to have lost races before that," Arnold says. 
"The former Congressperson in this district, Tim Roemer, did a Ph.D. at Notre Dame, and I was his director, It ·was his second or third year in grad school, and I remember he told me he was going to run for the state House in Indiana. I told him he was crazy. Why are you wasting your time? And he lost. And he finished his dissertation, and he went to Washington, came back a few years later, and ran for this congressional seat and won. So, in other words, you begin, typically, by losing the race, and so I think this would hold Tom in good stead, ifin fact he gets a taste out of this for wanting to do more." 
Maybe P_appas' choice ofhow to spend his Saturdays isn't so bizarre after all. + 
24 APRIL 2008 I Sc~ousnc I 9 

Faust Times at Notre Dame 
German legend celebrates in campus-wide campaign 
Dave Murren 
Good, evil, immortality, knowledge and repentance: How close is 
man to the best and the worst of the finite world? These, and many 
~ore themes, were seen everywhere this spring as the "Faust at Notre 
Dame" campaign invaded campus through numerous academic and 
artistic mediums. Faust's story tells of a man who sells his soul to the 
devil in exchange for infinite earthly power and knowledge. It also 
portrays a man's quest for immortality in a world in which the body 
must eventually die and the soul is left for either God or Satan. 
Mark Roche, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, says, "The 
university's Faust campaign fosters community. The Faust theme is 
all-encompassing because scholars from every field of study can find 
an affinity with Faust's own widespread studies." 
Faust was introduced as both a play and as an opera this spring, 
and was also discussed at an academic conference and in classrooms 
across campus. "The Faust theme has many intellectual and religious 
themes," Roche says. 
"The Tragical History of Dr. Faustus," Christopher Marlowe's theatrical version of the Faust story, was performed at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center April 8-13 and 17-19, and was directed by Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) professor Anton Juan. The majority of the play's performers were current Notre Dame students ·majoring in FTT. Extensive sets, costumes and props highlighted the performances. Juan also integrated modern forms of the Faustian theme. One such instance came at the end of the play when a screen showed Second Life (an Internet-based virtual world) "avatars" -a computer user's virtual incarnation ofhimself or herself. These digital representations interact with one another in a virtual and immortal 
world in which anything is possible. 
Stephanie Peters, a junior Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) and Pre-Professional studies major who read Marlowe's play, "Faust," in a PLS class this'semester, says of the production, "It was interesting to consider hell on Earth through time and use consumerism today to symbolize the temptation of man in the 21st century, but the words and meaning of the play may have been lost in the pageantry." When considering differences between Marlowe's text and the recent production, Peters says, "The idea that Faustus' fate is sealed at the beginning of the play may deviate too far from Marlowe's intentions, which allow the audience to battle with the idea ofpredestination over free will." + 

CULTURE 

Notre Dame men take a stand against sexual violence 
Kate Zinsmeister 
Sexual assault, domestic abuse and rape. 
For generations, women have been 
. working to end the cycle ofviolence by talking about women, with women. These women have been extremely influential, but the reality is still that sexual assault and rape still occur, even at Notre Dame. 
In the fall of2005, a group ofNotre Dame men decided to take responsibility and add to the conversation in partnership with women. Out of this idea arose Men Against Violence (MAV), which is currently a task force of the Gender Relations Center. Notre Dame alumnus Alex Chapeaux, one of the group's founding members, says the mission of MAV is "to educate men on how to prevent sexual assault and domestic violence by rethinking the way they view themselves and their male peers in our society." 
Chapeaux-recognized a demand on campus for a group in which men could feel comfortable discussing such personal issues. "We are trying to provide a way to talk to guys about sexual assault, as well as the deeper meanings of masculinity -what makes us men," Chapeaux says. Today, masculinity is "twisted by our society, twisted by the media, by the shows we watch," he says. MAV provides a. setting in which Nqtre Dame men can feel comfortable discussing their masculinity, talking about sexual assault and encouraging each other to be role models for · other men. 
MAV is currently running one of its biggest initiatives of the year: the "No Matter What You Do ... Be a Man Against Violence" poster campaign. MAV hung posters all over campus that feature photos of Notre Dame men, including members of Bengal Bouts, Hall President's Council, the lacrosse team and the football team. In the past, posters have also featured groups such as the Glee Club or the men of student government. "We tried to find males on campus who are visible, most well-known," says senior Michael Redding, MAV's current president. "Seeing football posters that say 'I am a man who stands up against violence, sexual assault and rape,' is a very powerful thing." 
The posters also include statistics on rape and violence from the U. S. Department of Justice, with the intention of making people aware of the reality and the seriousness of sexual assault and violence. The statistics are so appalling that MAV members said that students in the past assumed the statistics were exaggerated. "Sexual assault is a crime that nobody likes to talk about,'' Redding says. "You don't see it-happen, so the stats don't seem to be happening." 
As part of this campaign, MAV volunteers encouraged men to sign the "Real Man's Pledge Against Violence." Their signatures. represent their pledge to "never rape, abuse or exploit a persop.." They piedged to "be aware,'' to "be receptive to issue.s ofviolence" ~ and to "be strong enough to do what is right even if that means challenging the social norm." Men also pledged to be role models for others and to "never allow someone to be raped, abused or exploited" if they can prevent it. MAV is hoping to reach as many people as possible with this positive message by creating a pattern of men encouraging 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 24 APRIL 2008 

other men. 
MAV was very satisfied with the student response to the pledge campaign. "The turnout was similar to or slightly above the turnout from last year," Chapeaux says. Freshman MAV member Jim Ogorzalek says, "I was excited to see so many people take the time out of their day to sign the -pledge." As for the posters, MAV members were·stunned and thrilled to see posters from last year's campaign still on the walls of both male and female dorms across campus. "This speaks very highly to the message that we bring across, and the students' and faculty's 
acceptance of it," Chapeaux says. 
When MAV was first getting off the ground, there was a concern that women might not understand or support the group. Heather Racokzy, the director ofthe Gender Relations Center, says, "There can sometimes be resentment among women who feel that men are stealing their thm1der. [But when it comes to] actually keeping women safe, women and men must be equal participants in the struggle." 
Chapeaux says, "Women were the pioneers, and we are proud to stand next to them to fight with them." Chapeaux, Racokzy and Redding all vouch for the fact that Notre Dame women have been very receptive to MAV's message. 
A big part of MAV's efforts have to do with reversing the stereotype that sexual assault, rape and domestic violence are only women's issues. "It is very important for men to understand that these issues are not gender specific," freshman MAV member Flynn O'Neill says. "Men need to know that showing that they care doesn't have to contradict their masculinity." 
Redding says, "Ninety-nine percent of the perpetrators are male. This is commonly called a women's issue, but that doesn't make a whole lot of sense." 
Notre Dame is not immune to sexual violence. Three sexual assaults were reported by students to the Notre Dame Security Police within the last month, two of which were reported to be perpetrated by acquaintances. One specifically reported that the assault was committed by a male who was an invited guest in the female's dorm room, according to the NDSP Crime Bulletin. These were not the first cases of sexual assault at Notre Dame, and they will likely not be the last. Members ofMAV know that they have a tough fight ahead of them. But they also know, as Redding says, that being persistent in "getting people to talk about these issues" is the best way to reverse the current statistics. The goal is safety and equality for everyone. + 
24 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 
I . 
COVEil STORY 

COVER STORY 




at's 
issing? 
Thedebate overaddingsexualorientationto Notre Dame's non­discrimination clause continues with a new generation 
Courtney Ball 
n the Dec. 4, 1986, issue of Scholastic, 
Steffanie Keller wrote a cover story 
entitled "A Struggle for Recognition" about homosexuality at Notre Dame. That year marked the first time a gay student group openly contacted the administration for official recognition. Now, 22 years later, tl}e struggle continues. 
Today, the issue has sparked the interest of homosexual ,and heterosexual students alike. Members of the student body have been campaigning to add sexual orientation to the university's non-discrimination clause for 10 years with little success to date. 
Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause currently reads: "The University of Notre Dame does not discriminate on the basis ofrace, colo1~ national or ethnic origin, sex, disability, veteran status or age in the administration of any of its educational programs, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, athletic and other school-administered programs or in employment." -DuLac, pg. 4 
While many prominent Catholic universities, including Georgetown, Loyola University (Chicago), Boston College, Holy Cross (IN), and even Notre Dame's sister school, Saint Mary's College, have added sexual orientation into their non­discrimination clauses, Notre Dame has yet to do so. 
I
The History 
The Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) was founded in 1970 to advocate for equal rights and to eiid discrimination against gay, lesbian . and bisexual students. The movement gained momentum in March of 1998 when Holy Cross Father David Garrick resigned in protest of the ·. university's failure to legally protect homosexuals from discrimination. Garrick claimed to have been suspended from his role as minister in the Basilica as a result of his coming-out as a celibate gay priest in the April 4, 1996, issue 
of the Observer. 
Father Richard Warner, current Director of Campus Ministry, denies that Garrick's sexual orientation was a factor in the dismissal. "This is a complicated matter. I don't know on what basis he actually thought he was being discriminated against. He resigned his position as a faculty member because ofwhat he assumed was the reality of the situation. I am not certain thatwas exactly the case," Warner says. Garrick's resignation sparked a landmark student protest on Notre Dame's campus with a two-hour "speak-out" in support of his actions. 
On April 8, 1998, inspired by the activism on campus, the Faculty Senate voted in favor of amending the non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation with a 33-3 vote. This was closely followed with an affirmation by a 18-6 Student Senate vote, with two abstentions, in favor of changing the clause. The student body responded with more protests in support of the change, and PSA collected over 1,300 signatures in favor of the addition. 
The Academic Council did not see the issue so clearly. Despite strong support from faculty, student government, and the student body, the Council delayed their decision on the matter until November of the next semester. PSA responded to the administration's hesitation by bringing Phil Donahue, a Notre Dame graduate and well­known talk show host, to campus and hosted numerous other guests who spoke in favor of the change. The day after the speaker series, the Council passed the motion by one vote. It seemed Notre Dame was united in resolve to change the clause. 
On December 1, 1998, however, the Board ofFellows unanimously voted against adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause. One hundred and twenty students protested this decision with a three-day fast. Regardless, on February 5, 1999, the Board of Trustees· affirmed the Fellows' decision, and the amendment was officially defeated. 
Instead of adding sexual orientation to the clause, the university responded by creating the "Spirit of Inclusion" statement which welcomes all persons into the Notre Dame community without providing legal protection on the basis of sexual orientation. The statement embodies the Catholic perspective on the issue, condemning harassment of any kind and calling students to follow Christ's example in the treatment of others. The statement reads: "We value gay and lesbian members of this comnzunity as we value all members of this community. We condemn harassment ofany kind, and university policies proscribe it." Dennis Brown, assistant vice president for News and Information, says, "We wanted to make it absolutely clear that we want to be an environment characterized by inclusiveness derived from mission-driven assumptions." 

The Current Climate 
Almost a decade after the initial defeat of the movement, students are speaking out again on this issue. 
Sophomore Craig Ford, a gay student, says he is confused by Notre Dame's failure to amend its non-discrimination clause. "What Notre Dame is saying is different than what other Catholic universities are saying," Ford says. "Whatdoes Notre Dame see that Boston College and Loyola don't see? They should make this knowledge known to enlighten the other universities and the student body. I think Notre Dame does not want us to know the answer to that question." 
The university has continually explained its theological reasoning in adopting the Spirit of Inclusion statement rather than changing the clause. The Church makes a distinction between sexual orientation and sexual conduct that is not recognized by society at large. The university is concerned that a court might not understand this 
24 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 15 


COVER STORY 

distinction between a "homosexual person" and "homosexual conduct," which could result in legal issues. Warner says, "Instead of the institution embodying and carrying out Church teaching in every instance, the institution would be subject to the interpretations of others not from the perspective of what the Church teaches." Heather Rakoczy, director of the Gender Relations Center, says that it would be a disconnect to enter into a legally-binding document that conflicts with the Church's teachings. 
Senior Brad Mattan, a gay student and a member of CORE Council, an organization for GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender,-or Questioning) students on campus,recognizes the dilemma NotreDame faces as a prominent <;:atholic institution. "What is going to happen if they get sued?" Mattan says. "They will have to stick to that clause, and maybe then they might have to give benefits to same-sex partn~rs. Where would that leave them and Notre Dame's 
16 I ScHoLAsirc I24 APru12008 
Catholic identity? I can sympathize with it. They would have deep trouble from the Vatican if that was to happen. I don't know where they would even begin to defend that to the Church, who is very clear on their stance on same-sex partnerships." 
Many students say they understand the administration's position, yet they still express feeling that there is an obligation to add sexual orientation to the clause. Ford says he wonders why both homosexual persons and those who participate in homosexual conduct are not protected from discrimination. "How does knowing the difference between homosexual conduct and homosexual persons influence whether I should be admitted to the university or have access to educational programs, scholarship and loan programs, etc.?" Ford says. "Notre Dame needs · to open itself up to those situations and determine where they come into conflict." 
Sophomore Eddie Velazquez, a gay student and a member of CORE Council, says, "We can't consider ourselves an institution of higher learning if we are willing to discriminate against certain groups of people." 
The Student Response 
Multiple groups on campus have gotten involved in the current movement. At the end · of the 2006-2007 school year, the Student Senate passed a resolution encouraging the addition ~f sexual orientation to the;:. non-discrimination clause, but due to a. miscommunication, the resolution was never sent to any office, and dialogue was 
temporarily halted. Under the leadership of 
sophomore Pangborn Senator Denise Baron, 
this year's Senate reopened the issue. 
"We wanted to have the resolution 
from our current Senate to bring it to the . administration to continue the dialogue· that totally dropped off the year before. We thought it was really important to bring this 
Senate's opinion," Baron says. 
The resolution passed with only one 
objection, sophomore Fisher Senator 
Stephen Bant, and one abstention, junior 
Sorin Senator George Chamberlain. 
"I thought on the whole that it would not 
accomplish anything," Bant says. "I did not 
agree with it for many ofthe same reasons the 
university would not pass it." He emphasizes 
the importance of respecting Notre Dame 
alumni and traditions when evaluating the 
resolution. "The older alumni would strongly 
oppose this measure. The majority ofpeople 
would agree discrimination is horrible, but 
inclusiveness can be achieved without this. I 
am a big fan of the Spirit of Inclusion that 
we have," he says. "You cannot change the 
fundamental issue by changing the clause. It 
takes a lot more than a policy change." 
Baron agrees that more than a resolution 
is necessary to achieve the desired change. 
"What is real!y needed is a dialogue between 
the administration and those ofus who have 
taken this up as an issue. There needs to be 
a discussion ofwhy this is not i:r;i there now," 
Baron says. 
Baron worries that the timing of the 
resolution will diminish its impact. There 
will be new student government officials 
next year w_!J.o .might_ not show the same 
commitment to the issue. "However, there 
is_ an opportunity to begin next year at full 
throttle. There is that perspective now that 
can really lead to a huge push next year," 
Baron says. · 
Newly-elected student body President Bob 
Reish says that he will respond to the student 

COVER STORY 
body's needs when addressing the resolution 
on the non-discrimination clause. "We 
recognize the history that comes with this 
clause, as it's been debated in ma11y different 
venues within the university. Everyone wi!l 
have their own opinion on this issue, but 
it's our job to represent the interests of the 
stµdent body. If there is a demonstrated 
concern from students regarding this clause, 
then it will be something we pursue," Reish -says. 
PSA has also revived its interest in the 
movement by circulating a. petition to the 
'student body. Senior Mike McCann, a 
member of PSA helping to organize the 
petition signing, says, "We saw a role for 
us in this campaign. The petition is just a 
starting point. I~ is meant to get the issue 
brought up among the student body and 
get the conversation started." McCann 
estimates that the petition, which will be 
cs.>llected, consolidated and presented to the 
administration at the end of the semester, 
will hav~ as.many as 1,000 signatures. 
McCann also co-founded a Facebook 
group promoting the petition which has 
about 700 members. "Itis pretty unbelievable, 
the power of Facebook. It can do a lot of 
good about getting the word out for a social 
movement," McCann says. 
Sophomore Patrick_ Tighe, co-chair of the Gender Relations Senate committee, says he believes it is necessary for student government to continue their involvement if anything is going to change. "I don't feel there is enough momentum built up from the petition. That is why we need a big student government initiative," Tighe says. "We need to reach alumni and educate them on what is going on on-campus. I think if we can show that people have been discriminated against, -they will be supportive of it." 
The Administration's Response 
_Despite the m1nat1ve of various student groups throughout the years, the administration's reasons for not changing the clause remain the same. Brown says, "For Notre Dame to change our non­discrimination ·clause to include sexual orientation would expose the university to a judicial interpretation of the clause in ways t~at could jeopardize our ability __as a Catholic university to take action and make decisions necessary to support Church teachings on sexual orientation and conduct. The Fellows of the university, who reviewed the officers' decision, did not believe the university should leave to civil courts the interpretation and application of Church teaching to the internal affairs of the university. In addition, unlike other categories protected against discriminatioi:i under federal law, Congress has not extended such protection to sexual orientation, nor is there any state or local law in Indiana that requires this. We wanted to avoid a situation whereby decisions in the area of sexual orientation and/or homosexual conduct could be adjudicated by civil courts using criteria arising from a changing and often political social milieu." 
Warner believes the Spirit of Inclusion is a more appropriate statement for a religious institution. "It is almost like a mission statement of how we should treat each other and our fellow students, and why we do it, which is even more important," Warner says. "I am not belittling the legal protection, because that has been helpful for many classes of people. But when you are dealing with something that has theological connotations, you have to look at it even more carefully." The Spirit of Inclusion allows Notre Dame to maintain control over its affairs while still not tolerating_harassment or discrimination ofany kind: "It has stood the test of time and goes beyond a legal document to talk about our expectations as a Catholic university, that we are all brothers ·and sisters in God," Warner says. 
The university has 'taken a stance against intolerance, but what about real legal protection? "If we discriminate against somt;body in terms of tenure because their orientation is different, we are liable to the laws of the land," Warner says. 
The Future of the Movement 
Might student efforts eventually be recognized? Brown says he thinks it is unlikely. "When the question of whether to add sexual orientation to the non­discrimination clause was raised a decade ago, it was considered very carefully with a full analysis from both legal and theological perspectives. Nothing has happened from a legal or theological standpoint since that time that would lead the university to reconsider that decision," he says. 
Junior Sade Murphy, a bisexual student, says she hopes the students can turn the tide of this decade-long debate. "If more people truly care about this issue and believe_ that sexual orientation should be part of the non-discrimination clause, then they should speak out," she says. "It's about knowing what is right and being a part of the voice that speaks out for it." + 

COVER STORY 
Courtney Ball 
Only one of the gay students interviewed for this story said 
Notre 
that he would still choose to attend Notre Dame after 
Dame-: Ally orEnemy?­
Students reflect on what it means to be gay at Notre Dame 
experiencing what students say can be an unwelcoming atmosphere. This is not surprising, as Notre Dame was recently ranked fourth in the category "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative" by the Princeton Review. The rankingis an improvement from five years ago when Notre Dame held the top position. Despite significant strides made by student organizations, however, N,otre Dame is still struggling to balance its Catholic identity with openness to all students. 
Though some say that there is no open hostility on campus, many · gay students say they feel that the culture is apathetic. They say it seems as though there is an unspoken agreement that as long as gay students are not too vocal about their identity, they are accepted into the Notre Dame community. Eddie Velazquez, a gay sophomore and future co-chair of the CORE Council, says, "There really are gay people on campus, even ifwe like to pretend that there aren't." 
The lack of any student-run GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, or Questioning) organization on campus demonstrates Velazquez's point. Though bothAllianceND and OUTreachND have applied for official university recogmtion, they have been denied approval. As a result, the groups cannot officially organize events on campus or advertise their existence. 

Brian Coughlin, assistant vice president of Student Activities, cites the following excerpt from letters sent to "United in Diversity" prospective club leaders in 2004 and 2005: "It remains the perspective ofthe Student Activities Office that the dual goals ofsupporting gay and lesbian students and educating the larger campus conznnmity can best be accomplished through the structures already in place. Continued collaboration between administrato1-s, pastoral ministers and students is essential." 
Many students say, however, that they feel the refusal to officially recognize a Notre Dame gay-straight alliance is an injustice that is indicative of the apathetic culture of the university. 
Making Progress 
Heather Rakoczy, director of the Gender Relations Center, says she was disturbed by 
· Notre Dame's ranking in 2003 as the top university in the "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative" category. She says that Notre Dame is taking steps to improve the atmosphere on campus. "I think there has been progress made. Back in the late '80s and early '90s there would never have been a 'Stand Against Hate' week. There would not have been very much, if any, conversation on this issue," she says. Senior Brad Mattan, a gay member of CORE Council, also disagrees with the ranking. "We are not the worst university in the country, we are just the worst top-ranked university. It is not as bad as people might think," Matton says. 
While the university still fails to officially recognize any student-run gay and lesbian groups, they have supported many initiatives in recent years. The Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian needs, now the CORE Council, was created in 1996 under the leadership of Sister Sue Bruno as an advisory group for the Vice President of Student Affairs. Sister M.L. Gude took over the program in 1998 and helped to expand the committee to include heterosexual "allies." "I lived on campus for 22 years and saw several generations go through the school. The climate changed drastically," Gude says. 
Today, CORE Council-serves not only the administration in identifying the needs of gay and lesbian students, but it also educates the student body and provides a supportive community for gay students. Council programs include Coffee and Conversation at the Coleman-Morse Center, where students meet to discuss issues and learn about resources available for GLBTQ students, and office hours in the Green Room in LaFortune to answer questions. CORE Council hosts network sessions where resident assistants are educated on psychological and theological aspects of sexual orientation. All incoming freshman are required to attend the CORE Council Comm Unity presentations to inform them of Catholic teachings on homosexuality and to encourage them to help foster an atmosphere of acceptance on campus. 
Stand Against Hate week is another important indicator of Notre Dame's refusal to tolerate discrimination. This week-long event is designed to remind students that they are called to honor the dignity of all human beings. To help promote awareness, the Spirit of Inclusion statement is passed out to students, and they are asked to sign a pledge against intolerance. "Yes, its focus is on homosexuality, but it also focuses on what happens when any group is marginalized. It is a reminder of hate crimes and how terrible they are," Rakoczy says. 
Students agree that progress has been made in recent years. Senior Mike McCann, a member of Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), says, "This place has definitely changed in the last decade ... There wasn't the Spirit ofinclusion. This place is definitely different, which makes me more optimistic that people can be accepting." 
Some students, however, still feel that more needs to be done before Notre Dame can truly become an accepting campus. Students express worry that the university's progress has become stagnant because of its struggle to balance a Catholic identity with openness to all students. 
A Closed Door? 
Craig Ford, a gay sophomore, says 
he thinks that the administration is not 
always open to dialogue. "It would almost 
be a no-win situation to discuss it with the 
administration ... That is because of the 
impression that the Church has closed the 
door on the issue," Ford says. 
The official Catholic stance on 
homosexuality is that sexuality is a gift from 
God which is reserved for marriage and is 
intended to be both unitive and procreative. 
Because homosexual unions can not produce 
children, homosexual acts are considered 
disordered. Rakoczy says, "For heterosexual 
people there is a way out in marriage. For 
COVER STORY 

I
Ir 
[I
,I 
a homosexual person that is never possible, so they are called to chaste friendship which translates to lifelong celibacy." She emphasizes that a homosexual act is no worse than any heterosexual one committed outside of marriage. 
How does Church teaching affect the attitude toward gay students on campus? "It's very possible to feel as a homosexual at Notre Dame that you are accepted as a person with unacceptable ideas," Ford says. "It's a very interesting dynamic to experience here. To the extent that one defines himself by his ideas, that determines the -extent he is offended. I think the gay person at Notre Dame has to be a strong person. He has to be willing to value himself as a person who is distinct from his ideas, willing to engage a culture which is opposed to his own and emerge from that with a personal strength and integrity that allows him to still think he is a good person." 
For many gay students, this often translates to uncomfortable situations. Velazquez says, "We _don't have an atmosphere that is conducive to being an 'out' person. They are good enough with the balance to create an atmosphere which isn't really hostile, but at the same time, it doesn't really support them either." 

Finding A Balance 
Several gay students on campus identify themselves as devout Catholics. "We have several members of the [CORE] Council who make a point to live their lives according to Church teaching and doctrine," Velazquez says. "They try to find that balance, and I definitely know people who have made it work." 
Father Richard Warner, Director of Campus Ministry, says he respects the faith of all members of the Church equally. "I think there are many gay students for whom the Church and their religion is very important; and they are very good Catholics, just like the other students around here. Their relationship with the Church is just as important to them as anyone else," Warner says. 
Senior Brad Mattan (see sidebar) and Sade Murphy, a bisexual junior, are members ofan unrecognized gay Emmaus group on campus. Murphy thinks the spiritual resource is an important source of support in her religious struggles. She says, "Approaching God, especially when you are homosexual or bisexual, can be such a scary thing. No one should have to try to figure out alone how to be in a relationship with God and gay at the same time because those are tough questions." 
Murphy was confirmed as a Catholic earlier this month and feels that it is an important part of her identity. "When you go up and take the Eucharist, you are becoming more one with God and becoming one with this great community of believers too. If we could embrace that part of Catholicism which says 'love,' I think other things would fall into place, and it wouldn't be a question of what the Church teaches, but more of a question of what God would really have me do," Murphy says. 
Ford also describes himselfasveryreligious and says he is devoted to the theological study of homosexuality. He says he believes" that Notre Dame gives him a unique· challenge and opportunity in his faith. "T~ follow Christ despite all of the hatred and the ill wi11, to still love through all of those negative feelings is what Christianity is all about," Ford says. "To be a homosexual on this campus allows me to do what Christians~ are called to do." 
Gay? Fine By Me 
Since the debut of the "Gay? Fine by Me" shirts on Notre Dame's campus in March of 2004, on designated dates each semester, students _can show solidarity with the GLBTQ community by collectively 
20 ISCHOLASTIC I24 APRIL 2008 

t·, . ' . . . . . . . 
. 
:~;n~:~::'Jf:~~:,%'~:':~,•::::,:::;~ ;:n~:p:j,~~:•:r
I s:i~:::,f~£:~:::~::r:::l:::11:~:;::::the shirts in solidarity with the campus, they acknowledge that I it can also create a tense atmosphere. "Unfortunately, there are people who are adamant against the shirts, and it causes a lot of
'] 
opposition on campus," Velazquez says. 
I Perhaps the most controversial instance of this occurred this past fall when two juniors staged a protest outside of Lafortune Student Center, wearing shirts which read, "Gay? Go to Hell." The individuals responsible for the demonstration did not respond to Scholastic's request for an interview. Velazquez says, "I think they were in poor taste, but I really hope that in the future instead of resorting to insulting T-shirts we can find a happy medium where they can come to us and tell us that 'this is our logic, and this is what we think.' I cannot expect everyone to be OK with homosexuality, but if is something we can work towards." The Facebook group "Wrath of God? Fine by Me," with over 60 members, is another example of open hostility in reaction to the ':Gay? Fine by Me" shirts. 
Murphy says she thinks it is unfortunate that the shirts seem to be a necessary statement. "I don't think there is anything wrong with the shirts themselves. The fact that we need something like 
· that may be a problem," she says. "It should go without saying that you are OK with the way other people are. I don't think the attitude on this campus should be such that we have to purposefully take note of other people being gay and say 'Oh, we are OK with it."' 
The consensus among gay students and supporters, however, seems to be that anything that promotes awareness is a positive thing overall. They say they believe that the most important thing in continuing to achieve progress is an open dialogue among students, faculty and the administration. "As long as it maintains [dialogue], I think there is some hope," Murphy says. 
The Notre Dame Experience 
Despite what some gay students say is a history of intolerance at the university, GLTBQ students continue to apply and enroll at Notre Dame and utilize the unique opportunities and experiences 
· the university offers them. 
"I really believe that there is no place else where you can get a great education but at the same time be forced to really take a stand on what you believe in. Notre Dame is a great place to do that," Murphy says. "It is a special and spiritual place. It has that going for it too. When things get tough, sometimes you just need to go to the Grotto. It's nice to have a priest living down the hall from you. You can't get that anywhere else. There is definitely something special about Notre Dame. Even though it can be really hard, it is still one of the best places you can be." 
Matta:O. agrees that Notre Dame offers him a unique chance to reconcile his religious beliefs and sexuality. But it has not been an easy path. "It's hard .. This place wears you down," Mattan says. "I am ready to graduate because you just become bitter with it." + 
11 /Ide.n tify as·. CatlJolic, qpradicing Cath6lic. lt .. hcr.s ··.· 
h< charact~rized mylif~.Mylder1tityasa gayman.·hasrubbecf 
: . againstmyideritityas a CatholiC:AtoneHme,ihadbeen frying tQ ·Jive achaste and c~libate/ife.=1. hac/Been trying .Jpchang~rriy}e>wafofi~ntation s/nc.~juniory~c,rofriig/J .··•·· / school.foaccomplishthis,Ihad·b.eenattendi6gpgroup.· ·:·•.•·..·•1 .·. that ispart ·ofExqclus 1nternational,where they advised· . 
.... ·. ii /Tl~ t<?cfevelop dregular pmy~rlife apcf,W tryto(eclairrJ, i . 
. ·•··•·••i 
rnysupposedlycrucial deficie_ncyin Jnasculinity •in orcie~ i .·=···· <. tq, by thegmce ofGod, berestored to bete_rosexuality. .BY.. 
i ·. th.~Jirne.Js:9rne here,Ih11dshiftedto bfing.celibateiather.·. 
: . ' .· thar, th<:1r1ging mfs¢ftI~ecame depressec(ancl,imhappy 
! · even though /wasn't doing anything wrong/yeUhadthis .. 
profoundsense ofJack· offu/fillrnent.Shortly after that,1··• 
.·.··:.··•····.'i·.·.
• met.qgyy i,yho ~ride:f/ HP challengif)_g.cr.lot.•offTIY /J~li~fs; .· 
!.·· ···~'h%ti~:~ii~r:C:tit1·1tt:-rt-j{;::;~:{J~J1iti~s:~3~i,.. . i ,.. c/icln'tfee/J,cdulc/sdyitwa{Rron9...ThgtehdedJpshiftirig,······.·.··· . -:(rnywholevievvonthirigs.VVhatdo~S=t@;rneanfofrpyfa_itfil<. ·.·. ·····>i 
•·· ii.thoughtl.needed.tiileave.·th,e Chuicl1for(]while.Fvisited·.•. .sorriefrier1ds ~howerestudying abroqd1nR9me,anclI11Vas, 'qbt¢:tqgo 011. Q;tpil(11nder~airitPetefc's.Basi(ic,a,when~e. . : I . gqtJO<that plbiidirectly under the aita(bhhiBasilira,}j; .· ..,.' .)l 
.:ici1d:rnyel/Vn prayerfajking.Sqiritpete( tohelpfnffigl!ff·. · ,· oJ !<• this.·.91/N,Itwas·orie9(ther11qjt·iritensespiritual'[!Pments," ?f.i,.
I'::.··· .iTJ rnyJife:·VVhendwpsleaving,Jhddt/JiJ jJrofoUrydfeelingt •..•.·...... <•.· ·. 
.. ofif1J1orsefofwaiiting,toJ~dve the Cifiurch; because tfiere ...·..··· .. 
t. ·\{s,fl10%t9/tJhanrulrsph9systfrns}fkelfefs; itismaqe)?.fx· ./) p i\peop/e;'{'¢ciiildn'tj~qvejt1.it11V()ll(cl{Jibe1ightl/k:new.. ifJ• ..·•· =1I<JntendecJ'io.staywJththeChl,/rCh;lwas,obligdfedto figure .. /yj 
·outw.hataboutit.wgs.wrong)lafl'I dor11t?eologyrnajqr /•·· ·.·. ·. · l•• .. ,Jdtth{{litig~-kfr}q;O.(P·• fopfff?rti]cl,eq'{~.fr:q,r rp)'eqrt/bli,f!{. Ci .....·••)]rdid=c]'lotd,t:research anqr.~Cfd seye.r_9hirnportb1?t booksL >· .·.· j 
I: ;.•on~otfyoijtua/7rprality?ea~ttud;that(Joorqt1~• St! 
:. .~;"_;
:\; 

.i ii
;li
;i 
' <• 
...":.,,>;;,::..~:;:~~-:.;... '.. ..:," :. ' ,>;;;::;; "''. ' ' ' ., . c" • (\:~'.:;•>.·."·'..•,Y-Jj
. . , , .·:\·},,'::/j 
1. .J~i;lttt&ji\l~~~l~~~.tll";Ifi,;ftl 

CULTURE 
Campus Chatter 
Isit quietly at a desk in the basement of Howard Hall waiting for a dramatic narrative to unfold before my eyes. It's room-pick day for the dorm's sophomores-to-be, certainly an invitation for backstabbing, hair-pulling, lying,· cheating and all other sorts of heart-racing conflict. My hypothesis: Girls + picking rooms and roommates + two hour time limit = a wildly entertaining story. 
Plastered on, a peach-colored wall in the basement is a white, 3x3 -dry erase board; on the wall directly across from this board is the dorm layout, with many of the rooms already claimed the previous night by upperclassmen. I notice colored magnets clinging to the board, along with written vertical rows of available rooms. I then read the rules for this process, taking particular notice of the last one, concise, yet simple: NO FUNNY BUSINESS. I secretly hope that Howard houses some civilly-disobedient residents, else it's back to the drawing board for this story. 
"I was sitting with 11 or 12 rectors at dinner," Howard rector Katherine Collard says, "and it seemed there were 11 or 12 different ways of doing [the room pick process]." As with all dorms on campus, room picks are decided by a randomized numbered lottery system. Some dorms, such as Carroll, do their own lottery; other lists, like Howard's, are assigned by the Office of Residence Life and Housing. Some dorms have residents pick rooms by drawing out ofa hat. Others merely have residents line up according to their lottery number. 
Howard's scheme figures to be one of the more diabolical, as it requires the girls to place their magnets next to the particular room they desire, only to leave the possibility that a girl with a better lottery number could "steal" the room by "bumping" off her magnet. 
Which leaves Jena Doom, dead last on Howard's rising sophomore lottery list at 33, in an entirely unenviable position. Doom, however, seems to recognize the wisdom in numbers, as the blonde freshman plans to room with three blonde friends in a second :floor quad ­hence the group's nickname, "The Blondetourage." "Luckily, one member of the Blondetourage is number two in the lottery, so she pulled me out of a possibly devastating situation," Doom says. "I am confident that her number is high enough to avoid any conflicts, so there are no back-up plans if things go awry." 
Meanwhile, Michelle Gaseor, 25th in the lottery, hands me a purple slip of paper with research and contingency plans scribbled on both sides. She says that she and her future roommate started thinking about potential rooms right after spring break. 
As the minutes tick toward the 8 p.m. start time, more and more girls arrive down in the basement, ready to make their selections. Soon, a mass of 25 to 30 girls has converged around the board, waiting for someone to make the first move. "Who's that guy over 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 24 APRIL 2008 
DEPT. O;F HOUSING 
there?" a girl whispers to her friend, obviously underestimating my keen sense of hearing. For 15 to 20 minutes, a stalemate seems to · settle in. "I'm not even putting a magnet down now. There's no· point," another girl says. I am surprised that more conflict isn't brewing, but then again, I figure, (so the stereotype goes) female drama is more secretive and behind-the-back anyway. "It might get· iffy when the last couple [of pe"ople] come," the assistant rector says. An RA suggests that the girls just come down later. Most of them, in turn, _go back upstairs, hoping to engage in more productive endeavors, like studying for tomorrow's exams or watching American Idol. 
I sit ... and sit ... and sit ... and unfortunately, do not witness any backstabbing, hair-pulling, lying, cheating or any other conflict throughout the rest of the night. Apparently, this just happens to be the year in which the supply of available rooms in Howard went up, and thus the demand, and any interesting anecdotes to go with it, went down. I am severely disappointed. It looks like I will have to find some way to entertain readers with a virtual non-story, but for Collard and other rectors, an unusually smooth process is a sign of a very successful night. 
-Marqt1es Camp 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine 

...J ...J <( 
.: 
:r: ~ 
z 
w 
...J 
w 
:r: 
fii 
z 
~ ~ 
::::,· -' 
:! 
Note.: 1toDM pic.\C.s are actuany nothin3-lik.e.-lliis. 

Molly Conaty 
·R;mors abound at Notre Dame, 
but those about the men of Zahm 
all seem to circulate a bit more frequently and ferociously than most. Maybe it's because of their refusal to join in the traditional fist pumps that accompany the "Celtic Chant," their "Kiss the Moose" tradition, or their tendency to run naked in public around finals time. Whatever the source ofthese raucous rumors, Zahm rector Corry Collona says that they do not reflect reality and that Zahm Hall, in fact, has a strong sense of community. 
One recent expression of community building is the new and improved version of 
_. their famous dorm banner that reads, "HERE COME THE IRISH." The banner has hung in front of the dorm every home football weekend for the past seven years and attracts fans across campus, as well as nationwide. The banner is also known among Zahm residents for creating an infamous "Green Glow" indoors when the sun streams from North Quad into the 26 dorm rooms the sign spans. 
After an incidenf involving non-Notre Dame students during the past football season, the banner was badly damaged and subsequently taken down. In response to overwhelming interest in building another banner, a "Bigger, Better Banner Committee" (BBBC) was formed to plan the replacement of this university staple and symbol of Zahm tradition. 
Zahm's rector and a Harrisburg, Pa., family completed the banner during spring break. This production was more organized than that of the original banner. According to Collona, the first banner was completed by a group of St. Mary's students armed with sewing machines. This time, he says, the "sewing team" had the advantage of getting tips from a crafty 79-year-old neighbor. 
The painting process was also improved this time around. The Student Activities Office granted Zahm permission to use the Stepan Center overnight to paint the 10-foot tall letters and allow the banner to dry safely. The original banner was painted outside in the St. Joseph High School parking lot, and a student stayed up all night to ensure nothing happened to it. 
During a BBBC meeting, some freshmen suggested painting a Zahm "Z" on the sign, 
but the upperclassmen quickly shot down their request. Collona says, "It's not about Zahm -it's more than that. It's about Notre Dame." 
Zahm donated the damaged sign to alumni, who then repaired it. The banner was resurrected at the nation's second-largest St. Patrick's Day pa~ade in Mt. Holyoke, Mass., on Sunday, March 30. The city celebrated the centennial birthday ofthe Notre Dame Victory March; town natives, brothers and Notre Dame alumni Michael and John proudly as the University of Massachusetts Minutemen Marching Band honored Notre Dame, the Sheas and Mt. Holyoke by playing "the greatest of all fight songs." 
Zahmbies and others flocked to North Quad on Thursday, April 17, as Zahm Hall unveiled their new and improved "HERE COME THE IRISH" sign in time for the Blue and Gold spring football game. Collona says, "The guys are proud of it, and I am proud of them." 
The whole nation is getting a taste of Zahm's sweet side. Six hundred thousand visitors saw their old banner in Mt. Holyoke and even more watched on the Internet. Countless visitors to campus request to see "the big sign on the ND applications." So make sure to join them and go check out the 90-by-30 yard banner next fall. As ifyou could miss it. + 

The new banner boasts stronger seams Shea composed the fight song in I SAW THE SIGN Zahm's new banner went up at 4:30 p.m. and more durable fabric than the original. 1908. Zahm's original banner hung the Thursday before the Blue and Gold game. 
24 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, ­and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information I education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OPi 1~55501 Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Bautista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry  
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students  
and their friends; pertinent library resources  
• -~ ~ "..--. ~~,~ ~, • r • •• ~ --. :,_ --,z;'.l'~c-·•:.·,t;;="'~v~~~~::'G"'"..-:_ct;'JT!'~""<'"".'t CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY &LESBIAN STUDENTS  in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu Visit our web site at  

~
------­
a Writers ·Qph~er~_
-------'"':"'_____.
a Designe~-----­------~ers
a Business M~nag ­Q-Copy Editors 
' -----contact: scholast@nd.edu 
you're inn 
Whether you•re in town for a football game, reunion, or graduation, or just welcoming ­family and friends to can1pus, you're always inn at Ivy Court Im1 and Suites. 
With an unbeatable location, eco-friendly ... policies, and newly renovated rooms, you•U find _. yourself inn luck, inn good company, and bin style. 

Visit ivycourt.com today to check out our new look and make a reservation! 
I 
-~ 
IVYCOURT 
INN & SUITES 
http://corecounciI.nd.edu 
Pedal to the Medal 
ND athletes train for the Olympics 
Mary Margaret Skelly
ione World, One Dream." It is the official slogan of the 2008 Olympic . Games, and it rings true for the Notre Dame athletes who share the dream of qualifying for this summer's games. Fencer Kelley Hurley and track and :field sprinters Balazs Molnar and Miklos Szebeny aim to compete in their respective sports in Beijing this August. Hurley, a sophomore, can breathe a little easier than her Notre Dame counterparts -she. is already an Olympic qualifier. Not only is she ranked second in fencing in the Americas, but by outperforming her competitors in her "zone" -including the United States, South America and Canada -she has earned a spot on the U.S. Olympic team. Sophomore Molnar and freshman Szebeny are two sprinters who are not hoping to trade in their Notre Dame blue and gold for the United States' red, white and blue at this summer's Olympic Games. Instead, they are looking to sport a different country's jersey. Molnar, who hails from Hungary, aims to drop his 400-meter hurdle time from his current best of 51.38 seconds to his country's Olympic qualifying time, 49.50 seconds, by July. Molnar has a lot of work ahead of him, as he has not equaled his best time since 2005. "Last year I came to Notre Dame, a really big change for me, so my time remained the same," he says. "But this year I improved my time by almost a second in the 400-meter dash, so I am looking to improve my hurdles time too. Hopefully during the summer I can improve my hurdles time by a lot." Hungary does not hold Olympic trials. Athletes must instead meet a certain time in their event at any official meet to qualify. Szebeny, who is also from Hungary and specializes in the 100-meter an:d 200-meter sprints, will attempt to qualify for the games in the same way. One Notre Dame athlete is already looking ahead to 2012. Senior rower Amanda Polk hopes to represent the United States on the Under-23 national team that will compete in a world championship later this year. Rowing Head Coach Martin Stone says that four more years ofintensive training and making the Under-23 team would give her "a good shot" at a position on the 2012 Olympic rowing team. The Olympic hopefuls manage to balance heavy training with rigorous academics. Hurley says keeping up with her schoolwork was "pretty tough at first." She changed her major from pre-med to psychology and found that it was a better fit. "It's mostly reading homework, which I can do on the road. The professors are really great about it," she says. Molnar, a :finance major, says that balancing workouts and school is difficult. This was especially true when he was also dealing with culture shock. "It was really hard to get used to being here, but now it's getting better, and my team supports me," he says. Molnar wants to return to the United States after the games and use his experience to promote his country. "HI could come back here after the Olympics, I could talk more about Hungary here and people would be really interested in it," he says. + 
24 APRIL 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I25 

SPORTS 


The Irish hockey program continues to make history 
Marques Camp 
With about three minutes to go, sophomore fan David Fairburn sits 
lugubriously behind the glass at 
The Pepsi Center in Denver, Colo., slowly 
realizing that the Irish hockey team will 
make no more history this season. No more 
miracle comebacks, no more momentum­
changing goals, no more sliding on the ice in 
celebration, no more naive hope. The team, 
it seems, is as powerless as he is at this point 
to change their fate. The flame of the Irish 
miracle season has finally flickered away. 
Boston College 3, Notre Dame 1. Fifteen minutes left to play in the championship game and in the season. Irish freshman defenseman Ian Cole sends a pass toward sophomore defenseman Kyle Lawson, who is waiting by the goal. Lawson reaches out with his stick to nudge the puck, but the puck has already ricocheted off his skate and into the goal. Boston College 3, Notre Dame 2. The crowd of Irish fans watching the game back at the JACC at Notre Dame erupts in euphoria. The Irish, despite the deficit, seem primed for one last comeback. 
In what seems to be an infinitely long and painstaking deliberation process, however, the referees disallow the goal, ruling that Lawson's skate had directed the puck into the goal by virtue of a "distinct kicking motion," (the rule, of course, ever so arbitrary, only adds to the controversy). The crowd at the JACC hurls boos and berates the referees, as if their intense show of emotion is enough to transcend the two giant projector screens hanging over the Irish home ice and transport them into the Pepsi Center. Alas, they are powerless as well. Irish Coach Jeff Jackson smirks, the team's balloon of momentum deflates, play resumes, and then seconds later the Eagles push another goal past Irish goalie Jordan Pearce to put the game out of reach. And so it is he1·e that the dream dies. 
A little more than one year ago, the No. I-ranked Irish, after being challenged to a thrilling double-overtime duel by Alabama­Hunstville in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, fell 2-1 two days later to eventual national champion Michigan State. The loss was a disappointing finish for a team that was expected to reach the program's first· Frozen Four. "We were definitely motivated after the loss to Michigan State," junior left­wing Garrett Regan says. "We hoped to go further than last year, and we just tried to learn from the experience so we could be more successful the following year." 
High hopes abounded for the Irish at the beginning of this season, and they initially lived up to the hype, beginning the season with a 16-4-0 record. A second-half swoon during which the Irish struggled mightily on offense, however, left them with a 24-15-4 overall record and on the bubble for the NCAA Tournament. The team was dealt further bad news in March when it learned that junior right wing Erik Condra, the talented offensive playmaker and the Irish's leading scorer for three consecutive seasons, would miss the rest of the season with a knee injury. 
Sports sometimes lead to the most ironic situations. Who would have thought that the Irish, arguably the nation's best hockey team in 2007, would fall in the second round of the 2007 tournament? Who would have. thought that the Irish, the last at-large team selected for the 2008 tournament, a No. 4-seed, and a team playing without its leading scorer, would plow through the first two rounds with a 7-3 victory over No. 1 New Hampshire, and exact revenge on the Spartans with a 3-1 victory in round two?. Who would have thought that the Irish would be David to Michigan's Goliath in the Frozen Four, jumping out to a 3-0 first period lead, allowing the Wolverines to storm back and tie the game at four with 
14:38 left, and eventually breaking the coll~cfive heart of Wolverine Nation with freshman Cale Ridderwall's winning goal in overtime? Who would have thought that this was the Irish's year to make history? 
"I think our team was in a totally different position this year than last year. Last year we went in as the No. I-ranked team and felt a lot of pressure like we had to win. This year we went in with an underdog mentality and just went out and played like we had nothing to lose," sophomore center Kevin Deeth says. Despite many proclamations from experts that the Irish should have been happy with just making it to the Frozen Four, the team was undeniably hungry for the title. Regan 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 24 APRIL 2008 

says, "We weren't satisfied with only reaching the Frozen Four because the big prize was still out there, and inside our locker room, 
__ we knew we could make a good run at it." The Michigan Wolverines had 23 Frozen Four appearances and nine titles. The North Dak0ta Fighting Sioux had 18 appearances and seven titles. The Boston College Eagles had 20 appearances and two titles. The Irish, meanwhile, were the history-makers. Zero appearances, zero titles. It seemed as though Jackson's five.;year plan begun in 2005 to rebuild the Irish program had instead been accomplished in three. 
With much success comes much adulation. The energy on Notre Dame's campus prior to the Michigan game, and more so prior to the championship game, was palpable; Some fans, like Fairburn and his travel p·artner Paul Pokaski, decided that they would make the trip out to Denver to witness history in person. "It has always been my dream to go to the Frozen Four, and since tickets in general are so hard to come by and my team was in it, I couldn't pass up the opportunity," Fairburn says. "It was the best sporting event I ever attended." 
The team started to garner a larger following and greater fan attendance at home games during its record-breaking 2007 season. This season, every home game drew at least 2000 fans. According to Matt McCormack, the marketing director for Notre Dame's athletic department, Frozen Four tickets were in high demand following the second-round victory over Michigan State. 
"The buzz around campus this year for us has been awesome," Deeth says. "The ­student section and band make the JACC an awesome place to play, regardless of the below-par facility. Anytime you get the support like they gave us really makes playing college hockey for Notre Dame a special thing." 
The Irish returned to campus the day after the 4-1 loss and were greeted at Main Circle by hundreds of fans. Cheerleaders cheered, the band played the fight song, and Jackson and the team's four captains spoke to the crowd. With all the enthusiasm, one might have thought that Lawson's goal was allowed and the Cinderella Irish seized the momentum to make one last . thrilling comeback for the program's first title. At the astonishing rate at which the Notre Dame hockey program is growing, perhaps this dream, and this history, will be realized soon enough. + 
24 APRIL 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I27 
(  .  .  .  .  
- 
.  

' ' -----------------­




Listening In ... 
~u.rskull on fire, or is that just your hair color?" ~male to red-headed male on South Quad 
F?Gii:fl "I mean, _did he really think we weren't going to find out? We work the 
[2...i:.ffi;/ same shift!" Girl 2: "Wow. It's just like that Brandy and Monica song." 
~~i~re :,ailed condoms; ever heard of them? Apparently they're pretty ~ct1ve. -female to male outside of CoMo 
~tknow w?y she broke up with me. I'm so attractive." ~GJL:iliW-he wasn t. 
~\J:couldn't help but think, 'That's just like a giant vibrator."' ~.;:'._ philosophy professor commenting on human/robot sex 
42 Years Ago 
The big mound of snow· on North Quad has finally melted, and summer is just around the corner. Only one thing stands in the way of three months of blissful brain· inactivity:• finals .. So it's time that we all finally get our acts together and make an attempt to do all the work we've been putting off since mid-January. And just as we start to make serious progress on our academics, a good number of us find ourselves losing ground to debilitating fatigue. Lack of sleep or serious illness? Thanks to the scientific advances of 1966, there's a test for that. 
In science's never-endingcrusade to take all romance outoflife, the alleged "kissing disease" has now become nearly instantaneously detectable in those who find the1riselves "listless and tired, with otherhard to pin down symptoms," according to Wample Labs ofStamford, Conn. . . . Recent studies done at Tulane University show that students under emotional stress are especially susceptible to the disease ... At about a dollar a test, itis now possible to screen an entire university ifthe need arises. 
Hmmm ... emotional stress ... "kissing disease" ... connection perhaps? And did they really think that there would be a need to test the entire campus for mono? Let's keep in mind that at the point this great discovery occurred, Notre Dame was still only admitting those of the male persuasion. But if this really was a major epidemic, fine by me. 
-Natalie Kratz 
30 I SCHOLASTIC I 24 APRIL 2008 
HUMOR 

Yeah, I know, I know. You just opened directly to your favorite article ofScholastic, "The Gipp er." And it's not here. It turns out that there 
. are lines even Gippy is not allowed to cross. Figure out who he (or she) is, and maybe you'll be let in on what was too risque, even for this magazine. As a result, we at Scholastic have compiled a list of our favorite Gipps from years past. So while you are being denied a new story of embarrassment and humiliation, just revel in the fact that the following individuals are being burned ... again. In no particular order, we give you the best of the worst: One of the Gipper's favorite themes is something we can all relate to: the intense urge to urinate while intoxicated. Unlike most of us, however, Gipper's victims seem to have serious issues controlling said urges. Take our friend from the February 2007 issue. He found himself stuck in a corner of a bar and too lazy to force his way across to the nearest restroom. No problem, this guy had a pitcher. Too bad he didn't have the dexterity to pass the pitcher to a friend who wanted to contribute to the collection ofpale ale. vVhat's worse than wetting yourself in public? Wetting yourself with someone else's urine. Sex. Most of us aren't having it. Which is good because most of us probably wouldn't know what to do if 
we could. That is probably the reason why so many of Gipper's subjects have such traumatic sexual encounters. In October of 2005, he told the tale that would make every Sex Ed teacher in the nation cringe. A certain freshman was rounding third and heading for home with an oh-so-lucky lady, when both parties remembered the importance of birth control. Now, most people on campus believe that you cannot acquire contraceptives on campus, but freshie will tell you that they have them in the Huddle Mart. In the form of plastic trash bags. To his dismay, the object of Hefty's affection knew better (maybe she went to a public high school?) and bailed. 
As long as we're on the topic of awkward sexual experiences, let's look at last September's Gipper. We all know the famous Dazed and Confused line, "That's what I love about these high school girls, man. I get older, they stay the same age." While these may be the words to live by for sketchy townies, they really shouldn't define the standards of Notre Dame students. I guess one ofour boys missed that memo. Luckily, the girl's parents were able to meet him in the morning to deliver it. 
As Notre Dame students, many of us are sports fans and wannabe athletes. Also, many of us are alcoholics. So why not put two of our favorite activities together? That said, why stop at things like tossing around a football at a tailgate? And let's throw in the fact that the vast majority of us are sexually repressed. When these powers combine, we get the rousing game ofstrip baseball reported in April of 2006. Maybe these fellas should have taken into account the fact that double vision is detrimental to one's batting average. Maybe then they would have left the field with more than just their bats and balls. 
Our final Gipper Hall-of-Farner from November of2005 receives his award, not only for his level of drunken confusion, but also for his persistence. Like a good Catholic boy, after a night of partying, he did not attempt to go back to the room of a young lady, hoping for some premarital action. Rather, he sought spiritual guidance from his rector. Oh wait, no. He went to his rector's room, thinking it was his own, and rummaged through his closet for PJs. Confronted by said rector, our student repeatedly refused to believe he was in the wrong. It's a shame for him that ResLife took the side of the rector. 
Well, we hope you all enjoyed reliving the humiliation of your peers. The Gipper will return this fall, so try to stay sober enough to send in epic events from the summer. 
Catch ya on the flip side, The Gipper 
T'fPTHeg;PP 
® ® @ 0 (.} o at gipper@nd.edu 
24 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 

HUMOR 

Natalie Kratz 
I'm sure everyone else already knows this, but the other day I found out that Notre Dame managed to snag the No. 5 spot on the Princeton Review's list of "Top 10 Dream Colleges." Being a curious person (i.e. a person desperate to not actually do my homework), I decided to check out the Princeton Review Web site to verify this. I found the list of dream schools and discovered that this ranking isn't 100 percent true. We only made the list ofparents' dream schools, not students'. Figures. After all, my mom was the one who wanted me to go to Notre Dame. I wanted to go south, because I hate snow. Seeing as she obviously won that debate, I suppose Notre Dame made the more important of the lists. After that monumental letdown, I got ambitious with my procrastination and perused the site to see where Our Lady ranks in other departments. Some of the lists are pretty straightforward -we're second in· "Best Career/Job Placement Services." That's legit; you can determine our employment rate pretty easily, although not by looking at niy record of summer employment. Then there's our No. 11 on "Future Rotarians and Daughters of the American Revolution." I don't know if that 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 24 APRIL 2008 
one is based on actual numbers, or if they are stereotyping us as socially conscious elitists. I'll accept it, though, because that really isn't too wild of an accusation. 
I'd like to know exactly how the Princeton Review compiles its more obscure lists. I can't fathom how they managed to figure out that we are sixth in the "Students Pray on a Regular Basis" category. Are there cameras at the Grotto? (That wouldn't surprise me, actually.) Maybe there's a head count at Masses. Not that going to Mass always counts as praying. I know that I spend the first half figuring out how I can keep people (especially the ones I don't even know) from hugging me at the sign ofpeace. Most of the second half involves an internal debate about whether it's hypocritical that I do not drink the wine at Communion even though I partake in that particular beverage in social situations on a regular basis. 
We've locked in No. 20 on "Happiest Students." I don't recall ever talking about my feelings to officials from the Princeton Review. Maybe that one is gauged by the amount of anti-depressants prescribed by health services. Considering that Prozac neither treats mono nor tests for pregnancy, I doubt much of it gets dished out. 
Some of the rankings are legitimate, others are debatable and then there are straight-up lies. Notre Dame is No. 19 on "More to Do on Campus." I guess they consider things like "Salsa Night" at Legends and SUB movies exciting activities for 18-22 year olds. Or it could be that this · ranking is a reflection of the fact that we actually allow parties in dorms, while other schools force kids to go off campus for such shenanigans. And No. 11 for "Best Campus Food." I'm sorry, what? OK, I've yet to get food poisoning from the dining hall, but let's be serious. Have you ever noticed that the bananas in North Dining Hall somehow manage to be both under-and over-ripe simultaneously? Because I have,:_ and it disgusts me. 
So, you may ask, is there any category on which Notre Dame managed to top the charts? Why, yes, because it turns out that "Everyone Plays Intramural Sports," which is also a lie, because I don't. But • I'm not about to argue about our lone No~ 1 slot. After all, I am an avid fan of inter­hall football parties, where I celebrate the athletic abilities of my dorm mates in a completely drug-free zone. There's a reason we are No. 13 on "Don't Inhale." + 
The views ofthis author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine 








