It’s toasted
braicb a bett^ sermon, or make a belter auute-trap than his neighbor, tho be
and raw tobaccos
have no place in cigarettes
They are not present in Luckies . . . the mildest cigarette you ever smoked
WE buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that "Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—so
THE
FORT DEARBORN MASSACRE
"Nature in the Raw" as portrayed by the artist, N. C. Wyeth . . . inspired by the heartless treachery of a band of vicious Miami Indians, who massacred the settlers with inhuman ferocity . • • August 15, 1812.
these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given die benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
October li, 1932
One
WATCH FOR
Till. NEW
ou r NEXT WEEK
Refreshing Humor Sparkling Satire Art-Work that will convulse you.
Twenty-hve cents the copy . . . and worth it!
Two
The Scholastic
THE NOTRE DAME STADIUM
(------)—DRAKE—CARNEGIE—NORTHWESTERN
October 1&, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	- K I	I 1	B Entered as second-class
lished week’-y at the Un/vers- I	I J	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I 1|1£ I	Oil Vwllviadwlw diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	.	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section 1103, October 3,1917, cations Office, Main Building.	■	authorized June 25, 1918.
'	FOUNDED 1867
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL	JOHN PICK
WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX .	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY........News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors BERNARD COUSINO WALTER KENNEDY PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors	Features Staff
JOHN PICK ................ The	Week RAY WATERS..............Features	Editor
ROGER MCGOVERN........College	Parade LOUIS HRUBY HARRY BURCHELL
ROGER BEIRNE.........Music	and Drama WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
RICHARD PREZEBEL.........Staff	Artist	EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Sports Staff
LESLIE RADDATZ........Sports Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES PICK
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER___Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
VOLUME LXVI.
OCTOBER 14, 1932
Number 4
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Oct. 14—Scholastic staff meetings: Editorial board in Publications office at 6:30 p. m. and general staff in room 222 Main Building at 7:00 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Scholarship club dance, Oliver Hotel, 8:00 p. m.; Patricians meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Oct. 15—Cross-country: Notre Dame, Wisconsin, Illinois and Northwestern at Evanston, Ill., 10:00 a. m.; Rosary devotions, Sacred Heart church, 12:30 p. m.; Football, Notre Dame vs. Drake, Notre Dame Stadium at 2:00 p. m.; Movie, Mae Robison in “Mother’s Millions” Washington hall, 6:35 p. m., 8:15 p. m.; Football dance, sponsored by Junior class, K. of C. Ballroom, 9:00 p. m.; Cotillion ticket sale for upperclassmen opens.
Sunday, Oct. 16—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. meeting, basement of library, 10:30; Interhall football games, 9:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p. m.; Irish club meeting, Law Building, 10:30 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 17—Senior tickets for Carnegie Tech game, Stadium ticket office, Gate 14, 3:30 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Academy of Science meeting, 104 Science Hall, 8:00 p. m.; Northern N. Y. club meeting, Walsh hall, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 18—Junior football’tickets for Carnegie Tech game, Stadium ticket office, Gate 14, 3:30 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Youngstown club meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 19—Sophomore football tickets for Carnegie Tech game, Stadium titeket office, Gate 14, 3:30 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Law club meeting, Lay Faculty Dining hall, 7:30 p. m.; Cotillion ticket sale closes; Spanish
club meeting, Commerce Building, 7:00 p. m.; Rochester club banquet, Rose Marie tea .room, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Oct. 20—Freshman football tickets for Carnegie Tech game, Stadium ticket office, Gate 14, 3:30 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00p.m.; Spectators meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
S UMMARY
NEWS
Roosevelt wins Scholastic's Presidential Poll________5 §5.50 Will be round trip rate to Navy game, ’
Nov. 19_________________________________________5
Sandusky named chairman of Interhall debating________6
Juggler's first issue will appear next week_______7
Eastern clubs plan excursion to Army game________10
FEATURES
James Uprichard is The Man About__________________8
Beirne’s Theatre Talk____________________________16
The Moreau Choir_______________1_________________17
Founder’s Day is Celebrated Here_________________14
Morrissey’s New Foyer____________________________15
Introducing Jim Harris___________________________24
SPORTS
Notre Dame favored to beat Drake in second game of season________________________________________20
Cross-country team meets Northwestern, Wisconsin and Illinois at Evanston tomorrow________________20
Squad in good shape after Haskell game: Kurth--------22
Across the Scrimmage Line, a new column giving the players view of the game by Joe Kurth________23
Splinters from the Press Box; Notre Dame 47, Drake 0, according to Kearns________:____________25
Favorites in lead as interhall football season opens-26
N. D. man at mike for N. B. C’ at tomorrow’s game 29
Four
The Scholastic
HIS week we had a pleasant time.
Saturday’s game was preluded by an enthusiastically explosive pep convention two evenings before and was heralded by a wandering group of souvenir-mongers, exchanging, for a quarter, miniature footballs for cousin Kitty to pin on the fancy red and blue (yes, it has long dripping fringe) pillow in the front parlor.
As to the game itself, we felt, at first, that it was but a dress rehearsal. Hastily, however, we desired that it was nothing less than a premiere. Why couldn’t the boys control themselves ? It was hard to tally a score that looked like the navy budget. At least the boys had their exercise— and a gruelling exercise—plunging, plowing, sidestepping and lofting balls over white bars into sedate laps.
The first game always gives the freshmen— and, as well, some of the less kinesthetically-minded upperclassmen—an opportunity to learn the cheers, to avoid attention by singing slightly off key.
Enthusiasm on the boil excuses many things, even dining hall exuberance before one sits down before a silver butter dish. In fact, even the menu was upset by the game. Saturday began with the usual sunrise and unusual chipped beef for breakfast and concluded with the unusual melon as the last course in the evening.
V
UNDAY, again, we had a good time: we went on an intellectual spree. In a contemplative mood, which Sunday dinner always induces, we sat down to a quiet afternoon beside our radio to enjoy the champagne of music rather than “Is You in Love?” (Soda Water) which echoed through the halls on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
Oh, don’t sneer. We’re all diseased with gangrened insensitiveness and a bit of music offers a pleasant catharsis. Drowsy, we reveled in Toscanini. We’re not symphomaniacs, but it was truly exhilarating to slip out and follow our melodic dreams until we lost ourselves in their maze —always to be recalled to reality by the brazen gong just outside our door.
We listened (with little understanding) to scores of anonymous players drawing their rosined horsehair across stretched intestines of lambs (with beautiful results), we lost ourselves in the pure mathematics of it all, in a mild satur-nalian kermess, in algebra cutting capers, in an orgy of merrymaking. (Better enclose the latter' in inverted commas). Now you’ll say we should be locked in a padded cell, but, some Sunday, try it. You’ll like it.
V
'ONDAY, as well, we had a profitable time: we visited—with no admission fee—that part of the library with which the janitor alone seems acquainted: the large green rooms filled with the works of the finest of the early Italian artists. We thought. Rather stupidly we wandered from a Veronese to a Van Dyck (Yes, we know he wasn’t an Italian, but a Dutchman).	'
You must forgive our rather emotional enthusiasm. Don’t open your file and list us under sad psychopathies case studies, but if you don’t visit the top floor of the library just south of St. Mary’s lake) until your Aunt Sophie asks you to do so on commencement morning, then we can only say that we hope to meet you at the door selling us patent medicine or distributing liver pill almanacs.
OLLOW-UP on the Dillon piano (via staff
detective): the freshman’s upright may be viewed in the store-room with the sign “For sale $11. All the keys can play.”
October 1A, 1932
Five
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL LAUNCHES ITS PROGRAM
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT IS WINNER IN “SCHOLASTIC’S” PRESIDENTIAL POLL
Plans For Inter-Club Formal Discussed by Prexies.
The initial meeting of the President’s Council was held Friday evening in the North Room of the library. Cleve Carey, president and chairman of the Council, presided.
Cleve Carey
Has a good idea.
Thirty-five members, presidents of the various campus clubs, were in attendance.
The Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, was present and told the gathering that he is in whole-hearted support of the organization and will back it in all of its activities. He asserted that there is no reason why the campus clubs should not be an important element in the life of every undergraduate at Notre Dame.
Dance Plans
Father Dolan further stated that he was present to assure the Council that the faculty had an active interest in the organization. He urged the earnest co-operation of the body with the faculty.
Speaking of the Dome pictures, he said that this year any club in arrears will be denied their pictures in the yearbook.
Plans for an inter-club dance were discussed during the meeting. . If present plans materialize, this will be the first dance of this nature. Tighe Woods, president of the International Relations Club, discussed the tentative program and arrangements for the same.
The plan was received with much favorable comment especially because (Continued on Page 28)
Round Trip Rate Of $5.50 Obtained For
Student Trip, Nov. 19
Complete plans for the student trip to the Navy game in Cleveland on November 19 were made known late this week by James Gerend, president of the Students Activities Council.
A special train to be side tracked on “bums rest,” west of the Niles Road, will leave with its load of students at 10 p. m. Friday, November 18, arriving in Cleveland at about four o’clock, Eastern Standard time. The same train will pull out of Cleveland at midnight, Saturday.
The student body will meet in front of the gymnasium Friday evening and ■will be led by the band to the railroad coaches.
The trip will be made over the New York Central Lines. The rate will be §5.50 round trip.
Registration Stands at 2775
A check-up on the registration shows that the total enrollment in the University now stands at 2775. This information comes from the office of Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
Mr. Robert Riordan, the Registrar, has already received applications for the school year 1933-34. Some, too, have applied for 1934-35.
Lawyers to Hear Judge Oare
The first of a series of lectures, sponsored by the Law Club of the College of Law, will be on Wednesday, October 19, at 7:30 p. m. in the University Dining Hall.
The speaker on this occasion is to be the Honorable Len Oare, former judge of the Superior Court of St. Joseph County, Indiana. At present, Judge Oare is a member of the Indiana State Board of Bar Examiners.
The subject of the talk will be “Bar Examinations.” Lunch will be served after the lecture.
THOMAS IS SECOND CHOICE
Voting Numbers About 600; Hoover Poor Third; Garner
Named Vice-President.
In a poll that could not be decided until the last handful of ballots were counted, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Democratic nominee for the presidency, eeked out a bare plurality over Norman Thomas, Socialist candidate, late this week. The voting, conducted by The Scholastic was below expectations, the total number of ballots numbering approximately 600.
Final tabulations showed the New York governor with 302 votes, Thomas with 260 and Hoover with 49. The large Thomas poll caused somewhat of a surprise, but it appears that the Socialist’s strength was more attributable to the frivolity that characterized a good deal of the voting than to any actual pro-Socialist sentiment.
Hoover pulled in a rather weak third with 49 backers. One humorist voted for Roosevelt for president and Hoover for vice-president.
50 Plurality For Gamer
For the latter office the campus apparently wants John Gamer, Speaker of the House, although his plurality of approximately 50 votes over his Socialist rival, James Maurer, was not impressive. Republican stock took another drop in Curtis’ 65 markers.
The general apathy that students evidenced toward the poll is rather inexplicable since ballots were placed in every Scholastic last week and ballot boxes provided at the most convenient spots on the campus. (For evidence of further student apathy see Voice of The Campus, page 9.)
Complete results follow:
For President—
Franklin D. Roosevelt--------302
Norman Thomas----------------249
Herbert Hoover-------------— 49
Alfred Smith 2
For Vice-President—
John Nance Garner------------299
James Maurer 249
Charles Curtis_______________ 65
Owen D. Young----------------- 1
Albert C. Ritchie------------- 1
Joseph McCabe_________________ 1
e
Six
The Scholastic
Wranglers Choose Sandusky To Head Debating Program
SUBJECTS PICKED
Juniors and Seniors to be in
One Interhall Division;
Coaches are Named.
The Wranglers advanced closer to their objective, interhall debating, when, at a meeting last Wednesday evening, Arthur Sandusky was appointed chairman of the debating committee.
Sandusky, editor of the Dome, this year, and a former interhall debater, as well as varsity debater last year, immediately announced the assignments of coaches to the various halls. They are: Timothy Benitz, Sorin; Brennan, Walsh; Cauley, Corby; Fitzgerald, Alumni; Riley, Howard; O’Meara, Badin; Hayes, Morrissev; Hruby, Lyons; Logan, St. Edward’s; Haywood, Dillon; Clancy, Sophomore; Balmann, Brownson; Korzeneski, Carroll.
First Candidate Meeting Monday
Sandusky also issued the notice that there will be a meeting of the candidates in the Freshman - Sophomore group on Monday, October 17, at 12:30 in the South Basement of the Library. Juniors and Seniors will meet in the same place the following day, October 18.
The competition will be divided into two groups, the respective winners meeting to ascertain the debating championship of the University.
The question to be debated in the Frosh - Sophomore league is: “Resolved, that the President of the United States was justified in calling out the United States Army to evict the Bonus Expeditionary Forces from Washington, D. C.” In the Junior-Senior league, the topic for debase will be, “Resolved, that the Oxford system of education is superior to the American system of higher education.”
In the final debate, plans for which are now being arranged, the two teams representing their respective
(Continued on Page 15)
Scrip Changes Cover And Size; Students Are Asked to Contribute
The editor of Scrip announces several changes in the makeup of Notre Dame’s literary quarterly for the coming year. Scrip will be larger, there will be a new cover design with the name of the magazine in block letter rather than written out as has been done in the past, and the table of contents will be on the cover, and the magazine will be copyrighted at the U. S. Copyright Office in Washington, D. C. Also the old deckle edged paper and overlapping covers will be abandoned. The inside pages ■will be cut evenly and the cover will run flush with the inside. Art Bee-var, art-editor of the Juggler, is working on a suitable design for Scrip. It is planned to make a permanent plate of the cover lettering when it has been finally adopted. This will insure a standard and permanent cover design.
What To Print
The only difficulty now is to find something to print in this new and somewhat rejuvenated magazine. As was announced a few weeks ago in The Scholastic, Scrip is looking for contributions from the students It doesn’t matter whether the contributor is a freshman or a senior, in commerce or in engineering — everything he submits will b egiven fair and careful consideration. There is no requirement as to the type of material to be submitted.. Anything of a literary nature is acceptable— stories, essays, verse, scientific, com-merical or political articles, practically every type of writing will be acceptable.
Contributions should be addressed to the editor at 348 Sorin Hall. The deadline for the first issue will be November 4. Contributors are urged to have .their copy in by this time.
Youngstown. Club to Meet
The Youngstown Club is scheduled to meet Tuesday evening, October 18, in the Law building at 6:30 o’clock.
PHILOSOPHY SEMINAR OFF TO GOOD START
Father Miltner and His Young Aristotles Meet Weekly.
Outstanding among the new courses offered by the College of Arts and Letters this year is the seminar in
Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C. A popular teacher in a popular class.
philosophy held every Monday evening at seven o’clock in the Law Building and conducted by the Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of that College, and head of the department of philosophy.
Last Monday night’s session was given over to a discussion of the constituents of man, the principle which animates him, the differences on the cells which make up his body, the quesion of his individuality—in short, the age-old problem of the one and the many.
Ancient though the dilemma might have been, the time never dragged, questions came from every corner of the room, and always got an answer.
The class is conducted informally, anybody is welcome, even if his knowledge of philosophy is not impressive. The session lasts an hour and a half and sometimes at bit more.
As Father Miltner has explained, the course will be devoted to man in his multifarious aspects, philosophy will be touched upon in all its fields.
Is life worth living? Yes, so long as there is wrong to right.—Alfred Austin.
October 14, 1932
Seven
CAMPUS FRENCH CLUB ORGANIZES FOR YEAR
Prof. Lang well New Faculty Director; Plans Outlined.
Plans for the reorganization of the University French Club were announced Wednesday by Professor
Professor Earl F. Langwell Takes his turn.
Earl F. Langwell, faculty adviser of the organization.
The appointment of Professor Langwell to the position of adviser was made as part of a new faculty policy which will rotate the language club directorships among the members of the department. Professor Benjamin Dubois headed the French club for the past two years.
The Necessity Of French
In explaining the purpose and the plans of the club, Professor Langwell stressed the promotion of study of French literature, institutions, and culture among the students who are interested in the field.
Juniors in Commerce who have been unable to continue their French classes because of schedule difficulties are especially urged to join the organization as a means of continuing their language work.
Officers elected last year will carry over for the organization. Jules De La Vergne, a senior, is president of the club, and Paul Laframbois, a junior, is historiographer. The office -of vice-president is open.
Notices of the first meeting, planned for the near future, will be (Continued on Page 22)
McCabe’s First “Juggler”
Is Outstanding In Content
Jugglers Engaged to Play at Oliver Hotel Dinner Every Night
The Notre Dame Jugglers, popular orchestra of the campus, have been engaged by the Oliver Hotel management of South Bend, to play every evening from 6:30 to 8:30 for a dinner program in the new Traveline room. The local orchestra will also play every Wednesday afternoon from 12:30 to 2:00 o’clock for luncheon.
The Jugglers- were organized in 1927 by Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, its director, and before the year was over, the orchestra had recorded the “Victory March,” and “Down the Line” for Columbia. Anthony Kopecky, tenor soloist of the Notre Dame Glee Club at the time, sang the vocal refrains.
Summer Travels
In 1931, the musicians made a trip to the Orient. Last summer a trip on the “S. S. Satumia” to the Eucharistic Congress in Ireland was made possible through the efforts of Prof. Casasanta.
Because of the seniors in the personnel of this year, Professor Casasanta is planning to start a second orchestra which will step into the vacancies created by graduation next June.
Any student interested in trying out for a part in the organization may do so by registering with Prof. Casasanta during the early part of next week.
Fathers Steiner and Mulcaire
Attend McCue Funeral
Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Engineering, and Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the Univer-siyt, left Notre Dame this week for Morris, Illinois, to attend the funeral of the late Notre Dame Dean, Martin McCue.
Accompanying Fathers Steiner and Mulcaire were several professors of the College of Engineering.
OUT NEXT WEEK
Becvar, Prezebel and Doyle excel in Art Work; Noticeable Change in Policy.
Joseph McCabe and his Jtiggler make their appearance together next week for the first time. The courtesy of getting a pre-view of the newly-weds was extended to The Scholastic last night just before the finishing touches were made on the first edition.
Let it be known at the outset that the Juggler this year has undergone a noticeable change in its policy. Its articles are long a la New Yorker. Its tone is different. It hasn’t that immaturity about it that characterizes most college comics. Its editor himself is not immature; perhaps that explains it.
Becvar Does Cover
McCabe, as it now’ appears, had everything to lose and not a great deal to win. It vras expected that he acclimate himself in his new field and still keep up his standards of past Jugglers. His first issue proves that he has done both.
Art editor Becvar draws the cover and gets off a clever one. His work through the whole magazine, in fact, has more of that maturity we spoke of.
Fine Caricatures
A recruit in Juggler ranks, Jerry Doyle has five corking sketches and a written contribution to boot. Dick Prezebel, caricaturist, extraordinary, who has several enemies among the football men, tunes up on Leslie Rad-datz and Cleve Carey and then hands them over to Tighe Woods as fitting subjects for “Keyhole Portraits.” Woods keeps up his last year’s quality, and no more need be said.
Joe Degnan, Bill Dreux and McCabe himself, naturally, have witty, pointed, well organized contributions. It would be difficult to name all the other commendable results of the Funny Fellow’s first attempt. One quarter of a dollar sometime early next week will relieve your suspense.
I
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
FR. BOLGER TO TALK TO NATIONAL ALUMNI CLUB
On this universal campus, representing, so we are told, some forty-five of these United States, several foreign countries and untold numbers of cities, it is rather difficult to achieve originality in the matter of background. But we must take off our hat to one, who has at one time or another claimed Chicago, Indianapolis, Columbus and Cleveland as his home town “in the order named.” There is only one descriptive adjective worthy of the situation and the man. May we present, then, the cosmopolitan James Uprichard.
Just Now It’s Cleveland
At the present writing (if we hurry this up before he gives us the slip) Jim Uprichard is a citizen of Cleveland and a member in Good standing of the Cleveland Club, which gives him, if nothing else, a worthy claim to the upper half of “that little bit of Cleveland,” 346 Sorin.
“B u t,” claims roommate Cleve Cary, awakening from his nap, “Terre Haute is exerting a strong call at present, and ‘Jeanne’ is a pretty name, isn’t it?” We applauded gracefully, as he easily cleared three Sunday newspapers, and disappeared beneath the Society Section, leaving us to our historical research, and Jim to his dressing.
May we add here that Uprichard is one of those who adhere to traditions. Although not of that illustrious clan of Brownsonites, witness that he is a member of the Sorin porch-sitters, and a religious dresser-up on Sunday afternoon.
Page Horatio Alger
High School Student James Uprichard has a record that would not be inferior to the Alger works at their best. To touch only the high spots, Jim was treasurer of his Senior class, and what is more and better, the class showed a profit at the end of the graduation exercises. Besides this, St. Ignatius High of Cleveland benefit^ed by the fruits of Jim’s athletic ability. Basketball was his forte and his delight, and next to Indiana, Ohio is the home of basketball players, as too, are several other states. (See first paragraph.)
Of late years, however, a change of heart has taken place. Influenced perhaps by a trick shoulder acquired in Freshman year, Jim now confines
his athletic endeavors to a winning brand of handball, interhall basketball and weekly hikes around the campus and to the west of the campus.
James Uprichard
One of those who adhere to traditions.
Instead, he has turned his talents toward curricular activities. He is one of those men who will receive a cum laude with the sheepskin in June.
“A Phone In Every Room”
A major in Economics, Jim intends to continue his various travels next year, making Paris his immediate destination. After a year of the broadening influence of touring Europe, his plans will take him into the offices of the A. T. & T., where he hopes someday to become a big executive. A Phone in Every Room is to be his motto and his byword.
Last year, he worked assidiously and long on the staff of the Dome of ’32. This year he is working as assidously and longer on his preparations in oratory for his Speech class. (Faculty papers please copy.)
His hobbies are many and varied. He is an inveterate reader and a radical hater of politics of all sorts. He prefers ties that match shirts, and would like to make a new law against blue shirts and gold cravats, in spite of his school patriotism. He has a passion for keeping his desk orderly, and a single glance at the floor reveals his method of keeping his writing space clear.
One of those chaps who are friendly to everyone, even the Freshman in
(Continued on Page 32)
Group to Discuss Conditions Throughout the Country.
James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, has announced that the principal address at the banquet held in conjunction with the National Catholic Federation district meeting here November 20, will be delivered by the Reverend' William A. Bolger, C.S.C. Father Bolger is vice-president of the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minnesota. He also serves as dean of the School of Business.
A Decent Livelihood
His subject will be “A Decent Livelihood—Its Content and Moral Basis.”
Father Bolger is recognized as being one of the foremost economists in the Middle West. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1907 and served for many years as head of the Economics department. As an undergraduate he figured prominently in debating, and after becoming a faculty member he acted as coach for the debating team.
As explained by James E. Armstrong, who is in charge of the affair, the purpose of this Alumni gathering is to discuss economic conditions throughout the country.
The members attending the meeting will hear Mass in the morning. In the afternoon there will be a short business meeting, and in the evening a banquet will be served in the University dining hall.
First Football Dance To Be Held Tomorrow Night
The first of a series of football dances, which will be held after the home games during the rest of the season, will take place tomorrow evening at the Knights of Columbus auditorium. The Notre Dame Jugglers will furnish the music.
The Junior class, sponsors of the dance, have made arrangements for those in attendance to procure twelvethirty permissions. Upon presentation of the dance ticket to the rector, permissions may be obtained. Dancing will be from nine to twelve.
Mentality and morality together constitute character.—Rev. Denis B. Coleman.
October U, 1932
Nine
COTILLION TICKET SALE TO CLOSE OCTOBER 19
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Final Plans for Sophomore Dance Are Announced.
Definite plans for the annual Sophomore Cotillion, to be held next Friday evening at the Palais Royale, were made known by General Chairman John McKean this week.
A special section on the east side of the Stadium has been reserved for the sophomores and their guests. Tickets for this section may be obtained on Monday and Tuesday at the Athletic office by presenting a ticket for the Cotillion, A.A book and three dollars and sixty cents. This will entitle the bearer to two reserved seat tickets.
Two Hundred And Fifty Expected
The ticket sale for all classes closes on Oct. 19. Tickets for the upperclassmen will go on sale on the fifteenth of the month. The price of the ticket is three dollars.
The program committee announced that programs may be obtained on Wednesday and Thursday by presenting a Cotillion ticket at the Carroll Rec. The hours of distribution are from three to five. Programs this year will be of blue suede leather, in the form of a card case.
The ticket sale has been progressing rapidly and Chairman McKean expects that over two hundred and fifty couples will be in attendance.
Italian Club Plans Lectures and Informal Roman Dinners
Plans for the arrangement of a series of lectures and informal Roman dinners were discussed at the Italian Club meeting held last Tuesday evening in Room 2 of the Main Building.
Prominent faculty members will be secured to give short lectures on various cultural and educational topics.
A committee was appointed to take charge of the first in a series of informal Roman dinners which will oc-•cur two weeks hence
A number of Italian publications and literary magazines including the “Atlantica” and “11 Legionario” are being afforded the club through the efforts of Professor Pirchio, faculty adviser, and are on file in the library.
I try to make the enemy wonder what I am going to do—Grant.
AU letters must be signed in full with address and mailed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
The Editor, Scholastic
Dear Sir:
I saw where there was a wonderful turnout for interhall football, seventyeight reporting at Dillon Hall. Most commendable, for football is one of the greatest games in the world and develops some manly qualities better than any other sport, especially cooperation. But of that 78, a great number were absolutely unfit for the game through lack of size, weight and experience. These will be cut mighty quickly by the coaches, and deservedly so.
Yet when I ask for a turnout in freshman cross-country, what a lusty cheer I get, Bronx variety. There may be some fine distance runners in that large crowd of unfit football players, and they would be welcomed heartily and not cut after one look. These boys would be immensely ben-efitted by going round our beautiful lakes one leg at a time. After a month, even if they weren’t destined to be Nurmis, they would revel in a fit body, for no body is truly fit that can’t go over a distance of land or water on its own power.
This apathy to cross-country running is peculiar to American colleges, and the reason why Europeans generally dominate the distance runs in the Olympic Games. Only colleges who have been down on their luck in football taken an interest in distance running, and these colleges then work up a tradition for cross-country even when their football teams get powerful. We here at Notre Dame should see that this fine sport of distance running should come in for its share of respect and interest in the student body.
The student’s picture of an athlete is one disporting himself before immense throngs on the greensward clad in old gold silk pants. Well that’s good and more power to that picture. But lo! the poor cross country man running in a dual meet before the immense throng of a starter, two coaches and four managers.
There is no substituting in crosscountry, no time-outs, no wasting valuable breath on “talking it up.” There’s no team drag of ten pulling you up by the bootstraps in the fourth quarter, you’ve got to lift those dogs yourself. It’s stay in there, keep your
mind off yourself, and pass that bird in front of you before the next bend.
It might not be so romantic, this distance running, but for any real, tough, long job, I’ll match the distance runner against the world. Endurance, that’s all, that and keeping your mind on a far away goal. Goofs are they, these cross-country men? Well if it weren’t for enduring goofs what a world this would be!
What? Might hurt your heart? I’ve been coaching distance men seventeen years and I have yet to make a bad heart of a good one, but I’ve done vice-versa many times. I’ll stack a hundred distance men’s hearts against a hundred second basemen’s hearts in 20 years. And do you know that marathon runners last much longer than halfbacks? The strain on the heart isn’t half as hard as shooting the African cubes.
We require every student to swim before we give him a degree. Great! The ability to swim might some day save his body from drowning. Also let him learn to run three miles in 21 minutes, easily trained up to, and the power to endure might some day save his soul.
The average football player is a big man, the average cross-country athlete a little fellow. In the words of a former American queen whose follow-eres were not distance men, “Give the little man a big hand.” .
Sincerely, John P. Nicholson. Coach, Track and Cross-Country.
PRAGMATIST
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
Just what do you expect to accomplish by conducting a presidential poll? The results can have no possible influence on anybody or anything. But after all I suppose it’s a nice way to fill space.
P. T. C.
ANOTHER BOUQUET
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
What has happened to The Scholastic’s circulation department? Last week two floors in Lyons Hall received no copies of your magazine. Your news is old enough when it gets here on time,
Lyonite.
Ten
The Scholastic
SPECIAL RATES TO BE GIVEN FOR ARMY TRIP
Metropolitan and New Jersey Clubs Plan Excursion.
The Metropolitan club and the New Jersey club have made the final arrangements for the trip to the Army-Notre Dame football classic to be staged in New York City on Nov. 26.
According to the information received from the authorities of these clubs the round trip rate will be §20.05. This fare will entitle one to a day coach passage from the New York Central Station in South Bend Bend to New York and return. The price is practically the same as was in effect last year.
To Leave Wednesday Noon
The train will leave South Bend at noon on Wednesday, Nov. 23, and the trip back will start from New York at an early hour the following Sunday morning.
Single cuts only will be charged against the students making the trip. This special privilege has been extended by the Office of the Prefect of Discipline. A section of tickets is now being held at the Athletic Association Office for the students who intend to go to the game.
The Alumni club of New York will, in all probability, stage a football dance on Saturday evening. According to the information available at present, it may be held in the ballroom of the Hotel McAlpin.
Here Is An Unusual One
The following letter was received the past week at the post office:
Chula Vista, Calif.
Student Body Notre Dame University, South Bend, Indiana.
Dear Sirs:
I am sending a check §------ and I
would like------ tickets to the Notre Dame-U. S. C. game at Los Angeles. Please send me the best seats available as close to the 50 yd. line as possible. If we would have to be higher up than midway of Stadium would rather be nearer the field and away from the 50 yard line.
However, give us the best seats you have, with the above thought in mind.
Thanking you for your kind consideration in selecting the tickets I remain.
Yours truly,
Mrs. E. G.
DIRECTOR
Reverend, William Molony, C.S.C., whose choice of movies in Washington Hall to date has won the approval of the student body. And that is something.
Movie Schedule for Next
Four Weeks is Announced
Rev. William Molony, C.S.C., faculty motion picture adviser, has released the names of five pictures which will be presented at Washington Hall within the next four weeks.
Tomorrow night, Oct. 15, the first of the group will be shown with Mae Robison taking the lead in “Mother’s Millions.” On Saturday, Oct. 22, “The Doomed Battalion,” styled “the perfect war picture,” with a star cast will be presented.
“Frankenstein” In Two Weeks
Boris Karloff will be shown in “Frankenstein,” Saturday, Oct. 29. The following Monday, Oct. 31, a drama with a boarding school background will be screened with the presentation of “Tom Brown of Culver,” featuring Tom Brown. Many of the scenes of this picture were taken at Culver Military Academy, Culver, Indiana and should prove of special interest to the students.
Finally, Nov. 5, Lew Ayres, who played one of the leading roles in the “Spirit of Notre Dame,” will be presented in “O. K. America.”
Attention St. Louisians!
The St. Louis Club will meet this evening at 6:30 in the Walsh Hall basement. All those living in or near St. Louis are invited to attend.
EXPERT PHOTOGRAPHY TO BE USED IN “DOME”
Interior Views of Buildings Shot During Week.
A photographic artist has been working on the campus during the past week taking views of the new buildings for the 1933 Dome.
Interior views of the Sacred Heart Church, Alumni, Dillon, and Morrissey Chapels, St. Olaf’s Shrine, the Law Library, and lobbies of the Engineering and Commerce buildings were taken with the aid of powerful photographic lights which could be focused to blot out or define the desired shadows.
Full and detailed exterior views were taken of the Law, Commerce, and Engineering buildings, Alumni and Dillon Halls, and the Memorial door of the Sacred Heart Church.
Carl Ulrich, representative of the Chicago Architectural Photographing . Company, photographed all the pictures. The powerful lights employed in photographing interior views cast sun-like beams upon all objects and thus assured distinct pictures in unique and fine mouldings. The lighting apparatus employed in the work is valued at more than §1,000.
Photographs of the Chicago World Fair are to be taken by the same company. Views of Mundelein College, Chicago, which were forewarded to Rome, were rendered by Ulrich.
Professor Davis Talks To 42 At Cleveland Dinner
The Cleveland club listened to one of the most interesting after-dinner speeches ever to be presented at a banquet held by the club, Thursday evening, when Dr. Alden E. Davis, a member of the faculty of the College of Commerce, discussed and compared the various systems of education employed by American colleges.
The banquet, which the Freshman representative, Herbert Venables, was chosen, was held at the Indiana club. Forty-two members enjoyed a splendid meal.
President Carey announced plans for the monthly Communion Mass, to be attended by the club, the last Sunday of every month. This month the club will meet in Morrissey.
A Communion breakfast will follow the Mass, taking place in the Faculty dining hall.
October 11,, 1932
Eleven
DOYLE TALKS ON ART TO THE SPECTATORS
Condemns Modernism For Its Lack of Craftsmanship.
“The Weakness of Modernism” was the subject of a talk delivered to the Spectators last night by Gerald P. Doyle, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters.
In an exceptionally clear and forceful manner Doyle showed that the modernistic type of “art” now in vogue cannot be truly called art. He predicted that it will eventually pass into oblivion, because it lacks craftsmanship, and ventured the opinion that its decline has already set in.
Doyle enlarged upon and also criticized certain opinions of several well known critics, notably Cortissoz and Ruskin.
The Matter Itself
In the general discussion which followed, it was agreed that the subjective attitude of the painter and his own manual technique are inextricably bound together and that both are necessary in a great artist, but that all other’ things being equal, the greater his intellect, the greater is the artist.
At the next meeting, Robert P. Flint and Eugene T. Sullivan will speak.
Applications for membership in the Spectators are now being received. Blanks are obtainable from President John Pick, 328 Sorin Hall.
Father P. J. Carroll Returns
Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. returned to the campus during the past week after a four month’s absence during which he visited Ireland.
Father Carroll is associate editor of the Ave Maria, professor of poetry, former chairman of the Board of Publications, author of Round About Home, Michaeleen, and Patch, as well as being a frequent contributor to poetic and literary magazines.
The Scholastic expects to present an interview with Father Carroll in the near future.
NOTICE!
All students living in or near Scranton are invited to attend the meeting of the Anthracite Club this evening at 6:30 in the Walsh Hall basement.
CONDUCTOR
The Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., whose work with the Moreau Seminary Choir has made him outstanding as a director.
Engineers Hold First Meet of Year Wednesday Night
The Engineers’ club held their initial meeting of the year Wednesday evening in the auditorium of the new building. President William Marter-steck presided and informed the club that the Reverend Thomas Steiner, ' C.S.C., was not able to attend due to the death of Prof. McCue, former dean of <the College of Engineering.
Prof. Edward Mahin, Professor of Chemistry and Meetallurgy, spoke on Metallurgy and its influence in engineering. Mr. Daniel Hull, Professor of Mathematics and Physics, told of the formation and kinds of clouds.
The following initiation committee was named by the president: Chairman, Charles Slatt, assisted by Raymond Kane, Dave Neal, Pat McCaffery, John Poynton, and Frank Jenny. The date for the initiation was set for Monday, Oct. 17.
An Executive committee, comprising the following, was also appointed for the different classes: senior, Tom Skeehan; junior, Tom David; sophomore, Gene Witchger, and freshman, John Norton.
Law Seniors to Have Canes
Following a tradition inaugurated in 1922, the seniors in the College of Law have been presented with canes. The men are supposed to carry them every Thursday and Saturday.
A heavy fine will be imposed for the violation of this rule.
UNIVERSITY FACULTY HOLD SOCIAL MEETING
Over One Hundred Twenty Are Present at Gathering.
One hundred and twenty members of the University faculty and guests were present at the first social function of that group held Tuesday evening in the lay faculty dining hall. Professor Edward G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy, College of Engineering, presided as chairman of the affair.
Special Buffet Dinner
A specially prepared buffet lunch was served to the members. Progressive bridge was afterwards played. Among the guests of honor present at the gathering were the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president, Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering, Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, and Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
In a brief toast to the faculty, Professor Mahin outlined the nature of the organization, stressing its informality. He also dwelt upon the benefits to be obtained from such gatherings and heartiljT encouraged the holding of similar events.
Solemn Requiem Mass Today For Martin McCue
A solemn requiem High Mass was sung in Sacred Heart Church at 8 o’clock this morning for the repose of the soul of Martin J. McCue, dean emeritus of the College of Engineering, who died Tuesday.
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnel, C.S.C., president of the University, • was celebrant of the Mass. Other officers included the Reverend Peter Hebert, C.S.C., deacon; Reverend Henry Glueckert, C.S.C., sub-deacon; and Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., master of ceremonies.
The Moreau Seminary choir sang the responses.
Twelve
The Scholastic
LENCI0N1 APPOINTED EDITOR OF “LAWYER”
Initial Issue of Publication to Appear in November.
Daniel C. Lencioni, senior in the College of Law, was appointed editorin-chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer, official publication of the laywers, this week. John W. Manley was appointed business manager.
The Lawyer is a quarterly law review which appears in November, January, March, and May. During the last scholastic year of the publication, the circulation of the magazine increased to over five hundred. Copies of the paper are to be found in the leading law schools of the country as well as in the offices cf many prominent attorneys and libraries.
Prof. Rollison Adviser
The first issue of the paper scheduled to appear early in November is now under way according to an announcement made this week by Prof. William D. Rollison, faculty adviser. He stated that the work for the issue was in progress but considerable time was required in arranging the material.
The Notre Dame Lawyer has been in existence for eight years. It is now in its third year appearing as a quarterly. Previously, the paper was put out by the lawyers as a monthly.
Contributions to the publication include nationally known celebrities in the field of law. The paper also contains a department of valuable notes compiled by the law students as well as a section of book reviews pertaining to law.
Lencioni succeeds Edward C. Massa, who was editor last year. The rest of the staff includes Robert W. Prescott, advertising manager, Francis J. Schumacher, circulation manager, and John M. Crimmins, book review editor.
Son Born to Alumni Secretary
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Armstrong were blessed with a seven pound son, bom last Sunday evening, October 9, at Epworth hospital. •
Mr. Armstrong, alumni secretary, announced that the child will be christened Philip Carter Armstrong.
CHAIRMAN
Arthur Sandusky, who has just been appointed chairman of interhall debating by the Wranglers' Club.
(Story on Page 6)
Pre-Law Club Elects New Set of Officers For Year
On Tuesday evening the Pre-Law Club held a meeting in the Law Building and elected officers. This special election was necessary due to the fact that two of the men elected last year failed to return to the University.
After some vigorous debate between the upper classmen and the freshmen concerning the method of election, the two parties nominated and elected the following officers: James Jennings, of El Paso, Texas, President; Arthur Korzeneski, VicePresident; Ray Brett, Secretary, and Don Quinn, Treasurer.
Further business was discussed and plans were made to secure speakers from the Law faculty to address the group in future meetings.
Mr. Plunkett to Address
Academy of Science Monday
The next regular meeting of the Academy of Science will be held in Room 104 of Science Hall on Monday evening, October 17, at 8 o’clock.
The feature of the program will be an address by Donald J. Plunkett, instructor in biology in the College of Science.
The purpose of the talk is to acquaint the pre-medical students with the methods of instruction in the medical schools.
COMMERCE SURVEY IS MEETING WITH SUCCESS
Student Opinions on Movies Are Being Collected Now.
The Commerce Forum’s survey of the buying tastes of the student body has progressed very favorably thus far. Several hundred students have been already interviewed. With few exceptions the answers to the questionnaires have been sensible and to the point.
The first part of the survey being taken now deals exclusively with the moving pictures.
The survey is attempting to discover the favorite actors, actresses, directors, and producing companies, as well as the types of pictures the students like Attention is also given to the reaction to advertising and fan magazines.
Father Ryan’s History
Text Nearing Completion
Reverend John Ryan, C.S.C., head of the History department of the University, announced that because of unforeseen circumstances, he is unable to tell when his history text will be completed. However, it is ready for publication up to the fourteenth century. Father Ryan last year published the first eleven centuries of his text, Christian Europe.
I
Law School ‘11 Clubs’ Formed
The organization of seven “11-Clubs” for the first year class in the Law School has been perfected. At present, 77 potential attorneys have affiliated themselves with these bodies.
The purpose of the “11-clubs” is to train the students in the art of extemporaneous speaking, various subjects being given to them at each meeting.
The majority of the gatherings are assembling at nine o’clock every Monday morning.
Progress Club Hears Law Dean
Dean Thomas Konop of the College of Law addressed the Progress Club in the club’s auditorium on Wednesday, October 5, at 2:30 p. m.
The subject of Dean Konop’s speech was “Our National Government.” A large number of the members and many of their friends attended this affair.
October U, 1932
Thirteen
GLEE CLUB SINGS ON
N.D.-INDIAN PROGRAM
Anderson, Host and Dietz Give Talks Over WSBT.
Through the courtesy of WSBT, the Tribune station, the Notre Dame Glee Club participated in a special program presented last week on the eve of the Notre Dame-Haskell game. The program was interspersed with short addresses given by Coaches Dietz, Anderson, and Captain Paul Host.
Under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, the University gleesters presenter a repertoire consisting of “Hike Song,” “Down the Line,” “Victory March,” “Irish Backs,” and “Notre Dame, Our Mother.”
Dietz versus Thorpe
In his talk, Lone Star Dietz, the Haskell mentor, frankly admitted that his teammate, Jim Thorpe, was given credit for some of his yardage. Coach Anderson weighed the football situation by saying that the new rules were good because they were a step in reducing the casualty list.
In Anderson’s opinion, the new rules have eliminated much of the thrill of the game. He predicted the use of the flying tackle as a last resort in stopping the opposition from scoring.
Captain Paul Host concluded the program with a short talk.
Monthly Conference of Holy Cross Priests Held
The monthly priest’s conference was held Monday afternoon, October 10. At each of these meetings a paper is prepared and read to the conference by one of the Fathers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The paper usually deals with some theological subject or one pertaining to church history, liturgy, etc.
After the reading of the paper, there is a general discussion on the subject. The conference is presided over by the Provincial, the Reverend James A. Bums, C.S.C.
Spanish Club Meeting
The Spanish club will hold its first meeting of the year next Wednesday evening at 7 o’clock in the Commerce building. New and old members are urged to be present, by Professor DeLandero. It is expected that elections will be held for the coming school year.
PRESIDENT
James P. Danehy, guiding genius of the Irish club, active, well-informed Spectator, and wearer of the Academy of Science Key, finds time to major in organic chemistry, besides.
Irish Club in Session
A business meeting of the Irish Club was held last Tuesday evening, presided over by John Sullivan in the absence of President James P. Danehy.
Several applications for membership were considered. It was decided that no additional applications will be considered unless in the hands of Secretary Joseph Davey before October, 21.
The next meeting will be Sunday at 10:30 a. m. in the Law Building. At that time Robert P. Flint and Joseph K. Partello will speak, respectively, upon the “Rebellion of 1916” and “Ancestors of the Modem Irish.”
Meetings are held every alternate week when two papers on some phase of Irish history, language, or culture are delivered and discussed by the club.
Communions Less This Year
According to statistics compiled by the office of the Prefect of Religion, a total of 35,988 communions have been distributed during the first twenty-four days of the current school year.
This daily average of 1500 is forty less than that of last year. The deficit may be accounted for by a decrease of 400 in registration, showing that the number of daily communions relatively on the increase.
PRESS CLUB OUTLINES ACTIVITIES FOR YEAR
Initial Meeting Held Tuesday Eve in Journalism Room.
President Jack Jaeger called his Press Club into informal session, for the first time this year, last Tuesday evening at 7:30 o’clock in the Journalism room of the library. The purpose of the meetings, as the President expressed it in his address to the club members, was to “start the ball rolling.”
Program For Year Outlined
President Jaeger outlined an ambitious program for the coming year to be climaxed by a luncheon of members and their guests in the University dining hall. The club hopes to secure, as speaker of the evening, Quin Ryan, of radio station WGN Chicago. Other speakers will include Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.SC., Neil Hurley, former Scholastic editor-in-chief, now associated with the Chicago Tribune, F. T. Ahearn of the South Bend News-Times, and a representative of the South Bend Tribune. The week of December 11, has been tentatively selected as the date for the luncheon.
The election of a vice-president and the routine business of the club were postponed until the next meeting owing to the small attendance. There was a scarcity of members but those present were enthusiastic as to club prospects.
Flint Speaks to Patricians On Translation of Breviary
Last Friday evening the Patricians held their regular weekly meeting in the Classical Room of the Law Building. Robert Flint, their president, spoke on the translation of the Roman Breviary by Marquess of Bute and his work in liturgical research. Business affairs of the club were also discussed.
. The next meeting of the Patricians will be held tonight at 8 o’clock in the Law Building. Frank O’Malley will be the speaker. Mr. Flint says that for the time being these meetings will be open sessions, and any one who is interested in classical lore is invited to attend.
The Scholastic
Fourteen
Founder’s Day Celebrated At Notre Dame Thursday
Founder’s Day, one of Notre Dame’s most cherished traditions, is annually observed on St. Edward’s Feast day, October 13, in honor of the patron saint day of the Very Reverend Sorin, C.S.C., Founder and first president of the University.
Before the death of Father Sorin about forty years ago, the feast of St. Edward was observed at the University with elaborate celebration. On down through the years the feast day, less a reality, has become more and more a memory. Notre Dame students gather each year on- this day and offer their Communion to the sacred memory of the founder of their school.
History Is Interesting
The history of Founder’s Day as recorded in the yellowed files of former years is highly interesting. On October 14, 1871 the following was published: “Last week we anticipated the brilliant festivities held in honor of the Very Reverend Edward Sorin. But the national calamity which so unexpectedly fell upon us — the destruction by fire of more than half of the great city of Chicago — has taken away the interest which the students feel in the recurrence of this festival. Sympathy with the sufferers has induced Father Sorin to refuse any demonstrations in his honor.”
Visitors Came From Abroad
Some twenty years later, the following is found in a page of Ths Scholastic: “Washington Hall presented a very lively appearance on the eve of the feast of St. Edward, October 13, when the faculty, students, and visitors from abroad assembled to tender the Venerable Father - General Sorin, founder of Notre Dame, on the occasion of his patronal festival. Solemn high mass was celebrated by the Very Rev. Provincial Corby and assistants.”
From the issue of October 14. 1893: “The name day of our venerable founder of Notre Dame — occasion of general rejoicing of our little college world.”
On November 11, 1893, a Scholastic edged in black made its appearance. Father Sorin had died.
Down through the history of Notre Dame Founder’s Day, fitting ceremonies have marked the celebration. Yesterday in Sacred Heart Church a
Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
He was remembered yesterday.
solemn high Mass was celebrated with the Reverend P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., as celebrant, Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., deacon, Reverend Raymond J. Clancy, C.S.C., sub-deacon, and Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., master of ceremonies.
In a sermon appropriate for the occasion, the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., recounted some of the hardships and tribulations encountered and overcome by Father Sorin and the six Brothers who were h’s associates in founding Notre Dame.
High Hearts And $400
On August 8, 1841, these seven valiant men responded to the call of the Bishop of Vincennes and came as missionaries to this spot then a wilderness. In November 1842, they arrived at what was to be Notre Dame with high hearts and a total capital of $400 to found a college and novitiate.
During all the early history of the school, the pinch of poverty was ever present. Once the total capital of the Community amounted to fifty cents. At another time the .horses were sold at auction to satisfy the creditors. Again, a day came when there was no food for either students or professors. In addition, the more enthusiastic anti-Catholics of the vi-
SENIOR PICTURES WILL BE COMPLETED SOON
Dome Photography Well Under Way; Juniors Next.
Senior photography for the Dome of 1933 is rapidly nearing completion. During the past week some four hundred sittings have been taken, and it is expected that the entire section will be finished within the next few days.
Juniors are requested to watch for the announcement concerning the period when they are to report for pictures. A charge of fifty cents is made for each junior sitting.
Raddatz Arranges Schedule
Edward Raddatz, clubs editor, is making out a schedule for the various group pictures of campus clubs, and the president of each organization will be notified as to the time appointed for his club’s picture. The president can be of assistance by having his club at the designated place on the appointed time with each member wearing a coat, tie, and ve^t.
The various activities men are also to be photographed in the near future and will receive notices of the time they are to report to the studio in Walsh hall.
Interior shots of the various buildings are being taken by the Chicago Architectural photographers, and these will add a new and distinct section to the yearbook.
Editor Sandusky intends to finish with all photography as soon as possible in order that the large task of editing an annual may be well under way by Christmas vacation.
cinity threatened and even planned to burn the few buildings on the campus.
In 1854 the cholera plague raged for two months and took a heavy toll.
In 1879 a heavy fire destroyed the labors of forty years.
In spite of all, Notre Dame has grown and prospered, and the reasons for this success, Father Carrico asserted, were the two paramount char-	»
acteristics of Father Sorin, his invincible faith in God and his intense devotion to the Mother of God. In all, he was but an ordinary man who did an extraordinary work.
October 14, 1932
Fifteen
PROF. MARTIN J. M’CUE DIES DURING PAST WEEK
Prof. Martin J. McCue C.E. ’79; M.S., ’si R. I. P.
Dean Emeritus of Engineering School Succumbs at Home.
Word was received at Notre Dame this week that Professor Martin J. McCue, dean emeritus of the Notre Dame College o f Engineering, had died early Tuesday
morning at his home in Woodstock, Illinois.
Mr. McCue had been a member of the Notre Dame faculty for forty-five years prior to his retirement in 1927. He joined the faculty in 1882, shortly after receiving his third academic degree from Notre Dame.
He had taken his B.S. with the class of 1879, and his M.S. in 1881, and finally his C.E. in 1882. During his early years on the faculty of the engineering department, Professor McCue taught astronomy and mathematics.
When the organization of the University into five colleges occured in 1905, Professor McCue was made dean of the College of Engineering.
Retired In 1927
He continued in that office until June of 1927 when the Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., present dean, succeeded him. Following his retirement he lived at his family home in Woodstock.
Warren Cartier, ’87, one of Professor McCue’s earliest students, and now a lay trustee of the University, established an annual award to be known as the Martin J. McCue medal for excellence in civil engineering.
Another of Prof. McCue’s early pupils, Mr. John F. Cushing, 06, is the donor of the imposing new building, the engineering college. The dean emeritus had never seen the Cushing Hall of Engineering, but had intended to visit Notre. Dame in the near future.
Attention S. A, C. Members!
A meeting of the Student Activities Council will be held in the North Basement room of the Library at 10:30 o’clock Sunday morning.
Morrissey’s Foyer Disputes Elegance of New Gold Coast
By Louis Hruby
The “Gold Coast” needn’t fear that any of its hard won laurels are doomed to wither, as the onrush of the “Platinum Coast” seems more apparent.
Morrissey has challenged the doubtful supremacy of Alumni and Dillon, by presenting to its residents, the only residence foyer on the campus. What’s more, it’s a rejuvenated foyer!
Has Taken Three Years
Alumni and Dillon may boast about their motto, “At least two windows in every room,” and about their safety razor slots, but when it comes to having a general meeting place for its students, Morrissey, “leads the pack to the wire,” so to speak.
It has taken three years for Morrissey to realize the dreams of a “better and real foyer,” but now it’s a reality.
Soft, mellow wall lights cast an amber glow which blends perfectly with the walnut paneled walls. A similarly illuminated chandelier adds to this effect, provided sufficient visibility in the room.
Nor can the “Platinum Coast” boast a collection of college shields, such as is seen in Morrissey.
“Kit” Marlowe’s alma mater, Corpus Christi college, is presented, as are Heidelberg, Aberdeen, Pembroke, Exeter, and Dublin. These are only a few of the European institutions whose crests are exhibited in separate panels on the wall. Each crest was worked out with paints and oils by members of the Art College, and made especially for Morrissey.
could be found to fill space.
“Lux et Veritas”: Yale
Yale’s motto, “Lux et Veritas,” figures prominently among the American colleges whose coats of arms appear in the panels. Sharing equal honors are Washington and Lee, Princeton, Harvard and many others.
Most of the shields are placed above the fireplace, where there also appears an excellent painting by Joe Lopker, depicting a college student at study. Think of that Dillon and Alumni!
The youth is seated in a lavishly carved wooden chair, with, presumably, King Arthur standing behind him. Arthur, clad in his armor, seems intensely interested in what the young man is reading. On either side of the king, stand two of his knights, similarly dressed. In the left background, a castle looms up above the low-lying mist.
It was learned that the vacant panel just below Lopker’s work, will shortly contain the words of the Oath of Knighthood.
Probably one of the most picturesque improvements is the manner in which the grate of the fireplace has been arranged. Two andirons support a rack upon which several logs have been placed. Behind them, a red electric light bulb serves to create the illusion of an actual fire burning there.
Rector Responsible
The credit of this reinstatement of the “Gold Coast” to superiority, goes, in no small way, to Father Leo Heiser C.S.C., the present rector of the hall, who directed as well as planned the installation of the lighting arrangement, and the construction of the imitation fire.
The other work has been done by the students, who predict that when their job is complete, there will be no question as to which hall will be the best on the campus.
SANDUSKY HEADS DEBATE
(Continued from Page 6)
discussing a third question, yet to be halls, will meet at St. Mary’s College, sanctioned by the Wranglers.
An effort is being made to hold the semi-finals at the luncheon meetings of such local organizations as the Knights of Columbus, the Rotary Club, and others.
When the appointment was made, Sandusky said, “I accept the responsibilities of the chairmanship only because I feel that there will be a good response to our call for debaters. To express any other attitude would be a reflection on the intellectual calibre of the student body.”
Sixteen
The Scholastic
THEATRE TALK
Ry Roger Roirno
K. OF C. ARE ADDRESSED BY FATHER CAVANAUGH
The very art of the theatre is always a melancholy treatment of life for the cynic. Seeing no value in living cynicism thrives on life’s brevity and the anxiety of people over each new player’s entrance whilst his exits are taken unnoticed. Examining man and his behavior under the microscope of play technique, injecting him with the intensified liquid of the artistic need, inspired Shakespeare to write “all the world’s a stage” and thus comparing life to the play rather than the play to life.
Actors Are Puppets
To the believer in the inefficacy of living it is a sign of our great limits that we are easily made the puppets of the playwright. And the play that elaborates on how circumstances make or break a life, or hold life up to ridicule of the satire gives the effect that the drama of living is not a stupendous one if we are so obviously futile even to a playwright. Discarding the gloom, the play that suffers us to realize how people are fireflies in the night and how the characters we see on the stage are the fireflies in the specimen jar of the playwright is the play of reas-surement that life is dynamic, that we make ourselves after our will’s patterning.
“Grand Hotel”: A Cross-section
The inevitable cross-currents we see in the cross-sectional play like Grand Hotel are obtained by sundry characters. The high. symbolism of the revolving door was brought out in Grand Hotel by the play’s opening and closing with characters passing in and out of it. The moving picture version profited by a view down the circular shaft past the mezzanines of each floor to the cumulative effect of the registry desk, whereas the stage-play gained by the greater realism of the characters in the background. But it was that indefiniteness of the continuous panorama of life in the hotel that captivated and concentrated the observer on the few episodes the theatre would give him.
The South Bend Theater Guild knocked out the fourth wall of a boarding house in presenting At Mrs. Beans and gave the same study of life in transition. The characters in this are for the most, perennial guests brought to the quick of drama by two arrivals who are immediately
suspicioned to be a Bluebeard and a companion by the busy-bodied elderly women. The result, of course, is the abated turn of the tables for a moment by the new guest’s admission of guilt in their confidences with two of the older guests; and then the turnabout with their stealing from all the members upon dismissal.
Good Characterization
Miss Geraldine Ollier, the companion of crime, played with too much strength for the small stage. To the audience almost under her chin she seemed to be over-acting. Timing her perfect characterization voice and manner to a split-second Mrs. Bebb showed her experience and value to the Guild. Miss Mary Steele placed a harshness in her voice that added to the realism of her good pantomime for her deaf old maid part. The Guild will produce Sheridan’s The Critic in a few weeks.
If you missed the familiar faces in the game Saturday of the stars of yesteryear and then chanced to see All American you, no doubt, pondered on the significance of football as another study in “the passing show” of life. Our interest in the short and stodgy Vejar made us forget, too, for the moment, the Napoleonic stature of Carideo, and that Schwartz stride was compared only in an afterthought with the gamboling of Lu-kats. But the movie, All American caught us between the eyes as relived moments might. For our own local interests it was satisfying to see All Americans looking so godlike before the American public.
“All Amreican,” A Hybrid
The movie All American is a hybrid of news photography and a good football story. Although All Americans are not usually bad boys upon graduation that padding of the true All American type must be passed by as story material along with the astounding fact of having two in the same family. Richard Arlen in his weaker moments was a little too wicked and adventuresome, spoiling the fun of gawking at all the stars. The episodes built around the crippled player fell a little in their maudlin sentimentality. And the repetition of shouts of the crowds and applause in the stadium ran the picture over into the Hoover Iowa speech of the news-
(Continued on Page 29)
Fox, Jaeger, Zietlow Named To Fill Vacant Offices.
In a speech that would shame most silvery tongued orators, Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. addressed the meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter, Knights of Columbus, held last Monday evening in the Walsh Hall council chambers.
The meeting served the double purpose of observing Columbus Day and Founder’s Day by the Council.
Father Sorin and Columbus
Father Cavanaugh in his talk drew a parallel between the lives of Columbus and Father Sorin. He stated that the motivating force behind their achievements was faith in God and that their lives were beautiful for that fact alone. Throughout his speech he stressed the importance of faith and the fine work the Knights of Columbus have accomplished in fostering it.
In concluding he said: “Belief watches tenderly over the cradle of a nation while unbelief argues over its grave.”
After Father Cavanaugh’s address, elections were held to fill the vacancies among the officers of the council. Michael Fox was elected Chancellor; Jack Jaeger won the office of Inside Guard; and Fred Zietlow stepped into the position of Outside Guard.
“Santa Maria” Isn’t
No decision was made concerning the Santa Maria, the non-existent publication of the council. This still leaves Fred Becklenberg in the role of an editor without a publication.
Following the meeting George Wenz, under the auspices of Lecturer Charles Fiss, dashed off a few songs on the piano. Between these wild bursts of music the members present tore into the sandwiches and cigarets provided for -the occasion, ceasing only when the supply gave out. Then, and only then did the meeting ad' joum. ■
Buckley Talks to Relief Group
Professor Buckley addressed the local chapter of the Worker’s Relief Association at 1507 Portage Avenue last Thursday.: He spoke in place of city attorney jWalter Clements who is sick. Mr. Clements is an alumnus of Notre Dame.
October U, 1932
Seventeen
The Moreau Choristers And Their History . . .
Many of us were among the million or more radio listeners who heard the funeral services of the late Knute Rockne. Perhaps we, among others, remarked on the excellence of the singing at those services. It was done by the Moreau choir which may be heard every Sunday at the nine o’clock Mass. Soon after the funeral,
tenor. For a man to become a member of the choir, individual tryouts are held. It is not a fine solo voice that is sought but rather range of voice, blending qualities, clear enunciation, and knowledge of music.
The Moreau choir renders the Gregorian chant as interpreted by the Pius X School of Liturgical Music
unharmonized, being sung in one melodic tone throughout. It has no measured rhythm, hence, accustomed as we are to modem music, it is difficult for us to measure the time of the chant because of its lack of measured staccato beats. We might compare modem music with its fixed measure and its weak and strong
Father James Connerton, C.S.C. (at extreme right) and
the Moreau Choir.
the choir was invited to broadcast on a religious program over station WBBM in Chicago, on a national hook-up. The two annual events of the choir which require special preparation are the concert for the summer students and the Tenebrae ceremony which occurs during Holy Week.
The choir was first brought under the careful supervision of Father Connerton about six years ago. It consists of about forty men who have had previous musical training at Holy Cross Seminary, a preparatory seminary for Moreau. The primary purpose of the choir is the training of the seminarians in the singing of the Mass and the acquainting them with Gregorian music as an aid and a guide to spiritual growth. It is for this reason that every seminarian is a member of either the choir with which we are familiar, or of “vesper” choir which sings the psalms and responses of Vespers on Sunday.
There are four voices in the choir although arrangements have been given wherein eight voices participate. The four major voices are first and second bass and first and second
which teaches the rhythm of the chant as used by the monks of Solesmes, a French Abbey famous for its Gregorian choir. It is interesting to note that the Victor Recording Company took equipment to France for the recording of twelve double-faced, fifteen-inch records of the Solesmes choir as they chanted their daily office. Father Connerton has the complete set of these records.
The Gregorian chant was in existence for several centuries before Pope Gregory the Great made his arrangements in the seventh century which were adopted as the official Church music. Although the chant is modest, it requires technique. Its purpose is to interpret the prayers of the Mass, and in so doing to center the mind on the Mass and not to draw attention to itself. Mrs. Justine Bayard Ward who founded the Pius X School of Liturgical Music says, “Unless the prayer and song rise to heaven as a single ‘spiritual groaning’ . . . their association is an offense both artistic and devotional.”
The chant has several characteristics distinguishing it from the modern Church music. First of all, it is
beats to a conventionel garden with well-planned avenues, fountains and orderly flower patches, while the Gregorian music resembles the natural beauty of the fields and forests. The chant is joyful but with a holy or Christian joy, and not with the joy of the revel.
The Moreau choristers must have such a thorough knowledge of Gregorian music as to be able to lead the singing. This testifies to the understanding of the chant because the motions used in directing this type of music are radically different from those used in the staccato-tem-poed music of later times.
Father Connerton received his training for choir work in the Pius X School in New York. Every four years he must train a new choir, since the seminarians leave after being graduated. He is an accomplished pianist and organist. He believes that the choristers must work as a unit toward the high purpose of the choir and that it is the imbedding of this feeling in the minds of the men that is the all-important feature in their training.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
AT COLORADO UNIVERSITY
Archie M. Schwieso, senior chemistry student, has washed 150,000 windows in earning his way through the University. He estimates that his earnings have averaged $1000.00 a year since his graduation from West Denver high school in 1926.
In addition to working six hours a day, Schwieso has successfully carried 12 to 15 hours of college work each quarter. His motto is efficiency—an ordinary office window means only 30 seconds work to him.
V
IS MY FACE RED?
The average number of sleeping hours of college students is estimated to be six a day.
Strong constitutions can stand this pace for a long time. Weaker constitutions also can weather the grind provided the action during the waking hours is not too strenuous. A student’s daily activities are not on a par with a lumberjack’s exercise, but neither is it one merely of absorbing books with a few intermittent jaunts to a nearby classroom.
Undoubtedly there are times when students should do a little “catching up” in sleep. Evidences of this need readily can be seen in so many bleary-eyed students nodding in lectures, slouching across the campus, complaining of the least irritable incident and exhibiting a general sluggishness.
If you have a cold and run-down feeling, if you’re worried about the election, if your beautiful romance is hovering over the rocks, if your check hasn’t come, if you’ve flunked your first quiz, if some one has swiped your soap box, if the “fine young thing” has called up at 7 o’clock and broken the date, just take a nap and you’ll be all right again.—Indiana U. Daily.
V '
AT STANFORD
Mopping the cell block—
Washing barred windows—
Barbering the jailor—
In Judge John E. Springer’s court in Palo Alto, Stanford student speeders will take up these mild pursuits, in lieu of paying fines in cash, when they plead “no money.”
Officials of at least two neighboring universities have agreed to support Judge Springer in his new collegiate-payment plan. Finding it hard to check up on college students from outside points, to see if they observe sentence during suspension of license, Judge Springer has discarded this old device for the more satisfying scheme of putting the students to work.
V
AT NEW YORK U.
That college men do more “chiseling” for their grades was the opinion of a group of college and university professors consulted in the recent survey conducted by the New York university Daily News.	■
Instructors are divided into three classes according to the viewpoints they hold, maintains Dr. William D. Glenn, head of the college of psychology at New York university. Group one contains the instructors that dispense unbiased and absolutely true rating through the mediums of tests and quizzes. The second are susceptible to the charms of fair coeds and consequently give marks higher than the coeds actually deserve. The third group falls prey to the men experienced in the way of oiling a “prof.”
V
AT NEBRASKA U.
Youthful voters of the University of Nebraska campus were urged yesterday by the Daily Nebraskan, student publication, to support Norman Thomas, Socialist presidential candidate.
“No movement in modern times has been more misunderstood and prejudice-ridden, yet surer of its inevitableness as the only alternative to fall for a greed-ruled order, than socialism,” said the newspaper in an editorial.
V
AT VILNO, POLAND
Polish border guards near here reported a Russian university student slipped across the frontier into Poland disguised as a cow. They said soviet guards paid no attention to the youth, Wieslaw Hawrylowicz, as he lumbered across the line after sewing himself up in a cow’s hide.
October H, 1932	•	Nineteen
THE PROTEST VOTE AND MR. THOMAS
Few phrases are more overworked in political ballyhoo today than that very nebulous epithet, “a protest vote.” It apparently connotes something reactionary and the least bit radical and undoubtedly owes its current popularity to this fact. Questioning reveals that not many people who use it have a clear-cut notion of what it means. It has a tenacious hold on those individuals who profess a sincere distrust of Mr. Hoover and not a great deal of confidence in Mr. Roosevelt. It is particularly applicable when one is speaking about Norman Thomas, for he is the major recipient of most of these “protest votes.”
When anybody protests about anything, he usually believes that something might be accomplished. People who are stumping for Mr. Thomas, however, can hardly be optimistic over the coming election. The socialist leader himself does not expect more than two million votes at the very outside. A million more protest votes will scarcely set the world on fire.
With Mr. Thomas in the spotlight as much as he is a timely question seems to be whether a good Catholic may vote a Socialistic ticket, such as is offered to us today in America. Before answering the question a distinction must be made between the “modified” socialism of Thomas, and the pure socialism of Karl Marx.
The latter propounded along with his economic program, a philosophy that embraced the doctrine of economic determinism which denied any such thing as moral responsibility, and pictured man as a creature entirely subservient to his moneymaking tendencies. In addition he fostered a vicious class struggle theory which is entirely in
compatible with anything Christian and decent. No Catholic could ever be an advocate of Marx-ianism, and at the same time be faithful to his religion.
The case of Mr. Thomas is not so cut and dried principally because he has revoked many of the less desirable Marxian doctrines, and has erected a sort of socialism of his own in their stead. He is a good Christian, believes in the separation of Church and state, and has a rather admirable economic program. On the face of his plans one might be tempted to say that a Catholic could vote for Mr. Thomas without any qualms of conscience. An article appearing in a recent issue of Commonweal and written by a prominent Catholic said this distinctly.
The whole situation, however, appears to boil itself down to this: It is difficult to tell when Mr. Thomas is dangerous and when he is not. If he chose to regulate only basic industries, eliminate vicious competition, and whittle away at abnormally large fortunes one might say “Bravo” and throw in a vote for him. But one cannot be sure that this is all he intends, because the man is not sure himself. He is the recognized leader of socialism in America. He has a following composed not only of men who are of his own modified sentiments, but of individuals of the “purer” type who look for something a bit more encouraging if the American type of Socialism makes any progress.
The ice, then, is exceedingly thin, but a perusal of the Papal Encyclical on the economic order and a review of Mr. Thomas’ principles will show that there is between the two a gap that will be difficult to bridge.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Face Drake In Second Game
Notre Dame Expected to Beat lowans;
Second Team Slated to Begin Fray
Game Tomorrow To Be Last In Series Between Schools;
Drake Has Never Won.
A fresh supply of grist for the Irish football mill will be unloaded at Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow in the form of the Drake university grid squad from Des Moines, Iowa.
The game will mark the seventh and probably the final unit in the Irish-Bulldog series that got under way in 1926. It will also be the first appearance of Drake’s new coach, Bill Williams, these part with a collegiate grid squad.
Drake Stubborn Foe
The new Drake mentor came to the Des Moines school last spring to replace Ossie Solem who moved to Iowa U. Williams had had a long and successful career at South High School in Minneapolis.
Drake has generally proved a stubborn game opponent in past years, scoring against both the 1929 and 1930 national champions. In 1929, the lowans stood the Irish gridders on their ears for better than three quarters before going under 19 to 7.
Individual Stars
Oustanding in every clash between Drake and Notre Dame has been the great individual play of the Bulldogs. Such luminaries as Ted Sloan, Lynn King, Waldo Don Carlos, Dick Nesbitt, and Johnny Brill have come up every year with brilliant displays of football.
Among the familiar names that are on the Drake roster this year are Al Weiland, halfback, Milton Kok-john, tackle, and Captain Milo Bowers, a guard. These three men were in the starting lineup against the Irish in last year’s 63-0 trampling.
People who crave hair-breadth victory margins and desperate gridiron
battles, shouldn’t look towards tomorrow’s game with too much enthusiasm. The Haskell debacle last week demonstrated that the Irish have punch. And Drake has already lost
Chuck Jaskwhich
Calls Plays for Regulars
to Oklahoma A. & M.
Unless time and a new coach have brought drastic changes, however, the 15,000 expected fans will see a stubborn, fighting team go down to a not inglorious defeat.
It is probable that Hunk Anderson will nominate his second team to open the game. The barrier will go up at 2:00 o’clock.
Probable Lineups
NOTRE DAME	DRAKE
Vairo ______________LE_____________ Deskin
Pfefferle___________LT.___________ Kokjohn
Wunsch LG____________________ Bowers (C) Gorman ______________________C--_ McClure
Flynn _______________RG_____________ Baker
Roach ______________-RT.__________ Piersal
Devore _____________RE___________ Brechler
Vejar QB--------------------------- J. Eells
Koken _______________LH___________ Weiland
Sheeketski _________RH.------------ B. Eells
Banas _______________FB______________ Gaer
Officials: Ed Cochran, Kalamazoo, referee: H. L. Ray, Illinois, umpire; M. P. Ghee, Dartmouth, field judRe; Sec Taylor, Wichita U.. head linesman.
CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM IN QUADRANGULAR MEET
Weak Notre Dame Squad Face Big Ten Rivals Tomorrow.
By James Pick
Tomorrow morning the 1932 aggregation of Irish thinly clads will run in a quadrangular meet with Wisconsin, Illinois, and Northwestern, in Evanston.
The meeting of these teams will be the first competition for the Notre Dame squad this fall. The race will be run over a three and one-half mile course through the woodlands of the Northwestren campus.
Ten Men On Squad
Ten men comprise the team which left this afternoon for the contest. They are: Jake Bowers, Joe Young, Clyde Roberts, Tom Grimes, Red Hoyt, John Duke, Bill O’Reilly, Ray Troy, Gene Sluska, and “Red” Moran.
Wisconsin is again the top-heavy favorite to win the meet. The Badgers have held the title since the initial meet four years ago. Year in and year out, Wisconsin has been one of the strongest teams in the country. The superiority of the Badger harriers has been due to an unusual interest which their student body has had in them.
“No Better Than Third”
In previous years Notre Dame has placed second three times and third once. On that singular occasion it was Hlinois who squeezed open the grip the Irish held on the second position.
Northwestern, the home team, has held down last place every year. This year Coach Nicholson predicts a fight between Northwestern and Notre Dame. “We cannot be expected to place better than third.”	•
October li, 1932
Tzoenty-one
“B” GRIDDERS DROP 13-6 GAME TO KAZOO
Irish Score At Will As Haskell Is Crushed 73-0
N. D. Reserves Hold Lead Till Late in Last Quarter.
By Fred MacBeth
Playing the first of their four scheduled games, the Notre Dame Reserves dropped a close decision to the Kalamazoo varsity last Friday night. The final score was 13-7. Both teams started slowly, and play was at midfield throughout the first half. Neither team showed power on the offense; defensive strength on the part of Notre Dame held the Kazoos at bay.
Early in the third quarter Kalamazoo was in possession on the Notre Dame 40-yard line. They began a series of line plunges and end runs that was climaxed by a nice gain by Hachadorian who crashed over for a touchdown. He failed to make the extra point. The Reserves came right back after the kickoff, and aided by a beautiful 40-yard run on the part of Ronzone were able to tie the score. Ronzone ran the ball over the line for the extra point, making it 7-6.
Reserves Show Smoothness
Notre Dame fought hard to hold this advantage and managed to have the better of the play. Late in the final period a fumble near the goal line gave the .ball to Kalamazoo and they carried it across for a touchdown. They missed the point, but the game ended before Notre Dame could get possession.
The Notre Dame squad showed wonderful smoothness for so early in the season. The line worked well together and Cousino at right tackle was outstanding. Begley and Murphy at the ends were catching passes consistently and tackling well. Ronzone and Burke starred in the backfield. Burke’s play at quarterback was excellent and he used fine judgment throughout the game.
Coach George Kozak was in charge of the team. He substituted frequently and was able to get a good line on the men for future games.
Summary:
Kalamazoo (13)	Notre Dame (7)
Carlton .......... LE---------- Begley
Finlay .......... LT._________ Mariana
Inglis -----------.LG---------- Jaeger
Kelley ...........C__________ D. Amora
Agosto ___________RG___________ Shamla
Kress ............RT._________ Gousino
George Melinkovich
Started his second season at fullbacking with three touchdoiuns against Haskell last Saturday.
Van Peenan _______RE____________ Murphy
Krickard _________QB------------- Burke
Thomas ___________.LH_________ Cavender
Mantele __________-RH._________ McArdle
Niefert __________.F B........  Ronzone
Score by quarters:
Kalamazoo ...............0	0 6 7—13
Notre Dame B ............0	0 7 0— 7
Scoring—Touchdowns: Hachadorian (sub for Mantele), Ronzone, Neifert. Points after touchdown: Ronzone (plunge) : Thomas (place kick). First downs—Kalamazoo, 9; Notre Dame B. 12. Penalties—aginst Notre Dame B, 80 yards; against Kalamazoo, none. Substitutes—Kalamazoo: Warner for Van Peenan; Becker for Agosto; DePue for Becker; Goodrich for Carlton; Hachadorian for Mantele. Notre Dame B: Kennedy for Mariana; Jehle for Cousino; Devitt for Cavender; Smith for McArdle; Grimes for Burke: Bruno for Shamala ; Mariana for Kennedy; Cousino for Jehle: Cavendar for Devitt; McArdle for Smith; Burke for Grimes.
Officials—Kohs, Hamline, referee; Beam, Western State Teachers, umpire: Knode, Michigan, head linesman.
My father’s favorite saying was: “A successful business man is one who watches the crowd and then goes the other way.”—Lady Rhondda.
BACKS RUN WILD
Banas, Melinkovich and Hagan Score Eight Touchdowns; Indians Bewildered.
By Leslie Raddatz
The largest score Notre Dame has made since 1926; Haskell’s worst defeat excepting one; Melinkovich, Banas, Hagan, Murphy, Lukats, and Tobin; Notre Dame’s use of only four plays during the second half; the good big man beating the good little man — that is the story of Notre Dame’s 73-0 victory over the Haskell Indians in the opening game at the stadium last Saturday. Other items might be the use of thirty-seven men, all the green jerseys that there were; Notre Dame’s 673 yards from scrimmage to Haskell’s 50, and Notre Dame’s 23 first downs to Haskell’s three.
New Men Outstanding
The game as a whole was too onesided to be particularly interesting. It was noteworthy, however, in showing the great power and reserve strength that this year’s team has Also in evidence were early season rough edges that will undoubtedly be smoothed off within the next few weeks.
The outcome of the game was obvious from the moment that Steve Banas carried the ball 50 yards on the first play of the game to put it over for a touchdown on the next play. Banas scored three touchdowns as did George Melinkovich.
The game was the first varsity experience for a number of new men on this year’s squad. Outstanding among these were Lowell Hagan, fourth team fullback, who scored two touchdowns, Red Tobin, third string right half, who scored one touchdown, and Roach and Vairo of the second string line.
The Indians fought valiantly all the way but succeeded only once in getting into Notre Dame territory. Their heralded trick plays were usually slow in getting away, and were smeared by the powerful Notre Dame line.
(Continued on Page 24)
The Scholastic
Twenty-two
Team Is In Shape On Eve Of Drake Game, Says Kurth
FIRST TEAM INTACT
Vairo and Pfefferle Moved to Second String After Last
Saturday’s Game.
By Joe Kurth
The Notre Dame squad has felt the surge of battle for the first time. The din of battle with the Haskell Indians has died and with its departure we find that the squad came through the game without an injury.
Saturday’s game was no real test for Coach Anderson to notice outstanding ability displayed by his players. There was, however, some playing done on the part of some men that warranted a shift in the personnel of the teams.
Pfefferle Moves Up
Richard Pfefferle showed up consistently at the left tackle post in the game with Haskell and his improved play won for him an advancement to the second team from the team below. Dominic Vairo showed up well at his left end position on the second team and indicated, therefore, his desire to remain at that spot.
Jack Robinson, the Huntington New York boy, did an excellent job of center play at his position on the third team. His tackle of one of the Indian ball-carriers on the kick-off was a pretty piece of football.
Coach Anderson, in preparing for the game with Drake, has not changed the line-up of the first two teams from that which was used against the Haskell Indians. The first team remains intact. The second team, too, remains the same with the possible comment that Vairo, the left end, still occupies his post at the wing position.
“Hunk” Not Worried
The third team finds Leding at the left tackle post where he is in place of Pfefferle who usurped hte second team left tackle position. Other than that the team is the same. .
The game with Drake next Saturday has not given Coach Anderson
“Scholastic To Sponsor Bowling Meet If Campus
Response Warrants It
Impelled by a surprising show of interest and inquiry on the part of a large number of students, The Scholastic has formed tentative plans to sanction a bowling tournament, to be held, presumably, at the La Salle Alleys in South Bend the latter part of next month. Definite announcement concerning this new intramural activity must be withheld until there is sufficient indication of representative participation.
Plan Two Events
Two events — singles and doubles championships — are to be open for competition. In addition to winning recognition as “University champions,” also to the winners will go distinctive trophies. In the singles division, the La Salle management has offered a large loving-cup, and to the winners in the doubles, The Scholastic will present a suitable award.
The competition will be open to all. Interested and possible competitors are requested to signify their willingness to enter by sending their name and address to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. When sufficient entrants have been obtained, The Scholastic will make definite announcement regarding the time of the tournaments, and the rules by which it will be governed.
FRENCH CLUB TO MEET
(Continued from Page 7)
posted on the campus bulletin boards. Features of the initial session will include an illustrated lecture on the Chartres Cathedral by Professor Langwell who spent the past summer travelling in France. George Menard, Glee Club soloist, will present a group of French songs
an unusual amount of worry. He has rounded the squad into shape and has it all set for whatever offense the Drake team might use.
RAIN AGAIN DELAYS FALL TENNIS TOURNEY
Chreist, Staley, Gill Left as Semi-finals Begin.
Old Man Weather has played havoc this week with the fall tennis tourney now nearing its final bracket. One semi-final match is to be played in the singles, but due to the inclement weather the doubles haven’t as yet gotten under way.
The semi-final match is between Louis Chreist, last years winner and number one varsity man, and Gill. The winner of this match plays Dick Staley, another varsity player, who reached the final round by defeating his teaminate Dick Kelly in straight sets. The scores seem to show that Staley won rather easily, they are, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.
In the quarter finals:
Staley beat' Cashman, 6-2,6-3.
Chreist beat Haverick, 6-1, 6-1.
Gill beat Hoffmann, 6-4, 6-4.
Kelly heat Weldon, 5-7, 7-5, 12-10.
Rain and Cold Prevent Progress in Golf Meet
Rain and cold weather during the past week have prevented those sixteen golfers from playing further rounds in the Handicap tournament. Just as soon as Dame Fortune favors us with some nice atmospheric conditions the tournament will be resumed.
Manager Andy O’Keefe announced that the pairings for the tournament, which appeared in last week’s issue of The Scholastic, still holds true. He urges the contestants to play off their rounds as soon as possible, and turn in their cards so that the new pairings may be announced.
Once the cold weather really sers in it will be impossible to continue play.
NOTICE!
Applications are now being received for admittance into the Spectators Club. Blanks may be obtained from John Pick, 349 Sorin, or William Dreux, 310 Sorin. .

October 14, 1932
Twenty-three
ACROSS THE SCRIMMAGE LINE
By Joe Kurth
One of the outstanding features of the game with the Haskell Indians was their marvelous display of sportsmanship and courtesy. They assisted many of the Notre Dame backfield men to their feet after they had been brought to earth by the Haskell tacklers.
Wasn’t Jack Robinson’s tackle of the ball carrier on one of the kickoffs a beautiful piece of work? I’ll wager the Indian knew he was hit.
An interesting incident happened, too, when Holmes, the Haskell left halfback, punted the ball and then proceeded to make the tackle.
one of the plays since he was quite some distance from the scene of activity. However, his intentions went for naught. Two Notre Dame players hit him at the same time. He went down and came up some seconds later grumbling about the fact that he just couldn’t be left alone.
Speaking of humorous situations in a game, there was one that happened in the Wisconsin-Notre Dame game of 1924.
The umpire dropped his gun and
“Chuck” Collins, a Notre Dame end, picked it up and stuck it in his belt. About two plays later, Crowley went around the end for a run of about eighty yards. Collins walked up to Doyle Harmon, the captain of the Badger team, handed him the revolver, and said, “Here, Harmon, maybe you can get Crowley with this.”
Our secret operative was out looking for “Bearskin,” but in the hubbub, characteristic of the dollar-seat section, he was missed.
Al McGuff made a sparkling play when he evaded three or four men who had poured through the line and then passed to Murphy for a touchdown.
I wonder how many of the spectators noticed George Melinkovich’s clever work on the eastern sideline when he proceeded for about nine yards just inside the white marker for a touchdown.
Banas’ run of about - seventy-four yards for a score might be classed as a “perfect” play in the light that nor a hand was laid upon him and about five blockers ran ahead of him as in-terferers.
New, Correct ....
TUXEDO
for the Annual
Sophomore Cotillion
Palais Royale, Oct. 21
The satisfaction of knowing that you are properly dressed in a well designed tuxedo adds to the pleasure of the evening. It adds to your self assurance and praise. You can rest assured, if you buy your tuxedo here, you will have the smart, correct, university styled model. The prices, too, have been radically reduced.
After a bad pass from center Vejar threw the ball to Mike Koken who scampered over the goal line for the extra point. On the second attempt at the same thing some time later Koken threw the ball back to Vejar who was tackled in his tracks. .
One of the “wedges” lead by Kitty Gorman was broken up by a “novel” block on the part of one of the Indians. Ask Kitty about it.
There was a semblance of a humorous situation in the game when it was learned that one of the Indians, intentionally, wanted to stay out of
DRESS SHIRTS	TIES
STUDS	SHOES
COLLARS Black Silk Hose Jewelry—Compacts for the ladies
£ij^ina6tbnA>
downtown and on the campus
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Jim Harris
By William Flynn
Two lines clashed. The pile-up was a mass of blue and white jerseyed players. At the bottom, under the pile, was Norm Greeney, alternate first string left guard, who shared the varsity assignment with Jim Harris.
When the referee had pulled the players off, Greeney lay on the ground. He had receiced a leg injury. He staggered off the field, half supported by trainers. While Jim Harris, settled his helmet, and reported his substitution into the Carnegie game of 1931, a swift survey of Greeney’s injury revealed that he was out for the season.
It Was Up To Jim
When the game was over, Southern California and Army loomed greater on the horizon of Notre Dame football than they had before the game. Coach Heartly (Hunk) Anderson realized that he was left with only one first string guard.
“It’s up to you, Jim,” said Anderson the following Saturday as the team took the field. And big, solid, Jim Harris didn’t answer. He simply went in there and played. He played his heart out as the season’s most stupendous battle raged up and . down the green turf.
Line play was terrific. Time after time plays were thrown at him. Again ang again they were stopped without gain. When California did score, it wasn’t through his position. When the final gun sounded, he was still on his feet, giving the best he had.
Says Little; Does Much
The next Saturday it was again “up to him.” Into the mud and slush and snow of the Yankee Stadium in New York he went to turn back Army onslaughts as future officers did their best to penetrate enemy lines. But there was one spot in that line they couldn’t get through. .
It was Jim Harris, saying nothing, simply doing, at left guard that turned their assaults. When the game ended, Harris was on the field, a bit groggy, perhaps, but still on his feet with 120 minutes without relief of super-human football behind him.
That is the kind of a man Jim Harris is. He doesn’t say much. He doesn’t move around fast off the field; on, he’s the fastest guard. He has no pretensions or illusions. • He sim
ply does his job and when it’s over turns to the next task at hand.
He proceeds through his studies with the same indomitable determina-
tion. He is Notre Dame’s example of an “irresistible force” moving surely.
Harris is a native of Bellaire, Ohio. He prepped at Linsly Institute in Wheeling, West Virginia. When he came to Notre Dame he was following in the footsteps of native sons of his home town who made good in football’s big city. Bull Polski was one of them who is still remembered.
Matriculating in the Phyiscal Education department of the College of Arts and Letters, Harris has moved through his courses much the same as he has proceeded through his football career. Never anything brilliant, in the way scholarship is measured, but never failing.
But in the story of his scholastic career is something that prophesies of steady and ever-increasing accomplishment when he begins his coaching career. Constant application to the job at hand seems to be his key to success.
His football at Notre Dame, began in 1929 when he played on the frosh squad.' The next year he moved to the varsity line-up and has since re-
(Continued on Page 28)
Handicap Meet Next Week
Coach Nicholson will hold the annual fall handicap track and field meet on October 20 and 21.
The events will begin at 4:00 p. m. each evening. Five events will be run off on Thursday, and five on Friday. The list of events will be posted on the bulletin boards by the track managers. Watch for them.
Medals will be awarded to all first, second, and third place winners.
Remember you do not have to be a star to win a place. Handicaps will be given according to your previous showings Get in condition for this meet and be sure to run.
Notre Dame 73, Haskell 0
(Continued from Page 21)
Summary:
Notre Dame (73)	Haskell (0)
Vairo -------------LE.............. Barlow
Leding ------------LT.________N. Holmes
Wunsch ____________LG............ Pence
Gorman ____________C._________Crowe (C)
Flynn -------------RG._____ A. McDonald
Roach ____________.RT.___________ Miles
DeVore ------------RE........... Pierce
Vejar.............. QB.......... Hinman
Koken -------------LH........... Holmes
Sheeketski ________RH.......... Duffina
Banas -------------FB___________  Hayes
Touchdowns—Banas (3), Melinkovich (3), Hagan (2), Lukats, Murphy, Tobin.
Points after touchdown—Koken (run), Jask-which (3), Murphy (2), and Laborne (1) from placement.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Kosky for Canale, Krause for Leding, Harris for Wunsch, Alexander for Gorman, Greeney for Flynn, Kurth for Roach, Host for Devore, Jaskwhich for Vejar, Lukats for Koken, Brancheau for Sheeketski, Melinkovich for Banas, Rascher for Host, Pfeffeerle for Krause, Schiralli for Harris, Robinson for Alexander, Pivarnick for Greeney, Barstow for Kurth, Murphy for Jaskwhich, McGuff for Lukats, Tobin for Brancheau, Laborne for Lukats, Hagan for Melinkovich, Boland for Jaskwhich.
Haskell—Hinman for Hendricks, Smith for Holmes, Dushane for Barlow, Palmer for Hayes, Bernard for Duffina, West for Pence, Archdale for Pence, Wilson for Bernard, Wilson -for Holmes, Alexander for Crowe.
Officials—Henry (Missouri), referee; Lambert (Ohio State), umpire; Hogan (De Kalb Normal), field judge; Maxwell (Ohio State), head linesman.
Army Officers Visit Campus
Last Friday Major E. W. Bondy, Inf., D. ,O. S., and 1st Lieutenant James H. Seusley, F. A., D. O. S., called on Mr. Riordan, the Registrar, and visited the main points of interest on the campus.
They are Regular Army officers in charge of the South Bend District of the Military Department of Indiana. Major Bondy was formerly stationed in Hawaii, and Lieutenant Seusley In Panama.
October 14, 1932
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
POST-MORTEM	.
Laurie Vejar’s handling of punts looked mighty good to us . . . he seems to grab them on a dead run; so did Mohler . . . and then he really moves when he has the ball . . . and we liked Jack Robinson at center no little bit . . . his tackle on the tenth or eleventh kickoff was one of the hardest of the day . . . and his passing wasn’t at all bad . . .
McGuff gets our vote for the classiest play of the game . . . his pass to Murphy for the touchdown . . . Haskell should like the Irish drive off left tackle . . . Banas went 124 yards in two attempts at it . . . And does Banas kickoff! . . . Poor Haskell! . . . Poor Drake!
THANK YOU—NO!
In one of the letters that came to us after missing the “Voice of the Campus,” we found the suggestion that we extend our forecasting activities to include the interhall games. It was a swell idea—yeh; We’re going
to stick to something easy like guessing beans at Livingston’s. .
SCORECAST
Were feeling better after last Saturday. 17 wins, 1 loss, 5 ties, and one exact score went into the record book. Our total for the season is now 34 wins, 4 losses, 6 ties, and 3 exact scores.
This week we’re getting a bit cocky — expanding our range to 27 games. Pitt vs. Army looms as the best battle, and we lean to Pitt. The big Ten games aren’t too hard barring upsets, and Michigan, N. U., Indiana, and Purdue should win their games.
Our eastern critics will probably howl at the Princeton-Cornell and Syracuse-So. Methodist guesses—they were hard to figure. With a pair of prominent coast teams resting today, we’ve limited our Pacific slope predictions to two games, picking the Trojans and the California Bears.
Twenty-five
In the South the Georgia-North Carolina game looks the closest with Georgia getting the call on their display of offensive power against Tulane last week.
Oh, yes, Notre Dame is going to win. We .almost forgot that. We’ll say 47 to 0, but won’t be surprised' to see the total go half again that high. The scores: NOTRE DAME 47, DRAKE 0.
Pittsburgh 20, Army 7.
Carnegie Tech 13, Wash, and Jeff. 6. Dartmouth 6, Pennsylvania 0.
Northwestern 27, Illinois 0.
Michigan 20. Ohio State 0.
Purdue 26, Wisconsin 6.
Southern Methodist 14, Syracuse 6.
Navy 13, Ohio U. 6 Indiana 13, Iowa 0. Minnesota 14, Nebraska 7. Chicago 33, Knox 0. Texas 20, Oklahoma 7. Georgia 12, No. Carolina 7. Tulane 20, Vanderbilt 7. Tennessee 20, Alabama 0. California 20, Washington State 0. So. California 47, Loyola 0.
Michigan State 33, Illinois Wesleyan 7. Kansas State 20, Missouri 0.
Iowa State 7, Kansas 0.
Holy Cross 20, Detroit 7.
Harvard 20, Penn State 0.
Princeton 7, Cornell 0.
Columbia 26, Virginia 6.
N. Y. U. 13, Georgetown 0.
New York University 13, Georgetown 0. Yale 7, Brown 0.
Ask Jimmy . . .
The South Shore Line is happy to announce that Janies H. McGrath will be its student representative at Notre Dame this year.
Drop around to No. 1, Morrissey Hall, and ask him about our service between South Bend and Chicago and intermediate points.
❖
Trains between Chicago and South Bend “Every Hour on the Hour."
❖
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE
AND SOUTH BEND. RAILROAD
Step for Cotillion night, in better, smarter shoes than ever. — In dependable, style-selected Kuehn Shoes, at the lowest prices in years.
No need to be foot conscious, if you wear a pair of smart dress shoes from Kuehn’s.
Just arrived, some brand new dress shoes in shining patent colt skin or dull finish calf. They combine custom comfort with correct style and long wearing qualities.	—MASTER FITTED—
120 South Michigan Street
Ttventy-six
The Scholastic
Five Games Played Sunday As Interhall Season Opens
DROP OFF-CAMPUS
St. Edward’s, Badin, Freshman, and Walsh Win; Corby and Dillon in Scoreless Tie.
By Edward Van Huisseling Interhall Sports Editor
The usual large crowds were on hand to see the opening Interhall grid games get under way Sunday. These spectators saw the 1931 sectional champions get off to a flying start with victories.
St. Edward’s hall last year’s Group I champions, carried on in a businesslike manner and trounced Lyons to the time of 19 to 0; the largest score run up by any team in the opening games.
The heavy “Minims” squad ran over their rivals for three touchdowns in the first half and let the substitutes carry on during the greater part of the second half.
Walsh, Group II champions, found Howard a worthy opponent, but won by a margin of one point, 7 to 6.
The most thrilling struggle of the day was that between Freshman and Carroll. These two teams battled up
AETNA RADIO
Listen in to the play by play description of your Home team when they are away—only
14
.85
Complete With Tubes
R. C. A. licensed. Fully guaranteed new Triple-Grid type tubes. Dynamic speaker with more power and smoother tone, the last word in Radio.
TUBES TESTED FREE!
Aristocrat R. C. A. Licensed
RADIO TUBES
Best quality obtainable regardless of price. Type 226—80c List Price. Type 201A—75c List Price.
Other nia-	£ Save 25%
ben at simi-	A* to 45% on
iar low prices	w Ea Tubes
SAVE AT WALGREEN’S
and down the field for practically the entire game but with little success. Then, with less than a minute left to play, the Freshman crew completed a twenty-yard pass for the lone tally of the game.
Badin registered a touchdown in the second quarter of their game to defeat Morrissey, 7 to 0. The contest was a bitter struggle from the start. The conflict reached its peak when Badin was held for downs within the Morrissey five-yard line. The strain proved too much for the Gold Coast team, and a few plays more netted Badin its winning margin. The losers were a capable defensive team but when in possession of the ball they were able to make little progress.
Corby won a moral victory over Dillon in a battle that brought forth no score. The Seniors, however, should be given much credit for their work because they had only twelve men with which to combat a huge Dillon squad that greatly out-num-5 bered them.
Brownson was scheduled to meet Off-Campus but because of the scarcity of the day-dodgers this term, there will be no Off-Campus representative in the league.
Tom Yarr announced that those
Tune in every Saturday aft-"noon WGN
and hear a play by play description of your favorite teams through the courtesy of the Walgreen Co.
teams scheduled to meet Off-Campus will automatically draw a bye.
The withdrawal of this squad from the race leaves each group composed of six elevens fighting for top honors.
Alumni was the only hall that did not see action and they will start things off in a game with Carroll Sunday.
The opening tussles were marked by loose play and general early season form; bright spots ought to begin appearing in the games Sunday because the squads have had another week to file off the rough edges.
At the conclusion of the first round of play we find two aggregations topping the list in the standings of both groups. St. Edward’s and Badin are out in front of all others in Group I and Walsh and Freshman started off with the right foot in Group II.
The standings:
GROUP I.
	W	L	T	Pct.
St. Edward’s ..		 1	0	0	1.000
Badin 			 1	0	0	1.000
Lyons 			 0	1	0	.000
Morrissey 			 0	1	0	.000
Dillon 			 0	0	1	.000
Corby 			 0	0	1	.000
	GROUP, n.			
	w	L	T	Pct.
Walsh 			1	0	0	1.000
		1	o“	0	1.000
Howard 			 0	1	0	.000
Carroll 			 0	1	0	.000
Alumni 			  0	0	0	.000
Brownson 			 0	0	0	.000
Results of October 9th:
Badin 7; Morrissey 0.
Freshman 6; Carroll 0.
St. Edward’s 19; Lyons 0.
Corby 0; Dillon 0.
Walsh 7; Howard 6.
Games for October 16:
Lyons vs. Corby, Brownson field, 9:00.
Morrissey vs. Dillon, Minims field, 9:00.
Brownson vs. Freshman, Cartier No. 1, 2:00
Carroll vs. Alumni, Brownson field, 2:00.
OTTO INVITES YOU
NICKLE LUNCH
114 E. Jefferson St.
Wholesome Delicious Food
Any Dish, 5c Sandwiches, 5c
T-Bone Steaks ....35c
Pork Chops........30c
Fried Chicken ....30c
Hamburger Steak...25c
Above orders include French Fried Potatoes, Bread and Butter, or Toast; Coffee.
October lit, 1932
Twenty-seven
Badin 7; Morrissey 0.
In a closely played and hotly contested battle on Brownson field Sunday, the Badin hall gridders downed Morrissey, 7 to 0.
The heavier Badin team was fought to a standstill through the greater part of the game by a determined Morrissey eleven. It was a game< fight that the Gold Coast machine put up against their neighbors in the second quarter when the Juniors were held for downs within the five-yard line. Palmisano then kicked out to the thirty yard line.
Badin came right back with renewed power and scored the lone touchdown of the fray on a pass from Des Noyers to Colnak a few minutes later. Des Noyers converted on a kick from placement as the half ended.
During the second half the Badin machine brought the ball within striking distance several times only to be thwarted by a strong Morrissey forward wall.
The Sophomores never were a real threat to score. Their backfield showed no signs of harmony and plays failed to click over and over because of this. The Morrissey line played brilliantly against their much heavier adversaries.
Sheedy at left end was outstanding. He broke through time and again to throw the Badin ball carriers for losses. Heady play by Standish and Aberle had its part in keeping the score in the single figures.
Freshman 6; Carroll 0.
With a fraction of a minute of playing time remaining, a “never say die” Freshman hall team passed its way to victory over a tired Carroil eleven, 6 to 0.
The first year men took possession of the ball on the Carroll 35 yard line and launched their final attack. Mc-Coskey received the pass from the center on the first play and faded back to heave a pass. With a charging line bearing down on him, ths Freshman back hurled the ball toward a waiting end. A Carroll back
dashed across the field to intercept the pass but instead deflected it into the hands of a Freshman receiver who had also gone out. He turned and raced across the goal line for the lone score of the game.
The game was loosely played but was marked by hard fighting by both elevens. The Freshman boys completely outclassed the dormitory crew in all departments of the game. Carroll never was a serious threat to score.
Freshman marched down the field several times but the Carroll line always held and forced the Freshman team to resort to passes which were grounded in the end zone.
The individual star of the game was “Red” McCoskey, Frosh fullback, who, playing without a headgear, literally ripped the Carroll line to shreds.
Carroll’s shining light was Hughes, their speedy fullback, who reeled off a brilliant 45 yard run after reversing his field. He shook off several tacklers on this march but was finally nailed by the safety man.
(Continued on Page 30)
Coming Wednesday
ALSO
NEWS NOVELTY COMEDY
Destined to be one of the most entertaining pictures of the new season!
A smart new comedy drama filled with suspense and action.
George Raft
Constance Cummings Wynne Gibson - Mae West
Laughs as long as Durante s Schnozzle
plus songs and wisecracks galore!
STARTS ? SATURDAY
A New Chapter in American Hysterics!
Schnozzle
Durante
GEORGE M. COHAN CLAUDETTE COLBERT
In Paramount’s Timely Panic—
THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT”
—in—
Night After Night"
COLFAX
A P U B L 1 X THEATRE
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING JIM HARRIS
(Continued from Page 24)
mained there. He has been four years in school and has played three years with the first string. Something of an accomplishment itself in Notre Dame football.
He is president of the Monogram Club and a member of the Blue Circle. But the incident he likes best to remember is the fact that he was the last substitution Knute Rockne ever made in collegiate football.
“Go in, Jim, when we get the ball,” Rock told him toward the end of the
WELCOME
Notre Dame Men To Our SODA FOUNTAIN AND LUNCH ROOM
Platter Lunches Complete Dinners Special Sunday Dinners.
“Service with a Smile”
THE PHILADELPHIA
116 N. Michigan
Recommended by the English Department of THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Webster's Collegiate
He Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority. Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every tune you consult it for the wealth of ready information that is instantly yours.
106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography; rules of punctuation; use of capitals, abbreviations, etc.; a dictionary Of foreign phrases; and other helpful special features.
See it at your College Boolcstore or Write for Information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
G.&C.MERRIAM CO
Southern California game in 1930.
Jones’ boys had the ball on their own twenty-yard line. They carried it to Notre Dame’s twenty-yard line before losing possession. Then Harris went in, the last player ever sent, inspired to the gridiron, by Knute Rockne.
PRESIDENTS’ CLUB PLANS
(Continued from Page 5
of the low price which is to be a dollar and a half. This is the lowest fee for a formal dance in the social history of the school.
Tickets are to be apportioned to the various clubs. From the sale of each ticket, the individual club will receive fifty cents which will be used in paying for the club’s Dome picture. The remaining dollar will be used in defraying the expenses of the dance. Tt was decided that the educational clubs would not share in this agreement.
President Cleve Carey announced the reduction of the club dues from two dollars to one dollar. He urged the members to take an active interest in the proceedings of the body during the coming year.
There can never be peace where material values of money, place, pleasure and power are the whole object of human pursuit.—Dr. Cyril Norwood.
IRISH TERRIER GIVEN TO N. D. AS MASCOT
AGAINST NAVY
According to an article appearingin the Oct. 10, issue of the Cleveland News, the Notre Dame grid warriors are not going to be without a mascot when they play the Navy in the municipal stadium Nov. 19th.
Mr. Charles A. Otis of Pine Tree in White Hill, Cleveland Heights, a well known breeder of the Irish terrier, announced that he would be very pleased to donate a pedigreed terrier, as mascot for the Notre Dame team, that day.
Probably the fact that Mr. Otis has heard so much about the Navy goat has moved him to present the squad with a good luck omen. So for that one day at least there can be the Army mule, the Navy goat, the Northwestern wildcat and the Notre Dame terrier.
Rochester Club to Hold
Banquet Wednesday Night
Ray Casaretta, vice-president of the Rochester club, announced during the illness of President Pete Connelly that a banquet will be held at the Rose Marie tea room in South Bend Wednesday nigh.t Jimmy McGrath, varsity baseball captain, among other notables, will be guest speaker.
Frank De Clerch, treasurer and A, Gerard Farrell, secretary are on the entertainment committee. With a total membership of 48 men, the Rochester club has a progressive plan of entertainment which will be one of the most active on the campus this year.
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
COME HERE FOR FINE JEWEWLRY
“We Sell for Less”
Expert Watch Repairing
We Guarantee Our Work at Very Reasonable Prices.
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
137% S. Michigan St.
October 14, 1932
Twenty-nine
N.D GRAD AT N.B.C. MIKE FOR GAME TOMORROW
Al Feeney, Former Irish Star, To Broadcast Plays.
The National Broadcasting' System will have at the microphone of the Drake game tomorrow, one of Notre Dame’s former gridiron stars. The “mike” will be handled by Al Feeney, a former teammate of Rockne’s back in 1911-’12, and ’13, and a business associate a few years ago.
Mr. Feeney, was named center on one of the All-American teams of 1913, he was also known on the campus as renowned basketball player, and he captained the team in 1912 and ’13. Jesse Harper, Director of Athletics, quotes the following, “Al Feeney is regarded as one of the greatest centers at Notre Dame, he was always the main cog in our line of ’ll, ’12 and ’13.”
First Time For Alumnus
Tomorrow, will mark the first time that an alumnus of any university has been given the privilege of broad- ' casting a game that is played by his Alma Mater. Mr. Feeney has had plenty of experience before the microphone as he gave a weekly sports review all last year over one of the Indianapolis broadcasting stations.
Al will be remembered by many as the most unfortunate alumnus at the Notre Dame-Indiana game last year. As Joe Sheeketski was about to .he tackled out of bounds by one of the I. U. ends, Al, who was head linesman at the time, attempted to check his fall, and as a result he came home from the game with a broken nose.
THEATRE TALK
(Continued from Page 16)
reel. Withal it was great to see Vezie in his light hat, Carideo looking heavier, Mullins acting out that respect he has for everyone even in real life with his patented “Yes, Sir,” and even the other stars whom we miss now that they no longer are
worrying us of a Friday night.
The Civic Music Association of South Bend announces that the artists will be Charles Hackett, Jacques Gordon and his ensemble including his famous pianist. Other concerts will be scheduled. Tickets may be bought at Elbel’s Music Store for two dollars and a half, the student price for all the concerts.
Directs Hoosier A. C.
At the present time Mr. Feeney resides in Indianapolis, where he is the director of the Hoosier Athletic Club, of that city. As a side line he and his brother own and operate a furniture company.
A^number of years ago, Al coached a state champion football team, and one of its members, Charley Riley, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1928, played at the quarterback position. Riley, also called the signals for Rock’s team of 1926 and ’27, as a regular. Charley is at the present time head coach at the University of New Mexico.	>
"... and say, Mother, this call is almost as good as a trip home. I’ll sure call oftener, now that I’ve found out how cheap it is!”
{The Economical X No ice of 'Millions 4
My pet aversion is the twisting of history to meet the requirement of romantic fiction.—Emil Ludwig.
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
Thirty
The Scholastic
St. Edward’s 19; Lyons 0.
A bone-crushing St. Edward’s eleven took everything Lyons had to offer Sunday and returned it with interest which amounted to nineteen points. Lyons’ account, after four’ quarters of give and take, registered 0. The final count does not give full credit to the' strength of the victors for they had the Gold Coasters back on their heels throughout the game.
A determined first half drive was - responsible for two touchdowns. A pass from Lord to Dunn accounted for one touchdown and a ten-yard plunge by Wheeler continued the onslaught. Emmerling accounted for the extra point on a dash around end.
After Emmerling garnered six-more points for St. Ed’s the second team was substituted and the firing ceased.
The second half was featured by the play of Captain Andrews of St. Ed’s. The center smeared several of Lyons’ plays and served notice that he is out for another all-interhall berth this year.
Devine was outstanding for the Lyons’ crew on the defensive.
Corby 0; Dillon 0.
Battling through four hard-fought periods, Corby held a large Dillon squad to a scoreless tie. The seniors might be said to have gained a moral •victory because they had only one substitute available. Dillon’s repeated substitutions helped turn back the Corby eleven.
Each squad had one golden opportunity to score but fate turned it back on each occasion.
Dillon’s threat came in the first quarter when a Corby pass over the line was intercepted in the formers territory. A series of end runs and line smashes, mingled with a few passes, brought the Frosh down to the Corby five-yard line where the Senior line held for downs.
This power drive seemed to be all that the Dillonites had in their system because, despite innumerable substitutions, they were unable to advance on the coveted chalk line. .
Corby’s only hope for victory came late in the third quarter when a long run for a touchdown was called back by the referee.
Walsh 7; Howard 6.
Bill Ackermann’s successful line plunge for the extra point after
Blake had scored a touchdown for Walsh, proved to be the winning margin over Howard in a scrap on Cartier Field Sunday.
The final count was Walsh 7, Howard 6.
Howard’s score came early in the game when a long pass into the end zone was ruled complete because of interference. That costly extra point was not converted.
Walsh pushed over their seven points in the second period with
Blake going around end for a touchdown, then put on the finishing touch with the line plunge for the extra point.
Through the entire game, rivalry was intense between the two evenly matched elevens.
Loose play and many fumbles marred the game and cost both teams points.
Both machines tightened up in the second half and there were no traces of scoring threats.
“Gimme One
me sister s got it .A. ragged, dirty newsboy blurted, “Gimmeone,me sister’s got it,’’and dropped on the marble counter* a single penny that tinkled lonesomely. He was buying one of the first Christmas Seals sold in the United States for anti-tuberculosis work. The need was great. He knew. His sister had it. Today Christmas Seals help protect you and your family, for although the death rate from tuberculosis has been reduced two-thirds it still kills more people between 15 and 45 than any other disease. Your pennies make possible free clinics, nursing service, preventoriums, and educational work that mean cure for some, relief for many, and hope for all.
*Inthe lobby of the Philadelphia“North American," Dec. 13,1907
THE NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS
October 74, 1932
Thirty-one
Scholarship Club Will Hold Dance Tonight at Oliver
1932 Football Schedule
Improvements Made On Campus During Past Week
The Scholarship Club will sponsor a dance tonight at the Oliver Hotel from eight to twelve o’clock. All students are invited to attend. Anybody presenting a ticket to his rector will be given a twelve-thirty permission.
The affair is in charge of Mrs. John Warden, president of the Club. Mrs. Frank Powers is chairman of the committee on entertainment. Myron Walz and his orchestra will furnish the music.
Boston Club Has Its Own Newspaper—“The Hub”
An innovation in campus club activity was realized this week when the Boston Club printed its first bimonthly newspaper containing accounts of interesting events which have taken place in those towns which constitute the Boston area.
The paper, a mimeographed affair of two pages is entitled “The Hub” and is edited by Paul McManus and Joe Glennon. It is financed by an appropriation from the Club dues and will be distributed free of charge at the next Boston Club meeting, Thursday evening at 6:30 o’clock in the Engineering Building.
Make the
Student Trip
To Cleveland
for the
Navy Game
Nov. 19th
$5.50 Round Trip
Under sponsorship of
October 8— Haskell Institute 0, Notre Dame 73.
October 15— Drake University at Notre Dame.
October 22—
Carnegie Tech, at Notre Dame.
October 29—
Univ, of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
November 5—
University of Kansas at Lawrence.
November 12— Northwestern Univ, at Notre Dame.
November 19— Navy (Cleveland)
November 26— Army at New York City.
December 10—
University of Southern California at Los Angeles.
INDIANA RESTAURANT 226 N. MICHIGAN Opposite LaSalle Hotel
COMPLETE SPECIAL DINNERS 25c No charge for extra cup of coffee.
We welcome NOTRE DAME MEN
Advertisers in The Scholastic deserve your patronage
119 WEST COLFAX, WEST OF PALAIS ROYALE
"The Mary-Ann Welcomes Notre Dame Men"
During the past week, various improvements have been in progress about the campus. Sorin Hall, the domicile of many Notre Dame patriarchs, is receiving a brushing. Mounted on a scaffold, two workmen applying a cleanser to the bricks and mortar.
Many of the trees which line the campus walks have been pruned and relieved of their dead branches.
Those who frequent the library will notice a new coat of paint being applied to the window sashes..
Now, the annual leaf-gathering wagons traverse the campus, loaded with its autumnal cargo.
RADIO CLINIC
R W ZELLERS MGR
"service our specialty*
PHONE 4-2343
L 116 WEST COLFAX AVE ,
Across from Palais Roy ale
Your Set and Tubes tested FREE!
New guaranteed
Radio Tubes____
44c
New Philco-Superheterodyne Radios, 18.75 Complete
STUDENT Newest $12.95 cum a i 1933 Complete SPECIAL Radios with tubes
SPECIAL LUNCHES
Dinners
Thirty-two
ALLERTON
The Scholastic
HOTEL^
On Down The Line
Rv Fred MaeReth
CARL OLSEN, who coached several interscholastic championship track teams at FROEBEL (Gary) HIGH, is track coach at PITT this year . . . two members of the Carnarvonshire (Wales) Golf Club halved the 17th hole of 102 yards in one stroke . . . this situation popped up once before at the Fresh Meadow Club in New York when W. FRONK-EL and A. E. BOOTH each did the ninth hole in one . . . On another New York course a duffer was all smiles after making a hole in one ... as he picked up his clubs he saw the tee shot of a member of a following foursome drop into the cup.
A make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, :	8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A
Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program [	with something doing every
night if you want to join in.
Overlooking Lake Michigan.
.	Quiet surroundings. All rooms
are outside rooms. A short
.	walk to the Loop. Two blocks
|	from the Cathedral. For a
,	week-end or a month, or a
<	year, you will be glad you
i	chose the Allerton.
'	1932 RATES
_	Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
„	Double—$8.00 to 12.50 weekly, per person
'	Transient—$1.50 to $4.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL
i	Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
An article by MARCHY SCHWARTZ will appear in the SATURDAY EVENING POST within a very short time . • . NICK ALTROCK says that the unsung hero of the WORLD SERIES is the trainer who turned on the showers for the CUB PITCHERS ... he nearly suffocated .. . MILTON ZECHAUSER, heavyweight boxing champion, and BOBBY BLASHEK, soccer star, both of OHIO STATE, are running a DAY NURSERY to help defray school expenses ... it is rumored that PEPPER MARTIN, this year’s leading disappointment in the National League, will play a guitar in vaudeville this fall. . . .
Here is the prize . . . WASHINGTON (Ga.): CHARLES H. CALHOUN, Sr. shot a hole in one on the third hole at the country club and CHARLES H. CALHOUN, Jr. did the same thing on the hole the same day . . . we were waiting for the NOTRE DAME BAND to spell out UGH for the HASKELL team last Saturday . . . TOMMY MILLS says his GEORGETOWN backfield is the fastest in the country ... he has AL KELLY, one of the fastest 100-yard men in America ... WILMER BRADLEY, a hurdler and fine quarter-miler . . . CHUBBY PARCELS and BERNARD DONAHUE, both honest ten second men. . . .
STELLA WALSH has been awarded a two-year. scholarship at the UNIVERSITY of WARSAW for her fins showing on the POLISH OLYM-
Bookmen Accept Applications of Link, Healy, and Olson
Carl Link, Eugene Healy, and Maurice Olson were accepted as members of the Bookmen at the meeting of the club last Monday evening.
Link is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters with philosophy as his major subject. Healy has the same scholastic rating but is specializing in English literature. Olson is a sophomore in the College of Commerce.
These three men were selected from eight aplications submitted. The Bookmen, have now filled their quota of fifteen members, and as a result, the club will receive no further applications until next May.
Nortbern N: Y. Club to Meet
The Northern New York Club will hold its initial meeting Monday evening, October 17, in the basement of Walsh Hall.
James C. Munn, president of the club, requests that every members be present at the meeting.
Hours of Commerce Library
Hours of the library in the Commerce Building are as follows:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, ll:0C-12:00 a. m.; 2:00-3:00 p. m.
Tuesday, Thursday, 10:00-11:00 a. m.; 7:30-8:30 p. m.
Saturday, 10:00-11:00 a. m.
Robert Sullivan is librarian, and will be in charge of the distribution of books.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 8)
Faculty row of a Saturday night, but hard to know, he is the kind we wish we could know better, for beneath a reservedly genial air lives a real comradely nature, as his intimates will aver. . . .
PIC TEAM . . . BABE DIDRIKSON, the Texas Loudspeaker, was ordered by her physician to take a ten-days rest... just about when she was supposed to be at PEABODY, Mass, for the WOMEN’S .GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP . . . rather a coincidence after her statements to the effect that she would win it in a walk.
After College WHAT?
A Bite at night
Architecture?
Kenneth Reid, managing editor of the architectural publication, "Pencil Points,” writes: "The successful architect needs not only an instinctive feeling for design and a technical skill in construction, but also a complete cultural background. Architecture requires long training, intensive concentration, a keen mind.”
IN ARCHITECTURE, certainly, brains rate too per cent. "... intensive concentration, a keen mind.” That’s why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. Get out your pipe now, light up, and through the curling blue puffs of Edgeworth,* let your mind drift down the road to those years after graduation.
If you’re not already an Edgeworth smoker, there’s new smoking satisfaction waiting for you. Edgeworth’s blend of fine old hurleys is distinctive, different. You’ll know—after the first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Larustt Bro. Co., 105 S.2zdSt., Richmond, Va.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes —15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
IT’S only natural. You crack the books through a long evening. And at bedtime you’re hungry. So you eat.
It’s a great institution—this midnight snack. Dietitians say it’s healthful—if you eat proper food.
Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes are more than just good to taste. That flavor of toasted whole wheat means health. For whole wheat is nature’s storehouse of nourishment. A body* building food that digests easily and quickly. Aids sleep at night. Gives enough good bran to be mildly laxative.
Try Kellogg’s PEP—with milk or cream. Have it the next time you feel the urge to eat at night. Get these better bran flakes at any campus lunchroom or canteen. Always fresh. Always good. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Corn Flakes, Rice Kris pies. Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee that lets you sleep.
better bran flakes
'-vAwrni n w»Yf	• WWW