Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 21, 1882.	No. 7.
Autumn Leaves.
BY X. R.
“ How bright, how beautiful those leaves!
Hath all that made the summer fair, Each floweret’s life, each sunset’s hue, Together met and mingled there?
“ Whence came they, friend? where is the land Where autumn’s leaves hold summer’s prime With softer radiance, richer glow,
The after-life that knows not time ? ”
“ So questioned I, when first they came,”
Replied the voice I love to hear, “ Like living sunshine, bits of dawn, To crown the efforts of the year.
“ I marvelled o’er the clime, the soil
From whence such oaks and maples sprung;
When, lo! my angel whispered that Which left such praises all unsung.
“ ‘ Dost thou not know that through those trees
At morn, at noon, and quiet eve, A ceaseless prayer goes up to God For those who make His Spirit grieve?
“ ‘ The prayer finds Heaven. The list’ning trees, To treasure such a priceless love
As this;—so pure, so strong, so true, The precious incense hold above.
“ ‘ Behold in every tiny branch
The lifted hands of silent prayer, And see in every radiant leaf
Reflection of the purpose there!
“ ‘ Ah! if that, like those happy leaves,
Thou, too, couldst wait with loving heart, To catch the fragrance of that prayer,
And make it of thine own a part!’-”
\From The “Ave Maria.”]
G-uido of Arezzo. •
An immense concourse of ecclesiastics, musicians, and others interested in the study of the Church’s sacred chant, was lately assembled in the little town of Arezzo, in Italy, to celebrate the ninth centenary of the renowned monk Guido, the father of modern music. He was born towards the close of the tenth century, and at the age of eight years began his studies in the monastery
of Pomposa, near Ravenna. Being gifted with a beautiful voice, he received a thorough musical instruction from the Fathers, and attained such a mastery of the art that he was appointed to impart a knowledge of it to the rest of his school-companions. Their progress, however, was slow and laborious, owing to the great difficulty of becoming familiar with the old musical notation, which was represented by the letters of the alphabet. To remedy this inconvenience, Guido studied long and hard, and at last discovered a simple and invariable rule for musical notation in the hymn to St. John the Baptist, in which the first syllables of the first six lines give in their intonation an as-cendingr diatonic scale. Under Guido’s direction his scholars learned the hymn, became familiar with the diatonic progression of the sounds ut, re, mi, fa, sol, la, and, following up this method, learned as much music in a few months as. would have required, under the old system, many years of patient study. With true Christian .humility, Guido attributed to God all the glory of his discovery, and asked all who might be benefited by it “ to obtain for him from the Dhune mercy the forgiveness of all his sins.”.
Guido was also the composer of an A.nti'phona-rium, O^era Theoretica, and another work - on music entitled the Micromun, which he dedicated to Theobald, Bishop of Arezzo. He also introduced many important changes into the character of the music of his time. His epoch may in fact-be considered the turning-point between the ancient and the modem music. Cesare Balbo justly observes, in his Sommario della Storia d'Italia: “ The music of the Greeks, which was certainly very rude, was nevertheless employed by them as a political means, in no way despicable, for making an impression on the minds of the people. Why should not music in its present advanced state be the same? Certain it is that towards the beginning' of the eleventh century a vast progressive movement was made by the monk Guido of Arezzo.”
The labors of the humble monk of Pomposa would not, however, have been crowned with such brilliant and immediate success had he not been aided by the Popes, who invariably patronize, protect, and encourage progress in every branch of literature, art and science. Accompanied by some of his pupils, he once gave a practical proof of the excellence of his system before
98
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pope John XIX. The incident has been made the subject of a celebrated picture by the artist Bertini. Guido thus relates his visit to the Holy Father: “John, the Apostle of the Supreme See, who at present governs the Roman Church, having heard of the renown of our school, and how the boys, by the aid of our Antiphonaria, easily learn chants they, never heard before, was struck with great astonishment thereat, and thrice sent messengers inviting- me to come to him. Accord-ingly, I went to Rome, accompanied by Gregory, Abbot, of Milan, and by Peter, provost of the Canons of Arezzo, a man of profound learning. The Pope showed himself extremely well pleased at my coming, conversed with me a long time, asked many questions, and frequently looked into our Antiphonarium, which he greatly admired. He then studied the rules, and did not rise from his seat until he had learned a versicle which he had never heard sung before. Thus he experienced in his own person what he could scarcely credit from the testimony of others.”
The honors paid to Guido redound to the glory of the Popes, as the centenaries of so many other illustrious men and events show what Italy owes to the Papacy.
A Masterpiece of Art.
COLUMBUS IN CHAINS.
If, as the immortal Dante sings,
“ Nessun maggior dolore che ricordarsi Del tempo felice nella miseria ”;—
if, as our English Tennyson puts it, “ A sorrow’s' crown of sorrow is remembering happier things,”—if, in fine, adversity is rendered grievous in direct proportion to former prosperity, surely, then, scan as we may the panorama of the ages, we will nowhere find a spectacle of fallen greatness sadder than thit. The discoverer and regent of a world,—the good and noble Don Christopher Columbus, Admiral of the Ocean-Sea, Viceroy and Governor of the Indies,—the man whom kings delighted to honor, and whose name and fame had gone throughout all Europe,— Christopher Columbus a prisoner, and fettered like the vilest felon that ever expiated crime on a gibbet! This is the scene, the second of the series projected by Signor Gregori, which, now completed and the cynosure of all eyes, adorns the main corridor of Notre Dame.
A distinguished critic justly observes that one of the many ways by which the poet may be distinguished from the mere rhymester is by his choice of subjects; that while the latter gropes blindly about, experimenting now on this, now on that, the former divines with unerring instinct that work for which nature has best fitted him. The remark is equally applicable to the artist and the dilettante', and the naive confidence with which Gregori has undertaken this lung and difficult series of historical
paintings, is, taken aside from the unqualified success which has attended him thus far, no trifling indication of his innate genius.
“Columbus in Chains,” or, as the Professor has entitled it, “ Bobadilla Betrays Columbus,” is, without doubt, his most powerful production. The bringing of Bobadilla into strong juxtaposition with his victim was the bold stroke of a creative mind. Historical exactness is sacrificed, to be sure, but the Signor may plead in his behalf the license which Horace concedes alike to the poet and the painter; and, after all, what pedant even, to rectify a few petty details, would care to disturb that perfect conception of what might have been ?
The scene is the cottage of Columbus, whither his Indian proteges were wont to come and minister to him in his captivity. In the foreground of the picture sits Columbus himself, with one wrist shackled to the other, and the heavy links of the chain falling on his knees. The harrowing misery and massive grandeur of his face are absolutely oppressive. At first glance the passive laxity of his palms and the patient resignation in his eyes are most prominent; it is not till we look the second time that we notice the erect poise of the head, the corrugations of the brow, and the slight curl of the lip. Let us quote his latest biographer: “ Wasted by disease and acute pain, worn out by labor which never brought repose, accused of causing evils which he had done his best to prevent, tortured by the thought that the poor Indians, whose souls he would have poured out his life-blood to save, were being taught the vices of Christians in-stead of the doctrines of Christianity, wounded to the heart by the defection of those who should have been most loyal, and forsaken at last even by Isabella the Catholic, his spirit was still unbroken, and he was as great in the day of adversity as he had been in the day of exaltation.” “ There is a noble scorn,” says Irving, “ which swells and supports the heart, and silences the tongue of the truly great, when enduring the insults of the unworthy.” It is this inborn sentiment of superiority that shines forth in the portrait before us, and fills the beholder with a kind of reverential awe.
Half facing Columbus, stands Bobadilla, resplendent in the gaudy habiliments of a Castilian hidalgo, and pointing imperiously towards the passage-way leading from the hut; his back is turned to the observer, but the profile of his face is darkly visible, and that alone, set off as it is by the satanic glare of his eye, expresses a depth of mingled malice, treachery and triumph, positively sickening in its intensity. ’ He stands there bowing, his hat doffed in mock civility, an ideal Iago,—the very embodiment of villainy. . -	• >
On the left hand, of the Admiral stands a cacique, or native chieftain, a man of magnificent physique, and rejoicing in the head-dress of feathers, the golden ornaments for the. arms and ankles, the quiver-of arrows, and the graceful capote which become his rank. His right'arm is thrown proudly across his chest, and his right hand holds the end of a bow that reaches to the ground; his left grasps, with a grip of iron, that of Columbus.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	99 *
A cold and haughty sneer sits on his kingly countenance ;his form is sternly rigid; his chest heaves; his nostrils dilate; one almost hears his breath come hard and fast; the veins in his forehead stand out thick and blue; his whole frame quivers with suppressed passion, and there is a glint of fire in his eyes that bodes no good to the supercilious Spaniard before him. I have compared Bobadilla to Iago; were I to follow out the simile, I.would say that the cacique resembles nothing so much as an untamed Othello of the desert.
The young son of the chief sits on the right of Columbus. The poor boy, a lad of sixteen years or so, is overcome with emotion at the prospect of parting with his noble white friend; but, conscious of his own powerlessness, he leans his head upon the shoulder of the Admiral, and, like the true child vf nature that he is, gives way to his sorrow. A quiver full of arrows is slung on his back, but the bow lies disregarded on the floor, and, in a paroxysm of grief, the youth has seized the chain of his benefactor and clutches it convulsively.
Beyond Bobadilla stands a soldier of Spain, and beyond him are seen the blades of pikes, indicating that the stairway is lined with guards. The naked walls and rafters of the cottage, the palm-leaf mat on the floor, the swarthy face of Bobadilla’s minion, the truculent gleam of the pikes, and, above all, the bare and dusky forms of the red men, lend to the picture a wild, savage charm, in novel contrast to the sentiments awakened by the prayerbook on the table, the sober dignity of the central figure, and the pendent crucifix discovered above the little bed, in an alcove to the left. A cloak and plumed sombrero are lying on an ottoman near by; on the table, back of the principal group, are displayed writing utensils, maps, a pair of compasses for drawing, and a basket of fresh fruit, , the latter a present, probably, from the young Indian. Through a window above the passage-way before referred to, loom the tapering masts and spars of a Spanish caravel, and over all plays the rich, warm sunlight of the tropic mid-day.
Somehow, as we gaze, a dreamy sense of the peace and beauty of the summer isle without, steals over us. We can almost hear the lisping murmur of the sea as it laps the glistening sand, and the sighing of zephyrs among the orange-trees, and the voice of the turtle-dove cooing to his mate.. It is the very acme of art.
This grand painting gives what, perhaps no other scene in the life of Columbus could give,— a quasi sketch of his whole career. The sun goes down, but long afterwards its rays still beam above the western horizon; and here, despite the ignominy of the moment, the Admiral’s former hard-won honors shed a halo round him. Nor can any one regard him now, in the greatest trial he,ever knew, without some faint foreshadowing of that darksome end—the dismal death six years later, in the obscure inn-of Valladolid. In short, “Bobadilla Betrays Columbus” is an epic on canvas. - The grand possibilities of America with regard to literary excellence in subjects and with treatment
peculiar to our country and ourselves, have been long, since demonstrated by our lamented Longfellow; and only a month before his decease, in a conversation with the writer, he expressed his satisfaction that his. example had been so generally followed, and that, to judge from the present outlook, it was only a question of time when English literature would be one thing, and American another. But, alas! while a host of writers in the East, and Bret Harte and the young Cable with their respective schools in the West and South, are opening up fresh veins of literary ore and lavishly flinging their New-World nuggets into the lap of the public, the sculptor’s chisel and the artist’s brush are given up to the stale and hackneyed classicism of the so-called Renaissance.
American art will never be recognized as distinctively such until our artists abandon their studies in the nude and the threadbare mythology of Greece, with its aerial nothingness. The tendency of the age is towards realism in art; and there is certainly no country which presents a more picturesque history, or a greater and more striking diversity of men and manners as a field for an artist’s labors than America. Gregori has perceived and taken advantage of this fact, as the undertaking, he has now on hand amply testifies. I might be deemed somewhat premature were I to predict that the Signor will yet be regarded as the pioneer of a great and powerful movement in art; but, be that as it may, he deserves the congratulations of the whole cultivated world, and, for his deliberate choice of subjects that will redound, to the honor of his adopted land, he most assuredly merits the cordial approbation and earnest thanks ’ of everv tine American.	.	-
'	T. W. Coakley, ’83.. -.
The Minims’ Column.
PLACE AUX MINTMES!
Too long have they been crowded out, and their documents have accumulated upon our table.: Among the many pleasing accounts that they give. of St. Edward’s Day, we select Master Rend V. Papin’s:
“St. Edward’s Day at Notre Dame is a very great feast, almost as great as Christmas, especially for the Minims. They have races of all’kinds. This year it rained, and we were not able to have them till Tuesday. On St. Edward’s Day, Very Rev. Father Sorin sang.High Mass, and during Mass, the great singer of the West sang, and they say that Father Sorin came up to her in singing: he sang so lovely! We had, too, a very fine dinner, which was cooked by the fine cook from Chicago. We had everything in the way.of eating; and also there were a great many visitors^ here from South Bend, Chicago, Laporte, Niles, and other places, to wish Very Rev. Father General a happy feast. Our study-hall is all'fixed up. and decorated in honor of the feast.” There is a
II
ioo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
peculiar wealth of imagery—a tropical richness, so to speak, about Master Papin’s style that makes his contributions always acceptable. We wish we had room for his visit to the Indian mounds near St. Louis. Master McGrath explains his attitude on the Junior Question thus: “I will treat the Juniors as Gentlemen if they keep their mouths shut, but let us close this subject.” He then proceeds to give a categorical account of the races that are to take place, concluding by backing Master Frank Whitney against all competitors with the possible exception of Master Joseph Chaves.
Master F. I. Otis has been disappointed of a high office. He tells us: “I used to live in Dakota, but I went to Ohio this vacation. Although it is a great State for Presidents, I never got elected.” This is unfortunate; but Master Otis will find sympathy among such men as S. J. Tilden, Gen. Hancock and others. Master Charley Metz tells us that “ The Senior refectory is getting lots of nice pictures painted in oil on the walls. They will be very pretty. It is done by Prof. Ackermann. He is a great artist.” Changing the subject a little, he tells us “ The Minims are having the most fun of all. They have two burros, which they ride almost every day. Sometimes they throw them off.” Rhetorical unity here requires us to believe that the Minims throw the burros off, but probability points in another direction.
Master Willie Ray Moss has been studying geography aesthetically. He thinks that “France is like a coffee-pot, Switzerland is like a hedgehog,” and so on, down to “ Sicily’' is like a bird feeding, and Italy is like a boot drawn back to kick Sicily out of the world.” Master Moss’s document should have been illustrated with diagrams.
Master Prindiville deplores the wet weather on the 13th. Master Edwin A. Thomas rejoices in the favor of a personage of distinction; and Master Paul P. Johnson reveals a frightful state of ignorance prevailing among millionaires. “ There are some millionaires now in the United States that have had a splendid chance for an education, but when they were boys they spent their time idly. They would now give half of their fortune to know how to read and write, but they are too old and dull and cannot be taught.” Sad, indeed!
Scientific Notes.
—A material, supposed to be decomposed coral, is being used for buildings in Fiji. It is soft in the mass, and easily cut into bricks which harden on exposure and are very durable.
—This is the 75th anniversary of the introduction of gas illumination into London, it having been first used for lighting Golden Lane as an experiment, in 1807. Pall Mall was next tried in 1809, and by 1814 gas was generally used in London. ”
—Recent geological investigations are thought
to establish the fact that the eastern part of Kansas, a part of Nebraska, southern Iowa, and north, ern Missouri were once covered by a fresh-water lake which received numerous rivers and smaller streams from the outlying regions, the turbid waters of. which deposited a sediment varying from 150 to a few feet in depth.
—M.H. Geoffrey has brought before the Academic des Sciences of Paris a specimen of wire clothed with asbestos and threaded through a leaden pipe, for the prevention of fires when electricity is employed for lighting. M. Henri Lippman, engineer to the Faure Accumulator Company, states that the copper conductor has been entirely volatilized in some experiments made by him without the leaden pipe being: in the least affected.
—The Council of the British Royal Geograpical Society have decided on an expedition to Eastern Africa fox- the exploration of the snow-capped mountains Kenia and Kilimanjaro, and the country between them and the eastern shores of Victoria Nyanza. Joseph Thomson is to be the commander, and according to present arrangements he will leave England for Zanzibar to organize his party early in the ensuing year.
—Le Menestrel states that the electric light, the use of which it was hoped would materially reduce the danger of fires in theatres, nearly caused a conflagration at the Paris Opera last week, during a performance. The current being too strong, the wires became red hot, and their gutta-percha covering being quickly destroyed, the adjacent inflammable material began to smoulder, and the services of the firemen had to be called into requisition. Happily,'the audience knew nothing of the danger, so that a panic was avoided.
—Prof. Joseph Le Conte, of the University of California, has examined the footprints which have lately attracted attention at .Carson, Nevada. He says that the strata exposed in a quarry consist of heavy-bedded sandstones, alternating with thin layers of shale. The stone has been removed down to an even stratum of shale which forms the floor. The whole area thus cleared is literally covered with tracks of many species of mammals and birds. Le Conte' concludes that they were made in the early age of man’s existence, but he does not believe that any of them are the imprints of human feet, though some may possibly be so. Those of gigantic elephants are unmistakable, and others are of extinct species of birds.
—A German chemist has invented a new kind of bullet which, he urges, will, if brought into general use, greatly diminish, if not altogether remove the horrors of war. The bullet is of a brittle substance, breaking directly it comes in contact with the object at which it is aimed. It contains a powerful anaesthetic, producing instantaneously complete insensibility, lasting for twelve hours, which, except that the action of the heart continues, is not to be distinguished from death. A battle-field where these bullets are used will in a short time be apparently covered with dead bodies, but in reality merely with the prostrate forms of soldiers re-
KaMCt&juigategssww u-jj m	. ■	________
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ioi
duced for the time being to a state of unconsciousness. While in this condition they may, the German chemist points out, be carefully packed in ambulance wagons and carried off as prisoners. Whole cities may in like manner be reduced to helplessness by means of shells charged with the same compound. The anaesthetic bullet is also strongly recommended to the burglar and to the householder, no risk of hanging being involved by its use.—St. James's Gazette.
College Gossip.
—Princeton has had no “rush” this fall; so says The Princetonian.
—Trinity College is to have a professorship of boxing —Princetonian.
Isn’t this a gfoak ?	•
—Ex-President Woolsey’s work on International Law is the text-book adopted at Oxford, England,—an exceptional honor to American scholarship.—Ex.
—President A. H. Scott, of the Ohio University at Athens, is charged with holding heretical views on various theological points, and is to have a trial before the conference now sitting.
O	’
—Ignorant young man to professor:—“ Profes-.sor, how is a man to tell a mushroom from a toadstool?” Professor:—“By eating it. If you live, it is a mushroom: if you die, it is a toadstool.”
—A Cambridge, Mass., man arrived in a frontier village recently, just as a gang of cowboys had “ taken the town.” His first exclamation was, “Have you folks a college here already?”—Ex.
—Evening chapel has been abolished for the future. As an off-set, morning chapel has been somewhat lengthened. “ The mills of the gods grind slow, but they grind exceeding small.”— Princetonian.
—The Faculty of Amherst refuses to be responsible for the conduct of students off the College premises, or for their conduct on those premises which it is the duty of the civil powers to regulate.—P rincetonian.	.
—An air-tight clock is being made for Wes-o	o
ley an University. It winds itself by means of an electrical apparatus, and, as the air is exhausted from the case when it is started, atmospheric disturbances are avoided.
—The Hon. W. C. De Pauw, of New Albany, ’ Ind., proposes to give a million dollars to Asbury University, on condition that the citizens of Greencastle will furnish 100 acres, of land whereon to erect new buildings.—Ex.	.	.
—A senior, with a very serious face, was observed to be very ■ thoughtfully dishing out the butter; and when asked what he was studying, he seriously replied that he was studying Ancient Greece.— University Press.
—An editor, speaking of a large and fat contemporary, remarked, “that if all flesh was grass,.
he must be a load of hay.” “ I expect I am,” said the fat man, “ from the way donkeys are nibbling at me.”—College Message.
—Special students are now, for the first time, obliged to attend chapel at Harvard. We learn also from the Harvard Herald that Gamma Nu is the only remaining Freshman Society at Yale, and the only open society in the college.
—It is reported that Hamilton College, New York, has just received a single gift of $50,000, for the erection of a Memorial Scientific Hall, to bear the donor’s name, which for the present is withheld.— University Magazine.
—It is reported that the University of Virginia is suffering from the Mahone movement in politics. Trustees have been removed to make room for those in harmony with the party in power, and it is feared that changes in the faculty will follow.— Cornell Sun.
—The Western College Press Association is to maintain a column and a half in the Chicago Inter-Ocean each week.—Cornell Sun.	.	‘
A very large proportion of the western college editors would do well to concentrate their efforts on their respective college papers.
—William H. Vanderbilt, W. W. Corcoran, and Leander J. McCormick have had new scholarships in the University of Virginia named after them. The students under the scholarships are to be nominated by Messrs. Vanderbilt, Corcoran and McCormick, whose gifts to the University have been considerable.
—In the collegiate schools of Germany the study of Greek is to be retarded for one year, for the purpose of gi ving more room to French and physical science. Great stress is laid on the proper acquisition of the French language. The understanding of it when spoken is to be specially acquired by dictation. •	'
—Only one Professor of political economy in America, opposes free trade. It is Thompson.—Argo. How about Sumner, of Yale?—Oberlin Review.
Prof. Sumner, of Yale, is—whether right or wrong—an advocate of free -trade. See “ College Notes” in the Horthxv estern of October the 5th, where it is stated that Prof. Sumner responded to a toast at the annual dinner of the New York Free Trade Club.
—We take the following for the sentiment expressed in it, although why it is presented in such a “ linefo ” we are at a loss to determine:
“ De Sophs dev smoke, an’ drink, an’ cuss, An’ say: ‘ O"Fresh! doan’ you wish you was us? ’ De Fresh say nuffin, but grub away, Like Jack, dull boy,—all wuck an’ no play.
For dey tink do’ its fun to racket an’ bum,
Bimeby de Faculty’s time’s gwine ter come.”—Argo.
_____Maria Mitchell, Professor of Astronomy in Vassar College, has just received the degree of LL. D. from Hanover College, at Madison, Ind. This is, we believe, the first instance in which the degree of LL. D. has been conferred upon a woman. The first college in Canada to grant the degree of B. A. to a woman, was that of Mt. Alison, in New Brunswick, at its recent convocation. Miss Har-
S. !
u
102	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
net Starr Stewart was the fortunate young lady. She wore the usual college cap and gown as she came in with her fellow-graduates, and her well-prepared oration was received with applause.—Ex.
—President Barnard, of Columbia, sent a paper to the University Convocation, advocating the opening of the college lectures to women.
The foregoing item is from The Cornell Daily Sun. We clip the following from The University Magazine :
The Senior class at Columbia has adopted a series of resolutions earnestly protesting against co-education. The following is the principal resolution:
Resolved, That it is the fixed opinion and firm conviction of the Senior class of Columbia College, that the coeducation of the sexes is undesirable from an educational, as well as from a social and a moral standpoint, and that its introduction here -would be a fatal blow to the future welfare and prosperity of the institution.
—One of the most difficult features of the examination of young graduates is the translation from Greek. Every year the professors have to be on the watch for new tricks devised by the students. They used to bribe the janitor, and give him the Greek text, which was conveyed by a messenger to a good scholar, then translated and copied on to a piece of paper which was wrapped around a steak for the candidate’s breakfast. Very soon, however, these and similar tricks were detected, and this year such rigor was displayed in every college and academy that it was almost impossible to cheat. The boys of Genoa found a very queer way to get out of the trouble. During the examination, while the bovs were struggling with their grammars and dictionaries, a fine ladies’ voice was heard in the street singing very loud and beautifully the popular song “La Stella Confidente.” As soon as the singing began, the boys were noticed writing very quickly. Why? Instead of the well-known words “ Stella del mio pensiero,” etc., the lady of the street sang the literal translation of a very hard passage of Plato’s dialogue “ Timajus,” and the boys thus got the translation in good Italian. The scholastic authorities got wind of if, and have refused to accept the Greek examination of the Lyceum Cristoforo Colombo at Genoa.—“ Notesfrom Rome ” in Boston Pilot.
Exchanges.
—Thanks to Mr. Thos. Bengough, of Toronto, Canada, for copies of the Cosmopolitan Shorthand Writer for Jul)’- and August. The Cosmopolitan is an ably edited magazine and always a most welcome visitor.	"	-
—The University, Magazine (University of Pennsylvania) gives four additional pages of matter in its number for Oct. 5th, and will hereafter contain 22 pages of reading-matter. Two additional editors .have been elected to the board. The editors show a praiseworthy, zeal by offering a prize of $10 for the best prose contribution. They say they want .‘‘ short, bright, readable articles *on any topics
likely to interest readers,” and want the Freshmen Jo “sail in.” A readable article on “Progress and the Pipe” is given in the issue before us.	'
—The Chronicle (University of Michigan) comes out in the usual handsome form, but is now printed from larger type,—which is, we think, an improvement. The department of “ Various Topics,” is chiefly upon the prospective amusements at Ann Arbor during the coming winter. The literary department contains an abominable piece of doggerel by “John Tee,” and a well-written but not very interesting essay, “ Up the Nile Three Thousand Years Ago,” by A. P. G. An erudite contributor furnishes a collection of “Peculiar Deaths,” giving the last words, and some account of the last moments, of some notable persons. We think the writer makes a mistake in saying that “Monks! Monks! Monks!” were the last words of Henry VIII. We might well imagine the royal wife-butcher surrounded by the ghosts of the numberless monks whom he had put to death or driven from their homes, but we have it on pretty good authority that his last words were, “ All is lost.” A new paper, The Michigan Argonaut, is stated to have been issued simultaneously with this number of The Chronicle, and the female students are about to start a paper for themselves, the Amulet. From the* titles of the respective papers it would seem the Ann ArboriteSjin fleeing from the Chronic-ills they know, to other ills they wot not of, are anxious to protect themselves with amulets and Medean enchantments.
—The editors of The Volante, University of Chicago, have at last woke up, and the September number puts in an appearance. The exchange editor, rubbing his eyes, wonders what all the bustle is about, and why people are up before daylight. Why, man, the middle of October is now upon us: wake up, wake up! Five numbers of the Scholastic out, several football and baseball games played, a play on the boards, a cornet band drilled, speeches made, and short-hand men taking notes, and here you have been dreaming all the while! “ Surrounded by papers enough to fill a bushel basket,” he yawns, “ he is supposed to pass judgment—commend and condemn ”—hardly both—“ some or all. He must run the risk of offending because he criticises too severely”—oh, no—“ or because he fails to notice at all, and the question is often asked why it is that our paper never falls under the editor’s notice.” And forthwith he is determined that at least one paper shall notice The Volante, even though it be by calling it to an account for telling an untruth. “The first paper we received this term,” he continues, “ was the Notre Dame Scholastic; first, because it did not stop coming, all summer”—O temporal O mores ! “ Fortunately we were spared the perusal of it during the heated term ”—eh ?—“ we were not here—and with one of our sister papers we. chose lighter reading for the summer.” Oh, Me-too, ah ? Try a rub of the St. Jacob’s Oil. It is .said to be
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
103
good for stiff joints. Price 30 cents. Vide Volatile,page 13.
—The exchange editor of the Oberlin Review says the Scholastic “ contains little of interest to the general reader.” Opinions differ on this point. Many college papers have given the Scholastic complimentary notices since the beginning of the session. The best of these have been mislaid, or carried off—the fate of good papers, very often. We happen to have at hand a number of The College Rambler, however, containing the following notice:
“ The Notre Danie Scholastic is another of our old friends, and the first numbers of it assure us that we shall receive at least one weekly, equal to any of the bi-weeklies which favor us with a visit to our sanctum. That the oftener a paper is published the poorer it is, does not hold true in regard to the Scholastics
The Oberlin Review is a bi-weekly: perhaps it felt hurt by the comparison. The. Catholic Chronicle, of Bay City, Michigan, edited by the Hon. -John Hyde and Joseph AV. S. Norris, also favored us with a complimentary notice:
“ A midsummer or mid-vacation number of the sprightly little Notre Danie Scholastic dropped in on us this week with an improved appearance in the shape of a new heading, which includes a birds-eye view of the classic pile of Notre Dame. The contents are unusually interesting. Like everything emanating from Notre Dame’s famous University, the Scholastic bears the mark of exquisite taste and finish on every page. May it live long and prosper.”
Judge Hyde and his poet assistant may be classed as “general readers”; they are themselves strong and graceful writers, and publish one of the very best papers in the United States; does the exchange editor of the Oberlin Review think herself a better judge of good writing or interesting matter
J	O	O	O
than they?
—A novel specimen of “ criticism ” comes to us in the last number of The Oberlin Review. From the-manner in which the objections are rolled out, or rather tumbled out—for they come in all shapes and forms, and on top of one another, like the boots and bootjacks, stew-pans, kettles, gridirons, dust-brushes, etc., etc., that followed the retreating form of David Copperfield’s “page” through the kitchen door—we judge that the critic is a woman, and we have -hardly the heart to dispute with her, or attempt to show what ridiculous things a lady can sometimes say when she has gotten up steam and is fairly started. She objects to the essays,—thinks that one of them would be better placed in a treatise on minerals; she forgets that her own essays might be objected to—and just as unreasonably, of course—on a similar plea, as being better suited, as in fact counterparts of what is dished up in our text-books on English literature, and just as unsatisfactory too,— choking off poor Charles Lamb with about>as much matter as could be easily squeezed into two columns of the Scholastic, and William Cullen-Bryant with a wee trifle more—according to merit, we suppose. Poor “ Elia ”.' That is fame for you I, She objects to “ Glass ” as the subject of an essay, as being too dry, and “Tears” as being—too wet, we suppose? She wants the Roll of Honor left out because there are too many names in it, and
she can’t understand it;' she has probably never read the history of France, or of Napoleon and his wars, and the Legion of Honor? She objects to St. Mary’s list of Conservatory students being published,—perhaps she hasn’t.seen the Harvard Daily Herald and the Pennsylvania University Magazine, and other first-class college papers, in which the lists of class entrances were. published. She forgets that the Scholastic is published for Notre Dame students and their friends, and not for Oberlin and other institutions,—which is very thoughtless of her,—and that what is of interest here may not be appreciated, not even understood, at other institutions. But, strangest of all, she says of the essay on Glass that she “makes no criticism of the treatment of the subject”—which is tantamount to saying it was well treated; what, then, does she object to ? The subject itself? Tjhe writer of the essay says of Glass that “to its ad, applied in a-thousand different forms, the sciences, particularly chemistry and astronomy, are essentially indebted for their advancement,” and that “we are also indebted to’glass foi many of the powerful chemical reagents which we now possess.” If this be “ dry ’’and uninteresting for an opening paragragh we would advise the fair critic to soak it in the “ Tears” for a while, and it will suit her first-rate —women are partial to “tears,” you know. In saying that she “ makes no criticism of the treatment of the subject” our fair critic stands selfcondemned. She might as well attempt to give us the play of “Hamlet” with Hamlet left out as attempt to prove that a subject is everything, the treatment nothing. Treatment is even-thing. So, at least, our teacher of English composition told us last year, and he is as good authority as any in the land. Has our fair critic ever read the “Letters” or the “Journal of Eugenie de Gu6rin”? No? Well, they treat of very commonplace subjects most of them at least—and yet the “ Letters ” received the grand prize, oyer thousands of contestants, from the most learned body of men on the face of the earth, the French Institute. What was that prize for, but the treatment of the subjects ? certainly not for the subjects themselves. We hope this lecture will not bring “Tears” into our fair critic’s eyes; if it does, may they not be tears of wounded pride but of repentance for rash judgment. Whether or not a college paper contain little or much of importance to general readers outside, is of little consequence, provided it is appreciated by those for whom it is published; and in any case it might be objected that
“It is with our judgments as oiir watches; none Go just alike, yet each believes his own.”
A Chance for the Scientists.—A paragraph is going the rounds of the press, explaining, on scientific grounds, why a girl cannot throw a stone. If some scientist would kindly point out what is the safest position the bystander can occupy, whether behind or before, when she attempts it, he would be, to some extent, a public benefactor. —Ex.
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
MiffWseWsnc.
Notre Dame. October 21, 1S82.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame. -
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—In our report of the entertainment on the 12th we should have mentioned that the translation and adaptation of Moliere’s comedy, was made by Prof. A. J. Stace. The work was done some years ago and has been published in pamphlet form by J. Fox & Co., of St. Louis.
=—In the notice of Signor Gregori taken from the Cincinnati Gazette, which appeared in our issue of last week, an error was made by the writer in stating that the Signor pronounced the so-called Titian painting to be a Sassoferrato. Signor Gre-gori simply asserted that it was the work of some unknown painter who lived in the time of Sassoferrato.	.	'
—Through the politeness of Dr. C. J. Lundy, A. M., M. D., of ’70, we received the First Biennial Report of the Michigan Free Eye and Ear Infirmary—the Eye and Ear Department of the Michigan College Hospital—which is under the immediate charge of Dr. Lundy, with an able corps of assistants. We learn from the report that the number of eye and ear cases during the past two years was 2,496; total number of operations performed, 325. Besides the tabulated lists, the Report contains an appendix giving an account of some of the new therapeutic agents employed in the hospital, and notes of important cases, which cannot fail to be interesting and instructive to students and to members of the profession.
—One of the most valuable premiums to be
awarded at the next Annual Commencement will be the grand Prize Medal for English Essay-writing. It will be presented this year by an old student of Notre Dame, Mr. John English, ’75, of Columbus, Ohio. It is intended that the winner, whoever the fortunate individual may be, shall give unquestionable proofs of proficiency in English composition. All those who compete for the medal are expected to write six essays during the course of the year, most of which, if not all, it is expected will be published in the Scholastic. Each essay must fill at least three columns of our College paper. For the first four essays the competitors are-at liberty to choose their own subjects, and these, particularly, must be handed in to the Director of Studies in due season for publication in the Scholastic with full name of writer. As may well be seen, this last condition supposes that all six essays are not handed in together. Beginning with the present month, we may suppose intervals of two months or so, until the end of the year. The subjects for the last two essays will be given by the Faculty, with whom the final decision rests.
We have no doubt that the awarding of the medal will have the effect which the college authorities desire, namely, that of exciting a laudable emulation among the advanced students. All, of course, cannot win the prize, but each. and every competitor will be very much benefited by doing his best to deserve it.
Let all now set to work. The Scholastic stands ready to welcome and ■preserve contributions to its columns and for the prize. —— —.  •-
—AVe gladly yield to many urgent requests, and hasten to lay the following before our readers and the numerous friends of Notre Dame in general. It is an extract from a circular lately written by the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, and addressed to his spiritual children in the United States. As may be seen, he speaks therein of what proves the great subject of regret to all visiting our College, namely, the absence of the grand Dome, without which everything else is, and must be, incomplete. That the erection of the Dome has become an urgent necessity in due justice to the present buildings, is evident to all visitors and keenly felt by all the inmates of the place. Why, indeed, has it been delayed so long? Everyone is now asking the same question. If a million had been offered here, as has been done to Asbury University, though it could not buy the name of Notre Dame, the question of the Dome would be no puzzle any longer. But we must confess that hitherto such generosity has not been often found among Catholics; hence, as the Very. Rev. writer declares, the alternative remains to appeal even for one cent. The result may be at first very insignificant; but, as it can scarcely be refused by any, it may open for the first time the hearts of many, who, after commencing with a nickel, may end by a million for good purposes. We therefore commend the following lines to the seripu§ attention of our friends:

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
IO5
. As I am growing old, I must be permitted to disburden my heart of a load daily becoming heavier, and now well-nigh unendurable, owing to recent remarks of many of our best friends. They had expected to see the Dome; and in its place they saw but a big smoking chimney. They were pained. But, more than any of them, I am grieved. I wish you all to know that my first and greatest desire is to see our Blessed Mother’s statue on its fitting pedestal, the magnificent Dome, which alone will justly crown her monument, and delight every Christian soul that feels an interest in the Institution, and in the cause of its glorious Queen.
“It seems to me that our Blessed Mother will bless everyone who will take a hand in placing her on her glorious throne. “ She shall exalt thee; she shall glorify thee; she shall give to thy head increase of graces, and protect thee with a noble crown.” (Prov., iv, S-9.) Hence my desire to extend this precious privilege even to the poorest children of good-trill. All our schools must share in this honor: the contribution, were it only one cent, will entitle every scholar to the inscription of his or her name on the list of the “ Loving Children of Mary,” now to be opened . in all our establishments, and to be’forwarded to me during this month of the Angels. These lists shall be carefully preserved, in the order of their respective amounts, and will remain a lasting.monument ol the devotedness of our beloved pupils throughout a land dedicated to the Blessed and Immaculate Virgin.
“ Since writing the above I feel relieved, and even rejoiced. The Dome will rise in its majestic splendor, .195 feet from the ground, conspicuous and visible far and wide through the day, and changing the darkness of night into bright light by means of its electric crown of twelve brilliant stars..
“ Such is the monument we intend raising to the Mother of God: a monument I should like to call mine, were it not to be the monument of every donor, no matter how small the gift. It will cost $25,000. It must be strong enough to resist any storm; besides, it shall be gilt, like the Dome of the Invalides in Paris. To meet the above expense, I have already received two donations—one of $1,000 and another of $10. The rest will come in due season. Our Holy Mother, resting upon this monumental Dome, will make it, I trust, a life-insurance for every loving soul who shall have invested however little in its erection. Thus shall be verified once more the Divine declaration : “And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all things to Myself.” Indeed she will; and with our eyes, surely she will draw all our hearts. On Assumption Day she was carried to heaven on the wings of a legion of angels. Here, on her own lovely domain, she will be lifted up on high, chiefly by the loving hands of beautiful little, innocent children, whose affection for their dear mothers at home will be increased each time they will look up to see their heavenly Mother raised to draw all hearts from the ’ earth.
E. Sorin C. S. C., Sup.-Gen’l.
We have not the least doubt that the above will appeal strongly to the affection of Notre Dame’s old friends. We present it without further remark, and commend it to the careful attention of all.
Obituary.
REV. PAUL E. GILLEN, C. S. C.
Yesterday morning the telegraph brought the sad intelligence of the death of one long and familiarly .known to residents at Notre Dame,—the good Father Paul. For many months he had been in, feeble health, and a short time ago, at the urgent request of his sister who had come to visit him, he was reluctantly permitted by his Superiors to go East, in the hope that sea, baths would effect a
cure. But these hopes were not realized. Father Paul lived-a long and useful life,—a life filled with good deeds and merits, and we may have every confidence that his soul, which has now appeared before its Maker, will soon enjoy its reward.— Requiescat in -pace I	.
Personal
—	G. E. Morgan, ’52, came last week and entered his son in the Junior department.
—	Thomas E. Cullen (Com’l), ’82, is engaged in successful business at Ottumwa, Iowa. .
—	Robert M; Hinde, ’66, of Lewiston, Ill., paid a visit to the College last Sunday, and was welcomed by many old friends.
—	Mr. and Mrs. G. F. Stamm, of Milwaukee, Wis., were with us a short time ago. They came to enter their two sons in the Minim department.
—Mr. L. M. Hamburger, of ’63, is in business in Laporte, in partnership with his brother. He is at present travelling in Europe, accompanied by his wife.
—Mr.John Millett (Com’l), of’82, writingfrom St. Paul, Minn., sends his regards to all his old teachers and friends. John is doing well, and has a good situation with a prominent firm in that city.
—We have had the pleasure of a visit from Sr. Don Antonio y A. Abeytia and lady, of Socorro, New Mexico. They had heard much of Notre Dame, but they said they never expected to see such fine buildings.
—Mr. John Boose (Com’l), of ’81, has a position as assistant book-keeper in one of the National Banks of Lima, Ohio. John is enjoying excellent health, and remembers all his old teachers and friends as kindly as ever.'	-
—Mr. Alexis Coquillard, of ’45, visited the College last week, and was warmly greeted by many old friends. Mr. Coquillard’s name and fame, through the great trade which he directs and controls, has gone throughout, the whole country.
—M. B. Kauffman, of ’77, has returned to his home in Cincinnati, after an extended tour through the principal countries of Europe. He writes us that he has been greatly improved, intellectually and physically, by his trip. For the present, he will assist his father in the management of their large business, in Cincinnati.	’
—Mr. I. Whitman has been promoted to special • agent of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, and will move his headquarters shortly from Indianapolis to Chicago, with his office at No. 5, Tribune building. He is the only special agent this company has, and his duties will keep him on the road most of the time. Mr. Whitman has one -son, Harry, attending Notre Dame University, and his younger son, Charley, will shortly enter the same University.—South-Bend Tribune.
io6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■	Local Items.
—Hot box!
—What became of that box?
—He has again become a church-member.
—The lecture course will soon be inaugurated.
—Our friend John missed his dejeuner on the 13th-
—The aesthetics are now admiring the autumnal ' tints.
—Another “ most beautiful coat” is in course of construction.
—“ Barber, don’t shave that off 1” said a Lima man, on Thursday.
—Great interest is manifested in the courses of Christian Doctrine.
—The Junior Crescents will give a musicals, next Monday night.
’ —Henry says that Frank had no right to monopolize that parasol.
—The store and barber-shop in the Gymnasium are being put in order.
—Two fine dormitories have been prepared in the upper story of the College.
—The Preps, have lost their watermelon-shed, but their Campus has been improved.
—Our aquatic men are making good use of the fine weathet'. When will that race take place?
—We have no doubt the announcement of the new grand Medal has created great excitement.
—The Chef has gone to introduce the improve-' ments of Our Culinary Departmoent at St. Mary’s.
—Some of the new desks lately ordered were received and promptly taken. The cry is still for more.
—The gallants of the Fair say that those jokes are getting stale and unprofitable, especially the latter.
—The sermon preached at the High Mass on last Sunday was, as all present declare, unusually excellent.
—The Annual Retreat for the students will begin Oct. 29th, and close on the morning of All Saints’ Day.
—Competitions next week will be held in the courses of Modern Languages, Fine Arts and Special Branches.
—The new departure of presenting our entertainments in the afternoon seems to meet with the approbation of all.
—Signor Gregori has completed a sketch in . charcoal of the new mural painting of «The Death of Columbus.” •
—A few greatly-to-be-reprehended critics assert that the singing at some of the society meetings is more forcible than elegant.
—At the 3d regular meeting of the Columbian Dramatic Club, held Oct. 16th, Messrs. J. McGoffin and W.H. Johnson were elected members.
—The Rev. Director of Studies says that “ Bul
letin Day ” seems likely to retain its long-established reputation, i. e., a source of annoyance.
—Ye “Local” says that passengers may make it as hot as they please for -poultry and other insects, but he most decidedly objects to a hot-box.
—An esteemed correspondent sends us a most doleful lamentation concerning the departure of the Chf. W e regret that we cannot give it space this week.
—The Junior side of the College has become overcrowded—so much so as to require a special transfer to the Seniors. The western wing is now an urgent necessity.
A grand concert was given in the parlor of the University on last Friday night, the prominent features of which were the vocal solos by Mrs. Maguire and Mrs. Rav, of Chicago.
- -Mr. Felgemacher, of Erie, Pa., the builder of the grand organ in the church, has been here with several assistants during the past week, busily engaged in tuning and repairing the organ.
—The second regular meeting of the Columbian Literary Society was held Sunday night, October 1st. Messrs. O’Brien and Kolars were elected members; Mr. F. Wheatly was elected Marshal by a unanimous vote.	•
—To-morrow, the 21st Sunday after Pentecost, Missa Parvulorum will be sung. At Vespers, Dixit Dominus, p. 1; Confitebor, p. 1; Credidi, p. 3; De Profundis, p.«5; Confitebor, p. 6, of the Vcsperal. Hymn, Creator Aime siderum, p. 59.
—Mr. John English, of ’75, has returned, greatly improved in health, to his home in Columbus, Ohio. He leaves after him a pleasing and valued memento of his visit to his Alma Mater, in the establishment of the grand Gold Medal for essaywriting.
—Formerly the great cry was, “ It always rains on Wednesday, just because it is our ‘rec.’day!” But we have as yet to hear the same innuendo applied to Thursday; our “ rec.” days seem to be fine, except, however, the morning of the 13th, but the afternoon made up for that.
—After the noble boy got seated, January cast a pitiful look at Emma, she at him, smiled a smole; he “ laffed,” then at her winked a wunk; looking around to see no harmless flies were near, January swished his tail and bowed. When last seen the noble boy was viewing the comet in mid-air.
—Rev .’President Walsh visited the Minim department last week, and examined the 2d and 3d classes. While expressing his satisfaction at the progress made by all, he noticed, in a special manner, several .students, whose names we .would mention here were it not that they can be found in the List of Excellence published elsewhere.
—The N. D. U. Baseball Club had another contest, on the 15th instant, defeating their city opponents by a score of four to eighteen. This Club is oyer ready to play, and although they lost the first game with the Star of the East, they are anxiously waiting to have the full championship of the.College settled. Stars, wake up! .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.,
107
—We understand that at the next Commencement a Gold Medal will be awarded the member of the Junior Law Class, who, having averaged a certain per centum, shall have given most satisfaction in class recitations, written competitions and semi-annual examinations. The members of the Law Facuity shall decide whether the desired average has been reached, and if so determine the winner of the prize.
' —Persons who’ attended the entertainment at St. Mary’s on St. Edward’s Day, speak in the highest terms of the marked proficiency displayed by the young ladies of the Conservatory of Music. Especially was this noticed in regard to Miss Fendrich, who played a difficult accompaniment at sight, in response to an invitation extended to Mrs. Maguire, of Chicago, to favor the audience with one of her vocal gems.
'—The 29th inst. is the eighth anniversary of the death of Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., for many years Vice-President and President of Notre Dame. Manv of his former charges are still remaining here, who hold him in grateful and affectionate remembrance, and who, no doubt, will not fail to give expression to the sentiments of their hearts, by their visits to his grave and their prayers in his behalf on the date above mentioned. .
—The ?d regular meeting of the Columbian 00	o
Literary Society was held Tuesday the 17th inst., The following gentlemen were elected members: Messrs. M. Coghlin, O. Spencer, C. Craig, FI. Fitzgerald, H. Drover, D. Claffey, F. Monaghan. It was resolved that at the next meeting the question, “ Is the Irish Nation Justified in Declaring Themselves an Independent People”? would be debated. Messrs. Morse and Marlett for the affirmative, and Browne and Farrell for the negative.
' —The 3d regular meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, Oct. 15th; the tem-minutes’ instruction was given by the Rev. President. Papers were read by Master Browne, on “The Aim of the Confraternity”: Master J. Courtney, on “The Devotion of the Rosary”; and Master Halligan, on “ The Manner of Making Confession. The following were appointed as essayists for the next regular meeting: Masters M. Foote, M. Dolan and C. Porter. After the closing hymn, the meeting adjourned.
—Prof. Edwards returns thanks for the following gifts to the Cabinet of Curiosities: to Mr. Eugene Yrissari, for a handsomely-embroidered Mexican sombrero, a beautiful cross made of Mexican mineral specimens, several pieces of Chihuahua money, and a collection of pottery made by Guada-laj'ava Indians, of old Mexico; .to Mr. Joseph Farrell, of Lorain, Ohio, for an artistic brass, representing Faith, Hope, Charity, and Good Luck; to F.
- W. Gallagher, of Boston, for several sea-shells, and specimens of antique colored glass.
—We have received the following, which explains itself:—“The one who communicated the
item concerning the N. D. U. Baseball Club, which appeared in the Scholastic of last week, should be at least fair. Does he think four to five a bad beating, knowing as he should, that the five were made in one inning after it became too dark to see the ball ? The writer of the squib referred to tried to be funny when speaking about comets striking the earth. He should remember such prevaricators have frequently been struck by lightning.”
—The 3d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on the Sth inst. The question “Was Washington a greater Man than Napoleon”? was debated. On the,affirmative side were Masters J- Chaves and C. Metz; and on the negative W. Welch and F. Nester. After a long debate, in which the characters and deeds of these distinguished men were compared, the question was decided in favor of the affirmative. Compositions were read by Masters C. A. Mc-Gordon and R. V. Papin, which .received praise from the President.	.
—The social event of the past week was the promenade concert given by the members of the Crescent Club, in honor of Very Rev. E. Sorin, Founder of Notre Dame. The club-rooms were • elaborately decorated for the occasion with American, French, and other flags and banners, and a profusion of rare plants and flowers made the atmosphere fragrant with their perfumes. The music was in keeping with the reputation established by the well-known Elbel Brothers, and the programme consisted of selections from Olivette, Patience, La Mascotte and Wagner: but the best appreciated rendition of the evening was the comet solo, by Mr. E. Elbels. A choice collation was spread by D. W. Russ, of South-Bend, ably nssisted by Messrs. Ayers, Murdock and Bailey, of the Club. Among the guests from a distance were, Mrs. Wile, of Laporte; Mrs. Rhodius and niece, of Indianapolis; Mrs. Eisenhauer, of Huntington; Mrs. Maguire, Chicago’s famous soprano; Mrs. Albert Gall, of Indianapolis; Mme. Bartolon, of New Orleans, and Mrs. Cavenor, of Chicago.
—The 4th and 5th regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held Sept. 30th, and Oct. 9th. C. Zeigler, W. Bacon, G. De Haven, H. Snee, and J. Hagenberth were elected members; C. Porter was unanimously elected Historian; D. Taylor and J. Fendrich handed in well-written criticisms on the two previous meetings; and A. Browne, D. Taylor, Jas. Courtney, J. Fendrich, Geo. Schaeffer, M. Foote, M. Dolan, read essays. Declamations were given by H. Dunn, W. Mug, James Courtney and W. Jeannot. Among the visitors present were: Messrs. W. McCarthy, J. O’Neill and J. Solon. In response to invitations, they interested the Association for about half an hour in delivering selections from the classical authors, to the great delight of the members. The public readers for this week are: H. Foote, M. Foote, M. Dolan, A. Browne, G. Schaeffer, D. Taylor, F. Johnson, C. F. Ackoff, E. Dillon, W. Schott and H. Sells. Master Schott closed the
io8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
exercises by givingf a very fine orgran selection. The members unanimously chose Very Rev. Father General as Honorary Director hi perpe-tuum, and were highly honored by his acceptance of the office.
—October 5th will be a day long remembered by the students of ’82—’83. President Walsh announced that all who wished to go to the Agricultural Fair, then in progress at South Bend, might do so. At 1.30 p. m. each department formed in turn in front of the College, and after kind wishes and admonitions from the President, marched down the avenue where ranks were formed. The line of march was down Notre Dame Avenue, thence across the country to the fair-grounds, which were about two miles from the College. Of course, the event of the day was the burrorace. It may be remarked here that some malicious person forwarded to the South-Bend Tribune a report of the race in which there was not one grain of truth. The gentlemen mentioned as riders and grooms did not act as such. Mr. Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio, was badly treated in this report. The gentleman did not “ follow his favorite jockey around the track,” as reported; as at that time he was eating watermelon with one of his city friends. It is hoped this will be considered sufficient denial to the rumors concerning him. The riders of Father Zahm’s burros were: Messrs.Magoffin, of El Paso, Texas: and Coakley, of Boston, Mass. At the start, the Boston man was backed heavily bj' his Eastern brethren; but a short time proved that our Yankee friend was not accustomed to exercise himself upon that kind of a steed, while the Texan appeared to be “at home” upon the back of his diminutive beast. Coakley maintains that Magoffin spoke Spanish to the burros, which was in direct opposition to the rules, and therefore claims the race; but spectators say Coakley lost the race on account of dismounting so often during its progress. The verdancy of some of our Seniors is beyond imagination. When the time for the homeward march arrived, a party hired a’bus-man to convey them to the College. Hardly had they reached half the way when the driver demanded more cash for his services; and, as he had been paid in advance, refused to carry the students any farther. Chelini and Thompson endeavored to persuade the driver to advance, while Master Snee, of the Preps., was for ejecting “ the impudent fellow.” Our brave Seniors walked the remaining distance, and arrived in time for supper, exhausted. In order to do justice to all innocent parties, it must be said that Mr. G. Edmund Clarke was not at the Fair, and John C. Larkin was too busy discussing the political situation of Pennsylvania with a Hoosier to pay any attention to ^wrro-races. Both Messrs. Clarke and Larkin deny statements concerning them which appeared in the City Papers. -
—Field-Day at Notre Dame.—The regular fall fieldmeeting of our amateur athletes is usually associated with the festivities of St Edward’s Day; but this year, as mentioned in our last number, old Jupiter Pluvius interfered, and prevented the carrying out of this part of the programme.
The field-sports were, therefore, postponed until last Thursday, when everything took place as previously arranged. The sports in the three departments were unusually varied and numerous, and the boys entered into them with great zest and enthusiasm. Many visitors were present, prominent among whom were Very Rev. E. Sorin, SuperiorGeneral, in whose honor the sports were originally gotten up; Rev. President Walsh,’Very Rev. A. Granger, and others of the clergy; members of the Faculty, and numerous ladies and gentlemen from South Bend and other cities. First on the programme came the sports in the Minim department. Precisely at nine o’clock a. m. visitors, students, etc., met in the Minims’ Campus, where elaborate preparations had been made for the accommodation of spectators. A fine large judges’ stand, beautifully decorated, had been erected, whence invited guests, judges, and reporters could view and note all the proceedings. First came the “ hurdle-races, ” of which there were three in number. The 1st was won by Master J. J. McGrath, with Master Frank Whitney, a good second ; the 2d was won by J. Pick, with H. Smith second; the 3d was won by W. Welch, with E. Thomas second. There were four “foot-races,” and were won respectively by Masters McGrath, Pick, Thomas and Cain. Then followed a race for the smallest boys, which was won by Master A Devine, with E. McGrath second. The “sack-races” were won by Masters Chaves, Johnson, Schmidt, Lore, and little Cecil Quinlin. The “burden-race” was won by Master G. Stamm, who carried W. Dwyer. The prizes for the “barrel-races” were carried off by Masters Johnson, Whitney and Huestis. The “ three-legged-races ” were taken by Masters Spencer and Morrison for the 1st, Hopkins and Otis for the 2d, and I. Otis and Dunford for the 3d. The “fat-boy’s-race” was won by Master Chaves. In the “jumpingmatches,” prizes were awarded to Masters Young and Whitney first, and J. J. McGrath and L. Hopkins second. The best “ throw of a ball ” was made, in one match, by Master J. Chaves, and in the other by Master A. Kelly. The-proceedings closed with the “Grand Tug of War” between eighteen Minims, divided into 1st and 2d nines, with P. Johnson as captain of the 1st nine, and F. Nester captain of the second. After a long struggle, the second nine won. All present declared that the sports of the little princes were unusally interesting and pleasing.
At 10.30 the sports began in the Juniors’ Campus. In the foot-races, which were four in number, the following were the successful contestants: 1st race: H. L. Austin, M. Dolan, D. Allen; 2d race: H. P. Dunn, W. Bacon, H. Busch; 3d race: F. Danielson, J. D. Crawford, B. C. Ohnick; 4th race: J. Dornberg, J. C. Armijo, F. Hetz. The “ burden-races ” came next, and were won in the following order: istrace: F. Lund and L. Gibert, E. Henderson and D. Reach; 2d race: T. Morris and J. O’Donnell, G. De Haven and H. Foote, E. Gerlach and C. Duffin; 3d race: T. McGrath and F. Johnson, P. Yrisarri and J. Rhodus, C. Droste and E. Wile; 4th race: G. Schaeffer and T. C. Ryan, F. Morton and H. Snee, C. Peters and Ryan Devereux. Prizes for the “ three-legged-races ” were awarded as follows: istrace: S. Dickerson and M. Foote, P. Warren and G. Seegers, W. Coghlin and D. Allen; 2d race: T. Walsh and H. Busch, H. Foote and G. De Haven, J. O’Donnell and F. Kengel: 3d race: Jos. Courtney and W. Coover, W. Hannivan and W. Schott; 4th race: H. Snee and Ryan Devereux. The “ sack-races" were thus disposed of: 1st race: F. Brice, T. Ryan, G. Seegers; 2d race: N. Mueller, T. Cassily, F. Fishel; 3d race: T. McGrath, J. Pick, J. Rhodus; 4th race: F. Farrelly, D. O’Connor. In the “scrub-races” the following were successful: istrace: C. Porter, L. Gibert; 2d race: W. Murphy, J. O’Donnell, C. Duffin; 3d race: E. Holbrook, J. Henry, M. O’Connor; 4th race: T. Ryan, R.Devereux, J. Hogerty. The grand “wind-up” was a “free-for-all” race, in which many notable celebrities took part; but at this stage of the proceedings the reporter’s hat blew off, and he was obliged to go in quest thereof. However, he learned from good authority that this last race proved to be the most exciting event of the day, and that Mr. Seahorn carried oft' the first prize—an elegantly-bound copy of “ Bessie ” and a razor-strop. With this terminated the exerci es of the forenoon. The prizes awarded the victors in the Junior contests were many and valuable, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
109
comprised a miscellaneous assortment of gold pens, photograph and autograph albums, silk handkerchiefs, musical instruments, inkstands, combination-pencils, scroll-saws, chess-boards, mirrors, etc., etc.
In the afternoon, at two o’clock, the programme for the Seniors was opened witji choice selections by the Band. During the sports that followed, Prof. Edwards and B. Leander acted as judges, while Bros. Marcellinus and Lawrence were the starters. To all of these the pleasure of the occasion may be largely attributed ; but especially to the director, B. Paul, who was indefatigable in his exertions, and spared no pains to make the affair the grand success it proved. The following is the result:—The first-class hundred-yard-dash was won by E. A. Otis,’in 11 secs.; J. P. O’Neill came in second, and F. Fulton third. The second-class hundred-yard-dash was won J. II. Kelly, in I2}4 secs.; G. Castanedo coming in second, and W. F. Grange third. The third-class hundred-yard-dash was won by T. W. Coakley, in 13 secs.; Messrs. Mohaghan and Hausberg carrying off respectively the second and third prizes. The first-class sack-race was won by F. Gallagher; T. Ashford coming second, and G. Castanedo third. The second-class sack-race was won by J. Walsh; G. Kippar came in second, and D. Saviers third. The first-class three-legged race was won by F. Fuller and J. Keller; 2d, H. Grange and J. J. Kelly. The second-class three-legged race was won by J.-Deinhart and G. Wagner; 2d, J. Walsh and D. Saviers. The one-mile-dash was won by J. O’Neill, in 6 mins.; he was closely pressed by J. Koelar and T. W. Coakley, to whom were awarded the second and third prizes. The running-jump was won by J. P. O’Neill; 2d, W. Bolton; 3d, W. Morse; distance covered was respectively 17 ft., 2'in.; 16ft., 3J4 in.; 16 ft., 3 in. Runninghop-step-and-jump was won by J. Guthrie; 2d, J. O’Neill; 3d, W. Bolton; distances covered: 3S ft.; 37 ft., 7 in.; 37 ft., 4 in. Standing triple-jump was won by J. Keller, 29 ft., 7 in.; 2d, F. Gallagher, 28 ft. 11 in.; 3d, W. Bolton, 28 ft., 10 in. The running high jump was won by Frank Gallagher, 4 ft., 6 in.; 2d, J. Sturla, 4 ft., 5 in. The high kick, W. Ratterman won with 7 ft., 4 in.; W. Bolton made 7 ft., 2 in. in a hitch and kick; F. Gallagher and J. Sturla each made a fine record in hitch and kick. The great three-mile-race then came off, and was won by Bert Noble, in 20 minutes; 2d, D. Claffey; J. O’Neill, who had been badly winded by the one-mile-dash, was unable to keep to the track, and the third prize was not awarded. Darkness intervening, several games were postponed till next Thursday.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	'
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ashford, Anderson, Arnold,* Brady, Browne, Burns, W. Bailey, Bolton, Becerra, Castenado,* Cavanaugh, Coll, Cleary, T. Clarke,* Coghlin, Conway, Celia, Campbell, Clements, Carroll, Claffey, j. Donohue, M. Donohue, Drover, Delgado, Jas. Delaney, Jno. Delaney, Eisenhauer, N. Ewing, Eaton, Flynn, T. Fenlon, E. FenIon, Fleming, Fitzgerrell, Fitzgerald, Farrell, Freese, Grever, Garrett, Guthrie, Golonski, Grange, F. Gallagher, J. Gallagher, Gooley, Heffernan, Hausberg, Jones, Johnston, Kane, Keller, Kolars, Kuhn, Kavanaugh, Larkin,* H. McCarthy, Monoghan, McErlain, Marlett, W. McCarthy, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, McIntyre, S. Murdock, Morse, Metz, Nelson, Noble, Noonan, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, Peery, Piefer, Quinn, Rho-dius, Ratterman, Rogers, Ryan, Sturla, Solon, Stover, Smith, Steele, Seitz, Stull, Spencer, Walsh, Whalen, Yris-arri, Zahm.
*' Omitted last week by mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Auston, Ackhoff, Brice, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Bush, Brewster, Curtis, Cavanagh, Cassilly, Jos. Courtney,* Caveroc, Chirhart, Devereux, Dolan, Dorenburg, Dil-
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Ion, De Haven, Dunn, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, ,H. Foote, Farrelly, Fishel, Flynn, Goldsmith, Gibert, Grathaus, Gerlach, Hornaday, Hibbeler, Hess, Herrmann, Halligan, Han-navin, Hellebush, Hagen, Johnson, Jeannot, Kerndt, Ken-gel, M. Keegan, Kelly, Livingston, Lund, McCawley, Mug, Mason, Mulkern, McGordon, McDonnell, Morris, McCartney, D. O’Connor, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O.Don-nell, Peery, Pick, C. Porter, Robb, Ryan, Reach, Schott, ‘ Schillo, Smith, Smeeth, Schaeffer, Sanford, Talbott, Taggart, Taylor, Violette, Worcester, Waggoner, Wilkinson, Zeigler, Shannon, Terrazas.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. Browne Dickerson, C. Porter, Eaton, Kolars, Donahue. Otis, Johnston, Quinn, Conway, J. Browne, Zahm, Molloy, Craig, Fitzgerald, Fleming, W. Bailey O’Neill, Larkin, Farrell, Gray, Ewing. Steele, Noble, McIntyre, W. McCarthy, Kuhn, J. Walsh, W. O’Connor, Ander-. son, Coakley, A. Coghlin, E„ Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Bolton, Heffernan, Cleary, Jas. Delaney, McEniry, H. Porter, W. McCarthy, Solon, G. Clarke.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Beall, Bunker, Bannantine, Burlingame, Coad, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Colwell, Cummings, Chirhart, J. P. Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, J. Dyer, W. Dyer, W. Dirksmeyer, G. Dunford, Hynes, Huestis, Hopkins, Johnson, Kellner, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, J. J. McGrath, Moss, Masi, Morrison, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McPhee, F. P. Nester, McNaughton, F. Otis, A. Otis, T. Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Papin, Quinlin, Rebori, Roberts, O. Sommer, Stange, Studebaker, Smith, Unger, W. Walsh, W. Welch, Warner, E. Walsh, Winsor.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
-	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—Messrs. Zahm, N. Ewing, Otis, Gray, Mclntvre, Fleming, O’Reilly; Greek—Messrs. Zahm, N. Ewing, Cleary, Otis, Gray; Philosophy—Messrs. M. Donahue, Anderson, Steele; English Composition—Messrs. Craig, Browne; Rhetoric-----; English Literature—Mr. W. Cleary; Criticism—Messrs. N. Ewing, Steele; Algebra —Mr. Kolars; Geometry—Messrs. C. Porter, Guthrie, Saviers; Trigonometry—Mr. Johnston; Calculus—Messrs. Otis, Fleming, McIntyre; Descriptive Geometry—Mr. Anderson; Astronomy—Messrs. McIntyre, Fleming; Phys-iologv—Mr. D. Saviers; Botanv—Mr. N. Ewing-; Zodlogv ---------------------; Physics -----------; Chemistry-; Mineralogy ---------------------------------------; Geology—Messrs. Noble, Cleary, Bolton; History —Mr. J. O’Neill, Farrell, Dickerson; Mechanics—Mr. R. Anderson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters G. Costigan, E. McGrath, Spencer, Metz, Luther, Cummings, Schmitz.
For the Dome.
Hon. James Forrester...........................  $1000
A Little Family already consecrated to the Mother of God....................................    45
Mrs. White, Jackson, Mich.......................... 10
One who owes something tot be Blessed Virgin.....	25
IIO '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Iii a late issue of the Scholastic was a touching remembrance of the zealous labors of Rev. Father Lilly. Gratitude to the dead ensures prayers from the living and blessings from God.
o	o
—Not finding a certain “class” at St. Marv’s, a special messenger has been sent out to ascertain its whereabouts. Such a class will doubtless give precisely the figures denoting the exact number of instruments expected.
—We like it,—but, not endowed with the gift to make “much ado about nothing,” we forbear and calmly wait two “ coining events,” hoping our kind visitor may live to see his good intentions fully realized.
—Our vigilant watchman is a very considerate person: he carries a light even on bright moonlight nights, that intruders may see their way outside the gate ere that ferocious animal of nondescript color, but of a sharp-toothed species, gives them a bad impression, as he never mistakes the shadow for the substance.
—Among the elegant floral offerings was a o	o	o
large basket of rare hot-house flowers,—perhaps we ought to have said basket on basket, in pyramid form,—sent by Miss Nellie McGrath, from Chicago, a former graduate of St. Mary’s, as a token to Very Rev. Father General. His precious words of instruction in the past are ever fresh in her memory.
—Mother M. of St. Angela has presented to the Art Department several valuable books elegantly bound, entitled “ Picturesque Europe,” “ Picturesque Palestine, Sinai-Egypt,” and two splendidly-gilt volumes of the Art Journal for 1879 and 1880. The artists thank Mother Angela for this evidence of her interest in their progress and affection to themselves so gracefully and generously shown.	.
—At the academic reunion, Oct. 15th, presided by Rev. Father Shortis, after the weekly notes were read, Miss Hunter began with a touching selection; Miss H. Hunt read the “Lost Chord,” by A. A. Procter; Miss Kate Campbell, “St. Teresa’s Tri-Centennial,” by Eleanor C. Donnelly ( from The “ Ave Maria ” ) y a recitation, by Miss A. Murphy, closed the enjoyable entertainment. We were pleased to see Mrs. Stace, a very old friend, and Mrs. Gleason, among the visitors present.
St. Edward’s Day at St. Mary’s.
This long-expected anniversary is one of the great events for which all prepare and do their best to celebrate, being the name-day of their Founder, their best friend and most venerated Father. At early Mass the Community and Catho-ic pupils received Holy Communion, knowing
well that prayer is the most efficacious means to express that gratitude which words often spoil. ' At eight o’clock, High Mass was sung by Rev.
Father Shortis, who delivered a eulogium on the Patron Saint of the day, and the claims of his worthy client to our deepest respect and affection. During the sermon the sky darkened and the rain poured down; some faces lengthened at the sight, others saw in this incident an illustration of a beautiful promise in Holy Writ, applicable to the life of St. Edward, to the labors of our beloved Father and so encouraging to his children: “ Those who sow in tears shall reap in joy.” Therefore all trusted, and the afternoon brought them a full realization.
After Mass the usual preparation for the festal entertainment began; every part of the Academy was in the hands of the decorators. Sisters and pupils for once formed one class. Taste joined to art, and soon the whole building became “ a thing of beautv.” When all those concerned had the object alone to express in this way their love and gratitude, it would seem invidious to select any one, for a more pleasing view cannot be imagined when taken altogether; but when our good chaplain caught sight of a whole 'parterre of flowers and plants growing on the barren soil of a bare floor, thrown off his usual guard, he exclaimed: “ I never before saw art overcome nature! ” For the same reason given above, we cannot say which among the-numerous addresses read was the best; all were filled with the one aim to express in words the best sentiments of their grateful hearts
The tableaux were exquisite!—this we may safely say without danger of exciting vanity, because tableaux vivants are only pictures, you know. If these had been presented in Rome, as we were informed by a Roman lady, we could have possessed ourselves of a photograph; but, as it is, we shall ever remember the lovely impression. The musicians, vocal and instrumental, poured forth sounds from the heart. Music’s language is so universally comprehended; having no national tongue, she is never misinterpreted, and a father’s heart ever responds to the tones of his children’s love. The following programme gives the names and proceedings in regular order: Overture to Dox Giovanni..................Mozart
Misses Wiley, Sullivan and Campbell. Tableau,—“ The Guardian Angel.”.......... Affection’s Festal Crown. ..;.........Miss	Owens
Vocal Trio,—Doux Zephir Sois Lui Fidele, La Favorita Flower Girl....................Little Belle Prescott
THE WORLD OF LETTERS.
greeting from juniors and minims. Song,—The Carrier Dove,................St. Clair
.	,	Miss Lena Wallace.
Recitation .....................    .Miss	Wiley.
Tableau,—The Wise Virgins........................................... Polonaise......................................Chopin
.	• Miss Campbell.
Recitation.......................  Miss	Murphy
Tableau,—Finding of the Holy Cross...... Tribut der Hochschaetzung............Miss	Dillon
Vocal Duet,—Come to the Woods..... .•.....Alary -	Misses Reilly and Wallace.
Une Guirlande de Respect Filial.—Miss C. Lancaster Swiss Song ...........................  Eckert
.	Miss Reilly.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in
Fantasie,—“ Lucia di Lammermoor,”..........Liszt
■	Miss Laura Fendrich.
Recitation.......................Miss	C. Campbell
Tableau,—Queen of all Saints....................
Valse de Concert...........................Matti
Miss Wilej-.
Vocal Quartette............................Rosstni
Misses Reilly, Fenlon, Wallace and Fendrich.
Many old friends were present, and St. Mary’s thank them for the pleasure; they must ever consider themselves as invited guests to such reunions. It is impossible to record the speeches: we should spoil both the speech and hearty tone of delivery, but we thank them for their encouraging words.
An elegant album, from the pupils in the Art Department, was presented to Very Rev. Father General. On every leaf was a painted tribute from each young artist. The title-page was appropriate. On it was delicately tinted the Blessed Virgin, whose incomparable features were painted by St. Luke, who is also the patron of St. Mary’s Studio. Flowers, birds, kittens, graceful vines, nothing was forgotten, even the last page was deeply typical of their desire, that all should keep ever green St. Edward’s happy feast.
Mrs. A. Maguire, from Chicago, closed the entertainment by singing a Salve Maria, by Mer-cadante. This was an unexpected ' pleasure to everyone, and her pure, sympathetic tones were worthy of the words addressed to the Queen of Heaven. The Juniors and Minims, each for the nonce turned into a letter of the alphabet, made very significant speeches, weaving compliments between, out of vowels and consonants, in a curious way. The grouping of the “ Letters ” at the end, read from the head of each child, “A Happy Feast to our Very Rev. Father General.” Little Belle Prescott sang delightfully “ The Flower Girl.” Though a child, her voice is sweet and powerful.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
” SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Fox, M. Wiley, Wright, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, C. Donnelly, Fendrich, Johnson, Laffer, M. A. Ryan, Sullivan, Shickey, Walsh, Todd, Hoag, Barlow, Beal, Bathrick, E. Call, Duffield, Dunn, Gove, M. Heneberry, Keenan, Knott, Mohl, Owens, O’Connor, Pease, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Richardson, Semmes, E. Slattery, Ramsey, Van Patten, Wood, Crawford, Rulison, Lancaster, L. English, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Wallace, Heckard, Stacker!, Danforth, Daily, Coakley, Williams, Clifford, Unger, Pick, Madole, Hunt, Cox, Taylor, O’Connell, Harrigan, Leydon, Black, Anderson, M. Hawkins, M. H. Ryan, King, Fenlon, Murphy, Adams, Durphy, Chirhart, Kolb, T. Slattery, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Hunter, Rettig, Harris, McCauley, B. English, G. Legnard, Donahue, Hughes, Donnersberger, Hagan, Mc-Carten, Castanedo, Newton, Pampell, Foster, O’Neill, L. Heneberry, Commerford, Myers, A. Gavin, L. Hawkins, Babcock, Eldridge, Hintz, Shull, Drover,Maginn, Mooney, Dolan, Gallagher, Kirkham.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
Par Excellence—Misses Spangler, M. Ducey, Morrison, Dignan, -Duffield, Dillon, C. Ducey, M. Morgan, Coogan, Nevius, Considine, Howlett, Donnelly, Grist, Richmond, Fehr, Gale, Fisk, Rodgers, Ewing, Schmidt, Hetz, .McGrath, English, Shephard, Johnston, Hibben, Moshier, Van Horn, B. Haney, Halsey, Coyne, Best, Chaves, Robinson, Castanedo, Otero, Mary Otis, Browne, Alexander, Sullivan, T. Haney, Keifer, Prescott, Spencer.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Sawyer, Campau, Barry, Jessie English, McGrath, Burtis, Martha Otis, Prescott, McKen-non, Lindsey, Westfall, Paul.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Special Course—Miss L. Fendrich.	..
ist Class—Misses Wiley, M. Campbell, C. Sullivan.
2D Division—Miss J. Reilly and Beal.
2D Class—Misses Gove, K. Donnelly.
2D Div.—Misses Barlow, M. A. Ryan, Hunt, Wallace, M. English.
3D Class—Misses Kirkham, Keenan, Fenlon, Fox, A. Leydon, Unger.	.
2D Div.—Misses L. Wood, Van Patten; A. Dillon, C. Campbell, Bathrick, Shephard, Shickey, Durphy.
4TH Class—Misses Walsh, Ginz, Morgan, Mohl, Mc-Gordon, C. Lancaster.
2D Div.—Misses E. Slattery, Todd, M. Ducey, L. English, Adderly, Dillon, Pick, Feehan, Gavin, Rulison, L. Crawford.	.	.
5TH Class—Misses Van Horn, B. Legnard, H. Hicks, F. Castanedo, V. Reilly, K. Ducey, M. H. Ryan, Ramsey, Newton, Fehr, Grist, Dolan, Laffer, Murphy, M. Heneberry.	’
2D Div.—Misses J. Duffield. Edgerly, Munger, Williams, A. Duffield, Snowhook, Taylor, Spangler, Clarke, Chirhart, Fisk, Hibben, O’Neill, M. Hawkins, Babcock.
6th Class—Misses Owens, Knott, Johnston, Howlett, Call, Dunn, B. English, Rettig, Drover, Nevius, King, Moshier, Kolb, O’Connor, T. Slattery, Pease, Myers, Richardson, Chaves, Morrison, Stacker!, Donahue, Coogan, McCauley.
2D Div.—Misses Donnersberger, Keifer, Gale, Otero, A. Gallagher, Danforth, Alexander, O’Connell, Coakley, M. Coyne, Richmond, Dickson, Hackard, Schmidt, Heneberry, Commerford, Rodgers, B.* Haney, Hetz, Hagan, Adams.
jth Class—Misses Bowman, Barry, Maginn, Sawyer, A. Legnard, Otis, Shull, Johnson, Harris, Browne, A. Sawyer, Hughes, Harrigan, Madole, Donnelly, McGuire, Mooney, Halsey.	•	.
Sth Class—Miss D. Best.	.
9TH Class—Misses Spencer, A. English, J. English, B.
Prescott.	•
ioth Class—Misses Campau, Westfall, Sullivan, E. Burtis, Martha Otis, Robinson.	.
harp.
4TH Class, 2D Div.—Miss M. Dillon. .
6th Class—Miss M. Ducey.
GUITAR.
6th Class—Miss K. Ducey.	•
VIOLIN.
Miss Anderson. * -	■	.
Note.—The above-mentioned names of music pupils for piano and other instruments are those who were promoted in September, and the class assigned to new pupils;
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.	.
2D Class—Misses J. Reilly and Wallace.	;
3D Class—Misses Hintz,"King, Fenlon, Unger, Fendrich.	.	-
4TH Class—Misses Beal, Ramsey, M. A. Ryan, Walsh, M. Ducey, C. Ducey, Keenan, B. English, Walsh.
5TH Class—Misses Barlow, M. Hawkins, Spangler, N. Donnellv, Crawford, Dolan.
V '	1	-	-
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame.
St Mary’s Academy.
St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
'This UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and cliar-tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana, in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—-the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake H uron, and the great Western and Michigan Central ; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
. MATHEMATICS, MEDICINE, SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.	*
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSU, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,) Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough In the Preparatory. Academic. and Classical tirades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms f»r harp«, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A larce Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING. PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe., drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, Gei man. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway;
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
232 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.39 p.m.; Buffalo, 8 05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m ; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12 38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 am.
6 35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chest eri on, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
117 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5 00 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Ch cago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland * JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.