THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
----:----notes imr. ind.—
★ K. of C. Semi-Formal Ball Tonight in Rockne k Bernie Cummins Highlights NROTC Ball ★ All-request Band Concert February 15
There is a night of dancing and music ahead for the civilians and V-12s who attend the Knights of Columbus Ball	|
in the Rockne Memorial, with music provided by Teddy Phillips and his band — and for the NROTC enjoying Bernie	|
Cummins and his band at the Indiana Club. — (See stories on pages 5 and 7.)
■ I
$ ?!
Vol. 83, No. 12	Feb. 9, 1945	|
‘ £
___________________________ _____________	_________ _____________ _......................._..._____ _ .................. •	_ I
^he Notre ^bame Scholastic
&OJith Malice Toward None,
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
(5U)ith Charity for All
BY AL LESMEZ
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ
Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Navy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------- Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager AL KUENZLI ----- Advertising Manager
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER ------ The Green Banner HARRY WALTERS -	-	-	- The College Parade
GEORGE KRAUSER -	- Splinters from the Press Box
ART WAGNER ------ Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR FRANK GRIMALDI JACK McGRANE
ENRIQUE LULLI BOB COCHRAN JACK MILES TOM McNALLY JIM CAREY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH JOE BRESLAW JOHN FEENEY
P H O T O G R A P H y
CHARLES RENAUD	FRANCIS GUIDOifc.
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -	' Faculty Advisor "
The world will little note, nor Ions, remember what we say here. . . .
The world did note, and has remembered what Abraham Lincoln said in his dedicatory speech at the National Cemetery of Gettysburg, November 19, 1863. This coming Monday, February 12, is the Birthday of this great citizen whose story knows no time; for Abraham Lincoln has come to belong to all ages, and to all peoples.
Patriot and Statesman
Lincoln’s Second Inaugural address was delivered six short weeks before his assassination; but in one sense these weeks were the best of his life. His Second Inaugural confirmed the reputation that had come with the Gettysburg address. It was called the greatest state paper of the century. Scholars and critics in Europe and America testified that the former backwoodsman had become one of the foremost writers of English in the world. He was hailed everywhere as chief among patriots and statesmen.
As Lincoln’s funeral train passed through the chief cities of the East on its progress towards Springfield, in the latter part of April, banners were hung in every town bearing the words with which he began the last paragraph of his Second Inaugural—“With malice toward none, with charity for all.”
What are the qualities Lincoln had that made him so beloved, and isolate him in that group that can be called truly “great men”? Was he wealthy? Was he an adventurer? Was he a scientist? He was none of these. We look back at that simple, unschooled man whose greatness no human being has transcended—that person who was known to all as “Abe” Lincoln, and we realize his greatness was in none of these.
The People’s Man
Lincoln was a simple man, simple in all his actions and in his dress. While he was practicing law in Illinois, it was a common thing to see him walking through the streets wearing a suit of rough, dusty cloth, which hung loosely on his angular frame, and a twenty-five cent “palm” hat or a shaggy old beaver which accentuated his height. His large hands would be holding a faded green umbrella, and a carpet ’-bag. As they swung against his coat, that garment would swing back, revealing that his suspenders were, as usual, fastened to his trousers by twigs in place of the buttons that had never been sewn back on his clothes.
This great President, this man of men, had the gift of instilling into others some of the courageous spirit with which he was blessed. No matter where he went, or what he did, he was greatly loved by all with whom he came in contact because of his forthright sincerity. Even his enemies —if those gallant spirits who fought for the South can so be called—might have felt as did the wounded Confederate officer who heard him at Gettysburg and wrote home to his father: “We just have to'stop fighting this man!”
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Friend and Good Neighbor
When the American people think of the great injustice done the world by the cowardly assassination of Lincoln, when the people of the world think (Continued on p. 18.)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 83
FEBRUARY 9, 1945
NO. 12
Student Request - Concert This Thursday
Drs. Mahin and Troiano
Address ASM Society
On February 23, Dr. A. R. Troiano, Associate Professor of Metallurgy, will address the Philadelphia chapter of the American Society for Metals at its annual meeting. This meeting will be a memorial to the late Albert Sauveur who was for many years Professor of Metallurgy in Harvard university.
Dr. Troiano will discuss the internal changes taking place in steels during hardening treatments, upon which he has done outstanding research work.
Dr. E. G. Mahin, Head of the Department of Metallurgy, addressed the Indianapolis chapter of the American Society for Metals on January 15, speaking upon the subject, “Training for Careers in Metallurgical Fields.” On March 16, he will address the St. Louis chapter of the same Society on the subject, “Physical Testing in Theory and Practice.”
Lawyers Hold Banquet
Recently, at the Indiana Club, the Lawyers gathered for their semesterly banquet. Bill O’Connell was the efficient and amusing toastmaster. Speakers for the evening were Dean Manion, John Rinella, and Bob Oberfell.
This was a farewell banquet for the three graduating seniors, Ted Ryan, John Rinella, and Bob Oberfell.
Because of the short period between semesters, the University and navy authorities have agreed to permit examinations to be held on Saturday afternoon. This makes possible the following changes in Schedule of Examinations previously announced by the office of the Director of Studies:
Classes taught at 9:00 Tuesday 11:00 Tuesday 2:15 Tuesday
to be examined
1:15 Saturday, Feb. 24
10:00 Saturday, Feb. 24
3:15 Saturday, Feb. 24
B-X Open For Business
The student non-profit book exchange will be open each Tuesday and Thursday from 10 to 12, and each Saturday from 1 to 3. This schedule will be in effect until the start of examinations, when it will open from 2 to 5 each day of exams.
Students turning in books will be given a receipt which may be exchanged for cash or other books at the beginning of next semester. Those who are not returning may mail in their receipts and cash will be forwarded to them as soon as the books are sold. This system is necessary because the non-profit project will have no funds available until the sale of books begins during the first week of next semester.
Former English Prof.
Receives Assignment
Capt. Stephen H. Ronay, B.A. ’27 and M.A. ’31 in English, and a former professor of English Literature at Notre Dame, has been assigned to AAF Central Flying Training Command headquarters at Randolph Field, Tex., as chief of the Military Information Section.
While at the University of Notre Dame, Capt. Ronay played varsity baseball and held three letters as a pitcher.
He took graduate work at the University of Chicago and visited in Great Britain, Ireland and France while taking summer clases at Oxford University in 1931.
O'Malley to Give Talk
Mr. Frank O’Malley of the English department will speak on “The Liturgy and Literature” at a meeting of the liturgy group to be held at the Rockne Lounge on Monday evening, February 12, at 7:30.
All are cordially invited to attend. It will be the last of a series of talks on the liturgy to be held this semester.
Washington Hall Site of Presentation of Eight "Most
Popular" Selections
A special program will be presented for the V-12 and civilian students of the University, and their guests, this Thursday evening, February 15, at seventhirty o’clock in Washington hall. The Notre Dame band will present an allrequest concert of the eight selections which were determined as most popular with the students by a recent poll.
The program will begin promptly at seven-thirty and will continue for one hour. There will be no intermision, and it is Mr. Hope’s intention to so completely fill the hour with music that all superfluous delays and gaps will be obliterated. He hopes to provide a well rounded concert and still leave sufficient time for the students to see their guests safely home.
PROGRAM
Mardi Gras Grofe
El Capitan______________________Sousa
Calfskin Callesthenics________Bennett
The Bells of St. Mary's_________Adams
In a Persian Market__________Ketelbey
American Patrol_______________Meacham
Star Dust Carmichael
At the Gremlin Ball______________Hill
This concert will be the last public appearance by this Notre Dame group this semester. The band has received high praise for its past performances, and this concert will be the last chance for the students to hear what is considered by many as one of the University’s best.
Due to a full and conflicting schedule, the players have been unable to play at any of the home basketball games thus far. However, there is still a possibility that the band may yet be able to appear at one of the games before the end of the semester.
South Bend Citizens Supply Servicemen
With Entertainment
Navy men have been going down to the Service Men’s center ever since August 1943. There they have been enjoying the hospitality extended by the people of South Bend.
Originally the SMC was located on Michigan and La Salle Sts., in the same block as the “Bowlmor”. At that time the Midshipman’s school and the N.R.O.-T.C. were the only navy units on the Notre Dame campus. Less space was needed then, and so a small dance floor sufficed fairly well.	-
It was not until V-12 came into being that the place became too crowded. When this happened, the SMC was moved to the present site, the erstwhile ballroom Palais Royale. According to the terms of the lease, the SMC can remain there for the duration plus six months.
Remodeling was necessary so that all the interests of the service men could be taken care of. Partitions were removed downstairs. A music room was made out of a back office. In there a radio-phonograph was placed, equipped with a sizable collection of records. The upper floors were changed too. Furniture was moved; ping pong, and pool tables were put in. The Rotary club installed a juke box, and has taken care of its expenses ever since.
Saturday Program
From the very beginning, the Center has always tried to schedule a variety of entertainment. On Saturday nights there is a dance. Enough hostesses are present so that everyone can get in on the fun. For those men who feel the need of a little coaching, there is a dancing class. After a few sessions there, they no longer trip when they do the light fantastic.
Later in the evening a show sponsored by Studebaker entitled “Stars and Stripes” is broadcast in which the participants are picked from the audience. Prizes in war stamps are awarded according to the amount of applause the contestant receives.
Sunday Schedule
On Sunday afternoons a tea dance is put on. The music is provided by the same band that plays the night before.
Probably the most popular place in the Center at 5 p. m. on the weekend is the Coke “bar.” On the bar is placed all the sandwiches, milk and cake that the fellows can eat. To serve them are ladies of the Red Cross Canteen and the White Shrine.
As well as putting on entertainment
in the building, the SMC serves as a coordinating agency. Many of the Studebaker dances, theatre parties, and S.M. Lounge affairs are planned together with the activities of the SMC. All of these functions are carried on without affiliation to USO. A part of the necessary funds comes from the War Chest, and part comes from direct donations. Mrs. Walter Hager, president of the Center, and the fifteen hundred other persons who donate their time and serv-ives are thanked for performing an excellent job by the sincere gratitude of the servicemen.—Joe Breslatv
Easter Seal Drive
The twelfth annual Easter seal sale wil be held March 1 to April 1, according to Captain John R. Nutter, president of the Indiana Society for Crippled Children.
The Indiana Society is affiliated with the National Society for Crippled Children which annually conducts a nation-wide Easter seal campaign. Funds derived from the sale of seals make possible specialized care and treatment for the physically handicapped, education in special schools and teachers for the homebound, and offers vocational training opportunities leading to happy, useful citizenship.
The program of the society cooperates with other public and private agencies in recording and reporting physically - handicapped cases, providing artificial appliances, transportation to schools and clinics and doing job-placement work.
Approximately 100,000 Hoosiers supported the program last year through the sale of Easter seals, according to Captain Nutter.
Alumni Placed in Charge
Lieut. Cmdr. John E. Conley, graduated from Notre Dame in journalism in 1934, has been appointed officer- in charge of the press section of the Navy Department’s bureau of public relations, Washington, D.C.
Formerly a member of the editorial staff of the Baltimore Evening Sun, Commander Conley joined the Navy in 1941 as a lieutenant (jg). He is married and has two children.
At Notre Dame, Commander Conley was president of the Press club and a member of the editorial staffs of the Scholastic and the Dome.
Fr. Fitzgerald Appointed to Regional Labor Board
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics has recently been appointed a Public Panel Member for the Chicago Regional Wai-Labor Board. This Board has jurisdiction in the states of Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota.
As a Public Member, Father Fitzgerald on occasion will serve as chairman of a tripartite panel representing labor, industry, and the public to hear cases assigned to the Regional Board by the National War Labor Board. It will be the duty of Father Fitzgerald to prepare a report in such instances and make recommendations to the Regional Board.
During the past year in Buffalo, New York, Father Fitzgerald acted as arbitrator in a case concerning the Curtiss-Wright Corporation and the International Association of Machinists.
Alumni Hall Attains
Rec Room for Trainees
Through the cooperation of the University, Robertson’s department store, and Mrs. Samuel Fiewell of South Bend, a recreation room for V-12 trainees has been provided in Alumni hall. The room fills a need for a campus hangout and amusement spot for trainees and, through the generosity of the contributors, it has been equipped with an array of decorations and facilities.
The contributions came through the courtesy of Mrs. Fiewell who obtained a complete set of furniture to provide for the comfort of the room. Included in the furnishings obtained through the courtesy of Mrs. Fiewell were three divans, four lounge chairs, a cabinet radio, three end tables, three floor lamps, a table lamp, a magazine rack, and a smoking stand. To provide for brightness and color in the room, Mrs. Fiewell contributed slip-covers for all the upholstered furniture.
Reflectors, outlets and other lighting improvements were provided by the University. Arrangements are now underway to secure a piano.
Under the supervision of Lieut, (jg) Bradford Lamson, Alumni hall barracks officer and Specialist Wardley, master at arms for Alumni hall, the main portion of the work in the painting and arranging of the room was done by the trainees.
4
N R O T C Ball Features Bemie Cummins
It’s an NROTC custom to want something better and so with the news of the signing of Bernie Cummins late last week, the stage is now set more than ever foi; the “Sensational Seventh”, tonight at 9:00 p. m., at the Service Men’s Center. Besides the Ball with a bargain band, the decorations committee promises the best setting yet witnessed in any of the six past events put on by the officer- cadets.
One of the greatest names in jazz history is Bix Beiderbecke, hero of the fictionalized biography be s t- s e 11 e r, “Young Man With a Horn.” Bernie Cummins, who will be giving out with the musical renditions this evening, was one of the men whose faith in Bix saved him in a crisis.
In the spring of 1924, Bernie was a kid drummer with his own six-piece combination which had completed an engagement at the Stockton Club in Cincinnati. Bix’s Wolverines followed them. “The Wolverines were really new in Cincy,” recalls Bernie, “and their music was above most everybody’s head. The result was that the Wolverines did miserably and were on the point of busting up for good.”
Bix and Bernie knew each other well. On Saturday night after his own show at the Toad-stool Inn, Bernie used to go over to the Stockton to drum with Bix’s boys and put on a show! But it was still no go—the Wolverines were a flop.
Finally Cummins went to Doyle of Doyle’s Dansant and asked him to take on Bix’s Wolverines. Doyle had a lot of confidence in Cummins and was particularly impresed at the spectacle of one
Miss Patricia Glavin
band leader boosting another. He hired the Wolverines, who became popular, and did big business for him. Soon, they were recording for Gennett, to whom Bernie Cummins recommended them, and Bix’s climb to immortality was well under way.
It has been this kind of spirit that has typified Bernie’s career all the way through life, and the reason for such a success in his own hehalf. Besides a bandleader, he’s the most successful prophet among his trade. His loyalty to Notre Dame, which he named as one of the five “unofficial national champi-ions” for 1940, was rewarded by a sweater from the Notre Dame squad.
Bernie himself played on varsity football, basketball and baseball teams at St. Vincent’s in his home town of Akron, Ohio. He was destined for a career in boxing until a football injury put an end to pugilistic ambitions.
The lovely Jeanne Bennett features the vocal, assisted occasionally by Walter Cummins and Bemie himself. The theme, “Dark Eyes” of this band comes from Bernie’s wife, the former Katherine Mahoney.
Termed the “best-dressed orchestra leader”, he holds the record for repeats at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago where he topped Paul Whiteman’s record. He opened the Hotel New Yorker and did quite a spell at the Biltmore in the met.
And the co-queens for the RO affair, will be Miss Patricia Glavin of Escanaba, Mich., who will be escorted by chairman John Caron and Miss Patricia McCaffery of South Bend who will share the arm of chairman John Mack. Guest of honor will be Miss Jeanne Yuncker of South Bend, who will be the guest of Bill Klem, cadet battalion commander. The remainder of the committee and their guests include decorations chairmen, Jack Cassidy and John Kramer, who will have Miss JoAnn Welch of Indianapolis, and Miss Helen Berner, of Pottsville, Pa., respectively. Orchestra impressario Rudy Anderson will have Miss Beau Quinn of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Jack Kearney on the finance end will escort Miss Jane Brugger of South Bend. Completing the list is Bill Waddington, publicity chairman, who will have Miss Dorothy Edwards of Chicago as his guest.
Miss Patricia McCaffery
5
Gurion Writes On Germany
For "Review"
The January issue of the Review of Politics, which appeared on the campus this week, is headlined by articles by the editor, Professor Waldemar Gurian and Professor Ives R. Simon of the Department of Philosophy. Other members of the faculty who contribute reviews of books are Father Thomas T. McAvoy and Professors F. A. Hermans, Howard C. Perkins, John H. Sheehan, and M. A. Fitzsimons.
Dr. Gurian’s article entitled “On the Future of Germany” opens a new series of studies in the Review which will discuss the problem of post-war Germany. Dr. Gurian first insists that a purely vindictive or negative attitude towards post-war Germany would be wrong, and then proceeds to list the major problems involved, such as those of war-guilt, the proposed division of Germany, and reparations. Many of these problems will be discussed in subsequent issues of the Revieiv by noted authorities on Germany.
Dr. Simon’s “Secret Sources of the Success of Racist Ideology” examines the peculiar mental state which allows classes and peoples to build up a notion of their own superiority over persons in whom they find some biological or racial difference. He points out that, while this racism has no real moral justification, specious reasonings have enabled the unjustifiable notion of accursed or lower races to persist in modern peoples.
Other articles in this issue include an essay by the noted authority on Russia, David J. Dallin, entitled, “Politics and World-Economy in the Great Depression of 1929 - 1934”. Roman Jakobson of Columbus University has analyzed the beginnings of Slavic national consciousness; Fritz Kar? Mann- has contributed another of his stai-tling analyses of public finance under the title “The Socialization of Risks”; and Francis G. Wilson of Illinois University has a criticism of Jerome G. Kerwin’s previous article on constitutional reform. Altogether this issue is one of the most interesting yet published and gives the 'Review of—Politics an auspicious beginning on the seventh year of its existence.
“Insofar as those who purvey the news make of their own beliefs a higher law than truth, they are attacking the foundations of our constitutional system. There can be no higher law in journalism than to tell the truth and shame the devil.”—Walter Lippmann
6

The casualties reported this week bring the total number of war casualties to 172 killed in action, 38 missing in action, and 28 prisoners of war. Of these the latest reported killed are:	.
170* Edward Ellard Doyle, ’43, Morristown, New Jersey, of the U. S. Infantry, died in France according to word received from his brother.
171W Lt. Robert Letscher, ex. ’41, Port Arthur, Texas, was killed in action according to message sent Fr. O’Donnell.
172* James Edward Sheets, ex. ’45, Ashland, Ohio, was killed in action in Germany.
Missing in action are the following:
Richard Philip Froehlke, ex. ’45, Wauconda, Ill., has been missing in action since December 20, 1944 in Luxembourg.
Pfc. Galand Vincent Funk, Jr., ’44, Muncie, Ind., has been missing in action in Belgium since Dec. 24, 1944.
S./Sgt. James Canavan McGoldrick, ex. ’43, Johnstown, Pa., is missing in action in the European theatei- of war; he had been awarded the air medal w'th oak leaf clusters.
Pvt. Stephen Fleming O’Rourke, ex. ’44, Fort Wayne, Ind., is missing in action in Luxembourg.
Lt. Charles Robert Schlayer, ’41, Harrisburg, Pa., has been missing in action since December 22, 1944. He was on the crew of the first American plane to bomb Tokio since the 1942 raid of Gen. Jimmy Doolittle. He was a navigator of a B-29. He holds the Air Medal with four Oak Leaf Clusters and a Presidential Unit Citation.
Eugene Patrick Voet, Jr., ex. ’41, Berwyn., Ill., is missing in action in Germany.
Lt. Thomas George Horgan, ’41, Reno, Nevada, previously reported missing in action, is now a “prisoner of war” in Germany.
Flight Officer Daniel Michael O’Donnell, ex. ’46, Baltimore, Md., previously reported missing in action, has now been reported very much alive and safe.
Lt. John Harold Tallett, ’43, North Chicago, HL, previously reported killed in action, is now “safe in Italy.”
Midshipmen Graduate;
220 Get Commissions
Approximately 220 midshipmen were commissioned ensigns in the naval reserve yesterday at graduation ceremonies in the navy drill hall. These men who have completed four months of training in the midshipmen’s school here
at Notre Dame were addressed by Capt. Richard K. Gaines, USN, chief of staff of the naval air technical training command, Chicago.
The week of graduation activities opened in the drill hall at 9:45 a. m. Sunday when Chaplain Fenelon D. Hewitt, USN, of the Great Lakes, Ill., naval training center delivered the baccalaureate address. Chaplain Hewitt recently returned from 18 months of duty aboard the escort carrier, U.S.S. Bogue.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered the invocation and the midshipman’s band rendered selections under the direction of Ensign Richard Tainter and the Midshipmen’s choir sang under the direction of Ensign D. J. Irving. Rev. Robert M. Selle'of St. Paul’s Memorial Methodist church gave the benediction.
The choir also sang at the baccalaur-ate services and Rev. William T. Crad-dick, C.S.C., prefect of religion of the University, delivered the invocation and Chaplain Hewitt offered the benediction.
Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, commandant of the naval training station at the University introduced Captain Gaines. Capt. Gaines served as executive officer aboard a large carrier of the Essex class and was air group commander aboard the USS Enterprise whose flying navy squadron aided at Guadalcanal before he was assigned to his Chicago post last November.
Union Board members of Michigan State College at a recent meeting asked a coed to see her ring. They had heard she was engaged. The senior coed had the grace to blush and explained that the story must have started when she put a diamond ring on her left hand so she could get into an over-filled marriage class.—Associated Collegiate Press.
i

Civilians Dance in Rockne Memorial Tonight;
Knights of Columbus Ball Features Ted Phillips
Tonight in the Rockne Memorial, the annual Knights of Columbus Ball will be the scene of festivities. With the
Miss Mildred Botham
music of Teddy Phillips providing the rhythm in a dance atmosphere, this affair holds promise of being a memorable social event of the semester.
Forty Hours Devotion Begins Sunday;
Ash Wednesday Services Begin Lent Season
Beginning Sunday at the 8:30 Solemn Mass and extending through Monday and Tuesday, the Blessed Sacrament will be solemnly exposed in Sacred Heart church on the campus. During these days the students and religious will take turns in praying at the Main Altar. This devotion is commonly known as “The Forty Hours Devotion.”
Immediately after* the 8:30 Sunday Mass, the Blesed Sacrament will be carried in procession around the church and then placed on the altar for adoration throughout the entire day. There will be no 9:00 o’clock Mass this Sunday. The time of the other Masses has not been changed; there will be the 10:10 Mass as usual. The Sunday Adoration will close at 7:00 P.M., with a short sermon on the Eucharist followed by Benediction and reposition.
On Monday and Tuesday the Blessed Sacrament will be exposed for Adoration from 5:30 A.M., until 7:30 P.M. On Monday at 7:00 P.M., a short sermon will precede Benediction and reposition.
All roads will point to the Rockne after 9:00 tonight when Phillips’ and his band strike the first chords of a program of his “Music for Moderns”. The dance will be semi-formal with the girls in their long flowing formals and the men in street clothes.
Of special interest to those not attending the dance is that the proceedings will be aired from 11:30 to 12:00 over WSBT.
Miss Mildred Botham, will reign for the evening as queen of the ball, and will be the guest of general chairman Ben Mammina. Miss Hope Darr, of Washington, D.C., will be the guest of honor and will be the guest of Richard Sadowski.
Decoration chairman Bob Benes has reported that a number of novel ideas carried out in the arrangements will be sure to please everyone.
Word has been received from Teddy Phillips that he will have as vocalist with his band, as usual, the gorgeous Sharon Luster, who formerly was heard ■with Teddy Powell’s band. The band will also feature Johnny Allen, one of the most terrific singers in Chicago today, and Frank Pichl, crown prince of the drums.—Robert Riordan
On Tuesday evening at 7:00 P. M., the formal closing will take place with procession and Benediction.
Students have volunteered to spend half-hour periods of prayer before the Blessed Sacrament during Forty Hours. All the students will attend the evening services on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday evenings at 7:00 o’clock. Mass will be offered and Holy Communion distributed in the hall chapels in the morning at the usual time during the Adoration. The Solemn Mass at 8:30 Sunday will be offered by Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University. The choir of Moreau Seminary will chant the Mass.	-
Ash Wednesday Services
The penitential season of Lent begins this Wednesday, February 14, with special liturgical services in Sacred Heart church. Ashes will be blessed and distributed and Mass will be offered. The blessing of ashes will begin at 6:45 A.M.
The entire student body will attend this service. There will be no hall Mass on Ash Wednesday. There will be no change in the breakfast schedule; services will be over by 7:30. In past years Daily Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament extended throughout Lent. This year the Adoration will be postponed until after the vacation that falls between semesters. The Novena for Examinations will begin Ash Wednesday.
Father Craddick, Prefect of Religion, announces that there will be a 7:20 A. M. weekday Mass in Sorin Hall chapel and an 8:00 A.M. daily Mass in the Basement Chapel of the Church throughout Lent, besides the weekday hall Mass.
The Ash Wednesday Mass for service-; men will be held in their hall chapels at the usual afternoon hour. Ashes will be distributed after the Mass. The afternoon Mass in Dillon starts at 5:00 P.M. The Mass in Alumni chapel starts at 5:15 P.M.
Electricals Addressed by
Kahn on Microphones
Mr. A. R. Kahn, President of the Electro-Voice Corporation, addressed the members of the- student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers at the organization’s regular meeting Wednesday night.
Mr. Kahn, who is the co-inventor of the differential microphone, recently returned from a tour through Canada where he lectured before many engineering groups. At present the differential microphone, which is known the world over as the lip microphone, is used extensively by the armed forces, and has a promising future in post-war communication systems.
His talk dealt with the functions of the various types of microphones, and covered the general electro-accoustical analysis. Beginning with a fundamental explanation of sound waves and their actions, Mr. Kahn progressed to the field of microphones and their variations. This involved pressure activated microphones, including the carbon, dynamic, and crystal types, velocity or ribbon microphones, and combinations of the pressure and velocity types commonly used to obtain directional response patterns.
Mr. Kahn then related the interesting story of the evolution of the lip microphone enumerating the various problems confronted in its development. The speaker gave an impressive demonstration of the differential microphone illustrating the various factors affecting its operation.
Refreshments, were served after an informal discussion and a short business meeting.—Tom Vail
7
Studebaker Program Completes Winter Semester Entertainment for Servicemen
As the finale to a highly successful recreational program for the winter semester, V-12 trainees and their guests filled Washington hall on Wednesday night, February 7, to hear a concert by the combined organization comprising the Studebaker male chorus and the Studebaker girl’s glee club of South Bend.
The Studebaker groups presented a full and'variated program consisting of classical and popular melodies, folk songs, spirituals, marches and various medleys from familiar Romberg operettas.	•
Featured soloists for the evening were Miss Virginia Smith, Miss Agnes Haney,
Sorin Hop Meets With Disaster
Fate finally caught up with the Politicians of Sorin, and their efforts toward presenting a dance have been sidetracked by a political quirk. Rumor has it that even the big boss himself, “The Head” Linehan, political overlord of Sorin, was unable to overcome the difficulty.
The report is that because of the acute coal shortage, certain difficulties arose concerning the heating of the Rockne two nights in a row, and because of earlier commitments to the Knights of Columbus Ball, they were given preference.
Miss Catherine Harreman, Miss Mary Frances Kabel, and Mr. Robert Anderson. The combined groups are under the direction of Ethel Stuart Gaumer and Mrs. Kathyrn Hammond is the accompanist.	'
The appearance of the group on campus came through the courtesy of Mr. E. A. Hammond of the Studebaker Corporation, manager of the Studebaker men’s chorus.
The Concert was the last in the program of Winter semester entertainment presented for the past 15 weeks under the direction of Lieut. J. H. Northrup, V-12 recreation officer.
Following the announcement that the “Politicians Hop” would not be held on Saturday night, the committee in charge reported that ticket purchasers could obtain refunds on their tickets by returning the tickets to the men from whom they were purchased. If it is impossible to make such a return, ticket holders may contact James Clynes, 227 Sorin and their money will be refunded.
The entire committee from Sorin has expressed deep regret that the dance has been called off because they feel that in view of the past successes of the dances the idea should be continued. At the last
student council meeting it was decided that among the recommendations made by the outgoing council to the new council should include one calling for the continuance of the dance series after Lent.
Square Dance Success
The second in the Servicemen’s Lounge square dances was held in the gymnasium of the South Bend YMCA on Saturday, February 3 and was attended by a large and enthusiastic group of trainees and their guests.
Music for the dance was provided by the V-12 “Hillbillies,” specialists in mountain music and square dance tempo and featuring Bob Vosburg on the ac-cordian and Tex Ettridge on the drums.
Highlighting the affair, however, was the return of that peerless square dance caller, Mr. X, who also doubles as recreation officer when not calling. Mr. X appeared at the previous square dance a few weeks ago and was hailed throughout the unit as one of the finest showmen in the land. Mr. X was long recognized as the throatiest caller in New York when calling for the various barn dances throughout the Adirondack mountains.
Between dances, Mr. X has been on a bivouac in the Catskill Mountains where the echoes are well adapted to the development of the triple-tonguing essential of successful calling.
Mr. X was assisted on the calling by Harry of Nappanee, well known Indiana caller. An ample supply of refreshments was available for all who attended.
This scene would have been repeated Saturday night.
Aeros Show Hour Film on Bombardment Squadron
The final meeting of the Aero club will be held this coming Thursday, February 15, in room 309 of the Engineering building at 7:30 p.m.
Election of officers for next semester will be held, and refreshments will be served. Mr. Tilley, of Bendix Corp, is scheduled to address the club on “Engine Problems of Airplanes.”
An hour’s-long feature has been procured for this last meeting of the semester. “Combat America” is a technicolor film depicting the story of the 351st Bombardment Group from the end of their training at Colorado Training Field to England where they became a part of the Eighth Air Force, and then through numerous missions over Germany and occupied France.
This meeting will close the activities of the club for the semester, the dinner having been held two days before, on Tuesday, February 13, and the Burble, Aero club publication, having come out over the weekend.—Bob Snyder
8
*11ia Qfteen &gsui0l
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BALL
Get yourself “A” ticket; “B” here when it starts at 2100 (Navy time); and if you don’t have a ride you still don’t need a “C” card (“Even Columbus Saw America First On Only Three Galleons”) . . . The only night in the year you can walk by you know—whom at the door, and not have to go through the Fourth Degree.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Dick Sadowski (who’s looking forward to a Grand Knight) already asked Teddy Phillips to play his new Work-or-Fight Song “Don’t Defense Me In” . . . Chairman Benny Mammina will get up and hack at two choruses of “I Want A Girl Just Like The Girl Who Married Dear-Old Harry James” . . . Had to refuse Dick Ames offer to yodel “The Music Stopped”. The last time it not only stopped; it turned around and chased him.
DRINKING DEPARTMENT
No mixed drinks. Don’t even ask the band to play “Rum and Coca-Cola” . . . Best you can get is 6 7/8 and if you’re nice the Prefect of Discipline may raise
the ante to 7 Up. . . . The hardest thing there will be the looks on some of the gals from “George’s” . . . The swimming pool will be left open in case you really get thirsty.
THERE'S NO TRUTH TO THE RUMOR THAT
Tony Bristol will bring a needle and thread cause he hates to “Dance With The Dollie With A Hole In Her Stocking” . . . That Pat Wagner will come dressed as a Valentine Heart . . . That Harry Ryan will rush in from Bendix all dressed up in white tie and tools. . . That the girls from Ball Band are dying to go with Joe Walker just to watch him split the cab fare with his brother Mischa Walker. . . .
BETTER DATE THAN NEVER
Tony Rensi wants to know if it’s all right for his gal to wear a strapless evening gown. The last time he kept wondering if the gown would get up to go when she did. . . . Phil Martin hopes to cut expenses by coming in white tie and tails. Every five minutes his chest will light up with “Sweeney’s Shamrock and McGann’s Funeral Parlor—If You
Are Caught In One You Might Be Caught Dead in The Other” .... Pat Hickey is very unhappy because his girl will have to be back at Studebaker early, testing engines.
The campus “elite” were in full at-tendence at the St. Mary’s “Freshman Ball”. Charles Sartore was lucky again. He thought his date was going to be a flop, but was he surprised when that smooth little blonde in black walked over toward him. Well, Al, maybe it’ll be your turn next time.
Did you know: That the Law School’s Paul Larmer is a regular contributor to Arch Ward’s “Wake of the News” under the title of Larmers Ledger, as well as a ghost writer. . . . Bud Dulak used to be an M.C. at a Chicago rendezvous.
A FEUD IN THE HILLS
This week, St. Ed’s complains that the article appearing in last week’s issue, purporting to describe the glories of their storied edifice, is far from the whole truth. St. Ed’s stalwarts implied that Scholastic writers virtually put the hall on a basis with Sorin, and are violently opposed to such a clasification. “What’s in Sorin but St. Ed’s cast-offs?” challenged one spokesman—which was typical of the general tone of remarks flooding Scholastic offices. Said Sorin’s elite set: “Pay no attention to those uncouth rustics.” The clans are gathering; the omens bode no good for either camp. Scholastic awaits developments.
“There's no real hurry; just as long as we get back in time for breakfast."
Forum Discusses the
Dumbarton Oaks Plan
Frank Linehan, vice-president of the Commerce Forum, addressed that group on the “Dumbarton Oaks” proposal for post-war security, this week. Mr. Eells, Head of the Finance Department, was the guest of the evening.
“The Dumbarton Oaks proposal raises the most important issue that the American people will have to face in the next generation. Upon the wise solution of our international policy depends the welfare of the American people,” said Mr. Linehan.	•
In conclusion, Mr. Linehan said, “with all its faults the Dumbarton Ooks plan for the establishment of an international organ’zatiori for maintaining peace is a definite step toward world co-operation. Its faults can and must be corrected, for without some type of international organization, the world can never obtain a lasting peace.”—Mike Garry
9
With Broncos "Handy-ly" Mopped Up, 70-34; Trackmen Head for Michigan Relays Today
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Sports Writer
With a decisive victory over Western Michigan under its belt, 70-34, the Notre Dame track team embarked today for Ann Arbor, Michigan where they will face the elite of the mid-west in the Michigan relays tomorrow. Although the Irish did more than well enough against the Broncos, as judged from their one-sided triumph, they still are biting off a big piece when they go up to meet the formidables of this sector. With the season still in its utmost infancy, comparisons are out, except the Hume “dead-heat” twins are still intact for the Wolverines, if that means anything.
The rest of the personnel participating in the meet will be up against the same problem as faces the Blue and Gold thinclads—that of not having former track experience. All teams alike will be able to compute much better after the event the relative strength they really do possess.
Tully Grabs Two
Gaining a clean sweep in the half-mile and shot, Notre Dame’s squad overwhelmed the Broncos quite handily. Individual honors for the meet went to Bill Porter of Western Michigan who won the 60-yd. dash and the high and low hurdles for a sum total of 15 points. Bill Tully of Notre Dame was outstanding, capturing the mile and half-mile events. Another sterling performer was the Bronco’s Bill Moore whose firsts in
Bill Tully, right actually won the half-mile event last Saturday, beating teammate Emil Slovak.
the pole vault and broad jump and tie for second in the high jump contributed greatly to the Michigander’s total.
Ken Muening, fresh from cross-country competition, making his first start as a Notre Dame trackman, beat out Bob Prosche, his teammate, in the two-mile run. Muening has a big job in filling the shoes of Frank Martin, Ollie Hunter, and Greg Rice, former Irish notables who held down the double-mile jaunt with such amazing and continued success.
Murphy Looks Good
Dave Murphy, NROTC cadet, who anchored the victories mile relay team, also picked up a first in the quarter-mile run and a second in the 60-yd. dash. Murphy, who appears to be the mainstay of the squad, is being heavily relied upon to bolster N.D.’s point total at the Michigan relays. Dave will anchor the mile and three-quarter mile relays as well as running the individual 60-yd. sprint.
George Sullivan, Joe Kelly and Vince Scott have an excellent chance to garner one of the fine wallets to be given as prizes at the relays. This trio of shotartists, who took 1-2-3 against the Broncos, is probably the strongest combination of field men in the mid-west.
Notre Dame’s team has few outstanding men but it is cei-tainly well-balanced and is fully imbued with the spirit of the Fighting Irish!
The results of the Western Michigan meet follow:
Mile run—Won by Tully (ND) ; Velesz (WM) second: Colver (ND) third. Time, 4:49.
Shot Put—Won by Sullivan (ND) ; Kelly (ND) second; Scott (ND) third. Distance, 44 feet, 7% inches.
60-Yard Dash—Won by Porter (WM) ; Murphy (ND) second; Gaugh (WM) third. Time, :06.5.
Pole Vault—Won by Moore (WM) ; Strouble and Vosburg (ND) tied for second. Height, 12 ft.
440-Yard Run—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Jones (ND) second; Harter (WM) third. Time, :53.1.
High Hurdles—Won by Porter (WM) ; O’Neill (ND) second; Walsh (ND) third. Time, :07.8.
Two-mile Run—Won by Muening (ND) ; Prosche (ND) second; Smithyman (WM) third. Time, 10:46.3
Broad Jump—Won by Moore (WM) ; Duarte (ND) second; Struble (ND) third. Distance, 20 feet, 10 inches.
880-yard Run—Won by Tully (ND) ; Slovak (ND) second; McCarthy (ND) third. Time, 2:09.7.
Low Hurdles—Won by Porter (WM) ; O’Neill (ND) second; Entrikin (ND) third. Time, :07.3.
High Jump—Won by Hull (ND) ; Hahn, Moore and Ponjolic (WM) and Majors (ND) tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 7 inches.
Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Jones, Provost, Schinner, Murphy). Time, 3:34.9.
Irish in N. Y. Tomorrow;
Bock Home Wednesday
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
Making their annual trip to New York tomorrow night to play New York University in Madison Square Garden, the Irish will not only be out for their 12th win but they’ll also be aiming at winning the possession of the George E. Keogan Memorial Trophy for the second straight year, having won the award last year in its inaugural appearance, beating the Violets, 59-53.
The trophy series was started last season as a tribute to the basketball coach of Notre Dame, one of the Irish coaching “triumvirate” of Knute Rockne, Keogan and track coach John Nicholson.
The boys from the Met and the Golden Dome lads have met 11 times since 1934 without interruption in what has always turned out to be one of the Garden’s finest sports spectacles. The Blue and Gold have dominated the series with nine victories while dropping only two.
Coming off of a weekend split with highly touted De Paul, 56-52, and then a one-sided win over the Wildcats the following evening, 56-37, Coach Crowe’s lads should be in fine fettle for tomorrow night’s clash. The New Yorkers on the other hand are no slouches in their own right, having done considerably well along the eastern seaboard, enough to be rated among the country’s top 15 quintets.
The sharp-shooting of Vince Boryla and Johnny Dee will be very much in order if the Irish are to emerge victorious. Boryla’s high was 26 against Iowa and 25 on another occasion while Dee potted 25 against the Lakes in Chicago Stadium. In the first game of Ned Irish’ bargain bill, St. Francis will meet the revamped Brooklyn College club.
Then, next Wednesday, after a month’s absence from the local scene, the Fighting Irish eagers will return to action against Iowa Pre-Flight, who they beat earlier in the season’s play at Iowa City, 49-44. Although it’s Valentine’s Day, the Notre Dame outfit won’t be out to make sweethearts of the Seahawks but rather to annex win no. two from the • fliers, who have gone right along in their I
10
Irish Run Record to Eleven and Four With Split in DePaul-N. U. Tilts Over Week-end
BY JOHN FEENEY
“Scholastic" Sports Writer
own right, winning eighteen games thus far in their seoson.
The champion Midshipmen company will play the V-12 company champion in a preliminary game at 6:30, the main event being scheduled for 8:00 p.m.
NROTC Co. 2 Takes Home V-12 Basketball Crown
A string of nine victories gave the NROTC second company the right to the V-12 basketball championship this week as they beat Company F for the second time in the playoffs, 43-28, to erase the only obstacle in their way to an undefeated crown.
In a game that started slowly, the RO’s found the hoop with amazing accuracy in the last six minutes of the first half and ran an 8-7 deficit into a 19-9 halftime margin. The cadets from Walsh Hall added 24 more counters in the second period to run their final total to 43 while Co. F was scoring just five points less in the same half. The game which clinched the award for the winners was paced by Lee Graber’s 13 counters and Harry Gilligan’s ten. McCoy swished ten through the hoop for the losers to be top man in his outfit.
After each hall, Dillon, Alumni, and Walsh had played round-robins to determine a company winner within each hall, the three emergent victors, Co. I, Co. F. and RO 2, respectively, went into (Continued on page 13)
FOR THE RECORDS . . .
Tourney Totals	Co. Pts.
Scaff..................I---------- I 47
Graber............................  2	35
McCoy...............................  F	33
Gilligan----------------------------  2	26
Rafferty---------------------------- F	26
Wade.------------------------------- 2	25
Obie................................  I	24
Peck._______________________________ F	22
Miller.____________________________   I	20
Schneider___________________________ F	19
Demmerle._________________________  F	15
Scully.............................. 2	15
Roman..............................   I	14
Devine................... —........ 2	12
Patrick I	5
Lee F	4
Mellinger........................... 2	3
Lindsay—____________________________  F	1
Fitzke.—.........................   2	0
Kontras-----------------------------  I	0
Reiter..............................  I	0
Shembering  F	0
Clem Crowe’s scrapping Notre Dame cage squad battled De Paul University’s highly-regarded court quintet to a stand still for 24 minutes of play before succumbing to the vaunted, once-beaten Blue Demons, 52-56, last Friday night. Northwestern’s slipping Wildcats were Purdue’s 59-49 victims in the program’s opener which was witnessed by some 13,221 roaring fans in the gigantic Windy City Stadium.
Abetted by two close-in contributions of forward George Ratterman and center Vince Boryla’s accurate long shot, the Irish raced to the fore, 7-0, before the Demons even started. Six-foot, nine-inch George Mikan, the winners’ bad man, broke the ice with a free shot and bespectacled Whitey Kachan made it 7-2 with another gift toss. The Irish banged away, though, and stayed ahead until Mikan's swisher put his club in front, 17-15 with 12 1/2 minutes of the first period left. Guard Billy Hassett, N.D.’s leading candidate for All-American laurels, knotted the tally again and the teams fought on nearly even terms ’til buckets by Massett, Boryla, and Ratfracas of the second period and raised to their half-time rest with a 33-24 advantage.
Diminutive Johnnie Dee broke away twice in the opening seconds of the fracas of the second period and raised the Irish margin to 13 with a pair of well-aimed heaves. After Kachan deposited a free toss, Boryla rammed home another two pointer and the Blue and Gold had its widest lead—14 points. Then the roof caved in.
Kachan and the giant Mikan collaborrated with sub Ted Furman to narrow the gap to 40-45 and forward Gene Stump hit from the side for 42-45. Mikan dunked a charity effort and then Kachan’s sleeper tied the tabulation, 45 —all. Stump clinched the issue by potting two from the floor. Though they scrapped valiantly up to the end, the Irish never came closer than the final four point deficit.
High-scorer for N.D. was Ratterman with 17 to his credit. The flashy Hassett dropped in six long ones and a brace of gifts for 14 while Dee hit on three fielders and two free throws. Boryla had six points on three fielders. His loss via the personal foul route with 6 1/2 minutes remaining crippled the losers considerably.
Despite Boryla’s assiduous guarding, Mikan—whose All-American rating rests almost solely on his tremendous height— tallied 20 for Ray Meyer’s club. Kachan’s 16 were good for second honors.
Northwestem-Notre Dame
The Fighting Irish basketball aggregation regained its place on the victory trail last Saturday night by rolling to a surprisingly easy conquest of the tame Northwestern Wildcats, 56-37, in the nightcap of a double header in the Chi-
It's a long way up
cago Stadium. A throng of some 13 thousand cage followers looked on. De Paul’s potent Blue Demons humiliated the Boilermakers of Purdue, 50-34, in the evening’s opener.
Clem Crowe, Irish mentor who has done a sparkling job with his team so far, elected to start his cecond string combination of George Benigni, Paul Gordon, Bill O’Connor, Jim Kartholl and Paul Lammers. This five performed creditably and was ahead of the Wildcats, 20-19, with more than 15 minutes (Continued on page 18)
11
SO YOU'RE GOING TO ASBURY PARK, OR—'IT COULD HAPPEN TO ANYONE"
Gentlemen . . . the following letter from Azimuth J. Asbury, Jr., Co. 10, was found among the smoldering butts in a cinema hall spitkit the other day:
“Dear Ma:—In a way I’m happy I’m still here. The farther I stay from Great Lakes the happier I’ll be; also, there are 2,000 hills at Cornell—the town’s so hilly you can tell freshmen from sophomores by the size of their legs. Chances are we’ll get a gold watchstripe after 12 years good conduct, but you can’t believe all you hear.
“Maneuvering board problems are right down my alley, but when I get the firing pin extension lowered into the hawse pipe connected to the clinometer by the rammer tray, something’s gone hay wire, guess who!
“Always advertising chow on their bulletin boards, the mess gang chalked this up the other day:
‘Mainmast, mizzenmast, fo’csle, poop,
Special today, Navy bean zoop.’
“Had drill as usual after a swell weekend; don’t mind drill but the undercurrent was pretty strong. By the way,
am still looking for that ball they keep telling us to get on.
AZIMUTH.”
—Spindrift: Asbury Park ❖
V-12 TRAINEE ENJOYS GETTING FOULED UP TO PROVE "UNFOULING" ABILITY
We know a guy in the V-12 program here who, his buddies say, has a big time getting all fouled up just to prove to everyone, including himself, that he has an uncanny ability to quickly and effectively—perhaps not always advantageously—unfoul himself from the maze of his entanglements. This fellow seizes “fouling” opportunities which roll by slowly enough—the V-12 Ball, for example.
Once upon a time, in November, our hero met “someone” at a dinner. He thought that she was really tender— and she was. So he telephoned her several times and all such efforts resulted in that she was not at home—to him. He wondered, and decided to forget the whole affair. But “fate” wasn’t satisfied that easily and the next month he was invited to another dinner, a much larger gathering, and who do you suppose was there!
There was another sailor there who also had a good “taste” and proved to be temporary competition. He monopolized her time that evening; but early the next morning our hero, seeing a chance to eliminate Mr. Competition, woke her up with a ’phone call to ask her to go on a sleigh ride with him. After the jaunt through the country he put in his bid for the V-12 ball and was accepted.
One bright Sunday, New Year’s Eve, the sailor strolled into the Service Men’s lounge, and met a very cute “chick.” Then the fireworks began. What to do! Of course, this “cute chick” would want to attend the big affair too. So, bravely he told her the sad story and agreed to try to get some junior wolf to pinch-hit—and get some junior wolf, he did!
Now, the junior wolf had a date already, but that wouldn’t faze even a junior wolf. This led to his telling his girl that he owed a big favor to one of his buddies from ’way back who had not one, but two (2) dates for the same ball, and needed badly, such a return favor as this junior wolf was capable of rendering. So the girl hangs the title “Casanova” on our hero and the receiver on the hook.
Comes the night of the ball, and “Casanova,” “Little Doll,” “Junior Wolf” and “Cute Chick” make it a foursome. “Cas” is confident, “Junior” is too, so they make a little bet on the side. As events turned out, it seems that Cas is a little overconfident and Junior vamps his gal, the Chick. Cas also loses the bet, and to top the whole darn evening for him, his gal, Doll, finds out the whole story about “Chick” and takes off.
Confidence, girls, money, and troubles thus quickly and effectively vanish before the master “unfouler,” Cas, and now he can turn to, for a change, on study— whatever that is, he doesn’t know—until tomorrow night when surely some innocent bystander or slow moving situation is caught by Cas for him to foul himself within its works.
News of Bill Earley
Combat crewman of a B-24 Liberator group based in southern Italy, 1st. Lt. William J. Earley, ’43 has flown 14 missions against German targets.
Lt. Earley, 15th Air Force bombardier arrived in Italy in the fall of 1944 and began flying combat missions immediately. In the air as long as eight hours at a time, he has taken pail; in bombing attacks on such heavily defended cities as Munich, Vienna, Linz and Wiener Neustadt.
A graduate of Notre Dame where he starred in varsity football, Earley entered the Air Forces in January 1943, later won his wings at Victorville, Texas.

12
Sponges. Towels, and Loose Teeth. . .
Boxing, Basketball
In Civilian Limelight
The novice boxing tourney is attracting attention right about now. Although the bouts will not be open to the public, the tourney should uncover some fine prospects for the annual Bengal Bouts in the early part of the spring semester. These bouts, Notre Dame’s greatest boxing attraction, are sponsored by the Scholastic. The novice tourney will be held in the boxing room of the Old Gym. So far thirty entrants have presented themselves to John Durdach Sp (A)2/c for daily workouts in preparation for their debuts in the ring.
NROTC CO. II WINS
(Continued from page 11) a playoff series, each meeting the other team twice, the winner to come from the best of four games. EO’s initial win over F, 29-28, at the outset and Co. I’s follow up with a 50-38 trouncing of Co. F the following night, made Co. 2 and Co. 1 loom as undefeated kings. Then, the Walsh Hall contingent put up a defence against the I boys the next night and only allowed them to hit for six points during the entire first half while they were scoring 20. They had no trouble in quieting a potential rally in the closing period.
Co. F’s surprising win over Co. I then set the stage for the RO’s path to fame with a crushing 43-28 win over F the next evening to clinch the tourney crown although another game with I was still on the bill but was of no consequence in determining the winner, regardless of the outcome.
N. D. T. C., averaging almost fifty points a game, captured the civilian crown by defeating the Rocketts in the final game, 55-48. Previously they had overwhelmed the Tigers, 40-28; trounced Sorin, 57-28; and taken the Rocketts in their first meeting, 46-41. The playoff was a double elimination affair, a team being eliminated after two losses. ND-TC’s consistent high-scorer, Kronbach, took individual honors for the tourna
ment, followed closely by Bob Cisczon of the Rocketts. There is a possibility that the Rocketts and NDTC may be combined for the playoff with the service winner, ROTC Company 2. This is due to the fact that the champs lost a few good players to Uncle Sam. The playoff game was scheduled for last night.
The handball tourney is being carried on in a catch-as-catch-can manner, being played at the players’ convenience. Thus, in some cases, players have already reached the third bracket, while some haven’t even played their first-round matches. The pairings and results are posted in the Rockne Memorial locker room.
In the spotlight this week is the 5 ft. 2 in., 160-pound freshman from Chicago, Johnny Dee. His speed and agility on the court have more than compensated for his diminutiveness.
He prepped at Loyola Academy in Chicago, earning a total of seven letters
JOHNNY DEE
—three in basketball and two in track and football. Graduating in 1942, he went to Loyola University for a semester, then into the Coast Guard. He stayed in that organization for twenty months, being stationed in Baltimore and Norfolk. Upon his discharge, he set up operations here under the Golden Dome.
“Star Dust” is his outstanding musical selection, and it would be even more out
standing if it were played by Glenn Miller. The 21-year-old speedster enjoys eating apple pie, for one, and, for two, loves to dance (with the right girl, he hastened to add). He is quite proud, and rightly so, of his feat of touching Buck Newsom for two hits in a service baseball game. His sports idols are three in number: Don Hutson, Green Bay’st hardy perennial; Joe DiMaggio, the Yankee Clipper; and his father, who played professional baseball and was quite a track man. In fact, he was one of the first men ever to run the hundred-yard dash in under ten seconds. Johnny likes two entertainers especially well—Harry Lillis Crosby and Bugs Bunny, the carrrot-chewing cinemactor.
He plans to major in Economics, and has his eye on the big leagues. Who knows, maybe some major league team will have its eye on “Scooter” one of these days soon.
Slogan-makers Credited for Numerous "Illusions"
A magic phrase has elevated, overnight, peddler into preacher; “Truth in Advei-tising”. It is high time somebody asked, bluntly, “Who wants truth in advertising?” Has there ever been known in the world a man or woman who had the courage to face stark truth?
Would you have “Truth in behavior?” Rule out “I’m pleased to meet you.” Since sincerity is the keynote, exclaim, “I loathe the sight of you and I hope you choke.” Never say, “Oh, must you go so soon.” Just shout, “Hooray!” and kick your guest out jovially with the aid of a lead pipe. At bridge, strangle your partner. Copy-edit from your vocabulary, “We’ve had a marvelous time.” Tell your host the truth and kick him in the shins by way of emphasis.
If we don’t want truth in behavior, why should we want it in advertising.
“They laughed when I sat down at the piano but, in a few moments the room was filled with awe. Little did they know I had become another Paderewski in only ten easy lessons for §5.95 and all by mail.”
Ten short weeks and Mabel will be jealous? You truth mongers, would you forbid this Caliban to become an Orpheus? Would you chide the ingenious satirist who collects §5.95 that this clod may catch for an instant the illusion of self-esteem?
No, let us thank advertising that there is still extant a champion of glorious illusion. Bless the slogan maker with his fair round belly and the twinkle in his eye. Yes, bless him and clip his coupons; for none is perfect.
—Gene Diamond
13
COLLEGE PARADE
BY HARRY WALTERS
NOTES ON NOTE-TAKERS
A college lecture is a process whereby the notes of the professor become the notes of the students without passing through the minds of either—Mortimer J. Adler.
All college students are note takers. Most of our time^at college is spent in amassing a huge stack of notes that we hope will be of some use to us—for examination purposes at least.
The writing of notes is a difficult process, and it is done in an infinite number of ways. After years of careful observation I have been able to distinguish between many types of note takers, of which we list some of the main ones:
Type I—This person rushes into the lecture room sits down, whips out his pen, applies the point to the page and writes. He doesn’t lift his head, nor the pen, till the last second of the hour, then rushes out to his next class. A month later on reading the notes, he discovers that he can’t decipher his sloppy hand writing.
Type II—Of the female sex and generally found in English classes. Is distantly related to the species Sinatra. Known to gaze at the prof for the whole lecture, and to utter soft sighs when hearing anything by Shelley or Keats. Notes: nought. Note: nuts!
Type III—The Doodler; draws pictures to accompany occasional notes. During one lecture she furnishes enough material for a small mural painting. Technically this is known as Dali-ing.
Type IV—She’s always working at her knitting and usually chews gum; known to complete many sweaters and socks during the term which are sent
BRUGGNER'S NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington St. "In the J.M.S. Building"
for those you want to remember: MOTHER, DAD, SISTER, BROTHER ... and that girl you sort of go for.
to the army camps to be used for either tank or airplane covers; occasionally lays down needles, picks up the pen and writes—the number of stitches already done.
Type V—The ideal perfect student; always on time, never absent; hears the prof’s every word, makes an immediate summary. Hand writing—beautiful; and in the evening re-copies notes with extensive footnotes and much-added material. Found only in the minds of “green” profs.
And lastly, but not leastly, there’s the plain, ordinary student who doodles and writes, chews and snoozes—in short the best type of note-taker.
—Queen's Journal
ONE FOR THE BOOKS
We’ve seen a lot of tall stories in print —especially since Power has started writing the Green Banner, but the Ohio
SILVER’S
RECORD SHOP
106 N. Main—Entrance to I.M.S. Bldg.
Phone 2-2424
"Symposium of Swing" Album— (4 12-inch records)___$3.68
"Voodoo Moon"—Euliaro
(Part 1 & 2) Carmen Cavallaro $ .79
“8 To The Bar "Album—Pete Johnson, Walter Ammons (4 10-inch records) ________________$2.63
Keynotes $1.65
"Blue Moon"—"Just One More Chance"—Cozy Cole's All Stars.
"Mountain Air"—"Rosetta"— Charley Shaver's Quintet.
State Lantern beats anything that even Power in his wildest flights of imagination could think up.
“Mary A. Bagg returned to Ohio State University at the beginning of the fall quarter to complete her senior" year in the college of Arts and Sciences, only to be greeted with ‘What are you doing here? You’ve already graduated.’
“Miss Bagg, a major in English was astonished when she learned that she had received fifteen hours of credit for her proficiency in French during her Freshman year. She had merely gone to the college office to check her credits but discovered that officially she had been graduated the previous June although she had never applied for, or received a diploma.”
Top that one- Power!
Pint-sized Pamela Blake, movie starlet, has been voted the “ideal girl with whom to share a ration book” by a group of air cadets at Birmingham Southern College, Alabama. -	.
NAVY MEN!
Here’s where you can get
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED.
Make Sunny Italy a first stop on your liberty night!
ooo
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
N. D. Chapter ASM To
Meet On Wednesday
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals will hold its February meeting in the Engineering Auditorium on Wednesday February 14, at 8 p.m.
The principal address will be delivered by Mr. Charles K. Donaho, metallurgist with the American Cast Iron Pipe Company, of Birmingham, Alabama. His subject will be “Centrifugal Castings,” and will deal with types of centrifugal castings, and with the underlying mathematical theory and mechanics of the processes. Examples of products and illustrations of their methods of manufacture will be shown. Emphasis will be upon centrifugal processes for high quality steel castings to replace forgings. Structures and properties obtainable in centrifugal steel castings will be shown and the effect of melting and casting variables will be discussed.
Mr. Donaho was educated at Vanderbilt University with degrees in chemistry and metallurgy. He has been with the American Cast Iron Pipe Company continuously since receiving his Master’s degree in 1931. He has published many
papers dealing with foundry operations, especially relating to centrifugal methods of casting.
Newest members in the Notre Dame Chapter- include F. W. Burger of the Clark Equipment Company, of Buchanan, Michigan; Mr. A. B. Constantine of the Bendix Home Appliances, Inc., of South Bend; and Mr. J. A. Farkas of the Studebaker Corp., Aviation Division.
Gabreski To Be Honored;
Parents To Get Medals
Lieut. Colonel Francis Gabreski, former Notre Dame student, top American air ace in the European theatre, and now a captive in Germany will be honored at a civic celebration in Oil City, regardless of his present location. The directive comes from President Roosevelt himself, and will take place on February 12.
Last summer the citizens of his hometown had all preparations made for a mammoth homecoming celebration. Unfortunately, on a final mission which he did not need, but volunteered for, his plane was damaged over enemy territory, and he was taken prisoner. All
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLANO BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLANO BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, d.d.s. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLANO BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
Acompanenos... Have a Coke
(JOIN US)
... or bow to be hep in Puerto Rico
In Puerto Rico, as in Punxsutawney or Pasadena, Coca-Cola is a friend-maker your American soldier can count on. To natives and to his buddies alike, Have a Coke says How ya doin’, pal. It’s a simple gesture of friendly courtesy. Yes, Coca-Cola is truly an American symbol of a refreshing way to make friends.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
15
plans for the celebration were then cancelled.
Last December, President Roosevelt directed that the hero medals and citations, won by Colonel Gabreski, be formally presented to the hero’s father, Mr.
Lt. Col. Francis Gabreski
Stanley Gabryszewski. And it is in furtherance of this Presidential directive that a public meeting will be held in the auditorium of the Oil City Senior High School for the presentation of the hero’s awards to his father. General Clark, Commanding General of the Middletown Air Technical Service Command, will make the formal presentation. He will be accompanied by several members of his staff. There will be other distinguished guests on the platform. The gathering will be preceded by a dinner at the Arlington Hotel for the visiting military, out of town guests, and family.
Reverend James J. Leahy, C.S.C., Administrative Assistant, wil represent the President of the University, Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., at the celebration, and will deliver a brief address.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Found Orpheus Society;
Snyder Elected President
During the past semester, the Orpheus Society, a music appreciation club, was founded. A temporary board consisting of Jimmy Larrick, Bud Wilson, Luis Beltranena, Vincent Meli, and Jaime Velez framed the basis for the constitution of the club and submitted it to the University for approval.
Shortly afterwards, the club held its first meeting, featuring a talk by Frank Snyder on the Rhapsody in Blue and on George Gershwin, its composer.
Mr. Pedtke, head of the Music Department, is the Faculty Adviser. At the second meeting of the club, he played the fundamental themes from Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony and explained the nature, order, and composition of Beethoven’s music.
The officers of the club for this semes-
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
THE HUDDLE
ter are Frank Snyder, president; Luis Beltranena, vice-president, and Jaime Velez, secretary-treasurer.
At present the membership stands at forty, but additional members will be accepted. The club also invites all who wish to attend the meetings to do so.
VALENTINE GIFTS for "Her" —
Come in and choose from our fine selection ....
JEWELED PINS BRACELETS COMPACTS LOCKETS
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
"T" SHIRTS
(Monogram and Plain)
16
V-12 Diners Serenaded
On Monday evening the dining hall patrons heard the initial and premier performance of one of the best quick-tempo organizations heard here. Comprised of the outstanding musical talent of the University from all three groups: civilians, ROTC and V-12, the band is under the direction of George Finn of the RO'S, campus maestro who has directed and played in various musical outfits for the past three semesters.
The Monday program started with a haunting and sensational theme, “Mood,” an original composition written by leader Finn. Following came the inimitable Finn arrangements of “Blue Skies” and “Body and Soul”; the latter highlighting Irv Nelson on the lead tenor sax and Ray Wollam on the vocal. The program was closed by another Finn composition which brought the house down, “Madman’s Fantasy”, a wild jive number featuring the entire trumpet section of Ray Kopituk, Dick McConville, John Samson, and “Casey” Jones.
All the arranging for the band is done by George and the success of the band is in no small measure due to the distinctive style resulting from the complete absence of stock arrangements.
In addition to the aforementioned trumpet men, the standout brass section
Gifts
For Your
Lovely Lady
Valentine Cues for Cupid
Fragrant Perfumes Dainty Slips ...... Gay Scarfs ....... Smart Gloves .. Costume Jewelry .
1.00 to 24.00 . 2.50 to 5.00 2.00 to 12.00 . 2.00 to 9.00 _____ 1.00 up
QJUslwtb’s
is rounded out by Bob Ballenger, Jack Bolger, Fitz Fitzgerald, and Bob Agmen on the trombones. The small but talented saxaphone section is composed of Irv Nelson on the tenor, Jack Gailey and Jack Mirsham on the altos and Chuck O’Grady on the baritone.
The rhythm background is supplied by Joe Kenney on the drums, Jack Milder on the piano, Tom Vail on the bass, and Bill Friday on the guitar.
Arrangements are now under way for further campus appearances of the Finn ensemble and a broad schedule of sessions at the various university social functions is contemplated for the coming semester.
A secret is a bit of news you tell one person at a time.—Bits Out Of Life
Glasses Correctly Fitted J. BURKE
Est.
1900
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Business end social sue* cess depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained graduates examine your hair and scalp •••treat the real cause of receding hairline. Ree
* examination. Treatments
Phone 4-1481
Be Sure to Stop at the
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
for the
NEW NOTRE DAME SCAPULAR MEDAL S1.95
HARPER METHOD MEN’,S SHOP
with chain
And don't miss our fine selection of Valentines and Gifts you'll want to send home.
CARDS FOR EVERYONE N. D. JEWELRY BOOK ENDS SOUVENIRS PILLOWS
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
17
IRISH FIVE SPLITS (Continued from page 11) of the first half gone. Paul Gordon, freshman forward, who wound up as No. 1 scorer with 12 points, remained in as four of the elite five—Dee, Ratterman, Hassett, and Boryla—entered the fray. As is often the case with a team inserted “cold”, this group was slow starting and as a result the Cats were on the long end of a 26-24 half time tally.
After intermission the fast breaking
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
RiiiiiiiiimiiiHiiittiiiiitiiiiiniiiitiitiitiiiHiiiiitiiiiiitHiiitiiiinipl
I tyloweM. I
tactics of the winners soon brought the game into N.D.’s control. Ten minutes still remained when Frank Gilhooley’s netter gave the Blue and Gold a 42-31 guarantee. From then on the Purple was helpless as even the return of the reserves failed to abate the fury of the Irish offense.	.
Trailing Gordon in the point getting department for Notre Dame were Ratterman with 11 and Hassett and Boryla, each with 9. All ten N.D. players counted at least two points, with O’Connor, Kartholl, and Gilhooley potting three each and Benigni and Dee hitting the hoop for two. Max Morris, one of the Big Ten’s bettei- players, paced the Cats with 13 and Bennie Schadler made nine.
The two double headers constituted a so-called Round Robin, the championship of which was decided on a point basis. Thus De Paul annexed the crown with a 4 point advantage over Notre Dame and 16 points over Purdue. The Irish
LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY (Continued from page 2) of the great accomplishments that Lincoln might have attained to if he had lived, they are filled with a deep sense of mourning for him who was not only a great President, but truly a great man. We should think of him as did the innumerable Americans whose tribute of tears was not for the Chief Executive of a powerful nation, but for the friend and good neighbor, who helped them without stint in their hours of greatest need. In this did his greatness lie.
—Reprinted from the Notre Dame Burble.
Every Monday through Friday
GEORGE WYMAN & CO.
sponsors
Raymond Gram Swing world famous analyst reporting and explaining the news directly from Washington
WHOT—6:15 P. M.
1490 on your dial
South Bend 24
make the perfect
VALENTINE'S DAY REMEMBRANCE
IIIHHIHIHHIHHIIHHIIIHHlIIHUHHillHHIHIinHlIllimnniUHUIIlQ]
Place your out-of-town orders now— Save wiring expense and last minute rush.
WILLIAMS |
West of the Oliver Hotel	=
PHONE 3-5149	I
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
18
Navy Relief Society
Continues Fund Drive
The Commanding officer has called to the attention of all officers, enlisted personnel, and trainees of the Notre Dame activity that the navy Relief Society’s • fund-raising campaign was beguir on February 1 and will continue for the following ' fifteen days. Bluejackets, ' Marines, and Coast Guardsmen throughout the world will be given the opportunity to contribute to their own relief agency.
As the war progresses, increasing and unprecedented demands are being made upon the navy Relief Society. At no time has there been a greater need for contributions. The current expansion of the Navy has been accompanied by a large increase in the number of dependents of navy personnel and as a result, there have been many additional requests for financial aid for hospitalization.
The navy Relief Society is not a government agency. It is the navy’s own> organization and was created to furnish financial aid in emergencies to personnel of the Navy, regardless of rank, rate, or length of service.
Requests for aid should be sent to Great Lakes Auxiliary, Navy Relief Society, Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, Illinois, or to the local navy Relief Officer. All applications should include the full name of the serviceman, his rank or rate, service number, and last known mailing address.
Solicitation of funds will not be made to civilians or civil service employees during the forthcoming campaign but unsolicited contributions may be accepted. Because the society is the navy’s own organization, the fund drive will be primarily a navy affair.
IT. S. Navy Photo
Battle Report to all Hands
Appropriate GIFTS tor VALENTINE'S DAY February 14th
Every seaman and officer aboard our Navy’s fighting ships instantly hears the call to action, follows the battle’s progress over a special type of announcing system made by Western Electric.
On carriers the entire crew, topside and below deck to oilers and ammunition passers, can hear first-hand accounts direct from the pilots themselves on how it went "upstairs.”
Meeting the communication needs of our armed forces requires all available manpower and manufacturing facilities. That’s why telephone equipment cannot now be built for civilian use. After the war, Bell Laboratories’ scientists and workers at Western Electric will turn again to their peacetime jobs of designing and making telephone equipment for the Bell System.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War"
19
Chesterfield
Here you sit
and in I walk and say
And that’s a mighty happy picture. Chesterfields never fail to fit in with your plans ... to add to your pleasure.
Chesterfield’s exceptional Mildness, Better Taste and Coolness are built on the only foundation you can depend on in a cigarette ...
RIGHT COMBINATION ★ WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
Copyright 1945. Liggett &. Mrnt Tobacco Co.