Hot re Dame Scholastic
• DI5CE • QUASI • 5EMPER-VICTURVS- -VIVE- QUASI • CRAS • MORITVRVS•
■F-X-A-
Not,. XLII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 3, 1908.	No. 3.
An Evening Revery.
RICHARD J. COLLENTINE, ’09.
"pHE eastern moon, set in a cloudless sky, ’ Pours out its silver beams across the sand.
How still and grim the ghostly palm-trees stand! Like spectres frowning on each passer-by.
But hark! what sound was that? A far-off cry Disturbs the silence of the desert land, And lo! like fleeing sprites, an Arab band Flits past, scarce visible to mortal eye.
At times, when ’round me rests the sable night, Wh n scarce a breeze disturbs the ivy vines And all the world is silver’d by the moon, Like shadows on my dim and clouded sight Loom faces now grown cold. My soul repines In lonely grief and longs to follow soon.
Thomas Hood.*
AN ESSAY OF JUSTIFICATION.
Francis T. Maher, Litt. B., ’OS.
Eet us, for the sake of comprehending better the great reach of the poet’s powers, take up another and quite a different class of his poems. I refer to those poems v hich no adjective can adequately describe, but which might loosely be termed “poems of horror.” “Uncanny,” “weird,” “gruesome,” are all insufficient, either singly or taken together, to give a full impression of these “Horror tales” of Hood. Mystery is there, mystery that eludes the mind, and clinging ■dread, and indefinable terror. Here we find ourselves in the ghastly atmosphere of
“The Raven,” “The Tell-Tale Heart,” and' “The Fall of the House of Usher.” These last productions, we know, had sufficient reason for their being in the sombre temper-. ament and confirmed melancholia of Poe; but what had the gentle-natured Tom Hood, the author of half the world’s smiling, to do with the Stygian blackness wherein Poe lived and moved and had his being? Nothing directly, in his own proper person, for his life was so morally healthy that no soul-. sickness ever taught him the depths and . • extent of human misery. He had need of no such teacher, for his daily walks through London’s East End gave him the keynote for a whole world of woe unutterable, and the deeps of his imagination’ famished the rest.	. f ’
“The Haunted House,” a representative poem of this class, is a ‘ masterly study in ’ the details of horror. Not an item is left , out of the picture that could enhance the ♦ idea of utter dereliction. We see the abandoned mansion, the rank courtvard, and’ the ghostly interior as vividly as though we beheld them through our own, not the poet’s eyes; and we feel the brooding;pres-ence of the unseen, sinister power—the evil genius of the . place and the cause of its desolation. The power of the poem is considerably enforced by the frequent recurrence of the refrain—	.
For over , all there hung a cloud of .fear, ;	.
A sense of mvstery the spirit daunted,	...	~
And said, as plain as whisper in the ear, . - .
The place is haunted.—	'	.	;
which carries in it the essence of the poem. “The Elm Tree” and the wider known “Dream of Eugene Aram” are- other poems, of this class that the world will not forget.
. * Prize essay , in the English essay contest of 1908 for the Meehan Gold Medal award.	. .
'	I
5°	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The latter tells in tragic phrase how the blood of the murdered victim ever cries outto heaven for vengeance, and how all creatures, even the murderer’s own soul, echoes the curse of God; the insensate earth betrays him when he tries to hide the body of his victim; the stream dries up wherein it was flung, and the winds sweep away the leaves that cover it:
Then down I cast me on my face, And first began to weep,
For I knew my secret then was one That earth refused to keep:
Or land or sea, though he should be Ten thousand fathoms deep.	.
So wills the fierce avenging Sprite, Till blood for blood atones!
Aj’e, though he's buried in a cave,	'
And trodden down with stones, .
And years have rotted off his flesh,— The world shall see his b mes.”
After so knowing an exposition of the black depths of crime we half look for Hood to trip’, up unexpectedly, as Eugene Aram did, and discover himself to be closely allied to that he is drawn to talk about; but no! he is off on an entirely different tack, and this time it is the light, fanciful poet, the robin in the cherry tree, that Claims our attention. It is not the humorist, not the satirist that we speak of now, but the glad-hearted, kindly Tom Hood, ever ready to be merry because other people have cause for joy, ever anxious to see and note that there still remains in this worn world some trace of its old loveliness. We know from authentic- accounts, of the poet’s life that his real self was such as stands revealed in this group of his. poems; this was the man in his everyday bearing towards his friends and his family when his. poet’s gown was doffed and his pen laid by.
The “Ode To the Moon,” a poem of this class is striking for its simple, touching beauty; the gentle, sympathetic tone of the poem assures us that it arose out of the heart, not the mind, of the poet:	.
So let it be:—Before I lived, to sigh,
Thou wert in Avon, and a thousand rills, Beautiful Orb! and so, whene’er I lie "
Trodden, thou wilt be gazing from thy hills.-. Blest be thy loving light, where’er it spills, - , And blessed thy fair face, O Mother mild!
. Still shine, the soul of rivers. as they run, Still lend thy lonely lamp to lovers fo.nd, .
And blend their plighted shadows into one:— Still smile at even on the bedded child, . .And'close his eyelids with' thy silver wanl!
Which of the poets that have written in this style — there are not many—Keats in	I
his “Ode to the. Nightingale,” Shelley in his	j
“Ode to the West Wind,” and Browning	I
in many of his shorter poems, ever wrote	1
anything more lovely? “The Ode to the	|
Moon” appeals to our hearts because it .	|
comes straight from the heart of the poet.	I
He holds his theme, not at arm’s length as	|
AV ords worth and Tennyson do in many of	|
their productions, but he folds it close to his heart with many an affectionate touch. !
“Bianca's Dream,” a love tale of old ■ A^enice, in which playful humor and delightful ; fancies mingle, is another, good illustration of the qualities of this kind of poetry. The whole poem—it is not a long one—must be read for a full appreciation of its charm; however, a single stanza will serve to illustrate in some degree:
Lone in her chamber sate the dark-eyed maid, By easy stages jaunting thro’ her prayers, But list’ning side-long to a serenade,
That robb'd the saints a little of their shares:
For Julio underneath the lattice play'd	•
His Deh Vieni, and such amorous airs,
Born only underneath Italian skies,	’
Where everv fiddle has a Bridge of Sighs.
Hood might well be styled the “mockingbird of poetry,”-not that his varied notes are mere repetitions of the songs of others any more than the mocking bird first listens and then sings, but that he is gifted by . nature, as is the bird, to sing without premeditation all the strains that other songsters know. Hood, however, is more than a mocking bird endowed with the quality of originality, for besides his other tones he has one song that is peculiarly his own. I refer now to his poems of sym-pathy—of a sympathy so deep, so touching, so much beyond the ordinary sympathy familiar to us, that we wonder at it. ’Tis a marvelous thing, to be sure, that the poor, abandoned creature of sin and shame, the blear-eyed seamstress, the drunken sot, and the gaunt-faced. pauper should find their way into the fair courts of poetry. But they do;. Thomas Hood leads them in. He _ takes them by the hand and calls them “brother” and “sister.” with a charity that . I reminds us :of Him who was the. friend of I publicans and sinners. . Vainly we search I the pages of literature,, modern or ancient,	. I
for like, examples of boundless sympathy; I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
they are not to be foiind except in the New Testament, where Christ writes on the sand to save the woman taken in adultery, and reclaims the sinner, Magdalene. Hood’s human sympathy goes out to all men, even the lowest and most degraded. Our own attitude — good Christians that we think ourselves—toward fallen ones is to deplore their.faults, but, being down, to allow them to sink into grateful oblivion, to forget and be forgotten. “Little Em’ly” fallen, from grace falls still more'irrevocably from our esteem and love. But Hood’s sympathy, divine in its character, picks the poor fallen wretch from the gutter, changes cold-blooded curiosity into pity, and finds some excuse or other to'palliate the blackness of the crime.
“The Bridge of Sighs”—too well known and appreciated to need quotation or comment—is the most remarkable example of this class of sympathetic poems; it is a scathing denunciation of the world for its heartless cruelty towards the poor unfortunate that falls once on a slippery path; it is a complete condemnation of the un-Christianity of society that tolerates wholesale crime as an institution and will not pardon a mistake; it is, finally a low voice of pity, not condemnation, to the erring one, that assures her that the bruised reed shall not be broken nor the smoking flax put out.
Nor did the wrongs and wretchedness of the poverty-stricken ones lack a place in Hood’s heart and song. He felt their woes as his own and used the inspired voice of poetry to direct the attention of the Xvorld to the miserv which its negligence and hardheartedness permitted. While other poets were singing the glad things of the earth he tuned his harp to the sighs of .wretched humanity. “The Song of the . Shirt” was sung long before Hood in low cellars, stifling attics, and back rooms where starving humanity spun its life away in a vain endeavor to earn bread. But it was Hood that gathered up the sighs and sobbings of the. poor and poured them into the world’s ear. The. poem was read everywhere, copied and recopied in every publication, for the poet had struck a note that filled'every soul with pity and remorse. “The Lay of the Laborer,” “The Lady’s Dream,” and “The "Workhouse Clock” are other poems of this class that are powerful
5r
in the force of their appeal for the betterment of suffering humanity.	.
Does it not appear from all that has been said in the cause of Thomas Hood that he deserves a high place in literature, : that he is worthy of the middle plane, at least, with Keat’s, Shelley, and Coleridge, the poets of his own day and his own warmest friends. It is true, at any rate, that he is rapidly coming into his own, and that in the future his name , will no longer signify “the buffoon” but “the poet,” the writer of tender lyrics, of powerful. verses, and, above all, of poems, of “melting charitv.”	'
His Talisman.	.
- Denis A. Morrison, ’10.
The night before Chickamauga, the. Union O	O’.
and Confederate armies lav facing each other, strongly entrenched among the fruitful plantation lands of Tennessee. Like two f powerful dogs panting after a long struggle, yet still eager for the fray, held in leash, only by the shades of night, they lay gathering renewed strength for the deciding conflict of the morrow.	'
Half a mile to the left of the rebel array stood a fine old mansion of ante-bellum ’ days, with its spacious piazza, its long, low windows fronting the broad veranda and its sequestered position- far back from the road. This mansion was the residence of Colonel Marshall L. Blackwell, a Southern gentleman of the old regime, who was at the time commanding a regiment in Bragg’s . army. His wife and daughter, with a fewfaithful slaves, were the only occupants of the great house, with- the exception of . a number of officers whom Bragg had quartered on their patriotic hospitality during the army’s stay in the neigborhood. Colonel Blackwell himself was expected hourly. His regiment was in the rear guard of Bragg’s retreating army which was now concentrating about Chattanooga. ’
Lucy Blackwell was a charming Southern beauty. Her dark eyes could flash ’their deep hatred of all Yankees; buttheir untold . depths held wells of sympathy and tender- . ness for her Dixie land, torn and desolated , by the ravages of -war. The exquisite color
52	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ing of her curving lips sent the blood of manjr a Southern cavalier pulsing faster through his veins, while the bewitching dimple of her fair cheek was in tempting evidence whenever the charming features relaxed into a smile.
She was sitting in a hammock at the far end of the piazza on the evening of this summer’s day; in her lap lay an open book with which her fingers idly toyed, while her thoughts wandered back at will down the vista of her happy past. Ah, how sweet to dwell upon those never-to-be-forgotten days. To. look back .to the time of her girlhood, before the cruel war had robbed her of all she held dearest; before her brother had met a soldier’s death by the side of his general on the bloody field of Shiloh; before he who was dearer to her than anyone in the wide world, her idol and her lover, Philip Hemenway, had deserted the cause and gone to join the ranks of Grant’s invaders. He did not know, for no, one could ever know, the terrible pain it had cost her to tear his image from her heart. - He did not know the heart-breaking awakening she had gone through when he persisted in his determination, treating her . love, as though it were a thing to be pushed aside or trampled on without wringing the anguish from her stricken heart. She thought of him now, and a hot tear stole down the soft cheek as the sweet memories crowded upon her. All wrapped in her musings, she did not see that lithe form moving stealthily among the. trees. Its owner reached the edge of the clearing, dashed suddenly across the open space, and the pale light of the August moon fell upon the uniform of a Federal captain. He stopped with a glad cry as he espied the girl seated in the hammock.
“.Lucy!” he cried, “the very girl I’m looking for.”	.
She sprang to her feet and her heart gave a great bound as she heard the well-known voice.	.	.
“Phil Hemenway! you here?” she quickly ejaculated. •	.	— >	'
“Yes, Lucy; I came to find you, but didn’t reckon on being so lucky. But haven’t you a welcome for me ? ” .	-
The girl had recovered her composure.
_ “No; Lhave.no welcome for mj; country’s
enemies,” she said haughtily. “And moreover, you have no right to ask it. You placed . your lot with a crowd of cowardly Yankees above vour love, and now vou have the face to ask me to welcome you to my father’s house.”
“Lucy, don’t speak to me like that,” he besought. “ My God, must I lose everything, home, friends and you, the dearest of all, because I have done my duty?”
“Your duty, indeed,” she replied with feeling. “Your duty, I suppose, to - disobey your father, to break your mother’s heart and—oh, Phil, you don’t know what you have made me suffer. Only leave those horrid Yankees and see things as they are.”
Her face fell forward upon her hands and her whole body was shaken by a torrent of weeping. Phil stepped forward, but she waved him off with her hand.
“Doesn’t it satisfy you to see what you have brought ■ me to, that you should try to make it worse?”
“Lucy,” he replied in a strained, husky voice, “Lucy, how can you say that?”
Then he was silent. Under his coat of blue a fierce battle was waging in his heart. It .was a conflict between love and duty, and for time the play of emotions held the mastery over his sterner side. A stray tear found its way even down his sunburnt cheek, but he did not brush it away; he was not ashamed.
“Lucy,” he said at length, as she raised her face, which, though still flushed, carried its accustomed hauteur, “God knows Hove you, but I can not desert my flag, for I love it even more than you. Some day, perhaps, when peace is restored, you will think' differently.”
“As you will,”, she replied.
A sad smile crossed his countenance.
“It is the. fortune of war, I suppose. But I must return to headquarters. It is dangerous for me here.”	-
He was about to. leave her when a warning “sh-h” was heard, and he felt a tug at his coat. ~ .
“Look! There are the officers. You can not go; you will be seen and captured. Oh, what can I do? I must save you. Come,” she ordered,.“follow me quickly and stay in the shadow.”	■ .
He obeyed and she led him into the house
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
through the open window. They found themselves in a large, dark room as silent as the grave. With quick decision she passed swiftly through the room while he followed her in silence. They reached a door which she noiselessly opened, and in the shadow of the house that lay behind thejr made their way to the stables. No one was stirring.- The horses were roused bjr their entrance, and she quickly singled out a sleek roan mare which whinnied with evident pleasure at her approach.
“Here,” she said to Phil, “is Duchess. The saddles are hanging on the wall there and I trust you to escape safely. Hurry, now, Phil, for if I were seen here—oh, please hurry, Phil!”
He approached her and took her yielding hand. It was hot and trembling.
“Lucy,” he said softly, “can you forget the last time we were here together, that day three years ago when we rode together the last time? I told you that I loved you then, and you were glad. I love you still, though the war has separated us. Has it made you forget your love, Lucy ? Will you tell me that my love is not returned, because I have listened to* the call of duty and taken up arms for my country ? Surely this is the same noble-hearted, generous, girl who loved me before.”
She no longer struggled to .elude him, but stood with her hand in his and her breath coming fast.
“Can I love a traitor? ’ she said.
“Am I a greater traitor to my convictions than you to yours? And yet I love you,” he rejoined. She sto-'d with eyes cast down.
“Lucv,” he went on, “to-morrow’s sun will witness the greatest, the most terrible battle of the campaign, perhaps of the war. It looks like defeat for us/ because Bragg has his entire forces concentrated, and.our reinforcements have not arrived. I can not go into that battle without at least your prayers and the thought of you to support me. Give me that locket at your throat and I will wear it over-my heart? .Do that much, and if all goes well I will see you again soon.”
_ She disengaged her hand and taking the locket from its golden chain, handed it to him. .	.
“Take it, Phil,” she said. “It can do you no harm, at least;* and come to me
as soon as you can, for I shall die if I . have no news of you. You must go now," , because there is danger here for both of us.”
The animal was ready and he stood by its side. Gently he drew- Lucy to him, resisting at first, but present!}' yielding to the importunity of her worthy lover. With a lover’s adieu, she saw him vault into .	,
the saddle and ride away into the night. Her proud prejudice had given way to the impulse of her truer and fairer character, and she breathed a fervent prayer for the safety of the “traitor.”
It was a sleepless night and a terrible day for the girl. All day long the roar of cannon and the rattle of musketrv dinned her ears. With anxious eye from her sheltered position she "watched Bragg’s . ■ -heavy columns as time and again they charged Thomas’ depleted veterans midst the crack of rifles and the smoke of a hundred guns, and her heart sank. How could human beings live in that sea of smoke and -flame? But when, the smoke . rolled away and she saw the long lines of grav reeling under the withering fire of federal guns, and above the blue ranks of the veterans of Shiloh and Corinth, a new rush of hope surged over her, though anguish filled her heart at the thought of the dead Confederates whose lives paid the terrible toll of war. When night fell and the thundering rebel cannon had failed to dislodge the gallant Old Rock of Chickamauga, she was almost hysterical from viewing the . awful carnage. For long hours of racking anxiety after the blood-red sun had set she kept her vigil at the trysting-place, waiting, yet scarcely daring to hope or pray. Then the bushes parted and a bedraggled sergeant of the United .States army stood before her.
“Where is he? Dead? 0 tell me!” she cried, starting up. She could not faint; she -could hardly see or feel; but she strove with, all her powers- to keep the terrible realization from her.
“No, Miss, he ain’t dead, but he’s mighty bad hurt with a bullet in his lungs: He says to me: “‘Give this to the young lady, you’ll find waitin’, if anything happens to me.’ I reckon it saved his life.”. And . he . handed the golden locket, now bent and ?, smashed out of shape by the bullet whose. murderous course it had deflected. •	,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
54
Varsity
Verse.
OMAR REDIVIVUS.
T SOMETIMES wonder when I take a book And through its treasured wisdom idly look If such as I, who scan the printed page. Will find a place in one by hook or crook.
Though mam- men industriously pore, .Exploring wisdom’s sea from shore to shore, Not one may plumb the deeps ere undertows Have snatched and swept him to the nevermore.
In all the years since Adam first began
To eat the fruit that placed us ’neath a ban, No mortal ever gained his heart’s desire, But saw it wither ere his earthly span.
A secret lies within each fragile flower, And in the passage of the fleeting hour;
None know but God, but, if a mortal could, The universe would tremble at his power.
Divinity within the crimson rose
And in the purple sunset flames .and glows;
The least of His creation is instinct
With purpose—man alcne degraded grows.
The wind of summer time forever cries
Of life , immortal—love that never dies.
The wind of winter wails above the grave In mournful accents: “Low the summer lies.”
. All Primavera’s roses serve this end
As in the gale they delicately bend;
To show the things we find desirable
Give thorny greeting; careful, alien, oh, friend!
“To moralize is very easy,” said An old philosopher long ages fled, “To practice what they preach the very wise Alone remember—most of them are dead.”
Yet honesty, which many say is rare. And good as gold, lies open to the air, Which to discover, seek a little while .
Among the poor; Lis all they have to spare.
Behold the poppy hides its crimson head;
Amid the golden wheat' as if in dread;
Thus genius lies unnoticed for. awhile,	.
.Till eager hands reveal the heart that bled.
The lover on his. mistress often waits, .
His -muse. the poet oft importunates;	.
Both are capricious, but the latter’s arm .Forever beckons through the ivory gates.
Omar, because within these later days
Thou hast. renewal of poetic bays. Thou art thyself- an augury that cries, = “Your fame departs’and nothing human stays'.”
- . In these primal hours at college _.	‘ Where I seek for. truth and knowledge
H. L.. Jn • the.,-7light-.our i Blessed ; .Lady casts about the in days.gone bye. „	golden Dome,	,	-
; \We didn’t . have to strive, and . strain .	.	. . •	. Like to labyrinths of learning . . \
. Wlien life was rough and things were plain,	Must ri'yield unto, the yearning,
'And men-forsooth; were- half way sane .. That creeps o’er-.mesfof.the sweetness of .my .dear old ?	- - In days gone bye. ' ■ :	.	- ' CyT'	Home,- Sweet-Home? • P. E. H.
We don’t know what good milk is now, Nor where they get it. I’ll allow;
But we got milk right from the cow In days gone bye.
Our mixtures, too, are hard to beat, But folks were satisfied to eat • Just common, plain and simple meat, In days gone bye.
Tonsorial artists trim our hair .In styles so neat and debonair, But barbers did the work I, swear, In days gone bye.
And then we didn’t reckon worth .
By family trees or noble birth,	*
Or landed claims on half the earth, In days gone bye.
I guess these things have come to stay,, ‘ Yet life was pure and just, as gay,.
When lived in the old-fashioned way In davs gone bve.
.	. '	'	T. A L.
HORSEPLAY. . .
(Air: “Yankee Doodle.’’)
Johnny had a little horse,— ' A pony, don’t you know,—	.
And everywhere that Johnny went That horse was sure to go.
. It followed him to school one day,
. Which was against the rule, And Johnny heard his neighbor say, “Let’s see that horse, you fool!”
Now Johnny passed along the thing . To Freddy o’er the way
And like those tearful songs they sing, He heard the teacher say:
, Chorus (fortissimo).
0 Johnny, Johnny-, cut it out! .	-
You’ll rue that trick some day;
Unless you .just can’t do without, . Whv throw" vour horse a wav!
- ’ ' L '	' F. D.
HQME, SWEET HOME. .
As I ponder o’er vacation	.
Spent upon the old plantation
Where I whiled the joyful moments with the loved ones . '. , . in the gloam, •	"
There’s a charm of magic power,
L ’ Like the fragrance, of a flower,.	'
Fills my soul with secret sunshine—’tis the thought of 1	‘	- Home, Sweet Home.
' NOTRE DAME
The Guarantee of Bank Deposits.
John B. McMahon.
For many years the sentiment has been growing, that the public is entitled to a greater measure of security for then* savinss than is afforded by national and state banks as at present constituted.' As evidence of this feeling of distrust there is an estimated billion dollars belonging.to Americans which is now on deposit in foreign state banks. Everv bank failure accentuates this feeling of insecurity; men hasten to withdraw their deposits; bankers are forced to call in their loans to meet these withdrawals, and so periodically we have a paralysis of business such as we, are now experiencing. There is a crying need for some means of restoring confidence; for some method of giving stability to commerce; something that will prevent . the fluctuation of prices which attends the change’from the scarcity of money to its abundance. There is a demand for a change; and if by some method the money which is now seeking investment in national and municipal bonds at high premiums and low interest, can be directed into the channels of industry, it means ultimately increased interest for the saver, more work and higher wages for the employed, and a better and more prosperous condition which would inevitably be communicated through the different branches of American life.
The existence of such a demand has no better proof than the fact that both of the great political parties have recognized it and inserted in their respective platforms plans which, while widely differing in the means, have a common object in the security they promise to the savings of the American people and the confidence they propose to restore. One of the great issues, therefore, before the American electorate, is whether they prefer the Postal Savings Bank, which is the remedy offered by the J Republican party, or the governmental guarantee of. deposits which is offered by the Democratic party as-one of their strong claims on the support of the American business world. . The Postal Savings Bank is an amplification. of the postal money order system. Under its operations, we presume, a small
SCHOLASTIC
amount of interest would be paid*and the -.---T.-.-? money safely invested; thus making the T ; United States governmentthe creditorof the .	:
saver and the custodian of these funds w*hich .. might be put to any . use the government	.
might think expedient, subject, however, to the demand of the-depositors. Thus the savings of the people are absolutely safe, and • confidence in the business world restored. The Postal Savings Bank as: proposed by the Chicago platform and as explained above. '/ is open to many serious objections. There < .	.
are other , things to be considered besides . - \ security of the depositor; and the money that is deposited in every bank is needed in the business world.	. '
What then would the government do with; .	'—y
the money it receives as deposits? If it holds ' . it without seeking investments, or seeks ' only such secure investments as . municipal; . state and national bonds, it does great . damage to the business world bv withdraw- . \ ing from local industries the money which, :	’ •
under our present system, should be loaned .. ;	'
to them for the upbuilding of shops, starting ; .	;
of mills and the conduct of many other branches of commercial activity. If the; : government officials deposit in other banks, - I . as it is presumable they would, it amounts . to the practical maintenance of-two banking ’y. ■ systems, one of which is obviouslyjsuper^'. ^ flubus. And if the government attempts to conduct a -regular banking system, and to have local bank officials, etc., it amounts To ; L government ownership and management ~ . of the banking business, and is opposed- to	.'
the belief which, it is generally conceded, obtains among the American people—that	-
the government should not undertake the operation of a business that might with the same , ease be operated with profit by individuals. In a word, the Repulflican tplanririri < * T while offering security , to the' depositories^ , y a menace to the farmer and business man of any community, since whatever is done . y'y with the deposits, it is attended with inconi . ' - ' venience, useless expense and the*withdrawal - ; ’ of money from the locaT industries which /' yri-'y need it and upon which. local prosperity ' 'T '7 depends. *,	. - - . / . - -	. - .
The remedy proposed by the Democratic: - >yri>T party in its platform as adopted at Denver ri<Tri is, in my opinion, far superior to .the.proposed ri-ri’Criri Postal Savings Bank. . It has had, bn: a. ririri£ri
5$
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
smaller scale, a trial in Oklahoma, out of prevents the sudden withdrawals and reac-which there has come little if any well- tion, would-tend to introduce an element of
founded objection. If is strictly in accord with the prevalent belief that “govern
mental regulation and control
be sought than governmental o	o
and operation.”
Briefly stated the plan is this: government shall levy a small
is more to ownership
The federal tax on all
national banks in proportion to their deposits. This fund shall be placed at the disposal of the .comptroller of the treasury, and upon the failure . of any bank shall be used by him to pay off all depositors in full. Efforts will then be made and every legal process used for the purpose of realizing upon the assets-of the defunct bank and collecting from those who are liable, for the reimbursement of the fund. This same fund would also provide for a strict system of examination and inspection with a view to lessening, if possible, the average number of failures. Estimates made by those who have given the plan careful study, and which are based upon the average losses from failures in past years, indicate that a fund sufficient for these purposes could be raised by the small tax of onetenth of one per cent of the average deposit per annum in the national banks. This embodies the idea of federal guarantee of national bank deposits. It is clear, however, that if such action were once taken with reference to national banks the various states would be obliged to establish a similar system of guarantee for deposits in banks operating, under a state charter. The alternative would be the annihilation of state banks.	.
This plan recommends itself by several advantages which render it far more feasible -than the scheme of the Postal Savings
conservative bank with the same credit, _ and would naturally tend to increase the - Bank. If the people were absolutely secure, . deposits in smaller banks at the expense as they would be under governmental guar- of the . larger. In a word, by destroying . antee,.bank failures , resultant upon sudden . the-necessity>.for. discrimination, Mr. Forgan withdrawals . or 'a run on the . bank, would believes . the larger banks would suffer a be no longer possible. The. sudden with7 great wrong. Uis objection is not,.however, drawal of money . creates a scarcity, and well, taken, and. Mn Bryan, in an answer to
. prices consequently soar. The return of con- him, . .states that laws are made for the fidence, which is merely .the inevitable reac- people not for the :bankers, and maintains tion, renders money less scarce and prices that if the? advantage that the large bank = drop. This is one of the reasons for fluctu- possesses over, the smaller bank depends on atirig prices. It is obvious, .therefore, that the insecurity? the depositors, it is any system which, as this apparently does, better“that the advantage be destroyed that
stability into business which would benefit almost every class of industry. A paralysis of business is occasioned ordinarily by withdrawal of monejr from activity. It also is, directly or indirectly, the result of lack of confidence. The firm establishment of confidence, therefore, eliininates this possibility. Thus while the depositor’s money w ould be safe, the banker would feel more secure in loaning money on reasonable security and for a longer period, in the knowledge that no unforeseen condition of public confidence would demand its sudden withdrawal. The result would be a direct benefit to the farmer who must raise his crops,' to the merchant who must borrow to increase or replenish his stock, to the. producer who must buy his raw material, etc., and, indi-rectlv,to the toiler who would,in the general prosperity and diminution of the “army of unemployed,” find himself with more steady employment and higher wages. Above all, the plan possesses this decided advantage over the Postal Savings Bank—that the money remains in the locality where deposited, favors the local industry and farm, and avoids the tendency to drift to the already too-congested money centres.
This .plan, however, is not without its critics, and any discussion of it would be most incomplete without some reference to the objections urged against it by Mr. James ■ Forgan. Mr. Forgan is a member of the National Bankers’ association. He speaks * therefore .with considerable authority, when he states that the plan is. unfair to the long-established, conservative and honest bank, in so far as it clothes the smaller and less
I
NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
the people may be secured. He. maintains however that any advantage that the larger banks have over the smaller ones will still remain.- For example, there is a statute . which prohibits a bank from lending more ' than one-tenth of its capital stock to one man. The larger bank, having a larger capital stock, would be able to loan a larger amount to one man and would be in a better ■ position to demand higher interest and loan more of its money than the smaller banks. By having a larger income it could afford j to pay higher interest, and consequently could and would obtain-the larger amount of deposit. The legitimate advantage would still remain.
Mr. Forgan, however, makes still another objection to the plan; It is that under a' guarantee the rascal or speculator without any qualification for wise banking could go out with the authority of a National Bank and solicit money with which to speculate. The depositors would not care what he did because their deposits would be guaranteed bv the government. Thus, Mr. Forgan maintains, “wild cat” banking would be encouraged, the rascal clothed with the same credit as the honest man, and, as a consequence, the standard of banking lowered. - .	-	-
Mr. Forgan, however, fails to consider the system of inspection and examination provided by the plan. The speculation of the “would be” bankers would not long continue. In addition to this, if the fund which remunerated depositors, were raised - by a general tax, it would give an incentive to all honest bankers to seek the betterment of the system of regulation. Where they are now apathetic, since a failure does not touch their interest but rather in the end - ’ helps them, the large bankers would be most vigorous in' their demand for the attachment of strict criminal penalties for violation of banking laws and for the strict enforcement of same. We believe, therefore, that contrary to Mr. Forgan’s conclusions, . and with all respect to his experience, the .	. proposed guarantee act would rather elevate
than'lower The. character of banking..
Another objection that has been urged, is -- . that it. is unjust to tax a good bank for . the losses of another bank with the failure . of which it is in no. way connected. The
plan is merely compulsory
insurance.
the same reason that I voluntarily am willing to payan assessment occasioned, by . -another man’s losses in which I am in ' no way connected, should the depositor be ; willing to bear his share of the losses of . defunct banks. The consideration- is the security he will possess. It is of course ' clear that the tax is not upon the bank or the officials, but is only through them laid upon the depositor. It comes from him in the decreased interest that the bank will pay him. Judging, however, from the . demand' for secure investments of low interest bonds at premium, the people are . willing to pay for security. '	’ / .	;
In its issue of October 3d, the Saturday ; : -Evening Post, anent tlie guarantee of Deposits, recites that last-January the Republican Chairman of the House Committee on Bank- . ing and Currency introduced a biU providing : for governmental guarantee of deposits, that . this measure was endorsed by Horace White, Lyman Gage, ex-Secretary of Treasury, and many other prominent Republicans. This fact indicates that the idea of govern-. .' mental guarantee is something more, than a ? campaign nostrum of one party’. .	' . ..
' Patriots.
Otto A. Schmid, ’09-	..
'J'HE brave may fall and perish, all " .
By tyrant’s hand,	.	' . .< -
But long they’ll live and courage give	'
Their native land.	‘
’Twere long to tell how many	fell	■.
In freedom’s name.	.	.	3
The tyrant’s dread that’ struck them: dead'. ?•: Did but inflame.	. . ..	-	. r
A'nation’s men will rise again	. '-X
'	In future time	. , s:
To wipe out all the shame and'gall '
.	• With strength sublime: ' . . ’
For heroes fight for truth and right
’ Through dark and gloom; '..7 ./-
' . ..They stand their ground and boldly sound/..| .	.	.' The iyrant’s doom. .? .	'	>
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term 1 imc at the University of Notre Dame.
-ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana
Notre Dame, Jndiaca, October 3, J9C8,
Board of Editors.
IGNATIUS MCNAMEE, ’09	RICHARD COLLEKTINE, ’09
OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09	JOHN B. KANALEY, ’09
'HARRY LEDWIDGE. ’09	GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10
PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 ’ EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09 DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10	PAUL R. MARTIN, ’10
THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ll
—To many, “resolutions” bring visions of Jan. 1st, but to the college man they7 mean something entirely different. January resolutions are, as a rule, not Resolutions, considered really serious by many, but September resolutions are the “real article.” Every7 man should enter college with the purpose of bettering his condition, of becoming a real factor in the world when he completes his education. Consequently he must make a few7 resolutions to conform to these aspirations for the future. Let them be few, but to the point. Let them extend moreover to those actions the effect of which shall have the widest influence on’his present as well as his future existence. Finally, let them be observed with a rigidity and an obstinacy that shall never waver. If such be the case there is little fear that the coming months, or even years, will be a cause for undue apprehension.
■—According to the verdict of a prominent visitor, Notre Dame is a unique institution. This is a distinction well worth having, and . -	it is up to the student body to
Caps and Gowns, keep it. We have some tradi-. tions which have been handed down from generation to generation, and it seems a pity .to see one of these traditions
broken in - order to make room for some custom which is 'generally7 borrowed from some other college. This was done about four years ago,- when the Junior class gave up the time-honored custom of appearing on festive occasions in cap and gown. Prior to that time our public gatherings and processions took on a dignified air, and with both upper classes and the faculty7 appearing in scholastic dress the showing made w7as such that it reflected great credit on the University. Since that time our processions have been made up of a handfull of seniors and’ a few faculty members. The result is pitiful, although commendation is due the men who are striving to keep alive the custom. The class of 1910 is casting about in an' effort to establish a custom that will perpetuate its- memory. How much better it would be for them to come to the rescue of an old tradition, and by adopting the cap and gown in their Junior year, make our processions look bigger and grander than ever. With the increased number of students that we have at the present time, the effect w7ould make Notre Dame appear at its best, and strangers within our gates at such times would go away with a good impression of the institution. Get together, Juniors, and adopt the cap and gown at your first -class meeting. The seniors should also show their spirit by providing themselves with the proper regalia as. should those faculty members who have not already done so.
—The time, it seems, is especially ripe for comment on the real Notre Dame spirit. Time was, and not so very long ago, when the classes and halls w’ere entirely Notre Dame pervaded by that, spirit, and Spirit. carried _ everything off with a • dash and enthusiasm that made people feel that it was a pleasure and a genuine privilege to live at Notre Dame. An essential spirit of good fellowship permeated the whole place, and the college entered into the thing of the moment whether .baseball, football, track or social matters, with a vim and spirit that even defeat could not dampen. But a short time ago every, class decided to leave some token of its spirit: by starting customs which
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	59
should be a living proof that its spirit was alive. Thus it was that the “Dome,” the Senior “Prom,” the Junior “Prom” and other customs were established, which have since become an integral part of university life. In a social way, the spirit of Notre Dame has been of the true college type, and good fellowship and Bohemianism have characterized it. In these matters Corby Hall has lead the way. Last year several of the more spirited of the men of Sorin ^initiated the social movement in that hall xwhich resulted in the congenial and happy gathering, the pleasant memories of which will long linger in the minds of those present, typifying in the highest that true spirit of Notre Dame.’ Each class and each hall should resolve to do all in its power toward promoting a hearty feeling of good will among the entire student body, and in the support of their teams and of all their representatives they should always make the rare case of victory over us seem poor and empty by their enthusiastic and vigorous outpouring of all that the true Notre Dame spirit means and stands for.
—As a profession, modern journalism stands high, this being especially true in America. As a natural consequence its ranks are being recruited year College Journalism, after year from among the young men who having finished their college courses wish to enter a field that presents the attractions of an active life. The aspiring journalist must be ■wide awake; he must be able to grasp ideas •and apply them practically, for the news-• paper waits for no man, and there is no room for the drone. Horace Greeley said that the successful journalist must learn his profession by “sleeping on paper and eating ink,” but the advance of time has suggested another method that is not only growing in popularity but in practicability. The journalist of the future will be trained in the* rudiments of the profession by a regular college course, just as the doctor, the lawyer or the scientist; is trained. He will learn the elements of news-gathering, of copyreading and of editing under skilled instructors who can point out to him. his mistakes and suggest the proper remedy. The gradu
ate from the journalistic course will be able to enter a newspaper office, and by reason of this fundamental knowledge -will secure more salary and more responsible work. It is true that there are many problems , in the newspaper field that can never be solved save by rubbing against the problems themselves and mastering them by experience, but the graduate of a good journalistic course should be a.ble to start in at least four years in advance of the beginner who has not had the advantage of such training. A number of such courses are now being offered at various American colleges and the system is proving to be of more than ordinary interest.
—Coincident with the opening of the gridiron season arises that ever-insistent question of college rooting, its- value, its organization, and its effective-Anent Rooting, ness. At Notre Dame the subject is one that comes home forcibly to every student who -wishes to see the Gold and Blue fly high among the college emblems of the West, for, regret it as we may, the fact yet remains that our rooting in years past has not been in keep- ■ ing with the superiority of our teams. • This observation is not the outcome of indifference or lack of enthusiasm on the part of. the students; but is, in the main, due to the absence of organization and concerted pracT tice in the rendition of our songs and yells. It is unquestionably true that the student bodv has ever been with the wearers of the Gold and Blue in spirit; but how much more inspiring and effective it would be if that spirit of loyalty were voiced, not in scattering and discordant outbursts, but in long-practised and unified harmony.. It is not a question ’ of spirit and loyalty, for Notre Dame yields precedence to none in that line, it is a question of the proper expression'of that spirit and loyalty. The time to get-busy has arrived. .This year our material is of an. exceptionally high calibre; in Victor Place we have one of the' best coaches in the West, and now it is up to you who occupy the sidelines to do your share. When a yell is called for don’t think, it is intended for the fellow next, to you, jt is intended, for you. Respond with
6o	NOTRE DAME
- all the lustiness at your1 command, never let your enthusiasm lag, and you can rest assured that the man who is battling for victory will not fail to ‘‘make good” when spurred on by the knowledge that you are behind him every minute whether in defeat or triumph. We have stirring songs and yells, but if you are endowed with any gift of composition get the spirit and help to increase the number. Our rooting needs greater variety- and more lusty rooters. Let it be said at Thanksgiving that we have acquired both.
—In the daily life of every student there are little fragments of time which if sedulously saved, can add another story to the structure of knowledge. They Odd Moments, might be put to good use with - the possibility of abundant reward in reading or in memorizing some worthy lines. Men have become noted for aptness by having economized their little intervals. They are too often squandered on a smoke or an idle chat.
SCHOLASTIC
Lecture by Dr. J. Godfrey. Raupert.
Dr. J. Godfrey Raupert, the author of “Modern Spiritism,” “Dangers of Spiritism,” “Ten Years in Anglican Orders” and several other volumes, addressed-the faculty of the University at a smoker Friday night on the subject of Modern Spiritism. The discourse, which lasted more than an hour, was of extraordinary interest, and Dr. Raupert has promised to continue the subject at another meeting.
. Dr. Raupert has undertaken a crusade against the evils of Spiritism at the urgent request of the Holy Father, Pope Pius X. It is his purpose to visit the chief seminaries and colleges of America and to propagate right opinions on this subject. He is a charming man socially, and his own experience, together with his scientific researches, are of the most amazing character.
Student Activities.
—The International Moral Education Congress, held in London last week, is but another expression of universal brotherhood.
When the nations of the
The Moral w’orld join hands to dis-Education Congress, cuss any important subject, their interchanging of ideas naturally results in establishing good-fellowrship. , The object of the recent congress was to adopt a method of teaching whereby every subject and every lesson might be permeated with the moral idea. ..By thus vitalizing all subjects, it was thought that “the absorbed interest in what-is being taught,’ manifested by the pupils, renders threats and prohibitions altogether superfluous.” The general good that would come from such a movement was immediately realized by those represented at the congress. Besides the interest that such a method will impart to instruction and learning, we think that the meeting of the nations will be’an aid in the promotion of universal peace and brotherhood, since it creates likeness of views and conformity of action.	.	..
Now- that the annual resuscitation of so many mushroom state clubs, with little or no laudable purpose ahead of them is about due, - we turn in pleasant anticipation, to Brownson and Corby Literary Societies and to the results they hope to attain during the winter. Though Corby has not yet reorganized, we wish to offer the .members of both halls our quota of praise for the work they , accomplished last year, and to make one or two suggestions for the broadening of their influence. .
Sociability is the keynote of success in every activity. Nearly as far-reaching results are accomplished by mutual good will as by argument and industry. If that be true, why should the two organizations not hold joint assemblies now and again, providing ’ entertainment, and perhaps something more substantial, to while away a pleasant hour? These mutual good-feeling festas need not be held so often as to affect the individuality of either society or the serious results-they are accomplishing, but frequently enough to break up the monotony of a long season, and to promote that cheery good-fellowship and rivalry between the two halls which
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
is all important to the proper development and support of all college enterprises.
Another.splendid innovation would be the establishment of a student lecture bureau. The directors or delegates from the two societies could consult with post-graduates and students who have some ability in the way of platform speaking, and could draw up a course of lectures to be delivered by those students before the Corby and before /the Brownson organizations; The advan-‘tages of such a bureau would be twofold: it would, obtain the best talent in the University and it would eliminate to a degree the abominable tendency of most upper classmen ‘to extemporize a few bombastic platitudes, when they are paid the compliment, of ah attentive and all too frequently a patient, ^•suffering audience before either of these societies. If a student is asked to deliver the same talk before two societies, he is more apt not to abuse his privilege by retailing a few saws about hall spirit than he would be inclined to do if there were only one occasion for him to appear It is an imposition on any society to demand that it sit politely through a long, aimless harangue, and if the proposed lecture bureau will do away with, or at least minimize, this one evil, it is well deserving of serious consideration
Athletic Notes.
Interest in. the football situation this week centred in the selection of the Varsity ’ first team which Coach' Place announced Monday night: Matthews, L. E.; Edwards, L. T.; Paine, L. G.; Miller, C.; Dolan, R. G.; Dimmick, R. T.; Burdick, R. E.; McDonald, L. H.; Clinin, R. H.; Vaughan, F. B. The list looks formidable, but there is a possibility of some changes as several of the second string are showing steady improvement, and some promising candidates have reported since the line-up was given out. •
The second big reverse of the season came Tuesday when “Bob” Paine, the husky guard of last year’s team, announced his retirement from the game for the remainder of the year in deference to the wish of his parents. The loss of Paine is a severe blow to the chances of the team, and has caused
61
widespread regret among the rooters. His work last year was of the steady, consistent kind that wins games, and. with the experience gained last season he was expected to lend great strength to the middle of the line. ■
Just at present Lynch looks like the most promising candidate for'the vacancy, as his aggressiveness. and pluck last year made him a strong man at tackle, and it is believed that the shift will not affect his playing.	....
Clippinger, who was making a strong bid for half-back, left school Tuesday, but the addition, of Ruel and Kennedy still leaves us an abundance of backfield material.
The practice during the week has. been devoted mostly to scrimmage and signal work. The showing, however, has been a disappointment to Coach Place,-and he will put the men through some hard paces for the next couple of weeks in preparation for the Michigan game the 17th. The linemen have been giving him the most anxiety, as their work in the scrimmages has been ragged on the whole, and they seem unable either to stop the plays directed against them or to make holes for their own backfield. The hot weather, no doubt, has been partially responsible for the poor showing, and it is believed that the cool breezes will witness a big improvement in the general work,
* • ’ * * , .
So efficient has been the drilling of the second team by Assistant. Coach Lantry that the regulars have registered but one touchdown thus far, that of Tuesday afternoon, when a series of end> runs and some spectacular line bucking by Vaughan gave them, the first blood.	,	.	.-
x ' * -- ’ * * - '
The squad are mastering, the signals rapidly, and Coach Place will devote his efforts from now on to developing speed and smoothness in running off the plays.
- ' * * . ,
The “secret practice” sign was in evidence Wednesday for the first time, and the men were given a two hours’ hard drill behind closed gates. A tw’enty-minute scrimmage was the main feature- of the afternoon, and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
62
the “do it now” spirit made its first real appearance. It was the fiercest yet.
* .
*• *
Dwyer and Duffy have been on the sick list, but will be in the fray again the first of the week. Wood has been having trouble with his knee, and is taking but light
J	00
■work-outs. . . * * * *
Kennedy donned a suit Tuesday, and his speed and aggressiveness came as a surprise to the side-liners. With a continuation of the form displayed on his initial appearance he will keep some of the ends busy thinking about their berths.
. * *
The appearance on Wednesday of Ruel, the crack shortstop of the Varsity, gladdened the hearts of the rooters. His speed and •weight will go far in getting him a position in the backfield. '	•
* * - -
Ryan and Hamilton are showing rare class at quarter. Both handle the signals with speed, and are bringing the rooters to their feet with some spectacular dodging in running back punts. * -
. . * *
McDonald, Clinin, and Vaughan form a great trio in the backfield. Speed and ability to pick holes are their long points. The way Vaughan hits the line brings back memories of the mighty Salmon.
* ’ . * *
Schmitt, Clement, Dionne, and Kelly are getting away fast behind the line, and are developing with every practice. ’
. . - * * "
The announcement that Captain. Miller will again be in his old., place at centre puts an end to the speculation that has been going; on among the rooters. It- relieves the - anxiety considerably.	. .
\	\	; j	'
. Mertes, Sullivan, Freeze^ Henning, Gerunde and Kelly are showing improvement in the line, and have been the chief obstacles to the gbalward progress of the Varsity.
b J '.T *T* ■ ty	.
given ( above a will probably
start the game against Hillsdale this afternoon. It is also likely that several of the second string will be given a chance to prove their mettle.'
. ' '	. *,	-
Dimmick and Edwards have been pulling off some stellar stunts at tackle and look like fixtures.	.
■ * .	*	*	X.
Dolan is showing better form than ever, and the man who beats him out for the guard position will be going some.
* *
Burdick, and Matthews are working well at end, but are meeting strong opposition in Moriarty, Kennedy, Wood, Roth, Murphy and Collins.	J. B. K.
An Alumnus ; Honored.
It is seldom that a young man wins his way into the affections of business associates so quickly and sb thoroughly as was the case of Mr. Hugh O’Donnell (Litt. B. 1894). Mr. O’Donnell has been in Chicago less than fifteen months and during that time he has been a prominent, figure in the ad ver- . tising department of the Chicago RecordHerald. Recently he was appointed advertising manager of the Minneapolis Journal, and before his departure from the city his business associates on the Record-Herald, yas well as the prominent advertisers of the city, met . at a formal. dinner in his honor in the Chicago Athletic Club. As Air. ’ O’Donneiris noted for his loyalty to Notre Dame, the President of the University made a special journey to - Chicago to . attend the dinner..	-	.	..
At the'conclusion of the . dinner there were toasts from more Than a dozen of the guests,' and it would . be hard to express in . a brief'space the respect, admiration and affection manifested by the speakers. Indeed it seldom happens, that one has the' opportunity; of hea ring’ such cordial and heartfelt tributes from man. to man. It is convincing proof that, -Mr. O’Donnell has fulfilled the ^promise; of <his’.years? at the University/ and our bestwishes go with him to his new field of labor./ ?’ty tyty. ty.
I	•	-
-	~	J-'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	'
Senior Class Election.
Personals.
The first meeting of the class of ’09 took place last Sunday eve in the Law lecture room of Sorin Hall. According to the usual order of business the seniors proceeded to the election of officers for the year. The choice for class-president fell upon Mr. Ignatius. E. McNamee of Portland, Oregon. Mr. ^McNamee’s previous popularity and. merit which won for him the position of editor in chief of the Dome, assures the presence of a capable guide to the “grads elect.” Mr. Leo. Hamerski, Minnesota, well known in engineering circles, was accorded the vice - presidency; Mr. Leo, J. Hogan of Pa., was made secretary; John J. Kennedy, also of Pa., treasurer; Edward P. Cleary, Illinois, historian, and Harry Ledwidge, Pa., class poet.
All the new officers are men of long standing and foremost in all that pertains to student life. After the election the problems of the year were taken up, and the interest displayed by the members indicates that the class of ’09 possess not only a wealth of talent and character, but a rare decree of energetic initiative in all that pertains to the welfare and standing of the class. The class aim to cherish those principles which shall win for them, a title of honor in that illustrious band of faithful sons—the Alumni of Notre Dame.
'■J
Car Shortage.
There is great danger of a standstill fin o	o
the movement of grain during the coming winter, on account of the shortage of cars.
. Several railroads throughout' the United States are already feeling the need of extra cars-. On account of the possibility of the mines shutting down,, several coal dealers are laying in heavy supplies,' and. the coal has been 'moving north in such .quantities that the Cars are. all in use. The Chicago . and Alton, has used its last car, and the
. Wabash. has already called- for its cars . from other roads. This shortage is likely to be felt most in. the Northwestern states, as it was . a few years ago. There are so few roads there that the grain may, not be moved before spring. ’	.	-
—Tom Tobin, the genial giant of the ’07	- . ; -f
class, has been made city and county engineer. f ' A of Madison, South Dakota. . ..	. ?	. ;
.. —Varnum Parish (Litt. B.,’08) has joined .. - . X Max Jursichek in Germany, and they will . continue their tour of Europe together. \	:
—Thomas J. Jordan (Com’l ’87) is- with	X-X' ;
0. B. Tower & Co.. Kansas City, Mo. The	*
business is in real estate and. investments. w. < . ;
—A cordial letter of congratulation on the	„
organization of the Alumni has been received ' from Henry AI. Kemper (Litt.B. ’05).. Henry :	y
is a loyal alumnus.	•
—Bob ~ Bracken, star quarter of the .’08 -. X ; _ Varsity and assistant coach of last year’s .	- .
team, has entered a law partnership in Palp, ■ - /' Illinois, tinder the firm name of Bracken . f, i / and Read.	-	. ■ .5.
—John Brogan, Captain • of the “ champs ’’	<. ,
of last season and all-round-good fellow, y spent a few days with us on his way-to - > , Yale where he will do some postgraduate work in law. '	.	..	gyriX-X’-
—Mr. E. J. North, formerly a student at \ . ri the University, accompanied by Mrs.; North, ,yX 7 spent a few days here in the recent past. - - . Mr; North.is now a specialty salesman for X a large firm in Alinneapolis..	.	.	/-X 1 .
—Robert E. Anderson. (M. E. 1908) has - ri ri taken up Mining Engineering at the Boston .	; >
Institution of Technology. John Berteling J (C. E.), president of last year’s class, will ~ . -follow the same course at the Houghton .	' .
School of Alines in Michigan,	-	;;X-X
—An interesting announcement from Alin- J X neapolis during the summer vacation told	;...
of the marriage of Aliss Linda .Maley to , ri X Mr. Frank O’Hara, on August 25th. Dr. gX-riX O’Hara and his bride, will make their home ' X?. ri< after October 1st at Kenilworth, Illinois.
The Scholastic offers congratulations and - 4 ygriri .best wishes. .	X 1 . ri .	. ri’ X
—When Hugh O’Donnell goes to ' Min- xX'riX neapolis to assume the office of advertising '7 -X manager of '.the-.-JbnrnaZ^his.--rival., in. the . gggbgX field will be Fred Murphy, another old Notre , Xrig Dame boy, who ? isg advertising manager . g .< 4X4 of .the Minneapolis Tribune. Fred is a 74 famous advertising manager and so is Hugh. ‘ XXriff It will, be-interesting to watch developments ; 7; ’XriSS when they come, together in Minneapolis.
64
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Local Items.
—A class in the principles of mining engineering was started yesterday, and will be held daily at 4:30 p. in. in Science Hall. Open to all students.
—The furniture for Old College has at last arrived, but much of it is still in the crates. There is satisfaction in having it piled in the corridors at any rate; possession is nine ’ points of the law.
—The Philopatrian Society, Carroll Hall, met on Thursday night and elected officers: W. Cotter, president; R. Newton, recording secretary; W. P. Downing, corresponding secretary; J. Ford ice, sergeant-at-arms.
—Mmeralogy will be taught on Wednesdays and Saturdays at 1:30 p. m. in Science Hall.
Chemistry II. will be taught in Science Hall Tuesdays and Fridays at 9:00 a. m.
—Another bell has been added to the University’s equipment, and often during the day its treble note reminds us that there is in our midst a modern ..monastery, a place of quiet and retirement almost in the heart of an active community.
—Students desiring to take the course of electro-chemistry should make arrangements with the professor at room 6, Science Hall, at any time between 8:00 and 12 a. m. Lectures three times a week for one semester. It is required that Chemistry Second be finished.
—A short-story contest has been inaugurated by the Extension Magazine of Chicago. It is a free-for-all proposition, and carries ■ with it a stipend of one hundred dollars to the winner. Here is a chance for easy money. Let the: gentlemen of the quill get busy without delay. .
—At a meeting held Wednesday evening St. Joseph’s Hall Literary Society organized for the, year. The following officers were elected: Thos.Cleary,president; Elmo Funk, vice-president; Edwin Gaffney, secretary; Ed J. Ouinn, treasurer; Frank J. Doorley reporter and Lawrence McDonald sergeant-at-arms. Father Scnumacher was named honorary president and Brother Florian . director.
. Great interest has been shown thus far, .and a pleasant and profitable year is anticipated.
—The Scholastic is asked to announce that the gymnasium is to be used for the convenience of athletes and for gymnastic purposes only—no loafers; also that there is to be no smoking in the gymnasium. The. last one was burned down as a result of a cigarette carelessly thrown away. Those . -who have inside information are aware that the-administration is adverse to building a
new gymnasium this season, so students are requested not ~ to jeopardize the one they have by recklessly throwing burning stubs about the floors.
—The old guard of Brownson’s Glee Club got together Sunday afternoon and elected officers for the current season. The selections -w7ere: Brother Alphonsus, honorary president; Albert Keys, president; E. L. McDermott, secretary-treasurer. The Glee Club will be under the direction of Father Maguire and will unite with the Brownson , Hall Literary Society in giving entertainments once a month. Rumor has it that Browmson warblers will put on “Die Walkure” during the opera season, but we are requested to nail the report.
—Within the last few years a very marked advancement has been noted in the engineering- department. The courses of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering were added to the curriculum only about ten years ago, but the number of graduates in these programs has been steadily increasing. During vacation a class in shopwork was organized, and the work was carried on so - successfully that the class will probably be taught at the University every summer. Students in shopwork recently coustructed four new lathes of fifteen-inch swing with six-foot beds.
—The, “tried and trues” of Brownson Literary and Debating Society held a meeting Thursday, Sept. 24, to determine who should run the ship for the next ten months. F. Madden was elected admiral; J. Maloney, vice-commander; John Devine, purser; Leo Schumacher, quartermaster; James O’Flynn, chaplain; Martin Heyl, newspaper correspondent; James O’Leary, boatswain. Mr. Farrell will be critic. The organization this year is very exclusive, and if you have any- • thing better than “Prep” standing you can’t get in. A senior division, however, may be started later as a sort of third degree for the freshmen. .	„
—Watch us grow! Corby and Sorin, Brownson, Carroll and Old College, have all been filled to an overflow. The rector of Sorin,:however, is still housing the homeless. This is how he does it. At first he assigned a room to each man, then as they kept filling in he assigned a man to each room. Move your trunks into the. corner, gentlemen, he’s on the third round now. But-Sorin isn’t the only. Hall that has men using the step-ladder to get into, bed; here; are the facts: The registration covering students attending classes from all the halls on October 1, 1907, was 757;; for the corresponding date this ’ year it was 859, an increase of 102 students over.the former date. And still they come! Get ready to strike for a free day when we
- reach the thousand mark.	•