ms
b°0k is Be4 u , n fro® ta© Mbrary AX ' 936
NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
The success of your school year will largely depend on the efficiency of your eyes.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Patronize “Scholastic” Advertisers
Two
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
For many years student self-government was the prime objective of various groups on all the campi of this country. In recent years, however, such an objective is hardly of any real importance according to the Associated Collegiate Press and as proof this collegiate news service cites the example of the Norfolk Division of William and Mary College. This institution is the latest to drop its students governing assembly and when its Men’s Senate resigned in a body it did so with the statement that "lack of student problems has made these offices impracticable.”
—o—
Incidentals: In order to further research work on the study of infantile paralysis Columbia has received a §13,000 Rockefeller Foundation grant ... By coating the plants with copper sulphate experts of farm agriculture at Cornell University are able to produce thick skinned onions. . . An Olympic cup that was won sixteen years ago by Springfield College in Massachusetts was just delivered to that institution. . . Northwestern University now has a graduate course in traffic control and Cornell Univer-. sity has a credit course open for women in a walking class.
—o—
A professor of history at the University of California has adopted a new policy in attempting to eliminate cuts in his classes. The professor is Doctor Herbert Bolton and his solution to this perplexing academic problem is to offer a daily prize to the student submitting the best limerick summarizing the previous lecture.
—o—
When two reporters of the Daily Californian recently requested a recount of the ballots cast in a campus election it was revealed that only 1059 votes of the reported 2807 ballots cast could be found.
Harry McGuire, ’25, is the editor of a new magazine, Ringmaster, which made its initial appearance on the newsstands during April. The publication, which aims to present the world in caricature, includes such ■writers as Stanley Walker, John R. Tunis, and John Winterich, and such artists as Chad Grothkopf, Caesar Cirigliano, and Kenenth Becker.
-- While an undergraduate McGuire was a member of The Scholastic staff, was active in debating, being awarded the Breen oratorical medal, and was also captain of the tennis team.
PICNIC at the DUNES/
The call of outdoors is upon us . . . and for the benefit of those who do not know their local geography you have a garden spot of scenic beauty but a few minutes away ... in the glorious Dunes! Folks travel thousands of miles to view this natural wonderland . . . only 57 minutes from South Bend via South Shore electric train!
Go via SOUTH SHORE Line
Call 3-3111, or write C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, 301 N. Michigan Street, South Bend, about fares and schedules.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
-50^0^1
The DOME . is coming!
Watch for announcement
The Scholastic
I CALENDAR [
Friday, May 1
“Scholastic of the Air” over WSBT at 3:15 from campus studios; Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Indiana on Notre Dame courts; Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Toledo, at Toledo; Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., General staff, 7:00 p.m., Editorial offices; Knights of Columbus Formal Ball, Palais Royale.
Saturday, May 2
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Ohio ■ State at Columbus; Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern; Track, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh; Golf, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, Burke Memorial Course; Movie, “She Married Her Boss” featuring Claudette Colbert, "Washington Hall, first show at 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, May 3
Student Masses 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m.; Officers’ meeting of Knights of Columbus, "Walsh hall clubrooms, 10:30 a.m.; Old Timers’ football game; Monogram Absurdities, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Monday, May 4
Campus radio broadcasts from Engineering bldg, studios, 3:15 and 7:00 p.m.; Aeronautical club meeting, 7:45, Engineering building; Monogram Absurdities, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, May 5
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Chicago, at Chicago; Golf, Notre Dame vs. Louisiana State, Burke Memorial golf course; Final elections, Senior class officers, Dining hall, 1:00-5:00 p.m.; Faculty lecture by Dr. O’Grady in Engineering bldg, auditorium; Chemists’ Club banquet Oliver hotel, 6:30 p.m.	.
Wednesday, May 6
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin at Madison; Meeting of campus Radio Group, Engineering bldg., 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, May 7
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern at Evanston; Radio program from campus station 4:30 and 7:00 p.m.
COLLEGIANA
The Yale University swimming team recently won its 151st successive victory in intercollegiate dualmeet competition by beating Harvard, 45 to 26.
Because Mississippi’s Gov. White has secured virtual control of the six state colleges Mississippi State may lose membership in the Southern Association of Colleges.
'Lucky me! He overlooked my Arrow Shirt!”
• Have you ever worn Par Mitoga? Try it — you’ll understand then why Arrow shirts get to Jie a habit with thousands of college men. Par is a white, finely woven broadcloth shirt, shaped to fit, and topped with the best-looking collar that ever graced your neck. Sanforized Shrunk. ^2
ARROW
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
May I. 1936
Three
Statue of The REV. EDWARD SORIN, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX	May I, 1936	No. 23
DR. WM. MAYO TO SPEAK AT COMMENCEMENT
Knights of Columbus
Hold Formal Tonight
NINETY-SECOND BACCALAUREATE SERMON TO BE GIVEN BY ARCHBISHOP MOONEY
By Louis Da Pra
Chairman Henry Dendler announced yesterday that the advance ticket sale indicates an excellent attendance at the Knights of Columbus Formal to be held this evening in the Palais Royale. Jack Russell and his orchestra will furnish-the music
Chairman Henry Dendler Night of Knights.
for the dance, which will be the highlight of the Knight’s social season.
Introducing a new feature at Notre Dame formals, the orchestra will play a program of dance numbers all of which will be requested from the floor. In addition, members of the band will present a short floor show. Jane Allen, popular radio star who has been heard on the Dodge program, will appear with the orchestra.
Chairman Dendler also reaffirmed the ban on corsages announced in last week’s Scholastic. Permissions for the dance will extend until 12:30 school time. Dancing will be from 8:30 until 12:00.
Other K. - of C. activities planned for the near future include the annual picnic, an exemplification of degrees, and the election of officers for the year 1936-’37. A first degree initiation was held last Monday evening in Walsh Hall. At the subsequent meeting, plans were discussed for the above activities.
Dr. William J. Mayo, world-famous surgeon and co-founder of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, will deliver the Commencement address, and the Most Rev. Archbishop Edward F. Mooney, of Rochester, New York, will preach the Baccalaureate sermon at the ninety-second Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame on Sunday, June 7.
The University will confer honorary degrees upon these two speakers, as well as upon Dr. Charles H. Mayo, associate chief of staff of Mayo Clinic and co-founder with his brother of that institution, and upon Mr. Francis P. Garvan, a New York attorney and founder of the Chemical Foundation of New York.
Four hundred and sixty-six -candidates in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering, Commerce, and Law will be awarded Bachelor degrees in the colorful exercises which will take place in the University gymnasium, Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, announced this week.
One hundred and seventy - four members of the 1936 graduating class will receive degrees with honors, twenty-eight of whom will be awarded the degree of magna cum Imide for scholastic attainment above 90 per cent for the four years.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will officially begin the three-day Commencement program on Friday noon, June 5, with a private talk to the Senior class, and the interim will be taken up with athletic events, reunions, and the annual alumni dinner.
A graduate of the University of Michigan with an M.D. degree in 1883, Dr. William J. Mayo began the practice of surgery at Rochester, Minnesota, and there with his brother developed the internationally - known medical center which bears their name.
Archbishop Mooney, after a successful teaching career at Cathedral
Latin High school in Cleveland, became spiritual director of the North American College in Rome, and was later appointed Apostolic Delegate to India and consecrated titular archbishop of Irenopolis.
In 1931 he was appointed Apos-
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.
Directs Commencement Program
tolic Delegate to Japan. Since August, 1933, he has served as Bishop of the diocese of Rochester, New York. Archbishop Mooney has been & great friend of the University for years.
One of the greatest surgeons in the United States, Charles Horace • Mayo is a graduate of Northwestern University who has become world famous for his operations on the eye, throat and ear, as well as for orthopedic, thoracic, and plastic surgery.
’ He has had a strong influence in the moulding of the practice of surgery, and gave it additional impetus in 1915 with the establishment at the University of Minnesota of the Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research, which he. and his brother endowed to the extent of 82,200,000.
May 1, 1936
Five
SENIOR BALL TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY;
CHAIRMEN OF COMMITEES ANNOUNCED
Plan Nationwide Broadcast
A supper dance in the Oliver Hotel on Saturday evening, May 9, is being planned for seniors and their guests attending the Senior Ball. Tickets have been priced at $1.00 apiece, but this special rate can obtain only if enough reservations are made. Information and reservations may be secured from Bob Burke or Joe Foley in Walsh hall.
Ticket sale for the Senior Ball, premier event on the University’s social calendar, will begin Monday, May 4, in the basement of the dining hall. On Tuesday and Wednesday the sale will continue in the lobby of the dining hall.
With the price of the tickets for both the Senior Ball and the Tea Dance set at $8.00, lowest price in the history of the affair, a large sale is expected. Achilles H. Moorman, chairman-of the ticket committee, and his assistants will accommodate purchasers between 12:30 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Seniors, graduate and law students, as well as faculty members, are eligible to attend the Ball, which is to be held Friday night, May 8, in the Palais Royale, and will feature the sparkling melodies of Freddy Martin and his orchestra, whose captivating dance music has established him as a national favorite.
Plans are being formulated for a nation-wide CBS radio broadcast of Freddy Martin’s music, from the Senior Ball and the Palais Royale, much in the same manner as last year when for the first time a Notre Dame affair received national attention by the airing of Little Jack Little’s orchestra direct from'the Senior Ball.
Up to press time, Robert T. Burke, Jr., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and chairman of the Tea Dance committee, had not announced the orchestra which will furnish the music for that affair, scheduled at the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club, Saturday afternoon, May 9 from 3-5, C.S.T.
It was announced that Thomas Bott, youthful campus pianist and composer, who wrote last year’s Junior Prom song in collaboration with George Miller, has written the Senior Ball song entitled, “I Wonder,” which will be featured by Freddy Martin.
Seventy-one Seniors were appointed by Chairman Schmuhl to committee
Six .
Band Leader
Maestro Freddy Martin The Martin(s) come in the spring.
Class President Cusack Asks Seniors To Omit Corsages
In accordance with our announced policy of making the Senior Ball as inexpensive as possible we are asking those who attend the affair to refrain from the custom of presenting corsages to their guests. We ask this in deference to the many who feel this practice only an added financial burden and one which might prohibit some from attending their class function.
Howard Cusack,
President of Senior Class.
positions for this year’s affair. The committee chairmen are as follows:
Tickets, Achilles H. Moorman; Music, John C. Schultz; Publicity, William J. Darcy; Hall, Daniel T. McLaughlin; Favors, Edward H. Daley; Programs, George B. Meagher; Reception, Lawrence J. O’Toole; Decorations, William J. Smith.
Other chairmen are: Patrons, George E. Milton; Arrangements, Donald M. Kelly; Refreshments, Peter Nemeth; Floor, John J. Cashin; Finance, William B. Stapleton; Invitations, William P. Saffa; Entertainment, Charles J. Boyle; and Door, John A. Torribio.
Search For Radio Talent
Stirs Amateur Interest
The announcement of the new Interhall Radio Talent Contest in last week’s Scholastic has produced an enthusiastic response from student performers and radio fans of the campus. The novelty of the idea, the fact that it offers a splendid opportunity for radio experience, and the interhall nature of the contest have aroused student interest to a point where a real competition is assured.
The hall committees report that the men in the various halls are entering into the spirit of the contest wholeheartedly.
Soloists, trios, quartets, glee clubs, instrumentalists imitators, dramatic artists, tap dancers—all are filling the spring evening with their offerings in an effort to win the honor of representing their hall in the contest. The various masters of ceremonies are surrounding their plans in an air of mystery, working valiantly to produce a fifteen-minute show that will win the trophy for the hall and the individual prizes for the team.
The preliminary programs will begin next week. On Wednesday evening at seven o'clock Freshman and Dillon will be heard in a half hour program, each hall having been allotted fifteen minutes. The evening of Thursday, May 7, has been assigned to Alumni and Badin Halls. This broadcast will be heard from 7:30 to 8:00 o’clock. The Friday program from 7:00 to 7:30 will feature Lyons and Morrissey. The following week will present the remaining halls and the final one-hour program, made up of the four best halls, will be heard early in the week of May 25.
The schedule of the program is as follows: Wednesday, May 6, Freshman and Dillon; Thursday, May -7, Alumni and Badin; Friday, May 8, Lyons and Morrissey; Wednesday, May 13, Off-Campus and Walsh; Thursday, May 14, Carroll and Howard; Friday, May 15, Corby and Sorin; Wednesday, May 20, Brownson and St. Edward’s. Finals: Week of May 25.
TAXI RATE
Robert Burke, chairman of the Senior Tea Dance to be held Saturday afternoon, May 9, announced this week that a special student taxi rate has been obtained from South Bend to the Chain-o’-Lakes Country club where the affair will be held.
The rate, which will be in effect only from town, will be $1.25 one way, and $2.50 round trip. Both the South Bend Cab company and the Indiana Cab company have agreed to carry students at these rates.
The Scholastic
Record Field Scrambles
Through Hectic Primaries
MONOGRAM CLUB PRESENTS '36 VERSION OF ANNUAL 'ABSURDITIES' ON MAY 3 & 4
Ei> Donoguue
Sixty candidates, a record number, clashed in the hectic primaries for class and S. A. C. offices, Tuesday, April 27. Returns announced by Ed Donoghue, S. A. C. chairman of elections, indicate that a record student vote carried four veteran political machines t o landslide victories and defeated two reform cliques.
Next Tuesday, May 5, and Wednesday, May 6, the
general elections will be held in the basement of the dining hall, and Donoghue declared that the eligibility of voters will be determined by class ratings established by the University office prior to the election. In case of doubt, voters should have their ratings investigated by the office.
In a surprising vote for next year’s Senior class presidency, Harry Baldwin, topped the favorite, Parker Sullivan, who barely nosed out the Bull Moose Party candidate, Ned Joyce. The election saw the promising Jim Waldron machine, spearheaded by Steve Finan who has responsible for Martin Burns’ victory last year, finish a poor fifth, while Jim O’Donnell finished fourth.
Other Returns
Returns for the other Senior class positions indicate that the general election Tuesday will have a distinct Baldwin or Parker complexion. Nominees for the vice - presidency are Mark Kerin, and Thomas White; for secretary, Jack Hurley, and Jack Powers; and for treasurer, Edward Gannon and Vince Prost.
&
Clark Reynolds, veteran Sophomore politician, triumphed decisively over Scott Reardon, who nosed out Hugh Correll for the Junior class presidency. Correll, a newcomer to the political arena backed by James Blunt, lost by six votes.
In exceptionally close races Tex Haggar and Nevin McCormick won the nominations for the vice-presidency. Other victors were Maury Kennedy and Frank Crowley for secretary, Charles Macaluso and Pat McCarthy for treasurer.
Considered a rank outsider, Tom Gorman polled the greatest number of votes for S.A.C. offices in a close election in which John Kelly, Bill Taylor, John Wilson, Ray Fiedler, and John Fox were also successful.
Joe McDermott ran away from Ed
Editorships
Applications for editorships of the three major student publications will be reviewed by the Faculty Board of Publications until Saturday, May 9.
Students of Junior rating at the present are eligible for the editor’s position on The Scholastic and Scrip, while Sophomores may apply for The Dome appointment.
All applications must be made in - writing, addressed and mailed to Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., Administration Building.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
Lindbergh’s latest contribution to the world of science was treated by Donal McKay, senior pre-med. in his paper, “The Culture of Whole Organs,” which was delivered before the Academy of Science, Tuesday evening, April 28. He described the pulsating pressure pump devised by Colonel Lindbergh in cooperation with Dr. Alexis Carrel, the renowned physician-scientist of the Rockefeller Institute. McKay also explained some of the more interesting experiments performed with the apparatus and the possible information which may be secured from the results.
The second speaker- of the evening, Eugene Petrick, spoke on “Bone Surgery with Machine Tools.” In his paper Petrick discussed the various tools and techniques used in repair--ing bone fractures. He also explained the process of normal mending and how the artificial appliances aided nature. These papers were criticized by Hugh O’Donnell and Francis Kurzweg respectively.
ELECTION NOTICE
In order that a co—plete report of all election returns rray be published in the next issue of THE SCHOLASTIC, the finals in the sophomore and junior elections will be held on Wednesday, May 6. The senior finals will be held on Tuesday as planned.
Farrell in the race for the Sophomore class presidency and appears a likely victory in the general elections. Nominees for vice-president are Tom Reardon, Jack Kelly; for secretary, Ed Fanning, Paul Donovan; and for S.A.C. positions, Herb Fairall and Joe Denis O’Brien.
Charles Rausch, candidate for treasurer, was automatically elected to office-by polling 277 votes, more than two-thirds of the vote cast.
Tickets From Club Members
By Gregory Byrnes
The venerable rafters of Washington Hall that have weathered many a storm of applause are doomed to a severe test, according to Paul Rubly, secretary of the Monogram Club,
Secretary Paul Rubly Ring up the curtain.
when this year’s edition of superb artistry and sheer nonsense known as the Monogram Absurdities is presented at 8:00 o’clock next Sunday and Monday nights, May 3 and 4. Tickets may be purchased from any of the monogram men. They are priced at twenty-five cents for general admission, and thirty-five cents for reserved seats.
Cast Is Ready
The cast, under Rubly’s direction, has been putting the finishing touches on the show during the past week. A special preview for the benefit of the press revealed that this year’s edition will equal, is not surpass, the high standard of Monogram shows of other years. The presentation is in the form of a musical review, the musical background- being the work of Professor Joseph Casasanta.
Like all good reviews the show boasts a striking group of chorines. Such devotees of the terpsichorean art as Larry Danbom, Wayne Millner, Fred Carideo, Steve Miller, “Pepper” Martin, Frank Kopczak and John Lautar, all dressed in their cute little rompers, show the results of intensive training in the more intricate aspects of the dance. Matt Thernes and “Curley” Regan have perfected their adagio dance, and the golden voices of Don Elser, “Sunny” Church, and Joe O’Neil are expected (Continued on Pane 23)
May I, I 9 3 6 _
Seven
Disease Still A Mystery Says Professor Reyniers
“Disease is a complex phenomena and we can’t explain it,” was what Professor Reyniers, assistant professor of Biology in the College of Science, told his appreciative audience last Tuesday evening in the Engineering building when he spoke about “Some Aspects of Disease,” the second in the new series of five faculty lectures on popular subjects.
Prof. Reyniers pointed out that the medical profession knows something about some diseases but other unique diseases are a mystery to the medical world. He continued that some phases of the disease can be analyzed by medical skill but when these diseases reach another stage, scientific aid is .baffled because of the complexity involved.
Several definitions of disease were read from books of authorities of the biological field, by Prof Reyniers but he said that we never get an exact definition but a general concept.
Prof. Reyniers recalled the recent disease which swept over Europe and explained that the disease was oh a rapid increase but suddenly died out. He asserted that many people account for this decline because of improved sanitary conditions.
“Disease is to biologist as electricity is to the physicist,” he said. He showed that the biologist isn’t interested in the cure of the disease but primarily in the cause of the disease and its source of attack.
He explained that all kinds of animals suffer from diseases and showed how the tiny microbes can affect the bodies of animals and humans whether the attack be external or internal.
In concluding, Prof Reyniers explained the close study of microbes in the test tubes and their danger to the human body. He stressed that microbes can be better analyzed in the laboratory test tubes if there is but a single germ in the tube than many.
SCIENCE HEAD ILL
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Head of the College of Science and Head of the Department of Biology, who has been confined to St. Joseph’s hospital for the past two weeks with a mild intestinal ailment, will return to his duties today.
Doctor James E. McMeel, University Physician, announced that Father Wenninger has improved rapidly during the past few days and lately has been out for exercise. Dr. McMeel attributed Father Wenninger’s relapse mainly to too much work and not an heart ailment as previously had been suspected.
Eight
about the camPus
Achilles Herndon Moorman, political boss of the Senior class comes from the automobile center. . . . Attended University of Detroit H.S. with Art Cronin. . . Tries to conceal this fact. . . . Every candidate he backed last year won. . . Had his hands in every
election except the K. of C. . . . They ran it off without letting him know about it till the night before. . . If you were backed by ‘Boss Moorman’ you were automatically elected. . . . Boys sang ‘Farley’s jolly-good-fellow’ after senior election. . . Big Jim has nothing on Moorman. . .
Wants to be a shyster lawyer. . . Sells insurance in summer time and takes short-cuts across country club lawns. . . Spent three weeks in the Canadian Rockies trying to shake a persistent fem. . . She was first one he met on return to civilization.
Used to lead parades with bass drum in Lyons. . . Claims credit for Bill Prendergast’s stunted growth. . . Once placed a mouse in Bill’s room... Bill couldn’t talk for a week. . .
Spent last year in the dorm. . . . Lead all sessions. . . Was the engineer on the famous ‘Gravy Train’... Is the only surviving charter member of the crew. . . Holds post box with Spain’s good-will ambassador ‘Sebby’ Bonet. . . All ‘Seb’ gets is the dust. . .
Lee, as he is known about campus, is the only man who can make his eye-brows go in opposite directions . . . His supercilious look and muttered ‘Ohhhh’ are the most copied characteristic on the campus. . . . Played interhall football. . . Befuddled his opponents with his verbiage while opening holes for roomie ‘Chuck’. Boyle. . .
President of Detroit Club. . . The
Corsages in Disfavor
Campus Poll Indicates
Ed Note: This is one in a series of campus interviews on current undergraduate questions. This week The Scholastic asked. “Are you in favor of abolishing corsages at the Senior Ball?”
Tom Adamson: “I think that corsages should be definitely banned because they are unnecessary financial burdens. If the Seniors would cooperate, we could at least try the plan. However, if some persist in sending them to their guests, it will be useless to even consider abolishing them.”
Robert Czizek: “I’d be very glad to see corsages abolished at the Ball. We’ve got enough expense as it is.”
Tom McGettrick: “I wouldn’t favor abolishing them. The Seniors only have one big dance a year. It’s too bad, if they can’t afford a corsage for that.”
Carl Senger: “I’d be in favor of abolishing them, because there’s always an attractive favor which is rather expensive. Then too there’s the matter of transportation for those who bring guests from outside of South Bend. Corsages are quite expensive.”
Bill Bowes: “I wouldn’t have them abolished in view of the fact that it’s the biggest social function in our four years here, and, for it, we might as well have all the trimmings. Corsages give the affair a certain air and grace that would be lacking otherwise.”
Francis Kelly: “I think corsages should be banned at the Ball, because of the unnecessary expense involved in them for those attending. The Senior class this year should set a precedent by doing away with these extravagant and useless displays, and so lessen the high cost of the Ball.”
Maurice Quinn: “I am definitely opposed to corsages at any campus dances, and particularly at the Senior Ball which is the most expensive dance of the year. I think they are an accessory which adds nothing to the enjoyment of the occasion.”
only office he holds although he controls most of the others. . . Terrible at handball. . . Now taking up pool and can out shove any man. . . Flips balls in the corner pocket when opponents aren’t looking. . .
Recently broke into the Lake league much to the annoyance of a campused friend. . . She’s a St. Mary’s gal. . .
Achilles will lead a Jane from Michigan State at the Senior Ball... Only thing he likes in Indiana is the sand dunes. . . Is busy at present teaching Bonet a tango to do during the Ball intermission. . . He’s having trouble with the whip. . ..
The Scholastic-
New Infirmary Will Be Dedicated Next Month
Philosophical Disputation
Attracts Large Audience
Death Takes O. A. Clark, Staunch Friend of Youth
Rated as the lai'gest student hospital in the country, the new $250,-000 Infirmary, which was opened three weeks ago, will be dedicated during Commencement Week, it was announced last Wednesday.
The new building is the first structure to be placed on the site of the new quadrangle extending from the Administration Building to the shores of St. Joseph’s lake. It contains approximately 100 rooms. Five wards, twenty-four private rooms, and a contagion section, constitute the student space. The remainder of the rooms are for parents, visitors, staff, clergy, nurses, and Sisters. Total accommodations are made for 125 persons.
Among the many innovations found in the new building are a complete pharmacy where all prescriptions will be filled under the supervision of a registered pharmacist, doctor’s quarters which include waiting, examining and treatment rooms, complete laboratory and clinical rooms where all but major surgical cases will be handled, diet kitchens bn every floor, recreation and dining rooms for faculty and students, the latest type nurses’ call system, and a chapiel which has a one hundred person capacity.
The building, which was begun May 27, 1935, is completely fireproof in construction. Of Collegiate-Gothic design to harmonize with the other new buildings, the structure is of light tan brick, trimmed in Indiana limestone with granite base sills, roofed -with rugged slate shingles. A sanctum tower adds to the medieval appearance of the building. Corridor floors are terrazzo in modem design and room floors are asphalt tile in solid colors. The lighting is mainly indirect, and the windows are of special no-draft-ventilation design.
The plans for the building were drawn by Maginnis and Walsh, architects from Boston, Mass. Construction work was done by the Thomas L. Hickey Co., of South Bend.
The infirmary staff is headed by Dr. James E. McMeel, University physician. He is assisted by Dr. Paul E. Haley. The infirmary is staffed by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Sister Clare Patrice, C.S.C., R.N.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Seeding of the new University plaza, from the Dining Hall east to Cartier Field, was finished this week according to an announcement of the Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., superintendent of maintenance.
Father Reddington asked the cooperation of the student body in keeping off the lawns so as to insure a good growth of grass before Commencement time.
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
Revived after a lapse of nearly a decade the first student philosophical disputation on the Notre Dame campus was held last Wednesday morning from 10 to 12 o’clock in Washington Hall. The remarkable interest manifested by about 800 students was definite indication of the thorough training in scholastic philosophy that is given at the University.
Papers were read by Edward Ow-Owens and John Cashin; the former pointing out the fact that philosophy alone represented an entire investigation of reality while the latter paper briefly summarized the history and mechanics of public dispute.
Following the preliminary papers Thomas Meagher defended the thesis for the existence of God and His real distinction from the Universe. The first to attack the thesis was John Briton who endeavored to show the weakness of the defense argument from motion. Britton’s argument was based on a misunderstanding of the principle of motion.
Following the removal of Britton’s objections Meagher next disposed of the arguments of Daniel McLaughlin who argued that the presence of evil in the world, especially sin, prevented the existence of an all-Perfect Being.
Others actively taking part in the discussion were John Kennedy, Robert McDonough, Joseph Foley, Carmi Belmont, Joseph Mahar, John Maloney, Henry Pojman, and Joseph Waldron. The public discussion following the disputation was under the direc-
Courtesy Notre Dame Alumnus
THE NEW INFIRMARY
Youth of South Bend and vicinity lost a firm friend, and loyal helper in the death of Olen A. Clark, well known restaurant owner who died Monday in Epworth hospital after a long illness.
During his active life-time Mr. Clarke was known as a generous philanthropist, but his most cherished charities were those directed toward young men, in whom he had a consuming interest. Many students were assisted through college and guided to a successful start by Mr. Clark*
He was bom in Weston, Ohio in 1871 and received his early education there. He first became interested in the restaurant business in South Bend and for a time ran a lunch room on the campus, prior to the opening of the dining hall.
“In the death of Mr. Clark, South Bend loses one of its finest citizens, Notre Dame one of its friends and the poor, one of their greatest benefactors,” said Rev. John F. O’Hara, president of the University.
tion of the Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C. George Moriarty was the presiding chairman during the entire program. The Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., supervised the student preparation for the disputation.
At the end, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University addressed the audience and expressed his gratification for the -manner in which the disputation was conducted.
May I. 1936
Nine
POLITICIANS PRESENT PERENNIAL PLATFORMS
Each spring, after the Easter vacation has passed, campus politicians turn eagerly to thoughts of the coming elections. Some few, a very few, take their politics seriously. By far the great majority sit back and show only passive interest.
In an effort to clarify the political riturti-r. f?- t1'? gro-.t mass of undergraduates x.ho sometimes wonder why so much importance is placed on the outcome of the balloting, The Scholastic prepared a list of six questions and submitted them to each of the presidential candidates. Because of lack of space not every reply could be used. Names were omitted for obvious reasons. The questions and answers follow.
1.	What is your general platform?
The first two Freshmen questioned were considerably nonplussed; they merely stammered something about a Cotillion and let it go at that. The third started out by saying, “I don’t know if we have any platform yet.” But quickly gaining his presence of mind, he added, “Our platform is to have everybody taken care of, and we want to do all we can to further the interest of the Sophomore class. . . . That sounds, okay, doesn’t it? If you can think of anything else, just jot it down.”
The three Sophomore candidates for Junior offices answered simply, “to please most of the fellows,” ‘better Junior class,” and “lower prices for the Prom.”	’
Three Juniors answered in a conventional manner. The fourth, who submitted a two-page typewritten report, wrote, “I will strive to effect if I am elected: Monthly.class meetings designed to promote . interest and unity in class activity; a more moderately priced unique Senior Ball; monthly informal dances under Senior direction; inauguration of a Senior Class Day in the form of a . class carnival or winter festival; quarterly school smokers by the Senior class.”
2.	How would you go about reducing the cost of campus dances?
Two Freshmen didn’t know. The third said, “The way I worked it back home in New York, I pulled a couple of fast ones and played one band against another. Jewed them down like, you know. Then I took the one with the best price. I’ll do the same thing here.......”
One Sophomore would, “Figure out the cost before hand in order to reduce the surplus. I would send out questionnaires previous to the dance to find out how many fellows .were
CANDIDATES SKETCH PLANS IN RACES FOR CLASS POSITIONS
By Harold A. Williams
going, how much they are willing to pay, and what orchestra they want.” The second would, “Eliminate corsages and increase attendance to reduce costs.” The third, “Make a budget for the Prom. Run the Prom for the sake of the Prom.”
Three Juniors were for cutting the cost and increasing the attendance. The one with the two-page report continued, “A scientific publicity campaign to increase attendance and distribute cost; an accurate estimate of necessary costs—judged by the experience of previous Senior Ball managements, and more particularly by our experience with this year’s Prom; to ascertain the lowest price that could possibly be charged and maintain the traditional high quality of the Senior Ball; no intention of making a profit. ...”
3.	What is your policy in regard to the S. A. C.?
The first Freshman replied, “I don’t know much about the S.A.C. Just what are its objectives?” The rest were rather vague.
The three Sophomores were for, “putting more live-wires into the S.A.C.,” “new spirit,” and “more opportunity.”
One Junior would have, “Understanding with school authorities as to
Presidents Are Made Not Born.
what they can do and cannot do.” Another, “More harmony between Administration and S.A.C. and more power to regulate student activities.” The third, “. . . Open S.A.C. meetings four times a year for general student discussion; S.A.C. sponsorship of a new series of non-athletics intramural
. tournaments.”
4.	How will your supporters be rewarded if you are elected?
The three Freshmen agreed that the thing to do was reward the supporters with committee appointments. The Sophomores said the same thing in different words. For one Junior, “Political patronage as such will be strictly avoided.” The second was for dance committees, the third “had made no promises,” and the other would settle matters, “According to the philosophy of that great Democrat, Andrew Jackson.”
5.	Have you had any previous experience in politics?
One Freshman, “Was President of the Senior class back home.” The second, “In high school I was campaign manager for the Senior class President. . . we lost, though.”
Two Sophomore had not. The third, • “Fiddled around during my Freshman year and was elected vice-president of the class.”
Two Juniors had not. The third. “Engaged in campus politics since my Freshman year, and have always supported the man that I thought would make the most capable and efficient officer.”
(Continued on Page 11)
Ten
The Scholastic
Pontiff Acknowledges Gift From University
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, this week received the following letter of thanks, at the direction of His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, for two albums of Notre Dame scenes and works of art which were forwarded to the Vatican at Christmas time.
The letter, written by E. Cardinal Pacelli, papal secretary of state, reads:
“Under the reverend command of the Holy Father, I have to acknowledge the receipt of the two volumes containing photographs of the buildings of the University of Notre Dame and of the principal paintings in its Art Gallery, which you presented to him recently through the Reverend Procurator of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Rome.
“His Holiness, who has long been cognizant of the high position attained by the University of Notre Dame among Catholic institutions of education in the United States, is most appreciative and thankful for the filial homage you do him by offering these volumes, not only because they are a concrete evidence of the noble work being cai-ried on by the University in favor of the youth of America but also for the fact that you have wished in this manner to reaffirm the sentiments of devoted attachment to the See of Peter which animate the heai’ts of the officials, the staff and the student body at this great sanctuary of Catholic learning.
“As a mark of his particular benevolence and in pledge of abiding grace, the Sovereign Pontiff sends to Your Reverence and to the professors and students his paternal Apostolic Benediction.”
POLITICIAN'S PLATFORM
(Continued from Page 10)
6.	What benefits do you hope to get from Politics?
Two Freshmen were just running.' The other replied, “. . . I am going to major in Politics and I expect to get a lot of experience out of this class politics.”
The Sophomores were doing so, “to meet and approach people,” “the pleasure of knowing more members of the student body,” and “experience in meeting people.”
Two Juniors hedged. The third answered, “. . . it gives me insight as to what I am to be faced with in the future as a voter.” The fourth rounded out his two-page report with, “Other than the immediate benefit of establishing friendships on the campus, I hope to gain experience that will better fit me for conscientious and competent leadership in later years.”
May 1, 1936
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
There’s nothing new under the collegiate sun. Find consolation in that fact if you are one of those who feel inferior because of the inability to get up at the sound of the first bell in the morning and who have been compelled to perfect a system of “lying, sluggard-like, abed until only a mad gulp and a gallop” brings them to eight o’clock class on time. Your plight isn’t nearly as distressing as that of a Princeton junior of 1786 who had to rise at five o’clock instead of — well, whatever comparatively late hour you do get up. According to a recently discovered diary of his, bells were supplemented by proctors who roused the eighteenth century Princetonians by knocking on their doors. Typical entry by the junior: “Hear the knocking and fall asleep again. Don’t wake till second bell done, get up in great hurry—go into Hall unbuttoned, not time to light candle nor unrake fire, near being tardy.” Does that sound familiar, Sorinites?
•
Well, well, well; so spring is here at last. And now that it has arrived, we’re wondering why everybody was so impatient for it to come. We hate to be pessimists, but all spring means to us is the time when the weather
becomes too nice for a fellow to spend his time indoors studying for the imminent examinations, too humid for him to stay awake in the class room, and too hot for him to fall asleep at night. Also, people, like “Rollo” De Coteau, take advantage of every opportunity during this period to discuss their love affairs with us. Spring time can’t be so much if it gives even friends the impression that we’re running a “lonely hearts” column.
•
You can expect to see a new style in footwear at the Knights of Columbus and senior dances over the next two week ends. “Tex” Durkin, the originator of the fad, introduced it at the last Chicago Club dance. We want to admonish all Knights and seniors right now that they won’t be quite in fashion unless they adopt “Tex’s” latest fashion of dancing without shoes.
Considerable interest has been stirred up over the approaching interhall amateur radio contest. And Lin Phoebus, of course, is more agitated about it than any ten men on the campus. He
just dares Walsh Hall to let; him sing as its representative. If he only had the assistance of Benny Goodman, Phoebus is certain that he’d have no difficulty in “swinging” the victory over to Walsh.
The people of the torrid land of India have an extraordinary weakness for titles, degrees and other kind of embellishments, declared Dr. John Scudder in a lecture at Rutgers University. In illustration, Dr. Scudder claimed to have received a calling card from a Calcutta gentleman who had been flunked out of college. In the lower comer of the card, after the gentleman’s name, were printed the words, “Failed, B.A.”
Those St. Mary’s girls play too rough. What other conclusion is it possible for a person to reach after learning what they did to Bill Shakespeare? After inviting him to a picnic party, they returned him to Notre Dame with what the papers said was a broken leg.
Among those who stayed at Notre Dame last summer to help build the new University infirmary was Bob Sullivan. Ironically enough, he who was among the builders of the edifice, is now convalescing within its walls as one of its first patients.
Rarely has anything entertained us so satisfactorily as the performance of the Paulist Choir in Washington Hall Friday night. Such fine choral singing as theirs can hardly be surpassed by a similar group elsewhere. Not even our singers from Moreau, excellent as they are, can exceed the quality of singing characteristic of the Paulist Choir. Incidentally, why aren’t the students entertained more often by Moreau Choir and Glee club concerts? Comparatively little is done on this campus to cultivate a general appreciation of good music.
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
And this takes the cake for the week: A group of Sophomore engineers, headed by the class secretary, CHAUNCEY ROONEY, attended the Engineers’ Ball in collective style. They chartered a bus, rode into St. Mary’s, gathered their guests and motored en masse to the dance. After the ball was over they returned their
body else. . . Speaking about tips,-JOE DONLON of Dillon has a few good ones on the coming Derby. . . AL DENTON of Brownson seems to be the unanimous choice for the worst frosh joke teller—that in itself is a distinction. . . . During Easter vacation SAM WHEELER paid off the first mortgage on the Drake Hotel,
One Successful Way to Political Popularity
His desk was full of them. They were exceptionally pretty. Apparently he never wrote to any of them. But he had their pictures. How he must have rated in the old home town! Wonder how he did it?
And then, the secret was out! His dad was a photographer—but nevertheless the pictures elected him.
“. . . and all I remember is saying, ‘Who’ll help me mark this ballot?’ ”
bundles of charm to the St. Mary’s campus. . . . Only three more issues of Caf Smoke remain to brighten your life at Notre Dame and three more of The Week to dampen your spirits. . .
What whoa! Here’s somethin’ that will brighten a bit, JOHN J. RYAN, the third, is now the proud possessor of a new nickname “Hotcha.”. . .Two living examples of Value and Distribution (an economics course) presented themselves at the class room door the other day and asked to see Frank Murphy and Art Cronin. The examples were two blondes. After they made their appearance at the door the remaining members of the class clamored for more living examples of Value and Distribution a feat which was beyond Professor Buckley’s power. . .
FROSH FOIBLES: A tip for the boys in the East. Don’t ask “CHUCK” NAGEL the time because he is usually an hour ahead of every-
which gives you some idea of why Chicago is able to pay its teachers’ back salaries.... Poor FRANK “STATISTICS” BENNETT—his girl friend went and got engaged in spite of their heart-throbby relationship. . .
If the “Morning Bugle” isn’t sufficiently early for you visit BOB PICK, the frosh who combines early rising and exercise by winding his phonograph in the wee hours of the A.M. . . . These freshmen must be heard, out of the mouth of babes and all that stuff. . .
D’ya vote yet? A safe sign of spring is the parade of political banners that bloom from the various halls. . . Should we say that BILL SHAKESPEARE fell for a Saint Mary’s girl thus sustaining a bad ankle? Or should we leave the girl out of it? Special to St. Mary’s girls. Any girl who makes the greatest number of words out of MARK FIN-OCCHIARO’S last name will be taken to the Senior Ball by none oth-
The Funny Fellows predict that the out-going class will produce some 350 business men, 100 professional men, and some politicians of the very highest tripe.
Ten Points Leading to Your Election 1—wear a slouch hat.
2—smoke incessantly.
3—give away your cigarettes inces-antly.
4—talk incessantly.
5—have dates with only the best.
6—get dates for ‘pals’ with only the best. .
7—keep numerous caf books in sight.
8—never do class assignments. This gives one a robin-hood aspect that simply makes the votes pour in. -
9—take a twelve per every night.
10—finally—stuff the ballot box in order to assure election.
It’s the voter who pays and pays while the officers play and play and Play.
The campaign song should be, “Take Me Out to the Brawl Game.”
Some call it madness but most call it politics.
The two most unreliable men in Indiana are the Notre Dame election ’ campaigners and the weather man.
er than Mark himself. Kindly send all entrants to the Editor of Caf Smoke, 339 Howard Hall. Don’t forget the last name is F-I-N-O-C-C-H-I-A-R-O. . . Undoubtedly the number of attempts will be enormous so please send your try in early. . .
CHARLEY “GREAT EASTERN” CLARK, not being able to take his back home girl to the ball is going to send her flowers and call her up that very night. Sweet of Charley, . isn’t it?
And so this is the campus voice of experience saying goodbye to your experiences for another week. D’ya vote yet????—The Funny Fellows.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN______________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST______________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman___________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Paul Foley_______________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan__________:____________Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie_____________________________Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown__________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Louis Da Pra______________2________________Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker___________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley___________________________James M. McMullen
Allan Bride__________:___________________________Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis_________________________________Art Editor
Francis Kroeger____________________________Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, ’26______________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
May I, 1936
A NECESSARY IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION now being planned near the intersection of the Niles road and Angella Boulevard . calls attention to the need for a sidewalk along that portion of the highway bordering on the golf course. Students walking to town are often forced to wade through mud and water since there is no suitable walk along this stretch of the road. This is especially true during the winter and spring months.	.
While this inconvenience alone would hardly call for the construction of a sidewalk, the fact that students are* accustomed to forsake the muddy path and walk on the highway shows the necessity for something of this sort. The recent nation-wide drive to reduce automobile fatalities revealed that walking along highways has resulted in a surprisingly high number of unnecessary deaths.
The particular stretch of the Niles road bordering on the golf course is decidedly inviting to speeding motorists. When groups of students, four or five in number, take to the highway, the danger of someones’ being hit is May I, 1936
great, particularly in the evenings because of the absence of adequate fighting facilities.
The property marker near the highway indicates that there is ample7 room for such a walk. If only a few students used this way in walking to town a sidewalk could hardly be justified. This is, however, the favorite route to town because it is shorter and more inviting. The large numbers who frequent this path daily, especially on Saturdays and Sundays, make the construction of a.walk a necessary as well as a welcome improvement.
REQUEST FROM THE CLASS PRESIDENT
The Scholastic is gratified to find that the elimination of corsages at campus dances has met with support from many members of the senior class. President Howard Cusack in a statement, on page five of this issue, has made an earnest request for those attending the Senior Ball to refrain from sending corsages out of deference to the wishes of the majority.
When interviewed, several members of the class of 1936, selected at random by a Scholastic reporter, voted to support the ban on corsages by a vote of more than two to one. The replies in question are printed on page eight.	.
In view of the general feeling, those attending the Ball are urged to conform to the request of President Cusack and not be guilty of refusing to cooperate.
9
INTERESTING FROM SEVERAL POINTS OF VIEW ThE peace strike of some 500,000 students on Wednesday, April 22, was an interesting demonstration from several points of view. That the American undergraduate body could be really stirred out of its indifference to national affairs is remarkable in itself. It would seem that the day is slowly passing when the college student was content to steep himself in four years of academic activity without a thought of what was going on beyond the campus.
As a demonstration of undergraduate sentiment against war, the movement has again shown conclusively that the youth of the nation realizes the danger of another great conflict and has taken steps to arrest the trend. The force of this peace sentiment is noticeable in the great amount of anti-war literature circulating on the campi of America, in the phenomenal growth of the Veterans of Future Wars, and lastly in such tangible demonstrations as the peace strike.
It is significant that this year’s strike drew more students than did that of last year. It is to be hoped that the peace movement will grow to a point where the very weight of sentiment and numbers will have to be reckoned with when war rumors threaten the nation.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
KLINEMEN TAKE TO ROAD FOR THREE GAMES
Pilney’s 9th Inning Smash Topples Illinois Ball Nine
PLAY TOLEDO TONIGHT IN FLOODLIGHT GAME MEET OHIO STATE TOMORROW AT COLUMBUS
Andy Pilney’s timely homer in the last half of the ninth inning with two out and the bases loaded enabled Notre Dame to defeat a stubborn Illinois team last Saturday at Cartier Field by a score of 5 to 4. It was Notre Dame’s sixth straight win of the season, and the third victory over a Big Ten team.
The game was a tight pitching battle all the way and was undecided until Pilney smashed a three-and-one pitch deep into center field to drive in the winning run. This towering
Andy Pilney
M er riwell had nothing on him.
drive would have gone for a homer had not the game officially ended when the winning run scored from third.	•
Notre Dame opened the scoring in the second inning with two runs on Pilney’s single followed by Gaul’s round-tripper into left-center field. Illinois tied the score in the fifth by scoring two runs on two doubles, a single, and a short fly into left field. In the seventh Illinois chalked up two more on a triple and a single, com-binde with a walk, an error, and an-outfielld fly. In their half of the seventh Notre Dame knotted the count at 4 all, by turning two singles, a walk, and a wild throw from the outfield into two runs. This ended the scoring until the last half of the ninth , when Pilney’s clutch hit drove home the winning run.
Captain Frank Gaul, scrappy catcher, further bolstered his batting av-(Continued on Base 21)
Wildcat Golf Match
The Wildcats from Northwestern will come steaming into Notre Dame tomorrow, this. time with golf bags on their backs instead of football jerseys. ’Tis said that the Irish team has been practicing furiously in order to be in the best of shape to meet the challenge of the expert stick-wielders from Evanston. None of the Notre Dame squad has forgotten that it was these same Wildcats that snapped a 20 match
winning streak which had been piled up by the Irish. Last spring after Notre Dame had gotten off to its usual brilliant start Northwestern suddenly appeared to break the bubble of victory which had been so carefully guarded. The Evanstonians now remain as the only team to have defeated Notre Dame in the last 26 matches so the Irish are preparing a special assortment of fancy shots which they have been saving for just such an occasion.
Northwestern probably has other plans for they boast another great team. So far this year they are undefeated in four matches having easily trimmed Armour Tech., Detroit, Wisconsin, and Iowa. Probably the
Patkick Malloy, Jr.
Tulsa’s best young golfer.
most dangerous player on the Wildcat squad is “Pick” Wegner a semifinalist in last summer’s National
' (Continued on Page 21)
HAROLD "CURLY" REAGAN WINS SECOND BASE POST BY HIS HITTING
By AI Bride
Jake Kline’s diamond sparklers will find themselves in unfamiliar settings as they leave the remodeled infield of Cartier field to perform on foreign grounds. Today the Irish baseballers hope to leave a May basket filled with
Harold “Curly” Reagan Clouts way to first nine.
defeat on the ball field of the University of Toledo before leaving to meet the strong Ohio State nine on Saturday.
Today’s engagement with Toledo will be the second meeting of these two teams, the Ohioans being defeated 7-6 in the opener at Cartier field. A seventh inning rally enabled the Irish to cop the first contest and today’s game should be a hard, close battle. In all probability Jake will call on the sophomore twirier, Gon-cher, who has already chalked, up two victories. In the previous encounter Goncher relieved Matt Themes in the seventh when the Irish were trailing and proceeded to . allow the Toledo swingers only five hits and received credit for the victory. It is expected that the Kline-men will be opposed by Camp who pitched brilliant ball up until the fatal seventh inning in the opener.
The Toledo aggregation boasts several swingers that are fully capable (Continued on Page 23)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Golfers Lick Chicago and III.
Taylor Sets Course Record
IRISH TRACKMEN DESCEND ON PITT TO RETAIN N. D'S ATHLETIC SUPREMACY
Father Holderith’s golfing boys turned in victories two and three of the current golfing season last weekend when they met and defeated Chicago University and Illinois University on Friday and Monday respectively. The Chicago team succumbed by a score of 14% to 3%; Illinois by 17 to 10.
The Illinois meet saw Bill Taylor of Notre Dame play through a steady rain to register a 69, which established a new course record for students, Taylor was out in 35, even par, and in in 34, one under par for the last nine. Bill’s 69 has been equaled only by various pros who have played the course and eclipses the old student record of 70 held by Captain Win Day.
Chicago did not offer as much competition for the Irish as the Illini did and could win only one match. Chicago’s best individual score was Boehm’s 77-77—154 as compared to Day’s 72-74—146 which was the leading score for the Irish.
On Monday, in the Illinois meet, besides Taylor’s 69, Win Day turned in a 70 to aid in winning the morning doubles match, but in the afternoon his 75 was not quite good enough to beat Kokes the individual star of the Illini.
Illinois offered the Irish the best competition thus far this season and justly so, as the Urbanamen boast of one of the most well-balanced and strongest teams in the Big Ten, second only to Northwestern’s group which has yet to be beaten.
The summaries:
Chicago—Foursomes: Wilke-Day, N.D., defeated Boehm-Cary, Chi. 3-0; Green-Malloy. N.D., defeated Lewis-Gilbert, Chi. 2^-yj-
Singles: Day. N.D.. defeated Boehm. Chicago, 3-0; Fehlig, N.D., defeated Lewis Chi., ;Taylor N.D., defeated Gilbert, Chi., 3-0 : (Continued on Page 20)
COACH FATHER HOLDERITH AND 1935 GOLF TEAM
Tennis Matches
On Friday and Saturday of this week the Notre Dame tennis squad will combat the attacks of two of the strongest teams in the Middle West, Indiana and Northwestern. The Irish face Indiana on Friday afternon, May 1, on the clay courts behind the Engineering building. The Hoosiers are undefeated during the present season, offering a well-balanced squad. The Irish won last year’s match, 6-3.
The court feature on the Notre Dame schedule, though, will take
Bun Vekvaet
place o n Saturday afternoon, May 2, when the Northwestern Wildcats, also undefeated and arrayed with one of the strongest teams in the country, oppose the Blue and Gold. Notre Dame’s team lines up in this manner: Capt. Joe
Waldron, number 1; Joe McNulty, number 2; Bill Fallon, a junior, number 3; and Joe Prendergast, number 4. George Cannon, Bud Vervaet, and George Feeley are others who may play.
All the members of the Purple’s undefeated team of last year are back, strongly supported by the addition of Sophomore Don Leavens, ranked number 4 among the national junior players. Captain George Ball, his brother Russell, and Leavens will fill the first three places with Dick Rugg their number 4 man. Russell Ball is the Western indoor singles champion, also reaching the semifinals of the Intercollegiates at Evanston last spring. Last year’s match (Continued on Page 21)
Coach Nicholson Optimistic
By Mike Crowe
Coach John Nicholson’s well balanced track and field team will match strides and power against the Pittsburgh trackmen when the two teams renew their rivalry in the Smoky City tomorrow afternoon. The two teams will be making their initial appearance of the year in an outdo or dual meet. After enjoying good success in indoor meets this winter, both teams have been pointing for then-acid test tomorrow.
Past performances can be discarded when Notre Dame meets Pittsburgh on the cinder path. If comparisons prove anything Notre Dame can be conceded a slim edge in tomorrow’s meet because of their showing in winning the C.I.C. indoor meet held this winter in the Notre Dame’fieldhouse. Pitt also failed to impress as much as Notre Dame did last Sat-
George Meagher
Captain and broad-jumper combined.
urday. Pitt won two events in the Penn relays while Notre Dame won two blue ribbons, two second places, two third places, and one fourth place at Drake.
From the grandstand it seems as if Notre Dame’s main strength is concentrated in the field events while Pittsburgh apparently holds a slight edge in the track program. The margin of victory could easily shift from one team to the other if one or two heralded stars of one team should be slightly off form. First places are expected to be evenly divided so victory will undoubtedly hinge on second and even third place points.
When the track team met Pittsburgh on Cartier field last May, it had been nearly three years since a Notre Dame athletic team had defeated Pittsburgh in any athletic competition. The Panthers were sup-
(Continued on Page 22)
May 1, 19 3 6
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Three Big-Ten Schools
Face Klinemen Next Week
By Cy Stroker
The Scholastic’s own raconteur, Joe Prenergast, (see page 17) tells one of the oddest success stories that can be told about Irish athletes. It seems that three years ago a sophomore went out for baseball but some way or other could not make the squad. After several discouraging weeks, the sophomore dropped out. But he loved to play the game so much that he would join up with any
CA.KROLGfeR -JS




WCNTTORT+I
SWQRT-STOP
of the teams that happened to be playing on the campus. One day he was playing in a game against the Seminarians over by the lake and on the same day the Irish varsity was playing Michigan State on Cartier field.	.
When the varsity game had progressed for several innings, Curly Reagan was forced to leave his post at shortstop because of an injury. Coach Kline had no substitute and was wildly tearing his hair until he thought of the Sophomore who had dropped out. Kline sent the late George Winy, then a sophomore manager, to scour the campus on a bicycle for our hero. Winy found him at the Seminary, busily playing third base in a quartersleeve shirt and shorts. Then began the Race Against Time with the Sophomore pedalling across the campus in his shorts and Winy riding on the handlebars. They arrived at Cartier field just in time, and the Sophomore went to work at shortstop with such success that he has been there ever
since. His name? Why, George Wentworth, of course!
George is one of. the boys from way down East,—Bucksport, Maine, to be exact, and pairs up with Frankie Gaul to make the most notable duo of athletes ever to come out of Maine. He was educated at Bucksport Seminary where he played second and third base on the baseball team and forward on the basketball team. The basketball team on which he played set up the remarkable record of losing but five games in four years, winning the Maine State title for two years. George was made an all-state forward for those same two years. His proficiency in baseball earned him the captaincy of that team in his senior year.
Coming to Notre Dame in 1932 George had the experience related above and has since been as valuable a player for the Irish as Jake Kline has on the squad. His unaccountable ability to get on base almost every time he comes to bat has been the source of many runs for Notre Dame. In the night game at Toledo last year George’s hit in the ninth inning won the game for Notre Dame. His bating average for last season was .410.
The captaincy for this year’s team was between the two boys from Maine, Wentworth and Gaul, but Gaul won it on the second ballot. George is another of the Sorin Sub men and is much given to listening to the wild stories of his neighbor, Nick (the Greek) Tancredi. He is a senior in the Physical Ed school and hopes to coach upon graduation. He was a combination of coach, forward, and high point man on the vic-torius Sorin basketball team this year, averaging 14 points per game. He is one of the best liked men on the baseball squad. Always gives himself pep talks while waiting to receive a ball.	.
FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATIONS
The Athletic Association wishes to bring to the attention of the students that August 1st is the opening date of sale for all games on the 1936 football schedule. Application blanks will be mailed the latter part of July
to all who leave then* name and . select his pitchers from the combina-
address in the Athletic Office. The names and addresses of friends may also be placed on the mailing list. It is suggested that all wishing to purchase tickets this year place their orders before returning to school in September for. there is a good possibility that one or more games may be sold out by that time. - - -
By John Cackley
The Irish baseballers face a severe test next week when they clash with Chicago, Wisconsin, and Northwestern on successive afternoons. After meeting the Maroons in the Windy City on Tuesday, Kline’s proteges will travel to Madison for their initial encounter this season against Wisconsin. The following day Notre Dame will be entertained at Evanston by Northwestern’s powerful array of sluggers.
Although Chicago was beaten 8-2, a few weeks ago on Cartier Field, they nevertheless will no doubt provide plenty of competition for the Gold and Blue. Their pitching staff has been considerably strengthened by the addition of Paul Adamsen, 6 foot 5 inche sophomore. Bill Haar-low, first sacker, may be given the twirling assignment in the Irish clash, as he did remarkably well in the role of. relief pitcher during the recent Chicago-Iowa series.
Wisconsin has one of the toughest aggregations in the western conference this spring. Michigan scored a 3-2 victory over the Badgers in the major upset handed to Wisconsin during their .current campaign, and this came only in the ninth inning after a scratch single had been registered. O’Brien, the No. 1 tosser on the Madison combine, yielded but five hits, and is scheduled to face Notre Dame on Wednesday. It will be the lone time this year that the Irish and Badgers tangle with each other.
Comparatively little is known about the Purple. That they always have one of the most-feared squads in the Big Ten diamond battle, is enough to rate them as a dangerous obstacle for Jake Kline’s men to overcome. Recently Illinois succeeded in defeating the Wildcats, 4-3, while the Ulini in turn, were subdued by Notre Dame, 5-4, last Saturday—thanks to Andy Pilney’s timely blow.
The Irish lineup will probably remain intact during these affairs, with virtually the same players that have graced their respective positions in the past few games. Captain Frank Gaul will, as usual, be at his backstopping post, while Coach Kline will
tion of Matt Thernes, Johnny Gon-cher, Ennio Arboit, Lefty Rydell and Frank Kopczak. The infield is slated to have Scafati or Van Wagner at first base; Regan on second; Wentworth at shortstop; and Fromhart •covering the “hot corner.” Pilney, Velcheck, and Borowski will patrol • the outer garden.	'
Sixteen
The Scholastic
National Catholic School Track Meet Here in June
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Al Bride
. Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden and Track Coach Nicholson have just made a joint announcement that the third annual Notre Dame National Catholic Interscholastic track and field championships will be held at Notre Dame commencement
Prep sprinter breasts tape at last year’s meet.
week-end, June 5 and 6. This meet is expected to bring together some of the country’s outstanding scholastic track stars and there is the possibility that a few may develop into famous collegiate performers.
Co-operation of the alumni in increasing the entry list and the class of this meet is expected. The success of the two previous meets has prompted a desire among many Catholic schools to compete, but due to financial difficulties, transportation problems, and other questions they are reluctant to file entry blanks. In many cases the alumni could help by looking into these problems and finding solutions. Information on the meet is available through the department of sports publicity, Coach Nicholson, or Herbert E., Jones, ticket manager.
The championship games were inaugurated two years ago when two teams and 53 individuals competed on Cartier field. Last year the entry list was greatly increased by the original two teams being supplanted by 26 and 258 individuals took part as against the original 53.
Last year’s meet, was marked by many brilliant performances, eight new records;-being established. Palmer of Northeast Catholic broke the
(Continued on Page 23)
May 1, 19 3 6.
By Joe Prendergast
TAYLOR AND THE GOLF TEAM
Bill Taylor, star sophomore member of the Notre Dame golf team, shot a 69 last Monday afternoon to break the William J. Burke golf course record. His feat was performed midst a sizeable downpour on a soggy course. Taylor at the start of the season showed signs of excell ent. golf but never did Father Holderith, Irish coach, think that the Detroit lad would reach his peak at such an early date. Captain Winfield Day held the existing course record of 70 previous to Taylor’s par-breaking deluge and had only that morning tied his 70 mark, only, to have his fine tally wiped out completely.
The Irisher’s new record holder was masterful all the way around the soaked layout. His putting was uncanny. He gave one the air of confidence just to see him measure his putts, study the contour of the green and deliberate all his putter shots from a four-incher on the eighteenth green to a 30-footer on the sixteenth. He sank both of them as did he glide home a 12-footer on the first and a 20-footer on the eleventh. Taylor was out in 35, two under the limit and back in 34 one under par to climax the greatest round of golf, as yet shot on the local course. Here is the complete story of his card:
Par Out ..........................
Taylor Out ...............  -.....
Par In ...........................
Taylor In ........................
444	453	445—37
345	443	444—35
443	443	535—35—72
533	442	535—34—69
Notre Dame won the match 17 to 10 having sewed up the result by winning 7% points to the Illinois’ 1% in the morning best-ball matches to make for their third straight victory this season, previously knocking off the hopeful Washington U. team and Chicago U. TomoiTow the Irish will face their hardest test to date. Northwestern, by virtue of their six straight victories this season, are well on their way to a Big Ten championship. The Wildcats have never been pressed in their half dozen wins, winning all by substantial leads.
On this coming Tuesday what could be justly called the strongest of-collegiate golf team in the United States will play Notre Dame on the William J. Burke University golf course. Louisiana State with its great shot-maker, Freddy Haas, in command will oppose Father Holderith’s wards. A year ago this spring Haas was runnerup to Ed White of Texas in the Intercollegiate Golf Tournament held at the Congressional Club course in Washington, D. C. Within the last month Haas won the Individual Southern Intercollegiate golfing title and his team mates duplicated their leader’s superb play by winning the team title by a margin of thirty points. Haas is within the first fiive amateurs in the country today. The reason he wasn’t selected for this year’s Walker Cup team is still being sought by the leading golf scribes and devotees of the game. Capt. Win Day, Pat Malloy, Bill Taylor, Lou Fehlig, Bill Castleman, Bob Wilke and Herm Green will have to be at their best to subdue the star-studded horde from the Delta State.
KEHOE GOES TO NEW YORK
Kevin Kehoe, co-captain of the Notre Dame fencing team the past season, has been sent to New York to try out for the Olympic team which right he won by his recent victory in the Illinois Amateur Fencing Tournament. As this is being written Kehoe has already fenced in the preliminary round and with what result only time will tell. It was mainly through the efforts of Coach Pedro de Landero that Kehoe was able to make the trip. The fencers, under the very able guidance of this most popular coach, de Landero, went through nine matches without a loss, and then two of its members, Kehoe and C. de Landero, went on to win their way into the final round of the Illinois Amateur Tournament, qualifying them for the Olympic tryouts. The St. Joe Valley Alumni Club sent Kevin Kehoe on his way to the Olympic trials.
Seventeen
Kline Has Fine Record As Coach and Player
Player In 1915, *16 and '17, Captaining Team In His Senior Year; Might Have Become Major Leaguer Only For War
John Q. Public generally thinks of Notre Dame, athletically, as being essentially a “mecca” for young men inclined towards activities on the gridiron. The, baseball squad, even though the country’s finest as in the past season, is often labeled as just another sport at the Irish institution. Of more recent note, however, is the rapid rise to prominence of the Blue and Gold baseball combine under the tutelage of Clarence J. Kline (commonly known as “Jake”).	.
Since the memorable days of Adrian “Pop” Anson, who is classed along with Wagner, Tinkers, and Cobb in baseball’s immortal hall of fame, in the early 1880’s, Notre Dame has been well-represented by brilliant aggregations in the national pastime. Naturally a few of the various teams enjoyed only a mediocre amount of success, but, after all, that’s to be expected.
Elmer F. Layden came to Notre Dame in the spring of 1934, to assume the role as Director of Athletics and head man of the Irish pigskinners. One of his initial moves was to appoint Jake Kline as varsity
Clarence “Jake” Kline
baseball coach, succeeding George Keogan who preferred to devote his entire time to the basketball outfit.
The selection proved to be a wise choice on the part of Coach Layden. Not that Keogan failed to produce a winning nine. On the contrary, quite
the opposite. But Kline, a keen student of the game, commenced to develop a band of aspiring candidates into a better-than-average organization. His first year at the helm would be considered nothing more than ordinary, from a viewpoint of the win-and-lose column, as the Irish were defeated only on twelve occasions and victorious in eight.
Jake started to implant his knowledge, gained from valuable experience as a member of Notre Dame’s pre-war teams, to the present day Irish. The lineups of 1915, 1916, and 1917, were graced with well-deserved praise of Kline’s, exploits as a slugger and all-around performer. He held down the third sack for Notre Dame, and continued to flash throughout his varsity career, as the “hot corner.” In ’17, Jake was elected to lead the baseballers, in the position of captain, for that spring.
Hitting consistently over the magic .300 mark for three years is a unique feat. That distinction constitutes Jake’s prowess at the plate, as gleaned from newspaper clippings of by-gone years. Pittsburgh scouts attempted to secure Kline’s name on (Continued on Page 22)
NOTRE DAME VS. MICHIGAN STATE, 1935
E, i g h t.e e n
The Scholastic
McNulty Star in Netmen's Two 6-3 Tennis Victories
NICK'S TRACKMEN CAPTURE MANY HONORS IN ANNUAL DRAKE RELAY TRACK AND FIELD GAMES
In a valiant comeback over the defeat from Illinois which threatened to upset the season, the Notre Dame tennis team won over Detroit and ' Bradley last Friday and Saturday by the scores of 6-3 and 6-3. The Irish
Joe McNulty	-
Champ back in form.
met Detroit here and Bradley at Peoria, Illinois.
The singles matches which were won by the Irish 4-2 and 4-2 in.the two meets respectively gave the Irish a big lead in both contests and enough reserve strength was left in the Notre Dame squad to take all three doubles matches of both meets. The Notre Dame team was much handicapped by a lack of practice in both meets but even so, were able to take their contestants in without using too much effort.
Waldron Defeats Captain
In the Detroit meet, Joe Waldron defeated the Captain 6-2, 6-4, McNul-. ty defeated Cavanaugh, Fallon and
Prendergast took both of their men with ease. Cannon and Vervaet lost to the Detroiters in the singles. In the doubles matches Fallon and Prendergast lost after a hard battle, while Waldron teamed with McNulty to win their match, and Feeley and Vervaet downed their opponents in straight sets, 6-2, 6-4.
At Peoria the Irish were met by stiff competition and poor courts but went ahead to win against Bradley in the same fashion that they conquered Detroit, winning four singles matches and losing two, and merging ahead in the doubles to win 2-1. With the start which the Irish got in these two matches, it can be expected that the tennis team will make a comparable showing with the other Notre Dame teams this year.
May I, 1936
Notre Dame’s track and field forces made their initial appearance of the outdoor season last Saturday at.the Drake Relays in Des Moines. The Irish forces firmly established themselves as one of the outstanding teams in the country as they scored enough points to give them the unofficial team honors of the famous relay meet. Coach John Nicholson had all his stars concentrated in Des Moines instead of sending some of them to the Penn games as he has done in other years. This accounts for the strong showing of the team.
Notre Dame relay teams scored in every relay event they entered. The quartet of Irish sprinters, Jordan. Frawley, Boyle, and Clifford, staged a typical iron-man performance when they gathered in two first places in the 440 and 880 yard relays. The four men ran four races in the two days of competition and bested some of the finest combinations in the Big Ten and other mid-western colleges.
In the other relay events the quarter milers scored a second in the mile relay after being temporarily disqualified in the trial heats on Friday; the milers a fourth in the four mile relay, and the half milers a third in the two mile relay.
In the individual events Irish stars came through as expected. Don Elser took second place in the shot put when Francis of Nebraska bested Don’s farthest hurl by more than two feet. Both men’s best, performances were turned in during the trials and the finals did not change the standings between the two best shot putters in the mid-west.
Captain George Meagher lost his
NICK AND HIS TRACK TEAM
Drake Relays broad jump title by one inch as he took second place to King of Pittsburg, (Kas.) Teachers. King’s winning jump was 24 feet, 10 inches: Meagher’s best was 24 feet, 9 inches. Both of these jumps were better than Jesse Owens’, 23 feet 5 inches broad jump which took first place at the Penn relays. Meagher also took a third place in the hop, step, and jump event, trailing Neil of Maryville Teachers and Cardwell of Nebraska.
The total Irish team score was 33 points in the unofficial tabulation. The nearest team score was that of Indiana University with 20 points. • Teams from the Big Ten, California, the East, and Mid-West all competed in the relays that rival in importance the famous Penn Relay games that are held on the same day: Incidentally, Don Elser forfeited his Penn Relays title to compete in the Drake event. Don’s second place would have garnered him a second place in the East, the winning put being 48 feet 11% inches at Penn.
MANAGERS NAMED
Paul F. Barker of Rochester, New York was named to succeed the late George Wirry as head football manager for next season at the Annual Managers Banquet, held Wednesday night.
Barker will be assisted by Albert J. Schwartz of Salina, Kansas as manager of Stadium and personnel, along with James McHugh of Fitchburg, Mass., who will handle the equipment.
John J. Manning of Sioux City, Iowa was chosen as manager of Coach Keogan’s basket-ball squad to succeed Bill Gillespie.
Nineteen
"OLE-TIMERS" SET TO BATTLE SUNDAY MINUS THEIR STAR, SHAKESPEARE
ON DOWN THE LINE
Wayne Millner To Play End
By Gene Vaslett
The last week of the 1936 spring football practice was terminated today as Head Coach Elmer Layden led his large squad through a final drill on fundamentals in preparation for the annual Old Timers vs. Varsity game that is to be held in the stadium Sunday afternoon.
Coach Layden expects to use nearly every man on his eight or nine teams but has not yet posted his starting varsity line up. The opening
Elmer Layden
An Ole-Timer vs. the Ole -Timers.
varsity team will probably be composed mainly of the few regulars left from last year and promising sophomores. Likewise it is uncertain as to who will play for the so called “Old Timers.” Baseball and track will take a few of the senior football men away over the week-end and it is certain that Don Elser, John Michuta, Frank Gaul, Andy Pitney, Wally Fromhart, Matt Themes, and Frank Kopczak will not play for the outgoing men Sunday afternoon. Bill Shakespeare, in the infirmary suffering from' injuries received at St. Mary’s last Sunday, also will not see action.
However the starting line up for the old timers will be composed of men who were prominent in the last campaign. Wayne Millner and Marty Peters will be at the ends; Ken Stil-ley and Art Cronin at tackles; Sonny Church and Paul Schrenker at guards; Hank Pojman at center; Fred Carideo will probably be at full; back with Tony Mazziotti and Layden at the halfback positions; George
Twenty
NORTHWESTERN GOLF MATCH
Tomorrow the Notre Dame golf team meets Northwestern in a match which is considered one of the highlights of the year on the spring sports schedule. Last year, it will be remembered, the Wildcats defeated the Irish team late in the season to blast their hopes for an undefeated season, and at the same time they ended Notre Dame’s unblemished three - year winning streak.
This year the Evanston team boasts of an even better group than last year and it looks as though the Irish linksters will be hard pressed to gain a victory. Captain Win Day of the Irish wishes to ask.the students to support this match, and if possible follow some of the golfers around. The golf team is like the football, basketball, and baseball teams in appreciating and needing student body support, and Captain Day is certain that student support will more than aid the golfers in defeating Northwestern.
CENTER JUMP ABOLISHED
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Stevens Point, Wis. — Coaches of the Wisconsin State Teachers College basketball conference, in a meeting at the Teachers College here, abolished the center jump in conference court games next season.
Anticipating a like change in rules by the national basketball rules committee, the coaches adopted regulations which will put the ball in play by center jump at the beginning of each half, but at other times under the basket of the team scored upon.
Moriarity will start at quarterback. Replacements for the old timers will come from retiring “B” team men and if there are not enough men to last the game Layden will have some of his prospective varsity men play with the “Old Timers.”
Ike Voedisch, acting end coach and ex-Notre Dame star will referee the game; Bob Jones, Central High school coach will umpire; Frank Hogan will act as head linesman, and O. F. Hel-vie will be field judge during the game. The opening whistle will blow at 2 o’clock Central Standard Time.
The proceeds of the battle will go to the Monogram Club and its activities.
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
According to an important faculty member of an athletically-noted university of NEW YORK, they can no longer depend on METROPOLITAN football material to aid them on the gridiron? Formerly he says that they could count on two or three first-class players from the local schools but attractions held out by institutions in various sections annually remove the cream of the CITY’S gridiron material. — REGINALD J. Mc-NAMARA, known as the “IRON MAN of six-day bicycle racing, says that it is the best governed sport in the world? You have to ride by the rules or you won’t ride at all, and if you are barred by any country in which cycle racing is held, you’ll be barred all over the world.—The final selection of the BRITISH OLYMPIC track team will depend on the ability of the men to attain the standards set in the 1928 AMSTERDAM GAMES when the climatic and other conditions most nearly approached those to be expected in BERLIN?— AL MONTEVERDE of MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY, ifow 60 years of age, has run in 116 maarthons and finished them all?—CLARENCE De-MAR, famous marathon runner promised to address a boy’s club in a town some 25 miles from his home in MELROSE, MASSACHUSETTS, during 1930. He missed his train but kept his word—he ran the 25 miles?— For the handsomest man in sports, BEAUTY EXPERT GRACE DONOHUE announced FRANK SHIELDS at the top, JIMMY FOXX, second, and WINSTON GUEST, third; among the girls SONYA HENIE leads ELEANOR HOLM JARRET and HELEN WILLS MOODY? — HOKE BEAZLEY, one of the fastest semi-pro ball players in NEW YORK CITY, flunked his Fire Department test because of flat feet?—MEMPHIS has a baseball team which has remained in the first division for fifteen consecutive seasons?
ILL AND CHICAGO GOLF MEETS (Continued from Page 15)
Cary, Chicago, defeated Castleman, N.D.,
Illinois—Foursomes: Day-Green, N.D., defeated Kokes-Zahn, DI., 3-0; Taylor-Castleman, N.D., defeated Hohart-Trihedel, DI., 2-1; Mal-loy-Fehlig, N.D., defeated Hill-Hedges, DI., 2%-%.
Singles: Kokes, DI., defeated Day, N.D., 3-0: Hedges, DI., defeated Wilke, N.D., 2-1; Malloy, N.D., defeated Hill, DI., 2%-^; Taylor, N.D., defeated Hobart, Bl., 2-1: Fehlig, N.D., defeated Zahn, DI. 2-1; Tribedel, DI., defeated Castleman, N.D., 2-1.
The Scholastic
NORTHWESTERN GOLF MATCH (Continued from Page 14)
Amateur. Another consistent performer is Captain Tom Saielli, a senior who has seen action against Notre Dame during the past two seasons. Although souffering from a lack of experience Northwestern boasts of a group of fine sophomores who have stepped right up to the front ranks of collegiate golfers this spring. Among these latter are Bill Kostilecky, Bill McKenzie, and Jim Marek. The last named shot a 68 on a par 72 course up in Chicago the other day while playing a match against Armour Tech.
Also boasting a clean slate is Notre Dame, and Rev. George Holderith will muster his strongest combination to give battle to Northwestern. Although Bill Cole is not able to play owing to sickness, Bob Wilke has stepped right in and has been pounding the ball with all the appearances of a champion. After his great round of 69 against Illinois early this week, Bill Taylor feels that he is ready for the best of them and ought to cause plenty of trouble with his tantalizing putter. Lou Fehlig has been sharpening up his game for the past two weeks and to date he ranks as one of Notre Dame’s most consistent scorers. Along with the always dependable Win Day —Bill Castleman, Pat Malloy, and Herman Green round out the team. All student golfing enthusiasts should
be warned that this is to be the best match of the year to watch and that there is plenty of room for a large gallery.
COMING TENNIS MATCHES (Continued from Page 15)
was won by Northwestern 7-0, the Ball brothers downing Captain Frank Weldon and this year’s captain, Joe Waldron.
Northwestern’s team will undoubtedly be the toughest nut that Captain Joe Waldron and his lads will have to crack all season. Although the record made by the Irish so far this season indicates that the netmen are well on their way to a victorious year, it seems doubtful that they can withstand the attack of the Purple Scourge. The rainy weather has greatly handicapped the Irish by preventing the all-necessary daily practice which is especially important at the beginning of the season.
ILLINOIS BASEBALL GAME (Continued from Page 14)
erage with a homer and a single in two official times at bat. Wentworth hit very well in the pinches, getting three slashing singles. Borowski and Velcheck contributed some fine fielding plays at opportune times. Daukus and Twikle, the Illini catcher and shortstop respectively, led the Illinois hitters with two hits each.
Arboit, the Notre Dame starting pitcher, and Rydell who relieved him in the eighth were both very stingy with base hits especially with men on
base. Cherry, the Illini chucker, struck out eleven men, but the six passes he issued kept him in constant trouble.
Illinois (4)
The box score:
Notre Dame (5)
Ab R H				P A	
Corc’an,2b	2	1	0	1	1
P’nz’vic,2b	1	1	0	0	1
Went’th.ss	5	0	3	3	o
Fromh’t,3b	4	0	1	4	9
Pilney, If	4	1	2	4	1
Gaul, c	2	1	2	1	0
Velch’k.cf	3	0	0	1	0
Bor’ski.rf	4	0	1	2	1
Scafati.lb	4	1	010		0
Arboit.p	2	0	0	0	0
Rydell.p	0	0	0	0	1
x Reagan	1	0	0	0	0
Ab R H PA H’fler.2b 5 12 11 R’hart.lf 3 110 0 D’nc’k.cf 4 0 111 DufFr.lb 5 0 211 0 F’klin.Sb 5 0 2 0 2 Henry.rf 5 0 10 0 Dauk’s.c 5 1 1 10 4 Swikle.ss 4 12 3 2 Cherry.p 4 0 10 2
Totals ___32 5 10 27 9 | Totals ....4 4 1326’12
x Reagan batted for Arboit in 7th.
1 Two out when winning run scored.
Errors — Arboit, Henry, Cherry: two-base hits, Daukus. Swikle: three-base hits, Haefler; home runs, Gaul; stolen bases. Borowski, Gaul. Haefler: sacrifice hits. Velcheck. Gaul: double plays, Dancisak to Duffner; ihts off Arboit. 10 in 7 innings; off Rydell, 3 in 2 innings: bases on balls off Cherry 6; off Rydell 3: struck out by Cherry 11; wild pitches. Arboit; hit batsman, Reinhart by Arboit. Winning pitcehr, Rydell. Passed balls, Daukus 2. Time of agme 2:10. Umpires Daley anad Rose.
’ Action Picture of 1935 Outdoor Track Meet
May 1, 1936
Twenty-one
BASEBALL FEATURE (Continued from Page 18)
the “dotted line,” and probably would have if the World War had not so rudely interrupted.
Following in the footsteps of many other Notre Dame undergraduates, he enlisted in the service with the 23rd Engineers. After seeing action at the front, “Private” Kline returned to the States and, in 1921, he received a Civil Engineering degree here at Notre Dame.
The major leagues have a number of ex-Irish athletes, who learned their fundamentals under Jake’s guiding hand. The most notable of these include Norb Rascher, with the Chicago White Sox; Vic Mettler, at Detroit; Joe Beach, ’35 pitcher, with the New Orleans club; and Charley Huisking at Montreal.
The schedule, last spring, of thirteen conquests and six defeats, wound up practically the reverse from that of the year before. Kline is of the opinion that college baseball is gradually becoming, each season, a more popular sport. This is evidenced by the fact that some of the Big Ten teams, annually, tour the southern part of the country. Incidentally the Irish themselves, had a trip to the sunny climate of Louisiana and neighboring states, planned out, during Easter vacation, but someone threw a “screw” in the works. Although Coach Kline is making no rash promises that his 1936 outfit will possess true championship form, nevertheless, you can bet your last thin dime that the Irish sluggers will inaugurate their own victory march in keeping pace with the football, basketball, track, and fencing squads.
GLEE CLUB IN DEMAND
The University Glee club will present a concert, which has been arranged by Paul Schrantz through the C.Y.O. of Fort Wayne, at the Catholic Community Center of that city on the evening of May 14.
In a recent letter to Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Glee club, Mr. Schrantz, a resident of Ft. Wayne and a Notre Dame alumnus, said that a concert by the Notre Dame- Glee Club would be warmly welcomed by Fort Wayne.
Members of the Glee Club will leave the campus for Fort Wayne at 4:15 o’clock on Thursday, May 14. In Fort Wayne, they will be guests at a dinner, before the concert, at the Catholic Community Center, returning to the campus the same night.
On a coast-to-coast broadcast, last Saturday, the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club were heard on a hook up of 100 stations of the Columbia Broadcasting System in the United States, besides being connected with a number of the Company’s Canadian stations.
PITT TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 15)
posed to be the masters of the Irish, many people even called it the “Panther jinx.” Notre Dame broke Pitt’s supremacy, winning 67-59. It-brought Pitt’s mastery over Notre Dame teams to an end and now Pitt is striving to regain her supremacy for she hasn’t whipped Notre Dame since her basketeers defeated the Irish in the 1934-35 season. During the course of last year’s performances, nine meet records were surpassed, two new Car-tier field records were established and one field event was equalled. The same classy competition is expected to b repeated in tomorrow’s meet.
Fleming, an expert dashman and hurdler, scored 15 points for Pitt in last year’s meet. Pitt misses his prowess this year because his collegiate competition terminated last June. Elser, who led the Irish scorers with 8 points, is still competing, and in most meets his presence means at least 5 points for Notre Dame.
Coach John Nicholson of Notre Dame is optimistic regarding his teams chances against Pittsburgh. Flashing a broad victory smile in his office last Tuesday despite the rainy weather, Nick said, “Maybe I should be worried more by the Pitt meet, but I think we have a good chance of winning. Our fighting spirit should pull us through if nothing else.” Nick seemed to be more concerned with the triangular meet which will be held on Cartier field, May 9. Ohio State, featuring Jesse Owens, and Michigan State will be the Irish opponents that afternoon.
Thomas, a sprinter who Nick thinks to be better than the dusky Fleming, will probably repeat Fleming’s performance of last year in scoring 15 points. His favorite events are the 100, 220, and 440 yard runs. Jordan and Clifford will be Irish threats in the shorter dashes. Bernard, Rubly, and Parsons will give him a battle in the 440. Clifford aggravated his leg injury at the Drake relays and will not be in the best of physical condition.
Conley and Groat who were the first two to break the tape in the 880 last year, are expected to repeat Saturday. McGrath and Cavanaugh are capable of pushing one of these two stars to a new meet record. Tost of Pittsburgh will be hard pressed to win his second consecutive mile race against Notre Dame. John Francis and John McKenna may trim the Pitt star if conditions are favorable. McFarlane and Gott seem to be the class of the two milers.
The hurdles are expected to be even races. Mahoney, Elser, and
Frawley should score heavily in the lows, while Mahoney is Notre Dame’s lone hope in the highs. A recent cold may lessen Mahoney’s efficiency in topping the timbers.
Notre Dame appears to be the strongest team in the shotput and discus. Taana of Pitt has been getting a little more distance in the javelin than John Levicki, but there is a chance that the big Notre Dame athlete may surprise his skilled opponent. The Irish are counting on two places in the pole vault. Gibbs, McCarty, and Langton are on a par in this event. Pitt expects to dominate the high jump, and Notre Dame is anticipating a slam in the broad jump. The relay races are a toss-up. Baton exchanging will probably determine the relay winners. In the C.I.C. meet, Notre Dame and Pittsburgh mile relay teams running in different heats finished with the same official time.
The track team left for Pittsburgh confident of extending Notre Dame’s supremacy over the Panthers.
CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS
A new preparedness program hit the campus this week with the announcement that a schedule of spring training has been mapped for next year’s cheerleaders.
Walter Nienaber, head of the cheer leading squad this year, hopes for a record turn out of candidates for the initial work out set for Monday, May 3, at 4:00 o’clock in the apparatus room of the gymnasium.
To avoid the delay encountered in previous years, the head cheer leader will be named this spring instead of next fall. The rest of the squad will also be set before the summer vacation begins.
NOTHING ELSE HAS ITS FUVOR
Ako Imperial YeDo Bole $1.50
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
4
MONOGRAM ABSURDITIES
(Continued from Page 7)
j to move even the most hardened of j Washington Hall audiences.
d The melodramatic element will be i supplied by Bucky Jordan, George | Ireland, and Leo McFarlane who are teamed together in a skit dealing with the “caf.” Arch Gott and Bill | Steinkemper will present some bril-I liant repartee in a hilarious question | and answer act. Hank Pojman, John । McKenna, and “Sunny” Church are ? cast in the role of communist printers I in another skit, which also includes a | parody on the “Internationale.”
I
;	NATIONAL PREP MEET
|	(Continued from Page 17)
i old record by tossing the shot put 49 feet 8% inches, an impressive high school performance. The new records were hung up in the following events: 100 yard dash; 120-yard intermediate hurdles; 220-yard dash; 200-yard low hurdles; 440-yard dash; 880-yard run; 880-yard relay; shot put; and in the pole vault the old record was tied.
West Catholic High of Philadelphia i has run off with the team honors in both meets, retaining its championship last June by collecting 54 5-6 points to it’s nearest competitor’s, St. Ignatius of Chicago, 25. It is expected that the spiked shoers from the Quaker City will return again this year with the hope of annexing their third consecutive victory.
BASEBALLERS ON ROAD
(Continued from Page 14)
of breaking up any ball game. Cupp, the first baseman, is a steady man at the plate, and Hayes at third is a dangerous man, especially with men on bases. Mathson, the man behind the plate, is a dependable batsman particularly with runs waiting to be driven in.
The Irish again journey to Columbus to meet the Ohio Staters and if the presence of Pilney, Fromhart, and Gaul means anything the Buckeyes are in for a busy session. Last season the contests between Ohio State and the Irish were hard fought battles from the opening inning until the final out, and it is expected to be the same this year. Layden and Keo-gan can sit back and laugh at Kline’s discomfort if Tippy Dye performs on the diamond against Gaul and Co. in the same manner as he did on the gridiron and basketball court. Either Themes or Arboit is expected to be on the mound for the Irish. The Ohio State team is well balanced, has power at the bat as well as a smooth working infield that can scoop them up from any position.
Notre Dame’s starting line-up for these two encounters is still a question mark, depending somewhat on yesterday’s game with Michigan State. Coach Kline has been experimenting -with his infield in an attempt to place all the power possible on the field. Fromhart and Wentworth seem like sure fixtures, but for the other side of the diamond there are such men as Corcoran, Ponzevic, Scafati, Reagan,
Fourth Washington Trip Pronounced Big Success
The fourth “Notre Dame to Washington” trip which took place during the Easter holidays was one of the most successful ever conducted. A large group of some 40 students under the direction of Professor Paul C. Bartholomew spent three days in the captial and during this time saw many things that were conducive to a better understanding of the machinery of national government.
The reception which was tendered to the group at the beautiful Japanese Embassy by Hirosi Saito, the Japanese Ambassador, was one of the highlights of the trip.
. The time of the visit proved to be particularly opportune for the group was in attendance at the impeachment trial of Judge Halstead Ritter of Florida which took place on the floor of the Senate. They visited the new Supreme Court building on the Decision day. They were in the gallery of the house on the day when Representatives Zioncheck of Washington and Blanton of Texas almost came to blows.
As a result of the cooperation of Indiana Senators Samuel Pettingill, Frederick Van Nuys, and Sherman-Minton the gr.oup was able to visit all the points of interest without having to await their turn. Some of these places were the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the State department where they view the official national documents which were brought up from the subterranean vaults for the occasion.
NATIONAL CATHOLIC TRACK MEET
Thrilling finish of Hurdles Race in Last Year's Interscholastic Meet
and Van Wagner to choose from. The outfield seems well set with Pilney, Velcheck, and Borowski all showing batting strength as well as the ability to drag ’em down. And the mere mention of Gaul for the catching post will be sufficient. Lefty Rydell and Kopczak will be on hand to go to the aid of the pitchers if necessary.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR
eyesalift?UseMurine. Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by read-ing, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
EYES
May 1, 1936
Twenty-three
the SANTA MARIA Columbus* Flag Sisi J
MR. PAUL BYRNE LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME
[ iwu^Columbus to America ..and tobacco to the world
.. and now throughout the world smokers are saying
History tells us that when Christopher Columbus’ sailors took tobacco back home with them everybody hailed it as one of the first new pleasures in years. Today tobacco gives more pleasure to more people than ever before. Many different claims are made for tobacco, but most everybody agrees on this . . .
Smoking is a pleasure and the cigarette is the mildest and purest form in which that pleasure can be enjoyed.
© 1936. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.