
>> 
SCHOLa8TIC 
is now hiring: 

Managing Editor Associate Editor News -Editor and Assistant Campus Life -Editor and Assistant Sports -Editor and Assistant Entertainment -Editor and Assistant Departments -Editor Design -Editor and Assistant Photography -Editor and Assistant Graphic Arts -Editor Copy -Editor and Assistant Advertising -Manager and Assista~t Marketing -Manager Distribution -Manager Online -Manager and Assistant 

Scholastic is now accepting applications for all 2001-2002 positions. Any University of Notre Dame undergraduate may apply. Stop by the Scholastic office located in the basement of South Dining Hall or call 1-5029 for more information. Applications are due 1 March 2001. 

B R U A R Y 
;
Inconsistencies .with honorscode enforcement spawns an examina­i tion of the rules by which we swear. 
I
-I 
,7-:-----.·. ­

( Rock Solid 
:I . , 
16 
,"'"' -~=~c c ••c-,c 
,c by Jessica Daues ~ 
.COVER: With a strong offense and bitchin' · pitchiri', the baseball team has the potential for a champion­ship season. 
~;;::•-·-· ·--i. / Rio Revelry ! 
26 
\\, ,,,,_ by Kathleen_ ~':~~=J 

___t_h_e_d_e_p_a_r_t_m_e_n_t_s________________........_____---'-.........'---:-__!~#@.,,_______, 
Brazil'sweek-longCamavaldances through campus. · 
lf:-.,.---· .. ··•---·---.. 
i.' 
'I
!I Concrete Mystery 
1i b 
. l byKristin Steck eek -­
i 
College-Prep 
byJacklyn Kiefer 
;,','I 


A Spirit Divided 
by Kristin Kramer ­
;, 
.. ii,!! -.Got -Milkplow?, ­If byKaraZuaro .·
t ..... : 
"···c;,=====-=""=== 
-, -----,-,_ ­
i I 
I "10 I 
"12 "14 
28 
-l 

From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 29 



--.. >>

ND Notebook 4 ·Week in Distortion 30 
1;iesign and Illustration

Campus Watch_ -22 Calendar 31 
_. ·by Mike Griffin 

Splinters 23 Final Word 32 
Photo by Kate Fo~ter 

---:----------------------------..:.____;.__;._____'._:· :·.­

Vol. 142, No. 10 • 22 FEBRUARY 2001 
scholasti~OJo}Jf_st_aff

__~---1 
Editor in Chief James J. Pastore Jr. 
Managing Editor Associate Editor Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie M. Caspersen, editor Matthew C. Ziegler, assistant Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor 
Kristin A. Kramer, assistant Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Design Matthew Barr, editor 
Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Katie Browning, Brendan Condon, Crissy Manary, Katie Wales 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor Michael M. deiaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Jennifer L. Wahoske 
Distribution Angela M. Polsinelli, manager Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 
Jessica B. Potish, assistant Online F. Brian Scofield, manager 
Jamie L. Moran, assistant 
Marketing Morgan Anderson, manager 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright © 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 
5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. Jacki Kiefer is the official phone mangler of Scholastic. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies ofthe annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
/ 
Ihave a confession to make -I'm from New York, and I'm a Mets fan. I suppose it was inevitable. All those days spent riding the now­infamous No. 7 train with my dad to Shea Stadium took their toll. And since I live in Queens -home of the Mets -it would be almost sinful to root for that other New York team. Ofcourse, life as a Mets fan hasn't always been easy, especially in light of the virtually constant success of our neighbors to the north. But, there have been a few shining moments, like the 1986 World Series -or, more correctly, the victory celebrations that followed. My school-bus driver, a die-hard Mets fan, showed up the next day in a sign-clad bus, honking and shouting through the streets of Queens. The next season, my father and I were at a game against the St. Louis Cardinals when Mets second-baseman Tim Teufel fouled offa pitch. As the ball sailed into the stands, my father jumped up, stretched out a gloved hand and snagged the ball. We did a victory dance in the stands and later found out that the television cameras had caught the whole thing. I don't remember if the Mets won that game or not. In fact, I can't remember the winning team for most of the games I've attended. Instead, I remember meeting high-school friends at the ballpark, I remember arguing about the merits of the latest trade, and I remember the trash-talk my roommate-a St. Louis native-and I exchanged during this season's National League Championship Series. The memories not of baseball, but of what baseball facilitates: the growth of friendships, connection with family, a chance to catch up with people's lives over the course of nine slowly passing innings. Perhaps because it lends us this opportunity to forge essential connec­tions, Americans have adopted baseball as our national pastime. In a beautifully ironic twist, a country often criticized for its frenetic pace has adopted a timeless game; the innings often stretch late into balmy summer nights, and the season runs from the first chilly days of April through the mid-summer heat of July and into the blustery beginnings of October. Yet, for all the sway baseball has on the American psyche, it remains a relatively unrecognized sport at Notre Dame. But that could soon change. As the ground thaws and the Notre Dame baseball team prepares for its home opener, hopes are high for a successful Irish season. Ranked among the top 10in most preseason polls, the Irish could seriously contend for this year's national title. Check out JessicaDaues's preview on page 16 to find out more about this year's squad. 
Correction: In our January 25, 2001, issue, the story "Ethnic Flavor" identified Elia's as a restaurant serving Palestinian and Greek food, but the restaurant actually features Leb,rn,re food. Sclwlasdc regrets the em,,-. /.~ 
r Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 
'-...

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
There's one great thing about going fishing here. 
There's no limit. 


Got the urge?~ 

The·aelicious BK"-IJIG FISH®ValueMeal. ··-·-:.. After one bite, you·•n be hooked on our tasty fish fille~ topped with fresh lettuce _ and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries-~.'nd an ice-cold drink .. And best of all; this is one fishing spot that neve_r runs out. 
The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 



Wake Up and Smell the Coffee 
Story by Matthew Ziegler Art by Carol Wolf 

Use your noodle the next time you buy your beans 
Next time you're sipping a trendy java at Reckers, you might want to give some thought to the origin of the coffee in your cup. According to Global Exchange, a human-rights advocacy group based in San Francisco, the great majority of coffee imported to the United States comes at the expense of the farming families that produce it. But through the creation of a certification mark known as "Fair Trade," Global Exchange hopes to change this trend. Coffee, currently the United States' sec­ond-largest import behind oil, enters our country at a price that fluctuates between 90 cents and $1 per pound of beans. Usu­ally, about 30 to 50 cents of this reaches the original growers, and the rest is taken by marketing intermediaries. But Fair Trade sells coffee to retailers without the intervention of a middleman, who is re­placed by a coalition of farmers and their activist partners working to distribute the crops at a minimum price of $1.26 per pound. Sixty percent of this automatically goes to the growers. This may seem like a hefty increase in cost, but considering that most coffee brewed in U.S. coffee­houses is marked up an average of 1,500 percent, Global Exchange sees this as a small price to pay for the sweet taste of social justice. 

Because ofthe pressure that human-rights groups have put on Starbucks, the nation's largest coffee outlet, the company agreed last year to sell packaged Fair Trade coffee in all of its locations. All, that is, except for on­campus stores. Starbucks has said that it will offer Fair Trade coffee at campus locations only when met with a strong demand from students. 
Will Fair Trade take root on our campus? Campus activists have begun their efforts at Notre Dame by attempting to arrange a 
>> 

Men's basketball coach Mike Brey may 





------------_J 
have spent eight years with Duke's storied 
program and have coached the University 
ofDelaware to unprecedented success, but

Ir--__Ten___Questlons~~-•~ 
can he handle the Fightin' Irish? Scholastic 

rr 

with men's . 
sat down with this energetic guy and grilled 

head: 
him about the No. 18 Irish,fashion ~nd life. 

•basketball 
How does it feel to be at Notre Dame? 
Well, I mean, I guess I'm getting more comfortable. It's been a whirlwind these past few months, but ... it's been a lot of fun. 
What's been the highlight of the season for you so far? 
I thinkit's been real neat to watch the last few weeks. It's gratifying to see a group come to-telephone barrage to the Reckers managers, asking them to sell Fair Trade coffee. It could be difficult to build student support, though. Starbucks coffee sells at the Huddle in 12-ounce packages at a rate of $10 per pound,_while Fair Trade ...· . . 
from Starbucks costs . ~...
•.,._"')). $11.45 for the same 



9~ ~}
amount-and that's ., , 

,1 
before any po-, .. /,. ,: •. _'./ tential Huddle • '.,•• -·· mark-ups. • 
For now, the · i.. situation con tin-· \ . i' .,,"ij ues to brew. 0 .~ .:,i'C ~ l, :;=· ·­
·:0"-­
For more infor-,' 6;___ · mation on Fair Exchange, visit www.global exchange.org/ economy/coffee/. 
gether, and they're really starting to do that now. 
What kind of influence did the Duke pro­gram have on your ideals as a coach? 
I think it's helped me adjust to working here, especially with recruiting. You kn.ow, not every all-star basketball player in high school has the academics to come to a school like Notre Dame or Duke, so being atDuke was good preparation for recruiting at Notre Dame. 

What can fans do to get more involved? 
The other night [against St. John's] was great, when they were there for us even when we were down in the second half. The key is to have them there yelling from the beginning tip to the end. It really helps, and 

.. Rainer Maria 


A Better Version Of Me 
label: Polyvinyl Records release date: 23 January 2001 Review by Kara Zuaro 

ABetter Version Of Me is the third release from Madison, Wis.-based Rainer Maria. The band spent about 
a year pent up in a rickety old Pepperidge Farm cow barn 
piecing this al­bum together, but the result was worth the wait. 
As a three­piece band, Rainer Maria has a stripped­


down sound. ' That, combined with the two vocalists' dynamics, makes for some pretty cool songs. 
Right from.the start, the album hooks you. Its first track, "Artificial Light," presents a hypnotic guitar/drum combination topped off with sweetly sung vocals. 
It seems that a lot of bands today either sing trite and banal accounts of failed rela­tionships or attempt to sing deep and poetic lyrics and just end up with nonsensical me­andering. But Rainer Maria strikes a nice balance between these extremes with non­specific lyrics that aren't too abstract to relate to. With such sweet lines as, "You begin like a lion and you end like a lamb," and, "I'm dishwater warm, smooth as por­celain," bassist Caithlin De Marrais deliv­ers an emphatic and unique style. 
She and guitarist Kyle Fischer, who also sings, originally met at a University of Wisconsin poetry workshop. It seems appropriate, then, that the band got its name from 19th-century poet Rainer Maria Rilke. The band's poetic lyrics, combined with raw and emotional delivery, result in powerful songs. 
Rainer Maria isn't the type of band that just blows you away, but it makes consis­tently good music. Each album has a song or two that really grabs you. · . 
Catch Rainer Maria in Chicago on March 9 at The Empty Bottle or on March 10 at the Fireside Bowl. 
.---j-ud_g_m_e-nt_c_a_l_ls----,~~ . 
CD-~s--'-·o~m_·_b_in_g_l_ra_q___,I 
In three weeks, he managed to piss off two billion Communists. What's next? 
. Junior Parents Weekend , 

Thirty grand a year to bond with the parental units. Money well spent. 


CD1J.aysof our Lives .1 
Valentine's Day massacre: While lives hang in the balance, Stefano and Chloe sip tea. 

8 .·~·r.esi9ents_·Day.·.·•··J 
Too bad we were too busy with class to honor our nation's leaders. 

>> 
the students can help get the other fans on their feet as well. 
In your own days orrthe court were you more of a 'major gunner' or a 'defensive powerhouse'? 
You know what I was? I was a poor man's Ingelsby. A poor man's Ingelsby! I got the ball to people and just kind of did the quar­terback dutie·s. 
What's with the turtlenecks? Do you have something against ties? 
I can't tie one! I cannot tie a tie. I don't know, it's something I got into the last two seasons at Delaware. It's become such a thing that I should just wear a tie one of these days and freak everybody out! 
The big question -how can we get Troy · Murphyto stay next year? 
I think, in all honesty, we can't lay any guilt trips on him. I think we all have to come to grips with the situation that it may be best for him to leave next year. It's not going to be an easy decision for him. I know he loves Notre Dame. 
What's your pre-game routine? Do you listen to any music to pump you up? 
Oh, no. I usually go home after pre-game dinner and tone it down, try to keep it quiet. There's enough emotion already during the game without having to get pumped up for it beforehand, so I try to be more even-keeled. 
.Do you have. any ideas for a student section name? 
I just want to keep my name off it. I think the focus should be on the players, so we might just want to sit back and see what develops over the next season or so. 
What would you write on your shoes? 
That's agciodone! Let's see, on my shoes I would write, "Please get in a defensive stance" -and I'd underline the "please." I'veoften thought about wearing some shoes with that on them to practice. . 
-Kristin Kramer and Dan Welch 







25Years Ago 
Deep Thoughts 
The February 20, 1976, issue of Notre Dame Scholastic offered a list of pa­per-topic suggestions suitable for any and all courses. Some of the most interesting: 1. Obtain an ice cube's view ofreality. 7. How many dimes can be consecutively rolled offthe Dome and still not be carried offby blind sparrows? 9. What is the opposite of "if"? 14. What are the metaphysical implica­tions ofthe "PEDXlNG" signbytheGrotto? 19. Ifglass eyes weren't made of glass, could you still see through them? 31. Could Rome have tripped instead of fallen? 33. How does God receive his royalties for the Bible? 35. Give three reasons for the longevity ofIndiana (without referring to any other states). 36. Prove that 1975 never really hap­pened. Hello, Core paper! Which brings up the most intriguing question of all: How much will my professor's blood pressure rise when I proclaim, innocently, "But you said I could pick my own topic!" 
-Cristin Fenzel 


"This is like the blind leading the lame over the precipice of ignorance." -psychology professor 
rebuilt the Joyce Center, would they then be s icing'?" 

If you haven't been to the Food Services Web site yet (www.nd.edu/ ~ndfood), it's worth a look. You can look up the dining halls' breakfast, lunch and dinner menus for the entire month and find nutritional information on all the food they serve. There's also an "Add to Tray" feature that automatically calculates the nutritional value of the meal you select. Here's a 

> 
"Tom Jones and Tom Green -I know one's a comedian 
and one's a singer, but I always get them confused." -overheard student 
"You're English majors. It's your job to find sex in everything." 
-English professor 

FOOD ICALORIES 
SERVING SIZE Chicken armesan 595 35;3 •.1 quarter• 
Macaroni and cheese 433 22.8 1 cupIvegetable egg rolls·•· 269 15;4~ · 2 
Kung Pao chicken  31 0  20  5 oz.  
~c:ldar cheese sauce (canned) ·120·•  tOA  2fl. OZ;  I  
Notre Dame waffle (plain)fBreaded cheese sticks  250 · 394  6 23:4  1 5  

Seasoned fries  268  14.1  14  

 16,1  1slice  l  
Cheese ravioli  402  17.3  6  
5.73  1 oz.  I  
Grab 'n' Go PBJ on white  396  16.5  1 saridwich  

sampling of what you'll find: 

[ Grab 'n' Go turkey on white · ·· 204 2.6·· -. 1 sandwich Peanut-butter-choc.-chip cookie 220 14.9 1 
Source: Food Services 





On My Honor 
Honor-code revisions attempt to clear up confusion and urge students and faculty to take pride in academic integrity 
By Katie Caspersen 

The undergraduate students of the University ofNotre Dame, united 
in a spirit ofmutual trust and fel­lowship, mindful of the values of a true education and the challenge posed by the world, agree to accept the responsibili­ties for honorable conduct in all aca­demic activities . ... " 
Chances are, most Notre Dame students have not read through the university's Aca­demic Code of Honor since the summer be­fore their arrival at Notre Dame. How many students can even say that they carefully read the code before signing the contract? 
Concerns over lack of conviction and education about the code's requirements are just a few reasons why students and faculty have been working to revise the entire honor system at Notre Dame. 
The process began more than two years ago, when Father Tim Scully, executive vice president of the university, asked that the university's Academic Code of Honor Committee clarify its role. The committee consists of both students and faculty from each of the five colleges and honor-code proceedings," says professor Stuart Greene, chair ofthe committee. "In order for the honor code to be an effective 

· contract, we needed to clarify faculty and student responsibility and make these ex­pectations explicit from day one." 
the First Year of Studies, along with a faculty member appointed by the Office of the Provost. Student representatives are selected by members of the individual college councils and must comprise no less than 50 percent of the membership. 
The committee agreed that its three pri­mary functions were to update the honor­code handbook, to publicize student and faculty responsibilities in upholding the university's ethical values, and to find a way to effectively implement the code. The complaints and problems that cropped up when reviewing these functions led to an in-depth revision that, two years later, is still unfinished. 
"We realized that there was a lack of consistency and knowledge concerning 
This task has certainly been easier said than done. Currently, each department has an honesty committee, the size and composition of which is left primarily to the discretion of the department chair, meaning that each honor-code-violation case can be handled in a different manner. "Needs won't be the same between all of the colleges," Greene says, "but currently, there isn't even sufficient dialogue be­tween departments to ensure consistency even within colleges." 
Prior to recent revisions, consistency in honor-code hearings and penalties has been very difficult to maintain, since there is no specific list of offenses and corre­sponding penalties. Individual honesty committees determine what constitutes everything from a minor offense, result­ing in a zero for that assignment, to a 

Breaking the cod,~. 
Besides the obvious violations, such as giving or receiving unauthorized aid on a test or assignment, there are other actions that constitute dishonesty: 
>Giving a false reason when asking for a 
make-up or an extension. >Falsifying data. >Turning in the same work for two or more 
classes. >Tolerating dishonesty on the part of other students. 
:-­
!~· 
'.---,::·:.::­


I+:'.;/ •;·:­
-.......; .., ~ .. 
[;:~:::•,,.,.,~,., ~c, • ,,,
! ~•~,,,4 , , ...,,. .', ,,, , ,, 

~•;:·~;;~~~~:~_,,_""___J{~{~1t~. 

Many concerns need to be addressed be­fore revisions to the honor code can be implemented. Areas of focus include: 
>Faculty presence at exams. >The decision to keep records aftergraduation and for how long. 
>Differencesbetween majorandminoroffenses 
and penalties. >Consistency regarding evidence ofa violation. 
>Consistency in adjudication. 
Compiled by Katie Caspersen 
major offense, usually resulting in a fail­
ing grade for the class in question. In addition to establishing a standard proce­
dure for all councils that oversee honor­
code hearings, the committee wants to increase and improve student participa­
tion. More-consistent guidelines as to the numbers of;students on individual hon­
esty .committees, as well as how they are appointed, could ensure that the students 
who serve on the honor-code councils are 
both interested and able to give adequate time to their committees. 
Education about the code was a peren­nial issue in the committee's research. Students and faculty feel that the Fresh­man Orientation honor-code presentation is insufficient because it is neither well attended nor listened to very carefuily. "Rather than overwhelming students with more information upon their arrival, per­haps we can wait until students are some­what settled and have smaller group ses­
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


sions that could instill the honor code in 
ND students," Greene says. The committee also wanted to research 
student views on the honor code and how 
it could be better implemented. Greene, now the faculty liaison to the Student Sen­ate, suggested that it help with the revi­
sion. He asked that the Senate study the 
current honor code and its administration from the student perspective to see how they might make it more student-friendly and efficient. A Senate subcommittee was formed to focus solely on the honor 
code. This committee, consisting pri­
marily of members of the Senate Resi­dence Life and Academic committees, met 
frequently to research the administration 
of honor codes at such peer institutions as the University of:Virginia and George Ma­son University, and compared their proce­
dures with those at Notre Dame. 
The University of Virginia has one honor committee, which is entirely stu­dent-run and composed of two elected members from each of the 10 colleges. Honor advisors investigate all cases, and hearings are held before an elected In­vestigative Panel. UVA do·es not delin­eate between major and minor offenses; if a student is found guilty, the only sanction is expulsion. 
At George Mason University, students sign an acceptance of the honor code, which is posted in every classroom on a laminated sign. All records of honor-code violations and hearings are made public, since the university feels that a violation 
affects the entire community. 
"Through research, we realized some of our weaknesses as well as some of our 
strengths," says Kathleen Br~gan, Breen­
Phillips Hall senator and subcommittee member. "We got some ideas and decided the direction that we.wanted to take. The code itself, the sanctioning process and the minimal education students were re­ceiving about it wasn't as effective as we thought possible." 

After researching other institutions, the Senate conducted three focus-group ses­sions to gather information from Notre Dame students on the code and its ef­fectiveness. 
"As far as the code itself, we didn't find that there needed to be too many changes," Brogan says. "As far as the process an accused goes through -that is what is going to take a lot more work. Many students and professors like the idea of a more-centralized honor board. Also brought up was a case logbook that could set more precedent for sanctions." 
Many students suggested streamlining all of the honesty committees into one body, or only one body per college. "There is no consistency," says Melissa Rauch, another subcommittee member. "There should be standards so that an individual student does not get an overly severe punishment from his personal honor committee. We want fairness and consistency." 
The subcommittee also stressed that the code should not attempt to define cheat­ing strictly, because professors have dif­ferent rules. "Some professors would say that having another student read over a paper constitutes cheating, while many first-year-composition classes require stu­dents to critique each other," Rauch says. "So, we stressed that each professor should make it clear what the rules are for their specific class." 
At the end oflast·semester, the subcom­mittee gave all of its results to the honor committee. 
"Since it is not our position to actually rewrite the code," Rauch says, "we left the meeting with the understanding that we would act as an advising 1:>ody." 
After considering the Senate's research and their own research, the Academic Code of Honor Committee submitted re­visions to the Academic Council, which suggested even further alteration this se­mester. 
Refining the rules has been difficult, but getting faculty and students to take ownership of the code has been, and will be, an even larger challenge. 
"The biggest problem that the commit­tee faces is getting the student body to buy into the code," Rauch says. 
Greene agrees wholeheartedly. "The tenets of the honor code are part of what life should be at Notre Dame, but right now, they are not a part of the culture." he says. "The hardest task that we face is not a simple revision of the text-that is not sufficient. We need to have the cre­ation of a culture in which the honor code is not only believed in, but also followed through on, where everyone is on the same page. Without this aspect, the text will not be passed as a reasonable revi­sion of the code. Students need to prac­tice it, and faculty need to follow through." 
Many faculty members consider honor­code hearings an arduous, time-consum­ing processes, and Greene admits that not all faculty members are willing to be in­volved in them at this time. 
One teaching assistant at Notre Dame, who wished to remain anonymous, agrees that the process can be confusing. "I guess I don't know exactly how it is supposed to work, whether you are supposed to turn students in for absolutely everything, or just major violations," the TA says. "I had an instance where homework had been copied word-for-word. I gave both stu­dents zeroes and asked them to come see me. The one student took full responsibil­ity and said that it would never happen again, and I took his word for it. I really don't see it as a big problem. For the most part, Notre Dame students take the honor code seriously, but, as with everything, there are a few exceptions. As for my case, I just didn't feel that it was a big enough problem to warrant a hearing." 
Greene guessed that despite faculty reluctance to follow through, most do feel that there is a problem with honor­code violations on campus. "In cases that do appear before the honor committees, there is an indication that not only is cheating going on, but rather that these cases are symptoms of a larger prob­lem," he says. 
Many students take the opposite view. "I know that it goes on, but I wouldn't say that it's a significant problem," says one student in the Mendoza College of Busi­ness. "I think that students at Notre Dame are proud of their work and very achieve­ment-oriented, so I would say that cheat­ing happens less here than at other schools." 
This sentiment reflects part of the over­all concern of the committees reviewing the code. Whether or not cheating goes on a little or a lot, in the culture that Greene envisions, students and faculty would be upset that it happens at all. Those involved in the revision process hope that increased clarity in the code, along with improved education for incoming students, will bring about this new culture and respect for the university-honor code. 
"The honor code goes far beyond a booklet," Greene says. "It is an ethic, a spiri­tual dimension and part of honoring one's faith.We haven't taken the ethical im­plications of violating the code to heart. This has to occur with both students and faculty." . 
GOTCHA! Consistent treatment of honor-code violations remains a concern. Even blatant violators can be treated differently within a particular college. 



A behind-the-scenes look at what goes on in the Radiation Laboratory 
KRISTINSTECKBECK 
Despite the rumors that swirl around campus about the Radiation Labora­tory, no one at Notre Dame glows in the dark, and no mushroom clouds have ever appeared on campus. So why the big mystery surrounding the little concrete building near the library? The general consensus among students seems to be that the Radiation Labo­ratory -or the "Rad Lab" -is a bit, well, spooky. It all started a half-century ago during World War II. Notre Dame, along with several other schools across the nation, contributed signifi­cant research to the Manhattan Project, the code name for the United States' top-secret development of the first atomic bomb. After the war, the U.S. Department ofEnergy built radiation-research sites at or near many of these universities. Notre Dame's radiation lab cost the Department of Energy $2.2 million and was dedicated on September 1, 1963. Today, it continues to receive support from the department. 

POWER BALL Only at Notre Dame would a Van de Graaf! generator -a machine used in pulse radiolysis -be painted like a giant football, complete with laces. 

So what exactly goes onin the lab? "What we do here is basic, fundamental science that is of interest to the Department of Energy," says lab director Dr. Dan Meisel. "Our specialized interest is in the effect of the radiation on materials; for example, water or wood." The lab uses pulse radi­olysis, a technique that involves the emis­sion of radioactive, charged particles in short pulses by two machines known as Van de Graaff generators. The lab also utilizes a more-modern linear accelera­tor. Scientists use this equipment to mea­sure the behavior of small samples that have been exposed to radiation. 
After irradiation, lasers and devices known as photospectrometers measure changes in the sample's ability to absorb photons, or light. 
The lab can also study the effects of long-term radiation exposure using three cobalt-60 irradiators. These hold a per­manent source of radiation, to which test samples are exposed for varying amounts of time. 
The Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory is unique in several ways. With only 50 to 100 people on staff, it is significantly smaller than the other 36 labs funded by the Depart­ment of Energy. And only at Notre Dame would the drum of a Van de Graaff genera-
We do research of national interest. ... When you gener­ate energy you may be pol­luting things or generating waste, so we try to solve those issues. 
-Dr. Dan Meisel 

. tor be painted as a football, complete with laces. As one of the very few national labs located on a college campus, it has access to one ofNotre Dame's most abundant natural resources: students. Meisel notes that the Department of Energy hopes to reach stu­dents who "perhaps wiU get interested in doing research for the department." And the students are an insurance plan for the lab's longevity. As Meisel says, "There must always be a regeneration of students to come in and take the place of the guys who go out." 
But it's not just a one-way relation­ship. The lab provides valuable opportu­nities for Notre Dame's science students as well. Besides faculty, the lab hosts post-doctoral students, graduate students and undergraduates, most of whom study chemistry, chemical engineering and physics. 
Sara Tonnies, a junior chemistry and gov­ernment major, works at the lab for two credit hours each semester. "[The College of Sci­ence] gives the undergrads the option to do research-'--they give you a list ofpeople to go talk to.... I was actually just curious about that building, so I looked up radiation chemistry, e-mailed them and said 'Do you do undergrad research?' It's worked out well." Tonnies uses the cobalt-60 irradiators to conduct ex­periments on silica compounds. 


The university also has a co-op program with the University ofWaterloo in Ontario, Canada. Brian Ellis, a current chemistry major and co-op researcher, receives a sal­ary and academic credit for his work. He enjoys the options afforded him by the program. "We are shown how to use all the equipment here," Ellis says, "and the project is mine to choose and work with over the course of four months." 
The lab's research also has practical appli­cations, especially in the area of environ­mental science. "We do research of national interest. ... When you generate energy, you may be polluting things or generating waste, so we try to solve those issues," Meisel says. 
EXPOSED Scientists in the Radiation Laboratory run experiments in an attempt to discover environmentally friendly sources of power for the U.S. Department of Energy. 
For instance, the lab studies the process of solar energy conversion in the hopes of dis­covering a more-efficient and clean source of energy. 
With radioactive materials in the lab, safety is the first priority. "We all know the stories about people who glow in the dark," Meisel says. "But there is no [loose] radioactive material in the building." The lab only uses machines that generate lim­ited quantities of radiation, and the co­balt-60 irradiators hold unmovable, un­reachable sources. 
To access any radiation-producing ma­chine, scientists have to wind through a maze of two-feet-thick concrete walls that are designed to keep radiation from escap­ing. All testing is done underground, using the surrounding soil as a natural barrier. Radiation leaks are unlikely since the rooms that contain the machines are locked down when conducting experiments. If the secu­rity is breached, radiation production ceases immediately. "When we turn on the machines, there are all kinds of si:.. rens," Meisel says. "Everything is done· from the outside and controlled from the· outside as well." 
With all of these safety precautions, it's not likely that the radiation lab. will ever pose a threat to Notre Dame students. So don'tworry about glowing in the dark ifyou walk by the radiation lab on your way to the library. There's nothing secretive about it -except maybe for the opportunities it offers students. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 


JACKLYNKIEFER 



Notre Dame's pre­professional advisors ensure that future doctors and lawyers are prepared for post­graduation pursuits. 
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . 
Katie McFarland came to Notre Dame with a dream. "I've always wanted to go to medi­cal school," she says. "So when I came to Notre Dame I chose to go into the Arts and Letters pre-professional program because it will hopefully let me realize this goal." 
McFarland, a junior, faced the same di­
lemma that many med-school hopefuls con­
front when they arrive at Notre Dame: De­
'vising a class sch_edule that both prepares them for medical school and lets them enjoy 
their time here. The task is not easy. Last 
·year, 126 medical schools sifted through 
37,100 applications for 16,200 available 
spots. Notre Dame, which had a 78-percent 
acceptance rate for the class of 2000, is 
ranked 12th in pre-medical education, ac­
cording to a 1997 Gounnan Report. 
Aside from a stellar acceptance rate, Notre 
Dame's pre-med education stands out in an­
other way: "Notre Dame is unique in that it 
offers not one, but two pre-professional pro­
grams for students preparing for medical 
school," says Father Jim Foster, sophomore 
advisor for the Science pre-professional pro­
gram. 
The two programs have been offered since 
1960, and with impressive medical-school 
acceptance rates, the department will likely 
last for many years to come. "I don't think we 
should change things that have been working 
for so many years," says Father Joseph Walter, 
chair of pre-professional studies. "The broad 
science background, as opposed to a pure · science major, has not been a problem for our students applying to med school." 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
The different programs give students 
some latitude in defining their priorities. "Of the two, SCPP is more liberal, as students have 24 to 28 [credit hours] of free electives, while ALPP students use these electives to fulfill a specific humani­ties degree," Walter says. 
Aside from fulfilling a major's require­ments, ALPP students will take what Assis­tant Dean and ALPP advisor Jennifer Nemecek calls the "Big Five": calculus, general chemistry, organic chemistry, biol­ogy and physics. "Most students will then take biochemistry and any two other science electives, usually ones required by the medi­cal schools to which they will be applying," she explains. The five-science-course re­quirement applies to SCPP students as well, but they must take eight additional science courses to complete their degree. 
Although it's not required, some SCPP students use their electives to obtain a second major in liberal arts or business. "One quar­ter of last year's juniors and seniors were fulfilling a second major along with SCPP ," Foster says. "The most-common second major was Spanish, followed by psychology and anthropology." A smaller percentage of students minor in a particular area ofinterest, and many take a concentration such as sci­ence, technology and values. 
Many pre-med students, however, choose not to major in either the ALPP or the SCPP programs. "Initially, I chose to be a biology major because it has more intense lab time and more research oppor­tunities that I felt could more adequately prepare me for the MCA Ts," says junior Christine Scerbo. "Now, I'm glad I chose bio, because ifl decide not to go to medical school I can do research or work for a public-health organization." 
Foster, who majored in biology at Notre Dame before going to medical school, agrees. "The 'pure' science majors are best prepared to become research physi­cians, and the extensive science back­ground they possess is especially advanta­geous during the transition from undergrad to medical school," he says. "They've seen the stuff before, and this can make their first year much easier." 
The ALPP major offers benefits for less scientifically oriented students, preparing them for medical school while giving them a chance to explore their interest in the humanities. Although some students dis­

-regard ALPP, believing instead that medi­cal schools expect them to major in biol­
ogy or SCPP, in most cases this couldn't be there is such a large spectrum of fields for further from the truth. "I had a student come a lawyer to go into," Preacher says. "A in the other day and say that one of the science major could go into health law, an schools she was interested in applying to engineering major could go into patent law specifically said that they like students who or a pre-medical student could go on to get have taken courses in the humanities," an MD/JD degree. There is a field for Nemecek says. "There is no disadvantage to nearly any major." applying to med school as an English major With all of these options, the advising -likely it will mean that you have an that Notre Dame offers is one of the biggest excellent understanding of the human side assets for pre-law students. "[Preacher] was of medicine and have a very well-rounded the person with whom I dealt most," says background." 
Butitcan be dif­ficult for students to replace science courses they feel are necessary with humanities classes. "It is hard to break out of the norm -it stops students from studying lan­guages and from going abroad," 

o Nemecek says. "Students must re-
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT This moot appellate courtroom in the Notre alize that no matter Dame Law School is used by the mock-trial teams. This year, the undergraduate what their major, teams placed third and fifth at the regional tournament and qualified for national they will be suited tournaments. Mock trial is an excellent preparation for pre-law students. 
to go to medical • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • school. That is not to say that majoring in the recent graduate Tina Zurcher. "She is un­sciences is not good. If you enjoy biology, believable -she read every person's per­study it, but study art if you like it, too." sonal statement who asked her and cri-Foster agrees. "From the medical-school tiqued them thoroughly -that was so standpoint, they want the student to have a helpful. Plus, she knows so much about good science background, butmostlyforthem each law school and where Notre Dame to study whatthey enjoy, as almost all majors students generally tend to be satisfied or benefit the student in some way," he says. not." Zurcher, who graduated in December Pre-med students aren't the only ones fac-with an English major, was accepted to the ing a competitive crunch. Students planning nine law schools to which she applied. to enter the legal profession have to confront Preacher also offers advice on joining some considerable odds as they vie for spots in extracurricular activities, pointing to mock one of the 183 Ame1ican Bar Association-trial as the best preparatory activity. But approved law schools. Unlike the pre-medical more than extracurricular involvement, programatNotreDame, however, the pre-law Preacher stresses the value of internships program does not offer a degree and does not for pre-law and-med students. "It is impor­have a defined curriculum. "TheABArecom-tant to know if you have the personality for mendsmicroeconomics,Americanhistoryand law or medicine before making the com­political-theory courses," says Ava Preacher, mitment to invest thousands ofdollars more assistant dean and pre-law adviso"r. "How-into your education," she says. ever, if students take courses that improve Although many factors ultimately deter­their writing, analytical thinking and reading mine whether an undergraduate will gain comprehension, they will be ready for the acceptance to a medical or law school, challenges oflaw school." Notre Dame does its best to prepare its Pre-law students are not required to major students. With well-informed advisors on in anything specific, but most applicants are hand to offer guidance, a fresh crop of government and English majors. "The need Notre Dame graduates move closer to real­for a specific pre-law major is obsolete, as izing their dreams every year. D 

I 
i 
Tight Pants vs. Short Skirts 
KRISTINKRAMER 

ro teams diverged on a yellow court, and sorry is the man who must choose between them. Similar in mis­sion and spirit, each struggles to advocate its caseoverthatoftheother, and it is the crowd :---:,:: that must ultimately decide: Will it be tight pants or short skirts? } Well, not really. The Notre Dame cheer­":-ieaciers and the Porn-Pon Squad are much :\inbre than that. And though claims ofrivalry 'i:Between the teams persists, they are overrid­i'Jenby the common goal the two share. ,tA :''The cheerleaders are a positive influence /:l Jpholding the image Notre Dame has achieved," rsays cheerleading coach . . Janette Minton. "I try ball games, and the Olympic squad, which covers men's and women's soccer, women's basketball and volleyball games and even fencing matches. 
"The worst thing that gets me is when people call the O squad the JV squad," says junior Tony Mirabile, a member of the var­sity squad. "I'll be honest with you -they work harder than we do. We have a little more experience, ofcourse, but they do a lot more sports. We travel a little more, but by second semester, they're the same team." 
His teammate, junior Jenny Kleine, adds that each squad faces different challenges. "I don't know if they work harder," she says. "Both involve a lot oftime and a lot of effort. There's more crowd support and 
to make sure that all more media at the my cheerleaders rep­As far as I was men's games, but at resent that. You have the women's games,
concerned, they were 
to have a good heart, you're cheering for combined with athletic a bunch ofbeautiful the number one team abiHty and the ability in the country." 
women who thought I 
to interact with a vari­Cheerleaders typi­ety of people." was some nerdy cally practice five days The porns have a per week during foot­
cheerleader.
similar goal. "We're ball season, with two like a spirit squad in­days ofstrength condi­
-John Taggart
volved with athletics tioning. Most girls and the community for have had previous ex­
the University ofNotre Dame," says senior porn squad co-captain Lindsay Sanford. 
Despite the surface similarities, however, .,_the squads have very different histories and administrations, which may be the most /interesting question: Where do spirit teams 
•f .fitin at the University of Notre Dame? 


Male cheerleaders have been a staple at f{ii'the university for several decades and were iffi:Joined in the 1960s by women from St. ·}:rvfary's College. When Notre Dame began 
}idmittjng women in 1972, female cheer­]~~ders came from both schools. I row, there are two cheerleading squads, cdmprising 28 members: The varsity squad, rifore visibie at football and men's basket­
perience, but Minton said the team works to recruit its male mem­bers. "We look for enthusiastic guys in the crowd and ask them, 'How many other sports would put you this close to the field?' " 
While most girls on the cheerleading team have a deep background in cheering, Kleine never cheered before college. "I was that girl in high school who made fun of them," she says. "But I kind of just went out there on a whim freshman year. It's just been such a great experience because I think the university is defined by the spirit ofthe student body, and we're encouraging that spirit." 
Despite the work involved, cheerleading is not considered a varsity sport by the univer­sity. "We are a support group of the athletic department," M_inton says. "We receive a lot ofthe benefits ofa varsity sport, but we're not varsity because we're not competitive." 

Competitive cheerleading involves stunts that the university does not allow the squad to perform due to insurance consider­ations. "There was one point in time where we'd all worked out a lot and we could do these stunts like one-handed extensions, but we're just not allowed to," Mirabile says. "Students say that we're not 'real' cheerleaders, but we're not allowed to do all that stuff." 
Minton is satisfied with the team's cur­rent status, which focuses on the cheerlead­ers as ambassadors of the Notre Dame spirit through both athletic events and commu­nity service. "The university doesn't need cheerleading to be competitive," she said. "We bring the spirit and excitement." 


The Porn-Pon Squad's history is a little less lengthy. Founded in 1987 by a group of Notre Dame and St. Mary's women, the team was originally called the Dancing Irish and was intended to promote school spirit and the performing arts at Notre Dame. 
The squad has become more technical in past years, adding toe touches, double turns, split-scissor leaps and other jumps to its routines, but previous dance experience is not a stipulation. "Precision dance takes adequate cardiovascular endurance, rhythm and coordination," says senior co-captain Taffee Cardenas. 
. During football season the 14 girls on the squad practice two hours each day, Sunday through Thursday, and act almost wholly under their own supervision. Though the squad has an advisor, members are responsible for choreographing routines and doing their own scheduling. 
Like any team, the squad occasionally faces criticism, some of which stems from the tight pants they wear. "We try to choose something tasteful, but we can never satisfy everyone's preferences," Cardenas says. "Ly'cra is not a must, but it is what dancers have been wearing since the '70s. This is not new, shocking inforination -just watch Flashdance. Plus, we do a lot of floor work and kicks that would make wearing a,skirt somewhat tacky." 
Unlike cheerleading, the porn squad is clas­sified as an athletic club through Student Activities and as a club sport through RecSports. "We receive some funding from both organizations, but it only counts for about 30 percent of out actual spending," Cardenas sa)'.S. "We must fund-raise and pay for some expenses out-of-pocket." 
Moving the team into the athletic depart­ment is a goal most members would like to achieve. "It's not realistic at this point, but if the squad continues to do well, I don't see why we wouldn't," Sanford says. "Porn squads are becoming more important to universities all over the country." 

The wait may still be awhile, however. "Precision dance has only become main­stream within the past 15 years, so it is far from what Notre Dame considers tradi­tional," Cardenas says. 


Notre Dame is known nationwide for its abundance of school spirit. But is there enough of an audience to satisfy these two spirit promoters? A point repeatedly stressed by all the athletes is that the cheer and porn squads do not interact with each other. 
"There's sort of been issues over who the designated spirit promoters are that are really unnecessary," says senior John Taggart. 
Cardenas is careful to note that the cheer­leaders and porns are two separate groups. "The porns are not the official spirit rep­resentatives of the school," she says. 
Rivalry would seem only a natural out­flow ofsuch distinctions, yet Sanford says it really isn't a problem. "Naturally there's a little bit of tension here and there, but I think it would improve the more interac­tion we have," she says . 
Two people that don't have a problem with that interaction are Taggart and jun­ior porn member Sara Elfring. The two actually met through their involvement with their respective squads and have been dating for more than a year. 
"I used to tell the porn squad how great they did after their performances, but they never really said anything back to me," Taggart says. "As far as I was concerned, they were just a bunch of beautiful women who thought I was just some nerdy cheer­leader. But then I said something to Sara, and she actually introduced herself to me." 
But what about Romeo and Juliet? West Side Story? One's only love sprung from one's only hate? "Sure, it's caused a few small issues between us, but no real prob­lems," Taggart says. "No cage, no bar, no restriction could keep our love from com­ing to fruition!" 
But perhaps love really does bring people together. "I think our team this year has more interaction with the cheer­leaders because of [our relationship]," Elfring says. "We definitely speak to each other more than we used to before." 
How spirit teams are defined by the university-and who makes them up ­is perhaps an issue left only for the admin­istration to s_ort out. The squads are cur­rently performing a halftime show to­gether at basketball games that comprises all 28 cheerleaders and 14 porn mem­bers. 
"The cheerleaders are great, including the Leprechaun, Mike [Brown]," Cardenas says. "I think both groups are complementary ­not taking away anything at all from each other." And, in the end, that may be the true spirit of Notre Dame. D 
RIVALRY? Despite some tension between the cheerleaders and the porn squad, they both share a common·goal: To represent the university and to support the athletic teams. Cheerleader John Taggart and porn-squad member Sara Elfring (opposite) have found that love transcends any sense of rivalry. 
"O I 
~ 
(/) 
~ 
z 
0 
i;:: 
z 
0 
:D 
"Tl 
m
.­
o. 


SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 

-. . . --'• ' . : ------..----.------------------==---~=-=-----__ 
---~-------­


16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

>> 

WITH A HIGH­POWERED OFFENSE AND A STRONG PITCHING ATTACK, THE IRISH ARE READY FOR BATTLE. 

:\,· .j·EssrcAo*uEs·-·: .: 
-~ --·-. . -;_ . . , , ­

Any fan of the Rocky movies knows the boxer didn't win his first fight. Instead, a battered and heartbroken Rocky returned to Philadelphia and began preparing for his next match. Notre Dame baseball coach Paul Mainieri told his team this story after last year's devastating ninth-inning loss to Mississippi State in the NCAA regional championships. Like Rocky, he said, the Irish would find a way to win the next big match. And they may be well on their way. Notre Dame is no longer the underdog of the baseball world. The return of standout senior pitcher Aaron Heilman, along with many other nationally recog­nized Irish players, promptedBaseballAmerica to rank this year's squad ninth in its preseason poll, beneath the likes of perennial powers Southern California, Florida State and Arizona State. Other preseason polls named the Irish 13th and 14th. "I'm really excited about the expectations surrounding the year's team," Mainieri says. "The ninth, 13th and 14th rankings really give a lot of notoriety to Notre Dame and its baseball program." The Irish have worked hard to earn the recognition. Cur­rently, the Irish hold a 12-season streak in which the team has won 40 games or more. In the 1990s, the Irish boasted the sixth­winningest team in baseball, defeating their opponents 439 times. Whether or not this success was reflected in the polls, opposing coaches have always been aware of the quality ofthe Irish teams. "The reputation of Notre Dame is very strong," says Jay Phillips, assistant baseball coach at Virginia Tech. "You have to have the utmost respect for the program. The quality of the players is _one of the best in the country. I would say that Notre Dame is the flagship program in the Big East." While the team's reputation has always been strong, the success of last year's team garnered even more recognition for the Irish. The 20th-ranked team finished the season 46-18 and, after losing two close games to Boston College in the Big East 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 

Tournament, found itself with a berth in the NCAA Tournament in Starkville, Miss. There, the Irish knocked off Tulane twice and split two games against host Missis­sippi State. Notre Dame advanced to the championship game ofthe NCAA regionals but lost on a bottom-of-the-ninth Missis­sippi State home run. Although the Irish may have wished that the 2000 season had ended differently, the outcome didn't de­tract from their overall success. 
"That was a bitter pill to swallow, to lose when you are so close to getting to the College World Series," Mainieri says. "But you can't help but be proud ofyour team .... Mississippi State was the second-best team in the SCC last year, behind LSU, who were the national champions." 
Junior catcher Paul O'Toole agrees. "In no way would I consider last year a disappoint­ment," he says. "The way the entire team came together and fought off the adversity we faced 
"YOU ONLY HAVE ONE CHANCE TO LIVE YOUR SENIOR YEAR. 
THAT'S THE. 
BIGGEST REASON I CAME BACK. [GETTING DRAFTED] WAS ALSO A GOOD LEARNING EXPERIENCE. NOWI KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT. I JUST HAVE TO GO OUT THERE · AND HAVE ANOTHER GOOD SEASON." 

-being the No. 3 seed in a four-team re­gional, battling injuries and playing three games in a 24-hour span in front ofa large and hostile crowd-was simply amazing." 
Last weekend, Notre Dame had the op­portunity to dispel the ghosts of last year, opening the 2001 season where the 2000 campaign ended: Starkville. On February 17, the Irish dropped their first game of the Na­tional Bank of Commerce Classic 7-6 in a contest against the University of New Or­leans. In its second game of the day, the team bounced back behind the pitching of Heilman to beat 16th-ranked Mississippi State 7-5. Heilman struck out six enroute to becom­ing Notre Dame's all-time strikeout leader with a career 320 strikeouts. On Sunday, the Irish again defeated Mississippi State 4-2 as junior right-hander Matt Buchmeier pitched four shutout innings and sophomore right fielder Brian Stavisky demonstrated his of­fensive power with four hits, including an 
>> 

RBI triple. Notre Dame ended the opening weekend with a 2-1 record, which Mainieri calls a step in the right direction. 
"To beat the 16th-ranked team in the country, and beat them twice in two close games at their home,just makes a statement about what we are trying to accomplish this season," Mainieri says. 
Notre Dame's other goals this year include scoring six runs per game as well as winning 75 percent of Big East Conference home games, the Big East regular season and the Big East Tournament. The team's ultimate goal, ofcourse, is to go where no Irish team has gone before: the College World Series. 
''The sky is the limit this year for this team," O'Toole says. "We know we have the talent to get to the College World Series, and that is our goal as a team this year." 
But now that the Irish are on top looking down, new challenges are presented that the traditionally underdog team has rarely faced. 
18 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY · 
"When you're the ninth-ranked team in the 
country, you' re going to have a big target on 
your back," Mainieri says. "We have al­
ways had a big target on our back just 
because of the name on the front of our 
jersey. But now, with our ranking, I'm sure 
it adds a little bit more to the excitement for 
the teams playing against us, so our players 
will have to be ready for that challenge." 
Offensively, the team has the potential to 

put up some impressive numbers this season. 
Eight returning players hit over .275 last 
year, while the team hit a combined 42 home 
runs .and collected 485 RBIs last season. 
With the addition offreshmen first baseman 
Joe Thaman and second baseman Steve 
Sollman to the order, Mainieri is confident of 
the team's offensive ability. "I think its going 
to be a pretty solid lineup, one through nine," 
he says. "If I was a pitcher, I sure wouldn't 
want to pitch against our team." 
Expectations are high for individual play­

ers as well. Five players were included in 
Baseball America's Preseason All-Big East 
team: O'Toole, Stavisky, senior shortstop 
Alec Porzel, junior center fielder Steve 
Stanley and Heilman. 
Heilman, a 6-foot-5 right-hander, is argu­ably one of the best collegiate pitchers in the country. The Minnesota Twins drafted Heilman 31st overall in the 2000 Major League Baseball draft and, despite an offer of more than $1 million to sign, Heilman chose to return to pitch for the Irish his senior . season. Heilman cited his love for Notre 
Dame as the primary reason for his return. 
"You only have one chance to live your 

senior year," he says. "That's the biggest 
reason I came back. [Getting drafted] was 
also a good learning experience. Now I 
know what to expect. I just have to go out 
there and have another good season." 
Virginia Tech assistant coach Jay Phillips 

described Heilman's return as "a shock to 
the Big East Conference and collegiate base­
ball." It even came as a surprise to Mainieri. 
"We didn't expect Aaron to be back follow­
ing his junior year if he was drafted that 
high," he says. "That's when they are most 
marketable, so usually the juniors will sign 
if they are a h_igh draft choice. For Aaron to 
tum down a million dollars to come to this 
school was a really rare event." 
Heilman's return has already made a big 

difference for the Irish team. "How much 
difference does Aaron Heilman make?" 
O'Toole asks. "Probably about 10 spots in 
the polls. He'sjust that good-dominating, 
nasty, a tad lanky and goofy as heck." 
Heilman is 28-7 lifetime for the Irish, with 

14 saves and a 2.80 ERA. Heilman has an 
array oflethal pitches, including a "true slider'' 
that Baseball America rated as the best in 
college baseball. Heilman even put his name 
in the record books after becoming Notre 
Dame's first three-time baseball All-Ameri­
can. After the 2001 season, he will likely be 
the only four-time All-American in baseball 
ever to graduate from Notre Dame. 
Although his return dramatically bolsters 

the Irish rotation this season, the team is aware 
that he can't start every game. "Heilman's 
return is big, but we aren't going to live and die 
by his arm," Porzel says. "He's only going to 
start 12 or 13 times this year, and, overall, 
we'll probably play 65 games or more. It's 
nice to have him back, but this year is not the 
'Aaron Heilman Show.'" 
Perhaps the biggest asset of the Irish 

team is its starting rotation. With Heilman 
as the No. 1 starter, Notre Dame features a pitching lineup that will likely take the Big East by storm. "Most of the teams in the Big East have good starting pitchers," Mainieri ' says. "I know Rutgers has a pitcher [Bobby Brownlie] who is a sophomore this year and 
is projected to be the No. 1 pick in next 
year's draft, but I wouldn't trade our No. 1 
starter for anybody, and I really believe that 
our No. 2 and No. 3 starters [senior Danny 
Tamayo and junior Matt Buchmeier] are 
going to be better than the other teams in our 
conference." 
The players agree. "We definitely have 

the best rotation in the Big East," Tamayo 
says. "Aaron is the best pitcher in college, 
and Matt and I are going to surprise a lot of 
people this year." Tamayo, who had recon­
structive elbow surgery in March 1999, has 
recovered fully, both mentally and physi­
cally, though he's had to change his pitch­
ing style. "I would say I am a better pitcher 
than before because I have had to pitch with 
marginal stuff as I found all my pitches 
again," he says. 
The Irish pack a double-punch for oppo­

nents with Heilman and Tamayo, who was 
slated as Notre Dame's No. 1 starter before 
Heilman's return. Tamayo went 3-_1 with a 
3.62 ERA last year, including a three-hit shut­out to beat Mississippi State in the NCAA regionals. "I don't think anyone realizes how goodofa pitcher Danny Tamayo can really be, because his health has not allowed him to pitch consistently and effectively," Mainieri says. "But now that he is healthy, I think we are going to see [his] best." 
Joining Heilman and Tamayo in the ro­tation is hard-throwing junior Matt Buchmeier, who last year posted a 4-2 record with a 3.88 ERA. Buchmeier turned in a dominating performance this summer in the Jayhawk League and looks to be the third member of the Irish rotation this sea­son. Sophomore J.P. Gagne will pitch in the fourth spot. 
Gagne, who will also pitch from the bullpen, had an outstanding season as a rookie last year, earning a place on the Big East All­Rookie team and Big East Player ofthe Week honors. Gagne went 7-1 last year while start­ing in 13 of his 19 appearances. 
Gagne sees himself providing depth in the Irish pitching, both in the starting rotation and from the bullpen. "As a team, we really need a couple ofpitchers to step up and really make a difference for us," he says. "Although we do have great depth and return all but two pitchers from last year, some critics think that if there is one weakness on our team, it would be the depth of our pitching staff." 
Indeed, if there is a chink in the Irish armor, it is in the bullpen. Gone is current all-time saves leader John Corbin, who signed with-the Chicago Cubs after gradua­tion and who, according to Mainieri, was the team's biggest loss. The top contenders for Corbin's closing role were junior Drew Duff, sophomore Matt Laird and freshman Aaron Edwards. Duff went 4-2 last year with a 5.05 ERA and made eight starts. Laird sported the fourth-best ERA, 3.83, on last year's staff, winning five of his seven appearances. Baseball America named Edwards, another right-hander, the pre­season Big East Freshman of the Year, and he has what Mainieri calls "as good of a curveball as we've got on our team." Cur­rently, it looks like Laird has claimed the role after closing out two of the first three Irish games without allowing a run. 
One anchor for the presumably shaky Irish bullpen will be senior left-hander Mike Naumann, whohada2-1 recordin24appear­ances last year and boasted the staff's sec­ond-best ERA of 3.48. Naumann is one of only three left-handers on the staff -the other two are freshmen, who probably won't see much time on the mound during the early season. But the Irish don't see this as a problem. "I don't think left-handed pitching is as important in college as it is in pro baseball," Tamayo says. "Mike Naumann is a great pitcher, period -he can get lefties 

SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 19 
and righties out." 

The 2001 Irish team is more than just a pitching staff. Four position players were named to the preseason All-Big East team along with Heilman, and seven of the nine starters are veterans, including sophomore right fielder Brain Stavisky, whom Base­ball America named the preseason Big East Player of the Year. Last year, Stavisky hit .298 and clocked 14 home runs, which ranked fourth among the nation's freshmen. "Brian Stavisky is our best home-run threat," Mainieri says. "To hit 14 last year-that's quite a few. He's capable of having a big breakout year this year." 
Stavisky spent the summer preparing for this season in the Cape Cod League, where he hit .324, second-best in the league. Be­sides that, he also prepared for the season in other ways. "I've worked on getting stron­ger in the weight room," Stavisky says. "I've also focused more on the mental as­pects of the game." 
Perhaps due to his new mental strength, Stavisky says the pressure of being named the Big East Preseason Player of the Year does not bother him. "IfI play like I can, I think I can be the player of the year," he says. "I just have to play my game and the honors will take care of themselves. A little extra pressure is good though. It brings out the best in me." 
Senior shortstop Alec Porzel, another mem­ber of the preseason All-Big East team, was named the preseason Big East Player of the Year by Collegiate Baseball. Last year, Porzel hit .342 with nine home runs and led the team with a .584 slugging percentage. With the combination of Stavisky and Porzel, the Irish have a potent offense. 
"When you think ofour team offensively, you have to start with our three and four hitters in our lineup, Alec Porzel and Brian Stavisky," Mainieri says. "Both of them are going to have to be guys that drive in a lot of runs for our team. But they are certainly by no stretch ofthe imagination going to be the only good hitters we have in our lineup. Steve Stanley is going to be a real table­setter for us." 
Stanley, a center fielder, was also named to the preseason All-Big East team and will likely bat second in the Irish lineup. The 5­foot-7, 150-poundjunior led last year's Irish team in batting average (.362), stolen bases 
(29) 
and runs scored (51) and stood out defensively with a .988 fielding percentage. Stanley played in the Cape Cod League along with Stavisky and led the league with 

a 
.329 batting average. 


Senior catcher O'Toole was also named to the All-Big East team. He hit .302 last season with eight home runs and 39 RBIs while leading the team in hits-by-pitches, with eight. He also served as an excellent defensive catcher with a .977 fielding per­centage over the season. 
Though the starting lineup features mostly veterans, the two freshmen, Thaman and Sollmann, will contribute significantly to the team this season. ''The right side of our infield is going to befreshmen,"Mainierisays. ''They are very poised young men, and I don't think they are going to be in awe of what they are doing, playing for Notre Dame, an outstand­ing college program." 
The team has also noticed the profes­sional demeanor ofthe freshmen. "Itcan be really difficult to adjust to the next level, especially when you join a team with as much experience as we have," Gagne says. "The freshman on the team have fit in really well." 
Porzel agrees. "They all have attitudes, fire to play the game," he says. "They know their roles and look to contribute any way they can." 
At least one freshman, Thaman, looks to contribute in two distinct ways. Although he will serve as the starting first baseman, he may also eventually pitch for the Irish as a valuable left-hander. A sore arm, however, has put Thaman behind schedule as far as pitching is concerned. "I think he will pitch some before the year is over, and he will help us quite a bit on the mound," Mainieri says. "He really does know how to pitch effectively, and he especially has a great change-up." . 

Adding veteran experience to the team is junior third baseman Andrew Bushey and sophomore left fielder Kris Billmaier. Bushey, an anchor ofthe 2000 team, played in 62 of the team's 64 games and hit .275 ·with 30 RBis·and three home runs. He was named Baseball America's Big East Best Defensive Third Baseman and also backs up O'Toole at catcher. 

>> 

MOVING ON UP The baseball team boards the bus for the opening tournament of the 2001 season. The Irish completed the weekend with two wins and one loss while moving_ up the rankings in three national polls. 
SECOND BASEMANSTEVE SOLLMANN /' 
freshman 
SHORTSTOPALEC PORZEL 
senior 
THIRD BASEMANANDREW BUSHEY 
junior 
LEFT FIELDERKRIS BILLMAIER 
sophomore 
CENTER FIELDERSTEVE STANLEY 
junior 
RIGHT FIELDERBRIAN STAVISKY 
sophomore 
COACHPAUL MAINIERI 
----....._ 

i 
20 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
I 

Billmaier hit .354 last year with four home runs and 19 RBIs. Together with Stavisky and Stanley, Billmaier rounds out the Irish outfield, which Stavisky describes as solid. "We have three returning starters out there with a combination ofspeed, power and experience," he says. 
· It seems that the biggest challenge the Irish will face this season will not be a lack of offensive production or an inability to contain the other team's offense; rather, it may be their schedule. Unfortunately, South Bend weather doesn't lend itself to outdoor baseball in February, which means the Irish will be on the road for every game until March 21. In fact, the first third of Notre Dame's schedule will feature 17 straight away games. The Irish did not even have a chance to practice outside before the team's first loss against New Orleans, and Mainieri believes that affected the team's play. "I really feel we would have beaten New Or­leans if we had practiced outside before the game because the errors we made that lost us the game were so small," he says. 
But Thaman says the experience on the road will make the team better in the long run. "We can build our confidence on the road and then come back home and win games," he says.-''.The College World Se­ries will be played on the road, so there will be that much more of an advantage for us towards the end of the season." 
This type ofscheduling, though typical for most northern schools, is unique to teams in the top 25. "I'm certain there is not another team in the top 25 with 17 road games all season, much less the first 17," says Mainieri. "If we are still the ninth-ranked team in the country after 17 games, we've got a chance to have a pretty good year." 
Another challenge for the Irish may be winning the Big East. Although Baseball America picked Notre Dame to win the conference, the Irish are far from a shoo-in. "Anything can happen in our conference," Mainieri says. "The Big East Conference is the most underrated conference in the coun­try, without question, in terms of baseball. . . . The weather is not good, and the fields aren't very good, but the players are very good and the coaching is outstanding." 
The biggest competitor for the Big East title looks to be Rutgers, which arguably has the best pitcher in college baseball: sopho­more Bobby Brownlie. Seton Hall and Big East newcomer Virginia Tech-who trans­ferred after dominating the Atlantic 10 Con­ference for a number of years -also poses challenges. The new structure of the Big East Tournament adds another obstacle. This season, only four teams will make the tour­nament instead ofthe usual six. "Just quali­fying for the tournament will be a chal­lenge," Mainieri says. "We're not a lock for the conference tournament." 
But Phillips sees things another way. "Based on what I have seen, the conference is very strong," he says, "but there is no question Notre Dame is the team to beat." And if there is any way to beat the Irish, Phillips doesn't claim to be aware of it. 
"I don't know of any weaknesses, which makes our job [at Virginia Tech] that much tougher," Phillips says. "And other coaches echo my sentiments. Once we play them, hopefully some [weaknesses] will be exposed." 
As the Irish look down the road to the rest ofthe season, the path to the College World Series stretches out in front ofthem -they just have to clear the way. The rest of college baseball expects big things from the Irish, but, according to Mainieri, they ain't seen nothfo.' yet. "These guys have done well in college baseball up to this point," he says, "butl don't think they've done as well as they can do yet." And that's a scary thought for Irish opponents. D 
David Murray contributed to this sto,y. 


TIP THE GIPP. OIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
(__}\ffih ..... v(Js dt,/Me ~ 
!pc}\c\" 
Oh the debauchery, the scandals, the drinking: That's right, another JPW has come and gone. And ifthe thought ofwatching your best friend's mom doing keg stands isn't enough to make you sick, imagine listening to your parents sing every word of Shaggy's "It Wasn't Me." Well, now that it's over, the Gipp' s life can go back to normal­at least until the pictures are developed, and he's reminded of what actually happened at the party after "The Crossroads" dinner. May God have mercy on our souls. 
The Office of I11operable Tech110Iogies 
Surprisingly, something went wrong at the OITlastweek. The Gipp was less than pleased when he tried to log on to his account last Friday, only to discover it wasn't working. The Gipp felt better, however, when he went to the bathroom and found an Observersitting on the floor of the stall. The paper was open to an account ofthe e-mail outage that offered the following stunning insight from OIT head Lou Rapagnani: "Big computers have hard­ware failures just like little computers." Wow. In a stunning display of the bloody obvious, Lou added, "It's always a bad thing to be off the air for 13 hours." 


Maybe things would work better if the OIT didn't waste so much energ)' monitor­ing the activities of its computer consult­ants. Remember that tip about the nasty e­mail OIT sent to cluster consultants? Well, someone had the gall to disregard the video­game prohibition and snuck in some Snood time. After a few games, the consultant quit playing and settled down to finish off some homework when the phone rang. An OIT administrator, who had been monitoring the activity on the kiosk computers, demanded to know who the Snood player was. The Gipp' s glad to see the OIT' s got its priorities straight, and that all the complaints about consultants playing video games are being addressed. 
I11dece11t Exposure 

In light of the recent blathering about women's clothing, the Gipp found this next tip pretty funny. Turns out the lovely ladies of the porn squad took some heat for baring too much midriff. Although they ordered tasteful long-sleeved shirts that are extra long in the torso, their dance moves make some of the girls' shirts ride up. Apparently, a few people couldn't handle the sight of bare belly buttons, and they logged complaints about this scan­dalous flashing of the flesh. Now, the girls have to wear tights beneath their uniforms to cover everything up. Plans for next season's outfits include veils, muumuus and iron chastity belts. 

0ra11d Theft Auto (a11d Some Pettu DH Larcrou) · 

What's better than riding around campus on a stolen golf cart? Riding around on one at Lafayette. A Carroll Hall resident discov­ered a cart in front of Badin that still had the keys in the ignition. Taking advantage of this divine providence, the guy hopped in the cart and tooled around campus for a while. Then he got a much better idea and took his show on the road. When he got to Lafayette, the cart was such a hit that some­one offered to buy it from him for $50. The new owner had fun playing with his recent purchase until he realized that a golf cart is sort of tough to hide. Faced with this reality, the guy -now $50 poorer ­decided to ditch the cart on the outskirts of campus. 
Well, as promised, the Gipp proudly pre­sents the winners of his stolen-dining-hall­memorabilia competition·. 0 

TREE-MENDOUS HEIST 

The Gipp doesn't know how they did it, but some students managed to smuggle this tree out of SDH. They even decked it out with lights to brighten up the room. 





a: 
w 
f­
(/) 
f2 
w 
~ 
-.  .  (  . ,  '  
~  ~ 
J~ • •, ;::  '  I  '  •  ••  '!  •  •  
'  .  ' .  \ .  :  .  ~  
. . ' .,.  .  \  '  /  .  ~  ~  
'  .  .  .  

IRISH 
EYES 
ON 


-·~ 

Senior captain Michelle Dasso is just one victory from becoming Notre Dame's career leader in women's singles victories. In September, Dasso became the first Irish player to reach a collegiate grand-slam final, advancing to the final match of the T. Rowe Price National Intercollegiate Clay Court Championships. She is currently the third­ranked player in the NCAA. 
. , . . ._ :. . ~ . . . -.-' -. ~ ' , 
I started playing tennis when I was: six years old, with a racquetball racket. I was in the "Tiny Tots" program, and I've been with the same coach ever since. 
My favorite athlete growing up was: Joe Montana. He didn't play tennis, but I've always liked Joe. 
I came to Notre Dame because: of the team, the coach and, obviously, the school. I wanted to go to a good aca­demic school. I liked the size of the school and the atmosphere here. I always thought I'd end up somewhere warm, but I just fell in love with this place. 
My tennis highlight thus far atNotre Dame is: advancing to the Sweet Sixteen as a team last year. Hopefully, we'll advance to the Elite Eight this year, and that can be my new highlight. 
Iflcould play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: soccer, because you can slide and dive, and it's part of the sport. I slide in tennis and my friends laugh, saying I need knee pads. 
After I graduate, I want to: play professional tennis. 
If I could change one aspect of ten­nis, I would: get the crowd and the players into it by showing some more emotion, like making cracked rackets normal and not a reason for the coach to get angry. 
If I could challenge a pro tennis player to a one-on-one match, it would be: one of the Williams sisters, because they' re so much bigger than I am. I'd like to see how hard they really hit, and I'd love to beat them because they're a little cocky. 
Since I've been at Notre Dame, I've broken: probably four rackets ... well, maybe five. I told my coach I don't think they' re constructed properly because they keep cracking in the same spot. 
The most attractive pro tennis player is: Andre Agassi. He looks good with long hair and bald! 
-Gerard Meskill 
Jerry's Jabber 
Ruth Riley fouled out with 15 minutes remaining as the Irish fell to Rutgers 54-53 on Saturday. The defeat snapped a school­record 23 consecutive wins and dropped the Irish to No. 2. in the AP poll .... The Pirates' Eddie Griffin made his presence felt Sunday in Seton Hall's 74-64 upset victory over Notre Dame. Griffin tallied 24 points, 1O boards and four blocked shots against the Irish. Notre Dame shot a season-low 32 percent, including just 2 for 23 from the arch .... Sophomore Brian Stavisky earned national Player of the Week honors after reaching base 1O consecutive times and batting .692 for the weekend. Meanwhile, the Irish baseball team went 2-1 this weekend, including a two-game sweep of Mississippi State. The sweep was significant because MSU eliminated the Irish from postseason play last year with a ninth-inning home run .... The softball team is off to its best start in school history, winning its first five games. On Sunday, the Irish defeated 
No. 18 South Carolina 1-0 to win the Holiday Inn 
Invitational. Jen Sharron pitched a three-hit complete-game shutout in the championship game .... Notre Dame hockey has climbed back into the CCHA playoff picture after sweeping Bowling Green in a two-game series last weekend and tying fifth­ranked Michigan 4-4 on Friday. Tony Zasowski 
recorded 40 saves against the Wolverines. The point keeps the Irish tied for the final CCHA playoff spot with Bowling Green. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 


. . 
: ~ •. \ . ~ ~ .. ' 
.f997 . ·: -~--.,· ,.--_ 
. . . 
BY LEE DE LEON 
FROZEN 
MOMENTS 


Despite ending the season with a loss to St. Joseph's, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team surprises the nation with an impressive inaugural record of 5-4. 
NOTRE DAME: 10 ST. JOSEPH'S UNIVERSITY: 21 
~ _r. ' 
• • : • '• : ~• • : • I • ' • •
0 nly a year after becoming the 25th 
varsity sport at the university, the 
Notre Dame women's lacrosse team took the field for the first time against Fairfield University in Ashland, Va. on March 11, 1997. 
Notre Dame proved victorious in the con­test with an impressive 18-11 win. Under the direction of head coach Tracy Coyne, Notre Dame's women's lacrosse team con­sisted of 24 players, many of whom were previously members of the Notre Dame women's lacrosse club founded two years earlier. In their inaugural season, the Irish played several tough opponents besides Fairfield, including Stanford, Ohio State and Vanderbilt, which handed the Irish their first road loss in a 20-13 beating. 
The Irish bounced back at home in Moose Krause Stadium, dominating the University of Denver 15-4. 
In the blowout win, senior Cara Buchanan netted four goals and had three assists, while sophomore Kerry Callahan and se­nior captain Tara Pierce each recorded hat tricks. After the team's strong perfor­mance, defender Debbie Prisinzano said, "One of the goals our team set at the beginning of our season was to win our first home game, and we are very excited to have accomplished this feat." The play­ers enjoyed competing in front of the home crowd. Junior captain Eileen Regan said, "The fans were great, and [they] spurred us on to a great victory." 
Three days later, the Irish once again put on a strong performance with a hard-fought 19-13 victory over Stanford, a traditional powerhouse in women's lacrosse. The 19 goals the Irish earned that game marked the highest amount scored by the Irish all season. Callahan led the Irish in scoring· with six goals and three assists, by far her best performance of the year. Once again, the Irish enjoyed home-field advantage. 
After the surprising win, senior captain Mara Grace, who had three goals that day, said, "I am not saying that we do not like to win on the road, but winning at home is great because we can share our success with our fans." For their third straight win, the Irish went on to soundly defeat Duquesne 15-4, improving their record to 5-1. 
But this marked the last win of the season for the Irish, who suffered three heartbreaking losses in their final three games ofthe year to Davidson, Ohio State and St. Joseph's. 
In the final game of the year at St. Joseph's, the Irish were outplayed by the Hawks and lost 21-10. The team's morale began to erode even before the game started, when Pierce sprained her ankle in the pre-game warm-ups. The Hawks con­trolled the game from the start behind an unforgettable performance by Shannon Feite, who netted a career-high 10 goals, matching the total goals the Irish scored that day. The inconsistent Irish had plenty of chances to score but repeatedly came up short. "We had good opportunities, but couldn't convert," Callahan said. "We played in spurts, and that became our downfall." Notre Dame played its final game of the season with a lot of heart, but attacker Stephanie Fox summed up the performance best when she admitted, "We played to our potential and did our best­we just lost to a better team." 
Despite the loss, coach Coyne was en­thusiastic about the accomplishments of her team and looked forward to the program's future. The team had achieved its primary team goal by finishing the season with a winning record, in large part due to an astonishing 122 goals in only 9 games._ The team's 13.56 goals­per-game average ranked it sixth nation­ally in that category. 
At the end· of the season, Coyne was enthusiastic about her team's accomplish­ments in its inaugural season and was opti­mistic about the future of the program. Her players had gained some much-needed ex­perience, and her· team would be greatly improved next season with the addition of the program's first recruiting class in the fall. With such promise, Coyne strongly believed that the women's lacrosse team would take its game to the next level in years to come. . 



With freshman epeeist Kerry Walton academically sidelined, the women's team has a hole to fill in the competition. Expect the team to step up and qualify six members for the NCAA tourney despite Walton's absence. 
-Jim Pastore 
-----Editor in Chief Defending NCAA champion Gabor Szelle's rematch with Wayne State's Jakub Krochmalski will highlight the Midwest men's sabre championship. Szelle avenges his loss to Kroch­malski in last year's Midwest title match and wins 15-12. 

-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor Sophomore foilist Ozren Debic finished No. 2 in last year's NCAA champion­ships. This year, Debic looks to claim the No, 1 spot and begins with a win against team member Forest Walton in the Midwest title match 15-13. 

_:_ Jessica Daues 
Assistant Sports Editor 

·Actors Fro1n The London Stage ,4 _,_:-:--. The Winter's Tale 
by William Shakespeare-, ­
Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders ca:11 631·8128. 
all new ... 

version 3.0 
Bigger, Faster, Stronger 

• 
movie listings 

• 
picture galleries 

• 
new message boards 

• 
dining with Molly Kinder 

• 
and much, much, more .•. 


ndtoday.com: More radical than Vatican II 
SCHOLa5TIC 
is now hiring: 
Check out the inside front cover for a list of available positions and more information on applying. 

Brazil's Carnaval celebration hits campus 

KATHLEENCORTE 
February is summertime in Rio de Janeiro, and the crowds ofCarnaval­goers, packed into the city's Sambadrome, sweat as they peer around each other for glimpses ofthe whirling, twirl­ing parade ofdancers passing by on the street. The raucous percussion beat of a samba band fills the air, setting feet into motion as the dancers pass in their intricately beaded and sequined costumes. Lent is right around the comer, and another Carnaval, with all its pageantry and decadence, has begun. "At first sight, it looks like a Broadway show," says anthropology professor Roberto DaMatta, a native ofRio de Janeiro who has done extensive research on Brazilian Carnaval celebrations. _ The LaFortune Ballroom isn't quite as large or as exciting as Rio de Janeiro's Sambadrome, and although there won't be any parades weaving through the student center, samba music and dancing should set a festive tone for the third-annual celebra­tion of Carnaval at Notre Dame. The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies and La Alianza, a student organization that promotes awareness of Latino culture, are co-sponsoring the event. Carnaval, Camivale, Mardi Gras -all different names and ways to celebrate the same event. Even if Rio de Janeiro, Venice and New Orleans are out of the question for this year's Fat Tuesday, students can still samba the night away at Notre Dame, dream­ing of Brazil and sunshine. 
Sam6a-in8 'I'firouafi tfie Years 
No matter where they take place, Camaval celebrations serve as a final blowout of food, music and fun before the fasting and solemnity of the Lenten season. "Lent is a time ofconstraint," DaMatta says. "Carnaval is a moment of excess that you are allowed before this time of constraint." 
Despite its connection to Catholicism, Camaval is rooted in pagan ceremonies celebrated in ancient Egypt, Greece and the Roman Empire. With the spread ofChristian­ity, these celebrations were adapted and spread throughoutEurope-mostnotablyto Venice, where Carnivale is still celebrated today with parades, costumes and masquerade balls. 
Italian settlers brought Carnivale with them when they immigrated to Brazil. There, the Venetian traditions soon evolved into something uniquely Brazilian. In those days, Carnaval celebrations took the form ofstreet battles among the poor. "People used to go through the streets and throw things at each other," DaMatta says_ "In Brazil, they used to throw big syringes in which they had perfume and water and a little dye." 
Through the years, Camaval in Brazil was organized around balls, with dancing and music taking center stage. The parades grew larger, especially in Rio de Janeiro, where tourists and Brazilians flock each year to take part in the festivities. 


The Carnivale tradition also made its way to the United States, where it established itself as Mardi Gras in New Orleans and became known for its Fat Tuesday celebra­tions, complete with beads and King Cake. 
In all of its incarnations, however, Carnaval-goers know to expect a giant party and a lot of fun. 
'I'fie 'R.io WorCa 
New Orleans boasts its Mardi Gras par­ties, and Venice has the masquerade balls of Carnivale, but no one knows how to throw a pre-Lenten bash like Brazil. The entire country takes off work to begin celebrating on Monday, and the festivities last until Ash Wednesday. An exuberant attitude con­sumes the country, and, suddenly, anything goes. "People say, 'Hey, it's Carnaval! I don't care! It's· Carnaval!' " says Mario Braz, a freshman from Rio de Janeiro. 
And nowhere is the party bigger and more beautiful than in Braz's hometown of Rio. Every city in Brazil hosts its own celebra­tion, with samba bands and small parades in the streets, but, as Braz says, "Rio has all the energy." 
Parties take place in Rio throughout the weekend, but the highlight of the Carnaval celebration is the Samba School Parade. The parade, which begins on Sunday and continues on Monday, takes place in Rio's Sambadrome, a street-like structure with bleachers on either side, which allows the crowds and judges to view the ornately costumed schools as they dance by. 
Samba, the percussion-based music of Brazil, plays a large part in the Carnaval celebrations. Every samba school, with its band and accompinying dancers, represents a different neighborhood. But don'tbe fooled by the glittery costumes. "The samba schools are organized in the slums," Braz says. "You willsee all this pretty stuff going on, but it's really the poor people." The people 


MASQUERADE 
Venetian partygoers disguise themselves for Carnivale's many parades and balls. 
work and save money all year to afford the beautiful costumes they wear in the parades and begin planning the next year's Camaval as soon as the present one ends. 
For the parade, each samba school selects a unique theme, usually drawn from Brazil­ian history, and choreographs their perfor­mance around that theme. 'They're each trying to tell a different story," says Carla Dasilva, aseniorfromBrasilia, Brazil. "The lyrics to the songs they're singing reflect the ~tory, as do tlie costumes." 
The schools fmally present their choreo­graphed performances at the parade and com­pete for the title of champion. Each school's parade begins with an opening float, followed by groups ofdancers called alas, all ofwhom are dressed alike, creating a solid block of color when viewed from above. They fill the Sambadrome and all ofRio with their music and the swirling color of their costumes. 
All the decadence and partying associ­ated with Camaval has earned the celebra­tion a seedy reputation in the minds ofmany Americans, but Braz insists that the festival is more than just a free-for-all. "The people enjoy it because it's beautiful," he says. "It'sabout the happiness that's going around -it's the spirit." 

Unfortunately, the beauty and excitement of the festival eventually gives way to.real­ity, and life returns to normal. Tonio Buonassisi, a senior from Sao Paolo, Brazil, describes the aftermath ofCamaval: "It's a few days of ecstatic euphoria, and then it's over like a deflated balloon, with nothing left to show for itself but waste strewn in the streets and the hope that the next Camaval will come soon." 
Carnava( §oes 'lrisfi 

Although they can't bring warm weather, LaAlianza and the Kellogg Institute hope to transport some of the Camaval spirit to Notre Dame as they host a celebration on campus for the third year. "There is a grow­ing interest in Brazil on campus with the Kellogg's inauguration of a new chair in Brazilian culture this year and the offering ofPortuguese language classes," says Sharon Brinker, the assistant coordinator of events for the institute. "It's a great outreach to promote further interest in Brazil, and it's great fun besides." 
"Leaming about other cultures is part of your academic and social life," adds Heriberto Rodriguez, a senior and the presi­dent of La Alianza. "La Alianza' s focus is on programming -trying to bring a little bit of Latin America to our campus."­
Part of that plan includes inviting the Chi­cago Samba School, a traditional samba band whose members are almost all native Brazil­ians, to play at the Carnaval celebration. The school has performed to rave reviews through­out the Midwest. Their energetic music led critic Jason Koransky ofCenterstage Media to claim, "You practically have to be a corpse not to want to dance to this music." 
While the celebration aims to preserve the authenticity of the Brazilian Carnaval tradi­tion, it will also include elements taken from New Orleans's Mardi Gras. Forexample, the menu features Mardi Gras' s famed King Cake, as well as items like Voo Doo Chicken Wings and Mai Tai Punch. According to Rodriguez, "Students should not only expect shiny beads, masks, great food and awesome music, but an unforgettable and educational experience and some fantastic dancing." 
It's not exactly Rio de Janeiro, but with the right music and food, maybe the infectious Carnaval attitude will take over the campus anyway. ''Ithinkit's a great idea, because there's nothing like Carnaval in the United States," Braz says. "When you think ofMardi Gras, you just think about being wild. Carnaval is more about the spirit." D 
The celebration ofCamaval will be held on Friday, February 23 in the LaFortune Ball­room beginning at 8 p.m. and is open to the public. 

SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 

', ' ' ' . . --~ --­
----------·--­

Got Milkplow? 
SUB brings progressive rock from Chicago to senior bar 
.~; Ll!t~i!t~; 
KARAZUARO 
Metallica and Dr. Dre might be rev­eling in the recent ruling against Napster, but Chicago's Milkplow, which will make its South Bend debut at senior bar on March 1, doesn't have a problem with sharing its music for free. "With Napster, free music is really in right now," says keyboardist and guitarist Jeff Miller. That's why Milkplow gives a free CD to anyone who attends one of its shows. The band claims to have given away 1,200 CDs in one month. ''We ordered another 1,000 for the show at Notre Dame, so there will be free music for all who attend," Miller says. For Milkplow, the support of the fans is more important than making money from listeners. Though the band receives a portion, ifnot all, ofthe cover charges for its shows, the six band members refuse to pocket any of the earnings. "It's all going right back into the band," Miller says. "Never do we split it up. We just dump it right back into more music stuff. Each month it gets harder to get to the bathroom where we're playing, and with all these people coming to see us over and over again, the least we can do is give them their money back some way." Milkplow has existed as a six-piece band for a year and a half, but Miller and bassist Jim Allen have been playing together for more than three years. The band was origi­nally an instrumental trio with a dream to create music for video games and soundtracks. There were some negotiations with Sega Corp.'s CEO, who lived across the street from their practice space, but the video-game deal fell through. Soon after­ward, one member dropped out and four of the current members joined the band. 
Since all the money Milkplow raises goes toward the music, when the band isn't making progressive rock music, its members live a double life, working during the day to support themselves financially. Some have even adopted stage names that solidify this split. Miller, for instance, delivers auto parts by day, but when he's on the keyboards, he goes by "Ambrose St. John." "When I would go to Cancun in high school for spring break, that's what I would tell girls my name was," he says with a laugh. Bassist Jim Allen, when he's not working as a lab assistant, goes by "Jim Plow." "He's the driving force of the band," Miller says. "Everyone who comes to see us knows that our bass player is beyond talented." Drum­mer Doneco Nudi was born with a name exotic enough for the stage, and though he has a degree in sound engineering, he drives a beer truck by day. The percussionist anq aggres-. sive vocalist, Sean McMahon is an artist with a degree in graphic arts design. The main vocalist, Dan Nawcewicz, is described as a "rambler." He doesn't have a code name, but DJ Dizzy was born Jeremy Cheatman. "Our DJ is unemployed," Miller says. "I guess he's just a DJ." 
Armed with the varying influences ofall six band members, Milkplow pours out a sound that isn't easy to categorize. The songs fea­tured on Milkplow's CD, What Happened and Y?, reveal hints oftechno, hard-core rock, reggae and even a little Indian chant. "We've been classified as everything from heavy to jazz to world to rap," Miller says. "We usually have some kind of music for everyone, even the country people." 
Now, finding a name for a band with its roots in so many diverse genres might have stunted the progress of a less-resourc~ful en­semble. The men ofMilkplow, however, did what was practical and convenient: They just used the bass player's e-mail address at the time so that they wouldn't have to register a new address for the band. "It was either Milkplow or Greenbean," Miller says, adding that Greenbean stirs up too many thoughts of the Jolly Green Giant. "We didn't want to dress up all in green and wear loincloths, so we just went with Milkplow." 
The band's song titles, such as "Sanzibar" and "Lay Down the Brothel," also owe some­thing to chance. "We name the songs, and then Dan writes the lyrics," Miller says, so the titles are seldom relate_d. "For us, songwriting is a collaborative effort," Nudi says. "It's not like we designate a songwriter." 
This naming process, though, seems to fol­low with the mixing pot of influences and ideas that make Milkplow the hodgepodge sort of band that it is. D 
For more on Milkplow, visit its Web site at http://www.geocities.com/milk_plowl. 
DONECO N.  SEAN M.  DAN N.  JEFF M.  JEREMYC. JIM A.  
Drums.  Percussion  Vocals  (Ambrose St. John)  (DJ Dizzy)  (Plow)  
Keyboards  Turntables  Bass  

28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
. THE COLDEN ACE 

The Changing of the Bar 
·A comparative study proves that senior bar just ain't what it used to be 
When I was a little kid, my dad used to tell me stories about a place where he used to live. It was an old house, and on football weekends, it overflowed 
. with fans. 6n the first floor of the old house, there was a bar, and in that bar, 16-ounce tap beers went for 25 cents apiece. Mixed drinks were four for a dollar. The rooms were equipped with games like pool, air hockey and pinball, and the walls were decorated with billboards and lined with old church pews for weary visitors. The Golden Age in which these stories took place was my dad's senior year at Notre Dame, 1973-74, when he was manager of senior bar. 
When I first came to campus, I wanted to see senior bar more than anything else, but by then, it had been tom down and replaced with a one-story building. Today, the managers no longer live upstairs. In fact, since the bar was almost closed due to alleged embezzlement by student managers in the '80s, the university hired a non-student general manager to regulate the goings-on at the bar. Although the place can still get wild on football weekends, the presence of adult supervision has 
toned things down a bit. Hoping to recapture the spirit of my dad's senior bar, I looked into a guest bartending spot. 
Dad didn't think that would be.a problem. "When we were there, there were no qualifica­tions for the bartenders whatsoever," he'' said. "Nobody that I hired there had any kind of credentials." 
"So who did you hire?" I asked. 
"Cuffer, Rolo, Geek, Little Man. And Bullet Bob. Animal. Nibs and Sully." I recognized the names ofall his college buddies. They had a great time working together, but they of­ten hired guest bartenders to pull in more people: I was pretty sure I could drag a.crowd.to senior bar myself, but, unfortunately, they don't do guest bartenders anymore .. 

Larry Briggs,' the non-student general manager, explained that the bar pays the State oflndiana $20 per bartender for · liquor licenses, and the staff must attend a training program oii responsible bartending. Larry's job is to make sure that everything goes according to university rules, but even he seems a bit stifled by the administration's strict alcohol rules . For example, they're not allowed to serve shots or straight alcohol. At first; Larry was upset about the rule, but it does save him a lot of clean-up. "Shots are nasty, anyway," he says. "Shots will get you sick." 
The university also limits the bar's advertising in campus publications. "Wecan'tevensaytheword 'special,' "Larry says. "They've become a little more lenient, but we still can't say 'cup.' " What the heck do administrators think goes on in a bar? Geez Louise. 
Despite the regulations, the bar can advertise promotional events in campus publications. On Valentine's Day, I visitE,d the "Shied Your Ex" extravaganza, where patrons were invited to bring pictures of their old significant others and shred them in front of the crowd. "Nobody will do that at this school," one ofmy friends said. "Kids here are praying 
~~JI!'"' 

for their ex-es at the Grotto." 
But there were a few shredded photos before the end of the night, perhaps due to the effects of the featured beverage, a raspberry daiquiri called "The Heartbreaker." Usually, they don't offer slushydrinks, but as bartender Meghan Rhatigan says, "Ifthe dai­quiri is a big seller, we'll keep it." All these rules may squelch the crazy scene of the '70s-era senior bar, but if there's one aspect that would make my dad proud, it's the DJs who really keep the party going. "Alotofpeoplerequest Venga Bciys or DJ Cool, but chill rock is really . {::p91mlar," says Pedro, over Sublime's 
,t,;;\Santeria. 
It might not be the crazy place it once was, but according to bartender Nena ·~ Post.er, "It's cheap, th.emusicisgood, 
and ifyou can get a bunch offriends I\~. . together, it can be a really good \ time." · · 0 



by Kara Zuaro 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

Bitten by the Study Bug 
Caution: Schoolwork may be hazardous to your health 
SARAHSTREICHER 
Physical health or academic suc­cess -which should be your first priority? You're probably familiar with this age-old debate. Ifyou've dragged yourself to an 8:30 a.m. class even though you were hacking up both lungs and you couldn't see because of your pink eye, you can identify. If you've stayed up all night finishing a paper, even though your fever­induced delirium caused you to include phrases such as, "Descartes is the 
noodly doodle king," you can iden­tify. Finally, if you've seen the Saved By the Bell episode in which Jessie pounds caffeine pills to help her study for finals, you can iden­tify. She was so excited, she was so excited, she was so ... scared. 
Well, I'm scared too, Jessie. Since first grade, I've been sacri­ficing my health to earn that elu­sive A. Academia has assaulted my fragile body and debilitated my once-robust immune system. Am I studying myself toward premature physical collapse? Lately, a fright­ening image has been haunting me: 
It's my 25th birthday party. I'm entertaining my guests with fasci­nating anthropological insights and philosophical repartee -the fruits ofmyscholarly pursuits. Then my grandma brings in a candle­studded Bundt cake. I grab the edge of the table with my good wrist because the other one has lost the battle with carpal-tunnel syndrome. I leanfo,ward, blow out my candles 
To get an A in first grade, I had to bring in the most impressive show-and-tell speci­men of the class. Before my turn, Ian R. had brought in the coolest thing: Hermie, his hermit crab. If my classmates got such a rush out of petting a shell, I thought, they'd all pee their pants if I brought in a verte­brate! On my show-and-tell debut, I waltzed into the classroom carrying a bowling-ball bag, inside of which was a plastic ball, inside of which was Nicodemus, my ham­ster. Despite his non-malignant "second 


. . . and then I just keel over. 
The saddest part is that there were only 
two candles -just a big two and a big five. 
Buticouldn'tdoit. Years ofpent-up fatigue 
manifested themselves in one moment, and 
I bit it. 

I know how you' re feeling: Ifyou could talk to me right now, you would tell me not to worry. But here is my response to your would-be consolations-I do have to worry about my health. My personal history of compromising my physical well-being to · make the grade is just too long and too rich. 
And it is as follows: 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
head" tumor, Nicodemus was a big hit. Like a little rodent American Gladiator in his atlasphere, he ran his ball around the room so swiftly. Too swiftly. When he ran blindly into the flagpole, the door to his ball sprung open, and Nicodemus scampered away. I lost him forever. I mourned for him in­tensely, thus developing a wicked cold that knocked me out for two days. 
In the fall of my third-grade year, my backpack's left strap broke due to the weight of my books and my Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper. So, every day for the rest of the year, I flung my heavy back-desk across one shoulder and waddled the four blocks back to my house. The negative physical reper­cussion? The next year's scoliosis test was a nightmare. I think the nurse called my parents right away, because when I got home that day, my mom had set out a duffle bag with a Post-it note on it. It read, "Honey -unbuckle the little strap, and you can drag it behind you. Remember how beauti­ful you are. Love, Mom." 
To get an A in 10th grade, I had to make 
a diorama depicting a scene from 
The Open Boat by Stephen Crane. Because my masterpiece had to radiate a real sense of nature's indifference, I stayed up all night molding tissue paper into raging waves and fashioning hurricane victims from toothpicks. By 4 a.m., my motor skills were im­paired. This was no time to oper­ate the glue gun. Nevertheless, I started heating it up. Now, I had been putting off going to the bath­room because I thought I might not have time for it. But when I stood up because I could hold it no longer, disaster struck. Grandma must have left the safety off the glue gun, because scald­ing glue shot all over my foot when I stepped on its trigger. When I leapt back in agony, I slipped on the decoupage paste and fell face-first into my pile of diorama-enhancing glitter. In an instant, I had burned my foot, bruised my tailbone, and tempo­rarily lost vision in one eye . 
Do I just have bad luck? Cer­tainly not. This is me, hurling my holistic health to the wayside in hot pursuit of a praiseworthy GP A. While my physical de­cay might be irreversible, your days don't have to be numbered. Choose health! 
You don't have to abandon work -just de-emphasize it. End late-night papers with the concluding paragraph, "See introduc­tion." Those two paragraphs always sound alike, anyway. Drag your sickly body to class but sleep through it. And doggone it, take one multi-vitamin with every caf­feine pill. / 


Good news for anyone who's been feeling culture-starved lately: We haven't had this many arts events on the calendar in a while. Go see the Smithsonian Trio on February 25 or cellist Karan B uranskas on March 4. The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will perform Beethoven's Eighth Symphony, a Beethoven piano concerto and a selection from the Mozart opera Casi fan Tutte on March 1. You can even experience another culture at Fiestang Filipino, which will feature authentic Filipino cuisine, as well as the First Class Steppers, Troop ND and the Hawaii Club. Or, if you'd_ like to start from the, er, opposite end of the cultural spectrum, the men of Zahm cordially invite you to "come pet their llama" at the fourth-annual Winter Carnival this Saturday. There will be live music, games and prizes, a clown, the roasting of an entire pig and, yes, a petting zoo. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
movies 

• 
Thu 22 II Postino, 7:00 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Thu 22 Duets and Best ofShow, both at 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 23 It's All True, 7:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Fri 23 and Sat 24 Duets and Best ofShow, both at 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Sat 24 Touch ofEvil, 9:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Fri 02 Shanghai Triad, 7:30 PM and 9:30 PM, Snite. 

• 
Fri 02 and Sat 03 The Sixth Sense and Unbreak­able, both at 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 


• Thu 01 The Sixth Sense and Unbreakable, both at 
10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• Tue 27 Son ofGascogore, 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
the arts 
• Thu 22, Fri 23 and Sat 24 The Winter's Tale, 
7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 
• 
Sun 25 Smithsonian Trio, 2:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Thu 01 Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Winter Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Fri 02 and Sat 03 Collegiate Jazz Festival, all day, Washington Hall. 

• 
Sun 04 Karen Buranskas, cello, 2:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Sun 0_4 Notre Dame Conert Band, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 


student life 
• 
Fri 23 Open Skate, 9:00 PM, Joyce Center ice rink. 

• 
Sat 24 Zahm Winter Carnival, 1:00 PM, North Quad. 


• 
Thu 22 Bengal Bouts, Preliminary Round, 7:00 PM, Joyce • Sat 24 Swimming: ND men and women, Shamrock Classic, Center Fieldhouse. 6:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Cen~er. 

• 
Sat 24 Tennis: ND men vs. Northwestern, 12:00 PM, Eck • Sun 04 Basketball: ND men vs.. Georgetown, 2:00 PM, Tennis Pavillion. Joyce Center. 

• 
Sat 24 Basketball: ND women vs. Georgetown, 1 :00 PM, • Thu 08 Tennis: ND men vs. Michigan, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Joyce Center. · Pavillion. 

• 
Sat 24 Midwest Fencing Championships, all day, Joyce • Sat 10 Tennis: ND women vs. Michigan, 11:00 AM, Eck Center Fieldhouse. Tennis Pavillion. 


i 
I 
I' 
by Brian O'Donoghue 

Believe 
The other evening, I attended a talk given by In the past year, much of the amazing ability of Roger Allee. Allee is a former guest of the Notre Dame students I have witnessed has come Center for the Homeless and has been the from those among us who dedicate their time to the 
custodian of Washington Hall for the past six larger community. I wish I could thank them all, years. The talk was amazing -Allee is a victim of but the names would probably fill this entire maga­anthropophobia, the fear of people. So there stood zine. In fact, I imagine that I would ultimately end this man in front of a room full ofpeople speaking of up thanking every student on this campus at one the first time he set foot on a community of approxi­point or another for something they have done to mately 15,000 souls. Needless to say, he was terri­enhance this community that we all cherish so fied. But that night, Allee overcame his fears to say to deeply. These are the true labors of the heart. a room full ofstudents: "Thank you. You guys are the Getting back to Allee's words, I too want to reason I can get by day to day. I wouldn't be able to thank you. A lot of times I sit up in the office on a handle it otherwise." Friday night working, my desk lamp the only light 
Here was this man who has overcome so much in in an otherwise dark room. I look out the window his life, thanking us for being a part of his life. How to the 13th floor of the library and see Father often do we pass by without even knowing how much Hesburgh's office light, reminding me that I am we have meant to other people? How many times do not alone, and that he, in many ways, is shaming we make an impact-and never even know it-just me into working harder. I think about my friends by being who we are? Well, I would like to add my and where they are that night, and how much I name to Allee's. You all have meant so much in my would like to be with them. But whenever this life simply by being who you are. Notre Dame is an cycle begins, I think about the Notre Dame com­amazing place, but not because of the Dome or the munity. I dream about what a force for good the Grotto (although both still capture my heart and students are in the world, and how lucky I am to imagination). Notre Dame is all that she is-or ever work for them. willbe-because ofthe community that inhabits her. Is this a romantic and sentimentalist view? Abso­In many ways, everyone here is a small vessel of lutely, but still it's mine. I hope that Brooke, myself 
hope. They, and our and the entire Office ofthe President team served you 
This entire campus is a cathedral community, represent well during our time. Thank you for giving me the what the world can be opportunity to work at a job I have loved. Not because 
in which we worship through 
and what we can make ofthe recognition that comes with the office -which 
A senior English and history major, Brian "Odie" O'Donoghue is the current student-body president and a proud man ofKeough Hall. 

loving one another. ' it. I actually would rather skip -but because you have 
If I could say one given me the chance to repay this community that has thing to every student on this campus, it would be given me so much. More importantly, though, I want to, in the words of Alanis Morissette, "recognize to thank you for being my faith and hope. You your divinity, too." You do have the potential to accomplish this in so many ways, from gathering as change the world for the better if only you believe a community offaith at Mass to the gentle nudges we in yourself and your abilities. give each other at the Grotto or in residence halls to 
I already do believe in you. When Brooke and I help us make it through a sometimes-difficult jour­ran for our offices, we campaigned under one ney. This entire campus is a cathedral in which we slogan: "Believe." A lot ofpeople asked us exactly worship through loving one another. Thank you for 
. what this slogan meant. The answer has remained building this tribute to God and each other. _ the same after all this time: "We are running be­In closing, t offer aprayer that has been part of cause we truly do believe in the Notre Dame stu­every one of my State of the Union addresses.· dent body. They are an extraordinary people with Strangely enough, it is from the movie Deep Im­the potential to do great things. Every time we turn pact: a corner at this university, we find a student doing something truly amazing. What potential they rep­May the Lord bless you, resent. They truly are hope." May the Lord keep you, 
I know that may sound corny, even superficial, May the lord lift up his divine countenance upon but I swear to you with all my heart it is true. I have you, seen too many good things happen---too much And.give you peace. love, too much faith in my four years here not to be an idealist. God Bless you, and God ~less Notre Dame. D 
. 32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
THE THIRD ANNUAL UNDERGRADUATE BIOETHICS CONFERENCE 
ON THE CAMPUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

!ALL SESSIONS HELD IN THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION! 
HTTP://BIOETHICS. ND. EDU 
Thursday 
-~•.·. 
,.
t 

Foreign Film Snecial: I 
de bartolo 155_ 7pm 

Ff $2 d 
The Ma 
debartolo 
Thursday: 10:30pm; Friday an 





