

Tell your parents to subscribe to Scholastic and cut your phone bill in half! 


I 



MAGA I 
E 
You'll find: 
• 
The latest campus news and sports 

• 
National and campus entertainment ONLY$30 coverage 

• 
Controversial campus issues A YEAR 

• 
Weekend happenings 

• 
Humor, commentary and the Gipper 


' 

Name:
E 
• 
Address: __________ 
I want a year-long subscription to Scholastic Magazine so I can keep tabs on my child. 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 138, NUMBER 5 FOUNDED 1867 OCTOBER 10, 1996 

Home Free 
by Kristin M. Alworth 

Joe Kernan spent 11 months as a prisoner of war during the Vietnam War. But he calls it the most important experience of his life. After returning home, he was elected mayor ofSouth Bend. The Notre Dame grad is now running for Lieutenant Governor of Indiana. 
············•!1••······················16 


Bumper Bedlam 

by Jake Mooney 

Among the traditions of the Irish Guard, the Lou Cheer and Touchdown Jesus is the ritual of tail­gating. For alumni and students, there is no other way to start a Saturday. 
............................8 
Jail1lie of All Trad·es 
by Patrick Downes 

Junior Jaimie Lee has been an instrumental ele­ment on the volleyball team this season, as she has shown her talent in seyeral positions . 
.............................. 12 
FEATURES ToJ)plingtheTop25 ................................................ 4 · 
by Meredith Salisbury 
So You Say It's YourBirthday .......................... 10 
by Amber Aguiar 
October Fest .......................................................... 14 
by Scholastic's sports writers 
Measurefor Measure ........................................... 22 
by C. Myers, K. Jacques, H. Schomann 
It's a Tough Job... . .................................... 26 
by Andrew Nutting 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor .................................................... 2 Letters to the Editor .............................................. 3 Dull Thoughts .......................................................... 6 Campus Watch ..................................................... 20 Splinters From the Press Box ............................. 21 Out ofBounds ........... : ........................................ 27 Week in Distortion ............................................. 28 Calendar ................ ; ............................................ 29 On Other Campuses, ....................................... ,... 30 Life In Hell. ............................... .'........................31 Final Word ......................................................... 32 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 

Peace, Love and a Deeper Understanding 
Forme, the Vietnam War has become a romanticized piece ofartificial nostalgia. During high school I watched The Wonder Years every Tuesday night. My friends went to Woodstock '94 a few summers ago in a Volkswagon bus painted with peace signs and flowers. My CD collection consists ofartists and groups who sing about peace and love and ending the war-even though I can't relate to what they are singing about. 
So, for me, Joe Kernan's story was a wake-up call. It was a reminder of everything I learned in my history classes -that the Vietnam War wasn't all flowers and songs about peace; that the Vietnam War was terrifying for those fighting and captured in it and for those still in America who didn't think we should be fighting at all. 
Yet, Kernan's story also contradicts th<:: stereotypical image of the soldier returning to America.Unlike the Lieutenant Dans and the Ron Kovics portrayed in movies like Forrest Gump and Born on the Fourth ofJuly, the Notre Dame graduate came back from what he calls the best experience he has ever had to become the mayor of South Bend and a candidate for Lieutenant Governor of Indiana. Kristin Alworth tells his story on page 16. 
Gimme A Break 

There will not be an issue ofScholastic Magazine next Thursday. Good luck on midterms and see you after fall break. 
A Note to Subscribers 

Due to computerupgrades at Scholastic, we have only recently been able to complete our subscription list and database. By this time you should have received the first four issues ofthe magazine. Scholastic apologizes for the delay. Ifyou have any questions orconcerns, please call our business manager at (219) 631-7569. 
Bridget Bradburn 
Managing Editor 



26 Years Ago: 
Unliberated SMCs 
The "Week in Distortion" column for the October 1, 1970, issue of Scholastic Magazine included the results of an unofficial survey. Titled "Polls Tell All," the column read: 
In an exclusive random sample telephone survey, Scholastic has determined that the St. Mmy' s freshman class is definitely not liberated. At least, none were free last weekend. 
They must have had something better to do. 
-BSB 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Volume 138,Number 5 .October 10, 1996 http://www.nd.edu/~scholast/ 

Editor in Chief: Steven J. Myers Managing Editor: Bridget S. Bradburn 
News: 
Kristin M. Alworth, editor Meredith W. Salisbury, assistant 

Campus Ufe: 

Kristin M. Alworth, editor 
Sports: 
Jeremy R. Dixon,·editor Brian P. Hiro, editor 
Entertainment: 
ChristopherE. Myers; editor .Departments:. Christian M. Dalla vis, editor 
Copy Editor: 

W. Patrick Downes 
Layout: 
Brian H. Christ, editor Gene S. Brtalik Nick P. Ismert Emily H. Schmidt Julie M. Vodicka 
Photography: 
Stanley P. Evans,editor 
Graphic Arts: 

Paul Bohensky, director 
Business Manager: 
Colin P. Smith 
Distribution Manager: 
. Thomas M. Benco 
Systems Manager: 

Sean P. Hynes 
Advertising· Manager: 
Jennifer L. Stachowiak 


Cover photos courtesy of Mayor's 
. Office ' 
Disce Quasi SemperVicturus }live Quasi Cras Moriturus .. 
Published 20 t.imes per school yearn! the University of Notre Dame, and ·printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine are copyright ©1996. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced iri any manner wnhout written consent of th.a publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liabllltyfor unsolicited manuscrlpts·or material. AU correspondence should be sentto Scholastic Magazine, 303 Lafortune Student Center,· Notre Dame, IN 46556. AU letters must Include the writer's 

·name, addres~ and phone number. All letters mu.stbe signed. Names will .be wUhheld upon request In .certain· instances. The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $30 per. year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date; Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per. copy. Advertising rates sent .on request. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 

Kudos to the Under-revered 
Dear Editor, 
I would like to offer my sincere congratulations to you and your 
staff(particularly BrianHiro and Jeremy Dixon) for your continued 
coverage of our under-revered women's soccer team. As an ardent fan ofour girls in blue, I find it ridiculous that such a talented group of athletes must take a back seat to our football 
team. Naturally, we all respect the football players for their dedica­
tion to continuing a campus athletic tradition. However, it is high 
time that our students realized that our athletic program is not all 
football (even though those in charge of appropriating athletic 
dollars might believe otherwise). 
Names like Cindy Daws, Shannon Boxx and Jenny Streiffer should be just as prominent as Ron Powlus and Marc Edwards. I think that after the North Carolina win this past weekend they've more than proven that last year's National Championship was not just a fluke. 
Kudos, ladies-hopefully now you '11 receive the praise that you so greatly deserve! 
Aaron Nolan Keough Hall 

Ad Reveals Lack of Taste 
Dear Editor, 
Prior to reading the contents of this issue (Scholastic Magazine, October 3, 1996), I would like to point out that it is totally unnecessary to include an advertisement on the back cover of your magazine showing a woman's bare rump. Itis a poor reflection of journalistic professionalism and reflects very badly on 'the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, where you distribute Scholastic. 
Please ask your advertisers to show more taste in the future. Itis 
not censorship, just propriety. 
Julie A.Ferraro 
Friemann Life Science Center Business Office 
Schdla·stic Wartts to Hear .:-From You! 
.... : 

.-·Letters for Thursday'"sissue · \must-be subinittecf by · ·•-·-Monday at 5 p.m. 
-. . ( .. .. ' -~ . ' . 
<"'I' 

Send letters_ t9:: .· 303 L~Fortune 
. . 
University of Notre Dame._··· -Notre Daine, IN 46556 

scholastk.scholast.1@nd.edu_ 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 

••• AND BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Lane 277-7744 52577 US Route 31 277-1024 



I 
I 
r 
t ·'j
i . 



U.S. News··_amd 
I_•·.. . _-•.._·. .. < : 


\forld Repork's 
lqp 25fartkiJ,gs 

irqused stp-Jat 
un~versities iltrbss 
'. ·.· < · ..· . . ·.·. i . <.• j


4he countiy, yet
I .• -·: • ·.--· ---~ . _____ · ·_ . ~<,.-· 1 


r -Notrt-IJake
i ... ··.· ··.· .. ··. •-• , l 


I: studentsand
i . . . < . '.; 


~dtninistratbrsl 
·._ ----:---i 

iqUes#ppthfir r· .legztimqcy
I .. ··.. i 
i 
._ I 
\j 
j 
·1 ' 




Toppling the Top25 
come more reliable in recent years, after a BY MEREDITH SALISBURY 
Wall Street Journal expose revealed dis­U .S.NewsandWorldReport'sTop crepancies between the statistics colleges 
25 college ranking list has tra­were submitting to the survey and to the 
ditionally had a great deal of in-government. The report now attempts to fluence at universities across the country. verify the information that each college This year, students and administrators at supplies. Harvard are shocked at their drop to third Brown feels the report should be given place, while their Yale counterparts are cel­credit for "trying to do this in as scientific a ebrating their rise to number one. At Notre way as possible." Over the past four to six Dame, students are disappointed that their years, he estimates, the magazine has re­school was only rated 17th. Many Notre sponded to criticisms ofthe survey by work­Dame students and administrators, how­ing with people directly involved in higher ever, doubt the accuracy of these rankings. education in order to get a better perspective 
While several college guidebooks and for evaluating schools. surveys rate schools, USN&WR is "the only Despite USN&WR' s efforts, accepting the one that actually attempts to rank-order the report is "very up in the air among people in colleges," says Notre Dame Associate Di­higher education because to try to actually rector of Public Relations Dennis Brown. rank -colleges and universities is kind of He explains that the report is based on a dicey," Brown says. He explains that each complex process that has been developed college has a different mission and different over the past 10 years. standards, so comparing colleges with such 
The report lists various factors that were differences may not be feasible. "We are considered in the ranking process, includ­quite sure Notre Dame belongs among the ing a survey of academic reputation, appli­top 20," Brown says, but being more spe­cation selectivity, faculty and financial re­cific than that is very difficult without a sources, retention rates, alumni donations solid basis of comparison. and predicted graduation rate. Brown says Another factor that may have an unwanted that these components enable the public to effect, especially for Notre Dame, is the "put a lot of faith in the information avail­impact that graduate schools have on the able." report. While the survey is technically for 
According to Brown, changes in report undergraduate universities, large graduate methodology are what actually alter the schools may have an influence on a college's rankings from year to year. "Harvard didn't ranking. Brown notes that most of the uni­do anything different to drop to number versities ranked above Notre Dame have three," says Brown. "It is no reflection on an "huge research or medical school arms" and institution if it goes down or up [in the that these inevitably come into play in the ratings]." He comments that changes in the survey. survey occur when USN&WR changes the In the report, Notre Dame was also rated weight it gives each category. Notre Dame, 54th -second to last among the Top 25 for one, has climbed steadily upward in the schools -for money spent per student, one of report in past years. While students' SAT the factors taken into account. This low rating scores have increased somewhat, most other undoubtedly lowers Notre Dame's overall Notre Dame factors have remained consis­score. Brown, however, wonders why Notre tent. Dame should be ranked lower for its ability to 
USN&WR says that its figures have be-"provide afirst-rateeducationfor less money."_ 
4 

Apparently, this concern is not new. Brown says, "If(a school is) regarded as an excellent academic institution, as Notre Dame is, an argument can be made that (lower expenditures) should be noted in a positive way." He considers this a "built-in bias" that skews the report. 
According to Brown, ND spends almost the same amount per student as other Top 25 schools. However, because these other uni­versities have tremendous graduate school expenses included in their budgets, it ap­pears that they spend more money on their students. Brown stresses that "nobody's doing anything improper" in the report-it is simply that budgets are too complex to be factored down to just undergraduate fig­ures. 
The financial resources category, which is what includes the expenditures per stu­dent, used to account for 20 percent of the survey. It has since been cut in half. This is "a pretty substantial difference," says Brown, "which certainly helped us." 
Brown says that there is a "question as to the legitimacy of trying to rank colleges with such different factors," so administra­tors "take the report with a grain of salt." Questions about the report's validity, how­ever, do not diminish its importance. 
USN&WR is generally agreed to be the first tool used by people looking at colleges, Brown says. "To ignore the survey is a mistake for anybody," says Brown. "The report is the number one college guide that high school students and parents take most seriously." 
With some exceptions, Notre Dame stu­dents seem to agree that their school should have placed higher in the ratings. Freshman Jeff Hsu feels that Notre Dame "should be a little higher." When he was a senior in high school, Hsu estimates that the report ac­counted for about a fourth of the college research he did, since he used it as a "foun­dation to look at schools." 
Junior Liam O'Flanagan says he trusts the report. "It's probably pretty accurate and it's in a pretty good magazine," he says. Freshman Cris Saldana, however, says that he was "shocked" at Notre Dame's ranking, because he had heard Notre Dame "was not only one ofthe best schools in the nation but in the world." Saldana hopes that the uni­versity's ranking will continue to rise and reach first place by his senior year. "That would be a special experience," he says. 
Brown states that while the report is con­sidered by administrators, they would never "make programming decisions" based on 
... Climbilig the i-atings·Iadder Notre Dame's rankings in USN& WR have been rising steadily: 
Year 1992.  Rank 26  
1993  22  
1994  19  
1995  18  
1996  17  

ND's ratings in any given category. And while the exact credibility of numerically ranking schools may be uncertain and Notre Dame's real place among the Top 25 schools may not be easy to determine, Brown seems to feel that Notre Dame should be proud of its rating. "It's better than not being in the Top 25," he says. 0 
WRITERS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS NEEDED: 
NO FUNCTIONAL ILLITERATES NEED APPLY 
Scholastic is looking for people who can write or shoot for News, Campus Life, Sports, Entertainment and Departments. 
If,you are not functionally illiterate please stop by Scholastic's office at 303 LaFortune or call 631-7569 by Thursday, October 17 for an application. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 
• • :_ • ' ,r ',-~-----, 
,,,1c1wJ=«•1¦111-1-e------------------------­
Bob Dole's lukewarm showing at 
Sunday's debate may mean it is time 

Doling Out 
to jump ship 

Campaign Promises 
Subject Hair 
Tan 
Presidentiality 
Hand Gestures 
Tie 
One-Liners 

~ortCard 
DOLE  CLINTON  
A.:.  B­ 
.A  B+  
B  A­ 
B+  A­ 
B+  A­ 
A­ B  

Comments 
. Mr. President, you ·need a haircut. 
The tan looks good, but, Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy. (I couldn't resist.) 
Let's face it, Dole 
evenlooks like a 
challenger destined 
to lose. 
Neither candidate 
was overly 
ambitious in this 
area, but Clinton has 
a distinct advantage; 
Clinton's tie 
appeared to have 
an almost purple 
tintunder the 
lights. Bravo! 
Dole's characteristically cryptic remarks beat Clinton's self­consciously.bland··. comments any day of the week. 
BY MATTHEW DULLApresiden. tial campaign dominated by stale ideas and mushy rhetoric might be best described with a similarly stale analogy. Going into the first presidential debate Sunday night, Bob Dole's campaign was a sinking ship. Blame the leak on anyone you'd like -Newt Gingrich, Steve Forbes (I prefer Ronald Reagan) -it's there and no one, not even those still clinging to the ship, would deny it. In fact, by a consensus of those on and off the boat, Sunday was Dole's last chance to fix the leak that has been steadily worsening for almost a year. The list of failed fixes is well known. In June, Dole tried throwing his Senate seat overboard. The economic plan bubble burst, revealing a lot of hot air beneath the thin supply-side exterior. Poor Elizabeth paddled wildly through the convention. Dole even (reluctantly) brought Jack "the happy skip­per" Kemp on board-predictably, Kemp soon abandoned ship, named one of the life boats "Kemp 2000" and set sail for Califor­nia. Dole's task was, in short, to do what no one and nothing has been able to do for him: save his campaign. But how? The strategy set forward by Dole and his advisers in the weeks preced­ing the debate was simple enough. Be ag­gressive, not mean. Be funny. Be plain spoken, not obscure. According to Dole, in characteristic Dolese, the strategy was to "show up." If this seems like a slightly under-ambitious strategy for convincing 10 million voters who now support Bill Clinton to change their minds, it's because one ele­ment was missing. Dole's strategy wasn't just to show up, but to show up and pray that Clinton would make a huge, colossal, gi­ganticmistake. Unfortunately for Dole, that did not happen. By most accounts, Dole did what he could. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 


For a man whose future looks so bleak, whose aides are so cranky, and who himself is prone to bouts of crankiness, Dole arrived at the debate in quite a good mood. While somewhat disjointed, his per­formance was, for the most part, coherent. He kept the debate interesting with a va­riety of what the Dole camp called "zingers." Some ofhis 

~Ofy;NSl'Y zingers, like those on drugs ~ and the possible pardon of \.YI.I -Jim and Susan McDougal, 
~ 

./2 ~ ~ (,?;; were fumbled. Some were 
~ downright weird, like one strange line about Clinton referring to George Bush as something other than "Mr. President" during a 1992 debate. But several zingers were on the mark. Dole is right -Saddam Hussein probably is better off today than he was four years ago. 
Dole was in top Bob Dole form, but what about those 10 million voters he needed to bring around? Clinton offered him no aid. Apparently, only Clinton's all-consuming ambition is stronger than his over-sized compassion. Further, Dole is, in his soul, an incrementalist. He is fundamentally a baler, not a mender ofleaks . 
. · Campaign finance reform: Like mostrhetorical vicfo­....ries for campaign reform, . this one will likely evaporate. . However, candidates• abusing each other on .the contribti:: tions they acc~pt can never hurt.· Dole's hit list -thetrial lawyei;s, Hollywood, organized labor and the sinisterNEA. 
···onClinton.'s •• list--thefobaccoJobby;)he NRA arid the nebulous ''p~lli{ters.;, . . 
.:.-: ; .·-· .
' ' . 
Jim and Susan McDougal: Dole fumbled his attempt to. .• forceC:linton into a corner on the pardon issue. Though · Clintoninsistsithas not beendiscussed, I suspectlie '11 give ­the. suggestfon iome thought. · 
George Bush:.Afterfou1;years inexile,Bushcanat I.east· 
.CO\Jnt on Dole tofightfor the former president's honor. Twice,. Dole attacked Clintcm (er ... Jvlr;President) forfailing . 
to refor :to Bush as tMr. President" during a 1992 debate. What? Well;that proves that age•• shouldn't be an issue. .· Pol~'s m~m,oryi~:a lot better than mine. . . 
. ..· ThfA.ueri,tion-Deficited Viewer: Ninety.. 1nim1tisf6ra·. debate; is thata joke? Melro.se Place is only an hour, ·. Eor.fonately(tb,e ~andicliite~ ranout ofspuri1 bytes intheJirst ••· 
i ;30n1i~tites ancl.sin1ply fepe·atedthe111sel:yes for most.of ~he·. la.sUioui:.. . . . . . 
So, he did what he could. He baled. 
For Republicans, particu­larly the national party, Sun­day night's debate meant de­ciding to either help bale out Dole's campaign or else jump ship. Every day, Dole is cost­ing them money -money that they could save the House and prevent the election from becoming a complete disas­ter. Dole is destined to go down with the ship, but need they? I suspect that for many Republicans, the answer is no. 


So Haley Barbour and 400-plus House candidates prepare their life vests for departure. The Dole staff, panicked, engages in an increasingly public debate about whether to jump ship themselves. Meanwhile, Bob Dole remains stolidly perplexed. His newly tanned face betrays only one word, the essence of the poetic midwestern dialect that is a product of his roots: " ... whatever." D Due to the overwhelming response to Matt Dull' s first column, 
"Dull Thoughts" will appear twice each month. It will explore political issues and other related random ideas. 
NewtGingrich: Ifthe mention ofhis naine in 1995 made you question your belief in a benevolent God, 1996brings cause to rejoice. Jsay kick him while he's down. 
Ross Perot: Both Clinton and Dole reached out to your 
supp01ters, but where were you? Larry King mustbe the 
.. only personinAmerica who isn't bored by yoti: The gig is 
· hp, Ross. Go·back.tobeingrich. 
. . 
•The 15 Percent Tax Cut: .Dole tastefully left the button .at home. His generaUy uriinspiring defense ofhis economic 
. program left his cherished 15 percent tax cut buried some­. where behirid his Web pagein the debate's aftermath. 
• Fidel.·Castro: D6esthis 'guy ever.get a·.break?··Inthe course of the debate; the President admits that ''no one else in the world agrees with tis," and each candidate still insists that he is more willing than the othercandidate to shame­
... ·.· 1essly abuse Cuba. . 
' . . -' 
·11ike you~B~b, butget used to it. . 
:I 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II OCTOBER 10, 1996 
7 

. --­
~

. '\ ~ --•,' ~ .~ . . . 


8UMPEf< BEDLAM 
day traditions -the tailgater. says, "Buddha gives out free hamburgers, 
BY JAKE MOONEY 

There is no definitive proof that tailgating hot dogs and drinks, but it's the atmosphere t's 9:30 on a crisp fall Saturday morn­was invented at Notre Dame, but not even that I like the most. It's hard to find that in ing, and all ac~os~ the country, college the most obnoxious Ohio State fan can deny other places." students· are enJoymg a few hours ofrest that few schools launch into pre-game cel­The student section may be the most vo­' 
after the previous night's revelry. From ebration with the fervor of the Irish. Senior cal part of the stadium come game time, but Florida to Nebraska, college football fans Brendan York says, "The enthusiasm here students agree that alumni make tailgating lie nestled snugly under the covers, with is just more intense than anywhere else. the unique experience that it is. Before each visions ofthe afternoon's big game dancing Seeing the 'subway alumni' rolling onto game, sophomore Jennifer Coleman attends in their heads. At Notre Dame, though, the campus in their decked-out vans and buses the Kelleher family tailgater, where she has scene is a little different. Spurred on by the really puts you in the mood for a game." the opportunity to chat with alumni from blare of the fight song and the drone ofRVs Freshman Neil O'Connor feels the same decades long past. "They 're the nicest men," rolling on to campus, bleary-eyed students way. O'Connor tailgates with Buddha, a says Coleman. "They come from Ohio, and are rolling out of bed, stumbling to the fan known to many thanks to the pins he they bring fried chicken, sandwiches and shower and getting bundled up for one of hands out to his most loyal followers. margaritas, all so the students can have a the most time-honored ofN otreDame game-O'Connor, who has yet to earn his button, good time." She says that one alum makes 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 

us on and give us food and drinks." 
Sophomore Ken O'Keefe recalls one whole section goes out the night before the Sophomore Patrick McIntyre also has tailgater that he and his roommate stumbled first game of the year and prays at Knute some musical talent, which he displayed at upon before the Texas game last year. "There ·Rockne's grave," Ciszek says. the Ohio State game. "The people at the was a guy cooking polish sausages," says Students occasionally miss out on tailgate next to us had a karaoke machine, O'Keefe. "We didn't know him, but we tailgaters because ofmiscommunication, as and after a while our whole group was were really hungry, so we said a girl named sophomore Matt Snyder did last year. "My singing," McIntyre says. "It was some Kelly sent us. I don't think he believed us, friend and I were supposed to meet this girl girl's birthday, and we sang to her, too." but he gave us some food ,anyway. After a and her family, but she didn 'ttellus where," No matter how students pass the time at semesterofeating dining hall food, Icouldn 't Snyder says. "We spent hours looking their tailgaters, most agree that weekends thank him enough." through every parking lot on the south side wouldn't be the same without them. As 
Drinks also flow freely at alumni tailgate of campus, but we didn't find her. We were Coleman says, "People really go out oftheir parties, so accidents are bound to happen. really frustrated, so we went to the Main way to be friendly. Every week, they make Junior Tara Grieshop recounts the story ofa Building to watch the band, and there she us feel at home, even though we're in a friend who was visiting her brother in her was. It turned out the party was in D2 and parking lot in South Bend." York, looking pre-Notre Dame days. "He shoved a beer in we missed the whole thing." back on his four years of tailgating, muses, her face for her to shotgun, and she cut her Some students see the downside of early "There's no better time to be had before a nose on the can," says Grieshop. "Her morning partying more clearly than others. game. I've had some great experiences." . parents were there, and it wagreally embar­rassing." 
Junior Allison Roberts recounts some in­teresting experiences of her own with in­
ebriated relatives. "My grandfather was 
sitting in a lawn chair drinking wine, and his chair tipped over," she says. "The first thing 
he said was, 'Somebody pick up my wine.'" 
Luckily, he was unharmed. 
Not everyone recovers from tailgating mishaps so quickly, as freshman Dave McCaffrey recalls from when he visited his sister when shewas a student two years ago. "Two· guys were playing catch with a foot­ball,_ and one of them fell right into a mud puddle," McC~ffrey. says. "He ended up having to go through the whole game cov­ered in mud." 
Resourceful sophomore Rebekah Go, a 'en iii South Bendnative, was once able to tum the m :, tipsiness of alumni revelers into big bucks. oi :, rn "In elementary school we used to have to 
IT DOESN'T GET ANY BETTER THAN THIS. Notre Dame students enjoy a drink at pregame celebrations. 
his clam dip every week, and sends it along even when he doesn't come to the game. 
Freshmen Steve Allan and Brad McDonald have also experienced this giv­ing attitude. Allan and McDonald meet up with other Keenan residents at an RV be­longing to one of the group's relatives. As a part of the festivities, members of the group remove their shirts and paint their chests in traditional blue and gold. "The alumni here love us," says McDonald. "They'11 do anything it takes for you to have a good time." 
"Every week, they make usfeel at home, even though we're in a parking lot in South Bend." 
sell candy bars to raise money," she says. "We'd always go to the parking lot on game days, and the drunk alumni would spend a lot of money." 
While tailgating is viewed by most at Notre Dame as an essential part of any Saturday morning, some students abstain from the celebration. Freshman Benny Ciszek is in the band, so he is prohibited from partying before games. He and fellow band members have made up for missing tailgating rituals, though, by creating some rituals oftheir own. "I play alto sax, and our Sophomore Lori Dolan recalls, "When I first got here, we were walking around to different tailgaters, and everyone was offer­ing us beer, but it's hard to drink so early in '.i 
J 
the morning." 
Senior Jen Carlson is wary of tailgaters because of some of the friendlier male alumni. "A lot of them try to hit on you, especially in the parking lot near the Senior Bar," she says. · 
Students who do tailgate have rituals that make the parties unique as well as memo­rable. "I tailgate with a girl who lives down the hall from me, and we do Irish step dancing, "freshman Courtney Howlett says. "We both did it in high school, and I remem­ber a little bit. Not a lot ofpeople know how to do it, and it's fun to get together and see what we can do. All the people there cheer 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 
9 




1144Siiii1111111-------------------­
So You Say It'sYour Birthday 

From taking adive in the lakes to week-long parties, Notre Dame students find creative ways to celebrate their birthdays 
BY AMBER AGUIARBirthdays are fairly ordinary oc­currences, and most of the time they are celebrated in a fairly ordi­nary manner. Most people sing the same birthday song, eat the same birthday cake, 
forgettable road trips, shocking surprises ... all have helped make birthdays at Notre Dame a memorable experience. 
Birthday rituals are often embarrassing, and sometimes they approach the realm of the truly humiliating. Junior Raja Kawas recalls, "One year, on my friend's birthday, 
we took all of his boxers and strung them down the hallways of Dillon." On other occasions, he and his friends would steal the birthday boy's clothes while he was in the shower, and leave him with only a big piece· 
ofpaperthatread, "IT'S MY BIRTHDAY!" The men's dorms seem to have a mo­
nopoly on birthday pranks. Junior Sean Palka 
remembers pranks like filling the birthday 
boy's room with balloons. Stanford resi­
dents have also created a crazy tradition of 
their own. If you live in this hall and it's your birthday, beware. Tradition says that every Stud will be thrown in the lake by the end of his birthday. You have to sympathize with the students with cold weather birthdays, which junior Ken Kearney can attest to after his own birth­day dunking. "It was April, and it was rather frigid," he says. Overall, how­ever, he thinks it is a good tradition. "We wouldn't do it if we didn't care about each other," he says. A few groups of friends around cam­pus have established some noteworthy methods of celebrating of their own. "Have you heard of Notre Dame's an­nual AnTostal? Well, last year a bunch offriends and I threw a 'Michelletostal, "' says one student. "It fell at the same time, so we had a week-long party in honor of her birthday. Friends hanging out, parties at different locations ... It was awesome." This sophomore experi­enced all that a true birthday celebration at Notre Dame can be. It's hard to tell who was really most fortunate ­Michelle, or her friends who had a good excuse to throw a week-long party. At any rate, it's no wonder this sophomore looks forward to the next Antostal. Besides just partying, dressing up is often a big part of birthday celebrations at Notre Dame. Some students have cre­ated unique customary attire for their birthdays. Freshman Quincy Starnes, for 
one, began fiis own tradition of wearing a 
kilt the way they were originally worn -in 
the nude -on his birthday. Sophomore Ramadan Ameen celebrates 
his birthday over summer vacation, but he 



also has a unique manner of dressing on his birthday. "I like to wear a tie, nice shoes, nice shirt, nice slacks, the whole shebang," he says. "Clean shaven, you know. And I make my whole family get dressed up and take pictures." 
Before hitting the bars to celebrate her special day, senior Kristin Ausanka and some friends got dressed up in outrageous '70s attire. It helped make her birthday a blast, as not only were she and her buddies hanging out together, but they had an ex­cuse to laugh at each other as well. 
Other Notre Dame students take it all off for their birthdays. Some seniors, formerly of Stanford, made a tradition of wearing their "birthday suits" for a mad dash to Stonehenge for their annual celebration. They frolicked in the fountain and sprinted back. Stu, also a senior this year, has a similar birthday tale. He wore his birthday suit for a swim in the lake with friends on his birthday. 
A few students have used their birthdays as excuses to venture off campus for some truly unforgettable roadtrips. Senior Tim Harberts found himself in Las Vegas last year on his birthday. Other students actually leave the country on their special day. "Ilike to drive to Canada for my birthday," says Kawas. "It's nearby, and it's a really cool place to go with friends." 
Spontaneous trips can turn into lasting birthday traditions. "I go to Chicago with friends every year to watch the Indians play," says junior Brian Tracy. "I guess you could call it tradition." 
Whether you look to the highway for a little escape or stay in South Bend, it seems that nearly everybody finds something spe­cial to do in celebration of his or her birth­day. Sophomores Reagan Hagerty, Mary Kloska and their friends have a C.J. 's tradi­tion they try to uphold. They spend the evening of their birthday there, fol­
lowed by an off­campus "2-to-7" 
a.m. party. 
A lot of students end up hanging around campus on their birthdays. Staying within the walls of their dorm, however, doesn't mean that they don't find something cre­ative to do. Fresh­man Maggie Dellamano threw a surprise party in the dorm's basement in honor of her new roommate's birthday. Not only did she in­vite the entire freshman population ofFarley, but her roommate's sophomore heartthrob as well. The surprise made for one happy birthday girl. Freshman Susan Hudachek, the birthday girl, says, "The thought and effort that went into it from people I'd only known for two weeks meant a lot to me." 
Notre Dame students have made crazy birthday celebrations a tradition. And re­gardless of whether students spend their birthdays in Chicago or in their birthday suits, they are certain to have a good time. 0 

Does everyone tell you that you look like 
Someone famous? (This means you, Dave Smith!) 


Enter Scholastic's Celebrity Lookalike Contest 
* Send your photos to the Scholastic Office in 303 LaFortune * *"Write your name and the celebrity you look like on the photo * * Enter by Monday to be in the running for the first-place prize-a 
Macquarium -a Macintosh SE with keyboard and mouse conv'erted into an aquarium, complete with water, goldfish and food * 

•••Ju: 
-

Jaimie of All Trades 

Junior Jaimie Lee has been the model ofa team player, lending her talents to nearly every position on the volleyball court. 

BY pATRICK DOWNES 
unior Jaimie Lee was starting to think 
Coach MacLeod would ask her to fill in 
I
at point guard. And based on her past xperience, no one doubts that she would have no problems charging the lane. 
Unfortunately for the basketball program, however, Lee is quite content doing every­thing for the volleyball team. In her three years with the team, Lee has played three positions. 
"She's a very good athlete and a very good volleyball player," Head Volleyball 

"Jaimie is one of those players you want on the court, no matter what the position." 
Coach Debbie Brown says. "There's no one else on the team that can do the things that she does." 
Teammate Carey May agrees. "She's the kind of girl who can play any position." 
And sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell adds, "Jaimie is one of those players you want on the court, no matter what the position." 

Surprisingly, Lee has not played volley­ball her entire life. "I started playing the summer before my freshman year of high school," she recalls. Lee spent eight years of her childhood as a swimmer before a nag­ging chlorine allergy forced her to, in her words, "just drop everything for volley­ball." 
Although her natural position is outside hitter, she spent her freshman year at middle blocker. 
"When I was recruited I knew I was going to be a blocker," she says. "I didn't really know what to expect because, while I'd played it in high school a little bit, it is a 
much slower game in high school." Lee quickly learned what to expect, however, as she started all 3 7 matches that year, was named to the Midwest Collegiate Conference all­newcomerteamand led the team with 110 blocks. 
Despite her suc­cess, Lee wasn't en­tirely comfortable at the position. "I felt totally out of place blocking be­cause they're usu­ally the biggest people on the team -around 6'3" or 6'4" -and I'm only 5'10"." 
"There are two things an ideal blocker needs: you have to be big and you have to be i quick," says Brown. ' "Jaimie was not big, but she was quick." 

Her sophomore year, Jaimie was able to move to her en 
,;; 

more natural hitter m :::, 
sf

position. This time 'J!.. oi :::, 
"' 
her talent was re­ally put on display as she was named first team all-Big East. Also, she ranked second in the Big East, behind her teammate and roommate Angie Harris, with 3.91 kills per game. 

With those kinds ofaccolades, one would 

BUMP, SET, SPIKE. Lee has filled in admirably at setter for teammate Corey May this season. She is averaging nearly 26 assists per ballhandling error this year. 

think that Lee had finally found her niche. But, yet again, a teammate's injury forced her to vacate her natural position. Junior setter Carey May went down on August 16 with a dislocated shoulder, and Lee knew right away that she would have to fill in at the position. 
"I knew that it was a possibility as soon as me to do the things I wanted to accomplish at hitter, I would have needed Carey [at setter] anyway." 

Lee did have misgivings about the move, but they were tempered by an understand­ing of what the team needed. "It did cross my mind that this was a year where I would really rather be hitting," she says. "How-setter, so she went." 
May is recovering slowly from her injury. She only played a portion ofone game in the match last weekend versus Villanova, but is expected to see more action in the future as her shoulder continues to heal. 
Lee has also had to deal with an injury of her own. An errant elbow on September 3 
freshman," re­lates Lee. 'Tdhad a little experience setting in the spring, because I'd had shoul­der problems and I took any chance I had to rest my shoulder by not being an outside hitter." 
Lee saw the opportunity as a challenge. "Coach called me into her office and said it would be best for the team if they could use me at setter," she says. "My reaction was that it would be great for me to do it because ofthe challenge to myself. Also, in order for 
Carey went down from blocker Jen Rouse because the only broke her nose, and

"There's no one else on the team that can do the 
other setter in the until last week, she had program is a things that she does. She's the kind ofgirl who been playing with a 

can play any position." 
ever, I'm going to help the team." 
Brown has confidence in Lee's ability to fill in .at setter. "She has a very good under­standing of the game. A setter has to know what everyone else is doing, and Jaimie can do that." 
Treadwell adds, "For not ever setting before, she has been excellent, and every day she improves. She has a great arms wing on the outside, but the team needed her at mask, which she has af­
fectionately nicknamed 
"Dale." 

Lee, a sociology and CAPP major, plans to return to school after graduation and hopefully will have a future with the na­tional volleyball team circuit. 
"It's always been a dream I've had," she says. "I have to take it one step at a time, because I don't know what the future will hold and I don't even know what position I would try out as." 
Any one will do, Jaimie. D 

KEEP YOUR EYE ON THE BALL. The junior had only four service e.rrors going into the game with Georgetown to go along with 15 aces. 

laik•ltii._________________________ 






October Fest 
Jeremy Dixon 

With the first round in the record books, baseball fans can now tum their attention to four teams. In the 
National League Championship, the Braves will make quick work of the Cardinals, who won the ever-powerful NL Central Division, with powerhouses such as Pittsburgh, Houston and the Chicago Cubs. As anyone can tell you, the Braves aren't the Cubs. With a starting rotation tliat is as close to perfection as you could ask for and a powerful lineup that can take the ball deep, Atlanta will be looking to drink a little bubbly in anticipation ofthe Orioles. 
Yes, the Orioles will pull offthe upset oftheNew YorkYankees. Ifyou're from New York, please don't send me any hate mail. The Orioles have been enfuego for the lastmonth, overtaking the White Sox for_the wildcard and making the Indians look like the Indians of Major League. Brady Anderson, Rafael Palmeiro and Roberto Alomar like to take the ball out ofthe park, and, complemented by veterans Cal Ripken Jr. and Eddie Murray, the O's will be flying high. 
But the Braves will be ready, with bats in hand, to end this little dream trip. As much as I would like to see Ripken win another · WorldSeries before he retires, I don'tsee the Braves losing. Maybe 
next year, Cal. · WORLD SERIES: Atlanta over Baltimore in five. 
In Brave fashion, the Scholastic sports writers pick Atlanta to chase -away the Birds in the Fall Classic 

Brian Biro 

The ALCS looks to be a classic matchup of good pitching versus raw power. The Yankees boast the probable Cy Young winnerinAndy Pettitte and considerablepostseason experience inDavid Cone andJimmy Key. Then there is setup man extraordinaire Mariano Rivera, who_is so good that he could whiff Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle in nine pitches. Baltimore, on the otherhand, hit somethinglike627 home runs and reduced the Indians' staff to quivering idiots. But the Yankees' offense, led by Ranger-killer Bernie Williams, is better than the Orioles' pitching, which featllres Mike Mussinaand notmuch else. Lookfor Steinbrenner's boys to reach theirfirstWorld Series since '81. It's difficult to remember the NL playoffs without the Braves, a team that used to be as laughably inept as they are invincible now. Itall started with John SmoltzandTom Glavine coming up from the minors and Greg Maddux coming down from heaven. Those three will ensure that the Braves dispose ofSt. Louis quickly and easily. The Cardinals have offensive talent in BrianJ ordan,.Ray Lankford and Ron Gant, but come postseason time, Atlanta's arms can silence the best of bats.· As old as it's getting, expect a lot of tomahawk chopping in Atlanta. In the Series, the_ difference will ~e that the Yanks are just happy to be there while the Braves are hungry for a repeat. Also, don't ·overlook the importance of New York's hitters seeing Atlanta's pitchers for the first time. , WORLD SERIES: Atlanta over New York in six. 
Fred LaBrecque Jake Schaller 
e NLCS will be quick and clean. St. Louis has never lost Call me a homer, I don't care. I'm taking my home team ­
leagu~ playoff series, but that streak will be cut short by the O's. The best home run-hitting team in baseball 
he dominating Braves pitching staff. Tony LaRussa's mas­history is going to bash their way to the World Series and 
I: 

terful maneuvering will only allow the Cardinals to save face as the then take the Braves' yard. '' Braves will triumph easily. The ALCS will be a much better series, OK, OK, there is more to baseball than home runs, and the featuring two evenly-matched AL East ballclubs. The nod goes to Orioles' pitching is suspect. But in the playoffs, the O's can use a Baltimore in this series, but only because they have the momentum three-man rotation. With David Wells, Scott Erickson and Mike coming off of a strong finish to the regular season and an excep­Mussina, the Orioles' pitching looks pretty solid. With proven tional triumph over the Indians, the team with the best regular playoff performers in Roberto Alomar, Eddie Murray and Cal season record in baseball. But victory will not come easily for the Ripken Jr., this talent-laden team will finally earn the big bucks that Birds; it should be an exciting series before Baltimore disposes of owner Peter Angelos shelled out. The pitching in the Bronx is the Yankees. better, you say? No problem. Davey Johnson just orders Alomar to 
It is too bad that such a great series will be played for second charge the mound and spit in the eye ofthe Yankee hurler. No way place. The Braves are once again the best team in baseball and will he finds the strike zone after that. use all of the postseason experience they have accumulated in the So, the O's take the Yanks. Meanwhile, the Braves' pitching last five years to win the World Series. Emotion and momentum solves Brian Jordan and his Cardinal outfield mates, sending Ozzie will allow the Orioles to win a couple, but precision and maturity into retirement. In the World Series, the Braves shy away in fear of will allow the Braves to be crowned champions. Baltimore's raw power. Bobby Bo and Brady's Bashers prevent an 
WORLD SERIES: Atlanta over Baltimore in six. Atlanta repeat . WORLD SERIES: Baltimore over Atlanta in seven. 


Peter Bergin 
The Braves are an easy pick in this year's NLCS, although Tony LaRussa would probably disagree with that statement. As we witnessed last year, the old saying that pitching wins ballgames was embodied in the Atlanta Braves' pitching staff, and this year will not be much different. The Cardinals lack the offensive firepower to match the playoff experience of Maddux, Smeltz 
. and Glavine. St. Louis has superior managing but Atlanta has a superior ballclub. I credit l,aRussa with the Cards' success this year but, sorry Tony, youi-'Cardinals will be.flying home early. . 
The ALCS is a bit tougher to call. The Orioles are on a tear but the Yanks have an undefinable mystique around them this year. Is the long drought finally over for Steinbrenner? The answer lies written in Baltimore's roster: Anderson, Bonilla, Palmeiro, Ripken, Alomar and Murray.· Too many bats for too little mystique. The O's in a tight series. ­
Never bet against ·an underdog on a roll, unless, of course, they're playing the Atlanta Braves. WORLD SERIES: Atlanta over Baltimore in five. 
15 

i: 
'· 

' 
: I 


South BendMayor Joseph Kernan may have been a prisoner ofwar, but he is not a prisoner ofthe past. 


BY KrusTIN M. ALwoRTH 

@ n May 7, 1972, the life of Joseph Kernan '68 was turned upside down. He was flying over Viet­nam at 4,500 feet, conducting bomb damage assessment, when his plane was hit with anti-aircraft fire. After about 30 sec­onds, it became apparent that the plane was not going to fly anymore, so he ejected from the aircraft. Kernan was subsequently taken prisoner for what were perhaps th~ longest 11 months of his life. Kernan '68 eventually made ithome from Vietnam, and he made a name for himself as well. He is currently the mayor of South Bend, and he is running for Lieutenant Gov­ernor of Indiana in the November election. A South Bend native, Kernan attended Notre Dame before he was sent to Vietnam. He had always been drawn to the school as a child. "Itwas the only place I ever wanted to go, and it was the only place I applied to," he says. He was the oldest ofnine children, so financial resources were a problem. He received some offers from smaller schools for financial aid, but, he says, one day his father just asked him, ''Where do you want to go?" His response was Notre Dame, so his father advised, "Well, then, just go." Kernan did go to Notre Dame, and he ended up financing his Notre Dame educa­tion by himself, assisted by scholarships and loans. 
He looks back fondly on his days at Notre Dame. He majored in government and played baseball as a student. "Having played baseball was a tremendous experience be­cause of the guys who were my teammates," he says. One of his favorite memories of Notre I;>ame is driving in the winning runs at baseball games against Michigan State in 1966, the same year that Notre Dame tied them 10-10 in football. 
Notre Dame in 1968, but he did not have many options on what to do next. "In 1968, you were going to beinvolved withthemilitarywhetheryou liked it or not," he says. Kernan decided to enlist in the Navy rather than be drafted, and he served as an aviator. He was sent to Vietnam in January 1972 aboard the U.S.S. Kitty Hawk, but he never set foot in Vietnam itself until he was taken prisoner. 
Kernan ended up in Vietnam as an un­wanted guest when his plane was shot down. 
He lost consciousness when he ejected from the plane, and didn't wake up until he was on the ground. He had landed in someone's front yard. Locals were rushing to the scene to see what had happened, and a local mili­tia, which Kernan describes as a "home guard," arrived soon after. They took him away from the civilians andeventually sent 
16 


' ' 
.., ~• ' r• 
'.y'

.. -. ·' 
A--~----~ ·_.· , / 
him to Hanoi. 
Kernan believes he was fortunate to be taken prisoner late in the war. "For guys captured earlier, the conditions were very different," he explains. "The treatment wasn't very good at all." By 1972, the Viet­namese had realized what an important bar­gaining chip the American prisoners were, so they treated the prisoners better. 
He describes a normal day during his· captivity as "very long." He lived alone for about one month, then he lived with one other prisoner for a month. He was with about eight to 12 other prisoners for the rest of his captivity. "When you were with the other guys, your time was spent with them," he says. "You talked about when you would get home, and you played cards." 
The Vietnamese fed the prisoners enough food to live on, although Kernan says it wasn't very good. "I got there on the first day of pumpkin season," he says wryly. He was fed pumpkin soup twice a day for nine months, and he has never eaten anything 
17 

with pumpkin in it since. 
Communications with the outside world were limited while Kernan was a prisoner. Only a couple of the letters he wrote to his family got through, and he received few letters from them. Kernan did receive some packages from his family, though, which contained items such as coffee, candy, freeze-dried food and clothing like under­wear and long johns. Kernan's family was limited in what they could send, however, because the Vietnamese had issued strict guidelines on what items could be sent to the prisoners. 
Hope and faith played an important role in Kernan's life during this period. "You maintained hope because you had to," he explains. "I was convinced that I was going to get home -the only thing was, [I] didn'tknow when." Despite his confidence that he would one day return to the States, Kernan still had doubts about his future. "My biggest fear was that I might disap­pear and never make it home," he says quietly. 
Hope and faith ultimately enabled him to survive the dark days in Vietnam. "With­out either one, the circumstances and con­ditions would have been impossible," he says. 
Kernan wasreleasedonMarch27, 1973, 

after 11 months of captivity. As part of a 
peace agreement, prisoners of war were 
released as American troops went home. 
Prisoners were released on four different 
release dates, and the prisoners released 
first were those who had been in captivity 
the longest. Kernan was released on the 
last date. 
"What are they going to do, send me to Vietnam?" 

He was sent to the Phillipines before he traveled back to America, and he immedi­ately called his family from the islands. The next thing he did was take an hour-long hot shower. 
Kernan says that when he finally arrived back in the United States, "There was joy all around." He spent his first night in a hospi­tal, but he didn't spend it alone. His friends and family had a party for him in his room. 

He credits his family for helping him recover from the trauma of being a prisoner of war. "I received a lot of support and help from my family," he says. "You begin to sort through your experiences one by one." 
Kernan experienced a period of adjust­ment after his return from Vietnam. His newly-regained freedom was one of the biggest hurdles he had to overcome. "The biggest adjustment was dealing with being able to do whatever I wanted to do," he says. 
Kernan comments that data shows that prisoners of war tend to be involved in auto accidents during their first year back from captivity. He was no exception to the rule­he was involved in three accidents during his first year back from Vietnam. He hadn't been involved in any accidents before he went to Vietnam, and he hasn't been in­volved in any since. "I would just head out on the highway and do what I wanted to do," he says with a chuckle. 
Looking back on his experience as a pris­oner of war, Kernan has some unexpected feelings. "I know this sounds strange, but it was the best experience I ever had," he says. "The intensity over that period taught me a lot about myself." He explains that his out­look on life in general is different than it would have been, particularly when facing difficult choices. "I used to say after I got home, 'What are they going to do, send me to Vietnam?"' he says. "I have a different perspective on what's important, and what 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 
I 

you should worry about and what you shouldn't." 
Kernan and his sweetheart, Maggie, were man-ied after the war. She was a friend ofhis sister, and they had dated before he left for Vietnam. For the 11 months when Kernan was a prisoner ofwar, however, they had no contact with each other. "I didn't know what to expect," says Kernan. "I didn't know if she'd be man-ied or not -thank God she wasn't!" They tied the knot in 1974. 
Kernan stayed in the Navy for another two years after he returned from Vietnam, then went on to work in the private sector. He worked at Proctor & Gamble in Cincin­nati as a manufacturing manager, but he didn't like it. He and his wife went back to South Bend, their hometown, even though neither one had a job. Once he and his wife were back in South Bend, Kernan continued to work in the private sector for companies such as Schwarz Paper and McWilliams Corporation. 
Around Christmas 10 years ago, South Bend Mayor Roger Parent announced that he was not going to seek reelection. "My friends asked me ifl wanted to run," he says. He thought about it and decided to run for office. "I thought I would be good at it, I thought I would like it, and I thought I could win," he explains. 
His first campaign was not easy, though, as he experienced a tough primary and a tough general election. Kernan says that his campaign group's effort on election day to get people to vote helped to clinch his first 
Looking to the future, Kernan is hoping to be elected Lieutenant Governor in Novem­ber, and he is working hard towards that end. He says that he decided to run solely because Frank O'Bannon, the Democratic candidate for governor, asked him to. "I feel so strongly about him that I made the deci­sion that, if asked, I would do everything I ­
election. He has since been re-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= elected to the post twice. 
Kernan says his job is the best "I know this sounds 
job in America. "I love South 
Bend," he says. "Great people live strange, but it was the best 
here, it's where I grew up, Notre 
Dame is here, and the people I experience I ever had." 
work with are wonderful." He feels 
he has been able to improve condi­tions in South Bend as well. Kernan says that the accomplishments of which he is most proud include putting the city on some financial footing, putting more police offic­ers on the streets and putting money back into the neighborhoods. 
He is not ready to stop with what he has already accomplished. "Wewould like South Bend to be recognized as a model city by the year 2000," he says. He hopes to see a low unemployment rate, a low crime rate and great job opportunities in South Bend. 
could to help him be elected, period," says Kernan. "He is a gentleman from sole to crown." 
Beyond the November election, Kernan does not know what will come next for himself. He attributes his lack ofplanning to his experience as a prisoner of war, because it made him less afraid of what comes next in life. "When I was elected mayor, I thought I would only be in office for 4 years," he explains. "I don't have any agenda that I'm following-I have no specific objectives.". 

Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in -~from 4 -2 a.m. weekdays, **1 18-INCH PIZZAS WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $14~00 EVERY DAY** · 119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 
.273-3890 

"All Homemade .. 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties & banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 2610 Prairie Ave . 



288-3320 
100% Real Cheese" 


We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
19 




gipper.1@nd.edu 

Camrus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Attitude, Allegations, and Innuendo 
Apparently, our student body president hash_'t been shy about taking credit for the new ATM at the JACC. What else has our administration done lately? 
Top 10 Other Things Miller/Murray Have Taken Credit For 
10. Stadium expansion 
9. New fat-free raspberry Jell-O at SDH 
8. Keough and O'Neill Halls 
7. Jump in ranking of Top 25 schools 
6. Absence of Ross Perot at presidential debate 
5. LastSaturday's sunny weather 
4. Improved gender relations 
3. Continued underage drinking at Bridget's 
2. Peace talks between Netanyahu and Arafat 
. I. No-parietals rule in student govern­ment office (Executive privilege) 
ALWAYS COCA-COLA QUAD 

The Keough family sure knows how to throw a dedication bash. They brought in over 100 guests for the Ohio State football game, all ofwhom walked through the gates holding tickets courtesy of the Develop­_ment office. The guests snacked on ctistom­made Keough Hall chocolates on Friday and watched Keough residents pose for a photo with the family. Residents of the dorm received a glossy 8x 10 of the opening ceremony photo. Rumors of rum and Coke cocktails were unfounded, however. 

Okay, this is the last time the Gipp will say anything about this. Con­sider the matter closed. The baby isn't his-it doesn't look anything like him. Michael Jackson said it best: "Billy Jean is not my lover/ She's just a girl who says that I am the one/ But the kid is not my son." 
GLEEFUL WALK-ONS 

Have you noticed all the Champion foot­balljackets around campus? No, they're not freshman walk-ons, they're Glee Club mem­bers. Apparently the Glee Club convinced Champion to sponsor them, basically be­cause they sing in the dining halls on foot­ball weekends. The Gipp tried to work a similar scam with Acura: he told them he 
would get speeding tickets in 

didn't get him past the first trial date. That's OK, it didn't work for Capone, either. 
SPORTS INFO MYSTERY 
Employees at Sports Information might notice some budget cutbacks this year. What? Did NBC divorce the football team? No, apparently a sly photographer last year embezzled about $30,000 from them, pass­ing it off as work-related expenses. The Gipp realizes that his checkbook isn't quite as large as Sports Info's, but he'd probably notice if film started costing $ I 00 a roll to develop, or camera lenses kept ·requiring repair. Maybe they should nip this in the bud and hire an acQountancy major to look after their ATM receipts. 
all 50 states in an NSX and 

REASON NUMBER 6662 THE GIPP LOVES NOTREDAME: 
build an ad campaign around it. 

_.,Those business majors sure know how to party. On the Applied 
The Gipp' s driving record aside, 

Investment Management field trip to NYC, the combined restaurant 
do the Glee Club members get 

and bar tab (read: alcohol)for one night was $1500. Who says Notre 
as much "playing time" as the 

Dame spends the least amount ofmoney on itif students ofall schools 
football players, now that they 

i_n the Top 25? 
wear the same jacket? 
IF ONLY IT WORKED IN REAL LIFE 

The Gipp was notified by an employee of Scholastic that the officers of the Class of '98 think if they wait long enough, they don't have to pay their bills. They ignored their first invoice for an ad that appeared in the magazine and then insisted that they didn't have to pay it because it was from the previous fiscal year. Now, the Gipp isn't a CPA (yet), but he's pretty sure that bills have a longer shelf-life than the current fiscal year. When the IRS called the Gipp last year about his back taxes, that excuse 
DON'T CALL THEM POWDER PUFFS 
Those at Risk Management might be dis­appointed to learn that their efforts to take the athletic intensity out ofwomen's inter hall flag football have fallen as flat as the Off­Campus quarterback. They wanted the la­dies to use basketball-style screens instead of full-contact blocking. Come on, these women aren't there to show off their fash­
. ionable sports bras. Maybe Risk Manage­
ment should concentrate on our defensive 
line, after OSU ran all over them. 
Perhaps they should have cut back on the chocolates and installed screens in the windows of the new dorms. All the windows of Keough and O'Neill Halls push out­ward about two feet, but none have screens. Parietals viola­tions, anyone? Maybe Risk 

iyianagement should stop cheerleading at the women's interhall football teams and stop by Coca-Cola Quad. 
That's it, lovers of life. While everyone else is road-tripping over fall break, the Gipp will be in Arizona trying to pick up members of the first female chain gang. If you have to stay in the Bend this break, ask Seth and Megan to turn on the sun. Believe, baby, believe! Ride that Team Connection bronco all the way in this Domer rodeo! Hi­ho, Zima, AWAY! . 


Splinters from the Press Box 
A roundup of the week in sports October 1 to October 8 edited by Brian Hiro 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Oct. 1 at Western Michigan W 3-2 · Oct. 5 at Syracuse W 1-0 
Key Player: Goalkeeper Greg Vehlo re­corded his sixth shutout of the year against the Orangemen. Key Stat: Notre Dame's four wins in six Big East contests equals last year's victory total within the league. Up Next: The Irish face two opponents for just the second time ever in Western Illinois and Pittsburgh. 
Oct. 1 Oct. 4 Oct. 6 
VOLLEYBALL  
Ball State·  L  3-2  
Georgetown  w  3-0  
Villanova  w  3-2  

Key Player: Senior Jen Briggs had a career­high 21 kills in the comeback victory over the Wildcats. Key Stat: Notre Dame's conference win­ning streak now stands at 15 matches. Up Next: More Big East contests with Provi­dence and Bo_ston College at the Joyce. 

What They Said: "Right now, I would say there is a better team than North Carolina." -Tar Heels' forward Debbie Keller after her school's loss to Notre Dame. 
What We Read: "Mitigates? I've never heard a ballplayer use that word in my life. Some of them still don't know about Watergate, much less mitigate." -Gene Wojciechowski, Chicago Tribune, on Balti­more second baseman Roberto Alomar's statement to the media following his well­publicized spitting episode. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Oct. 4 vs. #1 North Carolina W 2-1 Oct. 5 at #15 Duke W 2-0 
Key Player: Freshman midfielder Jenny Streiffer scored both goals in the huge win over Carolina and added another against Duke. Key Stat: The Irish became the only team ever to defeat the Tar Heels in consecutive games. Up Next: No time for a break as the top­ranked Irish face No. 20 Stanford and No. 8 Santa Clara this weekend in California. 
. CROSS COUNTRY 
Oct. 4 Notre Dame Invitational M 2nd W 1st 
Key Player: Freshman Joanna Deeter ran the fastest time in the 10-year history of the meet in finishing first overall. Key Stat: The men's squad failed to win the title for the first time in six years. Up Next: The Central Collegiate Champi­onships at Kalamazoo and the Arizona Invi­tational at Tucson on October 18-19. 

Tony Capasso 
The senior co-captain had a spec­. tacular week to lead the men's soc­cer team .back into the national 
· rankings. He registered a goal and two assists against Western Michi­gan and scored the only goal in the win over Syracuse. 

Athletes of the Week 

The Women's Soccer Team 
Chris Petrucelli's squad went into North Carolina and pinned the Tar Heels with just their fourth loss in 11 years. Does anything else need to be 
· said? 





il§IIIFii-i•i•i•ii•i 
'. i 

Scholastic invites you to meet four talented students who aren't famous --yet 
Here at Notre Dame, everyone seems obsessed with ratings and rankings. The 
focus on where we are in football polls becomes an obsession every week, as students 
anticipate where each team will end up after a victory or loss. Even academically, we 
pride ourselves that the university is in the infamous Top 25. 
There is no poll, however; that measures the abundance of talent we have here on 
campus. Chances are high that the student you · sit next to in philosophy plays an 
instrument._ Oris a brilliant notebookpoet. Or sings a capella at Acoustic Cafe. While not 
everyone here can make headlines as quarterback orbe the lead singer in a campus band, . 
there are some gifted students who manage to stand out from the crowd. Here are four .•_.• 
of them. 
Ryan O'Neill: Expressing Himself 

Notre Dame's piano man, Ryan O'Neill, sits perfectly poised at the grand piano that, for the night, 
is his canvas. The benefit he performed on September 30 are difficult to arrange because of the many university channels one must go through, but when they happen, they help publicize a buading musician in his prime. 

0 'Neill's careeris short but distinguished. His debut occurred during his performance at the Keenan Revue his 
LaForturie Ballroom is freshman year. He the perfect environment played a duet with his for students, friends and brother Tim, then a se­family to watch with nior. "There were two wide eyes as the senior grand pianos on the has a chance to share a stage and we just played glimpse of his utopia together for about 15 with the listeners and minutes," O'Neill says. express an inner passion "It was great." He has and innate gift. high expectations for 
For O'Neill, nights such as these are a the future. He anxiously awaits the opportu­dream come true. They provide an opportu­nity this spring to play once again-with hjs nity to bring enjoyme~t not only to himself, brother during AnTostal. The concert will but also to his listeners. Concerts such as the consist ofa Billy Joel and Elton John type of 
· ·.·. 
ensemble at Fieidhouse Mall. 
Joel and John are two of . • .·.• O'Neill's favorite artists, along .. ·· with George Winston and Marc . Cohn, but he also names his brother Tim as a major influ­ence in.his musical life.Ryan himself was first introduced 
'to music in second grade, .. when he began to take -. · classical piano lessons. He continued until :. 
·eighth grade, whenhe · decided to quit be-·• · cause of the rigid .: structure to which . . . __ .. classiGal piano ad -. ._ . . ·;; ;fi/7i.':.: .: : ·• '. \ heres. . ,. f
. : .,/!'ell]. 0'! 

Once in college, Tim, a '94 ,:-: {':'·' · · )11 graduate and now a professional musi-· ·· · . . \ cian, introduced him to an entirely new type · of musical structure, one governed by free 

I 
r 
spirit. "It's a way for me to express myself. Whatever rm feeling comes out on the piano." This type of free spirit also deter­mines his practice schedule -he doesn't have one. He enjoys practicing at Saint Mary's because of the many Steinway pi­anos available there. When a concert is approaching, 0 'Neill will practice four hours at a time. But on a normal day, O'Neill doesn't consider the countless hours he spends playing as a practice session, but 
"It's a way for me to express myself. Whatever I'm feeling comes out on the piano." 

rather as a way to exhale after a hard day. 
Why exactly does Ryan O'Neill sit before his piano day in and day out? He sees the activity as having a dual purpose. On one hand, he describes playing the piano as an introverted expression because of the per­sonal satisfaction he receives from playing. On the other hand, he recognizes that it gives him a soc_ial identity. He humbly ac­
cepts his talent as his expression ofthe 
gift which God gave him to 
discover. 
. _ spent his -·sophomore year in Austria and is a Ger­man major, he . . hopes possibly to '·. join Tim next year .:.,• insometypeofmu­:-;,: sical venture or "I / maybe even go solo 
!Ji·.: . •
'!,, and produce his own Jt' music. If not, he says, · · · "sales is also a possipil­
1.:. ,,
1ty. 

O'Neill's intense admiration for his brother shines forth in conversation. When asked who his favorite musician is, O'Neill responds, "Tim, mainly because what's amazing about him is that so many people who are amazing classical pianists can't sit down and just play any song you ask them to. Because he has taught a lot of people how to do that makes me really admire him." 
On his broad appreciation of music, O'Neill states, "I realize that music doesn't need a certain quality to sound good. There's so much out there. Music is a way of ex­pressing yourself and you need to find your own niche." The look in O'Neill's eyes every time he plays expresses that. "Music says what my heart is tell­time performing in a Neil Simon play, how­ever; she was cast in her high school pro­duction of Rumors. 
Pinza, a senior, also started onstage early, performing in plays since the eighth grade when he would stay after school for an extra drama class. Here at Notre Dame, he has performed in Shadow/ands, an advanced directing project in which he played an eight-year-old boy, as well as in last year's Six Degrees of Separation and The Nerd. Pinza cites his high school director, "ahuge Italian man who swore, drank coffee and smoked cigarettes," as his greatest influ­ence as an actor. "He really gave me a sense of 'this is really fun, and I think I can do it.' That motivated me to get involved 
ing me." re," he says. -by Kate Jacques Balancing the textbooks with the scripts is easier said than done, but these two claim
Melanie Garman 
that partici­


and Craig Pinza on 
pating in the­_Stage atre providesIn 1963, Neil a balance for Simon wrote .the hem. "I really 

play that shot him into · American theatre spotlight, and be­gan his long and prosperous career as a playwright. Thirty-three years later, two fresh-faced students take on the lead roles -Paul and Corie Brauer-ofthis timeless stage classic, Barefoot in the Park, which will likewise shoot them into the campus spotlight. 
Craig Pinza (Paul) and Melanie Garman (Corie) aren 'tnew to being on stage. Garman, a St. Mary's junior, has been performing as a dancer since the age of four. Toward the beginning of high school she began to test · her acting skills and has tk that the busier 
I am, the more I'll get 

things done," Garman says. "I find that after a show is over, I tend to procrastinate more, whereas when I know thatI have rehearsal in the evening, I getmy work done during the day. It keeps my life balanced." 
Both agree that juggling academics and plays takes a certain amount of discipline and dedication. "It's rough being a math major and doing something like this that's totally unrelated to my major," Pinza claims. "I have to switch my brain into different 
performed in plays ever 

since.. Stage managing "The nerves be.forehand -that's 
the Samt Mary's produc-;/' 

tion of Steel Magnolias what keeps me going· I love 
and playing four different · • 

smallerrolesinlastyear;s being nervous ... it's such a high." 
Christ's Passion: Medi­eval Mystery Plays are among her credits as a college actress. She has also paid her dues acting in directing class finals and in smaller campus produc­tions. However, Barefoot is her first lead role in a Mainstage play. This isn't her first gears all the time. But ifyou took five math classes a day, you'd go nuts, too. I need some kind of outlet." 
Astime-consumingasitis,bothseethem­selves doing theatre in the future. As amass 
¦ OCTOBER 10, 1996 

communications and theatre double major, Garman will certainly be doing so in some capacity. She can see herself on both the business and performing sides of the 
theatre. Two summers ago, .•·:··-------\ she auditoned o~ -~-· · · •\ Broad--------· · \ 
---~··•.· · · 

r
I • I 
'.i 
\:i> , / · >i· : : . , ,i;.,;;.;.;.~\ ): · : · ·i\ · ~.,_way and \ .., -;>,,->·-was accepted to the 
~erican Musical and Dramatic Society, but wants to complete her degree at Saint Mary's first. On the other hand, she also is enjoying the advertising and public relations classes of her major and might decide to pursue a career in that area. 
Pinza, despite his campus work, doesn't see himself as a career actor. He considered majoring in theatre, but realized it would be a hard field to break into. "You have to be willing to pay your dues, and be behind the scenes, and, in a lot of cases, be poor. I'm not willing to make that sacrifice," he jokes. Instead, with his math major, he is looking to pursue a career in actuarial work, make millions, retire early and then happily do community theatre. 
As far as being cast in the lead rnles in Barefoot in the Park, Pinza and Garman couldn't be more thrilled. "I think the there's a lot of energy to the play," says Garman, \ "There were eight students watching re­\ hearsal tonight and laughing. We can feed ·-~ff of those eight people laughing. Imagin­
•·...·. ing the whole theatre laughing like that will . be even better." Pinza adds, "The play is : \funny on its own, and if we can add 
· \something to it, we'll have a hit." · \ With only six cast members, the pro­-~cess of getting all the actors to be com­·.•·.·.·· f·ortable with one another was relativly ·.: ·. ·. easy. Watching Pinza and Garman 
-
. G~an. \: 1'.Ae\'3.ffie_ . ·1,a \ ...··.····· -~,,_: 1g,}?11\
\·· :& CJa •.· 

\interact with each other, one might \think that they have been friends for \quite a while, even though they've \only really known each other since 
•\the play began rehearsing a little \over a month ago. "With such a \·\·s·,. mall cast, it's much easier for (ir \us to really get to know one ; \another and bond as a group," ], \Pinzapoints out. "That's very \important in doing a play." 
. ·•~ The two seem to have a · , natural love ofthe stage. "I ·.. ·..·,: knew I wanted to be on 
."~\stagesincelwasyoung," .c.e->~-Garman says. "The 
__..----~v_es_ beforehan_d -that's w?~t 
keeps me gomg. Ilove bemg nervous ... 1t s such a high. I also love entertaining people, making them laugh and cry." With the 
amount of enthusiasm that these two tal­ented actors show, there's no doubt that Barefoot in the Park will be a ~uccess. 
:_by Aaron J. Nolan 

,-,.,.,,; 
Bill Helman: Master Juggler 
Junior Bill Helman knows a good piece of writing when he sees it. He should; he's the editor in chief of The Juggler, Notre Dame's literary magazine. Ifyou don 'tknow him yet, you will after the revamped Jug­gler hits newsstands this spring. Big changes 
are in store 
for the

Neil Simon's Barefoot in the Park is playing at 
publica­

Washington Hall tonight through Saturday at 7:30, 
tion under Helman's

p.m. and Sunday afternoon at 230. Tickets are avail­
· direction.

able at the LaFortune bifotmation Desk. 
Helman, a South Bend native, first became interested in literary magazines in high school. Disap­pointed by the lack of an official publica­tion at his school, he and a friend, with the help ofa teacher, founded a literary maga­zine his junior year. His interest carried over to college, where he joined The Juggler's staff his fresh­man year. "It was ity 
a 
my 

attention right away," says Helman, who lists J.R.R. Tolkein and Frank Herbert as major influences on his writing. After working as assistant editor last year, he has taken over the helm this year with many new ideas and innovations in store for the magazine. 
"Our greatest challenge this year is to open new markets and make The Juggler more well-known on campus," Helman says. "The emphasis at Notre Dame is more towards business and science. It seems that the arts aren't stressed as much in the general community. We want stu­dents to be able to share in the work oftheir classmates." Part of this process will be improving the aesthetics of the magazine. 
This year there will be only one publica­tion in mid-March, rather than the one per semester as has been printed in the past. This larger, less condensed version will feature better binding and a more profes­sional appearance. 
"We're working with art students to create new borders and ink and line draw­ings for the pages rather than just the black type on white paper. We want to make the magazine more visually appealing so that students will want to keep it," Helman says. More photography and artwork will also be added this year along with space for the artists to explain their pieces. To help with the quality of the artwork, The Juggler has added a separate art staff headed by art majors. 
The second aspect ofthe magazine which Helman wishes to improve is the submis­



24 

----------------------------------,/ 
sion system. Previously, submissions were ings by featured writers. This party will I 
taken only in the English department office in 356 O'Shaughnessy. Helman and his staff are currently looking to expand drop­off points. "We're working on an arrange­ment with the computer labs that would allow us to place an envelope in the main labs for submissions. We're also investigat­ing using the electronic mail system to take submissions," he says. He hopes that a more accessible drop-off system will lead to an increase in submissions, particularly prose and artwork submissions. "We get a lot of poetry. We've been lacking in the art de­partment and in the number of prose sub­missions over the past few years," Helman says. 
The first deadline for submissions will be before Thanksgiving break. Submissions will be accepted during fall semester and at the beginning ofspring semester. Signs will be posted with drop-off points and dates listed, and sheet music and translations are also welcomed. 
To publicize The Juggler and to show­case its contributors, the magazine will be hosting a series ofreadings this year, capped off by a premiere party in March. Dubbed "Angst Tostal" last year, the party will fea­ture campus bands, skits by HA! and read-also serve as the main distribution point / of the magazine. "It was a huge success last year and we hope to capitalize on that again this year. A lot of people on campus still don't really know about us and this is one way to get the word out," Helman says. The magazine ; will also expand its distribution base / to include the libraries and ;· _ LaFortune. 
As for Helman, he anticipates ! continued involvement in the lit-/ erary community, starting with /
I 

another year at The Juggler. / 1 

f 
I /

ter graduation, but I'd / · · 2~ like to continue my own / •. ~· , writing as a hobby B .
1 

~:~:;s~an a career," c-_~ ___ 1 Jlfehnan 
Helm an encourages all aspiring --·------._ -.•_-__ ; writers to submit pieces for consideration. "Be --...........;_ ._ / open to both the ideas that come out ofyou and the criticism ..____________ ; 
that others-give you. Don't censor what you're thinking or feeling." D 

-by Heather Schomi111n 
,,,,,.J,,_------:­

Look for otir/upco~g recreation 
\. . ·-. . .. j



\ . . t
/ ___ series evens .__ 
, /' •. _··_.. ·_•·· . _,, . ~\ 
nine balltoutnamertt ei~t ball/J~Qfhament


---, _________ -~Euchre 

.

/ ' Located in the basement
3-on:·~3,--basketball 
of LaFortune 
Monday -Friday 11:00 a.m. -midnight
Stop in and ask about Friday -Saturday 11:00 a.m. -1 :00 a.m. Sunday noon -midnight 


our Rental Program 
iilliliiiiiiiiYIII 




It~ a Tough Job •·•• 
but somebody has to look busy at ND Video. Tom Rose takes time away from the front desk to give Scholastic a whirlwind tour of Notre Dame's film vault 
BY ANDREW NUTTING here is no better job on campus," 
says Tom Rose, a junior finance 
and film major from Palatine, Ill. Eight hours a week, Tom sits in a room the size ofa prisons~U,watching a TV w)thJ:>ad 
T

leases that are popular. Even films that a lot of people own, like Top Gun and Ferris Bueller' s Day Off, get rented. Some people complain [about the situation] but it gener­ally works out for the better." 
With business paradoxically increasing on home football weekends, and jnfentives 
"I don't think anyone's ever rented this," Rose says, holding up a copy of the 1987 teen surfer masterpiece North Shore. "If anyone would like to buy it, it's for sale." A potential customer looks through his pock­ets and offers 10 cents for this piece of cinematic history, but Rose jacks up the 
reception whilb hi'.u1q~eds of people~a]E9Y 'J~uc_lJ,,,;is •J~o1fo~-opf7:17uy~days., :"w,e 1~;;tr11"l pri9.e;·to, five dollars. The potential buyer without even gl1ricih'g 'at his place of'emJ i just1ert6ughr'evenu6 to ke~pobrct'ooA openl\ \ hJstily b'acks out of the bargain. ployment. Onfpr9s~{r8u?1eekday.(m_ayH tfqs~-;{y(i"B:u~*~IYl1e?~s'~bHi~~ss,11??t\ 'i; fow~:~as his favorites among the older J5peoplewillmalceuseofhisJservices;and'· ,.,a-iervice:"·..J ····· --Q·L) •.. ,-•·f1icks;t6o.TheMission,Dr.Strangelove,or
L...J · ­

on a weeknight that number may hit a high point of 30. Tom's job? A clerk at ND sowhat does ND Video have on its Video. shelves, besides the aforementioned 
Most Darners make frequent use of the Top Gun andBueller, eitherofwhich 20,000 movie,s,;at:Jid~o Watch, the-j~~t\ ~-::you can probably find lyinitarpund in your 
..a.s.. .... ·n·.·.•·.· ..··.h~.·.1 -..
. .. ..r:'..··s v·
~pe~ed Blockbtlt· ...··t..f.: rp.·e.:g '~01;e'..~{ their.. o.'.V/.n. ~'f.·a.·.yl·'···...o.·. ...t..~.c~y.·~ ~Id,; b.r9·k····.~.·r .r~·.s·•·?·/f·.\ [i·m···;ar•. ·•. h.:?."·t·: 9.e.··.·· ,qni,\e.r.:sfll'. ibu.;t··.·.L·a. ~ he says, "I'm
hmrted person<\l yrdeo !_collect10n. Mean~ !: ·· sJ;iorl;tourpfthepre1:mses tums1up a!.surpn~0, ':Justa: Wopdy.Allenfan.'.; · , while, ND Videejnq.~d~ 0#Jvatie~tl~ IIJ) ~. ht~l~_ge!:1~<?o[~g1on o[.fue_9it1Jmd ~j) \J;FiTB ~~d~~ ~iil!Jrst li~!~d to Hollywood 
the basement ofLaFortune. Why the apathy towards one of the campus's few means of entertainment? Well, with only about 500 videos on the shelves and ten posters on the wall, most probably think that ND Video rivals the USA Network in uselessness. 
Not so, insists Rose. "We're definitely better than Video Watch," he says. "Why get in your car and spend half. an hour looking for a movie there when we 're a five-minute walk overto LaFortune? ND Video is just more economical." 
But isn't ND Video's limited selec­
ion most unsuitable for campus 
clwellers? Can Jane and Joe Irishfan reallymakeuseofaplacethatcan'tgetnew releases until months after most rental out­lets do, and can't afford copies of rare, timeless pl.~ssics lik~ .s;w.fet Swrff)back; s the popular and obscure, the mainstream and independent. 

For starters, there's the New Release wall. Notcontentwithsimplydisplayingthepopu­larrecent acquisitions ofND Video, such as Tommy Boy and Clerks, this wall also ex­hibits mainstays like Reservoir Dogs ­which, despite the fact that it's four years 
How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb and Sleeper. The latter, in which Woody Allen is frozen and reawakens in the . year 2173, tops his list here. Like many 1j\.ll,e1l movies, Rose knows Sleeper's appeal 
productions, either. Titles in the drama sec­tion include relatively obscure late 1980s foreign and independent productions. The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover, 
the brutal, extremely controversial Peter Greenaway film that hastened the creation of the NC-17 rating, sits proudly on the shelves, as does Longtime Companion, a 
old and the ta:get ~f anti_-Tarimrn~:Q~~~ ~l~'"'v~r:~tf9-i~UY.1!£Cil!:~ll},~~ te¥jtrfs'ef ~90~~ m,e 7-t; world over, _rs strll ~omg s:trrn~-Rnf; 9f: rfens· P.f!\19~ ~I)-} groiUP.:_~f,~alfrr:e~qs 1/1 Rose's favontes here IS The Professwnal, a.L1 NerNork.: \ J; 1 ·' I 1t : j ; ' J:' 1994 release starring Jean Rciri6 aXd;Na.titlieLJ LJ LJ U U ,-,\) :_ ',· .) ,J~..) j j Portman. "!really like Reno's performance," whatthestore lacks in quantity, it 
says Rose. "He takes in an orphan and teaches her to be an assassin." .
The remaining shelves of ND Video 
are arranged, like most video stores, by subject. Of these films, the most P~Ppiaf prove to be "cJafsic" c9fl;~dies ­
·. makesupfor(kindof)inquality. So why not give it a try? The lines are guaranteed to be shorter than those at Video Watch, and even if you can't de­cide what to choose from the somewhat meager selection, Rose says, "I'm always hery,t~.~~e!,12.-·j' Stop by and visithim, he's 
BaadasssrsW°'ff~Mfflif111olf-arrff11"~(:qiadiyfhacE~Ihf1'.1{1J.ft~~ipther~rf?:d?Yf::,c;.y;a\tmg/9f[r1Y}f~<!::wNti?~'.--rg;W,aiting, Ro~e,1 fh,o p~l1~y~s~e,ls s~eq lapp~oxl i!tifna!fam1;PP!1't¾--mw~f/;{ousrrtgp:rrnt~ Land;"";artf~•}:] +Jj] ·.it 1-;.~L I:'. CJ 
mately~~e~~-~P...!J~fr~.e,;fi}.ffis inW.:¥i1~~td l!2w. ~':IJ, y~~U1lJ~2~Yii\seJ.hostf<'¾~0J~~ ND[Y/deeJK~Pf!!_!f_oit§a.JL~.P(!]Jto 11 pm. modest collect10n, refutes that statement as that are rented about as often as Cushing t·.J L;J well. "It's definitely not just the new re-presents films in CinemaScope. 



. LIFE iN HELL 
Misery Loves Company 
A helpfulguide to ruining the lives of those around you 
S.tu•dents, we live in a sad state of. affairs.. A recent Stanford Univeristy survey reported that Notre Dame is the nation's · "drunkest campus," and the current issue ofBikini magazine notes that 85 percent of college males sexually gratify themselves 
every day. 
While some Irish alumni may take pride in the first ( or even second) statement, both prove that our campus is indeed short of diverse social activity. When the main topic of weekend conversation is complaining about co-ed dorms as we cry in our beers, it only adds to our bitterness and cynicism. 
To help cope with this problem, OOB suggests that the best way to feel better (aside from the activity that 85 percent of men will choose) is to make those people who do have social lives feel worse. Just because your social life is ruined doesn't mean you have to take a back seat to every­one else. Here's a list of ideas that will spread the misery: 
Better Living Through Reading. Go to 



O'Shag and pick up one of those magazine subscription forms. Order the most expen­sive and useless publications. Check the "bill me" option and have them sent to that special person you just broke up with. 
Fun With Computers. Visit the com­puter labs. Go on the Net and download large pictures. Print out multiple copies. They take forever. and will back up the printers for hours. Better· yet, about ten minutes before a class begins, look on the printer queue monitors. Anything with the title "Research Paper,'' or "Philosophy Es0 say" highlight and erase. 
Bus Stop Hijinks. Bringa friend to the library bus stop. Wait for the St~ Mary's bus to come. As SMC-ers file off, see how many you pick up with proven lines that start with "Wanna con;ie over for a pizza ... " or "Nice shoes..." The first one to get 50 girls wins. (For female players, lower the requirement to 40). 

. E L E C T .O RA L I O L L E G E 

Post-Debate SpiO Doctoring 
iss Sunday night's debate? Don't worry. Watching Bill (that's Mr. President to us)
M
Clinton answer questions with his "What, Me Worry?" smirk and Bob Dole set a Guinness record for blinks per nanosecond, here's OOB 's brief; biased assessment of the great nothingness that is American politics: ·• Bob Dole: Reminded us twice that Jack Kemp is his runriingmate; rattled off a few one­liners, managed to mention Whitewater without ''bringing it up"; didn't die. 
Bill Clinton:· Assured us that everyoi1e is better off than they were four years ago; Didn't mention Al Gore was his runningmate; Didn't refer to Dole as "Mr. Crabby." · Since nothing of great substance was actually discussed, here's hoping Ross Perot streaks at thenext meeting between thes·e two bores. On second thought, let's not give Mr. Perot an ideas. 
· 

Revenge on the Snobs. Walk up behind unsuspecting patrons at the Snite and tell them you 're a guide. Take them around the museum using arthouse jargon like "neo­classic,'' "avant garde" and "art deco" to describe everything. Every once in a while say something like, "We don't know where this came from, butit looks important, huh?" and "Can you believe someone paid thousands ofdollars for this piece ofcrap?" 
Lead Those Who Will Follow. Run: for student government using the slogan, ''I'm mad. as hell and I'm ncit gonna take it anymore!" Complain about university drinking policies and. lack of co-ed dorms. Make posters and plaster them everywhere. Chain yourself to the stairway of the Main Building and sing Janis Joplin's "Me and Bobby McGee" to gain the image of a rebel. 
Say it with a Personal. Take out an ad in The Observer. Write it so that it offends a large part of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's population. Run it for weeks until other ads start upin opposition to it. Then write a letter to the editor saying how absurd the whole thing is. 
Research Paper Hell. Right before a big research paper, find out what other students will be writing on. Look up all relevant books in the . library and move them around to different shelves. Better yet, to different floors. 
· 

. FINAL BLURB 
With fall break lurking right around the comer, OOB appeals to the select few of you who may actually pick up a book over the off-week Mario "The God­father" Puzo' s The Last Don is a great read in the same vein as his other Mafia tales. · Pick up a copy, especially since Marlon Brando is rumored to play the lead in the upcoming CBS miniseries -a welcome sight after the distinctly un-Corleone Is­land ofDr. Moreau. Now there's an offer we could refuse. 
BY CHRIS MYERS 

27 

~-------­
--~-_, ---------------~ ~ 



'i 
. ' 
r.
I
I '~ 
i 
! 
I 
11 
!I 
i' 

Gimme! 
BY TODD DAPREMONTAs I sat down to write this column, I considered my options. As a se­nior, I felt obligated to provide a misty-eyed, nostalgic look back at my time at Notre Dame, chock-full of wistful tru­isms like, "It's not the Dome, it's the people under the Dome." But somehow it seemed as though I'd heard that before. Then I thought, "Why not a lengthy poetic tribute to my favorite breakfast food, the bagel?" But alas, it appeared that those keen-eyed _newshounds at another publication had beaten me to the punch, and had devoted 

some magical creature could still stiff you with coal. All I could do was go to sleep and hope that Santa or the Easter Bunny would visit while I slept. This passive behavior, this waiting for "The Man" to give me a handout never appealed to me. I had to go out and get my own goodies. 
Who was this Easter Bunny anyway, and how did he carry all those baskets without opposable thumbs? Personally, I never en­joyed the image of a giant mutant rabbit with a key to my house and buckets of Cadbury eggs. As for Santa Claus, his con­stant surveillance, his insistence on behav­ioral control, his "be good or else" manipu-
A nostalgic, 
weepy-eyed look at 
everyone's second­
!avorite holiday 

begged my mom to take me to K-Mart and buy me the officially licensed, flame­retardent costume of my choice. Only my own stamina, plus my dad's tolerance for following me around, controlled how much candy I got. With all the religious symbol­ism and behavioral restrictions out of the way, I fastened the elastic band around my head, said those three magic words, and looked both ways before crossing. 
I remember marching through my neigh­borhood, dressed as Darth Vader, the crunch of my booted feet and the vacuum cleaner sound of my breathing striking fear into passers-by as I swung the luminous shaft of 
multiple pages and an informal but my light-saber. Well, striking as insightful survey to that chewiest yOU much fear as could be expected
can't spend your whole
of breakfast foods. Thwarted at from a four-foot-tall Vader armed every tum, I looked at my watch life waiting for fat old men with a cardboard-and-flashlight and realized, hey, it's October. The sword, holding his dad's hand to month when we celebrate that most in furry hats to climb ·down keep from tripping over his cape or wonderful ofholidays, Halloween. bumping into the other fearsome Ever since I was a little child, your chimJJey and make all creatures of the night who couldn't 
Halloween has always been my 

favorite holiday. Well, okay, that's your dreams come true. 
not true. Halloween has only been 

my absolute favorite holiday for:approxi­lative dogma, and his eerily well-disciplined 
mately two minutes, which is the length of army ofelves always seemed a bittoo Hitler­
time that has passed since I realized it was ific to me. Who w~s this guy who could 
October and that I could probably get an dictate when I could pout, when I could cry? 
easy two or three double-spaced pages out I had already met him at the mall, so why did 
of it. Halloween has always been a close I have to be asleep when he came? How did 
second to Christmas, though, easily outdis­one man yield so much power? I always 
tancing number three Arbor Day and the suspected that he was some kind of figure­
rest ofthe top five, Secretaries Day arid Flag head, a puppet dictator fronting for whoever 
Day. had the real power. Maybe the CIA. Or the 
The reason for my undying love of Hal­mob. Or the Tooth Fairy. 
loween? Nightlife, costumes and pure un­On Halloween, though, there were no 
bridled greed. When else do little kids get to dealings with shady "magical" characters 
dress up, cut loose and kick in pumpkins in breaking into my house, extorting milk and 
the dark? (Well, okay, Thursday night at cookies. No "better be good for goodness 
Bridget's, but that's not a holiday, and pump­sake," no visiting relatives, and no going to . 
kins aren't what are getting smashed there.) church. Not that I have anything against Halloween had it all. Sure, there are plenty church, it's just that for a six year-old, of goodies at Christmas and Easter, but you Easter Mass is about as pleasant as a Strom . were expected to behave · all year if you Thurmond filibuster on C-SPAN. Hallow­
see because they didn't have their 
eyeholes lined up and were trying 

to navigate by the light coming in through the mouth slits of their itchy plastic masks. 
But regardless of our diminutive stature, oversized heads, and visual difficulties, we were powerful. We roamed the night from h9use to house, hoarding booty like a savage band of ... well, like a savage band of tiny, officially-licensed,flame-retardantcartoonand movie characters whose parents were stand­ing at the edge of the lawn. But that's not the point. The point is that you can't spend your whole life waiting for fat old men in furry hats to climb down your chimney and make all your dreams come true. Sometimes you just have to don that Batman mask, grab that paper bag, and go door-to-door demanding that total strangers give you candy for no real reason except that you asked for it. D 
This is a humor column. The views ex­pressed here are not necessarily the views of 
wanted any part ofthat action, and even then een was a perfectly simple arrangement. I the editorial staff a/Scholastic Magazine. 
28 


¦· i•t•li••i-i;hlli--------------------------­

• 

MONDAY -October 14
THURSDAY -October 10 
Film, "Citizen Kane," Snite, 7 p.m. 
Play, "Barefoot in the Park," Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. •• • Film, "It Happened One Night" Snite, 9:30 p.m.
Film, "The Rock," Cushing, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. • 

FRIDAY -October 11 • TUESDAY -October 15 
Film, "Le Million," Snite, 7 p.m. 
Pep Rally, Arena, JACC, 7 p.m. Soccer, ND men vs. Western Illinois, Alumni Field, 7:30 p.m. Film, "Dead Man Walking," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 p.m. 
Play, "Barefoot in the Park," Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. What· you probably· shou Id Film, "I Shot Andy Warhol," Snite, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, "The Rock," Cushing, 8 and 10:30 p.m. see · this week: Orson Welles' Volleyball, ND vs. Providence, Arena, JACC, 8 p.m. u, 
SATURDAY -October 12 ~ Citizen Kane, is often called the 
Football, ND vs. Washington, Notre Dame Stadium, 1 :30p.m. ·o greatest film of all time, and every-Film, "Dead Man Walking," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 p.m. .C · Play, "Barefoot in the Park, "Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. • (.) one should see it at least once. 
Film, "I Shot Andy Warhol," Snite, 8 and 1Op.m. u, Film, "The Rock," Cushing, 8 and 10:30 p.m. ~ 
SUNDAY -October 13 o But let's face it: You'd rather sit 
Soccer, ND men vs. Pittsburgh, Alumni Field, 1 p.m. "C-through The Rock. It's not the Volleyball, ND vs. Boston College, Arena, JACC, 2 p.m. W Play, "Barefoot in the Park," Washington Hall, 2:30 p.m. greatest movie, but it was the most 
Concert, "Indian Classical Music," featuring Vishwa Mohan exciting one I saw this summer.. Bhatt, Snite, 7 p.m. 
-CD 


University Park West: "B' 277-7336. THE 
• 
"2 Days in the Valley," R, 2:15, 4:35, 7:00, 9:20. 

• 
"A Time to Kill," R, 2:00, 5:00, 8:00. 



55 
• "Bulletp~'aof," R, 2:30, 4:50, 7:30, 9:35. 

University Park East: w 211-7336. I 
C 
• "First Wive's Club," PG, 2:10, 3:00, 4:35, 5:30, 7:00, L 
R 
8:00, 9:25. 

• 
"The Glimmer Man," R, 2:20, 5:00, 7:10, 9:15. 

• 
"The Chamber," R, 2:05, 3:10, 4:45, 5:30, 7:15, 7:40; y 


E 
9:40, 9:50. 

• "Extreme Measures," R, 2:00, 4:45, 7:20, 10:00. · 
EE 
New Student Rate: $4, Monday­Thursday with a student ID! 
RN 
Movies 10: "B' 254-9685. 
• "Mighty Ducks 3," PG, 12:35, 2:55, 5:25, 7:45, 
9:55. • "Spitfire Grill," PG-13, 4:10, 9:45. • "Emma," PG, 1 :20, 7:20. 
• 
"Independence Day," 1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00. 

• 
"Tin Cup," R, 1 :15, 4:15, 7:05, 10:05. 

• 
"First Kid," PG, 12:30, 2:50, 5:15, 7:30, 10:15. 

• 
"Maximum Risk," R, 12:45, 3:30, 5:45, 8:00, 10:30. 

• 
"Last Man Standing," R, 12:40, 3:00, 5:20, 7:40, 10:10. 

• 
"Rich Mans Wife," R, 12:50, 3:05, 5:30, 7:50, 

10:25. · 


• 
"Fly Away Home," PG, 12:55, 3:40, 7:10, 9:40. 

• 
"Escape From L.A.," R, 1:10, 3:45, 7:55, 10:20. 


* No Passes 


i•J§l•)iiii-il•Plgt 



Ladies, Please Pants 

BY CHRISTIAN DAILAVIS 
. And You Thought Parietals Were Bad 

There was an uproar among delegates at the National Association of Free Will Baptists annual convention when Free Will Baptist Bible College announced a new policy change. Women are now allowed to wear slacks at recreational and informal events at the school. Before the policy change, they were required to wear skirts at all times. A delegate was quoted by the AP, saying, "Girls wearing tight pants parading their bodies is definitely a distraction." 
. Those Wacky Engineeers 
A week-long series ofevents at the Univer­sity of Texas showed exactly how nutty mechanical engineers can get. The students built water balloon catapults, which were used to hurl balloons at professors dressed in rival Texas A&M attire. A mechanical engineering professor said the program was part ofa series to show high school students what engineers actually do. 
. Free Football Tickets? 

· Students living on campus at Indiana Uni­versity-Bloomington received a pleasant surprise upon checking in to their dorms: free football tickets. In an effort to increase student attendance at home games and to promote on-campus living, students who chose to reside in the dorms were offered free football season tickets. Attendance in the-student section at games has dropped to. less than 6,800 per game lasf year, from over 15,000 in 1989. Considering IU has only been in the top 20 once in the last 27 years, here's a better idea to increase atten~ dance -win a game. · 
. University of NBC 
Columbus State University in Columbus, -Georgia, recently got a taste of corporate sponsorship whe11 their new science center was named the "Coca-Cola Space Science Center." Thebuildingwasnamedtorecog­
nize a large donation from Coca-Cola to 
help with construction costs. The chairman 
ofthedeveloperoftheprojectclaimed"q~er 
than [a small display showing how Coke 
would be poured in space], and the name on 
the building, you would never know" that 
Coke has a presence at the Center. So it's 
kindoflikeourdealwithNBC.OrReebok.Or 
Champion. OrBurger King. Or ... you get the 
idea. 

. False lm_prisonment? 
A recent headline in The Miami Hurricane, the University of Miami school paper, de­clared, "Players may avoid criminal 
records," when two varsity football players managed to get off on reduced charges. Tremain Mack, a junior safety, enrolled in a . pretrial diversion program, while Derrick _ Ham, a sophomore defensive end, is ex­pected to attend anger-control classes after pleadingtoreducedcharges. Ham's charges, · which included attempted strong arm rob­
-
bery, false imprisonment, two counts of burglary with assault, and two counts of misdemeanor battery, were reduced to one third-degree felony count offalse imprison­ment and amisdemeanor battery count. Ham has been reinstated to the football team and is expected to play next week. 
. Alabama-Tuscaloosa: 
College Football B ? 

Powerhouse To e• 
The University of Alabama-Tuscaloosa re­cently awarded the Sam Howard Scholar­ship to a convict. Pamela Smart, who you may remember as the· woman who was arrested for encouraging her teenage lover to kill her husband, has been chosen to receive the award, which allows her to take one course at Alabama. She plans to take the course in criminal justice, in which she hopes to get a Ph.D. She also plans on walking on to the football team, following the example of many successful Miami and Nebraska students convicted of felonies. . 

30  SCHOL AS Tl C  MAG AZ IN E  ¦  0 CT OBER  1 0,  1 9 9 6  
--·---------------­ 
-~-­----.;~------­ ~  - - -­ -. -- --•  (  -----­ 



Sean Nicolas Ed 
CONNERY CAGE BUBIS 
10:30PM 

FRIDAY & 

SATURDAY 
.8:00 & 10:30PM 

I I '~ 
~. ~.·.. \t·',,. 
. ~~j 
. l*j~ . ; ...,,.·' 
' : '( ' 
-i 
ON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PAID Permit No. 10 
NOTRE DAME, IN 


JUST $2 

WVFI am 640 Home Football Saturdays
,~' 
ffl 
{~ 
~ SATURDAY SPORTS CREW (L-R): BRIAN MAVERICK, CURTIS NORVETT, BRENDAN BOYLE (NOT PICTURED: SEAN BRUEN) 
THIS SATURDAY: 
WASHINGTON AT NOTRE DAME 
10:00 -PRE-GAME 
1:15 -FULL GAME



Why Got the ame? 
COVERAGE 












