

Can't figure out what to write? 
more 120 years, 

Please send_ years of Scholastic to: Name:___________ 

Notre Dame's 
Address:.___________ City:._____State:_Zip:___ excuse not to 
Please make checks payable to : 

write home. 
Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years =$_ 


Scholastic 

September 15, 1988 
Letters 
Policy guidelines 
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and in­clude the writer's name, address and phone num­ber. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject let­ters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copy­fitting,_grammatical or spelling errors and Scho­lastic style. Because of space limitations, Scho­lastic cannot print all letters received. 
Address all correspondence to: 
The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Show Off Your Bad Attitude With An 
ISWEAR TO GOD I
DIDN'T DO IT T-SHIRT 
Other Stunning Design 

p IF F~! • SCHOOL IS HELL 
• LIFE IN HELL m,,. c1.,.,, BONGO 


Student Union.Board presents: 

"DANCERS OF EXTRAORDINARY TALENT AND INGENUITY" 
--The New Yorker 
Sunday September 18 Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 

Week In Distortion/ Jeff Drozda 
Manly (?) Advice 
Tips on how to meet and conquer that collegiate woman 
As the daily class/schedule routine starts to become ingrained in our minds, the guys around here have noticed certain beautiful creatures of the female sort in class. (Boy, what a difference five percent can make, huh?) Yet, how many days go by when glances are exchanged, but not a word is spoken? First of all, let me say to all of the women out there that I am about to reveal my most prized secrets to all of creation. You won't find these in those trash magazines, like Glamour and Cosmo. So, if you meet some Mr. Wonderful because of this article, send cash in care of this magazine. Better yet, re­member who REALLY got the ball rolling. OK, fellow greater side of that ratio bud­dies, to begin, you must have the necessary supplies to "scope" with: one pack of gum (preferably sugarless), a Kleenex trav­elpack, and a numerous assortment of col­ored pens and pencils. Now, you're ready to start. Step 1: Walk in close to the beginning of class when there area few scatterd seats. The only ones taken any earlier than that are by students who fell asleep in the last class, and still remain. Step 2: Find your victim, and sit next to her. Now this may be very traumatic for someofyou guys, butwomen like a guy with confidence. (Right?) I tis importantnotto let them know they are intimidating. They are intimidating. STEP 3: Offer her a piece ofgum from your supply as you get your books out for class. This will work, no girl will turn you down because it's free! This step is key, because it opens up the communicative links that may prove to be ofgreat value in the future. And consider the loss of countless packs of gum as a tax write-off. Step 4: If your "scope" has engaged in conversation with you, at the end of class position yourself so that the two of you are leaving class at the same time (it's best to leave after her). WARNING: if conversa­tion does not flow, don't push it. There is no need to worry yet. 

Step 5: Keep the other mentioned supplies for days when she comes to class ill-pre­pared. If she asks someone else for the supplies you have, reach for those Kleenex and start worrying. 
Step 6 (the biggie): Now, you will see if your persistence has paid off. Ask her ifyou can borrow her notes. Make sure to mention that you will gladly return them to her pleas­ure palace. a) You have succeeded ifyou get the notes, even ifyou really don'tneed them, and return them to her room. The key here is to call ahead so she is there when you arrive doused in Polo. Make some small talk, but don't plan on "mashing" or "scamming" until you're sure about the relationship. If you are welcomed by a goddess in a teddy bear negligee, plan on staying for a while. 
b) You have failed if she doesn't give you her notes, gives you her notes but asks you to slide them under her door, or worse yet, if the name of the guy sitting on the other side of this girl is written 495 times in the margin. She probably wasn't your type anyhow. 
I hope this helped you out a little bit. Now that there is only one dance per semester thanks to the poor decision by the Task Force which hand picked the students who sat on the committee, the only way to meet members of the opposite sex may be in class. So get to it, guys, because that girl sitting right beside you may be waitng for you to say: "Would you like peppermint or 
spearmint with that pencil?"II 
Jeff Drozda is a senior from Canton, Ohio. 
On Other Campuses 
• I •
\, vr.i,~_,,.

Crab '.__. v
y·_ -.. -~ 

Bowl Bound? 
A new .college bowl joins the ranks/-•· 

EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
f we'regoing to the Crab Bowl"just might be the future postseason exaltation of a couple of Division I­
A college football teams. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reports that one, and possibly two new college football bowl games will be added to the 1989 postseason schedule. The NCAA council recently gave final approval to the addition of the Cactus Bowl which will be played in Tucson, Arizona. And, tenative ?Pproval was given for Baltimore organizers toputon the "granddaddy of them all": the Crab Bowl! 
"I don't want to grow up" seemed to be the general attitude of the 1,900 college students surveyed by TDKElectronics Corporation earlier this month, the College Press Service reported. In the survey, which was aimed at discovering which future careers students most favored, found that 63% of those surveyed were not yet ready to stop "playing". 
Fred the Frog may stand (or jump) out in a crowd, but he seems to be quite content with his new Kansas University home. Fred (nice name for an amphibian) is quite possibly the only black and . white bullfrog in existence. The University Daily Kansan reported that Fred was doing remarkably well despite being kept in captivity. "Fred is doing great. So far he's fat, healthy and alert," Joe Collins a KU zoologist said .... That's great Joe, but Fred ... c'mon! 
Watch out for falling goalposts! If the University of Iowa 
had posted signs warning against such occurences in its Kinnick 
Stadium for a football game against Michigan in 1985, it very well could have prevented a present law suit brought against it. Steven Joel Kallish, a senior, was injured during a post-victory celebration in the fall of his freshman year when one of the goalposts was toppled and severed one of his ears, according to the Chicago Tribune . Kallish now seeks compensation for his injuries, charging that the university was negligent for allegedly failing to provide adequate crowd control, failing to protect game spectators and (best of all), failing to restrain spectators from climbing the goalposts .... Wait Steve! You forgot failure to blame others for our own stupid mishaps! 
And on our own campus ... It seems that our incoming class of freshman have decided to take it upon itself (or at least one particular member of the class did) to do something that our football team has failed to do in recent years -intimidate the Miami Hurricanes. David launched the first stone (at Goliath) last week. Apparently, a phone call was made to the ever-popular coach of the Hurricanes, Jimmy Johnson, and as read in the Chicago Tribune, the conversation went something like this: "Coach Johnson?" the freshman said. "Yes." 
"I'm a Notre Dame freshman. I'm beating the rush." 
"You're what?" Johnson replied. 
"I'm beating the rush. I hate you now-'8 
Scholastic 

Music/Heather Ingraham 
A 
hort 
ummer 
Bastro, Urge Overkill and Rapeman all release non-LP records. 
And they're decent. 
H 
owdy,folks. I'm 
brother. There's a density going to try to fill and a gracefulness here that Tim Adams' never strays into artsy in­shoes this year. Don't dulgence -these fellows know quite how (his know how to rock. The Chucks are at least a half­sleeve art, as ever, is first­size larger than mine) but rate; you'd be hard put to I'm going to try. His inci­find a tastier package. Even siveness, wry humor, and the label looks good. This keen observation added band puts on a mean live wisdom and verve to a show too, as they amply campus that often needs demonstrated here last both. And he helped bring spring. Expect to hear in such bands as Die more. Kreuzen, Get Smart!, Pre­A third band, Rapeman, cious Wax Drippings, and released an independent Laughing Hyenas. That's single (limited edition of the great thing about Tim -1000) a few months back. he backs up his strong criti­Now before you get all flus­cal voice (strong enough to tered, remember two things: get him bounced off WVFI Not everything is meant to last year) with constant ef­be taken literally, and Rape­forts to improve things. man is the name of a comic Currently alive and well in book widely available Chicago, Tim is working throughout Japan. Rape-
for Ernst & Whinney and spending his time with "T", music, and fanzines -in other words, keeping his priorities straight. Tim Adams for Pope. 
So anyway, down to this business of talking about music. There were several notable releases this summer, mostly in the way of shorter (non-LP) records. The six-song Bastro EP,just out on Homestead, is particu­larly impressive. Bastro is two former mem­bers of Squirrel Bait, Dave Grubbs and Clark Johnson, seniors in college and ex-Happy Cadavers/ex-Rapeman respectively. Al­though the drum machine (particularly on "Counterrev: Bhutan'') invites comparison with Big Black, Bastro is very much a band unto itself. Songs like "Gold Fillings" and "Loam" are the kind you always hope for: all the surging power of a live performance and enough direction changes to twist you around in your seat right when you think you've got a grip on things. Great stuff. 
Bastro has chosen to circumvent further Big Black comparisons by employing Britt Wal­ford (ex-Squirrel Bait and Slint) as drummer and Brian Paulson, formerly of Man Sized Action, as producer for the next release. Bastro toured extensively this summer; if you didn't catch them, try to see them when they play in Chicago. Extracreditforthebest tour shirts ("two friends and a bottle ofpuh") I've seen in a long while. 
Urge Overkill.finally released its single on Touch and Go. The first side is a sweeping rendition ofGlen Campbell's "Wichita Line­man;" instead of trashing it like so many "clever" bands, our boys give ita dignity and sadness even beyond that of the original. The flipside, "Head On," may or may not have anything to do with the guitarist's younger iliani_s Steve Albini (ex-Big Black) on guitar and vocals, David Sims (ex-Scratch Acid) on bass,andReyWasham (ex-Scratch Acid/ Big Boys) on drums. When this combina­tion clicks, they're lethal. Of the two songs on the single, I probably prefer "Hated Ch­inee" to "Marmoset;" both, I think, merely hint at the power this band has in store. An EP and an album are in the works (I'm hoping their cover of ZZ Top's "Just Got Paid" turns up), and the band will be touring in October. Rapeman will perform with Couch Flambeau this Saturday at Club Dreamerz in Chicago. 
These and other bands may be heard by calling WVFI-AM 640; all you have to do is ask.II 
Heather Ingraham is a senior PLS!English major. Her music view will be appearing regularly in Scholastic. 

Pa 
ing Over the Overpass? 
-An overpass between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's at Highway 31 and Saint Mary's Road won't be built for a long time, ifever. 
BY MIKE WIEBER 
Three years ago this fall, three stu­dents were returning from the Saint Mary's campus at approximately 3 
a.m. One was not to make it back to Notre Dame that evening, nor for another three years. 

While crossing U.S. Highway 31 at Saint Mary's Road, Kevin Hurley was struck by a drunk driver. His injuries forced him to withdraw from the university until he re­enrolled as a freshman this fall. Shortly after the incident, talk began about the construc­tion of a bridge or underpass at the intersec­tion. 
"The possibility of a bridge has been dis­cussed and considered at the officers' meet­ing," said Father David Tyson, vice presi­
dentofstudentaffairs. But, headded that this was not the first .time this issue was dis­cussed. "It came up in the late '50s or early '60s. There was a football game in the late '40s or early '50s where some students were hit crossing the street." 
Some improvements had been made before the Hurley incident, according to Tyson. "When I was astudent here, all there was was a flashing light," he said. 
Until three years ago, however, the issue remained donnant. After Hurley wa~ in­jured, his mother began a campaign to make the intersection safer. She wrote letters to the presidents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Father Theodore M. Hes burgh and William 
A. Hickey respectively. "I think the state and the two universities could get together and do something. The presidents replied that it is a great idea (to build an overpass) and said they would not stand in our way," said Celeste Hurley. 
Mrs. Hurley also approached the alumni association who discussed the possibility of funding some sort of bypasss at a meeting of the alumni board. "The alumni were in support ofit, but they said they must take the direction of the university," she said. 
Since the accident, several steps have been taken even though no fonnal plans have been made for a path for students to use bypassing the intersection. "After the accident, a study was done. We got the state to install pedes­trian safety lights," said Richard Chlebeck, director of safety and security at Saint Mary's. Pedestrian safety lights area combi­nation of a flashing yellow_ light and a dia­mond-shaped sign. "These caution lights 
Scholastic 

work from six to eleven on weekdays and six to two on weekends," he said. 
Chlebeck added that more traffic lights have helped slow motorists. "The lights at Douglas Road have helped slow traffic," he said. Douglas Road crosses Highway 31 about one quarter of a mile north of Saint Mary's Road, 
Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president of lhe university, said, "The issue ofabridge came up again when Kevin Hurley was struck. It is discussed whenever those types of situations come up." He added, however, "I don't think the issue is decided." 
Before anything can be done to improve the situation at the intersection, legal and gov­ernmental paths must be investigated. "If you do anything with roads work, it could take five years for them to get back to you," Tyson said. "It's a state highway. There are also state and county ramifications." 
Philip Faccenda, general counsel of Notre Dame, was chosen by the officers of the university to research the possibilities of a bridge or underpass where Saint Mary's Road crosses Highway 31. "My role was to determine whether the state would fund it. I did inquire to see ifthe state had some money for it," said Faccenda. 
The Indiana Department of Highways, however, refused to finance the proj_ect, though they did say that they may allow the construction ofan overpass at the expense of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. "One or both schools would have to apply for the permit. The schools would have to pay for 

"it," said Indiana Department of Highways District Development Engineer Don Abra­ham. 
"It's a matter of having the plans prepared with design and location. The i:,lans are subject to review by the bridge designs office in Indianapolis," said Abraham. "However, I am aware of one we denied because the design was not satisfactory." 
The only difficulty Abraham mentioned was problems with the traffic signals at the intersectior.. "It is possible the design could the ttJimel, but felt an overpass could be equally dangerous. "Both ways we invite a security risk. Most of the criminal problems that have occurred have occurred in that general area. The university h:is put lights up and directed people not to take the road, but everyone forgets about it and takes the easiest route," said Faccenda. 
Faccenda noted some problems with a bridge. "Can you imagine walking over an 

incorporate the signals. Ifthe bridge is too close, it could be difficult to see the lights unless the structure could be put high enough," he said. 
Other ways to make the intersection safer have been investigated and encouraged by the security forces on the campuses, however they have not been acted upon by the state. "The state said the intersection would not warrant a strobe light over the red light," stated Chlebeck. 
Although both ways have been considered, there seems to be much greater support for a bridge or enclosed overpass than for an underpass. "I don't think students would want to walk through a tunnel late at night," said Beauchamp. 
Tyson agreed, "If you talk underpass you are talking security for women." Faccenda acknowledged the safety risk of 
open overpass in themiddleofFebruary? It's just not going to·happen. Ifyou cover it and make it warm inside, it is going to be all the more a place where girls are afraid to walk," he said. 
Another question that remains is wheiher the students would actually use such a walk­way if it were constructed. "From what we have observed from the walkways in South Bend between the Marriot and the Century Center and 9n South Chapin Street, it was felt that students would not use an overpass," said Chlebeck. 
Rex Rakow, director of security at Notre Dame agreed. "I don't think students would use an overpass. They take the path of least resistance. There would have to be a barrier to make them go over," said Rakow. 
But, according to Beauchamp, a barrier could, in effect cause other problems. "You 
.. 

September 15, 1988 


can't close the road because it is the main entrance to the Saint Mary's campus," he said. 
That's precisely what Mrs. Hurley sug­gested. "You can't force people to use it, but, 
'It.1~~111.ij. £Ost;; fe~ Til}~?~
,~g~ffln~!~H( llj.~!J·Y?~•~P.w.~,!.9
l~.~ tP~iig~?P~.r.~ffl1•..i·······~Me~ttg~
of:n6w:,much•••.mh11mari·•·•lif:eis•·· 
~~~tiil ;·:.··; \((. . \· /. ii < 
~~~~.st~ ~µ~i~y, W·*.t~~f gr·
~c~l~e~id•··Yittim · Ke.v.in · 
lJMJ:!~Y n;, ·. ··•· 

ifitis ramped out far enough, it could be more 
ofapain in the neck to go around it than to use 
it," she said. Mrs. Hurley also proposed a 
way to facilitate design. "You have an archi­
tecture school there. You could set it up on a 
competetive basis." 
Kevin Hurley reinforced his mother's ideas. 

"Whether the students use it or not, they have 
the possibility to use it. Otherwise, 
whoever's responsible for it would be forc­
ing students to jeopardize their Iives," Hurley 
said. 
Beyond the proposals, lies one further pit­

fall. The question of financing the project is 
a great concern of the administration. "We 
have to consider whether it would be a good 
investment," Beauchamp said. 
"You don't spend two million dollars on 

something just to see if it might work. You 
are talking about half of a new residence 
hall," said Faccenda. 
On the other hand, Mrs. Hurley said she felt that the structure would be worth the cost both morally and financially speaking. "It could cost a few million dollars but then you come to the philosophical question of how much a human life is worth. If one family could be spared what we have gone through, that would be worth a lot more than two million dollars," she said. 
From the viewpoint of monetary cost, Mrs. Hurley mentioned a figure concerning the care for those who have been seriously in­
jured. "Economists have determined that it 
can cost four to nine million dollars for the 
government to maintain a person with a se­
vere head injury." · 
Although the question of whether a bridge 

could actually improve safety at the intersec­
tion of Highway 31 and Saint Mary's Road 
remains, the heads of each security depart­
ment stress obeying the signals and being 
extra careful at night as more appropriate 
safety measures. "If people would just use 
the lights, I think that they would be ahead of 
the game," said Rakow. 
Chlebeck concurred with Rakow's advice. 
"Ifyou study the accidents you will probably 
discover that students did not use the walk­
way signal." 
Faccenda warned students· of the real dan­ger, despite traffic lights, especially when alcohol is involved, as was the case, most likely, when Kevin Hurley was hit. "The lights could be false security when somebody is under the influence," Faccenda said. 
Kent Laber was with Hurley at the time of the incident and suggested that the cause of the accident probably was related to alcohol and an unexpected lane change. 
"We never found out if alcohol was in­
volved for certain because the driver did not 
tum herself until the next morning, but the car 
veered from the center lane to the right lane," 
said Laber. 
Hurley reinforced Laber's statement. "We 
feel alcohol was involved because the driver 
and this guy she was with had just left this 
motorcycle bar," Hurley said. 
Notre Dame security suggests another solu­. tion to dangers encountered in travel along Saint Mary's Road. They will provide es­corts for women who are returning to Saint Mary's after the buses stop running in the 
evening. 
As to whether a bridge or an underpass will ever be constructed, Faccenda remains skep­tical. "There just does not seem to be any­where to go with it. In my opinion, nobody knows what will be effective," he said. 
This does not, however, mean the issue is closed indefinitely. In fact, Chlebeck says the situation will remain under scrutiny as long as a danger exists. "We will keep monitoring the intersection for the safety of students," he said. "And, if necessary, we will approach the state of Indiana again.'11 

Scholastic 




OF ISDO 



As the Year ofCultural Diversity revs up, speakers from around the world travel to Notre Dame, Indiana, to speak on a wide array 

of issues 
BY STEVEN HARVEY 

' onecannot talk about gender dis­rimination without including race and class in the topic as well. And Black women bring together all three of these variables. You cannot talk about gen­der alone and leave the rest up to mere chance," said Professor Deborah G. White, in aspeechgivenatNotreDameonSeptem~ ber 7. White's speech is the third in a series of lectures on minority topics. Toe lecture se­ries is one of many events scheduled for the 1988-89 school year, which has been desig­nated "The Year of Cultural Diversity" by the university. The Year ofCultural Diver­sity is the product and final package ofideas stemming from the Minority Committee, created in 1986 by University Provost Timothy O 'Meara -now managed by As­
sociate Provost Father Oliver Williams-to oversee minority concerns at Notre Dame. "The Committee made a series ofrecommen­dations (in November, 1987) to enhance mi­nority -especially Black and Hispanic ­awareness at Notre Dame," said Father Wil­liams. 
Three months later, the Minority Report Press Release was issued. Its goal is to "raise the level of consciousness ofall members of the Notre Dame community to the impor­tance of minorities in American life and cul­ture." 
Toward thi& end, the Report recommended that several steps be taken. One ofthese steps was to increase minority enrollment, which the university has done. Whereas the junior and senior classes have a minority population ofapproximately seven or eight percent, the freshman and sophomore classes are now nearly 13 percent The university's final goal is to have roughly fifteen percent minority population in its undergraduate classes. The administration is on the verge of making that goal, according to Father Williams. 
Another objective of the Minority Report is to "sensitize people to the position ofminori­ties in America and at Notre Dame." The 1988-89 school year was named the Year of Cultural Diversity in orderto betterattain this second goal. 
The lecture series is just one of many ideas for the year. Father Williams appointed a student planning committee which, with the help of advisors and faculty mambers, cre­ated the Year ofCultural Diversity Activities Handbook. Although all of the events sug­gested are designed to increase student awareness of minority issues, the events themselves are very diverse in nature. This year, students will have an opportunity to play games from various cultures, attend fireside chats that focus on cultural diversity and participate in meals from around the world. 
Many of these events will take place in residence halls in order to make student at­tendance and participation easier. Also, "there has been a lot of interest from the hall rectors, too," Father Williams said. 
These events are so well received by the rectors because they will also promote dorm unity and spirit. For instance, progressive dinners, the first of which is tentatively scheduled for Sept 19, will be a six-course meal, with dishes prepared from several cul-tores; each course will be served in a different dorm ofthe Mod Quad, Father Williams said. 
The fireside chats, also to be conducted in the dormitories, will be another chance to promote hall unity and.minority awareness. The activities for the Year ofCultural Diver­sity have also received strong support from the faculty. "Almost two hundred faculty members have expressed interest in doing a fireside chat in the dorms. There has been a lot of interest in the program this year," said Adele Lanan, advisor to the student planning committee. 
Lanan feels that the interest in all events has been building for a long time. "The Multic­ultural Festival last year really ignited inter­est and it has simply taken off from there," she said. 
Planning committee members have been pleased with the turnout for events so far this year. "We were very happy with the diver­sity of the audience," said Professor Robert Wegs, history department coordinator for White's lecture. "It was a very large group for a history lecture," he said of the approxi­mately one hundred people who attended. 
Lanan remarked that the lecture given September 1 by Dr. Anthony Appiah, spon­sored by the philosophy department, also had an impressive turnout. "TheLibrary Lounge, where they held the lecture, was full," she said. 
Father Williams emphasized the benefits of the lectures, especially for non-minority stu­dents. "One ofthe weaknesses ofour univer­sity is that many ofour non-minority students are culturally deprived. As an educator, Ifeel that we are giving our majority students a better education" through the events planned for the year. 
''The major student planning committee goal is to establish a community more varied but also more cohesive," he continued. ''The Year of Cultural Diversity is a high priority for this school year. The president and the board of trustees want it that way." 
The high caliber ofspeakers participating in the lecture series attests to the importance 11 placed on the YCD by not only administra­tors, butalso by sponsoring departments. Dr. 
ii 
White, a history professor at Rutgers Univer­
I!
!I 
!I sity, holds a masters degree from Columbia University and a doctoral degree from the University of Illinois at Chicago. She has 
Ii 
written several papers and articles, and a book, Aren't I A Woman?, all dealing with several aspects of Black feminism. "It was primarily because of the critical success of her book that we invited Dr. White," said Wegs, who helped organize her visit. "It received many favorable reviews and much publicity. These are the important issues of race, class and gender that really need to be talked about in the 20th century." 
Ken Durgans, the director for minority stu­dent affairs, said, "I thought that the topic was excellent. It definitely fit into the feeling of the Year of Diversity." 
"I found her speech very informative. She touched on many topics in her speech that I, 

even as a Black woman, was not aware of," said junior Carla Morgan. 
Dr. White is not the only highly qualified speaker coming for the lecture series. Many other respected lecturers are scheduled regu­larly throughout the school year. 
Carl Ware, Vice President of the Coca-Cola Corporation, will speak on "Minorities, Markets and Corporate Strategies" on No­vember 17. 
Dr. Donald Fixico, a renowned historian on Native American Indians, will speak October 
26. He will discuss "Urban American Indians Since World War II." 
Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela will deliver a musical concert on October 9 at Stepan Center. Makeba has performed at Carnegie Hall and has recently completed a six-month engagement with Paul Simon's Graceland World Tour. "She is· a world renowned singer from Johannesburg who brings to life the plight of the oppressed of South Africa," said Dick Conklin, directorof public relations for Notre Dame. 
Organizers are expecting an especially large turnout for Makeba's performance and for the appearance of Phil Donahue and Vladimir Pozner at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center October 6. The Student Union Board will sponsor Donahue, the perennially popular talk show host and Notre Dame graduate, and Pozner, a well known lecturer who extols the virtues of the lifestyle and political system of the U.S.S.R. Do­nahue and Pozner will discuss the compara­tive strengths and weaknesses ofthe political systems in the United States and the U.S.S.R. 
On September 29, Roy S. Roberts, recently named vice president of Navistar Inc~, the leading United States maker of medium and heavy-duty trucks, will give a lecture on "Minorities in Corporate America." Father Williams feels it will be one of the best lectures of the series. "He'll attract people not only because he's Black, but because he has had an absolutely fantastic management career." 
Through his own hard work and compe­tence, Roberts experienced a meteoric rise through the ranks at GM, then was lured to the vice-presidential position of the main truck-making division at Navistar, whose sales are nearly $4 billion per year. "The messageofhis life is that you can do anything you want to if you try hard enough," said Father Williams. A USA Today article from August 2, 1988, calls Roberts "one of the business world's most visible Blacks." 
Tonight, Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu, an educa-· tiuonal consultant with Afro-American Im­ages, will speak in the Library Auditorium at 
7:30 on the topic of"Countering the Conspir­acy to Destroy Black Boys." 
The above lecturers are only a few of the many lectures and events occurring this semester for the Year of Cultural Diversity. In essence, the Year of Cultural Diversity should have something to interest every­body, according to Father Williams. If the early amount ofsupport for the program is an accurate indicator, the lecture series and the other events will be a tremendous success. "People are coming out Events are puoli­cized well and planned well. We are highly encouraged," said Father Williams. II 
Scholastic· 



Tastes Great 
And 
Filling, Too! 
Taste ofNations returns to Notre Dame for its third yoar of tickling the palates ofuniversity 
students,faculty and staff 
BY ROSABELLE WHITE 

What's the best way to spend a Friday night in South Bend? With friends, lots of free food and a variety ofentertainment, ofcourse. The organizers of Taste of Nations, a food and cultural extravaganza co-sponsor'ect by the Multicultural Executive Council and Univer­sity Food Services, hope to entice students, faculty and staff from Notre Dame to their Multicultural Fall Festival grand finale Octo­ber 8th. The MEC -composed of members ofthe Hispanic Organization, Black Cultural Arts Concil, Native American Student Asso­ciation, the International Student Organiza­tion and various representatives from Stu­dent Government and the Student Union Board-has set up tables in Stepan Center for the past two falls. The tables, laden with food and decorations, each represent a nation or region of the world. And, while TON has been around for two years, this year it has special significance as Notre Dame pro­gresses through the Year of Cultural Diver­sity. This year, Taste of Nations will once again beheldatStepan Center. From 8 p.m. to la.m student performances from various parts of the world, as well as an all-night DJ. , will provide entertainment. 
Funding for the event is provided entirely by the Multicultural Council, said Nancy Ross, president of the Native American Stu­dent Association. These funds cover the cost of food, decorations and entertainment. University Food Services is in charge of preparing the food and occassionaly contrib­utes interesting props. "(Director of UFS Bill) Hickey's participation has been crucial to the Taste of Nations," said Mary Feliz, a member ofMEC. "He always comes up with many exciting and innovative ideas on deco­ration, as well as great variety of food. He sounds very enthusiastic about this year's Taste of Nat-ions." 
UFS has constructed props as sophisticated as a life-like Eiffel Tower, according to Feliz. The workers also dress up for the occasion in lively, ethnic garb. Last year food from over ten nations, including Mexico, Italy and Ger­many, was available in Stepan Center. This year Hickey and event co-chairpersons Eric Timperman and Mike Hough are hoping for even more diversity in celebration of Notre Dame's special Year of Cultural Diversity. 
The history of the Taste ofNations extends back to the fall of1986. "Thefirstyearwehad great decorations, but we decided they were too expensive so we cut back last year," said graduate studentRamzi B ualan, a member of the MEC. "We think we will go back to the former decorations this year, however." 
The first year could be characterized as a fiasco, according to Bualan. "Food was prepared for nearly one thousand people but only five hundred people showed up," said Mari Fuentes, president of the Hispanic Organization. In an effort to increase attendance in 1987, the MEC adver­tised extensively for several weeks preceed­ing Taste of Nations. The results were very positive, said Feliz. "We were able to attract staff, faculty and students. It was very excit­ing." 
In a reverse situation from 1986, 1,500 people attended Taste last year while food waspreparedforonly800. "Hopefully, we'll be prepared for a larger group this year," said Fuentes. 
Despite the large turnout last year, student involvement in the Multicultural Fall Festi­val is still low.But, MEC members have high hopes for this year, based on positive student response from last year's attendees. "(Taste of Nations) was excellent," said Toh Wei Chee, a junior economics major. "The food was excellent, although it was a bit spicy. I liked the Indian food the best. Definitely, it's a nice way to taste new foods." 
Taste of Nations includes more than just free food and live entertainment. "Last year the students were able to participate in limbo, jive and jitterbug dancing contests. There were awards for the winners of each cate­gory," said Bualuan. "We hope to sponsor similar competitions this year." The MEC wants to include even more student entertain­ment than last year, said Feliz. 
"I wish I could go to each dorm and tell them how incredible this is," Feliz continued. "Being on the Council the last two years has widened my scope so much. I find that many people who go to events realize that it's a really novel experience, something they would have never thought ofgoing to before. They all end up loving it."11 
11 


CAN'T MAKE ·IT TO 
EOUL? 
·Try Notre Dame's International Games 



BY TERRI DEMPSEY 

Nearly everyone at Notre Dame played hide-and-seek, kick-the­can or tag as children. Now, thanks to the Year of Cultural Diversity planning committee, as Notre Dame students you can play other children's games from around the world: like boccie ball or the mealie game. The 1988 -1989 school year has been dubbed the Year Of Cultural Diversity by the Univer­sity ofNotreDame. Many events, lectures and programs have been planned for the pt1rpose of promoting a unique concept: multicultur­ism. What will probably prove to be one ofthe most popular group-related activities is the collection of games from different cultures 'put together by the Year OfCultural Diversity Planning Committee. The planning committee is made up of stu­dents Robert Bartolo, Mari Fuentes, Ramzi Bualuan and Angela McRae, with Adele Lanan, assistant director ofstudent activities, as advisor. Bartolo, who conceived the •idea for the games as a result of an art class project, hopes that the use of the games will let students get the more exciting aspects ofa foreign culture. "Games and entertainment are an important part ofany culture," says Bartolo. "While the games we picked are not necessarily the most popular games from each country, they are distinctive of that country's cul­ture." 
The games, which are group oriented, should prove to be popular side events for such donn activities as SYRs, section get­togethers, and spirit weeks. They are avail­able at the Student Activities office in LaFortune Student Center. They can be keptoutforuptoa week and there is no limit as to how many can be taken out during a se­
mester. 

or more people which involves learning the customs of a foreign culture. The teams separate and discuss the values, expectations and customs of a culture. After each team familiarizes itself with its "new" culture, the teams exchange observers who are instructed to detennine pertinent infonnation about the other culture. From the infonnation gathered by the observers, the teams then try to fonnu­late the best way in which to interact with the other culture. Bafa Bafa gives its players the unique opportunity to act as ambassadors and foreign relations experts in a fun setting. 
"All of the games are .-----------------------, 
geared toward groups of 4-12 people, and some can be played with even more. They will make a nice cul­tural theme for SYRs," said Bartolo. 
The games are not only fun, but are also excellent learning tools for anyone inter­ested in different cul­tures, ac'cording to Bartolo: Bafa Bafa, for ~stance, is a game for two groups of five 

~-.
iw, 
. .,, ....~
/·,t ,,: 
.-­
.· 

. . ·-. 

I 

= 
I 
....... • 
"".;, 
1/ . 
.. .,. 
~•. 
Scholastic 




.------------------------,kidney beans may be 
~~ 

Cricket, a popular game in such countries as England and India, will also be available. Cricket is very similar to the American game of baseball, but it has varying rules that dis­tinguish it as a sport ofits own. A demonstra­tion game between two teams, "India" and "The Rest of the World" is being planned by the Graduate Student Union and the Interna­tional Student Organization. The date for this exhibition match is tentatively planned for April 15, 1989. The ISO and GSU cur­rently are soliciting participants for the match. 

Double-Dutch Jumprope, a game that is 
extremely popular in the urban areas of the 
United Staes, is another game that has been 
made available for students to check out from 
Student Activities. There are two main ways 
to conduct a Double-Dutch game: singles or 
doubles. A list of game rules and arrange­
ments will be provided when the game is 
checked out. Besides being fun, Double­
Dutch Jumprope is a good cardiovascular 
exercise, according to Bartolo. 
Italian Boccie Ball is a lawn bowling game 
that is poular not only in Europe, but also 
with Italian communities of the United . States. 
In Boccie, each player tosses balls (bocce ), 
measuring four inches in diameter, as close as 
possible to a smaller ball, called the jack 
(pallino ). The game begins with the first 
player tossing the jack, then throwing his or 
her own first ball. Play continues as the other 
players, in turn, throw their first balls. De­
pending on the game variations, players may 
have from two to three balls. 
After the players have thrown all of their 
balls, the round is over. The player whose ball 
is closest to the jack gets a point and also 
tallies points for each ball after that which is 
closer to the jack than any other player's ball. 
Play continues until one player has achieved 
the maximum score (usually 13 or 21 points). 
The selection is rounded out with games of 
simpler rules but which are no less challeng­
ing to play. 
The Mealie Game is popular in several re­
gions on the African continent The setup 
involves arranging mealie grains (marbles or demanded. 
Ha-Goo (translated "Come On") is popular 
among the Thlinget (pronounced Klin-Ket) 
children in southeastern Alaska. Play is as 
follows: Participants are divided into two 
teams and stand in rows thirty feet apart. The 
captain of the first team cries "Ha-Goo," 
a signal to the opposite team to send over a 
player. The team then tries to make the per­
son sent over smile by joking or making 
funny faces. Players who smile the least bit 
are out of the game and a new player must be 
sent over. 
A player who keeps from smiling crosses 
the line and takes the opposing team's ban­
ner. Play continues until all but one player 
have been eliminated. Theobjectofthegame 
is to be the last player holding the banner. 
A game enjoyed by children all over China is Jumping Fox. To play, a small stick, pointed at both ends (the "fox") is placed outside of a square (representing a city) drawn on the ground. Each player has a longer stick with which to play. The object of the game is to make the fox jump into the city by striking the pointed stick with the longer . stick. The player who has gotten the fox into the city with the fewest number of strikes is 
the winner. 
Tip Cat is a similar game ofEnglish origin. 
In this game, the sharpened stick is placed in 
the middle ofa large circle. The players then . 
take turns striking the "cat" with their own 
sticks. The object ofthe game is to get the cat ·to fly in the air and then to bat it out of the circle while still airborne. If the cat lands inside the circle, the player is out ofthe game. After a predetermined number ofrounds, the player with the highest score wins. Hitting the cat is called "tipping the cat." 
Last, but certainly not least on the fun scale, 
is Onumla. This is a North American Indian 
game that is very similar to the game of 
badminton. The players stand in 11 ring and 
bat a shuttlecock to the playeron the right. If 
the batter sends the shuttlecock behind the 
ring, then the player is out. A player receiv­
ing the shuttlecock who misplays it is also out 
of the game. As play continues , the circle 
shrinks, and the last player in is the winner. 
All of the games provided by the YCD 
Committee have been researched and voted 
on by the committee. The ones chosen are 
those thought to be the most fun and the most 

culturall distinctive Bartolo said. 
----......., 
substituted here) about two inches apart in two long rows. Blind­folded players, dili­gently monitored for cheating by other play­ers, must move mealie grains between the first two grains in the second row. The first team to move all of their mealies through the second row with­out disturbing any beans is declared the . victor. Play is over unless another ame is 

September 15, 1988 
13 
-' . , 

--. -------­
.. 
SETTING NEW 
Sternberg, a senior 
trl-captaln, Impressed 
Coach Grace as "a man who can score at will."
GOALS 

After surprising number-two Indiana, the men's soccer team looks to senior leader­

ship to take them to tourney 
BY JEFFTILTON 

The score is tied at 1-1. The Irish men's soccer team has managed to tie a game that they were expected to get blown out in. Indiana University has been granted a penalty kick, usually an in­stantscore for any team,and the Irish are now in danger of losing. Danny Lyons, Notre Dame's goalie, makes a save one might see in a World Cup Soccer game to assure the tie for the Irish. At Indiana, it was the defense that kept the !fish in the game. The Hoosiers outshot the Irish 22 to six but were only able to capitalize on one out of 35 foul calls against Notre Dame·. But ID-Bloomington is not an Irish oppo­nent of the past. No, this is not Indiana University-South Bend or Indiana Univer­sity-Purdue University-Fort Wayne. Instead, these are the Hoosiers of Indiana University-Bloomington, ranked second nationally entering this game. IU was last year's runner up in the NCAA tournament and winner of 22 out of their last 23 regular season games. The Hoosiers' one regular 
the 
season loss last year came at the hands of the Irish. 
In 1987, the Irish appeared in the top 20 in twoofthemajorpolls. They climbed to 15th in the Coaches' Poll and as high as seventh in the Soccer America Poll. But national polls are oflittle interest in soccer, where regional polls decide which teams will attend the national tournament. 
Dave Augustyn, junior tri-captain for the Irish, speculates that in 1988 Indiana will most likely top the regional poll. Augustyn went on to say that the Irish would need to finish ahead of Akron and Evansville in the region to have a good shot at a NCAA Tour­nament bid. The Tournament usually selects the best two teams from this region, so com­petition is tight. 
By scheduling teams such as Indiana, Head Coach Dennis Grace has pushed his team to work harder. In 1985, eight or nine ranked teams were placed on the schedule and the Irish went 7-11-4. Grace refers to that year as a "character building year," admitting that '85 was a make orbreak year that could have made him a hero or a goat. Fortunately, Grace seems to have to come out a hero. 
Since that season, Notre Dame has steadily improved. The team now has the confidence needed to compete with teams of the highest caliber. "We can play with anyone in the nation," said Augustyn. 

Grace hesitates to point to any one reason for the marked improvement in his team. Rather, he looks to a combination ofreasons, including a better attitude and an strong work ethic. "The players go into every game with the attitude they have an excellent chance at winning," said Grace. This type of attitude seems evident when the Irish compete against teams of Indiana's caliber. 
Joe Sternberg, senior tri-captain and for­ward, points to the strong work ethic in de­scribing the victory over Xavier. The Irish went up 2-0 in the first half against Xavier. A letdown in the second half and an exchange of goals brought the score to 3-2 in favor of the Irish. Then the Irish scored once more to finish the game strong. Crediting this type of victory to the rising intensity in recent prac­tices, Sternberg said the team feels it cim · withstand any pressure opponents might exert with the know ledge that "in the last I 0-· 15 minutes we will put on the pressure." 
Sternberg has impressed the coach as one man who knows how to apply such pressure. The senior forward heads up a line ofscorers who, according to Grace, can "score at will." 

Senior Bruce "Tiger" McCourt entered this season ranked fourth on the Notre Dame all­time goals list and fifth on the all-time scor­ing list. He is followed closely by Sternberg, who is seventh in scoring and eighth in goals. SeniorRandyMorris,NotreDame'sall-time assist leader, and junior Rolfe Behrje com­
plete this impressive list. 
These players help form a seven player nucleus that gives the Irish depth and experi­ence. Sternberg, McCourt, Augustyn, Mor­ris and Behrje arejoinedby senior tri-captain Johnny Guignon and senior Danny Gordon to form a group that has played together for the past two years. As the upperclassmen on the team, this nucleus gives Notre Dame ample stability, prompting Grace to declare that "I haven't had this much leadership in 5 years." 
Sternberg has had to adapt this year to his changing role as a captain and senior mem­berof the team. "I have to beawareofmyself and the team," said Sternberg. "I have to communicate with everyone -players and coaches. I enjoy the role." He added that he enjoys being involved in game tactics rather than being an underclassman and just having to listen. 
Augustyn believes in leading by keeping people fired up and working hard. He con­siders his role a very vocal one. "As junior captain I watch how things get done, but I i.:__--"'=-'-­still have input. I do more of the blue-collar jobs." 
September 15, 1988 
.., 
-

Mostofthe starters on this year's team were good high school athletes, but not the High School All-Americans one might expect on a team as successful as Notre Dame. In fact, Joe Sternberg is the only High School All­American. The rest are made up ofAll-State performers, some ofwhom had only a couple ofyears ofplaying experience in high school. 
Goaltender Danny Lyons is a good ex­ample. As a high school senior, he was not even recruited. He wrote a letter to the coach and requested a try out. Lyons is now a key player in the Irish defense who, according to Grace, is "potentially one ofthe best keepers in the nation." 
One further change in the program is the emphasis on recruiting. "You can have the best coach in the world but you need to get the kids in school," said Grace. His ability to recruit great players has helped put the Irish in the headlines. 
This year's sophomore class is the first group that was actively recruited. Dan Steb­bins and Paul and Steve Lavigne were re­cruited by Indiana but chose to attend Notre Dame instead. 
Freshmen recruits Mitch Kerns and Karl Roemer have been surprise players this year. 
· 
Chuck Ray

Randy Morris Is one of the seven players who forms the nucleus of the team. 

:l~y:!ll~lt!}li:.~t;:] . 
1

:Ito thm.inunicate 'witlf ev:.····· 
{~ij:fp#~rrff~i~tl . . fiWiin d 11 

Grace expects both of them to see a good deal of playing time. 
Grace points out that the offense must carry a lot of weight on their shoulders this season. Prior to the Indiana game, the coach felt the defense hadn 'tjelled yet. This seems to be the major concern of the team right now as theY. face a schedule of high caliber opponents. 
Augustyn compared this year's team with last year's, saying that "the team has much more confidence and maturity." He added that this year's team has a great deal more ' depth than teams in the past "In practice, when we play first team against second team, it seems the second team gets better and better each year," Augustyn said. 
Grace is hesitant to outwardly state what his goals are. Generally, he wants the team to play as well as it can. "I want the seniors to lookback and be able to say they have had four good years," said Grace. 
At the moment, the Irish are 5-0-1, but the road ahead only gets rougher. The team travels to Michigan State Friday and then faces Dayton at home on Sunday. Currently ranked fourth in the Midwest Collegiate Conference, the Irish need these two wins and many more down the road to attain a bid in the NCAA Tournament Although very optimistic about the future, Grace is quick to point out that "if you look too far ahead you're going to stub your toe along the 
way." 


C 
DRIV 



WITH 
ME 
The women's golfteam 
is off to a rocky start, 
but coach Tom Hanlon 

of the club. Two members who worked hard athletic director, Richard Rosenthal, in an
has confidence in his on our behalf were Angie Lloyd and Laura effort to convince him that women's golf Gleason of the graduating class of 1986. deserved varsity status at Notre Dame.
young varsity team. They got the ball rolling, we just tapped in," Last spring Rosenthal announced that said Wagner. women's golf at Notre Dame would become
I 
BY BILL STEGMEIER 

T
Though the Irish did participate as a club in a varsity sport. Since the announcemen~ many tournaments over the last several years, Rosenthal has remained one of the top sup­he Notre Dame women's golf they were still eligible for taking home top porters of the team. 
team is on the upswing now that it prizes. They competed against the likes of St. "Mr. Rosenthal has expressed high hopes 
has achieved the status of a varsity Ambrose, Indianapolis and Western Ken­for the success of the team and has been sport. With six of the team's nine golfers tucky. It was not unusual for the women's helping us in every way imaginable," said underclassmen, head coach Thomas Hanlon golf club to finish second or third in a field of Houk. "He was instrumental in seeing that is optimistic eight to ten varsity teams. the Burke Memorial Golf Course is now
I about the team's potential in its first year. Melissa Houk, president of the women's closed to the public on weekdays from 3 .to "I re~y think we'll be capable of surprising golf club last year, and a senior this year,feels 4:30 for team practice. We don't have to wait some teams," said Hanlon. ''Though this is the performance of the club at these tourna­to play like we did last year, when we had to only our first year on varsity, the sophomores ments had an impact in the decision of the share the same golf course with the public. In and seniors have been participating in varsity Athletic Department to make it a varsity sport essence, Mr. Rosenthal is telling us that it is tournaments during their stay at Notre Dame. this year. "Other teams were coming up to us our course and to go ahead and play on it" The only difference is now we will be partici­and complimenting us on our performance,". The women's golf program at Notre Dame pating as a varsity team, not a club team." said Houk. ''They couldn't believe a club was further advanced this fall by the naming Senior golfer Kerrie Wagner, a member of could do so well in a varsity tournament." of George Thomas as the director of golf. the golf club as a freshman and sophomore, The women's golf club did not do all their Thomas was the head golf pro at the Elkona feels the efforts of past women golfers to campaigning for varsity status on the greens. Country Club. His son, Joe, is also familiar bring varsity status to women's golf did not Since its establishment seven years ago, the with golfinstruction and helps coach both the go unnoticed. "We owe a lot to past officers golf club had been sending letters to the men's and women's teams. What this means 





. ­
.,,.. ---• ---• > --• ------~ • -----• ,-• , -J ~--~ ,-'.~ -~ ­

is the women golfers will have at their dis-longer. A van is now supplied for that pur­ I'mlookingforwardtomeetingthechallenge  
posal three coaches to work with in an at-pose by the university.  of playing college golf on the varsity level  
tempt to improve the players' games. Sophomore golfer Kristin Kolesar wants to  and attending classes at the same time.  
Being the best golfer you can be is now top put this transition from a club sport to a  Hopefully, my scores will improve as the  
priority in women's golf at Notre Dame. varsitysportintoperspcctive. "Thefundswe  year progresses."  
Such was not the case when women's golf now have access to are great. And we are  According to Lazar, the biggest adjustment  
was a club sport. "Much of our time was certainly better accommodated this year than  she has had to make was playing on a differ­ 
spent filling out travel forms, health forms, in the past. But, more importantly, we feel  ent type of grass here at Notre Dame. ''The  
making reservations and talking to coaches like we're really part of something special, a  grass here at Notre Dame is the bent kind,  
from other teams, asking to be involved in feeling that goes beyond these material bene­ whereas in Washington, my home state, the  
their tournaments. This is no longer the fits. The team has unified together and wants  greens are a combination of different kinds.  
case," said Houk. "Coach Hanlon handles all to make this first varsity season the best  The more experience I get at playing in the  
that now. We have more time to concentrate possible. Our confidence level has increased  Midwest, the better my scores will be. I have  
on our games. Wepractice five times a week tremendously.".==----­now, as opposed to twice a week last  my first varsity experience behind me, and I hope to build on that"  
year."  The Irish Invitational, hosted by the  
Hanlon and the Thomas' have also  women's golf team this September,  
arranged for the women to practice at  was the first event as varsity golfers  
a local country club at least once a  for every team member, not only the  
week. The team practiced at Elkona  freshmen. Notre Dame's gold team  
last week and intend to practice at the  placed seventh, with a two-day total  
Eibel Golf Course in the future. "In  of 700. Sophomore Roberta Bryer  
order to improve your game, you need  was the top golfer for the Irish, with a  
toget exposed to a wide variety ofgolf  score of 170 for two rounds.  
coursesthatwillplaydifferentways,"  What did Hanlon think of the  
said Hanlon. ''That way they'll get  women's golf team in its firstappear­ 
used to playing shots they might not  ance as a varsity team?  
otherwise see until the day ofa tourna­ "My first impression was I thought  
ment"  we could perform better than we did,"  
The women golfers have benefitted  said Hanlon. "But when I evaulated  
frombetterfacilitiessincethechange.  the individual performance of the  
During the winter months when the  other teams, I didn't feel that way.  
team was still a club, a videotape  After considering the weather condi­ 
would be made ofthe women practic­ lions and the way the course played, I  
ing their swings in the JACC. ''The  was pleased with our seventh place  
room was not even big enough to get  finish."  
apictureofthegolfer'sentireswing,"  Hanlon said he will be counting on  
said Wagner. "The camera was too  three seniors to provide the team with  
close. Theendresultwasthatwewere  leadership this fall in its' first varsity  
unable to do an effective analysis of  , season: Houk, Wagner and Carolyn  
our swings."  Burke. Burke, while eager to partici- 

This year, however, the women golf-----=======""""""""'""""""'"""""'"""""""'""'"'"'"""'"'"'"""'"'"'"""'"'"'"""'"'"'"""'"'"'"""'""""'-·""' in her first varsity season, recog­ers can look forward to practicing their Other sophomores expected to make a con-nizes the importance of helping the younger swings in the recently built Loftus Center, tribution this year are Heidi Hansan ·and players reach their potential. which is equipped with nets to hit balls into. Pandora Fecko. "We're still in a kind of transition period Receiving varsity status has had other ad-How about the freshmen on the team, Liz right now," said Burke. ''Things aren't as vantages as well. The team h·as more funds Poden and Kristine Lazar? Though the Irish settled as they would be if this were our tenth available to it than it did last year as a club. In asateamaremakinganadjustmentfrom club varsity season. As we progress further into the past, all ofthe members ofthe club had to to varsity, Poden and Lazar are making an the season, things will become more stable. share one equipment locker. Now each adjustment of their own. · In the meantime, the younger players will woman has her own equipment locker. "It's a lot different than playing on my high have gotten some invaluable tourney experi-Another advantage of varsity status is that school team," said Paden, a two-time mem-ence for their future and the future of the the golfers do not have to concern themselves ber ofthe Illinois High School State Cham pi-program here. But, for now, things are off to with transportation to tournaments any onshipteamfromNorthbrook,Illinois. "Yet, a good start." 11 
17 
sport 


eek 
Invitational. 
In the Saluki, Notre Dame dropped jts first· 
match to Bowling Green before bouncing 
back to defeat Arizona, Iowa, and Southern 
Illinois. Seniors ZANETTE BENNETT and 
MARY KAY WALLER and freshman setter 
All-Tournament Team. 
This weekend, the Irish will play in. the 
Holiday Inn/University fark Classic in Fort 
Collins, CO. They face tenth-ranked Colo­
rado State in the opening match on the 16th, 
and the winner will go on to the final match 
against either Houston or Cal Poly-San Luis 
Obis o on the 17th. 
The Irish women's soccer team followed an 
8-1 win over St. Joseph's (IN) by suffering 
their first defeat last Friday against Indiana, 
2-0. On Sunday, the Irish were shut out again 
in losing to Lake Forest, this despite out 
shooting the opposition 25-6. 
In the St Joseph's contest,SUSIE ZILVI­
TIS led the Notre Dame attack with three 
goals, all coming in the first half. 
Notre Dame hosts Western Michigan this 
Notre Dame opened its '88 fall season last 
weekend atthe Indiana University Midwest 
Fall Invitational. Freshman ANN BRAD:. 
SHAW captured the third flight singles title 
and teamed up with freshman KRISTY 


DORAN to take the third flight doubles title. 
Sophomore CE CE CAHILL fii;iished fourth 
in the number-one singles cortipetition. 
The Irish begin their home dual match sea­
son tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. on the Courtney 
Courts as the host Bowlin .Green. 
The Notre Dame women's golf team (see page 16) will compete in the Illinois State Invitational this weekend. The tournament, to be held in Normal, IL, will feature tough teams such as Purdue, Western Kentucky, Illinois State and Northern Illinois. 
COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO 

The latter win was the first ever for the Belle 
against the Lady Warriors. 
Junior MOLLIE MEEHAN and sopho 

more TRISH TROESTER scored two goal 
apiece against Loyola, while freshme 
KELLY COOK and KELLY FARLEIG 
each scored a goal in the Marquette contest 
The Belles are in action at home this Satur 

da at 1 .m. as the take on Fin die Colle e 
··••·•·•sAINllNlARY?SllENNIS 

The Saint Mary's tennis squad also bega their season in winning fashion last week they defeated DePaul 7-2 and Hillsdal College 8-1. Strong performances wer turned in by junior JENNY BLOCK, sopho more SARAH MAYER, and freshme ELLEN MA YER, ANGIE MEULLER, an 
MARIE KOSCIELSKI. 
This weekend the Belles host the Sain Mary's Invitational at Leeper Park in Sout Bend. The eight-team field in.eludes DePaul Cincinnati, Butler and Valparaiso. Startin time for Saturda and Sunda is 8 a.m. 
"'{L:.iS.AINTMA'RYtS·•V:OLLElYBALii'i / 
The Belles' s volleyball team extended thei season record to 6-1 last week by defeatin St Joseph's College and St. Francis-Po Wayne and by winning the Kalamazoo Ceil lege Tournament. Senior TAMI SUTH an junior PATTY KENOBEL each turned i 

·:t/\;'SNJJS11:'i~·g;S!i9$iS<I>'.~~~BJ'iiiFYYi>•···0••• solid performances. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team began its Saint Mary's hopes to continue its winnin 
season on a winning note last week by crush­ways this weekend by competing in the Illi ing Loyola 8-1 and downing Marquette 3-1. nois Institute of Technology Tournament. 

Scholastic 

~~ ;.._;;-:.!• -, --*' ,__ ~ .".:~: -=-..:.': ,,_,:':, :...i-~"":··­
I I


l El 
I 


Movies/ Cindy Petrites 
The Last Temptation of Christ 
Martin Scorsese tempts his audience with a powerful and moving film. 
f f The feeling begins." 
Christ's first words in Mar­

tin Scorsese's The Last Temptation ofChrist' capture the heart ofthis very powerful and moving film. It is a film which illustrates the humanity of Christ. It does not dare you to doubt Christ is God, but to respect him as man. 
The film traces the life ofJesus Christ from his initial calling to his crucifixion. The movie is not based upon the Gospels, but on Nikos Kazantzalds' novel of the same name. Its greatest triumph is its depiction ofChrist's humanity. · 
Oscar-nominated actor William Dafoe por­trays Jesus as a complex and frightened human being who is also, and reluctantly so, God's son. He is angry and sensitive. He 
dances, is tired, confused, 
and tempted. At first the 
unwilling mouthpiece for 
a God he would rather re­
ject, Jesus comes not only 
to accept, but to assume 
his role as the film pro­
gresses. 
Though Scorsese makes 
sure to emphasize Christ's 
divinity, Jesus never loses 
his human side. He is ten­
derly powerful as he pro­
tects Mary Magdalene 
from the stone-hurling 
crowd, enraged as he 
chases the money 
changers from the temple, 
and even funny as he sur­
prises Nathaniel by turn­
ing water into wine. He is 
real. 
The disci les are also realistic, -depicted as the confused, some­times rebellious and very worldly followers of Jesus._ Nathaniel wants more sheep. James wonders continually about the fishing life he left behind. Peter snores. They are people. 
Perhaps the_ most surprising of the follow­ers is Judas. The film totally fleshes out the usually one-dimensionalcharacter, making him more than just the "apostle who be­trayed Christ" Judas has motivations the viewer can understand, and even empathize. As one of his most faithful followers, Judas genuinely loves Christ; but as a principled Zealot, he knows he must destroy him. 
As a result of Judas' betrayal, Christ is ultimately crucified. Here, Scorsese pulls out all visual stops to show the viewer that the death is not pretty and suffering is pain­ful. In this scene, the film's climax, Jesus undergoes and overcomes his last tempta­tion: to reject the cross and choose life as a normal man. Though the scene loses some­thing in its execution, the idea of Christ overcoming temptation on the cross is powerful. It adds a further dimension to Christ's death by portraying the often delib­erated idea of Christ's triumph out of trag­edy. 
Before I recommend this film, let me warn you. The Last Temptation ofChrist is full of Biblical references and characters only rec­ognizable to those with some knowledge of the Gospels. Characters like Mary, Mary Magdalene, Pontius Pilate, Paul -all per­form their Biblical roles with no outside ex­
planation. Thus, those not 
acquainted with the Bible 
may find this film very 
confusing, very bizarre, 
or very boring. 
For those who do have 
some Biblical back­
ground under their belts, 
however, this film will not 
a disappointment It

SBy be 
· brings life to even the t most sterile Biblical

JIAN 
even~, flesh an? blood to even its most samtly char­acters. With shockingly power­ful imagery, Scorsese gets his equally powerful mes­sage across. You may not agree with everything in this film, but it will make you think. Tern ted?II 

19 




THURSDAY, SEPT. 15 

Graduate Student Workshop "Proposal For An Alternative_ U.~. Policy Toward Central Amenca, by Daniel Siegel. In room 13l of Decio Hall at 4:oop.m. 
Ceternori:v 
Tri-Military POW/MIA Retreat Ceremony at the South Quad Flag Pole at 4:30p.m. 


Year of Cultural Diversity lecture on "Countering the Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys," by Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu, African American Images, Chicago, IL. Sponsored by the ND BlackCultural Affairs Council, the Office of Minority Student Affairs, and the . Office of the Provost. at 7 :30p.m. m the Library Auditorium. 


"The Spy Who Loved Me" at 8:15p.m. and 10:00p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. "Good Morning Vietnam" in SMC's Carrol Auditorium at 9:00p.m. and 11:00p.m. 
FRIDAY, SEPT.16 



Open Meeting for Alcoholics · . Anonymous 7:30a.m.-8:30a.m. m the Holy Cross House. 


Hospitality Lunch for the benefi~ of "Bananas" at 8:15p.m. and ElCampito at the Center fot Social 10:00p.m. in the Cushing Concerns from 11:30a.m.-1:00p.m. Engineering Auditorium. ••'Fireside.Chat .... ·:&;,; Lunch provided in the ISO lo~nge. With Josie Raven Wing, Nauve Medical College Admission Test 

American dancer. At 12:00 p.m. 

from 8:00a.m.-3:00p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Notre Dame Women's Team takes on Bowling Green at 2:00p.m. on Notre Dame vs. Michigan State in 


the Courtney Courts. 

East Lansing at 12:00p.m. Lecture . . 
. . · 
soccer< · Dept. of Philosophy Prospective ·· .. ·SMC soccer vs. Findlay College at Series in Philosophy Lecture, 1 :00p.m. on the SMC Soccer 
"Rationality," by Prof. William Playung Field. Newton-Smith at 3:30p.m. in the Library Lounge. 


M*A*S*H at 8:15p.m. and 10:00p.m. in the Cushing The center for Social Concerns 
Engineering Auditorium. 
Year of Cultural Diversity program the ballet Folkorico Azul Y Oro 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 
18

(Mexican Independence Day). On the Fieldhouse Mall at 4:00p.m. •$g¢c;~t .. :;.n;; • %{>:••:••?••·· ·ND \\'Omen vs. Western Michigan College at 11 :00a.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. 


"Sammy and Rose Get Laid," an ND Men vs. Dayton at 1 :0Op.m. in 
ND Communication and 'I:heater Moose Krause Stadium. 
Film, directed by Stephen Frears, Great Britain. The film is a wicked black comedy of Thatcher,Engl8:nd. Innovative and challenging, Sammy South BendArea and Rosie is an allegorical drama 
American Heart's Food Festival: all

with a great deal of black humor, week, local grocery stores will 
sensuality, spontaneity, and wit. sponsor dietician-conducted tours to
In the Annenburg Auditorium at promote heart-healthy ·shopping and
7:30 & 9:30p.m. eating. 


-' . ' 
~­



Banci Bike Trek: Sept. 17 & 18; 120 mile course; annual fundraiser for the American Lung Association.Call 287-2321. 

iThe South Bend Art Center presents the 1988 NIA/St. Joseph Valley Watercolor Society exhibition and "Indiana Sampler" through October 2 at the Warner Gallery. 

"Is There A Book Within You?" an "overcoming writer's block" workshop 7-9p.m. Sept. 15 at the Roger B. Francis Branch of the South Bend Public Library. 

St. Joseph County Freeze Walk to protest the nuclear arms race. Sept. 17 at Howard Park at 2:00p.m. Potluck picnic at 12:00 noon. 

100 Center Cinemas 
Bull Durham 7:00,9:15 Big Top Pee Wee 1:00,3:00 The Great Outdoors 5:00,7:15,9:30 
The Forum Betrayed 7:00; 9:25 Powaqqatsi 7:40,9:40 Married To the Mob 9:45 
Univ. Park West 
Cocktail 7:30,9:45 Stealing Home 7:30,9:30 Hot To Trot 7:15,9:00 , 
Univ. Park East Big 7:30,9:30 Nightmare On Elm Street IV 7:15,9:15 A Fish Called Wanda 7:45,9:50 Young Guns 7:30,9:35 Coming to America 7:45,10:00 Who Framed Roger Rabbit 7:45,9:45 
Scottsdale Tucker 7:00,9:30 Who Framed Roger Rabbit 6:45,9:15 
Town and Country 
Die Hard 6:30,9: 10 Moon OverParador7:10,9:30 
Chicago 
'Ml.i.SiC=.:. '~ ~..;\.~•::,:~:~ (~B~~·{1~=~-. F1:1~;i,~'.~:\~;::_§ ~ii Biddy Milligan's Deadhead Party with Why Not? and Oh-Squared Friday, Sept. 16. The Buddy Guy and Junior Wells Blues Show. Saturday, Sept. 17. 7644 North Sheridan. Call 761­6532. 
Cabaret Metro 
Paul Cebar and the Milwaukeeans, Tim Lee & Friends, on Friday, Sept. 16. The Railway Children, Monica's Interval, Run Westy Run on Saturday, Sept. 17. 
3730 North Clark. Call 559-1212. 
Fitzgerald's 
Big Shoulders on Thursday, Sept. 15 Mr. Meyers, Friday, Sept. 16 Dead Beats, Saturday, Sept. 17 Art Hodes on Sunday, Sept. 18 6615 Roosevelt Road. Call 788­2118. 
Ruggles-Cabaret Bar 
Karen Mason through Sept. 17 at 9 & 11 p.m. 1633 North Halsted Street 
Holiday Star Theater 
Tony Orlando & Dawm on Sunday, Sept. 18 The Chick Corea Elektric Band with special solo performance by Al DiMeola on Saturday, Sept. 17. Call (312)734-7266 or (219)769­6600. 

21 


Final Word 
ID

Football IS the Highest Thing 
Senior free safety Corny Southall reminisces 
BY AMY WEBER 


Corny, C, Big C, Little C, Dog, Bread, Cornball, CornFiakes, Horny Corny, Corn ... Cornelius Christopher Southall. Call him what you want, just make sure to pronounce his formal name correctly. "It has to be pro­nounced properly for me to respond: more emphasis on the '-nelius'. But it's mel­low." Pretty heavy instructions from a self-acclaimed average guy. Southall is quick to point out the special significance of Cornelius: "It means all power, or most powerful." Pretty appro­priate for a two-year starting free safety on the Notre Dame grid squad. He's not all power, all ofthe time, though. "I think I'm a really nice guy, for the most part. I'm_ easy to get along with. Who couldn't approach me, you know?" Three years ago, teammate Mark Green couldn't. "Mark and I had never met before arriv­ing on campus; but because of what the coaches had told us, we put each other's name down for a roommate preference. I'm from New York. Mark is thinking I'm from New York City: the thugs, and 'Yo dude, what's up?', and all that kind of stuff. Here I am, from upstate New York, thinking this guy from California is going to come riding in on his skateboard. Val­ley guy, you know? "I had arrived Thursday night, and Mark got in at 2 a.m. Friday morning. I'm in bed wearing my 'doo-rag' (similar to an Ara­bian turban with a little tail hanging down), and my big radio was on. Mark's first impression is 'Oh my God, my room­mate is from New York City, he's gotadoo rag on, he's got a knife under the sheets, and I'm in trouble.' He was worried. "But the next day, we talk, and he figures out that I'm nothing like he thought I was going to be,andhe's nothing like I thought he was going to be. We're very compatible. He and George Streeter are my best friends. It's going to be hard to leave those guys in May, and D'Juan (Francisco) and Ray (Dumas) too. We've grown very close. We're going to have to go on to bigger and better things. Hopefully, we'll all get drafted. We'll defi­nitely all keep in touch: have our own Fttle reunions, and tell all of those stories that make us laugh." 
All of those stories from a place that Southall despised until his senior visit. Alabama was the first major college Southall evervisited that played Division I ball, and he wanted to be a memberofthat Crimson Tide. "I just wanted to play for Bear Bryant. I was in the 10th grade, and I didn't know any better. Education, what? I just saw football and all of the things those guys were getting, and I wanted to go to Alabama." 
What made Southall change his mind? Notre Dame's big advantage was its 98 per­centgraduation rate ofits Black athletes. "To me, that meant everything. I knew, that no matter what happened with football, I would graduate. And the mystique thing is really true, too. I was just overwhelmed by the Golden Dome." 
Southall's decision to attend Notre Dame is reinforced daily. He enjoys the place: He likes the education he's getting, he likes the people and, most of all, he likes the football program. "For me, football is the highest thing. I'm not worried about school; Vm a senior, and I'm a semester ahead for gradu­ation. For Corny Southall, the most impor­tant thing right now is Notre Dame football. Preparing, doing well and helping the team out is all I'm worried about. Sure, I have personal goals, but team goals come first. If we achieve the team goals, everything else will take care of itself. Some guys might not admit it, but that's how it is for every­body." 
The 1988 team goal is perfection. "We are striving for perfection. There is no perfect person, and no perfect team. But the team closest to perfection is the best team. Andthatiswhatwewanttobe. Ifwe do everything as close to perfect as pos­sible, no one can touch us. The only thing that will stop Notre Dame football is it­self." 
Even outside offormalized football meet­ings, Southall still finds himself pondering football. Think, sleep, EAT football? That's right. "Dinnerconversation tends to be about something funny that happened at practice: someone getting chewed out, beaten by a certain player, throwing a move, gettingjuked. We'll talk about it all night long." Five guys in particular will talk about it at Southall's dinner table. "You can sit anywhere you want in South Dining Hall. But Streeter, Green, Dumas, Francisco and I have sat in the same seats for the last three years. They'd have to rip up the tables for that not to occur. We look forward to dinner. It's a time to relax between practice and study. And remi­nisce." 
Cornelius Southall likes to reminisce, he likes to talk about all of the great times he has had at Notre Dame, and all of the times that haven't b.een too easy but have helped him to grow. "This place has done a lot for me. I've matured into a fine young man, that Notre Dame man that they talk about. I will definitely miss all ofthe people I have been associated with.'1/J 
This week's Final Word is the first in a series of interview/stories. Look forward to seeing themperiodically. 



Walkway argulllents laITie 
"[The overpass] would cost a few million dollars, but then you come to the philosophical 
question ofhow much a human life is worth. Ifone family could be spared what we have 
gone through, that would be worth a lot more than two million dollars." 
When Celeste Hurley said this, she was not being melodramatic; she said those words simply and matter-of-factly. And she made a lot of sense. 
The issue of the overpass across U.S. 31 between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is by no means a new one. But that does not mean it is not important. There are problems with an overpass, but to this day, it remains the most obvious solution to the problem of that 
What has happened since Kevin Hurley was hit? The idea of an overpass was kicked around, and in typical Notre Dame fashion the most deluxe, overdone overpass was targeted. Now the overpass, if built, would cost $2 million -or half a residence hall. 
Yet a sheltered, heated overpass is not needed. The route has never been heated in the first place, and to argue against building a pass because of heat requirements is simply lame. The university is just making excuses. 
There are other arguments: the overpass will be a security risk, the students won't. use it, and, as Father Tyson said, "if you do anything with roads work, it could take five years for them to get back to you." 
But the route itself has always been a security risk; an overpass shouldn't make any difference. And the fact that some students may not use the yet-to-be-planned overpass is not reason to endanger those more far-sighted people who would make use of a safety measure. Besides, the entire argument is pure conjecture. Finally, it is inconceivable that the state of Indiana can't do any better than a five-year response time. 
Highway 31 is the major link between South Bend and Niles; the Indiana Toll Road also runs very close to the Saint Mary's entrance. Philip Faccenda, the general counsel of the university, has said that the lights are a false security when drunk drivers are considered. The overpass makes too much sense to pass off as being too unwieldy or expensive. More 
and better research needs to be done, before it's too late. 
Scholastic 
23 
-


Ernie Pock's Comeek by Lynda Barry 
;.e,,..-eMS~P. How .My COUSI/( MAY'oONNE CouLl)N'
I 
TELL IF .QICH/\llD, HEP-Bo~ FP.1El{D, WAS HER. Bo~FAlt:ND OP.. JUST US/NG HER,'? Wf:LL.,,Now 
SI\E WON'T EAT So M~ AUNi SNjS SHE:.S 
I. 
Go1N6 iO HA 


l~IM\\I lijlll\\\\\! 
. 'lllbllllll 
0
i\\\\i\~\\I 
1Mll~ill 
1\\11111 
111111\\1\I 
\\ll\\\\l 
\11\\1\~ 
~\i1,m 

NOW AL.I.. MA'jBONNE WANTS TO DO IS srAWD 11'1 THE BATI\R.oOM WITH THE RADIO WATC.HING HERSEL.f CR~ IN THe MIRROR ro AL.I-THc SL.OW 
SoN6S.AND SHE: SlReAMS AT ~OU IF ~01.4 SA<j you H1WI: To Ger IN TI\ERE. 
.;fOVN/J -'l 
o\J~ ON A 
\/'JO WAY 
S'fitE:Ep.
AND 
osr IT 
A.r--

Bvr rue wottsr 1s How SHE Goes CP-Az~ WHEN 1\-\e P~ONE: RINGS Be-cAIASt: SHG WON'T PICK !T UPJ SH~ JIAST S,AN()S 8y IT Stfl.~AMING FOR. MAP-1..~s TO HU~P-Jj I \-\Vfa.!l-~ ! PttK \T up/ Pl O{ IT UP! 6 VT . MA~L.ljS SA';i S S.!!_E ~S B~CAL\5 E EVE~~ 1IM€ \TS No, R1cttA~D MA'j Bo.J'Ne 
~ I 
'I:) --z..,_
/\Irv. 
..-'t--k.... 
Scholastic



C+I-APiER 1 • TIPS l=Of?_ 'TOTS • 
LJJHEN ~00 D121\JE. ~OU~
IS CHILDHOOD 

PARl:t..)Ts; Cl2A"Z.'::J, IT0S 
BECAUSE,,.
HELL7• 

"'Tt-\E~ AeE. C/2A21 • 
d) a, 
(c) 
~ 
d) 

W::I.:I.:.:___ _1-][Ll,.__----1-.2t::1::1:....._--=1~~--~0.:,::___~~::.........:::::::::::.....J~ ~ 

. . ­


A DAY IN THE LIFE of 
NOTRE DAME 
Scholastic is offering you the chance to be the 
eyes of Notre Dame. 

Show how life under the dome really is ... take the kind of pictures that you wish were in every guide book. 
Here are some of the rules: 
Pick up your roll of 35mm, black and white film (24 exposures) on Monday, September 19th from 2-5pm in the Scholastic office on the third floor of Lafortune. You will be required to leave a $5.00 deposit when you receive the film. 
Drop off your roll before 5pm on Wednesday September 21st and get your deposit back. 
The rest is up to you! Yes, we know what the dome looks like and we have seen pictures of your drunken buddies... come up with the most original and tale-telling pictures you can and you 'II get them in the issue. 
GOOD LUCK! 






